Founded at :Union College 1877 Pro.fessor Marin cola Addresses The $20,000 Question by Jon Keller Speaking on Saturday before an audience of 70 students and parents, Classics Professor John Marincola shared his thoughts concerning what he referred to as \The .$20,00() Question: Can you get an education at Union?\ Throughout the one hour and fifteen minute lecture ami question and answer period, Marincola touched upon a wide variety of topics, ranging from multiculturalism, to national politics, to ancient ideas concerning what it means exactly to be an \educated person.\ Marincola began by explaining that \as educators, we have a lot to answer for.\ He cited America's rapid decline in econornic competitiveness as a resultant symptom of what is a very complicated and far reaching problem. At tllis time he assailed President Bush, whom he said ran \without apology\ as the education President. He then described the various ways in which academics are currently criticized. \We have been accused,\ he began, \of clearing away the works that . were once the foundation of ' western civilization, and. replacing them with comic books and The Simpsons; not many people think that we're doing a god job and we're not much liked out there.\ As his discussion continued, he expounded on several of the points he raises here: Methodology: Referring to last spring's contro\(ersial dismissal of Kit Hathaway, Marincola said that \it was the most important thing I had ever seen on this campus.\ He argues that it was so important because it was the first time (since he has been at Union) that \students and faculty were deliberating individually and together about the nature of what it is that we are supposed to be doing here.\ Although Marincola did not offer his opm10n concerning the Hathaway methodology (which has been dubbed \heuristic\), it \We cannot possibly understand other cultures until we have an adequate understanding of our own.\ did not seem to be his intention to do so. His point seemed to be that it is more important that we think about these issues than what we conclude about them. He stressed the importance of introspection, deliberation and debate in all matters of which are so fundamentally important to us as \consumers.\ Philosophical Point of Departure: Although he is a scholar of the ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome, Marincola di<l not argue, as many of his colleagues have argued, that because our culture is rooted mainly in the western tradition, that the American educational system should proceed from a purely western point of departure. He argues that an understanding of other ideas, be they African, Eastern, etc., are becoming increasingly more important in a rapidly developing climate of political and economic globalism. To be sure, he still maintains the belief that western culture is \our culture,\ and we can not possibly understand other cultures until we have an adequate understanding of our own. Here again he returns to the over arching premise of his discussion: that it is not so much what you study, but how you study it. The important thing, he argues, is that students learn how to think critically. Continued on page 3 Scben.e(1ady, New York October 24, 1991 Professor S:harlet Participates In Moscow Conference by Ha11nah J, Hazen While the Union College community delved eagerly into a new 1>cl1ool year, a most unusual 11nd historic event occurred. Dwing the third week of September, the first international conference on human ri.gllts ever held in the Soviet Union took place, and Prof. Sharlet of the Political Science Department was an active Jlarticipant. As a speciali~t in Soviet constitutio11al law and human rights, Sbarlet was chosen by the Unite<! Nations Association of the U11ited States, to present a paper Oil their behalf, at the Parallel Collference of the 35- nation C.S.C.E. Conference held in M<Jscow. Sharlet was the Americm representative and therefore bead of the delegation, due to a Senior official being unable to attend. As helld of the delegation, Sharlet w~s one of the co- chairs at the conference, attending a,genda meetings, and participatillg on the drafting committee for the final document, :2s well as delivering his paper e11titled \International Protection of Human Rights in the Soviet Union: The Role of Non-Governmental Organizatio!ls.\ The eve11t was one of historic significance as it took place witi1Ln the Soviet Union. Contimued on page 3 Union Conti·nues Its Progressive Tradition College To Host It's Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Week by Stephanie Fray Editor-in-Chief Continuing in its tradition as a progressive institution, Union College is once again making strides in an area where other institutions have not yet begun to take action. While most schools have just started to discuss how to talk about AIDS as an issue, Union College will host its Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Week Sunday, October 27 through Friday, November 1. The week long conference coordinated by the Union College AIDS Committee, Twitty J. Styles and Karen N. Williams, co-chairs, in conjunction with the Schenec- tady County AIDS Task Force, Carver Community Health Center, Cornell Cooperative Extension of Schenectady County, and Schenectady County Community College, is dedicated to educating people about the effects of AIDS. The theme of the symposium will be \A Generation at Risk\ and will emphasize the notion that there are no high risk groups, only high risk activities increasing one's susceptability to AIDS. Moreover, discussions will focus on what impact AIDS will have our lives in the future. The purpose of the conference is to make people of the high risk generation aware of the things they should know and be afraid of. According to Lee Bloomrosen, Director of Student Activities at Union College, people are generally afraid to talk about AIDS as an issue. Thus, it is the intention of the AIDS Committee to alleviate the tension surrounding the subject. The conference is one example of how this is being accom- plished. According to Karen Williams, Associate Professor of biology and co-chairperson of the AIDS Committee, \We are going to be ready when the first cases are identified at Union and they will be dealt with in a compassionate manner. Continued on page 3 Dr. Richard Keeling, co- author of a study that found one in every 500 college students to be infected with the AIDS virus, will deliver the keynote , address at Union's Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Conference. Health Services Hit By Budget Cuts by Craig Greenberg Facing a loss of over $200,000 ill federal and state aid, Union College has been forced to cutback various areas of spending. Health Services is among tllose departments affected by the reduced budget. There has been no change in the policy of Health Services for ten yea:rs. Now, for the first time, their annual budget has not been i11creased. In addition, starting tl1i1s term, students will have to :pay for their own prescription medications. Health Services will provide a student vit1l a free 24-hour supply of the prescription drug needed and place an order at a local pharmacy. However, there will not be any changes in the hours of doctors and nurses, and the legendary \Sudafed\ table for the common cold will remain free. Health Services' employees feel that the care provided to students is adequate. \This year we will be continually increasing and updating supplies, as opposed to last year when we were limited,\ says Director of Student Health Service, Sandy Mosher. This increase in supplies is necessary, as the volume of students who use the service has risen. The ability to increase supplies can be attributed to the money saved as a resulL of the new prescription drug policy. The new prescription medication policy was necessary for a few reasons. First, the budget was not equal to the increase in the prices to the medication and supplies. Second, there was no budget at all this year. Third, the situation at Health Services has progressively deteriorated. Continued on page 3

2 atDlf!llrltirnsts NEW!i ANALY!il!i by Matt Tucker Associate News Editor Indiana Jones had a mission. He set out for the far reaches of the Middle East in search of the famed \lost ark.\ Even Subway, the fast food store, has a mission. If I remember correctly from reading the store's napkins, it is the company's mission to have blah blah retail stores by blah blah blah blah ... So why is Union the pariah in this field? I am not trying to argue that the college has no set course of action for the future, but the college has not yet formally stated any policy. When the college was asked last year by the Middle States Association to formulate a mission, the college failed the assignment. Produced were two pages of fluff (fluff being big and fancy words - i.e. \inculcate\ - not the marsh- mallow substance that tastes great with anything). A mission statement should not be two pages of fluff; instead it should only be ONE page of fluff. Actually, only ONE paragraph of fluff. And, if one is really lucky, one can produce a mission statement like the YMCA of America's: \to foster good health through Christian ideals.\ Just ONE good sentence of fluff...that is why they have a song written about them. However full of fluff a statement might be, it is still necessary to define a course of action. By producing such a statement, the results are three fold. First it forces the college to set goals. Second, it compels those goals to be made public. A11d lastly, it makes the writte11 objectives a goal of each and·every member of the college community. The third point is the most important. The mission statement that which is composed should be the mission statement of Tish, the meal-card-punching lady at the West dining hall, .and mine! Even Subway, the fast foot store, has a mission. It is because of this the authors failed the assignment. A mission, as defined by the Random House dictionary, is \an assigned or self imposed duty or task.\ When reading the mission stateme11t that was passed by the Academic Affairs Council, I was unable to find the assigned task for Tish and myself. I just fot~nd big and fancy words. From my understanding, the authors, consisting of faculty, did not believe a statement produced by the faculty would carry any clout. [t is for that reason the statement was more We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitchers Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required similar to rhet(:)ric than words that actually steer policy. After reading the statement, my understanding was that nobody cared what the mission statement actually stated. It is also apparent to me that members of the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) rushed the mission .statement through in order to cleanse their own hands of it. On the day of voting to accept the mission statement, the student representative on the council had not yet even seen the statement. And, thus, it became accepted unanimously, with the stude11t representative abstaining. The student representative to the Academic Affairs Council, at the following Student Forum meeting explained the events that had occurred <;onsidering the mission statement. Needless to say, Th\~ dut~ ca\l reatty worK.sL Student Forum was unhappy with the accepted mission statement. Thus, an ad-hoc sub-committee was formed consisting of several S.tudent Forum representatives. Produced was a summary of AAC's two-page mission statement (just ONE paragraph of fluff). My purpose is not to put the blame of failure on the authors of the lengthy mission statement. In this article, it is probably obvious that I avoided stepping on toes. Well, that is true. I did not wish to offend, for, in my opinion, the authors were merely completing the assignment. However, the process in which the mission statement was inaugurated was upsetting. It should not solely be the job of the faculty to create a mission statement. As I stated before, it should be the effort of everyone Get your hands on Concordiensis and get a Grasp on the Campus October 24, 1991 in the college community. The Student Forum mission statement is merely that body's input. This input is necessary, however bureaucratic it may get. I wonder if YMCA had difficulty creating a mission statement. I'm sure they did. Union is no different. YMCA has as many bureaucrats (probably even more) as Union A mission statement should not be two pages of fluff. College does; so, it cannot be the fault of the bureaucracy. YMCA's population is probably even larger than Union College's population. It will not be easy formulating a better and more encompassing mission statement. But, once a better statement is produced, perhaps Union College. like the YMCA, can have a song written after it, too. ' 1

The $20,000 Question C()lltinued from page l 'Scholarship and 'leach- iiJg:: Marincola argues that he is c.1 \classicist who teaches, n()t a teacher who does classics.\ He argues that the faJniHar dichotomy, which often characterizes academics as either \teacher\ or \scholar\ rep1resents an unfair distinction. A. good educator, he says, shotdd he able to blend elements of both into his :\V'Uk. Citing an example, Mal:rincola made mention of 011e of the students whom he had advised last year on his thesis. The student developed a ne\'V twist to the interpretation of the acts of an infamous Reman Emperor. Develop- lllellts such as this one, argues ::Mati.ncola, lead him to believe th2t the notions of scholar and teacller are by no means m 11tually e:x:clusive. On the contrary. they are dependent 11po.n one another. Ilaving discussed the edu:.cators, Marincola then f()Cussed his discussion on the :st11dents. He described Union C()Uege as a liberal arts college, \which will not 11ecoessarily teach students a :sk::ill that will necessarily be transferred into the W()rkforce.\ So, what is it that we are supposed to learn! I :SllJlJlOSe that we should want to become\ educated.\ But what is an~~ucated person? In addressing this point, Mal'incola offered several ••.potential\ criteria for the educated person. He asked ••sJJould he have read certain b()o:ks? Should she be able to play a sport? A musical · instrument? Should she know a foreign language?\ He argues · that none of the above criteria can truly be a part of a definition ofeducated. It is not a series ofcredentials, or list of required readings. \Education is not so much the communi- cational material,\ he argues. \as it is the inculcation of the habit or habits of mind.\ Expounding on this idea\ Marincola intreduced the educational philosophy of the Greek philosopher !socrates (born 438 RC.), who believed that education should be based on \rhetoric\, which in the Greek sense is concerned \not only with the clear and attractive part of speech, but the whole sub structure of thought and argumentation that underlies rational discourse.\ It is from this ancient source that the main thread in Marincola's speech emerges. Throughout his remarks, he ru:gued that an educated person is a person who reasons, thinks critically, and has an interest in the world which surrounds him/her. To encapsulate, it doesn't matter so much whether we teach Ptolemy or Plato, Hobbes or Confucius, or whether we are taught heuristically or conventionally. What matters is that our . educational system strives to teach people to reason, to deliberate, and to wonder. As Professor Marincola said, \What I share with !socrates is the belief that education is not a matter of books or texts, but of attitudes and habits of mind.\ I\IEW!i Health Reduced At Siliman Continued from page 1 \Last year we were low on everything from band-aides to knee braces,\ explained Sandy Mosher. In comparison to other similar colleges like Hamilton and Colgate, Union's Health Services is lacking. Hamilton , employs a full time doctor and · nurse 24 hours a day and performs all lab work and X- Rays on sight. Though, it is important to note that Hamilton is not located near a hospital. Colgate is located near a hospital but still retains a doctor for 10 hours a day and only charges for certain prescription drugs. Union charges for prescription medications and retains a doctor for only 2 hours per day. Even Sandy Mosher has said, \A full time doctor would be . wondelful.\ Despite any alterations to policy or changes in budget allocation, the Union Student Health Service seems satisfied with their current capability to treat ailments on campus. Student Forum Spotlight rhis past week was a very busy one for the Fomm. As w1itten in the past spotlights, w~ are working on the mission stQt.ement, the Gmelch report and- security issues. Before the Forum embarks on any new Jlrojects, we must finish these initiated projects. A sub-committee, led by VIP. Academics Steven Carr, :studied the current mission ·stQtement and produced what th~ S tndent Forum believes to bettmore accurate statement of mission than was embodied in the document released by the A.A.C. The formulation of a College mission is not bllJeaucratic red tape; rather, it is necessary to insure that the College has a goal to strive for in all its endeavors. This revised version will be released for comment to the A.A.C.,. President Hull, Dean Mammola and the Board of Trustees. Due to some logistical problems, the Residence Life Reported Security Incidents 1C/14/91 10/14/91 Hl/15191 1(1115/91 10/17/91 10117191 10/17191 10/17191 10/17191 10117/91 IWIB/91 l(ltJBI9l 10/18/91 10/IB/91 [(>/18191 lv!JBt9l J(>l[<j 191 lu 119/91 1&119/9! 10/19/9! IO;Jj/91 1011919! 10/10191 H•/2M1 fOX/DAVIDSON LOT HUMANITIES NORTH EHTRnNCE SCHAFFER LIBRARY COLLEGE CENTER LO\DI N6 DOCK SOUTH TERRACE LANE SORORITY WEST COLlEGE HALLt.IAY DAVIDSON NORTH SID£ SCHAFFER LIBRARY HUNTLEY LANE ACHILLES EAST SIDE NE~R WEST COlLEGE P!CHHOND LOT WEST COLLEGE LOAD INS DDCK QUIET ROAD NORTH COLLEGE ShE COHPLEl ACHILLES EAST SIDE POTTER NORTii SH ELEVATOR I I NOTT HEHOR !Ill HUNTLEY ~ LIBRARY LAN£ POTT£R NORTH SH CO\PLEX THEFT/VEHICLE LICENSE PLATES VANDALISH /DOOR CRASH DAF BROKEN OFf VANDAL!SH/DROKEN GlASS-TABLE TOP MOTOR VEHICLE/ACCIOEHT-NO INJURY {STAfF) THEFT/PilZA VENDOR SISNIDO\INO'S VANDALfSHfBROKEN WINDOW/BASEHEIIT HARASSKENT /STUDENT BY STUDENTS THEFT /STREET SIGN/HURON & SEWARD ATTEHPTED THEFT /DESK DRAWER P~lED 5 TUDE NT !~JURED BY PARER WAD LAUNCHED Bl RUBBE~ BAND. VANDALISHIEnERGENCV PIIONE/Ll6HT COVE~ SUSP I Cl(]U5 PERSONS/NEAR PARKED VEHICLE THEFT/CI1R STEREOIDAHASE TO AUTOH09ILE CSTUDENTl HOTOR VEHIClE/ACCIDENT /NO INJU~V CSTA>'l HOT OR VEIIICLEIACC!DENT /KJT AND RUN iSTAFFJ ATTEHPTED UNAuTHORJIED £NTP.I CSTUDttll; VAHDALISH/ll6HT POLE VANDALISHfNALL LIGHT PACK ~ BLUE EMERGENCY LIGHT OVER EKERGENCV PHONE VANDAUSHfTHREE WINDOW'S BROKEN TRESPASS/ JUVENILES VANDALISHISTAINED GLASS WINDOW BROKEN VANDALISM/STOP S16N LAVIN& ON GROUND VANDALISHIBROKEN W!NDOWIBASEHENT THEfT /OF FIRE EXTINGUISHER'S Survey will be released later this week. Junior Trustee Julie Jamieson is contacting professors to review the survey in order to insure its legitimacy. Then, it will be sent to \in house\ printing. Please be patient and look forward to responding to this very important survey. The Student Forum voted unanimously to institute a Shuttle Bus system beginning Winter Term. This system, as proposed by Lee Metchik, would provide a transportation service for students on specific days, while releasing security's escort service for safety purposes. This transportation system is also supported by President Hull, Paul Mantica and Dean Mammola. Aside from completing these projects, the Forum will begin looking for other areas in need of student input. For example, Professor Nichols solicited our suggestions concerning events to be held during Union's Bicentennial year. The Student Forum will also be looking to expand its numbers this term with the elections of one Junior Representative and three Freshman Representatives. Please get your petitions for these positions as soon as possible in the Student Activities office. Thank you. ill.onrnrbirttsi.s 3 AIDS Conference Returns To Union Continued from page 1 The conference is multi- dimensioned in that AIDS will be dealt with from a sociological perspective rather than a biological one. The arts and sciences have worked together making new headway in their approach to the conference taking an education through entertainment ideo- logy. For example, this year Bill Goettel, V.D. nurse and comedian will kick off the week's events. Other events will include various guest speakers, a Mountebanks production entitled \Beirut and several artistic exhibits located throughout campus. The conference is open not only to the college community but to the general public as well. All events are being held on the Union College campus and are free to those who choose to attend. The College along with the NYS Office of Excellence and Access have provided the finances to make the week possible. As exemplified by the various institutions which will be sending representatives to observe Union's unique program, it is clear that Union is a leader in the area of AIDS education. As Lee Bloomrosen stated, \Union does stand out i in certain ways. We are taking the bull by the horns. While , Union should be a place for 'this kind of thing, the last five years have proven that we arc not simply joining the band wagon in AIDS education, we are in fact a leader.\ Sharlet Heads U.S. Delegation At Moscow Conference Continued from page 1 What made this so unusual, Sharlet said, was up until this point the Soviet Union was the \greatest violator\ of these agreements, and the topic of discussion at previous conferences. Not only did they host the conference in Moscow, but there was a strong desire by the Soviets to examine and learn about these new ideas presented by other countries on human rights. Held after the Coup, and the collapse of the top political leaders, Sharlet found the conference to have a celebratory aspect to it. He noticed a \euphoric mood\ among the Sharlet noticed that human rigllts were still in the shadows rather than in the foreground. Soviets, and the Russians, as well as the Europeans and Americans, a mood he referred to as being \not in touch with reality.\ Prof. Sharlet sees the reality there as very grim, and not promising in the near future. Attending an earlier human rights conference held this past spring, to honor Andrei Sakharov, winner of the Nobel Prize for peace, Sharlet noticed human rights were still in the shadows rather than in the foreground in Moscow. By holding this conference, Sakharov's widow hoped to bring the issue of human rights to the attention of the political leaders, in order to begin the changes needed so desperately. She did succeed in the fact that Yeltsin and Gorbachev attended the first meeting, however the conference was only the initial step. · Sharlet witnessed a change in the overall mood towards human rights at the C.S.C.E. Conference on the Human Dimension. He described the mood as \upbeat.\ People were not just thinking, but beginning to take action, and work on finding solutions to the many human rights problems within the Soviet Union. The sub conference Sharlet was involved in, had delegates from 13 countries as well as a large delegation from the Soviet Union. He found this conference quite exciting in itself, as people from all over the Union reported on the status of human rights in their communities. Another part of the Soviet delegation, the International lawyers who were professors. exchanged many views and thoughts on the problems that arose. Sharlet's paper focused specifica1Iy on \how many Western non-governmental organizations can help the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe through this transition period, as they go from closed societies to more open societies.\ He raised questions on the level we want to go in on, when we do want to help. Most members of various delegations at the conference, responded to Sharlet's suggestions and strategies positively, however members of the British delegation felt it was too much like \the Western big brother helping our Eastern neighbor.\ Through a discussion with them, Sharlet noticed a touch of \anti-Americanism.\ On the whole, Prof. Sharlet found the American position well received as most of the Soviets echoed the ideas in their proposals, hoping to attract the attention and aid so greatly needed of the West. Apply For A Position On The News Staff. Call Steven Carr at 386·4145 or Stephanie Fray at 377-4039

FEATURE!i CanWeTa by Sari Skolnik Features Editor (scene - student phonathon, student sitting at desk making phone calls) \Hi Mr. . I'm calling on behalf of the student alumni fund and Hello Mr. -:--_ ...... \ She hung up the phone and confidently dialed the next number on her alumni list. \Hello Mr. ___ . I'm calling on behalf of Hello Mr. -.--• Hello.\ She filed through the list determined to find the perfect alumnus who would donate a small fortune to their alma mater; she came across an alumnus, class of '61, and saw that he was a lawyer with a prestigious law firm. So she again dialed the phone and went through her routine. She was .greeted with a pleasant person on the other line who happily gave $10.00 to his reputable school; the alumnus inquired about the social scene, the professors as well as the condition of the Nott (\Is it still falling apart?\). After her big donation the student was on a roll and accumulated over $500.00 from many giving alumni. After about, a dozen phone calls she put down the phone and headed towards the food. Since one of her motivations for helping out at the phonathon was the free food she was sure to take full advantage of it. She started with greasy mozzarella sticks, savory stuffed potatoes, and then helped herself to the main course of chicken with vegetables. After \pigging out\ she sat down and decided to use the free phone calls to call her mother, her best friend at the University of Michigan and her ex-boyfriend in Colorado. It was now 7:00 p.rn. and time for the hourly drawing for twenty dollars. As she wrote her name and placed it in her hat, she thought about the shirt in J. Crew that she could order with the money. She did not win the drawing at this time, but there were still two more chances that night for her to win. She got a new list of alumni to call. As she filed through the names she came across a guy who she had the biggest crush on when she was a freshman; he was even in her calculus class one term. She decided to call him just to hear his voice. \Hello Mr. Miller, I am a junior at Union College and I am calling on behalf of our annual fund.\ She eagerly awaited to hear his voice on the Union Pays Tribute To Dr. Seuss by David Levine Theodore Seuss Geisel, one of the most renowned children's books authors, was remembered on October 15 in Cafe 302. The tribute consisted of seven readings performed by students and faculty members. The seven books read were some of the more famous writings of Seuss. They consisted of Horton Hears a Who, Yertle the Turtle, The Cat in the Hat, How the Grinch Stole Christmas, I Am Not Getting Out of Bed Today, The Lor ax, and Green Eggs and Ham. Dr. Seuss published forty-seven books in his illustrious career which included winning the Pulitzer Prize. The popularity of Dr. Seuss' books stemmed from their simplistic approach to dealing with international and domestic issues. Seuss expressed his views about environmentalism in The Lorax. He warned about the threat of using natural resources for selfish motives. In Yertle the Turtle Seuss warns against the implications of government oppression of the people. Seuss' books were so popular that they sold over two hundred million copies and were published in twenty different languages. The standing room only crowd in Cafe 302 illustrates that Dr. Seuss' books will be popular children's books for years to come. His first book, Mulbury Street, v: as published in 1937. That book became a success and he continued to write children's books. Two of his m.ost famous books, How the Grinch Stole Christmas and Cat in the Hat, were published in 1957. These children's books have been popular for two generations, and judging by the apparent popularity of Seuss' books among college students, they will continue to be popular books for the next generation. Although Dr. Seuss will he sorely missed by many people, his writings will live for a long time to come. STUDENT PHONATHON OCTOBER 27, 28,_& 29 5 ·3·0 ·P M· .. - 9·0·0 ·p-M. · HALE HOUSE DlNlNiG ROOM other line. He was very responsive and asked many questions about annual fund, his fraternity and about herself. \The annual fund raised over $75,000 last year and this is used for unrestricted support. For example, it is used for scholarships, campus renovations as well as improving the library.\ She was excited about his interest in tile fund, but was completely psyched when he started to inquire further about her. \Yeah that was me, I sat in the back row all term; I can't believe that you remember mel\ He pledged $50.00 and asked for her phone number. She placed the phone down and thought about his big blue eyes. This could happen to you this Sunday, Monday and Tuesday night if you come help out to The 80th Annual Fund. A wide variety of food will be served all nights as well as hundreds of dollars in cash prizes and gifts will be awarded many times every night. So come to Hale House for an hour or so October 27, 28, 29 between 6:00-9:00 p.m. Hope to see you there!!! P.S. BRING A FRIEND!!!!! October 24, 1991 u Sex Under the Influ·en·ce\ Come see strategies ior increasing student AWABr=NESS. Guest speaker: Richard Keeling, M.D .. , director of student health, the University of Virginia. Dinner workshop for Union Colleg·e A.A.'s peer facHitators, students and Greek representatives. Pizza and punch will also be served. *Wednesday, October 30, 4:30-6:30 p.m. Hale House Dining Room and lower Lounge HOW .MUCH IS TOO MUCH? Drinks Consumed .in 2 Hours 1 1/2 ozs. 86% 12 ozs. Beer, 6 oz. Wine 100 1 2 1:: 120 1 2 0 140 1 2 ~ 1 1 2 -~ 180 1 2 ~200 12 8:. 220 1 2 240 1 2 DRIVE D CAREFUL IMPAIRED ·: BAC TO .05% .05% • .09% YmmM]~ Source: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ~~ ·I l ' .)

:i ,l l ! j :] I j I ! ·l J I I October 24, 1991 11\JTERI\IATIDNAL FEATURE§ <!rvnnrrbitn£i1l s \Celebration Of Nations\ The Iraqi government is aiding tbe Kurdish separatist movement in southeast Turkey with anns and supplies. According to Turkish ()fficials, Westem diplomats and Iraqi Kurdish leaders, this is an act of retaliation to Turkey's cooperation with allie({ forces during tile war in tile Persian Gulf. One western diplomat said \Saddam Hussein sees the guerilla movement as very useful.. .for paying Turkey back.\ This incident is the first 'Of Iraqi meddling beyond its borders since the Gulf War. The rebel organization, the Kurd,ish Workers Party, has been operating just inside Iraq and has escalated from being little more than a nuisance to a security threat. The organizati()n has been fighting to form a separate Kurdish state since 19&4. by Larae Tumidajewicz A Mini United Nations Summit was held for Parents' Weekend on Saturday, October 19th at the College Center. The celebration of nations kicked off with a music video of \We Are The World.\ Greetings were given by Ethel B. David, Director of the Academic Opportunity Program. Then Professor Slade of the English Department> recited a poem followed by a. musical selection sung by tbe Gospel Ensemble. The International Student Union sponsored a fashion show of the world. Richardson Fleuridor, Co-Chairman of the club, acted as master of ceremonies for the event. Antoinette Aime represented Ghana and Claudiann Mapp, Grenada, Myong Lee, Jiyeon Yi, and Joy Lieberthal did a Korean dance in full K<Jrean attire. Regi Patllrose, Sughanda Khanna, and Neelima Vemuganta modeled the fashions of India. Hiroko Nakano wore the traditional Japanese kimono. Gabriela Carrasco was wearing an Qutfit from Mexico. Larae Tumidajewicz did a polka in a traditional Polish fe~ti val costume. Steve Sherrin hurt his ankle clicking the heels of his Dutch wooden shoes. Several other students participated whose names are not available. Following the fashion show, Marina Bernard from Haiti did a dramatic presentation. Next Dwight Pierre did a fantastic tap dancing routine to represent the United States. The Latin culture was displayed in a merengue dance number. Alpha Phi Alpha did their typical step show to \show the parents what their sons and daughters experience when they are not around.\ Then there was a presentation about the different festivals to show the differences in the Indian culture. Many beautiful Indian costumes were worn and one student performed an Indian dance, Hiroko Nakano, a teaching assistant from Japan, showed us the traditional Japahese tea ceremony. The Gospel Ensemble enchanted us with a closing musical selection, and the celebration finished with the music video \Imagine\ by John Lennon. The celebration was a wonderful opportunity for parents and students to learn about the various cultures represented at Union College. The United States plans to withdraw all its nuclear bombs from South Korea. Officials say that this step was made partially \to persuade North Korea to permit international inspection of its nuclear plants\ and partially because the U.S. military believes that nuclear bombs are no longer necessary in defending South Korea. This action is part of President Bush's initiative to reduce nuclear weapons worldwide. Officials say the decision to remove the bombs does not necessarily mean a swifter reduction of American troops based in South Korea. The Department of Sociology & Anthropology ANNOUNCES TWO NEW COURSES-WINTER TERM In Paris, France, a. report by Michel Lucas, Inspector General of Health Affairs, stated that government health authorities authorized the transfusions of AIDS contaminated blood knowingly. There were delays in requiring heat treatment of blood and in the adopting of a new screening test for donors. The report stated that aathorities ordered all untreated blood stock to be used up before requiring the heating of blood stocks to neutralize the AIDS virus before the blood was given to hemophiliacs. Also, the French cabinet suggested delaying the approval of a new Ame'rican screening test in order to give France's diagnostic institute more time to finish work on its own test. As a result, a great number of people have been exposed to the AIDS virus. The Association of Hemophiliacs says that 1 ,200 of France's 3,500 hemophiliacs carry the virus and that another 4,000 ID 6,000 people have been infected by the contaminated blood. Sociology 51- v'Race, Class and Gender in American Study\ COURSE DESCRIPTION-This course examines the issues of gender, race and class as organizing principles within sociology. in its interdisciplinary nature, this all inclusive approach encapsulates the matrix-like intersection of all the\isms\ as part of human knowledge and social construction and deconstruction. While we will investigate a range of contributions form a variety of perspectives, my own draws broadly from the critical tradition, which focuses on issues of power, control, opportunity, gender, and economic relations. Anthropology 104- \Contemporary Japanese Society'* COURSE DESCRIPTION- This course will provide an anthropological introduction to contemporary . Japanese society and culture. it will begin with an historical overview and then explore such topics as 1 Family Structure, Religion, Work, Women, Social Problems. , Professor Sharon Gmelch-T/Th 1 :30-3:20 Source: The New York Times (Sunday, October 20,· 1991) - lnternatior6al Sect;on. • • \ • ¥ ~ \ - • ~ • ' ' < • ' 1 • • • • ' • • • ' • • • PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the world. By solving this pllzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. . _ A former Spanish colon»' in South America, victorious In a 19th century war over Its northern neighbors of Bolivia and Peru. · I I I I I I 1. This country is the world's leading producer of this metal. 2. Political status achieved by this country in 1818. 3. A common name for the countries of the Western Hemisphere south of the United States. 4. The name of the peninsula formed by the southern border of this country and ~uv:J= uJ•H•drt:rt D3f.liiiMV\P\'.,.,,,..pu><~ilf111n ntJdo:q'\\'\''os its neighbor, Argentina. East Asian Studies/ASV Fall Film Series Yojimbo 1961. Directed by Akiro Kurosawa, 134 min .. B~W. subtitles Friday, October 26ta CC 406 8 pm GOOD NEWS! Foreign hmguage news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 01 0). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM Come and wtztck the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-I O:OOPM

6 aLrutrorb:irn.si.s CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD -~----------------------- :sTUDENT SERVICES.PO BOX 2596,HOLLWOOD,Fl 33022: Now you can have two or the most recognized and ·_ ..• •.· \I . E· ··s'. I want VJC! A®/MAST. ERCARD®. Creel It •• accepted credit cards In the 'WOrld .. ,VIsa® and MasterCard® I on: credit cards ... \ln your name.'' EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN . I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which ls lOO't refundable If not I CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFORE! .I approved Immediately. I VISA® and MasterCard® the cre<Jit:c;utls you 1 1 deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENT 1 NAME 1 STORES-TUITION-ENTERTAJNM:ENT- 1 . 1 EMERGENCY CASH-TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- I ADDRESS •. HOTELS-MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS- REPAIR5-.AND TO BUIW YOUR CllliDIT RATING I • I CITY STATE -ZIP I QUAAANTEEDI VIS liMASTERCAAD GUAR.lNJIIED ISSUI Oft IIIONIY 8ACK Approval absoluteJy,guaranteed so . I - I . 1 PHONE S.S.# 1 I SIGNATURE I l NOTE: MastaOud Is a registered lmdemark of MasteiOlnllnlemat looal. Inc. I I VIsa Is a ~sleml lrndellllrk or VIS/\ USA. Inc and VISA International I I Servtoes .Association. 1000/c GUARANTEED! I t:. t·11.-i: l.f;J:I·J·;J.l'1:tet•lil:X•1:.I.t•i fl.f4 1 1 -----------~------------- P-UMPJ(JN DECORATING I •\ \ I I \ \ ~!~\I I f)1Jj I ;:.._ UMPKJN SALE Sponsored by Delta Gamma (i\ :\· \i~ • Buy your Halloween Pumpkins. ' \.~. · Friday, October 2$ thruTuesday, October 29 CONTEST ~~I \ !-~ I \ I L / \ \ /~ Sponsored by Delta Gamma Bring your decorated pumpkin to the Dutch Hollow Pit at 6:00-Wed., October 30. Win great prizes on the categories of scariest, funniest, and most original! Come Join The Fun!! in the College Center-10-3 pm Only $2,.50 each Proceeds Benefit: Sight Conservation & Aid to the Blind SEN,I·OR NIGHT AT Kelly's Pub NO'W . EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT -Drink Specials-2 for 1 Wings-Pool Table/Darts All SE:NIORS WELCOME •Proper ID Required •• ) ~-.· l '.· •• ·.,· •• • •• ~.~' .··_. -· , ·, :-.-.·-,. '. ·.,. -- :.·.· ., .·1. -· ,,· The Dutch Hollow Restaurant is pleased to announce: NATIVE AMERICAN AWARENESS WEEK November 4th thru 8th ·.-:: • .i-, *We will be featuring Native Cuisine all week during brunch. *There will be representatives of the major Northeastern Tribes performing and displaying their handi crafts.

··;;..·.- October 24, 1991 EI\IVIRDI\IMEI\IT <llllltfllrbtrnms 1 Courtesy .of the Albany Report New York State is currently in the midst of a major policy debate on air quality. On one side of the debate is Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Commissioner Thomas Jorling, who is attempting to bring California's more stringent and environmentally healthful automobile emission standards to New York. On the other side are a number of state Senate Republicans, led by Environmental Conservation Chair Owen Johnson, who have seized the role as advocates for the automobile industry's contention that the more lenient federal automobile emission standards are good enough. How the debate is resolved will affect the air we breathe in New York for decades to come. EPL has recently testified in favor of adoption of the more healthful California standards and is working with the DEC to see that the tougher regulations are implemented. Unseen Dangers The ,threat to New Yorkers' ·health and the state's environment from polluted air has never been greater. By far, the number one cause of this condition is our family automobile. The number of miles we cumulatively travel continues to spiral upward, totally wiping out any pollution relief we may have received due to more stringent tailpipe standards or better gas mileage. At the World Trade Center and along the I-95 corridor, the E.P.A. has found four of the ten worst smog locations in the country. It is estimated that transportation sources are ,responsible for 90% of the carbon monoxide, and over 50% of the nitrous oxides and the hydrocarbons released into the air. Mobile sources also account for over 50% of air toxics in urban areas of the state. Nationally, it is estimated that there are 10,000 to 20,000 air pollution related deaths each year and millions of debilitating respiratory and other diseases caused by sub- standard air quality. Our air has become a dumping ground for pollutants as dangerotis as nearly any dump awaiting cleanup. Unfortunately, New York is still on the downward side of the air quality s>lope. Rather than improving, the state's air is being further degraded in the greater Metropolitan Region and on Long Island, and it is now common for ~pstate communities to be breathing sub-standard air as well. Be Environmentally Awarel and BREATHE A LITTLE EASIER! Diane Raviteh'sldeas about edueatlon are * refreshing *controversial *exciting *annoying *and lots of other adjecti\'es. Come hear her tonight at 8 p.m. in the College Center. Diane Ravitch is assistant U.S. secretary of education and a leading critic of the American educational system. Her appearance is part of the College's Bicentennial lecture series. Air iii b\fLJFJOO~ W '~' ij if~ &@& ~~~ £®& The Brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha Frat. Inc. will be providing a foot patrol I escort s e rvi c e the week of 1 0 I 2 8 -1 1 I 1 for the Union College community. Look for departure times to be posted today. We will be leaving from the All Night Study section of the library. The college has demonstrated the need for added escort service, we should all do our part in helping the community .& A cope with the prob1ern . ..A Til!OID!lb~ W @I!JIQ .... • ~®& Are you struggling with an eating disorder~ join an evening program offering • group therapy • psychodrama • help with coping skills • a place to work on emotional issues about eating Tuesdays 6:30-8:00 p.m. 30 Crescent Ave., Saratoga Springs, NY For information call: Frank S. Arcangelo, Ph.D. 518-584-3600 or 1-800-888-5448 w ==~:eF.our Winds SARATOGA and PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES, P.C. USDA OFFERS TIPS FOR SAFE COOKING ON CAMPUS: 1. Never store foods on the window ledge even if the weather is cold (not even that pizza box). Buildings radiate heat, making the sill warmer than the outside temperature. 2. Leftover pizza, fried chicken, Chinese food and other take-outs should be refrigerated as soon as possible. Remember that perishable food should never be unrefrigerated for more than two hours.

<llonrnrbfrttsfs ART§ & EI\ITERTAII\IMEI\IT October 24~ 1991 The Artist That Should Be Inside All Of Us by Julie Medow Arts Editor \I like to do plays that make strong statements,\ says Marjorie Hayes, Mountebanks' guest director. \I think that's what theater is for. So when I found out that our production would be opening just as AIDS Awareness Week was starting, I thought of doing Alan Bowne's Beirut.\ Alan Bowne, a contemporary American playwright, \is unfortunately, one of our many talented people who has been lost to AIDS.\ And although Beirut does not directly deal with the disease, it is centered around an \unspecified plague in the near future.\ which can be loosely (or maybe not so loosely) linked with AIDS and its own social ramifications. In the play, a man finds out that he tests positive for the disease, and is taken to a quarantined area known as Beirut (a.k.a. New York City's East Village). Beirut is, in Marjorie's words, \hard to get into, and hard to get out of.\ Although the man's girlfriend is not infected, she fmds a way to sneak in and be with him, and the two are forced to make \grave decisions about their future.\ The case has three characters; they are played by Joshua Fausty, Sara Teasdale, and Chris Diemand. The set was constructed by Charles Steckler, and Margie would like to \thank Mountebanks and the Arts Department - they have been wonderful hosts.\ Beirut is being performed in the Nott from October 31 to November 9 {with a few weekdays off in between). Call 6153 for information and tickets. Margie is originally from California where she attended the California Institute of Arts. She has performed Off Broadway (in After Stardrive) during her years in New York, and received a Fulbright-Hays HOR05COPE5 e>Y LOLLI FortuneCtJokie Style LIBRA: An unexpected relationship will become permanent. Do11't be afraid of new things. SCORPIO: When_you crave attention, it's never there. Now when someone is paying too much attention to you, you squinn away. Decide what you want before you mess up. SAGmARIUS: Your emoti()nal nature is strong and sensitive. Don't let others take advantage of that. CAPRICORN: Your confusio11 seems to have remained. You can not get over it until you get rid of one of the causes. AQUARIUS: Keep your hopes up. An old wish will come true. PISCES: Remember that special someone who you love, is thinking ab()ut you. Be extra sweet and show him/her how m-uch you care about him/her. ARIES: Has stress and -work gotten you down. Relax, take each day in slride and it will soon be over & you can celebrate with your pals. TAURUS: Keep your eye out for strange occurrences. Make sure those eyes ()n the back of your head are alert GEMI~I: You must look into people as well as at them. CANCER: LEO: VIRGO: Inner strengths <JUtweigh appearances. Your heart has l>een divided. Maybe you should just give love llp for awhile, get back on track and that little loneliness will subside. You met someone interesting last week. Don't be so quick to dLsmiss it-he/she knows you better than you think lie/she does. Your cheerful outlook is one of your assets. Don't let anyone knock you for it. and Kosciuszko Grant to study theater in Poland. The rest of her bio is just as impressive, but I want to leave space to talk about Margie's feelings regarding Union and its lack of emphasis on the Arts. (Regardless of the slight criticisms to follow, Margie believes \the gardens are beautiful! I walk my dog on campus all the time!\) Margie has a strong philosophy about the importance of using creative energy, especially while :you are in colle:-ge. \PeO'ple planning Jior professional careers should take time for the Arts now. All things cann0t be explained in terms of logic. Sure, 2 plus 2 equals four, but you may still end up missing the point after you get an answer.\ In addition, she feels that \The study of the Arts is freeing - there is no right and wrong, therefore it is impossible to fail. Pressures mount outside, but not Marjorie Hayes everywhere do you have to way artists are treated both at prove yourself. I wish Union Union and in the larger world. students had more \People feel that if you are opportunities to make friends enjoying your work, you must with their dark, or unknown, or not really be working. The more emotional side while they Arts are considered childish in are here.\ many people's eyes, not There is a certain frustration valuable. I'm saying it's nO't that comes through when play. Yet what I do for a living talking to Margie about the isn't eve11 given college credit.\ Pianist Amy Lin Plays At Proctor's Pianist, Amy Lin, will be the featured soloist with the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra at 3 p.m. on Sunday, October 27 at Proctor's Theatre. The nineteen year old is a 1991 graduate of Niskayuna High School and a freshman at The J obns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. She is a Biomedical Engineering m~or. In her appearance with the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, Miss Lin will play Mozart's Concerto for Piano, D Minor in honor of the 200th anniversary of the composer's death. Amy Lin was the winner of the Anthony R. Stefan Piano Competition sponsored by the League of the Schenectady Symphony in 1990. She has received numerous other honors. She received the Jeannette Odasz Memorial Scholarship in 1991. In 1990, she won the Heddy Kilian Piano Competition. That same year she received honorable mention in the Yamaha High School Auditions for Piano and was named first runner up in the Lois Lyman Concerto of its difficulty. \Audience Competition. Most recently members will have an she has been a pianist with the opportullity to hear a piece that Empire State Youth Orchestra is rarely played today,\ he (1990-91) and the Empire State continued. Repertory Orchestra (1988- The October 27 concert will 1990). Miss Lin has performed open with Rossini's \Overture four solo piano recitals in the to the Barber of Seville.\ Capital District area. Berlioz \Symphonie Fantas- She has also been featured at tique\ is also on the program. the General Electric R&D Each piece will be introduced Center and has played at by Dr. Schneider as part of the various churches in the area. SSO's Family Concert She performed on Proctor's program. stage during the Tribute to Schenectady's Volunteers in Individual tickets to the 1987. She has studied with Schenectady Symphony Ann Cooper, Charlotte Orchestra are available through deBlois, Semour Bernstein and- Proctor's Box Office at $10 for Elizabeth Wolff. adults and $5 for students. In speaking about the Mozart The Schenectady Symphony Concerto for Piano, SSO Orchestra receives partial Music Director Dr. Charles funding from the New York Schneider, commented that the State Council on the Arts and piece was very popular in the the Schenectady County Local 19th Century mostly because _ Arts Initiative Program. , 'he Octavo Singers prl1sent their ----. 58th years-be a part of It! November 3-3 pm Faure Requiem, Faure Pavane, Mozart Vespers Concert directed by George G. Moross. Harp and string accompaniment. Held at Union College Memorial Chapel. Adults $9:00, Students/seniors $7.00. Tickets available from members or at the door. For more information call346·8081 or 381-9444. campus Critics say •.•. FRANKIE AND JOHNNY 4 STARS \No matter how hard they tried, they couldn't make Michelle Pheiffer ugly.\ \Great kissing scenes ... and AI Pacino has the best eyes.\ \It makes you want to find happiness.\ DEAD AGAIN 2·3 1/2 STARS \It was one of best movies I've seen in 20 years.\ \I was on the edge of my seat the whole time.\ \I fell alseep. 1 woke up. I figured out the whole thing ion 10 minutes.\ \It was like a 3 hour Egoiste commercial.\ THE FISHER KING 3 STARS \I thought it had good social commentary.\ \I didn't like what theydd to New York.\ OTHER PEOPLES MONEY .2 STARS \I was disappointed. I had high hopes for Danny DeVito.\ SHONT . 1 ~AR \Unless you are a die-hard John Travolta fan, wait .for the video.\ \Don't even wait for the video.\ EARNEST SCARED STUPID NEGATIVE STARS \It was about a snot-nosed troll!\

Odober 24, 1991 @nnrorbirn.sis How To Make Sure Your Resume Is Working For You by Patricia Hennessy Courtesy ofTheNewYork Times Ome aspiring advertising executive did the usual thing: She started her job search by sending her resume to a prospective boss. Th.en she did something unusual: She followed up by sending a jar of M&M's. Creative Director Jim Holland, of Luyk Advertising in Albany, was impressed, but unable to offer the innovative job seeker a position. \There were no openings at the time,\ he said. As companies across the nation begin to cut w~rkers, the number of job openings is dwiodling. When positions do open up, employers are inundated with hundreds, even thousands of resumes for positions. In March, Pepsi-Cola Bottling Co. of Albany placed a want ad for eight to 15 production jobs, and received more than 2,009 responses. The company decided shortly after running the ad not to hire any new people. Montgomery County received more than 125 resumes from around the country for the county adrninistrator's post, which pays $43,000 annually. leaving recent graduates, laid- off workers and those seeking second jobs with the task of standing out among the masses. The first step is the cover letter and the resume, often considered an advertisement of oneself. Susan Simek, owner of Capital Resume in Clifton Park, said she is printing more brochw:e-type resumes that she was two years ago. The format uses an 11-inch by 17-inch piece of paper and folds over a portion of the paper. It is still unusual enough, she said, to catch a resume reviewer's attention. Simek also is creating and printing resumes for those in fields that previously did not require a resume, including construction or highly technical workers. \The resume has turned into the first interview,\ she said. Twenty years ago, businesses would interview up to 75 people for a position. Today, companies tend to weed out dozens of applicants by reviewing resumes, then interview only five or 10, at the most, she said. Thus, the importance of making a good first impression intensifies. education. \You can't just go to the typewriter and whip out a resume anymore,\ said f chn Ellis, assistant director of career services at the College of Saint Rose. He tells prospective graduates to make their resumes easy to skim, as few employers have time to read each resume carefully. If 'the resume is in paragraph form, he said, it probably won't •get read. Write in short action- oriented sentences, he said. Sometimes, like the aspiring advertising executive, job hunters want to do more tltan present a resume free from typographical errors. Tiley want to capture attention, fast. But tile use.of neon-colored paper, light blue or pink paper, or slightly oversized paper, as some have tried, is not advised in the Capital Region, which Simek called conservative. But no matter where ~ou live, it is important not to overdo it, she added. \If a resume stands out because they're laughing at it, it's overstepped the line,\ she said. Her computer software permits her to print little apples, a pointing finger, or virtually any graphic design desired, but she usually advises against it. Borders are often acceptable, if they are simple, Simek said. Victorian lace or flashy borders arern't considered simple, Simek said. The area where innovation in a resume is often pennitted is in the more creative fields, including advertising and television production. One television producer sent her cover letter in the written form of a commercial, complete with i:astructions for background audio and video angles for a commercial of herself. Holland, the creative director who was impressed by the jar of M&M's, said there is room for creativity in a resume, especially where creativity would be demanded on the job. \If you're in graphic design, for example, your resume should just look beautiful,\ he said. He warns, however, that job candidates need experience and a portfolio to back up their resumes. \Sometimes when someone has a really weak portfolio, it's almost as if the resume was a fluke,\ he said. Like many employers, Holland could not outline the perfect resume. He just knows it when he sees it. And when a resume is bad, it just is. An unusual resume is a risk, Ellis said, and not advised for accountants or bankers. A unique approach, he said, may tell prospective employers that the job seeker is an individualist who is unable to work with a team. \You want to show that you're going to fit in,\ he said. \You don't want to be an oddball.\ Katherine Harrington, director of the Career Center at Siena College, said a person should first consider the prospective employer and industry before sitting down and writing a resume. The way to catch an employer's eye, she said, is with a professional, clearly written resume. \Writing skills still come into play,\ she said. \A well- written resume jumps out at you.\ The first step is with a profile statement at the top of the resume that offers a brief description of the job hunter's qualifications, instead of a career objective, Harrington said. The 1991 resume opens with a summary that says the job seeker is \skilled in bringing products to market. Proficient in financial analysis, negotiations and dealmaking.\ Employers must sort through piles of resumes, The key, experts said, is to present a clear; crisp, neat resume that briefly explains qualifications, experience and Sunlight vs8 The Immune System FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER at the KOS'HER KITCHEN 6:00 *Please bring meal cards Courtesy of Healtll Print Sunlight would not be harmful to the skin at all if it were not for the presence of certain molecules called \chromophores\ that can absorb the UV radiation. Today, in some of the most exciting research in photobiology, scientists are beginning to pinpoint which chromophores absorb UV radiation. \The reason tllat UVB is so much more troublesome than UV A is that chromophores absorb UV radiation primarily in the UVB range,\ says Dr. DeLeo. DNA is one chromophore that has been identified. Another is urocanic acid which, in addition to being a controversial ingredient in sunscreens, is also thought to be the cbmmophore that ca11ses the skin's immune system to become suppressed in the presence <>f sunlight.' \Phcto- immunology, the study of the effects of UV radiation on the immune system, is going to be one of the most quickly advancing and most interesting areas of research in the next decade,\ predicts Frederick Urbach, M.D., Emeritus Professor of Dermatology at Temple University School of Medicine in Philadelphia. \In animal studies, exposure to UVB can suppress the formation of antibodies by the skin's immune system. This sets the stage for tumors to grow. Although this link hasn't yet been demonstrated in humans, it is possible that prolonged exposure to UVB could increase one's risks not only for skin cancer but also for bacterial infections and other problems. Recent research shows that UV A 1 has little or no effect on the immune system, and that UV A2 has some effect, though not as much as UVB light.\ Protecting Yourself •.• Doctors emphasize that in addition to using sunscreens, we should all avoid excess sun exposure. Wear protective clothing. Develop a fondness for wide-brimmed hats. Don't sunbathe. If you take any medications, be sure to ask your doctor if they can lead to a photosensitive reaction, and if the answer is yes, don't go outside without wearing a broad-spectrum sunscreen. Join us in partaking of the It is also important to update yourself on the latest sunscreen language. Within the next decade, researchers are expected to have developed a rating system for UV A protection to complement the SPF system that reflects protection against UVB radiation. Until that time, if you want to get a sunscreen that protects against both UVA and UVB, look for the term \broad-spectrum\ on the label. You can also check the label to determine whether the product contains certain ingredients that have been shown to protect against UV A radiation. For instance, parsol 1789 (which will appear on the label by the chemical name Butylmeth- oxydibcnzoylmethanc), has been shown to block UV A2 and UV A 1. Benzophenones (which appear on the ingredient list as oxybenzone, dioxy- benzone, and sulfisobenzone), are effective at blocking UV A2 but less effective at screening UVAI. UVB-screening agents include PABA and its esters (such as Padimate 0) and cinnamates. Anthranilates screen both UV A and UVB, but usually not as effectively as the ingredients listed above. Bountiful Fruits of the Mohawk Valley at DUTCH HOLLOW A cornucopia of apple-*Macintosh *Empires *McGoun Only 25¢ thru the month of October

EDITORIAL ----Founded at Union Colletre 1877--- Wake Up, But Don't Smell The Coffee While almost every Union College department has been affected by federal and state budget cuts in addition to the loss of various other revenues figured into this year's budget, it is outrageous that each member of the College faculty continues to receive a free cup ofcoffee each day. Although it is a nice gesture on the part of the administration to grant these coffee privileges, the college has no business spending money it does not have. Moreover, the school is allocating these non- existent funds to unnecessary items. It is time for the administration to be realistic. Health services have been reduced, there is no money to repair the Nott, the library needs books, and visiting professorships are being chopped. The facts speak for themselves. One cannot justify absorbing expenses which are not required for this institution to function efficiently when essential items are being cut left and right. While it is true that coffee does not cost very much, money is money. Until the school's financial situation changes, these funds should irrefutably be poured into areas which can make Union College a top notch institution rather than into the cups of the Union College faculty. I Knew I Should Have Gone To The Head Of The Charles Now that Parents Weekend has come and gone, the committee charged with the planning of the weekend should sit down and evaluate what exactly went wrong. Needless to say, the weekend was not exactly filled with interesting lectures and exciting events to keep everyone occupied. After an impromptu poll, it is apparent that the majority of students were reduced to taking Mom and Dad shopping at the nearby malls. LETTERS October 24, 1991 AIDS Awareness Week To the Editor: The Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Week will be held Sunday, October 27 .through Friday, November 1. We would like to see greater student involvement in this year's conference, and have therefore geared several of the activities directly toward Union students. The week will kick off on Sunday with a program by V.D. nurse and comedian Bill Goettel whose \Groineco1ogy\ game show promises to be funny, educational, and entertaining. A collection will be taken for the children of the Farano Center, a hospice in Albany which treats children afflicted with AIDS. There will be boxes in the College Center all week long, and near the entrance of the Memorial . Chapel on Sunday night, where donations may be placed. The children request a few specific items: contruction paper, plain w bite paper, poster board, washable markers, crayons, pencils, colored pencils, erasers, finger and watercolors, paint brushes, toothbrushes, glue, scissors, tape, clothing in all sizes, sheets, light-weight blankets, hath towels, and wash cloths. All donations will be greatly appreciated. Atso all week in the College Center, members of the community will have the chance to win a Sony Walkman and other prizes, when they guess the number of condoms in a jar. Proceeds from the condom raffle will benefit the Carver Community Health Center's HIV/AIDS Education and Prevention Patient Fund. Free condoms will be available all week long as well at the AIDS information table. The week will include a dramatic reading of the play \Safe Sex,\ with a discussion to follow on Monday, and on Wednesday a Union alumnus who has AIDS will be available for an informal discussion, a particularly interesting and important opportunity for everyone. The Mountebanks will also be presenting \Beirut a play about love in the plague years, opening Halloween night. There is also a wide variety of other events scheduled during the week, and a detailed schedule of the conference appears in this issue of Concordiensis. · The student Committee on AIDS has been working diligently in preparing for this year's conference, and we feel that the programs offered will be both interesting and informative. The issue of AIDS effects each one of us and its importance will only increase in the future. We hope that our fellow classmates will take advantage of the programs offered throughout the week. Students interested in joining the AIDS Committee for next year should contact the Biology Department. Sincerely, The Student Committee on AIDS: David Donaldson Don Valerio Cindy Thomas Jennifer Kent Jessica Pollack Dawn Bogdan Cathy Marshall Davd Donaldson Nicole Smith Dave Moody Lisa Pearsall Joshua Fausty Freshman and Junior Officer Elections To the Editor: The Student Forum would like to encourage all Freshmen and Juniors to get involved in student government by running for the position of Class Representative. Three positions are available for Freshmen (President, Vice-President, and Secretary{freasurer) and·one for Juniors (Secretary/Treasurer). Information and petitions are available in the Student Activities Office, Rm 408, fourth floor of the College Center. Deadline for registration is Monday, November 4 at 5 p.m. Elections will be held on Friday, November 8. Thank you. Sincerely, The Student Forum Mountenbanks Presents: A STAGE DOOR Production of The lmprov Game Show The more creative students took their parents to Saratoga or to some other nearby place to pass the - ti~e. Actu~ly, maybe the students who told their ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Friday, October 25 - 8&10 pm CC302 parents to stay home and then went to the Head of the Charles were the smartest of all. The widespread discontentment about the weekend is rooted in a couple of basic problems. One reason that this Parents Weekend was not a booming success was the lack of events planned. At first glance, the weekend schedule looks full of events. But a closer look reveals the truth. For example, there were five interesting seminars given by Union Faculty. Unfortunately, the lectures were all squeezed into a two-hour period and people could only attend at the most two discussions. Another ex:ample of events not being what they appeared to be was the concert by the Garnet Minstrelles and the Dutch Pipers. The few people who knew about the concert were disappointed to find that it was only about twenty minutes long. The organizers failed to notify the singing groups until two days before the weekend. With this limited time, the Minstrelles did what they could and the Pipers decided it was pointless to even show up. The Minstrelles were able to pull it off and give an entertaining although short performance. These are just two instances of the fact that those events which were included in the weekend were for the most part badly planned. There were also several big events missed entirely. One example of an event which would have been appropriate was a home football game. This would have given more publicity and school support to a team which certainly deserves it. Additionally, it would serve nicely as something to do for the afternoon. Hopefully, these and other criticisms of the weekend will be used in the planning of next year's event. Not only should the actual dates of the weekend be , h.tnl!rd. '.(l :--hould the actual events (or lack thereof). All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed.

10 EDITORIAL <llJlltfllrbtrnsts -----Founded ~t Union College 1877--- Wake Up, But Don't Smell The Coffee While almost every Union College department has been affected by federal and state budget cuts in addition to the loss of various other revenues figured into this year's budget, it is outrageous that each member of the College faculty continues to receive a free cup of coffee each day. Although it is a nice gesture on the part of the Jdministration to grant these coffee privileges, the college has no business spending money it does not have. Moreover, the school is allocating these non- existent funds to unnecessary items. It is time for the administration to be realistic. Health services have been reduced, there is no money to repair the Nott, the library needs books, and visiting professorships are being chopped. The facts speak for themselves. One cannot justify absorbing expenses which are not required for this institution to function efficiently when essential items are being cut left and right. While it is true that coffee does not cost very much, money is money. Until the school's financial situation changes, these funds should irrefutably be poured into areas which can make Union College a top notch institution rather than into the cups of the Union College faculty. I Knew I Should Have Gone To The Head Of The Charles Now that Parents Weekend has come and gone, the committee charged with the planning of the weekend should sit down and evaluate what exactly went wrong. Needless to say, the weekend was not exactly filled with interesting lectures and exciting events to keep everyone occupied. After an impromptu poll, it is apparent that the majority of students were reduced to taking Mom and Dad shopping at the nearby malls. The more creative students took their parents to Saratoga or to some other nearby place to pass the :::.~1c .. \,:tu:ll!y, m.l) be the :.tuJ~11b \\ hu lulJ tlll.:ir parents to stay home and then went to the Head of the Charles were the smartest of all. The widespread discGntentment about the weekend is rooted in a couple of basic problems. One reason that this Parents Weekend was not a hooming success was the lack of events p1ani1ed. At first glance. the weekend schedule lnnb full of events. But a closer 1ook reveals tht: tntth. l·or c:...an1pk. there \\Cre five interestin~ ~cminars c:i\'cll hv l nion Lh.'tdtv. Lnfllrlunatt:lv. tht: lectures \\eTc all ~.qucl'/L'd into :1 t\vo-hour pcri~)d and peopic couid onlY ~:tll·nd at the most t\\o Ji..,cus-.;ions. :\nPthL:r l'\ample ()f event-; not heing what they ;q1[1l\;trcd tn he was the concert by the Garnet \lin-;trdles and the Dutch Pipers. The few people who knew about the concert were disappointed to find that it was only about twenty minutes long. The organizers failed to notify the ~inging groups until two days before the weekend. With this limited time, the Minstrelles did what they could and the Pipers decided it was pointless to even show up. The Minstrelles were able to pull it off and give an entertaining although short performance. These are just two instances of the fact that those events which were included in the weekend were for the most part badly planned. There were also several big events missed entirely. One example of an event which would have been appropriate was a home football game. This wGuld have given more publicity and school support to a team which certainly deserves it. Additionally, it would serve nicely as something to do for the afternoon. I Iopefully, these and other criticisms of the weekend will he used in the planning of next year's event. Not only should the actu<tl dates of the weekend be ;;~, , ,·.·,! ·· 1 \!l .,,;,! t:11' ,;, tt •. tlnL'Ilh ror br.k tfwrtPfl LETTERS October 24, 1991 AIDS Awareness Week To the Editor: The Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Week will be held Sunday, October 27 through Friday, November 1. We would like to see greater student involvement in this year's conference, and have therefore geared several of Lhe activities directly toward Union students. The week will kick off on Sunday with a program by V.D. nurse and comedian Bill Goettel whose \Groinecology\ game show promises to be funny, educational, and entertaining. A collection will be taken for the children of the Farano Center, a hospice in Albany which treats children afflicted with AIDS. There will be boxes in the College Center all week long, and near the entrance of the Memorial Chapel on Sunday night, where donations may be placed. The children request a few specific items: contruction paper, plain white paper, poster board, washable markers, crayons, pencils, colored pencils, erasers, finger and watercolors, paint brushes, toothbrushes, glue, scissors, tape, clothing in aU sizes, sheets, light-weight blankets, bath towels, and wash cloths. All donations will be greatly appreciated. Also all week in the College Center, members of the community will have the clunce to win a Sony Walkman and other prizes, when they guess the number of condoms in a jar. Proceeds from the condom raffle will benefit the Carver Community Health Center's HIV/AIDS Education and Prevention Patient Fund. Free condoms will be available all week long as well at the AIDS infonnation table. The week will include a dramatic reading of the play \Safe Sex,\ with a discussion to follow on Monday, and on Wednesday a Union alumnus who has AIDS will be available for an informal discussion, a particularly interesting and important opportunity for everyone. The Mountebanks will also be presenting \Beirut a play about love in the plague years, opening Halloween night. There is also a wide variety of other events scheduled during the week, and a detailed schedule of the conference appears in this issue of Concordiensis. The student Committee on AIDS has been Workhtg diligently in preparing for this year's conference, and we feel that the programs offered will be both interesting and informative. The issue of AIDS effects each one of us and its importance will only increase in the future. We hope that our fellow classmates will take advantage of the programs offered throughout the week. Students interested in joining the AIDS Committee for next year should contact the Biology Department. Sincerely, The Student Committee on AIDS: David Donaldson Don Valerio Cindy Thomas Jennifer Kent Jessica Pollack Dawn Bogdan Cathy Marshall Davd Donaldson Nicole Smith Dave Moody Lisa Pearsall Joshua Fausty Freshman and Junior Officer Elections To the Editor: The Student Forum would like to encourage all Freshmen and Juniors to get involved in student government by running for the position of Class Representative. Three positions aFe available for Freshmen (President, Vice-President. and Secretary(fr~urer) and one for Juniors (Secretary(freasurer). Information and petitions are available in the Student Activities Office, Rm 408, fourth floor of the College Center. Deadline for registration is Monday, November 4 at 5 p.m. Elections will be held on Friday, November 8. Thank you. Sincerely, The Student Forum Mountenbanks Presents: A STAGE DOOR Production of The lmprov Game Show Friday, October 25 - 8&10 pm CC302 All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed 'vV i th a natne. ID and telephone nun1ber and subrnitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed .. - --------------' ,......-~~---~\\\\\\'\'!'!\'\!< \\\\\\\'\~'l'll\'~~----~-\\ <itttttrllf~' f; 0, blrtllliS Editors~ in-Chief News Editors Associate News Editor Feature Editors '<>,; .. :(,\\LC-f'A\f\f .-~- • Steven Carr, Stephanie Fray Jeff Green, Jordan Lippner Matt Tucker International Features Editors Sari Skolnik, Eric Czech Kristin Lupoli, Larae Tumidajewicz Sharon Handelsman Environmental Editor Commentaries Editors David Burg, Reeba Manimalethu, Lea Lewis Arts Editor Julie Medow Lifestyles Editor Julie Schlang Campus Page Editors Diana Brodsky, Nicole Goldin Sports Editor Dan Strum Photography Editor David Cho General M:anager Wendy Oremland · Advertising Editors Laurel Alessio, Lauren Bycoff, Business Manager Andrea Rogers.j · Subscription Manager Andrew Rosen i .• ,· STAFF: Greg Barrett, Ron-Bimibaum •. Kimberlee Brody, :· Daniel J • :Sullen~ Steptumie t>a\is~ l?eter Fischer. Erica Frank, Jeff G.oogel~ Jason Habinskyt Hanpah J. Hazen; Karen Hurwitz, ]'On Keller. John Schachnovsky. Rebecca Smackey. Jeremy Sollinger, Chris Williams. ADVEJITISING STAFF: Jenniftr Andersont Sharon Smith, CONCORDIENSIS is publish~d eight Thursdays a tertn by 1he student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308;. Publications Office; SUStJUehanna Publications. Inc., Box 388. Sidney, New Yotk 13838 (607) 563-8339. · Subscription rate: $40 per yearj delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370~ 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 370-6494.

October 24, 1991 LEII'ER!i C!rnnrnrbirnstz Heads-Up For The Statistics· Watson Finalists Announced To the Editor: Governor Cuomo .proclaimed October \Head Injury Awareness Month.\ Not completely by coincidence, it is also \National Disability Awareness Month.\ What's the connection? There are more .permanent disabilities resulting from head injury than from any of the major neurological diseases like Parkinsons, Muscular Dystrophy, MS, etc. We are all aware of these diseases and the unfortunate condition which the individual and family members experience from these diseases. Unfortunately, head injuries lead to as much devastation. Get a load of these statistics: Head injuries area the major cause of death of those under 45 and there are 100,000 such deaths in America each year. One hundred and fifty thousand individuals suffer sufficiently _ severe injuries that critical care is essential to their survival. About 50,000 injuries each year result in a .permanent disability. meaning a lessened quality of life. The leading causes of head injuries are auto accidents, falling from bikes, motorcycle accidents and pedestrians being hit by a car. The severity of many of these accidents can be lessened by \Belting Up\ and by \Wear(ing) Bicycle Helmets.\ I have coupons for excellent helmets for about $20.00, a good present for someone. If you bump your head and later have bright spots in your vision, balance problems, difficulty concentrating, studying, or reading for similar periods of time compared to the pre-injury period, and are more irritable, then think about the possibility that you have a head injury. Any or all of the preceding symptoms might be present immediately or after a few weeks. I normally find at least one person in my classes who has had a head injury. Seek a doctor's care who is familiar with head injury, call the NYS-Head Injury Association (459-7911), or drop by and talk to me for further information. Think about supporting head injury organizations when planning your charitable events. I'm sure you know someone who has had such an injury. Thanks, John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry Self-Defense WoRkshop on NovembeR 2 Fott Women Only 'By ReseRvation Only looK foR table in the College CenteR oR Can 382-7918, 'Bo;c 1211J. $3-location on campus to be announced To the Editor: Ok. I admit it. I as a little hot under the collar when I I wrote my letter to Concordiensis two weeks ago about the Watson, but I was reacting to my surprise that so few seniors applied. The Watson is a wonderful opportunity for Fellows, not just to travel, but in the words of the Watson flier, to \explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more informed sense of international concern.\ On behalf of the Watson Selection Committee, I would like to congratulate this year's applicants, whose names appear below, and especially to the four who have been named Union's finalists. The finalists are Diego Hojraj, Beth Ann Isenberg, Anna Bess Sorin, and Marie Wheeler. Diego Hojraj has proposed to travel to urban and rural Argentina, and possibly Paraguay or Bolivia to compare modem and traditional medicine and their influences on one another. He will observe and interview doctors (both traditional and modern), nurses, patients, and medical students to learn their perceptions of the role and practice of medicine. Beth Isenberg's proposal is titled \Dismantling a Legacy of Oppression: Redefining the Role of Women in Post-Franco Spain.\ She states: \It has been 16 years since the death of Francisco Franco and the beginning of the end of institutionalized cultural and political repression in Spain.\ She will examine the implications for women in terms of family, career, politics, and culture. \Through an analysis of these women's lives not only would we be able to gain insight into Spanish life and culture, but also into our own.\ Anna Bess S orin wants to visit Brazil, India, and China, to investigate the biology and ecology of fresh-water dolphins. More than simply a biology researcll project, Anna Bess is interested in the social and cultural relationship between the dolphins and humans. \I am interested in how people interpret the biological world around them and incorporate it into their lives.\ Marie Wheeler, who is currently one of Union's G.E. interns, wants to study \business decisions, mainly those that involve banking and joint ventures, that have emerged from the new economies in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Hungary ... \ Her itinerary is to travel to London, Prague, Warsaw, and Budapest learning about the rapidly changing banking and investment markets in Eastern Europe. These are Union's four finalists. The list below illustrates the range of ideas that Watson applications cover. If you want to find out more about the Watson Fellowship, contact any of the Committee members: Prof. Klein, Economics; Prof. Maleki. Prof. Marinco[a, Classics; Physics; Prof. Meade, History; Dean Schadler. Biology/S&E 100. Watson Applicants, 1991-92 David Andelman, New methods of language education, Japan Tracy Brocks, Ecology and economy of shell harvesting, South Pacific Melissa Fabel, Emergence of writers and styles, Israel Stephanie Fray, Relationship between art and politics, Italy, Poland Julie Garfield, Art as a medium for AIDS awareness, Europe Bret Goldin, Stack exchanges in developing countries, Hungary, Turkey, Kenya, Sri Lanka Diego Hojraj, Traditional vs. modern medicine, Argentina Beth Ann Isenberg, Changing roles of women, Spain Noelle Kinsch, The world population problem, Mexico, China, India Marc Kuritz, Swords: craft and culture, Japan, Britain Mary Levinson, Factors affecting primary education, England, Israel, Japan Randi Levinson, Creative problem-solving technques, England, Japan, Australia Chris Miller, Teaching tennis, China, Taiwan Jeffrey Nield, North Atlantic communities: man & environment, Ireland, Scotland Julie Shanebrook, Pornography and status of women, Denmark, Japan Andrea Slade, Political perspectives in new democracies. Spain, Argentina, Chile. Nicaragua Anna Bess Sorin, Fresh- water dolphins, Brazil, India. China Marie Wheeler, Economic reconstruction of Eastern Europe, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary Doug Klein Watson Selection Committee IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII UNION!!! \Oh the places you'll go ... \ in the 7th Annual THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1991 in Upper Class Dining at 9 OICiock p.m. If you want to participate sign up NOW by calling 386-4080 or 386-4079 or 372-3627 llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

·.-. ·.-.·,· -.· .•• -.. ·•· ·-- ... · .. ,',('' .... ;.:- ·, .-._ ••• ·.·, :: ... -: •. .:- •. :-:-·-.· •. · • ·- .· .• •. ··-: .. <·.· 1991 LEIIER§ 0Jn1trorbfrnsts 11 Heads-Up For The Statistics Watson Finalists Announced To the Editor: Governor Cuomo proclaimed October \Head Injury Awareness Month.\ Not completely by coincidence, it is also \National Disability Awareness Month.\ What's the conn.ection? There are more pennanent disabilities resulting from head injury than from any of th.e major neurological diseases like Parkinsons, Muscular Dystrophy, MS, etc. We are all aware of these diseases and the unfortunate condition which the ifldividual and family members experience from these diseases. Unfortunately, head injuries lead to as much devastation. Get a load of these statistics: Head injuries area the major cause of death of those under 45 and there are 100,000 such deaths in America each year. One hundred and fifty thousand individuals suffer sufficiently severe injuries that critical care is essential to their survival. About 50,000 injuries each year result in a permanent disability, meaning a lessened quality of life. The leading causes of head injuries are auto accidents, falling from bikes, motorcycle accidents and pedestrians being hit by a car. The severity of many of these accidents can be lessened by \Belting Up\ and by \Wear(ing) Bicycle Helmets.\ I have coupons for excellent helmets for about $20.00, a good present for someone. If you bump your head and later have bright spots in your vision, balance problems, difficulty concentrating, studying, or reading for similar periods of time compared to the pre-injury period, and are more irritable, then think about the possibility that you have a head injury. Any or all of the preceding symptoms might be present immediately or after a few weeks. I normally find at least one person in my classes who has had a head injury. Seek a doctor's care who is familiar with head injury, call the NYS-Head Injury Association (459-7911), or drop by and talk to me for further infonnation. Think about supporting head injury organizations when planning your charitable events. I'm sure you know someone who has had such an injury. Thanks, John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry Self-Defense WoRkshop on NovembeR 2 FoR Women Only By ReseRvation Only Look foR table in the College CenteR OR Call 382-7918, Bo_}: 12lll $3-locat:ion on campus t'O be announced To the Editor: Ok. I adfllit it. I as a little hot under the collar when I · wrote my letter to Conco,rdiensis two weeks ago about the Watson, but I was reacting to my surprise that so few seniors applied. The Watson is a wonderful opportunity for Fellows, not jl!lst to travel, but in the words of the Watson flier, to \explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more infonned sense of international concern.\ On behalf of the Watson Selection Committee, I would like to congratulate this year's applicants, whose names appear below, and especially to the four who have been named Union's finalists. The finalists are Diego Hojraj, Beth Ann Isenberg, Anna Bess Sarin, and Marie Wheeler. Diego Hojraj has proposed to travel to urban and rural Argentina, and possibly Paraguay or Bolivia to compare modem and traditional medicine and their influences on one another. He will observe and interview doctors (both traditional and modem), nurses, patients, and medical students to learn their perceptions of the role and practice of medicine. Beth Isenberg's proposal is titled \Dismantling a Legacy of Oppression: Redefining the Role of Women in Post-Franco Spain.\ She states: \It has been 16 years since the death of Francisco Franco and the beginning of the end of institutionalized cultural and political repression in Spain.\ She will examine the implications for women in terms of family, career, politics, and culture. \Through an analysis of these women's lives not only would we be able to gain insight into Spanish life and culture, but also into our own.\ Anna Bess Sarin wants to visit Brazil, India, and China, to investigate the biology and ecology of fresh-water dolphins. More than simply a biology research project, Anna Bess is interested in the social and cultural relationship between the dolphins and humans. \I am interested in how people interpret the biological world around them and incorporate it into their lives.\ Marie Wheeler, who is currently one of Union's G.E. interns, wants to study \business decisions, mainly those that involve banking and joint ventures, that have emerged from the new economics in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Hungary ... \ Her itinerary is to travel to London, Prague, Warsaw, and Budapest learning about the rapidly changing banking and investment markets in Eastern Europe. These are Union's four finalists. The list below illustrates the range of ideas that Watson applications cover. If you want to find out more about the Watson Fellowship, contact any of the Committee members: Prof. Klein, Economics; Prof. Maleki, Prof. Marincola, Classics; Physics; Prof. Meade, History; Dean Schadler, Biology/S&E 100. Watson Applicants, 1991-92 David Andelman, New methods of language education, Japan Tracy Brocks, Ecology and economy of shell harvesting, South Pacific Melissa Fabel, Emergence of writers and styles, Israel Stephanie Fray, Relationship between art and politics, Italy, Poland Julie Garfield, Art as a medium for AIDS awareness, Europe Brct Goldi11, Stock exchanges in developing coun tr ics, Hungary. Turkey, Kenya, Sri Lanka Diego Hojraj, Traditional \S. modem medicine. Argentina Beth Ann Isenbug. Changing roks of women, Spain Noelle Kinsch, The world population problem, f\lcx.icn, China, India Marc Kuritz, Swords: craft and culture, Japan, Britam Mary Levinson, Factors affecting primary education, England, Israel, Japan Randi Levinson, Crcati ve problem-solving icchnqucs, England, Japan, Australia Chris Miller, Teaching Lennis, China, Taiwan Jeffrey Nield, North Atlantic communities: man & environment, Ireland, Scotland Julie Shanebrook, Pornography and status of women, Denmark. Japan Andrea Slade, Political perspectives in new democracies, Spain, Argentina, Chile, Nicaragua Anna Bess Sarin, Fresh- water dolphins, Brazil, India, China Marie Wheeler, Economic reconstruction <Jf Eastern Europe, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary Doug Klein Watson Selection Committee DDDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfllllllflllllllll H IIIHnDIHIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII UNION!!! IIOh# the places you'll go ... II in the 7th Annual THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1991 in Upper Class Dining at 9 OICiock p.m. If you want to participate sign up NOW by calling 386-4080 or 386-4079 or 372-3627 IUIUIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I Ill! !II IIIII I II!!! Ill!! 1 •.

ONE-HOUR ''GROINE- COLOGY\ Game Show (Prizes) Audience Volunteers People Laugh & Learn Not Yawn & Sleep As humorous information is Directed At Preventing Sex problems NOT Sex- Encouragement How safe._are condoms? Is over the counter birth -control effective? How can I protect against AIDS? What is the \G\ Spot? How can I tell if it's love? Is premature ejaculation curable? How can I tell if someone has V.D.? What causes impotency? Can drugs permanently damage sex? AND-MUCH- MORE! Kickoff for AIDS Awareness Week October 27, 8:00 P.M. -Memorial Chapel- See You There! A II JS: A Generation at Risk The Fifth Annual AIDS Awareness Week hosted by U~on College Sunday, October, 27 through Friday, November 1 SUNDAY,OCTOBER27 \An Evening with Dr. Bill\ BillGoettel, V.D. nurse and comedian 8 pm Memorial Chapel MONDAYOCTOBER28 \Schenectady HIVUpdate\ Kickoff Breakfast Speaker: Wendy Van Bellingham, M.D., medic~ director, CaiVer CommWlity HealtbCenter Cost $5; reservations, 372~3395 7:30 to 9 a.m. \SafeS ex\ Dramatic Reading, Discussants: Lee Bloorosen '76 and Stephen Sipperly '84, D.O. 7 pm College Center TUESDAY,OCTOBER29 \Conversations with Persons Living with HIV\ Moderator: Wendy Shatsky, program director, AIDS Council of Northeastern New York 11:30 am to 12:30 prn, Second Floor l.oWlge, Elstoll Hall, Schenectady County Comnnmity College \Communicating with Young People about HIVIAIDS\ Interactive woiXshop, Facilitators: Stuan SJgman, Ph. D.; CherylPerog 6:30 to 8:30pm Price Chopper Community Room, 1639'Eastern Parle way, Spoosor: Cornell C~rative · ExteDsioo. S.dtenectady County WEDNESDAY,OCfOBER30 \Managing the HIV Positive Individual on the CtJilege Camp_us\ Speakers: Richard Keeling, M.D., director of student health, University of Virginia; Eric Engstron, M.P.H., ~rincipal, Heallh Advocates, Charlottesville, Va. 9:15 to 11:15 am College Center Auditorium Ammged by Union College and lhe NYS Depanrnent of Educations' Office Df Excellence and Access \A Generation.atRisk\ Keynotes Address Richard Keeling, M.D.; director of student hemb, University of Virginia 11:30 to 12:30 pm College Center Auditorium \StrattJgiesfor Peer Health Education\ Woi'Kshop for college staff, faculty and administrators; Facilitator. Eric Engstron, M.P.H. 2 to 3:30 pm College Center 410; Ananged by Department of Educatim's Office of Excellence and Access \SexUnderthelnRuence\ Strategies for increasing student awareness; Richard Keeling, M.D., director of student health, the University of Virgirua; Eric Engstrom, M.P.H.; Dinner workshop for Union College R.A;'s, peer facilitators, and representatives of Greek organizations 4:30 to 6:30pm Hale House Dining Room and Lowen l.oWlge \A Risky Business\ Inforrilal questions and answer session with Prof. George Butterstein and a Union alumnus with AIDS 7:30 to 9 pm CollegeCenter302 ''AIDS in Women and Children Moderator: Anne E. PYson, M.D., medical director, Schenectady County Public Health Senrices Agency; Panelists: Ian Porter, M.D., professor of pediatrics, Albany Medical College; Pat Anders; Wendy Shatsky; women with AIDS and/or foster parent 7:30 to 9 Auditoriwn FRIDAY,NOVEMBER 1 \HIV/Aids Issues: Adolescent Focus\ Performance by the Mental Health Players and group discussion 4 to 5:30 pm carver Community Center qymnasium (see next event for address) \Sharing the Knowledge: Community HI VI AIDS Education and Prevention Joyce 1Iolly, HIV I AIDS educator, AIDS Council of Nonheastem N'tlw Yod; Moderator: Deborah Williams Muhammad; Panelists: Lilyu Karn, M.D. (an :mv positive jlerson); Closing song by Heavenly Force 7 to 6:30 pm Carver Community Center Gymnasium , 700 Craig St. Schenectady; Sponsored by CaiVer Community Health Center ON GOING EVENTS \Beruit\ by Alan Bowne-A play about lvie in the plague years perf<>nned by Union students. Directed by @est artist Marjorie Hayes. Thursday, Oct 31, throug11Sunday,November3, and Nov. 6throughNov. 9, 8prn (2 PJI.l matinee Nov. 3),Nott Memorial Theater. Discussion to follow Oct. 31 performance. Forncketinfmmation, Call 370-6153 Drawings by Children Living With AIDS, an exhibit in Schaffer Library of anworl<: by children with AIDS, counesy ofFarano Center for children with AIDS, Albany, N.Y. \Epitahs for the Living\ a photographic exhibit, College Center, 2nd, 3rd, 4th floor hallways \An Informed Approach to HIV Antibody Testing 11 film produced Dy Gay Men's Health Crisis of New York City, College Center. Parking is availabie on campus in the Nott Street paning lot, and off wnpus on side streets. For more information onthe conference, contact Ms. Aniolek 1 DeP.Hnment of Bilo~ical Sciences, Union Colle_ge~ Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (518)370-6241. Unless otherwise indicated, all events in AIDS: A Generation at R1sk' are on the Union College campus and are free and open to the QubFc. Financial supJ!On ha~ been provided J>y Union College <¥1d the NYS Office of Excellence and Access. The Umon College AIDS Comnuttee gratefully acknowledges the assistance of the Schenectady County AIDS Task Force, CaiVer Community Heallh Center, Cornell Cooperative Extension, Schenectady County, and Schenectady County Community College. The conference was coordinated by the Union College AIDS Committee, Twitty J. Syles and Karen N. Williams, co-chairs. ALL WEEK AT THE COIAI.EGE CEN'fER: • The College Center/ Mountebanks Dramatic Reading Series in COlljunction with AIDS Awareness Week !)resents by Harvey Fierstein a discussion with Union Alum Dr. Steve Sipperly '84 of St. Clare's Hospital will follow Monday, October 28th, at 7:00pm in CC302 Free Admission & Refreshments Farano Center for Children with AIDS WISH LIST FREE CONDOMS ALL WEEK Raffle to Support Carver Community Health Center's HIV AIDS Education &Prevention Patient Fund 1. Construction Paper. 2. Washable markers, crayons, ]Jencils, colored pencils, finger paints, watercolors. 3. Glue, scissors, tape, paintbrushes, erasers. 4. Toothbrushes, combs and brushes. 5. Clothing for kids ages birtll to 10 yrs. such as shirts & sweaters (adult sizes, too) 6. Twin size sheets & lightweight blankets. 7. Bath towels .& washcloths. Bring your donations to Memorial Chapel Sunday night to the Collection box in the College center all week long. AT THE AIDS INFORMATION TABLE WIN A SONY COMPACT DISC PLAYER& OTHER PRIZES

Union Colle!ge 1991-92 Fall Term Final Examination Schedule This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in Section \5I or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. peck in the Office of Resistrar not later than Friday, November 1st. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used ARTS - Arts Building NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center BAIL - Bailey Hall PYCJi - Psycholoqy Bldg. BUTR - Butterfield Hall SSC.J: - Social Sciences Bldg. HUMN - Humanities Bldg. STZii - S·teinmet:z fiall SATURDAY, NOVEMBER. 2 3 - 7:00-9: 00 PM BI0-024-01 - Genetics- J. Boyer/S. LaBonne- BAIL 207 BIO-J62-01 - Int.ro to Neurobiology - R. Olberg • BAIL 201 BI0-180-01 - Biochemistry - H. Birecka -BAIL 205 CLS-021-01 - History of Greece- M. Toher- HVMN 115 EC0-032-01 - Labor & Industrial Relations- P. Prosper - NWSE 112 EC0-034~01 - int:Xo to Financial Analysis - J. Kenney - SSCl 010 EER-063-01 - Electron Circ Analysis & Design - c. Hassib-NWSE 201 BER-163-01 - Electromagnetic Engineering II - Y. Chang - BlliL 102 EGL-071-01 -Irish Renaissance Literature- A. Frazier- /lUM/l 014 ESC-010-01 - Mechanics I - H. Lyons - NWSE 210 GE0-160-01 - Intro to Geophysics - G. Shaw - .BU'l'R 201 HST-013-01 - History of u.s. to Civil war - F. IJuddon - SSCI 103 HST-013-02 - History of U.S. to Civil War- R. Wells - SSCI 104 HST-013-03- History of U.S. to Civil War-S. I. Lewis- SSC:I 014 HST-Olo:...oz - American Economic Development - J. Finkelstein - SSCI 112 HST-035-01 - History of Europe I - E. Hansen - HUJIIN 114 HST-035-02 - History of Eu.rope I - s. Sargent - RUMN 117 HST-121-01 - Amex Constitutional & Legal Hist. - M. Jonas-SSCI 012 LAT-110-01 - Catullus And Horace - J. s. Scullion - HUMN L19 MER-010-01 - Dynamics Of Linear Systems - M • .Rivera - NWSE 222 MTH-146-01 - Advanced Calculus I - s. Niefield - BAIL 106 PHL-020-01 - Intro to Logic & Crit Thinking - B. Pet.rie - RUMN 112 PHY-042-01 - Great Ideas Of Modern Physics - a. Reich - NWSE 114 PHY-044-01 Introduction to Astronomy- K. Meaa- NWSE 116 PSC-041-01 - European Political Community - J. Board - RUMN 116 FSY-038-01 - Developmental Psychology - L. Stanllope - PYCH 2!3 SPN-142-0l - The Latin-American Novel - v. Mart:inez - BAIL .104 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 2:00-4:00 PM BI0-032-01 - Comparative Ve.rtebrate Anatomy - G. Butterstein - BAIL 201 CER-033-01 - Fluid Mechanics - T. Jewell - B~TR 109 CER-150-01 - Hydrology - P. Snow- BUTR ~06 CHM-010-01 - Fundamental Chemistry I -c. We£ak - SSCI 010 CHM-010-02 - Fundamental Chemistry I - D. Ha~es - BAIL 203 CHM-010-03 - Fundamental Chemistry I -C. Scaize- SSCI Oll CHM-010-04 - Fundamental Chemistry I - R. Sil.versmith - HUI.fll 115 CHN-121-0l - Intermediate Chinese II - M. Chen - SSCI 105 CSC-012-01 - Programming For Natrl Sciences - L. Almstead - STZH 106 EER-041-01 - Elect:rical Circuits - M. Rudko - SSCI 110 EER-060-01 - System Theorg II- E. Craig- SToR lOB FRN-010-01 - Basic French I - J. Boone - HUMM 1JO FRN-012-01 - Basic French III - L. Day - HUMJJ 014 FRN-131-01- survey of French Literature I- C. Laparra- ~UMM 113 GE0-010-01 - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BUTR 201 GER-010-01 - Basic German I - D. Lund - HUMN 117 GRK-010-01 - Principles Of Greek I- c. sorum- HUMN 115 GRK-134-01 - Homer: The Illiad - M. Tober - HUMN 119 HST-050-01 - Western Imperialism- E. Hansen - SSCI 112 JPN-010-01 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa - RUMN 112 JPN-010-02 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa - HUMN 112 MER-022-01 - Materials Science & Enginee.ring - F. Milillo - NWSE 210 MER-026-01 - Thermodynamics - J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 MTH-100-01 - Orthogonal Funct:ions - T. Bick - BAIL 207 PHY-011-01 - Introduction to Physics I - s. Maleki - NWSE l12 PHY-011-02 -Introduction to Physics I- D. Peak- NWSE 115 PHY-013-01 - Introduction to Phys1cs II - A. Anaerson - NWSE 114 PSC-011-01 -Intra To· American Politics- c. Tidmarch - SSCI 103 PSY-010-01 - A First Course in Psychology - V. Dawson - PYCH 113 PSY-031-01 - Abnormal Psychology - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 RUS-010-01 - Basic Russian I - M. Rudko - HU~M 213 SPN-010~01 - Basic Spanish I - W. Garcia - HUMN 114 SPN-010-02 - Basic Spanish I - L.Martinez - RUMN 114 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 7:00-9:00 PM AAH-020-01 -Classical Art & Architecture- L. Matthew- ~TS 215 BI0-016-01 Introduction to Biology I - P. !fobiessenjW. Rdtb - SSCI 016 CER-016-01 Computer Applications for CE - !f. ~ewell - BVTR 109 CER-160-01 - Transportation Engineering- Y. K. Lee - BUTR 106 CER-160-02 - Transportation Engineering - Y. K. Lee \:' BDTR 10Q.. CHM-010a01 ~~ndamental Chemistry A - c. G~axe- PYCH 2!3 CHM-142-01 - Chemical Instrumentation - T. Werner - BAIL 312 CHN-010-01 - Basic Chinese I - M. Chen - HUMn 213 CLS-024-01 - Classical Art & Architecture - 2. Matthew- ARTS 215 CSC-011-01 - Programming For Soc Sciences - J. Castleberry - STZH 106 EC0-145-01 - Managerial Economics - J. Kenne~ - SSCI 110 EER-018-01 - Intro to Digital Computers -c. Traver - NWSE 201 EER-124-01 - Intro To Probabilisitic Systems - M. Rudko- NWSE 116 EGL-018-01 - I~tro To Literary Forms- E. Giunta - HUMN 114 EGl-034b-l -Studies in American Literature- N. Shour- HUMN 019 FRN-143-01 - Writers of Romanticism - c. Laparra - HUMN 113 HST-040-01 -The crusades- S. Sargent - SSCl 112 LAT-010-01 -Principles of Latin I - J. Mari~cola - HUMN 116 MER-040-01 - Engineering Design I- H. Lyons - NWSE 210 MER-050-01 -Heat Transfer AZJalysis & Design -c. s. Reddy - NWSE 222 MTII-014-02 - Calculus III - M. Frame - BAIL 205 MTH-018-01- Intro to Logic & Set Theory- J. Barbanel- BAIL 201 MTH-050-01 - Intra to Applied Mathematics - W. Fairchild - STZH 108 PHL-011-01 -Philosophical Classics I- F. D~vis/C. Gould- HUMN 110 PHY-011-03 -Introduction to Physics I- R. Khosropour- MWSE 112 PHY-013-02 - Introduction to Physics II - s. Maleki - NWSE 114 PHY-050-01 - Electronic Circuits - R. Magahiz - NWSE 303 PHY-131-01 - Electromagnetism I - C. Jones - MWSE 319 PSY-010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 113 PSY-030-01 -Personality - K. H. Olsen - PYCR !02 RUS-120-01 - Intermediate Russian I - N. Jenakoff - HUMJI 119 soc-010-01 - Introduction to Sociology - R. Quaye - SSCI 010 SPN-012-01 - Basic Spanish III - V. Martinez- HUMN 014 SPN-120-01 - Intermediate Spanish I - L. Martinez - HUMN 112 MON.DAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 8:30-10:30 AM AAH-010-01 - Introduction to t.he Arts - D. Rpbbins/T. w. Ross - ARTS 215 AMU-010-01 - Introduction to the Arts - D. Robbins/T. w. Ross· - ARTS 215 CLS-031-01 -Greek & Roman Epic in Translatn- J. Marincola - HUMN 1~6 EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- S. Yaisa.warng- SSCI 11'2 EC0-033-01 -Public Pol & American Industry- D. Klein- SSC:l 012 EGL-020-01 - Major English ALI thors II - S. K. Dyer - HUMJI 1'1!4 EGL-022-01 -Major American ~~thors - N. Shour - HUMN 115 EGL-023-01 -The American Short Story- L. Slade- HUMN 117 FRN-120-01 - Intermediate Frertch I - L. Day - RUMN 112 GER-012-01 -'Basic German II.J:- K. Hamm-Ehsani- HUMN 119 GER-120-01 - Intermediate Gez~n I - D. Lund - HUMN 213 GER-134-01 - Goethe's Faust -A. Warde - RUMN 113 MTH-060-01 - Topics in Matheaatical Pol Sci - W. Zwicker BAZL 203 PHL-014-01 - Introduction to ·Ethics - R. JJa~er - RUMN 110 PHY-011-04 - Introduction to P'hysics I -D. McKenna. - NWSF: 112 PSC-023-01 -Topics in Mathernat~cal Pol Sci - w. Zi-licker - B)lTL 203 PSY-010-03 - A First Course i·a Psychology - J. Powell - PYCEi .il{>2 PSY-046-01 -Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 RUS-128-01 - Intro to RussiaZJ Civilization- N. Jerna.koff- HE1/o1N 019 SOC-138-01 -Africa.: Pol, Ecorz, & Soc Life - R. Quaye :_ SSCI 010 SPN-120-02 -Intermediate Sp~rzish I- L. Martinez- BAIL 104 SPN-132a01 - Survey of Penin.stzlar Lit I - w. Garcia - HUMN 014 ·MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 11:30 AM-1:30 PM AAH-OJ6-01 - Int.ro to Hst of Aichitecture - L. Matthew- AErs 215 EC0-042-01 -Macroeconomic The~ry & Policg- E. Foster- SSC:I 103 EGL-022-02- Major American Authors - N. Shour- HUMN 115 EGL-023-02- The American Short Story - S. K. Dyer- HUMN liO HEB-010-01 - Basic Hebrew I - ~- Heckelman - HUMN 117 PHL-130-01 -Greek Philosophy- C. Gould- HUMN 116 PSY-010-04 -A First course .Zn Psychology - K. DeBono - PYC!l 1!13 PSY-020-01 - Statistical Methods In Psychol - H. Foley - PYC:l/ 213 PSY-036-01 -Psychology of Learning- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 10? MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25- 2:30-4:30 PM ACC-010-01 -Survey of Accou~ting- J. Lippitt - BAIL 205 BI0-051-01 -Ecology- C. George- BAIL 106 BI0-053-01 -Forests of the northeast- P. Tobiessen- BATL 100 BI0-069-01 - Genetic Engg & ~odern Plant - M. Frohlich - SAIL 203 BI0-144-01 -Cytology -G. SZ11£th - BAIL 102 CER-012-01 - CE Comp Aided G:raph & Draft:fng - M. Mafi - BOTR J09 CHM-018-01 - Polymers & Mate~ial Science- J. Anderson - BAIL 104 CLS-032-01 - Religion in the Pagan World- J. Scullion - lfUMJI 019 EC0-053-01 - The Economy of C/Jina - B. Reynolds - SSCI 105 EC0-138-01 -Quantitative Met/Jods In Econ -E. Motahar - SSCI 104 ESC-013-01 - High Level Lang-lla~ge Programming - N. Mazur - STZEI 106 ESC-015-01 -Numerical Methods and Fortran - F. Federighi - S'1'ZH 108 MTH-040-01- Applied Linear~Lgebra- A. Seiken- BAIL 207 PHL-170-01 -History & Phil of Science I- J. Ludwig- HOMN 1J3 PSC-013-01 - Int:ro to Political Thought- c. Brown- ssc:z 014 PSC-013-02 - Intro to Political Thought - P. A. Meyers - SSCI 010 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 8:30-1(}:30 AM CER-143-01 - Foundations & CoiJstruction - G. Gifford - BUTR J09 CER-143-02 - Foundations & CoiJstruction - G. Gifford - BDTR 109 ELL-012-01 - Homes, Bldgs, & F:gr Principles - H. G. Harlow - BUTR 204 ELL-012-02 - Homes, Bldgs. & F:gr Principles - H. G. Harlow - BUTR 204 MTH-010-01 - Calculus I - V. Perlini - BAXL 207 MTH-010-02 - Calculus I - J. Barbanel - BAIL 104 MTH-010-03 - Calculus I - V. Perlini - BAXL 207 MTH-010-04 - Calculus I - T. Bick - BAIL 102 MTH-010-05 - Calculus I - M. Frame - BAIL 205 MTH-010-06 - Calculus I - J. Muckenfuss - HUMN 019 MTH-013-01 - AP Calculus- A, Seiken- BAIL 201 MTH-013-02- AP Calculus- J. Muckenfuss- HUMN 019 MTH-013-03- AP Calculus- J, Seiken- BAXL 201 MTH-013-04 - AP Calculus- J. Prindle- BAIL 203 MTH-013-05- AP Calculus- A. Taylor- BAIL 106 MTH-030-01 - Ordin Differential Equations- K. Rosenthal - EiU~~ 114 MTH-030-02- Ordin Differential Equations- K. Rosenthal - EiU~N 1!4 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 11:30 ~-1:30 PM CH~J-030-01 Organic Chemist:ry I - L. Hull - BUTR 204 CHM-030-02 - Organic Chemist.ry I - K. DeJesus - BUTR 204 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 2:30-4:30 PM ACC-010-02 - Survey of Accou~ting - w. Lewis - BAIL 205 . AMU-032-01 -Music Cultures ~f the World- T. W. Ross- ARTS ~13 AOP-011-01 AVA-045-01 BI0-045-01 CER-129-01 CSC-037-01 EC0-012-03 EC0-012-04 EC0-012-05 EC0-012-06 EGL-022-03 EGL-056-01 PSY-049-01 -Critical Readin9 & Writing- s. King - BAIL 203 The Illustrateff organism- c. aeorge/W. Ratxe- ~RTS 207 The Illustrateff Organism - C. George/W. Hatxe- ~RTS 207 Comp Aided Stx~cel Dsgn & Analys - M. Ma.fi - BUTEI 109 Structured Programming- D. Hannay- NWSE 116 Introduction toBconomics- L. Cavalluzzo- /lUMN 019 Introduction to Bconomics - L. Cavalluzzo - !fUMN 019 - Int:roduction toBconomics- D. Levy- SSCI 016 - Introduction to Bconomics - D. Levy - SSCI 016 - Major American Authors - B. MacDonald - RUM~ 112 - Shakespeare Ait:ez 1600 - J. McCord - HUMN 115 The Psychology @I Addiction - T. Dowling - PY'CH .2I 3 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL ~AVE A COMMON EXAM WTTH THE BVE~ZNG DIV:ZSION SECTION: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 6:30-B:Ja PM ESC-069-01 & 02 - Engineering Economics - R. Eggert - NWSE lOl PSC-080-01 - Politics of NYS Government - Crowley -· SSC1 103 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 4:30-6:3a PM CSC-136-01 & 51 - Advanced Programming Tech.niques - G. WillLams - BAIL 207 MTH-127-01 - Numerical Analysi~ - W. Fairchild - BAIL 201

14 @.omrbfrn.si.s CA.MPU!i 1\JEW!i PER!iD'I\IAL!i To our rookies and vets: 7 was heaven, 8 was great, and 9 will be fme! Let's do it U! You're the best and we love you! Love Cindy. Deb, Rika and Ann Rick Clifford- You are So Hot! Questions About AIDS? Answers Next Week! Tizzella- What people don't realize is that a good hii!ter can be nothing witho-ut a great setter. Dear Family, If I can put up with your few- and-far between dinners, then you can deal with wet bathroom floorS! -The New Girl How Does AIDS Affect U? If a boat flew across the desert and lost all four of its wheels, how many pancakes would it take to cover Union? Answer next week. Come support the best women's soccer team ever. We're at Union today at 3:30 at Weiner I Miss You! Thanks John, Dale, Morgan & Dave for a great question. --· FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25 8 a.m.-midnight. College Center 410. Senior pictures. 3 p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. Clarkson. 3:45p.m. S&E Nll4. Physics Colloquiwn: Lyle Roelofs, Haverford College, speaking on \The (1 x 2) Missing Row Reconstruction of the AU(llO) surface: Microscopic Energetics and Kinetics of Diffusion and Phase Formation.\ 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center 302. Cafe 302. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Yojimbo.\ 8 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Dying Young.\ \ 8 &: 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mounte- banks present \A Night of Scenes.\ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26 11 a.m. Garis Field. Women's soccer vs. Oneonta. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. St. Lawrence. 2 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field Hockey vs. Rochester. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Dying Young.\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 27 4:30-10 p.m. Hale House. Student phonathon. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dying Young.\ 7:30-9 p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant chapel service. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. AIDS Awareness Week begins with \An Evening with Dr. Bill.\ Bill Goettel is a V.D. nurse and comedian. MONDAY, OCTOBER 28 7:30 a.m. Hale House. AIDS conference Kickoff Breakfast. \Schenectady HN Update.\ 4:30-10 p.m. Hale House. Student phonathon. 6-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student forum. 7 p.m. College Center 302. AIDS Conference dramatic reading with discussants Lee Bloomrosen '76 and Dr. Stephen Sipperly '84 on \Safe Sex.\ 9 p.m. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. Skidmore. 4:30-10 p.m. Hale House. Student phonathon. 7-8 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Action and Awareness meeting. 7-8 p.m. College Center aud. International student assistant program. 7 p.m.-midnight. College Center 302. Cafe 302 with Halloween dramatic readings. 7:30-9 p.m. College Center 406. IDOL meeting. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30 9:15-11:15 a.m. College Center aud. AIDS conference speakers Dr. Richard Keeling, University of Virginia and Eric Engstrom, principal, Health Advocates in Charlot- Wendy tesville, Va., 011 \Managing the HIV Positive Individual on the College Campus.\ 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. College Center a11d. AIDS conference speaker Dr. Richard Keeling, on \A Generation at Risk.\ 2-3:30 p.m. College Center 410. AIDS workshop for college staff, facu1ty and administrators on \Strategies for Peer Health Education,\ with facilitator, Eric Engstr()m. 4:30-6:30 p.m. Hale House. AIDS confer- ence dinner wo:rkshop with speakers Dr. Richard Keeling and Eric Engstrom, on \Sex Under the Inflttence.\ 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Recycling committee meeting. 7:30p.m. College Center 406. Spanish Club film: \Dark Habits.\ 7:30-9 p.m. College Center aud. AIDS conference. Dr. Anne Dyson, Schenectady County Public Health Services Agency, moderator, \AIDS in Women and Chil<h'en.\ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31 11:30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents Dr. Peter Drotman '69, AIDS division of the Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, speaking on \Safer Sex to Prevent AIDS: .lS!lli!. is the Time.\ 12:30 p.m.-2 p.111. College Center 204. Union College investment club meeting. 4:30p.m. College Center aud. AIDS conference speaker Dr. Peter Drotman '69, on \My 10 Years of Fighting the AIDS Epidemic: the History, the Science, and the Hopes of Public Health.\ 4:30p.m. College Center 404C. Bible study. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mountebanks present \B eruit.\ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 11:30 a.m.-12:JO p.m. Campus Protestant Ministry speaker. The Rev. Canon Malusi Mpumlwana, anti-apartheid leader, on \Changes in South Africa Today.\ 3:45p.m. S&E Nl14. Pizza party for College physics faculty, students and friends with an informal talk by Prof. Jim Me Whirter on laser and optics. 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Merrimack. 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Dcdes Ka-den.\ 8 & 10:30 p.1n. College Center aud. \Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.\ SATURDAY, MOVEMBER 2 9 a.m. Men's cross country. State meet at Saratoga State Park. 1 p.m. Alumni Gym. Men's and women's swimming. Union relays. 8 & 10:30 p.1n. College Center aud. Film: \Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.\ 8 p.m. Nott Memc>rial. Mountebanks present \Beirut.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1 1:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee football vs. Worc.:ester Academy. 3 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Octavos Singers concert. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Ecumenical Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p.111. College Center aud. Film: \Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.\ / Jenny, Jenny & :Lisa, You know I saw you before ' . 1 don't care what you do, you and I had a thousand stories to sc--. . tell you but only one mouth to · · And if yo11 are, well, don't get tell them with. Luved ·' x-rayed ... they're not · Ha d · 1 · microwa'\\ble! 1t... te. tt... ,, ... Jocelyn -Jocelyn 1045 .. Sexual Survival Tips - AIDS Conference Next Week! Greedy (Babe) - Thanks for helping me celebrate Saturday night. We'll definitely have to do it again soon. You guys are great! What flavor is it this week? Gotcha! Noodle (Babe) ~ 0 - Herb wisely declined to ask the :second question, which was, \Would you support legislation bannin~ private ownership of firearms?\ Prior to ordering, Bob neglected to i110iice t~e part about allowing six to eight weeks .for dehverv. Wendy JJ c CT CD (J) @) CD '< r ([) -- (Q ::r :0 ·C 0\ -·

l I ! I October 24, 1991 P·ER!iDI\IAL!i WOMENS TENNIS TEAM: Great job at States & congratulations on an outstanding season! Things to remember: SANDY: Drivers license, bagels, lasagna .. .JULIE: Sorry yon missed the Beast, the 'rents ... CHANTAL: Bathroom, wilderness, men ... JEN: Homer, wilderness, Larry & #3 singles from Albany ... ELISSA: AN on going soap opera, sweatpants and shirt, Ibuprophn ... JUDY: No diving on the court, WINGS, Pottsdam, #5 singles from Albany ... BLAIRE: Stairs, loft, Siberia ... MELISSA: Gorgeous brother, stressless .. .RACHEL: Water, insomnia ... Missing tweezers, sushi insides, & classical music. What is the their thinking???!! To the Dancers of 1045 University, -:-:-;.:-.;-;-.-:..-:-··:-:-> •.··.· •. _._ ..... _.,•.· .. ·•· .. ,· CAMPUS NEW!i . . Rocker - Eri.ca - So, who won? The cop or the Your mirror cuts my head off Israeli? · but I SUIJpose I'll survive! And The Economics Major, 3 zeros, remember my innovative way 2 ones . , of heatiqg our apt! There are probabiy better ways but for EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT AIDS AND MORE - AIDS Conference 10/27-11/l. Sara & Lisa- My jeans ran away again. JAK- I don't care what you do, S--M. Microwave babies. Just remember Jake Ould and Mariah Stevens! -LFA Alex, Thanks for teaching us about the laws of gravity. BandZ Andrea, Hope you have a HAPPY Birthday! Try to stay in control. now the oven will have to do. -A. To the 4- other vainest people in the world. We're DAMN cute! Penny N I'm reallr glad that you understarld. We will get through t:his together. Best of lt1ck always. Love, Me Co-Attic Dweller, Commuaication is the key!!! But there is definitely nothing wrong with free drinks!!! Love you! Miller, Keep truckin' and more good things will fall into your lap. .:-:-·-·-::-:-:•/.·'\:-·.-. .-.--.· .. CLA!i!iiFIED!i . TYPING DONE for. students or professors on word processor. For further information please contact Giny at 372-6931. STOCKING STUFFERS! For your roommate, friends, sorority and fraternity sisters and brothers, student grant, etc. \Telecommunications Gift Certificates\ are the perfect gift. Available for purchase at the Telecommunications Office, College Center/] 03. Call 3 70-64 1 1 for more information. Snorkin @onrnrbirtt.sis ·STUDENT INTERESTED IN RAKING • Location East Glenville - Please contact 399-5841. :STUDENT INTERESTED IN YARD WORK - 8 hrs. per week - $5.00/hr. own transportation needed Location Glenville area. Please contact 399-0290. BUY YOUR PERSONAL 50¢ AT INFO. BOOTH! (C.C.) Always remember \Just Like A Prayer.\ a-------1 Rubes® By Leigh Rubin Your Comrades in The Kremlin. \Now be careful dear. Your dinner is very hott If you want it td cool down, don't blow on it.\ ~ ®Q - .. \'\' \'- -Q r\' <D(f) .CRUNCW. fO\~ Pf?OOXr \'c. tv1UNQ-IY lJ(i' IE STING c ., CRK.KE~ cr- -·(I) . COMPAN . ~ - DEPt ·- 3\ p <(J) Where whistling while you work is not encouraged. collegiate crossword ~Edward Julius Collegiate CW8830 ACROSS 45 Sci -fi thri 11 er 13 Part of a 46 Plays a guitar horse 1 Shave off 49 Soft drinks 18 Golf clll:bs 5 Miss Bara 50 Onassis, for short 19 Sevareia, et al. 10 Pretense 53 Movie musical 24 Tres - 14 - Steven (4 wds.) 25 Brother of 4-Down 15 Desert spot 56 - of Eden 26 Miss Reddy 16 Wife of Zeus 57 Bungling 27 Mrs. Krarnden 17 Movie musical 58 Treaty group 28 Hurled (4 wds.) 59 Intellectual 29 Formed ~y the lips 20 Peculiar powers and the nose 21 To laugh: Fr . 60 Omar's output 30 Actress Vera-- 22 - play 61 Vigor 31 Ovules 23 Well-known magazine 33 Leg parts 25 Type of silk DOWN 36 Bikini 26 Fraternity 37 Bitter drug initiation 1 Mazatlan money 39 \Remember the - \ 28 Metal restrainers 2 Enthusiastic 40 Optical device 32 Fairies 3 Romantic meeting 42 Has faith in 33 Kills 4 Famous Siamese 43 Ki.rk Oougl<Js 34 Beer twin features 35 Bert Lahr role 5 Changing the 45 Take into one's 36 Eschews sound quality family 37 Competent 6 11irsute 46 Worry 38 French coin 7 Anglo-Saxon slave 47 Siamese 39- and a 8 Surnamed: Fr. 48 Repose prayer 9 Receptacles for 49 Gulf of- 40 Bent smokers 51 Miss Hayworth 41 Young bird 10 D111indle 52 Religious image 43 Sings like Crosby 11 Pile 54 Compass.point 44 Pro football team 12 Seed covering 55 French number \ >

CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD PAID INTERNSHIP STUDENT LEADERSHIP TRAINING PROGRAM BY .. Will build your skills in interpersonal relations, education and training, computer usage. TIM SAMS INTERNSHIP FAIR fi~ ct(O)l]]}UIID.~ • Hours flexible, up to 10 hours/week beginning immediately •Requirements: Union College full-time stlldent, sophomores, juniors preferred. WHEN: Friday, October 25. 1991 WHERE: Social Science Auditorium TIME: 7 pm-9 pm NOVEMBER 13 . •Pay: $4.25/hour We are the leaders of the future! C(())ILILlE<GIE CJENLrlEIR A ~IRIT1UOO • For information, see Prof. Klein, Economics (SS 109, x6056) Come out and find the leader in you!! WHATEVER THE REASON WHATEVER THE SEASON ~--, ~~ ~~.··n ~ ·~ . .l!o~UCIC\ I~ \CALL HOME\ H .. 'GET WEU 'HAPPY SOON' BIRTHDAY\ iELECOMMUNICA. TIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT AL TEf'NATIVE j Gill Cerlllkato UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE G 1FT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFt\CE ~ COLLEGE CENTER/103. ~ OR CAll.. 370..6411 FOR MORE ·~ IN FORMA TIOt~. Sponsored by the African and Latino Alliane of Students On November 1, 1991, PEP BAND , REHERSAL CC302 Thu.rsday, October 24 8:30 pm Pizza and Soda! 3.5\ DISKS FOR SAL'E $1.50 the College Bookstore, College Center, will activate the returns of Fall Term textbooks to the publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook p11rchases prior to November 1, 1991. New Members Welcome! PEER FACILITATOR PROGRAM for use in IBM, Macintosh, and other computers Peer Facilitators are needed to put on student workshops on racism, sexual communication, acquaintance rape, etc. New Facilitators will join existing program winter term to get training and put on new workshops. Applicants are sought wqo would continue their commitment into the following academic year. Now Available in: Seek individuals who: •demonstrate sensitivity to others •speak effectively in groups & one-to-one •have GP A of 2.3+ Applications at the CDC & Dean of Students. Consulting Desk-Steinmetz 102 C.S. Crisis Center- Steinmetz 227 P[of. Mazur- Steinmetz 231 Turn in application by November 8, 5 pm, CDC. The College Center/ Mountebanks Dramatic Reading Series presents An Evening of (Stephen King, E.A. Poe, & other spooksters) Tuesday, October 29th,. at 9:30pm in CC302 Free Admission C&qa 3@2 will be serving until 1 :00 A.M. • • DANA CARVEY PROCEDUREFOR TICKETS EXCHANGE/REFUND 1. All ticketsmustbeturnedin. 2. Notify the person at the table how many tickets you wish to exchange and how many you wish lobe reimbursed for 3. You will be given $6.(Xl/ticket that you return 4. The tickets that you want to keep will be sent to you via the mail. **All new seats will be issued at random** These items are the only times you can come to exchange/refund your current tickets: DATE: Mon.-Fri., Oct. 28-Nov. 1 TIMES: 10:00 am-2:00 pm WHERE: College Center 1st floor **NO EXCEPTIONS WILL BE MADE** The CHUC Rooms (Hu ()16 & 018) are open: ~ D~~ z Mon.-Thurs. 8:30am-11:30pm ~?l Friday 8:30am-7:30pm . z Weekemds: Saturday Sunday 12:00pm-2:30pm 12:30pm-8:30pm '• .1 f During the:Se times, Macintos!. & IBM computers are available for student use (laser copies are 15 cents per P'age). ATTENTION ALL FRESHMAN AND JUNIORS! Student Forum Elections will be held on Friday, November 8th for the following positions: 3 FRESHMAN ClASS REPRESENTATIVES 1 JUNIOR CLASS REPRESENTATIVE R.agistration Deadline: November 4th (~ pm) Pictures for Concordiensis: November 4th (3:30pm) Concordy office Petitions and lniormation Available at The Student Activities Office 4th Floor, College Center TAKE THE AT&T STOCK MARKET CHALLENGE -Maximum of 16 pe()ple can play, in groups orfour -Register to participate alone or with friends Meeting Monday, October 28 at 3:40pm S.S. 103 Sponsored by Economics Club TELECOMMUNlCAIJONS TIP REMEMBER .... r.~:;lf Your Union College Telephone Bill may be paid by \check\, \cash\ or \credit card\. at the Cashier's Office, Administration Building. Or .. .for your conveneience deposit \check\ in designated mail slot located next to the Central Mail window in the College Center. Make \check\ payable to Union College and include your ID number. FOURTH UPSTATE NEW YORK GRADUATE EDUCATION FORUM FOR STUDENTS OF COLOR NOVEMBER 9~ 1991 AT SUNY ALBANY Graduate Deans and Admissions' Officers of 150 institutions from around the country will share information about their programs with you. In addition workshops and lectures will cover the GRE and GMAT, Why Graduate SchooL Keys to Success and Survival, Programs to support graduate studies, Graduate study in specific disciplines. For more information about the Forum, contact Mrs. Hopper in the Dean's Office, 6234 or one of the Future Professors of America: · Antoinette Aime, 386-4069; Marina Bernard, 381- 9635; Kevin Dantzler, 386-4207; Lurdes Ramos, 374-8876; or Ol!ver Minott, 386-4292.

!iPORT!i <ll.ottnlrbirttsi.s 11 Union. Crew Finishing Up Strong by Daniel J. Bullen Patti :Donaldson leads_ Field Hockey Towards A Possible Touraey Bid This Parent's Weekend Union College Rowing Association sent rowers, for the second week in a row, into international competition and fared exceptionally, considering the youth of the program. Last week, three boats from Union competed at the Bausch and Lomb Invitational Regatta in Rochester~ New York. There the crews encountered boats from Harvard, Yale, University of Pennsylvania, Queens College and McGill University, both from Montreal, as well as local schools, Hamilton, Skidmore, Hobart. and Colgate. This regatta consisted of two races, a three mile head race in the morning, followed by a mile sprint in the afternoon. Among this competition, Union's Varsity women placed sixth out of twenty four in the head race~ dropping to tenth after the sprint. The varsity men placed fourteenth and stayed there in the final standings following the sprints, and the varsity B- boat finished twenty fourth of twenty eight, only a minute behind oar varsity A, but improved to twenty second after a decisive win over Camegie-Mellon University. At tile Head of the Charles, the one boat we sent, the varsity A b.oat. placed twenty fourth out of fifty one. Their place was hard fought. for their race was a constant battle with a boat from the University of Jacksonville, Florida. other crews on the water with Union were Harvard, who won the event, Yale, Princeton, and Penn, as well as crews from Lithuania and Germany, in addition to tl:Ie United States National Team. In the final standings, Union came out above strong crews from Hobart, Marist, Tulane, University of Rhode Island, and Skidmore. by Dan Strum Sports Editor With two home games remaining, the Field Hockey team is in a competitive position. They are fighting for one of eight spots in the upcoming New York State Tournament. With their solid 6-6-1 record, Union is hoping to secure one of these bids. Patti Donaldson has been one of the stabilizing forces on this Dutchmen squad. With her fine defensive play, she has kept Union in the hunt for the oft coveted post-season play. For her outstanding achievements throughout the season, Patti Donaldson has been named Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Donaldson, who hails from Fort Ann, N.Y., is a four-year letter winner on the Union squad. She is a senior tri- captain who anchors the defense. Her solid defensive play has helped to set an example for some of the Patti Donaldson younger members on the Dutcilmen defensive unit. This year the Field Hockey team has rotated between two freshman goalies, Jen Vernon and Lynn Beaumont. Despite the relative youth in goal, the team has only given u_p 17 goals in 13 games. This is a statistic which is directly related to Donaldson's defensive skills as well as her leadership qualities. This year, Donaldso11 has notched two goals and an assist. The Union Field Hockey team is looking to extend their season into tile post-season. The New York State Tournament is being held at Unioa College on November 2nd and 3rd. It will feature some of the best Division III Field Hockey teams in New York State. With her guidance, Patti Donaldson is look!ng to lead Union to a playoff berth. Once again, Congratulations and continued success to Patti Donaldson, Ccncordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Men's X-C Finishes Our crews will meet many of these local crews again this coming weekend at the Head of the Fish Creek Regatta in Saratoga Springs. Saturday will be the debut for the novice crews who have been training and learning the way of the oar for the past four weeks. Two boats of women and one of men will boat out for their first competition against other novice crews from the area. The varsity women are looking to dominate the competition, guided by their new coach Jim Swab. Both boats of varsity men will face many crews they have seen already, and look forward to finishing up the season with familiar competition. After Saturday and a few more precious days of water-training, Union College Crew will retire to the field house for a winter of ergs (torture devices strangely resembling rowing machines) and weights to prepare for an intense spring season of sprints. by Greg Barrett Doubles are over!. . . the Dutchmen shouted before their race versus RPI. Friday October 11, saw the men's cross-country team put up some record times. Despite having practice at seven a.m. that morning, the team showed their strong desire to win. Doug Winship was the first to cross the line for Union. His 28:48 placed him in eighth place and giving him a new PR. Ed \I need some sugar\ Dorsey was next in 29:30 with another new PR. Senior Greg Barrett returned to form with a 29:43 scoring him a sixteenth place. Tile next PR of the day came from Mark \Socks\ Sheridan with a 30:42. Rounding out the team was senior Rich \Gumby\ Zembek in 21st place with a 31:41. Josh Haines. Mark Kivimaki and John Huang also picked up majorPR's for the day. Last weekend, the harriers travelled to SUNY Albany for the annual Albany Invitational. Thirty-seven teams consisting of over 250 runners toed the line waiting for the gun. The field contained the number one and n1.1mber five nationally ranked teams (University of Rochester and R.I.T.) and several nationally ranked CONCERT I Sunday, October 27 ~ 1991 PROCfOR'S THEATRE 3:00P.M. CHARLES SCHNEIDER Music Director & Conductor Overture to .............................. Rossini \Barber of Seville\ Concerto for piano, ................. Mozart d minor, K. 466 Amy Lin, Solotst Symphonie Fantastique .......... Berlioz Amy Lin, Soloist Tickets are available at Proctor's box office (518) 346-6204 Adults: $10.00 Students: $5.00 (suggested for age 8 & over) Schenectady Symphony Office 111 South Church St., Schenectady, NY 12305 The S<:henectady Symphony receives parti•l fundinp, from the New York Slate Council e>n the AriS and the Schenectady County Initiative Plan. runners. The winning time was 24:41 breaking the course record! The Dutchmen followed the leaders and tumed out some pretty impressive times. The Dutchmen fielded teams in both the JV and the Varsity race. Here are some highlights. In the JV race, John Huang picked up a new PR with a 33:49.8. Senior Pete Protzel was close behind in 34:09.7 giving him a new PR. Angelo Nicoletti ran an impressive 36:14.7 in his big debut. The Varsity squad also turned quite a few heads. Doug \the entertainer\ Winship brought home another RP with a 28:20 scoring in 11 ()th place. Greg Barrett came across in a seasonal best and a new personal course record with a 2&:47. Ed Dorsey reeled in another perso11al course PR crossing in 29:56. The harriers finished 25th 011t of 37 teams scoring 735 points. The team has improved by leaps and toands over the last seven weeks. This weekend, they are off to Van Cortland Park for CTC's where they will go up against some of New York's finest. The Field Hockey Finale by Rebecca Smackey The field hockey team played two games last week that left them with a .500 record as they head into their final week of the regular season. The question of post-season play will be answered this week. On Wednesday, Union shocked Sienna with an aggressive offense which capitalized on their shots and prevailed 5-l. Cory Logan opened the scoring early in the first half. Other goals were added by Missy Lombardoni, Mary Beth Bohl, and two from Dawn Harrington. A great game was missed if you were not at the turf last Saturday morning. Although Union lost to St. Lawrence 1- 0, the team played an aggressive and determined game. St. Lawrence scored in the last seconds of the first half on a break down the field. Union came out strong in the second half and dominated it. The team proved to themselves and the fans that they have a tremendous amount of skill and heart. Union plays University of Rochester Saturday afternoon at 2 PM on the turf. The team hopes to qualify for the first round of states-which would be played the following week. Come watch a great game and cheer the team on. Thanks to everyone who has supported field hockey this season. WRITE FOR SPORTS Contact Dan at 374-8296 or Schach at x4151 to apply for a position ....

1s QJoltOlrbfrttsts Women's Tennis Finishes With 9-3 Record bv the Women's Tennis Team Led by head coach Sandy Vo h r, the women's tennis team finished with an outstanding 9-3 rc:cord. With the addition of five new freshmen it added to the strength of the five upperclassmen. Leading off tl1e lineup were three freshmen, Julie Anderson, playing number one singles, followed by Chantal Von Saher at number two singles, and Jennifer Horner playing number three singles. Junior captain Elissa Katz played number four singles, followed by senior Ju<ly Park playing five singles, and sophomore Blaire Spritzer playing number six singles. Anderson and Horner combined to play number one doubles followed by Katz and Spritzer at number two, and freshmen Melissa Carey and Rachel Goldfine taking over for seniors Jen Hill and Andrea Cohen at number three doubles. We began our season with an impressive 5-4 victory over Hamilton. Also capping the season were our 9-0 victories over RPI, Russell Sage, and North Adams. ··nue to our impressive record the team received an official bid to participate in the State Championships which were held in Syracuse this past weekend. It was a single elimination tournament where each team member competed as an individual in their own position. Due to a difficult draw not everyone advanced, bu:t everyone played to the best of their abilities. In singles, Judy Park advanced to the quarterfinals before losing to the number two seed from Binghamton. In doubles, Anderson and Homer as well as Goldfine and Carey also advanced to the quarterfinals before losing to Ithaca and Vassar respective.y Blaire Spritzer, seeded number four, proceeded to the semifinals before losing to another Binghamton player. With the strong showing during the season and the good job at states, we ended up ranked in the top ten in Division III in New York State. The success of the tennis team is sure to continue due to the strong coaching and youth of the team. Look for us next year. To those of you who came and cheered, thank you for your continued support. We would also like to say good-bye to our seniors and good luck next year. We'll miss you Judy! 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL Union 37 Coast Guard 7 MEN'S X-C Albany lnv. 26 of 31 WOMEN'S TENNIS Union 7 St. Rose 2 WOMEN'S X-C Albany lnv. 14 of 23 VOLLEYBALL MEN'S SOCCER Union 1 Rochester 1 (OT) BIT 2 Union 1 WOMEN'S SOCCER Union 4 Albany 1 Union2 RPIO FIELD HOCKEY Union 5 Siena 1 St. Lawrence 1 Union 0 Sienadef. Union 9-15,15-10, 7·15 Union def. Plattsburgh 15-6, 15-10 Union def. Hartwick 15-4, 15·6 Elmiradef. Union 17-15,6-15,6-15 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 §PORTS October 24, 1991 Dutchwomen Soccer Team Continues Incredible Season of ''Firsts'' by Sports Staff With Sporrt:s Information After 11 years of losing, the women's soccer team at Union College is having an outstanding season. The Dutchwomen, who have already surpassed the all-time college mark for wins in a season (six9,. have assured themselves of the first winning campaign in the school's 12- year history. 'S:econd-year head coach SuzanneZaloom has her squad at 8-3-1 with three games remaining (tl.\lo of which are home). What's more, the Dutchwomen: broke into the Northeast poll for the first time in history on Monday when they were tied for lOth. \This has been an incredible year,\ said Z:aloom. \We've accomplished so much, yet there is so much more that is still within Ol!r grasp. If we keep winning, there is no reason that we ,can't be selected for the New Y ()rk State playoff tournament. 1'hat would be fantastic. But, we can't look that far ahead. We've got three big games left and a lot of teams are fighting for the eight positions.\ The state tournament selection will be made on . Sunday, Octol:ter 27. The Dutchw()men have been solid up and clown the lineup. Freshman goalie Jen Manna has given up just 13 goals while making 144 saves. She has five shutouts. While Manna has been spectacular at times, Union's defensive backfield of fresllman Liz Landa. sophomore Chris Weske, sophomore Sarah ~oingledy, and freshman Deanna Johnston have helped limit the opponents' shots to an average of 19 a game. Union has held the opposition shot total under 15 six times. At midfield, Union is getting steady performances from seniors Rika Poor and Cindy Butler as well as from junior Meghan Howell. The two seniors have each found the back of the net once. Seniors 1 en Holder and Deb Danforth continue their offensive onslaught. Holder leads the team with five goals and three assists while Danforth llas four and tour. Between them, they have 88 of the team's 291 shots. Union's bench is also contributing to the team's success. Freshman Chris Nytransky, junior Sabra Hall, freshman Deb Montano, and rookie Heather Gauntt each have a pair of tallies. The Dutchwomen, who got off to a 3-1-1 start, lost a controversial game at Skidmore, 3-2 in overtime. The contest was called with over two minutes left in the extra session because of a thunderstorm, 30 seconds after the hosts had scored the winning tally. ln ;the past, a game Hke that would have affec~ed the team for quite some time. Not this year, however. This year's Dutchwomen went out and won five of their next six. Four different Dutchwomen scored and Manna needed to make just one save as Union buried Wells, 4-0. Holder's goal at 25: 38 of the first half enabled Manna to blank St. Lawrence, 1..0, as the freshman netminder recorded nine saves. :Powerful Williams put an end to the modest two-game win streak, 5-0, but since then, Zaloom's squad has won three straight. :Manna recorded 24 saves and Gauntt found the back of the net with an unassisted goal at 35:44 of the first half in a 1-0 victory over Plattsburgh. The Dntch women then beat Albany, for the first time ever, 4-1, The victory was especially satisfying for Zaloom as she came to Union from Albany twc years ago. Union dominated the game with a 51- 19 sllot advantage. Hall and Ga11ntt each scored goals and Manna came up with fivce saves as Union assured itself of the winning season, 2-0, over RPl Jet Fuel for the Mind and Body ~W t\.T ()IJTO-J H)LL()W Expresso Cappuccino Jump Start Your Heart 75.¢ $1.25 Delta Delta Delta would like to thank: Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream Butcher Block The Open Door Geppeto's Homestyle's Pizza Dunkin' Donuts McDonald's Camelot Music Goldstock's Visage Mr. Thatcher for donating the 2 Airline tickets Price Chopper Pepsico Co. Carmello's Cafe Pizza Bofon Campus Pizzeria Pizza Hut 1¥ NY Bagels Papa Gino's Little Ceasar's Pizza And e~pecially , Peggy's Restaurant Bruegger's bagels Deck the Walls Pizzeria Uno Devan Blake Union Beverage Grand Union Ground Round Restaurant Budini's Restaurant Papa Cicco's Prof. Jewell, Prof. Prosper, Prof. Marincola, Delta Psi Delta , Union College Bookstore Thank you for either donating prizes/food for the 12 h()ur dance-a-th()tl or just supporting the sisters and dancers.

October 24, 1991 !iPDRT'!i @.vnntrbitttllis 19 Men's Soccer Playoff Bound Football Buries Coast Guard Continued from page 20 ... Coast Guard, which was averaging over 400 yards a game, was held to 273, Continued from page 2(}1 with an intense pace, an.<J, it took the Dutchmen a few minutes to adjust to U of R's fast-paced astro-turf surface. However, after adjusting to- 1tlle turf and settling down, ,tiJe Dutchmen were able to capitalize on their first ~~al scoring threat of the evenillg. Midfielder Brett Miller dro'\'e a corner kick to the near p()St which deflected off a defe11der into the net, giving the seni()r his .first goal of the season mel giving the Dutchmen a qllick: 1 \0 lead. Later in the half, a. hometown referee hailing from McQuaid 1 esuit (Thanks Dlln and Kevin} awarded Rochester a penalty kick on a questionable call. The kick was convert~d. and the match was tied at o11e apiece. With the match tie<l at one after the completion of tile second half, Union fo11n.d themselves involved in their first overtime game of the season. The two fifteen-minute overtime periods were i11ten~, both teams had chances to score, but neither coald capitalize. The match ended in a 1-1 draw. The man of the match for tl!e Dutchmen was stopperback: Dave Chodosch. Assigned lly Coach Nardiello to mark Ap)lle all over the field, Chodosdt responded with his best defensive effort of the season. Denying Apple the ball anti shadowing him all over the field, Chodosch was able t() eliminate Rochester's mai11 offensive threat from being a real factor in the matcll. Defenders Hodson, Epstein. Wilmott, and Joel VolteiTa. were also instrumental ill. staging off constant pressur~ from U of R late in the second half. At midfield, Miller had his finest hour of the year. playing tough defense and good possession soccer. Oleson was also puticularly effective at striker, as he almost iced the game for Union late in the match by just shooting wide after breaking free from a Rochester defender. Union had earned a good tie and was looking forward to retuming to Garis Field after finally completing their exhausting nine-game road trip. RIT came to town on Parents Weelend to take on the 6-3-1 Dutchmen in what was destined t() be an intense, hard fought match. A large home crowd composed .of parents, students, J>rofessors, and Capital District soccer junkies witnessed llinety minutes of well played soccer. Unfortunately, the Tigers were victorious in the match by a score of3-l. As they have so many times this season, Union struck first in the match. With ten minutes left in the half, Sollinger lofted a free kick into the penalty area that Mela challenged for. The ball landed at the foot of Hodson, and the senior captain struck the ball past the RIT keeper into the net~ giving Union a 1-0 lead and Hodson the first goal of his four year career. However, RIT immediately struck back in the second half as a Tiger forward converted a loose ball that rolled around in the Dutchmen penalty box. With the score tied at one, b<Jth teams settled down and the large crowd began to witness some real attractive soccer. However, RIT'.s movement off the ball a:Jl over the field and their superior team tactics eventually led to the game-winning goal. A long cross off an indirect kick was headed in the far post for a 2-1 lead. The Dutchmen immediately pushed their defenders forward and began playing direct balls into tile Tiger box. Although they created many S'COring opportunities, the Tiger defense Withstood the pressure and prevented the tying goal. Inevitably, with aU the D11tchmen pushed forward, an RIT frontrunner capitalized on a counterattack and scored a one-on-one goal with the keeper to ice the game for tlte Tigers. After Saturday's loss, the Dutchmen's record stood at 6-4- 1. They had completed their road trip with a winning record and returned home playing go()d soccer, only to fall to a superior RIT club. With four matches remaining on the schedule, the Dutchmen still possess a realistic chance of qualifying for the East Coast Athletic conference playoffs. Although the hooters have dropped four matches, it will be difficult for the ECAC playoff selection committee to overlook the quality of Union's schedule. One observer tabbed the Dutchmen's schedule \perhaps the most competitive in New York State.\ However, before the playoffs become a reality, Union must prove that they are capable of disposing of the Northeast's top teams in Williams, Clarkson, and St. Lawrence. Only time will tell .... ... Union forced four turnovers including intercep- tions by senior defensive backs Vince Giaimo and Tim Kempski, as well as by junior Ross Eberhart, ... The Dutchmen held Coast Guard's vaunted wishbone running game to just 78 yards on 43 carries. Junior tackle Scott Mcintyre had four solos and five assists while senior end Jaimy Farnan recorded four assists, a sack (worth nine yards) and recovered a fumble to set up a Dutchmen score, ... Coast Guard was just four of 19 in third down conversions. The Bears were also stopped on a fourth and one at the Dutchmen 15 when junior ends Peter Simmon and senior defensive back Mark Tullman teamed to stop a quarterback sneak. The big play sparked the offense to an 85- yard drive (in just seven plays) enabling the Dutchmen to blow open the contest, 31-7, with 4:29 left in the game, ... Eberhart, besides his interception, blocked a punt to set up Union's third score (which gave the Dutchmen a 21-7 lead), ... Sophomore linebacker Mark Michalisin had sacks of six and seven yards on consecutive plays to stop a potential Coast Guard scoring threat. All in all, the Dutchmen Defenders had a pretty good day. Offeasively, Union again showed its strength. Senior halfback Jerry Walker found Russ in the left flat for the opening five-yard TD toss. Senior wideout Gene Ray helped stop the Bears constant blitzing by grabbing a 15-yard pass over the middle and turned it into a 50-yard score. Senior tailback Alex Felipe rushed 15 times for 96 yards-including a five-yard TD run, his seventh of the year. Freshman tailback Chris Irving picked up 67 yards on just six carries-including a 53-yard TD jaunt. Brundage had the seven receptions for 94 yards-giving him 30 catches this year. And sophomore placekicker Greg Harrison booted four of five PATs and added a 23-yard field goal. He is averaging 8.5 points a game- not bad for a kicker. \ODE TO COACH SUE'• There once was a team that was quite a mess, Now it seems they've reached immeasurable success. Their record in the wins never went above six~ But now that not the case, with better passes & kicks. We've never reached post season under the coach named Sue, But things have turned around for women's soccer at U. This team you see is now ranked 1Oth in the state, So come cheer us on, the support would be great. So go to Gan's field Thursday, 1/2 hour before four, Because again we will come out ahead in the score! Be There From The Beginning To All Students, Faculty & Staff, The Union College Skating Dutchmen will open a new er:t starting this season as they- begin play in the Easte:r11 College Athletic Conference: Division I Hockey League .. Since hockey made its debut in 1975, the campus support for the program has been outstanding. With tile enthusiastic response that we have already received regardi11g the team's move into tile ECAC, we are expecting support that borders on overwhelming. With this in mind. we woul-d like to take the opportunity oo review some of the existing policies concerning tickets !t!S well as to inform you of the new ideas that are intended tc add to your convenience anc enjoyment of the upcoming 1991-92 hockey season. The College's Hockey Ticket Procedures Committee, whicb was organized last winter and consists of students, faculty-, and staff, has made the following recommendations: ... As in the past, complimentary tickets will be available for students (one ticket per college ID) as well as faculty and staff (two tickets per college ID) but will be limited to only a two-day pick- up which will be held each Monday and Tuesday before each listed home game. After the two-day pick -up period is over, tickets WILL NOT be given away but can be purchased at a reduced rate of $3.50 per ticket for students and $4.50 per ticket for faculty and staff. ... Ticket pick.:l1P hours are Monday and Tuesday prior to each home game from 8:30 a.m. until 1:0() p.m. and from 2:00 p.m. until 4:00 p.m. at the Achilles Rink Box Office. There will be NO exceptions to tllese times. ... No one will be allowed t<J pick up tickets using someone else's ID. In other words, your ID entitles you to your ticket and only your ticket. ... A policy to purchase season tickets has been established. Season ticket sales will begin on Monday, September 23rd, 1991 and continue until Friday, October 25th. They will be distributed on a first-come, first serve basis. Students are eligible to purchase one (1) season ticket booklet at a cost of $25.00 while faculty and staff are eligible to purchase two (2) booklets at a cost of $40 EACH. This option gives you the convenience of not having to stand in line prior to each game and also assures you of having the same seat for each game. . .. A cross-over section is available in the event that you have guests and would like to trade your season ticket in for one in the cross-over section while purchasing other tickets. This enables you and your guests to sit together. ... YOU MUST sit in the seat indicated by your ticket. The move into the ECAC Division I Ice Hockey League is an exciting one for anyone who enjoys the competition of college hockey. The Ticket Policy Committee has done its very best to anticipate the questions that will arise during the season. While the committee recognizes that some unanticipated problems will occur during this initial ~upport minion ~port~ campaign, it has set forth the above guidelines to serve the Union College Community in the best possible manner. The committee strongly suggests th:at you think about what ticket procedure best suits your needs and then take advantage of the offerings. We are all looking forward to an exciting and challenging Skating Dutchmen Hockey Season in 1991-92 . Sincerely, The Union College Hockey Ticket Committee

'.1 Women's Soccer beat Albany 4·1 for 1st time ever. Union Field Hockey stunned Siena 5-1 last Wednesday. See page 18. October 24, 1991 Men's Soccer Strives For The Playoffs by J.D. Sollinger Good soccer teams score goals, play possession soccer, play tough defense, and win games. The Union College Men's Soccer Team has done all of that this year, and as a result has reestablished itself as a major competitor in the New York State and __ Northeast Region Division III soccer scene. Great teams also do all of the above. However, great teams also put opponents away when they are vulnerable. The Dutchmen, who faced Capital District rivals RPI and Siena this past week, scored early goals in both matches. However, their inability to put both teams away early in the match caused the Dutchmen to be involved in two tough matches. one resulting in a 2-1 win, while the other culminated in a loss by the same score. On October 9, the Dutchmen traveled to Siena, to take on the 4-4-1 Saints, the only Divisiofl I team on Union's schedule. However, just fifteen minutes into the match it was Union that looked like the Division I powerhouse as they had jumped out to an early 2-0 lead. Freshman Jeremy Liebhoff broke free down the right wing and played a low cross to Jeff \Crazy\ Mela who knocked it home for an early 1- 0 lead. Just five minutes later, Liebhoff scored off an assist from Mark Oleson, who had flicked the ball across the goalmouth off of a D .J. Hodson throw-in. The Dutchmen continued to pressure the Saints defense and their best opportunity came when Freshman Stu Savage brilliantly broke the Siena offsides trap, only to be call offsides on an errant call by the official. Although the Dutchmen continued to control the tempo of the first half, the second half was a different story. The Saints controlled most of the play and cut their deficit in half fifteen minutes into the half by making the score 2-1. However, the Union defense hung tough and were able to stage off the Siena attack from tying the score late in the match. Goalie Lee Popper was particularly impressive as he was forced to make some big saves late in the half. The Dutchmen left Siena, dissatisfied with their performance, but most importantly had won the game. Clearly, the sign of a good team is one that can walk off the pitch not satisfied with their play, but still emerge victorious. Union had upped their record to 6-2, and were now looking ahead to their showdown with RPI on October 12 as the opponents home pitch. The game against RPI not only left local bragging rights on the line, but was a matchu:p of the ninth (Union) and tenth (RPI) ranked teams in the state. RPI, a much improved squad, had recently tied traditional national powerhouse RIT and defeated the always tough Alfred Saxons. The match, which was played on Saturday, October 12 as part of RPI's homecoming, began well for the Dutchmen. Just ten minutes into the half, senior midfielder J em Sollinger beat h~s defender on the wing and crossed the ball to Oleson, who knocked it home for an early 1- 0 lead. The Dutchmen continued to pressure the RPI defense but were unable to rip the nets and increase their lead. Rensselaer came out fired up in tbe second half and tied the score fow minutes into the half on a free kick that bent around the Dutchmen wall into the back of the net. At the twenty- seven minute mark on the half, an RPI forward knocked in a cross to provide for the margin of victory for the win. The Dutchmen, who pressured relentlessly in the final minutes of the game, were unable to tie the match. Despite outshooting RPI 20- 12, and controlling the tempo of the match, the Union hooters left the field without a vicoory. They had suffered their first loss within the Capital District. but immediately refocused their attention to the following week in which they would face the University of Rochester and RIT, in what would prove to be very pivotal games in their quest to qualify for post-season play. On October 16, the Dutchmen faced the University on their home turf (literally). Rochester, ranked fourth in the state and nineteenth in the country, was led by All- American center midfielder Chris Apple. The match began Continued on pa~e 19 Union Captures 14th Straight Victory With 37-7 W:in Over Homestanding Coast Guard by Dan Strum Sports Editor with Sports Information Senior quarterback Brett Russ showed his versatility last Saturday as Union's football team won for the 14th consecutive time while improving its 1991 record to 6- 0. Russ, who has led the Dutchmen to a record of 32-4 since taking over the staring role in the third game of his freshman campaign (1988), completed 13 of 28 passes for 211 yards. What's more, the All- American candidate caught a five-yard touchdown pass (the third of his outstanding career) to give Union a 6-0 lead, threw a 50-yard scoring strike to break a 7-7 tie, and ran for a three-yard score to make the score 30-7 thus insuring the victory. Russ's efforts earned him a spot on the weekly ECAC Upstate New York honor roll, his second award of the year. It also marked the sixth-straight week that a Dutchman has been named. Union, which is off next Saturday, will travel to Gettysburg on November 2 looking to tie the all-time Dutchman record for consecutive wins. The mark of 15 was set from the last two games of 1988 to the· final game of 1989 and was broken by Dayton, 17-7, in the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. This senior class was in their sophomore season that year. Game time is 1:30 p.m. While Russ and his offensive mates rolled up 507 yards enroute to the 37 points, Saturday's game might very well be the day that the Dutchmen Defenders \came of age.\ Going into the year, it was well documented that the defense, the heart and soul of Union the last few years, was young and inexperienced. It was further known that the very veteran offensive unit was going to have to carry the defense for a while. Well, the offense has done that (averaging 49.3.5 yards and 46.3 points over the flrst half dozen games). Meanwhile, the defense has matured, and against Coast Guard, the unit celebrated its \coming out\ party. Except for a 54-yard option pass that the Bears' Dave Dawdy carried down the right sideline that enabled the hosts to tie the game at seven, Union's defense was flawless. Consider: Continlled on page 19 The Union College Hockey Team would like to thank the college community for their terrific support. We highly recommend the purchase of season tickets due to extremely limited seating. BE THERE FROM THE BEGINNING! 1991-92 HOME SCHEDULE LISTED BELOW Fri. 11/lf.)l Merrimack 7:30PM Fri. 11/15/91 Harvard 7:30PM Sat. 11116/91 Brown 7:00PM Sat. 11/30/91 Concordia 7:00PM Fri. l(J/92 Cornell 7:30PM Sat. 1/4/92 Colgate 7:00PM Sat. 1{1.5/92 RPr 7:00PM Fri. 2!7/92 Vermont 7:30PM Sat. 2/8/92 Dartmouth 7:00PM Fri. 2/14/92 StLawrence 7:30PM Sat. 2/15/92 Oarkson 7:00PM Fri. 2(28/92 Princeton 7:30 PM Sat. 2(29192 Yale 7:00PM SEASON TICKETS ARE STILL AVAILABLE FOR SALE UP UNTIL OCTOBER 25, 1991 . ' . For information •••• Call The Achilles Rink Box Office (518)370·6134-MondaythnaFriday-8:30am-5:00pm

Founded at Union College 1877 ........ ;.:-~~ Schenectady, New York October 31, 1991 ----------- ------------------ E:ducation Critic Delivers Speech At Memorial Chapel by David Levine According to education critic Diane Ravitch the problems caused by cultural narcissism can be rectified through a more intense multicultural curriculum in American Diane Ravitch 1 , schools. This was the theme of a speech delivered by Ravitch to a near capacity crowd in Memorial Chapel on October 24. She recommended the introduction of three years of mandatory history courses into states' curriculums. Ravitch spent the better part of forty-five minutes stressing that students should be taught about American heritage so . that they can better respect other ethnic and racial groups. She continually pointed out during her speech the diversity of ethnic groups in this country. As Herman Melville once said, \You cannot spill American blood without spilling foreign blood.\ Ravitch believes that certain religious groups pollute the minds of their followers, these groups are breeding ethnic hatred and reducing scientific thinking. Ravitch believes that the study of American Heritage is necessary in order to open the minds of the students so that they may learn to absorb and respect the ideas and ideals of other cultures. Doing so will allow students to think freely and universally, therefore allowing them to work towards common goals. For the next forty-five minutes Ravitch fielded a variety of questions from the audience. For the most part, the questions focused on the more serious problems that face American education. One major issue that was discussed was the lack of federal funding for education. Ravitch did not attribute the perceived fall in the quality of American education to the lack of funding. She claimed that the state and local governments Continued on page 3 Doctor Bill Goettel Adds Humorous Touch to AIDS Awareness Week by Hannah J. Hazen Comedian Bill Goettel, known to many as \Dr. Bill,\ · began the fifth annual AIDS Awareness Week on a lighter note Sunday evening. His sex- ed program presented informa- tive facts with an entertaining twist. Judging by the strong applause from the highly attentive audience. it is apparent that Dr. Bill is successful in delivering serious messages in a humorous envelope. Goettel is a licensed VD (STD) Nurse of the state of New York. Two aspects of his career have included teaching a health and sexuality course, as well as treating and counseling many young adults at Syracuse University. He has intetviewed on national television witlt Joan Rivers, as well as hosted a weekly sex-educational radio program entitled \Groin- ecology\ carried by central New York radio stations. Dr. Bill is an advising columnist for Report Magazine. It did not take long for laughter to filter throughout Continued on page 3 President of University of Vermont Quits Post by Sally Johnson Courtesy of New York Times BURLINGTON, Vt., Oct. 22 -- George Davis resigned as president of the University of Vermont on Monday, after a tumultuous first year marked by student demonstrations and escalating budget problems. Hired with a mandate to increase racial and cultural diversity at the 11 ,000-student state university and to bring its budget under control, Mr. Davis ran into trouble on both counts. Student demonstrators occupied his office for three weeks last spring, protesting what they called a failure to follow university policies on recruiting more minority students and faculty members. The protests resumed this fall. At the same time, the university, with an annual budget of $243 million, has tried to grapple with a deficit that it estimates will reach $16 million by the end of 1996. \Frankly. for whatever reasons, it is apparent that support for my leadership is not sufficiently strong for me Continued on page 4 Anti-Apa.rtheid Leader To Speak At Union Courtesy of Public Rr:lations The Rev. Canon Malusi Mpumlwana, the political heir to the late anti-apartheid leader Steven Biko, will speak on \Changes in South Africa Today\ on Friday, N()v. 1, at 1 I :30 a.m. in the College Center auditorium at Union College. Malusi was involved in the anti-apartheid movement, working for Black Community Programmes Ltd. until October 1977 when the South African government banned it. Malusi spent long spells in detention without trial between 1976 and 1979 when he was tortured by white authorities in an attempt by them to discover links between old banned movements and new emerging ones. \The measure of your freedom,\ Malusi once said, \is to what extent you are able to recognize the unfreedom of others and battle to undo it.\ Now a priest in the Order of Ethiopia Church, he is pastor of 16 congregations near Port Elizabeth and serves as dean of the St. Paul region <Of his church. After years of legal struggle and representation fmm the church hierarchy, Malusi was granted \full\ South African citizenship in January 1990, though without the democratic vote. He has twice been to Israel and Palestine as !l guest of the Middle East Council of Churches and Christian theologians for conferences and comparison studies between the Israeli-Palestinian question and the South African situation. He was a signatory of both the Kairos Document and the seven-nation Road to .Damascus and is a member of the institute for Contextual Theology in South Africa. He was a participant in the Rustenburg conference of churches of November 1 '>90. The lecture is sponsored by the Campus Protestant Ministry at Union College, the African and Latino Alliance of Students at Union, and St. Stephen's Episcopal Church of Schenectady. He is being sponsored for a series of engagements in the U.S. by the Southern African Education Program at the Stony Point (N.Y.) Center. In the Black Consciousness movement, Steve Biko and his friends had discovered that each individual had the capacity to liberate himself. \It let us be free,\ Malusi said. \Even in a town like Bloemfontein where you would have cringed in the past, suddenly you felt like you could challenge the whole white commando. Reverend Mpurnlwana Malusi and his wife both spent long spells in detention without trial between 1976 and 1979. Married with four children, Malusi now serves as the pastor of a large church with sixteen congregations in the townships and farms of Uitenhage near Port Elizabeth. He also serves as Dean of the St. Paul region of his church. Continued on page 3 In This Issue: AT&T Investment Challenge -page 4 Fiction by Andy Rosen -page 6 Women's Soccer/ Field Hockey Teams Earn Post Season Bids -page 19

NEW!i AI\IAL Y!il!i Skepticism and the Peace Process in the Middle East Likud government is unlikely to forfeit the strategic corridor, unless new guarantees to Israeli security are proffered. Given the abave scenario, what then can we hope will be accomplished at the conference? There is a lot to be achieved, and a lot of progress has already been made. As Professor Fisher argues, in the same editorial, we should not measure the success or failure of this venture in terms of specific agreements and tangible, substantive results. It is the process which counts. \The road taken,\ he says, \determines where we end up.\ It is an argument whereby the author is attempting to redirect the focus of the debate away from the ends and more towards the means at issue here. by Jon Keller · Robert Fisher. Professor of law at Harvard University. axgues that \whHe Secretary of State James Baker's persistence Inay lead Israel and the Arabs to sit down together in Madrid. tflere is little basis for optimism.\ This skeptical outlook regarding the peace conference seems. unfortunately, to be tile prevailing view among many. AI though on the geopolitical/substantive level, ~here are many reasons why one might be pessimistic, I believe that if we redirect our understanding of the objectives of the conference away frorn grand expectations and substantive agreements, and toward the normalization of relations between the principal parties involved in the conflict, there is a bit more that we might want to be hopeful about. As far as many of the realists are concerned, there are four land disputes whicfi, when taken together, represent a climate of irreconcilable differences between the participants: 1. Jerusalem: At the close of the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, in effect Israel had control over all of the city, a city which has within its boundaries sites which are holy to Jews, Christians and Muslims. Many have argued that Jerusalem should not be administered over by the Israeli government, that it should be an international city. But since there is little chance that the Israelis would be willing to concede this at present, the discussion concerning this isstle should be treated delicately, so as not to negatively effec;t progress which could be made in other areas. II. Golan lleights: Seized by lsraeli forces in 1967, the region Ius always represented a major point of contention between Syria and Israel. Today, mme than 12,500 Israeli settlers live there, and varied rsraeli ;leaders have referred to the r-egion as an integral part of Israeli defense policy. Although tllis may be true at present, ex~ctly how integral it will be i11 the long term (assuming relations improve) is a hotly debated issue. At present, however, its return will most likely be out of the question. Altllough many have argued that the return of the Golan Heights is President Assad's only motivation for attending the conference, this may not necessarily be tile case. Assad is shrewd enougll to realize that he isn't going to wa:lk: away from the conference with the Golan in his pocket, but he is attending the coflference anyway. Though he may be doing so at the urgi11g of the United States, it js still a positive development. lll. West Bank: Seized by Israeli forces in 1967, the region is now hom~ to over 1,050,000 Palestinian Arabs J Name I I Address I I~ ~ ~ I Phone L_) College/University I and 110,000 Israeli settlers. The Palestinian delegation, led by Faisal Hosseini, a moderate whose ties to the P.L.O. are indirect at most, hopes that one day Palestinians wiH gain some autonomy over the region. Although there will be discussions regarding the subject of a Palestinian homeLand, at this time it is unlikely that Israel will forfeit its claim even to part of the region. Like Assad, Husseini must realize that the best he can hope for is to demonstrate to the international community that the Palestinian leadership is ready to talk coexistence with Israel. IV. Gaza Strip: Also overrun by Israeli forces in 1967, the Gaza Strip is now home to over 650,000 Arabs, many of whom live in refugee camps. The subject of autonomy is also foremost on the minds of the members of the joint Palestinian/Jordanian delegation, but they too must realize that Ismel's conservative Consider the position of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. Six months ago~ he was unwilling to go to any kind of conference at all. But right now, he is in Madrid, and he is at the ·conference. Also consider the position of President Assad. Until fairly recently, he insisted on nothing less than a full-blown international conference, under the mandate of the United Nations, with \full Israeli withdrawal from all of the occupied territories as a preconditon.\ And now, while Get your hands on Concordiensis I Summer 0 Fall 0 Spring 0 19_ I I inttmshlp Programs; Language Programs Summer Programs · and get a Grasp on the Campus 1 0 London 0 Grenoble CJ Oxford 0 Greece 0 Padova 0 USSR I 0 Pans 0 Haifa CJ Padova 0 London 0 Paris 0 Washmgton I I n Sydn.-y n Madrid 0 Madnd D S)'dn.-y ~~~hingt~ __ ~iamcy- ___ OMo~- _____ _j October 31, 1991 he is not participating in phase III of the . conference (which deals with regional economic cooperation and resource management), he will be in Madrid for the other two phases. Some have argued that he is only going in order to appease the United States, in the hopes that he win one day be the benefidary of U.S. economic aid. This may be true, but regardless of what Assad's motives are, the resultant effect of his actions is that Syria is acting more cooperatively than it has in the past, and this is a good thing. So, although we should not hope to see \land for peace,\ or a comprehensive regional settlement, we might hope instead that a constructive dialogue between the principal regional actors will take place. Think back to March of 1979. Remember that photograph, in which Jimmy Carter, Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat were embracing one another, just after agreeing to the Camp David Accords. It was a momentous occasion, the realization of a dream that many had said would never come. Although it is unlikely that anything which went on at Camp David will go on at Madrid, perhaps the groundwork for future agreements might be established. At least they'll be talking to one another. I think ill e1ll it ~N~w World Order:~.

October 31, 1991 Changes In South Africa To~day Continued from page 1 covering a large area including poverty stricken f~m workers and squalid squatter settlements. His ministry includes programs to improve the quality of life in his region and parish; devel:oping systematic methods of involving the whole community in economic and social ·!levelopment campaigns; partie ipating in the resolution of p<Jlitical conflicts and chairi11g the Women's Mini~tries department in the East Cape Council of Chm:cltes, campaigning for the meani11:gful recognition of the dignity of women in church and soc:iety. Diane Ravitch Favors Multi-Culturalism Continued fr.om page 1 should be more responsible for the quality of education in their regions. Ravitch also discussed the reality of President Bush's goal to have American students be the most proficient students in the world in math and science by the year 2000. Although she seemed to believe that this was a possibility, she never outlined any specific plans or proposals that the President or the Department of Education had for attaining this goal other than the development of some national tests. Again, Ravitch depen!led upon the states for devel()ping Boards of Regents to tes:t pupits. Ravitch stressed one of the mino[' points in the conte~t of improving the educational system. Although she discussed how a lack of multic11ltural influences had a deleterious effect upon the wHliag:ness of people to work towards common goals, she failed t.() outline &pecific ways in wltich the educational system as a whole could be improved. 1\JEW!i drnnrorbtrttsts 3 Dr. Bi.n On Condoms Continued from page 1 Memorial Chapel, as Dr. Bill stated his dedication \to Public Events of the Day,\ and his desire through his program to keep people \on top of things.\ Lecturing with chalk in hand, he proceeded to draw an erect penis on the board saying he wasn't a talented artist but that it was \not a Russian rocket.\ He furthered his discussion on penis erection, by comparing having sex with a flaccid penis to ''playing pool with a rope.\ Dr. Bill continued his program focusing on sexually transmitted diseases. He provided information on AIDS, Herpes, and Trichinoses as well as a few others, dissolving common myths about the diseases. He furnished startling facts and statistics related to , sexually active college students: One in twenty college students become infected with STD, and one in every ten become pregnant. He referred to sex in the nineties as \Russian Roulette,\ a dangerous game, as there are many carriers of diseases that do not show any symptoms. Dr. Bill's underlying message stressed the importance of knowing your partner. In the middle of the program Dr. Bill called for volunteers, and at his request a student named Dave appeared on stage. Dave participated in a demonstration on how to properly use a condom. Condoms have a 20% failure rate, and Dr. Bill stated this was mainly due to their improper use. After the demonstration, Dave was appropriately appointed the \Campus Condomologist\ receiving aT-Shirt in tum for being a good sport. As active participants in the program, students provided written questions about sex, they wished to have answered during the lecture. One question posed to Dr. Bill was, \Please demonstrate facial expressions before, during and after orgasm.\ Dr. Bill just chuckled and replied, \This is a lecture not a lab.\ The final portion of the program called for audience participation in a Game Show. Complete with mixed back- ground music, you were unsure if you were the next contestant on the Price is Right, or matching wits in an in tense game of Jeopardy. Five men and one woman volunteered to be team members of the two competing teams: The Diaphragms vs. The Condoms. The game show provided surprising answers to questions relating to several different sex issues. In closing, Dr. Bill stated with sincerity, that he hoped the sex-ed information he brought to the podium helped in some way. Prof. Williams of the biology department, , believed Dr. Bill, his humor aside, provided some good messages. She liked the fact that he stressed it was \O.K. to say no, and O.K. not to be involved in a sexual relationship.\ She felt he successfully got this message across, an important issue she believed often not addressed. Parent's Weekend LONG-SLEEVE T-SHIRTS are still avialable for $8.00 calix 6917 What Can I Do With A Major In English? by Barbara Cash One of the biggest academic decisions students are likely to face in college is selecting a major. A frequent concern heard at the Career Development Center is how to relate a major to a career. One of the responses students get at the CDC is: major in what one enjoys. Often that is hard to understand because it is difficult to see the link between major and career, with valid reason. One's major at Union may seem to have no direct link with one's eventual career goal. Philosophy majors may not become lawyers. English majors may not become New York Times book critics. Extracurricular activities, summer experiences, jobs and internships coupled with an academic career combine to make a student's skills and experiences extremely marketable. As a result, this major can lead to a variety of careers. To assist students with choosing a major or deciding on a career. the CDC will be presenting their Fall Term \What Can I do With A Major In ... \ (WCIDWAMI... pro- nounced \Wicked Wammy\) English. This pane! prese11tation, which includes Union alumni, is designed to expl()re career options for undecided students, students with an English major and anyone else interested in learniag about the market- ability _and employment possibilities for those with an Englislt major. In addressing this point, Janet Harrington Mattis, the Assodate Director of the Career Development Center, explai11s that \the purpose of this Jrrogram is to assist stude11ts in identifying career option~, to present appropriate job se!tl'ch strategies to liberal arts ~tudents, and to give students an opportunity to meet Union College graduates in their chosen or considered major.'• · The WCIDW AMI workshop is co-sponsored by the English Depa:rtment and the Career Development Center and is scheduled for Wednesday, November 6 at 7:30 p.m. in the CDC. For more informa- tion, Jllease feel free to call the CDC at x6176 or just stop by. Also~ please try to sign up in advaac.e at the CDC. Take advantage of this oppoi\tnnity to explore career optio11s within this major! The Union College Community is invited to attend a RECEPHON for THE REV. CANONMALUSI :MPUMLWANA Speaking om. ''Changes in South Africa TodaY' at 3:30pm Fri., Nov. 1st in Bronner House (The Cultural Unity Center) Sponsored by: The African and Latino Alliance of Students WCIDWAMI (pronounced \Wicked Wammy\) WHAT CAN I DO WITH A MAJOR IN. ENGLISH? A Panel Presentation Designed to Explore CAREER OPTIONS FOR * Undecided Students * English Majors * Inquiring Minds * WEDNESDAY November 6, at 7:30PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER Co-Sponsored By: English Department Union College 370-6231 Career Development Center Union College 370-6176 Uni?~l College rrir~opmm! ';_. .. ·~~~· Center • •

1\JEW!i President Resigns After Year of Turmoil Continued from page 1 to carry on what I started,\ Mr. Davis wrote in a letter of resignation that was delivered to the university's board on Sunday. Lack of Campus Support That thought was echoed by Luther Hackett, the board's chairman, who told reporters on Monday evening, \George Davis had the support of the board, but he felt he didn't have the support he needed on campus.\ For Mr. Davis, a 48-year-old geologist and former provost at the University of Arizona who arrived in Vermont in July 1990, the first of Ill any problems began last April when two dozen students took over his office, demanding greater cultural and racial diversity at the university. Mr. Davis waited three weeks before calling on the police to evict the protesters, a delay that cost him support arnong ;; faculty members and.! Vermonters in general. But as recently as a month ago he defended his lack of action. \My leadership style has always been one that involves a high degree of consensus,\ he said in an interview then. \It's a style with risks. Some might interpret it as weakness, but people who know me well are aware that I can make decisions. rr The problems became worse when the demonstrators moved out of the administration building and onto the university green, where they built a ramshackle structure they called Diversity University. But financial distress may have provided the final blow. Last December, in an effort to deal with the projected deficit at what is already the most expensive state university in the nation, Mr. Davis appointed a 16-member · Strategic Planning Council to recommend changes. The council's report, issued . 10 days ago, proposed cuts and consolidations, including a plan to close the College of Engineering. \The key thing that fired us off was the plan to eliminate the College of Engineering,\ said William Meyer, chairman of the Faculty Senate, which represents the university's 1,100 faculty members. On Monday night the Faculty Senate rej.ected the council's report by a vote of 140 to 0. \When we were looking for a president, two areas of concern were identified: cultural diversity and financial matters,\ Mr. Meyer said. \It was becoming more and more apparent that he had not been able to find effective approaches to either problem. There's a personal sadness for J>resident Davis. but the way things were going, it was best for everyone that he left.\ Mr. Davis is the fourth college president in Vermont to leave office this year. The others who have resigned are Timothy Light at Middlebury College, W. Russell Todd at Norwich University and Lynn Veach Sadler at Johnson State . College. \To be effective, legal education must be a shared enterprise.\ Patricia A. O'Connor Admissions Recruiter B.S., Syracuse University Ms. O'Connor is a 1991 graduate of Western New England College Schoof of Law. She is a graduate of Syracuse University where she was a management major. She has worked at the Springfield law firm of Bulkley, Richardson & Gelinas and she has also worked for a real c..::==-------' estate firm in Westfield, Massachusetts. Ms. O'Connor was a member of the Law Review at Western New England College School of Law and will represent the law school at under- graduate schools throughout the country. Meet with Patricia O'Connor to learn more about our Law School, where faculty and students work together toward a common goal. Information Session, Monday, Nov. 4, 1:00PM- 3 PM Old Chapel 3rd Floor, Registration Required We invite applications from all persons regardless of race, gender, sexual preference, or handicap.) QillJ School of Law Ulestern new England College 1215 Wilbraham Road Springfield, MA 01119-2689 413-782-1406 REPORTED SECURITY INCIDENTS 10/2j 1294 LENOX RD. I ()/21 POTTER HOUSE 10121 UEST FIELD I(J/21 Cf. AT/'1/P!ZZ~ HUT 1012i DAVIDSON OORH lli/21 ARTS EAST STAIRWAY 10/Zt HUMANITIES I 0123 RICH\OnD 10124 S~E ENTRANCE !0/24 ADMINISTRATION BLDIJ. 1 0/24< ~·AYMOND HOUSE I 0124 liEU US GREEN HOUSE 10/24 SOUTH SIDE Of TURF !0/24 PEAR OF BOlLE~ HO~SE 10124 DAVIDSON HOUSE 10/24 E~ST CORNEP OF BAILEY HALL 10125 flUMANITIES 16/25 BAILEY HALL 1(1! ::& CAMPUS OPERiiTIONS LOT I (li26 F'OX DORH 1(1/26 ALUHNI 6YH VANDALISn/ADDRESS SIGN BROKEN VANDALISH/BROKEN ~INOOW/HALLWAY VANDALIS\/LIGHT POLE KNOCKED DOWN FORGERY & GRANO LARGENY/~ALLE! STOLEN VANDALISH/BROKEN WINDOW, RM 2lB THEFT /BICYCLE EXTERIOR DODR LOCK-VANDALIZED SUSPICIOUS NOISES VANDALISH/BROKEN DOOR GLASS VANDALISM/lAWN A~EA VANDALIS\/UNAUTHOP.I ZED ENTRY SICK RACCOON/TRAP SET /LOCATED-TESTED NEG, VANDALISM/LIGHT POLE PUSHED OVER i'IOTOR VEHICLE ACC !DENT /Na INJURIES {STAFF} UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY VANDALISH/BROKEN WINDOW STAFF-OBSCENE TELEPHONE HARASSHENT HARASSHENT-STUOENT TO STUDENT VANDAL!SH/COLLEGE VEHICLE TIPPED OVER/OAHAGED ACCIDENTAL DAHA6E TO DOOR SLASS VANDALISK-STOP SIGN & WINDOWS-CONDUCT CHARGES 10127 TELEGOHHUNICATIGNS ROON {ARTS:EQUIPHENT TAtiPERING TELEGOH11UNICATIDN SWITCH 16127 BAILEY HALL tWRTH-EAST 10127 TUP.f FIELD 10127 !POL 10127 RICHI'lOND 1012? LAMO~T HOUSE .DISCONNECTED. VANDALISH/TREES DAKAGED VANDALISK/6hRBAGE CANS L CHAIRS VANDALISH/SJDEWALK & GRASS PAINTED (~EAR !DOLl THEFT /CASH FP.Off STIJDENT' S ROOH ELECTRICAL SHORT-WALL OUTLET Call Jordan at 374-5778 or JeHat 386-4131 October 31, 1991 AT&T Investment Challenge On Novernber 1, Wall Street may well take note of a new crop of investors. When the market opens at 9:30 a.m. Eastern tirne, thousands of college and high school students andi educators across the country will begin to build stock portfolios and compete for prizes in the Fourth Annual A TT &T Collegiate Investment Challenge. At the market's closing beU on February 28, 1992, participants with the most valuable portfolios will win. The AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge, created by Wall Street Portfolios {formerly Wall Street Games), is a nationwide educational stock market competition that · recreates actual stock market trading witllout financial risk to the players. Approximately 20,000 college and high school students and educators from every state in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgim Islands and Guam are expected to participate in the AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge this year. Participants start off with a fictional brokerage account worth $5'00 ,000 and are provided with the tools needed to simulate trading. Each player will try to maximize their stock portfolio and pit their strategies and business acumen against thousands of others nationwide. They will buy, sell and sell short by calling an AT&T 800 number at the trading desk set up at Wall Street Portfolios. Participants will gain hands-on market experience, with the only true investment being that of their time and skill. Participants make decisions to buy or sell stock based on real-time q11otations of up-to- the-minute prices, and can choose from over 5,000 actual stocks. Participants earn interest, talk to \brokers incur commissions and track stock progress just as they do on the exchanges in the real 1 Card liol<f<tiS Name EntryFu world of trading. For the entry fee of $49.95 for the coLlege division and $39.95 for tile high school and educator divisions, participants receive a competition package with rules and instructions, an official stock listing, a transactions ledger, a monthly newsletter, The Collegiate Exchange, and monthly personal portfolio statements. Monthly statements reveal what a stucl.ent's portfolio is worth, his or her rank and what has been bought and sold. Students see how their trades stacked up against the market indexes and within their state and school, as well as how their school is performing against other schools in their state and across the country. This year's competition offers more than $200,000 in cash and merchandise prizes from AT&T, Texas Instru- ments, Delta Air Lines and Carnivals Crystal Palace. The Competition is also co- sponsored by USA Today. The top ten collegiate winners will receive cash awards ranging from $1,000-$25,000. Also, each of the top ten collegiate winners and his or her guest will be flown to Nassau, The Bahamas, ,compliments of Delta Air Lines, where they will stay at Cami vals Crystal Palace and Resort Casino for five days and four nights. Each of the top ten high school teams receives $1,000. The top educator wins a trip for two to The Bahamas. The AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge has offered its past 43,000 participants valuable experience and has helped several of them get job offers on the basis of their performance and under- standing of the financial markets. Participants will be able to follow the competition every Monday. in the Money section of USA Today. For more information, call AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge at 1-800-545-1970, ext. ·123. Exp. cate (Collo9\S49.95. Hi~ Senool S39.95, Eduoato• $39.95) Sh<pcne!11 1110111oe1 fm coniiSI.pockage. c-one: lJPS 5-7 day (S5.00) UPS 2nd Day Air ~$8.50) ClvemoghtC$11 .00) \TO\TAL AMOUNT DUE ba filled out fa• v vour scnool School's State. CIIICliE THE APPROPRIATE DIVISION AND CLASS: College F1 So. Jt. Sr.. Grad. PBL H1gh Sc~ool 7th 81h 9th 10th 11th 12th P.G FBLA Junior A\hlevemenl DECA Ed ucalor: Num.ber of students on a-eccunt: .-, ----. ~Max: 5 h.J. studonts per a.cct.) Collogoi,Unlil~rilty Htgh School

l ' ,, ' ' ' '· f October 31, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD <!rnltlllrhirnsis s BAGEL BRUNCH (W/LDX) All ~[}u~U©®®[p)[ru;y ©©M[f~®® Sunday, Nov. 3 Speaker: Shelly Shapiro ''HUNTING NAZI WAR CRIMINALS\ 12 Noon KOSHER KITCHEN will be Card: .courses Sign-up Sheets TRADITIONAL FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER 6:00pm KOSHER ~KITCHEN will be av.ailable in front of the Philosophy Department from *Please bring· meal cards ATTENTION FRESHMAN AND JUNIORS! Monday, Nov 4 to Weds., Nov 6 The Student Forum will hold elections for the following p()sitions: 3 FRESHMAN CLASS REPRESENTATIVES 1 JUNIOR CLASS REPRESENTATIVE Forms Due: Monday, November 4th (5 pm) Election Day: 9:30 A.M. • 4:30 P.M. Friday, November 8ih College Center Information and Petitions available in the Student Activities Office, 4th Floor, College Center The Dutch Hollow Restaurant is pleased to announce: NATIVE AMERICAN AWARENESS WEEK November 4th thru 8th We will be featuring Native Cuisine all week during lunch. There will be representatives of the major North American Tribes performing and displaying their handicrafts. . -·

FEATURES October 31, 1991 TriviaAtta by Sari Skolnik Features Editor Have you ever spent hours (well at least 22 minutes) agonizing over the most irrelevant facts of life? Perhaps its the joy of procrastination that leads us to go off in tangents about needless facts and tibits. Just the other day I was in the library studying for an exam when I overheard (alright eavedropped) on a conversation about past television shows. The conversation was about the \classic\ T.V. show \What's Happening?\ the two individuals were agonizing and I mean \stressing out\ over the name of the waitress on the show. I could not help but show off my knowledge, so I casually peeked my head up and shouted \Shirley.\ They were so impressed by my insights that they let me join into their circle. Now the pressure was really on. I blurted out \Good Times\ (that was one show I really knew). We sat their for twenty minutes trying to figure out the characters names-J .J. (that was a give away), Thelma, Michael, and urn ... now we were really stuck. We knew that there was a father (but he died of a heart attack or was it a car accident?), a mother (with a space between ber teeth) and their was a 11eighbor, and um \Penny\ (the girl who was abused but then adopted). Then from out of 11owhere I showed off my talent by bringing up the \Kroft Superstars,\ now that was a great group of shows; for you 11ever knew what show would be on. Remember there was the <me about the sea creature, 11 Sigmund\ \Lost in Space,\ \Land of the Lost\ (didn't the father leave and his brother Tetumed in his place? and What were the name of those creatures who lived in the 1unnels who couldn't be exposed to light?) Also there was another show with a fat man and a skinny \Gilligan\ looking character-what was that one called? My favorite was the \Bugaloos\ (How do :you spell that?) After awhile we retreated back to our respective seals and knew that we had all been enriched by this \bonding\ experience. However, my mind could not stop reminiscing about these shows. What is it about these shows that keeps our generation still interested? Will this younger generation obsess over \The Wonder Years,\ \Doogie Howser,\ and we cannot forget (yes, we can!) ••Beverly Hills 90210.\ But for those of us that grew up on the \Boob Tube\ know how often we look back on these shows to find inspiration and insight into our current lives. Well, maybe not anything too useful, but if nothi,IJg else a good way to make conversation and kill time. Here's some procrastination pieces: \Brady Bunch\ - What was Cindy's dol'ls name? How did she get it? Who said \Ohh my nose!\ \Mom always said don't play ball in the house.\ \Gilligan. 's Island\ What was Mrs. Howell's first name? \Batman\ - What was \Batgirl's\ tme identity?, What was the butler's name?, How come they never died? \Eight is Enougbv' a Name all the siblings in chronological order. \Family Affair\ - Name the siblings; don't forget the doll. \V\ - Who were the creatures and where do they come from?, Who got pregnant and what did she give birth to? \Three's Company\ - Name the bar that they all hung out in. Name the spin- off. What was Jack's wife's name and profession? What was Jack's restaurant name\ \Joanie Loves Chachi\ - Who cares ! ! ! \HIGH HOPES\ by Dass Seaman Not so long ago lived an ant His parents had named him Grant He lived in a hill The town of Antville Next to a rubbertree plant Grant the ant worked hard Sang as he worked like a bard He pushed up his sleaves Carried those leaves Smiled and said, \I thank by Gard!\ Grant the ant had a wife Who he'd love and support for life With his kids he would play Ant-tag. on Saturday And played ant tunes on his fife If grant the ant found a crumb To the poor he'd give some His heart was so good His love to Anthood An inspiration for all ants to come Then one day came a man He sat on Antville with his can The hill went flat Many ants went splat Ant cries sounded throughout the land Just then Grant returned home Mounted the man's shoe alone Smiled and hummed Murdered by a thumb And flicked to an unknown tomb \Excuse me, sir. ·Is that a yam on your plate, or are you just glad to see me?\ by Andrew Rosen I perused through my Webster's II New Riverside Dictionary hoping to find all those nooks and crannies tbat establish our wonderful English language. How about \controversy?\ We see it every day. The Thomas-Hill hearings gleam as an example. What is it with our culture that drives people to protest, block, cry, argue, kill, spit and lobby? It can't be dandruff, we've already invented Head & Shoulders. The answer is certainly not found at the bottom of A Gentleman Jack's No. 5 Blended Whiskey bottle. What does Mr. Webster proclaim: (on p 156) \controversy. 1. An often public dispute marked by the expression of opposing views. 2. An argument.\ It's apparently clear to me why so much commotion arises out of such a simplistic definition. There is so much dissention amongst our populace because of \opposing views.\ Why are we so selective to that which we argue? Abortion will always be controversial. Fittingly I won't dabble in the subject, avoiding the discussion as my tongue would a wart. I wish to elucidate the general entity of controversy in our lives, trying to recognize its necessity; I also wish to define what I believe to be unjustly ignored controversies in our society despite an obvious presence. My friend Dan, a gentleman and a scholar, so poignantly illustrated: \In the Japanese f<lrum, all instances of c.<>nfrontation are to be avoided. a.nd the process of conciliation is the norm.\ Absolute poetry, ll1Y man! Our country argues ~bout the wrong things! I hate yams. I always have ~nd I always will. I remember tile first time I ever tried to i11dulge in those \delicious\ 1Jal1s of orange splotch. The chalky sugar glass stuck to the 1Jack of my teeth. I reluctantly chewed that globular tuber 1lntil my throat opened and the arnoebic package slithered down to my innards. And then 1 puked. The table caught a destined chunk while my l<i tchen floor paid the soupy price. I couldn't understand it. N<Jt five minutes before my body's obligatory rejection of Sllch \accepted\ American food, I witnessed my father gently place an orange-clouded fork in to his mouth. softly b11mming \mmmmmmmmm.\ 'There are probably at least 153 million United States citizens that would love nothing more than to suck back a good pound of yarns - be it canned, frozen (do they even come frozen?) or fresh. Now, tbere are about 290 rnillion people in our country. Granted a portion of that figure i:S either too old or too young t.<J either decide or care. But for tbe remaining numbers, yams represent a genuine evil. I would just as some beat up my friend Jason with a three pronged hole puncher before subscribing to a most undesirable diet. Why isn't the yam controversy properly addressed in this country? If I knew that answer, I'd probably be in Stockholm accepting my coveted prize. It's certainly not a Democrat-Republican thing. To the best of my knowledge, our Congress relatively bi- partisn on tile issue of yams. Even President Bush feels safer addresssing his problem with broccoli - I LOVE broccoli. Why do we argue about abortion when it affects a lesser segment of the population than yams? When was the last time anyone saw Randall Terry organizing a blockade of Price Chopper for the sole purpose of preventing lucrative yam sales? I thought so. Webster said, \. . . opposing views.\ You eitber love yams or you hate them. The views do not get much more opposing than that. We truly need to reevaluate those societal fragments we wish to deem as \controversial.\ Bob Barker is another element deserving mention. Who the hell is he to tell me what to do witll my do (or cat, depending on yollr preference - barring Ewoks, of course)!. I enjoy a good round of \The Price is Right\ as much as the next collegiate American. After wrongfully assuming the price of a Yugo to be under $15,000, I needed to hear him plead for the good of some old street cleaner to\ ... help control the pet population of our country, have your pet spayed or neutered.\ Although I wouldn't be terribly upset if the former were to occur, I still find it absolutely distasteful that a Continued on page 7 There are hundreds-of simple things each of us can do to help save the planet Starting with recycling. Buying fuel-efficient cars. And joining the Sierra Club. Join us in our savmgs plan. It's one of the best investments you can make. When you join the Sierra Club, your voice will be heard on today's environmental issues through Congressional lobbying, grassroots action and public education. If you'd like to help make a difference in the world, just complete and mail this membership fonn. D ~ I want to help make a difference! NEW MEMBER :'lAME ADDRESS CITY/STATE Membershi Ca • m_ aiuruues (CHECK ONE) REGUlAR SUPPORTING CONTRIBliTING STIJDENT SENIOR UMITED INCOME UFE lndMdu2l 0 us 0$50 0$100 0$15 0.$15 0$15 0$750 Dept J-005, P.O. Box 7959 San Francisco, CA 94120 ZIP Joint 0$43 0$58 0$108 0$23 0$23 0$23 0$1000

October 31, 19!Jl· by Hannah. Hazen Kneeling in the soft brown earth, the ma11 dug deep with his hands. It felt moist between his fingers, and had begun to build up beneath his nails. His worn· green work pants were dark and wet in spots, where his legs lay in the fresh dirt. The sun and rain had weathered the man's face, his soft youthful skin and dimples replaced by many deep lines on his forehead and around his mouth. Beads of perspiration trickled down his neck, and soaked the collar of his grey flannel shirt. His hair, the same shade of grey, was flattened beneath a cap that read \It ain't over until the fat lady sings.\ The sun seemed relentless, making the planting hard for the man. His back began to ( . ... .. . .;·. ...... ~:-: :':'•. FEATURE§ Those Notes stiffen and ache, but he kept planting, standing and stretching a bit in between rows. Yesterday, ten rows of beans, and five rows of carrots and peas, today, twelve rows of corn left to plant. Every year a greater demand, and every year more and more seeds to put in the soil. Every year there was more work to be done, and the man was growing tired. He could not plant as quickly as he used to. One morning, staring at the rows with packets of seeds in his hands, he could not remember which rows had been planted. He bent down and groped in the warm earth to discover two kinds of seeds planted one on top of the other. Angry at himself, he began to dip up some of the seeds in order to replant them. \I am too forgetful now,\ the man muttered. The garden was too much ofa burden. The days of early summer passed and it was soon time to harvest all that he planted. The garden was lush and full, the man could not imagine how he had planted so much. One day ran into the next, waking early with the sun, and working until late afternoon when he would retire to his porch, and just sit there and rock. His body was tired and he lay the fly swatter across his knees. Closing his eyes, his chin dropped softly, resting on his chest. Hours later he awoke, startled by the cool air, and the bright light of the moon casting a glow upon his garden. He heard someone humming softly and his stomach tightened. Si 1 .ting on the edge of the porch was a short, fat woman with wings. Her feet danzled over the steps, and and saggy knee hig:hs fell gently, into a pair of wom blue bedroom sli:p:pers. She \'lore a lilac house-coat and hair ,p.ulled back tightly a.t the nape ()J her neck. \It is not Halloween,\ the man thought. She looked at hiiTI and smiled. her eyes twinkled in the moonlight. \It is time for you to plantc;rdifferentgarden,\ she said. The man coul~ not imagine what she was talking about, he had so much work left to do in his own garden. \He sent me:, you know . The big guy.\ So this fat litt:le thing is an angel, he thought. She was not like he imagined, beautiful and petite with a sweet, melodic voice. \S() I'm to plant The Garden,\ the man said. He chuckled to himself, OXvnrnrbirttzfs 1 thinking this was all a dream. \Well I can't go unless you sing,\ he laughed. \That's what I'm here for,\ she said. At that moment she bounded up beside the man, breaking into song. \I want to wake up in a city that never sleeps,\ the notes of New York, New York seemed garbled in her throat. She had pulled out a cane, and was shuffling across the porch, in her blue slippers. The man could do nothing but laugh at tl)e little fat thing dancing in front of him. The angel began the last chorus. \This is it,\ she said. The man nodded, this was certainly not how he had pictured it. A few seconds passed, and the moon shown brightly, almost smiling upon the fly swatter laying across the cane seat of the rocking chair. \ ... are you just glad to see me?\ and media makers, asking only for those topics that will provide the ,greatest basking under the laymen sky. If t,;Ve are going to autllenticate the needs and relative problems of the general population, we're g()ing to have to address ALL the issues whether it's y~ms, sodomy, dru.gs, sex, sex. with drugs, sex \11/i til yams, yams with drugs ... etc. We ca.n\t be so selective. We can't just wake up in the morning, kiss the wife/ husband/ girlfr-iend/ boyfriend/ caV dog/ chile:!,. eat our toast, drinlc our juice and before walking out the door turn to the aforementioned and say, \Gee I'm sorry. Today, I just don't feel like discussing your incessant habit of stuffing yams down my throat. I need to take little Sally to the cocaine rehabilitation clinic for recovering alcoholics wanting abortions, which reminds me, don't you think we ought to legalize every drug so this will never happen again!\ Pet your unadulterated dog/cat, sit down to a nice plate of yams with your friends or parents and forget about the Supreme Court or abortion. If you tend to the former earnestly, you won't care about the latter anyway. Continued from page 6 man of such formal presence needs to promote such a fascist mean of pet control. Firstly, if I want another Miniature Schnauzer, why would I buy one when Bert- my dog- could simply enter the Richardson's yard over on Birchwood Dr., slyly negotiate an unstable fence and attempt to penetrate a most willing Fifi. If my dog is neutered, this isn't going to happen. I have to go to the pet store and buy a new dog. Again, in theory, my argument holds for cats, but I'm not going to lose sleep over a decline in the cat population. The more salient issue is why must such a public display of a ludicrous selection system be left to go unchallenged. There must be at least 107 million people in this country who would rather maintain the natural integrity of their pet, without falling for Mr. Barker's plea for random \snipping.\ China and India- Earth, for that matter, have a serious population problem. Imagine the sudden publicity this dumbfounded idea would produce should it reach fruition amongst our fellow men and women. Just ·because it's dogs and cats is no reason to ignore the general scope: there are opposing views as to whether our pets should be rendered unreproducible. Unfortunately, society has a skewed vision of what's worth of \public dispute.\ We saw Congress deliberate for a long time, trying to decide whether Clarence or Anita was lying. It captured our headlines and became the rop story on every nightly news program. Geraldo opted to avoid such lunacy by taping a segment on \Color blind nymphomaniacs posing to be squirrel rights activists - their financial tips.\ Way to go, my man. It goes without saying that yams and Bob Barker go hand in hand. They both deserve much more attention than what is exhibited today. They both lie in the perverted shadows of so called \important\ controversies like abortion and Supreme Court nominations/sexual harassment forums. One must take the time to reflect on the nature of controversies and what they represent. They spackle our damaged walls of conscience with bitter name calling and radical change strategies without first vstablishing all sides of the arguments. For, by definition, a controversy is just that, an argument, with opposing views and feelings. The problem today rests not in the issues. but in the manner in which our controversies are selected. Most members of the media would rather write about abortion than a· neutered dog; Larry King would rather speak with Judge Thomas- than Joseph Degregorio, assistant vegetable manager of Price Chopper store #73. We're living in a society overshadowed by politicians Jet Fuel for the Mind and Body ~{)W 4. T ()IJrCJ-lli()LL()W Expresso Cappuccino Jump Start Your Heart 75¢ $1.25 · Do You Wanf VIS.A & M·a~terca.rd Credi.t Cards?· . ------------------------- 1STUDENT SERVICES,P~ BOX 2596.HOllYWOOD,FL 33022~ I • Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards In the world ... VIsa® and MasterCard® credit cards ... \ln your name.'' EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'ItiRNED DOWN BEFORE! VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you deserve and need for- ID-BC>OK5-DEPARTMENT STORES-1UITION-ENTERTAINMENf- EMERGENCY CASH-TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HOfELS-MOTELS-GI\S-CAR RENTALS- REPAIRS-AND TO BUilD YOUR CREDIT RATING! CUAAAN1EEDI VISAIMASTERCARD GUARANTIED ISSUE Ofl IIOHIY lACK Approval absolutely guaranteed so : YES! lwant VISA®/MASTERCARD~ Credit : I Cards. E~dosed find $15 which ts 100% refundable If not I I approved Immediately. I I I I NAME I : ADDRESS : I CITY STATE -ZIP I 1 PHONE 1 I S.S.# I I SIGNATURE I I NOTE: Maste!Canlls a rqttstend trlidtmarll CJI MasterCard lniJr!matlonal. Inc. I I VIsa Is a rqtjsten=d lmcf<emult or VISA. USA.. Inc and VISA International I I Servtas AssoctaJ.ton 1000/o GUARANTEED! I ~fll !I i: 1-t):l•l ;lf1:13•lii:J•1 :1«•1•1·11 I 1 l-~1---------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--J- ------------------------

ii\iTERl\IATIOI\IAL FEATURIE!§ The Bush Administration set out their strategy for the Madrid peace talks: to keep talks up between the Israelis and the Arabs long enough to change the atmosphere in the Middle East so that breakthroughs will be possible. American officials hope to mediate in such a way tbat direct encounters between the Arabs and the Israelis will not be , supplanted and the two gtroups will begin to understand their differences. Officials say 'that these \hard ball tactics\ will be needed to bring about agreements between the Israelis and the Palestinians. President Bush describes the ,plan not as a means \to impose people together so they can achieve a settlement\ but as a way .. to bring people together so they can achieve a settlement.\ Among Washington's challenges in the negotiations are: to find \a way to bridge Syria's desire for a return of total sovereignty over the Golan Heights\ now occupied by Israel and the fact that Syria refused to take part in talks between the other Middle Eastern nations. In Beijing, China, more than 35 drug dealers were executed on October 26. The deaths were sentenced in the Yunnan Province at rallies attended by thousands of people as part of a national anti-drug campaign. Nonnally these executions are kept private and are off-limits to the public. The drug problem in China is small compared to the U.S. yet authorities say there has been a 50 percent increase in drug use in the past year; heroin now being widely distributed in the Yunnan and Guangdong Provinces. After the sentencing rally in Kunming, a metric ton of heroin and four or opium confiscated from dealers were publicly burned. Two years after the Solidarity movement toppled the Communist Government in Poland, the country finally is holding its first free parliamentary elections. Over 100 parties are seeking seats in the parliament due to President Lech Walesa's decision to cut up the movement into many parties. Public opinion predicts that this election will produce a fragmented Parliament with a below 50 percent turnout at elections. One of the difficulties to be faced is economic reform. Political leaders say that the election results will pave the path for Poland's switch to a free-market economy and to democratic politics. In Kinshasa, Zaire, Western governments pressed their remaining citizens to leave Zaire. Rioting and looting led by soldiers has been reported in some of the country's southern towns while in Kinshasa, troops loyal to President Mobuto Sese Seko patrolled the streets where people scavenged for food because markets have been closed. Tensions have risen since President Mobuto appointed Bernardin Mungul-Diaka as his prime minister. This appointment has been opposed by the Sacred Union, a coalition of more than 150 parties, and by ambassadors from European countries. Belgium, France, Britain and the U.S. have ordered their citizens to leave the country; remaining are 3,500 Belgians, 600 French, 160 Britons and hundreds of Nigerians and Lebanese. Thanks to The New York Times (Sunday, October 27, 1991)- International Sectiofl- for the provided information. International Team Hunts It Down The team from the International House won first place honors in a scavenger hunt held on Monday evening by Residence Life. The team members were Kristin Lupoli. Larae Tumidajewicz, Richardson Fluoridor, Gabby Carrasco-Nava, Christina Horaz, and Joel Barbarito. Some of the more unusual items that the team manag~d to .scrounge up were: a Raggedy Ann doll, a velvet Elvis, satin paisley boxers, a Doctor Seuss book, and a size 15 sneaker. Many thanks to the residents of Ludlow House for their many contributions to the teams' list of items. The prize was a Halloween bag adorned with festive orange and black baUoons. Inside was filled with huge amounts of chocolates and other candies, many cassettes and CDs., a bow tie, and a Casper the Ghost video. All teams that participated had creativ.e ideas. One team put cotton in a jar and called it a jar of fluff. They .also wrapped a ,piece of sticky candy in some cotton and tried to pass it off as cotton candy. The team from Chester Arther House, lame as they were with an American flag on a postage stamp, really surprised everyone with their giant Mickey Mouse eared umbrella. PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further i11[ormation about Peace Corps, writ!? Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers set·ving in nearly 80 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these couatries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscr!lmble the letters in the squares to produce the name or the country darkened on the map at the right. Nation situated in Eastern part of Balkan Peninsula adjacent to four nations, including Romania and Turkey. I I I I I I I I ,_..,.,.'--\ 1. Adjacent nation which was home of Aristotle and Plato. 2. Name of adjacent body of water. 3. Adjacent river for which a famous waltz was named. 4. A disbelief in the existence of deity, this doctrine is more common in this nation than God-centered religion. A I I ~~TI()~: §()PhUm() .. e~ ~ Juniur-s Campus Meeting SPEND NEXT SEMESTER OR NEXT YEAR STUDYING IN .L\.ustr-alia ~ew Zealand Ir-eland «;~eat 1311tain Meet the Representative: Carolyn Watson Monday, November 4 Humanities Faculty Lounge-1 p.m. GOOD NEWS! East Asian Studies/ ASV Fall FUm Series Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). ''Dodes Ka Den'' (1970) Directed by Akira Kurosawa; 140 min.; color; subtitles College Center Rootn 406 8 pm Free Admission All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS ~ FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:QO PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM Come and watch the news! RUSSIAN ~:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many ether countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infonnation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-TliURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM

October 31, 1991 Corne Hear Professor Lewis speak on ''Investment Strategies\ Wednesday, Nov. 6,3:40 pm SSI03 Sponsored by The Economics Club Channel 10 gresents: American Women in Radio and Television a brown bag lunch with professionals in the communication field present or prospective interns are invited to attend Nov. 6, 1991 12-1:30 at Channel 10 in Albany RSVP Deadline: Nov. 1 *For information please see the CDC CAMPUS BULLETII\I BOARD C!tnltl1lrbirusts l) PRE-LAW SOCIETY presents Dean Tom Santa erose of Albany Law School Tuesday, Nov. 5 7:30-8:30 CC409 FREE FOOD AU Welcome PEER WHAT: SEXUAL COMMUNICATIONS WORKSHOP and such topics as Sexual Harassment and Date Rape WHEN: November 12 Tuesday 8:00pm WHERE: In the Old Chapel *Sponsored by the brothers of Sigma Chi and the Peer Facilitators Peer Facilitators are needed to put on student workshops on racism, sexual communication, acquaintance rape, etc. New Facilitators will join existing program winter term to get training and put on new workshops. Applicants are sought who would continue their commitment into ilie following academic year. Seek individuals who: •demonstrate sensitivity to others •speak effectively in groups & one-to-one •have GP A of 2.3+ •Info sessions at CDC: 11/5 at 4:30 & 7 pm Applications at the CDC & Dean of Students. Turn in November 8. 5 CDC. mnion Clrollegt jfa:rultp <!Colloquium William Zwicker, Professor and Chair, Department of Mathematics POWER, AND WHAT MATHEMATICS DO Tuesday. November 19. 1991 at 4;30 pm College Center Auditorium Coffee & Tea at 4:00pm ALL WELCOMED Over one hundred and forty high school juniors and seniors form throughout New York State and Massachusetts will visit the college on Wednesday and Thursday, November 7 and 8, as part of the annual Multi-Cultural Weekend. During their stay, the students will visit classes, meet professors and students, meet with admissions and financial aid offices and tour the campus. The weekend is sponsored by the Admissions Office and The Academic Opportunity Program. Students interested in hosting should contact Jim in admissions at ext. 6112 or their resident advisor. NOTICE OF REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW A committee has been formed to assess the teaching, scholarship and college service of Professor John Marincola of the Classics department. The committee consists of Professors Toher (Chair) and Sorum of the Classics Department and Professor Brown of the Political Science department. Any member of the College community wishing to comment on the Professor Marincola's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact one of the committee members. BOSTON RECRUITING DAY If you are interested in .participating in the Boston Recruiting Day on Jan 10: 1. Review companies listed in tbe CDC binder 2. Submit resnme (cover letter strongly recommended) for each employer (6 max) by Spm on Monday, November 4. 3. Employers prescreen resumes and you will be notified or interviews in Dec. Positions available include: insurance, finance, consulting, pharmaceutical sales, teaching, and scientific research. Come to the CDC for more information. lecture-Demo: JAZZ AND MUSIC OF INDIA Thomas Ross Professor of Music Union College P.N. Krishnamurti Bombay Musician Scholar Wednesday, November 6, 1991 7:30 .pm Performing Arts Center Arts Building Union College Free Admission-All Are Welcome College School of Law will hold a group information session on Monday, November 4, from 1 :00-3:00 pm. Please stop by the CDC and sign up to speak with their law school, or law schools in ral. Here's a quiz on some commonly held beliefs on alcohol. See if ycu can pass it. A person can drive well after drinking if he or she really concen- trates. Wrong! Even one drink can affect vision, judgment and reaction time. A cold shower will make a drunk persor< sober. Wrong! The only way to sober up is to wait for alcohol to leave the system. Coffee helps people sober up. Wrong again! Coffee won't make any- body less drunk. The body takes many hours to rid itself of alcohol, and stimulants like cof- fee do not speed up that urocess. Miik coats the slam· ach arui keeps a person from getting drunk. No way! Food, including milk, sometimes slows down alcohol's effects, but alcohol still enters the bloodstream and impairs any person's abilities. WHATEVER THE BEASON WHATEVER THE SEASON ll~.n 'HT WfU \HAJI'F'V SOON\ llftTNOAl\ TELECOMM'oJHICATIONS GIFT CERnFICATES AAE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTE~TM: The. Chemistry Department would !ik.e to announce that Chem .20, a Gen Ed course for non .. majors which is described in the 1991-92 Academic Register, will be given in the winter term. This name of this course, which was offered for the first time last spring, has been changed to \Models and Molecules\. The instructors will be Professors Hull a.nd werner. GET RID THE GARBAGE THAT'S TAKING OVER YOUR BOUSE WITHOUT DESTROYING THE ENVIRONMENT! -The recycling committee will be conducting a garbage drop-off on Saturday, Nov. 2 between 11 am and 1 pm, in front if Physical Plant -Everybody is invited to bring their recyclable garbage: newspaper, glass bottles and jars, cans both aluminum and tin. -For newspaper pick-up, please call Stacy x4037 or Michelle x4463 by Friday 5 pm. -The recycling Committee meets every Wednesday 7:00 in the College Center. The Union College Community is invited to attend a RECEPTION for THE REV. CANON MALUSI MPUMLWANA Speaking on \Changes in SouthMrica Today\ at 3:30pm Fri., Nov. 1st in Bronner House (The Cultural Unity Center) Sponsored by: The African and Latino Alliance of Students Chester Arthur House is going to New York City on November 9, 1991. PIZZA \NITH THE PROFS. SHAKITA sponsors The price is $15. if you would like to come contact CoriWerner (x6982) by November 5 Glhc..t- UNION COUEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CEIITIFICA'l'ESAAE AVILNAE FOR PUAa!ASE AT 'Dili lEl.ECOMMIJNIC.t.'OONS OfFICE, COll.£GE CENTER/103. ~ 01'1 CAU. 370.6411 FOR MORE INFOAJ.IA~ . Sponsored by The Economics Club Thursday, November 7-12:00 Professors Lounge 2nd floor Social Sciences A committee has been formed to gather information regarding the tenurability of Prof. Gregory Gifford in the Civil Engineering Department. Those who have information they would like to share with the committee relevant to Prof. Gifford's teaching or college service should forward it to Prof.. Peter Tobiessen in the Biology Department, who chairs the committee, or to the other committee members, Prof. Thomas Jewell, Prof. Francis Federighi, or Prof. Martin Strossberg. COFFEEHOUSE This Friday, Nov. 1, 1991 CC Room 302 8:00pm Come join the fun! Listen to Indian music. An Indian sweet and tea will be served. UNION COLLEGE THEATRE PRESENTS FOURTH UPSTATE NEW YORK GRADUATE EDUCATION FORUM FOR STUDENTS OF COLOR NOVEMBER 9, 1991 A PLAY ABOUT lOVE IN THE PLAGUE YEARS OCT.31, NOV.l-2,6-9 AT 8:00PM NOV.3 AT 2:00PM NOIT MEMORIAL THEATER 1961 Celebrating Thirty Years 1991 AT SUNY AlBANY Graduate Deans and Admission's Officer's of 1 50 institutes from around the country will share information about their programs with you. In addition workshops and lectures will cover the GRE and GMA 1, Why Graduate School, Keys to Success and Survival, Programs to support graduate studies, Graduate study in specific disciplines. For more information about the Forum, contact Mrs. Hopper in the Dean's Office, 6234 or one of the Future Professors of America: Antoinette Aime, 386-4069; Marina Bernard, 381-9635; Kevin Da11tzler, 386-4207; Lurdes Ramos, 374-8876; or Oliver Minott 386-4292.

to EDITORIAL <llnttfllrhirnsis -----Founded at Union College 1877------ Vandals Go Home The recent outbreak of vandalism at Union makes one wonder why these destructive crimes are taking place at such a prominent college. Union College's reputation of excellence, based on the fact that its student body is full of leadership and intelligence, would lead one to think that things like this would not happen here. These destructive acts are not just isolated incidents. In fact, they are becoming frightfully common for such a small school. A quick glance at each week's security report tells the story. Each week, a large majority of the incidents are moronic acts of vandalism, ranging from broken light poles to damaged security cars. Large incidents which have taken place in the recent past stand out. The theft of a wireless cable box from a room in the College Center was particularly senseless, as the box cannot even be used by its new owners. After it was stolen, the cable box was turned off by remote, rendering it useless. The box was not returned, although the administration stated that no questions would be asked if it was turned in. Another incident was the recent painting of the entire area around the idol. Apparently, the people who partook in this activity thought that it would be funny to paint the grass and the sidewalk, not just the traditional statue. It's just another example of Union students destroying their own campus. The people who are responsible for these foolish acts of destruction should rethink their ways of life. Is it really necessary to release pent up aggression by breaking something? These people have to realize that their destruction makes our campus ugly and hurts others, especially when the vandalism includes breaking security phones or light poles. In addition, the vandalism takes money and otl!er resources away from vital areas of the campus budget. The destruction belittles the intelligence and maturity of the College's student body. For Union to really become the respected institution it is supposed to be, this type of internal crime has to stop. Varsity Teams and Old Dumbbells Most of us have never categorized Union College as an entirely athletic institution. In fact, the majority of the college community looks upon this institution as academic in nature catering to the needs of a diverse group of individuals. Unfortunately, someone forgot to mention these facts to those who were responsible for planning the Alwnni Gymnasium. In its present state, the facility is deficient in meeting the needs of the college community. In short, we should demand that changes be made. The Alumni Gymnasium should have been built as a recreational facility for the use of all those who are in some way associated with Union College. Rather, the building ultimately caters almost solely to those on team sports, and more specifically male team sports. The fundamental problems are numerous. The Nautilus equipment is too big to accommodate those of a less than gigantic size, the availability of cardio-vascular equipment is virtually non-existent, the pool hours are minimal to say the least, the lack of cushion under the hard wood aerobic floors could cause one to retire one's shins for life after only a week of workouts, and the variety of non-team athletic programs is to put it politely, lacking in quality and quantity. The benefits of upgrading the gym are endless. Aside from the immediate pleasure it would bring to those who would be more than ecstatic to usc it. It's use would undoubtedly improve the health of all those covered under the school's health insurance plan. I mention this because money seems to be the only motivational factor on the Union College campus. After all, the hockey team has its own stailmaster, varsity teams have beautiful new equipment while the rest of us struggle with the hand-me- downs that the team players previously destroyed. The gymnasium should ideally be a recreational facility for all students, faculty, and staff. In reality, it is a team training center. An astronomical sum of money was spent on this building. As such, the thoughtlessness in its creation and upkeep are truly unforgivable. LETTERS Sexual Harassment at Union To the Editor: Much has been heard in the .past few weeks about sexual harassment. The campus community has recently received a copy of the College's statement on sexual harassment. The Union brochure gjves examples of sexual harassment that might occur on campus. There are informal and f()rrnaf options if one feels he/she has been the target of sexual harassment by a student or College employee. If a victim wishes to talk about harassment with someone who is knowledgeable about the subject and Union's policy, the brochure has listed Sexual Harassment Advisors. These people are available to talk confidentially, to answer questions, to discuss options, to give support. The Union policy against harassment enables individuals to resolve issue~; of an informal level, by themselves or with the assistance of,one of the people listed on the brochure. The goal at the informal level is -reconciliation rather than confrontation, correction rather than punishment. Further delineation of the formal grievance process may be found in the Student Handbook or in the Faculty and Staff Handbooks. Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students Diane R. Winkler, Mfirmative Action Officer Get Involved with Peer Facilitators To the Editor: Are you aware that one in six women here at Union will experience some form of attempted rape or acquaintance rape during their college years. What can you do to help prevent this from contin11ing and/or worsening? The Peer Facilitators are a group of students committed to addressing the problem of acquaintance and stranger rape. We also conduct workshmps that deal with sex;:ual communication and osh.er important issues that affec:t us · as Union students. Facilitators are the students who do the Date Rape workshops on the floors in the first week: of school for all freshmen. Now we are opening more positi(:)ns for you to become involved. Currently, we are in the planning stages of a workshop on Racism to be presented in the late winter or early spring. We would like to offer students interested in working on all of these topics, as well as others a chance to be heard. We will be accepting applications for positions through the eighth of November. They are available at both the Dean of St11dents Office and the CDC. We will be holding information sessions in the CDC (third floor Old Chapel). On November 5 in the CDC there will be information sessions where you '11 have a chance to meet lhe eight peers and learn more about the Peer Facilitator Program. Between November 4 and 7 we will be at a table in the College Center to answer questions and have applicati(}ns. We would like to encourage interested and concerned students to stop by and ask us questions and pick up apiJiic.ations. The Facilitators are very interested in other ideas that people might have for future workshops. Tak::e an active role in issues tllat concern us all! Sincerely, The Peer Facilitators Kevin Dantzler Melissa Isenstein Herrika Poor Ron Prior Lurdes Ramon Willie Stevenson Alison Snyder Mark Tullman Parent•s Weekend LONG-SLEEVE T-SHIRTS are still available for All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensi~ office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. $8.00 x6917

Ill EDITORIAL <llnnrorbirnsis -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Vandals Go Home The t:ecent outbreak of vandalism at Union makes one wonder why these destructive crimes are taking place at such a prominent college. Uni()ll College's reputation of excellence, based on the fact that its student body is full of leaderstlip and intelligence, would lead one to think that things like this would not happen here. These destructive acts are not just isolated incidents. In fact, they are becoming frightfully common for such a small school. A quick glance at each week's security report tells the story. Each week, a large majority of the incidents are moronic acts of vandalism, rangi11g from broken light poles to damaged security cars. Large incidents which have taken place in the recent past stand out. The theft of a wireless cable box from a room in the College Center was particularly senseless, as the box cannot c\cn be used by its new owners. After it was stolen, the cable box was turned off by remote, rendering it useless. The box was not returned, although the administration stated that no questions would be asked if it was turned in. Another incident was the recent painting of the entire area around the idol. Apparently, the people who partook in this activity tl!ought that it would be funny to paint the grass and the sidewalk, notjust the traditional statue. It's just another example of Union students destroying their own campus. The people who are responsible for these foolish acts of destruction should rethink their ways of life. Is it really necessary to release pent up aggression by breaking something? These people have to realize that their destruction makes our campus ugly and hurts others, especially when the vandalism includes breaking security phones or light poles. In additi<>n, the vandalism takes money and other resources away from vital areas of the campus budget. The destruction belittles the intelligence and maturity of the College's student body. For Union to really become the respected institution it is supposed to be, this type of internal crime has to stop. Varsity Teams and Old Dumbbells Most ()f us have never categori:zed Union College as an entirely athletic institution. In fCJct. the majority of the college community looks upon this institution as academic in nature catering to the needs of a diverse group of individuals. Unfortunately, someone forgot to mention these facts to those who were responsible for planning the Alumni Gymnasium. In its present state, the facility is deficient in meeting the needs of the college communit.y. In short, we should demand iliat changes be made. The Alumni Gymnasium should have been built as a recreational facility for the use of all those who are in some way associated with Union CollC];;C. Rather, the building ultimately caters almost solely to tllose on team sports, and more specifically male team sports. The fundamental problems are numerous. The Nautilus equipment is too big to accommodate those of a less than gigantic size, the availability of cardio-vascular equipment is virtually non-existent, the pool hotirs are minimal to say the least, the lack of cushion under the hard wood aerobic floors could cause one to retire one·~ shins for life after only a week of workouts, and the variety of non-team athletic programs is to put it politely, lacking in quality and quantity. The benefits of upgrading the _gym arc endless. Aside from the immediate pleasure it would bring to those who would be more than ecstatic to usc it. It's usc would undoubtedly improve the health of all those covered under the school's health insurance plan. I mention this because money seems to be the only motivational factor on the Union ('()liege campus. After all, the hockey team has its own stairmaster, varsity teams have beautiful new equipment while the rest of us struggle with the hand-me- downs that the team players previously destroyed. The gvtnnasium should ideally be a recreational facility for all s'tudcnts, faculty, and staff. In reality, it is a team training cl.\ntcr. An astronomical sum of money was spent on this bui I ding. As such, the thoughtlessness in its creation and upke~p arc tmly unforgivable. LETTERS October 31, Sexual Harassment at Union To the Editor: Much has been heard in the past few weeks about sexual harassment. The campus community has recently received a copy of the College's statement on sexual harassment. The UnioN brochure gives examples of sexual harassment that might occur on campus. There are informal and formal options if one feels he/she has been the target of sexual harassment by a Stlildent or College employee. If a victim wishes to talk about harassment with someone who is lrnowledgeable about the subject and Union's policy, the brochure has listed Sexual Harassment Advisors. These people are available to talk confidentially, to answer questions, to discuss optioNs, to give support. The Union policy against harassment enables individuals to resolve issues of an informal level. by themselves or with the assistance of one of the people listed on the brochure. The goal at the informal level is reconciliation rather than confrontation, correction rather than punishment. Further delineation of the formal grievance process may be found in the Student Handbook or iN the Faculty and Staff Handbooks. Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students Diane R. Winkler, Affirmative A<:tion Officer Get Involved with Peer Facilitators To the Editor: Are you aware that one in six women here at Union will experience some form of attempted rape or acquaintance rape during their college years. What can you do to help prevent this from continuing and/or worsening? The Peer Facilitators are a group of students committed to addressing the problem of acquaintance and stranger rape. We also conduct workshops that deal with sexual communication and other important issues that affect us as Union students. Facilitators are the students who do the Date Rape workshops on the floors in the first week of school for all freshmen. Now we are opening more positions for you to become involved. Currently, we are in the planning stages of a workshop on Racism to be presented in the late winter or early spring. We would like to offer students interested in working on all of these topics, as well as others a chance to be heard. We will be accepting applications for positions through the eighth of November. They are available at both the Dean of Students Office and the CDC. We will be holding information sessions in the CDC (third floor Old Chapel). On November 5 in the CDC there will be information sessions where you'll have a chance to meet the eight peers and learn more about the Peer Facilitator Program. Between November 4 and 7 we will be at a table in the College Center to answer questions and have applications. We would like to encourage interested and concerned students to stop by and ask us questions and pick up applications. The Facilitators are very interested in other ideas that people might have for future workshops. Take an active role in issues that concern us all! Sincerely, The Peer Facilitators Kevin Dantzler Melissa fsenstein Herrika Poor Ron Prior Lurdes Ramon Willie Stevenson Alison Snyder Mark Tullman Parent's Weekend LONG-SLEEVE T-SHIRTS are still available for All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of C oncordie nsis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. $8.00 call x 6917 . . ' Karen .... · ·.· .· .. · ··· .. · · .· ·. •· · .• · .· . · · ·• · 1bhniSchaclm0Ys~. R¢bec.Ca Sm:ackey 1 't\\\'\\.·.·..-. ·: \.· .· \\\\'~.· l'ifl·a·· .. .,.... /'Iii. .. ·~ '•''il· n;q;tt; ....... , ·. · #Wl:Sif•J;>t;~---- QpJ!'-~~ct-~~1:- -\p,J~:~·l?'·· --J-Y<:,a:U~~J:lO:~ -. · · .A-J);Vl!!BlrJSfN:.() $.\fAFF: Jennifer Alltterson. Shaton Smith C(1NC0RD.IINSit·. is pul;i)t<;hed eight Thursdays a term by . the student body of Union College. Sc.heneatady, New York 12308;. Publications Officei. Susquehanna Publicati&ns. Inc •• Box 3S8, Sidney; New York 13~3'8 (607) 5()3 .. 8339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Co.ncordiensis office, College Center; Union College. Coneotdiensis subscribes to the Inter<:ollegia~ Press (II>). Office Telephone (51&) 370~ 6155. Advertising Telephone {518) 370·6494.

LEIIER!i @lllifllrbtrnsis 11 Philosophical Reasoning Criticism, Sensationalism and Realism To the Editor: In recent years~ students attempting to enroll in many Philosophy courses have often been turned away, or admitted to overcrowded classes. To cope with these problems the Philosophy Department is: 1) Limiting enrollment to reasonable numbers (30 to 35 students in lecture-discussion courses, about 15 in sections and seminars); 2) Enfordng new prerequisite requirements; 3)) Prioritizing admission (e.g., giving philosophy majors and pre-medical students priority access to Biomedical Ethics--last Spring, after admitting 42 students, we turned away more than 50). To implement these changes in the fairest possible way, we have made all Philosophy courses, \card\ courses, effective Winter term. Sign-up sheets for all courses will be available in front of the Philosophy Office (second floor, Humanities Building) from 9: 30 A.M. through 4:30 P.M. from Monday, November 4 to Wednesday, November 6. Admission priorities and prerequisites for eacl1 course are slated on the sign- up slieets. The order ill which yGu sign does not affect your chan.:·e of admission. We are trying to implement these changes in the least onerous manner possible. If you have suggestions for improving the process, please communicate them to me directly, or to one of the sttldent representatives to the Department (John Keller, Katherine Welch). Sincerely, Robert Baker Chairperson To the Editor: I'H bet yoll don't publish this letter to the editors£ Jt is my suspicion that you occasio11ally spit out disgust at newspaper coverage of items. Well, I sure hope that you tho ugbt about the C()ncordiensis Oct. 10, 1991 item \Death by Incinerator,\ a copy, I presume from \Albany Report.\ Perhaps you know lots more than I about air pollution, and that your publishing of this was not as uncritical' as it would seem to me. Are not editors supposed to be critical in their tbinking, or is that a thing of an earlier generation? First, the very title, and the wording \they (incinerators) produced large amounts of toxic ash and harmful air emissions ... \ condemn use of . incineration of garbage. And ·1 the rest of the article damns the cmtcept of incineratioa. What is meant by large amounts?\ How much \incfeased dioxin, lead, mercury and other (?) emissions\ are to be coming out of the smoke stack? Did you consider these wordings before publishing? I do remember the work of a science faculty member about incineration in Schenectady which left floating bits of carbonized paper descending on drying clothes outdoors. That was years ago,. and technology has improved greatly since. Have you noticed that there is recent reconsideration of just how less dangeroas dioxin may be to humans? Papers have given the picture t11at nothing is more dangerous than dioxin. I would be delighted to be better informed by you in the areas if you are indeed publishing critically, but if y()u have been uncritical, may I suggest that you consult some experts before trying to terrify the general public? Without incineration, do you know that recycling (of which I am in heart)' agreement as to benefits, and DO indeed recycle where possible) is economically possible right away? Do you rather think that landfills are bett-er? Will it be economically advi~able to shoot out our waste by rockets? Possibly you see dumping at sea as a better way out of our population- induced problems of waste (go back to \limits to Growth\ by Mead()WS & Meadows)? Mllst Concordiensis fall into tlle general concept of so many papers that only the sensational will sell the paper? I like to think of Union College as a college where reason prevails. All the best to you! Cordially yours, William B. Martrirr, Jr. Prof. (emeritus) of Union College Union's Voice for Choice The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) To the Editor: parental consent. Our members volunteer as escorts to help patients enter and exit the Planned Parenthoo(f clinic when there are protestors outside. In the past, our group has lobbied at the state capitol in Albany against parental consent laws. In conclusion, we are supporting the individual's right to choose to have an abortion. We do not advocate abortion as a form of birth control. Our goal is to ensure that a woman have as many options as possible. are open: Daily: Mon.-Thurs. Friday Weekends: Saturday Sunday 8:30am-11 :30pm 8:30am-7:30pm I 2:00pm-2:30pm 12:30pm-8:30pm The purpose of this article is to clear up any misconceptions about the Pro Choice group at Union College. We meet on a weekly basis and discuss issues relevant to choice. By choice, we mean that a woman has the right to: make decisions that involve her own body. It is our belief that the choice is a personal one, and should remain with the individual. We are affiliated with Planned Parenthood of Schenectady. With their help, we educate the campus through films, speakers, pamphlets, and petitions. Next week, we will be showing a documentary fdm in West, Fox, and Richmond, which will address the issue of We meet in Social Sciences 103, on Monday evenings. Look for signs. All are welcome to attend. During these times, Macintosh & IBM computers are available for student use (laser copies are 15 cents per page). Union's Pro Choice Group 1991-92 Winter Term Prescheduling Procedures Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office begmning Friday, November l. Students should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY S1'UDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISE:R IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the pennission of the department. These are referred to ru; \list\ or \card\ courses, and are indicated on the oourse listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for the courses will be posted by the departments on Monday, November 4. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on Friday, November 8 to fmd out wbether or not tbey have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must obtain a reservati()n card from the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescbeduling fonn validated by the department. Students are permitted to pick up no more than three {3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP EY 4:30PM ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WIAT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students will be allowed to preschedule courses at the time printed on their prescheduling form. They should verify that the courses they have ~hosen are not closed. If one or more courses ue closed, they should select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. Students must see a staff member in the Registrar's Office to preschedule courses. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling fotrn. Students may NOT preschedule earlier than their assigned time, however, they may <:om:e any time AFTER their appointment time. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15. Additional course changes may be made during thee \drop/add\ period in January. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Winter Term, except for seniors who are completing their requirements ea.rly, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Potential Milrch 1992 \graduates\ should also immediately n()tif.y the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of Winter Tenn. Students who will be on a Union Colnege tenn abroad for the winter tenn do not need to preschedule their courses. Winter term course prescheduling will take place fr<>in MONDAY, ~OVEMBER 1l thru THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14 at the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Office of the Registrar October 1991 GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:{)() PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN ~:00 PM Com.e and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X62I 6. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM . ,.

October 31, 1991 LEI fER!i Philosophical Reasoning Criticism, Sensationalism and Realism To the Editor: In recent years, students attempting to enroll in many Philosophy courses have often been turned away, or admitted to overcrowded classes. To cope with these problems the Philosophy Department is: 1) Limiting enrollment to reasonable numbers (30 to 35 students in lecture-discussion courses, about 15 in sections and seminars); 2) Enforcing new prerequisite requirements; 3)) Prioritizing admission (e.g., giving philosophy majors and pre-medical students priority access to Biomedical Ethics--last Spring, after admitting 42 students, we turned away more than 50). To implement these changes in the fairest possible way, we have made all Philosophy courses, \card\ courses, effective Winter term. Sign-up sheets for all courses will be available in front of the Philosophy Office (second floor, Humanities Building) from 9:30 A.M. through 4:30 P.M. from Monday, November 4 to Wednesday, November 6. Admission priorities and prerequisites for each course are stated on the sign- up sheets.The order in which you sign does not affect your chance of admission. We are trying to implement these changes in the least onerous manner possible. If you have suggestions for improving the process, please communicate them to me directly, or to one of the student representatives to the Department (John Keller. Katherine Welch). Sincerely, Robert Baker Chairperson To the Editor: I'll bet you don't publish. this letter to the editors! It is my suspicion that you occasionally spit out disgust at newspaper coverage of items. Well, I sure hope that you thought about the C oncordiensis Oct. 10, 1991 item \Death by Incinerator,\ a copy. I presume from \Albany Report.\ Perhaps you know lots more than I about air pollution, and that your publishing of this was not as uncritical as it would seem to me. Are not editors supposed to be critical in their thinking, or is that a thing of an earlier generation? First, the very title. and th0 wording \they (incinerators) produced large amounts of toxic ash and harmful air emissions ... \ condemn usc of incineration of garbage. And I the rest of the article damns the concept of incineration. What is meant by large amounts?\ How much \increased dioxin, lead, mercury and other (?) emissions\ are to be coming out of the smoke stack? Did you consider these wordings before publishing? I do remember the work of a scieace faculty member about incineration in Schenectady which lefl floating bits of carbonized paper descending on drying clothes outdoors. That was years ago, and technology has improved greatly since. Have you noticed that there is recent Feconsideration of just how less dangerous dioxin may be to humans? Papers have given the picture that nothing is more dangerous than dioxin. I would be delighted to be better informed by you in the areas if you are indeed publishing critically, but if you have been uncritical, may I suggest that you consult some experts before trying to terrify the general public? Without incineration, do you know that recycling (of which I am in hearty agreement as to benefits, and DO indeed recycle where possible) is economically possible right away? Do you rather think that landfills arc better? Will it be economically advisable to shoot out our waste by rockets? Possibly you sec dumping at sea as a better way out of our population- induced problems of waste (go back to \limits to Growth\ hy Meadows & Meadows)? Must Concordiensis fall into the general concept of so many papers that only the sensational will sell the paper? I 1 ike to think of U ni()[l College as a college whc:rc reason prevails. All the best to you! Cordially yours, William B. Martrin, Jr. Prof. (emeritus) of Union College Union's Voice for Choice To the Editor: parental consent. Our members volunteer as escorts to help patients enter and exit the Planned Parenthood clinic when there are protestors outside. In the past, our group has lobbied at the state capitol in Albany against parental consent laws. In conclusion, we are supporting the individual's right to choose to have an abortion. We do not advocate abortion as a form of birth control. Our goal is to ensure that a woman have as many options as possible. The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily: The purpose of this article is to clear up any misconceptions about the Pro Choice group at Union College. We meet on a weekly basis and discuss issues relevant to choice. By choice, we mean that a woman has the right to make decisions that involve her own body. It is our belief that the choice is a personal one, and should remain with the individual. We are affiliated with Planned Parenthood of Schenectady. With their help, we educate the campus through films, speakers, pamphlets, and petitions. Next week, we will be showing a documentary film in West, Fox, and Richmond, which will address the issue of Mon.-Thurs. 8:30am-11 :30pm Friday 8:30am-7:30pm Weekends: Saturday Sunday 12:00pm-2:30pm 12:30pm-8:30pm We meet in Social Sciences 103, on Monday evenings. Look for signs. All are welcome to attend. During these times, Macintosh & IBM computers are available for student use (laser copies are 15 cents per page). Union's Pro Choice Group 1991-92 Winter Term Prescheduling Procedures Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, November l. Students should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for the courses will be posted by the departments on Monday, November 4. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on Friday, November 8 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must obtain a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a caid. you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. Students are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30PM ON FRill/\ Y, NOVEMBER 11 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WIAT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students will be allowed to preschedule courses at the time printed on their prescheduling form. They should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. Students must see a staff member in the Registrar's Office to preschedule courses. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling form. Studt:nls may NOT preschedule earlier than their assigned time, however, they may come any time AFTER their appointment time. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15. Additional course changes may be made during thee \drop/add\ period in January. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Winter Term, except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Potential March 1992 \graduates\ should also immediately notify the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of Winter Term. Students who will be on a Union College tenn abroad for the winter tenn do not need to preschedule their courses. Winter term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, NOVEMBER l1 thru THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14 at the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Office of the Registrar October 1991 GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in 1/u Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, \\VEDNESDAYS & FRJDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 Pl\1 SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAP AN.ESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM Come and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many ather countr.t's and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are l'\.elcomc tc> borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab /c>r 11\ v weeks. For more information, call Carol Sn.vdcr, L.:m.grt..Igt' Ld:- Technician, X6216. L4.NGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDA Y-FRJDAY 8:30AM-4:30P.\vf SUNDAY- THURSDAY 7:00PM-IO:OOPAI

Union College 1991-92 Fall Ter1n Final Examination Schedule This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Continuing S tadies courses will be announced, and students in Section \51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. peck in the Office <>f Resistrar not later than Friday, November 1sL Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR - Butterfield Hall HUMN- Huroanities Bldg. NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center PYCH - Psychology Bldg. SSCI - Social Sciences Bldg. STZH - Steinmetz Hall SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23 - 7:00-9:00 PM Genetics- J. Boyer/S. LaBonne- BAIL 207 BI0-024-01 BI0-162-01 - Intro to Neurobiology - R. Olberg - BAIL 201 Biochemistry - 11. Birecka - BAIL 205 History o:f Greece - M. Tober- HUMN 115 BI0-180-01 CLS-021-01 - EC0-032-01 EC0-034-01 EER-063-01 EER-163-01 EGL-071-01 ESC-010-01 GE0-160-01 HST-013-01 HST-013-02 - HST-013-03 - JIST-030-01 JIST-035-01 HST-035-02 - Labor & Industrial Relations - P. Prosper - NWSE 112 Int'ro to Financial Analysis - J. Kenney - SSCI 010 EJectron Circ Analysis & Design- E. Hassib-NWSE 201 Electromagnetic Engineering II - Y. Chang - BAIL 102 Irish Renaissance Literature - A. Frazier - HUMN 014 Mechanics I - H. Lyons - NWSE 210 Intro to Geophysics - G. Shaw - BUTR 201 History of u.s. to Civil War - F. Duddon- SSCI 103 History of U.S. to Civil War - R. Wells - SSCI 104 History of u.s. to Civil war - s. I. Lewis - SSCI 014 lunerican Economic Development - J. Finkelstein - SSCI History of Europe I- E. Hansen - HUMN 114 History of Europe I - S. Sargent - HUMN 117 Amer Constitutional & Legal Hist. - M. Jonas-SSCI 012 Catullus And Ho.race - J. s. Scullion - HUMN 119 Dynamics Of Linear Systems - M. Rivera - NWSE 222 Advanced Calculus I- s. Niefield - BAIL 106 HST-121-01 IAT-130-01 MER-030-01 MTH-146-01 PfiL-020-01 PfiY-042-01 PfiY-044-01 PSC-041-01 FSY-038-01 SPN-142-01 - Intro to Logic & Crit Thinking -B. Petrie - HUMN 112 - Great Ideas Of Modern Physics - G. Reich - NWSE 114 - Introduction to Astronomy - K. Mead - NWSE 116 - European Political Community - J. Board - HUMN 116 - Developmental Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 213 - The Latin-American Novel - v. Martinez - BAIL 104 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 2:00-4:00 PM 112 BI0-032-01 - Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy - G. Butterstein - BAIL 201 CER-033-01 - Fluid Mechanics - T. Jewell - BUTR 109 CER-150-01 - Hydrology - P. Snow - BUTR l06 CHM-010-01 - Fundamental Chemistry I -C. Weick- SSCI 010 CHM-010-02 -··Fundamental Chemistry I - D. Hayes - BAIL 203 CRM-010-03 - Fundamental Chemistry I - c. Scaife- SSCI 012 CHM-010-04 - Fundamental Chemistry I - R. Silversmith - HUMN 115 CHN-121-01 - Intermediate Chinese II - M. Chen - SSCI 105 CSC-012-01 EER-041-01 EER-060-01 FRN-010-01 FRN-012-01 FRN-131-01 GE0-010-01 GER-010-0 1 GRK-010-01 GRK-134-01 HST-050-01 JPN-010-0 1 JPN-010-02 MER-022-01 MER-026-01 MTH-100-01 PHY-011-01 PHY-011-02 PHY-013-01 PSC-011-01 PSY-010-01 PSY-031-01 RVS-010-01 SPN-010-01 SPN-010-02 - Programming For Natrl Sciences - L. A1mstead - STZH 106 - Electrical Circuits • M. Rudko - SSCI 110 - System Theory II -E. Craig - STZJI 108 - Basic French I - J. Boone - HUMN 110 - Basic F.rench III - L. Day - HUMN 014 -Survey of French Literature I- c. Laparra- HUMN 11J - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BUTR 201 Basic German I - D. Lund- HUMN 117 Principles Of Greek I- C. sorum- HUMN 116 Horner; The Illiad - M. Toher - HUMN 119 Western Imperialism -E. Hansen- SSCI 112 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa - HUMN 112 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa - HUMN 112 - Materials Science & Engineering- F. Milillo - NWSE 210 - Thermodynamics - J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 - Orthogonal Functions - T. Bick - BAIL 207 - Introduction to Physics I - s. Maleki - NWSE 112 - Introduction to Physics I - D. Peak - NWSE 116 - Introduction to Physics II -A. Ande.rson - NWSE 114 - Intro To' American Politics- c. Tidmarch- SSCI 103 - A First Course in Psychology - v. Dawson - PYCH 113 - Abnormal Psychology - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 Basic Russian I - M. Rudko- HUMN 213 - Basic Spanish I - w. Garcia - HUMN 114 - Basic Spanish I - L.Martinez - HUMN 114 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 7:00-9:00 PM AAH-020-01 - Classical Art & Architecture - L. Matthew - ARTS 215 BI0-016-01 - Introduction to Biology I - P. Tobiessen/W. Roth - SSCI 016 CER-016-01 - Computer Applications for CE - T. Jewell - BUTR 109 CER-160-01 - Transpo.rtation Engineering- Y. K. Lee - BUTR 106 CER-160-02 - Transportation Engineering - Y. K. Lee ~ BUTR 106 CHM-010a01 - F~ndamental Chemist.rg A - C. Guare - PYCH 213 CHM-142-01 - Chemical Instrumentation - T. Werner - BAIL 312 CHN-010-01 - Basic Chinese I - M. Chen - HUMN 213 CLS-024-01 - Classical Art & Architecture - L. Matthew - ARTS 215 csc-011-01 - Programming For Soc Sciences- J. Castleberry- STZH 106 BC0-145-01 - Managerial Econoroics - J. Kenney - SSCI liD EER-018-01 - Intro to Digital Computers- C. Traver - NWSE 201 EER-124-01 - Intro To Probabilisitic Systems - M. Rudko ~ NWSE 116 EGL-018-01 - Intro To Literary Forms- E. Giunta- HUMN 114 EGl-034b-l - Studies in American Literature - N. Shour - HUMN 019 FRN-143-01 - Writers of Romanticism - c. Laparra - HUMN 113 HST-040-01 - The Crusades - s. Sargent - SSCI 112 LAT-010-01 - Principles of Latin I - J. Marincola - HUMN 116 MER-040-01 - Enginee.ring Design I- H. Lyons - NWSE 210 .MER-050-01 - H~at Transfer Analysis & Design - C. s. Reddy - NWSE 22Z MTH-014-02 - Calculus III - M. Fraroe - BAIL 205 MTII-018-01 - Intro to Logic & Set Theory - J. Barbanel - BAIL 201 MTH-050-01 - Intra to Applied Mathematics - W. Fairchild - STZH 108 PHL-011-01 - Philosophical Classics I -F. Davis/C. Gould - HUMN 110 PHY-011-03 - Introduction to Physics I - R. Khosropour - MWSE lll PHY-013-02 - tntroduction to Physics II - S. Maleki - NWSE 114 PHY-050-01 - Electronic Circuits - R. Magahiz - NWSE 303 PHY-131-01 - Electroroagnetism I- c. Jones - NWSE 319 PSY-010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 113 PSY-030-01 - Personality- K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 RUS-120-01 - Intermediate Russian I - N. Jenakoff- HUMN 119 soc-010-01 - Introduction to Sociology - R. Quaye - SSCI 010 SPN-012-01 - Basic Spanish III - V. Martinez - HUMN 014 SPN-120-01 - Intermediate Spanish I - L. Martinez - HUMN 112 MO/WAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 8:30-10:30 AM M'/f-010-01 - Introduction to the Arts - ·D. Robbins./'!'. w. Ross - ARTS 215 AMfJ-010-01 - Introduction to the Arts - D. Robblns.J'I'. ·w. Ross - ARTS 215 CLS-031-01 - Greek & Roman Epic in Translatn - J_ ~ar~ncola - HUMN 116 EC0-031-01 - Microeconomic Analysis ~ s. Yaisawarng - SSCI 112 EC0-033-01 - Public Pol & American Industry - D. 'IC2e:in - SSCI 012 - Major English Authors II - S. K.. D!IEr- HUMN 114 -Major American Authors-- N. Shour - 1lUMN 115 EG:C.-020-01 EGI.-022-01 EG:C.-023-01 - The American Short Story - L. Slade ~ BU~~ 117 FBrl-120-01 - Intermediate French I - L. Day - FiUI-\JN' l12 GBR-012-01 -·Basic German III - K. Hamm-Ehsani - i/fVMN 119 GBR-120-01 - Intermediate German I .... D. Lund - H£:1[(11 213 GB,R-134-0 1 -Goethe's Faust- A. Warde- HUMN 113 M2!11-060-01 - Topics in Mathematical Pol Sci - 1!1. Zwicker - BAIL 203 PliL-014-01 Introduction to Ethics - R. Bake.r - .JfllMN I 10 PEIY-011-04 - Introduction to Physics I - D. McKerm,a - ·~WSE 112 PSC-023-01 - Topics in Mathemat~cal Pol Sci - ~. Zwicker - BAIL 203 P;SY-010-03 - A First Course in Psychology - J. ·P.a'!Te~l - PYCH 102 P.:SY-046-01 - Introduction to Psychobiology - C- ~eisse - PYCH 113 - Intro to Russian Civilization - N. Jexnakoff - HUMN 019 - Africa: Pol, Econ, & Soc Life - R- a~aye : SSCI 010 RllS-128-01 SCJC:-138-01 8:1:/11-120-02 - Intermediate Spanish I - L. Ma.rtine2 - BAIL 104 Si:M-132a01 - Survey of Peninsular Lit I - w. Garcia - HUMN 014 ·MOrJDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 11:30 AM-1:30 PM ~~-036-01 - Intro to Hst of Architecture - L. ~at~aew - ARTS 215 EC0-042-01 - Macroeconomic Theory & Policg -B. Fo.s.t:er - SSCI 103 EG:C.-022-02 - Major American Authors - N. Shou.r - HVMN 115 EG:C.-023-02 - The American Short Story - S. K. Pyer - BUMN 110 HBB-010-01 - Basic Hebrew I - D. Heckelman - H~~~ ~17 PB:C.-130-01- Greek Philosophy- C. Gould- HUMII.llti PSY-010-04 - A First Course In Psychologg - K. DeBorzo - PYCH. 113 PSY-020-01 - Statistical Methods In Psychol - w. Foley - PYCH 213 PSY-036-01 - Psychology of Learning - T. D'Andrea- PYCJI 102 MONDAY 1 NOVEMBE'R 2 5 - 2:30-4 :30 PM ACC-010-01 - Survey of Accounting - J. Lippitt - BAIL 205 B.I0-051-01 - Ecology - C. George - BAIL 106 B.I0-053-01 B.I0-069-01 B.I0-144-01 - - - Forests of the Northeast - P. Tobie.ssen - BAIL 100 Genetic Engg & Modern Plant - M. Froal~cn - BAIL 203 C';}tology - G. Smith - BAIL 102 CJ!!R-012-01 - CE Comp Aided Graph & Drafting - M. Wafi - BUTR 109 CfiM-018-01 - Polymers & Material Science - J. And~xson - BAIL 104 C~-032-01 - Religion in the Pagan World - J. Sc~llion - HUMN 019 EC0-053-01 - The Economy of China - B. Reynolds - ~SCI 105 KC0-138-01 - Quantitative Methods In Econ - E. Motabar - SSCI 104 E~C-013-01 - High Level Language Programming- N- ~azur - STZH 106 E~C-015-01 - Numerical Methods and Fortran - F. Federighi - STZH 108 KTH-040-01 - Applied Linear Algebra - A. Seiken- ~AIL 207 ~HL-170-01 - History & Phil of Science I - J. Lud~ig- HUMN 113 ~~C-013-01 - Intro to Political Thought- C. ~ro~n- SSCI 014 PSC-013-02 - Int.ro to Political Thought - P. A. ~eyers - SSCI 010 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 8:30-10:30 AM CER-143-01 - Foundations & Construction - G. Gifzoxd- BUTR 109 CER-143-02 - Foundations & Construction - G. Gifzoxd- BUTR 109 ELL-012-01 - Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles - a. ~. Harlow - BUTR 204 ELL-012-02 -Homes, Bldgs. & Egr Principles - H, ~. Harlow- BUTR 204 M~H-010-01 - Calculus I - V. Ferlini - BAIL 207 M~H-010-02 - Calculus I - J. Barbanel - BAIL 104 M~H-010-03 - Calculus I - V. Ferlini - BAIL 207 M~H-010-04 - Calculus I - T. Bick - BAIL 102 M1H-Ol0-0S - Calculus I - M. Frame - ~IL 205 Wl'H-010-06 - Calculus I - J. Muckenfuss - HUM.N 01~ ff~R-013-01 - AP Calculus - A. Seiken -BAIL 201 M~H-013-02 - AP Calculus - J. Muckenfuss - HUMN 019 MTH-013-03 - AP Calculus - J. Seiken- BAIL 20! MTH-013~04 - AP Calculus - J, Prindle -BAIL 203 M~H-013-05 - AP Calculus - A. Taylor - BAIL 105 MTH-030-01 - Ordin Differential Equations - K. Rosenthal - HUMN 114 M~H-030-02 - Ordin Differential Equations - K. Rosenthal - HUMN 114 TVESDAY, NOVEMBER 26- 11:30 AM-1:30PM C~M-030-01 - Organic Chemistry I - L. Hull - ~OTB 204 C~M-0~0-02- Organic Chemistry I- K. DeJesus -B~~R 204 TVESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 2:30-4:30 PM ACC-010-02 - Survey of Accounting - w. Lewis - B~~~ 205 , ~U-032-01 - Music Cultures of the World - T. ~. Ross - ARTS 313 ACJP-011-01 - Critical Reading & Writing - s. King- ~IL 203 AYA-045-01 - The illust.rated Organism- C. George/~- Batke- ARTS 207 BJ0-045-01 - The Illustrated Organism- C. George/~. Batke- ARTS 207 CBR-129-01 Camp Aided St.ructl Dsgn & Analgs -M. Maxi- BUTR 109 C.:SC-037-0l - S.tructu.red Programming - D. Hann.:ty - NWSE 116 · EC0-012-03 Introduction to Economics - L. Cava2l~zzo - HUMN Ol9 Introduction to Economics - L. Cava21~zzo - HUMN - Introduction to Economics - D. Levy - SSCI 016 - Introduction to Economics - D. Levy - SSCI 016 - Major American Authors - B. MacDona.lrl - JIUMN 112 - Shakespeare After 1600 - J. McCo.ra- liUMll 116 019 EC0-012-04 EC0-012-05 EC0-012-06 EGL-022-03 EGL-056-01 P.:SY-049-0 1 - The Psychology of Addiction - T. Dowling - PYCH 213 THE F'OLWWI.NG DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WIJ':l'if THE EVENING DIVISION SEC'I'ION: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 6:30-8:30 PM ESC-069-01 ~ 02 - Engineering Economics - R. Egger~ - ~WSE 201 PSC-080-01 - Politics of NYS Government - Crowleg - SSCI 103 MONDA.Y, NOVEMBER 25 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-136-01 & 51 - Advanced Programming Techniques -G. Williams - BAIL 207 MTii-127-01 - Numsrical Analysis - W. Fairchild - .IJAIL 201

October 31, 1991 CAMPU!!i BULLETII\I BOARD aJnnrnrbitttsts 13 EXP:t~:Lt:NC$ m:s ~~'lNG- ot nrl.l.U8'1 11-PU:l\tf..ltJA'NA fRIDAY, NOV. 1,1991 AT ST. STEPHEN'S CHURCH 1 935 TH·E PLAZA A YAN WILL 8f-LEAVI NG AT 7:00PM' FROM BRONNER HOUSE [ADJACENT TO NORTH) SPONSORED BY ZETA PHI :SET A :SO R.J INC. SENIOR NIGHT at KeUy's Pu·b Now EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT -Drink Specials-2 for 1 Wings-Pool Table/Darts ALL SENIORS WELCO:ME •Proper ID Required BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI{ FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. yo u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts~· Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a f~nancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER·PERFEC'E 2,200 nationwide, that received these highest ma.rks. CREF.. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. For furtl!er growth potential and diversi- fJcation, th.ere's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save forth~ future. Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 ye.ars of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa · I - -- - - - - -- - - .- - from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional fmancial strength, superior investment performance, and low I expenses. Wtth its guaranteed rate of return I I SENDNOWFORAFREE I ·RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is I one of less than ten companies, out of I I . including a Sp~ciaf R~port on TIAA investments. 1 :V\ail this coupCJn to: TIAA-CREF, De?t. QC, 730 Third Aveonue, New York, NY 100l7. Or call 1 800-842-2:753, Ext. 8016. _,;.tm• (Please pr-in~) 1 ~m~y--------------~~=~--~z~~~G~·k ____ __ I Jn.Hltllum (F till name) Ensuring the future I m,, for those who shape it!M I I TTAA-CRF.F Par-J1ripant o 1\\ oN. © 1991 Tem:ileN Insurance aniJ Arrnulty.Auodatiotz ~1!..!11! Retinnunt Equilie.J FuniJ. If Y'·'• Sr•~Utl Suurity # CN All those wishing to place an ad in the Concordiensis may contact the Advertising Department at 370-6494. The deadline for submission of advertisements is Monday at 4:30 prior to Thursday's issue. Canal Square 426 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305 Peggy's Presents Wednesday Union College Night DOlLAR DRAFTS (including imports) 10% discount on Dinner or Bistro Menu (P.S. Don't forget our Sunday Brunch) ATTENTION SENIORS GIDEON HAWLEY PRIZE NOMINATIONS If you would like a n opportunity to thank a secondary school teacher who was influential in encouraging you to develop in important ways (academic, social, emotional growth) we are now soliciting nominations to honor outstanding high school teachers at the Founders Day Convocation on February 27, 1992. Please pick up a form from the Associate Deans Office, science & Engineering Building, Room S-1 00 or call x6233. Forms will be available from Departmental Secretaries. Are you struggling with an eating disorder? join an evening program offering • group therapy • psychodrama • help with coping skills • a place to work on emotional issues about eating Tuesdays 6:30-8:00 p.m. 30 Crescent Ave., Saratoga Springs, NY w ~wr~~ for information call: frank S. Arcangelo, Ph.D. 518-584-lf.OO or 1-800·888-5448 SARATOGA and PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES. PC y N -Going away winter term? DO -Interested In being on the Orientation Committee*? y N DD If you answered \yes .. to two or more of 1hese questions, pick up an O.C. application from Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office (C.C. 306) *Please note this is the Orientation Committee, not Orientation Advisors. OA's can apply in winter and spring terms.

.-· ~1\f·~_J;~;'-lc,~.:~~:~.\\:~~:~:t~ :-~:~t~•:o~~·.?)~~k:~ October 31, ART!i & EI\IT'ERTAII\IMEI\JT :~ffv 114 <U.vnrorbitttsis David Cale Kicks Off Proctor's Too's 5th Season A dive into the dream waters of sensual obsession, Deep In A Dream Of You is a collection of twelve themati- cally connected monologue's told from different men and women's points of view, recalling incidents or individuals from their past that have haunted them. Deep In A Dream Of You was commissioned by the Goodman Theatre in Chicago, where it ran for five weeks. It was subsequently presented at the Sushi Theatre in San Diego, where its three-week run broke Box office records. It has subsequently been performed at the ICA in Boston and in San Francisco at Life On The Water. Deep In A Dream Of You was recently nominated for Chicago's prestigious \Joseph Jefferson Award\ for Best New Work, 1991. David Cale has been acclaimed as one of the leading solo theatre artists working in the U.S. He was born and raised in England, moved to New York in 1979, when he was twenty. David's previous shows (he writes them as well as performing them) include The Redthroats, Little Stories with Private Parts (both were presented in earlier seasons at Proctor's Too) Smooch Music and The Nature of Things. His work has also been presented at the Studio Theatre in Washington, D.C., the Perry Street Theatre in New York and r-UN ION COLLEGE THEATER- presents A play about rove in the plague years It's \the near future\ we're in a dump of a room on the Lower East Side, where a young man named Torch has been quarantined after testing positive for a nameless disease that sounds a lot like AIDS. His girlfriend, Blue, who has not been infected, makes the dangerous journey across the quarantine line to be with him. It's love in the vernacular. Torch is a kid from Brooklyn; Blue a computer programmer from Queens. They've never had much but each other, and now that is threatened. In this dim, dingy basement, they rise above anything they have known outside, even as their gutter expressions are lifted toward poetry on their passion. The plague has upped the ante on love and introduced them to sacrifice. They are a Romeo and Juliet of the boroughs, an East Side story. t10R'05COPE5 e>Y 1-01-1-1 LIBRA: Competition will stimulate & energize you more, regarding financial matters. Try to avoid impulsive spending or buying at this time. SCORPIO: Your physical energy & confidence should be quite powerful now. Take advantage of this to initiate action, go after new goals & be a leader. SAGITTARIUS: Your best way to achieve goals is to do so in an indirect, subtle & tactful manner. However, this can indicate rather compulsive behavior. CAPRICORN: Embark on strong interactions with friends or groups. it is a good time to have fun with friends. However, avoid arguments. AQUARIUS: Career & profession affairs can benefit you. Your energy, confidence & efficiency can really impress superiors & bring rewards. PISCES: You might find travel rather exciting now but avoid dangerous places or situations. ARIES: You will do best to direct your energies to working in harmony w~h other people. By combining resources & knowledge you are more likely to achieve success. TAURUS: This could be your lucky week. Don't ignore signs of success so that your luck can prevail. GEMINI: Work can be the best outlet for your energy now. You may work harder or more efficiently than usual. Your persistence is stronger as well. CANCER: You favor socializing, parties and fun. Get out & have a good time, interact with others & enjoy yourself. But first take care of yourself. LEO: VIRGO: Try to avoid arguments or disputes with your friends. Use that energy towards constructive projects or commitments. Short trips can be exciting now but avoid carelessness when driving or traveling. CommLLnication with others is good & you can strongly influence them. at the Whit11ey Museum of American Art. David :has appeared on TV in Bette Midler's Mondo Beyondo and has appeared in various movies, including Woody David Cale Allen's Radio Days and Paul Mazursky's Moon Over Parador. Deep In A Dream Of You plays at Proctor's Too Thursday November 13th through Saturday 15th. Performances are at 8:02pm and are held at the Nott Theatre on the Campus of Union CGllege. Tickets are available at the door - or through the Nott's Box Office. Shifrin, Neubauer, Garrett to Perform November 10th The trio ~f David Shifrin, clarinet; Pa11l Neubauer, viola; and Margo Garrett, piano will perform wClrks by Mozut, Hindemith, Debussy and Bruch on Sunday, NGv. 10, at 7 p.m. in Union C()llege's Memorial Chapel. The conc~Jt. part of the 2()th International Festival of Chamber MtJsic sponsored by Schenectady Museum and the College, marks Shifrin's fourth appearance in the series and Neubauer's a11d Garrett's debut. The program will begin with Four Pieces for Clarinet, V iota and Piano, op. 83, by Max Bruch (1838-1920), followed by Sonata f()r Viola and Piano, op. 11, no. 4, by Paul Hindemith (1895-1963). After intetmission, the trio will perform Premiere Rapsodie (ok) for Clarinet and Piano by Claude Debussy (1862-1918) and finish with Trio for Clarinet, Viola and Piano in E-flat Major, K. 498 \Kegelstaat by Wolfgang A. Mozart (1756-1791). Shifrin, professor of music at Yale University, has appeared as an orchestral soloist with such groups as the Philadelphia Orchestra; the Pittsburgh, Dallas, Houston, Denver, Kansas City, Edmon- ton, Toledo and Honolulu symphonies; the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra; and the New York Chamber Sym- phony of the 92nd Street \Y .\ He received an A very Fisher Career Grant in 1987, an award given to outstanding American artists. Neubauer became principal violist of the New York Philharmonic in 1984 at the age of 21, the youngest principal string player in the orchestra's history. He resigned his position in 1989 to devote his energies to his solo career and to become an artist of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. While with the philharmonic, he appeared as a I ' • < • ' !, ' • o 0 o o ~ ~ o I t I ->' 0 ' • '' < , 0 I 'f < • • • o ,' 0 : ~. • •' goo~ .Horror M\vies ~o 1\ent ... Cujo (And oil other Steven King Films) Jacob's Ladder Nightmare on Elm Street (First one only) The Exorcist Halloween I April Fool's Day The Omen I Amityville Horror SCARY RULE OF THUMB: When faced with a series, only see the first one. ,o o o • • o ' I • ' • • ' ,1. ' o ' o • o ~ ~ . ' ~ . ' r \ • • soloist in more than 20 performances, including appearances in New York and ·washington and a tour throughout South America. He has also performed with such groups as the Los Angeles Philharmonic; the St. Louis, San Francisco and Phoenix orchestras; the Bavarian State Radio Orchestra; the English Camber Orchestra; the Knoxville Symphony; and Solisti New York. Neubauer won first prize in the 1983 Mae M. Whitaker International Competition, the 19&2 D'Angelo International Competition, and the 1980 Lionel Tertis International V iota Competition. He is a faculty member at the Juilliard School and Manhattan School of Music. Garrett has been a musical partner to Neubauer since 1982 when, as the official collabora- tive pianist of the D'Angelo International Competition, she met and first played with him. They have performed more than 100 concerts together through- out the country including recitals at Lincoln Center, the Kennedy Center and Carnegie Hall. Besides her work with Neubauer and soprano Dawn Upshaw, she is co-director and a faculty member of the Graduate Program in Accompanying at New England Conservatory and director and a faculty member of the Juillard School's Graduate Degree Programs in Accompanying. Since 1979, Garrett has been a faculty member of the Tanglewood Music Center each summer. Tickets are available at the door. R 0 S T E R ~R E L A T E S . El.l; H:E L 0 N E R U D I T E SHM.J441~HM , T 0 M. A D I P 0 S E E ~r!- A B ~R 0 L I V E E T R E . R E fdA Y S K I A LJ.A I S -~ N I N D I AJ.N A S L 0 W G ElMS . T~ D R E TJ.A R D M E AJ.R A A U S D I IV E R BA~T ETATS CAl¥~ I. R A. A S H L A N ll. R I P E N M A ISIS IE 'MtQI'jfr ty tgfji NE r T H E R p R AN C E R T RE ME N S S E TT E R S

October 31, 1991 LIFE!iTYLE!i <1JvttnJrbtrnsf.s 1s Where To Go To ·Get ·In Shape Headache e We're getting more of them. The prevalence of migraine headaches increased nearly 60 percent in the 1980's. Three quarters of new sufferers were young (under forty-five), and the majority were women. worsen a headache, but it is biologically incorrect to say stress causes one,\ says Joel Saper, M.D., director of the Michigan Head Pain and Neurologic Institute in Ann Arbor. He favors renaming tension headaches migraines. \Tension headache implies that migraine-prone people are to blame for their pain because they cannot manage the stress in their lives. That's untrue.\ News regular-strength aspirin, acetaminophen or ibuprofen tablets, plus a cup of caffeinated coffee or cola-type soda, is an effective treatment for headaches that are not disabling and don't occur more than once a week. If you suffer from severe, frequent headaches, or experience a change in your headache pattern, get in touch with your family doctor or neurologist. by Julie Scblang Lifestyles Editor Why is it that when you walk around the campus, or go to dinner, everyone around you is wearing spandex? Maybe it's because the majority of the population here is very health conscious. Everyone always seems to be doing some sort ()f exercise ranging from running;, to aerobics, to walking. Even the people wllo hated to work out before they ever came to Union are doing it. Exercise has become kind of contagious. I mean, come on, when there ru:e a ton of people always otlt doing things, there is a kind of guilt that builds up when you know all you're doing is sitting around eating, drinking and gaining weight. This guih leads you to join the exercise chain, and once you start you do not want to stop. Don't get me wrong, all this healthy stuff is great. The problem is that Union College just does not have the facilities to cater to all of us. One circuit of Nautilus, some free weights and three ancient looking bikes (that are usually broken) just do not cut the mustard for all the people wllo enjoy using a gym. Until improvements are made on our own gym, a go()d solution is to go out and join a gym in the area. There are several that exist Bally's Holiday is located on Balltown Road which is only about five minutes away. Their facilities include 7 Lifesteps, 10 Lifecycles, 2 rowing machines, 1 Stairmaster and 1 Tredmill. They also have Nautilus, Universal, free weights and a computerized 30 minute workout. There is a variety of aerobics classes ranging from beginners to advance and starting January I they will be starting step aerobics classes. The hours are from 6am-10pm on weekdays and from 9am-6pm on Saturdays and Sundays. The only problem with this gym is that you must join for an entire year and they would not give me a price over the phone. Anyone can go there for a consultation though. Another option is Colonie Sports and Fitness Center. It is located on Albany Shaker Road which is about twenty minutes away though. They have 3 circuits of Nautilus, 6 Stairmasters, 3 Lifecycles, 1 Tfedmill and a huge variety of aerobics classes ranging from jazz to a class called supertight. They already have various step classes including step classes witlt hand weights. This gym also has 6 indoor tennis courts and racquetball courts as well. This costs $12-15/hour for tennis and $7-9/hour for racquetball. T.heir hours are 6:30am-10:30pm Monday- Thursday, 6:30-9:30pm Fridays and Sam-7:30pm on weekends. There is a student rate of $165 per semester and they will vary this price around our trimester. Nautilus is the name of another gym which is much smaller and closer. It is located right on Union Street. They only have free weights, Nautilus, 2 Lifecycles and 1 rowing machine. They do not have any aerobics classes and their hours are a bit more limiting. It costs $40 a month or $99 for tluee months. Another small gym is called Saratoga which is also in Schenectady on Church Street. They have 2 Stairmasters, 3 Lifecycles and 1 rowing machine as well as Nautilus and free weights. Their hours are also more limiting than the bigger gyms. This gym costs $40 a month or $219 for the year. They also have a student rate of $150 for 9 months. These four gyms seem to be the best options in the area. They all offer free consulta· tions where you can go to see, and try out their equipment. It is unfortunate that we are forced to pay for the facilities that most schools provide but luckily these other gyms do exist if you can afford it. • Most headaches are similar in origin. Neurologists are increasingly finding. that most headaches aie generated by the same physiological mechanism. • Stress does not cause headaches. \Tension can •You can find relief for a mild headache. Two or three Courtesy of Glamour Magazine Warm Delights by Wilma CHOCOLATE ESPRESSO 3 I 4 cup hot strong coffee 2 tbsp. sweetened chocolate beverage powder 1 tbsp. honey 314 cup whipped heavy cream Combine 1/4 cup coffee~ powder and honey. Stir until dissolved then add remaining coffee. Top with whipped cream. 3 I 4 cup hot strong coffee 114 tsp. cinnamon-sugar 1 I 4 tsp. vanilla extract MEXICAN COFFEE 114 cup whipped heavy cream Combine coffee, cinnamon-sugar and vanilla. Stir until sugar dissolves. Top with whipped cream. UNION COLLEGE THEATRE PRESENTS A PLAY ABOUT LOVE IN THE PLAGUE YEARS OCT.31, NOV.l-2,6-9 AT 8:00PM NOV.3 AT 2:00PM NOTT MEMORIAL THEATER 1961 Celebrating Thirly Years 1991 .....__.

•· . > ·:· '.\ .................... ~ •. ~\-'·· - .. -.· \. ••·.• .•• ·.~ \ ... ·.- -. '·' ' • ·•·• . ••••.• 16 QJo1ttllrbirnsis I:AMPU!i 1\JEW!i o~tober 31, 1991 PER!iDI\IAL§ Monk Lives! Call hotline for info on recent sightings. To Runi, As Dracula would say: \Happy Halloween! Suck someone you love!\ So go get a straw-Dh my! 1 To \My Men\ in Webster 105: \Since you are both injured I MUST take care of you. I'll be coming down later ... \ \Svaha\ Penny, Next year in Jerusalem. To My Psych bio mates- Keep the Hippocampus active; Get some REM sleep And Pray! (The Cheater) Shalom Jen & Eric, I still rniss you! To Tony & Shirley, How is the Acropolis? -Sari Epper, Show me the way to D-1 girth.· Is it genetics, or luck? Dave· Remember the intense look we · shared a few days ago. Love your secret adlnifer. CLA!Ii!iiFIED!i BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP WANTED! ! ! _ North America's Best Damn Tour Co. OnJy Hi-life can offer you a free spring break trip for every 20 paid and a chance to win a Yamaha Wavejammer. Join thousands of other campus reps call ne>w 1-800-263-5604~ -Love me! Hey Dmitry- ARE YOU SURE? @Edward Julius Collegiate CW882~ ACROSS 1 Lists of names 8 Tells 15 Level of authority 16 Scholarly 17 Capacity to endure 18 Gruesome 19 Male cat 20 Fatty 22 Continent {abbr.) 23 Shortened form (abbr.) 25 Popeye's girlfriend 26 To be: Fr. 27 Type of race 29 - jump 30 The -(Mt. range) 31 Mine-boring tool 33 Belonging to The Hoosier State 35 Cultivate 37 ~recious stones 38 Apportioned 42 Slow down 46 Comedienne Ann ---- 47 Out of: Ger. 49 Olympics entrant 50 Mr. Maverick 51 French states 53 Vena - 13 Part ,()f ancient 54 Mr. Gershl'li n Italy . 55 City in Kentucky 14 Female prophet 57 Letters engraved on 21 Maize bread a tombstone 24 Hanm::m_y of 58 All together (2 wds.) relation 60 Carpentry j.oin.t 26 Rubber band 62 Not one nor the 28 Site ()f 1945 other conference 63 Famous reindeer 30 Directed toward 64 Delirium ---- 32 Prefi~ for 65 Bird dogs withstanding DOWN 1 Begin again 2 Black Tuesday's month 3 Shuffling gait 4 Egyptian god 5 Charles Lamb's pen name 6 Musical piece 7- pace 8 Taking away 9 Expunge 10 Pub 1 i sher Henry R. - 11 Society of dentists 12 Native of Lhasa 34 German article 36 Endures 38 Completely surrounding 39 Student, e.g. 40 City in Wyoming 41 Double 43 Greed 44 Editor 45 Dealers in cloth 48 Mailing necessities 51 City i.n Germany 52 Nighttime noise 55 Tennis great Arthur- 56 \Darn it!\ 59 Prefix: air 61 Dynamite U·N·I·O·N•'S ------·---------------SATURDAY, NOVEMBER2 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31 11:30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents Dr. Peter Drotman '69, AIDS division of the Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, speaking on \Safer Sex to Prevent AIDS: Now is the Time.\ 12:30 p.m.-2 p.m. College Center 204. Union College investment club meeting. 4:30p.m. College Center aud. AIDS conference speaker Dr, Peter Drotman '69, on \My 10 Years of Fighting the AIDS Epidemic: the History, the Science, and the Hopes of Public Health.\ 4:30p.m. College Center 404C. Bible study. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mountebanks present \Beruit.\ Rubes® By Leigh Rubin HUMANE 5CX:\ETY I D rrt \Hey there ... you leave that for the cats!\ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Campus Protestant ' Ministry speaker, The Rev. Canon Malusi Mpumlwana. anti-apllttheid leader, on \Changes in South Africa Today.\ 3:45p.m. S&E N114. Pizza party for College physics facutty, students and friends with an informal talk by ProL Jim Me Whirter on laser and optjcs. 7 p.m. College Center409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rmk. Hockey vs. Merrimack. 7:30p.m. C<>llege Center 302. Coffeehouse. 8 p.m. College Center406. East Asian Studies film: \Dodes Ka-den.\ 8 & 10:30 p.m. Colle~e Center aud. \Robin Hood: Prince: of Thieves.\ Rubes® Quite possibly the least utilized service in hell. 9 a.m. Men•s cross country. State meet at Saratoga State Park. 1 p.m. Alumni Gym. Men's &lld women's swimming. Union relays. 8 & I 0:30p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.\ 8 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mmmtebanks present \Beirut.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1 1:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee football vs. Worcester Academy. 3 p.m. Memorial ChapeL Octavos Singers concert. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Ecumenical Protestant worship. '8 & 10:3() p.m. College Center aud. Filnt: \Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.\ By Leigh Rubin \Trust me. Not only is it perfectly safe to e·at dairy cows after their expiration date, they actually taste better tl1at way.\ '! '

October 31, 1991 I:AMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD Engineers: Consider a Career in Flight Simulation If you are an Electrical, Computer Engineer or Computer Science maj·or looking for a challenging career with profes-- sional and personal growth, CAE-- Link Corporation wants to meet you. As America's standard of excellence in simulation technology and training services for the U.S. military, international forces and NASA, CA&Link is the oldest and most respected name in training, We've developed simulators for just about every .. thing that flies by re--creating what a pilot sees, feels and hears in an actual aircraft. Located in Binghamton, New York, we can offer you profes-- sional challenge and the opportunity to work on some of the most sophisticated simulation technology in the world. ON--CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 7, 1991 Information Session ........ November 6, 1991 To schedu:le an interview or for further information, call or stop by the campus Placement Office. Be sure to see our video and company profile booklet while you're there. E/0 Employer M/F/H/V • Drug-Testing Employer PO Box 1237, Binghamton, NY 13902-1237 Applications selected will be subject to a security investigation and must meet eligibility requirements for access to classified information. WCIDWAMI (pronounced \Wicked Wammy\) 7 .... WEDNESDAY November 6, at 7:30PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER : ·- COLLEGE STUDENTS MAJORING IN Allied Health Professions Discover a challenging, rewarding future that puts you in touch with your skills. Today's Air Force offers ongoing opportunities for professional development with great pay and benefits, normal working hours, complete medical and dental care, and 30 days vacation with pay per year. Learn how to qualify as an Air Force health professional. Call USAF HEALTII PROFESSIONS COLLECT (315) 455-7060 We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitchers location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required ~ ··- ~~- ~ _,;r. ~ 7th Annual Public Speaking Cornpetition Cash Pri zesll ·I st. Place $1 SO 2nd Place $1 00 3rd P.lace $ 50 in Upper Class Dining Call to enter: '386-4080 386-4079- >.>. 372-3627

1s @onrorbirn.sts !iPDRT!i October 31, 1991 Post Season looms For Men's Boaters Continued from page 20 back, sprinted toward the goal, and drilled a near post goal providing insurance for the Union College defense. The game ended in a 2 nill victory for the Dutchmen and their second victory over teams ranked significantly higher than them. Beautiful soccer was displayed by outside backs Adam Epstein and Dan Wilmot who after receiving the ball from Popper, began the attack in the defensive third of the field. Hodson and Stopper Dave Chodosch again played out- standing defense denying their opponents the ball and winning the majority of headers in the box, helping Popper to his 5th shutout of the season. Less than 24 hours later a tired but determined Union team took the field again facing St. Lawrence a team struggling through their season. Union did not allow St. Lawrence to get into any rhythm. In the first half some of Union's most brilliant soccer was displayed with center midfielder Jeremy Sollinger spraying balls left and right creating combinations on both sides of the field as well as opportunities for strikers Eric Cressman and Tim Walsh. Union finished the first half up 1-nill off a perfectly executed throw-in play from Hodson to sophomore Chodosch who flicked the ball on as instructed to Tim Walsh who headed the ba11 in over the St. Lawrence goalie. In the second half an unfortunate red card was given to a frustrated Sollinger who felt he was being hacked during a play in the middle of the field. It lead to his ejection and Union down one man for the rest of the game. But the Dutchmen did not let down with sophomore Jeff Mela and 0 leson taking more respon- sibility in the middle of the field. especia:tl y defensively. Tile entire team turned their level up a notch which led to 2 second half goals, both assisted by Dan Wilmot. The first one came off a corner kick to Mela's head and the second o£f a set play in the box to Oleson's canon right foot. The game ended 3-0 with Union stringing together 3 victories in a row, something they han not done since the first week .of the season. On top of it all they broke their Saturday spell which had led to all four losses this season. A.s the final regular season game approached on 10/29 versus Skidmore, Union extended its winning streak to fo11r in a row with a 3-0 victory, the most aJ!l season. Atili.ough fouls and ye'llow cards are coming easier to Union the increase in their intensity level has led to a Union team ,peaking at the critical point of the season. If this intensity is channeled toward playi11g better soccer there is no telling what the '91 Dutchmen can achieve. They are under consideration for a bid into the NCAA tournament md with a win against Skidmore giving the Dutchmen 10 victories on the season tlle Union College Men's Soccer team has a chance to receive a b-id for the first time since 1986. Pretty good for a team wllo was was 5-8~ 1 just a year before! Women's Soccer Cracks School Record with 7th Win; Enters Post Season with 10-4-1 Final Record by Ron Birnbaum It's the biggest news for Union women's soccer since its foundation as a varsity team in 1982: a winning season. After defeating Albany State for the first time since '82 and breaking the record for the most wins in a season with the same seventh victory (4-1), the Union Dutchwom,en squad went on to clinch the vital eighth win (2-0) versus RPI in the twelfth game of its fifteen game schedule. The final three games iacluded two home victories versus New Paltz (Thursday, 1-0) and Oneonta (Saturday, 1-0), and a final away loss versus Middlebury (Monday, 2-1). The two home games earned Union the third seed of eight entering the States, out of twenty-one teams considered. The first round was at home yesterday versus Keuka College. Middlebury was extremely important toward Union's bid in the ECAC, to release the record-based standings Monday. Albany was a big defeat as Union enjoyed a 2-0 halftime lead. The first goal was scored by senior forward Deb Danforth and the next by freshman midfielder Deb Montano, with a minute left in the half. Senior forward Anne Ramaley assisted on Montano's goaL The second half opened with Albany scoring within the first five minutes, though Union came back with two more, one by senior midfielder Cindy Butler, Danforth on the assist, and another by junior forward Sabra Hall, assisted by senior forward Jen Holder. The Dutchwomen outshot the Great Danes 51-19. Ironically, Albany had been led by Union coach Suzanne Za1oom up until two seasons ago. The 2-0 RPI win had bo~h goals put in within the last 25 minutes of the first half. Hall and freshman midfielder Heather Gauntt each scored. Union aga,in outshot the opponent, 38-14. A penalty kick in the second could have added a goal if not for an excellent save by Rensselaer. According to Zaloom, \ ... the team played sound defense, and our offense was explosive; everybody had a part in it. At this point, whether I start players or sub players in, they're all impact players.\ With teamwork the key and no individual stars, at least ten scorers thus far have relieved Holder and Danforth. All players have been seen to give total effort and confidence never had before. Seniors want a winning season as their final year, perfonning their best in three years, and underclassmen have been coming together from winning programs. Nonetheless, commended for play in the Albany/RPI games are Hall, for scoring once in both, and Gauntt for RPI and for the only score versus Plattsburgh. Also holding midfield together in both were sophomores Tina Mesiti and Allison Foster. Ramaley at striker created many scoring opportunities. The three final games, New Paltz, Oneonta, and Middle- bury, all were challenging. Ramaley put in the sole goal of the Union-dominated game versus New Paltz in the second half, off a corner kick by Montano. Union's other 36 shorts were Oil goal but saved. At Oneonta, Manna posted her eightil shut-out. On a direct kick in the second, freshman striker Liz L~da telecasted an unassisted goal for the 1-0 will. Middlebury was a dis- appointment; with the squad down 1-0 at the half, Holder scored in the second to put game into overtime. With the first OT scoreless, four minutes into the second, Middlebury scored a goal in almost total darkness, unseen by Manna. The game was called two minutes later. Manna gets credit, however, making a superb save during a penalty kick in the first OT to keep Union in it. Wind was also a factor to scoring in the second OT, though it helped Union little in the first. While Union is to report this to the ECAC as the second of four losses due to weather, the win is usually given to the team ahead, the other is not given a second chance. Several seasonally scheduled teams may be seen again in post-season, play particularly Skidmore, whom Union desires another chance to defeat. Contingent upon victory versus Keuka, the Dutch- women will play the winner of Skidmore vs. Oneonta at Ithaca College on Saturday/Sunday in the State Tourney. They may also face either Plattsburgh or St. Lawrence again in another round. Stated Zaloom, \Considering we're going into the States, it has been a season I'd just hoped for.\ Well Rested Dutchmen Look to Tie Record The Race Was Smokin' And So Were We The Union College football team, which had last Saturday off, looks to tie the college record for consecutive wins when they travel to meet Gettysburg this Saturday. Game time is 1:30 p.m. The Dutchmen, 6-0, own the nation's third longest current win streak at 14. Division III Allegheny (21) and Division IAA Holy Cross (16) rank as one-two. If the Dutchmen defeat the Bullets, it will tie the all-time Union record of 15 set by the seniors of this year's team in 1989. The Gamet won the last two games of the 1988 campaign and the first 13 of the 1989 season. Overall, the senior class has a record of 32- 4. Despite being the only undefeated team in Upstate New York, the Dutchmen picked up just two first place votes and 53 points, but did move into second place in the upstate poll. Union had been SPORTSWEEK FOOTBALL NOV. 2 at Gettysburg 1:~ MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY NOV. 2 State Meet at Saratoga Park 900 VOLLEYBALL OCT. 31 at Hamilton 600 third all year long. Ithaca. tile defending champion, has 11.5 first place votes and 71.5 points while Cortland dropped to third with 1.5 first place votes and 49.5 points. Rochester remained in fourth with 26 points while Buffalo State took fifth with nine pQints. The Bullets are 2-4 after last weekend's 28-7 loss to Muhlenberg. Gettysburg opened with a 27-6 loss to Widener and a 12-7 loss to Western Maryland before defeating Swarthmore, 20-8, and Johns Hopkins, 20-19. The Bullets then dropped a 20-0 decision to Ursinus before losing to Muhlenberg. Gettysburg lost starting quarterback Jamie Steier in the first series during the Muhlenberg game when he suffered a shoulder sprain. Backup Tod Creneti came in and completed nine of 18 passes for 98 yards but also threw three interceptions. The Bullets passing offense averages 16() yards a game and has scored three touchdowns while being picked off 12 times. Steier, who is doubtful for Saturday's game, has completed 55 of 120 passes for 614 yards with five interceptions while Creneti is 31 of 72 for 328 yards with seven thefts. Split end Mike Simons is the team's leading receiver with 306 yards on 27 catches. Bryant Hill has 12 grabs for 189 yards and a score. Fullback Greg Sommer leads a ground game that averages 129 yards a game and has scored six touchdowns. Sommer has 215 yards on 72 carries and a score while halfback Darren Smith has 29 carries for 168 yards. Halfback· Chuck Borromeo has 2 i rushes for 108 yards and touchdown. Sorromeo has also caught 13 passes for 98 yards while Conte has 10 grabs for 101 yards and a touchdown. Linebacker Chris Wolechine leads the tackle card with 36 unassisted and 33 assists while linebacking mate Steve Speers shows 26-20-46. Tackle Don DeLisi shows 26-19-45. Overall, the Bullets are giving up 188 rushing yards a game (with 11 touchdowns scored) and 106 passing yards (five TDs). The defense has picked off seven passes--comer John Mansfield has four-- recovered five fumbles, and gotten to the quarterback 14 times for 35 yards. The unit is allowing 19 points a game. The Dutchmen finally return home next week against Hamilton ·before taking on Rochester the following week. NCAA playoff selections will be announced on November 17 at 1:30 p.m. Central time. by Tasha LaBare Due to some technical difficulties the women's cross country article was absent from last week's Concordiensis. So to recap, the lady Harriers ran some smokin' times at SUNY Albany. Freshman standout Diana Spanello finished 48th with a speedy time of 20:17. Super senior Sandra Anselment ran an amazing time of 20:50 (which would be a PR) placing 65th overall. Junior Ah Satan LaBare crossed the line in 21:06 giving her 80th overall. Second super senior Cyndi Hunter finished 93rd with a time of 21:23, running yet another PR. Rounding out the women's cross country team was Cruisin' Kristen Welch, running a PR of 22:18 finishing ll4th overall. Amongst a field of over 180 competitors and 32 teams the lady Harriers took 14th place. Albany was the last regular season race for the women. Nice job Gir1y Girls. To move on to post-season, the women traveled to SUNY Geneseo to conquer some serious hills. Placing 25th in all of New York State Div. III, Diana \The Rook\ Spanello ran a hot time of21:50. Sandra \Buns of Steel\ Anselment finislled 45th in the state with an amazing time of 23:06. Plaz, alias Tasha. ran an unbelievable time of 23:28, which placed her 50th overall. Kristen \The Piston\ Welch cruised across the line with an impressive time of 24:49 giving her 72nd overall. Fifth for the Harriers was Cyndi \The Love Bug\ Hunter. \Love Bug'\ placed 74th with a blistering of 25:05. Making her debut once again, Nadine \The Machine\ Flourist ran a strong race placing 89th. \Mac\ crossed the line with a hearty time of 26:51. The women made an impressive jump this year placing 8th in the state, compared to last year's 13th place. The lady Harriers will be training rigorously for ECAC's which will be held at SUNY Binghamton in two weeks. Good luck Girly Girls! Want to write for Sports Winter Term? Contact D~m Box 1761 or Schach x4151

Women's Socc,er And Women's Field Tourney Hockey Both Make State By Dan Strum Sports Editor Union's Fall Sports season is slowly coming to a cl()se. However, some of the Dutchmen teams will be looking to compete in p()st- season play. This is an honor cherished by almost everyone. Two of Union's teams were rewarded this past week. For their fine performances throughout the season, the women's soccer team and the field hockey team were granted with such a wish. Concordiensis Sports would like to recognize the women's soccer team and the women's field hockey team for making their respective State Tournament. The women's soccer team continued its record-setting season by receiving its first- ever invitation to the New York State postseason touma- ment. The DutchwoiTlen, sportiug their first wiaming season in history, were :ra11lced thi:rd on the basis of their 10-3- 1 record. Union beat (10-5-1) Keuka this Wednesday in a first mund match. Third-year head co·ach Suzanne Zaloom's Dutch- women have fared well against teams in the tournament. Union beat St. Lawrence (1-0). Plattsburgh (1-0), and On~onta (1-0) while losing at Skidmore (3-2). Freshman goalie Jen Manna continues her spectacu- lar play in net. She has notched eight shutouts and has given up just 13 goals while malcing 161 saves. The women's field hockey team, which qualified for the State Tournament five consecutive years between 1985 and 1989. received the eighth seed in this year's event as a result of their 7-7-1 rec()rd. The Dutchwomen played top ranked Ithaca (12-4-1) on Wednesday in. their first-round contest. Union will host the Fina·l Four Saturday and Sunday on Frank Bailey Field. Senior forward Kristen Neibergs leads the Union offense with 12 points on seven goals and five assists. Mary Beth Bohl was next with 5-2-7 while senior Jean Lopata and freshman Missy Lombar- doni each added five points of their own. Freshman goalie J en Vernon has done an out- standing job while compiling her 6-6-1 record which includes 90 saves. Each team has worked hard all season to achieve this accomplishment. Once again, Concordiensis Sports would like to extend their congratulations to the women's soccer team and to the women's field hockey team. Good luck to all in the State Tournament! Union Crew Ends On Sour Note By Daniel J. Bullen This past weekend at the Head of the Fish Regatta on the Fish Creek in Saratoga Springs, the Union College Varsity crews finished up their official season with relatively disappointing performances against many area schools. The varsity women, third in the final standings, expected to win their event, and suspect something odd in the times, for tb.ere was a four minute gap between first and last place. This is an unusually large span for so few boats, also an indication which might bespeak a flaw in the timing or recording thereof. The varsity men A boat stood sixth overall in an event they expected at least to medal in, and now .are planning to apply their efforts toward a redemptive spring season. The B boat nad problems with their rudcler, pulling to starboard through()ut the race; had it not been for their detour through the warm up lane, they might have finished higher in the standings than their tenth place finish. Even in a field of twelve b()ats, they were still happy that despite their technical problems, they were still able to place in front of two boats. The novice boats fared well at this regatta; the one no-vice men's boat was sixth in a tightly bunched pack of boats in their race, missing a medal by only twenty seconds. The two novice women's boats also were competitive; although their eighth and ninth place finishes weren't indicative of their success, in relation to the other boats, these boats were both close to the top half of the pack, and less than two minutes out of medalling. Their season extends for another two weeks after this past weekend; they and the novice men will finish their racing season in Saratoga at a race for only no-vice boats. And so, in the last remaining weeks of water time, Union College Crew seeks to take advantage of every stroke before the M()hawk freezes. After that, its ergs, weights and hills until Spri11g Break in the South and a successful season of sprints. Field Hockey Prepares For Post Season by Rebecca Smackey The field hockey team played Hartwick and University of Rochester last week as they completed the regular season with a record of 7-7-1. Union was ranked 8th in New York State-this matched them up against 1st ranked Ithaca College. If the team wins this game, they will play in the final four championships, which are being hosted at Union this year. Nationally-ranked Hartwi<:k took Union by storm ()n Wednesday. Hartwick capital- ized in the first half with fi-ve goals. However, Union held them scoreless in the second half of the game. Satunhty's game against U of R was a WRITE FOR SPORTS critical victory in order to make the playoffs. Union was ahead at half-time with a goal from Mary Beth Bohl although. Rochester was able to tie it up in the second half. The game went into overtime and ended when Kristin Neibergs scored with less than one minute left. The team would like to thank their fans for the greatly appreciated support throughout their season. Patty, Jean, Cheese, Cody, and Smack will miss the team and wish them the best of luck next year. dr.onrnrbtrttsiil 1 9 · Men's X-C Braves Van Cortland By Greg Barrett The Bronx. The tradition of Van Cortland Park lies deep in every runner's mind. It is one of the toughest courses in the Northeast with Cemetery Hill having claimed the will and soul of many runners. Last Saturday, the CTC's were held here along with the Big East Championships. Later this year, this prestigious course will host the Division I Nationals. The Men's Cross- Country team was put to the test here last Saturday. The 8000m course held some triumphs and many defeats. Senior Co-captain Greg Barrett was the first Dutchmen to complete this test of strength and determination. His time of 30:00 alloted him a fifty-sixth place finish. He was followed by Doug Winship in nearby fifty-ninth place. Winship crossed in 30:17. Ed Dorsey was third for the harriers and sixty~fourtll overall with a time of 30:30. Marc ••socks\ Sheridan tiptoed tb.roiJgh in 30:34 for a sixty-sixth place finish. Senior Co-captain Rich \Gumby\ Zembek rou11ded out the scoring team in 32:55 with an eighty-seventh place finish. John Huang, Josh Haines and Angelo Nicoletti completed the squad in 36:15, 37: 1'9 and 40:01, respectively. This course has always proved challenging for the Dutchmen with steep rolling- hills ancl the general overabundance of carbon monoxide. This weekclld l.he harriers travel to Saratoga where they will be hosting the State Championships. Here they hope to shine above all of the teams in New York State. Be sure to come up and cheer them on. The festivities begin at high noon at SP AC. Skating Dutchmen Open Season Fri. Night Continued from page 20 Delventhal put the beginning of Union's new era in its best perspective when he said, \It doesn't have anything to do with wins and losses. It has to do with the fact that we have a terrific group of seniors who came here when we were a Division III program. \I want them to feel good about their college experience here and to graduate from Union feeling that the hockey program was a big part of thir enjoyment during thcii four years.\ With that in mind, it's time to start the 1991-92 Division I hockey season at Union College. The \Fighting\ Dutchmen by Jason Rothschild Although existing rather , inconspicuously, the Union College Boxing Team is enjoying an active and popular second year. The team currently has more than ten members (lets call them fighters) and expects many more during the winter term. The fighters' skills range widely and are expressed :anywhere from simply practicing combinations on a 1 heavy bag to intense sparring · and training. Some of the ·fighters are training for upcoming fights including the I Golden Gloves this December. The Union College Boxing Team was started last year by Andrew Ackennan in an effort to involve more Union students in the sport of boxing. \When I ask students to try boxing they almost always respond by saying 'I'll get killed' or 'I like my face they 1 way it is'. We don't just put on a pair of gloves and beat each other senseless. We box only when we have attained sufficient skills ancl the physical condition to perform those skills. By that time the fighters know how to take care of themselves and are aruious to try it.\ says Allclrew Ackerman, the team captain and coach. \I had a headacile, a bloody lip, and my jaw hurt but I am excited to get back into the ring\ says Stuart \Firehead Freshman\ Sherman after his first sparring session. As expected, practices are rigorous and additional running (\Roadwork\) and conditioning is mandatory. Frank \The Italian Stallion\ Martucci says, \It's hard work, but I have alot of fun!\ Jason \Clueless\ Epstein adds \My hands always hurt but I am getting in great shape and having a great time.\ The members of the Union College Boxing Team stro11gly encourages anyone interested to come down to the New Way Club and give it a shot (Hopefully not to the head). Just contact Andrew Ackerman at Box 6 and/or 3 77 -869(). Contact Dan at 374-8296 or Schach at x4151 to apply for a position SuPPORT UNION SPORTS - .,...,

The Women~s Soccer Team is seeded 3rd in the State Tourney. See p. 18 Members of Union Boxing Team sport their stuff. See p. 19 October 31, 1991 Men's Soccer Peaking As Post Season Bids Approach by Adam H. Epstein For the first time in 4 years the Union College Men's Soccer team. (9-4-1) is not fighting to spoil the post season opportunities of other teams but they are fighting for a possible birth into the division three NCAA champ- ionship tournament. After two losing seasons\and tremendous frustration on the player's part, newly appointed Head Coach Aldo Nardiello wanted to create an atmosphere of positive feelings and enjoyment of the game. So during preseason and the first few weeks of the season he took on a very positive approach making everyone in the program feel good about themselves. His strategy was successful and Union had accumulated a record of 6 wins 4 loses and one tie with 4 games left in the season. After losing to RIT even while playing one man up for most of the second half, a frustrated Nardiello decided that if post season was a goal for the rookie coach and his players, then a run would have to be made in the last four games. Nardiello thought it over with assistant coach Vlado Scrgovich and together they decided a harsher approach to the team and its weaknesses was necessary. At Monday's practice after the Saturday loss to RIT Nardiello warned co- captains D.J. Hodson and Adam Epstein that it was time to stop the positive reinforce- ment and start focusing in on team tactical weaknesses as well as individual weaknesses. The captains agreed that post season play for the first time in tlleir four years would require a more intense and critical analysis of the team. Although Nardiello was hesitant to revive frustrated feelings from years past he decided that the fear of going under 500 was more important than past feelings. So he prepared a 3 page post match technical Report and Pre game Analysis for the Union College Men's Soccer team. After a meeting lasting almost two hours, all aspects of Union's game were discussed. From goal analysis to tactical thinking in the attacking, and middle and defensive third of the field, the soccer team attempted to figure out what had brought them to a 6-4- 1 record after a 3-0 start. Well, the very next day that questioned was answered when the Union College Men's Soccer team defeated the #20 team in the country by a score of 3-2. Williams College who entered the game undefeated with a record of 7-0-2 left Schenectady, New York with their first loss of the '91 season. The game began with Williams scoring an early goal less than two minutes into the match. But Union did not get down on themselves and would not allow for the game to turn into a blow out. The half ended with Williams up one-nill and 45 minutes to go in the match. SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL MEN'S SOCCER (1 0-4-1) Had Week Off Union 3 Williams 2 WOMEN'S X-C 8th m State Meet FIELD HOCKEY (7-7-1) Hartwick 5 Union 0 Union 2 Rochester 0 Union 2 Clarkson 0 Union 3 St. lawrence 0 Union 3 Skidmore 0 WOMEN'S SOCCER (10-4-1) Union 1 New Paltz 0 Union 1 Oneonta 0 Middlebury 2 Union 1 VOLLEYBALL Oneonta def. Union 5-15, 5-15 Union def. Russell Sage 15-10; 15-11 SKIDMORE INVY Smith def. Union 12-15, Hi-5, 12-15 Albany def. Union 9-15, 2·15 Union de f. Keuka 15-10, 15-13 Marist def. Union 8-15, 4-15 In the second half after an inspiring halftime discussion, Union came out determined to come back and defeat their ri vats. Their intensity level picked up and led to a goal from freshmen standout J ererny Liebhoff. Less than 5 minutes later Williams struck back with a set play header beating Union goalie Lee \hot dog Soda\ Popper. But the battle was far from over and when Union's reserve outside back Joel Volterra finished a loose ball ()ff a set play by Union, the first of his collegiate career, the game was tied at 2 all. With approximately 15 minutes to play and the fans and players ecstatic over the tying goal, Union was not going to concede to an over time game. With 5 minutes to go, a play starting from left back Dan Wilmot was built up the left side of the field and played to sophomore possession forward Mark Oleson. As :be sprinted down the left side of the field freshmen Kevin Wilmot saw the play developing and sprinted from half field toward the box. The ball was delivered from Oleson in perfect stride to Wilmot who headed in the ,game winner over the Williams keeper. Union played out the last 5 minutes and successfully defeated the number 20 team in the country. But the week was far from over with Clarkson scheduled for Friday and St. Lawrence for Saturday. On Friday 10/25, Clarkson came to Garis Field sporting a 9-3-1 record with a ranking of 6Lh in the slate, 3 positions bctlcr Lhan the Dutchmen. This only inspired t.he Dutchmen to literally crush its opponent and show the ranking polls that they are not always correct. Union dominated the game while Brett Miller tore up the left flank in the first 15 minutes of the game resulting in an early goal from Liebhoff, an obviously inspired player from the team meeting. The half ended with Unio11 having dominated, but scoring only one goal to show for it. Just ten seconds into the second llalf, Mark Oleson stole the llall from the Clarkson outside Continued uo page 18 Skating Dutchmen make Their Division I Debut Against Old Foe Merrimack Courtesy of Sports Information There is a bit of irony in the fact that Union is opening its Division I era against Merrimack College on Friday (Nov. 1). The Skating Dutchmen and the Warriors are old foes from way back. In fact, the two met at Merrimack for the ECAC championship on March 12, 1977. The Warriors won that game, 6-4. Friday night's opening faceoff is set for 7:30. While Merrimack leads the series, 10-4-1, the last time the Warriors were in Achilles Rink (January 28, 1989) they suffered a 6-3 setback. In fact, that was the last meeting between the two teams. Merrimack, which made the move to Division I in January of 1988. was one of the powerhouses in Division II. It won the NCAA Division II championship in 1978 while finishing with a sparkling 21- 9-2 mark. The Warriors, who were NCAA Division II finalists in 1984, ha\e played for the ECAC championship seven times, four times during the 1980s. The Dutchmen head into the new era with a record of22-51- 6 against this year's 13 opponents. Brown (1-0-0) is the only team that Union has an advantage over. although the Dutchmen are tied with Clarkson (1-1-0), St. Lawrence (4-4-2), and Vermont (1-1-0). The meetings against Harvard and Yale will be the first. Rick Burchill comes into his senior year with a seven-game scoring streak intact (five goals, four assists). Burchill had one assist all of his freshman season while playing defense. As a sophomore, he had 2-2-4 while splitting time between defense and forward, and last year, he finished with 12-12 as a full-time right wing on Union's top line. Senior Craig Ferrero has a five-game scoring streak (6-2) and needs just five points to move into sole p()Ssession of eighth place on the Dutchmen's all-time scoring list. Ferrero ended the 1989-90 campaign with an 11-game scoring streak before picking up at least one point in the first 16 outings of last year. An excellent faceoff man, he has won 71.9% of his opportunities by capturing 1,238 of 1,721 in his first 82 games. Senior Dalton Menhall has a four-game streak (2-5). Last year he scored in 22 of the 26 games enroute t<> a 45-point (18-27) year. In !tis first two seasons, encompassing SO games, Menhall had 16-12-2&. The Dutchmen, who didn't start practice until October 15, have been working hard during the offseason to prepare for their first year with the \Big Boys.\ \I worked out a lot more,\ said sophomore Jeff J iampelti, who led the freshmen in scoring with 25 points last year. \I did a lot of weight training.\ Jiampetti wam•t the only one pumping iron during the spring and summer. Almost every one of the players came back to camplls 5 to 20 pounds heavier than last year. \I gained 20 pounds over the summer,\ said sophomore Jayson Flowers. Last year Flowers tallied 23 points. To a man, the Dutchmen are looking forward to the challenges of tile upcoming campaign. \This is a building process for the school,\ said senior captain Rick Clifford. \For this team, we want to start off on the right foot and. hopefully, things will go in the right direction.\ \It's a dream for most of us,\ commented senior defenseman Scott Whitney. \lt came true. Hopefully we can hold our own.\ Perhaps head coach Bruce Continued ~n page 19

. Founded at Union College 1877 No. 1 President Hull To Match Budget Cuts by Jason Habinsky As the effects of the recent New York State budget cuts still linger, colleges and universities across the state have been forced to consequently monitor fiscal endeavors. The cuts have made it quite necessary for many institutions to abandon many worthy scholastic and campus programs, as well as boost and renegotiate tuition costs. Union College was among the institutions hit hard by the State's budget adjustments. The budget cuts came in three distinct forms. Bundy Aid, a fiscal fund based upon the proportional ratio of college graduates, traditionally brought approximately $900,000 in monetary aid, annually. The State has chosen to reduce this figure by a significant 37 1/2%. The lost funds amount to somewhere between $120,'000 and $230,000. Similarly, the TAP program which provides aid to students needing financial assistance, and the Regents Scholarship program were both curtailed by as much as $350,000. Although the fiscal transactions in Albany have had a critical impact on the state of Union College, President Hull has assured the college community that the students will not have to bear the weight of the additional expenses. Instead, the College must cautiously regulate the budget in order to control The college must cautiously regulate the budget. excess spending. Therefore it might be necessary for the College to hold back on several proposed programs and projects. The renovation of the Maxcy House was upheld this summer in order to conserve valuable funds. Similarly, the College will do all in its power to initiate new and progressive ways to raise the much-needed capital. The agenda for such plans is already in the process of being discussed and devised. Through careful planning and conscientious decision-making the College has chosen tc overcome and deal with these financial drawbacks ia a positive manner. President Hull's scheme to \raise more and spend less\ will undoubtedly make it possible for the College to bear the burden without pick-pocketing its students. Ferraro Critical Of Bush 'On Education by Jordan Lippner News Editor The present state of public education in America is grossly inadequate according to U.S. Senate candidate Geraldine Ferraro. In frorit of an audience of some 500 Union College students, Ms. Ferraro assailed President Bush for not living up to his 1986 promise to be \the education president.\ The former Democratic Vice Presidential nominee noted that in the 1991 Federal budget, the Bush administration cut over $300 million in aid to both schools and students. Ms. Ferraro seemed alarmed that the federal budget provided only $29 billion for education while the military received over $290 billion. \I don't want a nation that fights 10 times harder than it thinks.\ exclaimed a distraught Ferraro. \I don't want smart bombs. I want smart students. The students have been cheated over the past 8 years as federal aid has been cut by $2 billion.\ Ms. Ferraro however did not lay all the blame on President Bush, spreading the responsibility to the entire Republican Party which she declared to be \morally bankrupt.\ To illustrate her Continued on page 4 Calvin Trillin, Humorist, Author, Raconteur Comes to Union by Hannah J. Hazen Well known author and humorist Calvin Trillin, delighted many, as he created a witty and fascinating portrait of Calvin Trillin America, for those who heard him speak in the College Center auditorium on Tuesday evening. As part of the Portraying America Series, Mr. TriUin spoke humorously on America and its people for a little over an hour. The sounds of continual laughter heard throughout the audience, made it apparent that his speech was just as enrapturing as his columns. Mr. Trillin was pleased to talk on the theme, Portraying America, as he found it to be a geography theme and \geography was his best subject in high school.\ His interest in the subject stemmed from the car trips lle took as a child, out west with his family. He received several chuckles at his description of his hometown, Kansas City, \what real estate people would describe as equally convenient to either coast.\ Travelling throughout America, as a reporter for 15 years for the New Y orkt!r, he classified himself as a \travelling person,\ idcnlllywg with software salesmen and regional auditors. Mr. Trillin wittingly described himself as a member of the \American Association of American Correspondents Covering America,\ with O'Hare Airport as his headquarters. In his travels, he became intrigued with Regionalism. He divided the country into two main regions: the Old United States and the rest of the United States. Mr. Trillin found the Old U.S. to be that pan of the country \that had major league baseball before tile second World War,\ and referred to the other as \the expansion team.\ CDC Brin s Career Festival o Union Several elements made up Mr. Trillin's portrait of America, one being license plates. He described his fascination with license plate mottos, and gave some of his suggestions for new ones: \A Long Way Across\ for Nebraska, and \Not As Bad As You May Have Imagined\ for Arkansas. The Mid-West he coined as \very American\. He found this part of the country to hold the essence of what one believes is the true American image. Mr. Trillin created a vivid picture in our minds, by describing the endless corn fields, silos on the horizon, Kiwanis meetings on Wednesday nights and the mother in the kitcllcn baking bread. We learned of his fascination for food, as he launched into an amusing tale about Chicken A'.la King. Driving through the flat ouiStretched lands he questioned what was actually in the silos. Could they hold \bell-bottom by Karen Hurwitz On Wednesday October 9, from 12-4 p.m. in the Field House, Union's Career Development Center (CDC) will host the College's 13th Annual Career Festival. \The purpose of the- Career Festival. is to expose students to the many options which are available to them in relation to their career development. We hope to increase students' awareness of these options by having them talk to various representatives about internship and employment opportunities, graduate and professional school options, community service involvement, and about career fields in general. We hope that students will begin to gather this information beginning in their first year, so that they are educated and perhaps more focused in their career decision,\ stated Janet Harrington Mattis, Associate Director of the CDC and Coordinator of the Festival. The theme of the festival this year is \Don't Put Your Future In Jeopardy.\ Among the participating employers are IBM, GE, NYS Deparunent of Labor,. NYS Department .of Transportation, Prudential, and Trustee Bank. In addition representatives from graduate schools including Albany Law School, Dartmouth Medical School, University .of Rochester Public Policy Analysis Program and St. John Fisher School of Management will participate in the festival. Community service organizations will also attend the event. One of the biggest misconceptions about the Career Festival is that it does not adequately emphasize employers for liberal arts majors. Actually, the CDC does invite many employers for liberal arts majors, and many choose not to attend, some for financial reasons. This is quite the , opposite of the big technical · companies that have large budgets for recruiting festivals ·like Union's. Liberal arts Continued on page 4 Continued on page 4

2 CH.ottrorbtrn.sis l\IEW!i Al\IAL Y!il!i Geraldine Ferraro A Great Politician But - • • by Aram Fuchs Geraldine Ferraro, perhaps the most important woman in American politics in the eighties, besides Elizabeth Dole and Nancy Reagan's astrologer, spoke at Union College on Tuesday, September 24. Surprisingly, in th-is oasis of apathy, there was a very impressive showing of students and faculty. Before the speech, Jordan Lippner and I had a chance to interview her at a reception in her honor. From the beginning, she displayed the art of a master politician. When the press agent interrupted her to tell her that the interviewers from the school paper were here, she immediately looked over towards us and flashed a huge, grandmother-like smile. I was beginning to grimace as she moved towards us because I half-expected her to pinch my cheeks. Much to my relief, she immediately turned serious and began to talk politics. Even though it was a meaningless interview from her point of view, s.be displayed her fantastic interviewing skills. She attempted to dominate the interview, as if she were on the McLoughlin Hour trying to get the maximum amount of coverage. When we tried to interrupt, she put a gentle hand on our wrists, indicating that she did not want to stop. I thought she was going to stuff a danish in my mouth to pacify me. That is what my grandmother did. I became enthralled in watching her work the interview. She was a true manipulator. In a way that only a budding politician can appreciate. But as with most modem day politicians she was as ignorant on the issues as she was graceful in the interview. The focus of the interview narrowed down to affirmative action on campus. Her plans for integrating our society were obviously influenced by :Bush's propaganda efforts to make it seem on-American. She was fearful of using the \q\ word. \Quotas are wrong,\ she said. But when asked how she expects the nation to be fully and justly integrated she detailed a plan that seemed entirely unfeasible. It was limited to producing Public Service Announcements on television denouncing the immorality of oppression by race and sex and recruiting at the top notch women's higb schools. If instituted nationwide this would obviously limit any futurae advances for minorities. Throughout the interview, I got the feeling that she wa.s trying to form a coalition .()f conservative democrats. S·h.e seemed fearful that th.e conservative Reagan era wa..s still lingering like a rottem ghost within the intellect ()f the people of the state. Sidin~ with the left obviously, I felt cheated. I :?aw her as a Republican wolf in a Democratic sheep's clothin.g. But when I arrived at the interview and heard her being attacked for wanting to increa:se the federal budget for education from $29 billion dollars, approximately $116 per perso-n, to something a little · me::re reasonable, I realized she had to conservatize her beliefs in or<l.er to get into a position of pow.er in politics\ . .to get things done.\ She positioned herself on the right side of the Democr!lt party for an obvious reason. If October 3, 1991 she> succeeds in winning the Democrat primary against the Left wing, Bronx-born Bobby Abrams, she will be up against Alfonse D'Amato, the Reagan conservative. A left wing Democrat would 'be open to attack from D'Amato. He could use the typical conservative argument of accusing the left winger for advocating big government. But by using the \wolf in sheep's clothing\ technique, Ferrru:o is launching a pre-emptive strike in her political war plan against D'Amato. She has eliminated that weakness and will most probably try to strengthen her coalition .by attempting to include any cen:a:er-right Republicans that might be disgusted by D'Amato's ultra conservative stance. It is an impressive tactic. 1 I thank Ms. Ferraro for the huge amount of time she gave us. It was a tremendous learning experience. I wish her luck in her campaign, but I will be pushing for Mr. Abrams. Ferraro's Speech Devoid Of Ideas by Jon Keller Former Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro has accomplished a great many things during her life~ime. She has taught in the New York City school system, earned a law degree from Fordham University and served a solid 6 years in the United States House of Representatives. Obviously, she has had a good deal of experience, both as a policy-maker and as an educator, to have developed her own set of ideas concerning Even self-avowed liberals such as myself would have to agree that Ferraro's lecture was composed purely of campaign rhetoric how to better educate America's youth. Surely she has considered issues such as multiculturalism, the publish- or-perish debate and various proposals for a prolonged school year, just to name a few. As such, two Tuesdays ago, I eagerly took my seat in the second row of Memorial Chapel, waiting in anticipation for senatorial candidate Ferraro to share her thoughts regarding the \Crisis In the Classroom\ with those assembled. Unfortunately, my excitement was short-lived. As Ferraro's lecture wore on. I became increasingly aware of the fact that her speech was hollow; it was devoid of ideas. All she talked about was money, money, money, and how the Republican party is single- handedly responsible for the decline in the quality of American education. In doing so, although she may have not have made any fallacious statements, the truth which she presented was at best a half- truth, in that she failed to address the entire problem. Although many of us agree with and support Ferraro's political ideas and priorities, (even self-avowed liberals such as myself would have to agree that Ferraro's lecture was composed purely of campaign rhetoric). In short, we came to hear her share her ideas about education with people (students) who ate products of a failing educational system. We didn't get what we came for. Assuming that she has thought about these and other issues, I would then ask why her lecture last Tuesday reflected none of her own ideas, her suggestions or any hints which suggested an educational philosophy of sorts. To be succinct, everything she had to say probably is true, but it was I1othing that those who attended could not have gathered by paying close attention to the 30 second sound bites which appear on television during any major political campaign. Rhetoric, rhetoric and more rhetoric. No ideas. No normative or new thinking, just a lot of political posturing. We already Imow that the schools are in dire need of federal funding; we already know that our country spends 10 times as much on arms as it does on education. We now that George Bush is being hypocritical when he calls himself \The Education President.\ We know all of these things. But, we also know that, as lve been cr\Uc~d for not. d~vottrg, e~h el)e~y to PleSS ill£ 'domestic ISSu-es lik.~ educ~n ... junior Dan Milsky pointed out, the problem cannot be measured purely in dollars and cents. If only it were that simple, but it isn't. It is a deep societal problem. A problem which is reflected by young people who are becoming less and less concerned with the world of ideas in which they live, and more and more a culture of slaves to what many are beginning to refer to as \The Nintendo Culture,\ an attitude that is rapidly becoming the defining characteristic of American society. This is where I believe that Ferarro failed in communi- cating her message. She did not really share any of her ideas, except those concerning the. restructuring of federal appropriation in favor of education. But even she knows that money alone is not the answer. She must know that, while increased funding is essential, there is a lot more which needs to be addressed before we can even begin to understand the true nature of the crisis. To encapsulate. I really wish that Ferraro had come to Union to bare her id~s instead of her ideological tom-tom. As to the one argument she made, and made and made, many would argue that she is taking the wrong approach. She argues that George Busb refuses to spend more mon~y on education. But what sbe refuses to ackno~ledge is that he is able to deprive our schools because the American The problem cannot be measured purely in dollars and ~ents • • . All she talked about was money, money, money. - public allows him to do so. At present, as a nation we are unwilling to pay more in taxes in order to have better school&;. But why is this so? The point here is that if the American people were presented with some new and innovative ideas, some newv approaches and a trul)' apolitical and frank assessmellt of education in America, then they might be. more willing to dip into their .pocketbooks. So far, leaders like Ferraro have focused the debate on politic:s and money, two very old and tired subjects. Maybe it is time for people like her to take a closer look at their beliefs and decide on which philosophic~ points of departure they intend to employ in the restructuring of the American educational system. I do not oppose Ferraro. I believe that she has her heart in the right place. Education is very important to her, and for that she should be commended. However. if she believes what I believe, that the American people will spend good money for good schools, then she must either be more forthcoming in her discussions regarding \the crisis in the classroom,\ or work 1D develop an educational philosophy of her own, which is meant to put increased funding to good use. I would 'like to wish her luck against incumbent Alfonse D' Amato in 1992, but I must admit that I am somewhat hesitant in doing so. For during her lecture, it seemed that she was almost afraid to express her ideas-she just spelled out the all-too-familiar party line. And though that sort of speech may be helpful in winning her a place in the U.S. Senate, it does little in the way of getting Americans to do some serious introspective thinking. We have a national crisis on our hands, and we are desperately in need of some new ideas.

I '· by Matt Tucker It took seventy-four years to realize that the name St. Petersburg - rather than Leningrad- is enjoyed more by its citizens. But in this interim, while deciding on the best name for its citizens, the Soviet Union grew, in its quest to become a pure socialist state, to become the most powerful country, second only to United States. But with a defunct distribution system, and, hence, a comatose economy, the Soviet Union, proved to the world that its on I y claim to being a superpQwer was its immense military. Ignoring the military power, however, the Soviet Union's status would be of a third world nation. Apparently. the Soviet Union failed in its quest to achieve a socialist state. What makes the failure obvious is the tecent coup. Community loyalists, upset at the reforms Gorbachev had made, attempted to overthrow Gorbachev. As CNN tells us, this plan was nota success. What did happen was not a revolution. The failure of the coup merely heightened Yeltsin's popularity while erasing all communist influences, and consequently, embarrassed Gorbachev for his failure to realize an impending danger. It is not difficult to gauge the winners and loser of this failed coup. What will be difficult is determining if the average Soviet is a winner or loser. A Soviet citizen is unlike an American citizen. They do not value free speech as much as PHARMACISTS. Today's Air Force has a prescription for a rewarding future. Serve your country while you serve your career and enjoy: • great pay and benefits • normal working hours • complete medical and dental care • 30 days vacation with pay per year Find out how to qualify as an Air Force pharmacist. Call USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COIJ.ECf (315) 455-7060 --- --- - ---- .... .... _, -... ~ ::::::::::::::;~~--=~k~> ............ __ .. ----- _, _.........._...._ __ .... - _..... ____ - - ----- I\IEW!i Americans value it. Professor Sharlet, a political science professor, who recently returned from the Soviet Union two weeks ago, remarks that one Soviet woman stated to him, \What good is free speech if I cannot buy what I want?\ Sharlet further remarked that Soviets rarely are steadfast in opinion. If. for example, the coup had become bloody, fewer citizens would have been so outspoken to demonstrate. The Soviet culture is a culture that has been taught to not express its own opinions. The Soviet people are· more intent with eating rather than telling their government how to operate. The Soviet Union will remain in shambles until the people realize the necessity for change. At this moment, however, the Soviet Union is undergoing change, largely due to leaders like Yeltsin. Yeltsin, as Sharlet arg11es, in an attempt to establish reforms quicker, is circumventing due process. He is initiating legislation which he assumes is in the interest of the country. Yeltsin, in this case, can be compared to a \benevolent\ dictator, but, nevertheless. still a dictator. Y eltsin and Gorbachev, with the leaders of the other eleven republics, can change the policies of the Soviet Union. If they wish, they can attempt to create a free market system. It is in the leaders' power to restructure the Russian distdbution system. But, Yeltsin et. al. can only change policies, laws, and the structure. The leaders must also be able to change the society. Lenin knew how to change the society. In The Lenin Need Cash? <!r.onrnrbtrnsi.s 3 • • • Anthology, Lenin believed that the population must go through a \cultural revolution\ in order for it to voluntarily accept the ideas of socialism. This \cultural revolution\ consists of the socialization of society and instilling the appropriate beliefs. In Lenin's situation, for example, it was necessary to teach society - especially the impressionable young - the benefits of collectivization. In Yellsin's situation, he must culturalize the Soviet people differently. Lenin believed that this cultural revolution should be a long, gradual process. And, Yeltsin must accept that belief, for it will take at least a generation to teach the new Soviet population the proper values and proper beliefs, and especially the proper names of its cities. Part tilDe help needed Inornings at Dutch Hollow Restaurant Hours Flexible. Apply in person 9-1.

Ferraro Alarmed At State of U.S. Education C()ntinued from page 1 concern, Ferraro pointed out that the SAT scores from this past year's graduating high school seniors were the lowest ever. Furthermore, a recent su.rvey showed that 25% of high school students nationwide can not correctly add up the cost of a hamburger, a soda, and soup. Although she is now in the midst of a political campaign seeking the Democrat n<>mination for the U.S. Senate, Ms. Ferraro avoided other political issues. both during her speech and the subsequent question and answer session. The sole issue which she did go out on a limb was that of the 1992 Presidential election. Stating halfbeartedly that she was content with the present field of Democrats currently seeking the nomination, Ferraro iterated her desire for Mario Cuomo. Governor of New York, to run. \I think no one is better able to articulate the issues better than he is. And nobody feels the issues quite like he does. And I think that is what we are going to need, someone who uses head, mouth, and heart.\ Trillin Delights Full House Continued from page 1 bluejeans or Chicken Ala : King?\ his ability to capture the unique quality of that city, witllin the opening sentence. 1\JEW!i Career Festival at Union Continued from page 1 students need to recognize that by networking, or speaking with the representative from large companies, they may find a division within a company that is very much responsive to liberal arts applicants. In preparation for the festival, on Tuesday October 8, at both 3:30 and 7:00 p.m. the CDC will run a program entitled \How to Get the Most Out of the Career Festival.\ This brief and informative meeting will give students tips on how to approach the representatives at the festival. Last year's festival was a huge success and students who attended had positive feedback. The CDC is planning for another exciting and beneficial day at this year's Career Festival. P.J. O'Rourke To ·- ,Speak at .Union Courtesy of Public Relations Office Political satirist P. J. O'Rourke, an author and writer for magazines ranging from National Lampoon to Car and Driver, will speak Saturday, Oct. 5 and 8 p.m. at Union College's Memorial Chapel. Author of Republican Party Reptile, Holidays in Hell, and Modern Manners, O'Rourke has just completed Parliament of Whores, a book that takes a satiric look at the U. S. government. His foreign reporting has taken him to places such as . Beirut, South Africa, the Philippines, Central American and the Persian Gulf. After attending college at Miami University of Ohio and Johns Hopkins University, O'Rourke wrote for the Manhattan Herald and later for a leftist paper called Harry's. In 1972, he began writing for National Lampoon. A decade later, he became a script writer . for Hollywood. Since then, he has been foreign affairs editor at Rolling Stone. O'Rourke has characterized himself as a· hard-drinking. womanizing Conservative. a member of the N.RA., and two-time voter for Ronald Reagan. Vogue magazine named him as one of the five men you'd most want to sit next to at a dinner party. O'Rourke's appearance at Union is .part of the College's Homecoming Weeke,pd festivities. 'Travelling throughout the country, in and out of cities an<! towns, he found that the nature of the Americanyeople ind uding their personal b.istories, all have similarities. As a reporter, he looked beyond tllese similarities. As a reporter, he looked beyond these similarities, and found the differences; those qualities wll ich make every town and individual American, unique a11d different from one another. By reading brief descriptions of several cities, one learned of In closing, Mr. TrilJin gave entertaining examples of the \American Way of Doing Things II. He continued to delight the audience with his anecdotes, through the question and answer portion of his talk. The final question for the evening was \Where did you eat tonight, and would you recommend it?\ Mr. Trillin. with a smile, replied \The President's house, and I would recommend it highly. Why don't you give it a try tomorrow night! II Student Forum Spotlight With two weeks past, the Student Forum has taken some very important actions. The Forum has developed an excellent working relationship through engaging in a series of · group initiatives during the I first weekend of school. This 1 relationship is crucial in light of the challenges before us such as the Gmelch report I Reported Security r------------------------------------···------------------~ D~TE nnnr 7i:23/'11 11231\11 LGCJ4T!ON Ef1WHRDS hOUSE 5TORH6E ;ox - D~VI~SDN AREA 'ti14d1 tmTT ME!'i!JRIAL '1/24/91 DKVIDSON HOUSE 11:24191 DAVIDSON HOUSE 1125191 CM!f'US OPERATIONS LOi ~/25/91 BRONNER HOUSE 1126191 FRATERNITY 1126/91 COLLEGE CENTER 9127191 FOX - DAVIDSON LOT 9l2i/91 fOX - DAVIvSON LOT 9J23i91 RAYiiOr~D HOUSE V28i91 /'1Ei1DRI AL CHAPEL U2S/'H ALEXAKDER LANE U29/91 CAMPUS OPER~TIONS LOT '3129/91 POTTER HOUSE Incidents INCIDENT COMPUTER DISK DRIVE STOLEN iAWN ~ANOAiiZEO BY VEHICLE SiUDENT ;E~ORTS WALLET MISSING MINOR CHEMIC~L SPILL RE~QRT~D- CLE~NED ~~ Cll ?L;WER RE?DRTEiJ LOST QR 5TiJLB~ TRAVELLER'S GHECKS LOST iRESSPASSER WARNED OfF CAMPUS COllE€E VEHIClE VANDALIZED THREE PAINiiNGS HISSING (DISAPPEARED DURING SUMMER) SMALL GREASE fiRE-EXTIN6USIHED EY FIXED SYSTEM BICYCLE HANDlE BAP.S STOLEN THEFT OF ~APE DECK fROM STUDENT'S GAR THEFT Of STEREO fROI1 STUDENT'S CAR VANDAliSM iN HALL WAY REPORT OF AN ATTEHPTED BREAK-IN I VANDALISM MOiOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT - NO INJURY AlTERCATION REPORTED IN LOT-STUDENT TRANSPORTED TO ELLIS ~NATHORilED ENTRY VlA WINDOW-INTRUDER SCARED-OFF BY RESIDEnTS dealing with Residence Life. The issues that the Forum has dealt with thus far include the reclassification of the Crew team and the extension of services to the students. For the past three years. the Forum has requested-. that the Crew team be classified and funded as an intercollegiate · sport. This year Dick Sakata and President Hull have received a letter notifying them that the Forum does not intend to fund Crew next year. The first reason for this act is that the Crew team's longevity, involvement and level of competition warrant just such a classification. Second. the amount of money allocated to Crew, due to their inappropriate classification as a student activity. could be re- allocated to other needy student activities. Members of the Crew team and of their alumni organization have directly communicated their interests to the Student Forum. In response, th~ Forum has conveyed the message that our actions reflect the best interests of the Crew team. The Forum and student activities office has also made efforts to further serve student clubs. For example, a new computer will soon be added to the Student Activities Office ·. for the sole use of student organizations. The application of this computer ranges from · making posters and banners to financial reporting. The Forum members hope that the students make use of this new computer. There are a number of things ,that will be addressed at the next meeting which may be of some interest to the students. For example, College's mission statement will be reviewed. There has been some discontent expressed with its current form of existence. Also, the issue of college safety will be addressed. Specifically. a letter is being written to appropriate administrators indicating the necessity of increased security in the up campus area. This necessity has come about primarily as a result of the influx of women to that area of the campus. Finally, the important Gmelch report will be reviewed. Please feel free to attend the next Forum meeting and express your views on any of these issues. The Forum wants to solicit your participation in the making of some very important decisions this year. Currently, there are some committee positions available offering a great opportunity for involvement. At the very least, students are always welcome to attend any of our meetings, which are held on Mondays at 6:00 in room 409 of the College Center. Write jfor <!Contorbiensis

Oct. 4 Pizza· Paty lor Unioo College Physics lacul~ stvdools & friends. In addition , we wil have an in- formal coovasatillfl will Prof. Dav~ Pe~ on 100 pheliornenon of chaos. Adver1ise With The Concordiensis For More Information Call Laurel Alessio or Lauren Bye off at (518) 370-6494 CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD Hot! • 180 A specialty of the Dutch Hollow Restaurant For a limited time only 99C PHYSICS DEPARTMENT COLLOQUIUMS~FALL TERM Oct 11 Prof. Ann Silversmith, Hanilton College Physics Dept 'Upcoovers!on ExcitaVon: A New Way to Make a Laser Work' Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov. i' Prof. Willan '8efmard, Univ. ol Prof. lyta Roelofs, Ha:vard Cof!Gge, Pizza Party:forUnion College Rochesrw Biophysics.~l.' Physics Dept. \lha (1x2) Missing Row Physics faOJity students & Radial on D<rnage In DNA as studied ReconSiruclion of lila AU( 11 0) surface: friends. In addiliCil, we will have an by Eleclron l'al<r11agnelic Rooonance' Microscope Energeics and Kineics of inlorm<tl c«Jversalion with Pro!. Jim Diffusion and ~ase Formalion' McWhirter oolaser and op•cs. Nov. 8 D!. Fran Vetter, Goddard Space Flif11t Center, 'Can Galaxy Evokltion Be See!i by Coollklg TOOr Star F01mlng Clouds?' Nov.15 Prof. Javi« Estrada; Sailt Lawrence University, Physics D~t. 'Pa~tial Sulr Slituion of Copper in one-two-three Superconlix:lcrs' Talks will be held in and refntshments will be served ai3:3D pm in Room NWSE 114. Pizza Party held in Physics Lunch Room .. N3D8 More and more PhDs across the country are recommending Hewlett- Packard financial and scientific calculators to their students. And for some very strong reasons. \The HP 48SX Scientific Expandable has powerful graphics tools that are remarkably helpful to students learn~ ing mathematical concepts. And with the equation solver feature, it's excellent for applying mathematics to engineering;• according to Dr. William Rahmeyer, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Utah State University. \The HP Business Consultant II has an equation solver and extensive Scientific ExpanrlabiP math functions. These free the stu- dents from computational tedium so they can think and interact on a higher level;' says Dr. Lee V. Stiff, a professor of math education at North Carolina State University. · So go check out the HP calculator · line at your college bookstore or HP ·retailer. You'll agree, then•'s no fa..o;tt•r relief from the pain of tough problt>ms. ·. HP caieulators. Tht> best for your success. FJ/;- HEWLETT II:~ PACKARD

. - ·~ ~ - 6 Olttttrllr.htrnshl 11\JTERI\IATI'OI\IAL FEATU-RE!i October 3, 1991 :•_ The International U.S. (a political controver.sy?) An opinion by I.F. politically, morally, etc. Editor Kristin Lupoli Recently I was told that an international display containing flags from many different countries was politically· controversial because it stressed separation. The only controversy I think it caused was my disagreement to this opinion. As far as it being politically controversial, it all depends on how you look at it. An international display should represent many nations because international means \relating to a group having member in 2 or more nations.\ What is wrong with acknowledging other countries in the United States, a country whose history involves the contributions of other nations? The melting pot, a term used for America, is a very appropriate name. After all, nearly every comer of the world is represented in the U.S., each separate nation adding to the countty socially, This summer I went to Ellis Island and was amazed at the number of visitors, all trying to learn something about their t:elatives, to add new information to their family trees. One important feature .of Ellis Island is that all the displays stress the individuality of the immigrants according to their respective countries. Amazing care and pride was put into the restoration of the park, a piece of U.S. history. In tile bookstore, people were buying t-shirts showing flags of their ancestors' countries. one of these i terns had warning labels stating that wearing such a shirt would be considered a political act.) I never once heard anyone say only \My grandfather was an generic immigrant,\ but more likely heard, \My family is from Germany, Italy, China, etc.\ Second, third, and fourth generation Americans and those whose families have been · Making new friends atthe International Reception (9-27-91) S'IlJDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR 1WO 'lERMS IN OXFORD and live with British Students HOW WISC IS DIFFERENT FROM MOST OVERSEAS PROGRAMS: Aec:epted students n:ceive admiasiom leiters (and later transcripts} di.rcclly from an Oxford (or Cambridge) college. • Students are direc!ly enrolled 111 full students of the Oxford college. • Qualified early applicants may share a co-<d Student Residence auociated with St. Catherine's College, Oxford (fully integrated with British students). • Students accepted before November I (for the Winter Tenn) or befon: May I (for next year) arc KUarapteed bousin& witb British students. Students will NOT be taught in (and n:ceive transcripts from) an American college operating in Oxford. WISC is one of the few_ completely integrated (academically and in housing) overseas programs mlhe UK. • Previous students in your field will speak to you on the phone. For information, call or write: THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES COUNCIL 214 MaasachusettB Avenue N.E., Sult9 4!50, Washl~gton, DC 20002, (GOO) 323-WISC Students may also Intern and Study in Washington and London fmnly established for hundreds of years still recognize .their ethnic backgrounds. I have great pride in the United States but part of this pride comes from the belief VIENNA TERM ABROAD Applications are due Monday October 21, 1991 Terms Abroad Office IIU- 211 WORK ABROAD Questions Answered on Thursday, October 10 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM Watch for the table in the College C,enter with CIEE Representative - Garth Horn that our country is un.ique because of the international and multicultural effect on it. To be an American means that you belong to a country that has ties to the world and recognizes those ties. Therefore I do not believe it is wrong to display representations from other countries in a country as international as the U.S. Australia Visit the Land Down Under Boston University Office of International Programs introduces its new Syd.ney Internship Program Internships available in: Management, Finance, Economics Media: Journalism. Broadcasting, Film Politics and International Relations Other programs available in England, France, Greece Israel, Italy, Niger, Spain, and the Soviet Union. For program details complete the coupon below and mail to: Boston University International Programs • 232 Bay State Road .. Boston, MA 02215 - 617/353-9888 An equal ClWOflunily, allirmativa action institution. lr.~ame •1 1 Address City _________ State :Up ------ .1 1 Phone L___) College/University ------- 1 Summet' 0 Fall 0 Spring 0 19 __ I .Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Program• LJ London (] Grenoble 0 Greece a Sydney I LJ Paris a Haifa 0 London 0 USSR I LJ Sydney (] Madrid CJ Madrid a Washington I LJ Washington a Niamey 0 Monaco I . a Oxford 0 Padova a Padova 0 Paris L---------------------~ Apply for a position on the International Features Staff, Call Steve, x4154 ·\

... ·:·.-.:·-.-··:······. . . ·.- ............. ,'.··:·:·,·\<·:·.-.;-:-.-· ... ·.· ... · . . ..... . ........ ,_,.; .... · . 1991 11\JTERI\IATIDI\JAL FEATURE§ ill.oltfllrbfrttsts 1 by Kristin Lupoli On September 28, 1991, President Bush announced a plan to cut back on nuclear weapons. Among the plans for the new arms control initiative, many nuclear weapons, tactical and long range, will be eliminated, and some cruise missiles witl be put in storage. The United States will keep all its strategic weapons and multiple submarine warheads. President Mikhail S. Gorbachev declared that he was pleased by President Bush's announcement to cut down on tactical nuclear weapons. It is believed that this action by the U.S. will enable the Soviet Union to also scale down its nuclear arms. England and France both announcing their plans to reduce arms, and Germany also enthusiastically welcomed Bush's plan. In Kinshasa, Zaire, President Mobutu Sese Seke reached an agreement to form a coalition government with opposition leaders afte.r 5 days of riots which led to the evacuation of foreign nationals. Etienne Tshisekedi, leader of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress, plans to accept h.is nomination for Prime Minister. A typhoon killed at least 45 people and hurt about 70() in Tokyo, Japan. With winds as high as 133 miles per hour, it was the .strongest storm to hit Japan since 1961. In Bucharest, Romania at dawn on September 28, secmity forces came into the University Square with tear gas to disperse pmtesters who had been rioting for 3 days. The majority of the rioters supported miners who were demanding improved working conditions and better pay and were calling for the resignation· of the National Salvation Front Government. As a result, Prime Minister Petre Roman announced his resignation. One 24-year old student was killed ·as result of the riot. ----------------------- Thanks to The Nevv York Times, International Section (Sunday, September 29, 1991) for the provided information. \UNITED NATIONS SUMMIT\ Parents Weekend is October 18-19. Once again we will be presenting a \Mini United Nations Summit\. Every student is asked to join in with a contribution representing his/her country: singing, dancing, dramatic reading, guitar playing, rapping, drawing .... whatever!! If you can do it, we want it. Stop by or call the office by Monday, September 30 and let Karen or Janet know what you'd like to do. Also, for the display, we need to know what country . your family is from--Puerto Rico, Jamaica, American, Afghanistan, etc. We will have our gigantic map showcasing the diversity of cultures here at Union. · Hope to hear from you! :-x~· •. by Dan Waible '91 During my senior year 1990- 91 at Leningrad State University I heard news of · economic :stagnation back home and received letters from despondent friends bemoaning the inauspicious job market. Therefore, I ·concentrated my energies on finding either a credible excuse or a good reason to return this fall. I came to tbe conclusion that no excuses are necessary for returning-or going for the first time. It may sound Oedipalling oo some-but I fell in love with Mother Russia! Call me biased, but NOTHING could possibly attempt to approach the level of interest proffered by the current Soviet revolution. Historically suppressed by authoritarian powers, Russia is considered very young in its social, political, and economic development. Some would prefer its remammg \backwards\, even uncivilized, by Western standards in the interest of preserving spiritual richness. The youthful tendency to embrace moral responsibility and see one's role as vital to world processes is manifest and befitting during the country's birth ... or resurrection. New \democratic\ freedom will sanction the resolution of communist-masked contentions and conflicts of ideology and PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, WtJshington DC 20526 ' INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the world. By solving this .puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. Country occupying the southwestern tip of the Arabia11 Peninsula on the Reel Sea. I I 1. Nation opposite Red Sea from this country. 2. Religie»n of most of this nation's citizens .. 3. Ocean adjacent to this country. 4. Nation under the rule of Gamal Abdel Nasser that sided with revolutionaries against this country'~ rulers in 1962. In The U nationality. \Democratically\ elected leaders wield mandates for change but no one knows where they're going until they get there. These questions penetrate all aspects of Soviet life. For students interested in studying, witnessing, docu- menting, even taking part in the tqmsformation of societies-towards what we idealize yet fail to realize-the Soviet theater provides the occasion. AND! ! ! Union College, by participating in the American Collegiate Consortium for Soviet Exchange, provides the means. Professor Thomas likes this program even more tllan the France exchange and loves lO talk to interested panies. But ACT NOW! -this is not a limited-time offer-but Russian language training in Union's wonderful Modern Languages Department is essential. The only excuses are those for NOT student exchanging to the USSR. Extended study in and of the Soviet Union will strengthen resumes for employment and graduate school, in and of itself, but those concerns become secondary to the LOVE you will find there! ,1\ND 9 OUT OF 10 WOULD DO IT AGAIN. In fact, many do. While immersed in different cultures, they're making an important difference in the lives of so many. They're people just like you-people who have skills and energies to share. Perhaps you, too, would enjoy the chance to help people to llelp themselves, and at the same time discover new, wonderful things about yourself. Peace Corps is in more countries today than ever before, and needs people from a wide variety of disciplines-education. health, the environment, agriculture, community development, engineering, the sciences, and more. With your degree, or work experience, Peace Corps may be able to use your skills as no other job prospect would-putting you to work where it matters, and giving you new skills that will enhance future career or educatiDrial opportunities. And an experience that will last a lifetime. And while you may think voh,mteering is out of the question, ;soli. :s m. Peace Corps' financial benefits are __,_ ---- substantial and far-reaching-they .. Pf rr ·R make volunteering possible now, and l[ · give you_ a unique advantage for t~e Sllli ltlf 10UGHfST JOB m1J11 MR LOVf future. Fmd out more about today s Peace Corps. RECRUITERS ON CAMPUS NEXT WEEK Information Session and Film Showing Union Student Center Wednesday, October 9, 1991, 7:00 ·9:00pm

@nltfllrbirn.sis FEATURE§ October 3, 1:991 Two Roads Travelled by Sari Skolnik She was particularly nervous that cloudy Sunday afternoon as sbe got into her beloved car that she had been given for grad!lation last year. Sitting in the car she could not help but look at the faded college sticker through her rear view mirror. College seemed so long ago to her new and so insignificant; she turned on the radio to her favorite classic rock station and pulled out of the driveway. She was trying to decide which route to take, over the years she had developed at least three paths-one with six right turns, four left turns and three stop signs, another route with four right turns and six left turns~ one stop sign and one deer .crossing sign; however, her favorite way was through the golf course, pasted the big tudor houses, though this way would bring her to the center of the town. She unconsciously chose the later path, in a few minutes she would be there, it usualty took eleven minutes to get there, she actually volunteered to drop off the envcl()pc this week since she had not been there in a few months. While tiding through the winding streets she noticed two new cars :parked in the corner house's driveway as well as a newly :painted house. She changed the radio station again searching for that perfect tune; she pondered about last night's bar hoppillg and wondered if she would go out tonight or just go to the latest movie in town. \Shit! !: always miss that one,\ she exclaimed after hitting the hllge pot hole. She was now getting closer. Glancing at the door she quickly ]{)clced them and as always felt a little guilty, but better safe than sorry she thought. She turned ()nto the dark, run- down street md parked the car close to tlu small house. She locked the- car and hurried up the stairs. Tlte door was opened but she- stilll<nocked. \Hi! yotl must be Jason. You've gotten so big.\ She stared int{) .tlle little boy's eyes and could not help but feel sad for this ilmocent child. She entered the house and S,potted her families old fumitur.e scattered around the rooms a.s she walked towards the sound' of the baby's cries. Sll<e approached the door and was excited to see her childhoo.t friend's child. She walked illt<l the bedFoom and saw Peggts child feedmg from her breasL \Sorry to interrupt you but I came to bring you th~ envelope,\ she said. \Thanks a lot. How i~ school?\ Peggy asked. \I graduated last June,\ sh<e said·. \The baby is beautiful, she looks just like you.\ \Really I thought that sh.e looks like her father.\ \I don't thillk she looks lik.e Jeff,\ she said. \That's because David is l!er father,\ Peggy added. \Oh well I better be going, I have work tomorrow, goo(! seeing you,\ she glanced at Peggy and walked to her car. Sitting in her car, she felt both envious and sad for ller old friend. She remembered Peggy coming over to her house with her grandmother, and while her grandmother cleaned, Peggy would play house, but now it wasn't play. 1992 Story College Short Fi·ction Comp·etition Smith-Corolla and Story have teamed up for the 1992 - Story C<>l:tege Sho·rt Fiction Competition~ Story, tile magazine that first published Truman Capote., Carson McCallers, J.D. Salinger and (i)ther legendary writers, is centinuing its tradition as tlle magazine of discovery for promising new writers with this college writing competition. Smith- Corona will: be its sponsor. The 1 9 9 2 S t o r y Competitioa grand prize winner will be awarded $500 cash and a new Smith-Corona 8000L T laptoj) personal word p.rocessor. Tile second place winner will J:eceive a Smith- Corona PWP 3200 personal word proces~o~. and a Smith- Corona PWP 1200 personal word processor will be awarded to the third best en1ry. Seven additional manuscripts will be chosen as Honorable Mention and will receive Certificates of Merit. AU winning manuscripts wi II be considered for publicati()ll in Story. If published, the writers will receive $250 an acceptance. The Story College Short Fiction Competition is open to all students,. undergraduate or graduate, who $'e currently enrolled in college.. Only o.riginal, unpublished manuscripts consisting of ·l ,500 to 5,000 typed words will be · accepted from each entrant. 11he $12 entry fee includes a o.ne-year subscription to Story. Entries must be postmarked by midnight, December 31, 1991. Story, founded in 1931, featured some of the finest writers of this century. Published irregularly until if.967, it was re-launched in 1989 by F&W Publications. Each issue, Story offers over 100 pages of short stories by writers on the brinks of their careers, as well as well known authors such as Joyce Carol Oates, Bobbie Ann Mason, Tobias Wolff and Hortense Calisher. F&W Publications, founded in 1910, is located in Cincinnati, Ohio. For additional information about the 1992 Story College Short Fiction Competition, please send a self-addressed stamped envelope to Story, 1507 Dana Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45207. A Little Bit of Sin By Andrew Rosen Rc-,ting next to my right foot is a conveniently titled book called Vice and Virtue in Everyday Life: lntr<Jductory Readings in Etltks. I'm supposed to read it for my philosophy class. It's also rather convenient that it rests on the floor. Let's be honest people, we're pretty bad. We love it. How many times have you decided to imbibe spirits rather than study. Kiss AND tell, let alone kiss. A perpetual list could be constructed. It's a matter of conve-nience, really. We drink, snort, smoke, eat, screw, run, walk, shred, spread, puke, scratciJ and lie as if by some forsalcen prescription. I'm not saying that this is necessarily bad. What I preach is observation, not critique. Then again~ maybe not. Let us saunter through the theoretical life of a Union student and that laborious task of \playing hard.\ I h3d the opportunity to traverse the portals of a particular house the other night and found two things to be consistent. One, beer .. and lots of it. Two, a kind of game being played, of bunter and prey, if you like. Now, certain members of our college comrn11nity would immediately cry fraternal foul: \look what fratemities are doing ... they're getting everyone d:runk,\ .. fresllman need academic guidance, not sobriety counseling,\ \this is why the drinki11g age should be thirty- four!\ This is not just administration bitching but students as ~veil I remember a former student-friend who actually tried. to convince me that if fraten1ities disappeared, S(') would college drinking. Absolute dung. I'm talking concentrated dead organic matter. Wilat we need to recognize is that the problem - for it IS a !>roblem - is not in the source of the beer but in the consuming individual. Prohibiti()n in the 1920's proved that banning it is not the answer. :People love to get lit. But why? I like te> 2nalyze things as right or wr()n,g. I'm a biology major, therefore it needs to be cut and dry or at least explainable. This one is troublesome_ I believe people drink beca11se of Geraldo Rivera. A.s strange as it sounds. Geraldo generates the urge to drillk in over forty-three percent of high school seniors - staggering n11rnbers to say the least. Picture this scenario: you are slowly descending the basement s1a.irs to a room with burgundy czpeting and posters of Antarctica C>n a blue paneled wall. In the c<>mer, next to the Atari 260() Video Game System is an old GTE Sylvania Su]Jerset television. You sit on .tlle finely weaved green and oru1ge hide-a-bed (in the couch !>OSition) next to your dog (tLsually), your cat (rarely) or yoll! girl/boyfriend (hopefully). What transpires next is .Jlrolll(lrnatic. With one hand on tbe r4.lrnote control and an other on your dog/boyfriend/girlfriend(cat, you watch the opemng credlls tc Gcraldo. As he interviews dyslexic lesbian stunt-doubles who wish to be ferret trainers, you feel this intangible surg!() of adrenaline. It begins witll your stomach and radiates outward. He discusses th~ ability to do whatever you. want to do and get paid for 'it; he tells you to leave the toilet seat up if it'll piss off you1 sister, to play your radio in mono rather than stereo, .to give the toll booth attendant a one-hundred dollar bill for a twenty-cent toll, to stick your finger in the icing, to leave your fly down. to slam your car door on the seat-belt EVERY time and to leave that eggshell in your scrambled eggs. This freedom tells y()ll something. You want to lle bad. You lower yourself -to the floor and slither across tlle plush carpeting as a copperhe2() weeds through an open field. You reach for that bottle of Sambuca, clo twelve shots,. puke on tne dog/ cai[ boyfriend/ girlfriencl, nave a tdtcrless Camel wllethe:r you smoke or .not and pass ou:t naked. That's living. These same victims enter college with the freedom to d(} what they want without \slithering\ across any oddly colored floor. The challenge. that now arises is one's ability to either woo or be wooed. The game is simplistically oriented so that the strong truly do succeed. We've all seen it: \Hey Michelle. how's it going.\ Blall, blah, blab. Sometimes a walk home is awarded while other times declined. In either case, the challenge ev-entually escapes delicate conversation in hopes of igniting that carnal fire, to pluck your prey's libido and connect for tile big score. It's happened to most of us. We meet someb()dy. Thanks to Geraldo, we•re drunk and a natural loss of inhibition occurs. Two 11ours later, you're playing with y()ur baton or having it done for you. It may not even get tbis far. but the thought Ius undoubtedly entered yoat mind. Taking a couple steps back, we realize tb.at in a four ()£'five hour span - sometimes rn()re, sometimes less - you ca11 extradite your resistance to some pleasurable \foe striking: up conversation with someone who probably won't \call you tomorrow.\ It may or may not have happened to you, but it's definitely hit many students on this campus. So what have we learned in this shallow lesson about morality and virtuous conduct? Three major take home lessons - I'd take some notes if I were you: One, never, never, never watch Geraldo until you feel you have matured to the point where you'll drink what you want when you want and with whom you want. Two, always carry a condom with you. Three - and probably the most salient of my thesis -don't be afraid to be bad. It's probably nothing compared to what the prom queen/king next to you did l;E.F. DEADUNE The deadline lor proposals for the Internal ·Educatic>n Fowtdatic>n in two categories - sruct.mt-initiatcd researc:h projects and 'educationally innovative projects\ is October 18, 1991. Proposals lo::r nudent-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who ·!>as agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to .the Dean's Office (Sl()O, Science & Engineering Building) on follllS available there. Similarly, men<bm of the College community who have 'edu<:ationally innovative' proposals should subtnit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for ·Facwty Research Project.! are als<> available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Guide!ines,witb respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Deall'$ Office. Inquiries about I.E-F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgetl, please remember that per diem rates are nonnally limited to $50·85 J>tr day. !ransponation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must inmcate that anangements have already beeJI made. II your researc:h includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have prellinina:ry approor.al frllm the Human Subjects Researeh Committee before it can be funded by the SubcoWJc:il on Resea.rc:h and Grants. FACUL1Y RESEARCH DEADUNE The Sub council ()n Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and sc:holan;hip ac:tilililies. Applications md gUidelines are available in ·Dean Weiner's Office (S- 100, S&E). 1i1ed-eaclline for submission of proposals is October 18, 1991. Questioru coJlce:rning the Faculty Research Fund 1hould be diro=cted to bean Weiner. When prepari!lg b'Ud.gets, plwe remember that per cliem mtes are norntally limited ro $50·85 per day. Transport!l:ion should also reflect the best mtes available.. If your rese:arc:h include• work with human mbjects, th~ the proposals must have preliminaxy approW! from the Human Subjects Resemh CommitUe before ir can be funded by the SubcoWlcll Gn Research and Grants. '{ \

'{ '\ ·x ... 'M ' ..;.- ' -- '- -- --- -- ... --- ·-- .. -- .-. ··- October 3, 1991 I:AMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD @.nltfllrbfrnsi.s 9 ------------------------- :sTUDENT SERVICES,PO BOX 2596.HOLL'iWOOD,fl 33012• Do .You Want ·VISA & MasterC.ard C.redit .Ca-'r.ds?· . Now yc;JU can have two or the most recognized and I accepted credit cards In the world ... VJsa® and MasterCard® I credit cards .•. \ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1l.JRNED· DOWN BEFORE! 1 YES! lwantVrSA®/MASTERCARD~Credlt Cams. Enclosed flnd $15 which Is 100% refundable if not approved Jminedlately. I I NAME VJSAt!i and MasterCard® the credit cards you deserw! and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMEN\i' STORES-TUITIO~--ENTERTAINMENT­ EMERGE)NCY CASH-TICKEiS-RESTAURANTS- :HQTELS-MOTELS-GAS-C.AR RENTALS-- REPAIR5-AND TO BUI'lD YOUR CREDIT RATING! • 1 ADDRESS I I I CITY STATE-ZIP __ _ PHONE ----- S.S.# ------- GUARANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD GU.-fUINTIEED IIIUI 01 IIONIY •aciC I SIGNATIJRE -----~-----~ I NOTE: MaslerCard Is a lqllstered lrademalk m MasleiO!ird lntematlonal. lrM;, I VIsa Is a ~stend trademalk ol VISA USA. Inc imd VISA lntemaUonal I Servtees Assoclallon. 100•/o. GUARANTEED! ,(jt -11. i :1 fJ :tol·;l·t1-:IIJI•li.J :tl•l: I i•l•l·fl 1 Approval absolutely guaranteed so l_ __ i_ ________ _1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--_j- -~----- ----.---------- ~--- DINING SERV,IC·ES Wou~ld you like to register any input concerning Dini.n~g Services? If so, please join us for a interest :meetin~g of the ~student Menu Comm. or call Kevin Puppe 4321. aa\ ! ' BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI( FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. yo u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. Yo:u put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent anafysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a f~nancial services company really is. gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TJAA IS LETTER-PERFECT. TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA 's reliable claims -paying ability, exceptional fmancial strength, superior investment performam·e, and low expenses. W1th its guaranteed rate oi' ret urn and opportuJ?ity for dividends, TIAA is one of less than ten companies, out Qf Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M 2,20() nationwide, that received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONESHOULDKNO~ For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's l.irgest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. ,------------- SEND NOW FORA FREE RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, including\ Srr•·MI R,•p,•rt on TIA:\ inve<tmcnts. .\hi! t hi,_ coupon to TI:\:\TREF. Dept. QC. 730 Third Avrnue, :-.:ew York. ;-,;y 10017. Or call I 80()-842-2733, Ext. 8016. St~mr ( Please prmt) br.•ltfut \\' (Full name) Titlr TIAA·CRE.F Participant tJ Y.·.r 0 N,,

6:30pm 8:00/10:30 p.m. 8:30 - 10:30 a.m. 9:30a.m. 10:00 a.m. 10:30 a.m.-Noon 11:00 a.m.-Noon. 11:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 11:30 a.m. Noon 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Annual Fund Volunteer Appreciation Dinner. College Center. Movie: BACKDRAFf. Auditorium, College Center. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. Sponsored by the Student Film ,Committee. Annual Fund Volunteer Breakfast/Workshop. Old Chapel. Breakfast with the Dutchmen Football Team. West College Dining Room. Join the 1991 squad and coaches \Dutch Treat\. Head of the Mohawk Regatta and Crew Alumni Race. Mohawk River at Rexford Bridge. Races all day. -- Academic Presentations /Receptions. I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Classics, English, Modern Languages, Philosophy, Arts. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. II. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management Institute, Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. III. Faculty of the Sciences. Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Geology, :tviathematics, Physics, Psychology. Math Lounge (2nd Floor), Bailey Hall. IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering/ Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering, Room N 116, Science and Engineering Building. Career Development Center Open House. Old Chapel (third floor). Lunch. Dutch Hollow Restaurant, College Center. Homecoming Picnic. Under the Big Tent on Alexander Field. Organized by Union's Men's and Women's Lacrosse, Men's Baseball & Women's Softball Teams. Music by Union's Dutch Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles. Lamont House Porch. Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial ChapeL President's Receptione Everyone is invited to this reception on Schaffer Library Plaza (or Old Chapel if the weather is inclement).

e .. ~ ' • _'t:· ;' ' Late Afternoon and Evening Fra«(rnity and Sorority Homecoming Parties. 7:30p.m. 8:00/10:30 p.m. 8:00p.m. Dutchmen's Night. Dutch Hollow Restaurant, College Center. Entree choices: Beef at $13.75 or Sole $10.95 per person. Limited seating; reservations required.* Movie: BACKDRAFf. Auditorium, College Center. Speakers Forum: P.J. O'Rourke. Memorial Chapel. Author, humorist, political commentator and a regular contributor to Rolling Stone Magazine, O'Rourke's latest book 'is Parliament of Whores .. a bitterly funny look at the U.S. Government. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. NO ADMISSION FEE. .Y'~,&cMa6 9:00 a.m.-Noon. 10:00 a.m. 8:00/10:30 p.m. SAT. 10:00 a.m. SAT. 10:00 a.m. SAT. 11:00 a.m. - SAT. 11:00 a.m. SAT. Noon SAT. 1:30 p.m. SUN. 1:00 p.m. Homegoing Brunch. College Center. Adults $9.5~ Under 12 $5e50 Limited Seating; reservations required.* Homecoming Chapel Service. Memorial Chapel. Preaching: Dr. Hugh Nevin, Protestant Chaplain at Union College. Movie: BACKDRAFf. Auditorium, College Center. Co-Ed SK Race. Alumni vs. J.V. Cross-Country Team. Course runs in and around campus. Meet in front of Alumni Gym at 9:00a.m. For more details call Dave Herrington at (518) 370-6547. Women's Volleyball Match vs. Hartwick & Russell Sage. Memorial Fieldhouse. Women's Soccer vs. Wells. Garis Field. Women's Tennis vs. Univ. at Albany. Tennis Courts. Cross Country Men's & Women's Union Invitational. Saratoga State Park. Start/Finish at Hall of Springs. Football-Union vs. Norwich. President Roger H. Hull presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and Float Awards at halftime. Women's Soccer vs. St. Lawrence. Garis Field. • . ' ' • ' •' • • • ' ' • ' , • I' ': : • '

I EDITORI,AL ~ <linltfJlrbitttsis -----Fou11detl at Union College 1877-- --- SeXiSm and Security_ Men Must Walk According to the Union Cellege Secarity and Safety Department, both men and women were in fact created equal. Unfortunat~ly, this does not appear to be the case. Union College males are learning in significant numbers that their tuition money does not boy the same services as those of their female countetparts. In short, it would appear 1ihat Campus Safety personnel adhere to a tacit policy reserving the Union College Escort Service exclusively for females. On several occasions. Union males have been denied rides from Campus Escort to and from the Union College campus after dark. Moreover, the men who made the requests became subject to critical scrutiny as to the reasons why they even bothered to place the initial phone call. Should one assame that men are never sought out as victims or crim·inal injustices, or that Union College men in particular have some type of superhuman quality which excludes them from life's less desirable situations? Why does Union College feel it is only responsible to prctect its female students? Perhaps the Safety Department should reread its records. After all, it was only last spring when a Union male was beaten up by locals just outside of campus. Yet, whether or not men can in fact be victimized is ethically insignificant. In short, the Campus Safety Department must rethink its close-minded policy. After all, while Security may be discriminatory, criminals are not. Security Improvements Needed With acts of violence and crime sending ripples of anxiety across the otherwise still waters of life at Union College, one must begin to wonder if everything possible is being done to make the school a safe place to live. Recent incidents bring this often ignored reality to the forefront of our minds. The latest incident occurred late Saturday night-the brutal beating of a male student by several others. This type of \internal\ incident is in many ways even more scary than the more frequently reported problems with Union's neighbors. First of all, it shatters the common \small school mentality\ which can lull us into a false sense of security on the college grounds. Secondly, and more indicative of a serious problem, the beating occurred uninterrupted, in the parking lot directly adjacent to Campus Operations (a.k.a. Security.) This is as absurd as a· bank robbery taken place across the street from a police station. Unfortunately, this was not just an embarrassing isolated incident. There have been numerous break-ins reported by many of the Greek houses, most notably those located \up campus.\ These break-ins have resulted in considerable loss of personal property to the inhabitants of the houses. Probably more important than the monetary losses are the feelings of insecurity and violation eJCperienced by the victims. If one does not have confidence in the safety of his surroundings, how can one be expected to concentrate on more important things, for example one's studies or work? It is not fair to place all of the blame on Campus Security, after all, they can't be everywhere all the time. However, it is not understandable, in light of these occurrences, how Campus Operations continues to ignore student requests for improved security measures. The \up camJlus\ area has always been noted as more dangerous, due to its lack of lighting, its location in Schenectady, and its relative isolation from the main campus area. Now with two more sororities calling the area home, the need for better precautions is more obvious than ever. These sororities have recently placed requests for better lighting systems and if possible more common security patrols of the area. So far, these requests have been put aside. Hopefully, these recent incidents will spur Security into action and bring about the necessary improvements, before the La Herencia Lsatina To the Editor: Unfortunately it is perceived by many that the educational process begins .and ends in the classroom. This perception could not be farther from the truth. To borrow a quote from Piri Thomas, an Afro-Puerto Rican writer and poet, \The best thing we can do with truth is pass it down ... Punto!\ Sharing this sentiment, I will further his spirit and continue my mission of educating and liberating the minds of the community as well as my own. With gteat pride, I share with you some knowledge of myself. This month is my month. This statement is true for every person of Hispanic descent. September 15 to October 15 marks the month presidentially proclaimed in 1968, to be Hispanic Heritage Month. During this month, Hispanics take time out to outwardly express their respective cultures in hopes of educating and liberating the minds of those oppressed by ignorance. Hispanics populations have both migrated and immigratl~!oed west from· many differeJII~-n t cultural departures, spanniihi111g from Costa Rica to NicaragU8liila. As the Hispanic communitnJ; is so diverse, the celebration !1':11 of its culture takes on a myriad M of perspectives. Politics, foeo(ltd, music, dance, religion, aJliallt: these are but a few aspects ~S' of the Hispanic culture .. From tit ill\e com·memoration of Mexico)cds independence from Spain , jl([}n · Sept. 27, 1821 to tulle continuing struggle for Pue1~erto Rican independence, tJ 11llre political history of th(ile Hispanic community is continually enriched. As .fi' f()r our physical nourishment v, 'ViNe find Paella from Spaisaf n, Platanos frito from H illre Dominican Republic, aJ&al()d Pasteles from Puerto Rico 'liD' to name a small sample. r1 1 1H'o celebration of Hispanic cultuilllare would be complete witbon()lut dance. The tango, mereng•~pe, salsa, and many more danornc::es have been brought to U !fihe western world by the Hispa•&anic community. With our danomc::es has come our music as we'll'.elt Columbian cumbia, Dornhlniiili- can merengue, and the revolutionary voice of Puerto Rican .plena are again ~ut a small sample of our heritage. To fully develop a ·comprehensive understanding of every aspect of Hispanic culture is not my intention. Instead, I only hope to inspire a spark of will in others to want to learn more. This month we celebrate Hispanic .heritage, however, we should aU celebrate our respective heritage at every waking moment. If you wish to learn more about Hispanic heritage, read a hook, speak, with a Hispanic, and keep your eyes open for Latino Heritage Month s,ponsored by the African and Latino Alliance of Students later this year. Wishing the entire community a joyous, educational, and liberating Hispanic Heritage Month, I ask that we all reach into our cultural baggage and assist in the celebration of our diverse human community. J. X. Kotright Gonzalez Jr. Class of '93 Good Things Come To TIJhose Who Wait To the Editor: On behalf of Gamma Phi Beta, we would like to thank Dean Mammola and the administration for our new home in Hickock House. Even in the short time we have been back, we have enjoyed immensely the luxury of our house, as it serves several functions, such as an ideal place to hold meetings and events. Additionally, having our own lounge and kitchenette All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on he Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. has been a great convenie111en-.:e. As a sorority, close relatiohibas and bonds among sisters a: !lllnd neigh boring GreH•ek organizations play a vital ~~ :fl()[e in our degree of involvemfflll~nt on Union's campus. Therefo1tf!llre, we are grateful for having ;glh:e opportunity to live together.~!\ as a true unit, in our new homo~~se. Additionally, we would like to congratulate the sisters of Sigma Delta Tau on their new house, and extend our warmest wishes to the Union campus for a truly successful year!!! With sincerity, The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta sitl_:l,~!~.?.~~E!~~~.~.~-~-~.!.~~~,~!~ .. t? .. ~~:~~·~,.. . , .... ·~~ .... --~· ... $- .. -~ ·~ ........... -· ,_,_,_,.~ .. ··-·· ,\'\\'~'»\'·~\\\-- ~~··~- ~~.~- ~· _, ~-~~ ....... ~.·· .. ~....., ..... .- ........ - ..... ·--#- .. ··~--\- ~-· .. _ ..

I:AMPU!i BUL:LETII\J BOARD Schaffer Library Book Sale BIG BROmERS/BIG SISTERS Welcorre to Union! ' K'l.SP.AN'W K£:k'l'f:AG.:£ I H0\1 \RDHVGHF.S \IEDIOL L\ST!Tl TE We at Big Brothers/Big Sisters hope tile next years aro fun, fullfilllng ar~d sccesslull We.aslo snoourage ·you to• consider how a volunteer experience can anhancayour.ovarall oocialllfe during youdmo here. Hig Brthers/EIIg Sisters offers unique volunteer experiencaE; to Union sludents. FALL TERM September 25 October 16 WINTER TERM SPRING TERM 1992 n.cmnt January 14 April 8 February 11 April 29 PREDOCfORAL FELLOWSlllPS IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES S'.EP'J. 15- OC'J. 15 ~ REACH OUT CENTER (ROC) MENTOR November 13 March3 May 27 60FEJ.10WSRJP$ .. ,!1t. ••&C'1Itll futl~ll·llliW•huh t~Jt.anltl PhD or \IC' D ~IJI~ ... ·'\ilf'e!. \••t'IJo.,..fueotllftot,...,.. ... ,lht,llm>MII\'\,Wk lot \''!lloddir.xlll wt~~n·vl full~ ~.U 41lq·br Sl-t.OOO 1111n~h t:frrml\t .l~tlt ltW-l. '\'' .u ~11. ~oo ~~.~'\...~ ... oc;r-of\\''t'tlntll•• aJio ... afK'O' .,ra t.r ~ tutlor ldluliVnp Ul>III'UOO-.;a Uf1 bffiolf of~ll fr!lu.t ~ i \£DUCAT$ you.R.stt.F ~~ ~D f..\.BI:R.,.'ttt 1JOUR. ~~ ~ Bring your personal touch to our group program lilat targets city youlh batwoon tho agee of 7-17. The Mentors WOrk-wllh selcted children In our cantarona eveing per wook (3 hours) focuslng.on recreaional and educational acti'li•es. ROC prO'Jcles ·boll youth and volunteers wilh a rewarding e~psre!nce In ·a place •that ancoorages usa of botli creadvlly and enargyl The sale wil'l be held from 12:00~4:00 pm in the main lobby. H-tND!\ BE A BIG BROTHER/BIG SISlER Union sutudents have an active chpater of BBIBS on campus tt\at provides support to tle bonding of Bigs with Lltties. Student Bigs form uniGuely important friendships on a one·to--ooe'basls with a Littl& through lileir we!ildy contact of 4-6 hours. FOR MORE INFORMATION: BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS 924 Alabny Street Schenectady, NY 12307 Schenectady (518)374-4523 Saratoga (518)584-1872 The Homecoming '91 T ·Shirt For Sale Today, Friday, Saturday at The Lamont House Porch OUTING CLUB Meeting Today 1013 7:30pm CC409 Trip ,planned for this weekend :BE THERE! I.E.F. DEADUNE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education FoWidalion. in two categories - student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projeets\ is Oetober 18, 1991. Proposals for student-initiated researd1 projects mi.st have the written approval of a faculty advisot who has agreed to supervise the ·project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO; Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, membeiS of !he College commumty who ·have \edutationally innovalive\ proposals should submit them to.the same office on fonns available.there. Fonns for Faculty Rosearch Projects are also available in the Dean's Office ($100). Guidelines with respeet to the I.E.F. are available in the Deans Office. Inquiries about I.E. F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Teny Weiner, Associate Deru~ of Fac-ulcy. When .preparing budgets, please remember that.per diem rates are nonnally limited to sso-as per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates av.illable. Students who are planning ro do interviews II!USt indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee l>efore it can be funded by the Subcollllcil on Research· and Grants. 3.5\ DISKS FOR SALE Available for Mac, IBM, and unformatted. $150 each (from Union College ACM) Available in: Steinmetz 1 02 (Consultants Desk); Steinmetz 227 (CS Crisis Center); Steinmetz 231 (Prof. Mazur) GRAD COMM. EMPLOY· SCHOOLS . ' [ $200 l GATIIF.RING INF(I CAN OF. llONF. IIF.Im INF'ORM\L A'I'M OSPIIER~: FOR ASKING QUESTIONS SERVICE VOLUNTF.ER POSITIONS AWAtTVOU II ERE [ $400 l YOUCIII'{ IIELPYOUR COMMUNffY II ERE All are welcome to MENT TALK TO EMPLOYERS- NOSWF.ATY PALMS SUMMER JOPS AND INTF.RNSIIII'li AWAIT YOU II ERE II TIMRl'O EX!'l.ORJ!: CAREER OPTIONS Bible Study ~ Every Thursday from 11:30 to 12:45 in College Center 404C Campus Protestant Ministry WINTER IS COMING ~ andsois ~ ~ WINTER BREAK ~ Consider a Winter Break Internship Come and explore opportunities at Winter Break Internship information sessions, Thursday, October 10 at 11. 1 :30 3:30 In the CDC PARENTS WEEKEND IS COMING OCT 18-20 Be sure to: Buy tickets for Dana Carvey from Student Activities; Make off-campus dinner reservations or sign up for the Culinary Expose on Saturday. DON'T PUT YOUR FUTURE IN J.EDPARDY! THE CORRECT QUESTION ... WHAT IS THE ... CAREER FESTIVAL? WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9 12-4 PM mELD HOUSE FORMAL ATTIRE NOT REQUIRED. BRING YOUR RESUME. MONDAY NIGIIT FOOTBALL JIUPF.ALO AT :s:ANSAS CITY MONDAY, ocr. 7th AT 8 PM OM mE BIG SCREEN cc 302 ~ MUNCHIES SERVEDII JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES, FRESHMEN Applicatilln are now being accepted for the job ofconsultant in the Social Science Statistics Lab. ~pplication forms are available from Sandra Geraci in the Economics Department office, Room 212, Social Science. Prerequisites are: (1) any social science statistics or data analysis course or (2) an interest in or knowledge of IBM-compatible microcomputers or (3) an interest in or koowledge of Union's VAX system. New consultants will bs trained. Philosophy Department SOUP KITCHEN There will be a soup kitchen for Philosophy • Eli~ble field. or Swd .... l!ttlude-: ~ 11\f.tl!riMn=l~ bcuplmn !Jiic.~ bono.zawoq ~Ltt~ all~ rwu~ dt>t~u..l ~~~ p~ C'J)I~ ph1JIUI<C'I ~ fiM.\ttlnJ boo~or 1&:1:!11~ '011'0~ lhr r~ lln\llltnMkd lor u\dmu•hoha .... mcJlFI'Irted W...lban OfM'ntl or !'hd\\'\ .n..h •owanl \I.S. Ph.D. or :.rD ~ '\ ~ ~ !ini<kf11~--Mboldor~purnurlfmrd~rd• .. ,bnd~(\ID.DO.D \ ~l D.O::> aunl.ob.-Geb~wapplt(Uf.lt~.ul'fl\>l\'b-turd\.r-.rdW ·~ ?l-rlNtt SttXPR£ f I S'l&U.:t Jl~tt t(· ~· K~t»i r...tn~os ~ students and faculty : October. 1st, CC205 112:00-1:30 pm THOMAS J. WATSON TRAVEL FE'LL·OWSHIP APPLICATIONS DUE TODAY Ph.D or~D. · Tbew~re IICia~p~~ b<lr ~ ntnoaab mun trud- tn lhe t..u:l'C!Sw:l:l. • lite Application Deadn..;, No..,U,rl.l99L Thu IIUM'Dalion&! frlk-tap tol'llptUQCJi1. .. ~tend bv d\ro '-oon.a! Rc.rarcbCow:.:::..I.·Fr.WI'<>pOncldrr P~ ~~or J.ppl-1100a. Tc~ (20'.!) 33-t·:r.'l \\'n\C' H.IIFIFI'f'don.oniF~ ~f~OfTIOC \•oona.l Rann:h c-naJ :!101 c...m.un.oon Avrn.., S'~l!ll.DC :!Ootll!. l.M~~~n(~ ...... _.._~,...aU'f'l'loiVloo',....-.....t-­ ... -\\\'~\',_.. .. IIPflly. Union College Choir Is rehearsing Mondays & Wednesdays at 7:00 pm In Arts 215. New members welcome. For more Information, call the Arts Oept. ~ \80J'll'l.TO\ ~ There are still positions available on the following committees: Conduct Committee, Social Committee, Academic Computing Sub-Council, Finance Comminee, Traffic Committee, Committee on Standing, Commencement Committee, Committee ion Honorary Degrees, General Education Board. Those interested may pick upapplications in the college center room 408 starting today. Please return them no later than 4:00 pm on Friday, October i 1. An ad hoc committee has been appointed to consider the tenurability of Professor Jean K. Sheviak of Scllaffer Library. Tbe committee herewith solicits testimeny from members of the College Community who are familiar with ller work. Please send written comments to Professor Antm War<le, chair of the committee, in the Department of Modem Languages, Humanities Building, no later than October 26, 1991, or call 6055. AT&T CONSULTANT TO GWE ENGINEERING TALK AT UNION COLLEGE St:henectady, N.Y. (Sept. 19, 1991)-Anlhony R. Rizzo, a professional engineer and an in-house consultant on finite element analysis at AT&T, will speak on \Finite Element Analysis: A Practical Perspective\ at 3 pm on Friday, Oct. 4, in Room S 116 of the Science and Engineering Building at Union College. The free public talk will be sponsored by the Union College Srudenr Secuon of lhe American Society of Mechanical Engineers and will be preceded by refrestunems at 2:45 pm. For more information, call Prof. Rudy Eggert at (518)37~321. WHATEVffi THE BEASON WHATEVER THE SEASON .II.~.~ The Concordiensis is now taking applications for all positions. PI ease contact •GET WELL. •HAPPY SOON'\ 81FITHOAY• TELECOMMUNICAnONS GIFT CERTIFICATES A11E THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATIVE Steven Carr or Stephanie Fray at 518-370-6155 for more information. UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE ATTHE TELECOMMliNICATIONS OFFICE, ~ COLlEGE CENTEF/103. ~ OR CALL 370-641 1 FOR MORE ® INFORMATIO~. Philosoplly Department Colloqumm Writing the First Nooern Medical Ethics: A Study of the Development of John Gregol)''s Thought Professor LAURENCE MCCULLOUGH, Center of Ethics, Medicine & Public Issues, Baylor CollegeofMedicin~ •. September27,1991, 3:45 IJW~ fll@llllltles Bldg., Rm. 213 UNION COLLHiE liND PROCTOR'S PRESENTS IN CONCERT SATUR.DA ~NIGHT LIVE'S OCT 18- PARENTS WEEKEND 8 PM- PROCTOR'S THEATER TICI<ETS $6. 408COLLEGE CENTER ON SALE NOW!!!!!!!!!!! Welcome Back Students and Faculty INTRODUCTION Despite Increased public and legislative awareness, drunk driving continues to rank as one of the nation's most se1tous health and safety problems. No age group Is more vulnerable to tile tragic oonsequences of drunk driving 111an coUege students and olher young adults. College studsnts ae~oss lhe nation have begun to ban together to fight the drinking and driving j:loblem. Innovative SADD (SI!Jdants Against Drunk Driving) programs have highlighted ltte power of oollege sllldents to effectively deal with critical problems. The SADD program raises drug and alcohol awareness and demonstrates !he students• desire to address this issue in a positive, responsible way. The SADD College Program provides a unique opportunity lor collage students and college administrators to work together to eliminate drinking related fataities. This inportant team of dedicated pe~le can make a differoncel SADD GOALS SADD enables concerned, responsible studsnts to respond In a pro·acdve way to a major killer of the~ age group-d!Unk driving. The program combines abuse prevention with practical soiu•ons to OWl silJadons. The majcr objGctives of the SAUD College Program are to: 1. Hdp eliminate tile ~unk driver and save lives. 2. Promote responsible behavior by college students by not mixing drinking will ()'ugs or alcohol. 3. Reduce th9 oomber of aloohol rela.W deaths, ~urlas, and arresls irl colege communi des. 4. Encourage responsible use of alcoholic beverages by sludents of legal age who choose klclrlnk. 5. Demons~ata that the majority of college studsnts are rooponsibl& ad!Mts with a genuine concern fa illlalliaing lhe OWl issus. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDAllON 1892NSF GRADUATE RESEARCfl FELLOWSIIPS GRADUA.1E FELLOWSHIPS WITH THE SPECIAL COIIPOtlENT WOMB! IN IN ENGtiEERING Program: Th,...,..., goll<!uato lollowllolp on satrc:Q antl<nlll-118 lioldl oflorod by 11-.. Nalonal Sa....., Foundalon Elrglbllity Reql!oomen11: 1. Alilllioanll mull be Unilod Slaleacolle,.OJ nalonals,\' potmonont ,_Ill ~ .. na of ... u~tod Stelos. 2. Follo-pc at& .. arded for study Rnd ra,.aitll leMo~ to ,.,.,.,.. or doctoral <I<!Qrooo on Ill& matl1amallCIJI, phy<ICIII, biologiCal, engin00fl'9. 8110 bohavooraland SO<lal -· onclucllng 1t1e h1story ard jilofo•opny ol ..,...,., and 1o ,.,..,cn- bl.fBli!PhCsn sciermeducatlon. 3. Thooo e!ogib\ to op~y on 1he fojl of 19111 ore collegt~oruors, l•lli'jellr gredualo oludef11a, and o:Mers W1o hove completed aim i1ed \\\'nt of grlldua111 fli!Jdy ~ 10:1«1a!llRI engi,_>'9- Women in Engrnoer01g: Mlillonal awaodswoli bo olieood 1o \\''\\\guromen to un<lertake grodualo SWyrn erg•-\\9 fel<fs,; ''\\'\d yew groduall! l!lld&nts am eligible. Stipend and Allowai!C<lS: $14,000 stipooa, for e 1.2·month lllnure, IOI(j I!Jrtion w•-..r al U.S ·IOstJMons (o• up 1o $7.500 111 foreign onoltlltian'). A $1,000 Speaar lnlomaloMI Rallterch Travel Aftowanco 11 olao ovarlable under lhe condobons sp<~~>fl«< \ tho P~g<em /(!r1oull00fll0Jlt .lj>pllcation Doadlne 0.~: troVEMBER 6, 1991 Soe P'O{ltam AnroU\\\\IOlt lor ilttrer dtJ!ais. llle Program Ann<Juncomont can be obtnlned from your Oeparlmeol Chorr, Grodualo Oo!n, Financoel A•d Oflce. or ~0111 lhe National R<oeaich ~llncil ot l1e adoiro .. ar le!ephone nrrnbir V\\\ below. For information and ~pr!Cillion Maleria~ Write To: The FelloWship Olfk:e National fioseaidl Counci 2101 Cons1iution r.venue Washlng10n, D.C. 20418 or Tstephone : [202}334·2872 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS ~Ji; 'fOUR CONvp,if\([ 7••[ CJLLt.~t CENTE~ !ST Fl,\Ofl ()'JP\'~SY PHONES WILL NOW ACCEPT YOUR LONG 015 T ANCE AUTHORIZATION CODES REMEMBER. YOU MUST OIAL 8 • AUTrlORIZATION CODE • I • AREA CODE • NUMBER NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 1992 NSF GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS MINORITY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS WITH THE SPECIAL COMPONENT lt-l ENGINEERING PROGRAM. Th..,.yoor 9'Bduale fellow5Nps on \\\\\ ard O\JII'ee\\ll \field5 o~red by the Na~onoJ Sc1enoe Foundation ellglblll'!¥ Raqutrements ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 1. Appl1cants must b& Untted Sts.ils c11zens or nabonals. or petmanent ruildent ahens of the Umted State&, who are members of OM of the folloWtng ethn•c group&. Amerrcan lndran, Black/Afncan .-.merJcan, H1span1C, Native Alaskan {Esk1mo o.r Aleut), or Nabve Pac,fic 1~1¥\der (Po~nelilan or Miaoneste.n. 2. Fellowlllopo\\' \\'\ad br rudy Md oesoartto leellng to mas1er's or doctoral degrees 1n tha mathemaball , pt1y11eal, b•ologcar. eng•re61'H'Ig, anu beMavtc~ral end sOCial scences. u~Judmg 1t1e h1stclry aoo !111losoJil)r of BC•emoe, and to rese8ld\l·based FnDs•n scerceeducaton. 3. Thooe ei~Joblelo appy '\1lle Fall or 1911 are collage saniGrlii, first and I&CC)nd year grBduall! Btudents, and otiars who have o:~mpl&ted a brrutad amount of gradua• rudy 10 \\\\\' ond IIII!J\\\'ng WCMEN N ENGNEERtiG: AckhtionBIIINtude wll ba ofl&red 10 encourage women 1D undertake gradua~ study mengne&nr'\1 fieO&. Women 1n Engneemll ellgJb1kty 1s 1he same ea for other fiekjs m the Minonty G<odualo Foll...-.11~ Prog•am STIPEND AND ALLC¥/ANCES. $14,000 stipend, for a 12 month tenure, and bJI'tlon ¥tlive-r at U.IS . .nst.ltutions l or up\'· $7,500 at foreran .. 1i!Jbon5). A $1,000 Spocool nternational Ratearcll Travel Allowanoa t& alos ava•'abloJI. u'1dftr 1he C0'1C:Mors spacitd ~ !!\o P.3grar- Mn0'-\08 SPECIAL FEAnJRE• Mentonng A'lll1ant&h1p1 for new Mmonty Graduate ~rtllows entenng their f&llowMp tnsttutloru tor the i•rst tlme ac grediJaB students proVlde one. two or th!'ee months &ddltiOnll stpencl support for Fttllows to porbapslo on reoowch .du\\ll 11-.. S\\me' befo•e lhoy mg1n .,11r Fall \tllo!IWhlp i9rlur6S l!>~<:allon Ooedo,.., Dol> NO\IEMBEA 8, 1991 Se-e Progr\\ Annol.l\alment1or fullh« dOiaols. The Poogr\\ knovncomenl can be ob!I!IIIOd from yoLf Dao&r1m&n1 CM1r, Graduate O&en, f•nancral Aid Olfu::::e, or trom tho Nabonal Rnewch Cou1'1C1l at the address or t!lo!Jhono M'lllerg..,n beloW. For Information and Application Matenals Wille to: The fellowship Office National Research Counc~ 2101 Constitution Avenue Washington, D.C 20418 a Telephone : (202)334·2872 Due to budget restrictions, the Concordiensis regrets to inform the college community that unpaid advertising will be treated to on page as of this issue. Please confine all unpaid ads to 2x2·. However, we will continue to advertise larger sizes at the standard rate. Please contact the Concordiensis Advertising Department at 518m370·6494 for more information.

BIG BROffiF.BS/BIG SISTERS Wekxlrre to Union! Schaffer Library Book Sale H<>U \RD Hl GHF.> \lf.DIC \l. c''ITniE J U t8P rl.1'1tc Ji[:R. 'l T ,.W.:E I~ We at Big Bmthars/Big Sisters hope the next years are lun, fullfilllng and sccesslull We aslo encourage you to consider how a volunteer experience can enhance your ovaraU sodilllife;durlng your time hare. Big Brthers/Elig Sisters offers unique volunteer experiences to Union sb.Jdarils. FALL TERM September 25 October 16 WINTER TERM SPRING TERM 1992 1'1.()N]l( \;.~ January 14 April 8 February 11 April 29 PREDOCfORAL FELLOWSHIPS L\' BIOLOGICAL SCIE'lCF.S SI>P'J. 15- OC'J. IS ~ REACH OUT CENfER (ROC) MENTOR November 13 March 3 May 27 MftLLOW'Stl1~ .. ,nbr ••• ,.,,...,,.,,r .. u \\\' ,n,,. .. , •. , .. ,.PhD~\' 0 oltun- U\ ~ • ....,~ I• •nl• .,... ~ ... 11\,.... ...,. 0.1111 •.UHIH.II> l'''\\\'b~ (Of l'lo'l>loddifiolnaJ -II u/ lui)...,...,.....,.. .\'f~loo.J.. 0..1!1 t... )1-tOIJO OJHI•&Jl> tff....,•'I'Jou ... r~.;. &nolau ,II -ovw>llv.d·•,.r~--th••\\''oJJo .... .,... \''' t>.. ~ ru •hfo ff\ll~\~ll> \\\n.'\\' \\t>o-\-11 <>i ,...rh lrrlvt. \£f.)UC;{'J\t lJOUR!11LF ~ A1-111 un~rr !JOUR. Bring your personal touch to our group program that targets city youth between the ages of 7 ·17. The Mentors work with sacted children in our center ona eveing per week (3 hours) focusing on recreational and educational activities. ROC provides boll1 youth and volunteers with a rewarding experainca In a place that encourages use ol both creaUvity and anargyl The sale will be held from 12:00-4:00 pm in the main lobby. :1'1.\.ND!' ~ BE A BIG BROTHERIBIG SISTER Union sullJdents have an acUve chpater of BBIBS on campus lhat provides wpport to the bonding of Bigs with LltUes. SI!Jdent Bigs form uniquely important lriendships oo a one-to-one basis wilt! a LltUa lhrough their weekly contact of 4-6 hours. FOR MORE NFORMATION: BIG BROTHERSfBIG SISTERS 924 Alaooy Street Schenectady, NY 12307 Schenectady (518)374-4523 Saratoga (518)584-1872 The Homecoming '91 T-Shirt For Sale Today, Friday, Saturday at The Lamont House Porch OUfiNGCLUB Meeting Today 10/3 7:30pm CC409 Trip planned for this weekend BE THERE! I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline lor proposals for the Internal Education FoWJdation in two categories - student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is October 18, 1991. Proposals for student-initiated research projEcts must have the wntten approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supetvise the projecL The proposals should!:>< subnutted :o the Dean·s Office (S100, Science & Engineering Building) on fonns available there. Si.milarly, member> of the College community who have \educationally in:novative\ proposals should submit them to the same offire on forms availoble there. Forrru for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (5100). Guidehms with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean·s Office. Inquiries about I E F • the gwdelmes, or the proposal deadhne should be dueCled to Teuy Wemer, Asso<:1ate Dean of Facui~:J When preparing budgets. please remember that per diem rates are normally L.'fl.lted to $50-85 per da). Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available Srudents who are planning to do interviews must mdicate that arrangements have already been made If your Jt\sear~h L~cludes wor}; with hwnan subjects, then the proposal must have prelimmary approval from the Human Subjrm Research Corruninee before it can be funded by the Subcoundl on Re;earch and Grants. 3.5\ DISKS FOR SALE Available for Mac, IBM, and unformatted. $150each (from Union College ACM) Available in: Steinmetz 1 02 (Consullants Desk); Steinmetz 227 (CS Crisis Center); Steinmetz 231 (Prof. Mazur) All are welcome to Bible Study ~~ Every Thursday from 11:30 to 12:45 in College Center 404C Campus Protestant Ministry WINTER IS COMING -J~.· and so is ~~ ~ WINTER BREAK ~ Consider a Winter Break Internship Come and explore opportunities at Winter Break Internship information sessions. Thursday, October 10 at 11, 1 :30 3:30 in the CDC PARENTS WEEKEND IS COMING OCT 18~20 Be sure to: Buy tid<ets for Dana CaNey from Student Activities; Make off-campus dinner reservations or sign up for the Culinary Expose on Saturday. DON'T I'UTYOlTR I'll'! liRI. IN JECPAnDY! Till·. ( TlRRIT I\ C)lJISIION . Wllt\T IS rm·: . CAREER FESTIVAL? WED!';ESDAY, OCTOBEr{ 1J 12-4 PM F.IELD HOUSE HlRMAL AmRE NOT RF!itltREll DRING YOUR RESliMR MONDAY NIGI-ff FOOTBALL BUFFALO AT K.ANSAS CITY MONDAY. OCT. Tlh AT 8 PM OK TilE: BIG SCREEN IN cc 31>2 FREE MUNCHIES SERVEDII JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES, FRESHMEN Application are now being accepted for the JOb of consultant in the Social Science Statis1ics Lab. Application forms are available from Sandra Geraci in the EconoiTlics Department office, Room 212, S«;ial Science. Prerequisites are: (1) any social science statistics or data analysis course or (2) an interest in or knowledge of 18tv1•com patible microcomputers or (3) an interest in or knowledge o( Union's VAX system. New consultants will be trained. :?LA.Nrr su:n.J>R£ Philosopby Department SOUP KITCHEN There will be a soup kitchen for Philosophy students and faculty \\\\\\\' -·~ l>oi.C•Ii>oa all~ \\\\~ .. Jl>o<M<~ .. - ....... !.lllln~nolon Thor ldl'\'tbip~•r'O' Llll('nlk'd lor •nnlt'ftU .,.,.., \-.. rompl<'lnll.-...lh&n.- ,....., ol,....<IUOII\.ad> oow..&J'I\1~ Ph0 _,~Q ~1nb~~ ::oru•Jnu~whob:.Wvran\\n\\'!'nni.ll•or>.lmoal<lfp\on \I,D DO D' 1.1, D 0 ~ mu abo bt ~.,_ 1<l IIJIPh fur I•!J•,.•Iup \\l'P\' r., •hJ<t. 10..-..d tht Pli.D \'!!o.' 0 ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ S'lGU.£ P..:lJ:..,ANN; Jl:$~08 L..tTI.Jo!OS ~ I~ October 1st, CC205 :12:00-1:30 pm THOMAS J. WATSON TRAVEL FELLOWSHIP APPLICATIONS DUE TODAY 1bnri<T110atu!'tl.lhop~'\ h&oo Fun\p•••u-lornuoo llh><i••n\'\' Lnn!'d~Ull'f, a The Apphaoon Deuffutt n ,,o•~r IS.. IWL Tlw IIUtl'ftiiD<>niJ fdlo-lup c:ompt'titiOII .. fli!l'llciOIItrtd o~ llw' ..... oon&i ~Co..n.::i! Fwg:,poncltf,..P~ ~~n•«\-iJPlic::&~ Tt~ :20'.! JJ-i:!r'.l ~~~~· Hu;diHP~Fdl<-o.tup.J n...r~orr­ ,.~n~~~ :?101 c.-unotlDn -~. • ..,..,. VO..,tu....,~m. O.C :!l1-!1~ lnnrQ \\'\\.W AJn,.,.,,.. n..l--~&...o.ll,_.llloooi ___ _ __ .., .. _ .. ,...,. .. ..,...n Union College Choir Is rehearsing Mondays & Wednesdays at 7:00 pm In Arts 215. New members welcome. For more Information, call the Arts Dept. \SDI'R.'l.'ro\ There are still positions avarlable on the followmg commitlees: Conduct Committee. Social Committee, Academrc Computrng Sub-Council, Finance Commrttee. Traffic Committee, Comm1ttee on Standing. Commencement Committee, Comm1t1ee 10n Honorary Degrees. General Education Board. Those rnterested may p1ck up apphcatrons 1n the college center room 408 start1ng today Please return them no later than 4.00 pm on Frrday, Oc1ober 11. An ad hoc comminee has been appointed to consider the tenurability of Professor Jean K. Sheviak of Schaffer Library. The committee herewith solicits testimony from members of the College Community who are familiar with her work. Please send written comments to Professor Amon Warde, chair of the committee, in the Department of Modern Languages, Humanities Building, no later than October 26, 1991 , or call 6055. AT&T CO~SrLTANT TO GIVE E~GISEF.RI~G TALK AT UNIO~ COLLEGE Schenectady, NY (Sept 19, 1991)-.1\nihony R Rmo, a professional engmt>t'r and an mhoust• consultanl on finite element analysiS at AT&T, Will speak on \Fm!le Fll'meni \nalvs1s. ~ PraciJcal Perspective\ at 3 pm on Fnday, Oct 4, m Room\ I 16 of Llle Sm·ncl' anJ rn~m .. ·nng BUIIJm~ at l'nuon College. The free pubhc Ialk wtll be sponsored by the l'mon I olle~t' SiuJmi :->t·tllnn of th~ Amencan Society of MrthanKal Engineers and ~111 bt' prt\<t·d.-J h\ rdrnltm<\lll' ,1( 2 l'> pm f(lr more information, call Prof. Rudy Eggert at (5 18)3-U-<J)ll WHATEVER THE REASON WHATEVER THE SEASQH I~ ~. 1 r·~7 ,~@···. The Concordiensis is now taking applications for aU positions. It~.· (br;J. , b \!;fj 1·). _·Jt \I '~~: ' Q' ,/Ia 1 ~: ;<5: t.'-~' I --I~ '~---l II' Please contact ·Gooo LuCK\: ___ l·c:.cc HOU£ • 1 .. , 1 'GET WELL \H·i:~Py- SOOI>t\ BIRTHOAV\ TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERIIFICATE5 ARE THE P~FtFECT GIFT /oJ.. TEP.NATIVE Steven Carr or Stephanie fray at 518-370-6155 for more information. UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABlE FOI' PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICA I•ONS OFF •CE COLLEGE CENTERi103 ~ OR CALL 370-6411 FOP MORE , INFORMATION Philosophy Department Colloqumm Writmg !he First 'vi0<1crn ~edical Fth1cs· A Srudy of the Development •lf John Gregol)''s '!bought. Professor LACRE:>;CE !\4CCl:LLOCGH ,Center of Ethics, ~edtcine & Public lssttes, Baylor College of ~edicme. Septembe-r 27. 1991. 3.45 pm,llumaniucs Bldg .. Rm.213 UN I ON COLLEGE RND PROCTOR'S PRESENTS IN CONCERT SATURDAY NIGHTLIVE\S OCT 18 ·PARENTS WEEKEND 8 PM- PROCTOR'S THEATER TICKETS $6. 408 COLLEGE CENTER ON SALE NOW!!!!!!!!!!! WelCOfTI9Back Students and Faculty INTRODUCTiON Desp11a mcraased public and leg,slahva aware~~ess. drun(( dr1V1ng cononues to rank as one or the naooo·s most ssr•ous heallh and safety p1obtems No age group IS more >Nio81able to Jhe ~ag,c consequences ot drun< drivmg than coUage shJrl&nts and othar young adults Cotl~e students ac1oss the naoon hd>O b~un to ban together to fight lhe dnni\Jng and dnv1ng p-oblem lnnovaova SADD (~.tudents Aga1nst Drunk Dr\'\9J programs have h>ghhghted !he power ot college students Io e«ecnvely deal w1th cr•ncal problems The SADD program rarsas drug and arcoho: awareness and demonstralas lha studenls des1re lo address thrs rssue '\ a posrova, respoosible way The SADD College Program provrdes a unrqua opporhJnrly for collage students and college adminiStrators lo worx logether to et1mrnate dnnkrng related fata~bes Th1s Important team ot dedicated people can make a diRerencal SADD GOALS SADD enables concerMd, lesponStble sllJdents to respond In a pro-active way to a maJor taller of their age group-drunk driVing Tho program comb1nas abuse prevention w11h prac11car solutions to DWI siuations. The major objectiVes ollhe SADD Colklge Program are to f. Help t:Jiminate the drunk dJ'iver and save lives. 2 Promote responsible behavior by college SllJdents by not m1x1ng dnnkJng wrt1 drugs cr alcohd 3. Reduce the number of alcohol related daalhs. Jnjurlas. and atrests in coli ega communities. 4 Encourage responsible use of alcoholic beveragoo by students ollegal age 'Iillo choose kldlink 5. Demonstrate that the majority of college students are responsible adults w11h a genuine concern tcr allav1a~ng the OWl issue tlA110NAL SCIEffl:E FOUNDATION 1m NSF GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS WITH THE SPECIAL COMPONENT WOMEN IN IN ENGRIEERING Program: Thrce.yNrgr~ullle iellowli\rp ·~£Cartee a'\:1 01'1Qif\'4itt''\Q fleldl otte~ by h Nl'bon&J Soeree F1<.JMClS1or Ehg~bllrty AeoUI'UF'IeMI 1 App!IC8nbs must be Ur111t3d Stsl)s Clbe\s or I\LitJOrttiiS. or permaneNt restOOr\t 81tllrt8 ot t-oe U\'lted States 2 Fei 1 GWS1't1P6 010 ~B'Cl&a f()r st'.Jdy Qn[l '000QI'Cf'l l&tl(J \1Q to ,.,IIS1&,'1 or OOC\\.O'll' 06Qrees \''J\e.., ~O,..!l\Jal'. ph~&IQI.:, biological, MQirlWing, 1!1'10 bel1.av·o•a1a\d sooat SCJeMC:eS, •f\'tl.x:l\~ the \•5t0ry ftnd ~·roso!ll\y of scze\'CB. o.,c:1 to \8&eflr~­ based PhOs m liCIOI'Q! eduoouo~ 3 Those OhgOie to apply·~ tN Ftlll o• ~ 9D1 IJrO COI!sg& Sfti'IIO'li. irst\·'f&lll gradloa'B 5tud81\ts aN! Oti\&'S W\O ..,0.\oe CO\'\piDtld a lrnrSeo BI\''O\IITt af graduaz. st!Jdy 11'1 S:l8f\OO and engll\'oMMfii'J'J WomBf\' •\ E\19•neenng Add tonal awards 111·11 be offer&<:~ to er'CO!AS90WOI\91'1 to ul'\d01talf.O Gfm:tJ&m S1Lely \6\9 '1&Cf ~~~as .. oocond Y'J9f grmfuait lit!JdePTts are el'iJibiG Stpena artd Al'owar~ces $\4.~00 stpend, 1or a '2-n«ol'ltll'ti!'nut.:J. a\d tlltt!O\ W&l\\0' a~ lJ S ·~r.:tt.~O\B W JP ~o $7.5CO at •ore1gr: msltuWne) A $1.000 SDaCI8 1 Into, atonal Aetl!I!Wt' T•Q.Iel AOoMJ'1Ctt s 11154 OVIlt 1 ablo ~o~'l:le' the cond•to~\~S spec \'e<t r te P10grS1\ Jmou\\'meet ~pl,cllllon Deadl1re Oolt NOVEMBER B. 1991 See p~ram Announ\\\\\llo< IJoror detail T\'B P.ogram An~u~C:SrT~et'! can be obbll nad boom your Dttp.vtrNint O'ltl·'. Grst~ua• i:Ba\. F·\B.\'B' J.·d Qf-flco_ l' ~to~ '!le Natlor'a! RaW«'Ch CoiJ'lOI at fie address or tefeJt!one 'lJl\'ber g•...,-. below For inlormalion and Appfical10n Matenals Wnte To The Fellowslup OlfiCII Na~or.al Resoorch Counei 2101 .constluton Avanoo Wasl\irgton. DC 20418orTolephone (202]334·2872 Tf l ft:OMMlJNI:'•'liON:. TIPS ·'.4· ... p- •• A ·•. -;, _- -'1. • - ~. ._ • !\,' - • ' ~ • ~ NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 1992 NSF GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS MINORITY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS WITH THE SPECIAL COMPONENT IN ENGINEERING PRJORAM P.•ee-raa• gre.a ... ate it!! OW'iii~:ps r SCIEI\Ce a~ e~,.ee\'!IJ loeos. o~•ed t:1f :he ~a'JO\&i Sc·tl\ce F J:..,'Qa'.:ar e<~g o tv Ra:l..n'l¥\16rots ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS ' -'PPI•Cili\IS \''.. De U'\•tnd S\.at3G !::.IIZB\'S 3' \'tltO\B :S.. o• pe•mSf\e~\t •e&H:I8\~ a •Sf'S :If~ Li'\''BO S.>;a'BS w\'o 8'!1 ...,.B,..be 1 S ot 0,8 o• \\8 'o OW·\'g &tr\•C G'O ... OS A,...e,ca~' ll'lda\ B·acoVA\'ca\ A\'e•ca ... Hsoa\•c Natv6 4a.Sk8\ IE&K \\.:J o• A.-eu~ • .J' Na· v-e Pile ftc ISitll'de' (Pory'1861B~\ o• M•crones.a\ 2 Fe-owstt·PG are .?oW!OO fo• study ilr'CI '!lSM.'d\ eacl\'Q :o masts•'s Of oocto•a· aeg•ees .... 't'6 ... art&~\'o;;ca p~gca. D•Otog•ca. 019 'lBil' \G !L\~ ~ .. .r. o·t ar(' sx 81 roe'\!Cel5 r'JC!uc:llng tre t\·story a\Q P\ oso~y o• !C•Brce ana to •esearcr basad fl!'oOs .. sce\'CC oo..c~o,., 3 P..~see·.g-b•etoapp!y '\~fa; ·~g'a\t~CJ··egs sen 0''· ~'11 S'\d S8C0\0 yea' g•a:::l .. at& S!oJCIO\$. S\ll of'lerswha 11av& compoetacl a \\t&d 9:\T''O. 1:1~ g•ao,.ate 5t1.dy ., soen::e and eng1ne-er'~ IIU.IEN N ENGNEERNG .\d<PJonBt awerds w.·· be o\ie\!KJ 1o et'oo~·aga wo..-..e,. !0 u\'Ier-'.aiC.e Qft\dtraE st..dy ~ et'Qine&•·~ <tatOS. W0\\'6\' \ E.,gtneE!f '1Q elig•btlrty 51116 sn..,e a& 1 Gr o''et lie-.,s .. ~e U111Qr1ty Gr~utlte F&IIO;t.YShip P•og•arro STIPEND AND ALLOWANCCS 5'4000 SIDI>'O '1l• a '2 \1'\0 tenu•e, Sl\d 'bJ1tlOf' WWV&f !11 \j 'S •\-S~t...t0\\5 [or vD to $7.500 at tora1gr ~31JtL1ll)l\t6) A,, 000 S.oo:: a l\~tan·•ano. Rese1trC~'~ T•ave1 A·ol'lll\'CEt s a os 9Vll Qto•PP '\IF'~ !\'t'\'d . .,'V'I r;ro.,c\e(o r- ... f> n.-;·a- Anfo.Ol.I'Ce,~t SPECIAL FEATURE Mor'tol ng 4Sil&t8,tst'•ps +or new ~ \l)f \r G·EW~a~a Fe CMS e\1l:lm\i1 tNI• f\!I'OWSI'IP \\!lttL~O,....S \o' ~e • •!t tl\'e 85 g~oouaD s11Jdtt\'1S pro\hda 3\6 ~ ,. !>ves mo\tt'li EIDOitiO\n: S1IP6\10 l'uDOO'! 1 0• fa JWS ~ p!!rtlopatt ,,.. 'EI&eOlct' m..• \'9 the Sr~· ooto•e ':''Ely begl\ \!)!'Fat' V.IOW!t'IO 19\\.J'M \\~•C!tOI' lleOO·\\ Dsl! NO'Il:UBER 8 • 91• SM P•og'l'r\ Ar'W'oiJI\'(8\\\8\~ to• .... l'f+'tW\ OM ·s The Progrr .Ar\OV\06\\81\• C!r' DE ClbtBI'\\<ed f.~.., p..r [)Qpaf1\'!ent Ct~a •. Gn10uate Deer. F \'l\C a A·Cl O.,..ce or lrOI\ !NtN.allo\1 1 ~oro- Co ... \C ~· tt'<t SCid'f'n ::Y n~lt!l'\l#\M'Q~\\be/OW For Information and App..::aoon Matenals Wnte to The Fellowship Olfice National Research Cou~d 2101 Constrtution Avenue Washington. DC 204t8 cr Telephone: (202)334-2872 Due to budget restrictions, the Concordiensis regrets to inform the college community that unpaid advertising will be treated to on page as of this issue. Please confine all unpaid ads to 2x2\'. However, we will continue to advertise larger sizes at the standard rate. Please contact the Concordiensis Advertising Department at 518-370-6494 for more information.

EDITORIAL alonrnrhtrnsis ----- F()unded at Union College 1877--- SeXiSffi and Security_ Men Must Walk According to the Union College Security and Safety Department, both men and women were in fact created equal. Unfortunately, this does not appear to be the case. Union College males are learning in significant numbers that their tuition money does not boy the same services as those of their female counterparts. In short, it would appear that Campus Safety personnel adhere to a tacit policy reserving the Union College Escort Service exclusively for females. On several occasions. Union males have been denied rides from Campus Escort to and from the Union College campus after dark. Moreover, the men who made the requests became subject to critical scrutiny as to the reasons why they even bothered to place the initial phone call. Should one assume that men are never sought out as victims or criminal injustices, or that Union College men in particular have some type of superhuman quality which excludes them from life's less desirable situations? Why does Union College feel it is only responsible to protect its female students? Perhaps the Safety Department should reread its records. After all, it was only last spring when a Union male was beaten up by locals just outside of campus. Yet, whether or not men can in fact be victimized is ethically insignificant. In short, the Campus Safety Department must rethink its close-minded policy. After all, while Security may be discriminatory, criminals are not. Security Improvements Needed With acts of violence and crime sending ripples of anxiety across the otherwise still waters of life at Union College, one must begin to wonder if everything possible is being done to make the school a safe place to live. Recent incidents bring this often ignored reality to the forefront of our minds. The latest incident occurred late Saturday night-the brutal beating of a male student by several others. This type of \internal\ incident is in many ways even more sca.ty than the more frequently reported problems with Union's neighbors. First of all, it shatters the common \small school mentality\ which can lull us into a false sense of security on the college grounds. Secondly, and more indicative of a serious problem, the beating occurred uninterrupted, in the parking lot directly adjacent to Campus Operations (a.k.a. Security.) This is as absurd as a bank robbery taken place across the street from a police station. Unfortunately, this was not just an embarrassing isolated incident. There have been numerous break-ins reported by many of the Greek houses, most notably those located \up campus.\ These break-ins have resulted in considerable loss of personal property to the inhabitants of the houses. Probably more important than the monetary losses are the feelings of insecurity and violation experienced by the victims. If one does not have con fldence in the safety of his surroundings, how can one be expected to concentrate on more important thin,gs, for example one's studies or work? It is not fair to place all of the blame on Campus Security, after all, they can't be everywhere all the time. However, it is not understandable, in light of these occurrences, how Campus Operations continues to ignore student requests for improved security measures. The \up campus\ area has always been noted as more dangerous, due to its lack of lighting, its location in Schenectady, and its relative isolation from the main campus area. Now with two more sororities calling the area home, the need for better precautions is more obvious than ever. These sororities have recently placed requests for better lighting systems and if possible more common security patrols of the area. So far, these requests have been put aside. Hopefully, these recent incidents will spur Security into action and bring about the necessary improvements, before the situ:1tion pro~esse~ ~rc:r::.?.a~ to w<?rs~ ........ _ ......... _.. ·.~ .... ·.•.•.•.I\\.'.'AAo.NY_ .................. -\':-... • -.·.· ................. ·.·• ·.·.'·7-':o:':t- ·.~·-- ...... ~- ... ,. . . • •.• LETTERS La Herencia Latina To the Editor: Unfortunately it is perceived by many that the educational process begins anc ends in the classroom. This perception could not be farther from the truth. To borrow a quote from Piri Thomas, an Afro-Puerto Rican writer and poet, \The best thing we can do with truth is pass it down ... Punto!\ Sharing this sentiment, I will further his spirit and continue my mission of educatiflg and liberating the minds of the community as well as my own. With great pride, I share with you some knowledge of myself. This month is my month. This statement is true for every person of Hispanic descent. September 15 to October 15 marks the month presidentially proclaimed in 1968, to be Hispanic Heritage Month. During this month, Hispanics take time out to outwardly express their respective cultures in hopes of educating and liberating the miHds of those oppressed by ignorance. Hispanics populations have both migrated and immigrated west from many different cultural departures, spanning from Costa Rica to Nicaragua. As the Hispanic community is so diverse, the celebration of its culture takes on a myriad of perspectives. Politics, food, music, dance, religion, art: these are but a few aspects of the Hispanic culture. From the commemoration of Mexico's independence from Spain on Sept. 27, 1821 to the continuing struggle for Puerto Rican independence, the political history of the Hispanic community is continually enriched. As for our physical nourishment we find Paella from SIJain, Platanos frito from the Dominican Republic, and Pasteles from Puerto Rico to name a small sample. No celebration of Hispanic culture would be complete without dance. The tango, merengue, salsa, and many more dances have been brought to the western world by the Hispanic community. With our dances has come our music as well. Columbian cumbia, Domini- can merengue, and the revolutionary voice of Puerto Rica11 plena are again but a small sample of our heritage. To fully develop a comprehensive understanding of every aspect of Hispanic culture is not my intention. Instead, I only hope to inspire a spark of will in others to want to leam more. This month we celebrate Hispanic heritage, however, we should all celebrate our respective heritage at every waking moment. If you wish to learn more about Hispanic heritage, read a book, speak with a Hispanic, and keep your eyes open for Latino Heritage Month sponsored by the African and Latino Alliance of Students later this year. Wishing the entire community a joyous, educational, and liberating Hispanic Heritage Moath, I ask that we all reach into our cultwal baggage and assist in the celebration of our diverse human community. J. X. Kotright Gonzalez Jr. Class of '93 Good Things Come To Those Who Wait To the Editor: On behalf of Gamma Phi Beta, we would like to thank Dean Mammola and the administration for our new home in Hickock House. Even in the short time we have been back, we have enjoyed immensely the luxury of our house, as it serves several functions, such as an ideal place to hold meetings and events. Additionally, having our own lounge and kitchenette All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on he Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. • ,. • • • <O • • .s • . '•r~' '* ,. • ~ \ ~ ~ \' .• has been a great convenience. As a sorority, close relations and bonds among sisters and neighboring Greek organizations play a vital role in our degree of involvement on Union's campus. Therefore, we are grateful for having the opportunity to live together, as a true unit, in our new house. 1 Editors~in-Cbief News Editors Feature Editors International Features EditQr En\irornnental 'idiiQr Commeniad~ iwtors Business Manager · Subscription Manager Honorary Faculty Advisor Additionally, we would like to congratulate the sisters of Sigma Delta Tau on their new house, and extend our warmest wislles to the Union campus for a. truly successful year!!! With sincerity, The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta Steven Carr, Stephanie Fray Jeff Green, Jordan Lippner Sari Skolnik, Eric Czech Lame Tumidajewiez Isabel Liriano David llurg. . . . Reella: Manirnalethuj> tea Lewis · JullieMe<Iow NOO ·.--.· .. ··w.:· .·au· .. ,.er. ' .. · .. ·· ·Julie$¢klung l:>f~a :Sr<>&ky ;.Nicole:Ool\'1#1 · · :oan Sttutn . ·· h .• \...1' rlt.;.. . . . . ,;;rtJ;Vl\;J' '-'IRJ · Wen<ly·Or~d T ....... .-....,;1· Ai ···\ ·> ·. t;. ~,\D · .L.<!)UW'v: .tMe5SKI~ .Pe¢~,1>P$\g Lauren Bycotif, .Jennifer Shulkiltt Rachel Tuck Atll1tea Rogers Andrew Rosen C. William Huntley STAFF: Jennifer Atdinger. Greg llarrett. Natalie Bennett, Ron Birnbaum> Kimberlee Brody. Stephanie Davis, Allison C. Epstein. Ron Eugenio, Michael Ezra, Erica Frank, Seth Friedman. Ali sa Gass, Jason Habinsky. Jon Henes. Karen Hurwitz, Jon Keller. Meg Parsotts. Lisa Pinney, Sreedhar Samu<lrala; John Schachnovsky~ Jared Seiter, Matt Tucker, Chris Williams} Sybil Zanger. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith CONCORDlENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308: Publications Orftce; Susqmehanna Pu:blications, Inc., Box 388~ Sidney, New York 1383-8 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate! $40 per year. delivered -anywllere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions .oo Conc()f'diellsis office, College Center, Uni(}l1 Colt • ~()RC~rdiensis subscribes to the Intereolle~date Press · . , . Oft1ee Te.eplione (518) 370.. 61.S5} Adve··· 'J:(Jl¢p~oite (5;18)(3t/();.()494.. · · . ··• < , · :::,_~~:_.,_,_ >::~t~,.,?:·-;;:- _,, .· .-; .. · .,;:·· .. ;·.:·:--- ~-::·:~;i~'/::~r<::t\; .. ,::;!ti.· .. ·~:~/·.-~·~L:·~~-~- _._:: .· ·\ ~ ···· , ·

The WRUC Record Reviews Fortified with 10 Essential Vitamins by Matt Fuller Summer has gone the way of Milli Vanilli ... The trees are changing color, the birds are leaving, and school is back in full swing. Another ·year of classes. Another year for excessive consumption of controlled substances. Another year of deadlines for record reviews. With aU of {his stuff, who needs the Olympics (or a Presidential race)? Grab a bottle of something cold, a member of the opposite sex (preferably hot), and sit back and enjoy the newest music on the radio. Now that's a school year! First record review of the year goes to a new band called Nirvana. Check them out! NIRVANA • Neyermind (DGC): From the first song, the characteristic styles associated with the Pixies can be seen weaving in and out of this album. While not a bad comparison in any way, this three-man band from Seattle is out to make their own mark with their debut album on David Geffen's new label. College charts beware- Nirvana has arrived! Guitarist Kurt Cobain seems to be the spiritual leader of the band. His entrancing abilities both complement his group and seem to give them their energy. On the lead track \Smells Like Teen Spirit,\ Kurt opens with a solo which sets up the pace for the entire album. Screeching lyrics, heavy bass, and great drum playing combine to form a foundation which any musiCian would be proud to be a part qf. This song is guaranteed to rocket up the college charts, · and could possibly make the big crossover. This song grahs hold of you and doesn't let go until you've felt Nirvana's power. Easily a candidate for \Best New Group\ by any standard Unclassifiable, is about .the best way to defi.ne the collection of songs. While blues and :funk influences can be found everywhere, songs like \Breed\ balaHce on the verge of hardcore. \Polly\, a song about a parrot and a woman (used interchangeably throughout the song), illustrates a new trend in college music. Either these guys need to be institutionalized, or they've jumped on the \have the lyrics make no sense\ bandwagon. Aside :from 1he aggravation of trying to review the record, the lyrics don't detract at all from the songs. For a dehut album, this is unquestionably one of the strongest I've heard to date (especially for a band that's not from Manchester). This album will be charging up the charts, and a tour of city clubs will follow. Give the album a listen, and if you can catch them live, do so. Judging from what I've seen, it will be one hell of a show. Interesting album cover, too. I give it 4 and a half slurpees (out of 5). WHAT'S NEW AT PROCTOR'S ... A CHORUS L!NE Friday, October 4-Sunday Oct. 6 at 8 pm and Saturday and Sunday Matineesat 2 pm LES BALLETS AFRICAINS Thursday, October 10 at 8 pm RAY CHARLES Wednesday, October 16 at 8 pm DANA CARVEY Saturday, October 19 at 8 pm *Call 4069 for selected tickets to some of these shows, or Proctor's at 346-6204. Reading by Tobias Wolff The Department ofEnglish of Union College is pleased to present a reading by Tobias Wolff at 8:00 on Thursday, October 3. Tobias Wolff is the author of several collections of short fiction, including In the Garden of the North American Martyrs. ThE Barracks Thief, and Back in the World, and of a memoir, This Boy's Life. He teaches at Syracuse University. He will be appearing at Union under the auspices of the Lamont Visiting Professorship, as part if this year's series on the art of autobiography. The reading will take place in the second floor lounge of the Humanities Center on the Union Campus. Admission is free, and the public is welcome. Che lrnprov Gcune Show Based on the TV show \Whose Line Is It Anyway?\ as seen on the Comedy Channel This Friday, Oct. 4th at 8 pm in the Nett. Free Refreshments Not to mention some hil~rious improv! October 3, 1991 t10K05C0PE5 f?Y LOL-LI LIURA: SCORPIO: Return to school often means a return to stress. Don't let the pressure get you down because you are more fun when you are \stressless\. Things that you are comfortable with are so easy to return to even though you kno. w they may not be right for you. Spend time thinking of posture and negative aspects before rushing back to old friends. SAGITTARlUS: Even though you are extremely social in natute 1 it will be good for you to spend a few m9me11ts alone tlus week to focus on your needs. You will fmd out a lot about yourself. CAPRlCORN: You sly dog-you're up to your old tricks again', aren't you? Althougli honestly is usually the best policy, you realize that the truth coUld butt the ones you care abOut. Just don't let situatioos get beyond control. AQUARIUS: You already have many new interests this week ranging from academics to sports to love. Rearrange them to see where your priorities lie. PISCES: You already may feel down and in the dumps. H you persevere until your troubles are overcome, you will realize that things. can only get better, ARIES: Love deffuitely has its complications. Don't forget all the good times when you are enumerating all of !lie bad times. The best way to get through a lover's squabble is by communicating your true feelings. Don't be afraid. You love all these new experiences and op(Xlrtunities that are coming your way. Don't neglect people who are important to you when it comes to fmding new ones. Your keen intuition will keep you out of trouble this time. Be careful to not let your insight go to your head because you are fallible. TAURUS: GEMINl: CANCER: The one person who J:lerks your interest this week is playing games and is ilifficult to figure out. Be patient with yourself, and you will see that it will all go your way in the end. Do not try to rush a ~ood thing .. Obsessions are in the air for you th1s week. These are bad obsessions so do not .get carried away concentrating solely on them. People are noticing and it could be embarrassing foryou.- LEO: VIRGO: It's a shame that apol<?gies are not part of your vocabulary this week. Your pride gets m -the way of what's right and what's wrong. The Mountebanks Dramatic Reading Series presents an oral rendition of trrru~ ~©~rp~ij ~©©©rr~ ~lfU@ ~© M~rfk performed by Alison Boden, Assistant Protestant Chaplain Union College Tuesday, October 8th, at 7:00 pm in CC302 Free Admission Refreshments will be served START WRITING! Enter Playboy's College Fiction Contest. Submit an original, unpublished story. Maximum length: 25 typed, double spaced paged. Contest is open to all university students, regardless of age. Deadline is January 1, 1992. Send your manuscript and a \3x5\ card with your name, address, telephone number and college affiliation to: Playboy College Fiction Contest 680 N. lake Shore Drive Chicago, IL 60611 First Prize: ·3,000 AND publication of your story . in the October '92 Playboy.

ART!i &. ENT'ERTAII\IMEI\IT <lrnnrnrbirttsis Coming ... October 11th on Poet An11e Waldman to Read October 3 at Writers Institute Michael Heller and }one Augustine October 8 and 9 An informal student run social place on the Union Campus in College Center Room 302. To get involved contact: Devra Esidn Box 640 386-M27 I·J>IiE\75 f!tj)il4:f•J~tJt~\lfJ:~t AT. 890; SCHENECTADY 374·Z40J ROTTEROAM SQUARE ROBIN HOOD 4:20, 7, 9tl5 THE FISHERKING 3:50, 6:40, 9:40 LATE FOR DINNER 5:1 0, 7:15, 9:20 DEAD AGAIN 5:15, 7:20, 9:30 FREDDY'S DEAD 5:40,7:40, 10'00 TERMitiATOR 2 4:30,7:10,9:50 CROSSGATES12 :ROBIN HOOD 12:30,3:30, 6:30 9:35 'TERMINATOR 2 12:45,3:45,6:45,.9:45 LIVE ·IN LARGE 1:25; 4:05, 7:25,. 10:05 THE FISHER KING 12:50,3:50,6:50,9:50 FREDDY'S DEAD Poet Aane Waldman, who has develoJJed an international repatation as a performer of her own work, will resent a reading at 8:00 .p.m. on Thursday, October 3, 1991 in the CampMs Cmter Assembly Hall on the University of Albany's uptown campus. The reading, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by the New Y crlt State Writers Institute. As a reader-perfonner of her own work, Anne Waldman has pe11formed from coast-to-coast as well as throughout Europe. She has read with numerous other j}()ets and often complements her reading by using music and dance in her performances. Waldman :is the fou11der (along with Allen Ginsber.g} of the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics at Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colocadt>. Currently, as director of that pr<>gram, she designs and organizes the poetics and writing ·programs. Waldma11 has published numerous books of poetry including .Bay Breakdown (19'70), Make Up on Empty Space (19S4), Skin Meat Bones (1985), and her forthcoming collections Jovis O~nnia Plena and Kill or Cure. In addition to her bool<s, her poetry has appeared in anthologies and journals including The Partisan Review, The Paris Review, Rolling Stone, The Village Voice, and The Yale Literary Magazine. She has received numerous awards for her poetry. Among them are The Dylan f'homas Memorial Award (19fJ7), The Poets Foundation A ward 0969), The National Literary Anthology Award (197()), and The Bennington College Alumni Award for Achievement in the Field of Poetry (1981). Her TV-style videotape Uh-Oh Plutlmium! won a first prize blue ribbon at the American Film Festival as part of the Manhattan Video Project. In addition, Poets Michael Heller and Jane Augustine will read from their W()rk on October 8 and 9, 1991. Heller wHI read at 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday, October 8th in Humanities 354 011 the University at Albany's uptown campus. Augustine will read at 12 noon on Wednesday, October 9th, also in Humanities 354. Heller has published numerous collections of poetry includiRg Two Poems (1970), Knowledge (1979) and his most recent collection, J n the Builded Place (1990). He has contributed numerous articles and poems to literary journals and national publications · includingNation,llarpers, The Paris Review, and Parnassus: Poetry in Review. Heller's co lle·ction of essays, Conviction's Net of Branches won the DiCastagnola Award of The Poetry Society of America. He teaches at New York University. Augustine's poems have appeared in Ms., Aphra, Montemora, California Quarterly and numerous other literary magazines. She has two chapbooks, Lit By the Earth's Dark Blood (I 977) and Journeys (1985). She is currently associate professor of English and Humanities at Pratt Institute. For additional information contact the Writers Institute at 518 442-5620. ,~,;]1~ti1~~~!· 370·19~0 AL . CHENECT ADY' 1':30, 4, 7:30, 1 0 NECESSARY ROUGHNESS 1 :~5. 3:55, 7:15, 9:55 DEAD AGAIN Les Ballets Africains at Proctor's MOHAWK MALL . NECESSARY ROUGHNESS THE COMMITMENTS DECEIVED THE DOCTOR FREDDY'S DEAD THElMA & LOUISE UVEINLARGE 5:10, 7:25, !1:50 5:25, 7:35, 9:45 4:30, 7, 9:30 5:40, 7:40, 9:55 4:30,9:30 5, 7:20, 9:20 1 :10,3:40,7:10,9:40 THE DOCTOR 12:40, 3:25, 6:40, 9:25 LATE FOR DINNER 12:55, 3:15, 6:55, 9:15 DECEIVED 1 :05, 3:30, 7:05, 9:30 [)()C HOLLYWOOD 12:35, 3, 1 0:10 CITY SLICKERS 12:35, 3:05, 6:35, 9:05 ~fo~l All of the magic a11d the mystique of the Dark Co11tine11t will be on view Thursday~ Oct. 10, at 8 p.m. when LES BALLETS AFRICAINS showcase the culture of their people in music anddance on Proctor's stage. Voodoo, Obeah and Nanigo also come into play as LES BALLETS AFRICAINS incorporate scenes of witchcraft and magic in some of the most exciting dance sequences ever seen in the west. Contact Julie Medow at x4075 for information The 4() year old troupe, with its 35 Guinean traveling ambassadors, will present a dramatic program of war dances, ceremonial rites and mating da11ces as they pay homage tc their various Gods in the tribal lore that has been handed down through the centuries. The West African beliefs in For more than 30<l years, African dances were ex.pcrted to the islands of the Caribbean and, subsequently, to North and South America, by way of the slave trade. And there are those who claim that these pulsating rhythms were the roots of the d.ance-o-mania that swept the west in the form of Tile Cake Walk, The Black Bott()m, The Lindy Hop and The Mambo. Tri Delta•s ··oance For Life .. to benefit American Cancer Society S~aturday /Sunday October 12- 13 8 pm-8 am Music-Food- Entertainment -Prizes DJ from PIX 1 06 and VLAD Look for registration and tee-shirts in the college center DON'T MISS THE CHANCE TO DANCE FOR LIFE! The group's colorful costuming boasts an incredible array of tex.tures (often mixing fabric and grass~s), styles and shapes, accented by an assortment of masks depicting humans, animals, departed spirits and the Gods. The troup's exhibition of a raw, primitive energy is unparalleled. The men leap, high in the air, like Cossacks. They circle the stage in a series of spins and turns, bodies paralleling the floor. They spin on their heads. They dive into the stage, and they pivot on one hand as they are driven by the drums into a seething kaleidoscope of color and movement. This is a monumental evening of theatre and dance -- one that has justifiably been called \the epitome of black magic!\ PROCTOR'S: LES BALLETS AFRICAINS Thurs., Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. Ticket prices: $18, $16, $12 Under12:$9,$8,$6 AUDITIONS For One Act Comedy '\When God Comes For Breakfast You Don't Burn The Toast\ by Gary Apple 7 pm in the Nott Memorial Theatre Thursday Periormance is on Saturday. October 19 ..

16 aLvltfllrbitttsis CAMPU!i I\IEW!i October 3, 1991 Earn Fabulous FREE Spring Break Vacation while meeting new people and earning cash. Work at your own pace. Energetic, highly motivated outgoing individuals needed. Call Bob at Campus Holidays 1-800-627-4 791 between Spm - 10pm CST. WANTED: \Coppertone Spring Break Trip\ student representative to promote trips to Cancun, Nassau, Barbados. Jamaica, Daytona and Orlando. Best programs available ANYWHERE ... earn cash, free trips, plus more. Call for more information 1-800-222-4432 (9-5 p.m.) ADDRESSERS Wanted Immediately! No experience necessary. Process FHA mortgage refunds. Work at Home. Calll-405-321-3064. BOOKWORMS! Read Books For Pay! Earn $100 a title! Free recorded message reveals details. 813-852-8707 HeatWave Vacations, Inc. is looking for bright, personable individuals to promote our European Skiing and Caribbean Spring Break trips. Earn free vacations and big paychecks. For more information, call Gregory t (800) 395- WAVE. TRAVEL SALES REPRESENTATIVE STS, the leader in collegiate --------- travel needs motivated individuals and groups to promote Winter/Spring Break trips. For information call Student Travel Services, Ithaca, NY at 1-800-648-4849. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS to students or student organizations promoting our Spring BFeak Packages. Good Pay & Fun. Call CMI. 1-800- 423-5264. STUDENT OFF CAMPUS POSITIONS: Occasional sitter needed for 5 yr. old boy, 2 1/2 yr. old girl, most of time for 2 1/2 yT. old girl. Flexible schedule worked out for morn., afternoons or evenings. Own transportation preferred - $4.00/hr. Please contact Marci@ 399-2807. U • N · I • 0 • N • 'S FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4 HOMECOMING WEEKEND 3 p.m. S & EN116. Engineering Division speaker Anthony Rizzo, AT&T, speaking on \Finite Element Analysis: A Practical Perspective.\ 3:45p.m. HUM213. Philosophy colloquium: Josiah Gould, SUNY-Albany, speaking on .. Aristotle & St. Augustine: Pagan and Christian Thmights About Contingency.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center Aud. Film: .. Backdraft.\ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5 HOMECOMING WEEKEND 10 a.m. Fieldhouse. Volleyball vs. Hartwick and Russell Sage. II a.m. Garis Field. Women's soccer vs. Wells. 11 a.m. Tennis Courts. Women's tennis vs. Albany. 11 a.m-Noon. Old Chapel. CDC open house. 1I :30 a.m. Alexander Field. Homecoming picnic. II :30 a.m. Lamont House Porch. Music by Dutch Pipers and Gamet Minstrelles. Noon. Memorial Chapel. Bells concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Noon. Saratoga State Park. Men's, women's cross country. Union Invitational. 12:15 p.m. Annual Homecoming parade. 1:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Football vs. Norwich. 4 p.m. Schaffer Library plaza. President's reception. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Backdraft.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Speaker's Forum presents P.J. O'Rourke, author, humorist political commentator and regular contributor to Rolling Stone Magazine. SUNOA Y, OCTOBER 6 HOMECOMING WEEKEND 9 a.m. College Center. Homegoing brunch. 10 a.m. Memorial Chapel. Homecoming chapel service. 1 p.m. Garis Field. Women's soccervs. St. Lawrence. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Ecumenical Protestant worship. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Backdraft.\ MONDAY, OCTOBER 7 6-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student forum. 7 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee football vs. Albany. 9 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8 7 p.m. College Center 302. Dramatic reading series: Assistant Protestant Chaplain Alison Boden speaking on \The Gospel According to Mark.\ 7 p.m. Fieldhouse. Volleyball vs.NorthAdams and Williams. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9 11 a.m.-6 p.m. CollegeCenteratriwn. Hispanic Heritage Month. Noon-] :30 p.m. College Center 203. Staff association meeting. Noon-4 p.m. Memorial Fieldhouse. Career Festival '91. 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Recycling com- mittee meeting. 7-9 p.m. College Center 406. Peace Corps information session. 7:30 p.m. Old Chapel. The Department of Political Science sponsors a panel discussion with Eric Hoffman, SUNY-Albany, Prof. Bob Sharlet (both recently in Moscow), and others on the current situation in the Soviet Union. 7:30-9 p.m. College Center 410. Recruiting information session. 7:30 & 9:30p.m. College Center aud. Film: \House Party.\ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10 11:30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents performance artist Erika Batdorf, who will examine gender identity and how it expresses itself through dress and movement. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy colloquium: Berel Lang, SUNY -Albany, speaking on .. The Style of Method: Philosophy and Literary Fo:rm.\ 3:45p.m. S & E N114. Physics colloquium: A:m Silversmith, Hamilton College, speaking on \Upconversion Excitation: A New Way to Make a Laser Work.\ 4 p.m. Saratoga State Park. Women•s cross country. Capital District meet. 5 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center 302. Cabaret. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Terminator II.\ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12 11 a.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field hockey vs. Middlebury. Noon. Upper Class dining hall. Tri Delta dance marathon. 12:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee field hockey vs. Middlebury. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Women's soccervs. Platts- burgh. 8 & 10:30 pm. College Center aud. Film: \Terminator ll.\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. EcUIIienical Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. FUm: \Terminator ll.\ DOCTOR'S OFFICE looking for student worker. Clerical work, no typing. Balltown Road - 20 hours a : week flexible. Own If anyone is interested in Volunteer Tutoring, positions are still available. Contact Barbara Cash at Box 279 or phone 386-4181 immediately. Did you know lhat alumni transportation. Please contact Carol Conti @ 374-1444. , contributed over S 1.8 million PART TlME Filing Clerk - , to the 1990~91 Annual Fund? $5.50/sr. starting - flexible · Their donations supported hours - few hours each day - student organizations, location Chrisler Ave. scholarships, intramurals, term Rotterdam. Please contact abroad programs, library and Nancy bast or Kim Cross @ laboratory facilities, and many 377-6451. other programs. -------------~----~ LIVE-IN PERSON to help handicapped teacher. All day free 8 pm to 8 am or 4 pm to 8 am. For further information please contact 371-7661 leave message. Location - Glenville · area. Did you know that every year, more than half of Union's alumni give to the Annual Fund to help sup].Jort academic programs for.current students? Did you know that Union's ' Annual Fund is believed to be S T U D-EN T S 0 R the oldest annual giving FACULTY· Need help w.ith program of any American school papers, legal college? It was follnded by documents, etc. using word Charles Waldron '06. processor, please contact 356· ' 4267, leave message ! · Did you know that almost Rotterdam area. 2,000 .alumni volunteer every year to help raise funds for VAN V RANKE N · · Union's Annual Filnd? That's a Spacious 3 bedroom ·. radio of one volunteer for every apartment, corner of Nott St. student! Off-street parking with garage. ; ------------ Lots of storage in attic. . To My Two Star Pupils: $500/month + utilities. Lease · Congrats on getting lip + security. Call Dave at 584- · Saturday night. LoveHAK. 8483. =======li HeyOC- PER!iOI\IAL!i ~~~ Play games all night long ----------- : because J.E. just keeps going and going and .going. From Turd, your power tripping Co-arm. Hope you're having a blast! I miss you tons! Love,LB To all Sisters: Get psyched to dust, sweep, scrub, polish, decorate .... while thinking sweet thoughts of Donna. Allison Come Support the Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau at the Annual M & Mathon Friday, 12:30, outside the College Center. To Beth Welch: • Nice to spi113 tirnes! The voice whlspered •. .\Build H and they will shop.' We want otJr towels back!!

s i y !iPDRT!i Soccer And New Coach Start Fast Women'S X-C Continued from page 20 Flanking the centers at wing Popper. playing an excellent are freshman Stu Savage at job at net and picking off right and senior Brett Miller at airball crosses. With excellent left leadership abilities, Popper In addition to skill is the displays sheer courage and force of the center line. So heart, does not lose mental states Nardiello, \We've got focus on the ball, and is big, strong guys down our aggressive and confident. spinal column in Mela, Back on defense to help Chodoscb, and Hodson. desire is to make Union as competitive as ,possible and re- establish its heyday enjoyed in the mid-80's. And Union is on the road to doing that after its first four well played games. At Hamilton, despite its being a very physical team, Union dominated. T'he players controlled tempo, rhythm, and cr.eated many scoring opportunities, two of which were put away for a comfortable opener. Union Women's Cross- Country team has stepped up to the line with the right foot forward~ They began the season with the defeat of Oneonta State placing all of their runners in the top six. The following weekend they faced one of their toughest courses of the season over the steep terrain at Williams College. Diana Spenello took her freshman spunk and tackled the course with vigor. However, it was obviously only a warm-up to this weekend as she had a fantastic race at Union, taking first place and breaking the course record with an impressive time of 19:58.8. The entire team competed well, with Tasha LaBare and Cyndi Hunter both setting PRs, as the women took second to Hamilton and defeated Siena. Popper out closest to net is Defensively; I don't expect us Hodson, whose· job it is to to get musclelWff the ball.\ coordinate command of the And tllen come the midfielders and defenders as upfielders. At one forward sweeper. At stopper is striker position is freshman returning sophomore starter Jeremy Liebhoff, who shows Dave Chodosch, who marks outstanding speed, is a great out the opponent's most shot, a good..scorer, and a good dangerous forward Chodosch finisher. Opposite Liebhoff is allowed only one goal in the sophomore Mark Olesen, a first three games. Covering at powerful possession striker and right wing is Epstein, a good _ powerful shot with deceptive marker, who makes speed for his size. Both are overlapping runs on his flank. powerful, opportunistic Albany was very emotional, its team made up of the coaches' former students. Albany, scoring within the first minute of the first half, pressured for the game, but Union rose to the occasion and came back from behind, remaining calm and composed. Sticking to the game plan, the team implemented a full- pressure strategy, scoring within the last ten minutes of the game and again for victory. Savage found net, assisted by Olesen, as did Meta, assisted by Sollinger. :Undefeated Football Squad 'Ranked 6th At left is junior Dan Wilmont, strikers. a good marker who distributes Overall, the team is very the ball well from the back and versatile and strategy 'laries helps initiate an attack from with the opponent. The the defensive third. Dutchmen can play with smart Working up the center line and quick teams, whether very to midfield finds senior Jeremy big teams like Hamilton or Sollinger and sophomore Jeff skillful teams such as Albany. Mela in the main positions. The ball is kept on the ground, Sollinger is responsible for and midfielders and defenders keeping the rhythm and attack overlap and are sprung into of the game going with his attack, part of a strategy known experience and vision. As the as switching the attack, to \point guard,\ Sollinger must create space for strikers. While create scoring opportunities defensively the squad has with his passing. Bringing worked wen, as there is a need skill and distribution to the to build from the back first, midfield is Meta. Strong in the there is now an emphasis on air, Mela is also a scorer, the middle and attacking thirds putting in the winning goals of the field to get forwards and versus Albany and Middlebury. ·strikers to attack. The simple DINNER Wednesday Oct. 9 Kosher Kitchen *Please bring meal cams Middlebury, previously undefeated and ranked fifth in the state, was taken as the best win. Cortland was seen as an opportunity to play a defending NCAA N.Y. state regional champion. Cortland was experienced, consisting mostly of seniors. Nardiello's program offers proiJlise. The team's confidence is still strong, determined to play competitively against future opponents. Union plans to get back on track, facing a tough schedule. Upcoming games include the two-day Manhattanville Tournament and Siena later in the week. Continued from page 20 that it might be one of the better offensive units that Union's had. That offensive line is big, strong and dominating. They dominated us more up front than the Ithaca team did.\ And while the starting front five have thus far done an outstanding job opening holes, protecting quarterbacks, and helping to produce over 40 points a game, they have also given their heir apparents plenty of opportunity to play and learn their trade. \The strength, skill, and maturity of our offensive line allows us to do a lot of different things,\ said Bagnoli. \The reason that we've been so Division Ill 1. Cor~and St., (2) 4-0-0 71 2. Ithaca (2) 340 69 3. Alleghany, Pa. (4) 440 63 4. Wash. & Jeff .• Pa. (1) 340 53 5. Lycoming, Pa. 340 46 6. tnon 3-0-<) 42 7. Dickinson, Pa. 340 32 B. Ramapo, Pa. 340 2l 9. Susqualanna, Pa. 340 21 1 o. Williams, Mass. 2.00 1e · successful moving the ball thus far has a lot to do with the consistency and overall outstanding play of the entire offensive line.\ The Champion Upstate New York Poll Union remained in third place behind Ithaca and Cortland. The Dutchmen picked up one first place vote and 48 points followed by Rochester (13), and a tie for fifth between Alfred and Buffalo State (11 points each). Senior running back Vlad Telemaque is second in rushing with his 139.0 per game average and tied for first in scoring with an average of 12 points a game. Classmate, and running mate, Alex Felipe is seventh with his 98.7 rushing average. Senior punter Mike Richardson leads the punting race with a 41.4 average while senior quarterback Brett Russ is third in the quarterback dual with a 118.6 rating. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Join us in partaking of the Bountiful Fruits of the Moha-wk Valley A cornucopia of apple *Macintosh *Empires *McGoun Only 25¢ thru the month of October • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • .. .

1s @.lllt!llrbttn.sis Rockwood tends to Football's Vlad Telemaque Rockwood Olympic Bound Continued from page 20 side of athletics. It was just something I knew I wanted to do.\ Rockwood is a pioneer in the field in that while there are a good many women in the profession, there still aren't many women who are head trainers. A trainer, by nature of the job. doesn't get much, if any, recogaition by the fans in the stands. However, a good trainer is vital to the success of a team. \Most people s0e us (the trainer) as the ones who tape an ankle or put ice on an injury,\ explained Rockwood. \While those things are important, what•s more important is the ability to try and prevent injuries, and then to treat injuries that do occur in such a man11er as to get the athlete back on the playing field as safely and as quickly as possible.\ Head football coach AI Bag noli labels the work that Rockwood and her staff do as \invaluable.\ \Besides the coaching staff, I don't think anyone knows the playe1s better than the trainers do,\ said Bagnoli. \They work very closely with the players and make some very important recommendations to the coaches. Though they don't get the recognition they deserve, Cheryl and her staff are a big part of our overall success.\ Whea an injury does occur, Rockwood, or a member of her staff, is usually the first one to the athlete's side. An imme(iiate evaluation is done and tlle first major decision is made; should the athlete be movecl, and if so, in what manner. Once on the sideline, Rockwood further examines the injury and questions the injured party as to the location and severity of the pain. It is here that Rockwood's personal knowledge of each individual who partie ipates in intercoHegiate athletics at Union comes in handy. \We get to know the players' personalities. and that is one factor that helps us determine the severity of an injury,\ Rockwood explained. \It's also one of my favorite things about being at Union; getting to know the players as people as well as athletes.\ \There is something different every day and that is what keeps the job interesting,\ she explains. \You really can't compare the training profession with medical professions that people are familiar with: nurse, physical therapist, doctor,. physician's assistant. I think it's a unique occupation with the same goal as the more familiar medical roles, helping people heal when they are injured and taking steps to prevent injury.\ A trainer's life is definitely not nine to five. It is one of long hours and a great deal of time spent traveling on buses with the various teams. For Rockwood the reward comes with the knowledge that Union's athletes are given the very best of care. \I'm very proud of what we do here at Union,\ she said with a smile. \Between Mike (assistant trainer Mike Frawley) and myself we cover a lot of events throughout the year. the college has provided us with excellent facilities and equipment, and we have the respect of both the doctors, the coaches, and probably most importantly, the athletes.\ NHL Preview • • • Continued from page 19 Turning to the always competitive Patrick Division is like opening a can of worms. Defending champion Pitts])urgh gets the early nod. However, picking a Patrick champion is as hard as hearing a pin drop in Chicago Stadium during the play-offs. With a healthy Lemieux and Coffey leading the way, it is just hard not to pick the Penguins. The ncx t three teams are interc.hangeable, but because of a total bias towards the Washington Capitals, I will take them next. On the other hand if Dino Cicccrelli has a year as in previous seasons, the Caps could battle Pittsburgh for first place. Next up is Lhc ever powerful Rangers. With Brian Leetch and Bernie Nichols backed up by Mike Richter (if signed), Lhe Rangers will continue to be a force. The fourth play-off spot belongs to the Devils. !iPDRT!i October 3, 1991 Women's For Soccer Squad Gearing Up Successful Campaign Courtesy of Sp<nts Information. The 1991 edition of the women's soccer team at Union College has 1he same goa;l as its 11 predecessors; to become tlte fifst Dutchwomen squad to finish at or above .500. Third- year head coach Suzanne :Zaloom feels that this year's squad has a better chance to accomplish tbat goal than any CJf the other teams had. ''I'm excited and confident about tile upcoming season,\ said Zalooin, who has directed ttle program to records of 4-9-2 ~nd 5-10-0 in her initial two !leasons. \We've .got talent, we've got experience, we've got youth, and we've got veterans. We've got a lot of hungry players who want to make people take notice of the soccer accomplishments at Union College.\ The Dutchwomen got out of the gate quickly last year with their 4-2 mark. However, the women wound up losing eight of their final nine contests, including the last five in a row. A dozen letter winners return from last year's squad, but it is a freshman goalkeeper who Zaloom feels will be the catalyst of this year's team. Rookie Jennifer Manna has been \outstanding\ during preseason and is the main reason for Zaloom's optimism. \Jen is a hardnosed, aggressive player who comes from an excellent high school :soccer program,\ said Zaloom. \Her take charge personality and her .ability to direct people on the field has made it easier for the defense to concentrate on their jobs and not worry about what the goalie is doing. The team has a lot of confidence in Jen, and that's an accol!lplishment when you consider that she's a freshman and that we've only been in preseason since September 5 .\ Junior Meghan Howell returns to her sweeper position. Howell, who transferred from Syracuse after her freshman season, did an excellent job as Union's starting sweeper last year. She will be backed up by freshman Liz Landa. The left fullback position will be anchored by sophomore Sarah Dingledy. Dingledy, MVP o(her high school team as a senior, had a solid season in 1990 while earning a varsity letter. The right side is up in the air with a quartet of freshmen battling for the starting spot. Deanna Johnston, Marcie Heffernan, Stacey Rainey, and Chris Nytransky are all expected to see quality playing time this year whether or not they start. \This is a solid group of freshmen whom I expect to get into the lineup often during the course of the year,\ stated Zaloom. \Most of them can play a couple of positions, it's just a matter of finding the right spot for them.\ Sophomore Chris Weske returns to her stopper position while classmate Allison Foster is back as one of the two defensive midfielders. Nytran- sky and freshman Gretchen Mock are battling for the other starting spot. Scoring goals on a consistent basis has always been one of the team's historical problems. This year the goals may come a little easier based on the success the attack unit had last season. Senior Cindi Butler led the Dutchwomen in scoring as a freshman in 1988 with five goals and 10 points. She dropped off to just one goal as a sophomore before neuing four goals last season to fi.nish third on the team's scoring chart. Senior Herrika Poor who ran track in this summer's Empire State Games, moves from fullback, where she has played the last three years, to midfield. Up front, the Dutchwomen return their top two scorers from a year ago in seniors Debbie Danforth, and Jen Holder. Holder, who transferred from North ·Carolina at Greensboro after her sophomore campaiga, set the team's single-season scoring record last year with 7-3-17 while Danforth placed second with 6-2-14. In two seasons as a starter, Danforth has 10 goals and 25 points. Complementing Danforth and Holder will be sophomore Tina Mesiti. \We don't have any individual stars on this team and the players know that,\ stated Zaloom. \Our success will come if everyone a) works hard at their position, and b) works harder to help each other out. In other words, this has to be a total team effort in order for us to achieve the very realistic goals we've established for ourselves. . \Overall we have a young team, but I feel we're experienced. We started six freshmen last year and they're all back this season. Our senior leadership is excellent. This team has grown together over the last two seasons and I feel we're ready to reap the benefits of that growth.\ Men's Track Opens With Victory; Follows Up With Finish at Williatns by Greg Barrett The men's harriers started off the season with a big victory ()Ver SUNY Oneonta. The team wasn't sure what to expect after losing two of its runners to summertime injuries, but the freshmen carne up big sending the Dutchmen to their first victory. Junior Ed Dorsey led {he Dutchmen with a time of 28:34 to capture a third place finish. This was a new PR for The Russian connection along with Scott Stevens will give them a chance at an even better spot in the standings. The Islanders and Flyers will battle for the highest draft pick. Neither of these teams is ready for the ever increasing power of the Patrick Division. The Stanley Cup Champion of 1991-92 will only be decided by the teams that make it into the playoffs the healthiest. Enjoy the season and GO CAPS! Dorsey who had an average per mile of 6:04.7 Freshmen Chuck Clerici was fourth crossing the line in 30:23. Marc \Socks\ Sheridan cashed in for a fifth with a 30:30. Senior Co-captain Greg Barrett was close behind in 30:33. Rich \Gumby\ Zembek rounded out the upperclassmen with a 33:06. Mark \Spot\ Weisman rounded out the team with a debut appearance of 35:53. Co-captain Zembek was impressed with the harriers hard work to pull off this win. Last Saturday, the harriers travelled to Williams College for the annual Williams Invitational. They finished 12th out of 18 teams with a total of 483 points. Ed Dorsey was again the top finisher. His 30:05.7 scored him a 73rd and a new average per mile PR of 6:03.3. Greg Barrett was the next finisher for the Dutchmen in 89th place with a 31 :02.3. Marc \Socks\ Sheridan was a mere seven places behind in 31:27.3. Chuck Clerici overcame his ankle ailments crossing in 31:50.8 in 108th place. Senior Rich \Gumby\ Zembek picked up a new PR of 32:42.2 finishing in 117th place. The Dutchmen are at home this week against their arch- rival Hamilton. They run on Saturday at 1 p.m. on campus . Be sure to come out and cheer them on. On Monday they enter their now infamous DOUBLES to prepare for post- season. Their foes should remember them in their prayers ...

r::c: L.U :r: &3 u:: ~; a. >- ID 12 Q a: ~ a. ';1 u. Alex Felipe powers through the line as Union Improves to 3a0 This year's Crew Team looks to e:x:cell, p. 1.9 October 3, 1991 Uns~ng Heroes Help Dutchmen Gr1dders Topple Danes 47-7 by Dan Strum Sports Editor and Sports Information In the last 33 games dating back to the third contest of the 1988 season, the football team at Union College has a record of 29-4. The current Dutchman players, who set a college mark for consecutive wins (15) by capturing the last two of that '88 campaign and the first 13 of the 1989 season, extended their recent win streak to It- straight last Saturday when they defeated local rival Albany, 4 7-7. The victory was the 79th for lOth-year head coach A1 Bagnoli. As is the case with all football games, the backs and receivers captured the limelight as the Dutchmen picked up 427 yards enroute to their second largest point output of the campaign. But it was the unsung heroes, the offensive linemen, who once again opened holes big enough to drive a truck through. Seniors, guards Bill Dean and Jim McLaughlin and tackles Jason Evans and Pat Varley along with junior center Art Leventis are largely responsible for Union's offensive success this year. Consider the following statistics in Union's performance thus far. _ In the three games, Union has scored 49, 44, and 47 points. _ The Dutchmen have compiled 558, 459, and 427 yards. _ The rushing game has picked up 366, 244, and 292 yards. _In two of the three games both senior tailbacks Vladimir Telemaque and Alex Felipe (who are not on the field at the same time) have gained over 100 yards. _Union's quarterbacks have not been sacked at all, and in fact have been hurried only twice. Hobart hit senior Brett Russ as he released in the third quarter and Albany forced Russ out of the pocket (for a three- yard gain) on Saturday. Last year the line gave up just eight sacks (in 10 games) for 30 yards. Union's starting <lffensive line is a veteran group that has played together for the better part of the last four years. Dean, the 6' 1, 260-pound left guard, is in his third season as a varsity Starter while Evans, the 6'1, 260-pound left tackle, is in his second year as a starter but saw considerable playing time while winning a letter as a sophomore. McLaughlin, the 6'1, 235-pound right guard, and Varley, the 6'3, 260-pound right tackle have had the same type of career a.s Evans. Leventis (6'0, 235) is in his first season on the interior line after winning a letter last year as a tight end. Albany coach Bob Ford had a lot of praise for the Dutchmen linemen following Saturday's game. \They're good,\ Ford said. \I felt going into the ball game Continued on page 17 Men's Varsity Soccer Off To A Flying Start by Ron Birnbaum The '91 soccer season has started off extremely strong for the men's varsity soccer team here at Union, with a 3-1 record. Considering the tough line-up faced including an opening home game versus Hamilton ( a 2-0 win), and three away games against Albany (a 2-1 win), Middlchury (a 1-0 win), and Cortland {a 2-U loss), Lhc close loss to state top-ranked Cortland can hardly be, considered a shameful feat. One cannot but have faith in Union first-year head-coach Aldo Nardiello and his optimistic program, newly taken over from eighteen-year Union head coach Bob Magee, who led Union to nine post-season tournament~ and high success in the mid-80's. After last season's 5-8-1 record, 4 losses of which were in overtime, the team is looking to take the upswing once again. \The team is basically young and every game is a learning experience,\ stated Nardiello. \I only see us getting better. .. we feel confident that we're getting better as we mature and gain experience over this season.\ With a string of credits as both a player and a coach, Nardiello helped Albany State to a four- year record of 51-16-3, and led the squad to three consecutive ECAC tournaments from 1988-1990, winning the title in 1989. Despite the apparently tough schedule of nine consecutive away games, including a Manhattanville tournament coming up later this week, it has not hurt Union yet, presently ranked ninth in the northeast region. Road trips are seen as opportunities for better team unity and bonding. Though Union faces some of its toughest challenges upon return home later in the month, including RIT and Williams (ranked nationally) and St. Lawrence, and Clarkson (ranked in the state), it looks forward to vocal crowd support. One of the keys to the squad's maturity as a team will be the effectiveness of captains Adam Epstein (defender) and Don Hodson (defender), and fellow seniors Jere my Sollinger (midfielder) and Brett Miller (midfielder). The squad is comprised otherwise of four juniors, six sophomores, and nine freshmen. Als() elemental as part of ibis year is second- year sophomore goalie Lee Continued on page 17 Cheryl Rockwood Lives A Dream As Union's Head Athletic Trainer Courtesy of Sports Information has spent her summers in Oklahoma, Minnesota, and most recently, Los Angeles as As the head ttainer for Union a member of the Olympic College's men's and women's Sports Festival training staff. intercollegiate athletic teams, It was on the recommendations Cheryl Rockwood is living a of the people at the Sports dream. As the trainer for the Festivals that Rockwood was United States Winter Olympic assigned to this year's Winter Biathlon Team, Rockwood will Olympics. realize another dream when she \Everyone on staff goes heads for Albertville, France through an evaluation process,\ this February. explained Rockwood. \You \Being selected as an advance or are retained on the Olympic trainer is a goal I've recommendations of your been working toward for a long superiors. Needless to say, it's time,\ said Rockwood, who a great honor to be selected to came to Union as an assistant one of the Olympic teams.\ in 1988 and was promoted to While herOlympic selection head trainer the following year. is the result of a good deal of \It's a once in a lifetime quality hard work and study, opportunity that is not given Rockwood considers her job at to too many people.\ Union the realization of a Rockwood earned her lifelong dream. bachelor of Science in physical \I've wanted to be an athletic education with a concentration trainer for as long as I can in athletic training from remember,\ she said. \I've Centtal Connecticut College in always been involved in 1985. She completed her athletics (she played field master of science in education hockey, basketball, and softball with an emphasis in athletic at Barnstable High School in training at Old Dominion Hyannis, Massachusetts and University in 1986. Prior to basketball while attending coming to Union~ Rockwood Central Connecticut). I wo~ked as_ an assistant at ~e considered a career in coaching Umted States Olymptc at one point, but I was much Training Center in Lake Placid~ more interested in the medical Since coming to Union, she 1 Continued on page 18 r

• <-•ou • Alex Felipe powers through the line as Union i~mproves to 3-0 This year's Crew Team looks to excell, p. 19 October 3, 1991 Unsung Heroes Help Dutchmen Gridders Topple Danes 47-7 by Dan Strum Sports Editor and Sp(lrtS l nformation In the last 33 games dating back to the third contest of the 1988 season, the football team at Cnion College has a record of :29-4. The current Dutchman pbyers, who set a college mark for consecutive wins (IS) by capturing the last two of that 'RiS campaign and the first l3 of the 1989 season, extended their recent win streak to I 1- :-.traight last Saturday when they defeated local rival Albany, 47-7. The victory was the 79th for lOth-year head coach AI Bagnoli As is the case with all football games, the backs and receivers captured the limelight a<; the Dutchmen picked up 427 yards cnroute to their second largest point output of the campaign. But it was the unsung heroes, the offensive I inc men, who once again opened holes big enough to drive a truck through. Seniors, guards Bill Dean and Jim McLaughlin and tackles Jason Evans and Pat Varley along with junior center Art Lcventis are largely responsible for Union's offensive success this year. Consider the following statistics in Union's performance thus far. _ In the three games, Union has scored 49, 44, and 4 7 points. _ The Dutchmen have compiled 558, 459, and 427 yards. _ The rushing game has picked up 366, 244, and 292 yards. _ In two of the three games both senior tailbacks Vladimir Telcmaque and Alex Felipe (who arc not on the field at the same time) have gained over 100 yards. _Union's quarterbacks have not been sacked at all, and in fact have been hurried only twice. Hobart hit senior Brett Russ as he released in the third quarter and Albany forced Russ out of the pocket (for a three- yard gain) on Saturday. Last year the line gave up just eight sacks (in 10 games) for 30 yards. Union's starting offensive line is a veteran group that has played together for the better part of the last four years. Dean, the 6' 1, 260-pound left guard, is in his third season as a varsity starter while Evans, the 6'1, 260-pound left tackle, is in his second year as a starter but saw considerable playing time while winning a letter as a sophomore. McLaughlin, the 6'1, 235-pound right guard, and Varley, the 6'3, 260-pound right tackle have had the same type of career as Evans. Leventis (6'0, 235) is in his first season on the interior line after winning a letter last year as a tight end. Albany coach Bob Ford had a lot of praise for the Dutchmen linemen following Saturday's game. \They're good,\ Ford said. \I felt going into the ball game Continued on page 17 Men's Varsity Soccer Off To A Flying Start by Ro11 Birnbaum The '91 s<lcccr season has started off ex.trcmcly strong for the men's varsity soccer team here at Union, with a 3-1 record. Considering the tough line-up faced including an opening home game versus Hamilton ( a 2-0 win), and three away games against Albany (a 2-1 win), \1illdlerury ra 1-0 win), and Cortland (a 2·U loss), the close loss to state top-ranked Cortland can hardly be considered a shameful feat. One cannot but h.ave faith in Union first-year head-coach Aldo Nardiello a11d his optimistic program, newly taken over from eighteen-year Union head coach Bob Magee, who led Union to r1inc post-season toumamcn ts and high sun·css in the mid-8()'s. After last season's 5-8-1 record. 4 losses of which were in overtime, the team is looking to take the upswing once again. \The team is basically young and every game is a learning cx.periencc,\ stated Nardiello. \I only sec us getting bctter ... we feel confident that we're getting better as we mature and gain experience over this season.\ With a string of credits as both a player and a coach, Nardiello helped Albany State to a four- year record of 51-16-3. and led the squad to three consecutive ECAC tournaments from 1988-1990, winning the title in 1989. Despite the apparently tough schedule of nine consecutive away games, including a Manhattanville tournament coming up later this week, it has not hurt Union yet, presently ranked ninth in the northeast region. Road trips are seen as opportunities for better team unity and bonding. Though Union faces some of its toughest challenges upon return home later in the month, including RIT and Williams (ranked nationa11y) and St. Lawrence, and Clarkson (ranked in the state), it looks forward to vocal crowd support. One of the keys to the squad's maturity as a team will be the effectiveness of captains Adam Epstein (defender) and Don Hodson (defender), and fellow seniors Jeremy Sollinger (midfielder) and Brett Miller (midfielder). The squad is comprised otherwise of four juniors, six sophomores, and nine freshmen. Also elemental as part of this year is second- year sophomore goalie Lee Continued on page 17 Cheryl Rockwood Lives A Dream As Union's Head Athletic Trainer Courtesy of Sports Information As the head trainer for Union College's men's and women's intercollegiate athletic teams, Cheryl Rockwood is living a dream. As the trainer for the United States Winter Olympic Biathlon Team, Rockwood will realize another dream when she heads for Albertville, France this February. \Being selected as an Olympic trainer is a goal I've been working toward for a long time,\ said Rockwood, who came to Union as an assistant in 1988 and was promoted to head trainer the following year. \It's a once in a lifetime opportunity that is not given to too many people.\ Rockwood earned her bachelor of Science in physical education with a concentration in athletic training from Central Connecticut College in 19 85. She completed her master of science in education with an emphasis in athletic training at Old Dominion University in 1986. Prior to coming to Union, Rockwood worked as an assistant at the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid. Since coming to Union, she has spent her summers in Oklahoma, Minnesota, and most recently, Los Angeles as a member of the Olympic Sports Festival training staff. It was on the recommendations of the people at the Sports Festivals that Rockwood was assigned to this year's Winter Olympics. \Everyone on staff goes through an evaluation process,\ explained Rockwood. \You advance or are retained on the recommendations of your superiors. Needless to say, it's a great honor to be selected to one of the Olympic teams.\ While her Olympic selection is the result of a good deal of quality hard work and study, Rockwood considers her job at Union the realization of a lifelong dream. \I've wanted to be an athletic trainer for as long as I can remember,\ she said. \I've always been involved in athletics (she played field hockey, basketball, and softball at Barnstable High School in Hyannis, Massachusetts and basketball while attending Central Connecticut). I considered a career in coaching at one point, but [ was much more interested in the medical Continued on page 18 Thursday, Oct .. ' . . . . Women's Tennis at Vasear .· Frjday, Oot. 4 · . · .. ·. 3:30 F~d Hockey at Maohattanvill& . Saturday•,. Oct 5 . , . Foatoau.. v-a. No , : · Men's So~&t al ·. ; ~ttanvllla Tourney Woman 1 s $()Ccervs. W~Us . . .J womf!r;\!$1Tt~mrnl$v.S 1 A1bany · Men's & Women's X -Country Union Invitational , ... ·... . .· Volley,J,lall vs. Hartwick, Russell Sage ; ·.·· Sq;tblr~.~Yr ()~t~ ~·: : . •·.· . . . . . . . ··. Women: a~ J \l$~ Sl'. . nee . . ',W~~~-·~~Jl- ... ,;,,.<,,~, .. :, ... ;· /,;:;:; .. ~::::r:.,. ,_ . .,:; ,;: 4:00 100 11:00 11f(L. ·. 12:00 10:00

I' J: C'~ . \l· <t:,.lcu.:o'f • ~- Founded at Union College 1877 CXXI, No. 2 Schenectady, October 10, 1991 Political Satirist English Department Sets Guidel·ines For Two Fraternities Excel: Speaks at Union Minor In English Courtesy of English Department The English Department has literature from the early 1600's just established a minor in · through the early 1800's. Other English. Six English courses deal with American Department courses are required · novels, short stories, and for the English minor. All poetry. students are required to take : If a concentration in British English 19, Major English Literature is chosen, a variety Authors I (Chaucer-Milton); · of classes are offered to fulfill English 20, Major English' the English minor •. Courses Authors n (Milton-Keats); and· discussing specific authors English 22, Major American such as Shakespeare and Authors (Emerson-Twain). : Chaucer are offered as well as Students may earn a minor jn more general courses dealing General English Studies, or a · with the literature of certain minor with concentration in periods, such as \Nineteenth American Literature, British Century Novel.\ Literature, or Writing. Students who choose a field of The English minor choosing concentration must take their a concentration on Writing can three elective courses in the take the three Creative Writing area of emphasis. Workshops. In these courses students discuss their own Students choosing to works of poetry and fiction. concentrate on American Literature for the English minor may choose from a number of electives dealing with different genres of American literature from colonial times up to the present. For example, English 72 (Literature of a New Nation) discusses the origin and development of American Students choosing a minor in General English Studies may select any three English courses to fulfill their minor. Questions regarding the English minor may be answered by any member of the English Department, located on the second floor of the Humanities Building. ,_ Phi Gamma Delta Wins Brown Cup The Steven P. Brown Award given annually to the fraternity which excelled in academics, intramural sports, and service to the college, was presented to the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta this past Homecoming Weekend. The award was established in memory of Steven Brown, a Union student who was killed in a Long Island Railroad crash. Brown was a member of Phi Sigma Delta, and upon his death, the . brothers of his house sought to · establish this award. Their efforts were successful as the award has been a coveted prize given annually since 1952. For Fiji, it was their third Brown Cup in the last five years. Congratulations to the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta. Through Charity and Scholastics by Jo:tdan Lippner News Editor Demonstrating the well- rounded characteristics which embody Greek organizations here at Uni()n, two fraternities, Theta Delta Cbi and Phi Sigma Kappa have made their mark in areas outside,the social realm. Through their efforts last spring, the brothers of Theta Delta Chi raised $250 through their annual tuck-ins which they subsequently put to charitable use. Their fraternity cook informed the m~mbers of the house tlutt his daughter was tutoring an 8 year old girl who suffers from ·cystic fibrosis and is hearing impaired. The young girl, Arene Phelps, is severely restricted in her activities because she has fluid in her lungs. As a result, essentially all she can dC> for entertainment and activity is read. Subsequently the house decided to use the funds which were raisecl through the tuck- ins to purchase a closed caption machine for Arene. The machine, which prints the words from television shows across the t.v. screen as they are spoken by the actors, now has made it possible for Arene continued on page 2 by 'Elissa D. Hecker \A journalist is like a doctor. The first part of the Hippocratic Oath is \do not harm\. The public's need to know and the public's right to know is very important. But obviously it's not the only important thing. Where do I draw the line? Well, it's just a matter of whether it's important or not. .. you have to come up with some sort of situation where somebody's rights are going to be violated but it's very important that the public should find out\ P.J. O'Rourke. Political satirist, public speaker. journalist, Republican. Author of five books, working on his sixth. A battle-scarred lecturer for eighteen years. Sponsored by the campus organization Speakers Forum, O'Rourke spoke to those members of the Union and Schenectady communities who wished to listen and question on October 5th in the Memorial Chapel. Born 194 7 in Toledo, Ohio, O'Rourke has led a charmed journalistic ·life. He graduated from Miami of Ohio, majored in English, then decided that he wanted to write poetry and fiction for life. One day he was sitting in on a lecture and became slightly interested in writing an article. He wrote for a little local paper, then moved on to New York to become a journalist-not out of love for his work, but in order to etch In This Issue: New Catholic Chaplin At Union -page 2 Black Flannel Curtains and A Dead Field Mouse -page 5 out a living. \Yes I've published a couple of itty bitty poetry books, and I've written some short stories. Basically, I began to realize when I was in my mid-twenties that I wasn't any good in writing fiction, and that I did kind of have a knack for journalism. So, what had started out as a way to support myself, became my life.\ During the 1970's O'Rourke worked at National Lampoon. He became Editor-in-Chief there in 1978, and held that position until 1981 when he quit, because he was \too tired, too old at thirty-three.\ At the Lampoon, Mr. O'Rourke began to format conservative idealisms. Several of his co- writers at the Lampoon were also blooming conservatives. One notable member was John Huges \I'm proud to say he once worked under me. Now he can buy me and sell me on an hourly basis.\ In the early 1980's, O'Rourke worked as a Hollywood writer for a brief period. \I really hated it.\ During the middle 1980's, he applied to and was accepted at Rolling Stone Magazine and has been there ever since. He operates as a political correspondent. O'Rourke has travelled and covered Lebanon, South Africa, South Korea, Israel during the Infada, most of Europe, and he has recently returned from his third trip to the Soviet Union. He was also in the Philippines during the insurgent war, and Pakistan during the Soviet pullout. O'Rourke has covered six wars, six revolutions, and \all sorts of civil disturbances.\ By choice, he has covered Central American nations several times. \Wherever there's trouble, that's where there's stuff to write about.\ O'Rourke has authored five books, the latest being Parliament Of Whores. He is currently working on his sixth. When asked which of his works he most favored, his response was \The favorite one continued on page 2 Union Crew Wins Head of the Mohawk -page 20

., , .,l'c '4 \\\ tl '\'£CT p,t1'1: • Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. CXXI, No. 2 ... , ..... · .•.·. ·-.-: ... :.·-:-: .. -·:· .. ·.:·· ··.· •' .··· .·.·:· ..... ··.·.·-:--····:-''··: .·:·.·'·'. -:-: ..... Political Satirist English Department Sets Guideli:nes For Two Fraternities Excel: Speaks at Union Minor In English Courtesy of English Department The English Department has literature from the early 1600's just established a minor in through the early 1800's. Other English. Six English courses deal with American Department courses are required novels, short stories, and for the English minor. All poetry. students are required to talce · If a concentration in British English 19, Major English Literature is chosen, a variety Authors I (Chaucer-Milton); · of classes are offered to fulfill English 20, Major English · the English minor. Courses Authors II (Milton-Keats); and · discussing specific authors English 22, Major American such as Shakespeare and Authors (Emerson- Twain). . Chaucer are offered as well as Students may earn a minor in more general courses dealing General English Studies, or a with the literature of certain minor with concentration in periods, such as \Nineteenth American Literature, British Century Novel.\ Literauue, or Writing. Students who choose a field of · concentration must take their three elective courses in the area of emphasis. Students choosing t() concentrate on American Literature for the English minor may choose from a number of electives dealing . with different genres of · American literature from colonial times up to the present. For example, Englisb 72 (Literature of a New Nati()n) discusses the origin and development of Americ:1n The English minor choosing a concentration on Writing can take the three Creative Writing Workshops. In these courses students discuss their own works of poetry and fiction. Students choosing a minor in General English Studies may select any three English courses to fulfill their minor. Questions regarding the English min or may be answered by any member of the English Department, located on the second floor of the Humanities Building. Phi Gamma Delta Wins Brown Cup The Steven P. Brown Award given annually to the fraternity which excelled in academics, intramural sports, and service to the college, was presented to the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta this past Homecoming Weekend. The award was established in memory of Steven Brown, a Union student who was killed in a Long Island Railroad crash. Brown was a member of Phi Sigma Delta, and upon his death, the brothers of his house sought to establish this award. Their efforts were successful as the award has been a coveted prize given annually since 1952. For Fiji, it was their third Brown Cup in the last five years. Congratulations to the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta. Through Charity and Scholastics by Jordan Lippner News Editor Demonstrating the well- rounded characteristics which embody Greek organizations here at Union, two fraternities, Theta Delta Chi and ?hi Sigma Kappa have made their mark in areas outside the social realm. Through their eff()rts last spring, the brothers of Theta Delta Chi raised $250 through their annual tuck-ins which they subsequently put to charitable use. Their fraternity cook informed the rnembers of the house that his da11ghter was tutoring an 8 year ()ld girl who suffers from cystic fibrosis and is hearing impaired. Tile young girl, Arene Phelps, is severely restricted in her activities because she has fluid in her lungs. As a result, essentially all she can do for entertainment and activity is read. Subsequently the house decided to use the funds which were raised through the tuck- ins to purchase a closed caption machine for Arene. The machine, which prints the words from television shows across the t.v. screen as they are SJloken by the actors, now has made it possible for Arene continued on page 2 by Elissa D. Hecker \A journalist is like a doctor. The first pa.rt of the Hippocratic Oath is \do not harm\. The public's need to know and the public's right to know is very important. But obviously it's not the only important thing. Where do I draw the line? Well, it's just a matter of whether it's important or not... you have to come up with some sort of situation where somebody's rights are going to be violated but it's very important that the public should find out.\ P .J. O'Rourke. Political satlnst, public speaker, journalist, Republican. Author of five books, working on his sixth. A battle-scarred lecturer for eighteen years. Sponsored by the campus organization Speakers Forum, O'Rourke spoke to those members of the Union and Schenectady communities who wished to listen and question on October 5th in the Memorial Chapel. Born 194 7 in Toledo, Ohio, O'Rourke has led a charmed journalistic life. He graduated from Miami of Ohio, majored in English, then decided that he wanted to write poetry and fiction for life. One day he was sitting in on a lecLUre and became slightly interested in writing an article. He wrote for a little local paper, then moved on to New York to become a journalist-not out of love for his work, but in order to etch New Black Flannel In This Catholic Curtains and Chaplin A Dead Field Issue: At Union Mouse -page 2 -page 5 out a living. \Yes I've published a couple of itty hitty poetry books, and I 'vc written some short stories. Basically, I began to realize when I was in my mid-twenties that I wasn't any good in writing fiction, and that I did kind of have a knack for journalism. So, what had started out as a way to support myself, became my life.\ During the 1970's O'Rourke worked at National Lampoon. He became Editor-in-Chief there in 1978, and held that position until 1981 when he quit, because he was \too tired, too old at thirty-three.\ At the Lampoon, Mr. O'Rourke began to format conservative idealisms. Several of his co- writers at the Lampoon were also blooming wnscrvativcs. One notable member was John Huges ''I'm proud to say he once worked under me. Now he can buy me and sell me on an hourly basis.\ In the early 1980's, O'Rourke W()rked as a Hollywood writer for a brief period. \I really hated it.\ During the middle 1980's, he applied to and was accepted at Rolling Stone Mag:Hine and has been there ever since. He operates as a political correspondent. O'Rourke has travelled and covered Lchanon, South Africa, South Korc3, Israel during the Infada, most of Europe, and he has recently relUrned from his third trip to the Soviet unio11. He was also in the Philippines during the insurgent war, and Pakistan during the Soviet pullout. O'Rourke has C()vcrcd six wars, six revolutions, and \all sorts of civil disturbances.\ By choice, he has covered Central American nati()ns several times. \Wherever there's trouble, that's where there\ stuff to write a!HJUt.\ O'Rourke has authored five books, the latest being Parliament Of V\'lzure.1. He is currently worki11g un h1s sixth. When asked wh1~h of hi~ works he mo~l favored, his response was 'The favorite one continued ()fl page 2 Union Cre'v Wins Head of the Mohawk -page 20

1\JEW§ October 10, 1991 New Catholic Chaplin At Union Theta Delta by Tom Fallati \Stimulating challenging, and friendly\ is how Sister Marie O'Ryan describes her experience at Union College so far. She arrived this past August as the new Catholic chaplain, and already feels welcome. Sister Marie is settled in, and has an ambitious agenda for the Catholic Campus Ministry for the coming year. O'Rya11 holds a Master of Divinity (M.Div) from Catholic Theological Union at Chicago. After graduating from CTU last June, she moved on to her new position at Union. She succeeds Sister Joan Vlaun, who moved back to parish 111inistry after eight years of service at Union. O'Ryan chose campus ministry because it combines academic . : and pastoral demmds. As such, it presents many opportunities for her to put her M.Div to work as a W()fllan in the Church. \I am not ~teaching per se, but the1e al'e teaching moments in life,., slle says, and the job of camp11s minister offers many such opportunities. A.keady, she I says, she has been able to draw I on her theologica.l training in . several instances. I Sister Marie hopes to I incorporate educat:ion and faith in her ministl'y to the students at Uni()ll, She wants · to challenge stadents to think about their ~wn faith development, and the values that they hold. Slle will also try to help them develop relationships. of ll[](ierstanding, · compassion, and tolerance, and to create an apJlredation for diversity amon~g students. Finally. she wants to involve Theological 1Jn ion, which serves as the vnrnary school of theology for ov•er thirty religious orders. She also found the quality of her professors to be excellent, admitting, \I wa.s spoiled there.\ Her studies also included courses at the Weston School of Theology in Massachusetts. While studying Marie had two rewardin·g pastoral experiences. First, s:he worked in a racially rni::xed parish in Oak Park, on the West Side of Chicago. There, she instructed adults who plannedon entering the campus ministry in outreach to the community. O'Ryan brings ~ diverse background to her new position. At CathoTtc P.]. O'Rourke Speaks At Union contin11e<1 from page 1 is always the next one... the one I'm writing now. It's called 1 All Of The Trouble In The World and it's about eve:rytiling ·j that keeJlS people up at night- ! plagues, pollution, money, 1 power ... \ What is the key to his success? \Hard work and a lot of it. I've been doing this for twenty-()ne years. If you stick at something long enough ... \ When asked if he still considered himself to be a hard- drinking, womanizing, con- servative, and an astute member of the NRA, ORourke laughingly replied \all of the above except for the womanizing, well-.1 guess womanizing, except now it's singular.\ As for the hard drinker: I\rr slowing <lown a bit, you know It's age.\ What sort of stories and people does O'Rourke cover\ Politics worldwide. However, \I don't like interviewing people at all. I hate to do, intervieVt's. And basically their reason, this is especially true of important people, politically important people, is that they don't get to be politically importallt by being dumb enough to tell the truth to journalists. So all they're going to tell you is the same line of baloney, pre-cooked.\ \I don't usually write about· people rnuch. Most people are absolutely unreliable. It's much better to watch what people do and listen to what they say ... \ O'Rourke's staunch views on United St2tes politics has been reptesented throughout his columns, books, and lectures. \I like the government structure all right. I don't 1ih i the government. It's the nature · of the system. Government is a lousy way to solve most people's pmblems. It is a large blunt tool. It's excellent at a few things. It\s very gocd in national defence, Government is good for certaill large, social programs-up to a point.\ Asked about hjs stance on such large social programs such as the Franllin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal, O'Rourke was very negative. \No I think: it was: a disaster. I think it was a disaster that we are only now truly understanding the: price. And the incredible growth of federal government under :Roosevelt in not only the size of expense, but of its power. And, oddly enough, Roosevelt was fairly restrained in his views. But the seed once planted, tlle plant is very hard to trirn back. And twenty or thirty years on, there was just an explosion in the involvement of fed.eral govern- ment in personal life. It is that which has caused our budget crisis, it is that which has caused the inner <:ities to be what they are toda:y. An awful lot of problems tbat we face in the United States .are a direct result of Lyndo11 Johnson's Great Society which is the plant that grew from Roosevelt's seeds.\ O'Rourke is a firm supporter of the laissez-faire theory. He feels that the g()vernment should quit growing, and leave people alone. \I believe that the basic suuctures that our founding fatllers set out to create have long been in place in th0 system. We should quit adding to them.\ \Of course I'm in favor of lower taxes ,and less government i11terference. Government interference does not work. You see,.. there is no other way to ins11re human dignity than f() leave people alone. That's tlie whole purpose of the Co11stitution. I just came back from someplace where they didn't leave people alone for seventy years, and believe me, y1>u think you have little problems :here in the inner cities or 'Detroit or something? Take a look at the Soviet Union. Lea-ve people alone. People are cre2ted equal. People are masters ()f their own fate.\ \I believe that ,p-eople are born in control. People are animals, they've got all sorts of instincts, they're hamsters. Very big, furless lumsters ... Anybody that's been around children knows th~y're not good, they're not bad-they're just kids. And it is society, and socialization, family, values that they grow up with that helps guide them. Some people seem to have an inclination for evil, and some are certainly inclined to be good, but basically, people are neutral. I don't believe that people are good. That's tile liberal fallacy ... Nor do I i:Je\lieve like libertarians do, that people are inanely rational... No, people are very emotionaL. •• A devout Republican, O'Rourke voted twice for Reagan. \Well I'm not a lover of the political system, no- I'm not a fan of myl>ody-I'm not. Reagan's no hero, but of course I voted {()I: him-who else?\ Did he a'}>.!> rove of Reaganomics? ··well, it worked.\ How about its after effects? \You're aJy,rays going to have that. Y 011'1e never going to have a ten to twelve year political peri()d without having that sort of tbring. This isn't a bad recession. Take it from me-I'm forty .. four years old. This is not a bad recession. This is very, very minor.\ Although it m.ay come across that O'Rourle is anti- government, the fac:t of the matter is the opposite. Do we have the best gcverrtrnent in continued C)J, page 3 the Church. She later served as a chaplain in a hospital, ministering to AIDS, cancer, and heart patients. On duty as the sole chaplain for the hospital's intensive care and cardiology units, she regularly dealt with deaths. O'Ryan comments that each experience strengthened her as a person, and deepened he.r sensitivity to the pain that others experience in their lives. The oldest of nine children, O'Ryan was born and-grew up on Chicago's South Side. Sister Marie holds a B.A. in English Literature from the University of Illinois. After college, she spent several years in various busi11ess positions. Then, she decided to enter religious life. O'Ryan entered the religious community of the Society of the Sacred Heart, because of its emphasis on prayer life and its focus on education. .and Chi S,igma ~Kappa Shine continued .from page 1 brothers have made an immeasurable impact on the life of an 8 year old girl. In other Greek news, the Beta chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa, at Un,ion College, recently received a Grand President's Special Achievement award for their excellence in scholastic achievement. This special award was established for ,those chapters who were committed to the Fraternity's second cardinal principle. Members of Union's Phi Sigma Kappa chapter received this award this past August at the Fraternity's 53rd General Convention. Student Forum Spotlight Tllere are some very important iss11es currently being decided that will have dramatic effects on student life at Union. Accordingly, the Student Forum is incorporating student interests into the decision-making process. In addition to dealing with the perpetual issue. of campus safety, the Forum will now be challenged by the contmversial Gmelch Report on Residential Life and the inadequacies of the College's new mission statement In past years, the issue of safety in the isolated up- campus area has always been a problem. While requests for increased lighting have been fulfilled, the !lrea remains somewhat secluded and dark. Due to the influx: ()f women to this .area, more comprehensive measures must be taken to ensure the safety of all up- campus students. The Forum also recognized the need to eliminate the exploitive use of the escort service as a taxi service. Tile Gmelch Report and the mission statement are both controversial and far reaching in implication. For these reasons, the Forum is formulating a survey in an effort to more directly involve the students in the decision- making process. The Forum urges everyone to please read the copy of this advisory report in this issue of the Concordy. Also, the most recent draft of Union's Mission S taternent is being studied by each forum member in the hope that we will be able to formulate a more concise and accmate statement of purpose. The President of the Forum will be meeting with both President Hull and Dean Mammola this week to discuss a wide range of topics. While the aforementioned issues will certainly be discussed, the geneml purpose of this meeting will be to develop a working ' relationship between the ' Forum and the administration. · Please contact any Student Forum member with information that should be brought to the knowledge of these administrators.

October 10~ 19~1 I\IEW§ }.·~·· ,.... O'Rourke Amuses Union continued from pa.ge :! the world? \Oh yes, absol11tely. Probably the best, ,the bes·t large country in the wo:rld. But that doesn't mean it\s ~er:y good. Look at i'fVh() the competition is.\' O'Rourke does not believe • that the governme11t is (lne · hundred percent t{) btaiYl:e,. however. We llave 10 understand that when we accuse · congressmen of being lazy, we . have to understand it's not · much we ask . ...them t(} d<i. We vote for them, aiLd we :in.sist that they do all tfuese ti:Jin~s. The problem i:s us, the problem is not gov.ernrnent.\ P.J. O'Rolilrke lias boeen considered to- be one of the finest political journalists in pipes, and my friend said that America. As a good journalist 1 what he liked about the piece I \I keep my eyes open. The wrote was that I was the only nicest compliment that anyone one who noticed that the gave me... a photographer students had, :all the while that friend ... we were covering the they were trashing and presidential elections in Korea · fight in g , kept t h e. about three or four years ago, bathrooms clean. That really and we got involved in all of said something about Korea.\ these incredible riots, these \There's only two things t() huge student riots. And these tell any writer. To write, students grabbed a municipal something that takes a11 building like a city hall ... and enormous amount of practice, they held it for a number of· unless you're a genius, ancl days. There was a huge fight statistically speaking, no one with the police when the police is. And read. This is something raided the place and beat up the·· I really run into a lot of now. students, marched them off to 1 People want to write without jails. And the students had 1 having read. It just can't be built barricades and had been ' done. It would be like wanting fighting the police with . to be a musician without ever Molotov cocktai1s and inm i having listened to music.\ / I ! f: / I / BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI{ FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. yo u put more t.haa jlllst your savings into a retitementcDinpany. You put in your trust an<l 1-.o pes: :f<lr the future, too. So before y<>u c:hoc.s€ one, ask some questions. How stable rs the company? How solid are iits inve:stiUents? How sound is its overall fmancial hea.lth? A good place :to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts: Three companies, aU wiclely recognized resources for fJn<li ng .:>ut how strong a f;nancia( services C()Infl'al:ly really is, gave TIAA their top• g-rade. INTHEFIN.AL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LET'I'Eil-1.-ERFECT. TIAA receiv.ed A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Stamclard& J>oor's and Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TlAA 's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional fman cial strength, superior invest1nent performance, and low expenses. W1tln its guaranteed rate of return and opportunirry for dividends, TIAA is one of less than ten companies, out of Ens-uring: the future for tb.os<e who shape it:M 2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONESHOULDKNO~ For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's la.rgest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA -CREF. ,---------- -_-- I I I I SEND NOW FORA FREE !RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, including a Sptrial Rtpl'rf on TIAA investments. :'.lail this coupon to: TIAA-CRE.F. Dept. QC, 1730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call 1 800-842-2733. Ext. 8016. I ,\;moe• (Please print) I I A,l,lruJ' I City St.1tt Zip c,,,J, I lrutitulit>n (Full narne) I , I Tit/, lJcr.,vt inu Phmt~ ( ) !ly-.r. SorUll Smmfy # 1 TIAA·CREF Parliripan/ ~================================ _o_~_J'_O_N._n ________________________ ~CN~ © 'f!J9l 'niubtr.s lnJuranu aniJ A.naully A.r.soeialioa CoLlege Rdirenunt l!.quilie.r FuniJ. @JlltOlritirn.si.s 3 Reported Security Incidents DATE LOCATION INCIDENT 913.0/91 Dutch Hollow 1 0/1/91 Bailey Hall Vandaljsm-brpken window 1 0/1 /91 Nqtt Memorial Unauthorized entry and yandalism-student~-cooduc1 charges filed. · l 0/1/91 Vale Cemetary Vandalism-headstone 1 0/2191 Fox/Oayidson Vandalism-students car :jnterjor damaged. 1 0/3/91 Alumni Gym Vandalism-hole punched in ' 1 0/3/91 Schaffer Lib. Vandalism-broken table 10/3/91 HaleHouse Vandalism-broken window • 1 0/3/91 Butterfield Vandalism-running water hose placed josjde of building 1 0/3/91 Raymond Lot Vandalism-student's car- rear window smashed out. 1 0/3/91 payjdson Vandalism-Wall light pack sxterjor damaged by pellets 1 0/4/91 Raymond vandalism-broken wjodow 10/4/91 Achilles Lot Staff car damaged-hit and run Occurred on 10/3/91. 1 Q/4/91 Webster Lot Vandalism-student's car- yehjcle window smashed, 1 0/4/91 Alexander Eld Vandalism-tent pole-Alumni involved and identified, 1 0/5/91 Fraternity False fire alarm-tampering with alarm bells-conduct charges filed, 1 0/5/91 South Lane vandalism-Campus I nformatjon Map-($2,0QO, damage). 1 0/5/91 Alexander La. :lr4inor auto accident at curve 1 0/5/91 Union Ave. Harassment of two female studeots-yerbal obscenjtjes shouted at them as they entered -Gillespie area pedestrian gate, 1 0/5/9f Fox House Ventc!e~ parking ot wafki. and jawns, 10/5/91 Davidson Vandalism-Light over emergency telephone broken. 1 0/6/91 Fox House Intoxicated Visitor needed ·assistance, 1 0/6/91 Alexander Fld. Vandalism-tent poles 10/6/91 Dayjdsoo Assault-male student struck by another male student. 10/6/91 Dayjdson Prowler seen walking around the building lookjnq in windows. 10/6/91 Dayjdson Boyfrjend/Gjrlfrjend djspute. 1 0/6/91 Arls Vandalism-Professor's name .plate, 10/6/91 Huntley La, Vandalism-Visitor's vehicle- wjndow smashed out 1 0/6/91 Nott Memorial Abuse of access authorization. 1 0/6/91 Hickok Vandalisrn-wjndow broken 1 0/6/91 South Harassment-annoyance telephone call. j 01§191 Fox/Davidson Illegally parked yehjc!e-caused damage to lawn and recent pjpe repair, 1 0/6/91 Campus Opr, Staff membe(s car damaged by hit and run Act in TV ComDlercials 1\TO EXPERIENCE ALL AGES Children, Teens, Young Adults, Families, Mature People, Animals CHAIUI STUDIOS Call Nowt (313)542-8400, Ext. A-7t:14 Apply For A Position On Our News Staff. Call Steven Carr at 386-4154 or Stephanie Fray at 377-4039

4 ar.onr:ornirttstn CAMP:U!i BULLETI:N BOARD October 10, 1991 Hot! • an with syrup A specialty of the Dutch Hollow Restaurant For a limited time only . ---- -. . ' . . _,. . ' ' •' EDUCATION .FOR 1HE REAL WORLD Graduate degree programs (MA_, Ph.D) tn International Affatrs with an emphasis on ~ontemporary policy-relevant ISSUes. Area and Functional Fields: 0 Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Latin American Relations) 0 Soviet and East European Studies 0 Middle East Studies 0 International Relations 0 International Business Management 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Comparative Development 0 International Economics Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other fmancial aid. ~N 9fth· ~.qvt4 }:~~~~~ Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Admissions, Room # 382 Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 UNIVERSI'IY OF 99C BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI{ FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. yo u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a f~nancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER-PERFECT. TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co.,. AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa 2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. For further growth potential and diversi- ftcation, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. ,~----------~- from Moody's Investors Service. These 1 SENDNOWFORAFREE ratings reflect Tl:\A 's reliable claims-paying RETmEMENT INVESTMENT KIT abilit.v, e.xce ptional fmancial strength, I iflcluding a Srm.zl R,:p,>rt on TIAA investments. -. . . I .V\ai! this coupon to: TIAA·CREF. Dept. QC. supenor mvestment performance, and low 730 Third Avenue. New York, :\'Y 10017. Or call expenses. WJt h its guaranteed rate of return II 800-842-273.3, Ext. 8016. and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is I .v.und Please printl ~~~~~--------------------- one of less than ten companies, out of' I j tlclrlrt>.l.• 1 Ctf.v _..,.\/'( z,r c,,,)( ~------------------~~------- [ ln.•ltlulu•n (Full name) Ensuring the future 1 1 r, 11 , ')\v'\\' p 6 ,.,, r for those who shape it:\ ______________ .;...._ ____ __;_ ____ _ I Tf.-!rl·CRFF f',~rftciprmt llv''· S.•ruzl SMmty # 0 YcoJ o:v .. ~~============== CN © /991 r~chers lMur-.JUt anJ Annuity AJ>Fociatwn Colltgt Rdirenu:nt /1qtlilit!.r FunJ.

October 10, 1991 FEATURE!i <!rnn.c:orbirn.sis s Blac:k Flan·nel Curtains and A Dead Field Mouse b:v Andria Coletta Have y:ou ever been lost, wandering aimlessly, groping blindly through a field of towering corn stalks? I didn't think so. Then a,gain, neither have l. However, I'm pretty sure that if I llad been, I would've gotten nervous. I wouldn've g<ltten reaHy nervous ... my bead tight and burning, ... like a cleep red, warmly thr9bbing tomato. Come to think of it, that happens quite &ften. Maybe that's why I hate farms. So now I'm just sitting here on my brother's bed, counting the dots on his slteets. There are one hundred fmty-two so far ... one hundred forty-seven now. And d01:;t't try to tell me that he's not watching me, because I know he is. But the louder he laughs at me, the more I count. Did you know there are already one hundred sixty-six dots on your bedsheets Martin\l My mother named him Martin. My father named me. He named me by Dass Seaman After seven years of intensive therapy, I am finally able to write my :story ... About six of them followed me hDme to my dorm one day. I heard their little footsteps behind me and whenever I turned around, tl!ey'd play it cool like they were munching on an acorn. or digging in the ground. Then I walked forward again, turned around suspiciously. and they were all d()ing the same stuff, except the distance between us was the same as before. 1 walked again. \Red light green light one two three,\ I said reru.Iy fast and flew around. They had all advanced, and were frozen. \Hey you! You with the big bashy tail! You're moving. Go back to start!\ Re was pissed. The sore loser scampered up the nearest tree. Another time when I was walking alone at night (yes, I realize now I sho11ldn't do that) I was whistling a happy tune to myself. \Stayi11g Alive\ by the Bee Gees I t!J.ink. Anyway, I heard a rustling 11oise. Is there someone behind me? The horror movie suspense music drifted through the breeze, getting louder. It sounded as if sDmething was gbing to j11mp out at me from the bushes. All of a sudden (Jas<Jn music Eh! Eh! Eh! Eh!) - a squirrel wearing a hockey mask jumped out of the garbajle carrying a brcken plastic fork in his paw. I screamed as the varmit ran away. These grisly saber-toothed nut-munching fiends became the nightmare of my life. One grey Sunday I was walking around campus. Strange, I th<>ught. No one's around - WHACK! Ftnm out of nowhere, I was impaled by a Cornelius, then he died ... Fishing accident. He was one big bruise when he came home, water-logged and swollen, like a fat, bloated tick. · A seemingly just punishment. if I do say so. - In any case, I like to call myself \Jehovah.\ Mainly because in this movie I saw, some man was stoned to death just for uttering the word. This way people may think twice before trying to bother me. A pretty effective defense of my solitude, wouldn't you agree? I certainly think that Martin would agree. Martin gets the biggest kick out of this dot-counting hobby of mine. Every morning when I wake uo I count. There were one hundred thirty-three dots last time I counted, but I just wanted to make sure Martin didn't add a few while I was asleep. Martin can be an exceptionally crafty fellow when he's trying to trick me. But I'm very wary, let me tell you ... My mom tried to fool me the other day, but I was too smart for her. There were one hundred twenty dots on the sheets, and she tried to sneak a few more in. She tucked them right in the comer, behind a fold so I wouldn't see ... but I did. My mother went away this weekend, or at least I think she did, because I haven't seen her in a while. You know, I wish I remembered, because Martin is really starting to annoy me. Martin really likes to watch me count thot1gh, he really does. Sometimes he'll just sit there and laugh ... howl, until his eyes \overflow with tears of hysteria.\ I heard that in an Alfred Hitchcock film the other night Anyway, one hundred sixty-eight dots. Martin must be bored now though, he's exceptionally quiet. Jesus Christ Martin!!! Where did you get that?! H Stop trying to cut the rope, you're bound to lose a finger playing with that awful knife. I'll take that, you little weasel. You nearly gave me a heart failure, did you know that? This is no laughing matter Martin. You know Martin, now that I think about it, as prostrate as you are laying there like that, you look like an enormous, bulging, red and glistening, plump roasted pig. A jumbo pig roast Martin, that's you. I'm sorry Martin, I'm just ... Yes, I'm just poking fun at you . .. poke, poke, poke! Oh Martin you've gotten the knife all filthy now. And SHUT UP, it wasn't even that funny! You know Martin, there are now one hundred eighty-five dots on the bedsheets, so don't think I didn't see that you filthy weasel. Martin, quit fidgeting. Stop that squirming and keep your feet still! You are making me very nervous Martin, so you had better just stop kicking and STAY STILL! ! ! Please Martin, just STOP IT!!! O.K Martin, let's play a game to keep you busy. Did you ever hear the story of the little pigs? Not the Three Little Pigs, the toe pigs, you have toe pigs, right Martin, let's see those feet. Look, I'll show you Squirrel Shock small object. It hit me in the head, and then I saw \it the tiny acorn, hit the ground and roll on the pavement In fear I slowly raised my eyes upward. POW! Nailed me right between the eyes. A Squirrel! He was standing on a branch above me holding an acorn, ready to fire again. He looked real mean. My eyes gazed behind him and there was his friend, in the same position. Then my eyes darted to a different tree and there were several of them holding crab apples. At this point, I thought it best if I began to walk, slowly at frrst. Maybe they won't notice me. Then I felt a crab apple hit my back and then another one. I broke into a fast walk and then a frenzied run as I was being bombarded with hundreds of bombs. Screaming, I tore for a big open space. a \shelter\ from the trees. I found myself crouched on West Beach, and THOSE ACORNS AND APPLES STILL KEPT ON HITIING ME! It was that big Evil-One squirrel in the sky that kept on bringing them down. By the time I got to my dorm, I was covered with tiny bruises. I even had acorns in my underwear! (How did they do that!..... Never mind .... ) Something snapped. It was my pinky nail. Now this is war. The squirrels really began to multiply and unite. They became a menace to the entire campus. They organized an anny and did crab apple rolling drills every day in front of the college center. They took over the Nott and made it their headquarters. They took over WRUC and played Chip and Dale's Disney's Christmas tunes 24 hours a day. They had a. horror film movie night in the auditorium~ Soon they began popping up in toilet seats, biting people's butts. They'd caU people on the phone and chatter, \I'm your squirrel-friend now!\ They tapped tbe lines and knew when you were ordering out. Dominos Pizza wouldn't deliver any more because tile squirrels would. always attack the pizza man and the luscious greasy pizza would be devoured. Soon no one would deliver because they knew the squirrels were waiting. Union college began to starve. They took President Hull's house under siege and ransomed him for a million pounds of Beer Nuts. (They were getting sick of acorns.) No one made a move to help President Hull. People said they forgot the num her to the Beer Nuts company. While in captivity President Hull was tortured by the sound of nut cracking (excuse me, ACORN cracking). He was found several weeks later wandering the streets of downtown Schenectady. He was severely disturbed and kept on muttering about restoring the Nott Memorial, turning it into a squrrrelsanctuary. Finally, I had a thought. I noticed that they liked to go out and have a good time. I had a plan. I put out flyers that announced that \Dass's Bar is serving free good expensive beer until midnight. Come to Davids()n Lounge\. They all showed up at six (these guys start early) with their plastic cups (they're environmentally conscious). Secretly, I served ... This little piggy went to the market . .. Look! There he goes! Ha! Yes, I know this is probably the funniuest thing you've ever heard, isn't it Martin? I think Martin likes this much more than dot- counting. Look Martin, this little piggy stayed home, see him? Right here at home. I swear I have never seen you laugh so hard in your entire life! Watch this ... This little piggy had roast beef ... And this little piggy had none. Martin? Hey. Martin ... Laugh Martin! Come ON! This is so funny! Look at me Martin! Come <ln, listen to tb.e rest of the story! LAUGH Martin!!! Oh, you've done it now, you snake, you weasel!! ! And I was all done, too! Pretty sly, buddy .. . Look at all these dots you tried to sneak on behind my back! Well then, forget our game Martin, just forget it. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eig.ht, nine, ten, eleven ........ . them the funk munge beer that I had been saving for weeks. I heard one of the squirrels slurr that it was the best beer he had ever had. By the end of the night, their eyes were bulging, they were all snarling, they got extremely hairy, and were ten times their original size. I was scared squirrelless! Then I passed out. It turned out that all of the squirrels turned on each other. By dawn, there wasn't a single one left. I was the heroine! I didn't find this out until several years later, when I stopped thinking that I was \Rocky and my dog was \Bullwinkle.\ Thanks to the help of my psychotherapist, I was able to recall these repressed details and tell you my st<lry.

. ' . . .,. . ..... . c.trrutnlrbirnsis 11\lTERI\IATIDI\IAL FEATURE§ October 10, 1991 In Japan on October 4th, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu withdrew from his efforts to win a second term in office after his most powerful benefactors removed their support suddenly. His withdrawal opened up the way for several leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party to succeed him. Kaifu's ousting was . due to the slow process of consensus and is indicated by the fact that most of his legislation has been opposed. It is suggested that there is much pent-up resentment against Kaifu, partially due to his threat to party leaders to dissolve · Parliament. In Madrid, Spain, 24 countries signed an agreement which would ban oil and mineral exploration in Antarctica for at least 50 years. This agreement includes regulations for wildlife protection, waste disposal, marine pollution and monitoring of the continent. Among the countries to sign the agreement are: the United States, the Soviet Union, China, Germany, Canada, Britain, and France. A high-level delegation from the organization of American States arrived in Port-au-Prince, Haiti on October 4th to seek the return to power of President Jean-Betrand Aristide. The president was overthrown in a military coup on Monday, September 30 and replaced by military leader Brigadier General Raoul Cedras. Since the beginning of the coup, 291 people have been wounded and 81 killed. There is talk of a civilian uprising if President Aristide is not put back in power. In Jerusalem, leaders of Israel and Egypt said that they see peace talks starting at the end of the month yet the Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak Shamir, voiced reservations about who would ref)resent the Palestinians. The details will probably be worked out in a trip by U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker to the region. Plans for the possible members for J ordanian-Paiestinian delegation are among the decisions being made in preparation for the peace conference. Thanks to the New York Times (Saturday, October 5, 1991} for the provided information. ALASKA ALGERIA AN'l'IGUA ARGENTINA AUSTRALIA AUSTRIA BAHAMAS BAHRAIN BANGLADESH BARBADOS BELAU BELGIUM BELIZE BENIN BERMUDA BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOPHUTHATSWANA BOTSWANA BRAZIL BULGARIA BURKINO FASO BURMA BURUNDI CAMEROON CANADA CAROLINA ISLANDS CHILE CHINA COLOMBIA COSTA RICA CUBA CYPRUS CZECHOSLOVAKIA DENMARK DJIBOUTI DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ECUADOR EGYPT EL SALVADOR ENGLAND ETHIOPIA FIJI ISLANDS FINLAND FRANCE GABON GAMBIA WEST GERMANY GHANA GIBRALTAR GREECE GREENLAND GRENADA GUADELOUPE GUAM GUATEMALA GUYANA HAITI HAWAII HONDURAS HONG KONG HUNGARY ICELAND INDIA INDONESIA IRAQ IRELAND ISRAEL ITALY IVORY COI>ST JAMAICA JAPAN JORDAN KENYA SOUTH KOREA KUWAIT LEBANON LESOTHO .:·. .. ,, . -.· TEACHING OVE.RSEAS More than 1000 English-language oriented schools arid colleges in over 150 foreign countries throughout the world. offer teaching and administrative opportunities to American and Canadian educators. Positions exist in most all fields, on all levels, from Kindergarten to the Universi- ty. Qualification requirements vary from schogl to school, but in most cases they are comparable to those· in .the U.S. Vacan- cies occur and are filled throughout the year. Some schools do not require previous teaching experience or certifica- tion. Graduating seniors are. encouraged to apply. Foreign language knowledge is seldom required. If you are interested in a position with an overseas ·school or college, please send us the names of three ( 3) countries where you would accept a position and enclose a one-time nominal fee of $20.00 to help defray our postal, print- ing, and clerical expenses. There is no other charge. Send your request to: Friends of World Teaching P.O. Box 1049 Sap Diego, CA 92112·1049 PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 80 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. Central African nation located on the Atlantic coast and bordered by Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon on the north and the Congo on the east. ·· ~~~~~i~~Mdbxif~?;, . ~NCH t~lo PM Gll£ltMAN 3';00 ;!M sP~~a 4;oo PM -- ~J)AYS &; TiaaRSQAYS: . .llftQW . 11~&. r,~ -~IJl.NE$:8, - .. ~OQ PM · LIBERIA LIBYA LIECHTENSTEIN LUXEMBOURG MALAGASY REPUBI.:IC MALAWI MALAYSIA MALTA MARSHALL ISLANDS MARTNIQUE MEXICO MONJCO MONISERRAT 1\AOROCCO NAMiBIA NEPA;L NETHERLANDS NEW ZEALAND NICAI1NJUA NIGEA NIGEAIA NORWA.Y OMAN PAKISTAN PANAMA PI>JilJA NEW GUINEA P~UAY PERI:I PHILIPPINES POI.A.ND PORTUGAL PUERTO RICO QATAF! ROMAIIIIA RWANDA AMERICAN SAt..10A SAUDI ARAB.IA SCOTlAND SE'NE<lAL SEYCHELLES SIERRA LEONE SINGAPORE SOMALIA SOUTH' AFRICA SPAI~ SRI'LAIIIKA SUDA.N SURINAM SWAZ:IIAND SWEDEN SWITZERLAND SYRIA TAHI:rl TANZAr.IIA THAILAND TOGO TONGA TRINIDA.D· TOBN30 TUNISIA TURKEY UGMIM W>IITED ARAB EMIRATES URUGUAY U.S.S.ft VANUATU VENEZUELA U.S.'IIFIGif\1 ISI.Af.IDS WALES YEMEN YUGOSLAVIA ZAIRE ZAMBIA ZIMBABWE ~~S:S, $;~() PU Come-ana· watch theltewr! 1. Official language of this country. 2. Local crop also known as corn. 3. Legislative body which sets policy in this country. 4. As 76% of the country is forested, this has become a top export. '.. . . . . . ' ' . . ·. . . . ,. East Asian Studies/ ASV Fall Film Series \Heat and Dust\ RVSSMN. f:O~ PM LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday- Thursday 7:00-10:00 1 984 Directed by James Ivory; Starring Julie Christie, Color, . 30 minutes, English. Weekends: Friday, October 11th Room 406 College Center 8 pm free Admission ·. ' ' ' ' . . ~ . : ~ . ·. - ' . . ' ·. . . ' ·. . . '. . '.· Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00

October 10, 1991 ARTS & EI\ITERTAIJ\IMEI\IT <lrlllt.Olrbittt.sis 1 Tobias Wolff Reads To ·Faculty & Students t10R05COPE5 e;y PEI1C!1E5 by Hannah J. Hazen Author Tobias Wolff, turned childhood memories into vivid, compelling stories for those who attended his reading on Thursday evening. We were all pleased to have the established writer back in our midst; his last reading at Union occurred nine years ago. As writer of two collections of short stories, winner .of the Pen/Faulkner award for The Barracks Thief, and memoirist of This Boy's Life, ·wolff gave an engt:ossing reading from a work in progress, as well as from his autobiography. At a question-and-answer session with Wolff on Thursday afternoon, the author shared the challenges and problems he faced in capturing scattered, powerful memories within a coherent form. Wolff found this form t<> be a \fantastic r~lease\ for him where he disclosed freely his . feelings for those people in his past. He addressed the fact that one never writes the whole truth in this genre, for the mind remembers things sporadically. Wolff expresses this in his introduction to him memoir, stating that, \This is a book of memory, and memory has its own story to tell. But I have done my best to tell a truthful story. 11 \The book,\ said Wolff, \becomes a whole question of human identity and how the imagination develops one's identity.\ In reading his story entitled, appropriately, Tbi s Boy's Life, it is apparent that answering this question is his focus. He does not emphasize his harsh childhood, but instead concentrates on what it takes for him to survive. As a cunning boy, imagination is his chosen survival technique. Wolff lear~ed early on in life to be a fabricator, and it is precisely this high regard for fantasy and imagination over fact that pulls him through. In his talk, he stated that \Self-invention was the rule of the day. 11 He stated his views that Americans live fragmented I ives by commenting \All those things that used to tell us who we are. aren't there any more.\ His remarks gave much insight into the readings he presented later on. When talking that night with. faculty members who also attended the evening reading. I discovered reactions to be much the same. They found Tobias Wolff a delightful reader, who has the ability to captivate the audience with his words. I asked Professor Zimmerman and his wife Professor Niefield what their reactions were to the readings, and if they preferred one work over the other. They both stated that they are \planning to read his autobiographical work,\ and Wolffs reading inspired them to read more. There were mixed reactions to. Wolffs first reading, an excerpt from the piece he is presently working on entitled Close Cal'ls. Wolffs newest work is about his experience in the Vietnam War. Professor Hatke found it \harder to come to terms with, a much more serious work\ than the humorous memoirs read afterwards. It struck a personal note, which he found \very · disturbing, chilling in a way.\ Professor Niefield was curious as to how students reacted to the piece, feeling the subject matter might be distant from them. Niefield was right - I did not feel as engaged in the fust reading as I was in the second, and I attributed this to the fact that the Vietnam War is so foreign to me. Regardless of subject matter, the looks on the faces of his audience told the true story: Tobias Wolff's words are touching yet funny, poignant, and lasting. I am sure upon his return he will continue to enthrall us with them. LIBRA: SCORPIO: Has a relationship turned out to be less than you hoped it would? Don't get discouraged-better things are around the comer. LucJCy Day: Friday. Feeling m!der the weather can cause you to slack off your responsibilities and tum into a couch potato. Best remedy: Chicken soup, a scarf, and a good movie. Luck Day: Thursd<~y. SAGIT:rARIUS: Love is in the (cold) air for you this week! Don't be surprised if that spec1al someone is right under your nose. Lucky Day: Monday. CAPRICORN: AQUARIUS: PISCES: ARIES: TAURUS: GEMINI: CANCER: LEO: VIRGO: Your social nature is standing in the way of your personal life lately. You've let a good thing g(}-spend time thinking about how to compromise in the future. Lucky Day: Tinmday. Spend time catching up on work this week-before you know it, Stll week will be here and youTI be stressed. The libfli!Y, by tlle way, is the building between the Humanities and Social Science 'buildings. Lucky Day: Sunday. It's time,tomake P.,eace with your past. Learn to for_give and forget, and look forward to a bnght future. Lucky Day: Wednesday. If you're having difficulty sleeping at night because of uncomfortable hving conditions, suck it up and deal until someone remedies the situation later this week. Lucky Day: Satwday. The nexr few weeks are going to be exciting and full of good news. Enjoy it while it lasts! Lucky Day: Tuesday. Althoug.b you have been confused by mixed signals in the past, tlie next relationship with be straightforward and . ..less ftiD. Why do we always like the ones who string us along?? LuckyDay: Friday. Your luck will pick up after this weekend in the romance department. Don't let yourself believe lies anymore, just find someone who treats you as you deserve. Lucky Day: Saturday. · Don't get jealous unnecessarily! Think first, assess the situatioo, and act after all the facts are in place. It could save yo11 a lot of embarrassment! Lucky Day: Thursday. The WRUC Record Reviews <more run than a barrel or monkeys) A strnnger seems appealing to you lately. Don't be shy! The mailboxes/classroom/food line are great places to strike up an interesting conversation. Who know? Could be rommce. Lucky Day: Tuesday. by Matt Fuller The Red Hot Chili Peppers - Blood Sugar Sex Magik (WB): When the Red Hot Chili Peppers appeared in a Nike commercial over the summer, the cry of \sell-out\ was heard around the world. Even die-hard Peppers fans like myself dreaded the thought. Would their next album be filled with cheesy glamor-rock ballads? Would they lose their funk/thrash edge (although the thrash is almost nonexistent' any more)? Would they have their tattoos surgically removed? Well, let the record show that the Peppers are back, and just as bad as before. This entire album was recorded in a \haunted\ house, where they set up a make-shift studio. Their reasoning was to • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • inspire a new sound for the band. This was very successful in that respect. However, it remains to be seen if this album can gain the mass appeal of its predecessor, Mother's Milk. \Give It Away,\ the first released single, is sure to hit the college charts with great success. It's the song most reminiscent of the \old\ Peppers style. Trademarked slap-bass opens your eyes and shakes your butt (so to speak). \Blood Sugar Sex Magik,\ the title track, captures some of the old style too, except for a rare reliance on guitar instead of bass. Both are excellent tracks destined to tum some heads. Some of the \new\ Peppers style shows up in laid-back tracks, such as \I Could Have Lied.\ This shows an acoustic side of the Peppers rarely seen • • • • • • • • • • • in their previous albums. It's also questionably (I'll be dodging flak for this) one of their best songs to date, primarily from an artistic view. It's proof that the Peppers are real musicians, not just hard- core funksters. They avoid the comparisons to cheese-metal ballads by singing about real topics, not just some lost love garbage. This is one of their experiments that has, in my opinion, entered the Peppers into a new musical arena. As usual, the Peppers tackle political issues with a sharp tongue and unrelentless will power. \The Righteous & The Wicked\ is a song talking about the Gulf War. It ends with a great tribute to a very talented musician, asking \Marvin Gaye ... where did we go wrong?\ Where indeed? The Red Hot Chili Peppers have begun to move in a new direction. They still have their old style as a base to work form, but they have shown that they're not afr~id to tr:y new styles. That's the characteristic of a great band. In the nineties it's easy to keep rehashng the same old crap and sell five million records. It takes dedicated musicians to break new ground. The majority don't pave the way, they follow the minority who lead. Get on board and follow the Peppers - you won't want to get off. I give it five slurpies (out of five). The Red Hot Chili Peppers will be appearing at the RPI Fieldhouse very soon (with Smashing Pumpkins). Catch this show! Weekend Movie CITY SLICI<ERS 8 and 10:30 Friday -Sunday *See a real live cow being born I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • Join us in partaking of the • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Bountiful Fruits of the Mohaurk Valley • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • A cornucopia of apple *Macintosh *E~npires *McGoun Only 25¢ thru the month of October • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

s <n:.onr.orbirttsf.s . by Julie Schlang Lifestyles Editor Have you ever walked into someone else's dorm room thinking it was your own? I know it sounds silly but late at night when you're in a daze, the rooms seem to look very similar to one another. They have the same standardized desks, furniture and carpeting. People do try to go out and get posters to make their rooms look different, but ironically, everyone seems to have the - LIFESTYLES Dorm Room Deco same taste in posters. The rest of the space in most people's room basically resembles the warehouse for Bed and Bath. This creates a problem. How do you make your room homey and your own? There is actually a lot that can be done. I know no one wants to go out and spend a ton of money on a room that they are only going to be living in for a year, but there's a lot that can be done for under ten dollars. First of all, contact paper can definitely make those greenish walls look much better. I know it is a pain to put up, but the effort will be worth it since we can't paint the walls. There is a huge variety of patterns ranging from flowers to marble to solid colors. Another inexpensive option is mini- blinds. They also come in. a variety of colors and ate very easy to install. These are great because you can take them down at the end of the year and use them again the following year. Reme~ber to save the existing dorm cwtaills to put back at the end of the year so you don't get a fine though. Other small items, to make your room look lived in are plants, candles, lamps, baskets and threw pillows. All of this can be found at Caldor'.s or K- Mart or any household store. Now, for those of y<>u who really want to make serious improvements and spend more money, there are many more options_ One is getting carpeting or a throw rug. This can cost between $70 and $90 October 10, 1991 depending on size. Another idea is trying to make your existing dorm furniture look better. You can buy a couch cover for about $40 or if you really hate your furniture, you can go out and -buy used furniture. AU of these items can be reused each year so you could consider them a four year investment. Well, I know its a little late ,to start making these improvements. but it does give you enough time to get your room together before Parents Weekend. ·) WHAT IS TRI DELTA·s 12 HOUR ··oANCE •TIL YOU DRo,p·~ DANCE MARATHON ALL ABOUT? J. ANSWERS BELOW .... Q .. What is the \Dance for Life II? A. Either: Coming to the dance with sponsors for the whole 12 hours or: paying $3 ( $4 at the door) and receiving a ticket to stop by and dance for a while or just to come support the dancers Q. What is in it for IIUII? A. Raffles, prizes, dancing, & food. If you either dance or just come by sometime throughout the evening, your name wiH be entered into various raffles, including a chance to win 2 roundtrip airline tickets to anywhere in the United States. Prizes, bagels, muffins, munchies, etc., will be set out throughout the night to keep your energy up a:nd your feet moving. Q. So where will you be Saturday night, Oct. 12-Sunday, Oct. 13? A. Upper Class Dining Hall, helping to raise money for children's cancer and dancing. The. Rathske.\\or nevef -f;r 8 eh \'ou v ---- I 4 4 •

Octot?er 10, 1991 · RE!iiDEI\ITIAL LIFE CDMM1·11 EE REPORT llillllfllrJ)trtt.sts \ PRELIMINARY REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF RESIDENTIAL LIFE CONTENTS I. THE COMMfl\I'EE'S CHARGE AND PROCEDURES 11. RESIDENTIAL LIFE AND THE COLLEGE MISSION STA TEI\4ENT III. COLLEGE-OWNED HOUSING:· UPGRADE IV. COLLEGE-OWNED HOUSING: EXPANSION V. RETENTION OF SINGLE SEX RESIDENCE HALLS VI. EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF STUDENTS IN COLLEGE HOUSING. Vll.COLLEGE HOUSING POLICY: GREEK ORGANIZATIONS VITI: COLLEGE HOUSING POLICY: INCLUSIVE GROUPS APPENDICES I. The Committee•s Charge and Procedures In November 1990, President Hull formed a committee to examine the recqmmendatiollS of the Middle States Committee on the Freshman Year and Residential Life. A mlijor recommendation of the Middle States Committee was that all campus housing be made coed. President Hull asked our «Jmmittee either to \endorse th.e Middle States recommendations, in whole or in part, or to modif.y them in any way you deem appropriate.\ Given the far reaching implications of the issue we were charged to investigate for student life in general. and for Greek housing in particular, the committee was composed or two de8llS who oversee aspects of student life, four faculty with different views on Greek organizations, and four students representing both Greeks and lndependents. 1 The preliminary recommendations we put forward in this report are based on ten weeks of intensive inquiry, during which we solicited the opinions of the campus commllllity through a memo and notices in Qomcordiensis. met with 40 individuals WJ.d groups, conducted two sv.rveys 2 , and reviewed the findings and spoke with st;aff at other colleges which have recently conducted their own studies of residential life 3 . We also toured and did some participant-observation in the residence halls and one of us spent a few days living in West and Davidson. In addition, 35 _stadents in an anthropology course gathered data about life in the residence balls, fraternities and sororities. 1 Committee members are Antoinette Aime, Class of '91, Eugene Bernard, Class of '91, Barbara Boyer, Biology, George Gmelcb (Chair), Anthropology, James Kenney, Economics, Andrew Seewald, Class of '91, Lisa Stillman, Class of '91, Hilary Tann, Music, Trish Williams, Assistant Dean of Students, David Wood, Director of Residence Life. 2 A questionnaire was sent to all students asking their opinions on a variety of issues concerning campus housing. Only 289 of the more than 2000 questionnaires sent out were returned. A second questionnaire, sent to the Admissions Staff, Athletic Coaches, and Gatekeepers, was aimed specifically at assessing the possible impacts of the Middle States all coed housing recommendation.- The detailed results of the questionnaires may be reviewed in the Residence Life office. 3 We are indebted to administrators and the committees that examined residence life at Bucknell, Colby, Kenyon, Southern Vermont, and Wesleyan. Our ideas and recommendations have been shaped by their experiences which they generously shared with us.

to @onrorbftltSf.s RE!iiDENTIAL LIFE COMMITTEE REPORT October 10, 1991 We began our deliberations by reviewing the findings of other Union tommittees that had examined these same issues. We were surprised at how r:a-equently residential life has been studied at Union--there have been five reports s.inoe 1979. 4 And we were disappointed that the considerable time and effort that v-~ent into these excellent studies appeared to have realized so little change. Ali' of the reports, except the most recent one, appear to have been shelved and largely f()rgotten. Initially, our committee was asked to submit its recommendations to President Hull at the end of winter term. However, given the impact that our recommendations might have on student life, we requested a one term extension in order to allow the campus community time to review our proposals. Hence, this report is a working draft. We invite and encourage you--students, faculty, and staiT--to consider what we have proposed and to give us your reactions. We aim to spend the next month listening to your views before drafting our fmal report by the end of spring term. II. Residential Life and the College Mission Statement The day-to-day living experiences of students in the residence halls and in campus activities figure prominently in the shaping of their values and in their personal development. Like other colleges who have recently examined residential life, we found that Union students considEr campus life as important to their P'ersonal development as their academic learning. Yet; our committee found that ftUality of residential life at Union College has received scant attention, beyond [)roviding basic housing and amenities. We found a disturbing separation between tJJe academic and social lives of our students. Like other American colleges who ()f!icially renounced in loco parentis authority over the conduct and moral behavior ()f their students in the 1960's, Union has largely neglected what takes place ,()atside the classroom. In recent years many campuses have responded to that ll.eglect and are now paying closer attention to the residential life of students. Many colleges now think and talk in terms of a residential system, while Union's a.pproach remains haphazard and piecemeal. We have tended to treat problems as t:hey arise; our planning of residential life has not been guided by a set of ~ver-arching principles or explicit goals. As we examined residential life at Union and sorted through the specific problelllB and issues, several basic principles guided our inquiry. The most important is equity. Our investigation confirmed what the Middle States Committee had reported. There is serious inequity in the distribution of living and oocial spaces between Greek and non-Greek students and indirectly, therefore, b~tween men and women. All members of the Committee believe this to be unjust and that students must have equal opportunity in their choice of housing and that Yithin college housing all students should be treated the same. A second guiding principle is our belief that the College's residential system should offer students choice of living arrangements, as well as leadership opportunities and social interactions in a safe, comfortable, and supportive atmosphere where all students are equally valued. We also believe there should be linkage between the academic and the residential/social goals of the college. A third principle was the desire to preserve the freedom of students to associate socially with whomever they please. We believe that Union's residential life system should strike a balance between the values of independence and privacy on the one hand and of community on the other. Recommendation: Planning for changes in Union's social and residential structures should be guided by the goals of the College's Mission Statement. We recommend that the College formulate the basic principles on which Union's residential life is founded and incorporate tl:aese in the Mission Statement. III. College-Owned Housing: Upgrade Union's residence halls mirror the history of the College. All of our dorms v.rere constructed when Union was an all-male institution and when a high p~rcentage of the student ~ody joined -Greek organizations during freshman year. .N()st of our residence halls were designed to provide the freshman class with little Dle>re than a place to sleep. It was expected that most student social lite would talte place in fraternity houses. The residence halls were designed to provide a :rn:OOmum number of beds; hence, most of ()W' residence halls were built without lat.Uldry rooms and without adequate entry ways, lounge spaces, study/reading ro()ms, and recreation areas. The absence of attractive commons space or lounges in most residence halls hilS inhibited the development of a sense of community within the buildings. With fet.V exceptions, only the Greek organizations have a strong sense of community. In thoe words of one student, whose sentiments are shared by many: My donn isn't the kind of place where you want to hang out. It's just the place where you sleep, and then you get out ... .All the social life here is the frat parties where there is drinking and it's all free. If you don't gu to the fraternities at night then basically you don't go out. In recent years the college has modified some residential spaces to meet student needs. However, the renovations have been largely cosmetic and limited in scope. AB a consequence, mlijor structlll'al renovation is now required to put our rEsidence halls on an equal footing with those on most other campuses. The Committee found that many Union students believe that their housing aeeds have been neglected by the College. A refrain frequently heard in the dorms in response to unhappiness with the food service, deteriorating conditions, and o\Verdue repairs is, \And we are paying $21,000 for this.\ Most students believe that the cost of their room and board is excessive for what they receive and that they can live better and more cheaply in off campus apartments. Committee members were shocked at the poor and inadequate conditions we found in our tours of the residence halls, such as erratic control of heat and hot vrater for showers, and general shabbiness in some halls. We believe that students who roast or freeze- in their rooms or who are scalded in the showers are being 4 Report of the Committee on Student Life and Stud.ent Affairs fQr the Middle States Commission. 1979; The President;s Commission Subcommittee on the A.ttraction and Retention of Women Students, 1986; Report on Residence Life. 1 '985; Report of the Committee on Cc:leducation, 1989; and The Middle States Committee's Freshman Year and IWsidenc;e Life, 1990. neglected at the most basic level\ The College's apparent lack of concern for the residential needs of the students may contribute to a lack of respect for college property. Acts of vandalism by students worsens the problem by diverting labor and resources required to maintain the residence hal1s. Recommendation: The College should r~ect the basic needs <Of its student population in terms of heat, light, and bathroom facilities. We recommend that all College-owned housing be upgraded to achieve certain acceptable standards in terms of,li~ting, space, condition, a:nd bathroom facilities. Further, we recommend that procedures for routine maintenance be established by the Campus Operations Staff in collaboration with the Ot'fic'l! of Residence Life. 'Recommendation: To raise the standard of cleanliness and to address the chronic problem of JDaking repain in a timely fashion, 14 members of the housekeeping f,ltaff and 4 ,general maintainers responsible for maintaining the residence halls should report directly to the Offi.ee of Residential Life. This requires additional staff, :not :merely the reassignment of maintainers from physical plant to the Office of Residence Life. Recommendation: All college housing should attain a certain minimum standard of commons space. In residence halls each floor should have commons space generous enough to accommodate social events for the entire floor. Recommendation: To enhance the C<Ollege's ability to create a sense of community in the residence halls and a more stimulating livingflearning environment, each residence hall should have a live--in director. Ideally the director would be a member of the faculty. The stipend and the accommodation should be made attractive enough to appeal to faculty. {We note that otlb.er campuses which have faculty living in residence halls express a high degree of satisfaction with this arrangement. lt greatly increases student contact with faculty and faculty presence on campus and in the residence halls after hours and on weekends. It also provides new facility with affordable housing and hastens their socialization into the college community.) IV. College-Owned Housing: Expansion Union College advertises itself as a residential college. Yet, we only have enough space to accommodate 73% of our students. Consequently, 279 of our 469 seniors currently live off campus. In· College-owned housmg there are beds f()r 1435 students of which 314 are reserved for Greeks (89 in three sororities and 225 in nine fraternities.) Among the 1121 beds available to .independent students, 63% are in coed residence halls and 37% in single sex: residence halls. (See Appendix 1 for details of student housing.) .The vast IW\iority of the off-campus students we interviewed said that they would prefer to be on campus if adequate housing were available to them. Further confirmation can be found in the 1986 study of residence life in which 129 of 133 students who were living oft' campus indicated they would return if apartment style dorms were available. 5 Research at other campuses, and confirmed in our SUIVey of Union students, -indicates that the housing preferences of students change as they advance through their college years. Residence halls are designed to fit the needs ·of younger students, particularly those who are gregarious and interested in group participation. As students mature, independence, privacy and the ability to :prepare one's own meals become important. In a three volume review of the research on the impact of residence halls on students, Blimling (1988) reports that residence halls are judged unsatisfactory not because they fail to meet the needs of freshmen but because they fail to meet the needs of upperclassmen. The Middle States Committee found that, while freshmen were content with their dorms, 67% of upperclass women were dissatisfied with the opportllDities for housing available to them (p. 91). It is important to note that the college community benefits from the presence of upperclassmen on campus, for the leadership they provide and for their participation in campus social life. ·We note that the construction of townhouse apartments was recommended lly the Middle StateS Committee (p. 107). Townhouse apartments should ·offer students the same benefits that presently make living off campus so attractivE (e.g., control over their meaJs, privacy, and independence). A townhouse complex could also be used as summer housing for campus conferences. Possible locations include: 1. between West and ltichmond; 2. on the JmoU overlooking Jackson Gardens (it would not be visible from the gardens); '3. on the corner of Lenox and Union. Upon completion of the townhouse complex, Union undergraduates will generally be expeCted to live in College owned or recognized housing. Special :permission would have to be obtained in advance by students wishing to live off campus. Becommepdation: TG achieve our .tated goal of being a •residential college• and to provide a more attractive hGwdng option for upperclassmen, the CoUege ahould build a 80 to 65 Ullit townhouse complex with kitchen faeUities to hoU&e approximately 250 Juniors amd seniors. V. Retention of Opportunity to Live in Single Sex Jlesidence Halls The Middle States CoiDDiittee on the Fresbman Yelll\' and Residence Life recommended that all campus housing be made coed (p. 105). Our survey of students, Allm;!llldons staft', gatekeeper&, athletic staff, as well as co11ve~ob8 with parents and fieldwork iD the dorms, has convinced us that there is a strong • student demand for single sex residence halJs, particularly f'or women. A ~Grity of the students living in single sex dorms prefer them to any of the alternative living arrangements. We received two petitions with 135 sipatures of students, faculty, and staff requesting that Richmond ani! South remain single sex. A group of women students in Richmond wrote to us: It is essential that students be given a clloice of all female housing. We regard this not as a privilege but as a right, since many of us feel that all female housillg is necessary for ou privacy. The most frequently mentioned reasons for preferring all women residence hall were privacy, quiet, and fewer distractioos which made for a better environment in which to study. Also, students said single sex living minimizes unwanted socializing. In the words of one sophomore wolll8Il: We like living in Richmond because we can study in our rooms. It's quiet here ... most people keep their doors closed md you don't have to leave the donn if you want to study. If we want to party or socialize we can go to the fraternities or the other dorms. 5 IWport on Residenee Life, 1986.

r .. l ~ ,' ,ii .1 ,. ~- .- ., .... - 1 ' '••' ·,:,t~ f. ' October 10, 1991 RE!iiDEI\ITIAL LIFE COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee did not find the same benefits for the men's residence hall or men's floors in coed buildings. In comparison to both the women's dorm and coed floors, all-male housing is generally dirty, noisy and sometimes rowdy. In a survey of admis$ions staff and gatekeepers we heard strong opposition to the Middle States all-coed housing proposal. Again and again we were urged to give students a choice, to \keep the options\- to retain one dorm for women and one for men. We wel'e told that most applicants react favorably to Union's current choice of living arrangements -- single sex, coed by floor, and coed by room (i.e., men in 'One room, women in the next), and Greek versus independent. We were convinced that the availability of single sex housing, not just single sex tloors, is important to the p!ll'ents of some foreign st!ldents, and that .the failure to provide this kind of living arrangement may discourage them from sending their daughters and sons tG Union. One professor wrote us to urge that we consider the principle of diversity; :he cautioned against the College imposing on its students a \single vision\ of what it deems best. While we support the retention of some single-sex housing in order to preserve the right of students to choose with whom they live, the Committee believes that priority in future housing policies should be given to coed living. While the research concerning the impact of coed living is unclear, 6 we note that the great majority of colleges and universities which have examined residential life have concluded .that coed lifing fosters better relations between men and women. Even the majority of Union students surveyed (N =289) share this belief. In the words ·of one student who moved to a coed dorm after being in an all male dorm his freshman year: I can talk to girls more openly now .. .I can talk to them as easily as I can talk to guys. In living with girls you learn a lot about how girls think and act. They don't seem so strange to me anymore. Someday I'll get married and having lived with women before will make it easier for me to relate to my wife. A 1986 study of Unio11's residence life found that 94% of men and 90% of women responding to a survey preferred new housing .on campus to be coed. 7 The Committee is fully aware that there are some costs to coed living. Coed dorms are invariably ne»isier and more social than women's dorms. This is a typical comment about the coed floors: It's very hard to get work done here. Tllere's too much noise, I just can't read here. I can't concentrate here. I really need quiet to do my work so I go to the library or the College Center to study. An .anthropologist who spent two years living in dorms at Rutgers University found that women, in order to be treated as near equals in co~ dorms, must act like men. Women move mGre in the direction of older male gender patterns than men move toward older female patterns. 8 While these may be problems for our current student populatiDn, they are likely to lessen over time, as long as the gender relations betwEen young men and women continue to change ana mature. Recommendation: The College should offer a diversity of living arrangements and sh.ould guarantee students freedom to choose the arrangement they desire, provided it doesn't result in racial or religious discrimination or segregation. Recommendation: We recommend that the College's housing policies give priority to coed living an:\angements. However, we also recommend our current single sex residen.ce halls (Richmond for women and South for men) be retained as long as there is student demand for them. VI. EqUitable Treatment of Students in College Housing Union does not .treat students living in College-owne<fhousing equally. Current policies discriminate against those who are not affiliated with a Greek organization and against women. Perhaps the mCJSt shocking finding of our investigation into residential life was the enormous dispuit,y in the privileges enjoyed by some segments of the campus community md denied to others, with the main beneficiaries being members of Greek orgu:lizations, see Table 1. We believe that inequities between Greeks and Independents influence the daily lives of students and their perception and Uil.derstanding of what the college values. Table 1 Inequities Between Greeks and Independents Most Greeks eat doWDStairs from where they liye Most Greeks have contrCII. over their 'meals and ·pay signifiC811tly less for them Most Greeks have 24 hour access to cooking facilities Greeks have large lo1111g'e8, dining rooms, and commercial~ kitchens Greeks have more autonDmy; they do not have to pass throagll. a house desk check point at night Independents eat at central facilities outside of their hall Independents have little autonomy and must choose from a limited number of meal plans for which they pay more Moat independents do not have access (ooly residents of Richmond, North, Web&ter, and Hickok have kitchenettes Independents have much smaller lounges. no dining rooms or commercial-grade kitchens Independents have less autonomy; most must show an ID to enter Fox, Davidson. West, Richmond and North from.IO:OO PM to 7:00AM 6 In a review of the residence life literature, Blimling (1988) found no clear support for hypotheses that coed residence halls infiuence personal growth and development, academie performance, participation in extracurricular activities. He speculates that what benefits of coed living have been found m.ay be the result of more gifted students self selecting themselves into a coed environment, and that more research is need~ (1988:39). 7 The 1986 &port em Residence Life of the Student Affairs Council. 8 M. Moffatt, Comins of .Me in New Jersey, P- 47. Greek men are able te» have parties with alcohol Greek behavior in llollSe is not monitored by College ()D daily basis Greeks have separatte entry ways for members Independents follow the sam.e JlOlicies but do--not have access to the same facilities to hold parties in Independents behavior is m().nit()red on daily basis by RA's and area coordinators Independents share with other- building residents The following, 1m incident that occurred in Davidson on a Saturday night when 8 to 10 students, were having a having a party in their rooms, exemplifies one of many inequities in privilege: The students ue drinking whiskey sours and the music is loud. The RA of the floor arrive~~ very agitated (he had recently been reprimanded by the residence hall <lirector for a previous dorm party). He announces to everyone, \Get t!J.ose drinks the hell out of my sight and all of you who don't live on this flo()r leave or I'm going to call Security. You can't have pa.rties on this floor or ;I'm going to he shit.\ Meanwhile, elsewhere on campus, in several fraternities, students are playing loucl music and drinking liberally without supervision. We were disappointed to discover that, though these inequities have b€en noted hy a number of committees over the years, little has been done to correct them. In 1979, for euunple, the Committee on Student Life recommended ~hat \all housing policies should apply to all residents in College-owned buildings.\ Members of our Ccmrnittee expressed considerable concern over the unwillillgness of .the College to apply the same standards to Greeks that it applies to independents. Recommendation: One common set of rules should govern all students in College ltonsing, whether they be Greek or independent. These rules refer t()ldecoration, damage, alcohol use, flre drills and security. VlL COllEge Housing Policy: Greek Organizations The Committeebelieves that freedom to live together with fraternity brothers or sorority siilters is appropriate as long as it does not create problems for its members or the larg-er community, and as long as these organizations foster - values that are consistent with the mission of the College. While we belieH! it is appropriate that Greel!: organizations be permitted to occupy college housing, we do not believe they·-being exclusive groups--should have priority in the SS!lign.ment of college housing (we will return to this point in Section VIII). Given the diverse backgrounds and affiliations of our committee, we '-Vere often divided in our assessments of Greek organizations. To describe all the shadings would not be particularly useful. But it may be useful to set forth the matten on which we found ourselves in general agreement. We agreed tb!l.t GreEk organizations have e<Jnsiderable potential as st11dent-run organizations. They depend on self govern.m~ce and therefore provide opportunities for tbeir stu<lent members to develop leadership skills, as well as fiscal and managerial responsibility. Their members work and raise funds for charities and social ~uses ~u~h llS B_ig ~roth~rs, ~ig Sisters. They require shared responsibility for cornrnon ' livmg which IS qwte d:ifferent from the independence of the residence halls. The bonds that develop between members of a Greek organization !ll'e generally c[()S€1:'\ and more supportive :Utan those found in residence halls where the populati«J!1 changes every year. Si11dents in Anthropology 10 who were living in dorms <lr off campw were asked to ,study a fraternity or a sorority. In general they came !lack from their experienCE impressed with the comraderie and strong bonds amo11~ ''bro~!rs\ and am~ng ~sisters.\ Fraternities and sororities are quite good at proVIding f~llowshtp mel a support system for their members. A psychologist in the collDSeling cente~, for example, told us he has fewer worries sending a trou!»led student bac:Jt to his fioa.ternity than an independent student ba(:k to the doriD.s. \In the fratermty •. y~u m()\'1' his brothers are going to look after him, but in the dorm~ there 118Ually lSD t m11ch. of a support group.\ Bonds between st11dents in Greek or~atio~ often become lifelong friendships. At other colleges these sam~· pos1t1ve attnbutes can also be found in co-ed Greek organizations. F~ternities are the College organizations that provide campus-wide parties and a. SOClal foc:,us ~or- IJ1l studJ:)qt$. Although Greek organizatioiUI do not provide the kind .of social life that most faculty and staff' would like to see encourage~. most Umon students support them as the primary providers of campus social life. In t~e wo~ of one st1.u:lent, \We're the ones who live here; it's not the faculty. U~til there IS some alternative to the social life the fraternities provide, you shouldn't take them s:way.\ This dominance of social life can be viewed as ~erently dit:icrimiJJatcley, however, smce from the perspective of women sttAdents 1t creates a depend~n~cy on men for entertainment.\ . 7he Co~ttee found evi~enc~ and heard considerable testimony that Umon s fratermties ba:ve a negative influence on campus social life and studen.:t attitudes. In the minch of many faculty and some students, fraternities are assocla~ with anti-intellectual and anti-social values. Their very existence undemunes the coed.11cational mission of the Conege, denying women studel!.ts equal access to choice llousing and the other be11efita that go alang with fratentity\ membership, under Ui:lion•s present system. Fraternities are also regarded by many to be instituti~ns that objectify and belittle women and foster sexism. Women students repori frequent verbal h1U\1181mlent and occasionally worse at fraternity parties. OJ!e woman student who speaks for many WI\Ote: Greek organ.Uations definitely lead to a di~on between the sexes. Ky friends at othe~ dooJs have many more close friends anrl closer !9lationships with members of the opposite sex. I think because people live m close knit grollps • living, sociaJizing. attending meetings - with memHn of their own sex ezcluaively, they don't have to reach out 1o the other sex to pin. a better lllldEn'8ta.nding. The Committee lleard testimony from admissions staff that the large number of fraternities at Union and their significant influence 011 the CoUege~es social life disco~ mne women from coming to Union College. We also bear-d from o'Ul' faculty that a.11u.mber of students, men as well as women, have left Union because of th& lllldlle influence of Greeks on campus life. The 1989 study of coeducation at Union l!.oted that a m~ority of the nation's oollege students tcxlay are women and that lTmion will need, in a shrinking applicant poGl, to attract strong women stude11ts in the future. 9 Some faculty expressed serious ooneerc over the influence of Greeks on the way Union is portrayed in n.ational guides t<J colleges and universities. For example, one professor wrote:

.u <U.onrorbirttsi.s RE!iiDEI\ITIAL LIFE COMMITTEE REPORT October 10, 1991 Union is perceived as a dose chum of the old time, old boy's men's college it was with its strong Greek tradition and separate, privileged housing arrangements. We shoW.d do everything we can to bury this ''boys and beer\ image... Our co-educational achievements are not just overlooked ... lmt are often undercut by the dominating presence of preferential male housing at Union. Fraternity men are also harmed if they are led to believe that they are more important than women and more entitled to privilege. Voicing a commonly held view, a senior faculty member observed: Since I came here in the early 70's, -people have talked about fraternities and about the problems of excessive drinking. The college has done virtually nothing about .fraternities because no one has the balls to deal with them. It's because fraternities are an established power base--they have influence 011 'the board, they're heavy givers. and they'll make a fuss if you take way their privileges. This professor, like many other members t>f the Union community that we spo);.e to, believes that the solution is not to ban fraternities, but to rein them in and make them clearly accountable for their actions. Because fratermties are currently the only places on campus where alcohol is served at large gatherings, they are assodated with excessive drinking and with occasional vandalism and abuse to women. Much of the offensive behavior associated with Greeks may be related tt> t:heir houses being the venues for parties where free beer leads to drunkenness. If similar parties vccurred in the do:rms, similar abuses might follow. The elimination of the double standard, which. now means that the only venues for parties wit:h alcohol are in fraternities, aloag with other measures outlined in this report, may eliminate many of the problern,s. now associated with fraternities. Recommendation: The College should permit Greek organizations to apply for the privilege of living together in College-owned housing, as lo11g as they contribute to the mission of the College and are held accountable for their behavior. Recommendation: Fraternities and sororities should be enctJuraged to make their housing facilities more accessible to lhe larger College · community. Offering meal plans to independents and operating a snack bar (during the evening and on weekemds) are two posSibilities. Recommendation: Fraternities and sororities should be encouraged to host one or two international students each year. This would provide a service to both our international students and the Greeks themselves. (Housing some of our international stude11ts in fraternities and sororities would help to break down our current isolation Clf international students in Ludlow and Webster; it would put them in a setting where they are more likely to have an \American experience,\ which in most cases is their motivation for coming to the United States, and t<l Union, in the first place. Second, their presence would help internationalize, albeit in a small way, our Greek organizations. Our primary motivation in inviting students from abr()ad is to \internationalize\ the campus, but under the present system only independents, and only in a few select residence halls, have much contact with our international students. Unless some of these students are housed in fraternities and sororities, their members will have little opportunity to become acquainted with international students.) Other recommendations concerning Greek :housing are contained in Sectio11s VI and VIII. VIII. College Housing Policy: Inclusive Groups While recognizing the value of single-sex housing (Chapter VI) and th.e role of Greek life in the College (Chapter VII). the Committee urges the College to develop new housing policies which will give priority to inclusive membership, coed housing groups. An inclusive-membership group is one which meets these criteria: 1. any student is welcome to join, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, creed, ideology, sexual preference, or financial ability; and 2. membership rules are not discriminatory. (Groups that exclude stude:nts on any basis, such as gender, are exclusive-membership groups.) We believe inclusive groups to be valuable and necessary alternatives to Greek organizatiom and to unaffiliated living, either in residence halls or in off campus apartments. Giving priority in housing to inclusive groups will mean that fraternity and sorority housing will be at risk. That is, some Greek organizations are likely to lose their current housing to inclusive groups. However, Greeks do have the option of becoming \inclusive\' groups themselves, by admitting members of the opposite sex. The Union community as a whole should be made aware that the COaege owns both the residence halls and all but fe»ur of the fratermty-oecupied bllildings on campus. Moreover, leases for the land OJl which the folll' remaining buil!lings sit will expire during the next several decades, at which point the land wilL revert to the College. Thus, following the recollllilendatioJlS of til~ re~rt, at some point in the near future the Dean of Students Office will have at 1ts disPosal College- owned fraternity buildings and theme ho~s. ~pgraded residence h~ an.d n~wly­ constructed townhouse apartments. This constitutes a pooL of housmg ~bieh 1S available, by application, to all student men:abers of the college commumty. · In developing procedures for the allocation o~ housin_g ~pus-wide the Committee believes that the College should favor diverse, wclusive, coed groups, which provide a service to the college colOIIlunity at large. Groups I?ay :ange in size from small blocks of friends who seek adjacent rooms to fratermty·mzed communities of thirty and more. The CcJDwrlttee explicitly encour~es the formation of mixed class theme houses. A mixed class theme house IS a coed group of students, from §!econd to fourth year, whose bond is usually l?rovided by . residence in the house rather than by pre-viCJus club membersh1p, and w~o. ~sh to cooperate with neighbors to pursue a colllll1.on interest or program .of activlt~es. Each ''house\ should have a theme (e.g., language, cultural, academ1c or sel\Vlce) and receive college support to pursue that t:heme. On some. campuses the!Ul houses include dining coops or \eating clubs.\ Each such house should occupy a resideace hall, or a wing, division, or floo: of a residence hall. Each should be governed by its residents, with access w spec1al college funding for activities relating to its theme or ~urpoSE. Eac~ should be . assigned the use of a lounge and a kitchen where available. We WISh t() emp~as1ze the importance of having a kitchen as it will make these groups more attractive to students. The selection of students should give priority to previous residents, b~t otherwise the selection process shoUld ins11re that each house is coed and eontmns a mix of classes. 9 Renort of the Committee on CveduCition, 1989. Clearly, given the Ccmuilittee's recommendations, the development of a commonly held set of criteria for the allocation of college housing is crucial to the successful implementation of a new housing policy. (Our primary reason for circulating this preliminary draft iS to encourage broad discussion of what these criteria must be.) Recommendation: The College should permit student-organized stJcial or special-interest groups to apply for the privilege of living together in College housing. In order to be accolliltable to the College such groups should reapply for group housing every other year. Recommendation: Applications for group housing in all College- owned buildings should be evaluated by ~e Dean for Residence Life in consultation with a standing subcommittee of the Student Affairs Council. When evaluating and ranking applications for group housing, the college should determine whether each group has an inclusive or exclusive membership .policy • 10 Priority should be assigned to the applications according to 'the following cri~ria: inclusiveness, diversity, pursuit of a common mterest or program Gf activities in accord with the College's mission, and serviee to the College coiDDlunity. Recommendation: Each student, after the freshman year, should be free to select his/her (same-sex) roommate and free to form a 'small block of friends (of the same aex or coed) who seek housing in adjacent rooms of a residence hall. The College shotlld limit the size of th~e housing blocks, however, to no more than six students of the same sex, or eight students in a coed block. 10 0ur recommendatioa for addressing the pt;oblems of inequity in campus housing--by giving priority in housing to \inclusive ,groups\-was borrowed from Kenyon College. See Kenyon•s Report of the Commission on Student Life, p.16. Appendix! Postponing Rush Until the Scphomore Year The Committee disc\lssed a proposal to postpone rush until the beginning of the sophomore year. The idea was strongly supported by several members of the eommittee, and equally opposed by others; several Committee members favored the idea in principle but felt that the problems of ita implementation would divert attention away from the central concerns of our study. Nonetheless, the Committee agreed to allow the supporters of the proposal to append to this drafl of the report the argument for sophomore rush. The proponents of delaying 1'USh until the sophomore year believe it will encourage a stronger identification of freslwlen with their own class. It will mean that freshmen will be together for the entire year, whetc;!a.s now many are siphoned off into fraternities and sororities. Other colleges have found that once freshmen enter Greek organizations. they tend to participate less in other campus activities, as much of their time is taken up by Greek activities. Postponing rush until the sophomore year is ahlo likely to result in more jumors and seniClrs being actively involved and living in their houses. We believe this is in the best interests of both these organizations and of the larger campus community since seniors are likely to have a positive influence on fraternity behavior. Postponing rush will also mean that Union studeats, by not moving into fraternities and sororities until t:heir junior year, will spend an extra year in the more heterogenous environment of the residence halls. Appendix n Oc:cnpaney in Campus Housing Independents ~ Fox Davidson Webster South West Richmond North College Bronner Smith Hickok Potter South Raymond North TOTAL INDEPENDENTS Greeks Davidson Delta Delta Delta ZBT Fox PSK PGD South SOT McKean KA Raymond Sigma Chi Potter DG Edward§ TDChi TOTAL GREEKS CAPACITY 224 226 63 90 172 124· 74 12 18 50 36 36 1i15 34 22 26 30 19 10 37 36 32 246 ESTIMATE TOTALS TOTAL GREEKS 246 TOTAL INDEP. 1115 TOTAL CAMPUS 1361 SPRING1991 OCCUPANCY 215 216 38 88 157 109 74 11 18 29 .15 18 988 (89%) 34+ 20+ 18- 31+ 18+ 7- 35+ 30+ 32+ 225 (91%) 225 (91%) 988 (87%) 1213 (89%) r: t' '1

October 10, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLETI!l\1 BOARD <llJlltfllrbirtufts 13 Tri Delta's .. Dance For Life .. to benef:it American Cancer Society Saturday /Sunday October 12-13 8 pm-8 am Music-Food--Entertainment-Prizes DJ from PIX 1 06 and VLAD Look for registration and tee-shirts in the college center DON'T MISS THE CHANCE TO DANCE FOR LIFE! ------------------------- :sTUDENT SERVICES.PO BOX 2596~~HOLLY\IOOD,FL 33022• Now you can have two of the most recognized and 11 YE\ S' accepted credit cards In the world ... VIsa® and MasterCard® I · \ • I want VISA® I MASfERCARO~ Credit credit cards .. .''ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which is 100% refundable If not CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1l1RNED DOWN BEFORE! 1 approved Immediately. VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you I ---- deserve and need far- 10-BOOKS-DEPARTMENi' 1 NAME -------~--- '\\\\\ . STORES- TUITION-ENTERTAINMENT- EMERGE:NCY CASli-TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- : ADDRESS HGrELS-MOTELS-G'\5-CAR RENfALS- REPAIR5-ANDTOBUILDYOURCREDITRATINQI I CITY ----STATE -ZIP--- GIJAAANTEEDI 1 PHONE S S # V1SA/JIASTEACARD I ---- . • ----- CliAftANTEED ISSUE I SIGNA11JRE --------- (lfl IIOHEY aACIC I I NOTE: MastuCaJtl Is a registered tmdemark ~ Masle!Card International Inc. ApprowJabsolutely guaranteed so I VIsa ls a reglstemd trademark of VISA USA.. Inc. lU1d VISA International I i Services Association 100% GUARANTEEDr I l ... t.11.i:l~i :.t•l;lti:t.;t•lii:Xel:lt•l•l·\1 1 1 L__j_ __ ~~~~~~~~~__J-------------- ----------- The Dutch Hollow Restaurant is pleased to announce: NATIVE AMERICAN AWARENESS WEEK November 4th thru 8th ' *We will be featuring Native Cuisine all week during brunch. *There will be repre~entatives of the major Northeastern Tribes performing and displaying their handi crafts.

----Founded at r.J11ion College 1877--- Hats Off to Myopia When the average Union student rolls out of bed five minutes before his first class on Monday morning he rarely has the time to decide whether he should throw on a baseball hat or make a quick dash to the bathroom sink to wash down his hair. Nine out of ten times the hat is the winning solution. What this student does not realize is that his choice could ultimately alter the path of his entire future after graduation. In making this seemingly unimportant decision, the student fails to recognize that some faculty members will never again view him in the same light. In short, it would appear that many faculty members look upon the wearing of hats as a sign of disrespect. Moreover, some professors feel as though students are intentionally insulting them as faculty members sotely because of this incidental choice of headgear. They view the gesture not only as a breach of traditional etiquette but also as a deliberate snub to their authority. As a result of the conservative values held by many Union professors, the choice is often taken personally instead of assessed for its more obvious implications. It is reproachable that some professors actually consider that what students wear on their heads to be of any bearing to the student's value as a person. This is utter hypocrisy when the same faculty members endlessly preach individuality and diversity. Why is it necessary to conform to society at certain times, while at other times it is outright discouraged? Furthermore, should those students who have been wearing baseball hats in the classroom for the last several years be worried about whether they have lost the respect of their professors? After all, many of these faculty members are presently being asked by these hat-wearers to write recommendations for graduate school applications. Standard questions on the accompanying forms often include those which deal with a student's respect for others, his interpersonal skills, or how this person will perform in a professional environment. Should one fear that this assumption of disrespect on the part of faculty is reflected in their recommendations? Let this be an open notice to Union College faculty members, baseball hats are merely a method of hiding messy hair! Hats no longer mean what they originally meant. Offense is by no means intended. Unio~ Seniors Fail Final Exam To the Editor: Congratulations to the 18 seniors who applied for a Watson Travel Fellowship. This letter is not addressed to . you. You exhibited great creativity and curiosity in your applications, and you can be proud. In the next few weeks, four of you will be named Watson finalists, and I hope that come March, all four finalists will be named winners. What the hell are the other 520 of you seniors doing, anyway? It's not as though a,pplying for You just have to imagine a one-year all- expenses-paid trip to anywhere, and wri,te down whete you would go and what you would do, all in 4-6 pages. I think that it is a sad reflection on Union College that only 18 seniors ,could come up with a plan for a year of free travel. All right. Maybe some of you hate travel, or are bored with travel, or already have $35,000-a-year jobs lined up and can't wait to get into the rat race. I'll let some of you off the hook, but not 97 percent of you. In fifteen or twenty years, many of you will have families and jobs, all very nice, but Lry to find someone to pay you to t2ke a year off to travel then. I concede that not everyone who applies wiU win a Watson. Union can only nominate four finalists (although all four could win). Even if you do not win, however, it is a wonderful cllallenge to give yourself. You devise a plan to explore something you've always wanted to know, and learn something about yourself as well. I have often thought of a Watson application as tne ultimate final examination to a college education. What have you discovered is important for you to know more about? Another benefit of applying; .is that the process itself can open doors, and give you ideas of things to do that you might not otherwise consider. Yom will have an opportunity t() talk in detail about your future plans with friends, family, faculty. If you have done a good job applying, you rnay decide to carry out your plan, even without a Watson. It has been known to happen-the most recent example is Alam Eisenberg, who many of yoll know. So I am disappointed, ami more than a little frustrated that only 18 seniors could be creative enough to pass the final exam for their years at Union. Life offers many opportunities, but you must seize them. Doug K!.ein Economics October 4,1991 The Future of Our Maxi Pad To the Editor: I have heard from many students that President Hull has vehemently SUPPORTED a plan to convert Maxi House (formerly Beta Theta Pi) into an international coffee house. If these rumors are true, I urge not only President Hull but members of the student forum to come public with their support. In a time where · fraternities are under scrutinizing pressure from the administration to admonish themselves of a great deal of the social responsibility of this campus, it would be catastrophic to watch such a great idea fall short of necessary fruition. I have also heard from many students that this idea has found a great deal of opposition in other segments of the administration; namely from Dean Mammola, who would apparently see Maxi House used for something else. While that 'something else' awaits execution, we, the students, must continue to go ONLY to fraternities. I do not call for the abolition of fraternities as social centers on this campus. On the contrary. I simply call for an alternative so that once a week a student can go for an international menu above that All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the C oncordie nsis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis offered at the Dutch Hollow and Rathskeller. With the amount of criticism President Hull has received over the last year, he deserves to have one of his most student-beneficial plans carried through. I encourage students who favor the creation of such a house to personaHy write Environmental E~to:t Gt)mmmtane$Btit~r$·.··· President Hull and offer your support. The stagnant social policy of this school should be redirected away from making fraternal life as difficult as possible to that of makin!!; student life as enjoyable and diverse as possible. Andrew R. Rosen '92 · s'haronttifS.iidlesmail' ~ ·• l\>ll~id Burirl ·.·· · .. ·. :lr~\Qa~a1 -,·_ •. · Julie Mednvv lulie Siibl;;Utg.· . Dian~ Br()~$ky, Ntcnm Glli(lip . . · - . . . 1Jail Sttutfu Dn.vid Chl:l· .• .. .. . .. }iend.y; Ot:¢mlalni La1ltel :i\1e$si~, Lallli'en Bycoff, ·· Andrea :R10gen ·• ~QfyW ~qselt i

' r ' t ' I ! I ' 1 ~~ .'.{- :0· ! I ~-ilfEIII!i~~E•J\1•, .v.I.ROJ\1 M.E.J\1.· .T~~-~<li•rotrO•r•birmnm.·s. Death by Incinerator (;{)u-rtesy of Albany Report 'fhanks to a generally perceptive and skeptical public, the incinerator industry is getting desperate. When our regt~latory protectors at the Department of Environmental Co11servation decided burning garbage was back in vogue, the industry had an initial flurry of success siting new plants in communities with growing amo!lnts of garbage and fewer options to manage it. Then people began to remember why incinerators wer.e abandoned the last time they were fa~hionable. The facilities often did not work. Ami even when they worked as planned, they produced large amoants of toxic ash and harmful air emissions. State citi:zens also began to understand the huge amount of res()urces and energy they were was.ning by burning paper, plastic and other materials that couLd be readily recycled. As a result, the siting of incinerators has become increasingly difficult. Two \lea. in the industry, BFI and Wheelabrator, have tried just about everything to con'Vince communities that they- have an incinerator model riglttt for them, They have attempted to argue the merits, th.e:y have taken people to kick th.e tires of shiny new plants on Long Island, they've sent slick videos to every town in tlle state about the economic berufits of burning garbage, they have hired ex-public officials and AI D' Amato's yo11nger brother Armand-but nothing seemed capable of convincing the public of the wis<iom of incineration. N()w, the industry has resGrted to a simpler and probably more effective strategy. The new approach is based on an old notion: everyone has a price. They unveiled this latest gambit in eco11omically depressed Green Island, a. community of 2,500 people located on the Hudson River, smack in the heru:t of the Capital District. In a plan that would effectively change the community's name to Trash Island, BFI and Wh.eelabrator are in tl:re midst of a bidding war to woo Green Island to site a battery of solid waste facilities, including a huge regional incinerator, that would require the importation ofgarbage from a wide area. the amount of money being offered Green Island is staggering to a community that has seen industry leave _and its tax base shrink. The with President Hull and The Outing Club to Buck Mountain overlooking Lake George Sunday, October 13th Leaving from the College Center Circle this Sunday morning 8:00AM. In order for us to provide adequate transportation it is essential to call or stop into the Student Activities Office, CC408, x6118 to reserve a place by 11 :00 A.M. on Friday, Oct. 11th. Everyone is Welcome! .. I ...,., s= The Beautiful ChoiceTM companies' offer of $7 million per year, which is sure to increase as the bidding heats up, is more than the ViHage collects in total property and school taxes. What is the probability that a poor town will turn down a perceived windfall, even if the wind is filled with dioxin? Too low. The plan would exacerbate the trend of poor cornrn unities bearing the toxic burden for the rest of us. But in this case, the decision wouldn't ha\(e isolated effects. If the incinemtor is built, a decision by slightly more than 2,500 people cou1d significantly degrade the entire Capital District's already below standard air quality. From the valley in which Green Island sits, Troy, Albany and Cohoes are hardly a breeze away. More than one million people in surrounding areas will likely feel the effect of increased dioxin, lead, mercury and other emissions coming out of the smoke stack. Construction of the incinerator would also provide faint-hearted public officials throughout the region with a reason not to move toward intensive recycling. \Wb.y take · the time to reeducate people about producing less garbage and recycling more, when, by signing up for incinerator space Concordiensis Is Looking For A Few Good Environmental Writers. If Interested Call Sharon At: 386-4383 located elsewhere, my constituents can continue their wastefully disposable ways? Besides, any bad environmental impacts probably won't be felt until I'm out of office,\ undoubtedly is the attitude. If they accept the money and allow the incinerator to be built, the residents and officials of Green Island will have made a Faustian deal they, or their children, are sure to regret. Ever compliant DEC garbage regulators, meanwhile, with their bureaucratic mentality of wanting to get the immediate trash capacity problem off their desk-and always geared toward the quick technological fix in any event-will assuredly let Green Island practice environmental self-flagellation if they so choose. This emerging situation raises troubling questions. Why should so few t.e able to make a decision that will affect the health of so ma11y? And when will we begin to face the fact that poor corn munities here and abroad are s~rving as our dumping grounilll, allowing us to make environmentally unsound decisions or continue hannful practices. It is a shame what some communities seem willing to do for revenue. Everyone should write a check to Green Island for five dollar~. No one should need the money tnat badly. . . F - .i· •. ·-.·.o·,,r·u··.··m·.· ... · ~ .---· -.- _-.-. :.~ ;·.: _--~ \!-~- __ :: ~- Committees There are 'S,tiU positions available on the foflowing. committees: Social Committee Acad:emJc ,Computing· Sub- Council Finance Committee Conduct Committee Traffic Committee Committee on Standing Com·mencement Committee Co.mmitle:e ;on Honorary ·Degrees.· General Ed.ucatlon Board Speakers Forum Those interested may pick up applications in the College Center room 408 starting today. Please return ihem no later than 4:00 p.m. on Friday, October 18. ...

16 <ll.onrnrbfrnsi.s CAMPU!i NEW!i O~tober 10, 1991 Dear A, Things tbat make you go hmm- What does it all mean? Nice room! At least it can hold all of your friends! We miss you so much. Happy Birthday, Aaron 10-8-91 Ha! I'm still older than you! Hope you had a special day! Love.B &E Kristen Neibergs - I Love You!! Love, Kris Yo There Bags- STAY AWAY! To the Brothers of Theta Delta Chi: \Leo\ doesn't want to play If you still try to seduce him, I will have to telephone Tim! Thanks for a great cocktail party and the music, well you weren't bad dancers. Hey! Who sent me a green The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta M&M? To Nikki: Tasha- You're hard work on Homecoming really paid off. our warmest appreciation. We love you! Happy Birthday (A little late!) What is the G-Spot? Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta October 27th ~ 8 P.M. Memorial Chapel Wendy- Cheer up! There's a N.J.B. around the comer. Give it time. Is Premature Ejaculation Curable? Love, the Sisters Always, of Gamma Phi Beta October 27th - 8 P.M. Memorial Chapel Weekly Crossword \STATELY NICKNAMES\' D y Gerry f'rcy ACROSS 1 Over the hill 5 ~--Slate\: Hawaii 10 \-me Stile\: Mluourl 14 One of lhe tribes ol lll'ael 15 Ctllitlr ohtliietlon 16 Promise 17 Paradise 18 Choleric 11 Camlllnlng form meaning bone 20 ·oranHa Slate\ Capital 22 \Garden State\ Capllal 24 Cheer for lha matador 25 English maasummenl 26 Bumbadty 29 Oldsmobile, eg 30 Corresponded with 34 Dawn 35 _fly 36 Bayol __ 37 Exist 38 ~-State\: louisiana 411 Devoured 41 Wort on lha hedges again 43 \-no to drugcl\ 44 Besmirch 45 Tri~k's companion 46 2,000 pounds 47 Yanb and Mels, eg 48 Willy __ : Miller's 13 At whattlme? salesman 21 \-- Dominion Stale: SO Mt. Marvin VIrginia 51 \Grand Canyon State\ 23 Senator Sam from Capital Watergate 54 .. __ state\: North 25 ~Badger State\ Ca~tllal Carolina 26 lnlellloent 58 Precedes \PlDES\: Greek 27 Apple IDOl dramatist 21 Mourdlln ridge 59 Rows 29 Sacramenta's St. 61 __ China 31 City In \Sunshine Stale\ 62 Bell output 32 MI. O'Neal 63 M1. Ta,lar 33 Oglers 64 Blood veuel 35 \-State\: Idaho fi5 Ctnlerplece lor Arlzana, 36 • __ State\: MnuchuseHs Nenda, Colorado and ldahll 38 Mountain climbing tool 39 Wonl with lin · IS& Cbemlcal compoulltl 42 \Tarhtel State\ Capital &7o Thll: S,anlltl 44 \-State\: Ulah DOWN 46 For hln c~an 1 Mr. Gulnnen . 47 Comlllal~g larm maalli~gtrlce z \---what we can\ 49 Bishop's hat 3 Kiln 50 Wonl wllh prlntlr or surgery 4 \Comhulller State\ C:apltal 51 South American ec~untry 5 In llamas 52 French elghl . 6 Jack : 01 Hawaii 5 • 0 53 Pnmlas '\MENT\: Chrllt· 7 Wood corral mas decoration B Mad :Aih:e'sfrland 54 \Pine_ Slate\: MIIIRI 9 Llvaiy 55 ChemlcalsuHixec 10 .. State •: Oklah~ma 56 ~lue pencil • 11 Biblical hal 57 __ Sllr Stale : Texas 12 Mr. Premtnaer 6Q Hcun sulflx How Can I Tell If It's Love? October 27th- 8 P.M. Memorial Chapel SPRING BREAK: Cancun. . Bahamas from $259.00 includes roundtrip air, 7 nights . hotel, parties, free admission • BUY YOUR P'ERSONAL 50~ hotel taxes and more! Organize Groine Cology October 27th- 8 P.M. a small group. Eam free trip. 1 (800) BEACH IT. AT INFO. Memorial Chapel Ramsey Eaker for President . TUTORS NEEDED for Liberty Partnership Program. An excellent PAID opportunity to make a difference in a young person's life. If interested, call Deanna at 386-4351. BOOTH! (C. C.) FINANCIAL AID available immediately! Special grants program. Every student eligible. No one turned down. Simple application. Send name, addiess and $1 P&H fee (refundable) to: Student Services, P.O. :Sox 22-4026, Hollywo<>d, FL 33022. CLA!i!iiFI·ED!i 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE needed- New Home- behind Ellis hospital Rent $240/month plus utilities. Call 346-4207 ADDRESSERS wanted immediately! No experience · necessary. process FHA mortgage refunds. Work at home. Calll-405-321-3064. U • N • I • 0 • N • 'S EEK FRIDA Y 11 OCTOBER 11 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy colloquium: Berel Lang~ SUNY-Albany, speaking on .. The Style cf Method: Phil()sophy and Literary Foom.\ 3:45p.m. S&E N114. Physics colloquiwn: Ann Silversmith, Hamilton College, speaking on ••upconversion Excitation: A New Way oo Make a Laser Work.\ 4 p.m. SaratDga State Park. Women's ctoss country Capital Dislrict meet. 7 p.m. College Center 302. Cafe 302. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Filin: \Tenninator II.\ 8 & 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mounte- banks presents \Night of Scenes.\ Also 10/ 19. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12 11 a.m. Fra:nk Bailey Field. Field hockey vs. Middlebury. Noon. Upper Class dining hall. Tri Delta dance mara.t!Ion. 12:30 p.m. :Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee field hockey vs . .Middlebury. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Women's soccervs. Plattsburglt. 8 & 10:30p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Tenninatol' II.\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Ecumenical Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p;m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Tenninarol' II.\ lfAONDAY, OCTOBER 14 . 3:00p.m. T.ennis Courts. Women's Tennis · vs. Siena. 3:30p.m. F:rank Bailey Field. Jayvee Football vs. RPI. 7-8 p.m. C()llege Center 410. Students Against Drunlc Driving (SADD) meeting. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum/ College Concert series presents the \New England Bach Festival.\ 9 p.m.-1 am. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESDA''f, OCTOBER 15 12-3 p.m. College Center aud. Kick off seminars f~n the Union College Wellness Program. 6:30-8 p.m. CollegeCenter409. Newman Club meeting. 6:30-11 p.m. Hale House. Philomathean Society. 7 p.m. College Center 302. Cafe 302. 7-8 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Ac:ti.on and Awareness meeting. 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Dramatic reading: Dr. Su.ess. 8:30-9:30 p.m. College Center 203. Panhellenic meeting. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16 10 a.m.-4 P-\'· College Center atrium. World Food Day. Bring your donations for tlte hungry. Noon. CollcgeCenter410. \Smart Move,\ a smoking cessation program presented by the American Cancer Society with. speaker Dr. L<luis Snitkoff. _ N~on4 p.m. Schaffer Librruyrnain lobby . B()()k sale. 3:30p.m. Garis Field. Women\s Soccer vs. Albany. 3:30p.m. Tennis Courts. W()m.en's Tennis vs. St. Rose. 4 p.m. Frank :Bailey Field. Fiel<i Hockey vs. Siena. 4:30p.m. College Center 302. Arts Club meeting. 7-8-p.m. College Center 205. Recycling C«>rnmittee meeting. THURSDAY, OCTOBER tr 12:.30 p.m.-2 p.m. College Center. Invest- ment Club meeting. 4~·.30 p.m. College Center 404C. Bible study. 4:40p.m. SS 104. The Biolcgr Department and Biology Club present Geocge Butter- stein, professor of biological sciences, s~aking on \In Search of an Immunological Cmtraceptive.\ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18 PARENTS' WEEKEND 3;45 p.m. S&E N114. PhysicsColloquiwn: William Bernhard, University of Rochester, s~aking on '\Radiation Damage in DNA as Studied by Electron Paramagnetic Reso- nance.\ 7 p.m. College Center 409. ::Sibole study. 6.-J0-11 p.m. Hale House. Philomathean Sreiety. 7;JO p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies fl.lm: \Heat and Dust.:\ 8 p.m. & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film; \City Slickers. •• 8 p~m. Proctor's Theatre. Saturday Night Live's Dana Carvey. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19 PARENTS' WEEKEND 1 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field Hockey vs. St. Lawrence. 1 :JO p.m. College Center upper class dining hall. Mini United Nations Sllll11llit. Gospel Ensemble perfonning. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Men's S()()c:er vs. RIT. 5 p.m. Hale House & Old Chapel Culinary Expose featuring Michel LeBorgne. 7 p.m. College .Center 302. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Union College Choir. 8 &: 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mounte- banks presents \A Night of S<:enes.\ 8 &: 10 p.m. College Center a:ud. Film: \City Slickers.\ 10 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. SUNDAV,OCTOBER20 PARENTS' WEEKEND 10 a.m. Memorial Chapel. Protestant Chapel setvice. 10 a.m. & Noon. Hale House, Old Chapel & Upper Class Dining Hall. Parents' Weekend brunch. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Centel' aud. Fihn: \City Slickers.\'

CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD <trv.ttfllrbirn.sis 11 WHATEVER THE BEASON WHATEVER THE SEASON ~ .. .. l··fi .. ·.·· w.i.!.·.· n .. i:f , II . ' : ', ' ; 'GOOD· LUC»:;.;: · · •c,t.LL HOIAE.· ll . 1 \<lET WEI.L \HAPPY !OOrt• BIRTHOA .... TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICA.'JES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATIVE UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE· FOR PURCHASE liT THE TELECOMMIJ!>IICATIONS OFFICE, COllEGE CE!>ITER/103. fM1 OR CALL37c>S411 FOR MORE ~ INFOFIMATIO~. t:!!!::J MONDA.Y NIGHT FOOTBALL BIJFFAJ.O AT KANSAS Cn'lr MONDA.Y, OCT. 7th AT 8 PM BIG SCREEN IU CC302 ~ MUNCHIES SERVEDU Mountebank and Comp. present The Grand Opening of Night of Scenes \HEAR THE VOICES OF CU-LTURE, HEAR THE VOICES OF HUMANITY'' A Melting Pot of Song, Dance and Acting Friday, October 11 7:00pm and !O:OOpm showings PEP BAND REHERSAL Thursday, October 10 8:30 pm-CC41 0 New Members Welcome! Schaffer Library BookS ale FALL TERM September25 Octoberl6 November13 WINTER TERM Januaryl4 Februaryll Marcli3 SPRINGTERM A ril8 A pri129 ~ay27 The sale will be held from 12:00-4:00 pm in the main lobby. DRAMATIC READING SERIES presents in memorium to DR. SUESS a reading of his works Tuesday~ Oct. 16 in CC Aud. Union College Fall Classic SQUASH TOURNAMENT To enter call SandyVohr 377-2910 •STUDENTS WISHING TO SIGN~UP, CHANGE OR DROP THE MEALPLAN FOR WINTER TERM SHOULD DO SO IN THE DINING SERVICES OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 202, NO LATER THAN OCTOBER 21, 1991. •STUDENTS ALREADY ON THE MEALPLAN WILL BE BILLED AUTOMATICALLY WINTER TERM FOR THE SAME MEALPLAN THEY ARE PRESENTLY ON. EFFECTIVE UUIEDIATELT: ALL SIQDE!I TELEPHOn CALLS TO> SARATOGA spRINGS, PREFIX'S 581, 583,584,587 •• .!BD•• SCHUYI ERVIII E, PREFIX695 tEQUIIE DIALIIG a+ AUTHOIIZ1TIOI CODE + 1 • IUKBE:t. ALL DEUUMEIT CALLS DUL 9 ~ 1 + •IUIIBEI. (CAU3 TO'TIIESE PIEnX:s AlE COIISIDEIED LOCAL TOLL CAW AID TIIUS OIAIGEAIIU!) To all members of the Union Community, on Monday, Oct. 14, The Admissions Office will be hosting ''Union Begins With U\. Over 600 visitors- prospective students and their parents will be on campus. Please extend a warm Union welcome and wear your U -C sweatshirt. Admissions Office Nancy Cooper moo JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES, FRESHMEN Applications are now IJeing accepted for the job of consultant in the Social Sciences Statistics Lab . Application forms arc availnllle from Mrs. Sanur<~ Geraci in the Economcis Dcp<~rtment office, Room 212, Social Sciences. Prerequisites: . (1) <~ny social science sratistics or d<~ta analys•s course, or (2) an interest in or knowledge of IBM- compatible microcomputers, or (3) an interest in or knowledge of Union's VAX system. New consuft,wts will be trained. For more information, contact J>rof. Klein, 55109; x6056; E-mail: KLEIND. Any student interested in student BICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE to plan Activities Leaping into Unions Bicentennial 1995, please complete application and return to Box 2155 NAME:~------------ BOX: _________________________ __ PHONE: __________________________ _ INTEREST IN BICENTENNIAL: _________ _ Anyone interested in playing Intercollegiate Golf, please call Coach Scanlon at x6286 as soon as possible. The College Center /Mountebanks Dramatic Reading Series presents An Evening of DR. SUESS (Yes, you .... ) Coffeehouse is looking for any kind of talent to perform on the occasional Friday night throughout the year. If you would contribute your own particular bent- however bent it may be- let us know! Tuesday, Oct. 15 ot 7:30 pm inCC302 Free Admission Cafe 302 will be serving from 7:00 pm until 1:00am You are just what we've been waiting for!!! Don't be shy- call laura and Nancy at X4142 or leave a message at X6618 and prepare for glory and fame! THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \IN SEARCH of an IMMUNOLOGICAL CONTRACEPTIVE\ Union College Thursday, October 17, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 - - 3.5\ DISKS FOR SALE $1.50 for use in IBM, Macintosh, arid other computers Now Available in: Consulting Disk Steinmetz-1 02 C.S. Crisis Cneter- Steinmetz 227 Prof. Mazur- Steinmetz 231 from Union College A.C.M. NEW YORK STATE BOARD OF REGENTS amouncethe - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - EMPIRE STATE CHALLENGER SCHOlARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS FOR TEACHERS UNDERGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP Awards up to $3,000 per year Mathematics BUingual Education Children with GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS up to $4,000 per year English to Speakers of Oiher Languages PERSONALS are now available at the information STUDENT-LED BIBLE STUDY Handicapping Cond~ions CXcupational Education (Agricultum, Home Economics, Technology Education) and the fields of School Counselor\ School Media Specialist* booth at the college center. Held every Friday at 7:00 pm in the Colege Center, Rm. 409. School Phycologist* School Media Specialist• (Library) 'Graduate Programs Only and the PAUL DOUGLAS SCHOLARSI:liPS FOR TEACHERS Undergraduate Awards ONLY ~ to $5,000 per year The Paul Douglas Awards will be lor students who will enrolled in ANY approved undergraduate teacher education.prograrn which leads to certffication on the elementary or secondary level. Surprise a friend for 50¢ For more information, call Glen x6945 Academic Year July 1, 19991-June 30, 1993 All Applications must be postmarked by February 3, 1992 THE NEW YORK STATE EDUCATION DEPMTMENT Bureau of Professional Career Opportunity Programs Cultural Education Center-Room 5C64, Albany, New Yorll12230 or telephone (518)474·6394 ~~-~ .... -.:::. 1JN I ON COLLEGE RNU PROCTOR'S PRESENTS IN CONCERT SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE'S OCT 18 • PARENTS WEEKEND 8 PM- PROCTOR'S THEATER TICKETS $6. 408 COLLEGE CENTER LIMITED TICKETS LEFT ·· t.hle ··•·co,lieg·e ···w.il·l be lri\Pili·N·c•;r Of . . . • .• rear;; . • • ' .· •• .. !' •• . i .• ••••••. •. ·.' UFJpaid •ds. to 2x2 .. ,up.on. suibm,J~.sl()n •. However, we wdl ca:nti\n·ue t·o advertise ·Ja . slzes at the · ·stan·d·a·rd rate .. Pl·eas;e·contact the Con~cordi•ensls· Advertising. D.e·partment at 518-370-6494 ·· f.or .mor·e information. '-

! : !iPDRT!i October 10, 1991 Men's Soccer Rocks Women's. X-C Places Third In Union Invite continued from page 20 scoring by the Dutchmen enabled them to play some of their best soccer of the young season. Never allowing Vassar to coNtrol the tempo of the match, the Union midfield of Jeff Mela, Jere.my Sollinger, Brett Miller and Stu \Chicken\ Savage played possession soccer and completely neutralized Vassar's powerful halfbacks. In addition, the rock solid Union defense led by captains Adam Epstein and Hodson, stopper Dave Chodosch, attacking left back Daniel Wilmot, and goalkeeper Soda Popper shut out the Vassar strikers for their well earned third shutout of the season. Homecoming weekend, the Dutchmen travelled to Manhattanville in Westchester, N.Y. to compete in the first annual Valiant Cup. Paired against William Patterson College of New Jersey in the first round, the Dutchmen had set a reasonable goal of winning both matches for the weekend and corning home with first place hardware. However Saturday's match against William Patterson was \one of those games.\ Union played good soccer, the strikers went to goal, the midfielders controlled the tempo of the match, and the defense marked tightly. However, the Dutchmen failed to accomplish the only thing that really matters in a soccer game, which is to put the ball in the back of the net. Although they outshot William Patterson 23- 4, a shot that deflected off of a Union defender found the net to give Patterson a 1-0 victory. On Sunday, October 5, a disappointed and angry Dutchmen squad faced host Manhattan ville in the consolation round of the Valiant Cup. With the Patterson game behind them, Union's potentially potent attack unleashed thirty-eight shots, four of which found the net for a 4-0 victory. At the twentv-five minute mark ofthe first half, Savage knocked in a rebound off of a Mela shot to make the score 1-0. Thirteen minutes later, after Mela missed an open goal by hitting the crossbar, sophomore Tim \Trickster\ Walsh knocked in the rebound with a scrappy diving header. Just before halftime, the Dutchmen made the score 3-0 as freshman Kevin Wilmot assisted on Walsh's second goal of the day. Hometown hero Epstein rounded out the scoring in the second half with an assist from Walsh. Popper and frosh Dan Rosenfeld combined for three saves, as they recorded their fourth shutout season. By the end of the week, the Dutchmen had raised their record to 5-2. Having played six consecutive games on the road with three more to follow, the Dutchmen are eager to return to their home pitch, Garis Field. However, before the Dutchmen begin their five game ho~estand against their traditionally tough opponents, they must rise to the challenge against Capital District rivals Siena and RPI. With nine games remaining in the season, three against nationally ranked opponents, Union will remain in the hunt for a post-seas()n playoff berth, with hopes of playing tournament soccer in November for the first time since 1986. Sports Extra DUTCHMEN RANKED SECOND Union College, overlooked for NCAA Division III Tournament consideration last year, is second in the NCAA: Eastern Regional poll. Union, 4-0, was ranked behind Cortland (4-0). Rounding out the top six teams were Ramapo (4-0). Glassboro (4-0), Lowell (4-()) and Ithaca (3-1). Meanwhile, Union is ranked fourth in the Lambert- Meadow lands poll, behind Allegheny, Pa (S-0), Washington & Jefferson, Pa. (4-0) and Cortland. by Sndra Anselment After a long week of double sessions, the women's cross- country team came back strong to place third in the Union Invitatio11al. The team took advantage ·of the warm racing weather to finish with very impressive times. Freshman Diana SIJenello has become a very impC>Itant addition to the team. S.Jlenello fiNiShed first for the Un.ion squad once again with a fa&t time of 20:58 and . overall finish of 9th place. Junior las ha LaB are is proving that she is just as much of a force to ,contend with on the cross-cou11try course as on the track. LaBare has shown improvement with every meet of the season and finished this past week in 21:38, claiming 13th place for the team and a personal :r:ecord for herself. Senior co-captain Sandra SENIOR NIGHT AT Kelly's Pub Now EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT -Drink Specials -2 for i . Wings -Pool Table/Darts ALL SENIORS WELCOME oProper ID Required Anselment took advantage of tlle fast course at S antoga placing 17th overall with a time of 22:07. Cindy Hunter, senior , co-captain, fin.ished fourth on the Union squad. Hunter, with her determination and enthusiasm is always a strong contributor to this small team. Her quick time of 22:18 gave Union another high finishing place of 20th. Hunter's time was also a personal record, quite an accomplishment since a change in the course has lengthened the race by 300m. Junior Kristen Welch rounded out the Union squad. Welch, who suffered an ankle injury early in the season, proved she's hack and ready to give top performances. Her strong finish of 23:07 placed her 26th overall enabling Union to capture third place in the Invitational. The Union team also ran two competitors in the Alumni Race held on campus. Saturday morning. Freshmen Nadine Filofi and Carrie Gorfinkle, in pFeparation for their track seasons, have decided to endure the cross-country season. Filofi and Gorfinkle both ran strong races finishing in 24:54 and 24:56, respectively .. The team has high hopes for these two in the Indoor Track season. A few energetic alumni proved they can still ·run with the young chickens. Scott Connor won the race in a fast time of 18:10. Representing the women was Val Sarwin. Sarwin, who's a regular competitor in the Alumni Race finished with a time .of 30:22. Any alumni who missed this year's Homecoming race, don't fret! There's still the Minerva Race dwing Reunion Weekend. Australia Visit the Land Down Under Boston University Office of International Programs introduces its new Sydney Internship Program Internships available in: Management, Finance, Economics Media: Journalism, Broadcasting, Film Politics and International Relations Other programs available in England, France, Greece Israel, Italy, Niger, Spain, and the Soviet Union. For program details complete the coupon below and mail to: B~ston University International Programs • 232 Bay State Road . .. Boston, MA 02215 617/353-9888 An equal OflPOrlUnily. affirmative action institution. l~e I 'l Address : City State ____ Zip ----- 1 ------- I 1 Pbo:ne L--) College/University 1 I Sullllller (] Fall CJ Spring CJ 19 __ . 1 I Internship Programs Language Programs Sum111er Programs I 0 London (] Grenoble CJ Greece CJ Sydney I 0 Pw CJ Haifa CJ London 0 USSR I I 0 Sydney CJ Madrid CJ Madrid 0 Washington I 1 CJ Washington CJ Nianiey CJ Monaco 1 CJ <bford CJ Padova I 0 Padova CJ Paris I L-------------·---------.J SUPPORT UNION SPORTS . ' •. ... ·'' -.,. .... '•. '-· ..... ~ -,. . . . '- ·~ ........... ..,. .... . ' ,. I. 'I ·;- It II' ! l I J I II I I !

i· I· I It ! I . l ! r§PORT!i Jen Manna Ancho,rs Women's Soccer With 4 Shutouts by Dan Strum Sports Editor The women's soccer program has had some tough times since its formation in 1980. They have never won more than six games in a season and ,thus a record of .500 or better has never been secured. However, this year's team, built by Coach Suzanne Zaloom, stands firm with a 5- 2-1 record. With the excellent performance of the team so far, the prospects for a banner season are wen in sight. Goaltender Jen Manna has been the dominant force behind Union's early success. She has notched four shutouts thus far this season, including back to back shutouts over Wells and St. Lawrence this past weekend. For her outstanding performances throughout the past week, Jen Manna has been selected as Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Manna, who hails from Clifton Park, where she attended Shenandoah H.S., is in her first season here at Union. In high school, she started in goal as a junior. That year Manna led her team to an eventual State Championship. In her senior year, the team finished as State Champion Runners-Up. The Union coaching staff had some big expectations for this freshman as she entered this year's season. So far she has responded. \She is in a position where she must be a leader on the field defensively,\ states Zaloom. For a freshman, · Jen Manna Manna has displayed an incredible amount of poise on the field. \She has earned respect from the team and the defense knows that Jen will always be there to back them up and give support.\ Manna is working with a rather young backfield which has made the ,group transition a little easier. While Manna shines in goal, the success has been a team effort as well. As each game goes by, Manna seems to gain more and more confidence. She has come up with some b•g saves this season which has kept Union in some close games; some of these situations where a normal goaltender may not have resP<Jmled as well. \If it weren't for Je11's huge contribution, we wollld not be where we are now,\ says Zaloom. -,I am excited to have J en on the team.\ Union has some tough upcoming games against Williams and Plattsburgh. The Dutcflmen are hoping that Ma11na will continue her excellent play and rise to the challenge with some spec- tacular saves. The women's soccer team is looking to reach that 11ex:t plateau this season. Jen Manna is holding, actually defending, Union's prospects for a magnificent season. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Jen Manna, Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Union Field Hockey Powers On by Rebecca Smackey Union's field hockey team has had a busy schedule lately, and the team is only half way through its season. The team was on the road last week- ,playing Vassar, Manhattan- ville, and William Smith. All three teams were on grass, but Union made the necessary adjustments and beat the first two teams they met. At Vassar, Lauren Seideman scored just inside the 25-yard line. The second goal was scored by Kristin Neibergs on a rebound off the goalie's pads. Vassar was shut out 2-0. Homecoming Weekend for the fidd hockey team entailed two away games and a total of fifteen hours on buses. On Friday, the team traveled to Manhattanville and was victorious 2-0. Goalie Jen Vernon made some spectacular saves in shutting out Manhattanville. The f'nst goal that Union scored was off a hit into the circle by Patty Donaldson. The second goal was scored by Mary .Beth Bohl when she went one-()n-one to goal. The team travelecl Sunday to William Smith; kllowing it would be a challenging game. The team came out strong both offensively and defensively, however, the score was 0-0 at halftime. William Smith took Union by surprise in the beginning of the second half with two quick goals. Jean Lopata scored for Union off a corner in the final mi11utes of the game. Although Union stayed tough, they fell to Homestyle Cooking at the KOSHER KITCHEN at 6:00 All Welcome *Please bring meal cards William Smith 3-1. Union~s record stands at 4-3- 1. The team travels tc Williams today to play their last aVIay game of the regular season. Come out and cheer th( team on at the turf on Saturday at 11 AM when they host Middlebury, and Wednesday at 4 PM against Siena. MONDAY NlGHT FOOTBALL N.Y. GIANTS VS. PITTSBURGH MONDAY, OCJ', 14th Kr 9 PM ONlli£ !llil SCREEN •• CC302 FREE MUNCHIES SERVED II <lr.oltfOrbirttsi.s 19 Men•s X-C Strides by Greg Barrett The men's track team decided that they were running during the wrong season and thus changed their title to the men's cross-country team. The Dutchmen are just completing their .grueling set of doubles in preparation for post-season. This extra effort should send theiU sailing past their opponents when states roll around. On Saturday, September 28, the men's harriers competed against Hamilton and Siena on their home course. When the gun went off, it was a brisk 57 degrees and the Dutchmen took off at lightning speed. Ed \I need some sugar\ Dorsey took an early lead and held on for a sixth place finish. His time of 28:56 was a new PR. Freshman Doug Winship was dose behind in ninth place with a time of 29: 11. Mark \Socks\ Sheridaa was the second PR of the day f'mishing in lucky thirteenth. He shaved several seconds off of his previous best crossing in 30:0&. Rich \Gumby\ Zembek was the next finisher for lhe Dutchmen in 19th place with a 31: 13. Rounding out the team was Greg Barrett limping across in a 31:40. Last weekend, the harriers hosted an Invitational at Saratoga. Seventy-eight runners were poised on the line waiting for the gun. After it was all over. Ed Dorsey was the first Dutchman to cross the finish line. His 29:39 cashed in for a twentieth place and a new course PR. Greg Barrett came on strong with a 30:07 and a twenty-fifth place finish. Mark \Socks\ Sheridan was the next Dutchman with a 31:15.6 which qualified him for a thirty-eighth place. Rounding out the squad was Josh Haines in 37:10. This weekend the harriers are again at Saratoga facing off against RPI. RPI's leader was ranked 25th in the country and will provide the Dutchmen with some stiff competition. The harriers are looking strong with all but one of its members off of the LR. list. The battle is staged ... 8IUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE 0~ 7WO TERMS IN OXFORD and live with British Students HOW WISC IS DIFFEfiENT FROM MOST OVERSEAS PROGRAMS: • Aecep~ atudemls receive admissions lette111 (and later lranlleripts) directly from an Oxford (or Cambridge) college. • Students arc djr;;ctly eurotkd as full students of the Oxford college. • Qualified early applicants may aharc a cCMd Student Residence a!lllociared with St. Calberimc='s College, Oxford (fully integrated with British students). • Students aeceptccl before November 1 (for the Winter Tenn) or before May I (for next year) me ;uaranteed boosin; with British stuckn!§. • Student:s will NOT be taught in (an<! receive transcripts from) an American college operating in Oxford. WJSC i& om of tire few compl~tely integraud (academically IZI1d in housing) owmeas programs in the UK. • Ptevious stu dena in your fickl will speak to you on the phone. Fodnfortlf4tion, call or write: THE W ASHING'l'ON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES COUNCIL 214 MastlachU1!19tls AV&ni.IG N.E., Suite 450, Washington, DC 20002, (SOO) 323·WISC Students may also h1tern and Study in Washington and London .of •• .- ~:

Senior Tailback Vlad Telemaque leads Union near the top o1Lambert PolL The Men's Crew Team poses with their trophy won for first place in the Head of the Mohawk. ~ -~~ October 10, 1991 Dutchmen Win 12th Straight With 66-0 Whitewash of Norwich by Dan Strum Sports Editor and SpoTts Information In order to find out the last time that Union's football team scored 60 or more points you have to search the record books back to the final game of the 1949 campaign- when the Dutchmen defeated Hamilton, 66-24. Last Saturday head coach AI Bagnoli's troops equalled that output when his Dutchmen riddled Norwich, 66- 0, in front of a large Homecoming crowd. The victory was the 12th straight for Union (dating back to the third game of last season), now 4-0. It also marked the &Oth career victory for Bagnoli, who is in the middle of his 1Oth campaign. What's more, the victory gave Union an overall record of 30-4 since quarterback Brett Russ-- then a freshman--took over the offense to start the third game of the 1988 season. Russ, who holds almost all of Union's season and career passing records, is the first Dutchman quarterback to go over 6,000 yards. Agaifist Norwich, tlle 6'1, 205-pound senior completed 19 of 22 passes for 188 yards and three touchdowns (one, seven, and 22 yards) and now has 6;058 yards in his career. He bas thrown 43 career touchdowns, second behi11d Dan Stewart's 55, and has completed a college-record 523 passes. The Dutchmen, who did 110t get an invitation to the NCAA Tournament last year, despite an 8-1 regular-season record and a two-year mark of 21-2 (including a 3-1 playoff rec()rd in 1989), are anxiously awaiting tbis year's first national poll, which was released late Monday afternoon. Senior running back Vlad Telemaque remained in seco11d place on the Upstate rushi11g chart witb his 138.5 per game average. He also retained first place on the scoring chart with his seven touchdowns tbat average out to 10.5 points a game. Senior punter Mike Richardson is second with his 39.9 average. Sophomore placekicker Greg Harrisoa is tied for second among the scoring leaders with his 10- point average. Junior tight end Brad Brundage is tied for lOth with his 3.& :receptions per ga;me average while junior nosegaard Scott Mcintyre is among the sack leaders. The Dutcbmen's first team SPORTSWEEK Thursday,. October 1 0 Flelcl Hockeyvs. Williams WoMen's Tennis vs. William$ . Friday, Oct. 11 · Men's XC at ,Rensselaer . . .· Wolllen~$ .XC OD Meet at Sarat~ga ~rl< Saturday f October 12 . . ·• . . Fo(Jtball at Rensselaer Men's Soccervs. Rensselaer Women's .. Soccer vs. Plattsburgh FJeld Hockey vs, Middlebury · ... Wor:tlen's Tennis. at Skidmore . . Vblleyball. Vassar Invitational· Monday,. Qctober 14 · · ·.· · WomeYl;s \J:ennls SieRa . · Tuesday, October ·15 · 1 . •. VtillElYball at Slana · Wedn~srl~y, October 16 · . Mell'$ $oooer at Rochester Women's Sdccer vs. Albany · Field Hockey vs. Siena women's Tennisvs. St. Rose ;·'•' 4:0fJA 4:0()A 4:4!JA · 4~1-1· 1:3~A 11:00A 200H 1t00H·· .. l:(J()A .· . 9:00A < i'\' ·.· a:OOH· . ·. :. '' .' 6;~0A· ; ~: ' offense and defense played the first half and just the first series of the third quarter. Russ piloted eight first half series, five of which resulted in touchdowns {one score was a punt return of 33 yards by sophomore Chad LaBonte), and was in on 48 of the unit's 70 total offensive plays. His one series of the second half resulted in a 22-yard touchdown pass to senior wideout Gene Ray. At the half, Union led 42-0 and had outgained the 1-4 Cadets by a 352-7 margin. For the game, U11ion had a 559-60 yardage advantage while averaging eight yards a play. Division Ill 1. Allegheny, Pa. (4) 2. Wash. & Jeff., Pa. (1) 3. Corti and St. 4. Union 12) 5. Lycoming, Pfl. 6. Ramapo, N.J. 7. Ithaca 8. Dickinson, Pa. 9. Susquehanna, Pa. 10. Glassboro Slate, N.J. 5·0·0 75 4·0-0 b6 4·0-0 62 4.().0 57 3-0·0 48 4-0-0 41 3-1-0 38 3·0·0 30 4·0·1) 29 4·0-0 19 Telemaque picked up 137 yards on just 10 carries while third-string tailback, freshman Chris Irving, picked up 90 yards on just seven carries (12.9 a carry) including a 59- yard touchdown run that gave Union a 56-0 lead with 7:36 left in the third quarter. Brundage caught six passes for 48 yards, including touchdowns of seven and one yards, while Ray picked up 86 yards on six receptions. In all, Union had 12 players run with the ball, 10 receivers catch the ball, and three quarterbacks throw it. Defensively, the Dutchmen allowed just four first downs, and added six sacks (for 31 yards) to their season total. Mcintyre had a pair of sacks for 10 yards. Starting sophomore linebacker Marco Lainez had a great first half with two solos, five assists and an eight-yard sack. _ For the season, Union's offense is averaging 498 years and 51.5 points (293.5 yards on the ground and 204.8 in the air) while the defense is giving up an average of 217 yards, 101 on the ground and 116 in the air. Union Rows Victory To by Ashley Reeve At the \Head of the Mohawk,\ the second race of the fall season, both the men's and women's crews rowed to victory. In case you have never heard of this exciting event, the \Head of the Mohawk\ is the annual Homecoming regatta in which Union rows against many tough competitors, including Middlebury, Hamilton, RPI, and Albany Rowing Center among others. The race course itself· is a 1 difficult one to master, due to the fact that the race includes a hairpin turn midway through the course. This was an important race because Union, who was competing on their own \home turn,\ has traditionally rowed extremely well at this event, and rose to the occasion yet again this year. The women's varsity, under the leadership of first-year coach Jim Swab, has thus far had an outstanding season. At ' their first race of the season, the \Head of the Hudson\ in Albany, the women rowed exceedingly well, placing 4th out of 13, beaten only by regional :powerhouses Army, Ithaca, and Trinity. At the \Head of tile Mohawk/ the varsity women. driven by coxswain J u1i Murphy, .sped to an amazing two-minute victory over its competitors. The varsity men's crew also had an outstanding race, besting their competitors to win the coveted Mayor's Cup for first place in the varsity men's eights. The men's crew has won this event for three years in a row. At the \Head of the Hudson,\ the men's team had a tough race and finished 9th out of 12 .. In their first race of the season, the novice crews showed great potential for future success despite their lack of actual race experience. The Union College Rowing Association has had a superb start to their fall campaign, and expect continued success throughout the remainder of the season. Men's Soccer Excels by J. D. Sollinger One strong win, a very disappointing upset loss, and a walkover victory characterized the Union College Men's soccer team's week. Presently ranked ninth in the state of New York, the Dutchmen, led by head coach Aldo Nardiello, have begun to play a very attractive brand of soccer. With the heart of Lhcir schedule approaching, the Dutchmen are confident and eager to match up against the state's top-ranked teams in the upcoming weeks. · on Wednesday, October 2, following a tough loss to Cortland State on 1he preceding Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Vassar to take on the 3-3-1 boaters. Ninety minutes after the 3:30 kickoff. the Dutchmen had recorded a 3- 0 win in a very convincing fashion. But most importantly, Union did something that they had failed to do all season: they scored goals early in the match. . Just fourteen minutes into the game, sophomore striker Mark Oleson fed freshman Jeremy \Fawn\ Leibhoffwith a beautiful through ball for the first goal of match. Four minutes later, the Dutchmen made the score two to nil as co-captain Donald Hodson utilized his powerful throw-in from the corner to find Oleson, who placed the ball with his head near post for his second goal of the season. Finally, at the twenty-five minute mark of the half, Liebhoff drove to goal, and his shot deflected off of Olseon into the right comer of the net to round out the score at 3 -0. The early, opportunistic corltinued on page 18 '. I l :I

'' l ,, i jl .1: <'.y ~· Founded at eiJrYf~~ College 1877 ol. CXXI, No. 3 Educatio,n Critic Diane Ravitch To .Speak At Union Courtesy of Public Relations Education critic Diane Ravitch, an assistant U.S. secretary of education, will speak about multiculturalism at 8 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 24, in the College Center auditorium at Union College to open the College's year long Bicentennial series. The talk is free to the public. A historian at Columbia University and award-winning auth()r of several books on education, she is nationally known as a foremost critic of tne American educatio;ml system. Political activists, faddish ed11cators, social scientists, and big government have often combined to lead s.ch()ols in misguided, damaging directions, she asserts in her 1983 book The Troubled Crusade: American Edttcation, 1945-80. The five other books of which she is the author of co- author include The Great School Wars, New York City, 1 8 0 5 - I 9 7 3 and T h e Revisionists Revised: A Critique of the Radical Attack on SchQols. With Chester E. Finn Jr .• she wrote What Do Our Seventeen-Year s-O ids Know?: A Report of the First National Assessment of History and Literature, an analysis of how nearly 8,000 high school juniors scored on a multiple choice examination on American history and · English literature developed by the National Assessment of Educational Progress. She is a contributor to several books' and author of more than 100 articles and reviews for such periodicals as , the New York Times ·Magazine. American Scholar and Harvard Educational Review. Her awards include the Delta Kappa Gamma Educators' Award, twice for two different education books, and the Henry Allen M()e Prize from the American Philosophical Society. She is a director of the Educational Excellence Network, the Encyclopaedia Britannica Corp. and the Council for Basic Education. Schenectady, New York October Albany Scarred By Anti- Semitism by Elissa D. Hecker One hundred Jewish Sunday school pupils from Albany encountered a terrible shock last Sunday, October 13. These students belong to the Reform congregation of B'nai Shalom. When they arrived at school, plastered to the walls of the building were \three 8 1/2 by 11 inch sheets of anti-Semitic .slogans\ according to the Daily Gazette. According to the Gazette, this was the second occurrence of anti-SenHtic slogans appearing that weekend. The slogans were surrounded with Nazi swastikas and s-tated: \The white man is a de\ 11. Judaism is black magic. The Jewish \it was the first incident of its type to occur in the congregation's twenty year history.\ Masonic conspiracy is Judaism. Judaism is the religion of Satan. The Kabbalistic Rabbi is Jacob, the Amun priest.\ Continued on page 3 Th,e Coup: Through Professors Who Were There !)y Hannah J. Hazen On Wednesday evening, silence filled Old Chapel as poople e2gerl y listened to a talk about the recent coup in the Soviet Utl!ion, given by ]Jrwple who wer~ actually there. The discussio11 was led by Prof. Robert Sltarlet, as well as Prof. Nadja Jemak.off, and PmL Erik Hoffman of SUNY-Albany. C()mrn.,ll cries sueh. as \Gor bachev should be fired,\ filled the ~tir. . Both gue:st speakers were in . Moscow !lt the time of the coup, a11d :Prof. Hoffman was at the ba.rr:icades. Prof. Hoffman was in the Soviet Umion as an exchange faculty !IIember with Moscow University~ from Febrmuy to early Se.J!Eember. Partic.ul!lrly interested as a political scientist. in the \rising tide of discontent with the Gorbtc:hev adminis!i'a:ti.on,\ Hoffma.n participated in three big dema111strations protesting Gorbache:v\s policies. Among the middle-aged crowd:s made up of prof-essionals and some P1 embers ()[ the working class, common: cries such as \Gorbadaev should be fired,\ filled tlte $.1'. The great r:a11ge of people as:;embled in the cmwd, clearly demC>nstrated the breadth of opposition to Gorbachev and his administration. Prof. Hoffman went on to discuss the day of the coup and what it was like to be at the barricades. He stressed how he did not not find out what was taking place until late in the day, and the lack of information available through local radio and television. He noticed on the day of the coup, how food supplies in stores re- emerged which people hadn't seen for a long time. such as cheese. That night at the barricades, Hoffman described the mood as serene. \There was no sense of panic,\ he stated, \but instead a feeling of serenity and purpose.\ Prof. Jernakoff, a child of emigrant parents, was invited to Moscow to attend an International Congress of Compatriots. Being there at the time of the coup, she also \There was no sense of panic,\ be stated, \but instead a feeling of serenity and purpose. mentioned the lack of information to the citizens themselves by the government, and how they put together what was going on from scattered pieces. Just as Hoffman mentioned, Jernakoff stressed Continued on page 3 Delta Gamma Games Day by Kathleen Dicola which took place on Nott Field. The kids had a great time but it's unsure whether the Delta Gamma sisters and the Fiji brothers enjoyed it even more. Delta Gamma would like to thank everyone who was involved and helped to make it the fantastic day it turned out to be! Once again, Delta Gamma with the aid of Phi Gamma Delta has had a successful and exciting Garnes Day with the Schenectady Boys Club. As in previous years, the sorority invited the Mount Pleasant and Craig Street divisions to join in this past Sa:turday for a few hours of games, hunts, snacks, and surprises. Each of the sisters and pledges, some along with a Fiji brother, was paired with a boy or girl for the day. The closeness of being one on one made it more satisfying for everyone involved. Mass hysteria, circle-lap-sit, dizzy izzy, relay and a scavenger hllDt were inch1ded in the event Delta Gamma Sisters ~J~~ith local boys and girls on Games Day. In This Issue: World At A Glance -page 4 Parents' Weekend Schedule -page 10-11 Women's Soccer Continues To Roll 19

by M. Craig Tucker I really did not think that my professors would accept my excuse for failing to do my assignments. My doubts were quelled, however, when they arrived to class armed with the same excuse for their failing of their assignments; for Clarence Thomas indirectly captured everyone's interest. In numerous classes, professors made the syllabus subordinate to the discussion of Anita Hill's testimony. President Hull cmdd also be found to be discussing with students the validity of Hill's statements. Mothers stopped baking their apple pies. Fathers stopped playing ball with their children. Cats and dogs even debated, too, on why it took so long for Anita Hill to surface I\IEW!i AI\IAL Y!il!i October a renee with her opinions. The discussions will continue. The Am~rican citizen will never know who to believe (actually, until the book is published!). This entire political process erupted into a circus. Senator Hatch began \playing to the camera,\ while others, like Senator Hccklin, showed their charisma (or lack-of it). The media circus also reminded peQple that some senators, whose own moral foundation was of jello (but we need no me11tion of- Kennedy-. names), were the ones judging Clarence Thomas's own moral conduct. I do not wish to rekindle any discussion on Anita Hill's sexual harassment charges, for others can choose to another time. I also do not choose to di~cuss the issue of sexual harassment, because there is no reascm for it to occur in the first place. What I would like to focus on is the fact that while every American professed to be glued to CNN watching the hearings ... m.ostly only were viewing the hearing duliing, of all things, halftime. 011. NBC, Tom Brokaw was placed in a little box on the bottom of the television screen, and made secondary to the play action on the field. I am ,quite sure that the networks were bound by legal contracts anod had to televise the football games, rather than televising the confirmation hearing. nevertheless, it is a reflection on the moral standards of the Uaited States. In a political ar.ella similar to the con- firmation hearing, the average . . . ~ ostas. American, through the definition of democratic representation, is indirectly present. Without the actual Nielson statistics, I am unable to argue how many voters were mentally present in a football arena and at the confirmation hearing. But that does not prevent me from forming an opinion because I do believe that more people were intent with watching the Bills destroy the Colts, rather than watch Thomas demolish Hill. Sporting events are a source of entertainment; and there does exist a place for it in our society. As shocking as it may seetn, however, Gorbachev will not be so perturbed that, because Bahr missed a field goal, he would launch a military strike against the United States. Many argue that I am oversimplifying the situation; that entertainment adds to the well-being of society, which raises morale, which stimulates production, which stimulates economic growth, which ... you get the point. I believe that the American society must reassess its priorities. As a society, we must ask ourselves if it is fair for a sport's personality to be making more than an average teacher. The answer lies in what society values more. Do we, as a nation, want to raise our children to respect and participate in intellectualism or to participate in being entertained? If the answer is the latter, I suggest one invest in a Nintendo, instead of investing in our nation's future. Sexual Harassment: A Crime Whose Time Has Not Yet Come by Jordan Lippner News Editor ' Now that Judge Clarence Thomas has been confirmed and his hearings are now just one of many past political embarrassments which this country has unfortunately been burdened with, the time has come to take a look back in retrospect and review the latest American soap opera to come out of Washington, D.C. After all, as with any dispute, there are winners and losers, and each group certainly deserves their fair due. Clearly, the most obvious loser of this debacle has got to be that half of the American population identified as women. After seeing how Anita Hill was treated, what woman in her right mind would ever again decide to come out ami accuse a male colleague or associate of sexual harassment? The members of the U.S. Senate turned their backs on her, Republicans .and Democrats alike, refusing to acknowledge that sexual harassment is a problem which is worthy of their consideration. Professor Hill gave damaging testimony which was then subsequently supported by five witnesses. Did Judge Thomas really say all of what Anita Hill alleged? Probably not. But in all likelihood, Clarence Thomas did harass Anita Hill to some extent. There is no other logical conclusion to draw. due to the simple fact that Ms. Hill had absolutely no other reason to try to soil Thomas. After all, she is a staunch conservative herself and was in fact on the Judge Bork bandwagon back when he had received his Supreme Court nomination. Now for Ms. Hill to support Bork and not Thomas makes no sense. Forgetting the facts that she personally knew Thomas and that he was a fellow African- American. She definitely falls to tPe left of the political scale when being compared to Bork. Thus to say that she was a Democrat out to sabotage a Republican candi-date has no foundation whatsoever. Whether she came forward ten minutes after the fact or ten years really bears 110 relevance as to whether she was telling the truth. The overwhelming majority of sexual harassment victims never come forward at all. In fact her behavior following the incident was quite usual for a victim of sexual harassment. The only unusual thing about her behavior is that she came forward at all. So why, after all of this, do 58% of the people in America, according to a New York Times poll taken on October 13, believe Judge Thomas more while only 24% favor Professor Hill? Could it be his tremendous defense? Well he had a two point stance to Fitave off this \conspiracy of women and liberals.\ The first move was that he \categorically denied all of the accusations.\ He repeated this denial about every other time he opened his mouth. But the real strength behind his defense was that he had other W()men that he had worked with come forward and say that he bad never harassed them. That's right. That was his e:xtraordinary defense. Now not much can be said afloat his first point, so on to his second. Judge Thomas I'm sure would agree that a thief does not steal from everyone be[she comes in contact with. As well a murderer does not kill every person whom he/she comes into contact. Therefore, 1 believe that it is safe to say that Judge Thomas did not sex.ually harass all of the w<Jmen with whom he has come into contact. Yet in lieu of all of this nea:rty two-thirds of America still believe Clarence Thomas. The same number of senators that backed him before the harassment charges continue to back him now. Why? Why was it that when Anita Hill was being questioned she was drilled with poignant questions from both sides of the Senate Judiciary Committee while Judge Thomas was politely asked questions and treated with respect? Simply put, America, this great land of our is still a place where the woman should know her place. Senators are not · going to change their mind on a judicial candidate just because he was charged with sexual harassment. Most members of the Senate would probably be greatly relieved if sexual harassment was the only black mark in their pasts. Not too long ago rape was not considered a crime which should be punishable by law. Neither was wife-beating or really any domestic disputes. Their time came. Unfortunately for Anita Hill and thousands of women like her, the time has yet to come for sexual harassment. At least one thing positive came out of all of this. Finally, we learned that Judge Clarence Thomas can take a side on a given issue. . 1 wasdt involved 1n the a\legeci assaul-t. I was up Ln m~room ;>mashin,g_ be:er cans against\' my head ... ,, r l I I•

' ,. \• I. I I. \ I t October 17 9 1991 NEW!i @vnrorbtrn.sis 3 Student Forum Spotlight The Student Forum is currently acting on the Gmelch Report, the College's Mission Statement, and security problems. After meeting with certain councils and administrators, we feel our progress has been substantial. Anti-Semitism Hits Capital District Continued from page 1 One of the main reasons for last week's publication of the Grnelch Report was to enhance student knowledge about the subject of residence life. With this information and the soon to be released Student Forum Survey, the Forum hopes that the students will be better able to express their views. The anticipated result of this exchange of ·information will be administrative action reflecting student interests. Union's proposed Mission Statement. In cOmparison to mission statements of similar academic institutions, the document produced by the AAC is verbose and does not clearly state Union's mission. The Forum intends to add clarity and precision to a miss,ion statement that is ineffective as it stands. At our dinner with President Hun last Monday, the Forum was pmmised that on-campus lighting would be improved. Although this is .a significant step towards a safer campus, everyone agreed that there is still more to be done. The entire dinner party was very eager to incorporate student interests into all of the aforementioned subjects and subsequent school policies. That day, lesson plans were altered and devoted to talking about anti·S•emitism, its implications, its origins, and answering questions that arose from the children. The school teaches grades kindergarten through eight~, and the students' actions and reactions varied depending on age. However, all were bothered and Despite a lack of support from the Academic Affairs Council, the Forum is revising . i . - ~ . i i Stat.lda:r; \·&'·_. '11··· .. · u ... . . 7 ' . .oo.rs ............................................. , ..... ___ ~ ...... ,.. ... i I BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI{ FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. yo u put more than just your savings iato ;a retirement company. You put irl your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts: Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a f;nancial s~rvices company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FIN4L ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETI'ER·PERFECT. TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional fmancial strength, superior investment performance, aad low expenses. W1th its guaranteed rate of return and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is one ofless than ten companies, out of 2,200 nationwide, tha~ received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. ,-------'-------- SEND NOW FORA FREE RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, including a Sprcio.l Rrporl on TIAA investments. .\\ail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call 1 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016. .\\am~ (Please print) City Stair Zir c,.,J, inJ'liluli.m (Full.name) Titlt Ensuring the future for those who shape it !M T!.M·CREF Partt~ipant 0 l<.r·ONo !fy,,r. Soturl Stmrity # CN © 1991 TeMIJerl lrtrm-am:e Mil Annuity Association Calkge Rrtinnunt Eqtdtiu FuniJ. concemed. The rabbi said it was the first incident of its type :to occur in the congregation's 10-year history. This violation of public, private, and .of basic human rights is .an ongoing concern not only in the capital district but throughout the metropolitan New Y:ork area as well. This past weekend, five thousand people gathered in crown Heights to protest anti- Semitism. It was the f.irst large demonstration in Manhattan by mainstream 1 ewish groups since the racial disturbances in Crown Heights last summer, when some people chanted \Heil Hitler!\ throughDat the primarily Jewish community. Area police were unabte to be reached for further comment. Personal Insights Into the Russian Coup Continued from page 1 the calmness that went along with the coup. She was never afraid, as she never sensed fear or panic among the Moscovite population. themselves, who protected the White House, as well as to the member of the Armed Forces such as the KGB, who refused to storm the White House. In final comments the professors discussed why the attempted coup failed. They concurred on two points. The first, Sharlet suggested, was their lack of political nerve, and the second being their level of preparation. They tried to achieve the coup by constitutional means. \Any third world leader could tell you \When you see a guy on a tank eating an ice cream cone, you're not afraid,\ J ernakoff said. \Somehow the tension seems to lessen.\ Prof. Jernakoff referred to Yeltsin as the hero of the failed coup, and Sharlet and Hoffman agreed. She also gave credit to the people of Moscow . this is not the way to do a coup,\ Sharlet said. Reported Security Incidents 10-07 10-07 lD-07 lQ-07 1o-oa 17 South lane C\.reenhouse Rayrrord House Rathskellar Vandal.ism I Broken Wirt.:lo.-1- Vandal.ism I Wincbw Covering Rern:Jved, Vandalism I W:i.n:low Pane Reroved. Theft I cash Receipts- Vandalism I staff !'otorcyc:le. 10-09 Davidson L<lading Cock Suspicious Person I Es=rted Off canpus. 1 Q-09 Smith House Trespass Al:rest I Ore Person. 10-10 lD-10 10-10 lQ-10 10-10 lo-ll lo-ll lo-11 1o-11 1Q-11 lo-ll Richrond House Fax House College Center Circle Nett/Seward Lot Fox House Davidson aJuse South College Butterfield Rail College Center Davidson House Rear of klrth College Vandalism I Life Safety Equiptent, Trespass/'1llrldalism - CorXtuct c:harges File< Plant Damage. Abanaoned Vehicle I Towed. Trespass I Entry into Students Roan. l!arasS!lEI1t I Verb-11. Obscenities, Harassment I l\nroyarlce Teleph:lne C\.alls. Theft I Ve.-..i:.>r' s Battery Charger. Theft I Cable Box. Harassment of Staff by Students, lbtor Vehicle Accident I Hit & Run. lD-12 Scierx:e & Engineering 1-'.issirf:o Text Book I Recovered. lo-:12 Bailey Field Theft of Visitor's llook Bag I Fec:ov=ed. lo-12 Fox,/Davidson Lot lbtor Vehicle A=ident I No Injury. lQ-13 lo-13 lQ-13 lo-13 lo-13 Fraternity Ric:hnonc'l aluse Richlcnd House Fraternity Raym:>rll,iPOtter Lot Vandalism I Broken ~in::low. Trespass I Arrest of Two Persons- Taqlerirf:o with Fil:e Detection system_ Walls Damaged I Exi. t Sign BroJ<:en_ Vaiilalisn I Window Smashed - Stlrlent Is Vehicle. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). AU are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, 'WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00PM TUESDAYS & ·THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHJNESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM Come and watch the 11ews! RUSSIAN .:00 PM News programs IJre also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, • they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyde7, LanguLlge Lab Technicitzn, X6216. LANGUAGE J...A.B HOURS: MONDAY-FRiDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-JO:OOPM

INTERI\IATIOI\IAL FEATURE§ October 17, 19'91 PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For ficrther information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, War;hington DC20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly'90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squa1·es to prodtice the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. · This past ·week: The Yugoslav civil war is taking its toll on the two cities of Belgrade and Zagreb. The two cities Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, and Belgrade, the capital of Serbia and fractured Yugoslavia, feel the weight of the war travel between the two cities is difficult and the racial tensions of Serbs against Croats are high due to biased information passed out by their governments. Both cities suffer; in Zagreb, the war is close to the city, calling for blackouts at night and soldiers walk the streets; in Belgrade, milelong gas lines and shortages of medicine and medical supplies are a sign of Croatia's split. In New Haven, October 9, the Dalai Lama appealed for help to visit his homeland of Tibet. The Dalai Lama has been an exile from China since 1959. He has been accused by China in the past of being an outcast and a troublemaker who encourages \other countries to meddle in China's affairs.\ Yet the spiritual leader's stature worldwide has increased since he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 and was recognized by President Bush in April. Among the conditions the Dalai Lama set for his visit arc: the right to travel at will, the freedom to speak with all citizens and the presence of Chinese officials and the world press. In Manila, October 9, President Corazon C. Aquino agreed to allow the body of former President Ferdinand E. Marcos to be buried in the Philippines with the condition that his burial is not used for political purposes. There had been a 2- year ban, on the return of his body to the Philippines, which was lifted when Mrs. Marcos announced she would be returning to the Philippines on November 4. Political opponents feel that allowing Mr. Marcos's body to return will bring Pre~ident Aquino some support from Marcos's supporters in coming elections. In Jerusalem, Israel, seven Arab houses were taken over by a group of Jewish nationalistic settlers. This action was an effort to re-establish a Jewish neighborhood at the former site of King David's city. Israeli police forced the 50 armed settlers from all the houses except one. In the past year, Jewish settlers have made similar moves in the Old City and parts of Arab East Jerusalem. Opposition leaders said the action was a deliberate provocation to a coming peace conference and government officials saw possible diplomatic effects. Thanks to The New York Times (October 10, 1991), International News ,for the provided information. VIENNA TERM ABROAD Appli~ati_o[l~ HEY ••u•• England, Sweden, USSR, China, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Moracco & THE REST OF THE WORLD Bring the world home. Holiday hosts needed. Come to the CC Auditorium October 29th, 7 .. 8 pm East Asian Studies/ASVFaU Film Series ''IKURU\ 19S2 directed by Altira Kurosawa. 134 minutes: B @ W; subtitles Friday, October 18th CC 406 8 pm '.)! A gr~»up of more than 7,000 , islands lying about 500 miles off the coast of Asia. I I I I I 1. Country whose forces invaded ti:iis nation on December.a, 1941. 2. Any large body of water with many islands. 3. War in 1898 which resulted in Spain ceding these islands to U.S. 4. An annual cereal grass widely cultivated in warm climates for its seed that is used for food and for its by-products. Australia Visit the Land Down Under Boston University Office of International Programs Introduces its new Sydney Internship Prog,ram Internships available in: Management, Finance, Economics Media: Journalism, Broadcasting, Film Politics and International Relations Other programs available in England, France, Greece Israel, Italy, Niger, Spain, and the Soviet Union. For program details complete the coupon below and mail to: Boston University International Programs •. 232 Bay State Road . .. Boston, MA 02215 ~ 617/353-9888 An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. ~~ I ~~M~ ~ City State Zip I J 1 Phone (__) CollegeJUDiva:sity 1 I Summer CJ Fall 0 Spring CJ 19_ 1 · 1 rntemshlp Programs Language Prognma Summer Plograma I CJ London 0 Grenoble LJ Oteece 0 Sydney I (:J Paris 0 Haifa 0 London a USSR I I CJ Sydney a Madrid CJ Madrid CJ Wash:in.Jbon I I CJ Washington 0 Niamey Cl Monaco 1 I CJ Oxford LJ Padova I a Pldova CJ Paris L---------------------~ COLLEGE SEMESTER ABROAD AFRICA . LA TJN AMERICA · EUROPE • · · MEET A CSA REPRESENTATIVE: TIIURSDIIY, OCfOBER 17, - 1:30-2:30 PM - llurnanitics Faculty Lounge

. ,\. · .... :- ·. •, ..... -·- .. October 17, 1991 11\JTERI\IATIDI\IA;L FEA TURE!i York Student Experiences the American Way of Life by Stephanie Davis and Kimberlee Brody Rebecca Mills is one of the six students who are here from York, England. She is from a small village just outside the city of Lincoln, which is located in the northeast of England. She is a sophomore, with a major in English literature and a minor in American studies. At Union, she is taking Afro-American Literature, Introduction to American Politics, and Caribbean and Central American History. In York, she takes two classes per semester compared to our three per trimester. She finds that the courses consist of heavy reading, which tend to be time consuming. While papers in England are individual research papers, she notes that papers here are based on texts that are read in class. She says that the relationships with the professors are more fonnal here than in England. At home, they are called by their first names and at the end of the course, the professor goes to the pub with his/her class. Before starting college, HOMECOMING Rebecca wot:ked for a radio station. She hopes to go into that field after gradwation. She has also worked as a bar maid. She is available to mix drinks at private parties. Just last week, she was seen changing the keg at one of the fmternities. Her first impression of Union is the squirrels. They remind her of home. She remarks that student life is much more affluent than in England. While computers and stereos in each room here are the norm, it is rarely seen in the dorms in England. Il is also different in England because the government pays for students' tuition. At first she had to adjust to the fraternities. But, as she is female, she has had no problem. However, compared to the beer in England, Busch leaves much to be desired. The social scene here is much different from the one in England. In England, students go to the bars and end up at the student union at the end of the night. While the social scene starts at 11:00 here, the pubs close at 11:00 in England. In addition, Rebecca fmds having $4-Limited Supply to stay on campus quite limiting. Rebecca remarks that the culture here is \charge it.\ This reflects the fact that shops are open later than the shops in England, which close for lunch and do not stay open for evening hoppers. Such shows as the Home Shopping Club reinforce her opinion. On the subject of men, there are more of them here. They are more mature than she had expected, except when it comes to watching them eat. They are more forward than reserved Englishmen. She does think that they all look the same, in their conservative dress. This is her first trip to America. She spent her first week here in Greenwich Village. She liked New York City a lot. Her favorite sites were the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art and Central Park. However, she almost her life to a wild rollerblader. She has also been to New Hampshire. Many of the names here are the same as those in England. She plans to go to Montreal and hopes there will be time to go to Boston and Washington, D.C. '91 T-SHIRT r , \\ \--~~- %i<. A[~;jJ!.~;rlfr '~~{ .·;~~;y __ -, -ffr . \,..~ ATI'ENTION UNION: *The International Assitant Program* will be matching international student guests with hosts across America WE NEED wmoo for sale in the Alumni Office in Lamont House Informational Meeting-Oct. 29 7-8 pm CC Auditorium . - The Dutch Hollow Restaurant is pleased to announce: NATIVE AMERICAN AWARENESS WEEK November 4th thru 8th _*We will be featuring Native Cuisine all week during brunch. *There will be representatives of the 111ajor Northeastern Tribes performing and. displaying their handi crafts.

6 <lJmtnJrllirnzis FEATURE§ Numbers, Onions Masturbation and Statistics falsely establish norms. We ~11 know that, I think. Take masturbation, for example. It's wide] y demonstrated~ study after study, that about 80% of the population has been known to go solo at least once in their life. Take a i()ok around. Are there five peqple in your suite right now? Four of them have engaged this practice at one time or anotller. However, if someone were to ask you about those same five people, you'd probably have a tremendous amount of difficulty envisioning them in action. You'd probably deny that they have ever do11e it. Then again, maybe not. n really doesn't matter. We look at the statistics and try to casually base human nature on the numbers. What does this tell us? We already know that Geraldo Rivera sends us to the bar. But what. leads people to statistics? Why is it important to know that the \average .. American eats just over eight pounds of onion every year? It rellly comes down to cats and dogs. 1 truly believe that the population of the universe (barring Endor, of course, home of t!Je Ewoks) is subdivided and sometimes segregated into two constantly warring factions: those who love dogs and those who love cats. Before -one jumps the uain to mediocrity, I must answer to those who claim to love both, shading any bias under their Hartz 2 and 1 dog/cat collars: you can only choose one or the other. Let me define the parameters of my theory. We nt11st understand that the answer one gives is for the day when all worlds are going to explode by whatever religious <>r neoscientific scripture one follows. On tbat day we will alL face the same question. It will involve only one questioa and it will require a one-word answer. No squirming, slouching or crying. Mommy's not going to rescue you. I don't even know if anyone's going to ask the question at all. All we will know is that the question exists and we must attack it with tenacity and zest. The question is as follows: you must choose one pet to si't at your side and it doesn't matter whether you want to answer or not, you MUST choose either a cat or a dog. According to my theory, approximately 43% of the population would choose a cat, and the remaining 57% would choose a dog. The problem with the Ewoks is hair. Dogs, cats AND Ewoks are covered with hair. I therefore classify their subdivision using two different criteria incorporating the same numerical breakdown as above: those who would choose Mobil 1, a synthetic oil, more than capable of handling temperatures upwards of 530°F in your car's engine, and Castro!, the \high viscosity\ oil for those small cars with big engine needs. The theory has some flaws but the basics remain: statistics are so easily believed and adhered to. We see everything broken down into a nice statistical analysis and everyone smiles. It's like what my good friend Jason said, \H ey, my man, I love numbers. I really love them. They make me feel good all over.\ Jason may also be one of the eighty percent mentioned above. Our government uses umbers and statistics, often camoflaging the real story. I don't buy it, though. The government releases information like \ ... the umber of people purchasing one to two bedroom apartments within twelve to seventy percent of their biannual salary in a city of approximately ninety-three thousand to eight point five million taxpaying inhabitants went up by five sixteenth's of a percent last quarter.\ That's really going to help me pass that \Photography in American Society\ test tomorrow. Uncle Sam paid some bean counter $200,000 last year to research the facts and figures so that I would know where to start my real estate company - NOT! Just as useless as it is to count how many onions we eat as Americans every year, it doesn't life me to know about stupid statistics. I think we should see some real numbers this winter. Let's establish a student-run, faculty-overseen, administratively-denied, kosher, democratic, socialized, abbreviated, proven, induced, power committee overseeing the types of questions that a similarly operated sub-power committee would ask every week to our student population between the ages of nine and nineteen. It could be done. Question number one: Do you feel that squirrels should be numerically associated with chipmunks on our campus and in fiscal decision-making within the food chain? Of course, both squirrels and chipmunks can't talk, so we'll let the office of student affairs answer for them. Question number two: Why do all women open their mouths when putting on mascara? This one lights a fire. Subdivided into boys, girls and three employees of Dominoes on State St. would offer their opinion. The boys would tell us what we think we want to think and the girls will tell us what the \firmer\ cheek does for them. The Dominoes worker probably has a coke for the best answer. Question number three: Is the wood holding up the Nott Memorial fire treated so that, in case of a fire, the support for two of the sixteen facets would never be lost? If you love dogs, you'd answer \yes.\ If you love cats, you'd abstain. Question number four (the most salient)\ Why in the fall do we rake leaves (or have them raked, blown, burned and discarded) if each and every one of us enjoys the way they look? The obvious answer is because over thirty-nine percent of the student population has a staggering sixty-five percent chance of contracting various writing dysfunctions, hampering all but one of theit dass skills: sleeping. If they don't rake the leaves. Just over a third of us are more likely to go to class and do nothing but sleep. If you're· an Ewok, you don't go to class anyway. As usual, we must stand back and reevaluate everything we say and do. Do I profess and promote the eating of onions? No. Do I feel we eat too many onions? No. We just look at the numbers too much. We fixate our daily actions on the rules of algebra whether we understand integrals and derivatives or not We wear our J-Crew sweater not because it's only $85 instead of the regular $107. We liberate the plastic credit pal to slip into the norm. We buy $600 Nikon cameras for \Intro to Photo I\ not because we can have four hundred lenses and apertures, but because a black camera with silver \Nikon\ lettering matches our white t-shirt. I'm just as guilty as the next fool. What do we do about it? Who cares? I like J-Crew, it's comfortable and fashionable and if it's cheaper than nonnal, I buy it. I don't wait until January to buy my winter wardrobe, hoping to see prices slashed 30%, but I do keep my eyes open for such a bargain. Sometimes we need to pick up the paper and see how many people in this country wear blue socks instead of black socks. Period. No fractional breakdown, no demographics, just blue and black socks. I don't want to read a Wall Street Journal - NBC poll of 20 people in the New York City area; I don't think that if 27% Ned by Dass Seaman 1 was lonely so lle decided to add anoltler. Together they wanted 2tojoir. because 2 was the same. Then'. they were 4. (They skipped 3 beoatJSehe was odd). Swas allowed in because he had golcfemings, but El'VIas poor and only had slicks. 2 and 4were faclcrs in getti11~.S in. 1 was singled out and was su bt ra.ct ed because the numbers wanted 7 instead. 9 fe~ he needed thegroop (there's safely in numbers). \They're real numbers,• he though. The numbers made 9 their latest addition becatJse ~e was the largest positive numberofthem all. Once 9 was countect in, he. realized \I'm not just a number! I have a r.ame!\ So Ned left. of such a poll positively indicates tllat Clarence Thomas is really Nipsy Russel playing out a scene for LA Law that the rest ()f us feel the same. It all comes back to the masturbation argument. It's not the 80% ()f the people in this country that masturbate that raises our eyebrows, it's fact that peo:pie read and believe it. I wonder \Wilat the person looks like that asks those kinds of questiolis anyways. They probabl;y like cats, that's for sure. lt.T~,·~~. ' , .I'~·HlV;I'J;S,. ______ ':\\\\' ___________ '\\\\.....,~...,...----~-,~~~~~ ... -~~~~~~_.;;~~~~~~~· BOX:_::c·~··--·~?·~~\·~>··}~ .. ,~ ' ;--~~.. ) j. ~(~· PaD~=----------------------------------~------~ INTEREST IN BICENTENNIAL: ___________________ _ •••••••

FEATURE§ @nttnlrbirnsis A Thin Line Between Life and Death A Woman Tells Her Tale of Eating Disorders by Erica Frank At a party Jill Colton, 20, and her friend Kaitlin attended as high school seniors, Colton realized she was flirting with death by equating thinness with happiness. · \I thought, 'I am here with the skinniest girl and she is the most depressed girl at this party.' For the first time in my life, it dawned on me that being thin really does not matter,\ says Colton, who's been recovering from anorexia and bulimia for two years. \It was then that I really saw it was a choice between life and death.\ Kaitlin's death from anorexia-related heart failure three years later further hardened Colton's resolve to recover from the eating disorders, which affect approximately one in five college-age women. \That really changed my life forever. For the first time, I realized how close to death I had been, and how much everyone with an eating disorder flirts with death,\ Colton says. \You only have one chance. Kaitlin is gone forever -- and she can't ever live a full life. I want to live my life fully. I don't want Kaitlin to have died in vain. This makes me fight harder against the disease for myself and others. I feel such a dri.ve to help anyone I can with what I've learned.\ This past summer, Colton, who is a senior at Barnard College this fall, worked on a hot line at the Anorexia and Bulimia Care Center in Lincoln. She also been counseled women in an eating disorders support group and helped friends she met when she was hospitalized. She plans to get her doctoral degree in psychology and continue working with women suffering from eating disorders. Eventually she would like to open a treatment center {or recovering patients who do not need to be in the hospital but are not ready to be at home. During a recent interview at the ABC Center in Lincoln, Colton is not nervous or ashamed; her continued success is something to celebrate. She agreed to describe her struggles with anorexia and :bulimia in the hope of helping others. She adamantly refuses to reveal how much she weights now or did at the lowest point in her struggle. \I don't want to even discuss numbers because I felt like a number for so long. It seems like people judge the severity of the disease by your number, when that is really only on the surface. It goes so much deeper than eating and weight.\ She begins with a smile. \First I'll tell you about the sick part, but I really want to focus on the well. \We live in a four-bedroom house in one of the nicer sections of Newton. I grew up always going to camp, going on trips- that kind of thing. \When I was 13 years old in the seventh grade, I went on a diet and began losing weight. I was immediately obsessed. Because it was so reinforced by people telling me how great I looked, I thought, 'Why should I stop?' Within a month, that was all I thought about. I was completely caught up in thinking that I could do this thing that no one else could do. \My parents have always had high standards for m~. My mom is a professional actress and my ·dad is a professor at MIT and a scientist. They encouraged my skills but steered me toward prestigious professions despite what I thought I would be happier doing. For example, although they said, 'You're a good speaker,' they encouraged me to use that skill to be a psychiatrist rather than a social worker. I always had to be doing something subs.tantial. \The eating was one thing I could ·do; one thing I could completely control; one thing I could be the best at. I thought I was purer than anyone else. I convinced myself that I didn't need to eat. That I wasn't _,.,.UNITED NATIONS SUMMIT\ ... :Parents Weekend is October 18-19. Once again we will be presenting a \Mini United Nations Summit\. Every student is asked to join in with a conttibution · representing his/her country: singing~ dancing, dramatic reading, guitar playing, rapping, drawing .... whatever!! If you can do it, we want it. $top by or call the office by Monday, September 30 and let Karen or Janet know wlutt youtd like to do. Also, for tile display, we need to know wbat country your fa1nily is from---Puerto Rioo~ Jamaica; . ;Am~pcan~ Afghani~an, ('!tC. ~e 'Yill have our . gtganttc ma:p showcastng th~. diverstty of cultures ·· bet~ at .tJnu:m. worthy of eating. I was even scared that if I touched food in front of my friends, they would think less of me. I had become the person everyone knew as 'the girl who everyone knew never ate anything.' \I was the number on ~he scale. \About a year later, I started throwing up and was immediately addicted to that. I became really panicky about having anything in my stomach. It got so bad that it was my only way to relieve stress. Pretty soon, I'd want to eat just so that I could throw up to relieve all the pressure I was under. \Once I went for nine days without eating anything at all. \Although it was always clear that there was a problem, I managed to convince myself that nothing was wrong. I made my mom believe me, despite the teachers and friends calling our house. We were both in denial the whole time. She believed me because she wanted to. \One thing that was really hard growing up was that my father was never around. Even during the years I was sickest, my dad was always working and traveling. It wasn't until I was ultimately hospitalized that he actually c:mceled his business meetings. However, this gave me the message that only if I was dying would he pay attention to me. I wound up building a lot of resentment toward him. These feelings later came out in therapy. \We also never talked about any problems. My parents wanted to believe that we were the perfect happy family. I had to hit rock bottom for it to be recognized. \By the time I was 17, I was throwing up every time I ate anything. \In tenth grade, my grades had started to drop. This made the college pressure even worse. Starving myself was my way of blocking out everything else which was going on. The papers kept piling up, but I was so drained aU the time. Doing anything at all was a tremendous effort. \Even my boyfriend didn't know how much I was making myself throw up. \I ultimately ovet:dosed on aspirin. This was the first of many turning points, as I would up staying in the hospital. However, after one month, thotLgh the doctors thought I needed to stay there, my parents pulled me out. Despite the advice of medical professionals, they kept whining, 'But what about the SATs?' \After that, things go so much worse. I couldn't even function. r returned to the hospital during the summer and it was really ldnd of a relief. At that point, I was so desperate that I needed to be taken away from myself. In the hospital, I didn't have to make any decisions, it was safe. \Although I wanted to get well, I wasn't willing to give up not being thin. The panic attacks I had every time I had to eat something made me realize how serious my sickness had become and that I absolutely couldn't get well on my own. This thing had gotten out of my control. \The best part of recovery was the follow-up treatment, which included family therapy for a year. For the first time, instead of being accusing, my paren~s were supporting me. My parents worked really hard on changing tlleir attitudes, and we confronted a lot of things from the past. My three younger brothers were also incredibly supportive. It was unbelievable. The dynamics in our family changed enormously. \I also consulted a nutritionist and started going to a support group at ABC (Anorexia and aulimia Care in Lincoln). \ABC was one of the best things that ever happened to me because I was finally around peop Ie who knew exactly what I was going through. I made one of my best friends in that support group. \It's so ridiculous how glamorized anorexia is. I can't possibly explain to you how unbearably miserable I was the entire time. I felt like I was in the deepest hole and I could never imagine feeling OK about eating and my body. I lost friends and also lost out on a lot of things that normal people enjoyed. You feel so trapped and caught in a never- ending cycle. \Senior year, stuff got better so gradually that I didn't even realize my perception of myself was changing. \Recovery is so difficult though, because once you get past the superficial parts of an eating disorder (the weight and the eating) you still have to deal with all the issues. \My eating disorder had not only become my way of surviving my life, it was my entire identity. Therefore, I was terrified to get well, because if I didn't have my eating disorder, I didn't have anything. Furthermore, I was also scared that without the excuse of being sick, the high standards my parents had had for me would come back. \It was around that time that Kaitlin and I went to that party. Seeing people happy at normal weights made me want lo be normal so badly I was willing to do anything. \College was incredible because for the first time, I was at this place where no one knew I had an eating disorder. It was really hard to get better in the high school environment because everyone knew. At Barnard, I could create my own identity. I was just a normal woman. \Someone can go through a million treatment programs, but in the end it comes down to yourself. You have to actively take a role in choosing between life and death. The fortunate thing is that having a relapse does not mean that you have lost your recovery, it just means that you are not living it.\ Courtesy of Middlesex News, Framingham, MA Ill II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJJJWJJIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUUIUIUIIIIIIWIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll II 111111111111111111 LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friclay 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday-Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Union Students Take A Hike by Greg Barrett While most of the Union Student body was enjoying the football game, Professor Tobiessen's Biology class was communing with nature. Biology 53, also known as Forests of the Northeast, took a field trip to. Keene valley, which is located near Lake Placid, New York. Here they intended to explore the ecosystem's that were present on Cascade Mountain. With hiking boots and a pencil in hand, they set out to. climb the 2,000 feet to the mountain's peak. The weather posed some difficulty with the trail being \slightly muddy\ and the wet leaves making the way rather slippery. The trail was 2.4 miles long and rose approximately 1,000 feet per mile. The bottom of the mountain had the vegetation typical of any northeastern forest, but as the adventurers ascended the mountain, the scenery took on the appearance of an Alaskan forest complete with six inches of snow. After hiking through several layers of clouds, the nine explorers reached a rocky peak: where they saw-clouds, and really thick ones at that. Somewhat disappointed, they coRtinued up to the peak. On the way down, they stopped at an overlook just as the clouds were breaking up. The glistening mist rolled away revealing the sun's rays while lighting up the valley. It stretched for miles and made an impression that will not soon be forgotten. After they picked their way down the mountain, the biologists stopped for an exclusive dinner of pasta at Ruth's Diner. Being well fed, both nutritionally and intellectually, the intrepid adventurers relaxed that evening at the Tobiessen homestead on Lake Sacandaga. • • 4 ,t-- ,._ Biology 53 poses on top of Cascade Mountain USDA Offers Tips for Safe Cooking on Campus: 1.) Cover foods when cooking in a microwave 2.) Remember that microwaved foods continue to cook after they are removed from the oven, so allow foods to stand before they are eaten. 3.) When using the microwave, follo·w product directions and plan for extra cooking time if you are in a dorm. !••················································································································································~ ~ . i Join us in partaking of the ~ 0 • l Bountiful Fruits of the ~ • • • • • • I Mohaurk Valley I • • i A cornucopia of apples *Macintosh *Empires *McGoun i • • i Only 25¢ thru the month of October ~ \•••················································································································································ r-----we Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitchers Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets ,.__ ____ .. Photo ID Required--~-_. Be Conscience Citizens of the Universe Now :you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cru:ds In the world.,.VIsa® and MasterCard® credit cards ... ~ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT' or HAVE BEEN 1URNED OOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you deserve and need :for- 10-BOOKS-DEPARTMENT ~~~-.. STORES- TtnTION-ENTERTAINM El'lf- EMERGENCY CASH- TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HOTELS-MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS- REPAIR8-.AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATlNGI CUAAANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD GUARANTEED ISIUI OM IIOHIY IACIIC Approval absolutely guaranteed so WI?UC ' ,. 13en and Je~s lt::e Crea01 in the (A)IIeoo t:enter m01.1g dartinl! at 1 Pm ------------------------- :STUDENT SERVICES, PO IJOX 2596.HOLLYWOOD.Fl 33022 ~ : YES! I want VJSA®/MASTERCARD® Credit : I Cards. Enclosed find S 15 which Is 100% refundable if not I I approved Immediately. I I I I NAME I : ADDRESS : I CITY STATE _ZIP I I I 1 PHONE S.S,# 1 I SIGNATIJRE I I NOTE: MasterCard Is a rq(tstcred trallcmark of MasterOltd Jntematlonal. Inc. I I VIsa Is a n:gtstenxl trademark d VISA USA. Inc. and VISA ln~rna Ilona! I I Servtoes Assoctallon. 1000/a GUARANTEED! I IZDI•mfJ:t•l;tt1:«et·J•J:t·J:II•J•Z.f4 1 • L_j'-----....!:~~~~~~~~~~~~_j ... •----- ------ •- •------- •-

• • • • • e • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - t , I I I I I I I I I I I I • i I • I 1991 ARTS & EI\ITERT AII\IMENT @.onr:nr!tirnsis 9 X•. . \\· Conveying Messages Through Ballets by Julie Medow Arts Editor Imagine a festival. You are there, hut you go unnoticed, silently taking in the foreign sights and sounds around you. There are trees, and a river, and a vinage of huts in the distance. Drums are heating out intricate and seductive patterns, hypnotizing you and making you eager. Men appear. They are cradling drums in their arms, and adding new rhythms to the sounds you heard before. Suddenly from behind you- no, all around you!-there comes an explosion of voices and movement and color. And you cannot believe you are there. It is hard to put into words exactly what happened last Thursday night. The easiest explanation is this: Les Ballets Africains, an ensemble of dancers, singers, and musicians from Guinea (a republic on the west coast of Africa), performed in front of a varied and enthusiastic audience at Proctor's theater. But that is not enough; I am limiting both the scope of my review and the depth of the production at hand by being so succinct. The truth is, part of me still isn't sure what to make of Les Ballets Dance: Les Africains Africains, so I cannot help thinking that enigma is part of the ballet's appeal. Although each part of the program (there were five numbers in the show) told a different story, l left feeling that as a whole the dances stood as symb()ls of one underlying tlleme: the celebration of body and spirit. Les Ballets A,fricains stands largely as an allegorical representation of the strength of the people of Guinea. · In reading about the history of The Republic of Guinea, I learned that the French, angered by President Toure's reaction against de Gaulle's desire for colonization, robbed Guinea of practically everything they needed to survive. The people of Guinea persevered despite the harsh conditi()ns they came under, and Les Ballets Africains stands largely an allegorical representation of the strength of it's country's people. The women in the ensemble (clad in costumes 1anging from bright bandeaus and batik sarongs to fanciful dl'esses,) and men (in matching bedouin-like pants or grass skirts) used their . ., entire bodies to express their full range of emotions. For example, anger was shown through s:harp, tight movements, and joy through acrobatics (nips and jumps in the air) as well as vivid facial expressions. The amount of energy they exerted to dance was incredible and inspiring. What was also exciting about the performance was the wonderful rapport the dancers had both with each other and the audience. The people on stage made us laugh from time to time, and it was obvious to see that they, too, were enjoying what they were doing. I'll give you a quick highlight: during the Finale, a man came out on gigantic stilts and began to dance across the stage, even lifting one leg to hop. He waved his arms as if he were going to fall, and as he regained his (pseudo-lost) composure, the audience sighed with relief and applauded The Mudwoman: A Carnival of Funk and Fantasy by Thomas Caruso the one and o11ly Johnny Thimble (Holter Graham), who The Mud woman, a premier happens to be Jessica's one and of a musical with book and only and a very good lyrics by Dana Foley and saxophone player. bursts into music by Pierce Turner and Joy the Inbetween, at which point Askew, is a fantastical story Jessica realizes that her voyage set in a magic land called the has just begun. \Inhetween\ where your secret The collaborative team -of wishes are likely to come true, Alma Becker and Dana Foley where you can trade your eyes began in 1981 at t11e Bay Area for emeralds, and where you Playwrights Festival in can escape your past and invent . California. 1985 marked the your future. beginning of The Mud woman. On a hot New York night followed by a series of Jessica Maloney (Pia Scala) developmental readings. After a takes off-destination un- two-year Musi<: Theater known-and winds up meeting Program at New York the wacked out inhabitants of University, Ms. Foley received the Inbetween: Aqua. The her MFA and in 1989 again Birdwoman (Ursina Amsler), began work on The The Short Guy (Phil Ristaino), Mudwoman. whose theme song is \Romeo The Mudwoman is a Reject,\ and numerous rocks discovery of self. It examines and trees that turn out to be our everyday weaknesses and back-up singers who were deals with them in a wacky and formerly lost souls who took humorous style. The surreal root in the Inbetween. All goes New York City that Foley well in Jessica's new life until _ creates is an overpopulated Puzzle Solutions ERASIWIPERITASS ROLE ASIDE ALAI S U P P L Y A N D D. E M A N D TE S T I F Y S I AM E S E -u N A AR y- C 0 MJ.M E R C I AIL P AJP E R AVA E!R N S, Nil C E SA Rj_A RiO THIS DIE L I A R l.J.L P R EIP R A N s y SiT E M S A NIA L Y IS T S R T E C E 0- A S S U A G E RE AG EN T D I G II A L c 0 Ml u T E R ANTS !..LAMA RULE MOS.T OATEN TILE jungle with music that sets funky, exotic and operatic tones. This mood of fantasy exemplifies the musical's comical and playful world in which the character's live. The Mudwoman is directed by Alma Becker with set design by Eric Sirois, lighting design by David Y ergan and costume design by Connie Singer. Judy Fitzner-Atchinson is the musical director. Performances are Thursday through Saturday, October 24- 26 and October 31-November 2, 1991 in the Studio Theater of the Janet Kinghorn Bernhard Theater. Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. Performances are at 8 p.m. and a 2:30 p.m. matinee on Saturday, October 26. Tickets are $7 for general admission, and $5 for students and senior citizens. Group rates for 10 or more are available. For reservations or more information, call (518) 584- 5000, ext. 2347. Apply for a position on the Arts Staff! Contact Julie Medow atx4075 . <:~ encouragingly. This article may seem foolish because it is a review of something that has already left Proctor's. But it stands as a reminder of two things. One is that there are alternatives to attending fraternity partie£ at Union or going to the movies. I urge you all to take advantage of this outlet A performance such as this provides us witll a unique opportunity to expand on our desperately undervelopell understanding of Afric:aa culture, history and ritual. from time to time. Group rates are available if you get twenty people or more to attend the performance, and Student Activities buys up selected tickets for us at half the regular price . Secondly, and much more importantly, a performa11ce such as Les Ballets Africains provides us with a unique opportunity to expand on our desperate! y undcrde velopcd understanding of African culture, history, and ritual. (I use \us\ and \our\ as generalized terms not meant to offend or upset anyone who does not feel they fit into this category.) All too often I hear criticisms regarding Union students' ignorance of multi- cultural issues. These concerns come from our schools faculty. from members of different cultural groups, and from interested individuals striving for cultural awareness. One perfect way to increase knowledge of cultures different from our own is by attending those performances anJ speakers which deal with culturally diverse topics. This is not by any means the be all and end all of multi-cultural education, but hey, it's a nice start. LIBRA: Skys the limit. Go for everything this week because another opportunity may not arise . SCORPIO: Your Prince Clla1111ing/Cinderella is waiting in the the wings. It's your call to do what you want wllh the \glass slipper\. SAGITTARIUS: An unexpected visitor will brighten your day. Intentions may be what y011 expected . CAPRICORN: AQUARIUS: PISCES: ARIES: TAURUS: GEMINI: CANCER: LEO: VIRGO: It's better to jlet feelings out in the open instead of keeping them bottled up, especially when dealing with friends. Have some tact when you tell them how you feel. Feeling under the weather lately? Put on your boots and go for a mud slide. Be e~iallynice to someone you care about The benefits will l>e unrelievable. Yoo may feel you've reached your Zenith, but take a better look anddoli't fool yourself. Y oo will ha\e fmancialluck this week. Don't put all your eggs in me baskeL Study h.ard, )llay fair and sweat You will see results soon. Doing too many things is not good. Concentrate on just one and dm't trow it Accept only llne responsibility at a time. You don't want to get over your head. Someone ~ill take notice of the sparkle in your eyes. Just stop hiding them behind shades. Weekend Movie City Slickers Saturday 8,10 Friday & Sunday 7, 9, 11

4-6 prn 8, 10 pm 8 pm \10 pm 8:30 am-11 am \10 am-11 am \10 am-4 pm \10 am-4 pm \10 am-4 pm \11 am 1\1 am & Noon 1\1 am-2 pm Noon Noon-4 pm 12:30 pm-1 :30 pm. 1 pm 1 pm-4 pm 1:30 pm-3:30 pm 2 pm 2-3 pm If ea~on fPa'tent~' Welcome Reception: Reg i.ster, Refreshments, College Center final schedule, and T ·Shirt Sales F i I m . City Slickers ·A comedy about College Center mid-life crisis featuring Billy Crystal Auditorium Dana Carvey -A night of comedy Proctor's Theatre with Sawrday Night Live's Church Lady, George Bush, Johnny Carson Coffeehouse - quiet conversation and student entertainment Welcome Reception: Register, Refreshments, final schedule, and T·Shirt Sales cc - 301/302 College Center Faculty Open House- Join members of College Center/Patio Union faculty for coffee and light refreshments. Photo Exhibition: HPhotographs About Lighr - '91 Photo I Class Visual Arts Exhibition Faculty Display Case The Dutch Hollow Restaurant and Rathskellar will be open to serve a Ia carte lunches on a cash basis. (Information about local restaurants is attached) Tours of Campus We Care About U-Schenectady - Tours and Information Garnet Min strelles and Dutch Pipers Hot Air Balloon Rides sponsored by Sigma Phi - to benefit the Make-A-Wish Foundation Career Development Center-Open House Field Hockey- Union v. St. Lawrence Women's Union Open House Mini United Nations Summit: A Celebra lion of Nations around the World (including Gospel Ensemble) Soccer-Union v. R.I.T. Arts Building 2nd Floor Arts Building Gallery-1st floor Arts Bldg-East Foyer Dutch Hollow and Rathskellar Becker Hall Conege Center Registration Table Library Plaza Rugby Field Old Chapel-3rd Floor Frank Bailey Field North College College Center Upperclass Dining Hall Garis Field Liying Machines; A Lqqk Inside The Macvefous Machines We Live With Professor Rudy Eggert of Mechanical Engineering will elCamine how people influence machines and how machines influence people. SS112 The Case Of The Jogj A Tale Frqm The 1 Professor Robert Ba~ Department wili'lead · medical ethics. Ihe Or/alas . Of Sibli1 Professor Linda Stan~ Department will talk adjust to the arrival o family. 3-4 pm The $20,000 Question; EdUcaUpa At Unio Professor John Marin, Department will talk a person should know. PC Or Not PC: Why 1 A discussion of politic Professor Andrew Fe Department. 4-5 pm Reception sponsored I President and thE Committee -please President Roger H. Hull Parents' Committee to, 5-7 pm Culinary Expose-featurir Michel LeBorgne Reservations Requir(3j 5-7 pm Fall Fest-Dinner Reservations Require. 7 pm Cafe 302 - Serving desert before the Mountebank~ 8,10 pm Film • City Slickers - mid-life crisis featurin~ 8,10 pm Mountebanks presents: A Night of Scenes 8-9 pm An ,Evening of Music - College Choir, Chamber Ore ·Gamet Brass Ensemble w111 program of works by Moza1 others. c:Sunda!J, <£ Religious Services Information abotJt Religic is attached 1 0 am Parents' WeekendJChape 10 am and Noon 10 am-4 pm 10 am-4 pm 10 am-4 pm 1 0:30 am-Noon Parents' Weekend Brune a performance by Jhs ~ College Concert Band Reservations Require Photo Exhibition: \'Photo About Ught\- '91 Ph Visual Arts Exhibition Faculty Display Case Cultural Unity Center Ope

p ULe 0 p Of Tbe Jqgglaq Larryec; Frqm The I. C. U. Robert Baker of the Philosophy will· lead this case study on ethics. ztas . Of Sibling Rivalry Linda Stanhope of the Psychology will talk about how children to the arrival of a new baby in the HU115 HU114 Question: Can You Get An H U 11 7 At Union Z John Marincola of the Classics · will talk about what an educated should know. PC: Why Is That The Question? SS104 ussion of political correctness led by Andrew Feffer of the History sponsored by the College Center Atrium and the Parents' -please join Roger H. Hull and the Committee for refreshments Hale House Complex LeBorgne Required West College Required - Serving desert and coffee CC 301 /302 the Mountebanks performance Slickers - A comedy about College ~e~ter crisis featuring Billy Crystal ·-Audi1onum presents: College Center of Scenes 3Q1/302 of Music - The Union Memorial Chapel Chamber Orchestra and Ensemble will present a works by Mozart, Faure and day, t!Jctobe't 20 abotJt Religious Services Service Brunch - featuring by JhB l)nion Concert. Band Required \Photographs Ught\ - '91 Photo I Class s Exhibition Case Center Open House Memorial Chapel CC-Upper Class Dining Hall' Arts Building 2nd Floor Arts Building Gallery-1st floor Arts Bldg-East Foyer Bronner House ,, Bike Path • Entrance on the Corner of Seward and Nott Str~ets Focastle Farms Country Store, Burnt Hills (Van Vranken A-vEnue to Route 146 - left on Route 146) Restaurant, bakery; fresh cider and doughnuts, homemade pies, breads and soups, ·sunro<>m and Patio, and Country Store) Open Daily: 9:00am - 6:00pm Pumpkin Patch - 518/868-4893 (hayrides, pick your own pumpkins, farm animals, crafts and food) Saturday: 9:00 am - 9:00 pm · Museums Albany: Saratoga: Schenectady: Local Malls Albany Institute of History and Art (518/463-4478) New York State Capitol (518/474-24.18) Tours at 10 am, 1 and 3 pm New York State Museum (518/474-5877) Tours daily from 10 am to 5 pm National Museum of Dance (518/584-2225) National Museum of Racing (518/584-0400) The Canfield Casino, Congress Park (518/584-6920) Schenectady County Historical Society Museum (518/374-0263) Schenectady Museum and Planetarium (518/382-7890) Open: Noon - 5 pm Cohoes (Route 7 to Route 9 .. Cohoes exit) Colonie Center/Northway (Route 5 towards Albany) Crossgates Mall (1-890 to IG90 exit 24 to Crossgates Mall Road) Jay Street (downtown Schenectady) Mohawk Mall (Nott Terrace and left on State Street) Rotterdam Mall (1-890 West to Campbell Road exit) Movies Crossgates Mall Rotterdam Man Mohawk Mall Picnic Luncb Washington Park in downtown Albany Central Park in Schenectady Religious Services CC .. College Center HU • Humanities Building SS • Social Sciences Building .... ' , I I 't ,I

EDITORIAL (!!Ilttfllrbirnsis ----Founded at Union CoFlege 1877------- Life Without Watson Many a self-respecting senior may have taken insult at Professor Doug Klein's letter to the editor entitled nUnion Seniors Fail Final Exam\ in last week's. issue of Concordiensis. The commentary was both offensive and unfair in that it wrongfully accused 97o/o of the senior class of uncreativity and failure. Klein's statement that Union seniors were not \creative enough to pass the final exam for their years at Union\ was narrow-minded and naive. The application for a Watson fellowship is certainly not the only indicator of a senior's creativity nor is inventiveness a calculation of collegiate success. Although Doug Klein's dedication and devotion to the Watson are commendable, he must realize that the Watson is by no means the only measure of a student's achievement at a particular institution. Furthermore, while Professor Klein bemoans the lack of innovation and motivation of Union College seniors, he fails to take into account the reasons why only 18 seniors applied for the Watson. First and foremost, many seniors have already begun plans to pursue higher ·educational degrees. A large portion of these people have been busy preparing for required standardized entrance exams such as the LSAT, GRE, or GMAT. Moreover, they do not care to defer enrollment in graduate schools for one year. Some seniors wish to or must seek employment after graduation. Other seniors have too many other obligations to set a few months aside for preparing a long-shot proposal. Certainly, an economics professor can relate to the concept of weighing the costs against the benefits of the situation. By the same token, Professor Klein was hypocritical in his accusations. At various information sessions, he continuously stressed the hard work one mu.st put in to preparing a winning Watson proposal. He made it very clear that unless one was serious about winning, it was unlikely to be worth the effort. In fact, he indirectly convinced many who considered taking the test to put their applications aside. Although the eighteen who did apply may have deemed the experience worthwhile and ultimately passed Professor Klein's \exam they are now bearing the burden of time expended in the process. While other seniors spent their time on thesis work and other responsibilities, these eighteen sacrificed their obligations in other areas and are now paying the price. The criticisms made in Klein's letter were uncalled for and incorrect. Before one condemns 520 mature and intelligent people, he should address all aspects of a situation. Moreover, there are better ways to vent frustration than drawing unfounded conclusions and making sweeping generalizations. LETTERS October 17, 1991 Dancers For Cancer To the Editor: The sisters of Delta Delta Delta would like to extelld a special thank you to everyone who supported our 1st Annual 12 Hour Dance Marathon. Through the efforts of those who attended, sponsored sisters, and donated gifts and prizes, we were able to raise $4,000 for the American Cancer Society. Despite the success Of the Dance Marathon, we were disappointed by the lack of suppmt given to the event by the faculty and administration. It was our hope to sponsor a non-alcoholic event that would involve the ENTIRE Union College community, not just the students. Thank you again to aU those ~ho helped to make our fund raiser a success. We couldn't have done it without you. Sincerely, The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Not A Regular Cable Box To the Editor: The television in the Mobile Lounge (CC406) no longer works because someone stole the Capital Wireless cable box which was attached to the top of the TV. It was physically . ripped from its mounting, doing damage to the television and, more importantly, selfishly taking television reception away ftom the rest of the community. The box is now useless, it has been turned off by the Capital Wireless Cable . ~ Company: It is not a regular cable box. It won't work for whoever now has it. Capital Wireless informs us that their computerized system allows them to render stolen equipment inoperable since all boxes are programmed from their office. The College Center cannot afford .to replace it (we've already replaced two stolen VCR's this year). We write this open letter in the hope that whoever took it will, upon realizing that the box is useless to him or her, please return it so the :rest of 1he community can once more enjoy television in the Lounge. If it shows up again, we. will ask no questions and appreciate its return. The only other way to regain TV reception in the Lounge will be if someone takes up a collection to replace the hox (it costs $200). We cannot and will not continue to replace stolen equipment on our limited budget. If you know who stole the box, please try to convince them to return it. The Office of the College Center/Student Activities WHAT IS ON YOUR. MIND? THE UNION COMMUNITY WANTS TO KNOW. WRITE A LETTER TO THE EDITOR AND LET US KNOW. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the C oncordie nsis office by 4:00pm on he Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundrEd words will not be printed.

• 2 EDITORIAL mmmmm @nnrnrbirnsis ----Founded at ['nion Cullet:e /877--- Life Without Watson Many a self-respecting senior may have taken insult at Professor Doug Klein's letter to the editor entitled \Union Seniors Fail Final Exam\ in last week's. issue of Concordiensis. The commentary was both offensive and unfair in that it wrongfully accused 97% of the senior class of uncreativity and failure. Klein's statement that Union seniors were not \creative enough to pass the final exam for their years at Union\ was narrow-minded and naive. The application for a Watson fellowship is certainly not the only indicator of a senior's creativity nor is inventiveness a calculation of collegiate success. Although Doug Klein's dedication and devotion to the Watson are commendable, he must realize that the Watson is by no means the only measure of a student's achievement at a particular institution. Furthermore, while Professor Klein bemoans the lack of innovation and motivation of Union College seniors, he fails to take into account the reasons why only 18 seniors applied for the Watson. First and foremost, many seniors have already begun plans to pursue higher educational degrees. A large portion of these people have been busy preparing for required standardized entrance exams such as the LSAT, GRE, or GMAT. Moreover, they do not care to defer enrollment in graduate schools for one year. Some seniors wish to or must seek employment after graduation. Other seniors have too many other obligations to set a few months aside for preparing a long-shot proposal. Certainly, an economics professor can relate to the concept of weighing the costs against the benefits of the situation. By the same token, Professor Klein was hypocritical in his accusations. At various information sessions, he continuously stressed the hard work one must put in to preparing a winning Watson proposal. He made it very clear that unless one was serious about winning, it was unlikely to be worth the effort. In fact, he indirect! y convinced many who considered taking the test to put their applications aside. Although the eighteen who did apply may have deemed the experience worthwhile and ultimately passed Professor Klein's \exam they are now bearing the burden of time expended in the process. While other seniors spent their time on thesis work and other responsibilities, these eighteen sacrificed their obligations in other areas and are now paying the price. The criticisms made in Klein's letter were uncalled for and incorrect. Before one condemns 520 mature and intellige11t people, he should address all aspects of a situation. Moreover, there are better ways to vent frustration than drawing unfounded conclusions and making sweeping generalizations. LETTERS Dancers For Cancer To the Editor: The sisters of Delta Delta Delta would like to extend a special thank you to everyone who supported our I st Annual 12 Hour Dance Marathon. Through the efforts of those who attended, sponsored sisters, and donated gifts and prizes, we were able to raise S-UlOO for the American Cancer Society. Despite the success of the Dance Marathon, we were disappointed by the lack of support given to the event by the faculty and administration. It was our hope to sponsor a non-alcoholic event that would involve the ENTIRE Union College community, not just the studcllls. Thank ycu again to all those who helpc<l to make our fund raiser a success. We couldn't have done it without you. Sincerely, The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Not A Regular Cable Box To the Editor: The television in the Mobile Lounge (CC406) no longer works because someone stole the Capital Wireless cable box which was attached to the top of the TV. It was physically ripped from its mounting, doing damage to the television and, more importantly, selfishly taking television reception away from the rest of the community. The box is now useless, it has been turned off by the I Capital Wireless Cable . Company: It is not a regular cable box. It won't work for whoever now has it. Capital Wireless informs us that their computerized system allows them to render stolen equipment inoperable since all boxes are programmed from their office. The College Center cannot afford to replace it (we've already replaced two stolen VCR's this year). We write this open letter in the hope that whoever took it will, upon realizing that the box is useless to him or her, please return it so the rest of the community can once more enjoy television in the Loun~e. If it shows up again, we will ask no questions and appreciate its return. The only other way to regain TV reception in the Lounge will be if S{)meone takes up a collection to replace the box (it costs $2()0). We cannot and will not continue to replace stolen eq11ipment on our limited budget. If you know who stole the box, please try to convince them to return it. The Office of the College Center)S tudent Activities WHAT IS ON YOUR MIND? THE UNION COMMUNITY WANTS TO KNOW. WRITE A LETTER TO THE EDITOR AND LET US KNOW. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on he Tuesday preceding weeki y issuance of Concordiensis Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. STAFF: Gr~g Barrett. lton Birnbaum, Ximberlee Brody, Stepb.al!ie Pavis 1 Peter Fiscnet ~ Erica Frank,. Jason Habinsky ~ Karen Hurwitz, Jon Keller, John Scllactutovsky, Jeremy Sollingerf Chris WiUiams .. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Sm.itl~ CONCOR.DIENSIS is published eight 1'htusdays a tenn by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New Y()rk: 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Pllblicaticns, tnc .• Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (ti07) 563w833'9. Subscrlption rate: $40 delivered anywhere in tbe United States. M\:ail to C().tttordienSis office. College Center, Union, Concordieosis subscribes to the · Press ' . Office · ($18) 37()-. . ~lSS; k\i:JVI~l,lllS~llg' l'1~le;pl~OJ\ef{Sl6l :u~o~bffl;.

LIFESTYLE§ The Struggle Behind Eating Disorders by Erica Frank Everyone knows someone obsessed with food, eating and their body shape. In Me troW est, about one in 50 women suffer from anorexia, and one in 10 struggle with bulimia. One in five college-age women experience an eating disorder. But, you don't have to be diagnosed as anorexic or bulimic in order to suffer from food and image ad~ction. Surveys of American women during the last 10 years by Glamour, Cosmopolitan, Health and Fitness and Shape magazines indicate that approximately 80 percent of women are dissatisfied with their bodies. Studies report that the average woman thinks she needs to lose 10 pounds. Experts say that anorexia. bulimia and compulsive over- eating are only .symptoms of more serious issues rooted in low self-esteem. \It is a self-defeating behav- ior,\ says Dr. Richard Katison, eating disorders specialist at the Leonard Morse Hospital in Natick. \It's a question of seeing the glass half empty rather than half full. Women with eating disorders wrap up their whole concept of themselves in their disease. It becomes their identity. Without it they feel that they have nothing and are nothing.\ As the pressure on women to be thin has grown, dieting efforts have intensified. Evidence exists in the boom of the weight-loss industry including diet foods, books, appetite suppressants, \light\ beers and weight spas, coupled with an increased number of diet articles in women's magazines. Although compulsive over- eating tends to be grouped separately from anorexia and bulimia, all three conditions are .characterized by a painful preoccupation with food. Most people with an eating disorder fluctuate between illnesses. Typically, anorexics and bulimics are terrified of gaining weight. Anorexics cope with this fear by refusing to eat, while bulimics engage in a pattern of \binge\ eating followed by self-induced \purging\ with forced vomiting, laxative and diuretic abuse, or excessive exercise. Although bulimics often describe feeling fully \cleansed\ after purging, experts contend that none of them are successful techniques for weight control. \Bulimics do digest more food than they think,\ says Dr. Perry Belfer, coordinator of the outpatient mental health service and eating disorders program at· the Newton- Wellesley Hospital. \Flllther- more, laxatives only remove water. Although the bulimic may feel less bloated, neither method removes more than 15 percent of the food ingested. Under no circumstance are they a method of weight loss.\ Although the specifics differ, the habits of anorexics and bulimics cause significant and occasionally irreversible damage to their bodies. Possible consequences of anorexic emaciation are weakness, difficulty in thinking clearly, and long-term osteoporosis. The effects of purging ,include electrolyte imbalance, salt and potassium depletion, dizziness, weakness, muscle cramping, tears in the stomach lining and esophagus, erosiofl of dental enamel and enlarged salivary glands. Both conditions risk cardiac arrest and death. Because of the shame and embarrassment associated with bulimia, individuals average five years before seeking help. However, once they elect treatment, they typically recover. \Anorexics on the other hand, aren't capable of thinking about anything but losing weight,\ says Belfer. \Because they aren't getting enough food to their brains, by the time anorexics are in the hospital they are practically psychotic.\ Katison adds. Both experts. agree that this accounts for anorexia's unusually high mortality rate of 15-20 percent. Ironically, as societal weight standards have continued to drop, the average weight of American women has increased. \Society as a whole is less active,\ says Belfer. \We drive everywhere and children watch more TV.\ It appears to be a self- perpetuating cycle. \Because weight is distributed on a bell-shaped curve and is genetically determined, our societal stamJards have left a large A New Option for Parents Weekend: ltPPL-E PICKING WHERE TOGO: Don Baker Farm-Hudson (518)828-5890 Floyd Merrifield Jr.-Claverack (518)851-7346 Golden Harvest Farms-Valatie (518)758-7683 Hotaling Farm Market-Claverack (518)851-9864 Love Apple Farm-Ghent (518)828-5048 Samascott Orchard-Kinderhook (518)758-7224 Stone Bridge Farm-Hudson '(518)828-0261 Wintje Farms-Germantown (518)537-6072 Yonder Farms-Valatie (518)758--7011 number of women fighting mother nature,\ Belfer explains. \People who lose a large amount of weight often find it difficult to maintain. The only way to keep it off is to commit to a lifelong pattern of exercise and restriction.\ In compulsive overeating, the focus is not losing weight. Rather, for physiological or psychological reasons, certain foods trigger controllable hinging. While most com- pulsive overeaters want to be normal weights, they are unwilling to relinquish the food. Many are obese and almost half are men. \It used to be a womefl's disease,\ says Jane, a member of Overeaters Anonymous, who asked not to be identified. \But now more and more men suffer the addiction of being an overeater.\ All three disorders serve as a method of coping with painful feelings or relationships. \Eating disorders serve an important function in people's lives,\ says Katison. \They become a solution to a problem. Anorexics don't deal with their sexuality, and women often become bulimic as a way of satisfying a nurturing, taking-in 'instinct' without dealing with the relationships attached. It's not surprising that eating disorders are often intimately linked with incidents of Sexual abuse.\ Massachusetts alone has more than 857 diet and eating disorder groups. Experts agree that the best programs are those which center on building self-esteem and forcing people to address issues concerning why they eat, rather than a specific food plan. The negative aspect of many diet programs is that they induce a heightened obsession with consLimption which perpetuates the illness. JiJ!l Colton, a 20-year-old senior at Barnard University, has been recovering from a five-year pattern of anorexia and bulimia for two years. \On<:e you get beyond the superficial stuff of food and eating you still have to deal witll all the issues. That's Lhe hard part,\ she says. Sarah, an Overeaters An()nymous member who asked not to be identified, agrees: \It's not a problem with foo(i, it's a problem with livirtg.\ M~ny experts claim that recovering from an eating disorder is a lifelong process. \It's very difficult to get rid · of an eating disorder. The ~solution itself is simple: You . eitber stop or you don't. However, it's so wrapped up in issues of self-esteem and has bec()me an important coping pattern that overcoming it takes a very long time.\ Katison says. \Tbe important thing is getting the focus off the food and into living,\ says Jane, a reco~ered over-eater and bulimic. \I used to think when I heud people say. 'I'm happy in my own skin' that they were nuts. Now I know what they meant because I can say it, too.\ Cour:tesy of Middlesex News, Framingham, MA Nationally recognized Humorous Sex- Educator \Dr. Bill\ G()ettel (VD) STD Nurse is scheduled to present his popular program at 8 p.m., Sunday, Oct. 27, Memorial Chapel Coast to coast Goettel has received raving reviews from colleges, military bases and national conventions. His laugh and learn presentation attracts and holds young peoples' interest. But laughter isn't all his audiences receive. They learn that aids is not the only social disease which can kill, and that there are many hazards involved in sexual freedom, Chlamydia is not a jungle plant, how to tell if they are in love, why condoms have a 20% failure rate, how unwanted pregnancy can easily occur, even without intercourse, many common sex myths are clarified. (This is a program that no young adult should miss.) Goettel's background in brief •A New York State & Army nurse •Treated and counseled young adults with sex related problems at a Syracuse University for more than a decade •Taught a Health & Sexuality Credit Course at S.U. •Hosted a weekly half hour sex-ed radio program •Written a sex question & answer column •Presented his unique sex-ed program at more than 100 colleges, military bases and conventions •Appeared on national television For further informatitm contact: Student Act. x6118 -t .. ....

e by Erica Frank Everyone knows someone obsessed with food, eating and their body shape. In MetroWest, a~out one in 50 women suffer from anorexia, and one in 10 struggle with bulimia. One in five college-age women experience an eating disorder. But, you don't have to be diagnosed as anorexic or bulimic in order to suffer from food and image addiction. Surveys of American women during the last 10 years by Glamour, Cosmopolitan, Health and Fitness and Shape magazines i11dicate that approximately 80 percent of women are dissatisfied with their bodies. Studies report that the average woman thinks she needs to lose 10 pounds. Ex.perts say that anorexia, bulimia and compulsive over- eating are only symptoms of more serious issues rooted in low self-esteem. \It is a self-defeati11g behav- ior,\ says Dr. Richard Katison, eating disorders specialist at the Leonard Morse H<>spital in Natick. \It's a question of seeing the glass h!llf empty rather than half fulL Women with eating disorders wrap up their whole concept of themselves in their disease. It becomes their identity. Without it they feel that they have nothing and are 11othing.\ As the pressure on women to be thin has grown. dieting efforts have intensified. Evidence exists in the boom of the weight-loss industry tr including diet foods, books, appetite suppressants, \light\ beers and weight spas. coupled with an increased number of diet articles in women's magazines. Although compulsive over- eating tends to be grouped separately from anorexia and bulimia, all three C(}nditions are characterized by a painful preoccupation with food. Most people with an eating disorder fluctuate between illnesses. Typically, anorexics and bulimics are terrified of gaining weight. Anorexics C()pe with this fear by refusing to eat, while bulimics engage in a pattern of \binge\ eating followed by self-i1tduced \purging\ with forced vomiting, laxative and diuretic abuse, or excessive exercise. Although bulimics often describe feeling fully \cleansed\ after pmghtg, experts contend that none of them are successful techniques for weight control. \Bulimics do digest more food than they think,\ says Dr. Perry Belfer, coordinator of the outpatient mental health service and eating disorders program at· the Newton- Wellesley Hospital. \Further- more, laxatives only remove water. Although the bulimic may feel less bloated, neither method removes more \than 15 percent of the food ingested. Under no circumstance are they a method of weight loss.\ Although the specifics differ, the habits of anorexics and bulimics cause significant and occasionally irreversible damage to their bodies. ehind Possible consequences of anorexic emaciation are weakness, difficulty in thinking clearly, and long-term ostC()porosis. The effects of purging include electrolyte imbalance, salt and potassium depletion, dizziness, weakness, m usc lc cramping, tears in the stomach lining and esophagus, erosion of dental enamel and enlarged salivary glands. Both conditions risk cardiac arre~t and death. Because of the shame and embarrassment associated with bulimia, individuals average five years before seeking help. However, once they elect treatment, they typically recover. \Anorexics on the other hand, aren't capable of thinking abo11t anything but losing weight,\ says Belfer. \Because they aren't getting enough food to their brains, by the time anorexics are in the hospital they are practically psychotic.\ Katison adds. Both experts agree that this accounts for anorexia's unusually high mortality rate of 15-20 percent. Ironically, as societal weight standards have continued to drop~ the average weight of American women has increased. \Society as a whole is less active,\ says Belfer. \We drive everywhere and children watch more TV.\ It appears to be a self- perpe1uating cycle. \Because weight is distributed on a bel~ -shaped curve and is genetically determined, our societal standards have left a large A New Option for Parents Weekend: ltPPL-E PICKING WHERE TO GO: Don Baker Farm-Hudson (518)828-5890 Floyd Merrifield J r.-Claverack (518)851-7346 Golden Harvest Farms-Valatie (518)758-7683 Hotaling Farm Market-Claverack (518)851-9864 Love Apple Farm-Ghent (518)828-5048 Samascott Orchard-Kinderhook (518)758-7224 Stone Bridge Farm-Hudson (518)828-0261 Wintje Farms-Germantown (518)537-6072 Yonder Farms-Valatie (518)758-7011 • ~ n t!:i'!J. ~ I number of women fighting m o the r nat u r c, \ B c I fc r explains. \People who lose a large amount of weight often find it difficult to maintain. The only way to keep it off is to commit to a 1 ifclong pattern of exercise and rcstr~ction.\ In compulsive overeating, the focus is not losing weight. Rather, for physiological or psychological reasons, certain foods trigger controllahle hinging. While most com- pulsive overeatcrs want to be normal weights, they arc unwilling to relinquish the food. Many arc obese and almost half are men. \It used to be a women's disease,\ says Jane, a member of Overeaters Anonymous, who asked not to be identified. \But now more and more men suffer the addiction of being an overeater.\ All three disorders serve as a method of coping with painful feelings or relationships. \Eating disorders serve an important function in people's lives,\ says Katison. \They become a solution to a problem. Anore)(ics d()n't deal with their sexuality, and women often become bulimic as a way of satisfying a nurturing, taking-in 'instinct' without dealing with the relationships attached. It's not surprising that eating disorders are often intimately linked with incidents of sexual abuse.\ Massachusetts alone has more than 857 diet and eating disorder groups. Experts agree that the best programs are those which center on building self·esteem and forcing people r to address issues conct:rntng why they t:at, rather th;.m a specific food plan. The negative aspect of mJny diet programs is that they induce J heightened ohsession wi!h consumption which pcrpl'tuJtL'S the illness. Jill Collon, a 20-yt:ar-oiJ senior at Barnard University, has been recovering from a five-year pattern of arwro.ia and bulimia for two years. \Once you get beyond the superficial stuff of food and eating you still have to deal with all the issues. That\s the hard part,\ she says. Sarah, an Ovcrcatcrs Anonymous member who asked not to be identified, agrees: \It's not a problem with food, it's a problem with living.\ Many experts claim that recovering from an eating disorder is a lifelong process. \It's very difficult to get rid of an eating disorder. The • solution itself is simple: You either stop or you don't. However, it's so wrapped up in issues of self-esteem and has become an important coping pattern that overcoming it takes a very long time.\ Katison says. \The important thing is getting the focus off the food and into living,\ says Jane, a recovered over-eater and bulimic. \I used to think when I heard people say, 'I'm happy in my own skin' that they were nuts. Now I know what they meant because I can say it, too.\ Courtesy of Middlesex News, Framingham, MA Nationally recognized Humorous Sex- Educator \Dr. Bill\ Goettel (VD) STD Nurse is scheduled to present his popular program at 8 p.m., Sunday, Oct. 27, Memorial Chapel Coast to coast Goettel has received raving reviews from colleges, military bases and national conventions. His laugh and learn presentation attracts and holds young peoples' interest. But laughter isn't all his audiences receive. They learn that aids is not the only social disease which can kill, ............... and that there are many hazards involved in sexual freedom, Chlamydia is not a jungle plant, how to tell if they are in love, why condoms have a 20o/c failure rate, how unwanted pregnancy can easily occur, even without intercourse, many common sex myths are clarified. (This is a program that no young adult should miss.) Goettel's background in brief •A New York State & Army nurse •Treated and counseled young adults with sex related problems at a Syracuse University for more than a decade •Taught a Health & Sexuality Credit Course at S.U. •Hosted a weekly half hour sex-ed radio program •Written a sex question & answer column •Presented his unique sex-ed program at more than 100 colleges, military bases and conventions •Appeared on national television For further information contact: Student Act. x6118 .....

Union College 1991-92 Fall Term Final Examination Schedule This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in Section \51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. peck in the Office of Resistrar not later than Friday, November 1st. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used ARTS - Arts .Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR - Buttezfield Hall HUMN - Humanities Bldg. SATURDAY, N@VEMBER 23 - 7:00-9:00 PM NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center PYCH - Psychology Bldg. SSCI - Social Sciences Bldg. STZH - Stei!lllletz Hall BI0-024-01 - Genetics - J. Boyer/S. LaBonne - BAIL 207 BI0-162-01 - Intro to Neurobiology - R. Olberg - BAIL 201 BI0-180-01 - Biochemistry - H. Birecka - BAIL 205 CLS-021-01 - Hj.s.tory of Greece - M. Toher - HUMN 115 EC0-032-01 - Labor & Industrial Relations - P. Prosper - NWSE 112 EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financial Analysis - J. Kenney - SSCI 010 EER-063-01 - EJ.ectron Circ Analysis & Design -E. Hassib-NWSE 201 EER-163-01 - Electromagnetic Engineering II - Y. Chang - BAIL 102 EGL-071-01 - Irish Renaissance Literature - A. Frazier - HUMN 014 ESC-010-01 ~Mechanics I- H. Lyons- NWSE 210 GE0-160-01 - Intro to Geophysics - G. Shaw - BUTR 201 HST-013-01 - History of U.S. to Civil War- F. Duddon- SSCI 103 HST-Oi3-02 - History of U.S. to Civil War- R. Wells- SSCI 104 HST-013-03 - History of U.S. to Civil War - S. I. Lewis - SSCI 014 HST-030-01 -American Economic Development - J. Finkelstein- SSCI 112 HST-035-01 - History of Europe I- E. Hansen - HUMN 114 HST-035-02 - History of Europe I-S. Sargent- HUMN 117 HST-121-01 - Amer Constitutional & Legal Hist. - M. Jonas-SSCI 012 LAT-130-01 - Catullus And Horace - J. s. Scullion- HUMN 119 MER-030-01 - Dynamics Of Linear Systems - M. Rivera - NWSE 222 MTH-146-01 - Advanced Calculus I - S. Niefield - EAIL 106 PHL-020-01 - Intro to Logic & Crit Thinking - B. Petrie - HUMN 112 PHY-042-01 - Great Ideas Of Modern Physics - G. Reich - NWSE 114 PHY-044-01 - Introduction to Astronomy - K. Mead - NWSE 116 PSC-041-01 - European Political Community - J. Board - HUMN 116 FSY-038-01 - DeveJ.opmental Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 21.3 SPN-142-01 - The Latin-American Novel - v. Martinez - BAIL 104 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 2:00-4:00 PM BI0-032-01 - Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy - G. Butterstein - BAIL 201 CER-033-01 - Fluid Mechanics - T. Jewell - BUTR 109 C~R-150-01 - Hydrology - P. Snow - BUTR 106 CHM-010-01 - Fundamental Chemistry I - C. Weick - SSCI 010 CHM-010-02 - Fundamental Chemistry I - D. Hayes - BAIL 203 Cti.'1-0l0-03 - Fundamental Chemistry I - c. Scaife - SSCI 012 CH.>t-010-04 - Fundamental Chemistry I - R. Silversmith - HUMN 1.15 CHN-121-01 - Intermediate Chinese II - M, Chen - SSCI 105 CSC-012-01 - Programming For Natrl Sciences - L. Almstead - STZH 106 BER-041-0l - Electrical Circuits - M. Rudko- SSCI 110 EER-060-01 - System Theory II - E. Craig - STZH 108 FRN-010-01 Basic French I - J. Boone - HUMN 110 FRN-012-01 - Basic French III - L. Day - HUMN 014 FRN-131-01 Survey of French Literature I- C. Laparra- HUMN 113 GE0-010-01 - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BUTR 201 GER-010-01 Basic German I - D. Lund - HUMN 117 GRK-010-01 Principles Of Greek I -C. sorum- HUMN 116 GRK-134-01 Homer: The Illiad - M. Toher - HUMN 119 HST-050-01 Western Imperialism- E. Hansen - SSCI 112 JPN-010-01 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa- HUMN 112 JPN-010-02 - Basic Japanese I - N. Nakagawa - RUMN 112 MER-022-01 Materials Science & Engineering - F. Milillo - NWSE 210 MER-026-01 - Thermodynamics- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 MTH-100-01 - Orthogonal Functions - T. Bick -BAIL 207 PHY-011-01 - Introduction to Physics I - s. Maleki - NWSE 112 PHY-011-02 - Introduction to Physics I- D. Peak- NWSE 116 PHY-013-01 - Introduction to Physics II - A. Anderson - NWSE 114 PSC-011-01 Intra To· American Politics- c. Tidmarch- SSCI 103 PSY-010-01 A First Course in Psychology - V. Dawson - PYCH 113 PSY-031-01 Abnormal Psychology - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 RUS-010-01 Basic Russian I - M. Rudko - hUMN 213 SPN-010-01 Basic Spanish I - W. Garr.ia - HUMN 114 SPN-010-02 Basic Spanish I - L.Martinez - HUMN 114 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 - 7:00-9:00 PM AAH-020-01 - Classical Art & Architecture - L. Matthew- ARTS 215 BI0-016-01 - Introduction to Biology I - P. Tobiessen/W. Rdth - SSCI 016 CER-016-01 - Computer Applications for CE - T. Jewell - BUTR 109 CER-160-01 - Transportation Engineering - Y. K. Lee - BUTR 106 CER-160-02 - Transportation Engineering - Y. K. Lee -:- BUTR 10l? CHM-010a01 - F~ndamental Chemistry A -c. Guare - PYCH 213 CHM-142-01 - Chemical Instrumentation - T. Werner - BAIL 312 CHN-010-01 - Basic Chinese I - M. Chen - HUMN 213 CLS-024-01 - Classical Art & Architecture - L. Matthew- ARTS 215 CSC-011-01 - P.rogramming For Soc sciences - J. Castleberry - S'l'ZH 106 EC0-145-01 - Mt!lnagerial Economics - J. Kenney- SSCI 110 - · · EER-018-01 - Intro to Digital Computers -C. Traver- NWSE 201 EER-124-01 - Intro TO Probabilisitic Systems - M. Rudko - NWSE 116 EGL-018-01 - Intro To Literary Forms- E. Giunta - HUMN 114 EG1-034b-l - Studies in American Literature - N. Shour - HUMN 019 FRN-143-01 - Writers of Romanticism- C. Laparra- HUMN 113 HST-040-01 - The Crusades - S. Sargent - SSCI 112 LAT-010-01 - P~inciples of Latin I - J. Marincola - HUMN 116 MER-040-01 - Engineering Design I- H. Lyons - NWSE 210 MER-050-01 -Beat Transfer Analysis & Design - C. S. Reddy - NWSE 22Z MTH-014-02 - Calculus III - M. Frame - BAIL 205 MTH-018-01 - Intro to Logic & Set Theory - J. Barbanel - BAIL 201 MTH-050-01 - Intra to Applied Mathematics - W. Fairchild - STZH 108 PRL-011-01 -Philosophical Classics I- F. Davis/C. Gould- HUMN 110 PBY-011-03 - Introduction to Physics I - R. Khosropour- MWSE 112 PHY-013-02 - Introduction to Physics II - S. Maleki - NWSE 114 PRY-050-01 - Electronic Circuits - R. Magdhiz - NWSE 303 PRY-131-01 -Electromagnetism I- C. Jones- NWSE 319 PSY-010-02 -A First Course in Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 113 PSY-030-01 - Personality - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 RUS-120-01 - Intermediate Russian I - N. Jenakoff - HUMN 119 SOC-010-01 - Introduction to Sociology - R. Quaye - SSCI 010 S.PN-012-01 - Basic Spanish III - V. Martinez - HUMN 014 SPN-120-01 Intermediate Spanish I- L. Martinez - HUMN 112 • MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 8:30-10:30 AM AAH-010-01 - Introduction to the Arts - D. Robbins/T. w. Ross - ARTS 215 AMU-010-01 - Introduction to the Arts - D. Robbins/T. W. Ross - ARTS 215 CLS-031-01 - Greek & Roman Epic in Translatn - J. Marincola - HUMN 116 EC0-031701 - Microeconomic Analysis - s. l'aisawarng - SSCI 112 EC0-033-01 -Public Pol & American Industry - D. Klein- SSCI 012 EGL-020-0 1 - Major EIJgJ.ish Authors II - S. K. Dyer - HUMN 114 . EGL-022-01 -Major American Authors~ N. Sbour - HUMN 115 EGL-023-01 -The American Short Story~ L. Slade ~·HUMN 117 FRN-120-01 - Intermediate French I - L. Day - HUMN 112 GER-012-01 .,.·Basic Ge:rman III - K. Hamm-Ehsani - HUMN 119 GER-120-01 Intermediate German I - D. Lund - HUMN 213 GER-134-01 Goethe's Faust -A. Warde - HUMN 113 MTH-060-01 - Topics in Mathematical Pol Sci - w. Zwicker - BAIL 203 PHL-014-01 -Introduction to Ethics - R. Baker - HUMN 110 PHY-011-04 - Introduction to Physics I -D. McKenna - NWSE 112 PSC-023-01 - Topics in Mathemat~cal Pol Sci - w. Zwicker - BAIL 203 PSY'-010-03 - A First Course in Psychology - J. Powell - PYCH 102 PSY-046-01 -Introduction to Psychobiology- c. Weisse- Pl'CH 113 RUS-128-01 - Intro to Russian Civilization- N. Jernakoff- HUMN 019 SOC-138-01 - Africa: Pol, Econ, & Soc Life - R. Quaye :.. SSCI 010 SPN-120-02 - Intermediate Spanish I - L. Martinez - BAIL 104 SPN-132a01 - Survey or Peninsular Lit I - W. Garcia - HUMN 014 ·MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 11:30 AM-1:30 PM AAH-036-01 - Intro to Hst of Architecture - L. Matthew - ARTS 215 EC0-042-01 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- E. Foster- SSCI 103 EGL-022-02 - Major American Authors - N. Sbour - HUMN 115 EGL-023-02 - The American Short Story - S. K. Dyer - HUMN 110 HEB-010-01 - Basic Hebrew I - D. Heckelman - HUMN 117 PHL-130-01 - Greek Philosophy -C. Gould- HUMN 116 PSY-010-04 - A First Course In Psychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 113 PSY-020-01 - Statistical Methods In Psychol - H. Foley - PYCH 213 PSY-036-01 - Psychology of Learning - T. D'Andrea - PYCH 102 MONDAY, NOVENBER 25 - 2:30-4:30 PM ACC-010-01 - Survey of ~ccounting - J. Lippitt - BAIL 205 BI0-051-01 - Ecology- C. George - BAIL 106 BI0-053-01 - Forests of the Northeast - P. Tobiessen - BAIL 100 BI0-069-01 - Genetic Engg & Modern Plant - M. Frohlich - BAIL 203 BI0-144-01 - Cytology - G. Smith - BAIL 102 CER-012-01 - CE Comp Aided Graph & Drafting - M. Mafi - BUTR 109 CHM-018-01 - Pol~mers & Material Science- J. Anderson -BAIL 104 CLS-032-01- Religion in the Pagan world- J. Scullion- HUMN 019 EC0-053-01 - The Economy of China - E. Rey~olds - SSCI 105 EC0-138-01 - Quantitative Methods In Econ - £. Motahar - SSCI 104 ESC-013-01 - High Level Language Programming - N. Mazur - STZH 106 ESC-015-01 - Numerical Methods and Fortran - F. Federighi - STZH 108 MTH-040-01 - Applied Linear Algebra - A. Seiken - BAIL 207 PHL-170-01 - History & Phil of Science I- J. Ludwig- HUMN 113 PSC-013-01 - Intro t:o Political Thought- C. Brown - SSCI 014 PSC-013-02 - Intro to Political Thought - P. A. Meyers - SSCI 010 TUESDAY, NOVE.MBER 26 - 8:30-10:30 AM CER-143-01 ·· Foundations & Construction - G, Gifford - BUTR 109 CER-143-02 - Foundations & Construction - G. Gifford - BUTR 109 ELL-012-01 - Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles - H. G. Harlow - BUTR 204 ELL-012-02 - Homes, Bldgs. & Egr Principles - H. G. Harlow - BUTR 204 MTH-010-01 - Calculus 1 - V. Ferlini - BAIL 207 MTH-010-02 - Calculus 1 - J. Earbanel - BAIL 104 MTH-010-03 - Calculus I - V. Ferlini - BAIL 207 MTH-010-04 - Calculus I - T. Bick - BAIL 102 MTH-010-05 - Calculus I - M. Frame - BAIL 205 MTH-010-06 - Calculus I - J. Muckenfuss - RUMN 019 MTH-013-01 - AP Calculus - A. Seiken - BAIL 201 MTH-013-02 - AP Calculus - J. Muckenfuss - HUMN 019 MTH-013-03 - AP Calculus - J. Seiken -BAIL 201 MTH-013-04 - AP Calculus- J. Prindle - BAIL 203 MTH•013•05 • AP CalcUlUs A. Taylor - EAI1 106 MTH-030-01 - Ordin Differential Equations - K. Rosenthal - HUMN 114 MTH-030-02 - Ordin Differential Equations - K. Rosenthal - HUMN 114 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 11:30 AM-1:30PM CHM-030-01 - Organic Chemistry I - L. Bull - BUTR 204 CHM-03_0-02 - Organic Chemistry I - K. DeJesus - Bl/TR 204 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 2:30-4:30 PM 'ACC-010-02- Survey of Accounting- w. Lewis- BAIL 205 AMU-032-01 - Music Cultures of the World - T. w. Ross - ARTS 313 AOP-011-01 Critical Reading & Writing- S. King- BAIL 203 AVA-045-01 - The Illustrated Organism- c. George/W. Hatke - ARTS 207 BI0-045-01 The Illustrated Organism- c. George/W. Hatke - ARTS 207 CER-129-01 Camp Aided Structl Dsgn & Analys - M. Mafi - BUTR 109 CSC-037-01 Structured Programming - D. Hannay - NWSE 116 · EC0-012-03 Introduction to Economics - L. Cavalluzzo - HUMN 019 EC0-012-04 Introduction to Economics - L. Cavalluzzo - HUMN 019 EC0-012-05 - Introduction to Economics - D. Levy - SSCI 016 EC0-012-06 - Introduction to Economics - D. Levy - SSCI 016 EGL-022-03 -Major Amexican Authors - B. MacDonald - HUMN 112 EGL-056-01 - Shakespeare After 1600 - J. McCord - HUMN 116 PSY-049-01 - The Psychology of Addiction - T. Dowling - PYCH 213 THJ:.: FOLWWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 6:30-8:30 PM ESC-069-01 ~ 02 - Engineering Economics - R. Eggert - NWSE 201 PSC-080-01 - Politics of NYS Government - Crowley - SSCI 103 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-136-01 & 51 - Advanced Programming Techniques - G. Williams - BAIL 207 MTH-127-01 - Numerical Ana~ysis - w. Fairchild - BAIL 201

CAMPU!i BULLETII\I BOARD illrntrnrbirn£ts tsj ITHACA COLLEGE LONDON CENTER 35 Harrington Gardens Semester or Year Programs • Transferrable Credit COURSE WORK British and international faculty teach busir~ess, communications, ht~manities, mathematics/natural sciences, music, and social sciences. EXCURSIONS Field trips and excursiens to various sites and cities, theatres, museums. galleries, and social andpofrtical institutions are an integral part of !he curriculum. INTERNSHIPS Relds for internship placement include business, communications, economics, politics, social services, and theatre arts. SPECIAL PROGRAM A special irrt~nsive theatre program is offered in the spring. For further information, write or call: International Programs-CP Ithaca CoUege Ithaca, New York 14850 607-274-3306 Please send information about the Ithaca College London Center to: MAJOR Return to: Office of International Programs. Ithaca College. Ithaca, NY 14850, (607) 274-3306 · \ \ I ~ ., . ·- -..- --- Jet Fuel for the Mind and Body Expresso 75¢ Cappuccino $1.25 Jump Start Your Heart ~BRING YOUR pARENTS TO LUNCH ATTHE RATHSKELLAR DURING PARENT'S WEEKEND! THE SKELLAR WILL BE OPEN ALL DAY SATURDAY FROM 11 am - 8 ptn WITH NORMAL MEAL CARD HOURS (11:30-2 pm, 4:30-7 pm) u -,.i,l..._

16 Ci!anr:orbirnsis CAMPUS I\IEW!i O~ctober 17, 1991 :[:JA.!i!iiFIED!i Chess Table. Thursdays. College Center Balcony, 12 noon to 2 p.m. Everyone invited, all skill levels welcome. Bring lunch and boards. ::::=:======~===!· To the person who asked me to PER!iDI\IAL!i . write this - To the Delta's, The Dance-A-Than was a blast! To all who supported it - Thanx! We hope you had fun! $10 to $50 Commission. Every booking. Every time. \Allison\, \Devra\ and \Larry\ - What's 80 minus 11? Cheri- HeatWave Vacations, is looking for bright, personable individuals to promote our European Skiing and Caribbean Spring Break trips. For more information, call {800) 395- WAVE. Rummage Sale. Sat. Oct. 19th, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. St. John Baptist School Hall (Liberty St. across from Sons of Italy). Hats, jewelry, books and housewares. Bag sale 3 p.m. Food Booth. Northeastem plus Washington - Pretty Cool. Ed 4 -Yom husband Shalom Erik & Jen L. I miss you! AI'M111Jil me• • Sari U 0 N {9 I o 0 o N o 'S FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18 PARENTS' WEEKEND 7:45p.m. S&E Nl14. Physics Colloquium: William Bernhard, University of Rochester, speaking on \Radiation Damage in DNA as Studied by Electron Paramagnetic Resonance.\ 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 7:45 p.m.-11 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Heat and Dust.\ 8 p.m. & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \City Slickers.\ 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre. Saturday Night Live's Dana Carvey. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19 PARENTS' WEEKEND Noon-4 p.m. Library Field. Sigma Phi fraternity sponsors tethered balloon rides to benefit Make- a- Wish Foundation. 1 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field Hockey vs. St. Lawrence. 1:30 p.m. College Center upper class dining hall. Mini United Nations Summit. Gospel Ensemble performing. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Men's Soccer vs. RIT. 5 p.m. Hale House & Old Chapel. Culinary Ex.pose featuring Michel LeBorgne. 7 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center 302. Cafe 302. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Union College Choir. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mountebanks present \A Night of Scenes.\ Also 10/25. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \City Slickers.\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 20 PARENTS' WEEKEND 10 a.m. Memorial Chapel. Ecumenical Protestant worship. 10 a.m. & Noon. Hale House, Old Chapel & Upper Class Dining Hall. Parents' Weekend brunch. 7, !J &; 11 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \City Slickers.\ 7:30-9 p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant Chapel service. MONDAY, OCTOBER 21 8 a.m.-midnight. College Center 410. Senior pictures. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Davidson Lounge. Bloodmobile. 6-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student forum. 7 & 9:30p.m. College Center and. Film: \The Doors.\ 8 p.m.. Humanities lounge. The Department of English sponsots Poet Louise Gluck who will read from her wotk. 9 p.m..-1 a.m. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22 8 a.m..-5 p.m. College Center 302. Wellness Program Health Risk Assessment. 8 a.m.-midnight. College Center 410. Senior pictures. 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 3 p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. Williams. 4:40p.m. Psychology building room 113. Psychology Colloquium: Douglas Davis, Haverford College, speaking on \The Strange Science of Dr. Freud.\ 7 p.m. Fieldhouse. Volleyball vs. Oneonta and Russell Sage. 7-8 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Action lllld Awareness meeting. 7 & 9:30p.m. College Center aud. Film: \The Doors.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Steinmetz Lecture: Walter L. Robb, G.E.C.R.& D. Center, speaking on \Imaging the Human Body- The Schenec- tady-Milwaukee Miracle.\ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23 7:15 a.m..-5 p.m. College Center302. Wellness Program Health Risk Assessment. 8 a.m.-midnight. College Center41'0. Senior pictures. 3:30p.m. SSOl6. P.rof. Janet McDonald speaking on Gideon Hawley. Sponsored by U- CALL and the Alumni Association. 3:30p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field hockey vs. Hartwick. 5 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee field hockey vs. Hartwick. 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Recycling committee meeting. 7 & 9:30p.m. College center aud. Film: \The Doors.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Public debate with the three mayoral candidates, Frank Duci, Mike Andriano and Tom Hanaway. THURSDAY, OCrOBER 24 8 a.m.-midnight. C1>llege Center 410. Senior pictures. 11:30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents John H. McElroy, University of Arizona, speaking on \The Nation Equals Made.\ Noon-1 :30 p.m. College Center 302. Das Neueste aus Deutschland! Panel presentation in Gennan by visiting Gennans-East and West- with first-hand knowledge of the latest events in their \new\ land. Discussion in German and English. 3:30p.m. Garis Field. Women's soccervs. New Paltz. 4:30p.m. College Center 404C. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center aud. Bicentennial lecture series presents Diane Ravitch, assistant secretary of educational research and improve- ment. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25 8 a.m.-midnight. College Center 410. Senior pictllres. 3 p.m. Garis Field. Men~s soccer vs. Clarkson. 3:45p.m. S&E Nl14. Physics Colloquium: Lyle Roelofs, Haverford College, speaking on \The (1 x 2) Missing Row Reconstruction of the AU(llO) surface: Microscopic Energetics and Kinetics of Diffusion and Phase Forma- tion.\ 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center 302. Cafe 302. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Yojimbo.\ 8 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dying Young.\ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26 II a.m. Garis Field. Women'ssoccervs. Oneonta. 2 p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. St. Lawrence. 2 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Field Hockey vs. Rochester. 8 &: 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dying Young.\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 27 7, 9 &: 1 I p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dying Young.\ 7:30-9 p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant chapel service. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. AIDS Awareness Week begins with \'An Evening with Dr. Bill.'' Bill Goettel is a V.D. nurse and comedian. You pick the time - I'll pick the date. To Doctor Rosen - -Your wife Rob (NJ)- !Love You! I Miss You! Thanks for the articles - But please next time DOUBLE SPACE. I can't wait to see you. -S Love, Kristin Sn.orkin We'll take f¥1uffy ... your team gets Snorkin. I always wondered where he got his ideas from. ~ •• > This \Sitnpsons\ thing has gone too for.

· ·· October 17, 1991 CAMPUS 1\JEW!i Olonrorvirnsfs 17 collegiate crossword @Edward Julius Colleg1ate CW83-31 ACROSS 49 Map abbreviation 50 Company bigwig 18 The bottom - 19 O.K. Corral participant 1 Paleozoic, Meso- zoic, etc. 5 Car acce·ssory 10 Soviet news agency 14 Function 15 Parenthetical comment. 16 Jai - 17 Principle of economics (3 wds.) 20 Provide evidence 21 With 60-DowA, holJse pet 22 - volta (once, in music) 23 Suffix for diction or honor 24 Promissory note. e • g • ( 2 wds . ) 33 Ms. Gardner 34 Sea eagles 35 French resort 36 Poet Teasdale 38 Novelist Philip and actress Lillian 40 Type of restatwant, for short 41 Seed covering 42 - school 43 Was a candidate 44 EDP personnel (2 wds.) (abbr.) 51 Alleviate 55 Chemical catalyst 59 fOP equipment ( 2 wds.) 61 Subject of the movie, \Them\ 62 South American ani rna l 63 Home - 64 Nearly all 65 Like some bre~kfast foods 66 Mah-jongg piece DOWN 1 Formerly. formerly 2 Debauchee 3 European range 4 Deviated - 5 Traveler on foot 6 British phrase 7 Wrestling maneuver 8 Actor Byrnes. et a l . 9 Phone again 10 1957 movie, \- the Bachelor\ 11 Winglike parts 12 - souci 13 Beef quantfty 24 Houses. in He rmo s i 11 o 25 Reproductive orga~ 25 1961 baseball MVP 27 Farmer's concern 28 Prefix for mural 29 Extremely pale 30 Seashore struc- tures 31 Brilliance of success 32 Bridle attachment 37 Unselfish person 39 Astronaut 45 \L' -· -, c 'est mo i\ 46 Prefix for maniac 47 China's \Great - forward\ 48 Cultured milk 51 Economist Smith 52 -----Japanese War 53 Bil ko and York (abbr.) 54 First name in jazz 55 Site of 1960 Olympics 55 Toilet case 57 Ms. Carter 58 Subject of Kilmer poem 60 See 21-Across collegiate camouflage Snorkin y G 0 L 0 p G 0 L 0 z T o· T 0 L 0 E y G 0 L 0 .c G y G y L H '0 N G G 0 N L y G 0 L 0 0 G y L L L y y G 0 L 0 R G G L s G B y 0 I p y M G l H E H E c 0 p p M G y G 0 L 0 0 G y y G 0 Can you find the ASTROLOGY ECOLOGY EGYPTOLOGY EMBRYOLOGY ETIOLOGY GEOLOGY IMMUNOLOGY METHODOLOGY MI CROE I OLOGY ONTOLOGY OROLO<iY y T y G 0 L y G 0 L 0 R T L 0 s y H E 0 0 L G y A c p H 0 G I y G 0 L 0 I D A R L L G y G 0 L 0 M s I E s I D s L 0 I B y 0 R 0 L () z 0 H D A R M I R T 0 c T p y G E 1 L 0 N u M M . hidden OLOGY•s? PENOLOGY PHILOLOGY PHYSIOLOGI' RADIOLOGY SEISMOLOGY SOCIOLOGY TECHNOLOGY TOPOLOGY TYPOLOGY ZOOLOGY 0 E G T s A p G s G y T G R p I T E z 0 N T N 0 G E l y y 0 Whaddya hitting me for?! He's your opponent!! G y G Snorkin 0 G y N 0 H s L p I 0 p l<lidn't know Snorkin broke up with his girlfriend. -l . .

Gl VE WITH ALL YOUR HEART THE BLOODMOBILE WILL BE HELD OCTOBER 21 li'J DAVIDSON LOUNGE FROM 10-4 PM. YOU MAY SIGN l.JP FOR YOUR APPOINTMENT IN THE COLLEGE CENTER MONDAY THE 14TH THROUGH FRIDAY THE 18TH 11:00- 1:00 EACH DAY. THIS BLOODMOBILE WILL BE SPONSORED BY KAPPA SIGMA LOUISE GLUCK TO READ AT UNION Poet Louise Gluck will read from her work at 8:00p.m. on Monday, October 21 , in the Humanities Lounge on the Union College Campus. Louise Gluck is the author of several books of poetry, including Firstborn. The Ho~ on the Marshland. Descending Figure. and Ararat. Her collection The TriumRh of Achilles was the winner of the 1975 National Book Critics Circle Award for Poetry. She teaches at Williams College. Louise Gluck's reading is sponsored bu the Department of English of Ulilion College as part of the 1991 Lamont Visiting Professorship Series in Autobiography. WE CARE ABOUT U COMMITTEE MEETING Thursday, October 17, 1991 6:30pm cc 203 ALL ARE WELCOME ·Students wishing to sign-up, c~ange or drop the mealplan for winter term should do so in the Dining Servh:es office, College Center !Room 202, lSQ LATER THAN OCTOBER 2 1. l29.L A committee has been fmmed to gather information regarding the tenurability of Prof. Gregory Gifford in the Civil Engineering Department. Those who have information they would like to share with the committee relevant to Prof. Gifford's teaching or college service should forward it to prl. Peter Tobiessen in the Biology Tiepartment, who chairs the committee, or to the other committee members, Prof. Thomas Jewell, Prof. Francis Federighi, or Prof. Martin Strossberg. STUDENT ACTIVITY: STUDENT-LED BIBLE STUDY Held every Fti.day at 7:00pm in the College Centei, Rm. 409. For more information, call Glen x6945 ·Students already on the mealplan will be billed automatically winter term for the same mealplan they are presently on. Thursday, October 24, 12:00.2:00 Cabaret Room (College Center 301), \DAS JlJENGSTE AUS DEUTSCHLAND!\East and Westwith first- hand knowledge of the latest events In their united (P) land. Discussiom in German and English. Bring your lunch (drinks provided). EVERYBODY WELCOME. THE HOMECOMING '91 T-SHIRT $4-Limited Supply for sale in the Alwnni Office in Lamont House Applications are now being taken for the Union College Investment Club, which manages a portfolio valued in excess of $1 00,000. Any student who has taken or is taking Economics 34 (Financial Analysis) or Economics 36 (Financial Markets) may apply for membership on the Board, which h<Js several vacancies. If you are interested in applying for membership on the Board, please contact Mrs. Geraci in the Economics Department office (Social Science 212) for a description of the Investment Club and an application for membership on the Board. If yo~ have further questions concerning the Club, please contact Prof. Lewis (x6078). MEMBERSHIP APPLICATIONS ARE DUE FRIDAY. OCTOBER 25, 1991, TELECOt.4~liNICA TIONS TIPS REMEMBER: ALL STUDENTS ASS! GNED TQ A ROOM OR .s.!.!!li WILL BE 1-!ELD E<lUALL Y AND FINANCIALLY RI:SPONS!BLE FOR ANY COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH AC<JLLECT CALL MADE TO THE TELEPHONE LINE ASSOCIATED WITH THE DORM ROOM DUAl NG THE PERIOD OFTHEIR RESIDENCY IN THAT ROOM. FROM: INTRO TO 1/U STIJOENT POLICY ANO PROCEOYRES MANUAL PAGEfr7 The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily: Mon.-Thurs. 8:30am-11:30pm Friday 8:3(]am-7:30pm Weekends: Saturday 12:()0pm-2:30pm Sunday 12:30pm-8:30pm Mac & IBM Laser copies are 15 cents per page. **MANDATORY** Meeting for all members of WRUC 89.7 FM special election will be held on Oct. 21st at 8 pm in SS 016 **MANDATORY** Come join The ECONOMICS CLUB Monday, October 21 3:40 pm SS103 Majors and Non-Majors welcomer Refreshments will be served. Mountebanks Presents: A Stage DooR Production of ·when God Comes To Breakfast, You Don't Burn The Toast• and ·The lmprov Game Show· Sat. Oct. 19 at8:00 and 10:00 in CC302 FREE ADMISSION in conjunction with Cafe 302 Serving fine coffees, teas and desserts Schaffer Library Book Sale LAST DAY FALL TERM September 25 October 16 November 13 WINTER TERM January 14 February 11 March 3 SPRING TERM AprilS April29 May27 TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES The sale will be held from 12:00-4:00 pm in the main lobby. FRIDAY- OCTOBER 25 WHATEVER THE BEASON !M-iATEVER llif$EASON 111.n ~ WUl. \HAPI\'' soou• aiATHOAY\ lllii:3 UNION COLUGE TELEPHON£ GIFT O:RTIFICATES .ME AYH.ABl.E FOR P1JRCHASE AT iHE TEL.ECC:t.IMUNICA.noNS OFFICE. COLLEGlOCENT'ER/103. ~~~ ORCAU.~11FOAMORE - INFOPMAOO~. To: All students who intend to apply to Health Professions School (Medical, Dental, Osteopathic, Veterinary, Fodiatry & Optometry) during the summer of 1991. FROM: Dr. Roth, Pre-Health Advisor Dr. Roth will hold an IMPORTANT, General Advising Session in order to discuss the procedures for applyiflg to Health Professions Schools. Personal and faculty recommendations and MCA T preparation will also be discussed. The biography form will be handed out for you to work on over winter break. This meeting Is mandaOOry. anyone who cannot make onQ 2f these meeting should contact Dr. Roth's office. Monday, October21, 1991-5:00-6:00 pm BH 106 OR MEETINGS Tuesday, October 22, 1991-5:00-6:00 pm BH 207 OR Tuesday, October22, 1991-7:30-8:30 pm BH 207 STOPDWI Would You Like To Perform . The greatest single factor contributing to traffic accidents is alcohol. Arrests for driving while intoxicated are steadily increasing and in Schenectady County alone convictions for an alcohol related In A Stage DooR PRoduction? driving offense now number BOO .per year. Mountebanks is looking for talent of ALL KINDS to perform in CC302. If you are caught you will: •Pay a stiff fine $250.00 and up •Lose your license •Increase your car insurance rates at least 75% For More Information, Please Write: The drunk driver is being taken off the road. It is 110 coincidence that as the number of arrests increase in Schenectady our fatal accidents decrease. Box 2139 or call 386-4117 PLAY IT SAFE.! Don't risk a DWII Drive Sober! Schenectady County roads will be safer for all of us. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday- Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS. WEDNESDAYS TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: & FRIDAYS: HEBREW 1:30PM FRENCH 1:30 :PM CHINESE 2:00 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00PM RUSSlAN 4:00PM LANGUAGE MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM LAB HOURS: SUNDAY-THURSDAY ·7:00PM-I O:OOPM to this years Watson Fellowship Finalists: Diego Hojraj Beth Ann Isenberg Anna Bess Sarin Marie Wheeler Watch for Detai Is Next Week

!iPDRT!i C1Io1tfllrbirttEis 1 9 Sarah Dudzic leads U.nion J o A Second Place Finish In Vassar Tourney by Jeff G«logel The Volleyball Team, already off to an impressive 17- 9 mark, completed the week with a second place finish in the very competitive Vassar VolleybaU Tournament, the team's best showing ever. At the core of the team's success thus far this season has been four year varsity letter winner, Sarah Dudzic who was named to the AU-Tournament team. For her outstanding perform- ances throughout the past week, Sarah Dudzic has been selected as Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Dudzic, a senior political science major who hails from Fredonia, NY, leads the team with 165 kills and is currently second on the team in digs with 90. With these all-star Sarah Dudzic numbers, Dudzic is looking for her second team MVP honors in as many years. In the \off season\ Dudzic moves over to the softball diamond where she has been a three-year starting pitcher, compiling a 32-19 record over that time span. Dudzic has twice been named to the All- Tournament team in the State Championships and paced the team to a 17-5 record last year. Dudzic led the Volleyball team in to the State Tournament two years ago, and if her volleyball play so far this season is any indication of the team's success this year, a return trip to the State Tournament should become a reality. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Sarah Dudzic, Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Union Field Hockey Struggles by Rebecca Smackey The field hockey team seemed to 'run out of time' in two of their games this past week. They were away on Wednesday against R.P.I. and Thursday at Williams. The team finally had a home game last Saturday against Middlebury-after being on the road and grass for over two weeks. An aggressive game against R.P.I. resulted in a 4-0 victory with a hat trick coming from Kristin Neilbergs and one goal put in by Dawn Harrington. The next day the team was definitely tired from the day before and the long week of traveling. There was no real 'spark' on the field until the end of the game. However, ••••••••••• The Sports Department would like to wish everyone a Happy Parents Weekend and urge you to support your favorite team. ............. this attempt came too late as the frustrated Union squad was defeated 3-0. Everyone was looking forwud to being back 'at home' on the turf Saturday and the team came out very strong in the opening minutes of the game. For some unknown reason the team played quite flat for the next thirty minutes of play. Middlebury took advantage of this and scored one goal before half time. Unio11's team was obviously disappointed with its play althOtJgh they did not give it everything they had until it was too late. Middlebury was able to put a second goal in at the beginning of the second half. The last twenty minutes of the game Union clearly dominated, with most of the play occurring in Union's offensive end. Freshman Missy Lombardoni took a hard shot near the top of the circle that resulted in a goal. The team played with extreme intensity for the remainder of the half. However, the half was over too soon for them and the score remained 2-1. The team's record stood at 5- 5-1 as of Tuesday. With four games remaining, it is crucial for the team to maintain at least a .500 average in order to qualify for states. Come out to the turf Satuday when they take on St. Lawrence at 1 PM, and next Wednesday at 3:30 when Union battles nationally-ranked Hartwick. Women's Soccer at Turning Point; Ties Seasonal Win Records for '85 and '87 by Ron Birnbaum With a 6-3-1 record, the Dutchwomen hooters are now tied with the 6-9 and 6-8-1 records of the corresponding '85 and '87 seasons. Only two- thirds of the way thru the season, the team is already one up from last year's 5-10 record. Of the five games played this month, the three home games were victories and the two away were losses. The squad returned home after a close loss (3-2) at Skidmore to shut-out Wells (4-0) and St. Lawrence (1-0) back to back. After a tough defeat at Williams (5-0), the team again returned to home turf and beat Plattsburgh (1-0) for the sixth win. Comprising key posi!ion in the lineup is freshman goalkeeper Jcn Manna, who has contributed outstandingly to team success and led players in the backfield, always on top of shots. Backing up at sweeper positions are freslJman Liz Landa and junior Megan Howell. Landa works well with Manna for game experience and knowledge; Howell at sweeper was injured earlier on and is to return to midfield position. Also on defense is Rika Poor, used as a stopper in absence of Weske, who was moved upfield; Poor, usually at outside midfield, plays fullback on injuries. Playing at midfield at outside halfback is senior Cindy Butler, known for her speed, endurance, and knowledge in soccer. Danforth and Holder supply the main power on offense and function well as a team for quick counter-attacks. Also with depth are Anne Ramaley, a dedicated senior ' who fills in for Danforth or Holder where needed, and At Skidmore, after a scoreless first half, the opponent scored in the second. Union forward Debbie Danforth kicked the tying goal for Union at the end of the second, assisted by sophomore mid- fielder Chris Weske. Yet, Skidmore scored again, and this time senior forward J en Holder kept the game at two apiece with another goal, again assisted by Weske. The first overtime half was scoreless. In the second, during which many considered it questionable that the game was not called on thunder, Skidmore scored with three minutes left. Thirty seconds later, the game was called. Union filed a preliminary with the NCAA committee which confirmed the call as not too late. Union traditionally has little trouble with Wells. Goals were scored by senior midfielder Rika Poor, freshman back/midfielder Marcie Heffer- man, Holder, and Danforth, and the Dutchwomen outshot Wells 36-1. The win prepared the team for St. Lawrence, ranked ninth in the state and new on schedule. In the first half, Holder scored with twenty-five minutes left. assisted by Danforth. Union was able to hold defensively for the rest of the game for the win and had some luck as well, as several opponent chances to score off post and side bar did not materialize. A way at Williams, one week after Skidmore, the squad was running late and was simply not prepared. Up until this game, Union had been progressing, with most subs used off the bench to contribute as opposed to just starters. In each position, there are at least two people on hand who possess depth. freshman Deb Montano who can play almost anywhere. Plattsburgh was a 1-0 win; in the 1st half, freshman midfielder Heather Gauntt scored on a loose ball in front of the goal, kicked in unassisted. Butler had an excellent game both defensively and offensively. Goalie Manna had a great game with many key saves. Much good play came from bench players Ramaley, junior forward Sabra Hall, sophomore striker Stacy Budnick, and Gauntt. Also of interest is the scheduling of Plattsburgh, Albany, and Rensselaer consecutively again as in last year's line-up. With Platts- burgh, desire for revenge lias been fed, however, rivalry still exists between Albany and Union, where Union has eilller tied or lost, last year losing 2- 0. Rensselaer was also a 1-0 home loss, though Union dominated both games. Each new game is taken separately, and the squad is holding at peak. The rest of the teams on the schedule are expected to be heatable or at least close games, making the never before Union .500 record and post-seasonal play still possible. Traditionally, each year Union gets a win versus a challenging team. Siena was beaten early in the season and now Plattsburgh. The scene is set to go from the record being tied to the tide being turned. Write for ~ports Contact Dan, Box 1761 or Schach, Box 1847 --

The Skating Dutchmen hit the Ice this week starting practice ilil lieu of the 91 .. 92 Division 1 season. Union field hockey shoots to f.lnlsh ,the season on a high note. October 17, 1991 Union Gridders Topple RPI, Waterpolo Goes 4-0 35-10, For 13th In A Row By Dan Strum Sports Editor with Sports Information Senior running back Vlad Telemaque broke RPI's heart with a 49-yard touchdown run in the third quarter to lead Union to a 35·;10 victory over the homestanding Engineers last Saturday in the 89th renewal of New York State's oldest collegiate football rivalry. The victory was the 13th in a row for the 5-0 Dutchmen, wllo went into the game ranked bellind Cortland in the NCAA Eastern Regional poll. Coast Guard is a major threat to U11ion's streak and rankings. The Dutchmen and Bears will square off this Saturday in New L()ndon at 1:30 p.m. in what is expected to be a packed house for Parent's Weekend. Union, which led 14-7 at the half, saw the hosts cut their deficit to 14-lO with a 22-yard field goal. However, after junior Andy Girardi returned the ensuing kickoff 41 yards to the RPI 49, Telemaque went off right tackle and down the sideline for the score. Telemaque, Upstate New Y orlc's second leading rusher witll a 137.6 per game average, carried the ball 24 times for 133 yards and touchdown runs of two, five, and the 49-yarder. Named to the ECAC Honor Roll for the second time this season, Telemaque, who leads Upstate New York in scoring wit11 his 12.0 average, has 10 rushing scores this year and 23 for his two and a half-year career. The Union record for rushing TDs in a career is 26. consecutive wins is 15, set by the seniors of this year's team. The Dutchmen won the last two games of the 1988 campaign and the first 13 of the '89 season before losing to Dayton in the Stagg Bowl. The Dutchmen Class of 1992 has an overall record of 31-4 since quarterback Brett Russ started the third game of the '88 season. Union never lost control of the game as they quieted RPI. The Dutchmen scored on their third possession when they drove from their 20 to paydirt in 15 plays. Union converted two third down and one fourth down situation before Te1emaque went in from two yards out. RPI tied the game with an 11-play 49-yard drive after the kickoff. However, Union came right back with a 61-yard march that Look 13 plays. Twice the Dutchmen converted third down situations enabling Telemaque to score from five yards out on a third-down play. The half ended with Union up, 14-7. After taking the second half kickoff from their 40 to RPI's 25, Union coughed the ball up on a fumble. RPI drove from their 25 to Union's five before settling for a 22-yard field goal. Girardi took the ensuing kickoff 41 yards to the RPI 49. Nine seconds later Telemaque went 49 yards to give Union a 21-10 lead. Three series later, Union put together a 62-yard drive that took eight plays. The big play was a 19-yard pass from junior Harris to senior wideout Gene Ray on fourth and nine from the punt formation. The play kept the drive alive and was capped when Russ found Brundage over the middle for 13 yards and a 28-10 lead. Freshman Chris Irving sparked Union's final TD drive when he carried four times for 59 yards-including runs of 28 and 16 yards. Alex Felipe capped the nine-play, 67-yard march with a one-yard plunge. Harrison added all five PATs, giving him 28 points in the last thiee games. by Tim Lynch The Union Waterpolo T~am traveled to Hartwick College for its first tournament of the year on the weekend of Ocoober 4. With high aspiration& the team played extremely W\e11 allowing them to win all four of their games. RPI, Hamilt()n, Hartwick, and Columbia University all fell to the Dutchmen. The key to their success was a rock solid defense and accurate shooti11g. Unlike last year, the pre!;ent team has more knowledge of the game and physical stalllina thanks to five new freshmen. Yet, it is the experience of the older players which is the true foundation of the team. Freshmen Scott :Bow dine states that, \If it was11't for Sven Zabka, Anne Glicksman, Chris Walsh, Tim Judge, and our fantastic goalie (a.lc..a. The Wall) we would be lost.\ Another reason for their new found success is the excellent coaching of Mark Walsh, who has vowed not to shave until the Regional Tournament held in November. With all this going for them, the team has gone from the doormat to the forefront of the league. If you get a chance come to the next home polo game and see Union's newest success story in action. Women's X-C Places Third in Capital District by Sandra Anselmen 1 The women's cross-country team stunned both themsei ves and Coach Herrington this past Friday at the Capital District Meet. Three of the fhe runoeis fmishe.d with personal recor«<s - after just completing two weeks of grueling dou.ble sessions. The lady harriers expected positive results from the two weeks, but not quite so soon. The women had even weight-lifted the morning of the race. Freshman standout Diaoa Spenello crossed the finish line first for Union. Spenelio 's personal record time of 19:4-9 placed her 4th in the meet. Junior Tasha LaBare who lias been closing in on Spenello, finished a mere 33 seconlls behind her with a time .of 20:24. This personal record ior LaBare gave her a high finish of 11th overall in the me:et. The next two finishers for th, Union squad were Seniors Sandra Anselment and Cindy Hunter. Anselment and Hunter pushed each other through the entue race to hmsil two seconds apart, with times of 20:46 and 20:48, respectively. Overall in the race tlle two finished 16th and 17tll. This time is a seasonal best for Anselment and yet another personal record for Hunter. Freshman Nadine Filosi completed the Union team. Filosi, who filled in for injured Kristen Welch at the last minute, demonstrated her speed by edging out an opponent right at the line. Filosi's time of 22:05 placell her 26th overall in the meet. The Union team placed third overall in the meet behind Albany State and St. Rose. Next week the squad travels to the Albany Invitational for their last regular season meet. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

