Holocaust Remembrance At Union College. DJ JORDAN LIPPNER T'his past Monday, the Jewish Student Union initiated Holocaust Remembrance Day at Union College. April 8 was an apprppriate choke as it m-arked the forty-eighth anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising, a tevolt by the Warsaw Jews which was the first large-scale civilian resistance to the Nazis. T() commemorate the tragedy of tbe Holocaust, the JSU brought in a student from SUNY Albany who had visited the concentration camps and Saba Lencner, a survivor of the Holocaust. As well, a short m~morial service was held which included the reading -or literature written hv Jews who were victims of the Nazis. Ro11ghly 200 students attended while unfortunately, not a sin.gle faculty member deemed the event worthy of his time. trade her only pair of shoes to a Polish merchant for a piece of hread. It was her only way o( acquiring food. One of the last statements 1·ead told the story of how the Nazis, together with Ukrainians, gathered up all the Jews in one ru:ea in order to shoot them. This point illustrated the fact that the Nazis were able to extenninate 6 million European Jews because the European community complied with them. Upon the conclusion of the service, a slide show was presented by the SUNY student. The slides were of the various Nazi death camps which to this day still remain in Poland. The show began with the entrance to Majdanek, which displayed what looked like a large fish tank filled with the bones and ashes of the camp's victims. Here 140,000 Jews were murdered which pales in comparison to the 4 million victims of Birkenau- Auschwitz. From Majdanek, she went on to Auschwitz, where she encountered a dissection table, a symbol of Continued on page 3 IFC Votes To lnclude Delta Psi Delta By MATT TUCKER The Interfraternity Council recently made a revolutionary decision on the future of Greek institutions. Tuesday night, April 9; at Delta Phi, the IFC met to discuss the future of Union's only coeducational fraternity. In the final vote, the IFC decided to invite Delta Psi Delta, the coeducational fraternity, to join the council currently consisting of the eighteen all male fraternities. The IFC had been debating for several months the decision on the status of Delta Psi Delta. Proponents argued that the times had changed and no longer do fraternities consist of just men. Just like minorities were once banned from fraternities so were women. But with this decision, the IFC is emitting a signal that fraternities like Delta Psi Delta can exist and accept women Continued on page 4 Professor Kit Hathaway Administration And Faculty Clash As H.athaway Is Dismissed By ANDREW SEEWALD In a display of power that has released a veteran professor and angered many students and faculty members, the Dean of Faculty, Jim Underwood, denied a departmental recommendation that Kit Hathaway be selected to fill a three-year visiting position. Roger Hull, President of the College, after some review of the matter, announced Monday, April 1, that he would uphold Underwood's decision. That set off a chain reaction that has included letters of protest from numerous students and professors, and a petition signed by about 250 students on Hathaway's behalf. Perhaps most of all, there seems to be a feeling of mistrust of the administration by faculty, fueled by charges that departmental authority has been undermined by Underwood and Hull's maneuver. Tuesday morning, Hull admitted that the procedure was probably not handled as well as it should have been. However, he added that if the matter had been conducted differently it would have arrived at the same results. Many are calling for that theory to be tested. 1'he evening began with the memorial service. Students lit six Yartzite (memorial) candles, in memory of the SIX MlLLION Jews who were systematically exterminated by tlle Nazis. The Jewish prayer for the dead was then recited, after which various students presented a number of passages whicll truly set the tone for the remainder of the night. These readings gave those in att{lndance a feel for the living conditions of Jews in the gh{lttos and camps. Hull Presides Over Union Town Meeting If all this is not confusing enough, there are several sub- plots to the affair, some of which are specu latory. Verification was diffi::ult in some places, partly because the Underwood-Hull side was not talking, and partly because some of the matters are the sort that rarely get talked about anyway. The English Department was directed last October to conduct a national search for a Generalist to fill the position beginning next fall. Hathaway, a Visiting Associate Professor since 1984, was one of the candidates reviewed by the department. \'I should like to become a few weeks older and still be alive.\ \'I was so hungry I could smell bread being baked from 2 miles away.\ These quotations were written by Jews in the Warsaw Ghetto. Another passage went to e:xplain how a woman had to In This Issue: F·~~esbnutn · · Canuid~tes . Invite~ to · ~amp.q~ . · ..... pa·ge s . Stud:ents ·Present Resea.r.ch. on · Steinmetz Sytnpos:iutn -page 14-lS Women's. S()ftball E~plodes Into N·e,v Season . -page 26 By STEPHANIE FRAY Editor-In-Chief In an attempt to do something a little differently and as a result of idiosyncracies with an open-door policy, once or twice per term the Union College Community will have the opportunity to attend what President Roger Hull has coined a \Union Town Meeting.\ Although the first of these meetings, held in Social Sciences 016 on April 9, was characterized by a crowded room comprised of students, faculty, administration and staff eagerly prepared to engage in an enlightening discussion of the institution's future; a significantly large portion of the meeting focused on broad issues which have already been addressed numerous times since the president took office seven months ago. President Hull's plan to tear down the fence sunounding the College, refusals to comment on the Professor Hathaway · issue, and the future of the Nott Memorial were perhaps the only authentically new topics of concern to the Union community discussed at the forum. Furthermore, they were the only real issues which appeared to spark enough interest to deter all of the audience members from making an early exit. Hull stressed the need to \get people out from behind the fence.\ As President Hull emphasized that safety is his number one priority, he announced that the \non- historic\ fence enclosing the Continued on page 5 President Hull answers questions at this week's town meeting. Hathaway has been descrihcd by Peter Hcincf!f'. thr department chair, as <I probing, critical thinker; a b1tlliant, witty, challenging teacher: and a generous, unself-promoting member of the campus community.\ Hcincgg also ha..; praised Hathaway's scholar..;hip and literary accompli~hrnmts. Matthew Futterman, a senior English major dcscrihctl Hathaway as \original unconventional, and not afraid to say what he fee b.\ He has taken three courses ~ ith Hathaway, as well a;; ~n independent study. Futterman fell so strongly about Hathaway's a hi lity to stimulate thinking that, upon learning of the professor's dismissal, he garnered 250 signatures for a petition Continued on page 3

I ~.:.:.:_.~.\:&~~~~;~~ii~U;i~i4~Jit£~~;~~t.it~Y}:~:~<(~:::::;::~:&:;J w~£;:;t:;:if£k:~=~t~:~~~~:=~=;=;=~:;:;rw:~:~J£:~~:~:6:4~:;tit~~-: .. · .=~::~~::::.~,./~ 1\JEW!i AI\IAL Y!il!i . . · ~pru u, l991} Silence The Cyni,cs By JIM POLITES the first pl!lce, at once sweeping the rug out from To be cynical often means under a tide of,g<Xld cheerwhile denying the sincerity of casting a gl()omy shadow of people's motives and actions, disbelief over a once joyful always meeting important situation. events with doubt and sarcasm, Take for example the Persian and ultimately tossing even Gulf War. When Saddarn positive results upon a heap of Hussein chalilenged George il'l feeling. Bush's new global order, many A cynic in today's society is a cynic remai11ed moot, waiting very easy to come by. Walking to bellow at the first sign of down the street, sitting in a weakness fr(:)m the American restaurant or classroom, or side. Cries of 'The President even w hi I e watching should have d. one this' and 'The television, there is enough Commander in Chief said this, wrong in the world, but hi's intentions were much specifically in the U.S., to different' began immediately accommodate a burgeoning when we decided to take a class of people who view the leading role in halting lraq's handling of national and local Middle East terror. issues as a personal threat to Second gtJessing is the their well being. cynic's chief to()t of operation. The consummate cynic is He or she pmceeds a lengthy always prepared to lay blame distance in attempting to defeat on focused persons or people, a purpose, thell takes much of many times the hero-heroine of the credit when the slightest a trying episode that tested the setback arrives. resolve of all in~olv_ed. Unfortunately for the cynic, He or she mamtams a steady in a potentially dangeroas artillery Qf airtight rf,lasons as . desert, war that could have to why a particular eve?t spelled disaster for the United , shou~d, ne~~~ h~ve.~~~~e{i m .• State.~. ,!:h~f~.was:little time to ... . ~: ... . ~ .-... ' ~ . voice a condescending statement about the swift and positive proceedings over-seas and even less tolerance amidst the American public to endure it. Alas, the cynic always has a last line of defense, one that sneaks up on the opposition, one that refutes even definitive answers and forgone conclusions. 20/20 hindsight is some thing that can provide a cynic with just the right amount of empowerment to make post-judgments on events vulnerable to dissection. Even an inspiring, clearly victorious battle we fought against a figure so readily despised finds no comfort from the cynic. While American (and Allied to a lesser extent) troops rid the world of a legitimate threat to sanctity, there remain those who can never be satisfied, or even pacified for that matter. The cynic will undermine all that has been accomplished by reiteraring tl)at there will always be another maniacal: H.usscin or Hitler. bent on • l \ • ' • ~ • ' • • • • • • ruling the entire world to disturb us. They argue that our monumental efforts, through successful, were wasted. Those cynical toward our actions will shake their respective heads, throw up their hands and ask why. Why. risk human lives to deflect a phenomenon that works in cycles, and will re1wn in another 30 years. The resounding answer, of course, is because President Bush, our government and military, viewed the toppling of Kuwait .as offensive and wrong, and acted to rectify the situation. It must be remembered that there is a concise distinction between cynic and critic. l'he former has a definitive, often searing and condescending answer to many ideological questions while the latter merely presents an opposite viewpoint that could shed light on a debatable subject. The main difference lies in that the critic's observations are ::·:~~~=~~ · <>~ · :~:::~:::::::::.::~::;:~=:::::::::::::s:::::::::::~:~fl~t&~;~ constructive, while th:e cynic's ·words are often tinged with signs of societal discouragement. Cynics seek to defame entirely, not simply object incrementally. Some say that cynics are tbe only 1rue realists in society today. for they are the ones who maintain a firm _grasp on the motives and actions that make our country ru11. Today, it is quite easy to be a cynic. What is much more virtuous, though, is to challenge war, poverty, homelessness, etc. because you would like to see a positive change, not because you :feel people have ulterior interests. Perhaps· then our nation will be graced with those holding a genuine feelin~g of ac.complishment rather than simply a frustrated bunch of dissenters with worn out philosophies. Cynics, it can be sure, will always pervade our society. To silence them would be the finest achievement. Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The Ubrador duck The Carolina parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is working to save endangered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16thStreet,Nw,Washington,DC 20036·2266. Working for the Nature of TomorrowTM NAllONAl:WILOUFE FEDERATION ., ,, Will California Universities Become Diploma· Mills? By RICK HENDERSON Courtesy of Intercollegiate Press A populist California economist discovers that college graduates earn 30% more than those who don't have degrees. So the state's voters pass an initiative that automatically awards bachelor's degrees to all high school graduates and other California natives who are 18 years of age or older. No longer will those who have college diplomas enjoy undemocratic advantages. The income of all adult· Californians will rise. Under those circumstances, of course, simply having a college diploma wouldn't miraculously raise your salary. And the initiative itself is fiction-- the brainchild of Robert A. Heinlein in his 1982 novel, Friday. But influential California legislators-- led by Assembly Speaker Willie Brown-- have given the general principle a home in the Golden State's legal code. It could permanently devalue the nation's largest higher education network. For three consecutive years the legislature has considered bills that encourage \educational equity\ in the state's post-secondary institutions. The legislation-- which may pass this year-- is designed to increase educational opportunities for \underrepresented\ ethnic and socioeconomic groups. B11t it doesn't set out to improve the education tllese students receive. Instead they require higher education officials to meet a target·- racially balanced graduation rates. Affirmative action officers may delight in the legislature's goals. Yet students of all races and economic classes who seek academic excellence-- and the taxpayers wh<> foot their bills-- will suffer. For the past three decades, California lawmakers have pursued three goals in higher education: access to quality education for all qualified residents; solid educati()nal programs run by competent teachers; and <li verse student bodies led l>y programs that help all students develop tbeir potential. The state has eased access to its schools by providing virtually tuition-free enrollment to all residents. Still, it re'Wards the best students by establishing a hierarchy inside the univer~ity system. The University of California campuses recrait from only the top one-sixth of high school graduating classes; the Califomia State system seeks students from the top one-fourth. Community colleges are <Jpen to everyone else. But the racial compositions of the student bodies-- and the graduating classes-- don't reflect the ethnic mix: of state residents. While 8% of 1986 high school graduates were blacks and 20% were Latinos, among University of California freshmen in 1988, only 5% were blacks and 12% Latinos. And of those receiving bachelor's degrees from U.S. campuses in 1988, less than 4% were blacks and 8% Latinos. So the legislature told California's post-secondary educators: Thou shalt graduate racially ·balanced classes. Assembly Bills 462 (intrduced by Tom Hayden) and 3993 (introduced by Speaker .Brown) target both admission policies and graduation rates. Along with lofty language about reducing racism and increasing opportunity, the bills offer this \remedy\ for racial imbalance: By the year 2000, the student bodies and graduating classes of each division of the higher education system should mirror the racial and ethnic makeup of the state. The bills easily passed the legislative committees last year, but they never . reached the full Assembly for a vote. Equity is no substitute for educational quality--· especially for disadvantaged students. Those who enter college with poorly developed academic skills have enough troubles. As social critics such as Thomas Sowetl and Walter Williams have noted, placing these students at, say, a U.C. campus, when they might be more suited for Cal State or a community college, can simply overwhelm them. State officials should instead focus on the education stUdents get before entering college. Students who are better prepared for post secondary education will be more likely to stay in school and graduate. A school choice program for elementary and high schools, which would allow students of all economic backgrounds to choose the best schools, W()Uld provide a good start. Tax credits, vouchers or even an open enrollment plan for public school students could help. Unfortunately for California students, Superintendent of Public Instruction Bill Honig is one of the nation's most outspoken opponents of school choice. California laws already undermine the goal of competent teaching. The state requires community colleges to have racially balanced faculties by the year 2005. During that time, the colleges will hire more than 18,000 faclllty members. By the end of 11ext year, 30% of those hired must belong to an ethnic minority. But there aren't enough qualified candidates. As Abigail Thernstrom pointed out in the July, 1990 Commentary, nationwide, fewer than 400 blacks received Ph.D.'s in 1988-about 2% of all doctoral degrees awarded. In most areas of the humanities and natural sciences, no blacks received a Ph.D. \Discouraging as these numbers are,\ she writes, \they are getting wqrse .... The quest for racially balanced faculties will deprive those students who· desperately need strong teaching. Those battles have spread beyond California: The Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools is a!ready holding back accreditation when a school fails to recruit acceptable numbers of minority faculty and students. If California's educators focus on graduation tates and ethnic composition rather than on improving the education disadvantaged students receive, the value of all California degrees will plummet. Once a college degree becomes one's birthright, rather than the product of years of academic effort, it has little worth. Instead of ad.dres:;ing the cause~ of lower minority performance in the schools- and looking at alternatives in primary and secondary education that may help-- California's lawmakers and educators are hurting the groups they intend to- serve. It isn't likely the state's taxpayers will continue to subsidize colleges and universities to the tune of $11 billon a year if they're nothing more than diploma mills. Rich Henderson, former- ly a senior editor ()j T 'h e Caroltna Critic, is assis- tant managing eclitor of REASON magazine. l ,, •'

l l' ,• i April 11, 1??1 1\( EW!!!i (II . l;. • W ~· · . Jlltf])fJJttltSts 3 ·-·~'\iiiii!lllll .... lil ~ Procedure Hotly Debated Spotlight Continued from page 1 protesting the professor's plight. That type of support was reflective of an overwhelming 9-1 department vote that selected Hathaway for the visiting position. Because it was for a visiting and not a tenure position, .the Faculty Review Board and other standard machineries for evaluating faculty were not employed. The department search and subsequent vote were the only examinations of . Hathaway or any other candidates priOF to Underwood's reversal of sorts. When asked for comment ' Underwood said in a phone interview Tuesday afternoon that he did not want to discuss personnel matters. Asked then to discuss only questions of procedure. he again was reluctant to talk, saying only: somebody very good,\ said Board. \I in no way intend this to be anti-administration. I just think that we've made a mistake.\ Heinegg. who on Monday circulated a scathing attack of the decision, urged the \There's going to be a faculty meeting at which time this will be discussed. I'm very reluctant to get quoted before Proiessor Board urged Hull we have that meeting. I don't and Underwood to reconsider. want to say anything which I administration to \Give might have trouble explaining ~athaway a fair.trial.\ Heinegg later. on.\ · .. pl:;ms ,to appeal ~o .the Board ~f Beybnd'l!nderwood, tlie only. . Trustees if he does not find fu·rther reVIew fo: Hathaway's ·Justice ·on ·campus.· ~ • ' \ · · fate was for Prestd~nt Hull to He also believes that the veto or, appro.v~ h1s Dean <_>f students can play an important Faculty s dectston. Hull satd role in pressing the that he spent the weekend administration toward a readin? \337\ s~udent compromise. \The students evaluatt?ns, ';!~on which he should educate the based hts dectston ~o support administration about what Un~e~ood. Hull srud that the students think is wrong,\ he dectston was based \solely on said the ~valuations.\ F~tterman was less . Ltke Unde~woo~, H~ll dip~omatic toward the tiptoed around drrectdiscuss1on administration. Asked what he o~ ~thawa_Y, although he was would like to .see as the best wt.llmg to dtscuss procedure. In possible solution, Futterman th~s area, he conceded that · remarked, \To let the m1stakes m~y ha~e been made, departments, including student and that thts Will ~erve as a evaluations. to decide who lesson for the next time. should be teaching its classes. J<_>~eph B<_>ard, Professor of What you have is a mediocre Pohuc~ Sctence •. c~lled for a corporate lawyer deciding who correctton of this Issue. He should teach English.\ sent a letter to Hull and. to One sticking point in the Underwood, a copy of which matter is that there is also went to Heinegg, urging disagreement on both sides as reconsideration of the to how the student evaluations Hathaway case. of Hathaway should be \I would respectfully request interpreted. Hull said that that they reconsider because I · Hathaway received low scores think that we'll be losing and that formed the basis of th~ Security Incidents &ue I i 1111£ I .'t.DCJliOit I IIICit£111 _._, I I 4/01/91 1100 AH NOH I!!KeiUI. .MstKEMI Ellt:RGI:il£1 PHOII£ I 1£/IP, COIITRDL YAIIDALIIEI 4/02/!l 4t34 '\ MOUH lAX£ lfl)IM I'£HICU A«IIENT • .HII!Ot • !Ill IMJ!Jili 4/0Z/91 7t31 '\ BOOTH lA!t'E KOTOJ 1'£HICLE AtCIDENI·\IMOR-110 INJURY 4/071!1 Ill~ PK CAAI'IJS lli'EIATt'DNS VANDALISK• COlLEGE VEHICI.E·IROK£11 11£Aill6/ll 4/031!1 10t2l AK FOI HOO!I!' FIRfJT~£ AUIIK• MT£tl011 HIIIJIIEI ~ll't SAfETY Fll£ 4/03/91 IOtOJ PH llflf tDLLESE 1'11!111: PllOitE tillS RECEIVE! IV A STUDENI 4/01/!1 2t01 M ~IAI. ·r:mm: !IE£5· YNIIM.IID 1/04191 1142 PH tftK9 CIRCLE IIOIIMi VEHitLE AtCIIEHI· HIT I RUII-110 INJURY 4/01/!1 lt2i fK S11111H lAlif KIBClliEf·iWDENIS PtJSllillll I'£HICU MID LAIIII 4101/!1 lhil AH niiTE!NIIY FIREVIJQS TIIIIMI THtu A IIIND!lll 4/05/!1 hOl AK FIITEINIIY 1101111 I'IHIUE VANDAL IIEI II rJREIIOUS 4105/91 !til All IAIIWIITI ES IIINIIGII VAJIJM.IIU 4/05/!1 lOt!! All RA\'IMiiD liSE IATIIIDIIII VAIIDALIIEI 4106/91 \\ All ALIIIIII am MEA li6HT I'll£ VAIIIAUIEI 4/0i\l ltll All SnAil flKI NISCIIIEr-tl!l.l£61: TRACIIII l'tm:D OIT CAIIPIIS IHTD S!Rffl 410!191 Ml M SCIEHC£ I EIIGiiiEERIMG LJ611T PU.E YAM!!L liED 4/0£191 12tll '\ rox JlOIIS( EHTRINC£ IOilR SHATTERED-VAIIDALISH 1/0£\1 1141 PH 5011111 COI.L£1£ R!OII &0011 YAiDAli!EI 4Jou4r 12127 All Sl!IMI£11 mt.L 5111111! DOOI VAIIM.IlEI 41.07/il 1150 All D!YIDSIIM HIOOSE UHAUIIIOIIIEI POSSE5Slllll Or COI.L£6£ ffiiEITY· CONDOOT'IIIAR&ES fiLED 4/01/91 5tl! All N.EIAIIDEIUN£ STOP SIGII YAJIDALIIED 4101/91 5152 All WIST COlLE&! £111 SliN VIH!m.IZED 4/01/!1 !ItS! All tAJMMITIES WINDOII 2N!.I.LOOR • uom · VlliiAliSit decision. Beyond that, the president would not comment. The Student Fowm staJted Heinegg. questioned the logic this term by selecting winners employed by Underwood and for three different prize awards. Hull. The Wendy Bernstein Award \Where is it written that a for the outstanding member of given number means a given .the sophomore dass, the thing?\ he asked rhetorically. Calvin Schmidt Award for the \I'm not going to hang outstanding mern:l>ecr of the somebody on the basis of a junior class, and eight juniors number.\ and seniors were selected for Underwood and Hull used ' the Delphic Honor Society. evaluations from the past three Nina Smilari 1eported on years only, according to several issues including H e i n e g g . H e in egg Diversity Day and Battle of the acknowledged low scores for Bands, and mentioned also that Hathaway, but offered as · there were still s<>me clubs counter-evidence a partial • whose budgets were frozen. compilation of student These budgets will remain comments from the past seven frozen until reports are years. Most of the comments submitted, and cluj)s who have described Hathaway as a not submitted reports will be difficult grader, but as a looked at unfavorably during professor who challenged the the budgeting process for next students intellectually. If year. nothing else, the comments Marcy Wein and Evans raised questions about the LeGros reported separately on validity of basing the decision concerns raised las:t term with solely on numbers. the housing policy. Wein But they probably raise more reported that more !mites may questions. In reports published be made available to juniors for next year, and LeGros passed around a \Lottery Newsletter\ for the Forum to look at. FurLher information on any changes wiU be passed along during the n~xt few weeks. Finally, the Forum discussed and planned for the three Accepted Students Days that will take place this week and next. Monday, April 8 was the first day of programming, and additional sessions wi 11 be taking place tomorrow and next Monday, Apr. 15. The Forum hosted an informal student activities informational session on the first day, and will be doing so again at the remaining two sessions. The Forum is now meeting on Monday evenings at 6 p.m. in the Student Forum room of the College Center (409). Any interested students are welcome to attend with their questions or concerns. by local newspapers, Hull was quoted as saying that Hathaway was too easy of a teacher. In the paragraph that followed, ''Heinegg 'called' him: one. of .his Holocaust · mosl difffclilt teach'ers. ''the student comments support Heinegg's account. \He's a tough grader.\ said Futterman. \He's given me my lowest grades.\ Futterman will be graduating with honors from the department. \There's basically an honest disagreement,\ said Heinegg. \A passionate disagreement. Usually there's a trial at that point.\ Yet another subplot is that Hathaway sent a letter to Hull in December asking to be reviewed by the administration on the spot, so that he would know whether he would be considered or whether he should look elsewhere. The review was never granted. If th.e review had been granted, tllcn the English Departmellt would have known before its final selection that Hathaway was not an acceptable candidate, and the issue would have been avoided\ ·.·~ • • - 4 •• ·~ •••• ~.,, ~ ' Annivers·ary Recognized Continued from page 1 the worst fate which victims of the Nazis c<Juld face • experimentation\ Her slides captured the remains of the gas chambers. the gallows, and ,.execution wall\ where Jews. were shot. She explained how bones still could be found in Lhe dirt of all of the camps. She also spoke of the total exploitation of the Jews, showing pictures of all sorts of personal belongings which the Nazis had confiscated, clothing, tooth- brushes, and dolls, down to the hair off the heads of the Jews. The Nazis would take the hair and apply it to th~ soles of the shoes for submarine crew members so that they would make less noise wllilc walking about. \Let our fate be a reminder to you.\ This is what is inscribed in the memorial at Majdanck. Sh~ concluded her exhibit by saymg that she did not come to depress us, rather just the opposite. She told us that her trip made her realize that life should not be taken for granted and that \each of us should live each day to the fllllest. We should live for those that had ~heir lives taken away:' This was a poignant closing remark as it was a sentiment which Ms. Lencner was to later reiterate. Saba Lencner was a 12-year- Continued em Page 4 MEMORANDUM At an as yet undetermined point in time during spring term, 1991, the Union College English depa~tm~nt will be sponsoring a day trip to Herman Mel'vzlle s home at Arrowhead, where he resided for eighteen years (1850-1863) and wrote his masterpiece of world literature, M oby-Dick. This exc~rsion is o!'en to all students regardless of ma;or; anyone lnterested should contact the English department for further information ..

, I\IEW!i Delta Psi Delta Approved By IFC Admissions Process Running Smoothly By Continued from page 1 into their fraternity. Other supporters saw Delta Psi Delta's strong philanthrop·.ic events as proof that they will be able to be productive members in the Greek system. Therefore. it was suggested that the fraternity be invited into the council so that they can finally .have a voice in Greek affairs. Opponents of the decision argued that Delta Psi Delta is not a true fraternity in the respect that it has no national headquarters. The only other chapter similar in its founding can be found at Dartmouth College. Previously, the major prerequisite to be a member of the IFC was tliat the chapter . must· · have a .national. headquarters so that it had some governing body controlling its policies. Also, it was feared that if Delta ·Psi Delta were invited into the IFC, any group of students could join together, call themselves a fraternity, and then ask to enter into the council. This appears unlikely because the council has taken the responsibility upon itself to review future \fraternities\ through an intense examination of their achievements which make them worthy of being a recognized fraternity. The decision regarding the Delta Psi Delta's invitation meant that if the coeducational fraternity were invited to join the council, it would do so by being a non-voting member for three academic terms. During this time, both the Interfraternity Council and Delta Psi Delta itself could determine whether they are suited to be a part of the council. This interim was meant for the coeducational fraternity to make a smooth LARA CHAMBERLAIN The College's admissions ·Office has been working hard to c:: .. encourage perspective students ~ . to attend Union and some ~ preliminary tabulations of the ~ results have been compiled. ~ Despite the decrease in c. college applicants nation-wide, · ~ . Union has experienced a S pleasant increase · in its 0 5: · applicant pool by 4.5%. Including 175 early decision students, the school has accepted 1821 of its 2889 applicants for the incoming freshman class. Although this rate of 63% acceptance is higher than the previous year. the admissions ofrice assures that the quality of the students has not declined. \ adjustment from a non-votiAg • member to a full-voting member. After the three · academic te1:ms, the council will then vote on whether to · promote Delta Psi Delta to a ' full voter status. : Nevertheless, the mere fact . that the IFC considered inviting Delta Psi Delta into the council has proven that it is open-minded and willing to change traditions to fit the present day standards fraternities face. Delta Psi Delta has not given any formal response to the decision made by the IFC. Delta Psi Delta's president, Tracy Mischa, commented that Delta Psi Delta does not plan on making a decision until tl:le IFC has publicized the res~lts .. The school currently has 168 accepted and deposit-paid students. Additionally, admis- sions has a list of 84 qualified students on an active wait list who have hopes of admission after the May 1 reply deadline for regular acceptees. To allow for last minute changes by students, a pre- summer goal of 560-570 enrollees has been set in hopes that 510-520 freshman will walk ?n campus next 'fall. Students Present Resear-ch At Symposium By DANIEL J. KENIRY Fridays in spring term are often days of epic social importance at Union College. This Friday, April 12, students will be offered an excellent opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to learning and to student scholarship. Union will be holding the first Steinmetz Symposium on Student Creative, Scholarly, and Research Achievements on Friday afternoon. At this conference, named for Charles P. Steinmetz , \Electrical Wizard\ of General Electric and head of Electrical Engineering and Applied Physics at Union from 1902- 1923, students will be presenting talks, research papers, performances and creative artwork. Union students are enthusiastically encouraged to attend and participate in the conference. Roughly 130 students will be presenting work from diverse disciplines in academics at the symposium. There will be poetry readings, summaries of senior thesis projects, musical performances, seminar papers. and e:Jthibitions of photography and painting. For students who have labored for a term, sometimes two terms, on a project, the interest of one's peers would be greatly appreciated. In order that interested students may attend and present their work, afternoon classes for Friday have been cancelled. Talks and papers will be held in classrooms on campus and posters and art exhibits will be placed in the Arts Building. The schedule of events is published in this edition of Concordiensi:;. President Roger Hull will open the symposium at 1 :30 in the College Center Auditorium. Modern Japanese Literature To Be Topic At Union College Schenectady, N.Y. (April 3, 1991)-Earl Miner, professor of English an.d ~o~parative literature at Princeton University, will speak on \Selves and Fzctzon mModernJapanese Literature\ at 7 p.m. on Monday April15 in the Colle~e C~nter ~uditorium at Union College. ' ' . Miner I.s president of the International Comparative Literature Association. His books mclude The Japanese Tradition in British and American Literature, Japanese Court Poetry andJapaneseLinkedPoetry. The talk is free to the public. April 11, 1991 Union's First Holocaust Remembranc:e Con tinned from page 3 old girl when the Nazis invaded her city of Krakow, Poland, in September of i 939. S,fie spoke briefly of her background and . explained how she does not · enjoy speaking about her • tainted past. However she said, · \I have to speak because most of my friends can't.\ She was referring to the fact that over 90% of Polish Jewry, roughly' three million people, were exterminated. She vividly described the process of Nazi oppression. From the prohibition of schooling for Jews,. ghettoization. the wearing of the yellow star. to the day her · father and all of her uncles were taken away to be murdered. She recalled Resettlement Day in · 1943, the euphemism which the Nazis used for dissolving . the ghettos and moving the Jews to the death camps. As if •. it happened yesterday, Saba recalled how the old people . went first, then the sick, and finally the children. Anyone else who was fit enough, was put to work in factories. This is what saved her. She was useful to the Nazis as she was a trained welder-and nurse. Eventually she, found herself working in a sewing factory where she was repairing damaged German army uniforms. She explained how a unif onn that she was working on had so many bullet holes in it that she knew the soldier who had been wearing it had to have been dead. She was happy because of this for it meant that ~here was \·one less German to hurt us.\ In retrospect she stated \how terrible it is for a 16-year-old girl 't() be happy at the ·death of another.\ Ms. Lencner summed up hy stressing the importance of remembering what happened in order to preven_t it from happening again. She astutely noted that the Jews were not the only ones to suffer at -the hands of the Nazis; that the gypsies, Poles, and many other groups were also victimized. Saba urged us not to become bystanders in the face of evil. Blind hate is a horrible thing. She feels that J·ews are not welcomed in her homeland of Poland any more. She feats the anti-Semitism. This is not a blind fear. When a group of Jewish students were recently in Poland, a local man blurted out, \Oh I thought we had gotten rid of all of them!\ Why should we remember the Holocaust? This was a question posed by Germans in the aftermath of World War II ' and one which is today asked by anti~Semites around the world: However, these two groups will only ask this question after they have exhausted their argument that the Holocaust never even took place. It is not for these people that the Holocaust is remembered, rather it is precisely because of them, that \we should never forget.\ SUPPORT ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CITIZENS PHI GAitfJtfA DELTA ond BUDWEISER Present Their 13th Annual BASKET.BAI,L JtfARATBON FRIDAY APRIL 12 NOON SATURDAY APRIL 13 NOON

i ,. April 11, 1991 Candidates For Union To Be On Campus Friday By DAN KENIRY 1\JEW!i Union's Future Discussed At Town Meeting · Continued from Page 1 lower Nott Street and Seward Street portions of the campus may be tom down in the near future. He asserted that in addition to being ugly, the fence As the Union student body can easily remember, applying to and choosing a college can often be a difficult and painful experience. To assist current high school seniors in making this choice, Union will be holding an accepted candidates' day, \Getting to Know U,\ on Friday, April 12. High school seniors who have been accepted to Union will be on campus Friday to attend classes and meet students and faculty. Friday's events will be the second in a series of three days designated for accepted candidates to come to Union. On April 12 and again on Monday, April15, prospective students will be on campus to experience a day ef college life. Panel discussions of facul>ty and students wiH be held for the candidates. They will meet with college administrators to learn about academic, athletic, and social life at Union. High school seniors will dine with Union students at Uppe:rclass Dining and will attend morning classes. The Steinmetz Symposium, .for Union students to present · individual research, win also be l held on Friday, April 12. ; Accepted candidates will be · encouraged to attend the .. symposium along with Union 1 students. · ' provides a false sense of security for the college community in that it does not physically inhibit trespassers from entering the campus nor does it psychologically deter undesirables from visiting our grcunds. In short, he stated that the fence merely serves as a barrier to the commuflity, a C()mmunity which in his mind, Union College students have failed to take full advantage of. The Admissions Office has • had enormous success with this ; program and they estimate over ; 100 candidates will attend each · day. Union students are encouraged to be friendly to our guests and welcome them to the campus. need for a theater underscoring tlut the \theater program and tile Mountebanks will not be left out in the cold.\ Possible sites for the new theater include the present psychology building, an addition that would extend the arts building out <to the greenhouse, or a new free-standing structure between :N\()rth Co'llege and Maxcy House (which Hull predicts will be utilized once again next fall.). Furthennore, as the Pre11ident o11ce again reiterated concerns that there arc not enough men and women of color in both the student body and faculty ranks n.or is there adequate financial diversity among students, many students were extremely C()ncerned about the future of tine Academic Opportunities P'rogram and the President's stand on Affirmative Action. · A tenure committee has been formed for Professor Yoke Keen Lee. The committee cordially invites all members of the campus community to send appropriate recommendations or endorsements to Professor Mohammad Mafi, c/o Department of Civil Engineering, Butterfield Hall. · · Many thanksfor your prompt atte~ion tir th~s matter. · · , · · · · · · · Erik Hansen, History Department I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories-student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is May 2, 1991. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S 100). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. pe~ day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrnngements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Res~arch Committee before it can be funded by the Subcounc1l on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and. schol.arship activ.itie~. Applications and guidelines are avatlable m Dean Wemer s Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 2, 1991. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund shoultl be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the . SubcoWlcil on Research and Grants. Although President Hull refused to comment 011 the dismissal of Kit Hathaway, Visiting Associate Professor of English, the extent to which an emphasis should be placed on student evaluations was addressed briefly. As well, an attempt was made to justify the authority allocated to the administration which allows for the overturning of departmental decisions. In addition to\the fence,\ or perhaps the iack of a fence come faH - term, - and the - Hathaway issues, the futute of the Nott Memorial and the construction of a new theater were also addressed. Hull speculated that the Nott could be used as a museum while at the same time promising that it would by no means be utilized as an administrative ()ffice building. Accordingly, he cited the Other issues ranged from the varking problem on campus to the Bicentennial Campaign to raise $150 million. Once again, the Hull's CAUSE P'Fogram was addressed as was tile concept of a mandatory term abroad. · · .. \ In short, Hull c-ontinuously · emphasized his perception of Union College as a first-rate i11stitution, a distinctive i11stitution which he asserts has a. major advantage to other similar liberal arts and engineering students. Accordingly, he predicts that tbc future will demonstrate that Union College can in fact be a r-ole model for other schools. Interested in developing your LEADERSHIP SKILLS in HlSMA~ RELATIONS? Become a PEER FACILITATOR • Get leadership training. • Learn more about communicatioll in relationships. sexuality, sex-role stereotypes, acquaintance rape, etc. • Put on workshops to facilitate discussion on th~se topics among students. QUALIFICATIONS: Peer Facilitators must • • Be full-time juniors or seniors at {;nion oduring their year of participation. • Have a GPA of 2.3 or better. • Be willing to make a commitment to the position for one year. • Be able to devote a minimum of five ltollrs per week to the position. • Possess effective interpersonal communication skills. Have the ability to speak to large groups:, and the ability to l[sten effectively artd relate to the concerns and perspectives or others. • Have the desire to raise awareness amon;g the student body concerning communication and sexuality in reintionshi!>s. INFO SESSIONS at the CDC about the ~eer 1>rogram and application process: Tuesday, M16 at 6:30pm; Wednesday, 4/li at 6:30pm; and Thursday, 4118 at 4:30pm TO APPLY: Pick up an application at the CDC or Dean of Students Office. Applications are due at tlie CDC on Friday, April 26. Basket batt Marathon Tomorrow By JEFF GREEN On Friday, April 12, Pl1i Gamma Delta will he hol!d ing its 13th Annual Baskr t•hall Marathon. The cvcnL, \\\h. iL·h will be at the Field l louse~\.\' ill commence at noon and w-itil: run straight through until n()CJn em Saturday. All arc welcome to come and join the FIJis 011 the court at any time. If anyo-n~ is in teres tc.d in playing co111act Gary or Dave at 386-4168_ This year the f LJndraiscr w i11 benefit the Schencc lady As soc ia ti on for Rc ta liCicd Children. In addition to the many U11ion College stuqlcnts who will be participating there will also be members o C the Schenectady Police and Fire Departments, the Schcncct.ady Gazette, and Channc l 6. Schenectady Big Brothers ~md Big Sisters will be brin)!lllg the children to join in the fun. Last year $3,000 was raised and donated to the New '{ ork State HC3d Injury Association. T~i~ YC?;\ Lhe goal is c vcn . higher~. T-shirts will be Ohl :safe all week in the Cdlcgc C Clltcr and at .the Field House hi<iay and Saturday. The purchasc()f a t-shirt ()f a donation of .any amount will be greatly appreciated. Gary Ch:.asc, chairman of the Maratllon, remarked about the cause. \The Schenectady Association for Retarded Children is a .:good cause worthy of everyone's support. We hope that studellts will help out by contribuling to this charitable affair S() that we can make this the most successful Basketball Mal'8tllon yet.\

~~:~0EZii~~rmwlmmt~;·z,-::~:::~~\~':'?i:~-::<:':~=::~. . · .... \\·\\' · x . XV . 6 illitnmrbirttsfs FEA TURE!i Aprilll, 1991 ~'E:':~.rlr::'::r:::•::',]~/.W%;f:•.1:@:3t':?D:lt~'3K~'rit'lli:W2'2~ill:tit:M&lt~~-· ,:;-. ··. · .· .. · .. ~~.~~~~~~~~~~. ·· ~*'~ :».\S>:-m<wP-X~X:\::1-•'· T'hink:ing 'Driving Two men leave a bar. One is dead drunk and the other has had two beers. One drives just below the speed limit, carefully staying in his own lane; the other recklessly weaves in and out of traffic at hot rod speeds. The drunk sh()uld be stopped, of course, but that may still leave the daredevil driver on the road. A new study suggests that moderate drinkers can be just as dangerous on the road as heavy drinkers (Addictive Behaviors, Vol. 12, pp 241- 247). Mississippi State University psychologists David McMillen and Elisabeth Wells-Parker watched 39 young adults play a video driving game -- before and after drinking either no alcohol, a moderate amount or a lot (1.5 ounces of vodka per 40 pounds of body weight). Half, however, were told that they had consumed more or less alcohol than they actually had. The researchers measured the drivers' risk-taking behavior by counting the number of cars Drunk, D··runk they passed and the time they drove at the highest speed. . Amazingly, the amount of alcohol people drank did not affect the number of risks they took. It's what they thought they drank that changed their behavior. Regardless of how much they drank, those who thought they had a moderate amount took more risks. They passed four times as many cars and drove at high speed longer than the others did. Previous research has shown that people's beliefs about alcohol can affect how they behave under its influence, at times making them act drunker • · than they should be. But it remains unclear why .those who believed they drank moderately drove the most recklessly. The researchers speculate that those who thought they drank heavily may have compensated by driving more slowly and risking fewer passing attempts. The moderate group may have been just disinhibited enough to feel overly confident behind the wheel. --Vincent Bozzi 1 Drink for the Designated 'Driver· PREGNANT BANANABERRV 10-ounce package frozen strawberries with syrup, thawed 1 cup strawberry yogurt 1 cup milk 2 bananas 10 ice cubes Mix strawberries, yogurt, milk, bananas and Ice cubes in blender at high speed until mixture Is smooth and Ice Is crushed. 8 SERVINGS Women's Union Film Series Aprilll April18 April25 May9 May 16 May23 Amelia Earheart · (Social Science 16) Black Women (Social Science 16) • Sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha Angels She's Nobody's Baby (College Center 4th Fir. Lounge) Dadi's Family (Social Science 16) Women's Liberation (Social Science 16) • Sponsored by Panhellenic Council StiiJ Killing Us Softly (Social Science 16) Time: 8:00 P.M. Price: FREE Overheard in Carnegie Mall Uy CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Upon fighting with my mailbox combination which for four years hasn't seemed to want to open on the first try, I heard a whimpering sound .. At first, I thought it was ·coming from the trendy U-C()ll recycling bins, where muclJ of the campus junk mail lands unread (though I must confess I often ponder tossing my phone and credit card bills in there for good measure). But upon my second attempt at the combination (';What was it again?\) I sensed that it was coming from the inner bowels of the mailroom sector of Carnegie Mall. What I heard was interesting, considering some of my best friends on the faculty won\t be returning next year. Let rne tell you what I heard. Two women- -voices indistinguishable, a£ far as they knew. We'll insert pseudonyms to protect the innocent, mainly because I know how to spell it, not because I care for tbeir wellbeing that much. \Look Lola I told you not to take that course in the first place.\ I suddenly realized that my grades were on the other side of that little metal door, still un-pryable. \Yo SUicy, you were right. You're rny upperclass mentor; what should I have done?\ \Well your first mistake was your course selection. You're taking all these new and exciting courses, whicb do sound like fun, but :have never been tried before.\ \Huh?\ \Yeah like, no o11e you know has taken them, so no one can give you old notes, exams, etcetera.'\ I was· surprised she knew wllat the word meant, but there was mere advice from t'his 'friend' to come. \Lola do you know, with proper course selec·tion, you could nail down a 3.3 without bustin' your nails!\ \Really?!\ \For Sure - Let's go look at some ones for the Spring term.\ \Stacy I shoulda trusted you soona.\ With this, I heard the clicking of some very high heels behind me, as I C()ntinued my struggle with my b()x. As they passed me, F heard the elder say something like \Whata dork\ at my expense, but I couldn't make it out because she had stuck some kind of wad, of gum, in her mouth. Of course if I had responded; my butt would bave landed in the Administration's Iron Maiden--which is locked in the basement of Carnegie in ·case you were wondering. As 1: finally freed the latch, I tore open my grades from the usual'esoteric' classes which I tend to take. WeH, what can you do. Maybe if I'd take some advice from Stacy and L-0-L-A L0la, I could still save Senior Spring's final encounter with academics. But this is also my last chance to take classes which are out of the ordinary, challenging. But if the Stacy's and Lola's of the world have their way. these courses are sure to be weeded out. (And, unfairly, the profs who teach them. After all, hell hath no fury like an angry stud~nt possessing an 'evalution' form} The wheels of change seem to bave left their tire tracks on Union already. I'm almost sad to say this, but I feel I couldn't be graduating at a better time. As a youngster here, the unique tended to attract me, and now it's tile ruling mundane which has me almost packing my bags early. But at least I have one more chance to enjoy the uniqueness around here, though one must look harder for it d1ese days. By the way contents of the said mailbox weren't as bad as perceived. ROUND-TRIP TO NEW YORK CITY FOR $15. The Internati()nal Congress will sponsor a bus trip to New York City on: Saturday 27, April 1991 Departure: ':00 A.M. from Union RetlJJ'n; 10:00 P .. M. to Union For those interested, a group will tcur the United Nations. • Please send a check to Lisa: Box No. 1750 • • Please make t!heck payable f() Union College • 393-6650 Open to all students! Deadline: ·Friday, ApriJ 19th. 1st Come! 1st Serve! Get a Cheap Bite from the Big Apple!

Rugby: A Union Way of Life Announcing EDUCATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETINGS By D.AVE AUSTON #7 \The :Battle Qf Waterloo was won on the playingfiel'ds of Eton~\ Wellington once said, but few people realize what was played at Eton, the prestigious English grammar school, tha:t enabled his army to defeat Napoleon. If you're curious as to which sport Wellington was referring, go to the flagpole at four p.m. any weekday :t() .get your answer. Rugby. Rugby is a fleet-footed, heavy-contact game which has been around for decades. No one is quite sure' when it originatedi,. but it received its first official status at Rugby, an English grammar schooL The sport quickly spread to other grammar schools throughout England, and finally, tbroughout the rest of the world. It is curently the national sport of Wales, South Africa, and New Zealand. The gatne was brought over to the United State with the waves of immigrants in the 19th and early 20th centuries. New York and Boston were the homes of t.be earliest American Rugby dubs. It spread through(Jut the northeast where, even today, it is more popular than anywhere else in the country. This action-packed game came to colleges with weil-to., do students in the early half of this century. Rugby was an acceptaable upperclass sport along with games like polo and cricket. It was a fashionable way for rich businessmen and professionals of the day to toughen up their sons. It originated in England and everybody knew that only gentlemen played Rugby. As far as anyone can remember, tllis club sport has always bee11 played at Union College. lt was here before football, basketball, baseball, and even hockey. It is one .of the only sports at this college that is run entirely by the students. We manage our own finances, schedule our own games, coordinate our own transportation to away matches, and even line our own field next to the Nott Memorial. Our seasons are funded, both with help from the school, and from player dues. Through all of this, we are able to play at least two, if not more, matches every Saturday against other schools or mens' teams. Few people realize the ••••••••••••••••••••• ~ . : Conce·rt : • • : Committee : • • : Presents: : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : Cash prizes for the first : • three places • • • • • • Date: Sat., May 4, 1991 • • • : Where: College Center : • Patio • • • • • : Time: 1:00 P.M. : ~ ••••••••••••••••••• stamina needed to play even one match. A Rugby' player runs over five miles during a game consisting of two forty- minute halves. There is no stoppage of play during the match except for injuries and a ten-minute halftime. In Rugby, contact is the name of the game. The sport is 75% tackling. No matter your position on the field, everyone must not only know how to control the ball, but also how to hit the opposing player hard. Missed tackles often result in opposing scores. Due to the contact involved, injuries play a major factor in the sport. Cuts, bruises, concussions, and broken bones are common occurrences throughout the season. A ,player's only defense is to stay in shape, keep his head up, and know where the ball is at all times. But Rugby is more than just a sport, it is also a social event. So, if this is the type of challenge and enjoyment that you are looking for, join us. No previous experience is necessary. You won't be disappointed. No newcomer has ever been turned away. Become one of the few~ the proud, the UCRFC. Peer Tuesday, April l6tb Meetings at 10:oo AM 12:00 Noon and 3:341 PM in College Center Room 205 MAKE A DIFFERENCE .... .... become a teacher! Students who .2re considering careers in secondarJ school teaching fur gradt:S \. l! in English,. modern or dassic langaaages, mathematics, scienct {binJog~:, chemi~tr:. t>nrth sCience, ph~·sics, or general science) or social studies should attend. lnf<ll'matillll1·~·ill. h' gh·en regarding tbe \Undergraduate gn!.duate, and five .. year combin~d de-gree prugrnn~. Facilitation \All we ask is that you think''' By WILLIE STEVENSON This year marks the first full year of the peer facilitation program at U11ionr. As those of you who have seen it can attest, it is not a program in which the orgwiz-ers preach all the right answers. We have been working hard to insure that peoj)le ~et the most out of the workshops. Thus far we have developed two diffe:rent workshops. The frrst one dealt solely with acquaintance rape and date raJle. The second is on sexual communication. As the year progressed we become more aware of how large a problem o.f rape myths and sexual miscommunication there is at Union. Myths as old as, ,.Vtlllen a woman says 'no', she means 'yes\' are evident here at Union. One of ()Uf g{)als with the program has been to make more people aware of the myths about rape and acquaintance rape. This workshop was put on for all freshmen and some upJle!(;lass students. Always, we encourage people in workshops to be open and horne st to help each other learn about problems in communication between men and w<lrnt:n. Preliminary research done this winter has showed that the programs have ilad some positive influence on the beliefs about rape, and feedback from partic:ipaats has helped us revise the workshops to better inform the student body. We llope mostly to make people think twice befote tl)ey act on instincts take responsibility f()r their actions. This term we are presenting our workshop three times. April 16 and 17 we \.Vill be doing it for all off-campus students in the College Center. These two worksh()ps are pen to all students and we encourage people to attend. We are spending most of our time this term interviewing candidates fDr next year's facilitators. Facilitators must be juniors or seniors in the 1991-92 ac;udemic year. Applications are available at the CDC, third floor Old Chapel and the Dc~1n ()[ Students Office. We will be holding information sessions at the CDC Apri 1 16 and 17 at 6:30 and the 18 at 4:30. All applications are due by the 26th of April Those who have been involved this year will tell you: individuals can make a di ffe~rence and help, you learn a lot about yourself and others, learn to work well in ~rO>u ps and meet some fun people and have a great time in the process.

.· .. -.-·:·.· .. ~ 8 ai.tntrrtrbtrttsis 11\JTERNATIDI\IAL FEATURE§ April 11, 1991 ·EYE ON THE WORLD By ED MENKE Students W,ho Use What They Learn As we here who are on the brink of rebellion prepare for what could be a momentous occasion in our (a)pathetic stadent body's history, we can look to the rest of the we:tld as examples of what other students, past and present~ have accomplished by standing up for what they believe ill. So much of what we learn every day in the classroom has real-life applications, ranging from the philosophy of the a11cient Greeks to the current events which span the globe in many cases throughout history. Students have taken what they have been taught inside the classrooms and used ibis information outside the classroom to make their world (and, sometimes, the whole world) a better place. The concept of the student challenging the master was invented long before Roy Williams' Kansas Jayhawlcs met Dean Smith's North Carolina Tar Heels in the' Final Hour this year. Referring to the Bible, written well before James Naismith invented basketball, the concept of questioning our 1 beliefs and questioning the actions of others in a con3tructive manner was practiced well before the question of B.C. or A.D. ever arose. As for those who stood with bravery and cotrrage for what they believed in, the morals behind the Bible teacll that, as long as they respect thine father and thine mother while questioning what goes on, they will be looked upon with favor and all that. Going next to Socratic method, we see that the idea of applying learned materials to everyday life and challengillg the powers that be with newly-acquired knowledge was imrx>rtant (among other things) in the Greek way of life. Open discussion which leads to a deeper understanding of the material was something which was regarded on high, a11d is replicated even today in many classrooms (yes, even h~re at Union).This trend continues throughout the history of France. where revolutions were about as regular as wine and cheese on the dinner table. Before John Belushi's \Bluto\ gave the 'WOrld , a look at the quintessential fraternity, French students were leading the French Revolution of 1789. with their chosen 1 slogan as, \Liberte Egalite. Fraternite\ Let's see, liberty? equality? fraternity? Where could these young upstart students have learned of such things? Could it be through their education? Could it be that schools like the Sorbonne in J>aris , taught students to think for themselves and questio11 that which they think is wrong? Just maybe. Even more than seeing this in history, we have seen and continue to see examples of students with a passio11 for something, students who care enough to do something. Tianenman Square. Students fighting against the government, fighting for something they believed in so strongly that they would die for it. This passion isn't an abstract concept in our history books, but this passion exists today. A friend of mine told me a story of a student protest last year at the L()ndon School of Economics. Students who protested the pol]; tax stood outside entrances to academic buildings. shouting about the injustices which the government was bringin~ by imposing the poll tax. According to the story, rnany classrooms were near empty, a'S many students respected and supported the1! cb:.;smates' willingness to fight and be hea:rd. You want present-day? Fine. Just this past week, betwee11 50 and 100 students at the City University of New York prooosted an increase in tuition and budget cuts at their university. 1b.ese students barricaded themselves inside an academic buil<ling, rendering hopeless any idea of holding classes and refusillg to come out until their demands were met. Hundreds of cl~sses were called off, and about 10,000 students were locked oo.t of their classes. Whether or not you agree with the reasons behind why French students tried to overthrow the government o:r the reasons behind CUNY students' actions, one thing is certain: some action must take place. One voice, as history teaches us, can make a difference. Who is willing to take the first ~tep? Who has enough passion to lead others, with the goal being the betterment of the society in which we live, here at U!iion and beyond? The answers to these questions lie within llS all, and it's ~igh time that we started being involved, rather than watching the world pass us by. ·.········ .· ..... - ··-.· .. •,.·-: .. · ...... New Chi'ld Ca.re Alternative Now Available Through Cultural Exchang:e Program As the number of two- income families in the United S~ates continues to grow, locating good, reliable child care .is. becoming a national crisi~~ EnrAuPair Intercultural Child Care Programs offers a child care alternative that not only benefits busy Amerian parents but also offers young Eur.opeanadults an opportunity to experience a year .in the United S ta.tes. T:he noll-profit EurAuPair program arranges for European young adults between the ages of 18 and 25 to come to the United States as \au pairs\. (\Au pair\ literally means \on .par\ or equal in French.) These young adults live as a part of an American family and care for the family's children. Au pairs offer families flexible hours of care for their children. iadividualized attention in the comfort of the family's home and familiar surroundings, and . the opportunity to learn about another culture and language. All that a European au IJair requests is that the family share their culture and lifestyle, giving them the opportunity to experience life as an American Those interested in taking advantage of this exciting cbild care opportunity should coatact EurAuPair Intercultural Cbild Care Programs at 1-800-333- 3805 (toll,free). Courtesy of Aur Au.Pair Union Hosts Annual Foreign Language Teachers' Meeting Attentions· On Satwday, April 6, the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures spons()red a very successful Annual Meeting of the New York S ta t:e Associaton of Foreign Language Teachers. In the opening session, President Reger Hull welcomed to Union College the 120 teachers who attended. 'P'aul Dammer, Chief of the Bureau of Foreign Languages of the State Educati!>n Department, also e~tended 11is greetings, and Robert Cabat, Assistant Director of the Division of Bilingual Education of the New York City Public Schools gave the keynote address. During the remainder of the morning and in the afternoon. various workshops on new methodologies in foreign language teaching were conducted. Union students representing all languages taught here provided the luncheon entertainment with dialogues, skits and songs. French :Club Elections Today at 4 ·p.m. the • rn Earl Miner Talks On J apanes·e Literature Language Lab Earl Miner, professor of English and Comparative Lierature at Princeton Universty and president of the International Comparative Literature Association, will talk on \Selves and Fictions in Modem Japanese Literature\ at the College Center Auditorium at 7 p.m. ()n Monday, April 15. Profess()r Miner has made major C!>ntributions in three fields of literary study: seventeenth-century English literature, classical Japanese literatmc and East/West comparative literature. In the latter field :he has been a true pioneer, authoring such seminal studies as T h e Japanese Tradition in Dritish and American Literature 1958. More recently, his works include Dryden's Poetry, Japanese Court Poetry, Japanese Linked Poetry and The Princeton Companion to Classical Japanese Literature. At prsent he is working 0n a study of John Milton. LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE SPRING TERM, 1991 DUTCH HOLLOW DINING ROOM .MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY :12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 FRE:NCH CHI!USE SPANISH GERMAN RUSSIAN HEB:REi-1 JAPANESE PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE F'or further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washingt~n DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The U.S. Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 70 pations arou.n!l the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these coru1tnes. Solve tl1e four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce thenarne of the country darkened on the map. Daniel Arap Moi is the President of this former British colony I 1. The U.;S. has banned the Importation of this product 2. A unit of measurement 3. Large lake named after English Queen 4. Capitol of this nation

~pril 11, 1991 11\JTERI\IATIDI\IA.L FEATURE§ ·.: .•.•,•,• .. •.•.•.· .. ·.·.·-·.·.·.•.·. · .......... •.•. ·-·-·-·.·. ·-- \·.·:-··.·.·.· .. · ... ·.· .... •.• .. -:-· Special Airfares With International Student I D Card Kossack On Head ... Special student airfares that can save hundreds Of dollar!fon regularly scheduled flights worldwide are avaiTable to holders of the International Student Identity Card. These airfares are the resurt of negotiations between various internationafairlines and the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE), the U.S . spo nso.r of the International Student Identity Card. And carctholdets need not worry about the restrictions and high penalties associated with most budget deals. The International Student Identity Card. for 23 years a standard document for students traveling abroad, is the key to low-cost travel around the world. The Card provides international recognition of student status.· making cardholders eligible for student discounts worldwide~ Discounts are only one benefit of the International Student Identity Card, which is issued each year to more than 1,500,000 students in 78 countries around the world. Cardholders also have access to a multilingual, toll-free 24- hour traveler's assistance APPLICA TJONS FOR WINTER TERMS ABROAD Greece Barbados Spain ARE DUE MONDAY APRIL 22, 1991 SENIOR PRINTING DAY CIIUC ROOM, IIUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM l'ree l'rinting on Rainbows Free lmagewriter copies SJ,ECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors oo Saturday 10¢ a page $5.00 ms\imum per day LONDON PARIS WASHINGTON GRENOBLE HAIFA MADRID NIGER OXFORD PADUA .SUMMER · PROGRAMS CORTONA CYPRUS LONDON MONACO PARIS MADRID PADUA USSR/E. EUROPE For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to: Boston University International Programs · 232 Bay State Road Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353·9888 - - - - - - -- -- -. ktter~p Programs- Su;;;;;e;p;ogram;- Name London Cortona Address =Paris =Cyprus _Washington _London Semester/Academic Year _Madrid City Phone Grenoble Monaco =Haiia =Padua College/University ~---- Madnd Paris =N1ger =USSR/E Europe _Summer _Fall _Spring 19_ Oxford -Padua hotline for students to use in case of a medical, legal, or !,inancial emergency. In addition, students purchasing the Card in the United States automatically get accident and medical insurance while traveling abroad. · American Flag In Hand Contact Term Abroad Office for mote information. --Courtesy of International Educational Exchange. Position available for I nternat ion al Features Editor. If interested, please call Larae at X6836 .. By LARAE TUMIDAJEWICZ Long distance romances are very hard and seldom ever work out. But what about long distance friendships . . . are they worth the effort knowing that eventually you will have to say goodbye. I found out that even a friendship with someone from another country will at times be hard, but in the end it is a rewarding experience. On March 25, I had to say farewell to one of my best friends here at Union, Andrey Fyodorov, the Soviet exchange student. He hacl to go home unexpectedly because his mother died. It was a shock to us that he had to leave, and even more so when we learned that a problem with his reentry visa restricted him from coming back to the U.S. At the airport on that day, I sighed preparing myself for a last hug before he boarded the plane. I could not help but sigh and think, \was it worth growing close to someone who would one day be. gone?\ Those of us who went to sec him off were Lrying to make his last moments happy ones; 'c ' but how could you smile under the circumstances? Several of ilie students on his floor created a scrapbook of funny photos and various quotes for him to remember us by. One girl wanted to fulfill his dream and give him something to occupy the 12-hour flight on the plane. Regardless of the strange looks she received from onlookers, she walked into the gift shop and bought a copy of 'PLAYBOY.' We all tried to smile and make the best of the situation. As he started walking away to board the plane, he stopped and turned back fo.- one last look. I knew it was all worth it. I smiled at my fricnd-- kossack hat on his head and American flag waving in his hand. Two countries that arc known to be encm ics were united ... Andrey represented the best of both cultures. Andrey ws fortunate enough to return to Union College for spring term. I realized what a truly wonderful and worthwhile experience an international friendship can be. I was ho:h happy and proud to welcome back Andrey, my \best buddy from across the world.\ f!ir~itt<iiil#~\l~,,;\'L~!- .,tW~~ld situation, applications will ~~••!tlar~j~~ft'il:,,lle)t~:·afltf t99t' program ·at Ben .c,/t'?Ah·:n;swr;,;r:WAF4#liikiW0rd'J\W#A%V:iiM/\cf/'•·:'-'//: ,. , . iPt)!lg;Jtbout parricipatiil:g in ~RW~·,.£l:Jil··•t';&(;;t:;:.lUt;;.t1t ,time .. tO: diSCQSS · ~lt~~doast ··pleasa. contabt Prof. Greenberg in ~\\\'\' .. \ 0 </ . · in Terms Abr(:)ad,. NEW LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday- Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 .Sunday 7:00-10:00

1 o Cll.tr.ttntrltfrnsfs EI\IVIRDI\IMEI\IT April 11, 1991 ::: nv1ronmental Problems· In China The Worl-d's :Concern· By JASON ALB'ERT Historically, Chinese people have had a deep respect for nature, \from poets, to Buddhist monks who sought their dhyana midst fir and beech, to craftsu1en who located buildings to.harmonize with local currents breath.\ Conversely, China today is home to some of the world's most dramatic environmental problems. China's government appears to be soley concerned with rapid industrialization and the fruition of the \four modernizations\ which include agriculture, industry, science and technology, and defense. Increasingly, the relationship between productivity and nature becom:es unbalanced. Productivity is strived for, while nature provides materials and is forced to accept wastes. Thus, it is imperative that the Chinese Communist Party rethink and analyze how it has perceived the environment in the past and its incipient degradation. Sunday, April 14, members of the IFC led by Andy Salem and John Wells, the Religious Programs Office, as well as individual Union students, will be walking 10 Kilometers for the hungry. CROP is not an acronym, but a symbol for a Community Hunger Appeal. lf you have not yet sponsored one of these walkers, please consider making a pledge. Even 10 cents a kilometer, which will cost you all of $1.00, is most welcome. Checks should be made out to CROP. This annual walk raises funds for world and local hunger. Only 16.4 cents of each dollar goes toward management and administration, while 25% of each dollar remains right here in Schenectady to be used for S CAP (Schenectady Community Action Program), Salvation Army Food Pantry, SICM (Schenectady Inner Cities Ministries), Schenectady Nutrition Program for the Elderly, and Sacred Heart/ St. Columba's Food Pantry. You also have the unique option of designating your gift to any The seriousness of China's milligrams of mercury per liter l<Irst, the government is mn a_rable .. Consequently, ·environmental quandaries have of water. To illuminate the responsible for providing the starvatm~, _disease r.aused by only recently been exposed to severity of the problem one citizens of China with an ma!nutr.ttmn, and mass the world community. For must compare this figure to the adequate standard of living, emi_g_ratw~ may b~come several decades academics and recommended amounts of (this translates into an realities which bo~ Ch~na and foreign officials were not mercury in drinking water. increased amount of industrial the world commumty will have allowed access to infonnation International drinking water output to produce consumer to solve. which proved that the standards specify that there be goods and generate capital for environment was being no more than 0.001 milligrams further investment. Also. the desecrated at the hands of the of mercury per liter of water to concept of a standard of living industrial complex. Today the ensure sufficient protection of has come under scrutiny lately picture has become more lucid humans and all other living because several third and second and the extent of China's organisms. ln addition, the world countries are emulating environmental pollution has problems associated with the material excesses on which ·become recognized around the contaminated water increase the American standard of living world. Industrial and tenfold when one considers that is based). Secondly, China's agricultural waste has this water is used to irrigate the leaders are trusted to make desecrated virgin ecosystems land. sound and rational decisions. which were once a symbol of Policies should not only man's ability to coexist Water pollution is only one increase output but should symbiotically with the natural of the numerous problems simultaneously create a more environment. For example, it which pose threats to the habitable and pollution free is estimated that nearly 90% of stability and purity of China's environment for today's and China'.s water resources are natural environment. These future citizens of the country. severely polluted. High also include massive amounts quantities of oil products, of soil erosion on the Tibetan phenolic compounds, cyanide, plateau, poor air quality in arsenic, heavy metals are rife in urban centers, and inadequate the country's water supply. The management of the country's water from the Songhua River natural resources. Thus, the (downstream from Jilin city) government must come to -contains concentrations of2.20 terms with a complex duality. One should understand that the stability and preservation of China's natural environment is imperative to the entire world community. Further pollution ofthe water and air may create huge tracts of land which are True Or False · The environmental problems staring the government in the face have eyes which look beyond .the country's geographic borders. It is in the interest of the entire world that China's leaders formulate and implement policies which both increase economic and environmental stability. We are only now beginning to understand that the globe is in essence one immense ecosystem. It is an ecosystem which requires. the cooperation of aH its inhabitants, so that man's survivability on tb.e planet can be ensured. China's · water pollution is only one .example of the problems China's government is challenged with as it strives to redefine its role as a protector of the global ecosystem. Annual CROP Walk Do You Know Your Neighbors Needs? one of 16 international religious or secular agencies listed on the back of the sponsor sheet. Rain or shine, walkers and runners will register at City Center between 12:30 and 1:30 p.m. The route goes towards Albany on State Street, goes left at Fehr A venue, through Central Park, and then back on Eastern Avenue. The route goes by three rest stops. There will be refreshments at the end. For the third time, hunger fighters in Albany, Schenectady, Troy and some area towns will have events at the same time. They will benefit from common publicity from Channel 6, WGFM and others. President Roger Hull had planned to join us for the walk but unfortunately ·business has taken him out of town. Domino's Pizza is contributing 25 cents for every pizza sold on CROP WALK day to CROP. So, even by eating, you can help the hungry. -Submitted by Sister Joan Vlaum, O.P. 1 . The number of refugees in the world would fill two a cities the size of New York City. & One out of every five American children - 20 ·• percent - lives below tne poverty level. 2 Two out of evety three people in the Third World • do not have ready access to clean, pure water. 7 In 1989, the cost of a dozen eggs in Argentina • rose 750 percent in three months. ·l!fl It would cost $50 per cnild ·to immunize every .. • child in the world ag:tinst disease. 8 As many as one hundred million people have • no shelter whatsoever. AI More than 1,000 people a day in the United States .... lose their jobs because of farm failures. More than 880 million adults in the world 9 cannot read the health information doctors • give them. 5. Giving children salt, sugar, and water could save • more than two and a half million lives each year. I a In addition to their domestic responsibilities, African women do up to three quarters of all • agricultural work. ANSWERS I True - There are more than 14 • million refu~ees in the world. As many as 85 percent of these refugees are children. Most, either orphanoo or with only one par- ent, live in detention centers, where conditions are some- times appalling. 2 True -Another 2.8 million • die each year from diarrheal dehydration, which could be prevented by the provision of safe water supplies, basic fiunily health education, and simple oral rehy- dration therapies. In the U.S., 90 percent of all people have clean water readily available. ~ False - For only $5 each, every .. • child could be immunized against childhood and other communi- cable diseases. Three and one-half million children die every year from diseases that could be prevented by immunization. 4 True - In the U.S. alone, more • than 387 farms fail every day- one farm every four minutes. Three jobs are lost every time a family fann is liquidated. 5 True- About four million • children die each year from diarrhea caused by bacteria or parasites. About 65 percent of these deaths could be prevented by replacing body fluids with a simple solution of salt and sugar that costs about ten cents per child. 6 True - Nearly one half of all • blackchildren are poor. Nearly two out of.every five Hispanic children are poor. Almost two out of every three poor children are white. 7 True - Inflation in Argentina is • approaching 100 percent a month. Real wages have dropped 40 percent since 1981. The result is that many parents cannot afford to feed their children; some of these children have taken to the streets in search of jobs and food. 8 True - That is more people • than the entire population of Mexico. 9 True - In some areas of the • Third World, such as the Middle East, southern Asia, and Africa, half of all adults are illiterate. Of those, 70 percent are women. 1 0 True - That includes 60 • percent of the harvesting, 70 percent of the weeding, and 85 percent of the processing and storing crops. WWF SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORlD WILDLIFE FEDERATION

Clean·er Ai·r ln The Years To Come? By ISABEL LIRIANO Associate Environmental Editor An article in the New York Times talks of how the Ozone Layer is in worse conditions :than we all thought. \Ozone Loss over the U.S. Is Found Twice As Bad As Predicted.\ How much • more is it going to take fot society to understand this is a serious matter? So far it is good to see that soine efforts for changes are quickly to be made. \With environmentalists and regulators on their tails, auto makers are scrambling to develop cleaner · machines.'' (Business Week April 8, p. 54) General Motors has decided to become a sponsor for methanol powered cars. Technology is being used to create cars that wili be run on natural gas instead of gasoline. The natural gas, electrictiy, and maybe even hydrogen powered cars will be less polluting alternative cars. These machines will contain from and · electric motor and batteries to aluminum fuel cylinders to stainless steel fuel tanks, fuel injectors and a continuing variety of alternatives. The cars will use fuel over gasoline and will be a prime energy conserver. The. 1993 dream machines (which is their outcoming year) will do justice to our environment. · ' The cars have their advantages as· well as:>tbeir disadvantages. The cars will have fewer moving parts. less maintenance, reduced maintenance costs, more power and less fuel evaporation. They will be comfortable, beautiful, classy, fast and silent machines which can break down on noise pollution. \Even at 75 mph, you'll only hear the thrum of tires, the rush of the wind, and the subtle whir of the front-wheel motors.\ (Business Week pg. 58), The response of these cars and the thought of having cleaner air has just become a major threat to large oil companies. Oil companies have started to develop cleaner burning gasoline as a form of competition against General Motors' healthier and cleaner environment idea. Yes, the cars will be very costly. An estimate of $20,000 to $30,000 has been set for now. At this point; however, we find ourselves with not many choices and only at the beginning of our struggle for a healthier survival. Approximations in Business Week illustrate that we can have cleaner cars and a cleaner environment in 13 years. Clean Cars • zn 13 Years?? 1992 The Clean Air Act requires oil companies to start refonnulating gas so it bums cleaner and pollution by evaporation is reduced. 1993 California's rules begin to kick in: Emissions of carbon monoxide, a poisonous gas, must be cut in half for cars sold there. Also, auto makers start getting extra federal mileage credits for alternative vehicles. 1994· Some 10% of cars sold in California, rising to 20o/o% by 1996, must meet even tougher emissions standard that will require reformulated gas or cleaner-burning fuels~ such as methanol or natural gas. 1996 The Bush Administration energy plan, if passed, would require some 4 million corporate and government fleet vehicles to start switching to alternative fuels. 1997 California tightens the screws again. Emissions of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides, the main components of ozone, must be cut by 40% and 50%, respectively, for 25% of cars sold, rising to 100% by 2,000. 1998 Some 2% of cars sold in Califon1ia, rising to 10% of about 200,000 annually by 2,003, must have zero emissions- a rule only electric cars are likely to meet. The Clean Air Act requires fleet vehicles in the nation's of 22 cities with the most polluted air to start meeting tougher emissions rules. 2001 The Clean Air Act tightens emissions rules for fleet vehicles in the 22 most polluted cities even further. 2003 Pending costs effe~tiv.eness an4 {~asibili:ty studies~:the:Cleaa Air Act could require all U.S~ cars to meet the 1997.Califomia limits. Source: Business Week AprilS. WHALE WATCH '91 COMING THE WEEKEND OF APRIL 27-28 Provincetown, Cape Cod Leave campus Saturday morning, have the afternoon and evening free, 4 hour whale watch aboard the Dolphin Fleet on Sunday morning, 2 . hours for lunch and shopping, return to campus early Sunday evening. Price of $30 includes bus, motel and whale watch. (Supported in part by the Bioi. Club and Dept.) Make your reservations now at the Biology Dept. office (S&E S- 324). Payment by cash or check required to be on the list. 'Join us for our 10th year of whale watching on the Cape! Last year we : saw 23 Humpback whales. Be Prepared for a Fantastic Adventure! For the Biology Club, Prof. George Butterstein SPRING TERM INTERNSHIPS The following internships are available at the Technology Resources for Education (TRE) Center at 1979 Central Avenue Albany, for students willing to work between 5-10 hours a week. Call David Grapka (456-9290) for details: fublic Relations- To assist with coordinating and implementing of selected public relations activities for radio, television, print and/or telecommunications media. Computer Science - For those with particular interest in technical support or sales positions. To assist with implementing selected computer technology activities of the Center in the areas of user support, programming, telecommunications, training, and database management. *For more information, see the Internship Listings and Summer Job Listings in the CDC library.

R:..~f!:::::::;.;;:~:~-'f:~:::?i:~~~-;.-:;.~~::::~~~-~-·· .. :-.:. . ·.:: .. ~ ..... : ....... :; : .• ... ·-:. -~:-..o..:::.·:-·=·=~=:~:.:..:7:-:-:-:-::. : • \..' 12 EDITORIAL -------Founded at Union College 1877--- Administrati,on: Practice What You Preach There is not a single administrator on the Union College campus who would deny that the institution should strive to expand the minds of its students. Tliis notion is self-evident in the vast majority of the programs and policies the college purports to support and to promote. The administration claims that the very purpose of a \liberal arts\ education is to expose the students to things otherwise foreign to them in an attempt to make them well-rounded. When one examines the liberal learning and general education requirements set forth by the administrative apparatus, it is obvious that these programs were formulated with these goals in mind. It is also clear that when a college president proposes to make a term abroad experience mandatory for all students, he too, is a proponent of introducing new and different experiences into the standard curriculum. These goals cannot be approached solely by requiring students to struggle through technology classes or by mandating that they venture across the world. One must also recognize the need for a variety in teaching techniques and for professors who force students to think and to grapple with ideas they never would have considered on their own. ¥acuity members .such· as Kit Hathaway are known for their unorthodox teaching methods and uncommon discussion topics. These educators exemplify the objectives of both students and coordinators of liberal arts colleges. They have displayed a keen ability to spark the interests of their students and to examine issues which would otherwise remain foreign topics. In essence they reiterate the principles upon which this institution was founded. Unfortunately, Union students have had a tendency to be somewhat apathetic in their reactions to unpopular decisions made by the administration in the past. Thus, it is clearly apparent that it should not be taken lightly when over ten percent of the student body makes a concerted effort to sign a petition. Rather, one must consider what would motivate so many presumedly \apathetic\ students. Clearly, one must construe that their questioning of a professor's dismissal is one that is well-founded. Professor Hathaway's popularity is by no means a result of the grades attained by his students subsequent to participation in one of his classes Rather, he is considered one of the more challenging professors in the English Department. One must therefore conclude that his popularity among students is due to the educational value of his classes. The students who had the opportunity to enroll in one of his classes recognize his rare ability to invoke imagination, curiosity and creativity in contexts where it would not otherwise exist. It is extremely rare for an educator to keep the minds of his students focused on the material at hand, and away from such important issues as the disagreement between the time according to their watches and the time displayed on the clock on the classroom wall. One must also question the role of academic departments in choosing their faculty. Are department chairs and tenured professors not capable of ascertaining the aptitude of a colleague in their respective fields? Does it make sense that a political science professor or an attorney would do a better job making such a determination? As the administration continues to ignore both the needs of its students and the recommendations of its faculty, it is obvious that alternative means of protest will ultimately materialize in order for appropriate voices to be heard. Only then, will the administration be compelled to face the consequences of the overwhelming unpopularity of its decisions. ::.: .. For the Praise of Triple Somersaults To the Editor: Who will listen to the appeals ofa misLreated teacher? Who will hear the voices of those who speak on behalf of Kit Hathaway? From what . place in the heart ef wisdom . and care will human consideration be given to a · man under a system of evaluaton which breeds fear, intimidation, ~istrust and suspicion not only for Kit b11t . for most of the Junior faculty? . What kind .qf impression is left . on their hearts and minds when · they witness such bureaucratic • behavior that so callous·Jy dimsisses a man of such · distinction? How will any · member of the Junior faculty find the courage to dare a triple • somersauJ.t when a side- . straddle-hop seems te win the . necessary ratings on the . applause meter? Who will ever . venture forth into the unknown . if stumbling with uncertainty : is penalized? Who will risk a creative edge if failure is held against them? How can a vibrant pedagogy be shaped under such condi~ons of non- support? · This act of decision making, so foolishly executed on Kit · Hathaway, is but the tip of the iceberg of an inhuman system that produces fear and intimidation among our Junior faculty; our future teachers and leaders of·thls college. We au lose ' in this condition . 'of oppresssion. Certainly a free spirited teacher will not find flight to his or her imagination and creative energies. Instead we manufacture good, obedient, predictable, safe, cautious professors who must take a daily reading from the opinion polls to check on whether they are alive or not; people who must take account of their ratings for fear of losing their good-house-keeping-seal-of approval. How does such a broken community contribute to the learning process? It doesn't. It merely nurtures a passionless, safe, game playing ambition to acquire tenue, but in the process the heart stops beating. I have known Kit for many years. He is an artist with great insight into the process of learning. He never marks time nor treads water just to pass th.e time. He dares to ask the questions that matter. He is a caring, giving, compassionate human being who senses the sincerity of students who really care about becoming whole people. He has great trouble Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board stroking the egos of students who practice the art of gettink by; those disconnected, passive students that we so frequently encounter in our dassrooms. He dares to climb up upon his desk to shout his own \barbaric yawp\ because he passionately cares about what he is doing as a teacher. Whenever he faUs after attempting a triple somersault, I l~ap to my feet shouting bravo- BRAVO! For here is a man with courage to do what he must do in order to do what he has to do. With gusto I cheer him on to try again and again for the effort is magnificant and worthy of our support. Instead, he finds himself booed ,off the stage because he refuses to do the side-straddle- hop like everyone else. If. our learning is not at the cutting edge; if our teaching has no risk; if we as a community of teachers can't support those who have the courage to encounter the unknown in the classroom, then what are we doing? Has this business of education drained us of our life's blood? The Work Is Great 1'he Day Is Short The Master Presses The Workmen Whose work? What work? What are we constructing and for whom? What, make$ it great? Who beuefits? Whose day is it? By what time dock are we punched in? Who is real1y our master? Are the workmen slaves or lioorators? At Union College, whose yoke are we wearing? The Nott Memo.rial challenges us to answer the riddle of its Hebrew inscription. I venture to ·say that the answer given to Kit Hathaway is .antithetical to the wisdom that this riddle beckons us tow~d. It is my conviction that in 'his teaching, in his writing, and in his service to his community he embodies what this inscripting suggests. For God's sake, let up on this oppression. Let your people go from this system that generates so much mistrust and fear. If we are to encourage diversity; if we are to nurture a healthy respe~t for differentness; if we are to form a more perfect Union, then let us, not fail in the application of our profession. Who will listen? Who will hear? Or has the heart turned to stone? Barry K. Smith Associate Professor of Theatre

11, 1991 NCUR '91 Success For Union To the Editor: We recently had the pleasure of accompanying 36 Union students on the \mother of all road trips\ to NCUR 91 at Caltech. This was the largest student contingent at the conference, except for that of the host institution. The male/female ratio of the Union group was exactly 50:50, and nearly 40% of the students were from majors 011tside of science and engineering. Between the three of us, we were able to attend a 'large fraction of the Union student presentations at tb.is conference. We are .proud to report tbat the quality o( these presentations was uniformly very high. Moreover, the Union students were, in general, quite supportive of their \teammates\ as indicated by their attendance at each other's presentations. We are confident that Union's strcng presence at the annual NCUR's reinforces our distinguislied national academic reputation. We would like to congratulate ··1:\11 our students who participated in NCUR 91 and thank their faculty mentors for a job well done. Finally, we acknowledge and applaud Deans Terry Weiner and Jim Underwood and President Roger Hun for their shared vision of · the importance of the undergraduate research experience at Union and for providing the financial support required to mai·ntain our program's excellence. This initiative, in addition to providing support for NCUR attendance, has also resulted in the first Steinmetz Symposium oil Student Creative, Scholarly and Research Achievements to be held at Union on Friday, April 12. We strongly encourage the campus community to support this symposium. Sincerely, Dave Peak, Physics Cherrice Traver, EE/CS Tom Werner, Chemistry Students Concerned About Hathaway To the Editor: We are outraged by the recen~ decision to release Professor William Hathaway, Visiting Associate Professor of English. It is not simply the dismissal of a respected professor that angers us, but the underhanded manner in which the decisi<>n was made. Professor Hathaway was selected in a 9 to 1 vote l>y the English Department, following a search which included candidates from across the nation. In what appears to be a purely financially motivated decision on the part of the administration, a preposterous precedent has been set. Are important decisions concerning faculty to be made by a small number <>f administrators with a checkbook mentality? Or are we prepared to lay more than token weight on academic priorities? As students, we should be gravely concerned. Are professors who are academically worthy ··of their positions to be dismissed without input from the faculty and students surrounding them? Who is next? We cannot sit idly by while candidate appointment procedures that affect every student and his/her prospects for a better education are blatantly abused. We support any student/faculty action to protest this abuse. Sincerely, Franz T. ·Litz '91 Andrew Collins '91 Seth Rosenberg '91 David Sachar '92 Kathaway Rid:es A.9atn! Come hear Prof. Kit Hathavvay read his poems state his case tell the unvarnished truth about l·ife, love, literature and Union College. Thursday, April 11, 7 p.m. CC Au d. Rally Jot\ 1Gi.t! Schaffer Library will hold a booksait: on the following dates: Spring Term : April 10th, May 8th, June 5th The sale will run from 12:00-4:00 on each of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer Library. Please save this schedule for your convenience. CROSSTALK \Faculty Promotion and Tenure: What Role Should Student Evaluations P1ay?\ Student and Faculty Panel Discussion Questions and Answers Refreshments College Center Atrium Tuesday, April 16, 7:30p.m. . .. :..... . ·· .. ~·. LETTER§ Seniors, Support The Library To the Editor: As seniors, we are in our final ten weeks at Union College. Every year, the senior class raises money to present to the school as a class gift upon graduation. This year, the gift drive committee has decided that it would be in the best interest of the students and the seniors. to raise money that would go towards improving the periodicals collection in the J.ibrary. This type of gift will be directly beneficial to the students that will remain at Union after we are gone. As seniors, we know what a sorry state our library is in, but we can start to make a difference. Any senior making a gift of $10 or more will receive a shirt commemorating his ,gift. While alumni monies go into :the annual fund, we have a chance to give our support to a specific cause, namely the Iibrary. Our donation will be used as we request, and in no other way. There will be a 'table set up in the college center for the next week between 12 and 1:30 p.m. where senior can make their contributions and receive their T-shirts. While there has been much controversy brewing on the Union campus recently, Union still is our school, and we will graduate in June with a Union degree. The value of our degree relics on the reputation of our school. By directly working to improve our school, we are in cJTcct improving the value of our college education, as well <ls enriching the resources available to Union students. We entered a Union College tflat had a brand new college center and a renovated gym wi;th a new pool. These additions were partly the results of the efforts of students who were here before us. We can now do ou.r part to support Union's future, just as students ha\e done in the past so that wecould benefit. Our gifts may not be thotJsands of dollars, but let's come together as a class, and give ,it our best to help out the st11dents who will remain at U11ion. Peter P. I. Cowles '91 Parking Dilemma Demands Attention To the Editor: Union College is one of few schools which allows all four classes to have cars on campus. What does this term \on- campus\ mean? Does it imply that adequate parking will be provided for those wishing to take advantage of this privilege? Unfortunately, the system is not feasible, as the parking lots are all overcrowde!l. Many. students are forced to park illegally either on or off campus; both resulting in traffic violations which can become costly after four years of schooling. How can security keep issuing parking stickers, when they know better than anyone else that the available legal parking spaces on campus are extremely limited. Maybe the time has come to stop allowing Freshmen the opportunity to have cars at Union. This problem can be addressed in a variety of other ways as well. Security can k:eep ticketing. cars which are <>ften parked on the grass or in handicapped spots; or parking spaces can be assigned to each student based on their on- campus residency location. The school can rent these spots to th()se wishing to pay and also designate free parking to a location such as that behind Richmond. Such a proposal can increase revenue, as well as insure safe, reasonable conditions to those involved. Also, security will be spared the bureaucratic ol>ligations of ticketing numerous cars, and instead devote their time to deterring ~the outrageous vandalism that accurs on this campus. Since~cly, Pam Lcinson '93 Greatful Gamma Phi To the Editor: The sisters of Gamma Phi Beta Sorority would like to thank everyone who supported us during our struggle to obtain a house. We would like to especially thank the Concordiensis, the Union College community of students, Student Forum, SAC, Dean Mammola, respective faculty, Panhellenic, parents and alumni. The opportunity to have an on-campus house has made all of us very excited and happy. By having a house, we will be better able to carryout our many philanthropies and community services. In our future years at Union~ we will All a-Board for A Safe Ride To the Campus Community, To provide a measure of security to those of you looking for and offering rides, the College Center/Student Activities Office has created a new Ride Board in the College Center. It is located at the base of the stairs near the Bookstore entrance. Please register for this Ride board in the Student Activities Office, CC 408, and be sure to bring your student 1.0. All other,unregistered, ride notices in the College Center will be removed regularly. Please use this board and drive safely. Thanks. colltinuc to support the Greek system, Union College and the Schenectady commullity. Lastly, we are proud to l>e a part of the soon-to-be Upperclassmen Greek Row! Thank you all very much, The Sisters and Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta atve R.ecipes for ~tl~ticu[tu.rat Day :ASAP cc 308 Errata: In the March 7, 1991 issue of Con co rdien sis, Angela Rudolph was mistakenly credited with writing a Letter to the Editor entitled \ALAS Grateful.\ We apologize for the error and any inconvenience it may have caused. ,-

14 ' . ' . . ' . ' . ' . ' ~ ' . ' .. . • J • • '' • • ! •• - • TEl ON STUDENT CREATIVE, SCHOLARLY PROGRAM OF EVENTS OPENING SESSION. 1:30 P.M. College Center Auditorium Introduction and Greetings - President Roger Hull SESSION I . . . . . . . • 2:00 p.m. - 3:20 p.m. A Arts 215 • Faculty Moderator -Hilary Tann Alison Kates and Neil Kanterman - Butterflies are Free Sponsor • Lee :&Joomrosen Matthew Futterman - Fiction Reading Sponsor • Jordan Smith Lisa McGloin - Minstrel's Journey - Clarinet Nancy Rourke- Violin, Lucas Boise Sponsor • Hillary Tallll B. Humanities 019 - Faculty Moderator - Kurt Hollocher Leslie Kahn - Tracking the Migration of Heavy Metals in Groundwater Naugatuck, Cf Edwarc:i Hood - Chemical Composition of the Mohawk River Sponsor • Kurt Hollocher Jeffrey Scott -Multiple Lower Devonian Bentonites Near Cobleskill, NY Sponsor - George Shaw Todd Smick - Chemistry of Ordovician Shales Sponsor - John Garver C. Science and Engineering N114 - Faculty Moderator - Michael Frarne Natalie Rudko- Simulation of a Locally Clocked Module Sponsor. Cberrice Traver Barbara Jensen - Fractals and Circle Transformations in the Complex Plane Alan Eisenberg- A New P.redator Prey Model Sponsor - Michae] Frame Jamison Janawitz and Ronald Pitluk- Row Through Heart Valves: Wind Tunnel and Computer Simulations Sponsor • J, Richard Shanebrook D. Humanities 112 - Faculty Moderator - Seth Greenberg Megan Stamper and G~rge;$teffia\n .LexicalJ\mbiguity in a Verification Task ' · · · -· · . - · . , Mark Becker- Looking for the Fin for: Function or Freque!lcy? Sponsor - Seth Greenberg Michael DuFault - Empathy and Gender Sponsor • Kurt Olsen Sheila Conway - Support SeiVices for Latino Students Sponsor • Donald Spring E. Humanities 114 ·Faculty Moderator· Byron Nichols Adam Epstein and James Banville • Mexico Video clips Elisa Davey - Study of Small Family Business in Cuernavacll Scott Skumick - Study of Small Family Business in Cuernavaca Sponsor • Byron Nichols F. Humanities 115 - Faculty Moderator - Therese McCarty Lisa Cherande • Whitman: Poet of the American Continent Sponsor • Nancy Sbour Tracee Petrillo • TempOFality vs. Eternity in German Baroque Sponsor • Deborah Lond Jody Yetzer - The Delphic Oracle in Greek Culture and History Sponsor ~ John Lenz Joshua Goldberg - The Influence of Setting on Johann Heinrich von Thunen' The Isolated State Mathias Lanni - Frederic Bastiat's Anti-Protectionist Essays Sponsors - Therese McCarty and Bradley Lewis G. Humanities 116 - Faculty Moderator - David Peak David Frank-Molina - Non-Linear and Cllaotic Characteristics of a Simple Electronic Circuit Sponsor - Roset Khosropour, Karl Hartman - Harmonic performance of Single Channel MOS Integrated Circuits Sponsor - Ekram Hassib Matthew Greiner - Auto Frequency Adaptive Filter Sponsor • Michael Rudko H. Humanities 117 - Faculty Moderator - John Marincola Adam Gahtan- Roman History Sponsor • John Marincola Robert Sokolowski • The Areopagos in Athemiah Law and Government Sponsor • Scott SculJion Patricia Donohue • Elegaic Lovers and Elegaic Themes Michael Kutoy - Plautos in the Oassroom Sponsor- Christina Sorum !. Social Sciences 010- Faculty Moderator- Gregory Gifford Debra Berman - Solid Waste Management William Rankin- Solid Waste Management Dennis Wilmot and Natt Bromirski- Restoration of the Nott Sponsor • Gregory Gilford J. Social Sciences 012- Faculty Moderator- Thomas D'Andrea Cynthia Silverio - Predicting Effect of 1990 New Jersey Tax Refonns on Educational Achievement Sponsor • Therese McCal1y Jennifer Woolver - Women: VictiiPS of the Elizabethian Era Sponsor • Bruce Mciver Michael Gorman - Effects or Cognitive Dissonance on Recognition . Laura Heffernan - Universal' Grammar and Second Language Acquisition Sponsor- Thomas D~Andrea K Social Sciences 014- Faculty Moderator. Sharon Gmelch Amy Dillenbeck • Culture Change and Religion in a Rural Barbadian Community Barbados Sponsor • George Gmelch Leigh Stallings • The One-Child Policy in China Sponsor • Sharon Gmelch Cheryl Yanofsky • Production Efficiency of Day Care Centers Sponsor • Linda CavaiJuzzo James Moore • Productivity Growth in Power Generation Sponsor· Suthatbip Yaisawarng L. Social Sciences 103 -Faculty Moderator- George,Butterstein C~erlyn M~re - Issue of Lithuanian Independence Michael Rizzo- Before the Gulf War: Crisis in the Middle East (1979-1980) Daniel Keniry -·John Paul II and the Soviet Bloc Sponsor • Charles Gati Julie Davis- The Rise of Resistance in Lithuania Sponsor· Robert Sharlet M. Social Sciences 104 - Faculty Moderator - J. Christian Laursen Suzanne Shaker - Understanding Loneliness: An Individual Difference Perspective Courtney Shapiro - Source Attractiveness and Persuasion: The .Role -of ~If Perceived. Attractiveness · Wen'ay Kaplan- Adyeitisjng Effe«;tiveness as-.a Function of Presentation Style - Sponsor • Kenneth DeBono Fra112; Litz - Environmental Deterioration in the German Democratic Republic: Is Communism to Blame? Sponsor· J. Christian Laursen SESSION II • . . • • • . Arts Building - 3:20p.m.- 4:10p.m. POSTERS - Dance Studio Eric Fullar • Probing the Early Solar System from the Lab: New Measurements of Dynamical Response of I.ow Density Powders Sponsor • David Peak Marijo Madonia - Danizol - Effect on Rats Sponsor - George Butterstein Michael Migliozzi- Laser Spectroscopy of Atomic Rubidium Sponsor • SeyfoJiab Maleki Marc Unger • Quantitation of MetaVCrown Ether Complexes by Florescence Christopher Willey - The Use of Polydimethylsiloxanes as Florescence Solvent Sponsor • Thomas Werner Susan Tyron - Long Term Effects or Participating in an AIDS Prevention Workshop for College Men Sponsor- Carol Weisse Adam Robucci - Tmy Midgets and New Scalings in the Mandlebrot Sets I ames Robertson - Some Generalized Mandlebrot Sets Sponsor - Michael Frame Lynette Nielson • Synthesis of Antiaromatic Model Compounds Sponsor - Leslie Hull Jocelyn Singer - Friends and Lovers: The Impact of Beginning Romantic Relationships on Friendship Patterns Sponsor • Suzanne Benack Eric Blais - Diurnal Movements of Mallard and Black Ducks in the Tri-City Region of New York State Toby Overdorf - Diurnal Movements of the Ring .. Billed Gull, Herring Gull and Great Black Backed Gull in the Upper Hudson/Mohawk Valley and the Possible Impacts on Public Water Supply John Torgan- Diurnal Movements of the Canada Goose in the Capital Region of New York State Sponsor· Carl George Wendy Halperin- State Street Photographs Johanna Campbell- Photograpllic Joiners- Large Scale Photographic Assemblages Sponsor - Martin Benjamin

p AND \RESEARCH ACHIEVEMENTS April 12, 1991 PAINTING, DRAWING AND PRINTMAKING EXHIBIDON Arts Building - First Floor Atrium & Gallery PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS - Sponsor • Walter H.atke Christine Alexander, Kate Cartland, Brendan Cliffmd, Brian Geraghty Jon Jadhon, Rozlyn M~;CaH, Cr.aig Randall, George Rho, Ann Safford, Kara Sweet, Dariielle Triola, Amy Cypres; Allan DiDonato, Allison Howard, Lauren Karp, Sarah Langevin, Christine Lennon, Jon Lennon Ray Newman, Anna Patton, Ned Walley PRINTMAKING - Sponsor - Sandy Wimer Johanna Campbell, Andrew Chapman, Zainab Chaudry, Anne Glicksman, Todd Solomon, Andrew Ward, Marcy Wein, Allison Drescher PHOTOGRAPHY- Sponsor • Martin Benjamin Arts Building - Second Floor James Williams-Ness, Allison Kocsis, Meredith Melzer, Leslie Ross, John Ellinwood, LouiSe Wulfsohn, Elizabeth Wintrich. Nancy Conviser, Wendy Halperin SESSION ill . . . . . . . 4:10p.m. - 5:30p.m. A Arts 215 - Faculty Moderatdr - Nancy Shour David Kohl - Composition for Dutch Pipers, Nott Music Sponsor - Hilary Tann M~ilian Heinegg - Poems - Long Poem Form in Contemporary Poetry Sponsor· Nancy Shour Matthew'Malatesta- Efficiency in Education: Using Data Analysis to Access English Education Authorities Sponsor • Therese McCarty Edgar Letriz - The Woman Against Art: The Last Battle As Seen ifl:Emil ZOla's UC7euvre'' . ., '~ -. Sponsor • William Thomas B. Humanities 019 - Faculty Moderator • Donald Thurston Tara Tolan - Dark Side of J~pan's International Success Julie Holleran - Honorable Gangsters or Social Parasites: A Co?Iparative Study of Organi~!!d Crime in-Jap~n and The Umted States · · Sponsor - Donald Thurston Terry Comach,? - Social Or~aniz.a~ion in 'aii Emerging Hispanic Commumty Larissa Lucas - The Intormal Sector in Brazil Sponsor • Martha Huggins C. Humanities 110- Faculty Moderator- Robert Wells Sheila McCabe - Utopii!n Novels in American History Louise Kelly- Tahawas- Life in a New York Mining Community Brian Bowers - Rise and Fall of the Socialist Party in American (1900-1915) . . Sponsor- Robert Wells Jennifer Holmes- OverPopulation: A Problem? Sponsor • Andrew Merchant-Shapiro D. Humanities 112 - Faculty Moderator - Pilar Moyano Jeffrey Nazzaro- El Papel De La Naturaleza En La Escritura De Mujeres Hispanas . Beth Isenberg· Escritoras Puertoriquena.s En Nueva York Lisa Schlansker - La Brisqueda De ldentidad En La Obra De Las Mujeres Hispanas Juan Paneto- Escritoras Puertoriquenas En Nueva York Sponsor - Pilar Mo;yano E. Humanities 114 - Faculty Moderator - Ella Kirk Laurie Davidson - Le Developpement De La 1beorie Faministe De Simone De Beuvoir a TraveiS Ses Romans Marisa Purpora - l.es Femmes Francaises Dans L'Age Des Lumieres Sponsor - Ella Kirk Aimee Simon • La Responsibilite Dutemoin Dans \Le Mendiant De Jerusalem\ De EUe Wiesel Andrea Rittenburg - Bad Faith in Sartre's Works Sponsor - Camille Laparra Seth Rosenberg- Jules Valles: La Transformation De Jacques Vingstras Sponsor - William Thomas E. Robinson Oils ·Perceptions of the Persian War in the French Media Sponsor- Leroy Day F. Humanities 115 • faculty Moderator - Sigrid Kellenter Tracee Petrillo- Verena Stefan und Brigitte Schwaiger: Ein Vergleich Jacqueline Wallace - Heinrich Boll: Gesellschaftskritiker Laura Heffernan - Die Gedichte Geertje Suhrs Sponsor • Sigrid KeUenter Cheryl Urbanczyk - Traum and Realitat in Hoffmanruthals \Reitetgeschichte\ Jennifer Bennett - Ist Die Sprache Adaquat? Sponsor .. Deborah Lund G. Humanities 116 - Faculty Moderator - Robert Baker Sean Hornbeck - Legislating Medical Ethics Jonathan Bynum - A New perspective on Nietzsche's Perspectivism Amanda Arnoff- Ethics and Animals Sponsor • Robert Baker Thomas Fallati - The Development of Judicial Review Sponsor- Joseph Board H. Humanities 117- Faculty Moderator- Jagdisb Gajjar Gregory Falcigno and Martin McKee - A Power Line Local Area Network for Occupancy Based Zone Heating Control Sponsor • Jagdish Gajjar Scott Daniels • Performance of Heat Pumps in the Northeast William Amsden - Cooling in an Inclined Duct Sponsor • C. Subba Reddy I. Social Sciences 010 - Faculty Moderator - Ruth Silversmith Ira Gurland - Florescence to Monitor the Denaturation of Bactural Protein Sponsor- Ruth Silversmith Eugene Bernard - Design and Assembly of aa Instrument to do Fast Time-Resolved Infrared Spectroscopy Sponsor - David Hayes Maurits Boon- Monoclonal Antibodies Against Vole Hormones Yashwant Chathampally- Reproduction in Pine Voles: Effects of 6-MBOA ·SpOnsor .. Margaret Sclialiler · · . J. Social Sciences 012 - Faculty Moderator - Eshra_gh Motahar Jane Huang - Homosexuality: Coming Out in College Sponsor • Virginia Dersch Calli Banzhaf· Comparison of Deaf Education in Mainstream and Segregated Studies Sponsor • Terry Weiner Julie Pilibosian - Child Abuse & Community Response Sponsor • llene Kaplan Mark Richter - Research in Economics: Assessing State Business Climate Spons()r • Eshragh Motabar K. Social Sciences 014 - Faculty Moderator - Stephen LaBonne Hyla Sweet -Single and Multiple Micromere Deletions in 1st Quarter Embryos of llyanassa obsoleta Sponsor • Barbara Boyer Andrew Rosen - Expression Cloning of a Drosophilia Antigen Sponsor - Stephen LaBonne lleth Taylor - Danizol and Rats Sponsor • George,...Butterstein Moneeka Zaman- Survival Following Surgery in Cases of Advanced Lung Cancer Sponsor ·Margaret Schadler L Social Sciences 103 - Faculty Moderator - Kenneth DeBono StJSan Kerin - Pleasant Scents and Persuasion: An Information Proeessing Approach Kamela Allen - Assessing Attitude Functions Nicole Audette - Advertising and Children - Product Image vs. Product Quality Lisa Lange- Interpersonal Attraction: the Effects of Others' Opinions on Date Choice Sponsor - Kenneth DeBono M. Social Sciences 104 - Faculty Moderator - Susan Niefield Sarah Greenwald- Trig Functions, Transcendental Numbers and Squaring the Circle Sponsor • Susan Niefield Patricia Pacelli - Unique Factorization and Fermat's Last Theorum Sponsor - Karl Zimmermann Thomas Lantz · Preignition Oxidation Characteristics of Methane Sponsor- Richard Wilk BANQUET FOR PRESENTERS AND SPONSORS -Old Chapel 6:00 p.m. Charles Proteus Steinmetz was Professor and head of Electrical Engineering and Applied Physics at Union from 1902-1923. A world famous scientist he was known as the \Electrical .Wizard\ of General Electric.

~·-~· -.... - - - - - ..aMll I I CONTACTS 1 I 1 Accepted Candidates I 1-------' THINK SPRING PREVIEW Will Be ~ ·L· Student Services I ENS LAB I I I I APRIL 20 \Getting to Know- U\' BLUES TRAVELER 1 Contact Lenses For Less MAY 4 on Friday, April12 BATTLE OF THE BANDS and Monday, April IS f I I I I Fast. Convenient. Dir!:!ct-to-You I savings of up to 50%. All Brands and Prescriptions in stock. in- I eluding Tints & Disposables. I Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- I tory-sealed vials. I MAY 25 M k h .· a e t em feel at home! ~~~iiiFn~~X-;;jCL~Aii:iN~n:T=jiiip\!H~~ \\\'-------~-.----.....~~ Call for infonnation and · I FREE CATALOG. I SIGNUPNOWFOR TR~=IDlEllAQS 3HDANNUAL : 800-726-7802: 1 ~ el!' 24 Hours 1 I 7 Days I a.:_1~ ~~ ~~~ F~~ .. J This panel pre>entatj.on will provide infonnation about valuable process of networking as a job search strategy. JA~l AND B~~l APRlL 10TH AND 11TH Stop waxing, bleaching, l weezing, and shaving unwanted hair. Remove Unwanted Hair Permanently! Announcing the opening of Chris Ann Mastro Electrolysis located at 22 1/2 Union Ave. \Electrolysis the only method of permanent hair removal\ •Member A.E.A., NY.E.A. •BA University of Virginia, M.S. College of St. Rose •Professional, confidential surroundings •Approval by AMA • Recommended by physicians •Free consultation and demonstration •Student discount with ID Body waxing also available - (legs, bikini, anns) Call 377-3870 and let me help you face the world more confidently. \THE VALUE OF !'o.\ETWORKING\ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17 7:30PM, CDC Third Floor, Old Chapel Come hear how current Union students have developed and utilized their own networks, and hear from Union alumni about their willingness to assist students. R lpful tips for practical use! IN THE COLLEGE CENTER PIT .... FROM 10:00-4:30 P.M. ARREST YOUR FRIENDS/ROOMMATES FOR $~.00 OR, GET BACK AT YOUR PROFSSORS ... ARREST THEM TOOr *ALL LONG DISTANCE PHONE CALLS ARE FREEtH* PROCEEDS GO TO THE AMERICAN CANCER SOC! ElY Graduation means goodbye to spring breaks, summers off, And IBM student prices. Before you put on your cap and gown, there's still time to take advantage of the great student price on an IBM Personal System/2,' Whether you need to create impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets for school, or business reports tor work~ or even resumes. thP PS/2' comes preloaded with software that will let you do just that. And it has a mouse to make it easy to use. Plus, there are added tools like a notepad, ealendar and cardfile-even games. And it's expandable so it can grow with you throughout graduate school or on the job. Wliile you're still a student, affordable loan p..ayments are also available with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. And on a different note, yo1:1 can get a great low price on the Roland\ Desktop Music System. Gr~uluation means saying a lot of good- byes. Bttt hefore you do, there's still time to check into a great studer1t Jlrice on a PS/27 See what you can do with a PS/2 today-a!ld what it can do for yotJ t()morrow. ·Thts offer ts available toquahlted college students, faculty and staff who purchase IBM Selected Academic Soluttons through partiCipating campus outlets. IBM 1·800-222-7257 or IBM Authonzed PC Dealers cert1f1ed to remarket IBM Selected Academe Solutions. Orders are subjecuo availability. Pnces are subJeCt to change. and IBM may withdraw the offer at any t1me w1thout notice. \>IBM Personal System/2. and PS/2 are registerecl trademarks of International Busmess Machmes Corporation Roland 15 a regiStered traclemark of Roland C:orEJoration, US ' IBM Corporation 1991 =~:..==® - ---- --- ----- - -- --- ----- ---- ,_ .. ' . . . ' . . ' . . . - ' . . . . . . . . \ ·. . . ' ' - . . . . .

Want to score your best? The world's leading test-prl!p company. Call today, classes forming now. (800) 443-PREP The English Dept. is conducting a reappointment review of Professor Bonney MacDonald. All members of the Union community familiar with her teaching, scholarship, or - cc!lege service are encouraged to send written comments to Prof. Peter Heinegg, Chairman, English Dept. The _ Concordiensis staff would like to thank Andrew Seewald and Elise Foady for their dedication and hard work over the paat year as Editors-in-Chief. The Women Series By RON EUG:ENIO The best way to explain what this column is about is to state what this column isn't about. For starters, considering this term marks the 26th anniversary of co-education at Union, a series detailing the lifestyles of various female students seems appropriate. These profiles aren't about body measurements, boyfriends, or killer outfits bought at J. Crew. It isn't all about sororities (though they will undoubtedly be mentioned) and sunshine either. At the same time, this column won't be about megaphones, protests, or picket lines. This column will examine and profile various women, each having unique, diverse careers here, some abm1t to graduate, others experiencing Year One. Some fed up with the college administration, :others willing to send their (future) chldren here. I hope you enjoy this, and to 50% of the people reading this, be forwarned; you maybe next Anna Patton- The Wretched Free Spirit \I never have a square meal, I never have the basics taken care of, a clean room ... \ Free spirits are entertaining spontaneous creatues, but consistency and logical scheduling is thrown out the window. However, if you try to keep the same break- neck schedule that Anna Patton does, that Mac-and-Cheese dinner at midnight beckons louder than usual. A junior who considers .herself an \unofficial Visual Arts major\ Anna leads a prolific artistic life; she plays the piano, dances, sings, and acts. She's currently involved in the Union production of Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians, where she's cast as Emily Brent, \a spinster woman who reads her Bible every day.\ She's excited ab<Jut the play~- \we're doing it wilh British accents! It's going to be totally authentic\-- even though it may be the last production in the rapidly deteriorating Nott. Anna doesn't mind though. \We'll get creative and find a new focus. A really small theater maybe, more productions happening all the time, you know?\ Our conversaton took place after her play rehearsals. She claimed she was stressed but looked quite relaxed, dressed casually in aT-shirt covered in a brown oxford and a pair of Union boxes. After a quick tour of her apartment (nice wooden floors and quite clean, despite Anna's protests) and an introduction to a Calico cat named Pugsley. we camped out on the porch, talking about an, apartment life, and censorship. Throughout the interview Anna remained amiably polite, but when the topic of women at Union came up, she became spirited and spoke with clear conviction. After three years at Union, her views are quite clear. Q: As a Union woman, is t.bere anything you'd like to see changed? A: I wish there was more to do. More co~ed things. more co-ed housing. I think if you go to a co-ed school it's important to live in a co-ed situation. I seriously believe that. I didn't get that benefit [freshman year Anna lived in Richmond] and I migrated. People in West thought I lived in West [laughs]. I think it's important to get the full co-ed experience. Q: Could you go up to another female applying here and tell her she could have a good career at Union? A: I'd say, yeah. I think women are gaining the respect they deserve here. It's an ongoing process, but we haven't achieved it, though. Q: Artistically, what's your strongest inclination? A. Singing. I like it because it's just you. That's all it is, it's vou. It's that simple. Union College Alumni Art ... Drawings and paintings by several alumni of Union College are on display on the first and second floors of Schenectady City Hall, through the end of April, under the auspices of the College's Arts Department. The work, which includes some Capital Region scenes, was done while they were students at the College. Among the alumni represented are two area people, Katherine Armstrong of Rexford and Michael. Cramer of Schenectady, and a former area r~sident, Tamara Barsamian of New Britain, CN, formerly of Loudonville. GUESS WHO????? COMING: SAT. APRIL 20 1:00PM ON THE CHI PSI LAWN LOOK IN NEXT WEEKS ISSUE FOR MORE INFORMATION S.A.D.D. Meeting Tues. April 16th 7:00 P.M cc 203 All Welcome! BOBBY SHEEH\N CHAN KINCI-liA

·:.·' I:AMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD :3fternl'!f n.H/22elntiu!l eloeietg /o/ n/1 t~o~e ul/o Je!teu-e /aeJib iea o/ t~e min/ n/e ezeite/ J!J eo/l;aion SUB 11011 A..:E.A.S 1 Jf~eti:IUI Jlra.-er ....... ruE. VED· z TIIU :S · Jfoatll 4 ;pl·aai~ .,..u.g c.c. 411 7-8 :P-•·· IJU S.lT 5 6 nJt/ iutel'eoJtl'ae, n;r/ nr~o wi&1/t to pro/ea~ nn/ t/troNg!J t~oae aerioua4J intereate/ 7 I Spea:i:er: 9 · A.I..A.S lleetimg B.o:beorto fio:S0-7:30 Ramirez I 0 Faculty U A:p,;preciatioa Day Beeeptio-. i. I 13 nr!Jnmeut, JHlliH/nfH t~eir o;dniona. ~II: 6826 ~r 6820 ot mad to ~1377 rtlt/ame-~------ fi~OH. bo:c ___ _ adilte&.,.___~------ \l£ar__ ~~~oajot:..__ ____ _ \ARTISTS\ Save your artwork from Fall and Winter terms. Submit your paintings, photographs, drawings, and prints to the \SPRING IDOL'' CC A.UD · Bale Boa:se 7-9 .... 7-10 p ~-- 1. A.L.A.S 15 17 Spe-aker 1 ===,!~~~~,:=!-::~:9:=~~===== :=:ez Arts B14g. Daae• Boom tie:etir&g( Time to J)e aUoU:II.C!till) Col~; AUD .2.8 A.J._A..S 29 CO:U:E 30 J:fe-tti~ HIT THE SAJ. Um 6:30-7:30 PIIlATA!! DIJIEBO Y AlfOB! I Sll'e:ater27 B.o~:a: »eJ I.~ Campa . 5':30-6:30 Her~age 'I Di:D.Aer 6:45-9 p.m.. Upper Churs Di~Ag I Art submissions will be accepted in the Arts Department Office ... April 1st-20th l1U~ ~~ tl&ai1BII® 110t19.ll'fr!MJ)I tnmnrtU m-rntmm~m: &rPinriiL 11 CD® n The Spring Issue Bette r ... so more chose/n. will be Bigger submissions will and be ** On the back please put your name, phone, box., year, title. .. ' ' ~~tl®lll~D * Submissions chosen will be returned approximately by seventh week. Theres an IBM PS/2 made for every student body. Green grass and blazing sun. Term papers and lab reports. The IBM PS/2® has what you need to get you through your work and into spring. It has preloaded software that'll let you crec:te impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets in no time. A mouse to make it easy to use. Great tools like a notepad, calendar and card file. Plus, it'sexpandahle, so it can grow along with you. The IBM Personal System/2\' has all this at a super student price* and affordable loan pay- ments with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. \ And on a different note, you can transform your IBM PS/2 with Micro Channel® into an exciting music maker with the R()land® Desktop M1:1sic System. So get something that will help you get through your work and int() the sun. After all, spring, like the IBM PS/2, was made for every student body. ·rh1s offer 1s available to qualified college students, faculty and staff who purchase IBM Selected Academ1c Solut1ons thrOUQh participating campus outlets, IBM 1-800·222-7257 or IBM Authorlzea PC Dealers certified to remarket IBM Selected Academic Solutions. Orders are sub1pc:tto availability. Prices are s ut>Ject to change, and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time Without written notice. ~IBM. PS/2. Personal System(2, anti Micro Channel are registered traclemarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Roland is a registered trademark of Roland Corporation, US. <IBM Corporation 1991 ==.:=. .::® ----- --- ----- - -- ---- ----- ------ '-

@iZZ£JWZiZ:iil:tBZl1mtmwz~wmm;mmW&WMmmaa&OOmmm~~~~m-·:m·· ,.,im·-IDm:m····.ffi·:- .. m,··w-.--~m==~ill-·:;:.~:-· -~~~=~~~~~:-r:Jrr~:~--~:~~--~·t.) ->~-~:~· ·-.·.·_·- __ _.__ .· . - --_ -·_=-:: _._ ART!i &. ENTERTAINMENT <llJlnrorbtrnsts .1\ · April 11, 1991 g;\{ -... '\\ ~~ ,$ 'l,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~ ·.:.:-;·:·..:::·: .. _· Better Than Before ... Th·e WRUC Record Re-v:iews By MATT FULLER Fishbone - The Reality of My Surroundings (Columbia): Bush Women Ahhh .. . the lazy days of Spring. Playing frisbee, tanning on West Beach, those all-too-trendy roller-blades, and even an added bonus - the long awaited album from Fishbone. Ever since their appearance on SNL a few weeks back, Fishbone fans far and wide have been drooling over the prospect of their next project. Finally we can all breath a little easier, because here it is. Fishbonc. While most of their distinct sound is there, there is something distinctively different. The catchy guitar- jangle at the beginning along with various un-Fishbone elements points to the possibility of REM-Syndrome. This is not to say that they arc \selling out\ (because REM hasn't \so!d out\) they arc both simply, as ex-columnist Ron Eugenic put it, \just a band that puts out consistently good music.\ Proctor's is pleased to announce the return of URBAN BUSH WOMEN as the final performance of the 1990/91 Proctor's Too series. This marks a very special event in the 4-year history of Proctor's Too since it is the first time one of the performing groups featured there has 'graduated' to Proctor's main stage. That the pathfinders should be URBAN BUSH WOMEN will come as no surprise to the audiences who crammed Proctor's Too in 1988. URBAN BUSH WOMEN are established as arguably the best movement theatre group in the country - and Praise House, the piece they are bringing to Proctor's, is unarguably their Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Perfect Weapon The Five Heartbeats Shipwrecked Class Action Silence of the Lambs The Morning Man masterpiece. Fresh from triumphs at the Kennedy Center and the Spoleto Festival, Praise House has been acclaimed by critics as a masterpiece. \I challenge the audience not to stand up and cheer,\ wrote the Atlanta Journal. URBAN BUSH WOMEN was formed in 1984 by current Artistic Director, J awole Willa Jo Zollar, the company is devoted to presenting dance theatre works rooted in African and American tradition. With the immediacy of live music, the- spoken word, song based on field chants and hollers, and most especially, the force and spirit of movement, the company explores the struggly, growth: and- ,transfotlnatiot'i:. 6.f Sleeping with the Enemy Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II Defending Your Life Career Opportunities Home Alone New Jack City Call Theaters for Show Times. Directing Students need actors for scenes and one-act plays to be performed in The Cabaret (in May) and The Nott Memorial Theatre (in June)~ This may be the last opportunity for you (or anyone) to perform in the Nott! If interested, please sign-up in the Nott Memorial Green Room or The Student Activities Office, CC408, ext. 6379. the human spirit. . Praise House tells, with these techniques, the story of an unschooled, but brilliant, black woman - an artist from the deep south - whose vision was as spectacular as her lack of schooling. With a cast of 14 supplemented by two dozen members of the Reflection Choir of Friendship Baptist Church in Schenectady, Praise House promises to be a thrilling family evening - and a theatrical extravaganza. Praise House plays for one performance only at 8:02 p.m. on Saturday; April 13. Tickets may be reserved at 346 6204 and Group Rates are available by calling Jeanne at 382 3884. . Look for the latest album by '7!/b~ l/J)Tn 11 ~ 1b lP d JP ~ 71':: On Sale Soon in the College Center \Fight The Youth\ is the opening cut, and it sets the tone for most of the album. An upbeat, almost hardcore edge permeates the entire work (of course, what else would you expect from Lhcm?) and this song in particular shows their attitude. Both this song and \Junkie-Maker\ arc straight-to- the-point songs. Others, like the single \Sunless Saturday\ are much less like the Fishbone I have known up until this time. \Sunless Saturday\ offers a different perspective on The Reality of My Surroundings is a testament to what hard work and a ton of determination can do for a band. Fishbonc is on the hrink of stardom (a Spike-Lee directed video won't hurt, either). Give them a listen now, so when they're on the cover of Rolling Stone heing hailed as the \greatest live-hand ever,\ you'll be ahlc to say, \yeah I knew then when they were still small.\ (If you do get the chance to sec them in concert I highly recommend it.) Listen in to WRUC and you'll sec how fast they move to number one. I give it four-and- a-half Slurpecs (out of 5). ·.:Two ·CJas.sJcal :.Co.ncer.ts ·come To Union RENAISSANCE MUSICAL ARTS, LTD. presents the New York Philharmonic Brass Quintet with guest trumpeter Chris Gekker at Union College Memorial Chapel on Monday, April 15 at 7:30p.m. Members of the group include Philip Smith, principal trumpet; Jerome Ashby, associate principal horn; Joseph Alessi, principal trombone and Warren Deck, tuba - all current members of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. - The concert is being performed as a tribute to Leonard Bernstein who was the Music Director of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra from 1957 through 1969 and its Laureate Conductor until he died on October 14, 1990. The repertoire for the concert includes two pieces by Mr. Bernstein: his \Fanfare for Brass\ and his music from\West Side Story.\ The New York Philharmonic Brass players have appeared in several concerts in conjunction with the Canadian Brass Quintet performing a wide variety of music for hrass instruments. Tickets for this concert are $15 and can be purchased at the Schenectady M uscum or by calling 439-6457 or 449-1217 or at the door the evening of the concert. And later this month, the Octavo Singers will perform the German Requiem by Johannes Brahms with orchestra at Union College on Saturday, April 20. TickeL<> arc available at the door concert night, from members, or at CBO locations for adults $11 and seniors/students $9. The Schenectady-based choral group is directed by George Morass. For more information, call 346-8081 or 381-9444. SKIDMORE THEATER SKIDMORE COLLEGE SARATOGA SPRINGS NY12866 518-584-5000 ext 2344 The Skidmore College Department of Theater presents Peter Weiss's THE PERSECUTION AND ASSASSINATION OF JEAN-PAUL MARAT AS PERFORMED :BY THE INMATES OF THE ASYLUM OF CHARENTON UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE MARQUIS DE SADE, with music by Richard Peaslee and verse adaptation by Adrian Mitchell. MARAT/SADE is a musical spectacle of the stabbing of Jean-Paul Marat by Charlotte Corday during the French Revolution. The play is directed by Guest Artist Marjorie Hayes. Performances are Thursday through Sunday, April 11-14, and Thursday through Saturday. April 18-20 in the Janet Kinghorn Bernhard The~ter, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, NY at 8:00p.m. Tickets are $5 general, $3 student/senior citizen. Group rates are available. For reservations or information (518) 584-5000 ext. 2357.

ART§ & EI\ITERT AII\IMEI\IT Novelist Geoffrey Wolff To Read April 24 including American Scholar ,A tlan t<ic Month- ly, Esquire, Time~ Life, Saturday Review, New England Mon tbly and Lear's. Wolff has taught and lectured at many colleges and is currently writer-in-residence at Brandeis University. HOROSCOPES ALBANY _ Novelist, short biography of his father, was By Lolli D. • story writer and essayist runner-up for a Pultizer Prize ARIES: This months Aries tends to feel out of place and insecure .. You just do not feel .comfortable back at school after such a relaxing vacation. But have no fear because after the 16th things will begin to look brighter and Spring fever will be in the air. The relationship you · have been looking for is right under your nose. Geoffrey Wolff will read from in biography. His stories, his work on Wednesday, April essays and reviews have 2-1-, at 8 p.m. in the Maureen appeared in numerous Stapleton Theatre on the magazines and journals TAURUS: Stop being so lazy and enjoy the nice wea.tb.er. You have . been cooped up in the dregs of winter and now it's time to get your · motivation back. This new burst of energy could bring rewarding : results. campus of Hudson Valley Community College, 80 Vandenburgh Avenue, Troy. His reading, which is free and open to the public, is co- sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute, Rensselaer County Council for the Alit.s, Troy Public Library and Hudson Valley Community College. Wolffs novels include Bad D e b t s (1969), T h e Sightseer (1974), Providence (1986), and his most recent work, The Final Club (1990). The Duke of Deception (1980), a 1. The Silence of the Lambs, by Thomas Harr\s_,(St Martin's Press. $5.95.) FBHraineesm.lks killer with help oh~vil genius. 2. From Beirut to Jerusalem, by Thomas L Friedman. (Anchor, $12.95.) Account of the Arab-Israeli strife. 3. Dances with Wolves, by Michael Blake. (Fawcett, $4.95.) Civil War veteran pos the Sioux way of !He. 4. Saddam Husseinanclthe Crisis in the GlJII, by Judith Miller and Laurie Mylroie. (Times Books, $5.95.) Hussein's invasion of Kuwait 5. Alii Need to Koow I Learned From my Cat, by Suzy Becker. (Workman, $5.95_) Advice from a discemir:Jg.cal 6. Desert Shield Fact Book, by the staff of G OW. (Game Designer Workshop, $1 0.) Maps and facts pertaining to .the war in the Gulf_ 7. Devices and Desires, by P.D. James. (Warner, $5.95.) Inspector Dalgliesh is confronted by a series of killings on the Norfdlk coast 8. W1e0er Dog Art, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.) More Far Side cartooos. 9. Alii Really Need to•KnOw I Learned In Kindergarten, by Robert Fulghum_ (Ivy,- $5.95;) Uncommon thoughts on common things. 10. Weapons of Desel't Storm, by Walter J, Boyne. (Publications lntL, $7_95.)1nformation about conventional and biological warfare. New G Recommended Yaz, by Carl Yastrzemski and Gerald Eskenazi. (Wamer, $4.95.) The story of the son of a Long Island potato farmer who gave hisbesuo baseball - and bowed out as one of the true heroes of the game. Skinny Legs and AD, by Tom .Robbins. (Bantam, $5.95.) Comic and controv'~ novel dealing with today's most sensitive issues as seen through the violenUy scratched lens of the Middle East Animal Liberation, by Peter Singer. (Avon, $9.95;) Offers sound, humane solutions to what has become a profound environmental, social and moral issue_ GEMINI: You have 2 faces this mon,th as you looked .toward Spring . term. The first one wants to party a lot while the weather is nice. The · .other one tends to be bored often and puts off work. Try to fmd a balance between the two and do not forget to study a little. CANCER: A new relationship is ori the rise. Be patient, do not rush things and do not give up so soon. He/she will realize what a wonderful · person you are and will feel lucky to have won you oveF. The stars are in your favor this month. LEO: Lighten up! You are way too tense and this is reflected in your behavior towards your friends. Renew relations .and secure friendships • with people you have not seen for awhile. You will be happy that you did. VIRGO: This week it would be a good idea to get all your work done early on so that on the weekend you can rage. Consider getting in touch with an old friend or a distant family member. UBRA: Maybe, it's about time to re-evaluate your relationship with· your significant other. Maybe you are not as happy as you ap~ar. Be truthful to yourself first before you can be honest with others. SCORPIO: Easy! You have been a little overactive this month. Settle , down and get your hormones in order. If you breathe and take time out,· you can enjoy certain aspects of life more thoroughly. · SAGITTARIUS: This is the perfect time for getting romantically involved. It is a romantic time of year and you are fmally mentally ready. However, do not jump into anything too quickly. CAPRICORN: You have been pulled in two directi<lns lately by two distinctly opposing desires. One side offers you the unknown, and fear may be holding you back from giving in. The other side is comforting yet boring and the temptations of Spring may make yo11 wantto explore more. Follow your gut. not your expectations for the future. AQUARIUS: You are back home at Union now. It is time to face reality and take your head out of the clouds. Reality is not all bad, it is what you make of it. Fantasy sometimes can tum into reality if the desire is present. PISCES: Never look back to a past decision and regret it. Decisions always come with consequences. Plan well and think before you act. Your, decision will be Cl'Ucial in the future. -----AMERICAN INDIAN SPEAKERS' SERIES I am offering a Visiting Speakers' Seties for my new course in American Indian Literature this Spring. Six distinguished Anglo and native speakers will be delivering lectures, presentations, and/or poetry readings on the following days: (Please see atwthed schedule.) The lectures and presentations are designed to offer a rich context for the Study of American Indian Literature, Art History, Ethnopsychology, Antllropology. and Storytelling. All lectures will be open to the public. Please contact Anne Scott or the English Dept for furtlter details. In conJunction with English 348: American Indian Literature With financial support from: The English, History, Sociology, AnthropofogyT and Art Departments; I.E. F.; The Women's Commission; Student Activities Fund; and, the Presiden6al Fund for Course Development and Enrichment. Six Distinguished Anglo and Native Speakers Will Gi''8 Lectures, Presentations, or Readings on the Following Days: 1. April 8, 1991: Frank Tikalsky, ethnopsychologist and anthropologist, on 1he Havasupai Indians of the Grand Canyon 4:00p.m. 2. April 15, 1991: lance Henson, Cheyenne poet, on native myths, storytelling and poetry 4:00 p.m. 3. April 22, 1991: luci Tapahonso, Navajo poet, on contemporary native poetry 12:30- 1':30 p.m. 4. May 9, 1991: Richard Nelson, anthropologist, on Alaska native people and their relationship to nature MINERVA HOUR 5. May 13, 1991: H. Jackson Clark, art historian, on old Navajo textiles 4:00 p.m. 6. May 22, 1991: Joseph Bruchac, Abenaki storyteller, on native myths, poetry and storyt~lling 4:00 p.m. Most lectures and readings will be held at the College Center Auditorium

Novelist Geoffrey Wolff To Read April 24 including American Scholar,Atlantic Month- ly, Esquire, Time~ Life, Saturday Review, New England Monthly and Lear's. Wolff has taught and lecttued at many colleges and is CI:IITently writer-in-residence at Brandeis University. HOROSCOPES :\UL\;\;Y _ Novelist, short q,~ry \Hiter and essayist ( ;c·ul fr~·y '\\' o!Cf will read from llh \\llrk rm Wednesday, April ~_;, at X run. in the ~burccn St;tpktoa Theatre on the Cll1ll'm €:lf Hudson Valley c,1mrnunity College, 80 \\~tmL·nburgh A venue, Troy. His reading, which is rrcc and open to the public, is co- sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute, Rensselaer County Council for the Arts, Troy Public Library and Hudson Valley Community College. Wolffs novels include Bad D e b t s ( 1969), T b e Sightseer (1974), Providence (1986), and his mosL recent work, The Final Club (1990). The Duke of Deception (1980), a Union College and Choir Glens Falls Orchestra Requiem and Coronation Masses Sat. 8 P.M. Memorial Chapel biography of his father, was runner-up for a Pultizcr Prize in biography. His stories, essays and reviews have appeared 1n numerous magazi ncs and journals 1. The Silence of the Lambs, by ThDmas Hams. (StMartin's Press, $5.95.) FBI tranee stalks ktller witl:l help of evil gen1us. ----- -----~--------------- ----------- 2. From Beirut to Jerusalem, by Thomas L Fnedman. (Anchor. $12.95) Account of !tie Arab-Israeli stnle. ----- 3. Dances with Wolves, by Michael Blake (Fawcett. $4.95.) _ -~~~~ar veter~ joins the S!Otlx way of life. 4. Saddam Hussein and the Crisis in the Gulf, by Judith Miller and Laune Mylroie. (Times Books, $5.95.) Hussein's invasion ofKuwait 5. All I Need to Know I Learned From my Cat, by Suzy Becker (Workman, $5.95.) Advice from a discerning cat 6. Desert Shield Fact Book, by !tie staff of GDW. (Game Designer _ --~orkshop, $10.) Maps and facts !)ertaining to the war in the Gulf. 7. Devices and Desires, by P.D. James. (Wamer, $5.95.) Inspector __ Dalgliesh is confronted by a series of killings on the Norfolk coast 8. W1e11er Dog Art, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.) More Far Side cartoons. 9. All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, by Robert Fulghum (Ivy, $5.95.) Uncommon thoughts on common things. ---- 10. Weapons of Desert Storm, by Walter J. Boyne. (Publications Inti., $7.95) Information about conventional and biological warfare. Yaz, by Carl Yastrzemski and Gerald Eskenazi. (Warner, $4.95.) The story of the son of a long Island potato farmer who gave his best to baseball - and bowed out as one of tile true heroes of the game. Skinny Legs and AJI, by Tom Robbii\IS. (Bantam, $5.95.) Comic and controv•'lfSial novel dealing with today's most sensitive issues as seen through the violently scratched lens of the Middle East Animal Liberation, by Peter Singer. (Avon, $9.95.) Offers sound, humane sc.Autions to what has become a profound environmental, social and moral issue. By Lolli D. ARIES: This months Aries tends to feel out of place rutd insecure. You just do not feel comfortable back at school after such a relaxing vacation. But have no fear because after the 16th things wi:ll begin to look brighter and Spring fever wiN be in the air. The relationship you have been looking for is right under your nose. TAURUS: Stop being so lazy and enjoy the nice weather. You have been cooped up in the dregs of wimter and now it's time to get your motivation back. This new burst of energy could bring rewarding results. G EMI~1: You have 2 faces this month as you looked toward Spring term. The first one wants to party a lot while the weather is nice. The · other one tends to be bored often and puts off work. Try to fmd a balance between the two and do not forget to study a little. CANCER: A new relationship is on the rise. Be patient, do not rush things and do not give up so soon. He/she will realize what a wonderful person you are and will feel lucky to have won you over. The stars are in your favor this month. LEO: Lighten up! You are way too tense and this is reflected in your behavior towards your friends. Renew relations and secure friendships with people you have not seen for awhile. You will be happy that you did VIRGO: This week it would be a good idea to get all your work done early on so that on the weekend you can rage. Consider getting in touch with an old friend or a distant family member. LIBRA: Maybe, it's about time to re-evaluate your relationship with your significant other. Maybe you are not as happy as you ap~ar. Be truthful to yourself first before you can be honest with others. SCORPIO: Easy! You have been a little overactive this month. Settle down and get your hormones in order. If you breathe and take time out, you can enjoy certain aspects of life more thoroughly. SAGITTARIUS: This is the perfect time for getting romantically involved. It is a romantic time of year and you are finally mentally ready. However, do not jump into anything too quickly. CAPRICORN: You have been pulled in two directions lately by two distinctly opposing desires. One side offers you the unknown, and fear may be holding you back from giving in. The other side is comforting yet boring and the temptations of Spring may make you want to explore more. Follow your gut, not your expectations for the future. AQUARIUS: You are back home at Union now. It is time to face reality and take your head out of the clouds. Reality is not all bad, it is what you make of it. Fantasy sometimes can tum into reality if the desire is present. PISCES: Never look back to a past decision and regret it. Decisions always come with consequences. Plan well and think before you act. Your decision will be crucial in the future. ----:AMERICAN INDIAN SPEAKERS' SERIES-- I am offering a Visiting Speakers' Series for my new course in American Indian Literature this Spring. Six distinguished Anglo and native speakers will be delivering lectures, presentations, and/or poetry readings on the following days: (Please see attache-d schedule.) The lectures and presentations are dcs:igned to offer a rich contcx t for the Study of American Indian Literature, Art History, Elhnopsychology, Anthropology, and Storytelling. All lectures will be open to the public. Please contact Anne Scott or the English Dept. for further details. In conjunction with Engfish 348: American Indian Literature With financial support from: The Engfish, History, Sociology, Anthropology, and Art Departments; I.E: F.; The Women's Commission; Student Activities Fund; and, the Presidential Fund for Course Development and Enrichment. Six Distinguished Anglo and Native Speakers Will G;·~~ lectures, Presentations, or Readings on the Following Days: 1. April 8, 1991: Frank Tikals ky, ethnopsychologist and anthropologist, on the Havasupai Indians of the Grand Canyon 4:00 p.m. 2. April 15, 1991: Lance Henson, Cheyenne poet, on native myths, storytelling and poetry 4:00 p.m. 3. April 22, 1991: Luci Tapahonso, Navajo poet, on contemporary native poetry 12:30-1:30 p.m. 4. May 9, 1991: Richard Nelson, anthropologist, on Alaska native people and their relationship to nature MINERVA HOUR 5. May 13, 1991: H. Jackson Clark, art historian, on old Navajo textiles 4:00 p.m. 6. May 22, 1991: Joseph Bruchac, Abenaki storyteller, on native myths, poetry and storytelling 4:00 p.m. Most lectures and readings will be held at the College Center Auditorium

April u, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLET'IN .BOARD @Dltfllrbfrnsis 21 -~~ ~~'£-irrl'JJ:iillM:;x~;;;;;;;:;::;:mm,;·;;;;;;;-,:;;-;·;;:;,·;·;:·,;,,,,;;,,;·;·iW Paula P. Brownlee PLAN TO JOIN THE CELEBRATION OF THE TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF COEDUCATION AT UNION FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 8 Pl\1, College Cettter Auditorium PAl.JLA BROWNLEE, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN COLLEGES IN WASHINGTON, DC, WILL SPEAK ON \ COEDUCATION AT FORMERLY SINGLE SEX INSTITUTIONS: THE IMPACT AND THE CHALLENGE\ I As President of tbe Association of American Colleges, Dr. Brownlee heads the only higher education organization of member institutions that focuses on strengthening liberal education on our nation's cam:puses. Paula Brownlee has her PhD in Organic Chemistry from Oxford University, was Dean of Faculty and Professor of Chemistry at Union College from 1976-1981, . and was President and Professor of Chemistry at Hollins College from 1981- 1990. On Saturday, April 27, there will be a number or programs and activities including: KATE WHITE '72, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT MC CALL'S, formerly Editor-In Chief at Working Woman, who win speak Saturd3y at 1:30pm, CC AUD on \BEYOND SUPERWOMAN: HOW TO HAVE IT ALL WITH SOME ADJUSTMENTS\ In 1972, Kate White was nominated by Lorraine Marra for a Glamour magazine contest for the \top ten women\ on college campuses for that year. Kate won, appearing on the cover of Glamour and (as part of her prize) getting her first job at,Glamour. This was followed by positions at Mademoiselle and Family Weekly (now USA Today Weekend). Plan to attend! Rock-n-Roll Pi~~a & Sub Shop Kate White · THE WORLD IS Y URPIZZA C NTEST! Create your dream pie and eat free all week! ' Submit your favorite Pizza Pie receipe. The winning pie will be the Special all week at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. The author will receive a meal pass good for seven meals at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant along with recognition in the Concordienses. Entry Forms at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant.

Paula P. Brownlee PLAN TO JOIN THE CELEBRATION OF THE TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF COEDUCATION AT UNION FRIDAY~ APRIL 26, 8 PIVI, College Center Auditorium PAULA. BROWNLEE, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN COLLEGES IN WASHINGTON, DC, WILL SPEAK ON \ COEDUCATION AT FORMERLY SINGLE SEX INSTITUTIONS: THE IMPACT AND THE CHALLENGE\ As President of the Association of American Colleges, Dr. Brownlee heads the only higher education organization of member institutions that focuses on strengthening liberal education on our nation's campuses. Paula E rownlee has her PhD in Organic Chemistry from Oxford University, was Dean ()f Faculty and Professor of Chemistry at Union College from 1976-1981, and was President and Professor of Chemistry at Hollins College from 1981- 1990. On Saturday, April 27, there will be a number of programs and acti-vities includi 'l g: KATE WHITE '72, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT MC CALL'S, formerly Editor-In Chief ~t Working Woman, who win speak Saturday at 1:30pm, CC A UD on \BEYOND SUPERWOMAN: HOW TO HAVE IT ALL WITH SO ME ADJUSTMENTS\ In 1972~ Kate White was nominated by Lorraine Marra for a Glamour magazine contest for the \top ten women\ on college campuses for tnat year. Kate won, appea.ring on the cover of Glamour and (as part of her prize) getting her first job at Glamour. This was followed by positions at Mlldemoisellt! and Fllmily Weekly (now USA Today Weekend). Plan to attend! R.ock-n-Roll Pi~~a & Sub Shop Ku.te White THE WORLD IS Y URPIZZA C NTEST! Create your dream pie and eat free all week! Submit your favorite Pizza Pie receipe. The winning pie will be the Special all week at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. The author will receive a meal pass good for seven n1eals at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant along with recognition in the Concordienses. Entry Forms at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant.

HELP WANTED SUMMER JOBS $9.1 0/hr. or com mission. Advertising sales. No experience necessary. Training provided. Work close to school. Car recommended. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 344- 6766 for details & application. IvlETRO MARKE'TING GROUP- CAN YOU HELP? Castle Ridge Park Needs You! Help is needed to construct a new playground on April 17- 21. Volunteer needed for food service, child care, construction . - skilled and unskilled. For more info call Sondra Schaefer at 783-6757. CLUB 1\JEW!i NE\VMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES NEWMAN SUPPERS Tuesday, April 16th at 5 PM in CC203 join Professor William C. Stone for supper and conversation. Use meal card or bring your own supper. CONFIRMATION • Con- gratulations to Union students: Anne L. Barber, Timothy J. Hadden, Christina M. Horaz, Todd J. Washburn and Marie N. Wheeler who will be confirmed by Bishop Hubbard on April 18th. OVERNIGHT RETREAT ·Friday, April 19th at 5 PM until Saturday, April 20th 5 PM at 1630 Nott Street. We will usc Father Anthony De Mello, S.J. tapes dealing with Silence, Peace and Love. A donation of $7 for food when you register with Sister Joan. FOLK GROUP • Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 PM Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 PM in St. John's church to rehearse. '·. CAMPUS I\IEWS April 11, 1991 T:UTORING Union .stlldents who are interested in 1t11toring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386·4181. THE POWER OF MYTH ·Tuesday, April 16th in St. JGI1n's School Library at 7:30 we will continue the videos ·•~Joseph Campbell and The Power of Myth with Bill M()yers.\ All programs are sixty minu~es and will be followed by a half hour discussion. Program Two: The Message of the Myth. Campbell compares the creation. story in Genesis with cr~ation stories around the '\Vcrld. Because the world changes, religion has to be transformed and new mythologies created. People t()day are stuck with old m~taphors and myths that don't fit their needs. All are welcome. ElBLE STUDY/PRAYER GROUP - Tuesday, April 16Lh from 9 to 9:30 PM in St. John's School Library. We will l'ead and reflect together on Lllke 24. CLA!i!iiFIED!i TVPING • Norma Segarra, 529 Congress Street, Schenectady, NY 12303. Evenings/weekends only, call alliy time. 381-6243. Term papers, manuscripts, theses, Lab reports, and resumes. Fees $1.50 double spaced pages. Rush jobs $2.00 double Sl'aced. Resumes $10.00, Cover letter $2.00. Pick-up and delivery. 'VANTED: Bass, 2 guitars, drums and female backup ·vocals for alternative band; to cover Fugazi, Mission of llltrma, Tin Machine, Pixies cLc. Call 3 86-4291 if interested. .APARTMENT FOR R ENT - 3 Bedrooms, close to \Union off street parking, free ;garage, year lease and security. Call Dave MacPherson, 584- ~483. We Care About. U fJYjJ f!!l [g) ffJ @ {jf) . f0&1 0@ in Co.l:l,ege Ce:nter Information ,Booth $1 Each 11 - 17 Apr 1991 TH·IS WEEK AT UNION Apr .11 - Thursday Citizens for Peace Tri-De!ta Jail and Bail 11:30 AM CCALJD: Minerva Hour Apr 12 - Friday CCAUD : Movie \Edward Scissorhands\ Prospective Students Day Steinmetz Symposium Apr 13 - Saturday CCAUD: Movie \Edward Scissorhands\ 2:00 PM Men's .Lacrosse Apr 14 - Sunday CCAUD : Movie n Edward Scissorhands\ Crop Walk For Hunger Apr 15 - Monday Prospective Students Day 1:00PM Golf 4:00 PM CCAUD NASS: Lance Henson Apr 16 - Tuesday 3:30 PM Baseball 3:30 PM Women's Lacrosse Apr 17- Wednesday SS016 Movie: \On Golden Pond\ 3:30 PM Softbalf 4:00 PM Men's Lacrosse 11:30 AM UCDH Multicultural Table 7:00 PM CCAUD: Kit Hathaway Readings 7:30 PM CC302: Coffeehouse 8:00 PM MC: Glens Falls Symphony & UC Choir 7:00PM CCAUD: JSU Speaker 7:30 PM MC NY Philharmonic Brass Concert 7:30 PM CCAtrium: Crosstalk-Faculty Evaluation 8:00 PM CCAUD: Speaker, Vivian Gordon 7:00 PM CCAUD: JSU Speaker THIS CALENDAR IS PRESENTED BY THE COLLEGE CENTER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGAMMING BOARD FOR PUBLICiiY PURPOSES ONLY, CALL OR WRITE: X6118 or CC40B. CURRENT AS OF 4/4/91 Rubes® By Leigh Rubin 3-Jc ~-.l-l L------------------------------------------- ~~----------------~-----~---------~ \As you can see, gentlemen, ever since \Hey Mom! Clyde's drinking milk out of the container!\ we began the new 'truth in advertising' campaign, our sales have plummeted.\

1 ~p.uu, :1991 CAMPUS I\IEW!i illnnrorbtrturi.s r3 ·.,~,,,,,,,,,,:~'''<ii''''i'''~·~~·;•;<'<';';·;·;·~:;=~'~'='·'='=·:''·''''''''''r:::,;',~~~JXt'l!rr·::,iHl·!:,~~~~ PER!iDNAL!i 1633 CARRIE STREET: Get psyched for an awesome spring term in our \new\ apartment. We'll toast on Friday under the \WaH .of Sharne.\! SPRING TERM SCORE- BOARD: 0 Job Offers: 0 Grad Sclwol Acceptances; 2 Lost Golf Balls. HEY YOU .... GQ!! Annie, Put the \Holy One\ on the back burner and appreciate an the men out there on West Beach. rn even set you up! l KOH- Sincc KMH04 didn't create a good reaction, now is the time to explore the wonderful world . of biology with a blonde intellectual. Miller and Czech, Cricket · Any time, any where, any board. I'll drop you guys ! like 3nl period French. -\DeadEye\ Ax Brothers and pledges - All of you, get some sack and I we'll have a blast tomorrow night. : -Delta Love (Just Kidding) ~ I David, One word- 3 syllables ..... . Thanks for a great time in Cali. Larissa & Terry Chris, Not it! K. A.- Larissa & Terry If you want to be happy for the rest of your life ..... -Lester .Anyone for a little late night dip in the pool? We'1e .seniors and we're in California ... and Leslie is a Geology major! D.K.S.- I Love You! -L.J.L. Betsy, .I'm psyched you're home! We're going to have a blast this term! Welcome back. It's great to have a little sister · again! -Les Room 225, Was the music on Friday night loud enough? To the Tuesday Night Ropsi's 4, Has anybody seen my sweet Gypsy Rose as we boogie down drinking stolen pitchers by three inch flames! Quiet! There are people upstairs! Ba La La Barna .... ! To the California Brewery 8 - Acchhh! Welcome to Spring Team! Frisbees, BBQs, Bands, Fun, Sun, Scandals, and ... Parties ACAIJSS 1 YBsem ite or Yellowstone • 5 A fabled person 10 RC~AN STATESMAN 14 Mr. Ladd PERSONALS! 50¢ College Center • Info. Bootlt • Weekly Crossword \THE CATS PAJAMAS\ By Gerry Frey 15 Frank_: Academy award film dlreclor 16 Dpera solo 17 TVIOHULLED SAILBOATS 19 Chit chat 20 Rome's fauntain 21 JEERS 23 He was: Latin 26 Greenis~ color 27 Baden·Ballen eg 3D Jiffy 32 Funeral fires 36 MORE CLEVER 38 Worll willl \Storm\ or \Shield\ 39 Celebesu 40 Venezuelan resort 42 Home of ancient Irish kings 43 period: Ash Wednesday to Easter 45 School term 47 Dress Ioiii 48 Very thin cr transparent 49 Summer drink 50 Wor!l witll car or horse 52 Russian rlller 54 MAIL OllllER LISTINGS 58 \But __ her was to love her\: Burns 62 French ~with\ 63 COUGAil AND lYNX, eg 66 Sligllt colcration 67 Martini fr11lt 68 Sensible 69 Back talk 70 \His face was __ _ as a beet!\ 71 French \equal\ DOWN 1 Treaty 2 Winglike 3 Grade 4 Rogue 5 RV org, 6 Hearing aid 7 Saratoga Perf. Arts Cntr. 8 Elaborately decorated 9 Glue 1 0 STIMULANTS 11 Soviet Sea 12 Cultivate 13 Acorn bearers 18 Joy 22 Word with May or Cod 24 Of Nordic origin 25 Step 27 Sell at a higher price 28 Jury 29 Rejlent 31 Smash 33 Lariat 34 Sin11ed 35 Ogle 37 ABNORMALITIES OF THE EYE . 38 Women of nobility 41 Harvard vegetable 44 And others: Latin 46 Muse of love poetry 48 ActQr George and family 51 Hot chocolate 53 Awaken 54 BROADWAY PLAY 55 Precedes \TOR\ and \TI()N\: Aeronautical 56 Perfect scores 57 Turmoil 59 Obstruction 60 Sicilian volcano 61 Donkey in Munich 64 St. crosser 65 Word with school or club ©1991 GFR Asspciates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104. Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 Phi Gamma Delta Basketball Marathon Last call ... Just bring us 16 Coors Lights please! Walt- We have to know ... is your real name Art?!?? Ha! Danicllc and Allison- Dump Stan the Man on the 27th. Good Luck with lhe l\'1CA T's . Love, Krissy & Marie Robo, K.T., Joel, \\' dcomc Back! See ya• at the l\larathon. Larissa, !\:lichclc, & Michele R., \\'., S., B., S.- Pss~~ .... hey there sexy baby! G:mga, braids, taxi, fruit, red :;tripe, cornwall, cornball, comhok, cornhill... it was fun \\'~lsn't it? Love, K.L. P.S. Robin, can I borrow your black bikini again?!? I bppy Binhday to me A gun and a flea We need a fresh break m~1yhc, just you and me. Grq!:, Ril\11 T.R., and Holatim, We hope you had a dean shave this Jl~lst April Fools ..... To f\ly Favorite Roommate- Let's \party party, party\ all ll'rm (and even write small once or twice?) And, please, NO !\·!ORE MEATBALLS! 1\lichi, Ronnie, Tcrry,and l\lichi- \\'dcome back to spring tenn, m days to 90. -L.J.L. The Spring Idol is accepting sub- mission until April 20th .... What do I submit? Literary or Art Work Where do I turn them in? Literary - Box 565 Artwork - Art Dept. Office Artwork - By when can I tum stuff in? April 20th Will I get my submission back? YES How? Put your name, box, phone, year and title on the back or attach to your piece. Fri. Apr. 12 • 12 noon s Thru Sat. Apr. 13 • 12 noon in the Field House 4'

t ()ff~l: ~ /9fll ~ V.~~iV.tl presents an instrumerlt-le ss evening of a cappe·lla hannony featuring ... • Funky finger foods * and, of course ... COFFEE * T!:,, Ovi atmosphere cover dt£\rse Tilt~ Siitd!(nore lBalr)d~tJr>s~a.JttCI')ePs Ride Offered 0 0 9 ~ Driver: E] Date: 1•1 Location: W Phone: 10 lPJiQ'WJ©~ !A [M~~©)lJ¥3~ ©? ®~~1JJJJ1rt lf.g 1iJ©~~ ©~ W©1J l,g@:;{]}]@l l¥f>Jl ~}']© ©:tJ~Jj]}]@ ¥il9~®~ 11'1~Jf~ l® 00©\'fJY ~ fi.'J~!tiJ :mr>~ ®g!A~D JrJ \J}J~ ©.9J.lb~Qi~ ©~:M'TU.l, OJ' ~~ lb©©t\1'1~:9 !Au uJ=J] ®!At] @fF \TJ:J~ ~l'~a:n:~ ~1~5.'.~1 'll=J~ IID'Ql@~®?G¥:1~ ~Wl'Jl.JI':rW~. j).1'1 ©'J'~J~Jl~ UJi~!¥1~@J~1~J1~:9~ :m:o~ IPY0TD©~® 0[1-1 if\l=]~ rQ©lib~@] t;]~JJ~¥1 Wa1.1 ®~ OO~~@W~D J:] 01J:1.j).J.1Q., ~- ~1~1A®~ QJ@~ j}]'J® 1: ©J.\iJ!! $\'HD ©J10'YJg ~J.J]1 '1. \J}J)I})~®~ REGIS'TER FOR THIS RIDE EOt.JID IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, CC408. BE SURE TO BRING YOUR STUDEt'll 1.0. The Pre-Health Society Union College April 11, WillardD. Roth, Faculty Advisor Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Financing A Medical & Health Professions Education · The Pre-Health Society of Union College is presenting a workshop on financing a medical education. Our guest speaker and workshop leader will be Ruth Beer Bletzinger, a consultant authority on the subject. This is not only a workshop on how to get financial aid, but a comprehensive .program valuable to all those pursuing a health related career. TITLE: \Financing a Medical and Health Professions Education\ WHEN: Wednesday, April 17, 1991 WHERE: SS112 7-'9 P.M. COST: $3.00 (For your personal finance workbook materials) It is a very structured workshop, and it is essential for you to let us ·know if you are planning to attend. If you want to be admitted to the w.orkshop, you must sign up In person and pay a $3.00 registration fee. You may register with Pat Sendzicki in the Pre-Health Office, first floor Bailey-101 (Within the Academic Opportunity Office.) . . . . TO BE INCLUDED REGISTER AS soqNASPOSSIBLEtl s?~N~ ~O~~M &_\-lrED'-ILE._ ·~ ~@>·~, ~g j~ ~I ' . : ' ~. . . \ . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . ' . ' ' * ANNOUNCING ----- AN ICE CREAM EXTRAVAGANZA!!! DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT· Make Your Own Sundaes with a selection of delicious toppings *. Banana Splits * Ice Cream Floats \Beat the Heat with a Sweet Treat\ and of course Columbo Frozen Yogurt! We Know What You Like! I L f !•.'

I I I t i ! I I i I I~ I t l ~' f. !t.i I I: I' i ) ·~ ! i !;- April 11,. 1991 Baseball Starts Slow Continued from page 28 no one has given up hope. Reynolds' goal~ are, f~st,, to see his team have a w1nnmg season and, secondly, to see the Dutchmen play in either the ECAC or NCAA t~umamem at the close of the season. If the team were t:a attain a winning season it would be the first one in three years. \I'm optimistic,\ Reynolds said of his chances. Although Union's chances of making the· NCAA are 11ot .gy:eat, the team does have a relistic chance at ~he ECAC t()urnament. Reynolds is extremely confident about his te.am and the talent that they ~<Ollectively possess. \We know we can win,\ Reynolds said. fhe Dutchmen hav put all of their past problems behind them an(;i are looking to the future: for their inspiration. Hopefully all of their hard work will pay off. WRIT-E :FOR SPORTS Contact Dan· x4149 Reduce, Reuse~ ·separate And: Recycle !iPORT!i Men's Track Hits. Full Stride By GREG BARRETT While the rest of the campus has been out enjoying the weather, the Union's Men's Track team has been out competing with a vengeance. The last two meets have proved their dedication and turned many heads. Last Wednesday, the Dutchmen picked up seven personal bests at Hamilton. This was an excellent start to the season, battling a stiff breeze and sub 50 degree weather. Sophomore sensation Bill Taylor exploded through the lOOm dash in 11.3 seconds. He just missed first by a hair, and picked up his first PR of the day. Later in the day, he racked up another PR i~ the. 200m capturing third with a ttme of 23.3. Pete Pretzel also had a great day picking up an ear~y season PR in the 400m. Hts time of 55.0 knocked almost two seconds off his previous best. Rich Zembek hCld another PR for Union in the 400m but he also had the ' . slight inconvenience of havmg ten hurdles to go over. His 59.3 gave him second place and set him off on the right foot for states. The day ended on a high notewQ,en both 4. x 400m; relay teams posted ~:,rreat marks. The \A Team,\ consisting of Taylor, Bob Lindybcrg, Zcmbck, and Will AI len took first witfi a time of 3:36.7. The \B Team,\ of Protzcl, Greg Barrett, Chris Ryan and Mike Emmi picked up four PR's with Pretzel knocking another 0.4 seconds off of his time. They were beaten at the line with a time of 3:38.7. The weightmen also had an outstanding day. Rich Pulver was first in the shot and javelin and second in the discus with marks of 12.57m, 131' 9\ and 37.4lm respectively. Keith Reynolds popped a PR with an 11.91m put in the shot put. This gave him a second place. This past Sunday, the Dutchmen continued their outstanding performances on the home track versus RPI. The field events again proved to be superb for the Dutchmen. Matt Decker sailed 21' 2 l/2\ for a first place in the long jump. Glen \crash\ Meixell picked up a third when he cleared 12' 6\ in the pole vault. The last of the jumpers was Ted Corrigan who topped 5' 6\ for a first place finish, Rich Pulver had another great day taking two firsts and a third. One of his firsts came in the · discus with a spiralling 125' 7\\ effort. His other first was in the shot with a toss of 44' 9 l/4\. He soon followed.with_ a 1 28' 2\ heave in the Javelin which qualified him for a third. Next on the track was the 4 x lOOm where the Dutchmen were edged into second with a 45.3. The high point of the day for Union was when they took first and second in the 400m dash. Taylor was first with a PR of 51.1 followed by Allen in 52.3. Decker then returned from the pits to capture a second in the lOOm with a time of 11.8. The 800m allowed Union to strut their stuff with Bob Lindyberg first with a time of 2:01, followed close behind by Greg Barrett in 2:05.6 for a third place finish. \Ironman\ Bill Taylor dug deep and ·carne up with a 23.0 in the 200m, breaking his PR from Wednesday. Jon Rosenfeld braved the heat in the SOOm finishing in first with a time of 16:24.4. Last up on the track, was the 4 x 400m where Union handily defeated RPI with a time of 3:32.7. The team is way ahe:.1d of where it was last year posting major marks and then breaking them all within the first week. Their harJ work and devotion is showing as lpey prepare for the W~lliams Relays this weekend. never ~r3eh .your ---- ' -..--1 ---~ - -+ D H ~ / . f j u 5 t brin ~) \n proo on youtf bir--fhda~ r;>nly \.'t/ C\nd We.,!\ ()iVe you I I J-=t ~- Free · e s '- oo, l • ~-J CJ L>( \I~ L i i_) f\~ ~(,\: ~~· \lt\L'I lJ ) t~ 'IN j\) i~~ <\'\~r: y}f! 1'~\ b f. p\ ..__ I

26 @nltfllrbirttsi.s !iPDRT!i ' ••:•\'o'\; • ._::~··.,•,•'•,• •,·' ''• ••v.-••••• \ao\ • Union Softball Looks To Return to Winning Form, Dutchwomen Set High Goals for 1991 Season Courtesy of SPORTS INFORMATION Head coach Suzanne Zaloom and her softball team are looking to put 1990 behind them. The Dutchwomen, who finished last year with an 8-8 record, are looking to make up for a streaky season that produced too many errors (mental and physical) and not enough hitting (a team batting average of just .214). \Last year is history,\ said Zaloom. \I think a lot of it had to do with me learning the players in my first year and my players realizing what I expect from them. This year preseason has gone a lot smoother. I'm excited about the year and I think the players arc as well.\ Union graduated just two players from last year's squad, both non-starters, and have some very talented freshmen and first-year sophomores pushing for playing time. Once again tri-captain Sarah Dudzic will anchor the pitching. The 5'11\ junior posted a 7-6 record with a 2.41 earned run average as a freshman before going 8-8 with a 1.98 ERA last season. In two years, Dudzic hf\S- given up _just 131 hits in 205 innings. This year Union may even have a \pitching staff\ for Dudzic to anchor. Where she has been the sole hurler the last two years, Zaloom will be looking at freshmen Brenda Marsh and Chris W eske to help out during the year. While neither has much experience on the mound, both are talented athletes who have displayed strong arms and good ball movement. Zaloom will be working a great deal with both players during preseason to improve their location as well as their confidence. Once again, Union w~ll be very strong up th~ m1ddl~. Junior Robin Romer IS as sohd as any catcher at the Divisio~ 111 level. As a freshman she htt 320 with nine RBls, and last year topped the squad with a .364 average and eight runs batted in. She has a strong arm, is very fast on the ba~es, and has an outstandmg knowledge of the game. At shortstop, the Dutchwomen will rely on senior tri-captain Kathy Lawliss, a f()ur-year starter and two year-captain, the glue to the team. Union's freshman female atllelte of the year, Lawliss was selected as the college's top junior performer last season. She comes off a campaign in which she hit .308. Junior Jean Lopata, sophomore Lauren Seidman, and Weske give Union outstanding depth at second. Lopata, who can also catch and play first base, hit .311 last year and Ius worked hard to improve her game during the off-season. Seidman, who played lacrosse last year, has displayed an uutstanding glove and a strong bat f1 Jm the left side of the plate. She will fit into Zalo<>m's starting plans somewhere. Weske, who will also see time in the outfield, has an outstanding arm to go along with great speed. Whether or not she can hit remains to be seen. Junior Roselle Eisma anchors the outfield from her centerfield position. Eisma, a tri-captain, has blazing speed and a great arm. She is, however, looking· ta rebound from a 1990 season tllat saw her hit .173. Despite her lack of average, she stole 13 bases in 15 attempts. Senior Teresa Sanchez anchors third base for the fourth year. A .218 hitter as a freshman, Sanchez dropped off to .187 two years ago before hitting just .176 a year ago after reuuning from a term abroad in Spain. She has looked very good at the plate in preseason and even with her lack of average, she has displayed a good glove and strong arm. Seidman will also see playing time at third as will Marsh, who can also play short and first. Marsh has displayed an outstanding glove, a strong arm, a go()d bat, and excellent game sense. She is another rookie that Zaloom will have to find a sport for somewhere in the lineup. Union is looking for a first baseman to replace Kathy Marshall, who did not regurn tD school for personal reasons. Sophomore Kim Tworn.bly, an <mtfield starter last season, first-year player junior Wendy Getty, and Marsh are all corn.peting for the starting assignment. The inner competition has pushed all three players while developing good habits and refining their alfeady talented skills. Sophomores Jen Volz and S 1mny Shailam, along with Weske, are battling for the starting left field ~osition while sophomores Liz Tripp and Karina Hojarj along with freshman Tara Rabinowitz are looking for a starting spot in right. \I feel that we-have talented depth at most every position,\ said Zaloom. \We can move people around without weakening ourse<l ves on defense. \Obviosuly Sarah has to stay healthy in order for us to be successfl:!l,\ Zaloom continued. \'What we have been stressing in preseason are the fundamentals. We've been working hard to cut down our mental mistakes and we've been working towards being more confident and aggressive .~t the plate ~f.J 9!n:1h~ ~~Y~J i ... ·-~' \We Iost•at\leasfthtee games · last year because of mental and <>r physical mistakes,\ she continued. \A couple of those games we had no business in . the world losing; I know it and our returning players know it. Take those three games out of the loss column, and we're 11- 5 and on our way to the states. I think our players, especially the upperclassmen, realize that in a short season which is threatened every day by the weather and field conditions, we can't afford to let down in any single game. \At least that is the message I'm trying to get acf()ss to them.\ \I'm very happy with the team we have,\ said Zaloom. \I'm looking to get a lot out of the spring trip both on the field and off. I think we've got the talent and the background to be a very, very good team. If we · can keep Sarah healthy and eliminate the mistakes, we're going to be tough to beat. n April 11, 1991 NHL Playoff Update By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY The National Hockey Leag11e playoffs rue upon us. The time of great upsets and grueling overtimes is finally here. The league has finished the marathon 80\game schedule and has weeded out the five teams that not fit to fight for L()rd Stanley's CUJ>. 'The playoffs are a time for an of ~he things that make hockey worth while, and a few surprises. The playoffs are already in full swing, so I wi11 not bore you with my predictions. One tiling that the playoffs are famous fm is bringing out the best in the unexpected player. This band ()f no-names is always impossible to predict. This new epidemic is being terrned \the John Druce Disease\. For those ()f you who were asleep through last year's playoffs, you missed the Washington Capital's John Druce who scored 14 goals, 3 assists, for 17 points in 15 games. The reason this is so remarkable is because Druce only netted 11 points through the entire season, before his playoff magic show started. Ht- sjl;l,gl_~:.fia!l<t~c;lly:; pt,{)pel!ed.. ~e ·<t[ps \\In-to' ·\'ihe Wales Conference Finals. Even thougll it is early in the playoffs,. players are already stepping up to give their teams that extra push that is always needed to win the Cup. The following is a partial list of players who are.quickly heating things up. For the Pittsburgh Penguins Mark Recchi had been the added spark in the absence of Mari~ Lemieux all season; the probkm is nobody has told him that Mario is back. He just keeps on scoring and passing his way to the playoff leader board. In the Ranger-Cap serie.s one word stands tall: GOALTENDING. Mike Richter and Don Beaupre have had a couple of stellar performances, posting oae shutout apiece in the first th11ee games. For the Hartford Whalers, Randy Ladouceur is making waves by getting four points in the f'l!'st two games of the series, after scoring j:nst four through the whole regular season. The final name on the list is Courtnall. Both Russ and Geoff Courtnall have lit it up in their opening series. Geoff has been the leader that Vancouver has needed to take a 2-1 series lead on the L.A. Kings. The playoff; have just oegun. The real 1991 \John. Druce\ .has not stepped forward yei However~ half of th:e excitement is -waiting to see who steps forwzd. Good luck to all fans, a.nd enjoy th:e playoffs. \ Wom·en'·s~ Track Team Be,ats The Heat By SA.NDRA ANSELMENT 1500m. The 400m dash proved an exciting event f<>r Union squad If you were out enjoying the memers junior Joy Grillon and sun this past Sunday, you may senior Clare \Mrs.\ Megathlin. have seen the Women's Track The two teammates finished Team in action at their first head to head with Grillon home meet of the season. The edging out the win by just four day was hot, and the track was seconds. The lOOm dash too. as the lady tracksters brought similar results. Poor burned up tlle RPI team. just missed first place and The field events trio Saunders ran a close tllird, consisting of junior A.lix finishing a mere two seconds Goldschmidt, sophomore Lori behind Poor. Moving up in the Simkins and freshman Kerry distance LaBa.re easily outran Evers, got tile Union team off the com'petition ·in the 800m to a great start by sweeping the with an impressive beginning hammer, discus, and shot put. of the season time. Goldschmidt led the scoring in 200 all three events while Simkins Returning for the . m dash, Poor, Parsons, and captured second, and Evers Saunders, eff<lrtlessly swept third. ln the javelin, this event and finished with Goldschmidt placed second and some quick times. Honorary Evers captwed third place. team member Cindy Hunter In the run11ing events, the braved the heatand endured the ladies from Union followed the 300 m run to come up with a trend set by the throwers. win for Union. Rounding <Jut a Union easily captured first terrific day on the track, the place in the 4Xl00m relay team of LaBare, Megathlin, with the quick team made up of Grill on, and Poor placed first senior co-captain Meg Parsons, in the 4X400m relay. sophomore 1'asha LaEare, Congratulatie>ns to the track junior Denise Saunders, and team on an impressive win junior Rik.a Poor. Soon after over RPI. This Saturda:Y tile this relay, Parsons came back tracksters travel to Williams to win the 1500m with an College lo compete in the outstanding performance. Williams Invitational. Good Junior co-captain Sandra Anselment placed .third in the . Luck, ladies! I SUPPORT UNION SPORTS 1

i ~ )~, •••mw•m·m·...-ru·m.=m·*~m~='M'~t~lllmt-mmm !i PO RT!i aLllltfllrbtrnzis 2.'7 ~:=f 1991 Jon Keller Scores 13 Goals and 12 Assists ln His First 4 Games By DAN STRUM Through the first four games of the Union men's Lacrosse season, Jon Keller has notched 13 go~s and 12 assists for 25 points. In addition, he has helped Union jump out to a 3- 1 record with wins over Springfield, Siena, and Roohester. For his outstanding performances, Jon Keller has been ~hosen as Concordiensis Sports Athlete of TheW eek. Keller hails from Castleton, NY where he attended Colombia High School. During his first three seasons at Union he has proved to be an integral part to Union's success. ln fact, he has been the team's leading scorer over the past three years. Keller is a team leader who controls the play in the Union offensive zone. His freshman year he . scored 29 goals and 8 assists. Sophomore year Keller posted 42 goals and 22 assists for 64 points. Last year KeHer had another solid season as he scored 37 goals and 31 assists for 68 points. His career totals now stand at 1:08 .goals and 61 assists for 169 points. On top of his fine season last year, Keller was the recipient of several awards. He was named team MVP as voted on by the members of the team. Keller was a Division III All-American Honorable Mention. At the end of the school year, Kel.ler was the Pike Award winner as the outstanding junior male athlete of the year as voted on by the Athletic Department. Keller is looking to lead the Union Lacrosse Team to another fine season. Congratulations and continued success to Jon Keller, Concordiensis Sports Athlete of The W cck! .------------------------------------------. • COME FEI\ICE WITH U!il • • • • • • • • Union Fenr::ing Club • • • • • • • • • Tues., Thurs., !iat:. 6:00 PM • : Aerobics Roo1n, Aluaa\Jni : : 6yrn : • • • • : l\IDVICE§ ARE WELCOME! : ·------------------------------------------· ........ : Men's Tennis Swings Into The New Season By Tenn:is Team The Union College men's tennis team, under the guidance of Coach Tom Decker, began the spring season last week. Although their record is now 0- 2, they have improved in each match. They barely lost to Hamilton (5-4) on Wednesday, April 3, and were defeated by an extremely to ugh Binghamton team on Saturday, 8-1. Binghamton is ranked 18th in the country and is a perennial powerhoMse in Division III tennis. The regular lineup for the team begins with junior Chris D'Orio at the # 1 spot. As of now he has a record of 1-1 in singles and with his partner, junior Garrett Lasewicz, has a 2-0 recmd in doubles. Garrett Lasewicz, playing at the #2 position has a 1-1 record in singles. D'Orio, the team's captain, feels that \Garrett is the most talented player I've ever played with on a team.\ Now playing at the #3 spot is junior Chris Miller, who is 0-2 in singles and 0-2 in doubles. Sophomore Jim. Polites plays the #4 singles position and doubles with Miller. Playing in only the Hamilton match because of an illness, he is 0-1 in single and 0-1 in doubles. At the #5 spot is senior John Conti, who is 0-1 in singles and 1-1 in doubles with his partner sophomore Darren Dahl. At the #6 spot is senior Matt Futterman who is 0-2 in singles and 0-1 in doubles with junior Dave Moody. Moody also played doubles with Miller in replacement for Polites against Binghamton and overall he is 0-2 in doubles. However, he has surprised everyone when he not only tried out for the team but earned a spot as well. Chris D'Orio thinks \Dave Moody is going to be a mainstay for Union tennis.\ Other players who have participated in matches arc freshman Tom Rizzo, who is 0-1 in singles, and Dahl who is 1-1 in doubles. Upcoming players are sophomore J cff Roth and freshman Cory Lai, Jeff Schwarz, and Paul Schultz. Freshman Chris Sprague spraiNed his ankle during an exhibition match and will probably be unable to pby for the rest of the season. Coach Decker has optimism for the season ahead. Adrni!ling .that it is tough t,) open up with three powerful competitors, such as Hamilton, Binghamton, and Skidmore, whom they played at home on Tuesday, he knows and stresses to each player thai they must maintain their poise and confidence through each match. He is expected a .500 or better season and a poss ib lc 7-4 record. He thinks there is a lot of talent on the team but some of that is young, 'green' talent which needs nurturing before it can be utilized. D'Orio thinks \the team has improved greatly since the beginning with the help of good coaching, strong leadership, and good team spirit.\ With this in mind the season ahead could hold success, and with that, a great time. The Dutchmen play at RPI today at 3:00 and away Thursday the 11th, and Oneonta on Saturday at l :00 pm. Come watch and support your team for they play better with the fans behind them. SCOREBOARD Softball Union 7 Skidmore 0 Union 4 Albany 1 Union 7 Utica 1 Union 16 Siena 4 Baseball Albany 12 Union 11 Hartwick 6 Union 5 Oneonta 5 Union 2 Oneonta 10 Union 2 Men·~ Lax Union 7 Springfield 6 Hartwick 12 Union 11 Union 18 Siena 1 Union 17 Rochester 7 WQmen's Lax Skidmore Union 4 Springfield 14 Union 4 Rochester 14 Union 4 Union 11 Wells 6 WQmen·~ Tr~~ls Union 58 Hamilton 41 Union 78 RPI 41 M~n·~ Track Hamilton 121 Union 38 RPI 100 Union 59 Men's T~nnis Hamilton 5 Union 4 Skidmore 7 Union 2 SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

Softball looks to smash its opponents this season. Ath:lete of the Week Jon Keller ·leads ·Men's Lacrosse to a high scoring start. 4 Women Swimmers Become First To ·Gain AII .. American Status At Union Courtesy of SPORTS INFORMATION Junior J canne Cutrone and the members of the 200 medley relay team-- sophomore Julie Bmker, freshman Kelly Bevan, Cutrone, and junior Amy O'Neill-- became the first women in Union Colleg's swimming history to gain All- American status at last weekend's Division III National Championships held at Emory College in Atlanta, GA. Cutrone took seventh in the 100 butterfly in 59.23 while the 200 medley relay team placed seventh with a 1:50.57. AU-American status is given. to those placing one through eight while places nine through six.teen qualify for honorable mention All-American status. 'The meet capped another successful season for the Dutchwomen. Union placed 17tl1 in the field of 85 with a t<ltal of 67 points. The Dutchwomen were the second- highest New York State finishers, behind Ithaca which had 196 points for 6th place. Kenyon won the national crown with 66L5 points. The 200 free relay team of Bevan, sophomore Kristy Holbrook, Benker and O'Neill gained honorable mention status with a 12th place finish, a 1:40.60. The 400 medley relay team of Benker, Bevan, Cutrone, and O'Neill took 10Lh in a 4:04.98. Meanwhile, Benkerplacect 13th in the 100 backstroke with a 1:01.91 and Cutrone was 14th in the 200 fly with a 2:12.47. Union finished the regular season with an 8-2 mark and took third in the New York State Meet. Head coach Susan Bassett, who has now coached three individual AU-Americans and three relay All-Americans (two of each at William Smith where she compiled a seven- year record of 69-20), now shows a four-year mark of 33-4 since taking over Union's program prior to the 1987-88 campaign. Under Bassett's direction, Union's women have had a total of 15 honorable mention All-Americans to go along with the two All- American perfonnances. Continued on page 25 Sportsweek Thursday, April 11 Baseball at Siena Women's Softball at Williams Women's Lacrosse at Mt. Holyoke Men's Tennis at RP! Saturday, April 13 Baseball at Norwich (2) Women's Softball at Rlt (2) Men's Lacrosse vs. St. Lawrence Women's Lacrosse at William Smith Men's and Women's Track Williams lnvy Golf at Williams Monday, April 15 Baseball at Williams Golf vs. Hartwick 4:00 A 4:00 A 4:00 A 3:00 A 1:00 A 1:00 A 2:00 H 1 :00 A · 11 :30 A 1:00 A 3:00A 1:00 H Tuesday, Ap-ril 16 Baseball vs. St. Rose 3:30 H Women's Lacrosse vs. Middlebury 3:30 H · Men's Tennis at Siena · 3:00 A Wednesday, Aprfl 17 Men's Lacrosse vs. Williams Women's Softball vs. Oneonta 4:00 H 3:30 H. Union Baseb·all Off To A Slow Start By JARED SELTER Sometimes it takes a shock to jump start a team and set it in its winning ways. Several years ago the once hapless Baltimore Orioles, the same team that lost 21 games straight to open the season, turned around their losing ways and became contenders in the American League East. It seems that Union College's baseball team will be hoping for such a shock to end their early season slide. The Dutchmen have come. off of a ten win and eleven l()SS season last year and have gotten off to a four-game winless streak at the onset of the spring. Last year's bad luck can be attributed to' a number or factors. Firstly illness wreaked havoc on the Union team. The measles epidemic that laid seige to .the campus knocked out a great deal of the Dutchman team, including a starting pitcher and catcher. Then freshman shortstop David Sodergren was also e.]i~inated from the line-up for the better part of the season because of a severe case of mononucleosis. Sodergren's illness forced head coach Gary Reynolds to move then freshman Mike Johnson, a natural at second base, to shortstop to sho:r.c: up the infield. The Dutchmen missed lead-off man Sodergren's quick feet in the field and on the basepaths. The epidemic forced Union's final games, eight of which were to be contested at Schenectady's Central Park (Uni<Jn's home field), all to be played on the road. This loss of home field advantage hurt the Dutchmen who finished off the sca~~n with an. eleven-game losing str~ak. The team and coach have put all ofthe bad experiences of the past behind . thern and are looking forward to this season rather than feeling remorse over last year. The Dutchmen are not a bad team by any stretch this year or last. Even with their poor finish tile team did beat an extremely strong team in the Siena Saints. Siena is a Division I team md plays all ()f the big baseball schools on the East Coast such as the Maine Black Eears and the Saint John's Redmen. Reynolds said that he \would like to beat Siena again\ this season. The Dutchmen will have their chance to repeat last year's performance against the Saints on April 12 at Siena. The win wollld be Union's first victory of the season after disappointing. losses to Albany, Hartwick, and Oneonta twice to open the season. The losses were all tough with a margin of defeat of no more than three runs in three of the games. In two of the g~es the margin was only one (Albany, 12-11 and Hartwick, 6-5). The Albany loss was perhaps the toughest of all because the Dutchmen had begun a late inning r~lly iin the ninth. Three runs were scored on two bits, a single by senior Joe Mauro and a double by junior Craig Ferrero 1 two walks, two hit batsmen, and a balk. The rally, whiclt exemplifies Union's fortitude this season, followed close on the heels of a four-run eightll inning from Albany, all of which were scored on a single swing. Though the grand slam cost Union the game, none of the players blame sophomore Mario Mancuso for the pitch. All claim that the pitch was an excellent one and how the batter got around on it is a mystery to them. Although Reynolds claims that \kids don't come to Union for baseball,\ the Dutchmen have a strong crop of players that will lead the team this season. Retuming seniors Deke Lincoln and Mark Callahan, both of whom are captains and who have five varsity letters between them, will add the experience in addition to the skill needed to have a winning squad. According to Reynolds~ Lincoln is. \an outstanding hitter\ who has the potential of leading the state. Callahan, a right handed pitcher, has struggled his last two years on varsity with some troubles in the early season. Callahan, though, had a great spring down south and \will win his share.\ Exemplifying the youlh of the team are two sophomores who will contribute greatly to the success of the team. Johnson, who will return to a more comfortable second base this season, was a New York State All-Star and hit above .400 all last season. Johnson finished the season with a .383 batting average with 14 runs batted in. The other sophomore who will help the team is Marco Mancuso, the losing pitcher in the duel against Albany. Mancuso is a righthander out of Brooklyn and Reynolds hopes he will · fit into the rotation well. According to Reynolds, Mancuso has just gotten used to college over the off season and has adjusted to the rigoJirS of collegiate baseball. The only freshman Reynolds feels will make a pcrceptable impresson on the team is outfielder Bobby Franc;ello whom Reynolds terms a \pure hitter.\ When asked if the team was hurt by the loss of seniors to graduation, Reynolds replied with a resounding \No!'' ;'We're solid,\ Reynolds said. \We replaced all of our needs.\ The team, in fact, is better than the ones which prcceedcd it. The infield definitley has more dimension than the' one from last year with the addition of Sodergren at short. This move gives the Dutchmen a fielder with. a broader range of motion at shortstop with a strong arm at second base. Sodergren will also contribute on offense with his speed and will be expected to steal often. The outfield, as well, is solid with many of the members returning from last year's squad. According to Reynolds, he has never seen a team work as hard in the off- season as he has this. year. That determination, he hopest will pay off in the win column and is a direct product of the strong leadership skills of the senior captains. The Union baseball team may be off to a slow start but it does have great potential and Continued on Page 25

Founded 18 New I'FC Cabinet Sets Hathaway Firing Sparks Much Student Unrest High Participation In Student Acceptance Days Encouraging Carney '75, each to share their former lives at Union. Also two current students, John Meier '91 and Susan Kersch '91 talked to the attending students accompanied by their parents. Long-Range. By J·EFF GREEN and MATT TUCKER Trustees. The firing of Professor Hathawuy has been an educating process in itself. Professor Hathaway in a telephone interv.icw stated that, \There has never been a time that students have had more power .. . but also there has never been a time when students have been so unaware of it.\ He f urthcr stated that, \Students are consumers, but they should be wise consumers. They should uphold a liberal education.\ By ALISA R. GASS Traditionally, April is the month when accepted students come to Union's campus to take a second, closer look at Union College, and what it has to offer. This year, Ann Gotwals, Assistant Dean of Admissions, coordinated a special series of programming .for three specific days in April. On April 8, 12,. and 15, many mcm bers of the Union College community, administration, faculty, and students, took time out to help prospective students see Union at its best. The scheduling of events went as follows: Getting to Know \U\ began with a welcome to accepted parents and students by Kenneth A. Nourse, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. Following the welcome, a panel, entitled \This Could Be U,\ discussed aspects in which Union prides itself. Leroy Day, Assistant Professor of Modern Languages, addressed General Ec.luca~ion and Union's Terms Abroad programs. Martha Huggins and Roger Thayer SLOne, Professors and Chairs of the Sociology and Anthropology Departments respectively, spoke about the opportunity for Undergraduate Research. Joanne Tobiessen; Director of the Career Development Center, spoke of her role on campus. Two alumni joined the panel, Stephen Abba '79, and Robert Next on the program, parents and students split up for a more informal discussion. For the parents, College Life at Union was the topic, and this panel was comprised of Trish Williams, Assistant Dean of Students, Donald Spring, Director of Counseling Center/Psychology Professor, and David Wood, Associate Dean for Residence Life. The student panel consisted of a cross-section of Union's students. Peter Katz, Judy Park, Seth Ellis, Sughanda Khanna, Michael Rolnick, Amy Pfaffenbach. Kristen Neibergs, Kathryn Welch, Eugene Ray, and Brenda Cruz. Students also had the opportunity to look at academic life first hand in the classroom; students were given a list of classes from which to choose to attend. After a luncheon for both parents and students, campus tonrs and Science and Engineering tours were given. On the 8th, the Higher Education Op-portunity Program (HEOP) provided a bus to transport students from New York City to attend Union's programming; .Ethel David, Director of AOP, spoke to these inner city sttidents. On the 12th, our guests were invited to attend the Steinmetz Symposium, purposely scheduled to coincide with the accepted students' day. Jay Freeland coordinated \A Look at Students Activities.\ a mini activities fair to give parents and students a look at clubs and organizations. Then, \A Sampling of Special Programs\ was discussed. For example, Fred Alford, Assistant Dean of Students, addressed Freshman Advising; Bradley Lewis, Associate Professor of Economics talked about Freshman Preceptorial/Writing Across the Curriculum; and Robert Montana spoke about Union's Intramural Program. A nice touch was added to the program · by Professor Karen Williams; she told the visitors what it was like to be a mernber of the Union Faculty and to be a Union parent. A concluding reception took place at the end of each day Continued &n page 3 -Goals By MATT TUCKER The Interfraternity Council recently conducted its annual executive board elections. Although many qualified candidates ran for the four positions, Pete Hackett (Junior - Sigma Phi), Jon Fox (Junior - Chi Psi), Matt Tucker (Sophomore - FUI), and Craig Ferrero (Junior - Sigma Chi) won the positions of President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer respectively. While the job of the council has not . been an easy task, the IFC, headed with its newly elected executive board. bas prepared, in order to alleviate some problems fraternities face, several long-range goals. Among these goals is to re- establish the reputation of fraternities as being an integral part of the Union College community. [Over the last several years. all fraternities have been slandered by the media and college administration because of a minority of other fraternities' haphazard actions.] The IFC recognizes this problem and is currently trying to remedy it by engrossing itself into numerous philanthropic causes Continued on page 3 Within the past week, student activism reached a peak which has not been seen on the campus Gf Union College in quite a long time. When several students heard that a favorite professor of theirs was dismissed, a controversial battle began. The day commenced on the front lawn of President Roger Hull. The group of people soon made their way to a meeting of the trustees and then over to rally in front of the College Center. Students boycotted classes, held signs of protest, and spoke on behalf of Professor Kit Hathaway. The rally appeared to be a success in that many students showed their support through their chants and speeches that came directly from those who have experienced Hathaway's style of teaching. The following Sunday, Professors Hathaway and Hcinegg (chair of the English Department) agreed to appear on lV R U C 's \The Bottom Line\ talk show. Unfortunately, Dean U nderw oGd declined the invitation to represent the administration. After all this, as the dust settled, we find Dean Underwood's decision still stands, suppOFted by President Hull, as well as the Board of Specifically, the power to which Hathaway is referring is the student's power of formally evaluating a professor. Hathaway remarked that, \Students should remember to take the teacher evaluations seriously, and through these evaluations, the power should be delegated to the department and not to the bureaucrats and businessmen.\ An anonymous caller during the airing of \The Bottom Line\ commented that, although she thought Hathaway was fair, he assigned a great deal of work and graded low. After talking to several other students who had given similar evaluations, she finally admitted that, \If we could do it again, we would give him better evaluations.\ This caller unknowingly summarized the controversy student evaluation forms create. It is conceivable that by seeing Hathaway fired due to poor evaluations, other non-tctmted professors would see the need to receive good evaluations. It can be argued that Hathaway received poor ratings because of his difficult style of teaching. If other professors subscribe to this belief, they would feel the necessity to compromise their teaching skills in order to receive better s01vey results. Others can argue this in many ways. Although the -! ffi student evaluation forms carry S: a lot of weight, it is ~ nevertheless the students' 8 responsibility to understand the b power that they possess. It is 6: not the fault of the . I 'I LlJ .... ~ administration if several ,,,, ~ students fill out unsatisfactory \\' evaluations. Hathaway's firing ~ will now serve as a lesson for cn those students who did not take ~ :E the surveys seriously. ::; A second point to this multi- ~ ··faceted issue is the future of ~ visiting professors at Union ~tudents show support for Professor Hathaway with signs of protest, Thursday, at his poetry reading. o. College. Professor Hathaway commented that it is a goal of Continued on page 3

I\IEW!i AI\IALY!il!i April 18, ]991 .~ ... · .. ~- The Power Of Power Hy Jl i\1 POLITES ruwcr i~ a loaded and often uwrcmploycd term tllaLdcnotcs ~111 ability, strength, ()f might t'• du or act with con vil:tion in acum1plishing <.1 significant tcu~d m ambition. ·roday's ',ilc\ll' I; . both on <1 na ltona 1 and t: J, 1ba I ->pee trum, is p~ rvadcli by ll.tr.~h ,bpl.1ys and JOllmalistic ~kcuunh ul this intnc:..~tc word th~tt '-l'L'llh lo be pbying an ,··. c'f incrl·a.sing ro:l~ in the liitllllllll-.'ntal c\·cms of our ll111C. We need only to lGok as far b~1ck as recent new swarthy episode:; to f!:11d a con~lomcration of controvcr:-.ial gro UJlS and fig urcs \vho perfect!~ fit the mold of those abusing power. These incidents, of co-urse, are the unfortunate results of power gone bad: situations where people have been exploited in such a way as to warmnt serious scrutiny ~into just how certain parties (and their lcaJcrs) were granted such in11ucncc. Take, for instance, the l'llfll ing q ucst ion of police brutality and the leading pusi tion i L has taken cuncc..:rning domestic issues of philosophy in recent weeks. \\\hik many claim that this type of police roughhousing has been wking place for some time, it is just now that such a discrepancy between the public and those meant to protect it has entered the limelight. Police forces are natural e:-. tensions of our federal government. They are employed to enforce the rules and regulations of a democratic society whose roots lie embedded in constitutional amendments. These trained public officials are bestowed incredible auth0rity over us all, and i:t is their job to delegate power judiciously, regardless of a crisis that might be difficult and/or .trying. The travesty that occurred in Los Angeles recently was an incident that stained the entire reputation of police pmtection, and further clouded a public view that has always remained cynical toward this branch of enforcement. This is a concise illustration of power granted to those who only abuse it, make it into a tool for societal intimi.dation, and release it toward an unknowin.g public that can only abide passively. For there is nothing, aside from proving such tactics (as that now infamous videotaped beating so effectively did), that can be done to combat such vicious exercise of power. This is in no way a definitive condemnation of American police forces in general. To make a broad assumption like that would be narrow-minded and foolish. It must be taken into serious consideration, though, that there arc men and women out there who do nothing more than usc a gun and billy club to prove a moot point. That their power can overcome, and alarmingly override, laws of this nation. Whether or not that crowd of L.A.P.D. officers was trying to make an example of the victim, or if racial and ethnic issues are ·at the heart of matters, it must be remern bered that fundamental rights were terribly violated. Power has an uncanny knack in making people do outrageol:ls, and potentially dangerous, things. Controlling and harnessing this authority. though, is the key to maintaining a harmonious society. On the global level, figures like Mikhail Oorbachev and Saddarn Hussein have swiftly learned that p()wer can result in On the gl'obal level, fi.gures I'ike MikhaH Gorbachev and Saddam Hussein have swiftly learned that power can result in much more than one bargains for. much more tllan one bargains for. Both, after trying to initiate military might (Gorbachev on Lithuania and Hussein on Kuwait), are now entrenched in intemal disarray that is threatening their positions as leader. To inflict power, as the United States did to Iraq, is tolerated because an entire nation was intent on wiping an awful malignancy from the world scene. Conversely, Saddam's self-proclamation .of power was a farce. It attempted to give credence, to set precedent, that Iraq was now supeq1ower status. This is yet another ~xample of power used in the wrong way, for Saddam dreamed of using geographical inflpcnce as a shortcut to supremacy. This, as he and his military learned, was a monumental blunder. Power, it must be noted, can be forged on a society in positive and constructive ways. Figures of great wealth and energy have the potential to rid society ·Of some .great problems like poverty, drugs, and horuelcssness. · Unfortunately, a public like ours, that often craves .scandalous news, is appeased mach more often than those waiting for the chivalrous stories of giving. Power phiys an integral role in a majority of the issues that garner national and global fame in the world today. h is too bad that more cannot involve positive effects Ofl society. Perhaps when power is harnessed we can all take comfort in the fact that entire communities will no longer be exploited. Though this is certainly too much to ask, a concerted effort to achieve more parity, and much less domination, is needed if we arc going to accuse the Iikes of Saddam of abusing power without being hypocritical. Maybe then we can all feel a bit more comfortable with the world. Great day\~ e~ Wa\\'\., huh?. .. RA\SA, GEr our HERE! Author Needs Your Help with Creation of Union Student Guidebook Including Local: Sports, Shopping, Outdoor ActiviUes, Bars and Restaurants, Arts, Theater and Music. Write or submit information or experiences to: Student Guidebook, c/o Dean of Students or come to a meeting at 3:30 today, at Dean of Students Office, College Center 1 j,

The Power Of Power I\~ .11\1 POI.ITES \\llc'Ic' J1'-'l1pk ha\'C been .: ' 1' Ill i k' ,{ i n such a way as to ; ',' -·,: 1- .1 lo:hkd ;md Plll'n \\ .trr:lll t ,,,rious scrutlrw into ' ., : ·'· :J lc'llll ti1.1l dc'llPic', :;;•! i1,,·,, ... c'JI:Iin parliL'\ (and ·; ·. -tr,'ll.:tl•. •'i rnr 1 ·ht :l:.:r! ·.1.:,·,,, \\c'h' ~:r.lflh.\J\lldl I, \' · i·,_ :i\'i; il I ~ I : '' ,, ''i ' ' ~ ' ~ . . ' . \ I' ' ;I. ),1 ', '' 'J ''· • I 1, • , 11 .... r ~i 1 i , • n l, ; ' ·t,::.•.' [ .t,tl _L'lllll\'~ ~tnd l<.'llr,, -,,tt\ p~.'rkllh lrt thl.' ttl·•id ,,1 tl1•l'-l' ;tbthlll~ power. 'll~c··< llt-'t,knt .... ot ,.,,urse, arc tk· Ulli1Hlunatt: rt..'sults ot 1'''\~,·r ~·'th' had. :-,ituationo.; I • r ! ' ' :,. ~ 1 ' : \ . 1 ! I. I ' ~ ' ' ' ' ; I ' j l '· I J I i ~ .:.-- ... {-. f\il,~: :'~ I\\'-'l·n th-..·J'ul·d~>.­ .tli.l lli.'•<' \)Jl,l!ll (ll \lfl'h.'d it Ju, -..'111-r,d tll. illll,:lt,.:ht. l'~>l1,,. ,,,r,- ... ,.._ ar~.· n;tlural ._' '.ldhll lih tll our lcderal ~ u v L' r n m e n l. T h ~ ::,. a r c c'Jlq'lll: L'd lO L'IlforCC thC fUkS and r cgubLions of a democratic s1lC ~~ Ly v.:hosc rt)OIS lie cmhcddc'd in constitutional amcnlhncn ts. These trained. public officials arc bestowcli incredible authority over us alL, ami it is their job to delegate power judiciously, regardless of a crisis that might be difficult and/or trying. The travesty that occurred il'l Los Angeles recently was an incident that stained the entire reputation of police protection, and further clouded a public view that has always remained cynical toward this branch of enforcement. This is a concise illustratioil of power granted to those whfJ only abuse it, make it into :a tool for societal intimidation, and rl'lease it toward a11 unknmving public that can only abid~ passively. for there j, llllUling. aside from pro\·ing such tactic'\ fas th:1l 1\(1'<.1 in!:l!ll\'ll\ \ icknl~IP~:'d h':llillc:_ '' 'I L'' li\\ ]\ t! l t! ). t h ~ J! '· 'I i' I..,,. ,!t':L. :~· ~~11'1.:'.11 \-lL.h \l\.~~·ll ) ... f ~ \ \ ' <' : \ ,I, .• ; \ ! ·., ) ' lf ;\\' ... ,.,· ., I ' :! ~ \ . \ ' : \ ~ • \. I 1 i ~ ' ~ : I \- :.. I '· i .. l : ! ~' ' ; ! : ., . ' '• •, I 1: I ; '~ l : \! l ; . ~ ~. ; 1 . :' ·. \ I_ } : ! .\ 1 f<!:f}',\ ii\.ii.'.: \.: 1 J~ll..; i\lld!~:-1 ;~ Iilli·< 1·-.· 1.1;,, ll 1111(1 ,,.!I <'l '· '-'' n-i.!:r:tlwT:. thou;h. t 1 :.tl th;r,· ;u'-· l!k'!i :md \\ tlfTll'll 1• uL tiler: \\hu d.' nnthin~ mot\~ than lhL' a gun and billy club to pnn 1.' a moot point. That their power can ov~rcornt', anll alarmingly O\Crridc. laws <lff' this nation. WhcthL'r or not that crowd o!f L.AP.D. officers was trying to make an example of the victim, or if racial and ethnic issl'!es arc at the heart of matters, it must be remembered that fundamental rights were terribly violated. Power has an uncanny knack in making people do outrageous, and potentially dangerous, things. Controlling and harnessing this aHthority, though, is the key to maintaining a harmonious society. On the global level, figures I ike Mikhail Gorbachcv and Saddam Hussein have swiftly teamed that power can result in On the global level, l'igures like \likhail Gorhachev and Saddam Hussein have S\\iftly karned th.it po\H'r ran result i11 murh nwn· !han oil': h;u·;:,ain' for. :~, ~~. .1!r~·r tr:.-~r~;: !tl :r;:L·fi,'k-1 111 mt...·rn:ll di~arr~l\ :lui,, tlH~..·atcniil,\! thctr j'<'Silltllb ;IS kad~r. 1,1 inlli.:t p0wcr, as the l'nJtcd St:~tL'\ did to Iraq. is tolerated bL'Ctusc an entire n::~tinn \\as intent on wiping an awful malignancy froJll the world scl.'nc. Conversely, Saudam·s self-proclamation of power was a farce. It attempted LO gi vc credence, to set precedent, that Iraq was now superpower status. This is yet another example of power used in the wrong way, for Saddarn dreamed of using geographical influence as a shortcut to supremacy. This, as he and his military learned, was a rnonumcntal blunder. Power, it must be noted, can be forged on a society in positive and constructive ways. Figures of great wealtl1 and energy have the potential to rid society of some great problems like poverty, drugs, and homckssncss. Unfortunately, a public like ours, that often craves scandalous news, is appeased much more often than those' waiting for the chivalrou:-. stories of gi\'ing. Pcm.l:r pby:-. an intq~ral ruk in a m:liurJ!~ of the· '''lh'\ th.t1 \'. 1111' r 11,!1 i, •n:d dlld :._J,,i •;:i 1.1111, IL ih,· \\diU l• 1,\;1\. li i, t >~. l';td ~'·-~_,j;1\~._' ~.._\l~.,_· ... ~--- t''! \'{'l ::_·[~\ t',.·il:q).._ \\ll.:fl ;·t\\-.': c:-.ph>Jtc'd. Thou~h tltl~ is c.:rutnl~ !1H1 lliLJCh to a~J-... a COnL-~'rlL'd L'llort tu adliL'VC murc panty. and much k~s li\Hllinarinn. Is nccdcu if we arc going to accuse the likes of Saddam of abu~ing power without h~ing hypocritical. Mayhe then we can all feel a hit more comfortable with the world. Gre~davka wa\K, huh'(.~ RMS~. GEr our HERE! Pre-Law Society meetings on: Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.\ in CC 409 All Author Needs Your Help with Creation of Union Student Guidebook Including local: Sports, Shopping, Outdoor Activities, Bars and Restaurants, Arts, Theater and Music. Write or submit information or experiences to: Student Guidebook, c/o Dean of Students or come to a meeting at 3:30 today, at Dean of Students Office, College Center i I l'

! i \' .. Newi·FC Ca,bin,et Begins Term, Continued from page 1 The council recently donated a sizable amount for the CROP walk; last year, all the fraternities and sororities raised over $8;000 for Schenectady Big Brother/Big Sisters. On top of that, each. fraternity conducts its own ph.ilanthrophy at least twice a year. By continuing this tradition of giving, the new executive board has in its goal to have all fraternities viewed under better light. Another gGal the interfraternity council hopes to achieve is better relations with women on campus. Sexual harassment has occurred in the past, but it is the council's goal for such an abhorrable thing never to occur in the future. The interfraternity council does not condone such actions and is currently in the process in determining methods to deter sexual harassment. It is also the IFC's goal to educate the community so that they can realize that not all sexual harassment incidents are native to fraternities. Listen this week and every week to: THE BOTTOM LINE With Matt Tucker and Sheryl Frishman Union's very own talk show On WRUC, 89 .. 7 FM Sunday Nights at 7 P.M. Security DATE T!HE tOCATION 4/08/91 2:25 All BAILEY HALL ••05191 7:14 A11 OLD CHAPEL 4/08/91 2:49 ·PH DAVIDSON HOUSE 4/09/11 2:53 PH DAVIDSDM HOUSE 4108/91 4:15 :pfl NOTT ME!I1JRIAL 4/0~I'l1 tt:57 AH NOTT SEWARD PARKINS LOT ~/09/91 12:07 PH DAVIDSON HOUSE 4/10/91 1:30 AH NOTT lttliORIAL 4/I0/91 9:19 AM WEST SATE 4/l1191 3:27 AM ALElAHOER LANE 4113111 12:H ~~~ CAHPUS El1ERSEHCY PHONES 1\JEW!i Students Protest Administration's Decision Continued from page 1 President Hull's to eliminate all renewals on visiting professors. Hathaway argues that by not allowing visiting professors to be rehired, no visiting professor would want to teach here because there is no promise of being rehired. Hathaway also argued that this goal is not ,only financially motivated, but it gives the institution more flexibility. By limiting the stay visiting professors have at Union the administration is able to limit their respective salary increases. However, others believe that making all visiting professor positions non-renewable is nothing more than restating the position's description. Visiting professors are hired with no promise of being rehired. Their position was created to fill the position of professors who are on sabbatical leave. It is also believed that the school intends to decrease the number of visiting professors. With such a decrease,. it is believed that the administration aims to increase the number of tenure- track professors. Because of the high cost of tenured professors, the administration's actions repudiate the accusation that its motives are financially motivated. Some people will mourn the loss of Professor Kit Hathaway, some will not. Others will use this experience as a way to better understand the power of the administration, of the faculty, and of the student body. These issues will confront us all in the future. Other controversies will arise and Union students will be isolated from them. The Hathaway issue will serve to reinforce this point to those ·who refuse to believe it. GOVERNMENT JOBS $16,040- $59,230/yr. Call 1-900-468-2437 24 Hour Hotline Incidents INCIDENT WINDOW VANOALliED WINDOW VAIIDALHU COUCH ftiSS!K& -l.ARCENV THEFT llf CDHPACT DISCS iEPORIE~ BASEMEMT VANDALIZED YEHICl.ES BROKEN IH!O. SmF REPORTS HARASSMENT aY STUDENTS PlANO VANDALl!ED TRESPASSER ADVISED OFF CAHPUS STOP SIGN STOLEll 4 Ei1£RGENCY PHONES VANDALl ZEil Student Forum Spotlight The Forum discussed several issues this week. Some of th.c issues were minor, others m(')r;c significant, as can be attested to the turn of events last week. The first issue discussed VIas: brought up by Marcy Weill. who informed the Forum that rush would not be moved tD sophomore year next year. There was concern by tile Forum as well as several oilier groups earlier this year ttJa t rush would be moved. Before the official notice \VI\5 issued, there was sorne speculation that moving msll to sophomore year would o.e the first in a series of cvc11ts initiating the \Bucknell Plart\ at Union to eliminate the Greek system. The issue <Jf President Hllll's d..;sirc to remove the fence frem along Seward A venue was als.o discussed. The Forum members were unanimously against this move. A motion was made and passed to support a SAC recommendation to builti a better fence in that area amltn have a lcncr written to bot.h the Concordiensis and President Hull stating the Forurn 's opinion. In addition, the condition of roads within the campus was brought urL A motion was passed to draft a letter to ?au! M an t i c a an d L o th e Concord ie-nsis, urging t11at th~ roads k repaved, not just patched. The topics of budgets and elections for next year were brought up briefly. Sue PorcH. vice president of finance. revealed to the Forum that budgets would be ready for discussion in two weeks. In addition, preparations for elections will begin, aiming for a mid-May date. Finally, the issue of Professor Hathaway's dismissal was discussed. Although there were arguments both for and against the administratiof;l's decision, no formal posit ion was taken by the Forum. The progression of events was clarified for all Forum members and the discussion did help to bring all vicwj)oints into the open. Finally, it was decided that candidate for positions on Forum committees must continue to adhere to selection guidelines that a person applying must hi..' at llninn for the entire year. One student brought up the desire to apply. despite leaving for a term abroad in the fall. The Forum felt that former policy will stand without exce-ption. The next Forum mC'ctm~ will he held this !'vtonday at 6:00 p.m. in room ...)()t) of thl· College Center. Any student'> who wish to hring topic~ for discussion to the Forum members ~huuld do so at that time and arc strongly urged to do so. Accepted Student Day Successful Continued from page 1 with remarks from President Hull and chairs of c~ch department were present. Overall, there was an excellent turnout. On April 8, there were 43 students and 40 parents; on the 12th, there 9/ere 52 stude!ltS and 79 parents; and on the l5th, there were 1 03 students and 146 pa:rertts. Union's visitors came fr()rn as far as Canada, and as cl<lsc as MEMORANDUM Niskayuna, and from many other states: NY, NJ CT, RI, MA, NH, VT, ME, GA. OH, PA, MD, and VA. There was a great deal of positive feedback from both students and their parents. The Admissions Office thanks the College community, and hopefully Union will see this successful program done again next spring. 4113/11 12:37 PM fOX, DAmSON PARX!HSLOTS HOIOR ~CHICLE i\CCIDEiiT·ftiHOR·JlQ INJURY At an as yet undetermined point in time during spring term, 1991, the Union College English department will be sponsoring a day trip to Herman Melville's home at Arrowhead, where he res~ided for eighteen years (1850-1863) and wrote his masterpiece of world literature, Moby-Dick. This excursion is open to all students regardless of major; anyone interested should contact the Engl,isll department for further information. 4/ 13/91 10:00 PH HUNTLEY k SOUTH STOP SIS!iS STOLEN 4!14111 I:44 AH NORTH ENTRY ROAD HOTOR VEHIGlE ACCIOENT·HIHOR-NO iNJURY 41 14/~1 3:~9 AH DAVII)SON HOUSE STUDENT ASSAULiEil SV MOTHER 9TUOENHONOUCT CHARGES FILED 4fH111 5~28 AH fOX HOUSE WINDOW 'IAIIDALIZED

I ! ! \ i I t. ,, I New IFC Cabi;net Begins Te·rm Continued fr()m page 1 The council recently donated a sizable amourr t for the CROP walk; last year, all the fraternities and sororities raised over $8,000 for Schenectady Big Brothcr)Big Sisters. On top of that~ each fraternity conducts its own philanthrophy at least twice a year. By continuing this tradition of giving, the rrew executive board has in its goal to have all fraternities viewed under better light. Another goal the interfraternity council hopes to achieve is bcLter relations with women on campus. Sexual harassment has occurred in the past, but it is the council's goal for such an abhorrable thing never to occur in the future. The interfraternity council does not condone such actions and is currently in the process in determining methods to deter sexual harassment. It is also the IFC\ goal to educate the community so that they can rcalit.c tklt not all scxu:1l h<.lfassment im 1dcnts arc native lt, frJtcrniucs. r ....... Listen this week and ~ every week to: I THE BOTTOM LINE With Matt Tucker and Sheryl Frishman Union's very own talk show On WRUC, 89.7 FM Sunday Nights at 7 P.M. P. I\IEW'!i Students Protest Administration's Decision Continued from page l Prcsidcn t Hull's to eliminate all renewals on visiting professors. Hathaway argues that by not alt()wing visiting professors to be rehired, no visiting professor w()uld want to teach here because there is no promise of being rehired. Hathaway also argued that this goal is not ()nl y financially motivated, but it gives the institution more flcx.ibility. By limiting the stay visiting professors have at Union the administration is ablr to limit their respective salary incrcas;es. However, ()thers believe that making all visiting professor positions non-renewable is nothing more than restating the position's description. Visiting professors are hired with no promise of being rehired. Their position was created to fill the position of professors who arc on sabbatical leave. It is also believed Lhat the school intends to decrease the nurn ber of visiting professors. With such a decrease, it is believed that the administration aims to increase the number of tenure- track professors. Because of the high cost of tenured professors, the administration's actions r~pudiatc the accusation that its motives arc financially motivated. Some people will mourn the loss of Professor Kit Hathaway, some will not. Others will use this c:xpcriencc as a way to better understand the power of the administration, of the faculty, and of the student body. These issues will confront us all in the future. Other controversies will arise and Union students will be isolated from them. The Hathaway issue will serve to reinforce this point to those who refuse to believe it. i, ~~­ ~ SENIOR PRINTING DAY C!ilUC ROOMJ HUMANITiES BASEMENT J.\1·ee Printing on Raiubn~o1-·s F1 --e Hnugew rit~r r-opies ! ! .\ SI~ECIAL !Rj\'fES On Ma~ laser Prinur for Seniors <lii.J Saturday l 10¢ a page $5.00 tna:dmum Jler day GOVERNMENT JOBS $16,040- $59,230/yr. Call 1-900-468-2437 24 Hour HotHne Student Forum Spotlight The Forum discussed several issues this week. Smne of the issues were minor, others more significant, as can be attested to the turn of cvcnb last week. The rirst issue discussed was brought up hy M<trcy \Vein who informed the Forum that rush \.vouhi not he moYcd to sophomore year next year. There w:.~s concern hy the forum as well as several nthl'r groups earlier this )'l~ar that rush would be movell. Before the official notice was i \s u c d, t h c r e w ~~ s s om c specubtion that mu' ing ru..;h to sophomore year would he· the first in a SC'fil'S of C'\\l'll!S initiating tltc \Bud.rh' 11 Plan\ at lJ nion to diminatc tllL' Greek sysh.:rn. Tlh.' i:-.sul.' of President Hull\; (kslfe to rc Illll\'1..~ the knc~.· fmm alun~ Sc\\<.ml :\vcnu~.· \\as al ... o dt-...cus~~.:d. The f ·mum tlll.'illb,·r..; \~l·rc unaninhlUsl) ;t~atlht tlu..; lllll\ ,·. \ lll•ltion \\ ;t\ m~~<k :llld pass._·,! Ill :-,upport a S :\C I c'Cl'lllllk'iHLl!l• lll ll' h:ild a t','lll'l kllc,· 111 th:tt ,~r, ;r :tlid b' h;t\'L' ;t L:t! .. :r '' r!lh'l\ ;u bdll tht' The' tupi~.:s of budgL'h anli elections ll>r next :-car wcrl' brought up hrid'ly. Sut' Porcll. ,·icc prc-.,itknt l'f finance. revealed to the Forum that budgets v.ould h~o.· rL·ady fur discussiun in two wcd;.s. In addition, prL·p~nattun-.; l11r ck(tiorb \~ill b.:~.:tn. atrntn~ roramid-\1aytiatc~ ' Finally, the h'-lll' PI P1ukssor Hatha\\a\·, di,tlll..,..,,tl was discussl'd. :\lt.hough thL'f~o.' Wt'fL' arpuncnh !\loth for and a!:'-ainsl thL· admint..;traltPn·, dcL·ision, no tlmnal po-..itilln wa~ takt'Il In tlh' hlflllll. \llh' progrl's..;iun of ,., ,·nt-.. '' ,l, clarified for all Fnrum rncmhns and till' dt..,i.ll\'-tPll lhd help to hrin~ all '11.'\\ \)lltnh into tlll' OJk'fl. Fin~!lly. 11 \\,l' tkl·,,kd tktt candidatL' IPr j1ll'-lllllfl\ nn F(lrurn cnntntJtt,·,·-. mtt-.t cnnltlllh' to ;tdlh\fl' 111 -.,·!,·, 111 •ll ~lJI,kllr11.'\ tl1.11 . .1 I',' I._.,., ;lpplyill~ 11111-l h, .li l \1:••11 il'l tih\ t'llltl.' \l',lf. ( l;l,· ''thl. !!I bmu,_chi llj' tl~< ,1.-,n.· It• ,q•;·'\. d,•,pth: k,t',J'l•' l·•f .I '.\li .tl'tl\t,l 1!1 tk· L.!l ·It< l.•r,lf' { ·ont:ilrdit•n\i\ :m,l :':,·-.rd,·nl J I 1/uil 'l;:ttrt:_: 1i1.· h•llU!r\ 1 kit lli.ll llllill\f 1'•':1-\ \',(,\ \'!~JnJ \\tl!~t~td '\. ~ J 1 1~t·P [h .. : r:._~\! •·.~r~JPI tn·:.'! ··'L' \\ ;!l f't.. :·~.·Li ':;,~_ \; ~~; l.'\ .. ·t Ppllll\111. j' In :r:l,i 1 i 11 HL ! h,· \·n.': t ;, •n 1 •I f<)d,j.., .,, rl.iJJil iit,' -~trt:ph '' ;,..., 1 l•ruuJ.:ht ''i'· .·\ illt'l. ('ll \\ .1' I I \'<~'-'\''' [,) ,;,.JI t ;! I, II,': I·' ! '.titl \LrllliCt ;tn.l ;,• tltc' ('I) IH.\ 0 I'd it' fl '> i ~ , II I.' Ill:: ! h.tl l j I ·_~;H'\'~'-tllt1>11t ji; 1 ~ .. -- lf \ ll \ '. i ; ... , •, ; L } I i I ' ' < l ~' ~- ': .i 1 n L. I! I ! I;,. [ ., -.} 1 ~ 'l ~ ~ : • ' ... t \ ! i ) I ,' t !!J:t,' .. lit~..! ,.:r.· -i: JL df ·. '· t ~ \h 1 '('. Accepted Studell1l~ Day Successful Continued from page 1 with remarks from President Hull and chairs of each department were present. Overall, there was an excellent turnout. On April R, there were 43 students and 40 parents; on the 12th, there were 52 students and 79 parents; and on the 15th, there were 103 students and 146 parents. Union's visitors came from a~ far as Canada, and as dose as :\iskayuna, and rrnm many utltcr stall''< 'SY, :\J CT. Rl, :.L\, ~H. VT, ME. GA. OH, !':\, l\!D, and VA. Tt11.·rc was a great deal of positive kcdback from both student~ and tht'ir parents. The Admissions Office thanks the College community, and hopefully Union will see this successful program done again nnt spring:. Security Incidents MEMORANDUM DATE -- ~1118191 ,,1J5dt 4108191 4108•!1 4/08'~1 4/1)-j, ~ l ••09131 <11~111 4110191 ••13111 ••13111 ,, 13/~1 \141~1 4t H/91 4/ll/11 T!HE ... ,\''r J, .LJ AH l: l< A~ 1:49 PH 1: 53 PM l: 15 PM II :li ~H 12 :•J7 PM 1: JO A~ 8: 19 AK 12:~4 AM 12:31 PH ro:uo Pn 5:1B '\ LOCATION BAILEY HALL OLD CHAPEL OAVI DSO~ HOUSE DAV I DSU~ HOUSE NOTT ~EI\ORIAL ~OTT SEoAPD PARK lNG LOT DAVIDSON 'OUSE NOll lft~Oi!Al WEST bATE ALU~HOEil LANE ~!NDOW 'IAHOALl iE 0 WINOOU ~ANOALllED COUCH ~ISS!NS ·LMCEifV INC! DE\! lllEFT Of COHPACr &!SCS RUQITEJ BASEX£111 VANDAl flEil VEH I CltS BROKE! !! 10. STAf\F iiEPORIS H~R~.SII'IEH aY s;u&Em P IAHO 'IAKOAL!IED TIESPASSER ~DVIS£~ OFf CAKPUS STOP 51611 SIOLE!i CAHPUS EIIE16EHCY PHONES 4 EK£R6ENCY PHONES VA!Oilll1ED FOX, OAVIlSOH PARKIHti LOTS ~OTOR Y!CIHClE A(Cimf-HNHHO INJURY HUNTLEY I SOUTH STOP SIGHS STOW NORTH ENTRY ROM OAV!DSOH <OUSE FOX HOUSE \OTQi '1£HICLE llf;WENHIHOHO IHJURY STIJOE~T il55t1UL;EJ iY oi/IOT!<£1 ilU&ENl-I:OHDUCI CHARGES rtLEl WINDOII'IIUIOALI!ED At an as yet undetermined point in time during spring term. 1991, the Union College English department will be sponsoring a day trip to Herman Melville's home at Arrowhead, where he resided for eighteen years (1850-1863) and wrote his masterpiece of world literature, Moby-Oick. This excursion is open to all students regardless of major; anyone interested should contact the English department for further information.

Order In Confusion By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. I've a! ways thought it to be an honor and privilege to be a thoroughly confused person. Not because of how stupid it makes me look, but more that I gain an inner karma from looking at things in such a n}nfused manner. Maybe that's \.\lly I'm a History and English major, and not a math one. Y·ou sec in my disciplines, it's wry difficult to be entirely v..rong (Lhuugh I've tried). In a subject such as math, it's easy to be wrong - a fact which would explain a lot about my cltecking account. My confusion is very important to this article because I was just pondering the oddest thing, as yet another one of my golf balls ended up in the woods last Sunday. The 999th point of light which hit me was a question - is Sunday the beginning of the week, or the end of it? Now, all you so- called \unconfused\ people out there will immediately say, \It's the first day of the week, idiot.\ Well, technically, they would be right. Sunday is fecho uno, for reasons which who knows why (probably religious). But if that's the case, why is the first day of the week part of the weekend? How can the byginning of something also be the end (unless it's a single point, i.e. CABARET Presents: MATTHEW GREENE IN CONCERT PERFORMING ORIGINAL WORKS ON ACOUSTIC GUITAR AND PIANO . FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 8:00 pm cc 302 Second Wind Productions \.\). The smart guy may say, perhaps again correctly, \Well it's the Western tradition to refer to it as such.\ The answers of our smarty pants may be somewhat adequate, but on the inside, it still doesn't nick the bugger. So I took it upon myself to call up the good folks at Keith Clark, the people who make my daily planner, for inspiration. The receptionist on the other end of the line transferred me to their P.R. person. \Hi I'm a confused person who wants to know why Sunday is the first day .of the week, and if so, why is it represented as being part of the weekend in your publication?\ To which the very angry man said, \Who told you this? You're not supposed to ask questions like that! Never question us! Because we say so, that's why! Then he hung up the phone. But being a fine representative of the free press, I went to the plant where these calendars are made. I wanted some answers. I demanded an interview, shouting \The press wants to know what's going on in there! You're controlling the days of the week! The people on the inside would not talk to me, however, and pointed at me from their tinted windows. They finally quenched my Woodward and Bernstein fire with a water filled condom bomb, lobbed on me from the tenth floor. I left these folks, wet and whimpering. So the confusion remains, and it's getting more important to me by the hour to find out if Sund£,ty's really the end or the beginning of the week. If Sunday is the end of the week, the six days prior to it is a personal plummet to lows only known by my aforementioned bank account. Then I finish each week on a high note, with church, a good night's sleep, and· heck, completed homework. If this is the case, the good things accomplished on Sunday would seemingly have no foundation for being, wouldn't you say? But if the week begins on Sunday, then all the good things which encompass it go for naught over those same six days following Sunday. Sec why . it's so important? Do I start at the top and fall down, or do I fall and then rise? All these things and more took just one shank of the golf club to realize. My golf partners, who were laughing at me by this time, didn't understand that the reason for the poor shot was due to the unreal paradox which Sunday is. They each had their own reasons - \You picked your head up,\ \You opened up your stance too much,\ and \you stink.\ hut these aren't confused people, so when they make such shots they curse themselves. I have HO reason to critici_ze my golf game, as it's the forces of confusion which are responsible for these shots, not my ineptitude. By the way, what the hell am I talking about? . ·~ ' . LO · .. · 'f •. LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB? LOOKING TO GAIN SOME EXPERIENCE THIS SUMMER? . . . •• ft • • • • . . ... ··· ... j ./ ....... · ... -·:: .. · .. ·. ... . . . . . · .· COME AND EXPLORE SUMMER OPPORTUNITIES IN THE COLLEGE CENTER ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24 FROM 10 · 1 Uni?~J College f'IJr f!:opment ~4'·~~~.: Center 370-6176 FIND OUT AT THE STUDENT PHONATHONI APRIL 28, 29, 30 & MAY 1 5:30 .. 9:00 HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM I I r '

,, ,; - .... April 18, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLET·Il\1 BOARD <1InltfDrbirn.at.z Jewish Student Union Calendar for April and May • Israel Independence Week April 15-18 • 'Tuesday, April 16th - Jewish Folk Music 8 p.m. -CC Cabaret Room . Wednesday, April 17th - Rabbi Kieffer will speak during Lunch KK 12-1:30 Thursday, April 18th - Movie: CC 3rd floor lounge 8:00 p.m. Friday, April 19th - Dinner w /Pres. Hull 6:00 KK Monday, April 22nd- CC Auditorium 8:00p.m. Dr. Robert Kaslowsky -· Union alum.- speaker on Medical Ethics from a Jewish Perspective Wednesday- May 1- JSU Big Meeting w/elections- All Welcome. 7:00p.m. followed by Ben & Jyrry's (KK) Thursd~y, May· 2 - Safam -concert at Albany - (more info. to follow) Tuesday, May 8th ... CC Auditorium- Rabbi Kushner speaker at 8:00p.m. • All Welcome • Friday Night Dinners at KK every Friday night - 6:00 • The Depanment of Geology al Union Cullt:gt: prt::.clll~. ·. Processes of Subduction Accretion and · Exhumation at a Cenozoic Subduction Zone, Washington State Dr. M.T. Brandon Yale University Dr.Brandon will discuss his ongoing research in the Olympic Mountains in western WaBhington State. Through the process of underplating, this subduction complex has been uplifted at exceedingly rapid rares. The uplift has exposed very deep levels of the accretionary prism and now provides us with an inside view of the \guts\ to this convergent margin. Today, Thursday 18 April, at 3:30pm Butterfield Hall, Room 202 Refreshments provided, please bring your own coffee cup. WHATEVER THE REASON WHATEVER THE SEASON i ~~~~.f!P.§'~'''~·n·;:::~·~.~ -~ ~.~·~,-~~ ~ \ ~ Gilt Certilicale ~ I~-~-~··-\' ~ I ..... _.._111110• 1 ,_. ~ ~ _.,.. ......... 1.... ~ ~ .... roo.u<E \<i) ~ G Y£LECO~MU~ICATJ()qSOJ\rr:t ~ I~ unu,..om I .. OIITIIJISfUI.IIlr ..... _. ......... .._ I ·~ ... W·~~~~~~~i~li'~~~~.~:~ ~~ 1 ~~\' :lc ~ ,;....Qo~ ~ ~ ~~ TELECOMMUNICATIONS G 1FT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATIVE UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. OR CALL 37D-6411 FOR MORE INFORMATION. Rock-n-Roll.Pi~aa & Sub Shop THE WORLD IS Y URPIZZA C NTEST! Create your dream pie and eat free all week! Submit your favorite Pizza Pie recipe. The winning pie will be the Special all 'J,:eck at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. The author will receive a meal pass good for seven rncals at lhc Dutch Hollow Restaurant along with recognition in the Concordiensis. Entry Forms at the Dutch Hollow Restoruv~auElo

,,~. 6 &.o.ttntrbirnsis 11\lTERl\IATI,OI\IAL FEA TURE!i International House: E:ither Skin Eye On The orld y Ed Menke Show Me or Don't While searching through newspapers, magazines, various Kit Hathaway memos and other papers, trying tO find what I was going to \base\ my column on this week, I saw an advertisement which caught my eye. It caught my eye, of course, because it was successful; people get paid more than four years' worth of tuition here to decide what will make Joe Six-pack look twice. What docs the advertisement look like? There is a picture of a woman, from her neck to her waist, wearing a button-down shirt, with the name of som~~ brand of clothing at the bottom. Nice white shirt, no big eye catcher. However, what does catch my eye. is _the manner in which she lets it cover her. Partly. The shrrt JUSt happens to be unbuttoned right between her breasts, showing a darkened area of flesh which is open to the imagination of the reader. Now I'm no prude, so this doesn't offend me. When I was in France, I saw naked women prancing around the television, doing advertisement for anything and everything. Other European countries, I am told, use similar advertisement techniques. As far as I'm concerned, it's up to the society and the people who pose or act or promote or whatever. No problem with this hombre. By LARAE TUMIDAJEWICZ The Administration recently announced its plan to spread next year's exchange students out all over campus, thus allowing only one or two foreign students to live in the International House. This defeats the purpose of the House, which states in the constitution that half of the residents will be international students. thus. the Administration will cause the House to go out of existence at Union College. Several students living in the International House this year commented on how they felt about these changes. Here is what they had to say: \The benefits of American and intetnational students living together in a close social environment are both rewarding and enriching. The Administration's proposal to allow only one or two international students into the International House not only signifies the loss of a valuable and unique cross-cultural experience on Union's campus, but also defeats the purpose for which International House was established. As a House, we hope the Administration carefully reviews this proposal, for if International House is forfeited, Let It Be it would not only be a loss for :the students, but a loss for Union as well.\ -Vktoria Sardi lntemational House Chairman \The Intemati<>nal House is a really nice place to live on campus because it :provides an <Jpportunity to live with international students who have different culitures and languages. -Xavier Cheynet French Teaching Assistant \I would be pissed off to be forced to live in ,a place like Davidson. There is an International Ho11se. It should be involved in international activities with i8lternational students, not just i11temational in name.\ -An<lrey FyQdorov Student from the Soviet Union \One of the ad\Vantages of the International Hot~se is that you get to know American students who are interested in living together with different-cultures. The special hom\y atmosphere of this donnitory really helped us to adjust to life on campus. After almost a year, I would not want to live anywhere else. The activities of the International Ho11se should be strongly supported rather than hindered\ -Sabine Schmitz German Teaclling Assistant \I think it is wrong for the House to be abolished. It is important for Americans to live with foreign students to get to know them. In the other dorms, if nobody wants to get to know the international student, no one benefits ... \ -Kristin Lupoli \It• s too bad because International House gives Americans a chance to interact mor~ closely with international students than they would have otherwise.\ ·Christina Horaz \This whole thing about starting a 'Language House~ • which is currently in speculation, appears to me to inte11d to take the place of the International House. Having a Lan~uage House is a great idea, but by no means do I believe it should justify ridding of the Intemational House. They have two very different objectives: one is for practicing foreign laaguages and the other is concerned with foreign people and their cultures. Our education is already being tatnJ)ered with; we should at least be able to decide upon our own personal living conditions. Why don't they change the standards of living in ]>laces that really need it? The International House has a substantial reason for existing, 1 • b II so et :H e ... , · · ···-\ __ -J. Phillips Where I do \have a problem, however, is with the advertisement here in the U.S. of A. If society feels that nudity is okay for promoting soap, dishwashing detergent, beauty pageants, game shows, etc., then so let it be. If, on the other hand, that society doesn't think that it's right, for whatever reason, then that's fine, too. I don't mean to ride the fence, I just couldn't care either way. What I don't like, though, is when people tease me and tempt me, squeaking by the laws by the grease in their hair. The way I look at it is, don't insult me. If society has decided that you can't use nudity to promote products, then don't. Don't even come close. Society feels that products can be presented in an attractive manner without nudity, so do all of us a favor and leave my libido out of it. My id and I will just fine, thank you, while you earn your millions figuring out other ways to sell me something. If you have a problem with that, then hit the road. Go off to France of Spain or Italy where you might be able to sell something. If you have a problem with that, then hit the road. Go off to France or Spain or Italy where you might be able to sell something just by showing skin. But don't try to do it here. If I want to see pictures of skin, I know where to go. Sally Eckhoff Paintings April 22-May 3 in the Strauss Gallery (CC305) (The impetus for this piece can be found on page 7 of the April 14, 1991 issue of The New York Times Magazine.) Have you ever wanted to be a MODEL? If so, try out for the !F &1 fffJ [}iJ 0@ [ffJ ~ [}iJ @ f!i9 Q Time: Sunday, April 22nd, from 3-5 p.m. Place: 2nd floor Webster House Opening receptinJl Friday, Apri/26 6--B:O() p.m. All are welcome Gallery Hours: M<m.-Fri., l to 5 ~···········•*******************************~ : ~®W ~ ~ ~ ~ * : Ftiday Ni{!ht . Dinner ! t With t ~ ~ : fP [f@ &J 0@]@ 1]7) ({ 1}{/ [!f) uo ~ • + ~ + : at the Kosher Kitchen t : All Welcome! ! i ! Please Bring Meal Card ! ~ . ''*********~****************~******************t I ' ' ,:' '

'I ,i ' I !i Hull's Hair-Brained Scheme Targeted at International Students! By MARGIE FRAKE Since the cease fire regarding the Desert Stann situation was. signed, i:t looked like there wu~M be peace on the international scene. But there is a war going on involving the international affairs at Union College. For several years now, there has been an \International House\ located on the second floor of Webster. It is a very special place designed for American students to choose to live one on one with exchange students. President Hull, in anotherone of his self-guided, mindless moves to change our college, has decided that next year's foreign students will be housed all .over campus, allowing at most two students to reside in the International House. This restriction violates the International House constitution that calls for 50% of residents to be international. Hull's uncalled for plan will essentially force the International House to become obsolete. This drastic change was not even announced to the House until the day that the residence contracts were due. At a recent House meeting, the members unanimously decided to fight Hulls' insubstantiated decision to do away with the Int~rnational House. It is not fair to isolate the exchange sudents in dorms where they may not want to live. Most foreign students are generally more mature than typica:I college freshmen. They do not want to be stranded in a dorm where the other residents are yelling, radios are blasting, and those who have had too much to drink are stumbling and throwing up in the halls. Also, students in the other dormitories do not necessarily find it enhancing to absorb another culture. Thefloormates in the Intemational House are there because they want to be. One student who was .an RA in a busier dorm said. that 'the Chinese guys on the floor had a hard time. Everyone on the floor would go to dinner and neglect to invite them along.' The International House is not just \someplace to live\. It is more like a closeknit family. especially since the international students are so far away from their own families. When one of them has a problem or needs help with school work or jnst needs a friend to talk to, heor she does not have to go far because there is always a friend right next door. There is always someone close by to eat dinner with, to use the athletic facilities with, or to go along with to a party. The exchange students in the House do not have to worry about who they can find to do things with; they know someone nearby will be interested in sharing the time with them. International House gets college funding for trips, study breaks, birthday parties, and holiday celebrations. In this way, the foreign students can .see and learn much, much more about the American .cul:ture, and after all that is why they are visiting the United' States. Even on breaks and hoiidays, the Americans in the International House' care enough to take these ex.change students home with them. If they are living with o:r:dinary students, perhaps nobody will take interest to invite them home, and they will have to spend the holidays alone in their rooms. When someone is ill, floormatcs of the House all help out to get food. medicine, and give comfort to the foreign student as if he or she were at home receiving a mother's care. The House residents are also responsible enough to be quit't fPO[fJ®IlW Nott Kids' Stuff Their most recent recording featuring: Is She Really Going Out With Him?, Ah Woe, Ah Me! You Are My Sunshine, and Seven Bridges Road and 14 others. $8 Cassette On sale in the College Center iCOtifAc-tSi TERMS ABROAD I . I I I WANTS TO ANNOUNCE THE ISRAEL TERM IS GOING IN FALL 1991 Any Student who is interested and has not ye1 signed up Please contact Prof. Greenberg - x 6259 By Tuesday, April 30 I I ~ Lstudent Servic. es : I ENS LAB I · I Contact Lenses For Less 1 I Fast, CDnvenient, Direct-to-YDu 1 savings of up to 50%. All Brands I ·and Prescriptions in stock. in- I I eluding Tints & Disposables. 1 Overnight shipments available. I Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- I I tory-sealed vials. 1 Call for infonnation and I FREE CATALOG. I : 800-726-7802 ~ 1 ., t· 241-lours 1 • 7oavs I ~1fl!!L ~~ .!f_ol~ ~~J :,- .. - . \International House is not just\sorneplace\ to live; it is more like a close knit family.\ when someone is sick,. or if someone on the floor has an exam the next day. Again, thi~ kind of respect and courtesy are not found on ordinary floors. Most important of all, is the idea that the international students arc not stranded; there are other students right nearb::;r that feel homesick and ar~ experiencing similar problems. And they have the additional benefit of American stude11ts living there Who care about them and want to help ease the transition between the cultural differences of tbe various countries. There is no reason for the International House to be abolished, but every reason for it to remain for the continued warmth and unity expressed within the \famHy\ of the International House. Language House to Open The time is now to get Union's Language Theme House going. The basement in Webster House is a rather nice place. The rooms are big, there is a kitchenette, laundry room, a lounge, and two other recreation rooms. The place will be beautified (paillt, curtains, new furniture, etc.) and the water leakage problem will be alleviated (construction work will be done this spring). Take a few minutes_ thjs week to think about the advantages of living in a small compatible group of students (12) who share interests in other languages and other cultures. A large multistandard VCR(fV will be installed for foreign movie showings and the house will be linked to the satellite news as soon as possible. The proximity to International Hoase on the second floor and Ludlow House on the first floor should be very desirable. THE EAST ASIAN STUDIES PROGRA:\1 PRESENTS A CHINESE FlLM WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES UNDER THE BRIDGE MONDAY, APRIL 22, 7:00P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM Editorial Position Still Available For International Features Please Call Larae at 370-6836

s OJ .ttltfllrbirttsis 11\ITERI\IATID·I\JAL FEATURE§ April Tales From The Orient By STEPHANIE DAVIS and KIMBEltLEE BRODY rviichacL Glanzberg, a junior, has been studying in Japan for the entire year. He participated in the UniGn term abroad in the fall. He now continues to attend the same school. He must travel one and a half hours every morning to get to school. The school consists of roughly 250 students. Many arc American and British. Students take four or five classes. Michael takes Japanese, three political science classes dwling with Japanese law, S.ino-Japanesc relatiens, and the conflict of values in Contemporary Japan. Michael enjoys living with his Japanese family. His Japanese \parents\ are in their thirties. He has a Japanese \brother age six, and a Japanese \sister age four. His \father\ works for Panasonic and his \mother\ is an English teacher. The houses are quite different from what Michael is used to here, but he is enjoying the experience. He eats a lot of fish and white rice. Red meat is seldom served. He also drinks beer and sake quite often. In accordance with the Japanese stereotype, the Japanese work and play very hard. The work weeks are longer than our traditional forty hour week and ambitions. run high. It is apparent to Michael why the death rate among young businessmen as a result of hypertension is quite high. Acromathcrapy bath beads and relaxation tapes have obviously Michael in Yokohama's China Town not reached the Far East. Unlike most terms abroad through Union, Michael finds that he cannot blend in with the local culture. As an American, he stands oat from the crowd. His height and his fair coloring set him apart from the Japanese. At first ~his was quite uncomfortable, but Michael has learned to adjust. Many Japanese girls who watch American films, have mistaken him for Tom cruise. This may have helped him adjust to his new surroundings. Travelling has been one of the higbHghts of Michael's experience in the Orient. He has ttave)!led to Hiroshima, Tokyo, Yokohama, the Japan Alps, Kh.oto, Nara, and of course, Osaka. He writes that everythin.g in Osaka is obscenely expensive and crowded. lie spent three weeks in Thailand and also spent the proverbial \one night in Bangkok,\ where he experienced the seedier ·side of life. Bath houses, go-go clubs and prostitutes filled the crowded streets. He writes that, \Never in my life have I experienced anything like that city. 11 Michael will be returning to Union in the fall. He will certainly have much to tell about his year in Japan. If anyone is interested in spending a term or a year in Japan, Michael would be more than willing to recount his experiences. \It is an amazing experience and I highly recommend it for those who enjoy doing something different.\ NEW LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday- Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 Tuesday April 30 cc 406 7:3() p.m. Heidelbeq:er Romanze/Romance in Heidelberg (1952, 100 min., German with English subtitles) Directed by Paul Verhoeven, with O.W. Fischer, Liselotte Pulver, Gardy Granass, Gu.nnar Moller. Quiet alleys and paths, cozy taverns, the glittering of the Neckar River slowly flowing down to the Rhine, the ruins of a castle- that's Heidelberg. it is love at first sight for American student Erwin and Gabriele, followed by a cable to pis fiancee in the States informing her that the engagement is cancelled. However, Susanne, the spoiled fiancee does not surrender that easily and arrives on the scene with her father where a student is waiting for a presumably elderly American lady whom he is supposed to show around. It soon becomes clear that Heidelberg's romance will last forever! .Are The Ge·rmans Cowards? By JENS EOLHOFER D(llrtmund, Germany When I was a German teachi11g assistant at Union College in 1988-89 I wrote an article about the two Germanies. I was then trying to find reasons for the state of the tvvo countries. Only post- war .history could offer an expla11ation. Now, a long time after the two Germanies have reunited I want to take the opportunity to write about Germany's present .situation - not .aout the state of the country but about the reasons for its seeming apathy during the Gulf War. As you will see, these topics are very much intertwined and, again, they can only be understood with the help of hist()ry. After the breakdown of Nazi Germany in: 1945, the country was <>ccupied by the Allies. Although through the years after the German separation West Germany regained some of its independence, it was still no i11dependent nation. People in tile whole world, and particularly those in the European countries who had suffered most during the SecondWorld War, have always been afraid of a strong, independent. anned and reunited Germany. Even when · reunification had almost reached completion, many objections were made by high- ranking politicians like the Britisll secretary Nicolas Ridley who gave vent to his fear of a strong Germany by comparing Kohl with Hitler. It was the two superpowers, the US and the Soviet Union, that finally ma.d:c the reunification possible. This change <Of the EuroJlean order has not only brought the Allies into a conflict? but also Germany. No. w the Germans have to redefine their situation. Their constitution still doesn't allow the deployment of German military outside the NATO. Th.e educaticm system following Nazi Germany was first imposed on the Germans in order to educate those who had brought about two terrible world wars to become peaceful. Feelings of guilt have thus been built up at least for the ·generations following the sttJdent revolution in the late 6\ls. These generations grew up internalizing the value of peace as one <;>f man's highest values an-d handed it down to each subsequent generation. Every scllool book, every subject in scllool, every teacher brought up the wrongs of our forefathers' generation. I'm pr<Jud that these values have been internalized, that Germany is one of the few nations in the \Vorld in which young people fe<ll responsible for keeping peace and in which large parts of ·the population have realized that war is not just the continuation of politics with 'different' means. German pacifism must be understood as a consequence of t!.e historical-political development since world War II. For this reason it is schizophrenic to reproach the Germans for their caution. Tiley only did what they've been taught to do over the past forty years: they tried to avoid waging war. W La Familia de ft~ PtJl J:J·1~ ~~Jp!J~ Presents A multicultural I

:.<-.:~':';~f,,\::w._·:~:U:~ .. ~~~-. ~U~~.~ Aprn 1s, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLETII\I BOARD <llottnlrbirttat£ 9 ;~~ . LONDON PARIS WASHINGTON SEMESTER/ ACADEMIC YEAR . . I iCORTONA !LONDON I ;MONACO PARIS ' CYPRUS MADRID PADUA GRENOBLE HAIFA MADRID NIGER OXFORD ; USSR/E. EUROPE ·pAbUA For program details complete the coupon below and m'ail it to : Boston University '\ International Programs ,1 232 Bay State Road Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9888 Name _______ _ lnternshtp Programs l..onoon ~Par.1s Summer Programs _Conona Address------- City Phone College/University ___ _ _Summer _Fall _Spring 19_ _ Washtngton Sernesler·Academ!c Year Grenoble __ Nrger Oxford Padua __ Cyprus L.onoon Madnd Monaco PadDa _PaT\IS _USSR-E Europe GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010) All are welcome to attend . Ss;bedu!e; Mondays, Wednesday and Fridays: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00PM SPANISH 4:00PM . Tuesdays and Thursdays: . HEBREW 1:30PM CHINESE 2:00PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM Come and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, . they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Langua,ge Lab Technician, x6216.. . -.·· Language Lab Hours: Monday·Friday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm Sunday-Thursday: 7:00 pm-10:00 pm ... ·· ,._ Discover__ one of Schenectady's be.§t kept secrets and help us celebrate our 9th year of business with our ANNIVERSARY SALE! rr'lie S lioppe * *Neat clothing, jewelry and accessories 25% off all merchandise (including sale items) Sale runs Wed. April 17- Sat. Apri/20. Just a jive minute walk from canzplls. 133 Canal Sq. Downtown Sc/z'dy • 370-4288 ;Ground: .· .. .. · Jlutldiag\ oa t11e· · St•eogth ol Diversity 4D op.j?QrttHJity for you to explore issues of race, sexual.ity, gender, . religion and ethnicity. . _ Co·me ·and· beg.in to address the most pressing· matters on college ·campuses arnf.!n the world today. You owe It to yourself. ·\ ·. __ ,May 25, 1991 , For registration lnformation can 518/386-4241 biJTiited s ac~ available so call now! A Summer At Pace Lets You Have I All. Thank You Ambassadors!!! Last Week You Contacted 1280 Accepted Students!!! Fun! Sun! Work! School! There's nothing more exciting than a summer in New York, but now Pace University has a way to make it prod11ctive as well as fun. Pace offers tvio 6-week summer sessions at all three of our campuses in tbe New York metropolitan area. Aud thanks to our special summer \Live and Learn\ rate of just $1200 per sessitm (including accommodations, institutional fee, and one 3-credit undergraduate course), enjo~ing everything New York has to offer has never been more affordable. - Of course, you could spend your summer just getting a tan. But at Pace Vniversi~··s Summer Sessions you'll find something that doesn ~~ fade over time. The Pace e.\-perience. Corne discover v;hy we call it the experience for a lifetime. For more information about our full range of summer courses, fill out this coupon and mail it todav. Or just caU l-800-874.~7223 ext 7901 · Pace offers a wide range of Register Now! Summer is getting u.ndergraduate programs: eve-rything p A c E closer eYery day! from langu\lge, literature and education,toarts,sciencesand U ~rRS ·T , SummerSessionlbeginsJune5,1991. nursing, to accounting, finance and ~¢~\'~- . ,.,£ .. ~_..,, -- J ) Summer Session ll beginsJulyl5, 1991. computers. \? p.;r'1' ,. Th~fiperience For A Lifetime ----------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------- Pace Unrversity, Admissions Infonnation Center One Pace Plaza, New York, ~y 10038 YES, I ~'ant It All! D Please send me a summer course schedule. D Please send me information on special summer science courses. Name: --------------------~ Address: _________ _ City/StateR.ip:. ____________ _ Phone: ---------------------- SS#(optional):. ________ _ College Attending:. ______ _ Thanks For All Your Help!! Special Thanks to Tt1ese Ambassadors Who Donated More Than One Night to The Phonathons: Ramsey Baker Heather Bobo Andrea Bracciantc Dia_na Brodsky Steve Carr Barbara Cash Seth Ellis James Fitzhenry Amy Glassman Mike Johnson Leslie Mason Juli Murphy Joe Pecora Rika Poor Kristen Pugh Unsc1d Robinson Amy Rosenfeld Sarah Rudger Pam Schutzcr Blairc Spritzer Brian Tan Laura Thatcher Chet Urban If You Spot A News Story Call x4147 x4157 x4167 x4153

1 o Olonr.orbirn.si.s A Dorm's Call For P·ower By ISABEL C. LIRIANO Associate Environmental Editor What can we as college students do to conserve energy in our dorm rooms? This ~s a very interesting question considering how much energy we consume. \The growing a.ITay of electronic accoutrements of today's college students is taxing the ability of schools to provide adequate power.\ (Sunday's New York Times.) Presidents of housing at Haverford College and at the University of California in Los Angeles have realized that nowadays college students require 16 outlets more than college students did 25 years ago. Students and their electronics are taking over campus housing. College dorm rooms during the '50s were only and satisfactorily equipped with a few outlets for a three-speed Victrola and a manual typewriter. In the new '90s, college dorm rooms are equipped with high technology comforts such as personal computers, high speed printers, color televisions, video cassette recorders, microwave ovens, answering machines, electric popcorn poppers, hair dryers, electric shavers, compact disc players, stereo systems and much, much more. That is a very big change in 40 years. These utilities use up so much energy that some campus dorm rooms have had to rewire their residence halls to keep up with the high energy demand. Aside from all these luxuries, there is another side to this story. There are those students who would rather use the facilities available in public lounges; however, this does not change the situation in any way. Many times students ignore the fact that once a public utility is no longer in use it must be turned off. For example, televisions often go on all night in public lounges because nobody remembered to turn it off or just assumed someone else would do it. The same situation is true of lights and alarm clocks during the daytime. The University of Rochester has developed a more watchful eye on student energy consumption within the past several years. Students have become very active in the struggle to conserve energy and have even made suggestions such as placing motion detectors in restrooms, hallways, and lounges, so that lights can automatically tum off. That sounds-- like a great idea. So, please spare the two or three seconds it takes to conserve energy and turn a light off! LET'S CONSERVE UNION. THINK GLOBALLY ACT LOCALLY EVERY DAY Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The labrador duck. The Carolina parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. . The National Wildlife Federation is I working to save endangered species. join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16th Street, NW; Washington, DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of TomorrowlM NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION :w. A New Wave of Environmentalists By FRA~Z T. LlTZ Not a day goes by, it seems, that we don't find yet another news piece relating yet another gray environmental problem. Environmentalists, together with scientists and engineers, are sometimes like doctors at the bedside of an ailing patient. Each time, the patient is one we all know: our natural environment. The environmentalist movement ·can be broken into th.ree stages. The first stage, often connected with Theodore Roosevelt, focused on the setting aside of nature areas to form large preserves. The second stage, now stretching over several decades, is characterized by a fightbetween activists and industry, the heaviest polluters. It is commonly viewed as a series of battles over issues ranging from DDT to koala bears. While this stage is largely still underway,. an new stage has emerged over the last five to ten years. Minerva speaker {4/4), and Executive Director of the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), Fred Krupp, is among a group of environmentalists that has set out to change the direction of the environmental movement. He is associated wih a relatively new concept, one environmentalists call Third-Stage Environ- mentalism. This movement strives toward what might be considered preventive medicine for the environment: the harnessing of market forces to include the costs to the environment. Krupp first wrote in the Wall Street Journal on November 20, 1986 about the trends he then saw among environmentalist movements: \A third stage of environmental advocacy is emerging ... Its practitioners recognize that behind waste dumps and dams and power plants and pesticides that threaten major environmental harm, there ate nearly always legitimate social neeeds-- and that long-term solutions lie in finding alternative ways to meet those underlying needs.\ Environmentalists, it i.s commonly assumed, are automatically against economic growth because it necessarily leads to the abuse of the environment. Third-wave · Environmentalism challenges this age-old assumption, offering solid. economic plans that allow for economic growth, but growth that is economically and environmentally efficient. Th~ EDF, an organization at the forefront in the implementation of this new strategy, is staffed by an extremely well trained team of scientists, economists and lawyers. The EDF and other environmental groups across the country have assisted corporations in finding solutions that make sense both economically and environmentally. Their goals are not only to avoid, for example, the building of a new dam, but to figure out ways to meet the demand calling for its construction. In the Late seventies, an EDF team consisting of a lawyer, an economist and a computer analyst, convinced the Pacific Gas & Electric Corporation that it was unnecessary to go ahead with the construction of $20 billion in new coal and nuclear power plants. They developed a plan of alternative energy sources and conservation investments that saved PG&E billions and spared California potential environmental damage. All parties benefited. Most recently, the EDF convinced McDonal'd;s that it was time to phase out the polystyrene clamshells. The current packaging results in less than ·one-tenth the amount of waste. On a broad(fr, global level, the EDF advocates the use of market forces to · control pollution problems. In his Minerva lecture, Krupp outlined .a number of ways this could be accomplished. Among these were monetary deposits on harmflul substances, chru;ges on pollution, and a world-wide tradable :permit plan that would provide for the trading of pollution .permits on a world exchange~ Under the permit plan, the southern less ineustrialized nations would effectively be paid by the heavy-polluting northern nations for the right to emit pollution into the atmosphere. Meanwhile, the total amount of permits available, i.e. the total amount of pollution allowed, would be gradually decreased, thereby forcing more and more efficient pollution abatement technologies. ~nvironmental advocacy now involves the development of innovative solutions by tb.e sharpest minds from a wide variety of fields. Our complex environmental problems demand complex, well thought out solutions. Third-stage environmental solutions are characterized more by cooperation and persuasion than conflict. The message groups like the EDF are trying to send? Stop dealing with the symptoms of environmental neglect and get to the heart of its caQse. As any doctor will tell you, . preventive medicine will go a long way in preserving the health of the patient. A Green Earth Week Sunday, April 21 -Sunday, April 28 Think lilobally., Act: Locally Sunday, April 28 6reen Earth Fe.&t:ival 5th Anniversay of Chernobyl - Albany Wash. Park 12 to 4 Speakers and music - Greens, clear water, Amnesty International, Ward Stone, Hunger Action Network, James Bay - Hydro Quebec, Animal Rights, Begonia, Short of Breath, Terry and Maria, Solomon's RamaDa Volunteers needed 283-6512 For more Info. on other events' Capital District Greens 283-6512, 767-9762 , , I t, ' )II .· I\ , I II '~ t}.

April 18, 1991 CAMPU!i BULL.ETtl\1· BOARD @.oltDlr.birn.sis 11 DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT ~ ANNOUNCING ----- AN ICE CREAM EXTRAVAGANZA!! l AT THE D·UTCH H:OLLOW RESTAURANT Make Your Own Sundaes with a selection of delicious toppings ·*Banana Splits * Ice Cream Floats \Beat the Heat with a Sweet Treat''' and of course Columbo Frozen Yogurt! We Know What You Like! There's an ·IBM PS/2 made for every student body. Green gtass and blazing sun. Term papers and lab reports. The IBM PS/2® has what you need to get you through your work and into spring. It has preloaded software that'lllet you create impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets in no time. A mouse to make it easy to use. Great tools like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. Plus, it's expandable, so it can grow along with you. The IBM Personal System/2\' has all this at a super student price* and affordable loan pay- ments with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. And 011 .a different notr, you. can transform your IBM PS/2 with Micro Charlltlrl' into an exciting mllsic maker with the R-olan(!' Df\~ktop Music System. So gt't somt'thing that will help )'OU get through y()ur work and into the sun. 1\ft~r all, spring, like th<· IBM PS/2, was made for every student body. •rh1s offer 1s available to qualified college students, faculty and staff wl1o purchase IBM Selected Academ1c Solutions through part1c1pa\lng campus outlets. IBM1-B00-222·7257 or IBMAuthonzed PC Dealers certified to remarket IBM·Selected Academic Solut1ons Orders are subJeCt to avatlabillty Prices are subject1o change. and IBM may withdraw the 9ffer at any time without wn1ten notice. '·IBM. PS/2. Personal SystemJ2. and Micro Cha11ne1are reg1stered trademarks.of llliernatlonal Business Machines Corporation. Roland is a r~gistered trademark of Roland Corporation. US -\IBMCorporation1991 ----· ---- .. ---- ~-­ .. -- --- 01 -- --- ------ ----·-

... E:DITDRIAL Qtiiiiffifiiffiis -----------Founded at Unioll College 1877----- Re-Evaluate Your Role The Administration's recent dismissal of Professor Kit Hathaway has brought to the forefront of many conversations the question of what role the students at Union College play in the evaluation of its faculty. The answer that most students would give is that the student influence is limited, despite President Hull's insistence that the student evaluations are extremely important to decision making. If anything good comes out of the whole mess it will hopefully be the realization that student imput does count and should not be taken lightly, by the administration or by the students themselves. The students wh.o complain so loudly that the administration is ignoring their imput should take ·a long, hard look at the amo11nt of effort they put into the assertion of their influence. S tudcnts must decide that it is more important to fiU out evaluation forms fully and carefully than it is t<J get out of a class five minutes eadier by circling random numbers on the forms. Students who feel strongly about a professor, one way or another, must volunteer for interviews to share their firsthand knowledge of their professors' teaching skills. Students who are truly concerned with getting a good education cannot afford to sit back and wait until a great teacbcr is fired to say how they really felt about him. Compared to other respectable institutions of higher learning, Union's system of faculty evaluation allows for relatively little student influence. Some universities have more progt:essive systems, including evaluation committees which are made up entirely of students and come to their own c<>nclusions. At these schools, the students are spared the frustration of the administration refusing to release for public examination the student evaluations. At these more student-influenced schools, the administration is not able to assert. without giving evidence, that it was the student opinions which. led to the controversial decisions. Because the Union system does not presently allow for such direct student involvement, those who are unhappy must use whatever power they have to make a difference. Those who are unhap:py with something, let it be known. Those who are upset with the whole system, do not be satisfied with solely offering your misgivings. It's not enough to complain; Union must work to develo:p a new system by coming up with alternative plans to more effectively assert student influence. You .Made Your Bed - Now Lie In It In examining the numerous· issues which confront the Union College community, one often overlooks what could in fact be the most serious and damaging situation of all, namely widespread apathy and impassivity. Accordingly, before one begins to seek solutions for the various quirks within our system, one must first discover a method that would enable us to render indifference extinct. One might assert that Union students are 110 longer apathetic in that they did in fact recently participate in a boycott of classes and a rally expressing their resentment of an administrative decision to dismiss a controversial professor. Unfortunately, this does not constitute the disintegration of apathy nor does it mean that the student body is suddenly aware of what is taking place around it. Apathy is not extinguished by a single event nor is it erased by an isolated act of participation. Rather, the phlegm which ensues may be compared to a chronic illness in that it lingers on in different degrees of intensity until it is cured in its entirety. It is always enlightening when one witnesses a surge of genuine interest on bel1alf of the student body regardi11g any pertinent issue facing the college. However, it is rather unfortunate that these sudden sparlcs of curiosity and inquisitiveness materialize only when it is already too late to alter the outcome. Students must condition themselves to take action so that problems will be alleviated before they surface. One cannot sympathize with the student who one morning wakes up and is agitated by the fact that the administration has in some way \taken advantage of him,\ while he has had the audacity to remain silent and uninterested the other ninety-nine percent of the time. It is bewildering that students can be so bitter and so anti-establishment when in reality, had the individual ta1en a active role from the very begi11ning, the problem could have been avoided altogether. It is wrong to point the finger of blame when an individual has no one to blame but himself. The boycott of classes and the rally held last Friday is a prime example of acting too late. In the majority of cases, the protest served as a pathetic attempt to justify sleeping late and missing a class. In the long term. rallies are futile. After all, how many people truly remember what last Spring's rally was really all about? Furthermore, Friday's protest was executed in extremely poor taste. It completely undennined a serious. attempt on the part of the Admissions Office to attract quality students to Union College, namely the Accepted Students Day. No prospective will want to attend an institution where the student body appears to be unhappy. Moreover, the protest disrapted the Steinmetz Symposium, a forum designed to recognize the work of our peers. In short, one must not only think before he acts, but rather, he should act i)efore things get out of hand. Better lines of communication are desperately needed between students and administration. However, the administrati()n is by no means at fault. Until students take the initiative to get involved and let their voices be heard, they deserve to suffer from the consequences of the decisions they choose to render unjust. To the Editors: I have never had a class with. • Kit Hathaway and, like a lot of people today, I am dismayed that I will never have the opportunity to do so. What it is critical for us to do here today is to realize that the injustice which has been done to professor Hathaway is not an isolated incident. We need instead to recognize what has happened as just the most :recent policy disaster produced : by the arrogant, insensitive, · self -serving administration of this institution. At the head of this intolerable bureaucracy and exacerbating its already outrageous behavior is, of course, President Hull. Since his arrival at Union College, this man has hidden behind his rhetoric. It is time for us to see beyond the wall of words he has erected and focus our wrath · and indignation upon him. How many :people here today are sick and tired of hearing the phrase, \Well at Beloit. .. \ President Hull, Union is not Beloit! We are not prepared to swallow your arrogance and agendas without having a genuine voice in what is going on. By not listening to the students, faculty and staff when you should have, you have made it necessary for us to address you with a microphone in front of the college center. It would behoove you to listen to us now before the situation Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORD lENS IS. • ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. LETTER§ ''Hullism'' gets. worse. You have told us that you are aiming to have 100% of Union students participate in a term abroad, Assuming that you were sincere in your proposal, you woufd have realized that an increase in · faculty will be necessary :t'or this to happen. In light of that fact, how can you possibly justify the fact that you bave painfully reduced department budgets? How can you justify the fact that departments are now allowed to interview only three qualified candidates to fill faculty positions? When asked about this discrepancy at your town meeting, all yoa were able to tell us was that \there are costs and benefits,\ and that \We cannot continue to do things the way we have done them in the past\ President Hull, I would remind you that you are running a College~ not running for office. I would remind you that Union has just committed to spending tens of thousands of dollars to go division one in hockey. To praphrase one of my professors, it would be nice if attention were paid to the task of making Union division one in academics. Firing talented professors like Kit Hathaway is not the way to make that happen. You have told us that you wish to tear dwn the gates to the college, yet you cannot be bothered to put up more lights or to rearrange parking to make Union women safer at night. I really must ·question your desire to bring us closer to the community thaL rapes and steals from us when you cannot be bothered to address the safety of Union students. When you first addressed the students of this college, you made a point of talking about how student consumption of alcohol was facilitated at Beloit. Now at your town meeting on Tuesday, you complained that students had been partying too much lately. Your inane solution to this problem was to suggest that the faculty give students more work. Well, President Hull, which is it? You can only contradict yourself so many times. We may he slow to take action. but we are not stupid. Stop trying to tell us what you think we want to bear and give us the consistency, respect, honesty and results we expect from our president. I have been told by some that President Hull has great ideas and that he should be given more time to implement ·them. Quite frankly, considering what he has already done, I am afraid of just how much more damage he could do if given such time. I am of the belief that actions should be the basis upon which people are judged,. not rhetoric. Mark Kuritz '92

*-~ 12 EDITORIAL ~<1IiiffliifDtffiis -----Founded at Union Colfege 1877--- Re-Evaluate Your Role The Administratior1's recent dismissal of Professor Kit Hathaway has brought to the forefront of many conversations the <[Uestion of 1<.:h~1t role the students at Union College play in the evaluation of its f3culty. The answer that most students would give is that the student innucnce is limited, despite President Hull's insistence that the student evaluations are extremely important to decision IIl~tking. If anything good comes out of the whole mess it will hopefully be the realization that student imput does count and sllould not be t.;Jkcn lightly, by the administration or by the students 1!ll.emselves. 'fhe students who complain so loudly that the administration is ignoring their imput should take a long, hard look at the amount of cff ort they put into the assertion of their influence. Students must decide that it is more important to fill out C\'aluation forms fully and carefully than it is to get out of a class fi\·c minutes earlier by circling random numbers 011 the forms. Students who feel strongly about a professor, one way or another, must volunteer for interviews to share their firsthand knowledge of their professors' teaching skills. Students who are truly c<Jncemed wi rh getting a good education cannot afford to sit back and wait until a great teacher is fired to say how they really felt about him. Compared to other respectable institutions of higher learning, Union's system of faculty evaluation allows for rel:atively little student influence. Some universities have more progressive systems, including evaluation committees which ~re made up entirely of students and come to their own conclusions. At these schools, the students are spared the frustration of the administration refusing to release for public examination the student evaluations. At these more student-influenced schools, the administration is not able to assert, without giving evidence, that it was the student opinions which led to the controversial decisions. Rccause the Union system does not presently allow for such direct student involvement, those who are unhappy must use whatever power they have to make a difference. Those who are anbappy with something, let it be known. Those who are upset with the whole S)'Stem, do not be satisfied with solely offering yO\u misgivings. It's not enough to complain; Union must work to develop a new system by coming up with alternative plans to more effectively a.5sert student influence. You Made Your Bed Now Lie In It .. In examining tf1c numerous· issues which confront the Union College community, one often overlooks what could i11 fact be the most serious and damaging situation of all, namcl y widespread apathy and impassivity. Accordingly, before one begins to seek solutions for the various quirks within our system, <Jnc must first discover a method that would enable us to render i11differcncc extinct. One might assert that Union students are no longer apathetic in that they did in fact recently participate in a boycott of cl:asses and a rally expressing their resentment of an administrati-ve decision to dismiss a controversial professor. Unfortunately, this does not constitute the disintegration of apathy nor does it mean that the student body is Sllddenly aware of what is taking place around it. Apathy is not exti11guished by a single event nor is it erased by an isolated act of participation. Rather, the phlegm which ensues may be compared to a chronic illness in that it lingers on in different degrees of intensity llntil it is cured in its entirety. It is always enlightening when one witnesses a sur~e of genuine interest on behalf of the student body regarding any pertinent issue facing the college. However, it is rather unfortu11ate that these sudden sparks of curiosity and inquisitiveness materialize only when it is already too late to alter the outcome. :Students must condition themselves to take action so that problems will be alleviated before they surface. One cannot sympathize with the student who one morning wakes up and is agitated by the fact that the administratio-n has in some way \taken advant2ge of him,\ while he has had the audacity to remain silent and uninterested the other ninety-nine percent of the time. It is bewildering; tllat students can be so bitter a:nd so anti-establishment when in reality, had the individual taken a active role from the very beginning, the problem could have been avoided altogether. It is wrong to point the finger of blame when an individual has no on~ to blame but himself. The boycott of classes and the rally held last Friday is a prime example of acti11g too late. In the majority of cases, the protest served as a pathetic attempt to justify sleeping late a11d missing a class. In the long term, rallies are futile. After :all, how many people truly remember what last Spring's rally was really all about? Furthermore, Friday's protest was executed in extremely poor taste. It completely undermined a serious attempt on the part of the Admissions Office to attract quality students to Union College, namely the Accepted Students Day. No pr<Jspective will want to attend an institution where the student body appears to be unhappy. Moreover, the protest disrupted the Steinmetz Symposium, a forum designed to recognize the worl< <lf our pce.rs. In short, one must not only think before he act~, but rather, he should act before things get out of hand. Setter lines of communication are desperately needed between students and administration. However, the administration is by no means at fault. Until studcntr; take the initiative to get involved and let their voices he heard, they deserve to suffer from the consequences of the ck~· i'iC>ns they choose to render unjust. To t11e Editors: I have never had a class with Kit Hathaway and, like a lot of peo-ple today, I am dismayed that I will never have the opportunity to do so. What it is critical for us to do here today is to realize that the injustice which has been done to professor Hathaway is not an isolated incident. We need instead to recognize what has happened as just the most recent policy disaster produced by the arrogant, inseNsitive, self-serving administration. of this institution. At the head of this intolerable bureaucracy and exacerbating its already outrageous behavior is, of course, President Hull. Since his arrival at Union College, this man has hidden behind his rhetoric. It is time for us to see beyond the wall of words he has erected and focus our wrath and indignation upon him. How many people here today arc sick and tired of hearing the phrase, \Well at Beloit ... \ President Hull, Union is not B cloit! We are not prepared to swallow your arrogance and agendas without having a genuine voice in what is going on. By not listening to the students, faculty and staff when you should have, you have made it necessary for us to address you with a microphone in front of the college center. It would behoove you to listen to us now before the situation Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO Tiffi EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITtED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. • ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. LETTER!i ''Hullism'' gets worse. You have told us that you are aiming to have 100% of Union students participate in a term abroad. Assuming that you were sincere in your proposal, you would have realized that an increase in faculty will be necessary for this to happen. In light of that fact, how can you possibly Justify the fact that you have painfully reduced department budgets? How can you justify the fact that departments are now allowed to interview only three qualified candidates to fill faculty positions? When asked about this discrepancy at your town meeting, all you were able to tell I:I.S was that \there are costs and benefits,\ and that \We cannot continue to do things the way we have done them in tile past.\ President Hull, I would remind you that you are running a College, not running for office. I would. remind you that Union has just committed to spending tens of thousands of dollars to gc division one in hockey. To praphrase one of my professors, it would be nice if auention were paid to the task of making Union division one in academics. Firing tal en ted professors like Kit Hathaway is not the way to make that happen. You have told us that you wish to tear dwn the gates to the college, yet you cannot be bothered to put up more lights Apl'il 18, 1991 or to teanange parking to make Union women safer at night. I really must question your desire to bring us doser to the community that rapes and steals from us whelil you caRnct be bothered to address the safety of Union students. Wllert you first addressed the studeflts of this college, you made a point of talking about how student consumption of alcoh<Jl was facilitated at Beloit. Now at your town meeting on Tuesday, you corniJlained that students had been partying too much lately. Your inane solution to this problem was to suggest that the faculty give students more work. Well, President Hull, which is it? You can only contradict yourself so many times. We may be slow to take action, but we are not stupid. Stop trying to tell us what you think we want to hear and give us the consistency, respect, honesty and rest1lts we expect from our president. I ilave been told by some that :President Hull has great ideas and that lte should be given more time to implement them. Quite frankly, consiclering what he has already done, I am afraid of just how much more damage he could do if given such time. I am of the belief that actions should be the basis upon which people are judged, not rhetoric. Mark Kuritz '92

April 18, 1991 LETTE.R!i 'lo the Editars: Thert once was a poet called Kit Whose teaching was branded unfit By an admlnistration Whose only creation Was a faculty bankrupt of wit. <Uo.ttntrbfrttafs 13 -~ -Adam Gahtan '91 Studen~ Interests Manipulated Through Evaluations To the Editors: We would like to address the issue of st11dent evaluations. The decision to fire Professor Hathaway, made by Jim Underwood, upheld by Roger Hull, was based solely on s om e O·f the student evaluations.. According to Underwood. these evaluations wete not cunsidered student ''votes'. However. Hull does not agree; indeed., he says that the evaluations were used as the student 'v()te' in the process. We do not agree. Students do not consider these evaluations to be 'votes'~ In filling them out they do not consider that perhaps their comments wi11 be the sole factor in the decision to fire or rehire a professor. Most students look upon these evaluations as recommerulations to the professor for future improveme11ts or changes in the course and/or the teaching style. Ma11y students don't really take the time to think about what they are writing, what numbers they are circling, and some don't even bother to fill out the comment section on the back, --· We wonld like to point out that students fill out evaluatio11s at a time when they are frustrated because of the work crunch at finals time. Students are not always honest in what they write. If they are getting a low grade or if they feel the professor is too challenging:, they will often take this Ollt on the professor through the evaluation. On the other hand, if the course is easy, they rnay be more likely to give the professor a higher evaluation. It would not be surprising, if only numbers are looked at, that the .evaluations of a challenging, unconventional professor should show the extremes of the scale. Some will like the professor for his/her diversity, and others will resent him/her for not spoon-feeding them. An average professor is likely to get consistent numbers across the board. Evaluations for preceptorial classes are lower on the average because the professor is not teaching his/her 9Wn particualr subject, also, not all students want to take this class., yet all are forced to. In the case of Professor Hathaway, many of his evaluations ru:e from preceptorial and introductory level ·courses that he is assigned because of his status as a visiting professor. We feel that our interests have been manipulated, and we would like to recommend, or 'vote' that the student evaluations be changed in fonnatand in the way in which they are used in the review process. We do not want to do away with the evaluations themselves, but if they are to be used at all, they should all be used, not just some of them. The comments should, for reasons stated above, hold more weight than the numbers. We would like to suggest that perhaps the student 'vote' should also take into consideration the events of the past week. Thank you. Sincerely, Theresa Bett '91 Michele Rosenthal '91 Poorly Planned Demonstration To the Editors: While I do agree that the Administration has abused its power in overturning a 9-1 departmental vote, two wrongs do not make a right. I agree that there was a need for action against the Administration, however, l do not believe that last Friday was the proper day for such a demonstration. The harm tllat the demonstration in front of the College Center caused is irreversible. First a11d foremost, last Friday was an Accepted Students Day. At the same time that .the demonstration started, accepted students were due to arrive at the College Center for a reception. The demonstration caused Admiss·ions officers to escort both students and parents in through tbe side door. The impressio11 that this must have made ()II them is probably disastrolls. I will find it very surprising if more than a handful cf them attend Union next year. While this was the goal of many of the demonstrators, it is a counterproclucti ve one. First of all, while the Admissions Office is connected with the Administration, it had nothing to do with Dean Underwood's or President Hull's decisions. They have worked hard all year long in conjunction with the Gatekeeper$ and Ambassadors to attract bright students to Union. In two hours time, the demonstrations probably mined our chances of attracting some of our best prospectives. When we lose these students, it will cause the school to either have a small freshman class or to admit lesser qualified students off the waiting list. Either way, we students lose out. If the school loses economically, they will impose more ridiculo'us rules on us such as seniors living on campus, or if we let in underqualified students, the value of our degrees decreases. The otller reason that the demonstration was destructive is that it coincided with the Steinmetz Symposium. On a day in which students were to showcas.e their research, all attention was instead focused on the demonstration. Where were the news cameras at all of the presentations? They were nowhere to be found because they already had the demonstrations as the Union story for that night. The SymJlosium is one of the few great id~as that the new administration has brought to Union. Instead of getting the great coverage that such a super idea deserved, the demonstration distracted a great deal of attention away from it. Nex.t time the student body decides to protest a terrible injustice, they should think it out more before they act. Just as Dean Underwood and President Hull made a great error in judgment, so did the sudents who scheduled the protest at that time. I think an apology is owed to our Admissions Office which has worked so hard all year, and to those students who presented research in the Steinmetz Symposium. Brad Rothenberg '92 * UNION COLLEGE FRESHMEN AND SOPHMORES: It's not too late to improve on your FINANCIAL AIDPAC.KAGEfor the 1991-1992 school year. Contact: Academic Concepts \A Financial Aid/Scholarship Service\ Tel: (518) 377-1080 or 1-800-383-1098 * Graduate Finan.ciru Aid Matchlng program also available! 10% Off Processmg Fees ........ Results Guaranteed! Appreciated Student Support To the Editors: I would like to express my gratitude to the many students who participated in the demonstrations for Kit Hathaway on Friday, April 12. It's been years since any of us have seen anything like this eruption of justified anger and eloquent concern on campus. I would further like to stress that the protests were not just an inevitable response to the way the administration (and later the trustees) slammed the door in the face of all of us, students and faculty, by flatly refusing any serious review or appeal of the Hathaway case. The demonstrations were also an intensely educational experience. The students who marched and spoke (or just stood by and listened) learned something about both ethics-- what constitutes fair treatment of faculty-- and about politics-- how to organize and speak out against a pwoerful but practically deaf bureaucracy. In additiont lle hundreds of students at the SRO poetry reading by Professor Hathaway on Thursday night got a vivid lesson in personal integrity and artistic vision. Finally, I would like to add that the number of people distressed by this whole episode is much greater than the crowd of actively protesting individuals. Just before President Hull's appearance in the College Center auditorium on Friday afternoon I met a student standing outside and looking quite upset. I knew him to be very bright, but not especially political. He had never had Kit Hathaway in class, but he knew, as would any fair-minded person informed about the case, that injustice had been done. He held in his hand a slip of paper with the famous plea of Oliver Cromwell to me ueneral Assembly of the Church of Scotland written on it: \I beseech you, in the bowels of Cllrist, think it possible you may he mistaken.\ The student was unwilling to read it out loud and disrupt the president, so I assume the message was never delivered. No matter, it would certainly have been brushed aside. And that is where the whole tragedy of the hasty trial and careless execution of Kit Hathaway lies. Peter Heinegg Chairman of the English Dept. \Media Circus\ at Union To the Editors: I am writing in response to the recent firing of Professor Kit Hathaway and the more general attitude taken by our administration. Specifically, I address the actions of Union's recently inaugurated 17th president, Roger Hull. I use the word \recently\ with a great sense of awareness. Over the nearly 200 years during which our college has e}l.isted we have had only 16 presidents prior to the coming of Hull. Yet during the short six months of the Hull administration, Union has been bombarded by many new ideas and proposals-- some good, some bad, What must be looked at it the manner used to draw up these proposals. Our new president has created a great deal of negative sentiment with his rash and illogically thought out decisions. I give him credit for his energy, but let's take a look at what he has been really doing. His efforts appear to be directed toward getting Union a quick press release and Capitaland TV coverage. Well, last week Hull did it again-- but not by choice. His hastily made decision in upholding Dean Underwood's recommendation not to renew the contract of Kit Hathaway landed Union in the middle of a media blitz rarely seen on campus. The manner by which this decree was made serves as an example of the managerial style of Roger Hull: take credit for all success and sweep dissent and failure under the rug. Unfortunately, the dissatisfaction with his most recent judgment stands too large to be clouded over. This chain of events, still in motion, may serve to permanently alter the relationship between students, faculty, and administration. I enjoy seeing Union students on the six o'clock news; however, Hull has compromised the educational atmosphere which is the heart and soul of our community. When Hull arrived, Union was not perfect. It remains an institution with many issues to be addressed. I urge our new president to look at Union's many problems, but with a greater sense of time and place. When coming to dc(;i,,~,.J..;, it is better to be prudent and make a proper judgment based upon sensible reasoning than a hasty verdict founded on incomplete evidence. The 16 presidents of Union prior to Hull would want it that way. Sincerely, Alan F. Eisenberg '91

LETTER§ To the Editors: There once was a poet called Kit Whose teaching was branded unfit By an administration Whose only creation Was a faculty bankrupt of wit .. aloltfllrb irn.sts .. '\I!.\\ i' -Adam Gahtan '91 Student Interests Manipulated Through Evaluations To the Editors: We would like to address the issue of studeat evaluations. The decision to fire Professor Hathaway, made by Jim Underwood, upheld by Roger Hull, was based solely on s om e of the student evaluations. According to Underwood, these evaluations were not considered student 'votes'. However, Hull does not agree; indeed, b.e says that the evaluations were used as the student 'vote' in the process. We do not agree. Students do not consider these evaluations to be 'votes'. In filling them out they do not consider that perhaps their comments will be the sole factor in the decision to fire or rehire a professor. Most students look upon these evaluations as recommendations to the professor for future improvements or changes in the course and/or the teaching style. Many students don't really take the time to think about what they are writing, what numbers they arc circling, and some don't even bother to fill out the comment section on the back. We would like to point out that students fill out evaluations at a time when they are frustrated because of the work cruncll at finals time. Students are not always honest in what they write. If they are getting a low grade or if they feel the professor is too challenging. 1hey will often take this out ()n the professor through the evaluation. On the other hand, if the course is easy, they may be more likely to give the professor a higher evaluation. It would not be surprising, if only numbers are looked at, that the evaluations of a challenging, unconventional professor should show the extremes of the scale. Some will like tllc professor for his/her diversity, and others will resent him/her for not spoon-feeding them. An average professor is likely to get consistent numbers across the board. Evaluations for preceptorial classes arc lower on the average because the professor is not teaching his/her own particualr subject, also, not all students want to take this class, yet all are forced to. In the case of Professor Hathaway, many of his evaluations are from preceptorial and introductory level courses that he is assigned because of his status as a visiting professor. We feel that our interests have been manipulated, and we would like to recommend, or 'v()te' that the student evaluations be changed in format and in the way in which they are used in the review process. We do not want to do away with the evaluations themselves, but if they are to be used at all, they should all be used, not just some of them. The comments should, for reasons stated above, h()ld more weight than the numbers. We would like to suggest that perhaps the student 'vote' should also take into consideration the events of the past week. Thank you. Sincerely, Theresa Bett '91 Michele Rosenthal '91 Poorly Planned Demonstration To the Editors: While I do agree that the Administration has abused its power in overturning a 9-1 departmental vote, two wrongs do not make a right. I agree that there was a need for action against the Administration, however, I do not believe that last Friday was the proper day for such a demonstration. The harm that the demonstration in front of the College Center caused is irreversible. First and foremost, last Friday was an Accepted Students Day; At the same time that the demonstration started, accepted students were due to arrive at the College Center for a reception. The demonstration caused Admissions officers to escort both students and parents in through the side door. The impression that this must have made on them is probably disastrous. I will find it very surprising if more than a handful of them attend Union next year. While this was the goal of many of the demonstrators. it is a counterproductive one. First of all, while the Admissions Office is connected with the Administration, it had nothing to do with Dean Underwood's or President Hull's decisions. They have worked hard all year long in conjunction with the Gatekeepers and Ambassadors to attract bright students to Union. In two hours time, the demonstrations probably ruined our chance!; of attracting some of our best prospectives. When we lose these students, it will cause the school to either have a small freshman class or to admit lesser qualified students off the waiting list. Either way, we students lose out. If the school loses economically, they will impose more ridiculous rules on us such as seniors livi11g on campus, or if we let ill underqualified students, the value of our degrees decreases. The other reason that the demonstration was destructive is that it coincided with the Steinmetz Symposium. On a day in whkh students were to showcase their research, all attention was instead focused on the demonstration. Where were the news cameras at all of the presentations? They were nowhere to be found because they already had the demonstrations as the Union story for that night. The Symposium is one of the few great ideas that the new administration has brought to Union. Instead of getting the great coverage that such a super idea deserved, the demonstration distracted a great deal of attention away from it. Next time the student body decides to protest a terrible injustice, they should think it out more before they act. Just as Dean Underwood and President Hull made a great error in judgment, so did the sudents who scheduled. the protest at that time. I think an apology is owed to our Admissions Office which has worked so hard all year, and to those students who presented research in the Steinmetz Symposium. Brad Rothenberg '92 *UNION COLLEGE FRESHMEN AND SOP'HMORES: It's not too late to improve on your FINANCIAL AID PACKAGE for the 1991-1992 school year. Contact: Academic Concepts \A Financial Aid/Scholarship Service\ Tel: (518) 377-1080 or 1-800-383-1098 *Graduate Financial Aid Matching program also available! 10% Off Processing Fees ........ Results Guaranteed! Appreciated Student Support To the Editors: I would like to express my gratitude to the many students v;llo participated in the demonstrations for Kit Hathaway on Friday, April 12. It's been years since any of us have seen anything like this eruption of justified anger and el<Jquent concern on campus. I would further like to stress tllat the protests were not just an inevitable response to the way the administration (and later the trustees) slammed the d<>or in the face of all of us, students and faculty' by natly refusing any serious review or aJlpeal of the Hathaway case. The demonstrations were also an intensely educational c:xpcriencc. The students who marched and spoke (Dr j tJst stood by and listened) leamed S<lmething about both ethics-- what constitutes fair treatment of faculty-- and about politics-· !low to organize and speak out against a pwoerful hut practically deaf bureaucracy. In additiont he hundreds of students at the S R 0 poetry reading by Professor Hathaway on Thursday night got a vivid lesson in personal integrity and rntistic vision. Finally, I would like to add that the number of people distressed by this whole episode is much greater than the crowd of actively protesting indi victuals. Just before President Hull's appearance in the College Center auditorium on Friday afternoon I met a student standing outside and looking quite upset. I knew him to be very bright, but not especially political. He had never had Kit Hathaway in class, but he knew, as would any fair-minded person informed about the case, that injustice had been done. He held in his hand a slip of paper with the famous plea of Oliver Cromwell to tne licneral Assembly of the Church of Scotland written on it: \I beseech you, in the howels of Christ, think it possihlc you may be mistaken.\ The student was unwilling to read it out loud and disrupt the president, so I assume the mcssag~.· was never delivered. No matter. it would ccrt:.ti n I y ha \'l' he l'n hrushed asidc. And that i..; where Ll1c whok tragedy of lht' hasty trial and car.: k-;-; execution or Kit Hathawa:- lics. Peter Hcint>}.;'' '\' Chairman of the Engli~h Dept. \Media Circusn at Union To the Editors: I am writing in response to the recent firing of Professor Kit Hathaway and the more general attitude taken by our administration. Specifically, I address the actions of Union's recently inaugurated 17th president, Roger Hull. I use the word \recently\ with a great sense of awareness. Over the nearly 200 years d11ring which our college has existed we have had only 16 presidents prior to the coming of Hull. Yet during the short six months of the Hull administration. Union bas been bombarded by many new ideas and proposals-- some good, some bad. What must be looked at it the manner used to draw up these proposals. Our new president has created a great deal of negative sentiment with his rash and illogically thought out decisions. l give him credit for his energy, but let's take a look at what he has been really doing. His efforts appear to be directed toward getting Union a quick press release and Capitaland TV coverage. Well, last week Hull did it again-- but not by choice. His hastily made dec is ion in upholding Dean Underwood's recommendation not to renew the contract of Kit Hathaway landed Union in the middle of a media blitz rarely seen on campus. The manner by which this decree was made serves as an example of the managerial style of Roger Hull: take credit for all success and sweep dissent and failure under the rug. Unfortunately, the dissatisfaction with his most recent judgment stands too large to be clouded over. This chain of events, still in motion, may serve to permanently alter the relationship between students, faculty, and administration. I enjoy seeing Union students on the six o'clock news; however, H llll has compromised the educational atmosphere which is the hcan and soul of our community. When Hull arrived, Union was not perfect. It remains an institution with many issues to be addressed. I urge our new president to look at Union's many problems, but with a greater sense of time and place. When coming to dcll'i''li', it is better to be prudent and make a proper judgment based upon sensible reasoning than a hasty verdict founded on incomplete cvidencr. The 111 presidents of Union prior to Hull would want it that way. Sincerely. A tan F. Eisenlwrg '9 I

. ' ,. -:-:~·· Bias Of The Underwood To the Editors: We would like to voice our opinions concerning Jim Underwood's \objective\ veto of the English Department's decision regarding \Kit\ Hathaway. While it makes no difference whether we've had Professor Hathaway or not, we question the integrity of Underwood's decision. On Saturday monrning, ,A~ril 13,' before a number of fespected students, faculty members and administrators (including Prcsi.dcnt Roger H ul:l), Jim Underwood openly stated, \I should have been iii on this one earlier,\ admitting that he should have been involved from day one of Hathaway's review. It is not at this point that we ask Jim Undervwod to promise that this won't happen in the future. Rather, it is at· this point that we ask how we, concerned students, can insure, through a change in ]Jrocedure, that such a blatant act of negligence will not reoccur. Later, Underwo()d spoke candidly with us, speaking of the numerous difficulties which his office has had with the English Department in the past. Because of these problems, he said, a 9 to 1 vote in the English Department would carry a lot less weight than a 9 to 1 vote in, say, the Chemistry Department, or the Political Science Department. On what, then was Underwood basiiJg his decision? Should decisions of hiring and firing be subject to personal vendettas which have accumulated over the years, or should someone's contract be renewed or released based on his/her effectiveness as a professor? It is our belief that personnel decisions, termed \delicate\ by the administration, should be dealt with seriously and ()bjectively by someone who can treat them with the maturity that they warrant. If Jim Underwood cannot handle this type of responsibility, then maybe someone who can should be making these decisions. Sincerely, Andrew P. Collins '91 and Seth A. Rosenberg '91 Continue Support For Kit To the Editors: I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the Union community for the massive demonstration of support shown for Professor Kit Hathaway. The students and faculty of the college united in an unprecedented manner to protest the unjust treatment extended to Kit. However, to really make a decisive impact, this support 'Ifie 'Writing Center cannot dwindle. I'm appealing to the entire campus community to continue to support this cause as wholeheartedly as we all have done in the past. Each and every one of us can make a difference. Take advantage of this opportunity. THIS IS YOUR CHANCE TO BE HEARD! Sincerely, Gregory Mishkin '92 is now acceptit1J appCicatu:m.s for student tutors for 1991-92. .91.re you h a goo{ writer? LJJ friend(y and tactjuf? /l':J patient? Ji1JJ imaginative? ~ in teres ted\ in fie {ping otfters improve tfieir writing? If so, we fiope you([ app{y jar a position in tlie 'Writing Center. 'Tutors wor/(8-1 0 fwurs per weeK., rrfte pay is $5.00 per fiour, and you need not Ee 'VVor(Study . • 'ilppfications are avaifaNe in tfie 'Writing Center, on tlie second jfoor of '1-VIii tafcsr :7-{ouse, or in ;J{umanities 020. '.Deaifine for appfications is 'lrirfay, May 3. If you liave any questions, p{ease ca[{ Margaret Waaefira at 6438 or any of tfie tutors in tfie Writing Center at 6058. -LETTER§ April 18, 1991 Roger, Reconsider To the Editors: The student\\sponsored effort pushing for ju«tice on the Hathaway case continues. We applaud the positive student response thus far, but wish .to emphasize that the effort has only just begun. We urge continued support in adu~ving our objectives. (1) We intend to continue ! our campaign to inform students of the faulty manner in which the administration overturned the English : department's 9 to 1 decision to appoint Hathaway. (2) We are circulating a student petition demanding that Hathaway be reconsidered, this time using random student interviews; an open, thorough analysis of student evaluations; the participation of faculty members from related disciplines; and the particpation of the administration from day 1 -of the review, if it wishes to retain its veto dgllt over the final outcome. We are not ae'tocating the abolition of student evaluations. We ue protesting the manipulatio11 of student evaluations to suit administrative ;p-urposes, be they financial Tflt>tives, past politial conflicts,etc. We must prevent this from happening through personal iaterviews of students and a reqoireed full and open analysis ~f all student evaluations. Is this fight beillg waged by the \Kit Hathaway Fan Club?\ No. Two-thinls of the organizers have never had Kit Hathwawy in class. We are motivated by :bigger issues, issues that effecteach and every student and the academic life at Union. 'Are decisions about who teaches at Union to be handled by two or three administrators using questionable or undisclosed methods? Or by students and faculty who are better acquainted with the situation in a given department? We have mobilized this effort to preserve student power in making these decisions, and to prevent additional injustices fTom occurring. Our objectivs stretch well beyond the Hathaway case. But, objective No. 1 is and will remain our appeal to President Hull: Roger, Reconsider Sincerely, Kara Merri11'91 Franz Litz '91 Andrew Seewald '91 Mary Ellen Wing '91 et al. In Case You Haven't Noticed This Isn't Beloit To the Editors: I had high hopes for the improvement of Union College when Roger Hull became our new president, largely because he recogllized that student input is vital to the success of any college. I looked forward to making use of his \open door\ to voice some of my opinions. Unfortunately this door was often closed. I came to Roger's first \Town Meeting\ with some ideas to share. However, I realized that this was not a place for discussion, but for Roger to tell ~tudents about decisions that the administration is already making without student input I left this \fiuestion and answer\ perioci with many questions and fev; answers. I sense that n1y peers share my feelings ()f .1J.issatisfaction with the W'il'f important decisions are be.ing made on campus. As a Cl)rnmunity, we must all work 1o prevent this atmosphere fr{)m becoming hostile. Reger himself knows that improved communication is the solution. However, the goal of clear and open communication has not quite been accomplished. The opinions .of students must be given proper consideration, and the administration must get used to sharing their side of each issue. A working relationship between administration, 'faculty, and students will create the cooperative atmosphere that will make Union #1. Sincerely Julie Weidemann '91 A Need For Communication To the Editors: The President's patronizing reaction to last Friday's student protest of the Administration's firing of Kit Hathaway was an insult to the entire student body. The President, who stated that he was happy to see students finally becoming active seems intent on reducing our activities to mere child's play and continues to treat the students as though they are incapable of u11derstanding the specifics of the matter, on his level. I don't kno~ what type of student body the President was accustomed to at Beloit College, but tile student body at Union has, for a long time, been compo:Secl: of intel)igent and active mertand women. We are used to dealing with an Administration which has treated us as such. We are not children who see this protest as simply a healthy part of our res pee ti ve 1i beral arts educations. Rather, we are adults who are disgusted with the actions of the Administration and the President's patronization of the Union College community. Matthew Futterm~n '91 ~ptttal ~C¢Sttttati<l-n. S, ror ~ lJJENf§]1.~@ W§@J~!nJ NeLL• Rge Pianist· ~Wl][Q)~ will be pertonning in the tv1emorial Chapel on Frida)! Mo.y 1 0 o.t 8:15prn Tickets are available through Student Activities(CC408) for: $5.0 0 studef)ts and $1 0.00 community. Some tickets may be available at the door. ij h I

--------------------------------------------------- Bias Of The Underwood Tu the Eciitors: \\' c \vou lll like to voice our )p1n1ons conccrni ng Jim l'ndcn\·ood's \objective\ veto ul the Ent:lish Department's tL·cisioa regarding \Kit'' llatha\\'a). Whik it makes no d i lfcrL·ne.;- whether we've had Pmkssor l !athaway or not, we qlll':-.tiun the intct,rity or L'11lkr\wud's dcc1sion. On S~11unb~· monrning., April D, bdort' a 11ll m her 0 r respected '.tudcnts, L11 . .'Ulty mcmhcrs and ad m in i-. t Ltt or s • i n c1 u ding r·le'sid .. :nt Roger !lull), Jim l'ndL'I\Hllld npcnl) stated. \I should h . .i\'C h..:cn 111 on this nne carl io,\ admitting that he ... !wullt haw 1wcn in\'o\vcd !'li'l11 eLl\ Ollt' of Hathaway's !\'\ le'\\ . It h rwt ~ll this point that we a-.k Jim l'n(krwood to j'f<lllll\t' lktl thiS \\llll.t !J:lppl'll Ill the· future. Rathe'r. It i..; at thi-, (1lJitll that we a'\.. lww we. L\Ulll'Crfh :--.tUdt'llh, can In\Uft', through a change in proct~durc, that such a hlatant act of negligence will not reoccur. Later, Underwood spoke candidly with us, speaking of the numerous difficulties which his office has had with the English Department in the past. Because of these prohlcms, he said, a 9 to 1 vote in the English Department would carry a lot less weight than a 9 to 1 vote in, say, the C'hemistry Department, or the Political Science Department. On what, then was Underwood basing his decision? Should decisions of hiring and firing he subject to personal vendettas which have accumulated over the years, or should somcone's contract be renewed or released hased on his/her effectiveness as a professor? It is our belief that personnel decisions, termed \delicate\ hy the administration, should he dealt with seriously and objectively hy someone who can treat them with the maturity that they warrant. If Jim Cndawood cannot handle this type of responsibility, then muyhe someone who can should he making these dct·isions. Sincerely, Andrew P. Collins '91 and Seth A. Rosenberg '91 Continue Support For Kit To the Editors: I v. ant to take this opporluni ty to congratulate the Cnio11 community for the massi YC demonstration of support shown for Professor K1t Hathaway. The students and faculty of the college united 111 an unprecedented llLlnilcr to proll'st the unjust trl·atnll'll t C\tt'ntkd to Kit. lll1·,\t~ 1 cr. tu rl·ally make :. tkci \' 1c impact. thi..; ..;uppnrt cannot dwindle. I'm appealing to the entire campus community to continue to support this cause as wholeheartedly as we all have done 111 the past. Each and every one of us can make a difference. Take advantage of this opportunity. THIS IS YOCR CHANCE TO BE IIEARD~ S inccrl'ly. Gregor; ~1isllkin '92 , 'Pit' 'It 'nt:\:t3 Ct'nta .• ,, .. ,,, ~;·· ·-·· .~:·: .:.~ •. [.,' .\ .. ~-:: •. :·t··~: :: ... t, ·_, / .. ;_···· .. ·-·· ........ ' I ' ,., : ; - ; / ' ' ~/ ' • • ._• '; • ~' ; ' .: I:-: ~' :., : •: • • I ,/ :I ,/ ,/ }· 'l' 7i~t' h,,r·,· ul·~, !l L4·r:'ll.' t~·r ~.; !\~_,i.th'TI ~n the ~rt-';;u_n,j l ·ci:!t't\. t • • - j .._ 'h-Li<'~-' ·ll·,nf..: S ]lJ •lour.< per ;,.-,·k 'lire f'tl!J L' $\.thJ pa fiour mrd Lt':· 'lt',·,i ::_(,t Jl~~ 'Il~l. ... :(· .. ':tzui:t ·:r_:·u,·,It:(\L~ ~.:·t· il: ,j.UtJ!lft' ::1 t.·:t\ ·tt 'nL.n~~i t ·eTZtt'i. ( 1 n tht' JellJnti jic-.n d ·ni:rr,;\,r :Jfou.,,·. ,,r z·: ::;wn,lnllrt'., 0~0. 1Siliflrnf)t>! f t;••n[lt'tlt;(''L.; L' 'fnr1,Ht. ~\f,U/.1 ! ~ J; 1~-· ~ -- ---- - - -- --.- -~· ---~-- i l .' :1 ,·u /:,;:, ,J~::. ·;\:J t:c·:.· ;-!\''·'<' ,,1:1 .. \fa,:qaret 'llilrirfzra at (l.J.lS 1 ! <'<•l'l}Jc'l tht' llltt>T.' 111 thf 'll 1 ntzrt:l ( ·nltt'rat (·058. II tl II CROSSTALK \Do Men and Women Get Equal Treatment in the C lassrot)ln at Union? Student and Faculty panel Discussion Questions and Answers Cabaret Room, CC306 c Tuesday, April 23, • 7:30 p.m. • Roger, Reconsider To the Editors: The student-sponsored effort pushing for ju<;:tice on the Hathaway case continues. We applaud the positive student response tllus far, but wish to emphasize that the effort has only just begun. We urge continued support in aducving our objectives. (1) We intend to continue 'our campaign to inform students of the faulty manner in which the administration overturned the English deparLment's 9 to l decision to ' appoint Hathaway. (2) We arc circulating a student -petition demanding Lhat Hathaway be reconsidered, this time using random student interviews; an open, thorough analysis of student evaluations; the participation or faculty members from related disciplines~ and the particpation of the administration from day 1 of the review, if it wishes to retain its veto rigllt over the final outcome. We arc not advocating the abolition of student evaluations. We arc protesting the manipulation of student evaluations to suit administrative purposes, be they financial moti vcs, past politial conflicts, etc. We must prevent this from happening through personal interviews of students and a requirecd full and open analysis of all student evaluations. Is this fight being waged by the' Kit Hathaway Fan Club?\ No . Two-thirds of the organizers have never had Kit Hathwawy in class. We are motivated by bigger issues, issues that effect each and every student and the academic life at Union. Arc decisions about who teaches at Union to be handled by two or three administrators using questionable or undisclosed methods? Or by students and faculty who arc better acquainted with the situation Ill a g1vcn department? We have mobilized this effort to preserve student power in making these decisions, and to prevent additional injustices from occurring. Our objectivs stretch well beyond the Hathaway case. But, objective No. 1 is and will remain our appeal to President Hull: Roger, Reconsider Sincerely, Kara Merrill '91 Franz Litz '91 Andrew Seewald '91 Mary Ellen Wing '91 ct al. In Case You Haven't Noticed This Isn't Beloit To the Editors: I had high hopes for the improvement of Union College when Roger Hull became our new president, largely because he recognized that student input is vital to the success of any college. [ looked forward to making usc of his \open door\ to voice. some of my opinions. Unfortun.atcly this door was often closed. I came to Roger's first 'Town Meeting\ with some ideas to share. However, I realized that this was not a place for discussion, but for Roger to tell students about decisions that the administration is already making without student input. I left this \question and answer\ period with many questions and few answers. I sense that my peers share my feelings of dissatisfaction with the way important decisions arc being made on campus. As a community, we must all work to prevent this atmosphere from becoming hostile. Roger himself knows that improved communication is the solution. However, the goal of clear and open communication has not quite been accomplished. The opinions of students must be given proper consideration, and the administration must get used to sharing their side of each issue. A working relationship between administration, faculty, and students will create the cooperative atmosphere that will make Union #1. Sincerely Julie Weidemann '91 A Need For Communication To the Ec.li tors: The President's patronizing rcactton to last Friday's student rrotcst ()f the Administration\ i\trin~ oC Kit Hathaway v.·as an lthttl 1 l<l the entire student J.c,k .-Th,· Pre·,idc·nt. who -l.:i<d !. 1 1.11 !1,' W;t\ happ:-- Ill 'eY ·tt:,k'ill\ : iruily l'l.Vllrnin~ ;i, ~i·., ~,vms intc'lll nn reducing ··ur ~~_·•i-. itie·-. to men· child\ t·b;. an,l \.lllltinuc·\ to treat the students as though they arc incapable of understanding the specifics of the matter, on his k'\\C I. I don't know what type of 'tudcnt hndy the' President w;h a 'c u qomed to at Bdoi 1 C.)ik~~L'. but thl\ 'ttHknt bod) ,, 1 l 'mnn ha..;, f1 lf a lunt! ti ml'. b.:cn <.:omposcd of intelligent and act i vc men and women. V.\: arc.' used to dealing with an Administration which has treated us as such. We arc not children who sec this protest as simply a healthy part of our respective liberal arts educations. Rather, we arc :1dults \\ ho arc disgusted with :he action~ ot the . \tim in i ~ t r ali n n a n d t h ,. Pr,·,Hknt\ ... p;nrnnil.lllllll oJ thL· L:nion College commtmtty. ~ 1anhcw ruucrman '<)I ~pee-tal ~t.,c.stntatton ~ For ~ ~~U~W©~bru Neu.J Age Pianist ~~[Q)~ V·lill t)e periotrninSJ in the t .. ..-1etY10rial Ch:,_pel on Friclay lv1a.y 1 D a.t s:·1 Spn1 Tickets are available tt1rough student Activities(CC40 8) for: $5.0 o students and $1 0.00 community. Some tickets rfla.y be a vaila.ble at the door. ;~ ';

· April 18, 1991 LETTER!i ·~:: @nnmrbirnzfz 1s ~!.i Webster Basement Should Be Condemned Save The Fence To the Editors: I feel it is now necessary to alert the student body to some major inadequacies in the housing provided by Union College. Dur:ing FaU term this ye<U:, my JOommate and I lived in the basement of Webster House. We were not told that the walls ate old and deteriorating, and that it floods every time it rains. On several occasions~ we would have 2-3 inches of water, which· would cover not only our own room, but would leak into the lounge as well, causing the carpeting on the whole floor to grow disturbing amounts of mold, which made us both sick for weeks. Not to mention the countless nights of lost sleep as the physical plant drained most of the water out with big noisy water vacuums. And even when it wasn't flooding, there really large and threatening looking insects would frequently crawl out of the walls. At first I had no idea what these strange creatures were, so I looked it up in the Encyclopedia Britannica-- they're centipedes! Can you believe that? Fortunately, these were not the harmful breed, and they were not really interested in us (one night, I let one crawl over me, and it just kept crawling in search of food). Naturally, we complained to Dean Wood, at first demanding that repairs be made. When he told us that repairs were not possible at that time, we really complained, having one parents write many strong letlers to Dean Wood's office to back up our verbal protestations. Finally, after brushing us aside for several weeks, they moved u~ into a new room in North for Winter tenn, swearing that we should never have been given that Holocaust To the Editors: It was encour~ging to read that so many students participated in the holocaust memorial program on Monday night. As the Concordiensis noted, it was too bad that faculty did not participate in the first night's events. However, it is inaccurate to conclude that \not a single faculty member deemed the event worthy of his time.\ While no faculty members were in attendance the first night, a few of us did help students select and secure appropriate materials and speakers for the various programs. Faculty did attend the film on the second evening. I (and I am sure other faculty as well) consider the event very important. I applaud both the students who helped put the program together and those students who attended. While Union students have in the past memorialized those who perished in the holocaust, never has such care and attention been given to the program, and never have so many students demonstrated such commitment and concern in recognizing this great tragedy. In particular. Beth Pincus deserves praise for her crcati ve and energetic leadership in organizing the activities and displays. Seth Greenberg Chairman of Psychology Repave To the Editors: The Student Forum would like Lo bring to yau:r attention a problem which has been discussed in jest for rnany years within the College · community, but has now gone beyond the point of subtle humor. During one of the recent accepted student days, a Forum member overheard several parents talking in a group about the beauty of our campus, with the exception of the roads within it. Mr. Mantica, the thought that the condition of our roads is mentioned as a detraction from Ramee's architectural plan for the college is disturbing indeed (not to mention the thought of what the roads do to the cars we drive). The simple, and only solution to this problem is to repave completely, not just attempting to fill the current holes.· Most people know that the sudden change in temperatures in our region of the country does not lend itself well to patchwork on roads. This task is one that could be accomplished easily, and quickly, without detracting from the convenience of inter- campus driving for an ex~nded period of time. Believe 11s, detracting from convenience should be the least of our worries. Sincerely, The Student Forum room, and promising that repairs would be made. What disturbs me the most, and what inspires me to write this letter, is that at the beginning of this Spring term, Residence Life moved two <new> students into our old room! And now I hear the Language Department professors ta.lki:ng about putting a Language theme house in Webster basement. If Residence Life lets a whole special interest house move into an area that they know should be condemned, that will truly be an outrage! It really makes you wonder what. other safety and health hazards Residence Life knows about on campus, that they're not telling us. It's time we speak up, tell the community which housing facilities are unacceptab-le, and tell the Residence Life office that we will not tolerate poor living conditions, especially if on- campus housing is going to be mandatory. I encourage all of you to make public your complaints and concerns about on-campus housing and then demand that Residence Life make corrections. With Concern, Matthew B. Greene '93 Ron Birnbaum '93 To the Editors: I have been told by an alumni group that President Hull intends to remove the wrought iron fence surrounding campus because it is in need of repair, but more importantly because it represents an outdated ideology and that its removal would allow for more \interaction\ with the City of Schenectady. If this is indeed Lhe case, it would cause me to doubt the new leadership at Union. The ancient idea of the university as a cloistered place where we take the time in our intellectual, artistic, and emotional development to · study, reflect, and grow has never been more credible. The great tradition of private education stands on the strength that these colleges and universities understand true education requires a time and place set apart from the pressures and distractions of everyday life. The Union College fence is a metaphor for the separation that should exist between the university and the outside world. Why did I send my children to private colleges? Precisely because I believe that private colleges understand this concept. Our country offers a plethora of opportunity in public education, and I have spent my entire career teaching in its easy-access envirom11cnt. Public education is necessary, but we must at the same time preserve private education and its ideals for all they offer our culture. On a more practical note, have you considered the safety of your student population, particularly the ever-growing number of young women at Union? The campus, although adjacent to a tough neighborhood, is relatively safe now because access is somewhat limited. It is not unreasonable to think that removing the fence might compromise the security of the students. Finally, there is the aesthetic aspect. The fence is, in fact, a seemly border for this historic, architecturally planned campus. If it needs repair, fix it. Like the Nott, it is part of the tradition, nostalgia, and philosophy of the college. Many of us like the way the fence looks and we like what it says. It is, in short, part of Union's history and ought to be preserved. Sincerely, William J. Campbell (father of Johanna '91 SAC Makes Counter Motion On Hull To the Editors: This letter is in response to the recent \town meeting\ at which President Hull proposed to tke down the current chain wire fence along Seward Place on the western end of our campus. The Student Forum is unanimously against your proposal and endorses the decision of the SAC to make a counter-motion. We at the Forum feel that the need for a boundary separating the camppus from the town is essential to the security of the campus. We understand and support your attempts to bridge the gap between the College community, but feer that they can be accomplished through much more substantive methods. This year several groups have initiated programs within the Schenectady community to provide assistance in areas of need and promote the College. In addition, many other groups such as Big Brother/Big Sister have been an integral part of the College and local community for years. President Hull, we strongly urge you to consider the SAC's motion from this week to not only leave the remaining fence intact, but to construct a replica of the historic fence as a replacement. Although this entire issue is one that should be of little concern in comparison to other areas . of need on this campus (i.e. the library, housing, the theater, the Nott in general), we feel that it is now beyond the point to be ~en lightly. Before you act, weigh the opinions of a strong majority of your College community. Sincerely, The Student Forum Have you ever thought of going to law school? The Summer Session at Albany Law School offers qualified undergraduate and graduate students and other members of the community the opportunity to take regular law school courses, without taking the Law School Admission Test. This summer, from May 28 through July 23, Albany Law is offering to the public courses in State and Local Government, White Collar Crimes, Land Use Planning, Family Law, Law and the Disadvantaged, Labor Law, Evidence, and The Legal Profession. Students matriculated at an accredited law school may take these courses and earn credit toward their law degree. All students may have a transcript of their summer study at Albany Law sent to other institutions. , For a Summer Session bulletin and application, contact the Summer School office at Albany Law School, 80 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208; telephone (518) 445-2334.

Webster Basement Should Be Condemned Save The Fence To the Editors: I feel it is now necessary to alert the student body to some major inadequacies in the housing provided by U !ilion College. During FaH term this year, my roommate and I lived in the basement of Webster House. We were not told that the walls are old and deteriorating, and that it floods every time it raiRs. On several occasions, we would have 2-3 inches of water, which would cover not only our own room, but would leak into the lounge as well, causing the carpeting on the whole floor to grow disturbing amounts of mold, which made us both sick for weeks. Not to mention the countless nights of lost sleep as the physical plant drained most of the water out with big noisy water vacuums. And even when it wasn't flooding, there really large and threatening looking insects would frequently crawl out of the walls. At first I had no idea what these strange creatures were, so I looked it up in the Encyclopedia Britannica-- they're centipedes! Can you believe that? Fortunately, these were not the ha.rrnful breed, and they were not really interested in us (one night, I let one crawl over me, and it just kept crawling in search of food). Natmally, we complained to Dean Wood, at first demanding that repairs be made. When he told us that repairs were not possible at that time, we really complained, having our parents write many strong letters to Dean Wood's office to back up our verbal protestations. Finally, after brushing us aside for several weeks. they moved us into a new room in North for Winter term, swearing that we should never have been given that Holocaust To the Editors: ll was encouraging to read that so many students participated in the holocaust memorial program on Monday night. As the Concordiensis noted, it was too bad that faculty did not participate in the first night's events. However, it is inaccurate to conclude that \not a single faculty member deemed the event worthy of his time.\ While no faculty members were in attendance the first night, a few of us did help students select and secure appropriate materials and spt!akers for the various programs. Faculty did attend the film on the second evening. I (and I am sure other faculty as well) consider the event very important. I applaud both the students who helped put the program together and those students who attended. While Union students have in the past memorialized those who perished in the holocaust, never has such care and attention been given to the program, and never have so many students demonstrated such commitment and concern in recognizing this great tragedy. In particular, Beth Pincus deserves praise for her creative and energetic leadership in organizing the activi tics and displays. Seth Greenberg Chairman of Psychology Repav·e To the Editors: The Student Forum would like to bring to your attention a problem which has been discussed in jest for many years within the College community. but has now gone beyond the point of subtle humor. During one of the recent accepted student days, a Forum member overheard several parents talking in a group about the beauty of our campus, with the exception of the roads within it. Mr. Mantica, the thought that the condition of our roads is mentioned as a detraction from Ramee's architectural plan for the college is disturbing indeed (not to mention the thought of what the roads do to the cars we drive). The simple, and only solution to this problem is to repave completely, not just attempting to fill the current holes. Most people know that the sudden change in temperatures in our region of the country does not lend itself well to patch work on roads. This task is one that could be accomplished easily, and quickly, without detracting from the convenience of inter- campus driving for an extended period of time. Believe us, detracting from convenience should be the least of our worries. Sincerely, The Student Forum room, and promising that repairs would be made. What disturbs rnc the most, and what inspires me to write this letter, is that at the beginning of this Spring term, Residence Life moved two <new> students into our old room! And now I hear the Language D epartm en t professors talking about putting a Language theme house in Webster basement. If Residence Life lets a whole special interest house move into an area that they know should be condemned, that will truly be an outrage! It really makes you wonder what other safety and health hazards Residence Life knows about on campus. that they're not telling us. It's time we speak up, tell the community which housin.g facilities are unacceptable, and tell the Residence Life office that we will not tolerate poor living conditions, especially if on- campus housing is going to be mandatory. I encourage all of you to make public your complaints and concerns about on-campus housing and then demand that Residence Life make corrections. With Concern, Matthew B. Greene '93 Ron Birnbaum '93 To t.hc Editors: I have been to Id by an alumni group that President Hull intends to remove the wrought iron fence surrounding campus because it is in need of repair, but more importaillly because it represents an outdated ideology and that its removal would allow for more \interaction\ with the City of Schenectady. If this is indeed the case, it would cause me to doubt the new leadership at Union. The ancient idea of the university as a cloistered place where we take the time in our intellectual, artistic, and emotional development to study, rc fleet, and grow has never been more credible. The great tradition of private education stands on the strength that these colleges and universities understand true education requires a time and place set apart from the pressures and distractions of everyday life. The Union College fence is a metaphor for the separation that s h o u I d exist between the university and the outside world. Why did I send my children to private colleges? Precisely because I believe that private colleges understand this concept. Our country offers a plethora of opportunity Jn public education, and I have spent my entire career teaching in its easy-access environment. Public education is necessary. but we must at the same time preserve private education and its ideals for all they offer our culture. On a more practical note, have you consilkrcd the safety of your student population. particularly the ever-growing number of young women at Union? The campus, although adjacent to a tough neighborhood, is relatively safe now because access is somewhat limited. It is not unreasonable to think that removing the fence might compromise the security of the students. Fina1ly, there is the aesthetic aspect. The fence is, in fact, a seemly border for this historic, architecturally planned campus. If it needs repair, fix it. Like the Nott, it is part of the tradition, nostalgia, and philosophy of the college. Many of us like the way the fence looks and we like what it says. It is, in short, part of Union's history and ought to be preserved. Sincerely, William J. Camphell (father of Johanna '91 SAC Makes Counter Motion On Hull To the Editors: This letter is in response to the recent \town meeting\ at which President Hull proposed to tkc down the current chain wire fence along Seward Place on the western end of our campus. The Student Forum is unanimously against your proposal and endorses the decision of the SAC to make a counter-motion. We at the Forum feel that the need for a boundary separating the camppus from the town is essential to the security of the campus. We understand and support your attempts to bridge the gap between the College community, but feel that they can be accomplished throt1gh much more substantive methods. This year several groups have initiated programs within the Schenectady community to provide assistance in areas of need and promote the College. In addition, many other groups such as Big Brother/Big Sister have been an integral part of the College and local community for years. President Hull, we strongly urge you to consider the SAC's motion from this week to not only leave the remaining renee intact, hut to construct a r-.·plica of the historic fence' as a replacement. Although this entire issue is one that .should be of little concern in comparison to other areas of need on this campus (i.e. the library, housing, the thcatrr, the Nott in general), we feel that it is now beyond the point to be taken lightly. Before you act, weigh the opinions of a strong majority of your College community. Sincerely, The S tudcnt Forum Have you ever thought of going to law school? The Summer Session at Albany Law School offers qualified undergraduate and graduate students and other members of the community the opportunity to take regular law school courses, without taking the Law School Admission Test. This summer, from May 28 through July 23, Albany Law is offering to the public courses in State and Local Government, White Collar Crimes, Land Use Planning, Family Law, Law and the Disadvantaged, Labor Law, Evidence, and The Legal Profession. Students matriculated at an accredited law school may take these courses and earn credit toward their law degree. All students may have a transcript of their summer study at Albany Law sent to other institutions. For a Summer Session bulletin and application, contact the Summer School office at Albany Law School, 80 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208; telephone (518) 445-2334.

ARTS & EI\ITERTAII\IMEI\IT A.pril 18, 1991 Arts Club On The· Road Please don't be fooled by our title \The Arts Club.\ You don't have to submit a portfolio to join, be an Arts major or be able to play a concerto. All you need is a bit or creativity and an interest in supporting the art~>. What docs supp(nting the arts mean anyway? The Arts Club is investigating this very question. We attend, promote, ;\Llvcrlisc, create, play, design, r~..'cyclc, and enjoy. Although m;m y pcorle on campus may b~_'licvc that no such cluh ..::-.ists, believe it or not, \The Ails Club\ is hcrc.Wc arc hack I rom the student activity sravcyard, and on the road to becoming even more active than l)Uf action packed 1990-91 ~d10ol yl'ar has been so far. (r\s soon as we get a ''hig club's 'big budget\'}. For our first year with formal club status, the Arts Club has been extremely in vol \'Cd both on and off campus. We have been an al'li vc force in promoting and attending Proctors, Proctors II and Union College Theater performances. This past Saturday, the Arts Club attended the excitiRg African dance performance \Urban Bushwomen.\ As last week's Concordy review of this Proctors II event predicted, the performance of Urban Bushwomen was a theatrical extravaganza. The synthesis of African dance and folk lore was not only spiritually moving but fil1cd its viewers with that \wow\ feeling. Other performances the Arts Club attended this year included the \Fantastics \Terminal !lip,\ \Reno \Oedipus \True W c st,\ \B e_vo nd Therapy,\ and the movie about the life of Van Gogh, 'Vincent and Theo.\ Tonight we are headed down to Albany to see a life-size, and probably oversized, puppet show. This is not kids stuff. It's Bread and Puppet Theater!!! This is a wonderful and exciting \happening full of masked performers, over-life size effigies, colorful parades, improvised music and themes of social, political, and environmental significance. Annual Photography Regional Entries for the l3th Annual Photography Regional, to be juried by New York City phot.ographcr Li1o Raymond, will be accepted May 2, 3, and -+ at the Rensselaer County Council for the Arts, 1R9 Second Street, Troy '50') in ca~l: prizes will he L.lwardcd at the juror's discretjon. The exhibition, presented hy the RCCA and Albany Center Galleries, will run· May 17 - June 21 in the RCCA Galleries. The 13th Annual Photography Regional is made pu~siblc by the generous support of Bokland Custom Color Lab, Black & White Pro Lab, Berns Camera Stores, and many of the region's photographers. There will be no entry fee. Photographers may submit a maximum of three (3) works. Entry hours will be 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. May 2 rtnd 3, and noon to ..t p.m. May 4. Entries must be framed, wired and ready to hang. for more information, plca<;e call the RCCA at 273-0552. Wednesday Movie: A !R(f)®7JJJ ~~1fart!h A W'J ~ L}j) 7:30 and 9:30 CC Aud. Solution to \Be 'X'tra Careful\ R E A M T 0 L E T c L A p A G R L I L s s R E A L E R A T A s E s M I D I c 0 N N I E T E s s E c E E s The only performance is being held tonight at 7:30 at Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., at the downtown SuNY Albany campus. Tickets for students are $7/$5, but they can only be purchased before the performance at these outlets: The Social Justice Center (33 Central Ave.), Boulevard Book Store (15 Central Ave.), and the Half Moon Cafe (154 Madison Ave.). Don't miss out!!! So what do we do to get involved on campus? We·are presently working on a mural of the WHd Things in the Cabaret room in College Center. If we've sparked your interest in the club so far, don't turn away now that you hear the words mural or paint. We've got members from varied disciplines working on the mural. Go check it out for yourself (well, it's not completed yet), but it's not bad for students majoring in Electrical Engineering, Psychology, Biology, Political Science, Philosophy, Math, Art, etc. The Arts Club also The Marrying Man Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II Warlock Shipwrecked Class Action Out for Justice Silence of the Lambs acts as 1\ service orgat:~ization by assist-ing the Arts Dept., Mountelb:anks, and other organizations with projects and the pr()mo-tion of these projects. Next week be on the lookout for a handmade paper ·w-orkshop. The Arts Club, pos.sible in conjuHction with the Recycling Committe-e, will have a bootb outside i:hte College Center on how t() recycle your paper and make new decorative paper out of our jtmk rnail! It was a huge success last year on Earth Day. Help us make it even better this yellr_ Keep a lookout in our campus news for. details. And fina..lly the Arts Club is worki11g to bring back Get Plast-ered, a mask making works:hop. The Union College comm umity will be invited to come create their fantasy masks. The mask making and qecomticm take about twenty minutes. This will be a one- day w<Jrkshop where participants will be asked to sign up in :advance. So tlle:re you have it. We are a group of people who wanted Sleeping with the Enemy Dan~.:s with Wolves. TEenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II Defending your Life Car>e~r Opportunit Home Alone New Jack City Call Theaters for Show Times. Concert Committee Presents: 2nd Ann,ual Battle of the Bands [);:a 1E: Sat., May 4, 1991 Cash prizes for the first Where: College Center three places Patio Time: 1:00 P.M. to go to see shows, concerts, and movies, but realized that out student budgets would not allow us to. We are a group that loves to be creative and try new things. We are a new club that is enthusiastically welcoming new members. And guess what, it does not take up a lot ·Of time. It's fun, it's free and you can even expand your horizons and meet ether pCQp-le with similar interests. Anyone intereste-d in becoming a member or just getting involved with any of our upcoming activities please come to our meetings. The Arts Club has bee.n ta-king small steps on our journey towards a larger budget and greater membership. Our footsteps already have left an impression on Union College. Join the Arts Club and let us continue on this path. Art Club Ev~nts - Today - painting the mural CC 302 from 1-5; Tonight - Bead and Puppet theater; Tuesdays - Meetings 4:30p.m. CC 3()2 Questions - Call Leslie 370- 5735, Sarah -4208, Michelle 372-9597 Greencard The Spring Idol is accepting sub- rnisskm until Ap1il 20th ...• What do I submit? Literary or Art Work Where do I turn them in? Literary- Bo\ 565 Artwork - Art Dept. Office Artwork - By when can I tum stuff in7 April 20th Will! getrny submission back? Y-ES How? ?111 your name, bo~. phone, year and rltle on the back or attach to your piece. i ' l !I

i : !I ; I :I -~~ April iS, 1991 ART§ & EJ\ITERTAII\JMEI\JT @llltfllfDlfltSiH 17 ~~~ ~~~~~~mmrn~ill~ rn 1~m Better Than Breakfast By MATT FULLER Nikki Meets The Hibachi - The B'luest Sky (Baited Breath): Inevitably, any alternative two-member acoustic band is going to be compared to the Indigo Girls. Nikki Meets the Hibachi is no exception and for good reason. While they have their own style, it is obvious that the success of the Indigo Girls has influenced them. Nikki offers a nice change with a male and female voice. which helps the album stand out The title track, \The Bluest Sky\ sums up the main focus of the album-- love. Whether it's lost love, newly-discovered love, or some unknown type of love, it's mentioned in this recording. While too many of today's bands focus on love as a selling point, Nikki seems to convey the message without bludgeoning the listener. They also have a great deal of musical ability, and are not afraid to put the music before the lyrics. They are not an \image' or \glamour\ band, they are just two good musicians working together. Other tracks which stand out HOROSCOPES By ZOLA ARIES: 1'he next week will be very exciting for you socially. Take adv~tage of romantic opportunities and enjoy yourself whenever possible. Lucky day: Friday. TAURUS: it's time to wake up and smell the spring flowers. Come outside and roll in the grass, or play some tennis. Activities will be your focus for the next few days. Lucky day: Thursday. GEMINI: It's time to start doing some work-! know, I know, it's extremely hard to motivate, but you'll regret it if you don't put in at least a little effort now. Lucky day: Tuesday. CANCER: Now is a good time to set a goal for yourself. Start right away to get it within your reach, and with some detennination . and enthusiasm, it will be yours. Lucky day: Friday. LEO: You have had a great change of luck over the past few weeks, and your streak is still on the rise. Don't run away this time from the things that make you happy. You deserve the best, and this term you will get it; Lucky day: Saturday. VIRGO: The next week is a good time to take it easy. Relax, hang out in the sun, listen to music. This is not a great concentration time for you-distractions are everywhere. Lucky day: Monday. LIBRA: Although you may be hesitant about making \the first move\ in a potential relationship, the time is now, so don't wait for them to act. The response you receive will be well worth the risk. Lucky day: Sunday. SCORPIO: Once again, you are tempted to act out something that has only been a fantasy for a while. Be careful; you could get less than you desire, and end up disappointed in the long run. Lucky day: Saturday. SAG Gil' ARIUS: Feeling lonely? This is not a match-making ad, but it is a notice for you to go out and mingle. Social activities could . do you some ~ood. Lucky day: Wednesday. CAPRICORN: Your well-planned out social life is getting sticky. The best remedy for confusing situations is to ignore what others say, and do wh.at you want to do. Lucky day: Friday. AQUARIUS: Please try to calm down! You have been out of control since Spring term began, and you will :run out of steam soon if you don't pace yourself. Lucky day: Tuesday. PISCES: You have begun to feel in control of situations as you feel more confident about yourself. Don't let your new attitude get the best of you, but do enjoy your new -found self. Lucky day: Monday. Proctor's Offers Salute to Spring Proctor's Theatre and Northeast Ballet Co. (formerly the Myers Company dancers) offer a salute to Spring, Sunday. April 21, at 3 p.m. with AN AFTERNOON OF MUSIC AND DANCE. The program will feature two internationally renowned ballet stars in concert with the equally acclaimed international concert pianist, Juana Zayas. Cynthia Harvey. a principal dancer with American Ballet Theatre. appearing through the courtesy of the AB T, will join former principal dancer for the New York City Ballet, now artistic director for Northeast Ballet Co., Peter Frame. Zayas, who has been hailed as \ ... a Chopinist to the manner born,\ recently completed a triumphant tour of The Netllerlands, and has performed extensively throughout Europe, South America and the United States. She has studied in her native Havana. in Europe and in this country and has won numetous awards in international competitions. Harvey has excelled in all ()f the leading roles of the classical repertoire, from Swan Lake to Don Quixote, and has been partnered in the dance by such luminaries as Mikhail Baryshnikov, Alexander dodunov, and Anthony Dowell. The ballerina is in great demand as a guest artist and are \The Veil\ and \Days Like These\ both of which, while foUowing the same basic formula, vary in subtle ways. While this album is not a \get up and move\ album, it is very calm. and relaxing. A pelifect rainy-day record. If you liked Lhc Ind.i:go Girls (and I DO ilate to make comparisons like this), you should give Nikki Meets the Hibachi a try. Don't mind the silly title. I /give it three eggnogs (out of five). Hell Toupee :H e I I Toupee (GrooVelocity): Hell Toupee is one of the latest hardcore/fuak bancls to cn1crge fmm the thri vimg- Boston sccn.e. While they are not hardcore in the tradition21 sense, they represent a growi11'g trend-- heav,ier.use of funk (aka tnorc slap bass, etc.) Lyrically they haven't s.trayed too far though. So11g:s like \Kind of Lhc Juaglc .. all!d \Rock Til Y()u Rot\ are a mother's worst nightmare. \Pipe Dre:arn \ stands out as the most C()mpelling tune. \You're all0owed to shake tile chains/ But to break them's not an option/ You can shout the war's insane/IIut the only ears to hear you cannot stop them~\ Hardcore, with it's often nerve- racking music, is obviously not for everyone. Unfortunately, excellent songs are overlooked because of closed-rnindednes~. There is no such thing as \the best music there is\. Variety in musical taste is needed to appreciate any type of music. Hell Toupee ()ffcrs a glimpse at hardcore without going too far. If you've ever wondered what it's like, this is a good place to begin. At least give it a try before you shrug off the entire musical genre. I give it six manges (out of eight). Friday i~ the DEADLINE for subtnitting any art work for the Spring issue of the IDOL. Any problems call Leslie 370-5735. Anyon:e who submitted work to the Winter/DOL please come pick it up ASAP in the Arts Depto Office. during the current season she will appear on tour in Italy and in a series of performances with the Sadler's Well Royal Ballet. Frame, who trained under George Balanchine and Peter Martins, now extends his talents to guide the new Northeast Ballet Co. During his distinguished career, Frame appeared in nearly all of the New York City Ballet Repertoire by Balanchine and Jerome Robbins. Area audiences, IJerhaps, know him best for his performances as the Cavalier in the Myers Corn pany proeductions of the NUTCRACKER at Proctor's as well as for his many summers with the NYCB ~t SPAC in Slll'atoga Springs. Local d~ncer/choreographer and Nortl1east Ballet (()_ artistic director, Darlene Myers., is also well known to. area dance enthusiasts and was recently ll!amed to the fir l edition of The Marquis Whd':s Who In. Entertainment an(i tCJ Emerging; Leaders In Americ:a. She is the founder o.f the Northeast Ballet Co., a not·f()c- profit da:nce company w 1to~;e official sc;;hool is the My-ers Studio 011 Barret Street Ln Schenectady. Her dancers were invited to -perform this Augu-st for the National Museum of Dance's Gala, organized h y Marylou Whitney. Among tile offerings {()1 1l:le Colloquium company's spring concert will be the NEB dancers performing original ballet (on pointe), a work designed to bridge the gap between modem and classical techniques. Other highlights of the afternoon program will be two solos performed by Cynthia Harvey: \The Dying Swan\ from \Swan Lake\ choreography after Marius Petipa; and \Presence\ choreography by Michael Vernon, music by Jacque Offenbach. An original and contemporary Pas de Deux will be performed by Peter Frame and Annette DeCresce of Northeast Ballet C()., and Chopin's \Ballade #9 in F Major\ played by Zayas. Department of Motle;rn Language¥ ailltl Literatures CAMIELE LAPA.R.RA \Work will make a11 inf()rmal preseniClti {)!\' ()n in Progress on Balzac: Atl Example IJ/ tile Power of Aristocratic Wl»men in The Humata C(}medy-Mnt~. lfe Mortsauj.\ You are cordially invited trJ cztt,enci 3:-30 p.m., Friday, April 19, Hrtlrill!leities Lounge · Refreshments

1s C!t.tlltCllrbtrnst.s LIFESTYLES April 18, 1991 The Women Series: Elise Foody- The Permanent Crossword Puzz~e By RON EUGENIO spent long hours keeping a S entine I when she was . Q _ Do you have any Majors. You know how they have pictures of each graduating class from Mechanical Engineering? There may be one token? And there are very few [female] Science Professors. Elise Foody- The Permanent Crossword Puzzle Elise Foody smiles a lot, almost to the point where you want to ask her to frown. But if you do that she might laugh it orr and that would defeat the rurpose. So she smiles. hrhaps after four years here at Lnion (graduating as an Economies Major), and after ·\''rving as Editor-in-Chief at Concordiensis), maybe smiling is all that's left to do. The two of us have a lot in common; we're both bordering on frantic looking for employment next year, we both believe there's too much t<1lk and not enough action when applied to Union's diversity, we both admired the Bangles (band from California) and Brct Easton Ellis (author of Less Than Zero and now American Psycho) when they started out, then cringed when they lost focus, we both newspaper/radio station afloat, editor-- \It's a different problems here as a woman at and we're both prepared to newspaper. It's a lot den~er\-- Union? finallylcavcthisplace. and honestly hopes it A_ Well, it's not W c are also cocky. There flourishes for years to c<Jme. Dartmouth, and it's not quite was time to kill while the She smiled after she said that. Wellesley [laughs]. I think it's recording material was being As our conversa.tiun fine here, I don't see any set up (the interview took place continued, the S'llbtle pr9blem. The biggest thing at the radio station). so while complexities of her p'ersonality that jumps out is this whole waiting Elise started doiRg the surfaced; the pictures and motto thing and it really has crossword puzzle. With· a posters on her wall i11dude me a bit miffed. I think it's permanent Magic Marker. She eccentric bands (R.E.S., 'The ridiculous that they're explained Lhat it was the only Smiths) and aot-so-eccentric considering changing it. writing insturment around, and people (George, Rm:mld, They're using feminism as a· to her credit there weren't any Nancy, and Dan). She was at crutch; \Women have been here rub-outs. But filling · a the helm of Concord iensis 20 years and we gotta make crossword puzzle in that either with Andy Seward, but she them know it by changing the . implies an inner gambling admits she doesn't knov1 what motto\~- and I think that's passion, or supreme the word \Concordiensis\ ridiculous. We don't need to confidence. means. She has an affe(;ting, change the motto to increase Confidence is apparent when light-hearted giggle, bt1t she the status of women here. she talks. about the future of also has a heavy, ifucid Q_ What would you change Concordiensis. \The degree perspective. She has gJa:ring here, if anything?· · · of reporting has improved to a problems with the make-<llp of A_ I was going to say, first certain extent, but I'd like to the Union student bod~, but of all, give the sororities equal see them [the current editors] she fits in with that body quite status on campus in terms of really dig at issues. I'd like it · well. Indeed, Elise F0ocly is a housing, but they're in the to be less flighty, but the puzzle of crossed words .. but process of doing that already. · sections we have are great.\ that's why she is so imp<>rtant That's a definite plus. I'd like She felt no threat from The ~to ·have around. to see more women as -Science [Union College] is v;ery uniform. I'd say I'm a conservative and for someone like me I'd fit in. It's so different from an Oberlin or a Reed College. Q_ Or a Bennington? Or a Hampshire? A_ [laughs] Yes .. Union is too hotpogeneous. I hate to say it needs to. be more diversified because we've been hearing that. since we were freshmen. You don't get 50% of yo~r students from New York, from Massachusetts, from Connecticut. That really has to change. Drastically. · · · Q_ What would you want the world to know about EliSe Foody? A_ My phone number? [laughs] TEI.ECOMMUNICATIONS The Greatest Show on Earth Returns to the Civic Center TIPS ( ·f~J===L:h: ) .. t:: '/ ·~ l ;::; I BQQ 1\ REMEMBER: Payment of your Union College Telephone bill is due in full on the 1st or the month following receipt or the bill. Unpaid telephone charges are dealt with by the Accounting Office under existing policies regarding student financial responsibilities and obligations. Eail!.lr~ tQ 12ay l!QUC t~l~12b20~ bill wb~n du~ ma:r:: result io!QSS Q[ uri~ileges in using tb~ CQIIeg~·s JQng distaa~:~ secy:i~:~. inabilitj: to Qll:-c~:g:ist~r Qr I:Slk~:iv~ grad~sl tcans~:;dJili. FROM; !NTHO TO !BX STUDENT POliCY AND P/lfXElJlfRES MANUAl/PG. 7 interested~····!'f~~~~,, c···c ;>11!~ia~t'' at457· Parent's Weekend Committee needs he·lp! Be a part of the fun! Volunteers needed for Saturday morning of Parent's Weekend (May I 1 th) 9 a.m. - noon Free T-shirtfor volunteers Call Dean of Students Office x6061 and volunteer now I I The Glens Falls Civic Center. is proud to welcome the return of the Ringling Br-others and Barnum & Bailey Circus for four shows beginning ~ues<fay, May 7th and running through Wedn.esday,. May Sth. This year 1 s all-new eaition will\feature Flavio Togni, the world reknown rtalian animal trainer. Flavio specializes in working with horse~ and elephants. The opening show is Tuesd.ay, May 7th at 4:00 Pl'-1. The sponsors of this show are WRGB and Price Chopper. A $4.00 discount coupon is available at all Price Chopper locations~ The 4:00 PM performance on Wednesday May 8th is a special group and child discount show. Groups of 25 or more and all children under 12 receive a $2.00 discount off the ticket price. Tickets for Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus ate $12.50 and $10.50 and are on sale Monday, April Sth ~t the Civic Center Box Office, a11 Ticketron locations, Video One in Manchester Center, Bookmark in Ticonderoga and Book King in Rutland, Vermont. To c•arge by phone call the Civic Center Box Office at (518) 798-0282 or Ticketron phone charge at 1-800-920-2030. Visa and Mastercard are accepted. Perfor..man.~. Pates~ Tuesday May 7Ua Tuesday May 7tra Wednesday May ~th Wednesday May ~th 4:00 PM 8.oo PM 4:00 PM *t 8.00 PM ~ - Groups of 25 + receive $2.00 discount * - Children under 12 receive a $2.00 discount FOR FURTHER INFORr.1~TJON CONTACT: PROMO.TIONS DIRECTOR GlENS FALLS CIV1C CENU::R (518)798-0366 . . . .. . ·. . ' ,. I t ,\1 e · ... .. ··'· . . ., • • • • 0 •' .- _;Jti.{{/;~ ~i ~·· .. . . . . . . . .. .. ... . . .. :~ .. .. . . . • .-!!\;\·· ... · .. •.\ o I • • ' • :;:~:· . .: ···:.. : . .. . . . \\ . . . ·. ·'::.·.···', . . ·..... . - .. . ': .. :·. . . . . . . . ..... . . . ...... . . . . .. \. . . .. . : ~ ..... i .. ••• : • •• ·.·.:. \ •• • • • .. 't '\ .: .. :. . .· .., \. -. : I ;'

I ~ { ' April 18, 1991 CLUB 1\f·EW!i NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES NEWMAN SUPPERS Tuesday, April 23rd at 5 PM in CC203 join Jack Maranville a member of Union's Adminis- tration, for supper and con- versation. Use meal card or bring your own supper. :FOLK GROUP • Singers and musicians interested in · being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at • 6:30 p.m. in'St. John's church to rehearse. TUTORING • Union stu- . dents who are interested in • tutoring please contact Barbara Cash; Box 279~ Tel: 386-4181. THE POW·ER OF MYTH • Tuesday, April 23rd in St. John's School Library at 7:30 we will continue the videos \Joseph Campbell and The. Power of Myth with Bill Moyers.\ All programs are sixly minutes and will be .. followed by a half hour discussion. Program Three: The First Storytellers .. Campbell discusses the importance of accepting death as rebirth as in the myth of the buffalo and the story of Christ, the rite of passage in primitive societies, the rote of mystical Shamans. and the decline of ritual in today's society. All are welcome. · · BIBLE STUDY/PRAYER GROUP - Tuesday, April 23rd frotn 9 to 9:30 PM in St. John's School Library. We will read and reflect together on John 20. ACROSS HELP WANTED - STUDENT NEEOEJ) - - SUMMER BREAK - One full time pos1tton available. Annual Fund Office Lamont House. 8 A.M. t~ · 4:3() P.M. Mon-Fri. Please calllf:6175 by May 1. CAN YOU HELP? Castle Ridge Park. Needs You! Help is needed to construct a new playground on April 17- 21. Volunteers needed for food service, child care, construc- tion, skiUed and unskilled. For more info call Sondra Schaefer at 783-6757. SUMMER JOBS $9.10/hr. or commission. Advertising sales. No exper- ience necessary. Training provided. Work close to school. Car recomliTlended. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 344- 6766 for details & application. ME1RO MARKETING GROUP Weekly Crossword 7 Tall tale 1 5011 sheets ·Of paper 5 Apartment ad to Applaud \BE 'X'TRA CAREFUL\ By Gerry Frey 8 Has green eyes 9 Prom goers 10 Encouragers 11 Roman dough 12 Mr. Gulnness 14 Taj Mahallocation 15 Type of skirt 16 Lubes 17 Cassan~ra, eg 18 Irritate 19 Space 20 Stand·IIIS 22 Imprecise 24 Possessive pronoun 25 Olympian Owens 26 Outdated 29 Precedes take and fire 30 Vtu:atloll • 34 Vleavlng machine 3$ Vlord With can or man 36 Annoy 37 LA law character for S~Grl 38 lricksters 40 ilR Depot 41 Sports arenas 43 Freudian term 44 Stipentls 45 Bay area County 46 Uruguay: Abbrev. 47 Warnlllglight 48 Aromas 50 Follows fee or bob 51 Cure-ails 54 Suurce ol aluminum 58 Type of skirt 59 Ravi Shankar's .Instrument 61 ·Morse god 62 False god 63 HelVe the game in the ba11: 2 wds 64 flip 65 Hartly heroine 66 Boclr:parts 67 En,isions USG. .. \.ll.JI>.- (,·.cc SJ'..I='E. i -n .• ~<J.l..,. 1'-h ... G:SIJ. DOWN 1 File 2 German river 13 Teen test: Abbrev. 21 Follower suffix 23 Mr. Kefauver 25 Witches and black cats? 26 Combining form meaning \living substance .. 27 Main heart artery 28 Echo location device 29 Missing soldier 31 \All the ships_. ____ \ 32 Detain 33 Rub out 35 \Ode ___ Skylark\ 36 For 38 Language of India 39 Encourage to action with on 42 Toxic impurities in herbicitles 44 Muscles 46 Bearlike 47 Minor vlru; ailment 49 Mr. Bean 50 Uncovers 51 Give off 52 Parasitic insects 3 Combining form for Ma~ 4 Karl's economics 53 Wedding vow words 54 Football player 55 Notion in Nice 56 Fork prong 5 Cassettes 6 Spanish cheers 57 Termini 60 Twitch UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGtCAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \A CHEMIST'S VIEW of PHOTOSYNTHESIS\ Dept. of Chemistry Colgate University Thursday, April 25, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 ' .. ...

20 <ll.omrntrnzf.s CAMPUS l\IEW!i April 18, 1991 ·· OFF CAMPUS DFF-CA.MPU§ HOU'§INii APARTM-ENT FOR RENT 3-Bedrooms, close to Union, off street parking, free garage, year lease and security. Call Dave MacPherson, 584~8483. HOUSING Non-smoking, mature female . to share 3-bcdroom flat in quiet neighborhood (good for studying). Laundry in basement, .parking on street. $300 per month. includes utilities. Upper Union area. Call 393-1519, leave message. 1045 UNIVERSITY PLACE 3- Bedroom flat. 1706 CARRIE STREET 3-Bedroom flat. Prefer female student., or mix. 875-6229 eves. 18 - 24 Apr. 1991 THIS WEEK AT UNION Apr 18 - Thursday 11 :30 AM CCAUD: Minerva Hour 11 :30 AM UCDH Multicultural Table 3:00 PM Baseball Apr 19 - Friday CCAUO: Movie \Green Card\ Apr 20 - Saturday CCAUD: Movie \Green Card\ 11:00 AM Softbalf Apr 21 - Sunday CCAUD: Movie \Green Card\ Apr 22 -. Monday CC305: Sally Eckhoff Paintings -> 5/3 12:30 PM CC302 Women's Studies Speaker Series 12:30 PM CCAUD NASS: Luci Topahonz.o Apr 23 - Tuesday 12:00 PM CC302: Plateful of Questions 3:00 PM Baseball 3:30 PM Softball 4.:CJO PM Men's Tennis 7:00 PM CCAUD Hispanic Spkr: R. Ramirez 8:00 PM CC406: JSU Movie 8:00 PM CC302: Matthew Greene: New Age CC>Iilcert · 1!:C~ AM Women's Lacrosse 12:00 PM Baseball 1 :{)0 PM Chi Psi Beach: Blues Traveler 3:00 PM Men's Lacrosse 1:00PM Golf 3:00PM Men's Tennis 8:00PM CCAUD: JSU Speaker: Dr. Kaslowsky 3:30 PM Women's Lacrosse 7:30 PM CC302: Crosstalk-Gender I'Je utrality Apr 24 - Wednesdays:oo PM MfiN Track (Union tnvyJ 7:00 PM CCAUD: Speaker Celia Gonzalez SS016 Movie: \A Room With a View\ 3:00 PM Basebalf THIS CA.LENDAR IS PRESENTED BY THE COLLEGE CEiflER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGAMMING SOARD FOR PUBLICITY PURPOSES ONLY, CALL OR WRITE: X::611B or CC408. CURRENT AS OF 4/9/91 Rubes® By Leigh Rltbiru Lost- PER§OI\IAL!i SDT formal date - if found -----------1 please contact Julie. ALL NEW AEROBICS ! Tuesday and Thursday. Alumni Gym 4:00 Barbaquen- Sleep in your own bed, wiU ya?? You have to do WHAT . J,ike a racehorse? Oh the Shame .... Pi Alphas- Don't forget to wear your pins. We love you! -The Sisters D.G.- Gct pysched for spring term! Cyndi- Thanks alot for Saturday night. . We had a great time! -Love, D.G. Wendy, How's your back? LoveL. · L- Larissa-- Congratl1lations on getting into Brown. We are so proud of you! Love Michele & Michele Moty- Y our'e the best! Love, Becky Janey B. and Toilethead- We'll see who's a good sport. Love, the Tyrant Dear Gamma Phi Beta Pledges, Y? Because we love you! Happy Spring Term. Love, the Sisters Gamma Ph~ Beta Dear Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta, C? See ya' real soon. What a House! A House! Cool! Love, L.K. Tweety- Keine Sorge! Wir werd{m es •. ! ~ bestimmt schaffen koennen. Wiebe? Thanks for the bowling - next week batting cage!!?? ; I ; : :: -F-: SHAVE IT! • i R, E, D, K, E, M, Sara toga! A new tradition. Boz, Czech and Lipdog, Springfield is a pit, Ted's is a joke, Delta Chis at U Conn John Boy, Ols, Dave N, don't do it for me, but boy did I Way to Drool. The Sabres and · . have a good time! $80, not quite worth it. Burg Pitchers at the gate. Wednesday nights mean trouble. Nicole, Happy Birthday! Love your roomies Diane, Michele and Jennifer. Delta Love. . Marybeth, When you get the urge to pick up your whistle and start doing 'the crawl once again, don't I ' forget about me and my boys. Dave ! ____________________ __ Pro Choice Meeting Monday, ss 105 All Are April 22 6:00 p.m. __ Welcome! \I'm afraid Phil's out sick today ... \You know. I'm really getting sick and tired of 11earing -you whine about how 1 lake you .for granted!\ I'm just filling in for him.\ =='= __ ..~. !

CAMPU!i 1\lEW!i April 18,. 1991 OFF CAMPUS OFF-I:AMPU!i HDU§II\J6 APARTMENT FOR RENT 3-Bedrooms, close to Union, off street parking, free garage, year lease and security. Call Dave MacPherson, 584-8483. HOUSING Non-smoking, mature female to share 3-bedroom flat in quiet neighborhood (good for studying). Laundry in basement, parking on street. $300 per month, includes utilities. Upper Union area. Call 393-1519, leave message. 1045 UNIVERSITY PLACE 3~Bedroom flat. 1706 CARRIE ST·REET 3- Bedroom flat. Prefer female student. or mix. 875-6229 eves. 18 - 24 ... Apr. 1991· THIS WEEK AT ·UNION Apr 18 - Thursday 11 :30 AM CCAUD: Minerva Hour 11:30 AM UCDH Multicultural Table 3:00 PM Baseball Apr 19 - Friday CCAUD: Mpvie \Green Card\ Apr 20 - Saturday CCAUD: Movie \Green Card\ 11:00 AM Softball Apr 21 - Sunday CCAUD: Movie \Green Card\ Apr 22 -. Mo·nday CC305: Sall.y Eckhoff Paintings ->. 5/3 12:30 PM CC302 Women's Studies Speaker Series 12:30 PM CCAUD NASS: Luci Topahonzo Apr 23 - Tu~sday 12:00 PM CC302: Plateful o1 Questiolls 3:00 PM Baseball 3:30 PM Softball 4:00 PM Men's Tennis 7:00 PM CCAUD Hispanic Spkr: R. Ramirez 8:00 PM CC406: JSU Movie 8:00 PM CC302: Matthew Greene: New A~e Concert · 11:00 AM Women's Lacrosse 12:00 PM Baseball 1:00 PM Chi Psi Beach: Blues Traveler 3:00 PM Men's Lacrosse 1:00PM Golf 3:00 PM Men's Tennis 8:00 PM CCAUD: JSU Speaker: Dr. Kaslowsky 3:30 PM Women's Lacrosse 7:30 PM CC302: Crosstalk-Gender Neutrality Apr 24 - Wednesdays:oo PM MIW Track (Union lnvyJ 7:00 PM CCAUD: Speaker Celia Gonzalez SSOI6 Movie: \A Room With a View\ 3:00 PM Baseball THIS CALENDAR IS PRESENTED ElY THE COLLEGE CENTER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGAMMING B<lARD FOR PUBLICITY PURPOSES ONLY, CALL OR WRITE: X6118 or CC408. CURRENT AS OF 4/9/91 . Rubes® By leigh Rubin ~===~====~. L()St- PER§O;l\IAL!i SDT formal date - if found please contact Julie. ALL NEW AEROBJCS. ! · Larissa- Tuesday and Thursday. Alumni Gym4:00 Barbaquen- S.teep in your own <bed, will ya?? You have to do WHAT H:lce a racehorse? Oh the Shame.... · , Pi Alphas- Don't forget to wear your pins. We love you! -Tile Sisters D.G.- Get pysched for spring term! Cyndi- Thanks a1ot for Saturday night. W c h~d a great time! ~Love, D.O·. Wendy, How's your back? Congratulations on getting into Brown. We are so proud of . y(ru! Love Michele & Michele Moly- Your'e.the best! Love, Becky Janey B. and Toilethead- We'll see who's a good sport. Love, the Tyrant Dear Gamma Phi Beta Pledges, Y? Because we love you! Happy Spring Term. Love, the Sisters Gamma Ph~ Beta Dear Sisters ofGamma Phi Beta, ·. C? See ya' real soon. What a Housel A House! Cool! 'Love L .. Love, L.K. L- Tweet:y- Keine Sorge! Wir werden es Thanks for the bowling- next bestimmt schaffen l<oenrten. week batting cage!t?? Wiebe? R~ E, D, K, E, M, Sara toga! A new tradition. -F: I SHAVE IT! Boz, Czech and Lipdog, Springfield is a pit, Ted's is a joke, Delta Chis at U Conn John Boy, Ols, Dave N 1 . _don't do it for me, but boy did I Way to Drool. The Sabres and ·. have a good time! $80, not quite worth it. : Bllfg Pitchers at the gate. Wednesday · ~--~~-~--- nights mean trouble. Marybeth, Nicole, Happy Birthday! L(lve your roomies Diane, Micb.ele and Jennifer. Delta Love. When you get the urge to pick up your whistle and start doing I the crawl once again, don't forget about me and my boys. Dave Pro Ohoice M·eeting Monday, ss 105 All Are April 22 6:00 ·p.m. Welcome! The \chronic fatigue syndrome\ hotline was destined to be a failure. \I'm afraid Phil's out sick today .•• I'm )us.l illllng In for 111m.\ \You know, I'm really getting sick and tired of hearing you whine about how I take you for granted!\ == =

April 18, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLETII\1 BOARD You are [nvited to .lfoi.n the ~®!t!lu Al11llllln'l:fell'~illlll'\ <CtefiQ'JibHran!til<ll>l11l <lllW <C®®dlmll!anttn<llll11l oo!t illiiDil®IID Friday evetzing April26 and 27 4:30-6pm Reception for Senior HonGrs Thesis EKbibit of paintings and !)'hDU)grapby by Marie Guariniello '91 and 5:00pm ·6-Rpm !l:OOpn1 Y:30pm Saturday I 1:00am !2:30pm 1:30pm 2:15pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm I 'I Amy Benusis '91. Arts Atrium. Women:s Softball, Union vs St. Rose, Alexander Field. Openinf!, Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff'77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery. Welcome by President Roger Hull and Chairman of.the Board. of Trustees Norton Reamer '58. Coeduc11tion at.Formerly SiilgleSeJ~lnstitutions: The Impact and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee, former Dean of tbe Faculty at Union, now PresideAt of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditoriu111. Receptililil/Coffee House featuring Mar-cy Shapiro '73, jazz pian.ist. College Center 302. Coeducational Union: Where Are We Now and Where Are We Going? CC Auditorium. Moderator Kathy Mullaney '74, Alumna Trustee and Manager <Of Finance, GE, with student panel discussion on. current issues in coeducation: athletics, classrooJn climate, housing, inclusion and diversity, and sociallife. Student panel: Gene Bernard Lisa Ghenmu Cordelia Coppleson Mary Hayes Kevin Dantzler Mike Rolnick Lunch will include recognition of our earliest alumnae. Barbara Burek '7 5 Trustee and Division VP of Marketing for Pepsi-Cola will give high.lights from the transitie>n to coeducation at Union. Music by th.e Gamet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Old Chapel. Celebt:ating Union Women in Soci~ty. Kate White '72, Ediwr-in-Chief at M~·Ctllt's, will speak on: Beyond Superwoman: How To Hav.e It All With Some Adjwtrnents. CC Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be h.eld in various rooms of the College Center. Alumnae will be discussing life after Union in their fields of endeavor: •Women in Business •Women in Arts & Communication •Women in Education •Women in Law.& Govemment •W<Jmen in Engineering •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It All? •Wumen in Science and Medicine •Returning to School: Challenges and Possibilities Open House at the Women's Center. North College. Outdoor Concert, College Center Patio. OdodO', a play celebrating women of color, directed by Marina Bernard '92. CC Auditorium. Cabaret presents \Helena Binder Bress '76 Sings Again.\ College Center 302. For yo11r enjoyme11t all day: •College Center Exhi!Jit or Alumnae: \The \V:ay We Are\ •Exhibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Stra.uss Gallery, CC305 •Selr l'ortraits by Union Women., 2nd Floor Photograph~ Gallery, Arts Building •Paintings and Photography by Amy Jlenusis '91 and Maria C11ariniello '91, Arts, Atrium l&'!' <!lll''IU) IIll!l II m v fill 1!1 rDl •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~•••••••••o•••g~e•o•o•••••• Rese•·vation for Compliment~ry Lun~b For a lunch reservation, please return no lalerthan Monday, April22 to: l!at Rush, Lamont House. Name--------------------------------- ClassYcar ---------- Campus Address --------------------- Pho11c No. Seating; is limited. Reserve your place early. SHAKE CLUB ! BUY 10 GET 1 FREE Ca.~h Sa.lel> Ott.f. I * (J1SI.t SALeS ONLY . * /'fO f)Cp·u~AT'ION OAll.. ~~ THE PRINCETON REVIEW We Score More ooc @[jj)r{} 0 0 @WiJ @jy)[f buy 10 t;et 1 FRFEef ..,.

April -18, 1991 CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD You are Invited to Join the ~® tt !ln A !Dlllll ilv~e IriSIU;r <C ® n IS 1lD ll' $:) tt ii liD !Dl liD if <C®redlllllt~!<lllil:nllDIDl <lll!t UJ~mii®!Dl uN.t9lJ -d ~coft£~- Friday evming April26 and 27 4:30-6pm Reception for Senior Ho9ors Thesis Exhibit of paintings and phl>tography by Marie Guariniello '91 and 5:00pm 6-Rpm ~:UOpm 9:30pU1 Saturday !1:00am 12:3Qpm 1:30pm 2:15pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm Amy Benusis '9·1. Arts Atrium. Women's Softball', Union vs .St. Rose, Alexander Field. Opening Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff'77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery. Welcome by President Roger Hull and Chairman of .the Board of Trustees Norton Reamer '58. Coeducation at Formerly Single Sex Institutions: The Impact and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee, fonner Dean of the Faculty at U11i6n; now President of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditorium. Reception/Coffee House featuring Marcy Shapiro '73, jazz pianist. College Center 302. Coeducation at Union: Wltere Are We Now ~nd Where Are We Going? CC Auditorium. Moderator Kathy Mullaney '74, Alumna Trustee and Manager of Finance, GE, with student panel discussion on current issues in coeducation: athletics, classrol>m climate, housing, inclusion and diversity, and social life. Student panel: Gene Bernard LisaGhenoiu Cord~lia Coppleson Mary Hayes Kevin Dantzler Mike Rolnick Lunch will inClude recognition of our earliest alumnae. Bail>ara.Burek '75 Trustee and Division VP of Marketing for Pepsi-Cola will give highlights from the transition to.coeducation at Union. Music by the Garnet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Old Chapel. Celebrating Union Women in Society. Kate White '72, Edilor-in-Chief at McCall'.~. will speak on: Ueyond Superwoman: How To Have It All With Some AdjU£tmenls. CC Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be held in various rooms of the College Center. Alumnae will be discussing life after Union in thek fields of endeavor: •Women in Business •Women in Arts&Communication •Women in Education •Women in Law &Government •Women in Engineering •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It All? •Women in Science and Medicine •Returning to School: Challenges and Possibilities Open House at the Women's Center. North College. Outdoor Concert, College Center Patio. Ododo, a play celebrating women ofcolor, directeQ by Marina Bernard '92. CC Auditorium. Cabaret presents \Helena Binder Bress '76 Sings Again.\ College Center 302. For your e11joyme11t all day: •College Center Exhil>it of Alumnae: \The Way We Are\ •Ed1ibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Strauss Gallery, CC305 •Self Portraits by Union Women, 2nd Floor .Photograplly Gallery, Arts Building •Paintings and Photography by Amy Benusis '91 and Maria Guariniello '91, Arls,Atrium I&~~D':1'~>1llll!l ll!lllvfitiflcil THE <D:oltfDrbirnsi.s e rovement REP PRINCETON I ~ i ~ 0 -t ,-. I Reservation for Compliment~~y Luracii For·a lunch f0$ervalion, please return no later than Monday, April 22 to: Par Rush, Lamont House. Name--------------------------------- Campus Address Seating is limited. Reserve your place early. Class Year ------------ PlloneNo. SHAKE CLUB ! BUY 10 GET 1 FREE Ca.t>h Sa.te.-6 Onl / REVIEW We Score More ooc (§]fii)ri) 0 0 \ ~~....L-.-.1-.---.&---. . ' @ffi7i} ~[70 u /_ * tb E)(PtAA.rtoN oAn. ,t;et 1 FR.r::e/ I ~

Men's Tennis Ma:kin·g Much Rac,ket Not of a By TENNIS TEAM The Union College Men's Tennis Team has suffered two more sctbacl<s over the last week. On April 9·, Skidmore defeated Union, 7-2, ill matches. R.P.I., on April 11, won with a match score·of 6-3. The winners in the Skidmore match were Chris D'Orio in #3 singles with 7-6(7-5), 7-6(7-4) as set scores, and D'Orio and Garrett Lasewicz in second doubles with scores of 7-5, 6- 3. Chris Mi'ller playing at #1 singles lost 1-6, 2-6 as Lasewicz alsG lost, playing at #2 singles, 2-6, 1-6. At the #4 spot, Jon Conti was defeated 4- 6, 1-6, while Darren Dahl was defeated 2-<i. 0-6 at #5 singles. Jim Polites was defeated 2-6, 4-6 playing at #6 singles. Number one doubles, Conti and Dahl, were defeated 2-6, 2- 6 while the 4f3 doubles, Dave Moody and Miller, also lost 2- 6, 6-4, 4-6. In the R.P.I. match the doubles played first on the three indoor courts due to the poor weather conditions. Lasewicz and D'Orio won 6-4 2-6, 6-3, playing #1 do~bles: Miller and Moody, playing at #3 doubles, wmi' 6-4, 6-3. The singles winner was Chris Miller pla)'i ng at #2 singles with scores of 7-6, 6-1, to give Union their three wins. The six losses came from: # 1 singles, Lasewicz with scores of 2-6, 6- 7(7-9), D'Orio at #3 singles 2- 6, 2-6, Polites at #4 singles 2- 6, 4-6, Comi at #5 singles 5-7, 1-6, Jeff R<Jth at #6 singles 2- 6, 1-6, and #2 doubles, Conti and Matt Futterman, with scores of 7-6 ( 4-7), 0-6, 6-7 (4-7). The current records .of the players are as follows: D'Orio is 2-2 in singles and 4-0 in dm1blcs with partner Lasewicz, who is 1-3 in singles. Miller is 1-3 in singles and with partner Dave Moody, is 2-1 in doubles. Polites is 0-3 in singles and 0-1 in doubles with Miller. Conti is 0-3 in singles, and 1-3 with partners Dahl and Futtermaa. Both Dahl and Futterman are 0-2 in singles. Tom Rizzo and Roth are both 0-1 in singles. With a current record of 0-4, the season ahead appears. dim for the team, but Coach Decker has optimism and enthusiasm, knowing that the future may hold more promising play. Remarking that most of the breaks have not fallen the team's way, he added that if the teams play well, this week could be a potential sweep. Coach Decker commented on the upsetting loss to R.P.I. as the 2-1 early lead in the match from the three doubles simply slipped away as the singles played. He maintains the philosophy that a winning team must keep their heads up and continue playing hard. Future matches will be against: Siena on April 16, away, at 3:00; St. Rose on April 18, HOME, at 4:00; and on Saturday, April 20, away, against Oneonta at 1:00. The team appreciates any support tht the fans might give, so come out and watch the matches. Union Ruggers Serum It Up In D.C. Continued from page 24 scored the first try of his career). Bob Socolowski, and Vinh Dicp. Upon entering Washington D.C., Union RFC did not know what to expect. Still smarting from the opening weeks bmises, the team tried to play some good ball while taking in the sights of our Nation's capitol at the Cherry Blossom Tournament. While social chair Ric Morton was off doing the sightseeing, the R uggers got down to business in a downpour of rain. This proved to he ominous, as the Rugby Gods did not smile on either the A or B side all wech·ntt Whik t:ht· tL·am faibl to take a rn:ll~h. the wl'ckl'ncl proved to hl' a great karr~ing rxpericncc, l''-Jll'L ially for the )'lnmgn I' L1 > l'r.'-. (' omnlL' ntc d Da\T Austin, \We tried to give our younger players as much exposure to match experience as possible, we weren't as concerned with winning as we were with getting their feet wet, if you will pardon the expression.\ While this was true, one must be reminded that Union was short many of their top players do to injuries the first week. In the coming days, URFC is looking forward to their league matches which will culminate in the much anticipated Upstate Tourna- ment. Tf their practicing on Lthrary field this week is any indication, hoth the A's and B's will be a team to be feared. Come out and support the squad on Saturday's, m hettcr yet, get CHJl those old clcal\> and ~ivc Rttghy a try. You won't k di'>apllOtntcd. ,fi.~ 1 ,SUPPORT UNION r:i:J SPORTS April 18, 1991 Women's Track Cruises By MEG PARSONS The wom.en's track and field team is on a rampage! At the Williams ~elays, a meet sort of like the Penn Relays sans Bill Cosby and ninth graders running 57 -second 400's, the women came home with hardware and personal records galore. Though everyone performed at peak levels, the weight throwers were the stars of the day. The throwing team of Kerry Evers, Lori Simkins, and Alix Goldschmidt combined distances in each of the \relay\ • events. This stellar team placed first in three out of their four events and set a meet record in the hammer throw. Each thrower got at least one personal record and Goldschmidt qualified for the ECAC meet as she beat the school record in the hammer. On the track, the two sprint medley relays (different events, same name-- go figure) placed second and third. The shorter medley (100, 100, 200, 400) run by Denise Saunders, Clare (Mrs.) Megathlin, Joy Grillon and Sandy Anselment was the second place finisher while the longer medley (200, 200, 400, &00) run by Meg Parsons, Tasha LaBarre, Joy Grill on, and Sandy Anselment placed third. The 4Xl00 relay comprised of Parsons, Megathlin, Saunders and LaBarre, in which each member runs 100 meters, placed third with a time of 52.3 seconds. The 4X200 meters team, same names, different order, didn't have the same luck. The ladies would have SCOREBOARD BASEBALL (3·4) 4/11 4/13 4/15 4/16 4/11 4/1 3 4/1 0 4/1 3 4/11 4/13 4/16 4 I 11 4/16 Union 4 Norwich 5 Union 7 Union 7 Union 6 Siena 0 Union 3 (Game 1) Williams 4 Williams 4 St. Rose 3 SOFTB-All (7·4) Union 5 RIT 3 RIT 5 Williams 3 Union 1 (Game 1) Union 1 (Game 2) MEN'S LAX (6·1} Union 9 Union 16 Colgate a St. Lawrence 9 WOMEN'S LAX (2·5) Mt. Holyoke 14 Union 8 William Smith 20 Union 0 Union 10 Middlebury 7 MEN'S TENNIS (1·4) RPI 6 Union 7 Union 3 Siena 2 placed third except for that si:lly rule about exactly where the baton must be handed off. The splits, the approximate time each runner runs in the relay, were a blistering speed; so at least the team knows they are in great sprinting shape despite rule-obsessed officials. The everchanging mile relay cruised to third place, though the wind and cold was in full force. Grillon, Saunders, Anselment and Megathlin ran a strong race coming up with a time of 4:33. W i t h m i d season performances like these, the women's track and field team h-as great post season performances to look forward to. This weekend the team will be burning up Albany State's new track. Come on out and support the team. 111(1---------, I.· ATTENTION I I SENIORS I I I I I I Anyone 1 I Interested In 1 1 I Working On 1 I The 1 1 Arrangements I I For This 1 I Year's I I I I I I SPRING I I FLING I I I I I I Sign Up In I I The Student I I Activities I I Office I ·---------· It's Not Too Late To Apply To Ludlow House! Ludlow House is an exciting alternative housing program open to all Union Upperclassmen. Ludlow, located on the 1st floor of Webster House, is a co-ed, student-run option to basic dorm life. If you are looking for more out of where you live next year, consider Ludlow House! For more info or if you like to see Ludlow life first-hand, call Jenn r=at x6823, Dave at x6818 or Sue at x6825. We look forward to hearing from you soon!! :: ,'• Mail to: ' I I ,, ' ' ' i ~ ' i: 'I \ 1 : i i \ t u i t [ I .t ' ! 1

i\ i il ; I i \ , I \ 1 : i i \ .. Ma:rk Cal'l·.a'han Blanks Siena ·4-0 .. ·Registers-15 K's in 4-Hitter By DAN STRUM Sports Editor The Union baseball team bas jumped out to a slow start this season. Last Thursday, Union faced Division I Siena in a tough road match. Behind the solid pitching of senior Mark -Callahan, Union notched its first win of the se·ason by shutting out Siena 4-0. For his outstanding performance during the past week, Mark Callaban has been named Concordiensis Sp()rts Athlete of the Week. Callahan hails from D()ver Plains, NY, where he attended Dover Jr-Sr High School. Here at Union he is a strong right- hander who is considered to be the ace of the staff. He turned in one of the best performa11ces of his career in beating Siena. Callahan had a complete game four-hitter on his way to the shutout. fn addition, he registere<li an incredible 15 strikeout-s. He Struck out at least ofle batter in every inning. Jn six of nine innings, Ma!i'k Callahan Callahan struck out two batters. Five of his K's were called third strikes, which is pretty impressive against a Division I ball club. In. addition to baseball, Mark Callahan has made big contributions to Union's football team. He was the leading receiver this past season and has accumulated three varsity letters. After this season, Callahan will pick up his fourth varsity letter for baseball. Last year he pitched to a 2-2 record. So far this season, he has a 1-2 record. In his three previous appearances, which consisted of two starts and a relief appearance, Callahan struck out 13 batters in his 14 innnings of work. Mark Callahan is looking to set Union Baseball back on the winning track. His leadership should prove to be important in Union's future success. Once again, Congratulations and continued success to Mark Callahan, Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Men's Track Places Well By GREG BARRETT The weather was typical for the Annual Williams Relays, damp, cold, breezy and generally miserable. It was overcast and in the low 40s. Twelve teams had come from all over to race and the Dutchmen were among them. Despite the weather, Mike Emmi nabbed a new PR in the open 800m. His time was 2:15.3 which chipped almost two seconds off of his previous best. The \short\ Sprint Medley also proved to be a Dutchrnell strong point. The relay was a lOOm, lOOm, 200m, 4()0m combination which was covered in 1:40.3, capturin,g a third place. Bill Taylor, Matt Decker, Bac Nguyen !lnd Bob Lindyberg each came home with a medal. The other highlight was the field event relay which was a 4X100m. effort. Glen Meixell, Shawn Mowry, Keith Reynolds and Ted Corrigan showed th.at they could run just as well as they could compete in their specialties (well, almost). Jon Rosenfeld was the ·~ . .::-:--- - ., -- ·' ~- ironman of the day finishing the 5000m in a new PR of 15:46.8. This sheared almost 13 seconds off of his previous best. This weekend, the men's track team travels to the Albany Invitational where they hope to continue to improve their marks even further. There is only one month left in the season and the crunch is on. States is looming ahead and the Men's Track Team is working hard to hit their peak of perfection. Soocer:Eia,~ml-mer~ Fo()tbail:>Tr> Qi - ···· ... ·· ···. · · . 1f'lt• · 'op -~- -nt ·'·\·\\elir 1 t'M.~·}f\\' T D't:tu · .... - \ ·\IJ\~f4 ... U}t-' , _- . _.. ~ ~- . : es arer .~$.):·~1~ {21U) . ., . NHL. Update By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY The National Hockey League playoffs are approachilig the end of the first round. With this brings the yearly cro}} of upsets, and this year's first round was no e:xception. The 16 teams ,only needed six games of the first round to knock the top contender flat on its back. By losi Rg in the first rmmu to the Minnesota North Stars, the Chicago Blackhawks became the first number one team in the regular scaso!l to lose in the first round of the playoffs since the Boston Bmins of 1970. Add to this the fact that the Mi Tlncsota l':mth St~lrs finished 3R points behind the Blackhawks in the final standings, and you h<Jvc yourself a classic upset story. Led by the stellar play of goaltender Jon Casey, tlw North Stars frustrate~ the ''Windy City's\ high powered offense. Superstars Chris Chclios and J crcmy Rocnic:k never really got the ball rolling. On the other side Gf the red 1 ine, th c North Stars put on an offensive show the people of Minnesota haven't seen since their Stanley Cup runners-up of 1982. The power play of the Stars made Vez:ina trophy candidate Ed Bclfour watch backup Dominik Hasek close out the series for the Hawks. In other first round upsets the Washington Capitals defeated the New York Rangers four games to two. After trailing 1-0 and 2-1, the Capit-als won three straight games to send the Blue Shirts packing. It was the first time in team history that the Rangers had lost a series after leading two games to one. In a series marked by superior goaltcnding, Ranger goalie Mike Richter was forced out of the net by three quick goals in the first period of Lhc sixth game. An unfortunate end to a great goaltcndint! display through the first fi \ c ~:~m~~..·_..;. The Wa~hin):.!ton Carita! ... nll·~.·t the Pitt:-.burgh 1\'11).! lllll' in th~..· second round of till· j'fa~pll-.,. \\hich ~tarll'd l:1\t nidll 1n Pittshur~h. , Th~.· lir\l round 1s cnllllll!.! ttl a close. Till' l' \ d ll'llll' n I 11 r Overtime has struck. fans Ilk~..· a I ightning bolt num'-'rous tinws already. Thr~..·c of th~:· ~.·isht series Lo date have reached a seventh game, and one- go:1l games arc as commonplace as Wayne Gretzky's name on the Hart Trophy. These arc the times that make for happy fans and disappointed fans alike. In the end only one team wins the cup, and we're a long way away. In the mcant.irne enjoy the games .and LET'S GO CAPS!! Ultimate Frisbee Tournament for Charity On the weekend of May 3, 1991, the Alpha Epsilon Pi · Fraternity will be holding an Ultimate Frisbee Tournament to benefit the homeless of Schenectady. The purpose of this event is to raise moTley to support the eff()rts of local organizations which provide food and shelter for the homeless. While much has been done to aid those in need, there .arc still a great deal of people who need our combined support. If you would like to place a team in this eve11t please fill out the attached registration form and mail it to Box 1031 in the College Ce11ter. · Each team consists of ten (1 0) people (6 :players and 4 substitutes) and there is a $30.00 entrance fee for each team. Additional contributions are also welcome. If you would like to field more than one team please make an indication of this on the registration form. We cannot guarantee that second or third teams will be entered so please specify the preference order of your teams. There will be both a male league and a female league in the tournament. Keep this in mind when making up your team(s). The deadline for registration is Tuesday, April 23!! Please be sure that your registration forms arc in by then. We arc hoping that you will support the homeless by placing a team in this event, it should be a gre.1t time. If you h.ave any questions, please do not hesitate to call Matt Karlyn (370-6950) or Jason Buchwald (377-4072). We appreciate your support, · The Brothers of AEPi WRITE FOR SPORTS: Contact DAN at x 4169 or Box 1761

' <. Women's Lax plays Hamilton at home this Saturday. Game time is 11:00. Union Ruggers Invaded D.C. this .pa-st weekend. Union Ruggers Getting Their Feet Wet By FRIEDS (Political Advisor) The Union College Men's Rugby team began their Spring season with two tournaments over the past two weekends. The first tournament was played at conveniently located Windover, and the second at inconvenient Washington D.C. (where the president lives). At Windover, the \A\ sides played their first match of the season against highly touted Syracuse. Tbough the Orange- men looked to be a formidable opponent, Union held them scoreless in the first half, while playing uphill, and into the wind. Inspired defense was played by the whole side, most notably by Roger Weber, who had a few bone-crushing hits which noticeably intimidated the juice. This psychological win in the first half proved to be just what the A's needed to topple Syracuse in the second half. The serum dominated, cul- minating in pushing Syracuse back into their own try zone, where senior Matt Taylor flopped unt() the ball for the match's only score. Again the defense played remarkably well, especially Ty Janney, who sacrificed his nose to save a sure game saving try by Syracuse late in the contest. Other outstanding play came from Mike Alter, who subbed in the second half for the dislocated Smurf. Against Albany in the tourney final, U Coil did not fair so well. It was obvious that the Albany team's extra few weeks of practice proved to be the decisive factor, as at the time of the match many of Union's players were still shaking out the cobwebs from Spring break. On the whole, the outing proved to be a success, as captain and stud Dan Gilbert concluded \we put in a strong effort for our first time out, these guys had been practicing for weeks, and we showed what we were made of.\ The \B\ sides were included in these remarks as well, after losing a tough first game to Syracuse, the Killer B's rallied in their second match against Plattsburg State. Notable performances were put in by Parry Pagett, Owen (who Continued on page 22 SPORTSWEEK Thursday, April 18 Baseball vs. North Adams Softball vs. New Paltz Tennis vs. St. Rose Golf at Skidmore INVY Saturday, April 20 Baseball vs. Middlebury (2) Softball vs. Hamilton (2) Men's Lax vs. Hamilton Women's Lax vs. Hamilton Men's and Women's Track Albany INVY Tennis at Oneonta Monday, April 22 Golf vs. Hamilton Tenn-is vs. Colgate Tuesday, April 23 Baseball vs. Albany Softball at API (2) Men's Lax at API Women's Lax vs. Oneonta Wednesday, April 24 Baseball vs. Colgate Men's and Women's Track Union Invitational 3:00 H 3:30 H 4:00 H 10:00 A 12:00 H 11:00 H 3:00 H 11:00 H 12:·00 A 1:00 A 1:00 H 3:00 H 3:00 H 2:00 A 3:30 A 3:30 H 3:00 H 5:00 H April 11, 1991 SOftball Gets Off To A Fast Start By RON BIRNBAUM The first two weeks of the season has women's softball off to a more than positive start. Mter winning its first six games, the Dutchwomen lost their first two games this past Saturday in a double-header at RIT for a 6-2 record thus far. With wins against Skidmore, Albany, Utica, Siena, and Williams though, Union has lit!le to be a~hamed of. Already playing better than last season's team, which ended with an even 500 record, Union has made only 3 errors thus far and allowed only 6 runs in the first 6 games. Union opened the season with a 7-0 victory at Skidmore. The Dutchwomen, then I followed up with the 4-1 victory against Albany, its first win against the team in over 3 years. Travelling to Utica, the team won again by a comfortable 7- 1 margin. In the first inning, the first five players to bat all scored, including Theresa Sanchez and Jean Lopata with singles, Roselle Eisma with a double, and Robin Romer and Kathy Lawliss as a result of wild pitching. Eisma, Sanchez, Lopata, Sunny Shailam, and sophomore outfielder Lauren Seidman all had RBI's, and Seidman also had a hit. Romer, Seidman, and Shailam had hits in the fourth, fifth, and seventh respectively. The second game of this double-header was cancelled by rain. In the first game of its first double header that came thru versus Siena, the Dutchwomen once again started things off strong with 4 runs in the first, 2 in the second, 4 in the fourth, 3 in the fifth, and 3 in the sixth. The team had 5 players who had 2 or more hits, and 3 who drove in 2 or more runs. The game was dominated by · the Dutch- women, though Siena got back 3 of the 4 runs it gave up in the bottom of the first. However, it was unable to utilize other situations, getting no farther than second in the second, third, fourth, and si)l()t1J. Contributing to the 16-4 ])1ol!V- out were 4 runs ead1 by Lawliss and Eisma, 2 mils by Romer, Seidman, and Chris Weske, and 1 run by b<ltll Twombly and Sanchez. Also helpful were stolen base:-s by Lawliss, Eisma, Romer. Seidman (who pinch~hit for Dudzic ), Lopata, a11d Harrington (who pinch-biit fm Weske). Union shut out Siena 8-0 in the night cap. Williams was the sbtll victory for Union, a team the Dutchwomen had not defeated in over 4 years. After 3 q11ick outs in a hitless top <Jf the first, Williams scored the first run, a change of pace fo:r the squad. The Dutchwomen came back to tie the game ill the second when Dudzic g()t on base with a walk and scored <lff Marsh's RBI. Union sccreid 2 runs in the third to go abea<l, with Eisma scoring off e=rro-rs and a wild pitch and R()rner scoring off stolen bases after her single. After 3 strike..,otkts in a row in the fifth for Ullio.n, Williams got another run cff 2 wild pitches and a fast baJI. ln the last inning, Union sco•ed 2 more runs when La\OVJ,iss singled, stole second, an(J -..v;as sacrificed in by Eisma. :R<>Iller was put on base by a sh<>rtstop error, moved over by DH Seidman's sacrifice bunt,. and allowed to score off Dlidz:ic's single. Williams scored ome in the bottom of the inning, b:ut it was not enough as 1Jilion won 5-3. _ In its second double-l!eader this past Saturday at Rir, the Dutchwomen's winning streak unfortunately came to all end with 2 losses. In the first game, which was a 3-1 <lefeat, all of RIT's runs scored ()niJEts instead of wild pitches. I11 the bottom of the second, RrT scored the first run. 111 the third, Union had a 2-·out situation after the first 2 .at bats, but RIT then got players on base with a double an<!: a single and scored 2 runs i11 the inning for a 3-0 lead. The sole run for visiting Union was scored in the top of the seve:nth with a lead off hit by Marsh. Junior first baseman Wendy Getty, who pinch ran for Marsh, stole second, was advanced by Twombly, and scored off Lopata's RBI. The following game: was not as well-played. with a 5-1 final score, all runs scoring on wild pitches. The only Union run was scored by Lawliss (who hit 3 for 4 for tile game) in the fifth off Romer's RBI. RIT again scored first in the second. The fourth batter got on base after being hit by a pitch, and 2 wild pitches brought in the two runs in the second thereafter. In the third, 2 batters singled to start things, Union walked 3, and 1 batter go1 on after an outfield- error. Of the 3 additional runs that inning, 2 scored on a wild pitch. Both teams had 6 hits in iliis game, which came down· to a pitcher- catcher com:petitio~ after the outfield error. While the ex~ct weakness for Union in these games can not be pinpointed, one main weakness is the lack .of backup pitching, where Weske, the one main sub, is 11eeded elsewhere in the outfield. In additio~ Dudzic, who prior to RIT has a 1.02 ERA, was not feeling well physically, and there was the mental pressure C>f having to play the second game after the first loss. While few wild pitches were made. they just happened to be at tile wrong times, with mnners en base. However. the en til!e team shared in the hard day. Clutch team hitting was not tilere, an unexplainable Jlhenomena with the DLitchwomen's lligh hitting average over the ptevious: 6 games (overall tearn average of .283 and half tile tearn hitting over .250). Still remaining in tile season are 8 home games an{j 4 road games. This week tbe team plays Oneonta,. New Paltz, and Hamilton (a double-header) all at home.

i{. b(:ollege 1877 ~· Vol. CXX, No. 19 Schenectady, New York At>dl 25, 1991 ................... Faculty Up In A-rms Over Hathaway Issue By STEPHANIE FRAY Editor-in-Chief Almost three weeks after the decision 'not to renew Visiting Professor of English William Hathaway's contract was made public, college faculty .are still at odds over the issue. Thus, it was not surprising that the faculty meeting held on Monday,. April 22, deemed \one of the most painful two and a half hours\ of one · professor's career at Union College, was characterized by an exchange of harsh words and heightened emotions between professors. The majority of the meeting focused on a resolution proposed by Chairman of the English Department Peter Heinegg, in conjunction with other faculty members, calling for a review ·of both the Hathaway decision and current procedures by appropriate parties. While it was clear that opinions differed dratically amongst faculty members with regard to his proposal, the existing hostility was both frightening and disheartening. The majority of faculty and administration present at the meeting agreed that there are in fact flaws in the current system albeit due to the need to clarify already existing procedures or simply because many are dissatisfied with the present apparatus. However, it is also clear that there is a significant faction that has not sided with the English Department on this issue whatsoever. Moreover, there seems to be a great deal , .. · . ·. , ... ·······.·• .. ' . Jn.~Tnis· ·.,:' ·issue·:··.·• ·Tales of\ ·a: Bar· .. ' . · Tape . · ··· ·~page4 ···- . ·: ,, ' ·,. : ' ... : .· · .. 41u~~.i '~xaiitine :. I. lif~·. at a lid a·fter · • ' ··, .. . .. . . . '' ... · ... ·. . Union · .. ·. · > > · · ··· :. ~ ,~lie oxs.··. .. ''. ·Tenfiis . teatn ·bas ·. l.lJld,efeated · · · ,.week·· ···· .:- page 21 ' ·' ,· of disagreement regarding the role of student evaluations in determining the quality of a professor. Dean of The Faculty James UndeiWood criticized Heinegg's decision to go public wi~h the Hathaway issue before The exisitng hostility was both frightening and disheartening. attempting to use in-house means of resolution. Additionally, it would appear that the English Department was negligent in following proper review procedures in that the department failed to compile a required statistical analysis of student evaluations. Furthermore, Professor of English Frank Gado asserted that as a result of General Education requirements, the English Department is in desperate need of a professor whose expertise lies within the realm of American literature. Hathaway does not fit this bill. Once again, Underwood reiterated that in retrospect, he would have entered into the process much earlier, interviewing all candidates for the position. Additionally, he would have met with the department itself. However, he emphasized that in doing these things, his final decision would not have been any different In response to allegations regarding Underwood's \bias\ towards the English Department, it would appear that just cause does in fact exist warranting this inclination. He cited several occasions where certain members of the department had \acquiesced in the name of mediocrity\ on recruiting decisions whereby complaints were f-iled on behalf of department members against their colleagues. Chariman of the Philosophy Department Robert Baker addressed the ethics of the issue, conceding that the Philosophy Department would have put up an all-out fight to keep Stanley Kaminsky, Visiting Professor of Philosophy. However, although the department recognized Kaminsky's briliant teaching ability, he simply \did not make the grade in other areas\ and as a result, a fight would have been inappropriate. Con~inued on page 3 Student Forum Drafts Profess,or Review Proposals By JAY FREELAND News Editor The Student Forum meeting this week primarily discussed the Hathaway case, and reached a group decision on the case. The following proposals were drafted by the Forum on this issue and appear below: 1) The Forum feels that the . Hathaway case is deserving of a procedural review and the Forum places its support , behind the group(s) endorsing : this review. 2) The Forum does continue to support the use of student evaluations as a method of gaining student input for hiring and tenure decisions, but offer several suggestions for needed changes: --The Forum proposes the use of three separate student evaluation forms - one for Continued on page 3 Twenty Years Of :Co-education Commemorated This Weekend By LISA HOFBAUER will enable us to \assess where we arc at in the process of The completion of the 1989- becoming co-educational, and 90 academic year marked the , to celebrate the contributions end of two decades of co- of Union women.\ Tobeisson education at Union. Man¥ also good-naturedly referred to alumnae, when informed of this fact, volunteered to give a lecture if the college felt like doing something in honor of the occasion. What started as a common idea between alumnae and faculty/administrators blossomed into a full-scale celebration. This weekend has been designated as the time to commemorate the event. The weekend will feature several student and alumnae presentations along with other events open to the campus community. The purpose .of the celebration, according to Joanne Tobeisson, is twofold. She claims that the weekend Schedule of Events - page 3 the Saturday luncheon/lecture as \food for thought and body.\ She and the other organizers of the weekend look forward to a good turnout of faculty and students. All alumni have been notified of the event, and invitations were issued through the Union College magazine. The weekend festivities will begin on Friday afternoon. The alumnae speakers represent many different professions, ranging from business to the arts. Barbara Burek '75, the vice president of marketing of Pepsi-Cola, will speak at the Saturday lunch given in Old Chapel, which will include a performance by the Garnet Minstrelles and the Dutch Pipers. This will be followed by a lecture at 1 :30 by Kate White '72, editor-in- chief of McCall's magazine. These events are open to all students and faculty, and a sign-up sheet for the lunch wilt be at a table in the College Center on Thursday and Friday. Also planned for the weekend are several artists' receptions. a discussion with a student panel, a female student-directed play, and several other alumnae speakers. Will we ever see spring without the rains? The decision to become a co- educational institution was reached twenty years ago by a joint decision between the trustees and alumni. All alumni received a mail-in survey about the idea and the response was basically positive. Admissions proceeded to increase as a whole, and for the past eight years the male/female ratio has remained. on the average, roughly 60/40. The first co-educational class was comprised of 464 student~. 126 of whom were women.

A Question Integrity By JIM POLITES Associate News Editor Integrity is a word that, by definition, indicates a completeness and soundness, · an unimpaired condition of ho11esty and sincerity. On a daily basis, each and every man, woman, and child ilil this nation is confronted with a challenge to or question of in tcgrity, and the answers to these most difficult tests of morality often shape society in such a way that it reflects this trait as paramount in importance. Citizens of the United States voice their opinions in this democratic process through the popular vote, ideally electing officials who best represent the interests of his or her constituents. Whether electing a high school class treasurer, leader of a labor union, congressman, governor, or president of the country, one must first ,take into consideration how sincere the twminee's word and actions truly are. Perhaps this is why integrity, and a constant scrutiny surrounding it, is properly placed in the higb esteem of so many. People, b)' nature, are skeptical of others. First and foremost is whether or not a bond of trust can be reached, for without this essential foundation, a relationshp based on mutual agreement of honesty is impossible. There are a myriad of examples on both a local and national level that illuminate the act whereby integrity-- its use and exhibition-- is employed not only to evaluate figures but to address and even manipulate situations that call · for special attention and care. On the national scene, take, for instance, the all-important characteristics of integrity the politician must exude in order to gain valid appeal an1idst the public sector. In George .Bush, the American population knew exactly the type of leader they would be getting. For after serving faithfully as vice- president for some two terms he was perceived as a man-- though quiet, even reserved-- who could be trusted with the welfare of an entire country. Integrity has a distinct effect on people; when seen and apparent in someone it can transform in.to a type of credence that can often overcome doubts concering mutual and debatable issues. Integrity is a key factor in George Bush's persona-- many say it is the quality that allowed him to enjoy such monumental success in the Persian Gulf War. There were several key decisions he was forced to make, and his global vision, cou}Jled with a basic sincerity to which the public could relate and recognize, brought him worldwide acclaim. Throughout the entire Middle East episode, Bush never lost sight of the fact that his support from those at home was number one in importance. At the same time, a content public reciprocated his actions with majority cries of nationalism and pride-it was a relationship and a victory that was cemented by a basic trust, and the results were glorious. Of course, there are many other cases in other country's political scheme that show a breach of integrity such that an entire population is lied to and abused. With these assumptions that integrity is present in a figure, there also comes responsibility. The most renowned case of the American public being victimized by a figure yielding false integrity is the great Apdl Watergate scandal and its catalyst, Rich~d M.Nixon. Nixon (though many agree he did nothing worse than others before him-- except get caught) let· the power of his position eat away at his conviction, to the point that he became constantly paranoid at even the most innocent questioning. Nixon's integrity became lost in a whirlwind of political and journalistic controversy, and unfortunately for him, he will forever be known as the lone symbol of an event in historv that highlighted a terrible abuse of trust. In . a society today that is wracked w.i:th highly publicized sex scandals and corporate battles, integrity is much too often left out in place of fame, __ fortune, and advancement. Our political system is pervaded by machines and underhanded dealings that serve only to stain the handful of positive accomp~lishments that are made. ' Integrity should and will always maintain a high degree of prestige among Americans. Whether or not more foresake its true value can only be answered with time. Hopefuny- for generations to come the correct influence will point our future leaders in the virtuous direction of integrity. Only then, will we finally realize the true winners in society. Kennedy Scandal Ignites Debate By MICHAEL and THOMAS RIZZO What do you think of when you hear the last name Kennedy? My brother and I think of a family that is rich, powerful and is now in a great deal of trouble. This article is not simply an account of the events on Easter weekend in Palm Beach but it is a focus on the rights of the woman that was allegedly raped. The question is simple: Is this woman's name protected under the first amendment or does the media have the right to reveal tbis woman's name? The question may seem irrelevant now that her identity has been established but the implications of this action are tremendous. The fact is that Florida law prohibits the Kennedy case. Just put yourself disclosure of the name of any in the place of the woman in victim of a sexual crime. Tile Palm Beach. Would you want district attorney in Palm Beach to turn on the evening news is seriously contemplating and see your name splashed taking this case to the Supreme across the screen as the lead Court because there are two story? Your life would be in competing arguments. The first turmoil because all of your right is the right to privacy fan1ily and friends would know tl; .... t has been used in many what happened. They may be C~bes to protect the rights of supportive of you, but what if the individual. The other rigllt some of them tum away? The is the freedom of the press. It results would be devastating. may be up to the Supreme This case could make even Court to decide which of these more victims of sexual crime rights takes precedence in this keep quiet and not come forth case. because of a fear of just this Besides the legal sort of media circus. Is it worth implications that have been having dangerous criminals raised by this case, there are escape prosecution because the certain moral questions that - victim is too sacred to have must be answer~d. For a · - her identity revealed? woman, it is very easy to The final moral arguments, understand the effects of the we send out to the people of the state of Masachusetts. We beg you to throw the Kennedy family out of office NOW. Senator Kennedy has weaseled his way out of one death (the Chappaquidick incident) and now an alleged rape. The senator's alcohol consumption is of legendary proportions, surpassing that of most people on the Union Conege campus. Although drinking alcohol is not a crime, do you want this quality in your elected officials? In addition, if the alledged perpetrator of this crime was anyone other than a Kennedy, wouldn't he be in jail right now awaiting a grand jury? Instead, he and the senator are out giving press conferences. Purge this stain on the integrity and honor of Massachusetts, elect anyone, including President Hull, for senator instead of Ted Kennedy. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Committee N,eeds Your Input! Come To Our Next Meeting Monday, Apri,l 29th 4:00 pm •C.C. 204 l •i

' il ti I Apr.il 25, 1991 You are Invited to Join the 20th Anniversary Celebration of Co-education at Union April 26 and 27 Friday evening 4:30-6 .pm. Reception far Senior Honors Thesis Exhibit of paintings and 5:00 6-Spn 8:00pm 9:30pm photography by Marie Guariniello '91 and Amy Benusis '91. Arts Atrium. · Women's Softball, Union vs. St. Rose, Alexander Field. Operting Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery. Welcome by President Rqger Hull and Chairman of.the Board cf Trustees Norton Reamer '58. Co-edpcation a.t Formerly Single Sex Institutions: The Impact and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee, former Dean of ib.e Faculty at Union, now President of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditorium. Reception/Coffee Hoose featuring Marcy Shapiro '73, jazz pianist. College Center 302. Saturday H:OOam Co-education at Union: Where Are We Now and Wbere Are We Going? CC Auditorium. Moderator Kathy Mullaney '74, Alumna Trustee and Manager of Finance, GE, with student panel discussion on curtentissues in co-education: athletics. classroom climate; housing,;inclusion and diversity, and social life. Student panel: Gene Bernard Lisa Ghenoiu Cordelia Coppleson Mary Hayes Kevin DantZler Mike Rolnick 12:30pm Lunch will include recognition of our earliest alumnae. Barbara Burek 7 5 Trustee and Division VP of Marketing for Pepsi-Cola will give highlights from the transition to co-education at Union. 1:30pm 2:15pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm Music by the Gamet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Old Chapel. Celebrating Union Women in Society. Kate White '72, Editor-in-Chief at McCall's, will speak on!': Beyond Superwoman: How To have It AU Witb Some Adjustments. CC Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be held in various rooms ·Of the College Center. Alumnae will be discussirig life after Union in their fields of endeavor: •Women in Business • Women in Education •Women in Arts & Communication •Women in Law.& Government •Women in Engineering •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It AU'? •Women in Science&Medicine •Returning to School: Challenges & Possibilities Open House at the Women's Center. North College. Outdoor Concert, College Center Patio. OdodO, a play celebrating women of color, directed by Marina Bernard '92. CC Auditorium. Cabaret presents \Helena Binder Bress '76 Sings Again.\ College Center 302. For your enjoyment all day: •College Center Exhibit of Alumnae: \The Way We Are\ •Exhibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Strauss Gallery,CC305 •Self Portraits by Union Women, 2nd Floor Photography Gallery, Arts Building •Paintings andPhotogniphy by Amy Benusis '91 and Maria Guariniello '91, Arts Atrium Sponsored by: •President Roger H. Hull •Office of the Vice President for College Resources • Office of Alumni Affairs • President's Commission on the Status of Women • Women's Studies Program Reported Security Incidents ~~ LOCATION INCIDENT 4/15/91 4/15/91 4/\15/91 4/l6/9l 4/16/91 4fJ.7/91 4/17/91 4fJ.7/9l 4/17/91 4fl8/9l 4/19/91 4/18/91 4/19/91 4/19/91 4/19/91 4/19/91 4/19/91 4/20/91 4/20/91 4/20/91 4/21/91 4/21/91 4/21/91 4/21/91 l2:0l11M H\:lranities Bldg. lilndcM vandalized 12:l!AM H\Inanities Bldg, lilndcM vandalized ll:57M Almni Gym. Trespasser--Wa:rred off caq,us 9:45AM Alumni Gym Thefts fl:an two unloc::kad· loclcQrS occurred laut week. cash & watch st:clen fl:l:m men's locker roan area 8:30PM Alumni Gym 'I'heft of clothing fi:QtJ 'WCllel'l's .. locKer area 1:33PM Riclmlnd Lot Student's car 'Yalldali2ed. PaiJ!t acratcheC. 2:4Sm Delta Phi by a key. Student • s jacket !1!\d wallet stolen. :Recovered ••• retul:ned via cailpUS nail. 7:06PM college center Minor paint spill IOan 301 ll:30Pii Sccl.ai lleierx:es Student's mountain bike stolen, It 'Wl!S -:,.. chain locked to bike rack. l2:l6PM Raym:md House Stutlent's keys stolen. M::menterily left ;Ln door lock. 6:10PM Can\pllS 'Wide Unauthorized leaflet solic:Ltation 7:22PM Jackson's Garden Juvenile trespasser~td off C!Ulp1Jil 9:04AM President's !louse Driveway vandalio:ed, Pidnted slQgllllS. 9:301\M L.il:xrazy Pla2a Walkway vandalized. Painted slogans. 10: OO!IM Machine Lab Lot AlUllllUS vehicle varoalized. .~len :r:ecovered a.M returned. l.:30PM 9=lOI?M 9:4J!\1'1 3:55PM 4:30PM 2:58AM B:l<IMI l2:05PM 8:36PM off campus (hare) Staff received annoyance telepi'Dne caU at helle. originated £rQl\ calipus. Occurred ll:2lJIM approximately 3 weeks ago. North Entry Gate Assisted SPD 'With off catll?US varrellsm to resident. ;,pprehended ~ ju'veni.l<>s on canpus am turned aver to pollee. Fieldtouse J:aors vancla.li:zed. Broken. Qy ;i:Arqe' .xoc:k', • Off Campus (hane) Studen.t's drivers License stolen. Canp~JS lot vehicle repossessed. Towed fran campus by Tri-citWs ReOove!:y• SPD ad'\Tised us. North COlle<je Mischief. llcttles thl;a.m fran 4th floor windcw and shattered on pathways below. llCiler House Trespasser. Stu:'lent frail arofuer college sleeping in boiler House, Warned off canpus. North College Leo student~s vehicle registrt>tion plate stolen. Recovered 4/22/91. College center Students failing to evacuate for fi.ra a..4u::ms. 1\JEW§ Hathaway Case StiJI Unsettled Continued from page 1 Addressing. Heinegg, Baker asserted, \You are not playing by the same rules we are. It's tough and it hurts like hell.\ Although no definite conclusion was drawn regarding the way to proceed in putting this issue behind them, it was obvious that a resolution must be sought in the near future so that faculty members may peacefully coexist once again. Perhaps Professor of Theater Barry Smith said it best when he stated, \In the spirit of working collectively together. we need a spirit of collaboration.\ Ultimately, it is obvious that some compromise must be made soon. As Chairman of the Political Science Department Charles Tidmarch pointed oat, the faculty must begin to \get its trust back or very little will sustain them for the years to come.\ WRITE FOR NEWS! Call: Jeff .x4151 · lara x4157 Tom x4167 Jay· x41.6'3 Student Forum Addresses Review Issue Continued from page 1 tenured professors, one for tenure track professors, and one for visiting professors. --The Forum also proposes the use of student evaluations which distinguish between introductory and upper-level courses. --The Forum proposes setting a fixed week, length of .. time devoted to; and instructions for the evaluations in an attempt to make a unifonn and concrete method of distribution and completion. --The Forum proposes setting aside time during orientation, and any other strategic time to relay to students, particularly freshmen, the weight that student evaluations hold in faculty decisions. The Forum has sent copies of these proposals in the form of a letter to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC), President Hull, Dean Manunola, the Board of Trustees, the English Department, and Concordiensis. The Forum will be pressing these issues during the coming weeks. After concerns raised last week about the possibility that next year's academic calendar would have students returning to Union after Thanksgiving, the Forum was relieved io hear that the rumors were false. In addition, the Forum is now entering the home stretch in budgeting for student activities. Next week, the Forum will begin allocating funds for next year's student activities. Since lhe budgeting meeting is closed to anyone outside the Forum, any concerns or problems to be brought up at the meeting can be relayed by calling Jay Freeland at 386-4153, or by mailing them to Box 533. Plastic Bag Recycling Starts In Bookstore Union College has launched a new plastic bag recycling program inside their college bookstore. The goals of the recycling program are to make a meaningful contribution to plastics recycling and to educate consumers on the values of plastic bags and their recyclability. Plastic bags have always been the most reusable bags-- now they can be the most recycled. The program, introduced by Amko Plastics of Cincinnati, Ohio, includes a convenient Recycling Center Collection Box located in the bookstore. Students and other store customers, when finished reusing their plastic bags, can take the reuse a step further and bring the bags back to put them inside the Recycling Collection Center Box. When the carton is full, the college store contacts Amko's Recycling Department. Amkos schedules a pick-up and provides a replacement Recycling Center Box to maintaint the program. Returned plastic bags are separated and processed into rcc ycled resins for incorporation into new plastic bags, envelopes and other plastic products and thereby complete the product life cycle loop. ~······································································· ...................................... ······························~ .............................................. ~ Sally Eckhoff Paintings April 22-May 3 in the Strauss Gallery (CC305) Openins: reception Friday, April 26 All are welcome · 6-R:OO p.m. Gallery Hours: Mon.-Fri., I to 5 . . : ............................................................................................................................................................................................ . Author Needs Your( Help with Creation of Union Student Guidebook Including Local: Sports, Shopping, Outdoor Activities, Bars and Restaurants, Arts, Theater and Music. Write or submit information or experiences to: Student Guidebook,. c/o Dean of Students or come to a meeting at 3:30 today, at Dean of Students Office, College Center

4 C1J01tfllrllimsis CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD April 25,. 1991 * •• rape small ~'5¢ la~e 85~ There's an IBM PS/2 made for every student body. Green grass and blazing sun. Term papers and lah reports. The IBM PS/2® has what you need to get you through your work and into spring. It has preloaded software that'll let you create impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets in no time. A mouse to make it easy to use. Great tools like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. Plus, it's expandable, so it can grow along with you. The IBM Personal System/2\' has all this at a super student price* and affordable loan pay- ments with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. . UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE. college center HOURS MON. - FRI. S:45 - 4:30SAT. 11:00 - 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH And on a different note, you can transform your IBM PS/2 with Micro Channel\' into an exciting music maker with the Roland® Desktop Music System. So get something that will help you get through your work and into the sun. After all, spring, like the IBM PS/2, was made for every student body. 'Th1s offer IS available to qualified college students, faculty and staff who purchase IBM Selected Academic Solutions through participating campus outlets, IBM 1-800-222-7257 or IBM Authorized PC Dealers certified toremarket ISM Selected Academic Solutions. Orders are subject to availability. Prices are subJect to change, and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time withoutwritten.notice. ®IBM. PS/2, Personal System/2, and Micro Channel are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Roland is a registered trademark of RoiandCorporation, US. ©IBM Corporation 1991 =::.===® - ---·- --- -- _ ...... - -- --. ---·- _ __._' ~

·, Cllll1tCllrhtrnsts s Images Of A Bar Tape By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. In. the local watering holes of many a Union student, a standard backdrop to the setting has been and as far as I know still is the presence of background music. At times, the tunes ofnot-quite-our-times :has been a. welcome friend,. drowning out the incessant chatter which at times has one half seriously contemplating the consequence of dousing said yappers with precious contentions of your hopefully environmentally (and trendy) \beverage cup;\ to create. But, ah, that triumphant moment of \wow who made this tape!\ just is too much to surpass. The contents of one of these tapes is the crucial factor. It's essential to include nothing too esoteric, as one 'unacceptable' song us~:~aUy is too much for most 'open minded students' to take. I learned this when trying to expose my friends to the ambiance of \The Meat Puppies.\ But the essential components remain. One must have at least a few Rolling Stones, Grateful Dead, Doors (trenn-dy!), Radiators, Little Fat, and Blues Traveller's tunes (who am I forgetting?). This is to insure happiness for aH of those people out there who need to satisfy their Bloomingdale's bought ripped jeans' attitudes. Compliments such as \I just love the Doors! I can't wait till' they tour!\ can satisfy your \bar-tape-maker\ status as well, I'm sure. they know that you memorized the mix he made a week ago (as it's been playing for that whole time) and just rearranged the order of songs. And all you have to do is wait for it to get stolen by some ambitious pledge to place 'your' mix into immortality - popularity that you can milk off of for weeks to come. That's when you launch your second impact. could show them that secret mix of yours and just put aside their open mindedness just for a minute ... They'd pat you on the back and say \Thank you! Thank you for opening our eyes!\ you've succumbed to the melodies at hand, which, yes, you are humming along to, a few lines behind. At least one thing's for sure, you know all the songs. For the most part they're the latest hits from the sixties and seventies. But more importantly, the matter at hand. Bar Tapes, in their (if you '11 pardon the sarcasm) \progression \have taken on a certain formula f():t: success. Without it, a tape\';:: end up at the bottom of the remnant sludge on the flo<>r Sunday mornings. With it (tlte right stuff), it may receive the highest accolade of all: theft To either fate, one must wonder the satisfaction o11e get~ in making one of these tapes, considering they tak:e some time and half an order of Jreck's wings' worth of money These standards can also assure your acceptance with 'the guys' (or gals, as it may be). Nothing is more satisfying than having your compadres pat you on the back and say \Great mix, dude.\ Little do Ah, but what it would be Hke top make a mix that would expose a different kind of music, tllat music which you play in your room so low because you wouldn't want anyone to think you actually liked it. After all. nothing could be worse than having your friends discover you listening to New Order. \Oh the humanity!\ they'd say, and look at you sheepishly for the rest of your days in our 'open minded' setting. But the dream, the dream! In your mind's eye you can see it - suddenly everyone realized that there were other alternatives to those overpaid, underworked blues bands! (They played for an hour and a half, rode off into the sunset, and were never seen again. The End.) But if you Eye On The Road: Wrongful Death Uy WILLIAM JEANES Courtesy of Car and - Dtiver On the night of May 14, 1988, a bus left the Kings Island amusement park, nmth of Cincinnati, and headed for home. Home was Radcliff, Kentucky, a town of some 15,000 souls that lies on U.S. 31, southwest of Louisviile. Aboard the bus, which belonged to the First Assembly of God, were 67 people of various ages. Before ever again seeing their homes or their church or their families, 27 of them would die the worse kind of death, burned or suffocated while struggling to escape a gasoline fire. At about 11:00, as the bus traveled south on Interstate 71 near Carrollton, Kentucky, 34- year-old Larry Mahoney guided his pickup down a ramp and onto the Interstate. Anyene who chanced to be watching would have seen tllat something was dreadfully wrong. Larry Mahoney was going the wrong way. The impact of the resulting crash apparently ruptured the bus's fuel tank, and the l!ext seconds saw the inside ()f the bus become an inferno, made even worse by toxic f11mes released from burning seat cushions. If you have so much as a nodding acquaintance with fire, your mind resists picturing the scene. The driver of the bus, before he died with his finger in his fire extinguisher's release ring, had the presence of mind to shout that the back door was a way out. For some, it was. Others managed to get out through windows. Two middle schoolers, Jamie Hardesty and Jason Booker, stood at the rear door and helped people out. But 27 of their friends were beyond help, their trip and their lives brought to a sudden, awful end. The survivors, the bereaved, indeed the entire town of Radcliff and a lot of other Kentuckians, were devastated. So, presumably, was Larry Mahoney, who survived the crash and was listed in critical condition the next day. Soon, Mr. Mahoney found himself charged with 27 counts of murder, based on the allegation that he· had been drinking before the wreck and had been so impaired that he wound up aimed north on the southbound side ofi -71. Mr. Mahoney's condition, as noted, has not been proved. Perhaps he was drunk, perhaps he wasn't. Courts wilt decide that. But if you will pennit me, I'd like to assume that a hypothetical pick-up truck driver did get drunk and did cause the deaths of 27 people. Forget Larry Mahoney for now, if you are able, and consider an imaginary driver who went the wrong way on an Interstate and hit a bus. Convicting this make- believe driver on all counts of murder, if the evidence showed him to be guilty and the, jury so voted, would be just. Of course, no sentence, including the death penalty, would be severe enough to punish him for--by driving drunk--killing more than two dozen people. But hanging or electrocuting or gassing him would do one thing that our society is otherwise incapable of doing: it would get him the hell off public roads, now and forever. I am the first to admit that the advocacy of the death penalty for drunk driving would not get far in this country. It wouldn't get far in most countries, for that matter. But could someone tell me what our local, state, and federal governments are doing that will get drunks off the road? And when I say \off I mean off in the way you use cleaning solvent to remove a stain from a suit. Of all the drivers who have climbed drunk into their cars and trucks and weaved off to kill the innocent--and who have been convicted of the offenses that led to those deaths-I'll bet you a month's pay that 95 percent are driving today, as legally entitled to drive as you and I. To be sure, some of the killers have quit drinking entirely and may now be safe driving companions; but of the Continued on page 6 But by this time, your eyes are already half-closed, and Sally Eckhoff Paintings Opening Reception Friday, April 26 6-8:00 p.m. on the College Center Atrium Balcony Especially students are welcome Free food and music Gallery Hours: Mon. - Fri., 1 to 5 April 22 - May 3 in the Strauss Gallery (CC305) (Sally Eckhoff '76 is an alumna of Union College. She presently paints and writes for the Village Voice in N.Y.C. She will be in attendance at the reception and on career panels in conjunction with the 20th Anniversary of Coedu-cation at Union.) Please join us Editorial Position Still. Available for Features Seeking Writers As Well Please Call Eric 393-7010

.. 6 <!IllttOlrhtrnsis FEATURE!i April 25, 1991 Eye On the Road IELECOMMUNXCAIXONS. TRJP REMEMBER ... fJPr Continued from page 5 remainder, how many are their same deadly old selves? I'll stay with the 95-percent figure until someone comes along with a dcmonst.I:ably more accurate percentage. Using an automobile as an instrument of death runs counter to every feeling about cars that enthusiasts share. We get hundreds of letters each month that make it dear to us that our readers love cars. A lot of the letters also tell us that our readers - you- harbor an intense dislike of stupid driving. We also know that most of you, like us, enjoy driving a b1t faster than 55 mph and that you reject the dictum \Speed Kills.\ You, like us, believe in speed with style. It is at this juncture that the collision between speed and drinking occurs. If, tomorrow, an impaired driver doing 60 mph on a rural Interstate should plow into a group of 50 moped riders and kill every one of them, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration would slap the accident onto the tote board as 50 deaths that occurred on a rural Interstate after a state legislature had raised the speed limit from 55 mph to 65. True, a dedicated researcher could learn that the accident involved drugs or alcohol and was not speed-related in other than a law-of~physics sense. History teaches us, however, .that that would hardly be likely. Instead, the 50-death accident would simply skew the accident statistics of the state in which it occurred, thereby giving some sponge- brained legislator or insurance- industry lobbyist a license to shrill \Speed kills,\ at lungtop. That makes me almost WHATEVER THE REASON WHATEVER THE SEASON ' \ ~~~~~~-~:~-;$~~~~~~q i • Girt Cerlilical e f. I -Q'OO\W~IU-U ~ { oo•--~~~t~•• 1 _ ~ : ~ --·-·-·\ .. .,._ ~ ! ·. 9 'TEI.'EtOto!MUNICATKJ«SorFY.£ ~ I ~ arttAllOII OA.lt I \II~AISI'UAIII.l\' .... _D_ ..... I - ·~~ . - -~·~~~~~ ~ - !!:.~ I .. ~' :1', -~ t L :- ' !\\.-,.,: · TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATIVE UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. OR CALL 37D-6411 FOR MORE INFORMATION. Racquetball Club interest meeting. Tonight 7:30 College Center Atrium If you can't attend call Anna x4067 or Aaron x4493 •WWF •• SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION physically ilL N&t so much because such a shout is patently inaccurate, but because it profanes the .memory of every last peFS(i)n in this country who died ()0 the road at the hands of a drunk:. It is inexcusable enough to II ignore the facts--cbief among Jl. which is the intelligence that Your Union College Telephone Bill may be paid by !lcheck\ .. cash\ or 11 Credit card 11 at the Cashier's Office, Administration Build.ing. Or .. .for your conveneience alcohol and drugs 2ccount for well over half of otir nation's traffic fatalities-~bllt it is truly reprehensible for the nation's citizenry and its elected leaders to sit back. year after year, and watch lethal dtun.k drivers get their wrists slapped and then be handed back their car keys. It's like putting a convicted murderer on the street and giving him a loaded gun for Christmas. I for one .am sick of it. And I'm sick of dte spineless governments that allow it to contim1e. deposit \check\ in designated mail slot located next to the Central Mail win do\\' in the College Center. Make \check\ payable to Union College and include your lD number. . ' ,Parent's·-Weeke·n~d Colll.Qlittee. Needs ·.Help! Be a part of the fun! · Volunteers neededfor Saturday morning of Parent's Weekend '. (May.llthJ.Q a,.m~_ ... ;noon · ···.·:·\. Free T ... shirt fqr volunteers Call Dean· of Students Office x6061. ,., . 'and volunteer now/ ! ' UNION COLLEGE ; . ' ' .; ' DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT ilnd BIOLOGY CLUB Present n ALPHA-FETOPROTEIN REGULATES GROWTH in BOTH ONCOGENETIC and ONCOGENIC ANIMAL MODELS\ Wadsworth Center for Laboratories and Research New York State Department of Health Thursday, May 2, 1991 4:4 0 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESIIMENTS 4:30 I I I II

April 25, 1991 Eye On The orld y Ed Menke En E.C.U. For Me and You When Europe becomes one big \nation of nations\ in 1992, the . term \E.C.U.\ will be thrown around everywhere, and with good reason. No, no. East Carolina University won't play that big of a role in the New European community. No more than usual will people be in Intensive Care Units- or at least as far as I know. An E.C.U., otherwise known as a European Curre11cy Unit, is part of one of the economical goals of the European Community. lnstead of worrying about how many francs equal a certain number of pounds, or how many 1iJa to the mark. etc., all countries could just use one currency, one E.C.U., equivalent to approximately U.S. $1.22. Sounds good in theory, but there are plenty of problems which will have to be worked out before French, British, Spanish, German and Italian cash registers start accepting the same kind of green, blue, red, or whatever. First, there are problems which stem from the different types of economies within the European community. I'm not an Economics major, so I can't go into detail. But if yoa just think about integrating many different countries with many different taxes and inflation rates and such that I don't botb trying iO think about it any more. However, tbere are some other problems, problems that you and I and Joe Six-pack can all understand, problems with the egos of the countries in question. If there really will be. some time in the future, a single monetary unit to take care of all the differen-t nations of Europe, then this monetary unit will also have to deal with .tbe many different feelings of nationalism. In simpler terms, whose silhouettes will be on the coins and bills of this new currency? Depending on which country you asked, you'd get the names of the heroes from that country. But, let's face it, are there any British people out there who want a coin with the bust of Napoleon in their pocket? How many French people want to carry a picture of Churchill in their wallets? How do countries with swollen feelings of nationalism deal with this type of problem? One way to solve tllis, of course, would be to put American . heroes on the currency. A 20 E.C.U. bill with Roy Rogers, a 10 E.C.U. bill with Elvis, a 1/2 E.C.U. coin with Dick Nixon, etc. I kind of doubt it. McDonald's and Levi's are probably as close to European money that we Americans will ever come. So, then, what's next? Put someone who has done great things for Europe as a whole on the coins and bills? Okay, but can you be more specific? Give me the name of someone who really contributed to the betterment of the continent. Woodrow Wilson had a good thing going until his baby, the League of Nations, flopped. Professor Thomas' Term Abroad programs have added a lot to many of the countries in Europe, but he's too modest tn be put on any currency. President Hull's 100% Term Abroad goal is a good step,. but let's be realistic. Sure,. Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, and others all tried to overtake Europe, but did they actually have the betterment of Europe in mind? The head of N.A.T.O., the head of the U.N., and other similar organizations all have world peace and tranquility as their goals, but how much have they really done for Europe itself? All (or maybe just some) of these questions have to be dealt with before the final touches can be put on what today remains, for the most part, an abstract concept in some economists' minds. Letter From the LF. Editor It is necessary for me to apologize to the C()llege community and especially to President Hull,. for my irresponsibility regarding last week's article entitled \Hull's Hair-Brained Scheme Targeted at International Students.\ I wrote the article with information from unreliable sources and did not verify Hulls' position on the International House. Pres. Hull had no part in the limitation policy that only two ferei:gn students would live in the House, an idea which led many of us to believe that the House would therefore have no purpose and go out of existence. My article was based . on rumor, which at the time I · considered to be truth, but it was a serious mistake for me · not to have consulted directly · with him on this issue. I spoke with President Hull last Wednesday to apologize for my big error and he had commented that 'it's bad enough to be criticized for things that you do that others don't like, but it hurts to be blamed for semething that you . are not responsible for.' I was able at tbat time to ask Hull exactly where he stands on the · future of International House. Pres. Hull replied, \I support fully the idea of an By LARAE TUMIDAJEWICZ International Features Editor International House. I think it's wonderful to bring American and international students together.\ He went on to say, \In terms of the rumor that students should be limited to two, Ihavenoidea-- it was not my comment.\ The only international student policy that Hull has been directly involved in in regard to .roommates, HuH states, \I am clear that a student on an exchange program will NOT receive a foreign roommate.\ Dean Mammola commented on International House. He said \I was sorry to learn that some students had concluded that International House was in jeopardy. Nothing could be further from the truth; were this to happen it would be a tragic loss for the college. All of us (administration and faculty) are committed to the future of the lnternationa 1 House and we will do all we can to support its continuance.\ A meeting was called last week to determine the fate of the House. At present there are six Americans who plan to live in the House in th.c fall. There will only be about six international students en campus for next year. Of these six, a German and a Soviet student will go to International House. Two students wi II be assigned to Ludlow and the others will be elsewhere. It was decided at the meeting that if tbe House is unable to fill the rest of the beds with upperclass American students, the option will be advertised to the incoming freshman class together with Ludlow and the Hickok program. Students, faculty, and administration plan to work on a joint applciation and together to pick the freshmen members of the House. Thus, the International House looks forward to a promising future next year. In reference to what some called malicious \Hull- bashing\ by my use of the adjectives hair-brained, self- guided, and mindless, I want to point out that it doesn't take an English major to realize that those words were in no way disrespectful to President Hull; there were used only to modify the plan .and not Hull himself. Although I was wrong to print information thal I had not verified with President Hull, I was tbaflkful for the strong support that faculty, staff, and students showed toward the continuing prosperity of the International House. French Club Activities Mondays at lunch (12:30-1:30) French Table in the College Center Atrium Thursdays at 4:00 p.m. Le Quatre Heures: play games and speak French while you enjoy a cup of coffee. Monday 4/29/91 7:00 p.m. CC 4th Floor Lounge French movie: T.B.A. with English subtitles. Everyone is always welcome regardless of their level of French. NEW MEMBERS WELCOME! Spriag LJ111f11Jigt T11ble Scbedule Spanisli C{ub Presents: · Duteh Hollow Dining .Room Everyday 12:30 • 1:30 · Monday- Tuesday - Wednesday - Thursday .. Friday - French/Hebrew Chinese Spanish German Russian/Japanese Movie II C.912{M '£9{' 7:00p.m. !A{onday :Niglit. .1lpri{ 29tfi 4tfi j'{oor Lounge in Co[fege Center

• X. ._:.. ; s <lrnttrllrbtrnzis CAMPU!i BULLETII\1 BOARD· April 25, 1991 <. ... . ''A UN I 0 N of all People\ May 25th, Saturday Musical Guests: ISIS & X-CLAN INTERNATIONAL.BUFFET SPONSORED BY: Stu~dent Forum, ·C~ollege Center, Con-cert Committee, French C:l.ub, We 'Care About U. IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF: ALAS, ASU, International Buddies, International House, Russian Club, Spanish Club, German Club, Shakti, East As:i:an Club, Muslim Student Union,. IFC, PANHELL,, ~ JSU, ISU, Amnesty International. . • . Your Sponsorship & Creative Contributions Are Needed! C:oME TALK To Us: Nina Smilari How would you ·lik-e ···to• share··. your exp·eri.ence .in .. ·Mexico·.·· during your last term abroad? ·. Come on Tuesday,.· •· April 30th ·at . ···. 7:00 p.m. in CC203. Bring pictures and souvenirsl AH are. welcome I · Refreshments will be served. NEW LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: . Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday-Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 ~ _ Evans Legros Carlyle Lawrence ~~ ---..2::' =SIGN UP HOW! ====t1 Tuesday April 30 cc 40() 7:30 p.m. LATINO CULINARY EXPOSE UPPERCLASS DINING ROOM SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1991 5:00PM Sign Up in Your Dining Hall No Charge to Union College Students on the Meal Plan $9.95 to Union College Community $12.95 for General Public Admissions Sign up 48 Hours in advance at Dutch Hollow Restaurant- 2-4 pm and 7:00-'9:00 pm ;Upperclass or West Dining Hall- Lunch or Dinner Times Dining Services Office- 8:30am - 5:00pm Telephone 370-6050 · Heidelberger Romanze/Romance in Heidelbera: (1952, 100 min., German with English subtitles) · Directed by Paul Verhoeven, with O.W. Fischer, Liselotte Pulver, Gardy Granass, Gunnar Moller. Quiet alleys and paths, cozy taverns, the glittering of the Neckar River slowly flowing down to the Rhine, the ruins of a castle- that's Heidelberg. it is love at frrst sight for American student Erwin and Gabriele, followed by a cable to his fiancee in the States informing her that the engagement is cancelled. However, Susanne, the spoiled fiancee does not surrender that easily and arrives on the scene with her father where a student is waiting for a presumably elderly American lady whom he is supposed to show around. It soon becomes clear that Heidelberg's romance will last forever!

El\IVIRDI\IMEI\IT <Ilnnrorbitn.sis Trading Wilderness For Electricity IJ;y TOM HARKNESS The media have given enougll attention to the problems associated with nuclear power or burning fossil fuels so that anyone who is interested is familiar with at least the outlines of the issues. Hydropower, the other major contributor to the electric grid, has not been given the same amount of coverage though, and iD the absence of information, most people ass11me that it is a relatively benign alternative. This is a misconception. Hydropower projects in India, Thailand, Borne(),. Brazil, China, and Canada are displacing local peo-ples and causing major environmental damage. The James :Bay Hydro Project is one prcject in particular that we ill the Northeastern United State ought to know about. This is a project that is transforming the wilderness in noJthem Quebec with hundreds of dikes, the diversion of between two and six major rivers, nine to twenty-four hydmelectric dams and the flooding of thousands of square miles. In terms of electricity prod11ced, the Columbia River project in western United States and Canada is bigger, bu~ in terms of the area floO<Ied, the size of this project is unpredecedented. So far, 4,40() square miles have been floC>ded, and if the project is completed according to plan, a total of 10,600 square miles will be floooded when the project is completed. (As a reference, Massachusetts is 8,257 square miles.) Creating reservoirs behind the dams serves two functions. Raising the water level behind the dams increases the force on the water which is let through the turbine:;, and the volume of water in the reservoirs can functioD as a form of energy storage. The sheer size of the area being sacrificed for the reservoirs, however, seems to me to outweigh the benefits of the Jlroject. And this is not the only issue. In the lowlands alollg river banks,, the soil is more fertile, the trees are bigger, and there is a greater abundance of plant and animal life. These are the areas which will IJe permanently lost to floodrng. With()ut looking into the matter one might think that the rese1vo irs that fill in these valleys will not be very different from natural lakes, but the water system that is being created by the hydro project doe~ not work in the same way as a natural water system. What's being d()ne is not as simple as trading forest for lakes. As a result of matching flows through the turbines to electric demand, water levels in the reservoirs fluctuate 40 vertical feet and more. Since the area is fairly flat, this creates large areas between high and low water levels where no plants or animals can live. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that, in so far as there is a pattern to the changes in water levels, it runs counter to natural cycles that existed previously. For millions of years large amonnts of rain, high water levels., and large river flows have come in the spring. Plants and animals Hydropower projects :in India, Thailand, Borneo, Brazil and Canada are displacing Joc:al peoples and causing major environmental damage. have evolv.ed to fit into this pattern. The rain still comes in the spring, but water levels in the reservoirs are kept high throughout the summer and fall, and large quantities of water are released through the turbines in the middle of the winter in order to meet the peak in electrical demand that comes from electric heat used in Canada. Water levels rise at a time of year when previously they would have been falling, and they fall tc an extreme which is much lower than would occur in a natural lake. The shoreline is the focal point in the lives of a great many different kinds of wildlife so the impact of these changes is out of proportion to the size of the area affected. Consider fish From an economists point of view, the costs of the project is essentially just the cost of constructivn and maintenance. which lay their eggs in shallow water or birds which make their nests on marshlands as just two examples. And the damage is not limited to reservoirs. Reduced spring flows from the reservoirs result in low water levels, and an alteration to the balance of fresh and salt water in river estuaries; waterborne nutrients do n<lt reach the estuaries or James Bay because of the sedimentation that occurs in the still water behind the dams; and the estuaries of rivers that have been diverted THINK GLOBALLY ACT LOCALLY are now virtually dried up year round. Wildlife that will be affected include freshwater seals, beluga whales, beavers, other small mammals, salmon and migratory birds. Because of the richness of the habitat, the routes of many species of migratory .birds are funneled through the James Bay area and thousands of birds make their nests on the wetlands around James Bay. The flooding has also resulted in increased levels of methylated mercury in the fish in the area. In healthy water bodies there is a balance between two types of microbes. One type converts relatively harmless inorgnic mercury to methylated mercury, a form of mercury that gets into the food chain, and the other demethylates the mercury, turning it back into inorganic mercury. The decomposition of forest organic matter in the water of flooded areas has altered the balance between these two types of microbe. and resulted in a four to six fold increase in levels of methylated mercury. Fish in the reservoirs, or in water from the reservoirs have levels of mercury in their flesh which are considered unacceptably high by Canadian federal standards. The contamination is expected to last several decades. The fish are a basic part of the diet of the Dree and Innuit peoples who live in the area. The fact that Hydro Qnebec's electric rates are fairly low gives them a margin to maneuver in, which will probably make the project look acceptable to investors for a long enough time to get the pr()ject built. If we have any se11se though, the ways that we pr()dtice and use electricity will be Iadically changed. long before the 65-year payback pexi(d for the project is over. Tllere are proven technologies which. could totally eliminate 0111 use of nuclear power, and lly<lr&p()wer and take a good cltumk ~out of fossil fuel generation without any loss whats<lever to our standard of liv-ing. 'lhe other thing to consider ~is 'that the narrowly defined eG()O()filic posture, which has been :the basis for decisions on tlie development of the project ••c()nsider fish which lay tb.eir eggs in shallow water ~r birds which make tlleir nests on 'lllarslth nds.\ so far, probably doesn't :lccwately reflect the values of ~odety in general, and clefiDitely doesn't reflect the val11es of the Cree and Innuit. Beca11.se there are no moneyed i11terests competing with Hydro Que\bec for the use of the area, t:he laws of suppply and clemand put the price of the TQntl:, the wilderness ecology, ~tul even potential commercial r~sources such as fisheries at vi,rt11ally zero. From an eco11om.ists's point of view, the cost of the project is essentially just the cost of C\(i)l!stn.Jction and maintenance. I thillk that a good way to J)Ut the project in perspective is to compare the megawatt~hours p.roduced per square miJe of tl&Odi11g to the megawatt-hours u.sed per square mile of an area that is buying electricity from the James Bay Project. Last year, the James Bay Project prodt1ced 54,000,000 megawatt-hours of eJectricty. Flooding so far covers, 4,400 square miles. This comes out to 12,272 megawatt-hous per square mile. Massachusetts, which has an area of 8,257 square ITliles, used 45,600,000 megawatt-hours last year, or 5,700 megawatt-hours per square mile. In other words, existing dams required the flooding of an area equal to roughly half the size of Massachusetts, but these dams only produce slightly more electricty than Massachusetts uses. And in looking at these numbers, I think it's important to bear in mind that electric usage is only a fraction of total energy usage. I don't know if construction of Phase #2 can be stopped since Hydro Quebec is pressing ahead despite cost overruns, and potential legal problems related to eaviwnmenta1 issues, but perhaps if more people become aware of what is going on it will make a difference. We are involved in the James Bay Hyrdo Project whether we like it or not. The money that we spend on our electric bills is the incentive for building the project, and the state of Vermont, the New England PowerPo()l, and the New York Power Authority are already buying as much electricity from the project as they can get. This article was reprinted with permission from E - The Environmental Maga:zin e. EVE-RY DAY

10 @vnrorbirn.sis EI\IVIRDI\IMEI\IT Bush's National ~Energy Strategy -vs- An Alternate National Energy Strategy -···················· i RECYCLING ! i DROP-OFF ! Hy ANDREA BARRETT President Bush's National Energy Strategy (NES) includes almost 100 proposals for increasing our domestic energy production. Among his major initiatives arc: • Offering 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil and gas exploration. The Department of the Interior also announced plans to lease thousands of square miles on the outer continental shelf for similar exploration, from the Beaufort and Chuckchi Seas off Alaska to the Gulf of Mexico, to large tracts off Southern California and the Eastern Seaboard. • Reviving nuclear power by shortening post-construction public hearings and by transferring the problem of permanent radioactive waste disposal to an independent corporation not subject to the public constraints on a governmental agency. The NES would also extend the life of currently operating plants to 60 years from their cur11ent 40. • Amending the Public Utility Holding Act to allow utilities to expand across state lines and to allow private power plants to compete with utilities. This change could spur the private development of nuclear power plants regardless of public utilities' desires. • Reducing regulations on natural gas pipelines and eliminating Federal review of natural gas imports or exports. • Requiring the owners of fleet vehicles, such as taxis or delivery vans, to switch to altemative fuels: alcohol, natural gas or electricity. By the year 2000, ninety percent of the new fleet vehicles must run on an alternative fuel. • Continuing the pliesent tax breaks for energy conservation. An Alternate National Energy Strategy Numerous groups have called upon the country to adopt energy policies that would increase our energy savings--an approach which they believe HAVE ~OME EITftA TIME? W ~INIT TO VOLUNTEE\JR? THE ALBANY VA HOSPITAL NEEDS VOLUNTEERS IN A VARIETY OF AREAS: DIRECT CARE AMINISTRATION RETAIL LOBBYING FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT THE CDC Unio~ College Career n r Development • ·• ,. .. · Center 'a!. ~~~~-~- 4 .................... .._... THIRD FLOOR, OLD CHAPEL 370-6176 Rabbi Kushner- May 13,. 1991 7:30 . p.m~ · ·.-: . . Memoria}· Cbape:l . . . ' . N·OT: M·ay· 8th: .. . ·. · . . ·:· \ .. wiU be faster, cleaner and cheaper than increasing our energy production. Among their major proposals are: Improving our energy efficiency by two to three percent a year, the rate we achieved in the late 70s and early 80s. Increasing automobi:le ftJel efficiency standards to 45 mpg for cars and 35 mpg for Hght trucks by the year 2001. Raising the federal gasoline tax by 50 cents a gallon to help finance mass transit and other energy efficiency programs. Adopting \least cost\ planning methods that include energy savings and environmental effects when making aJ:l of our energy decisions. Increasing the funds for federal research on energy conservation and renewable energy until they are at least equal with those for nuclear power. Creating new tax credits for renewable energy and a carbon tax on fossil fuels. TIIINK ACT GLOBALLY LOCALLY EVERY DAY • • • • ·• WHEN.: e • • • Satu:rday, April 27 • !. 11 1 • ,. · · a.m .. • p .. m. • • • • • :: WHERE: : :: !Physical P!lant : • • • • : WHAT: : ·: Redeemab~les : : Clear Glass : : Newspaper : : Office Pap.er : • • • • • WHY: • • : To Save Our : :Resou:rces Because • : We Care! : • Call: 377-1 097 to a:rrange for : : a pickup! :f • ········~············ Running on E/Jlpty: \Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. indeed, it's the only thing that ever has,\ Margaret Mead, Anthropologist HERE'S WHAT You CAN Do To BE WATER WISE: 1. If you have a dripping faucet, you may be wasting hundreds of gallons of wa1er a week. Replace worn out washers to stop faucet leaks. 2. If your toilet \.ru r1s\ between ilushes, you are wasting a lot of wate.r. You usually can't hear a leaky toilet value until you•re losing more than 250 gallons per day. 3. Turn the water off while brushing your teeth and washing dishes. 4. Use a bucketoi soapy water to wash your car. Turn hose on only 1or quick we1downs and rinses.

1 o <1t.tntnlrbitnsf.s EI\IVIRDI\IMEI\IT ... '- .. \\: .. :~-\' ' ~ . . . ' Bush's National Energy Strategy -vs- An Alternate National Energy Strategy , •••••••••••••••••••• i RECYCLING i i DROP-OFF i By ANDREA BARRETT President Bush's National Energy Strategy (NES) includes almost 100 proposals for increasing our domestic energy pr.oduction. Among his major initiatives arc: • Offering 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil and gas exploration. The Department of the Interior also announced plans to lease thousands of square miles on the outer continental shelf for similar exploration. from the Beaufort and Chuckchi Seas off Alaska to the Gulf of Mexico, to large tracts off Southern California and the Eastern Seaboard. • Reviving nuclear power by shortening post-construction public hearings and by transferring the problem of permanent radioactive waste disposal to an independent corporation not subject to the public constraints on a governmental agency. The NES would also extend the life of currently operating plants to 60 years from their current 4~. • Amending the Public Utility Holding Act to aUow utilities to expand across state lines and to allow private power plants to compete with utilities. This change could spur the private developmentof nuclear power plants regardless of public utilities' desires. • Reducing regulations ()fi natura'! gas pipelines and eliminating Federal review of natural gas imports or exports. • Requiring the owners of fleet vehicles, such as tax:is or delivery vans, to switch to alternative fuels: alcolt(}l, natural gas or electricity. By the year 2000, ninety percent of the new .fleet vehicles must run on an alternative fuel. • Continuing the present tax: breaks for energy conservation. An Alternate National Energy Strategy Numerous groups have called upon the country to ad()pt energy policies that would increase our energy savings--<lll approach which they believe HAVE SOME EITRA TIME? W RANT TO VOLUNTEER? THE ALBANY VA HOSPITAL NEEDS VOLUNTEERS IN A VARIETY OF AREAS: DIRECT CARE AMINISTRATION RETAIL LOBBYING FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT THE CDC Uni~o. College Career n r Development • ·• ,. ... · Center .. ~~--~-- , .................... THIRD FLOOR, OLD CHAPEL 370-6176 I I Rabbi Kushner • May 13,. 1991. · 7:30 p.m.· :. MemoritJJ· .· Chape,l . NOT: May 8th will be faster, cleaner and cheaper than increasing our energy production. Among their major proposals are: Improving our energy efficiency by two to three percent a year, the rate we achieved in the late 70s and early 80s. Increasing automobile fuel efficiency standards to 45 mpg for cars and 35 mpg for light trucks by the year 2001. Raising the federal gasoline tax by 50 cents a gallon to help finance mass transit and other energy efficiency programs. Adopting \least cost\ planning methods that inC'lude energy savings and environmental effects when making all of our energy decisions. Increasing the funds for federal research on energy conservation and renewable energy until they are at least equal with those for nuclear power. Creating new tax credits for renewable energy and a carbon tax on fossil fuels. THINK ACT GLOBALLY LOCALLY EVERY DAY • • • • • WHEN: • : Saturday, April 27 :: • • • 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. • • • • • : WHERE: : : Physical Plant : • • • • • WHAT: • • • : Redeemables : • Clear Glass : : Newspaper : : Office Paper : • • • • : WHY: : : To Save Our : :Resources B-ecause • : We Care! : •call: 377 .. 1097 to arrange for : : a pickup! ! e ········~············ Running on Empty: \Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has, \ Margaret Mead, Anthropologist HERE'S WHAT You CAN Do TO BE WATER WISE: 1. If you have a dripping faucet, you may be wasting hundreds of gallons of water a week. Replace worn out- washers to stop faucet leaks. 2. If your toilet \runs\ between flushes, you are wasting a lot of water. You usually can't hear a leaky toilet value until you're losing more than 250 gallons per day. 3. Turn the water off while brushing your teeth and washing dishes. 4. Use a bucket of soapy water to wash your car. Turn hose on only for quick wetdowns and rinses .

CAMPU!i BULLETIN BOARD CllJ.lltfDrbtrnliis 11 \Interested in developing your LEADERSHIP SKILLS in HUMAN RELA TI'ONS? Become a PEER FACILITATOR • Get leadership training. •· Learn more about communication in relationships, sexuality, sex· role stereotypes, acquaintance rape, etc. • Put on workshops to facilitate discussion on these topics among students. . ,~IJALIFICATI ONS: ;l'eer F!lcililators must • · .• lle full\time juniors or seniors at Union during their year of participation. •llave a GPA of 2.3 or better. • lle willing to make a commitment to tile position· for one year. • lle able to devote a minimum of five hours per week to the position. ' ·• l'ossess effective interpersonal communication skills. Have the ability to • speak to large groups, and the ability to listen effectively and r.elate to the concerns and perspectives of others. • llave the desire to raise awareness among the student body concerning communication and se\uality in ,relationships. 110 APPLY: Fi<k up an application at the CDC or Dean of Students Office. Applications · . are due at the CDC on Friday, April 26. SENIORS Thought , About Speaking .At ·Commencement? Ifyou''re interested in speaking~ submit a 1-4 page(approx. 5 minutes) draft to: Mrs. Marra, CC408, by May 4. The . topic is yours· to choose . Please include ·your name, box, ID number . . . . :and phone: numbers. - ' If you· wish to sing the Aim~ Mater and the Nattl.~nal .. Anth~m, please· send your name, < -\ ' - ' ~· • • ' box. ·~i:~\d. phqne Dl:l11lbers_ to ·Mrs. Marra by May 4 •. Y·ou wilL- :be notified about an '.,, ··· t\uditiOJl •• Graduation means goodbye to spring breaks, UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE college center HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 • 4:30SAT. 11:00 - 3:00 TELEPHONE . 518 370-6188 summers off, FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH And IBM student prices. Before you put on your c.ap and gown, there:S still time to take advantage of the great student price on an IBM Personal System/2.® Whether you need to create impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets for school, or business reports for work, or even resumes, the PS/2® comes preloaded with software that will let you do just that. And it has a mouse to m~ke it easy to use. Plus, there are added tools like a notepad, calendar and cardfile-even games. And it's expandable so it can grow with you throughout graduate school or on the job. While you're still a student, affordable loan payments are also available with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. And on a different note, you can get a great low price on the Roland® Desktop Music System. Graduation means saying a lot of good- byes. But before you do, there's still time to check into a great student price on a PS/2: See what you can do with a PS/2 ooday-and what it can do for you tomorrow. ·This offer is available to qualified college. students, faculty and stalf who purchase IBM Selected Academic Solut1ons through participating campus outlets, IBM1-800-222-7257 or IBM Authorized PC Dealers certified to remarket IB~ Selected Academic Solutions. Orde~s are subject to availability. Pnces are subject to change, and IBM may withdraw the.offer at any time without notice.®IBM, Personal System/2, and PS(2 are registered trademarks of lntE)rnational Business Machines Corporation. Roland is a registered-trademark of Roland Corporation, US. ©IBMCorporatlon 1991 =~===~ ----- --·- -- --- - ----- ------ ----·- I ' • • • • •, • • • ' •'' • ' ' .. < '' • • •, '' ' • • •

1991 I:AMPU!i BULLETII\1 BOARD ·~Interested in develo·ping your LEADERSHIP SKILLS in HUMAN RELATIONS? Become a PEER FACILITATOR 'I , '·. SENIORS Thought , About . ·.Speaking At ··c,··.-,:o···•·m·· ·m···· · · e···n· ·c .. ·· -e .. ·m· .. _ .. : e·nt? . . \ ''- \ ~ ' ·.· ... ·. •··.·.·.·· ' .: : ' ·: . · .... · . : .. . . . . ... • Get leadership training. If you·'re interested in speaking~ submit a· 1-4 p·age {approx. 5 minutes) draft to: • Learn more about cornmunicaUon• in •relationships, sexuality, sex· role stereotypes, acquaintance rape, etc. • Put on workshops to facilitate discussion on these topics among students. . QUAl.lFJCA TIONS: Mrs. Marra, CC408, by May 4. The . topic is yours to choose. Peer Facilitators must • · • Be ft.Jil-time juniors or seniors at Union during their year or participation. · • Hali'e a GPA of 2.3 or 'better. • Be willing to make a commitment to tile p()sition for one year. Please iriclude ·yo'Qr name, box, ID nurnb~r 'and phone' numbers. • Be able to devote a minimum of five hours per week to the position. ' • •Possess effective interpersonal communication skills •. Have the ability to speak tu large groups, and tbe ability to listen effectively and relate to tbe concerns and perspectives of others. • Ha\e the desire to raise awareness among the student body concerning communication and sexuality in .relationships. TO APPLY: Pick up an application at the CDC or Dean of Students Orfice. Applications are clue at the CDC on Friday, April 2<i. If you wislt to sing the Alma Mater and the Nati;oa.al· Antlt:.em, P'leas·e. s~nd your name,. ~ box_alltd•pltoneD.~mber~ to· Mrs. Marra by May 4 .• •· You wilt·· be notifiied about an · .. audition· . ' .. ' .... .,-''·, ... -~:.- ·.•· . ~· ··:·.·. . : Graduation means goodbye to spring breaks, UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE college center HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 - 4:30SAT. 11:00 • 3:()0 TELEPHONE . 518 370-6188 summers off, FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH And IBM student prices. Before you put on your cap and gown, there's still time to take advantage of the great student price on an IBM Personal Systern/2.® Whether you need to create impressive papers, graphics and spreadsheets for school, or business reports for work, or even resumes, the PS/2® comes preloaded with software that will let you do just that. And it has a mouse to m~ke it easy to use. Plus, there are added tools like a notepad, calendar and cardfile~even games. And it's expandable so it can grow with yeu tluoughout graduate school or on the job. While you're still a student, affordable loan payments are also available with the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning. And on a different note, you can get a great low price on the Roland® Desktop Music System. Graduation means saying a lot of good- byes. But before you do, there~ still time to check into a great · student price on a PS/2:\ See what you can do with a PS/2 today~and what it can do for you tomorrow. 'Th1s offer is available to qualified college students, faculty and staff who purchase IBM Selected Academic Sofut1ons through part1C1pat1ng.campus OlJtlets, fBM 1·1100-222-7257 or IBM AlJthorized PC Dealers certified to remarket IBM Selected Academic Solutions. Orders are subject to ava1lab111ty. Pnces are subject to change. and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without notice. ®IBM Personal System/2. and PS/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Roland is a registered trademark ol Roland Corporation, US. ©IBM Corporation 1991 ==..:.::& - ---- --- ----- - -- --- ---·~ ---·- . ' . . . ' . . ' '. . ... . . . . . . ' ~ . . . . . .

E:li!!!!!!!D~~~L~ETT~E~R!i~·· · ~~ .. ~ fiTOH..Of~t· 1)tt. . t!:fS Forurll Proposals For HathawaY Case \!.k liJ, V. 1J. 1 · 4J · 'To the Editors: libanges·. tr t · · 1 .... s a eg1c time to· re ay to --------Founded at Union College 1877-----1 Co-Educ.ation Is Acceptable, Fe~ninisrn is Not As we commemorate the twentieth anniversary of co- education at Union Coliege, one cannot help but reflect upon the existing status of women at the institution. While it is clear that women have without a doubt, made significant strides at the college over the last twenty years, on.e is oft compelled to question the definition of \co-education\ in terms of the way it reflects upon. the intentions of women at Union College. The members of the Student Forum, following a majority vote that was taken at last Monday's meeting. would like to make the following . statements concerning the case with Professor Hathaway: 1) The Forum feels that the Hathaway case is deserving of a precedural review and the · Forum places its support · behind the groups(s) endorsing this review. 2) The Forum does continue . to support the use of student evaluations as a method of gaining student input for hiring and tenure decisions, but offer several .suggestions for needed - The Forum proposes the students, particularly fresllmen, liSe of three separate student the weight that student evaluation forms-- one fot evaluations hold in faculty temured professors, one for decisions. tenure track professors, and one. for visiting professers. - The Forum also proposed tile use of student evaluations which distinguish between imlroductory and upper-level courses. · The Forum .proposes setting a fixed week, lengtb of time devoted to, and i11structions for the evaluations i11 an attempt to make a mifunn and concrete method of <listribution and completion. - The Forum prop()ses :setting aside time during orientation, and any other The Student Forum is sending similar copies of tl'lis letter to the Academic Affairs Council {AAC), President Hull, Dean Mammola, the Board of Trustees, and the English Department. It is ,the Forum's h:ope that the proposals contained herein will be strongly considered, and any further comments or suggestions will be directed t() us for further discussion. Sincerely. The Student Forum Co-education can be universally defined as the education of both men and women at the same institution. At Union College, one can take this definition one step further. Not only are both sex.es educated under one roof, but one may also assert that gender discrimination is virtually non- existent. Why then, are women continuously and selfishly trying to make tbings better for themselves on this campus ·--\ without any regard for their male peers? Concordiensis Reporting Deficient The events whi<:h have transgressed over the course of the past year under the guise of the \bettennent of co-education\ are a sheer and utter outrage. Efforts to change the college's motto and an already successful attempt to change our tour guides title from Gatesman to Gatekeeper are nothing more than an illustration of our distorted conceptions and acute ignorance regarding co-education. Co-education does not mean we must do away with ahnost two hundred years of tradition because women are now a part of this institution, nor does it mean that men should sit back and allow women to \enhance their position\ without any regard for their male counterparts. Co-education does not mean that feminism is acceptable. In improving a specific parameter of this institution, it is only justifiable to assess an issue in tenns of how changes will affect both men and women. After all, co-education implies a fifty-fifty split. The college should not have to cater to women solely, but rather, it is merely obligated to cater to studepts regardless of their sex. Women, stop hallucinating, you are not the only gender existing at this institution. Your vim is commendable, but perhaps your efforts should be focused elsewhere, in areas that will contribute to the Union College community as a whole, rather than your gender exclusively. Bring Change With Debate, Not Paint In the wake of the Hathaway decision earlier this tcnn, there have been many fonns of protest. Included in the methods used by the disgruntled group were: a rally, letters to the editor, petitions, and banners in the College Center. These means of protest were respectable and their creators should be commended for expressing their opinions. It is refTeshing to see people standing up for what ~ey believe, in a school where the student body has been gtven a well desetVed reputation for being apathetic. Unfortunately, last week the school was victimized by a less than respectable form of protest. Someone, trying to make himself beard above the noise and confusion of the whole controversy, spray-painted a pro-Hathaway plea in front of the library steps. This act of vandalism not only served no useful purpose, but is repulsive to anyone who is proud of Union College, despite its problems. If the criminal responsible for this moronic act is a supporter of the Hathaway cause, he must realize that it was counter-productive. The destruction of school property by a group will not make anyone more eager to listen to that group's complaint, but will hurt the group's image in the eyes of the administration and its peers, virtually ending all hopes of reconciliation. If the culprit was not a member of the pro-Hathaway group, as has been claimed, then his act was even more despicable, for trying to undermine the success and respectability of the cause. The bottom line is that the vandalism was perpetrated for the sole purpose of destruction. Union College has a beautiful campus of which we are all proud, making us all happier to be here. It is absolutely mind~boggling and disgusting that anyone would try to accomplish anything by defacing it. Change must be brought about by questioning the system and by building upon what we have, not by blindness, destmying the good along with the bad. Those who think there has been an injustice must continue to fight, but those who want nothing but an outlet for their destructive tendencies should go elsewhere and allow the rest of us to enjoy the beauty of our campus. To the Editors: I would like to express my great disappointment in your coverage of the student rallies that took place on Friday, April 12. The campus community has come to expect • a higher commitment on the part of Concordiensis to responsibly report on the biggest issues facing students and faculty. I found your coverage deficient for the following reasons; (1) There was not a single photo of the rally taken by or for the paper. On the front page, at the bottom, you used a photo from The Daily Gazette which was taken during Professor Hathaway's poetry reading the previous Thursday night. (2) Your front page article, entitled \Hathaway Firing Sparks Much Student Unrest\ was written without contacting any of the student organizers, which resulted in a distorted presentation of the issue. The article leads one to believe that the rally was led by the \Kit Hathaway Fan Club\. Yet, if either reporter had taken the time to investigate, he would have found that two-thirds of the organizers-- and speakers-- have never \experienced Hathaway's teaching style,\ contrary to the report in the ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMlTIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. • ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. - '-'------------ v-ery first paragraph of the alticle. They are motivated by 'larger issues. (3) The article on the ,front :page was written in the first 11erson! (\After all the dust ~ettled, we find ... \) Surely the ~ditors, if not the reporters tltemselves, .should have caught tltis journalistic mistake! Are we to believe that this type ()f reporting reflects the academic caliber of Union? (4) The reporters confuse the Statements made by the administration with reality. To report what Roger Hull and Jim Underw.ood have said is one thing. To acept it as fact is quite another. ·whetber · Edito(s .. in.,.Chief ' · · News Edioors · . :,Associate News E~tot:s . student evaluations were used in a fair manner, i.e. fair to all parties concerned, is still a topic being heavily debated:. The student \unrest\ that was sparked due to the Hathaway case ,represents an event not common to everyday life at Union. Even the ·local television news stations fonnd it to be newsworthy s11bject matter. Still, the voice of the Union student body, Concordiensis, didn't even give it the kind of attention it typically gives to Minerva speakers. Surely a shift in editorial priorities is in order. Franz T. Lit:z '91 · .:~· >Stevec~;stephanie,F:ray · · Tom An;~chow, Jay Freel~d ·. Lara C~mberlain, Jeff Gree11i· · · ~· .. ·. · ·Jim Polites · · ;. Feature Editor .. Suz~ne Slaaker- : AsSOciate. Feature Edit.of · . .End:zceh · · fntematiol1al: Feature$ ~dit<»: · ·• . · · . · · · ... latae·Tumldajewicx · · · A$Sooia~·Interriati~nal Featulies1Sdit6t . · · · · · · . Xristin Lupqli. . Snvit<>ilrhental Udit<>r. · ·. · , .. . . . Isabel L~i~no · ; :Commentaries :Editors\ •. ·charlM B¢ld¢n.:P~vid),tvrg ·'AitsEdim.t;· ·· · .. · . . . · · • . J~U¢~1)~ ' Ass~iat~AitS:£Q.itQ( · '; ··• . · •· .. <NedWiilt~Y.: c Mfe$ty1~~Ulr · ...... · · ·•. . · · . Jfili~ Schl~tt!l . : ·(;~~ iPage Edit()rf tanssa LucllS> MiChele Mal'dg; . 'SiQX't$Edi~t·< <t: :. >. · ...• ·. ·Dan·~': •.· .. ~.· .·.·h·0.l()~.'.·1)1ty :~·r···:s· . · Alli:sp11: Howard~.M~ Ellett Wing :.~nera.t~p: · · :\: ·. ·· . \ . W(\ndyOtemlfaf!tl . ~dv~itishig.~oot& .·... · ·' · . · La~~;Pdessio, 'BeckY B~ .. AS~am Mvettising.~ , · · . ·. L.auten lll'ootf, . ' .. :· .' . · : . · · .; .' lennit~r.S~Uilcin, ·Ra-chel !'liCk .:Susmes$~~~r .. · .: .... ,. · ·'. · · · ·.· An~RQS~.· .As$®iilteBmiites~:Mam~efF·· · · '· : > · • · ·. ·• Mike EmBii:,. :sub$Qrip~g~~~t·t . ·(.·.: :> ... su~n~(t~Kit~~·• •.. ·. f{<Jtiotaij f'a~uif.Y Ad1ti~ · .. · . .• C. :'Vfilliitl:n Ht;~n1l:¢y. ; .•.: < -' ( ,· ~ si~f,F; 1@nnif~r. kf(Jirt~et, (lr~g Jan'ett; Natalie BeJinett~· . : . J~olf Birijbaum~ . J{ill)5b.e.tlee Iltody, Pa.v'<id (!hQ~ Step~a11ie ·· . ··Davis, .Allison c: apstein~ Ron $tlg(mio., Miclu;tel Ezra, Erica · :: Frank. Seth ·Frieclman! Cilll R,. Ftiedrich 1 ~r;, .Alis.a Gass,. !()a · · :' Henes, Kat:en Hurwitz,. Jon Ke11er~ Ed :M:enke, Meg Pan()ns., ; Lisa:Pinney.SreedharSamudrala, John Schachnovsky, AI1cltew 1 Seewald, Jared Seiter,; Sybil Zanger. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith ' . CONCOR:OIENSIS is pllblished eight Thursdays a term by · tfle student body of Union College; Schenectady~ New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications,. lll<.l .. , ·Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838. (607} 563-~33~. · ,Subscription rate: $30'per year, dc{li:verett anywhere i11 ttl~ ·: . Uni~<t Slat~s .. Ma:il:S.libs¢ripdonsto Cn:ncqrdiensis ofl'ice~:., : CQlle~~. (Jpl)ter, VPi~A· C~ll~ge~. C()neotdiensis .· su'bst1t.it;;es • tQ:Q}elhtercc>Ue~m Pte~s·;(J}'}.;.Qffice:1eteJ;ltone (51~) J7(<)~ .• .. ·. , .{)l~·~ Adyei$irig·tc>~el)l:i~*e~$18}37(}-6494. . · . \ .. · ·· · · ', ·: .. :-:\ ~:.·-;-<--- .. ::;·_ .. :\_.: i, ·-;··::·~-:,'.e·>····<--J~··i.·<.'~---·.: .~ .. - '''·: . ..,._··:~\:..: .... · :.:··: .• -.<_.:· __ \\' :-' .. :';·_: . .;

2s, 1991 LEIIER!i <Irnmrbirnsfs 13 Paint Was Intended For Artists Heads-Up For Symptoms 1b the Editors: I was dismayed and angered last Friday morning when I walked through Library Plaza on my way to class and discovered that someone had spray-painted a large slogan across the pavement. Not only do I view this as asinine and imma~ure, I also view it as a disgrace to the beauty of our campus. As a student, I question the intelligence of the individual involved in this act. Were I a prospective student, I would question the ihtelligence of the entire student body. If the individual involved has something to say ,then say it as a normal.-intellectual person wo.uld instead of hiding childishly behind gaffiti. I cringe to think that we would have an individual at Union with such a lack of personal and school pride that he or she would deface college property. The only success you have achieved with your stunt is to anger a large pertion of the Union community. Get some pride, and get some common sense. The next time you wish to be heard, use them both. Jay Freeland '91 Student Forum President To the Editors~ It was a bea11tiful day. >much like the one we have today. Hardly a breeze, in the sixties, mostly sunny and I was: baving a ball riding my bike hGme from campus. Even th()ugh it was about 5 p.m., there was hardly any traffic,. except for that one car which tbrew me into the air and sliding Qn my head. I am lucky because I can remember what the grill and headlight looked like as tbe car hit me. Many wh() are injured as I was don't remember incidents surrounding. their accidents. I remember the li de kids Article Attacking Hull wallcing up to me,. to()king at the blood streaming down my Unrepresentative face and onto my domes and ----------------------------' the paramedic wh(} tock my To the Editors: I Last week, an article entitled \Hull's Hair-Brained Scheme Targeted at International Students!\ appeared in the \International Features\ section of the Comc:ordiensis. On behalf of ltttemational House, 1 would like to apologize to the Concordiensis and to President H111l for the scathing and personal attack this article delivered. We have been made aware that many members of the college community very naturally interpreted this article pulse-- it was SS-- .questioning as being an expression of the whether I should get the 15 sentiment of the house. stitches I eventually got in the Parenthetically, I would like to emergency ward. make clear that this is not the \Oh you will be sore case. We regret the malicious tomorrow.\ the surgeon said as nature of this article, and assure he put the last stitches in my the Concordiensis and the head. I was sore tllat nex.t day college community that a and I am sore more than seven separate apology will be made years later. to President Hun: I think the doctor didn't want Nancy Rourke Co-Chair International House me to develop any of the symptoms he might describe should he really tell me what might crop up. Or tnore likely, he didn't know himself. Even though head-injury is the leading cause of neurological <lamage, many people don't know the symptoms. More likely than not you'll be told you are imagining them. Headaches. loss of balance, inability to read, double vision, loss of vision, bright spots like sateltites crossing the vision, ringing in the ears, the sky blinking, loss of memory of things once known well, difficulty remembering the last sentence read, distraction by noise, inability to concentrate, low endurance for physical and mental processes, e.g., while studying or listening to someone, and on and on. I didn't know about these things, how could I have imagined them? The. purpose of this is to make you aware of some of the symptoms of head-injury. You are particularly prone to sustaining one and the season for increased incidence is upon us. Several of your classmates have already experienced the season. Know that persons like myself are available should you l1ave any questions. You must also be aware that in addition to bicycle accidents, there are many hazards out there and you should take precatuions to avoid them as much as you can. I used to box, 1 was a state champion in track, I did well in football, and baseball was my game. I'm not saying stop doing what you are doing, only take precautions to protect youself. Anticipate what might happen and adjust so it won't happen. Believe me, there is only one cure for a head-injury-- not to have one!! Life is never the same afterwards. I used to run 60 miles a week, now I can't jog in place 30 seconds without expecting some problems to crop up. There are conservatively speaking, 4,000 cases each year in this state alone where a head injury leads to a permanent disability. You must take care of yourselves. You have to be your own judge about what you do and how you do whatever you do. One action is purchasing a bicycle helmet. Should you need coupons for discounts on bicycle helmets, let me know. With a bel met your life might always be the same. That might well be a blessing. Sincerely. John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry Seeking Peer Faciltators Working Towards Language Theme ~ouse Reality To tlle Edirors: With the celebration of the twentieth anniversary of co- education at Union College approaching, this is an appropriate time to reflect upon the presellt status of both men and women, and the relations11ips which exist between them. There a1e problems inherent within tbe social structure at Union, and consequently there are serious questions which must be addressecl. Why is there poor communication between men and women? Is acquaintance rape a pro-blem? And if so, why are women on this campus afraid to speak out? Has the Greek system been used as a scapego!lt? Or does our fraternity-dependent social life foster sex.ism? What role does alcohol IJlay? The peer fcilitator group under the direction of Joanne Tobiessen and Ken DeBono has been fonned to raise awareness and create an atmosphere of support. Throlu~h the worksh()ps which we have presented, we have attacked the above questions and have learned that there are serious problems which are resulting from the lack of communication between men and women. We have also addressed the more subtle issues such as the ways in which men and women degrae one another, both in word and in action. The work we have don·e has been both challenging and rewarding. We are now looking for candidates to become peer facilitators in the fall. The application deadline has been extended to Wednesday, May 1, and applications can be picked up in the Career Development Center or in the Dean of Students Office. Sincerely, Art Robbins t.urdes Ramos Kevin Dantzler Dara Tuckfelt Willie Stevenson Rika Poor ~chael~ez Amanda Aronoff We Want You At Kelly's Pub * Great Food * $2.50 Pitchers Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets • Photo ID Required • To the Editors: To set the record straight: The Department of Modern Languages has been interested in establishing a Language Theme House for some time. We made a serious attempt to interest students this year, particularly this spring, but have not been successful. We do not know whether the lack of intefest is due to the undesirability in students' minds of the idea as such or due to the housing given to us. When the Department was offered the Webster House basement, we were uot aware of the structural problems, or the seriousness of the situation to which a letter by Matthew Green and Ron Birnbaum points. We were promised that all problems would be taken care of by next fall. If many students. however, perceive the Webster House basement as unacceptable, this could have been one reason for the no- show of hands. We would also lil.e to assure the members of International House that we were not \out to get them.\ The Language Theme House was never intcndC'd to take the place of International House. We have been and will remain one of the strongest supporters of International House. The Language Theme House, in any case, will not be a reality yet next year, unlike the article (unauthorized by our Dept.) on page 7 of last week's Concordiensis claims. We will keep working on making it a reality. however. Sigrid Kellenter Dept. of Modem Languages Final Notice For The 1.991 YEARBOOK. April 30th is the absolute DEADLINE. Do not procrastinate. You will want your book next year and it will be TOO LATE! Place your order in the College Centel', Room 408 ..

14 Cll.Iutrnrbftnsis LETTERS April 25,. Gamma Phi Beta Elucidates Contradictions With Hickok To the Editors: I would like the Union College community to be aware of the contradictions which Gamma Phi Beta is facing as a consequence of receiving housing for the 1991- 92 school year. Unknown to many people, there are conditions which make Hickok House unequal to the housing of other Greeks. I want to make clear that we are extremely grateful for the opportunity to live together on campus, but at the same time I feel that we are being used by the school to fill a less than desirable dorm. The fact that we have been given an entire building to call our own is exciting, but the problems we must deal with next year detract from the thrill. First, Hickok has a capacity for 51 students. This is not a problem for us due to numbers, but why should Gamma Phi Beta have to put more women into a dorm than have ever resided there before? We have been given one single in this large building and it is not even a room which was previously a Resident Advisor's. The Resident Advisors' rooms will become doubles once Gamma Phi occupies Hickok House. 'This will mean more than $2,700 in revenue for the school, that it has not received in the past. Why should Gamma Phi, or any organization have to pay into the school more money than would a collection of independents? The next concern which I have is the usage fee for Greek organization housing. We will be paying Union an additional $2,700 just to have Hickok House. I would personally not have a problem with this if we had housing which was at least comparable to the other three sororities. As I see it, though·, we do not even have housing which is comparable to some of the dorms. We will have a kitchenette, but it lacks refrigeration. And the other appliances are rusty and. in poor condition. We will have a lounge, but it will be used as a lounge, a chapter room, a dining room, and a storage · room for 51 people. In the other sororities, they will have a commercial kitchen, a lounge, a chapter room, a dining room, and storage space. I realize that they all do not use these rooms as sach, but the actual rooms are there. As far as some of the other dorms are concerned, Hickok House does not seem to compare. Richmond House, for The English Dept. is conducting a reappointment review of Professor Boillley MacDonald. All members of the Union community familiar with her teaching, scholarship, or college service are encouraged to send written comments to Prof. Peter Heinegg, Chairman, English Dept. HELP!!! WE NEED YOUR HELP AT THE STUDENT PHONATHON! Calls completed ~~ each floor, has two small lounges and two kitchenettes. These faci'lities accomodate approximately 33 stude11ts per floor. Besides the floor hmnges, there is also tile large lounge· {)D the basement floor, and a ]()eked storage space, But dorms :such as Richmo!ld are not my major concern. 1 would like to :point out tbe SIJecial interest housing. For example, Bronmr House has a living room, a dining room.., and a kitchell for only 12 st11dents. I have been told that they are not used as such, but again the rooms are there. In Ludlow House, although tbey only have a floor, they have two kitche11ettes for 24 students. International House is:different, but d.ue to the size~ it is compl:ll'able to Ludlow. The special interest houses do not have to pay a usage fee. Why is it that this usage fee is only dumped on the Greeks? Are we not also in the same basic way a group of students who h:ave a desire to live together to better •accomplish our goals? I did not write this letter to try to make special interest houses pay usage fees. I wrote this letter to ·point out tllat Gamma Phi Beta is thrilled to finally be able to claim our spot on campus. Yet, at the same time, all we ask for is a little equality; if not with other sororities, at least with other dorms. Should we have to pay a usage fee for that building just because we are Greek? Should we be expected to store things in the lounge or in bedrooms, when the school bas previously acknowledged our need for storage? Should 51 sophomores, juniors and seniors be forced to be 011, the Union meal plan because we were supplied with inadequate kitchen facilities? Should we be expected to fill 51 occupancies in a building like Hickok as a \reward\ for being a large sorority? I understand that Hicko1c was not built to accomodate all the things which we have req nested, but in the past two months we have made many reasonable requests; most with no results. We have been told that we must take Hickok the way that it is, or not take it at all. So, we have decided to take it along with its faults to call it our horne. Granted this letter is just a venting of personal frustrations over 'the situation which Gamma \'Phi Beta bas been placed in, but one of the puposes of a campus newspaper is to allow students to do just that. All I can ask now is for my sisters tq be patient once again until the school takes a long, hard look at the contradictiens which exist in our housing plan, and hopefully make some needed adjustments. In• the meantime, we are considering a petiti<Jn to rectify some of these ineqllalities, and if approached; we would appreciate your support. Maggie Brush '91 Dean Calls For Cooperation To tbeEditors: The concert featuritlg \Blues Traveler\ which ina.11gurated our SIJring outdoor series last Satur()ay was a terrific start. Ron £11genio. Lee Metchick, and Jamie Williams-Ness deserv~ a big round of applause for arranging a successful aftern()on-- even holding off the rain. A good time was had by all! F&J the future, a majpr issue - present at the concert must be l reviewed and corre<:ted. New York State law now prohibits even the possesson of alcohol in pulbic by anyone under the age of 21. In addition, Union College social policy, as adopted by the Student Affairs Council last year, prohibits the use of alconol by anyone, regardless of age, at 011tdoor public events on the campus. This particularly includes outdoor concerts and all athletic events. While the majority of participants adhered to the law and to College policy last Saturday, clearly not all did If the College is to permit such events in the futare, the sponsors will need to show that they have taken effective steps to keep them alcohol- free. Students are asked to cooperate by not bringing alcoholic beverages to \future concerts or they will have to end. Your friends and guests should also be made aware of College policy. Everyone's CO()peration is appreciated, so tbat the good - times can roll! Joseph L. Mammola Dean of Students ATTENTION A'LL 1991 GRADUATES ,. All 1991 Union College g.raduates who have ever borrowed through the Stafford or SLS programs while enrol~ed at UC, must attend an exit interview counseling session. Attendance at an exit interview session is a GRADUATION REQUIREMENT. Sessions wiH be held in the Auditorium of the CoUege Center on: Tuesday Tuesday Wednesday Wednesday Friday Friday May 14 May 14 May 15 May 15 May 17 May 17 3:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 8:30 a.m. 6:00 p.m. 9:30 a.m. 2:00 p.m. Call the Financial Aid Office by May 1 0, 1991 at x6123 to register for a session or to schedule a more convenient time. ATTENTION ALL 1991 GRADUATES ,. t •

- April 25, 1991 ARTS & ENTERT AII\IMEl\IT @omr .birtt.sfs 1s Defending My Right To Enjoy The Movies Dy JULiE MEDOW Ads Editor Previews .are to the movies what commercials are to television, right? But what is scary is th~t I love the previews, just as I love commercials. These advertisemellt have become a major prot ~(the media-making industry, an<l I have bought into it hoalc, line, and sinker. Because ofo0-memrcials, I sing jingles all tbe time, I stop guys outside of the college center witlt\Excuse me .•. are those Bugle :Eoy jeans you're wearing?\ a.nrl I am riveted to my chair when that Luxura Carpet commercial with the scxy/clums~ man comes on. This is haw l amuse myself. And now, witll movie previews which last ~lmost as long as the movie itself, I have yet another wa.y to enjoy being brainwashett. and sold on something :st11pid. Previews are one way of seeing into the future. From being at the movies on Sunday, I learned that Kevin Costner {who is quickly becoming a: rustic John-Wayne- ish-mounted-on-horseback actor). will be playing the leading role in Robin .Hood: Prince of 'Ibieves, and I feel all the better for knowing it. I have some C<>lltrOl over my life due to the fact that I KNEW THIS BEFORE YOU DID. I feel informe<l. for it's as if I have some connections with th.c Hollywood muses. Also, Ellen Barkin and Jimmy Smits are coming out with a. movie called Switch. It looks kind of idiotic, but I enjoyed the preview anyway. Another great tiling about previews is that tbcy help you weed <>ut the bad movies. However, this can be dangerous because, as we all know, PREVIEWS CAN BE DECEIVING. If you have a good editor and a terrible movie, all the funny clips can be stuck together, put to good music, and all of a sudden, you are waiting with bated breath for something that turns out to be a waste of time and money. Anyway, this is not the point of my article, The point is that I saw a movie after the previews on Sunday. And I liked it. Defending Your Life stars Alb~rt Brooks and Meryl Streep. Streep, who is looking really young and beautiful these days, plays Julia. And Brooks, who wrote 3lld directed the film, plays Dan. Both Julia and Dan are dead. They meet each other and fall in love in Judgment City, the place you REALLY go to when you die. Apparently, you hang out there for five days, during whilch time you defend your life. The process by which this is done is pretty cool, and it is done not so that you can get your old life back, but rather to see if you are ready to move on. If you do not meet the requirements, you are born again as a new person on earth. If you do well, you keep the self you are now, w 1d advance to a higher plane of rxistcnce. The ultimate goal is knowledge. The more you use yow: brain, the better off you are. Sounds like college. I know. it reads like a bad dream during which the philosophical is inseparable from the absurd. But in practice, it was more like a good dream during which the philosophical is inseparable from the absurd. Albert Brooks is hysterical as the lovesick wimpy underdog with a dry sense.of humor. (Similar to the role he played in Broadcast News). His facial expressions are perfct every time. I thought the premise was very clever ... it was like visiting the EPCOT Center for the dead, where you can go to the Past Lives Pavillion, and view yourself in different forms. And just when I thought that Shirley MacLaine was needed, she made a guest apeparance. Conversations with strangers were shared deatb stories like \I was hit by a bus, how did you go?\ In Judgment City, your appearance does not change. This means you can eat as much as you want without J?iaining weight. And the eternal question can now be altered to \Is there love after death?\ The answer is yes. If this is what death is like, it doesn't seem so bad. NOYEI,IST Jo\HN BARTH TO READ MAY 1 Novelist John Barth will read from his work on Wednesday, May 1, 1991 at 8:00 p.m. in ~age Building 3303 on th~ Rensselaer .Polytechnic Lnstirute (RPI) tWIIJ!US. His reading, which is free and open to the public, is co-sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute and the Department of Language. Literature and Communication at RPI and the Visionary Landscape ·Literary Series with support from Poets and Writers and the New York State Council on the Arts. Barth is the author of eight novels, a series of short fictions, a volume of novellas an4 a collection of essay~. His novels include The Floating Opera, The End of the Road, Sabbatical: A Romance, · The Tidewate~ Tales and his most recent work, The lAst Voyage of Somebody the Sailor. Chimera, his volume of novellas, won the National Book Award for fiction in 1973. In 1974 he was elected to both tbe National Institute of Arts and Letters and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Barth is cl!D'ently Professor Emeritus in the Writing Seminars at John Hopkins University. Weekend M~ovie: The Russia House CC Aud. 7, 9, 11 Frid.ay and Saturday ONLY 1J1ie Writing Center £s tWw acc.eptin9 appucatWtt.s for stwfent tutors for 1991·92. Jilre you ih1 a goori writer? ih1 frienily ana tactfuC? JhJ patien-t? ih1 imaoina.tive? JhJ interestetC in fie.{pin9 otliers improve tft.eir writing? If so, we fiope you'{{app(y for a position ~ ~fie ?llriting Center. 'Tutors wor/(8·10 fwurs per weer(, 'Ilie pay 1S $5.00 per Fi.our, and you neea not 6e rn!or/(:Stuiy. Yl.ppfica.tions are avaiCa6Ce in tlie 'Writing Center, on tlie second floor of <Wii.itak.ft5fouse, or in J£utnattities 020. VeaiCine for appfications is 1ritfalft. Mag 3. If you fiave any tjuestions, pfease calf Margaret 'Jtl/aaelira at 6438 or any of tlie tutors in tlie Writing Center at 6058. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WilDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, washington, OC 20036·2266 • HOROSCOPES BY LOLLI TAURUS: This dunge of sign halfway through the month brings many new SUIJ?rises. Get ready for some fun and adventure when the end of the week comes around. GEMINI: You havellad some exciting past few days that have taken a toll on your health. Rest up for the weekend so you can spend time with that special someone. CANCER: Too m:any choices sometimes makes you feel confuse and helpless. Take a few days to relax, get work done and reflect upon your weekend before starting fresh this coming weekend. You'll begin to see things more clearly by Friday, don't worry. LEO: The one who you have been longing for is finally going to come around. This person has been too busy lately to see what really is important. Take good care of yourself so you can enjoy your new relationship. VIRGO: It's time H> take some time for yourself. Spruce up your spring wardrobe and pamper yourself. You'll be glad you did. LIBRA: You are off to a good start this month. You are busy and anxious to get o.n with. new plans, but don't forget lingering old matters. Make ehanges where it is necessary. SCORPIO: Tomouow will be a romantic day if you forget about \lusts\ and concentrate on having a good time with your mate. Jealo~sy never worked to attract attention. Honesty has always been the best way to tell someone how you really feel about them. SAGITTARIUS: Be aware that aggression only comes out when you are out of control. Maintain poise and all your plans for the weekend will be perfect! CAPRICORN: This weekend, devote your attention to someone who you have been taking advantage of. Don't concentrate too hard on complicated issues-just let yourself enjoy the present company. AQUARIUS: You change your mind as often as you change your underwear. Sometirnes these fluctuations can have a negative impact on someone who really means something to you. Be careful to use rational judgement. PISCES: Try to understand when someone who really loves you is going through sorne difficult times. AU the greatest accomplishments in this world came about through patience and tolerance. ARIES: A two-part prediction this week: Your weekend well be all that you expected as long as you make the most of all the opportunities that arise. Don't be disappointed with the person who brightens your day. Have faith! METAMORPHOSIS An exhibition of photographs by Marie Guariniello April 26 • May 19, 1991 Reception: Friday April 26, 4:30 - 6:00 pm The public is invited. This exhibit investigates the transformation of objects into abstract forms through the use of natural light. The objects are placed in different settings and appear to have movement and sensation. This exhibit is the culmination of study in visual arts at Union College. Thirty large scale photographs ( 16x20 inches) will be exhibited in the Arts Building on the first and second floors. This show on the Union College campus is being held in conjunction with the college's celebration of 20 years of women at Union. The Arts Building is open daily from 9 am - 5 pm. Note: This body of work is the result of a senior thesis project in photography that was made with the supervision of Union College photography Professor Martin Benjamin. The photographs exhibited were made from September 1990 to Apri11991. For further information please contact the Department of the Arts at (518) 370-6201.

C!rJlnrvrbtrnsis ART!i & EI\ITERTAII\IMEI\IT April 25, 1991 Better Than Brainwashing . . . The WRUC Record Reviews By MATT FULLER The following excerpts came after a four-way discussion between Erik Wetby, Aaron Ambrosino, Ron Eugenie and myself. The topic was the new REM album, Out of 'Iime, and it went something like this. R: 1st question: How does this album compare to their past albums, what's your favorite/least favorite track, and where does this leave REM right now? E: One pet peeve I have ... I like REM as a band, but I'm so egocentric about any band I like that I don't like it when the masses like it . .. I don't like it when I see a teenie- boppcr walking around in a Green shirt. R: It's the old XTC, Cure, U2 complex. E: Yes, exactly, and I don't care .. . I still like the album and I'll still listen to it but I hate seeing little eight-year olds wearing Vanilla Ice T- shirts one day wear tllis the next. The Marrying Man Teenage Mutant 'Ninja Turtles II Warlock Shipwrecked Class Action Out for Justice Silence of the Lambs R: Everyone likes \Stand\ and I was coping with this even when Green came out. I knew eventually they would break it big and the only way you can get the elitist attitude is to day \I knew them way back when.\ I think simply they haven't sold out, it's just that their music is so good that it's viable to other audiences. E: It transcends normal bounds. A: From a Music Director's standpoint, when REM first came out, if a band like that was to bring an album to a college station I don't think they would say no. But if REM brought Murmur to PYX and said, \Here play this\ they would never touch it. But now their music is so - I daR 't want to say \I guess pop orientated\ - but it's being more and more accepted through commercial stations now. R: Maybe I'm too damned elitist but I fail to see why a song like \Radio Free Europe\ or \Talk About The Passion\ can't be accepted by the Sleeping with the Enemy Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II Mortal Thoughts Defending your Life Career Opportunities Home Alone New Jack City masses. They''!!e all so beautiful. M: Am I the CJnly one who doesn't have a problem with their popularity? I think after aU they have been through you had to admit that commercial success was coming sooner or later. I think it's 'great that it finally happened to them. They've been unknown long enough. I'm happy for them. A: REM was born with college radio. We are their mother. Nobody would've heard .of REM if it wasn't for college radio. And now we have to let go and say \Here ignorant masses, listen.\ E: They're ·of legal age and we'll give them tto PYX-106 and we'll go out and grab a new band and do the same thing with them. R: Favorite tracks? M: \Low.\ There's something dark about it. It's a nice, slow paced song reminiscent of their older stuff. R: \Low.\ Tlle)''ve always had a close relationship with the Velvet Underground and I think this is the first time that . ~.· •• ·. ,.(~ they've actually tried emulating them. This is an angry love song. It deals with depression in the Morrisey/Bob Mould kind of mold. E: I say \Low\ also. And '\Belong\ too. I'm a Joy Division devoted person and it fits in the mold, again. It's almost a little too depressing for Morrisey, I think, Just the way it is .so dark and I know it's going to sound like I'm over her slitting my wrists ... A: I actually like \Belong\ and \Be in Honey\ just for the simple reason that it kind of reminds me of old REM; scratchy Michael Stipe voice, and he's trying to hit those · high notes and his voice is cracking. And \Belong it's a conformist-type song. R: General overview? M: On a ten scale I give it an eight. Mter a year and a half I had very high expectations, and certain .tracks just let me down. Just the fact thi!t it is REM merits ail eight. They could play the flute for an hour and get an eight. It just could have been better in spots. A: Being the REM fanatic that I am, overall I think it was a really good album. I think they'll lose some of their faithful listeners for the reasons Erik stated (people being elitist). R: They deserve a lot of credit at the very least for being able to produce this kind of music after being together for over 10 years. It would be in their top three albums so far. It's incredibly innovative. E: A very good album. But still, when I'm sitting and want to hear great music, I think I'm going to pull Murmur. I like this album, though. It's innovative and i like some of the things they did on it, like the little rap with KRS-ONE (\Radio Song\). M: Who will be the next REM? E: Sonic Youth. M: They Might Be Giants. R: Sonic Youth or Public Enemy. A: There isn't one. : · .. ·wnl be perforrntrrg inJhe Memoria I etta pet on FridayM~.y 1 0 at 8:15prn t'. Tickets a.re a.vallable through studen1 Activi1ies(CC40 8) for:·$ 5.00 students ~nd $1 o.oo comm·unity. some tic.kets may be available at the door. -!) Four Films And Appearance By Noted Cuban Filmmaker Wednesday Movie: The Spring 1991 Classic Film Series, sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute, will conclude with a four-film mini-fetival, featuring films and an a ppcarance by the noted Cuban filmmaker Tomas Gutierrez Alea. The mini-festival will run from Tuesday, April 30 through Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, May 1, 2, and 3, in Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., on the University at Albany's downtown campus, a11d is free and open to the public. Films in the Classic Film Series begin at 7:30 pm on Friday nights (except the film on Friday, May 3, which will begin at 7 pm). The Classic Film Series is shown in 35 mm format. Four films (in Spanjsh with English subtitles) directed by Gutierrez Alea will be screened. Tuesday, April 30: Memories of Under- devdopment (1968, 110 minutes, b/w). Tile first film from post-revolutionary Cuba to be released in the US. Memories had an impact unequalled in the history of Third World cinema. The film centers on a Europeanized Cuban intellectual too idealistic to leave for Miami but too decadent to fit into the new society. Wednesday, May 1: Death of a Bureaucrat (1968, 87 minutes, b/w). Alea's first film is a blackly comedic attack on bureaucracy. A young man attempts to disinter and rebury his uncle, incurring the wrath of official regulations. Thursday, May 2: The Last Suppn (1977, 110 minutes, col()r). A sardonic tour de force based on a true incident from Cubanhistory, in which a pi()US slaveowner decides to i11struct his slaves in the glories of Christianity by inviting twelve of them to participate in a reenactment of the Last Supper. Friday, May 3: Letters from the Park {1988, color). The film will begin at 7 pm. Alea's newest film is based on a fictional incident from Gabriel Garcia Marquez' book Love in the Time of Cholera. To conclude the festival, Tomas Gutierrez Alea will speak informally and answer questions on Letters from the Park and on his filmmaking career, Cuban filmmaking, and film in general imme<liately following this screening. The Godfather II CC And. 7:30 and 9:30

<iloltfllrbtrnms 11 ART!i ~. ENTERTAINMENT .................. April 25, 1991 Alumni Artists to Visit Campus and Show Work By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor Understaffed and underpaid-. That is why I am writing two articles. Now that we've cleared the air about why I am getting so. much playing time this week, I'd like to bring something very interesting to your attention. As I was casually .making my way to the Concordiensis office on Tuesday afternoon, I noticed-of all things-an ART EXHIBIT in the lounge on the third floor of the Cellege Center. I walked in, and was instantly taken in by the bold nature scenes around me. Trees, intertwined and haunting, took the place of the couches which usually inhabit the space. \What is this?\ I asked myself. And, luckily. Lee Bloomrosen appeared at just the perfect moment to answer my question. So, from Lee to me to you, here's the scoop. The artist. whose paintings I am in awe of is named Sally Eckhoff. She is a Union alumna (1977) who works as both an artist and literary critic in New York City. She will be lecturing on her artwork this · afternoon at 2:00 in Room 207 · of the Arts Building. In addition. there will be an . opening reception tomorrow at 6 p;m. in' the Strauss Lounge • Gallery (a.k.a. third .floor . lounge), with refreshments and chatting on the second fl.oor · • balcony, in order to meet Ms. Eckhoff, and grab some food. But wait! There's more. In honor of, you guessed it!, \20 Years of Women at Union\ Sally Eckhoff will join a panel discussing the subject in the College Center on Saturday. Altlwugh Ms. Eckhoff will only be here through the weekend, her paintings will be on display through May 3. So, take a few minutes one day and walk through the great outdoors within the College Center. Women's Studies And Women's Commission Present A Celebration of Women Performers and Women Composers MONDAY, APRIL 29 12:30 to 1:10 p.m. College Center Cabaret Room Lisa McGloin '92 clarinet Nancy Rourke '93 violin Julie Walter '92 flute Luxas Boise '93 cello Professor Hilary Tann In a program of works by McGloin, Poulenc, Beethoven, and Tann The entire College Community is invited to attend UNCONSCIOUSNESS No<N avai.Zab.le> on Audio Cas:s:-et=-t=-<3 at::. THE UNION CoLLEGE BooKSTORE HERMIE's Mus1c \[like the economical piano style and subtle blues sense.\ -- Ke\'in \Vhitehead (Critic: Downbeat) \ ... his solos .::ommand attention .... eclectic, yd unique, music.\ -- The Daily Princetonian An Acoustic Evening With Indigo Girls By JORDAN LIPPNER The last time Amy Ray and Em.Hy Saliers (Indigo Girls) toured the country, they were warming up stadium crowds for their fellow Georgians, R.E.M. Some concert goers walked away from those shows saying that Indigo Girls stole the show. Well, they don't steal the show from anyone any more. This .past Monday night at the Palace Theatre in Albany, in support of their most recent album, Nomads, ' Indians, and Saints, Amy and Emily headlined a show which left the near capacity crowd .scrounging for tickets to their upcoming show in • Rochester this Friday. For this tour, their opening act was Michael Gerard and 1 George McHugh, a duo hailing from Atlanta. They played about a 40-minute set which was entertaining. Both men took lead vocals, or was it Michael Stipe from R.E.M.? Had I not known better, I would have thought they were lipsyncing and Stipe was singing. They sounded that good and that similar. They also demonstrated that they were talented musicians. Gerard on the drums, and McHugh on the guitar. Indigo Girls came out after about a 10-minute break, opening up the ·evening with two numbers of Amy's, \Welcome Me\ and \Secure Yourself' followed by Emily's upbeat \Hammer and Nail\. It was to be an informal concert with two ladies whose voices could rival the mythological Sirens who enslaved sailors with their captivating music. The duo had just come from Massachusetts where they had - played the Earth Day conceit with 10,000 Maniacs and Ziggy Marley. They wished the Earth happy B-day and then went right into \World Falls\ which is a song all about our planet. They were accompanied by a bassist, and a percussionist who mainly played the bongos. Throughout the show, the audience seemed captivated by their voices. From new ballads such as \Southlands in the Springtime\ and \You and Me of the 10,000 Wars\ to the older material such as \Love's Recovery\ and \History of Us\ their voices surprisingly rang through more beautifully than· on the albums. This was unexpected as a live performance usually exploits the shortcomings of a singer's voice. As was stated above, the concert was quite infonnal. The duo made the \mistake\ early on to tell the audience, \if you want to say anything to us, please do.\ After this announcement, they were barraged with requests for songs throughout the night which at times did tend to get somewhat annoying. But that was the only down note of the evening if you can even call it that. Amy and Emily carried on conversations with members of the audience in between songs, and demonstrated a nimble sense of humor. To give you a feel for the amicable persona they protrayed, an example: a shoe was thrown on stage. At most concerts, any articles of clothing thrown on stage are ignored. Amy picked up the shoe and asked the guy who threw it if he wanted it back. He asked her to read the note which he had attached to the shoe. She read it, thanked him, and handed him back his shoe. Highlights of the show included Amy's version of the Dire Straits classic, \Romeo and Juliet\. The show was really mellow until they blasted into an upbeat version of \Land of Canaan\. This song gave off tremendous energy bringing the crowd to their feet for the remainder of the night which included among others, \Closer to Fine\ \Prince of Darkness\ and iiKid Fears\ which saw Gerard appropriately fill in on Stipe's echo. They ended the show with the Dead song, \Uncle John's Band\ which is their contribution to an album entitled Deadicated, a compilation of Dead songs by various artists, with all of the proceeds of the album going to save the Rainforests. This put all of the pseudo-Deadheads there in a s~te of ecstasy. The theatre itself was acoustically great for a concert. The sound quality and view from any seat in the house were excellent. In the lobby the local branch of Greenpeace had set up shop with the support of the Indigo Girls. The show was one of the best I have seen. If you are a fan, you must see them. If you are not familiar with their music, a concert would be a pleasurable introduction. What more can be said, except, stop what you are doing and take the bus, train, or hitch a ride and head for Rochester! Write for the Arts Section! Send articles to: Concordiensis, or Call Julie Medow for info at x407 4 /. '1 • Delta Psi Delta Presents:· Professor Staff< Speaks Starring: Prof. Nichols This Fri. April26 at 4:00 in front of the flag pole (if rain, will be held in CC203) I

1s @nnrorbirn.sis LIFESTYLE§ April 25, 1991 Alumnae Examine Life At and After Union \Union is also a sisterhood under Minerva\ said Sharon (Sid) CreanBlum '78 during a day of celebration marking 10 years of coeducation at Union. The festivities, held April 10, as part of Women's Week, included two panel discussions, one on life at Union from the early days of coeducation to the present, and one on. the career paths followed by some alumnae after graduation. Some 11 alumnae returned for the event, sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women and funded @y the .offices of President Morris and Vice President Rasmussen. A dinner and reception were also held. The early days of coeducation were \awkward\, according to Kathryn Mitchell Mullaney '74, \but I was never treated as if I wasn't expected to be here.\ Courtesy of THE CHRONICLE Some resentment came fr()m the upperclassmen, said Linda Burns '75, and \there was stm some question as to whether women were serious abollt t11e sciences,\ said Susan Lein Brown '78. \Some men di(in't want women as lab partners.\ There were no atble tic facilities or teams for wo-men at first, and no women's glee club. Mullaney said, \We v;ere notified we were pioneers. and that's why we didn't have showers.\ Aside from s.ome professors cutting dirty jtOkes out of their lectures and <1thers asking the new coeds f()r \tile women's perspective\ in c:lass, the college's academics adjusted well to the changes. The Union men, however, were unwilling to change their time-honored habit of dating Skidmore women. \l bad friends who went to Skidmore to meet Union guys,\ said Gal Goodman Snitkoff '74. Part of the reason for that, said Karen Huggins '77, was that the Union men \looked at us as potential career women and treated us with respect. It wasn't very romantic for them to share the weekend partying with someone they'd been studying with all week.\ But the mingling of U nicm men and women somehow occurred: halfof the women on the panels were married t() ()r dating Union men. The panel, which represented nearly every graduating class since 1974, could detail a number of .changes at the College-- women's sports came into their own, sororities were formed, a women's netwoi:k: was created. \We were seen everywhere and anywhere,\ said Ivette Mesa '79. Added Amy Titus '75, \When I left in 1975, we were really a part of Kate White: Superwoman Lecturer By JULIE SCHLANG This weekend Union will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of co-education. One of the many speakers who will be lecturing is Kate White, a 1972 graduate of Union College. Currently, Miss White is Jhe editor-in- chief of McCall's Magazine. She has had much experience in the publishing industry, including being the previous editor-in-chief of Wo:rking Woman Magazine. She also worked at Mademoiselle and Glamour. Kate White Ml unly has a very successful career, but a husband and two children as welL This in turn, is the topic of her lecture entitled Beyond Superwoman: How To Have It All With Some Adjustments. She will be .speaking on Saturday, April 27, at 1:30 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium. Everyone is welcome to come! The 13th Annual Delta Gamma Olympics will take pla.ce on Friday May 17th at 1:30 on Rugby Field. There will be 15 teams altowed to register on a first come, first served basis. So organize teams now! Registration is May 3rd! Questions, call Vik ki at 386-4355 Spanisli C{U6 Presents: f'1, A • . . fie· • rJf.(p-(ft~ ~~ f1l (If :JYLOVte: .. -. · .. · /L.t'GfYL<L.;\{., . 7:.00 p.m. Morui(iiy ;J{jgfit. . . ff.pri{ 29tifi 4tfi :floor Lounge in Co((ege Center ATTENTION SENIOR BIOLOGY & CHEMISTRY MAJORS Serex, Inc., a medical diagnostic company, wi~l be on campus Friday, May 10 to in~erview Biology and .. Chemistry majors for marketing and researc~ pos1t1?ns. More information is available at the CDC. S1gn up 1n the CDC by May 8 with a resume. : : • ; •• • • ' •, \ \. ', • • ' ' ; - • ', '' : '' ' ' ' '. ' •• ' ' ' - • • • • '. ' • ;. ~ • • • • • • • ' •• • • « • ' - the College. During the evening panel, the alumnae detailed career pa~hs which led them to such prestigious positions as company managers, presidents, and owners. The women talked of exploring different avenues, drawing on their liberal background from Union. Snitkoff said, \You get such a broad background here, it gives you the confidence to work in unfamiliar areas.\ Some of the women meshed_ career paths with their husband's, Others wove in child-rearing. All talked of the need to preserve and cultivate a personal life. \My personal life is as important as my career,\ Burns said. The fact that I gmduated from Union opened doors for me,\ said Mesa, a sentiment echoed by the other alumnae. Panelists cited the opportunities for independent .study, the term abroad program, the Career Development Center, and the accessibility to the faculty as part of the excellent preaparation for their careers. \What you learn at Union that is useful forever,\ Mullaney said, \is that you can learn.\ The numbers were helpful also. Titus, n()W head of her own international development consultant firm, said., \I was outnumbered by men here and it's like that out there-- and it doesn't intimidate me. I just let them know that what I say will matter. Of those first women students, Blum said, \I don't know if you appreciate everything you did. You carved out in those early years much more than you probably know.\ If Anybo·dy is interested in writing for the new Lifestyles section of Concordiensis, please contact the Concordiensis Office at x6155 or send articles to box #2577. LlliT CIIDNCEIIIII TO SIGN UP FOR THE: IBA lflfllll c()lf lfll11( IBA.~I[)S· SIGN UP IN CC RM 408 TO BE HELD ON: SAT MRY 4 1:00PM -. COLlEGE CENTER PRTI 0 • Free Food o Anyone interested in joining the Concert Band in our Parent's Weekend entertainment, please contact Denise at 386-4354 Concert Band Rehearsals: Monday nights Arts Building Rm. 313 8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. See You There!

•I CAMPU!i. NEW!i <llllltfl)roirnzi.s 19 CLUBNEW!i NEWMAN SUPPERS Tuesday, April 30th at 5 PM in CC203 join Professor Seth Greenberg, Chair of the Psycholog·y Department for supper and conversation. Professor Greenberg Will talk about Union's term abroad to Israel and how the program ideally sb.ould include both Jewish aiJd Catholic students who would have much to learn from each other. Use meal card or bring yonr own supper. ------------------ l<'OLK GROUP • Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in St. John's church to rehearse. TUTORING Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box. 279, Tel: 386-4181. THE POWER OF MYTH - Tuesday, April 30th in St. John's School Library at 7:30 we will continue the videos \Josepb Campbell and· The Power (}f Myth with Bill Moyers .n All programs: are sixty n1inutes and will be followed by a half h()ur discussicn led by Sister Joan. Progratn Four: Sacrifice ;and Bliss. Ca.m.pbell discusses the role of sacrifice in myth., which symbolizes the necessity for rebirth. He also talks about the significance of sacrifice - in particll'lar, a mother's sacrHice for hr cllJld, and the sacrifice to the relationship in marriage - and stre:~ses the need for every one of us to find eur sacred place in tile midst of to-day's fast-paced,. technological world. All are \\'elcome. BIBLE STUDY/PRAYER GROUP - Tuesday, April 30th from 9 to 9:30 PM in St. John's School Library. We will read a11d reflect together on John 211. HELP WAI\ITED • STUDENT NEEDEll • • SUMMER BREAK • One ftdl time posilion available. Annual Fund Office, Lamont House. 8 A.M. to 25 Apr - 1 May 1 9'91 THIS WEEK AT UNION Apr 25 - Thursday ~~~~oP~~~~~~a~r~~~:Itural Tallie Arts Atrium: 20th Anniy. Coed Arts Expo. i 1:30 AM CCJ.\UD: \Minerva Hour 3:30PM Softball Apr 26 - Friday SS016 Movie: \The Russia House• 5:00 PM Softball Apr 27 - Saturday SSO t 6 Novle: \The Russia·House· 11:00 lolA CCAUD: Where are we now? Where do we go? 6:00 PM CCAtrium:RecepL~n f(lr Ec'k~off Paintings 8:00 PM CCAUD Coeducation: .Past·and Prese:nt 9:30 PI/. CCJG2 t:;offeehouse: Marcy So;;i10 1:30 PM CCAUD: Women In Workp:Z:E> 2;15 PM Alunnao Panels S:GG PM 111<>11~ tocrosse S:oo·PM·Nor%hC<ll!ege: Women's C<·:erOpen Hoouse 3:30 PM C~Patio: Concert 12:00 PM Men's Tennis _____________ 7:00PMCC AUQ:A Play:Ododo ____ _ Apr 28 - Sunday SS016 Novie: \The Russia House' 7:00PM CC AUD: A Play: Ododo Apr 29 .. Monday Apr 30 - Tuesday 12:00 PM CC302: Plateful of' Questions May 1 • Wednesday CC302 Movie: \The Godfather II 9:00PM CC3D2 Helena Binder Bress 76- 3:00 Plv1 Baseball 7:30 Pfv'l OC406 Germa11 Film S>eries 3:30PM GCAUD: Public Lecture Series 3:30PM Men's Lacrosse 4:30 P.M. Mon-Fri. Please call #6175 by May 1. SUMMER JOBS $9.10/hr. or commission. Advertising sales. No exper- ience necessary. Training provided. Work close to school. Car recommended. Call Steve Gorman at {800) 344- 6766 for details & application. METRO MARKETING GROUP CAN YOU HELP? Castle Ridge Park needs You! Help is needed to construct a new playgmund. Volunteers needed for :food service, child. care, construction, skilled and unskilled. For more info call Sondra Schaefer at 783-6757. OF:F•I:AMPU!i HDU!iiJ\16 APARTMENT FOR RENT 3-Bedroorns, close to Union. Off street parking, free garage, year lease and security. Call Dave Mac.PheFson, 584-8483. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Non-smoking, mature female to share 3-'bedroom flat in quiet neighborhood (good for studying}. Laundry in base- ment, parking on street. $300 per month~ inc,udes utilities. Upper Union area. Call 393- 1519, leavernessage. 13 Kate's partner 1045 UNIVERSITY PLACE 3-Bed:room flat. 1706 CARRIE STREET 3-Bedroom flat. Prefer female students, or mix. 875-6229 eves. out more about you! We love you! Deb & Erica Dearest Obc - Happy 21st!! It's been a fun and happy time. Thanks for ail your love and caring. -Love Pooh. I Hey Applehead! 1 Just want to let you know that :::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::-.; you are doing a GREAT job ; I and I love you very much. PER!iOI\JAL§ DaveS., Even if it really did rain cats and dogs and Jack Frost nipped at more than people's noses, I think I'd still get bored of talking about the weather. I Louie Mary (Horace- Don't read · this!) DFM: Sorry we blew you off Monday night. We'll make it up to you!J! Wings Friday? We'll call you. Put your hat on - it's time for frisbee practice. Get ready for plan Spanish - it's our last resort! I'll miss you this weekend! -Rhoda HeyDG! Terry and Larissa Hi Skinny, Let's not forget to have fun! Seniors- this means you! Hard to believe it's already 4th week, isn't it!?! ABJ- Did you know that Sandy Duncan has a glass eye? The Bears! I'm running with scissors! Which is bigger: Love,. Laverne and Shirley Kevin Sullivan, Where is my earring?? -A. Sholette Your liver or your small intestine in a ball? Miss you! I just took it out so you could ride it. JLC- Love & ITB, Loser Vogel Schcuche Chris and Andy, You guys are a sorry excuse for a beer pong team. Cheese You are my sunshine, My only sunshine, you make me happy when skies arc gray. You'll never know, dear, how much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away! Miss you! To the Gamma Phi Pledges: Now that you know a little bit about us, we can't wait to find -LFA Weekly Crossword \DOWNWORDS\ 20 FICA agency: 62 DOWN _____ : Abbreviation Negative trends 21 Son of Seth 64 Hodgepodge 22 Plead 65 Prepare for publication 23 \Whatsoever you do _ 66 Singer Fitzgerald and _-·-of my others brethren\ 67 Rip 26 Violent public disorders 68 Follows cees 28 Belief suffix 69 Messrs. Or bison and 29 Pitcher Hershiser Rogers 31 Iraqi strongman? DOWN 34 Towel word 37 DOWN __ . Foolballterm 39 Fish eggs 40 Paradises 42 Arithmetic term 43 DOWN __ ; Maim resident 46 Leisure 1 Male name 2 In harmony: 2 wds 3 Small brook 4 Fernando __ : Spanish explorer 5 Hawaiian food 6 Imitative 7 Remove soap a Finery 9 Rivulet 25 \For With Loue and Squalor'\; Salinger 27 Under the weather 29 \Death Salesman'\ 30 Unburden 32 Small spot 33 Plcw maker 34 DOIVN ___ :Sadly 35 Ollice holders 36 Vane Initials 38 Horse trade 41 Narcs org. 44 Permitted 45 Coarse files 47 Synagogue oHicial 49 Automobile salesman 50 DOWN ; Make less luxurious 51 Obsession 52 DOWN __ • ACROSS 1 DOWII __ : Poker term 14 Mayberry resident 15 Foot pace 47 President Coolidge 48 M.A.S.H. character so DOWN bearers: 2 wds 54 Indian Tents: Abbrev. S7 Skim througli 10 Chains 11 Forbidding words 12 Timetable abbreviations 13 Melville's Captain Denigrate 53 Macabre 55 Entreaties 56 Back talk 57 Highlander 16 DOWN ___ • Winter olvmpic event 18 Ms. Barrett fiB Native metal S9 Actress_ Mason 17 Tree bumps 24 Peter and Nicholas 60 O'Shea: Actor 63 Alcoholic withdrawal T~IS CALEI-lDAR IS PRESENTED BY THE CObbEGE CENTERlSnii>EIIiT ACTIVITIES PROGAMIIIINoG BOARI) FOR PUBLICITY PURPOSES ONLY, CALL OR WRITE: X61UI c>r CC4D8, CURREHI AS .OF <l/231~1 5 Henty\s cons:ort Catherine __ 9 DOWII __ : !li$adv~Bt!D1ld 19 Singer Frankie 1>1 Jargon problems c ·- .0 :J a: ..c Ol .<1.> _j :>. rn €> (f) <1.> ..0 :J a: \I'm gonna take my time, chew real slow and savor each one 'til the :last drop.\ \I'm getting sick and tired of hearing you complain about bath time, young man! Quite frankl-y, the last thing I look forward to doing every night is .cleaning fish!\ \Wow this guy had some fall! We better flip him over easy'\ •.\\ ..

I:AM.PU!i BULLETIN B·DARD April 25, 1991 WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUD HlTS WHO WANT TO EARN ·. SOME: FU~., EASY MONEY! SIUDENTS WHO WOULD LIKE . TO WORK ON REUNION/COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND {JUNE 14 & 15) PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE OR·. CALL ALISON OR PEG AT x6168. Mu.lticultu·ral Ta:bte • Apr. 25th Topic: None Table open 1rom 11 :30-1 :30 Talk 12:30 in Upper Class Dining Rm CC Please join us, one and all ! !I The Mechani.cal Engineering Dept. is conducting a Reappointment Review of Professors Harvey Lyons and s·ubba Reddy. All members of the Union Colleg·e community familiar with their teaching, scholarship, or coJiege service are encouraged to send written comments to Prof .. Frank MiHHo, Chairman, Mechani·cal Engineering Dept. An Ad Hoc TenurabiJity Committee has been formed for Donna Burton, Assistant Professor in the Library. Members of the College community wishing to comment on the professional performance, scholarship, or college service of Ms. Burton should write to Martin Benjamin, De:partment of the Arts, Arts Buildlng. A Summer At Pace Campus Security Events In May Lets You Have It All. Fun! Sun! Work! School! There's nothing more exciting than a summer in New York, but now Pace rrmersi~· has a way to make it productive as well as fun. Pace offers two 6-v;eek summer sessions at all three of our campuses in the ~ew York metropolitan area. .And thanks to our special summer \li and Learn\ rate of just $1200 per session (includiflg accommodations, institutional fee, and one 3-credit unlkrgraduate course), enjo~ing everything ~ew York has to offer has never been more affordable. Of course, you could spend your summer just getting a em. But at Pace Universi~-'s Summer Sessions you'll find something that doesn't fade over time. The Pace experience. Come discover why we call it the e.xperience for a lifetime. For more information about our full range of summer courses, fill out this coupon and mail it today. Or just call 1-800-874-722) e1t 7901 Pace offers a wide range of Register Now! Summer is getting m1dergraduate programs: eve1)1hing p A c E closer e\·ery day! from langu~ge, literature and . - .· S Sess' 1 begins} 3 1991 education, to arts, sciences and U N I \ 1 C R S 1 . T )T ummer ~on . une ' • nursing, to accounting. finance and ·\ 1 _.,.,Y_rJt.. .•. ·\\ - Summer Sesston II beginsJu~·t5, 1991. -qr:..... '!?. .. ...::_-..-/::~~-rr:? ~·· '. computers. The~perlence For A Lifetime ffii. !'\;. Pace UniYersity. Admissions Infonnation Center One Pace Pla7a.Nev.\'ork. fli1'10038 YES, I i'ant It All! D Please send me a summer course schedule. D Please send me infonnation on special summer science courses. N~e·~· ----------------- A~:. ____________ ~~- City/StateJZip:. __________ _ Phone: __________ _ SS#(optionall:. __ ~------- CollegeAttending:. ______ _ May 6, 7, 8 Campus Safety Seminar · Topic: Date Acquaintance Rape May 13, 14 Drug and Alcohol Abuse Seminar May 20, 21 Video; 11 Rape: An Act of Violence\ - May 28, 29, 30 Drug and Alcohol Abuse Seminar * AU dates will include a speaker for questions and answers. All events will be held in Social Sciences i Room 016 at 3, 5, and 7 o'clock on each date.

Boo-Hoo, Drew! By DAVE AUSTIN #7 The clouds loomed ominously over Library Field last Saturday afternoon as the Blues Travellers tuned their instruments and the Union Ruggers laced up their boots. As game time rolled around, the band fired up their first song as the team got the last of their kinks out. The Drew University players were thrown into a confrontation that they will not soon forget. Serum domination on the part of the Union A-side was . apparent from the first serum downs. In a post game interview, A-side Hooker Mike \T3\ Alter told the C on c or die us is 11 My replacing the injured· Smurf dude allowed me to come together with the 'A' pack to form a presidio of a front row. II It was this force that set up the first score of the match. After combing his hair to near perfection. Dan \Oooooo My Thumb!\ Gilbert popped in a 25 meter penalty kick, good for three points. Before Drew had a chance to counter. Slow Train and Spring muscled the opposing props into the try zone to allow the fugacious Matt \Yes I'll Have The Last Jelly Donut!\ Taylor to add four. Gilbert's kick made it 9- 0. Pete Dubois ran it in moments later following a textbook execution of an attacking line. The second kick failed to connect, but Union's confidence was not to be shaken. Our line captain beat the Drew defender to the comer for the last score of the first half. The only mistake that Union committed came at the opening of the second part of our controlled, aggressive play. A blatant offsides by D~Phi's Roger Weber allowed Drew to be added to Skip \Will You Shut Up For Just One Minute!'' Aycox's scorecard with its own penalty kick. To keep the opponents' spirits from ballooning too rapidly, Pete DuBois shut the door on their joy with THE play of the game. Instead of \passing the pill\ off to fellow temmates who had been working just as hard for the previous week, Pete opted to selfishly pop kick the ball over his Drew defender, recover his own kick, and scamper the remaining twenty meters for the try. To alleviate the guilt and an:guish that Weber felt for his corrigendum, he stole the ball out of the sky on the kickoff, and slingshot himself down the sideline, stepping over, and pushing through at least half of his distraught rivals. Just to make sure that Drew understood that Roger was not happy for what he had done, he again stole the ball from the air, but this time from Chester \It Ain't Easy Being Cheesy\ Cheetah's lineout grab on the two meter line, and dove through for the final points of the match. When the smoke cleared, the victorious Union ruggers came away with a 31-3 triumph. Our diehard Union fans were effervescently exuberant, and we we thank you for your support. The Union team goes on to battle for the state title at Rich Stadium in Buffalo, New York. The ruggers will compete against 35 other collegiate teams. All are welcome to attend. SCOREBOARD Baseball (5-6) 4/20 Middlebury 1 0 Union 2 (game 1) Union 5 Middlebury 1 (game 2) 4/23 Union 13 Albany 9 Softball (1 0~3) 4/17 Oneonta 8 Union 3 4/18 Union 5 New Paltz 4 4/20 Union 8 Hamilton 0 (game 1) Union 17 Hamilton 3 (game 2) 4/23 Union 11 API 0 Men's 4/17 Williams 16 4/20 Union 11 4/23 Union 6 Lax (7-2) Union 13 Hamilton 5 RPI5 (OT) Women's Lax (3·7) 4/16 Middlebury 16 Union 3 4/20 Hamilton 15 Union 5 4/18 Union 6 4/20 Union 7 Tennis (3-4) St. Rose 3 Oneonta 2 !iPORT!i OJ.omrltfrusis 21 Tennis Team Gets Cracking By Tennis Team In the beginning of the season, the only things cracking were the tennis courts, but now the team has come aHve to win its last lhree matches. Probably one of the tnajor factors that has contributed to the success of the team is the new lineup. After changing his hairdo, the mighty Garrett Lasewicz gracefully danced into the #1 singles position and has played impressively. I felt I needed to change something,\ said the G- man, \so I decided to sport a new more aerodynamic hairdo. If this doesn't start puUing in the wins, I might just try on a pair of spandex.\ Chris \I run like a truck\ Miller has registered four wins in the #2 singles position. When I visited with Miller during overhead practice the other day and asked him if he felt confident for his next match, he expressed his honest feeting s by saying, \A:UGHGHGHHHRRRR! II Chris D'Orio, a.k.a. the illegimate son of Charlie Bmwn, has been playing #3 singles. He stated that he_ thinks it was the ,coach's inspirational words that put the team on the winning track. \He (Coach) looked at us all sincerely and said, 'I would rather hang out with you all rather than a bunch of snobbish winners.' We (the team) were happy that Coach liked us all, 'but we would rather be remembered as a group of snobbish winners than nice guys who were losers.\ Jimmy Polites., playing in the #4 singles spot, was unavailable for comment on his first win of the season because he was watching the Ultimate Warrior and did not want Lo be disturbed. Other members of the team who have been prominent in recent matches include the following: Matt Futterman has revived Joe Voytiky's job as assistant coach, team comedian, and backup van driver. Tim Rizzo told me, \I confuse my opponent by being a mix between Andre Agassi and Axle Rose.\ Jeff Roth has also played well, but won't disclose the secret behind the bandana. Dave Moody, confident after his recent doubles vict<>ry, stated for the record, \I've ,carried Dumpy (that would be Miller) to our two glorious victories.\ One of the toughest teams in doubles is the Jon Corui/Darren David Dahl comilo who have demolished otJ\er teams even though Darren is at class during matches. Last, but not least, in the recent wins is Paul Schultz who pulled out his first varsity match with divine inspiration. I was able to beat a comment (not to menti()n the tobacco juice) out of Coach Decker about this yea.I's team. \They are a great bunch of guys who are capable of playing world class tennis. However, I've got dinner riding <Jn this season, and if they don't pull out a winning season for me, I'll always reme1nbcr them as a bunch of nice guys who were losers.'' To see the t~am in action, come and watch them this Saturday at 12:00 as they go up against Hartwick. An Evening of Readings and Discussion By Piri Thomas Author of (among others) Down These Mean Streets Stories From El Barrio In Down These Mean streets, Piri Thomas made El Barrio (the neighborhood) a household word to multitudes of ·Jn-Spanish speaking readers. Come hear Piri Thomas, Puerto Rican Playwright, Essayest, Author, in a Reading and Lecture on: May2 Social Science Bldg., Rm. 113 7:30p.m. OPEN TO THE PUBLIC SPONSORED BY: ~S, SPEAKER'S FORUM, MINERVA COMMITTEE 1 DIVERSITY COMMITTEE, DEAN OF STUDENTS' OFFICE, DEPARTMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE, AND HISTOR~ J DOES $1300 MEAN TO YOU? FIND OUT AT THE STUDENT PHONATHON! APRIL 28, 29, 30 & MAY 1 5:30 . 9:00 HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM

22 <U.onrorbirn.sf.s !iPDRT!i Union Baseball Forges On By JARED SELTER The season began slowly, but the Union baseball team is finally beginning to pick up speed. The season began with the goal that the team would be over .500 for the year and hopes were running high. The team was coming off a disappointing season last year and everyone, head coach Gary Reynolds included, wanted to put that memory behind them. The season opened with a four- game losing streak that included losses to Albany, Hartwick, and Oneonta twice. Things seemed grim for the once optimistic and promising Dutchmen. The team, however, did not give up and improved the quality of play from the early season. After the four-game drought, the Dutchmen bats came alive aginst the Division One Siena Saints on April 14 and captured their first win, 4- 0. Senior righthanded pitcher Mark Callahan (3-2), who was the losing pitcher in the .efforts against Hartwick and the first game of the double header against Oneonta, got his first win of the season while shutting out the Saints. In both of Callahan's previous starts he had given up six and five runs, respectively. The winning streak, unfortunately, did not last as long as the losing one, and Union promptly split a twin bill with Norwich College, away, losing the first game but regaining their composure in the second, on April 13. The first game saw sophomore righty Marco Mancuso (0-2) in his second start of the season losing in an extremely close 5- 3 effort for the Dutchmen. The second game of the afternoon, which lasted only eight innings, pitted Craig Bronder (1-0) in relief aginst Norwich. Bronder got the win, 6-4, for the Dutchmen. The win streak continued after a ,layoff of almost a full week when the Dutchmen narrowly defeated opposing St. Rose College, 5- 3, on April 19 at Union's home field in Central Park. The following day, in another double header, this time at home, the winning ways were over as Union was mercilessly crushed at the hands of Middlebury. Union's rival,that day racked up ten runs whle holding the Dutchmen to only two. Mancuso again was credited for the loss in that game and Union's season record fell to three wins and six losses. The team's hopes for a winning season seemed to be waning until the Dutchmen, again showing their composure, rebounded from their humilating defeat to beat Middlebury in the second game, 5-l. Callahan got the win and Union's prospects at post-season play and an even record were rejuvenated. Union's baseball team does have promise and has the potential to win and win often but it also shows some weaknesses that have contributed to their downfall. Firstly, the pitching rotation is hardly balanced, with Callahan accounting for 75% of the team's wins. The team needs its other pitchers, especially Mancuso whom Reynolds hoped would anchor the team after a good pre-season, to fall into a winning groove. Another weak point is the errors in the field that the Dutchmen have committed. Reynolds' much heralded infield has committed 19 of the team's sceason. Quiet bats, plague Union's team.s as well. Reynolds hoped that s-G_phomorc second ,baseman, Mike Johnson would repeat his i11credible New York State All- S;tar performance from <last year. Reynolds also looked to jamior oatfielder Bob Francello \a pure hitter\ to lead the team a.s welL After 10 games, J-oimson is only batting .200, Francello is hitting .250, sltQrtstop and hopeful David S(}{!ergren, who missed most of last season, is batting .176, and the team average is only .237. The team does have several strQng points and they will be able, if the rest of the problems are worked out, to carry the team through the season successfully. Callahan's pitching, if it continues at this rate, will contribute at least two more wins for the Dutchmen. Callahan has an impressive strikeout record, 1:1veraging over 10-112 K's a game. Mancuso, as well. is ~etting down the opposition, a.veraging almost 8-1/2 ~trikeouts a game. Over all the Dutchmem pitchers more than d()uble their opponents in ~tdkeouts while only giving Uj) one more walk (4.38 to 3.27) per game. Another ~tandout on the team who will definitely contribute to future Dutchmen victories is senior Lhird baseman Deke Lincoln. LLncoln is batting .379 with a . 552 slugging percentage. J !lDior catcher Schott Preische is also batting extremely well at .375 and enjoys the team's Oll:ly home run thus far. Hopefully, the Dtuchmen ca.n continue their winning ways in the games to come and will attain all of their goals for tile season. Union College Greek Volleyball Tourney . / \. Where: Fiji Beac!J 'Sand; ~ · Volleyball co,urt When: May .17·19 What Else: FREE· BAR-8-Q and Soda (Saturday and Sunday) -~· . ' ~ April 25, 1991 Men's Track Places In Albany By GREG BARRETT This past Friday and Saturday the Men's Track Team travelled to the University at Albany for the first annual Albany InvitationaL The weather,. although it proved to · . be bad for that spring term tan, was ideal for a track meet. . Albany's \new\ facility provided a fast track and more ' than adequate competition for the Dutchmen. The State and D-Ill National champ in the 400m hurdles and a competitor on the Puerto Rican Olympic . Hurdle team were the highlight of the day. The winning time was 49.90 seconds! On Friday, all of tile trials for both the dashes and the field events were held. Bill Taylor came up big scoring a PR, a NY State Qualifier, and a 17th place in the lOOm dash. His time of 11.22 was well ahead of his previous best. Matt Decker was not far behind in 20th place with an 11.67. Rich Pulver led the Union field contingent scoring ,eighth in the javelin with a PR heave of 42.21m. He later came back . with a fourth place finish in the shot with a put of 13 .23m. Shawn Mowry picked up a thiTteenth in the hammer with a throw of 34.14m. Rounding out Friday's events was Jon Rosenfeld with a 33:20.3 and a major PR in the lO,OOOm. His third place finish was not far ahead of Ed Rothenberg's thirteenth place in a time of 37:08.3. Saturday saw the Dutchmen come out with a vengeance. Rich Zembek picked up a new best with his 59.26 in the 400m hurdles. This also gave him a tenth place. The 4 x 200 team, consisting of Bill Taylor, Matt Decker, Rich Zcmbek and Will Allen, blazed out a 1:34.9 for a fifth place finish. Bob Lindyberg later came back and controlled his heat of the 800m with a time of 1:58.8. This was a new PR and a twelfth place finish. Chris Ryan also PR'ed with a 2:14.3. Ed Dorsey was the last PR of the day with a 4:28.5 in the 1500m. The competition was tough with over 40 athletes in each race. The Dutchmen did extremely well and showed that they are a new force to be reckoned with in Division III. This past Wednesday they continued their excellence at the Union Open and wish to thank allof their supporters. ••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • GOLF BALLS: FOR SALE 25¢ each • • • • • • • • • ·Excellent • condition.· • • • • • • • • • • • You pick the the color brand. and Please call 370-6836 • evenings • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Freshmen and Sophomores Interesting in being a student consultant in the Social Sciences Statistics Lab? Requirements: an interest in (IBM-compatible-computers an interest .in helping people a Statistics course in useful, but not required See Prof. Klein, SS1 09 (x6056) for an application form. I I ~I

.-::·_.:_~is·~-~-~~ .. ~~;:~:-~~ --:~v~-~- ·.- :~. -::_-~:~:<2 t~-~~,·-·t· ~:-.; r2 (JJJ)1t[l)fllitturis §PORT§ Union Baseball Forges On B;y JARED SEL TER The season began slowly, but the Union baseball team is finally beginning to pick up speed. The season beg~n with the goal that the team would be over .500 for the year and hopes were running high.. The team was coming off a disappointing season last year and everyone, head coach. Gary Reynolds included, wanted to put that memory behind them. The season opened with a four- game losing streak that included losses to Albany, Hartwick, and Oneonta twice. Things seemed grim for the once optimistic and promising Dutchmen. The team, however, d.id not give up and improved the quality of play from the early season. After the four-game drought, the Dutchmen bats came alive aginst the Division One Siena Saints on April 14 and captured their first win, 4- 0. Senior righthanded pitcher Mark Callahan (3-2), wilo was the losing pitcher in the efforts against Hartwick and the first game of the double header against Oneonta, got his first win of the season while shutting out the Saints. In both of Callahan's previous starts he had given up six and fi vc runs, respccti vely. The winning streak, unfortunately, did not last as long as the losing o!lc. and Un~m promptly split a twin hill \\'Ith ~orwich C'!lllcgc, 3\\ i.l)i, losing the first game hut rc~ainm!! their cornpr)smc in th~' scco~d, on Apnl 13. The fir--t game saw sopnomore righty \larco \1ancu~o ([J-:~J in his second start of the -;cason h.,ing in an extremely close 5- 3 effort for the Dutchmw. The second game of the aft<:rnoon, which lasted only eight innings. pitted Craig Bronder ( 1-0) in relief aginst Norwich. Bronder got !.be win, 6-4, for the Dutchmen. The win streak continued after a layoff of almost a full week when the Dutchine 11 narrowly defeated opposing St. Rose College, 5- 3, on Aj}ril 19 at Union's home field in Central Park. The following day, in another double header, this time at hoine, the winning ways were over as Uaion was mercilessly crushed .at the hands of Middlebury. Union's rival that day racked up ten runs whle holding the Dutchmen to only two. Ma11cuso again was credited f()r the loss in that game ami Union's season record fell to ttlrec wins and six losses. The team's hopes for a winning season seemed to be waning until the Dutchmen, again showing their composme, rebounded from their humi lating defeat to beat Middlebu:ry in the second game, 5-l. Callahan got the win and Ur1ion's prospects at post-seaso11 play and an even record were rejuvenated. Union's baseball team does have pr<Jrn ise and has the potential to win and win often but it also shows some w c a k n e sse s l h a t h a v e contributed to their downfall. Firstly, the pitching rotation is hardly bala11ccd, with Callahan accoun ti 11g for 7 5 o/c of the team's wins. The team needs its other iPi tchers, especially ~1ancu~o whom Reynolds hoped w<lul<l anchor the team after a goO>d pre-season, to fall into a winning groove. Another v;cak point is the errors in the field that the Dutchmen have committed. Reynolds' much heralded infield has commi ttcd 19 of the team's season. Quiet bats, plague Union's teams as well. Reynolds hoped that sophomore second baseman, Mike Johnson would repeat his incredible New York State All- Star performance from last year. Reynolds also looked to junior outfielder Bob Francello \a pure hitter\ to lead the team as well. After 10 games, Johnson is only batting .200, Francello is hitting .250, shortstop and hopeful David Sodergren, who missed most of last season, is batting .176, and the team average is only .237. The team does have several strong points and they will be able. if the rest of the problems are worked out, to carry the team through the season successfully. Callahan's pitching, if it continues at this rate. will contribute at least two more wins for the Dutchmen. Callahan has an impressive strikeout record, averaging over 1 0-l/2 K's a game. Mancuso, as well, is setting down the opposition, averaging almost 8-1/2 strikeouts a game. Over all the Dutchmem pitchers more than double their opponents in strikeouts while only giving up one more walk (4.38 to 3.27) per game. Another standout on the team who will definitely contribute to future Dutchmen victories is senior third baseman Deke Lincoln. Lincoln is batting .379 with a .552 slugging percentage. Junior catcher Schott Preischc is also batting extremely well at .37 5 and enjoys the team's only home run thus far. llopcfully, the Dtuchmcn can continue their winning ways in the games to come and will attain all of their goals for the season. Union College Greek Volleyball Tourney Where: Fiji Beach Sand - Volleyball court When: May 17-19 What Else: FREE BAR-8-Q and Soda (Saturday and Sunday) April 25, 1991 Men's Track Places In Albany By GREG BARRETT This past Friday and Saturday the Men's Track Team travelled to the University at Albany for the first annual Albany Invitational. The weather, although it proved to be bad for that spring term tan, was ideal for a track meet. Albany's \new\ facility provided a fast track and more than adequate competition for the Dutchmen. The State and D-IU National champ in the 400m hurdles and a competitor on the Puerto Rican Olympic Hurdle team were the highlight of the day. The winning time was 49.90 seconds! On Friday, all of the trials for both the dashes and the field events were held. Bill Taylor came up big scoring a PR, a NY State Qualifier, and a 17th place in the lOOm dash. His time of 11.22 was well ahead of his previous best. Matt Decker was not far behind in 20th place with an 11.61. Rich Pulver led the Union field contingent scoring eighth in the javelin with a PR heave of 42.21m. He later came back with a fourth place finish in the shot with a put of 13.23m. Shawn Mowry picked up a thirteenth in the hammer with a throw of 34.14rn. Rounding out Friday's events was Jon Rosenfeld with a 33:20.3 and a major PR in the lO,OOOm. His third place finisn was not far ahead of Ed Rothenberg's thirteenth place in a time of 37:08.3. Saturday saw the Dutchmen come out with a vengeance. Rich Zembek picked up a new best with his 59.26 in the 400m hurdles. This also gave hirn a tenth place. The 4 x 200 team, consisting of Bill Taylor, Matt Decker, Rich Zt:mbck and Will Allen, blazed out a 1:34.9 for a fifth place finish. Bob Lindyberg later carne back and controlled his heat of the 800m with a time of 1:58.8. This was a new PR and a twelfth place finish. Chris Ryan also PR'ed with a 2:14.3. Ed Dorsey was the last PR of the day with a 4:28.5 in the 1500m. The competition was tough with over 40 athletes in each race. The Dutchmen did extremely well and showed that they are a new force to be reckoned with in Division III. This past Wednesday they continued their excellence at the Union Open and wish to thank all of their supporters. ••••••••••••••••••••• il • • • GOLF BALI~S: FOR SALE 25¢ each e 4 • • • • • • • ·Excellent • condition.· • • • • • • • • • • • You pick the the color brand. and Please call 370-6836 • evenings • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Freshmen and Sophomores Interesting in being a student consultant in the Social Sciences Statistics Lab? Requirements: an interest in (IBM-compatible-computers an interest in helping people a Statistics course in useful, but not required See Prof. Klein, SS1 09 (x6056) for an application form. '•,! ,' 'I , I J ;J J l I I I

Chris D'Orio Leads Tennis Team In 3 Game Streak By DAN STRUM Sports Editor The men's tennis Team is currently on a three-game winning streak thus raising tlleir record to 3-4. This streak is comprised of some impressive wins over Siena, St. Rose, and Oneonta. Junior Chris D'Orio has stepped up to lead the team to :victory. For flis outstanding achievements over the past week, Chris D' Orio has been selected as Co nco rdie nsis Sports Athlete Of The Week. D'Orio hails from Marblehead, Massachusetts. He attended Governor Drummer Academy. At Union, he played ()n the Varsity Ice Hockey team h.is freshman and sophomore y-ears. This is his third year on the Varsity Tennis team. In si11gles this year, D'Orio has played various numbers of positions in the lineup anil has now settled down at number three. He has compiled a record Chris D'Orio of 6-1 in singles over the :first seven matches. In doul>les, D'Orio is paired off with junior 'Garrett Lasewicz. Throughout the last four matches, this powerhouse combination has held on to the num,ber one spot. This achievement is rightfuUy earned seeing that they have posted a perfect 7 cQ record over the course of the season. The 1991 Men's Tennis team is coming on strong in this second half of the season. Under the leadership of first year coach Tom Decker, the team is looking to become the first squad to post a winning record since the 1986 team went 6-4. Chris D'Orio plays an important ·role in the achievement of this goal. His attitude and hard work .are important factors in Union's success. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Chris D'Orio, Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Softball Performs Well Continued from page 24 quad-captain Teresa Sanchez also trippled to drive Marsh in and scored off a SAC fly to put Union ahead 4-2. No runs scored for either side again until the sixth, where Union scored another run on Harrington's SAC RBI to left. In the top of the seventh New P'altz added two more runs. With New Paltz's tying run at second and the go-ahead at the pJate, the third out was a fly to center. In its final games of the week, the home team easily swept 1-11 Hamilton in a d()uble header this past Saturday, the first game a shut- out 5-0 and the second a desperate 17-3 victory. In game 1. Lawliss, Romer, and Seidman all scored in the first, Harrington, Twombly. and ju11ior secondbaseman/catcher Jean Lopata all had RBis. Dudzic struck out 2 in the second. In the bottom of the second, 2 more for Union tallied as Lawliss and Romer sc()red again with help from 2 SAC bunts by Harrington and Seidman. in the top of the third, Union left Hamilton with 3 runners on base, Dudzic th:t.owing a strike-out for the third out. In the sixth, Dudzic struck-out two more, to again end the inning, and the game, with 3 left on and a total of 7 Ks. Despite the difference in score, however, the hit ratio was about even. The second game was even more of a blow-away and was called after 5 innings with a 17-3 score on a 10-run rule. This says that if either team leads by 10 or more runs by the end of the fifth, that team that is ahead is awarded the win. By the bottom of the first, Union was already up with an 8-0 lead, 5 of wllich were earned. Union scored 6 more runs in the second, S of which were started with walks and 2 of which were completely walked in. The last 3 1:uns were scored in tile third for Union and Hamilton got 1 on a wild pitch. In the to!) of the fourth, the 3 outs again were in-a-row, and Dudzic is ctcdiled with 2 more Ks. Almost every member of the Dutchwomen lineup scored this game. From here on in the ~quad is looking to face some tough teams. Despite its high win ratio and recent reduction of team errors, up to now Union has not yet faced any team in the league wilh clout. The remaining games are against RPI, Binghamton, St. Rose, Albany, North Adams, Russell Sage, and New Paltz again, all teams with records above .500, 4 of which are home, and 4 away. The upcoming games this week are against RPI, Binghamton, St Rose, and Albany, in that order. Against RPI, Union will need a win against it Lo spark other wins against the other 3. Though St. Rose is a N AlA team and though a win versus it would not count for or against Union, it would be helpful, and the game could be used as a standard of comparison. As for the other teams, no wins can be taken for granted, and one win versus Albany at home docs not imply an away win. In addition, Russell Sage, now with a 10-1 record, will be a tough opponent in getting a seat for post-seasonal play. Yet, if the women's softball team can hang tough through these next opponents, especially Binghamton onward, New Paltz will be an interesting end-of-the-season challenge. Contact' Dan at x4169 or Box 1761 @vttnlrbirn.sfs 23 NHL Update By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY As the playoffs in the National Hockey league ramble into the always exciting second round, a certain group of sports fans always begins to appear. This is the group of playoff cynics. If you don't know who I'm talking about let me acquaint you with them. \Why are the playoffs so long?\ is one of the cynic's favorite questions. \How can 16 teams be allowed in the playoffs?\ is one I've heard as many times as Stan Fischler has picked the Rangers to win the Stanley C11p. I won't bore you with any more of ·the plethora of complaints that have been given about the NHL playoff system, I will just begin my rebuttal. The first argument given is tllat ~he playoff system takes too long. The response to this is to watch the games. Look at the stands and count the empty seats in the arenas. If this count gets into the double digits, most arenas,. you have counted wrong. The support is tremendous. It does not dwindle as the playoffs go on. If seats sell, the problem lies in the skeptic, not the playoff system. A good example of this is the Minnesota NorthStars. At the beginning of the season, The Met Center 'looked like it was home to an AHL. not an NHL team. During the playoffs, it's standing room only, or spend a bundle on scalped tickets. Why this turnaround? The answer is simple: PLAYOFF MADNESS! Another plus in the system that is usually mistaken as a flaw is the number of teams tlmt make the playoffs. My response to this is very clear cut. On any given night in the NHL, any teatn can notch a victory. The more teams that compete for the Cup, the harder Lhe road to winning it. Like in the NCAA Basketball toumament, an upset occurs here and there, but only the best team wins the National Championship. The last point that I want to make is via a comparison. A baseball season has 162 games. This is twice as many as the NHL. If the NHL had 162 games, aside from an average of 30 dead players a year, you would only have two or three teams in the playoffs. In the NFL times are changing. The 1990-91 season saw the addition of two teams making the playoffs. The only reason the NFL doesn't have more teams in their playoffs is because the season would then last 40 weeks. The NBA whose playoffs started this week, has about the same playoff system astheNHL. All in all, the playoff system in the NHL is not only an effective system, it is a system that, if possible, would be copied by the rest of the sports. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED . ' .Career Expo on May 2nd -7th, is looking for volunteers to assist as Expo~Guides, Greeters, Registration Clerks and Coat Room Attendants. All •' interested~ please contact Marilyn Pier at457-2110 .. SENIOR. PRINTING DAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATtJRDAY 1 12: 0 0-6 : 00 PM Free Printing on Rainlmws Fa oe Imagewriter copies SPECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Printea\ for Seniors on Saturday 10-a poge $5.00 maximum IJCF day

•·.j _!, J , I I J J l I I I Chr.is D'Orio Leads Tennis Team In 3 Game Streak By DAN STRUM Sports Editor The men's Tennis Team is currently on a three-game winning streak thus raising their record to 3-4. This streak is comprised of some impressive wins over Siena, St. Rose, and Oneonta. Junior Chris D'Orio has stepped up to lead the team to victory. For his ONtstanding achievements over the past week, Chris D'Orio has been selected as Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. D'Orio hails from Marblehead, Massachusetts. He attended Governor Drummer Academy. At Union, he played on the Varsity Ice Hockey team his freshman and sophomore years. This is his third year on the Varsity Tennis team. In singles this year, D'Orio has played various numbers of positions in the lineup and has now settled down at number three. He has compiled a record !&. Chris D'Orio of 6-l in singles over the first seven matches. In doubles ' D'Orio is paired off with junior Garrett Lasewicz. Throughout the last four matches, this powerhouse combination has held on to the number C>nc spot. This achievement is rightfully earned seeing that they have posted a perfect 7-0 Fecord over the course of the season. The 1991 Men's Tennis team is coming on strong in this second half of the season. Under the leadership of first year coach Tom Decker, the team is looking to become the first squad to post a winning record since the 1986 team went 6-4. Chris D'Orio plays an important role in tlle achievement of this goal. His attitude and hard work are important factors in UniGn's success. 0 n ce again, congratulations and continued success to Chris D'Ori<l. Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Softball Performs Well Continued from page 24 quad-captain Teresa Sanchez also trippled to drive Marsh in and scored off a SAC fly to put Union ahead 4-2. No runs scored for either side again until the sixth, where Union scored another run on Harrington's SAC RBI to left. In the top of the seventh New Paltz added two more runs. With New Paltz's tying run at second and the go-ahead at the plate, the third out was a fly to center. In its final games of the week, the home team easily swept 1-11 Hamilton in a double header this past Saturday, the first game a shut- out 5-0 and the second a desperate 17-3 victory. In game 1, Lawliss, Romer, and Seidman all scored in the first ' Harrington, Twombly, and junior secondbaseman/catcher Jean Lopata all had RBis. Dudzic struck out 2 in the second. In the bottom of the second, 2 more for Union tallied as Lawliss and Romer scored again with help from 2 SAC bunts by Harrington and Seidman. in the top of the third, Union left Hamil ton with 3 runners on base, Dudzic throwing a strike-out for the third out. In the sixth, Dudzic struck-out two more, to again end the inning, and the game, with 3 left on and a total of 7 Ks. Despite the difference in score, however, the hit ratio was about even. The second game was even more of a blow-away and was called after 5 innings with a I 7-3 score on a 10-run rule. This says that if either team leads by 1 0 or more runs by the end of the fifth, that team that is ahead is awarded the win. By the bottom of the first, Union was already up with an 8-0 lead, 5 of which were earned. Union scored 6 more runs in the second, 5 of which were started with walks and 2 of which were completely walked in. The last 3 runs were scored in the third for Union and Hamilton got 1 on a wild pitch. In the top of the fourth, the 3 outs again were in-a-row, and Dudzic is credited with 2 more Ks. Almost every member of the Dutchwomen lineup scored this game. From here on in the squad is looking to face some tough teams. Despite its high win ratio and recent reduction of team crrGrs, up to now Union has not yet faced any team in the league with clout. The remaining games are against RPI, Binghamton, St. Rose, Albany, North Adams, Russell Sage, and New Paltz again, all teams with records above .500. 4 of which arc home, and 4 away. The upcoming games this week are against RP!, Binghamton, St. Rose, and Albany, in that order. Against RPI, Union will need a win against it to spark other wins against the other 3. Though SL Rose is a N AlA team ancl though a win versus it would not count for or against Union. it would be helpful, and the game could be used as a standard of comparison. As f<Jr the other teams, no wins can be taken for granted, and one win versus Albany at home does not imply an away win. In addition, Russell Sage, now with a 10-1 record, will be a tough opponent in getting a seat for post-s~asonal play. Yet, if the women's softball team can hang tough through these next opponents, especially Binghamton onward, New Paltz will be an interesting end-of-the-season challenge. Contact Dan at x4169 or Box 1761 NHL Update By JOHN S C II AC H N 0 V SKY As the playoffs in the National Hockey league ramble into the always exciting second round, a certain group of sports fans always begins to appear. This is the group of playoff cynics. If you don't know who I'm talking about let me acquaint you with them. \Why are the playoffs so long?\ is one of the cynic's favorite questions. \How can 16 teams be allowed in the playoffs'?\ is one I've heard as many times as Stan Fischler has picked the Rangers to win the Stanley Cup. I won't bore you with any more of the plethora of complaints that have been given about the NHL playoff system, I will just begin my rebuttal. The first argument given is that the playoff system takes too long. The response to this is to watch the games. Look at the stands and count the empty scats in the arenas. If this count gets into the double digits, most arenas, you have counted wrong. The support is tremendous. It docs not dwindle as the playoffs go on. If scats sell, the problem lies in the skeptic, not the playoff system. A good example of this is the Minnesota NorthStars. At the beginning of the season, The Met Center looked like it was home to an AHL, not an NHL team. During the playoffs, it's standing room only, or spend a bundle on scalped tickcL<>. Why this turnaround? Th~ answer is simple: PLAYOFF 1\IAD:'\fESS! Another plus in th~ system that is usually mistaken as a flaw is the numhcr of teams that make the playoffs. My response to this is very clear cut. On any given night in the NHL, any team can notch a victory. The more teams that compete for the Cup, the harder the road to winning it. Like in the NCAA Basketball tournament, an upset occurs here and there, hut only the best team wins the National Championship. The last point that I want to make is via a comparison. A b~L<>eball season ha~ 162 games. This is twice as many as the NHL. If the NHL had 162 games, aside from an average of 30 dead players a year, you would only have two or three teams in the playoffs. In the NFL times arc changing. The 1990-91 season saw the addition of two teams making the playoffs. The only reason the NFL doesn't have more teams in their playoffs is because the season would then last 40 weeks. The NBA whose playoffs started this we-ek, has about the same playoff system as the NHL. All in all, the playoff system in the NHL is not only an effective system, it is a system that, if possible, would he copied by the rest of the sporL-;, VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Career Expo on May 2nd -7th, is looking for volunteers to assist as Expo Guides, Greeters, Registration Clerks and Coat Room Attendants. All interested, please contact Marilyn Pier at 457-2110 ' . SENIOR PRINTING DAY CIIUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM J1ree Printing on Rainbows F1 oe Imagewriter copies SPECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors on Saturday 10¢ n page $5.00 maximum per day

-,._ 0 •1- 0 :c ·O... LU .....1 i:: Softball looking strong at 9-3. 0 b iE UJ .....1 w::: ' The Men's Lacrosse Team ·Deat Hamilton to improve to 6·2. -~--~~-- Union Softball Maintains ' High Performance lly RON BIRNBAUM This past week saw women's varsity softball victorious in 3 out of 4 of its home games. After losing to Oneonta by an .8-3 score, its tllird game in a row, Union's short losing s trcak was snapped with a narrow, yet desperately needed home win versus New Paltz. Following, the squad defeated Hamilton twice on Saturday presently has a .750, 9-3 record. Oneonta, which has a 9-2 record, was a loss caused by errors. After a scoreless first inning, Union went up 1-0 at the bottom of the second, sophomore outfielder Lauren Seidman getting on base on an error and scoring off 2 stolen bases of her own. However, the top of the third reversed the luck as the Dutchwomen gave up 5 runs on 3 errors, 2 base hits, and a walk, the only inning in which meaningful errors were committed. Union's team only scored 1 additional run in the bottom of the third, and any chance of Union coming back thereafter was minimalized. Senior shortstop quad-captain Kathy Lawliss led off with a base hit to left, was advanced when junior centerfielder quad-captain Roselle Eisma was hit by a pitch, taken to third with junior catcher Robin Romer's SAC fly to center, and scored wilh junior pitcher quadw captain, Sarah Dudzic's fielder's-choice RBL Union added one more run in the 6th. After Oneonta, a desperate need was felt for a win vs. New Paltz, and the appetite was satisfied. The defense returned to the fundamentals. of the game. And the hitting lineup was changed as the tearn looked for an offensive spark. New Paltz was jumped on in the first as Harrington got on off a thirdbaseman error and was driven in by Seidman for 1-0 lead. In .the top of the third New Paltz scored twice to take the lead 2-1. The top of the fourth was productive for the Dutchwomen, as they scored 3 runs which saw sophomore firstbaseman Kim Twombly brought in off Marsh's RBI base hit after hitting a triple herself. Senior thirdbaseman, Continued on page 23 SportsWeek Thursday, April 25 3:30 H Men's Lax vs. Skidmore .Softball vs. Binghamton 3:30 H Friday, April 26 2:00 A Baseball at Hamilton (2) Softball vs. St. Rose 5:00 H Saturday, April 27 3:00 H Men•s Lax vs. Potsdam Men's and Women's Track Hartwick lnvy 11:00 A Tennis vs. Hartwick 12:00 H GoH at Williams 1:00 A Sunday, April 28 12:00 A Baseball at Skidmore (2} GoH.- Hartwick lnvy 1:00 A Monday, .April 29 3:30 A Softball at Albany Tennis at Albany 3:30 A Tuesday, April 30 Wome n·s Lax at Hartwick 6:00 A Baseball vs. Hartwick 3:00 H Wednesday, may 1 3:30 H Men•s lax vs. Albany Golf at Middlebury 1:00 A April 25, 1991 Men's Lax Powers Past· Ham i Ito n By DAN STRUM Sports Editor With the help of an offensive explosion midway throughout the second half, the Union Lacrosse Team overcame a slow first half to defeat the Hamilton Continentals 11-5 this past Saturday afternoon. With this win, the Dutchmen raised their season record to 6- 2. Jon Keller, who is the leading scorer of the team, paced Union to victory as he scored six of the Dutchmen's 11 goals. Union seemed to dominate play in the first half, but they could not capitalize on all of their opportunities. The Hamilton goalie had kept his team in the game up to this point. The game was tied at 2- 2 on Union goals by Keller and Eugene Ray. With just under two minutes left in the second quarter, Alan Fleischer gave Union a 3-2 halftime lead with a quick release which sailed into the near post upper corner. The Dutchmen started out fast in the third quarter as Keller scored only 14 seconds in to make it 4-2. After Hamilton came back to tie the score at 4-4, Union went on another surge. Keller was working the play down low. He backed in, spun around the i defender, and placed an accurate shot over the goalie's shoulder to make iL 5-4. Keller added another on a similar play to make H 6-4. Only seven seconds later, Union scored on one of the best plays of the afternoon. Off the faceoff, Pat Lawson scooped up the groundball and started up field. As he penetrated the defense, Lawson fed Keller in the slot. Without hesitating, Keller fued · the ball into the open side to give Union a 7-4 advantage thus adding to union's momentum. At the start of the fourth quarter, Tim Fisher caught the · Hamilton goalie out of position as he stole a clearing pass. Fisher charged in on the goalie, but his lob shot just drifted wide. Jon Bang gave Union a 8-5 lead midway through the fourth quarter. He sped by the defender to his right and fired a shot just inside the left post. Thirty seconds later Fleischer added his second of the game on a screen shot. A few moments later Bang scored his second of the game as the Hamilton defense had collapsed under the pr~ssure of the unrelenting Union offense. Keller added the icing with 5 minutes left to end tfie scoring giving the Dutchmen their 11- 5 victory. While the offense-got much credit for the win, the defensive squad's play should not be overlooked. Union goalie Bill Van Order played a spectacular game as he came up with 17 saves. He robbed several Hamilton players on a couple of breakaway op.portunities. Brian Harris played a strong game defensively as he broke up several Jllays. Lawson intercepted a few passes and did a solid job picking up some groundballs in the defensive zone. Bang is the leading .faceoff man for the team. He .performed well as he won 15 out of 19 faceoffs. So far this. season, Keller leads the team with 25 goals and 18 assists for 43 points. Nathan Fitch is second on the team with 23 goals and 8 assists for 31 }X)ints. Fleischer has 14 points wllile Fisher has 13 placing tilem third and fourth respectively on the team. The Union Lacrosse Team faces off against Skidmore in a home game today at 3:30. Their next match is home as well as they play Potsdam on Saturday. Please come out and give them your support! UNION LACROSSE SCORING Pla)!er Goals Assi§l& Pts Keller 25 1 8 43 Fitch 23 8 31 Fleischer 11 3 1 4 1< Fisher 7 6 1 3 Bang 6 - 3 9 Baldwin 7 1 8 Daniels 6 1 7 Ray 3 2 5 Lawson 1 4 5 Whitney 3 1 4 Side I 2 1 3 Winship 0 3 3 Mamone 2 0 2 Wehrum 1 1 2 Cassidy 1 0 1 Boulanger 1 0 1 Foley 1 0 1

