' r l I r' ~ Vol. CXX, No. 9 F.aculty, Students Air Opinions \On Division I Hockey By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief President Roger H. Hull met with the faculty Monday afternoon as part of his process for determining whether Union College should accept the invitation extended a month ago by the Eastern College Athletic Conference to join its Division I hockey league. The President said that he is completely undecided what his answer, due by January 31, will be. Richard Sak:ala, the Athletic Director, and Bruce Delventhal, the Head Hockey Coach, attended the meeting to field the questions and concerns of the faculty. Most of the nearly two hours of discussion consisted of Mr. Sakala calling on the various professors and responding to their queries. If the Dutchmen were tG join the eleven team conference, they would be in a league with Brown, Harvard, Dartmouth, Cornell, Princeton, Yale, Colgate, Clarkson, St. Lawrence, Vermont, and RPI. The major issues raised at the meeting were: ·The academic integrity of the college. If Union makes the move, President Hull has pledged that \we will play by Ivy League rules. The six I vies in the league do not provide scholarships or preferential packaging. We ... will not in any case treat any student differently.\ ·The integrity of the admissions offic-e. The ECAC requires its member schools to establish an academic index of its entire student body, within a certain range of which any ·hockey player's mdex would have to fall. ·The financial implications of such a m o v e . The athletic department estimates an additional cost of $60,000 per year in such areas as increased travel costs, expanded recruiting, home game management, and an additional official per game. The athletic depart111 el'lt projects that additio11al ticket revenue will meet tilt ::add.ed: costs, even with student, fa.cul ty, and staff tickets rema101ng complin'tntary. Ticket prices for the p~b lie will be raised from S4md $6 to $5 and $7. -Tbe dfect on the collegt'\ S·- ()ther athletic progra,111s. Mr. Sakala assuredbotlt tile faculty and the students th!lt there will be no adverse.effesets on other teams. . \The last filing I personally would l'l::ant to see would be to dilute the .cther programs,\ he said. \fileoti:Jer programs will not be di1luted.\ However, some professors questioned an added G~:nJmit:ment to hockey at a time when <Jther sports have trouble dr~wing as many fans as then .are players on both teams. -Tlte gender issue causecl I>::Y the elevation of a nu11•s, sport without a collcmrremt elevation of a womell 1 S sport. President Hull blew th3t this would be a difficlllt po1o1>lem so he tried to solve it ri~ht away. He told the fact~lt:y tbat as soon as the possibility e>f the move was brougllt tO! llis attention, he told S,ak~11 that he wanted to Co11.tin11'tld on page 21 1877 Schenectady, New York January 17, 1991 War Imminent In The Gulf How will it affect life at Union College? NEWS ANALYSIS Term War ... Or Not? Abroads' By JORDAN D. MATSUDAIRA To war, or not to war; that is the question: whether 'tis nobler in the mind to endure the stings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles, A message must be sent not only to him but to all the other overzealous, over-ambitious, freaks with minds bent on conquest. and by opposing, end them. To die ... you get the idea. It's hard to answer the question of whether to go to war in the Persian Gulf, especially for those of us who will be drafted first, should the draft be reinstated. You wonder whether Continued on page 2 By JENNIFER HOLMES On Monday, January 14, Students for Political Awareness and Action (SPAA) conducted a poll in an attempt to determine how Union students perceive the situation in the Persian Gulf. Although only three hundred students participated by filling out the poll, the results reveal that Union's opm1on is in consensus with most of the United States. The poll consisted of three questions. Firstly, \given the current state What is the REAL reason for war? of affairs between the U.S. and Iraq. do you think that it is necessary for the U.S. to go to Continued on page 2 Safety By ED MENKE When Saddam Hussein's military forces overpowered, overthrew, and overtook Here at Union, the Term Abroad director, Prof. Thomas, is keeping an eye on the Middle East Crisis as it progresses. In particular, be is concerned with the status of tbe Union Term Abroad in Greece. Kuwait several months ago, the entire world was affected, even this secluded paradise that most of us call Schenectady. Here at Union, the Term Abroad director, Professor William Thomas, is keeping an eye on the Middle East Crisis as it progresses. In particular, he is concerned with the status of the Union Term Abroad in Greece, led by Professor Linda Patrik. Even though Greece has been the center of terrorist attacks in the past, Professor Thomas assures Concordiensis that \. .. the security in Athens is exceptional. There are policemen everywhere, and the school [which the Union students attend] is extra secure.\ As reassuring as this may sound, many of the students and their families were not sold, as shown by the number of dropouts. Keep in mind the fact that the Greece Term Abroad is one of the most attractive and certainly one of the most popular Term Continued on page 8 In This Issue: The Promise -Page 5 From London to New York: Miss Saigon -Page 15 Save the Oranges -Page 21

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 clrnnatrbirnsts NEWS ANALYSIS • • The Only Option ... Continued from page 1 you should be planning on what graduate schools you should be trying to get into or whether you should plan on being dead. By the time this article is printed, it is quite possible that the United States will have already gone to war with Iraq, in which case this conjecture is purely academic. But if we haven't, the $64,000 question is: should we? My answer to this question is a resounding yes!-- no wait, no ... , well what the heH: yes, I'm pretty sure we should go to war with Iraq in the Persian Gulf. On the news today I heard that if we were to engage in an armed conflict with Iraq, some 10,000 U.S. soldiers would die and some 35,000 others would be wounded. Tllat's approximately one soldier dead out of every fifty, a number which makes it especially hard for me to believe that we should go to war. I don't know fifty people in the Gulf but I do know one, and regardless of the 'odds' I worry that r may not know that one much longer. But you have tQ take into acount what could llappen if the U.S. does not get involved in the Gulf. As to the popular anti-war cry of \no blood for oil\ this sentiment sounds reasonable and nice, but what if this were modified to \no blood, no oil\? Iraq!s presence in Kuwait along with the threat of war in the region most largely responsible for the world's oil supply has put a great deal of upward :pressure on oil prices and has thusly caused much dismay in the U.S.'s and other's economies. And while we may not be that hurt by Iraq's actions up to now, what will happen if Saddam Hussein's actions are not checked? What would there be to stop. him ... Or Is There A Chance For Peace? Continued from page 1 war in the Persian Gulf?\ Union was divided almost in half on this question with 47.9% believing it was necessary and 52.1% believing that it was not. The poll asked secondly that \if war could be avoided by making concessions to President Hussein, would you support the policy?\ Some people commented that this question was overly general but, regardless, again the vote was split almost evenly with 50.6% supporting concessions and 49.4% not. The third and final question inquired whether you \would be in favor of postponing the war so that economic sanctions could be given more time to take effect?\ Here, two-thirds (66.7%) of the respondents support the option of giving economic sanctions more time to be effective. Space was given for additional comments that people wished to make. Most of the sentiments expressed were those whC> thought that the war was unnecessary. \The hypocrisy of our involvement in the Persian G11lf bogg.·es my mind.\ \The min, 'rity j)Opulation is being exploited economically into joining the military. Now 50% of them are on the front line ... \ One student wrote, \What is the REAL reason for this war?\ Those who believe that war is necessary also made thoughtful comments. \At this point, any waivering will lead to a Vietnam-type involvement-- long and draining. We need to move decisively.\ For Israel's sake, we must destroy Hussein.\ \I think a covert, highly trained SWAT team should enter Iraq's government and eliminate Saddam.\ from furtber aggressive actions? Surely if he could face down tbe mighty army of the even mightier United States of America and come away unscathed he would certainly not grow any more timid. Furthermore, what might become .of the credibility of an institution s11ch as the United Nations in keeping order and preserving justice in the world? For the United Nations has condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait an<l has even gone as As to tbe p()pular anti· war cry of \no blood for oil,\ tb.is sentiment sounds reasonab Ie and nice, b11t what if it were modified to \'no blood, no oil?\ far as condoning the use of force to make them withdraw. If Iraq is allowed to get away It is now past January 15th and the Iraqi leader has shown no sign of withdrawing from Kuwait. Instead, he has more than matcbed the U.S. reinforcements by building up on his own forces. The Persian Gulf crisis is complex, consisting of severe conflicts Curre11tly, only three options seem to exist for the U11ited States and Iraq: l)war, 2)wait and hope economic sanc- tions work, and 3 )negotiations. of interest but there are possible solutions. Currently only three options seem to exist for the United States and Iraq: 10 war, 2) wait and hope the economic sanctions work and 3) negotiations. Negotiations would involve making compromises. For with its flagrant abase of intemationallaw, then Saddam Hqssein will have struck a major blow for lawlessness and chaos, two things wh.ich the w<>rld certainly does Rot need aay mote. An example must be made of Saddam Hussein. A message. must be sent not onty to him but to aU .the other overzealous, o·verambitious freaks with minds bent on conquest. And while Inany may shudder at the thought of sacrificing human Tives for the sake of teaching se>meone a lesson, it is a lesson tbat may pay off in lives saved later. By no means do I hope for war in the Gulf, and I abhor the possibility of lives being lost there. And if there were another option to bring lasting peace to the region, I would without hesitation opt for it. However, barring the occur.rence of something extraordinary, I believe there is no otller option b11t war. example, The National Review uses the following as a possible solution to the conflict between Kuwait and Iraq. \Saddam wanted a 12 mile-wide slice of Kuwait, as he believes and geologists agree) that it is rich in oil; before the invasion, the Kuwaitis had offered five miles. Serious dealing could find a compromise.\ The crisis in the Gulf is not one that we can afford to ignore. Depending on what direction the United States and/or Iraq takes, the crisis will affect every one of us in some way. There are things tbat you as a student can do. Writing to your Congressman is one way to make a difference and keeping informed is lUI other. We have the gift ()f free expression and the right to inform our representatives aoout how we feel. In tile end, the issue is peace. 1990: The Year In Review By JIM POLITES In the spirit of detached New Year's celebration and reminiscing, this first world issue article of the term looks back on the top international stories of 1990. The year saw progressive diplomatic achievement and blind military aggression, the fall of a prominent nation's leader, and the toppling of an ideology that once fostered a strained global bipolarity. To start, the reunification of Germany was an event of enormous worldwide significance-it not only ushered in the post-Cold War era and a new order of relations between the United States and Soviet Union, but also marked the arrival of a third ecC>nomic superpower. The disarray that has lingered in the wake of this titanic merger is a result of newness and unfamiliarity; the ultimate outcome of a cultural clash that for so long separated both the people of Germany and European continent alike. The difficulty lies in that neighboring countries must now learn to deal with a potent. united nation that has the capacity and resources to simply overwhelm surroundipg economies by sheer size. Traditional powerhouses like England and France must come to realize that they will have to incorporate a s11pporting role in the European scheme, the worst possible scenario would be to alienate such a legitimate threat to economic sanctity. Speaking of Great Britain, they experienced a good dose of internal strife when the prime minister of elev.en years, Ma1garet Thatcher. was forced from office by an unstable Conservative Party that no longer saw tile Iron Lady as a popalar and strong leader. Thatcher's ousting marked the end of an era in English politics-one that saw a prominent, hard-line, female· figure attain global recognition and respect for her unrelenting style of politics, especially diplomacy. She will leave behind a legacy highlighted by special relations with the U.S.-forno other First World leader in recent history has showed such a genuine conviction to maintain progressive, candid talks with our country. Undoubtedly, Margaret Thatcher will go down as a woman who contributed her own special verse to the cutthroat game of international politics. It's truly unfort11nate tllat her own party members didn't share the loyalty and strength she so richly demonstrated. Of course, no discussion of the previous year could be complete witl:tout paramount mention of the Persian Gulf Crisis, a conflict that all began with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Augnst 2 and has escalated to the point where war seems inevitable. The debate surrounding this trying situation has extended here in the States clear across the political spectrum. with most of the rhetoric taking the shape\' of partisan Democrat and Republican infighting. Each side maintains a logical argument. The left sees no reason to rush into battle on unknown~ harsh terrain when military tactics could be substitated, at least fC>r the time beillg, in fav.or of letting economic sanctions squeeze the resolve out of Saddam. The right dutifully maintains its unwavering support for President George Bush, and believes once January 15 arrives. a massive strike on Iraqi troops is the sure means to once and for all end the Hitler-like tactics of Hussein. The year 1990 was one of triumphant ideological prcgression contrasted with an eerie type of military standstill that has left the world in a state of uncertainty and uph.eaval. It is too bad that we cannot savor the positive events of recent history and inject their good feeling into a troubled world. Of course, we only have dO<:uments of such past events, not the power to revive them . physically. As we embark on a new year with much of the tra11ma still lingering from 1990, let us hope that we don't remember 1991 for the loss of American liv~s in the Middle EasL That's the type. of memory \ve would just as son bury. \1 ., l ' i

\1 ., j, ' i l l \ \I ( I CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 3 Dr. \Stormy\ Mayo Speaks On Endangered Whales Student Forum Spotlight By FRANZ T. LITZ. EnviroDmental Editor In his January 10 Minerva Lecture entitled \Endangeted Great Whales of the Atlantic: A Biological perspective,\ Dr. Charle-s \Stormy\ Mayo painted a thought-provoking and often melancholy picture of his endangered \friends\ in the Atlantic, the whales. Mayo, Director uf Research at the Center for Coastal Studies in Provincetown, Massachusetts, focused primarily on the status of the different species of whales that the Center studies, but also delved philosophically into the gradual destruction of the entire ocean habitat by man. The presentation was held in conjunction wHh the opening of the Smithsonian institution Exhibit, \Diversity Endangered,\ in the College Center. The talk included slides and a video of whales in tbeir natural habitat. Mayo began with a slide of a whale in stormy weather. Dr. Mayo begins with this slide, because it characteri~es the research done on whales, which he feels \symbolically reaches out to an animal that is not visible.\ The Center for Coastal Studies llas \reached out.. to hundreds of whales over the last two decades, tracing tlleir movements through sightings_ Each w:hale has very distinctive markings~ making it possible ' to recog;nize an individual without using what Mayo termed \unnatural tags.\ Through .these s·ightings, researchers are able to keep relatively accurate population counts 011 different types of whales. as -well as determine a number ()f factors endangering them. Mayo mentioned a number of human activities which endanger the whales. Among these wet:e off-shore oil drilling, t()xic waste dumping, and whale~hunting. Pollution coming fFom land by way of rivers alst> contributes greatly to the destruction of the oeeanh; ecosystems. Overfislling has led to great changes in the composition of ecosystems, since fishermen only fish. selectively. At the t()p of the endangered whale list is the North Atlantic white Vll'tale, which has dwindled tc a mere 200-250 in number. \'Jile sea is no longer boundless,\ remarked Mayo. The public must realize that there is not an unlimited amount of space for these creatures, which he repeatedly called his friends. Whales sighted by the researchers are subsequently named by them at an annual naming pa:rty in Provincetown. Reported Security Incidents 1f01191 HAXCY HOUSE 1/07/91 nf'F CAHPUS SIDE E~TRI1NCE VAND11LIZED 3TUDENT RECEIVING OfF£NSI~E C~LLS 1/0B/91 SCHAFfER LIBRARY NON-STUDENT HARASSING STUDENTS-REKOVED 1108/91 COlLEGE CENTER NON-STUDENT USING fACIUT'r'·REifOVED 1109/91 ALUHNI 6Yit 1/11191 BECKER HALL · 1111/91 ~CHillES RINK 1111/91 FRATERNITY II il/91 FRATERNITV WINDON VAWDALIZED STAFF MEMBER'S POCKETBOOI< STOlEN TREaPASSER ADVISED OFF CA~PUS THEfJ·Df PERSONAL ITEMS FfO~ ROOM OCCURRED DURING BREAK FIRE URit CAUSED BY S\OK£ DETECTOR DAHASED BV STUDENT 1/12/91 flUKANIT1ESRROAD DISORDERLY toNDUCTRSTUDEMT ~AR~SSED OT~ER STUDENTS II l2/9J flFf' £AHPUS Et..EOOENCV TRANSPOitr .Of PRIVATE CITIZEN TO SPO BV Sll.OENl' ESCORT 1/12/91 MEST COLLEGE YAND~LIS~ TO 2ND ' 4TH FLrnHR STAR~ElLS 1/12/91 SMITH HOUSE YAN&~LIS~ TO EXTERIOR DO~R From Provincetown, the Center also supervises whale- , watching trips. Whale- watching is sometimes criticized since it alters the whales behavior. Mayo emphasized, however, that the whale-watching excursions leave indelible impressions on those who take part. \Whale watchers are then voters linked to environmental issues for the rest of their lives.\ It is to th.ese broader environmental issues that Mayo eventually pointed. Human beings have treated the ocean \not as our garden, but as our dumping ground,\ he remarked. It is through what he calls \avarice and ignorance\ that these important ecosystems hav,e been neglected. It is this selfishness and ignorance that Dr. Mayo, in devoting his career to the research of whales, has sought to change. Dr. Mayo was educated at Dartmouth College. where he graduated with a B.A. in biology. He received his M.S. and his doctorate from the School. of Marine and Atmospheric Science at the University of Miami. He has been with the Center of Coastal Studies since 1976, and has been Director of Research there since 1986. Returning from a restful holiday vacation, the Student Forum found itself once again with its hands full. With several pressing issues and mid-term reports coming in from clubs, the next few weeks should prove to be overloaded. The first issue brought to the Forum's attention was the proposal to move the hockey team to Division I status. The issue was discussed during the first meeting for several minutes, and many concerns were expressed. Two of the biggest were 1) the fact that crew and ski team still consume 10% of the student activities budget when they compete intercollegiately, 2) the effect it would have on student admissions, in particular, the hockey players, and 3) the need to allow students to meet with Dick Sakala, director of athletics, Bruce Delventhal, men's ice hockey coach, and President Hull. This past Monday, the Forum busted an open discussion for students with Sakala, Delventhal and Hull. The questions raised by the near capacity body of students brought up the same concerns voiced by the Forum, and others such as problems with booster clubs and the ability to attract high quality talent. The overall opinion of the meeting appeared .to be in favor of the move as was the same for the general opinion of the Forum. The Forum was also pleased to see that recommendations to the SAC to change Shaffer Library hours were passed. The new hours are as follows: Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 11:30 p.m., Fridays from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m , and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 11 :30 p.m. After hearing many complaints about hours at the library, it is hoped that these will accommodate students better. Finally, the Forum would like to remind all recognized student organizations that thev must turn in mid-term reports by the 6th week of this term. Under the laws of the constitution, the Forum holds the right to retract funding and or recognition from organiza- tions who do not file. The New York Telephone Scholarship Program for Black and Hispanic Students Nev.· York Telephoneh~ longJ\e\.o~J th<:'nC'C\.I..mJ \.-::tlUC•If J r .. , .. l.,(\\()0~ t>du~..~JIIl >n ..lf1~t tu.' \C)GJbl~ht..:ti ..l >'-.hVlaiDhljJ prugr:u:n lU hcfp fuunLC tht: !\lJg!lCZ ::Jui.J!,t m vi 'lJUl\UJ~~!Lt:~ U~\. h. ..ll!~ HI.Sparul- student5 who ;u-e buru fide- rCOJ\kne> • >f ~(.'\'\. York ;:\ote. .mJ \'hv .11rc.·nt.J Jt 'l. r~d.rt:J 'l{\'n Ymk Stitt:' ~b.x.Ji!t •• md wh~ p-.Lrt:nl.) .rn: !lut cmplvH:·d b~ ~cv. Yurh. Tdephu11c ur tl' ~uh..,~o.!wr• The prvgr~n \\ill LUI\-\1..'11 uf tt\o 'JCt~.trJlt\ ..l.llJ JJ....lJllt.! '<'g111t\t1L' 1~1c a..~ hc!t •r ['k-grt\t\ P:• •g.r .u1, .u~(~ the :\ssoaJte Degree Prugr.un Appbt.a.ru!> m~t lfldu .. ·.m: J[ Lhl\ tune tJf JpfolK.UH,n tl> l\ hn.. h '>tllfllt\nt they are applylflg All p~ of !.he ~Umpt't:uun .u-e nu.rugru ~ Wrl\ti Opp,,rtuf'.J!Jf\\\' Thn,ugh Lh.~·J11· 11 !r'.~ {Cure). a na.ttonal. nonproti[ schularslup senu.c urg;;uu.z;ruun wnh ote~~~·e apcnelll{\ m th~ managemeru of sdtol.lrslup programs The Bachelor De-gree Progrnm Tilli segmem w1ll provade renewable:$.!.()()() ~hol.u~tup~ ro ~rudents. who J.ft.\ 111 JC\\\..Idemu .. w 11 ~ s=dmgand l EnroUed full tune JS 'lelt'lnJ 'X'!'Tl~lrr '10pht)r.illrt .... iJ1 J fDIH \'t\J.C ~n.l~rgnJu.ift' rr•·gn: ..... lc::~ding <o a Bachelor Degree. 2: ~J)Urulg Ul lll tngult:-enng. ')f.;\JCnt.e. ... vmputer ~:Cn\.C.. •)f rlur-1n15 u_,~ ttltJ\C The .\s~ociate D<\gree Progr.Jm nus segment will prOVIde one tun~ SI.OOO sch01::J.r;lups to ~rudents who art\ lfl ac::Jd(\'ffiJl W\~~-.d ~cmiling.anderuollcd fuU·tunc .1) ~und .)Cl'l}OlC£ fre::,hmen 111 J. rv.u- ~r..u unJer:gnJ~.oJt«:: ~rug.r..u:1 leading tom A5socl3a: Degree Appbc:mts need not nu1or U1 any part1<1lbr = How Tc Apply ~qyc::;t qrds 'lfe :JV.Uiable ~t the office where rills poster IS located or you rruy request J bnxhu\'' appllcmon directly from Cult at the: J.d~shuwn bcluw )Ou mWollOUuUe yvw ll.UllC. 1n.uia11g address and the words New York Telephone Xhoi:uslup Progr:un for BLack and H15p:uuc Stuclenl5 on your request card. Plc:JSe use a SClfldard USPS postcard to request :1 t>rochurc!appllc:>.uon Questions PI= cllied your qucstlons to· Nc:W York Tdephonl Scho~h•i> Prugrorn for Black :u1d i:lisparuc Srudems coce PO Box 1810 Cherrv Hill. NJ 08034 (OCJ<)) -95-%l•-FAX (6o<J) -95-ll!!l>l @New York Telephone ANYtM:!t~ A Call for Papers for the Union College Undergraduate Review of Humanities and Social Sciences The Union College Undergraduate Review, a forum for undergraduate writing in the Humanities and Social Sciences, would like to provide you with the opportunity to publish your papers and actively encourage your submissions. Any Humanities or Social Sciences paper written by an undergraduate (including foreign exchange students) will be considered. Submissions should go to Box 259. The deadline is March 4, 1991. Take advantage of this opportunity to achieve recognition for your work!

Pa.ge 4 LAST CHANCE FOR SENIOR PICTURES *** TUES, JAN 22 \I 1 AM - 6PM IN ROOM 410 COLLEGE CENTER WED, JAN 23 9PM- 7PM IN ROOM 410 COLLEGE CENTER Term abroad students and all first photo sessions free. $5. for all retakes. cards with this informati.on will be distributed to seniors' mailboxes. sign up sheets are in the student activities office room 408 ·:· .. ~. ,'>\1'' ',,\ t .• ~\· .. CONCOJl_I)IENSJS, January 17, 1991 JAN 21 IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT Clark Gable and Cl.,udette· Colbel'1 star as on out-of-work reporter ond a spoiled heiress who fall In lo11o on a bus trip. Directed by Frank Capra; tho first film to win all fhr10 major Academy Awards. (1934, 8/W, NR) JAN 28 THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE & HER lOVER Controversial British director-writer Peter Greenaway plunges viewers Into • depraved world of lust, aadlsm, gluttony, and obsasslon. (1•990, X) FEB 4 THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE A mesmsrlzlng ond cohllllng classic with stark terror anal agonizing suspense.· (1962, B/W, PG) FEB 11 lAST TANGO IN PARIS Controversial at tho time of Its releasa and critically acclaimed os a contemporary mallterplece; stardng Marlon Brando. In French with English subtitles. (1972, X) FEB 18 DR. STRANGELOVE The ·President of tha US and 11\e Soviet Pr11mler foln forces to eave the world from nuclear dastruetlon; directed by Stanley Kubrick. (1964, B/W, PG) FEB 25 BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI A olaaslc war drama which pits two proud enemies against each other in a battle of honor and survival. (1957, NR) MAR 4 BREAKING AWAY The rivalry that develops between four high-school graduates and arrogant colleg•students Ia played out In a rousing bIcycle race. (1979, PG) MAR 11 CINEMA PARADISO A gentle ode to clnoma; winner of the Academy Award for best foreign film. In Italian with English subtitles. (1989, NR) All films will be shown in CC 302 (Cabaret) at 9 PM. Admission is free. -- never ~~8eh youv- _,.--~ I J_'_ .=II -~-. __ , __ _ I D •·JtJ L~'( )N j\)h.l~ S~pleM~f.P, .._.....-~ I

CONCORDJENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 5 FEATURES The Promise By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, jr. And so he sits, once again, all alone. He's getting rather used to it, often using it as an excuse whenever he wants to drink, ,go to bed, or just plain be in a bad mood. You .see, what we have here is the recently committed. One who has made the promise to the girl of his dreams. Now, when it boils down to it, his plight isn't so bad. He's 'allowed' to hang around with his friends, do what he wants most of the time, as long as he, writes that letter and makes that phone call once a week. Oh yes, and plans some sort of visit once a tenn (she comes here once, he goes there once). The financial considertions of this visiting requirement can be tough, but considering the reward (not to mention the alternatives), it's not really so bad. As he looks down into his beer cup, he knows he'll be happy when it's empty. Other girls still talk to him now, but they have sort of fallen into two categories-- those that present a challenge, and those that have made promises of their own. The first group, obviously, is more difficult. He can't help but think that they all are trying to make him break the promise, his promise. But at the same time he really likes talking to them. They laugh at his jokes (though he still wonders if they're pretending), and are just good to him all around. This is challenging because he can't tell if they ru-e after something more, or are just pretending to do the sociaUy right thing (ana that's what he thinks). If its 'something more', then he has to be somewhat curt, if they are being 'socially right' (or is it trite), then he really wants nothing to do with tllem anyway. That's why they are a problem, and he avoids difficult moments with classic lines such as \I need to get another beer.\ In the second group • (consisting of those who, like he, have made the promise), he finds himself even more nervous. These are people with whom he can share his mutaal sorrows, and feel a likeness towards. Due to the common bond they share, this oftell leads to sympathy (often by looking knowingly into each other's eyes). This is dangerous because it could lead to a violation of the cornerstone of The Promise: emotions beyond control. So, inevitably, he avoids these people too, and, against his will, is labeled a misogynist. All for the sake of The Promise (which he still believes his girlfriend at College, USA is keeping, too). Yes, he does feel better at the bottom of that beer (doesn't he?), and even better that he walks a girl home (and that's it, right?). And when he wakes up alone. And that on a given night, he can call her in a drunken stupor, and pray that she answers, and not another guy (a scenario which is sure to fill up the next round). Look for him at your favorite on- campus free drinking club, he's t!Ie one with the far away eyes. eo . e· e· e· e·· o· e·· ·· o· ·s· e·· e· e···· o····· r 1 o 1 o 1 lflfll IIIII I llllll o•o 0 t 1 1 1 o•1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1•1 1 r•o 1 o• o•o 1 r 1 o filii I I I I I • I 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ® '•'• D ··:·:· A SA D • ~ . e ® ·::. ' ··:·.· . . . e e .. . Q) . . ... ······ ··:·· CD . > e . . FIRST MEETING OF WINTER TERM MON. JAN. 21 cc 409 7:00PM THE T-SHJRTS ARE HERE! PLEASE JOIN US! , ....• '•!•' e . . •••• ······ ··:·· None for the Road A Deadly Punishment Courtesy Of SEVENTEEN MAGAZINE The sobering facts: Teenagers in Orange County, California, who drive drunk and don't get caught could end up at the local morgue. Teenagers there who drive drunk and do get caught. .. may be forced to. You heard us right. Thanks to a new California law, a traipse through the local coroners' office is now a possible part of the punishment for first-time offenders ages 16 to 21 in Orange County, who are caught boozing and cruising. What's more, the program has been so successful that it's spreading across and beyond California. The morgue-tour idea is the brainchild of Judge J'effrey L. Gunther, who initiated it in Sacramento in 1985 after visiting an emergency room and seeing first hand where drunk driving leads. At the Orange County morgue, participants view a graphic slide show followed by an autopsy, all featuring bodies of people who died drug- or alcohol-related deaths. Some were children abused by cl.runken parents, others teenagers who suffocated in chugalug contests. The purpose of the show, says Senior Deputy Coroner Richard L. Rodriguez, who's run it since its inception, is not so much to shock viewers senseless as to simply sober them up. \It's just a good dose of reality,\ he says, adding that whle a few judges initially objected to the program (one WINTER TERM MOVIES called it \severe and grisly\) all came to favor it once they took the tour. So far the results speak for themselves. While normally 30% of the people arrested once for driving drunk later repeat the crime, only one of the 73 people who'd taken the Orange County \death walk\ at presstime was subsequently caught drunk behind the wheel Kelly Brown (not her real name), an 18-ycar-old sophomore who visited the morgue last winter, is among the other 72. \The tour was scary. and it really hit me,\ she says. \Now if I do drink-and I don't so much anymore-! always stay the night.\ \It was a real eye-opener,\ agrees another viewer. \It made me realize that death is something that can happen to you.\ JAN 9: THE BIG CHILL JAN 11-13: GOODFELLAS JAN 16: GORILLAS IN THE MIST* FEB 15-17: PRETTY WOMAN FEB 20: KISS OF THE SPIDERWOMAN • JAN 18-20: GHOST JAN 23: GROSS ANATOMY JAN 25-27: DIE HARD II * JAN 30: HEATHERS FEB 1 D3: WHITE PALACE FEB 6: ANIMATION FESTIVAL FEB 8-10: MO' BElTER BLUES FEB 13: THE PRINCESS BRIDE FEB 22-24: NARROW MARGIN FEB 27: THE COLOR PURPLE MAR 1-3: THE FRESHMAN MAR 6: DEAD CALM MAR 8-10: SIBLING RIVALRY MAH 13: THE JUNGLE BOOK MAR 15-17: PACIFIC HEIGHrS WEDNESDAY MOVIES 7:30 & 9:30PM WEEKEND MOVIES- 7, 9, & 11 PM ALL MOVIES WILL BE SHOWN IN CC AUDITORIUM. ADMISSION IS $1 ($2 FOR GODDFELLAS AND GHOSl) . • SHOWING TIMES WILL BE ANNOUNCED •

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, ]:llnuary 17, 1991 FEATURES Telephone Technology By SUZANNE SHAKER What ever happened to the busy signal? The annoying, irritating buzz that once plagued the ears of many a frustrated phone caller. Every so .often we are blessed by the soothing sound we once loathed. In fact, many of us now even welcome \our friend\ the busy signal, not only because we often actually do not wish to speak with the person whom we are calling, but also because at least for the moment we aFe relieved of the possibility of spending a half hour of our valuable time on the phone attempting to relay a message which aL the most should take three minutes to convey. Morn. dad, Prof. What's His Name, Boss So and So, hairdresser What J a Ma Calllt, Dr. Who, etc., \I'm running rather late for my appointment, meeting, class, date with you, because I thought I would be able to write a ten-page paper, walk the dog, take my little brother to Ben and Jerry's for a hot fudge sundae and call my friend in Chicago within two hours.\ Of course, the half-hour phone call has now forced us even further behind our overloaded schedules. So we breathe a sigh of relief when we don't get through the telephone lines. On the other hand, when we do make it past the initial screening and the sound is not a buzz, but rather a ring, our hearts begin to race and our palms to sweat. We do have one last hope that no one will answer the phone. We can only guess as to how many times our conversations will be interrupted by the rudeness of call waiting or the hold button (a variation on the same theme, I suppose). Although call waiting and the hold button feature (which have virtually forced the busy signal to near extinction), do allow us to be more efficient and social, for that matter they also tend to produce intense anxiety and extreme impatience. Call waiting has perfected the art of $WIN$ interruption. For those of us who actually don't want to communicate with our friends, family members, professors and employers over the phone, my advice is to get call waiting, then, using your touch tone system (no one who's anyone would dare be caught with a rotary phone, they are so limiting and restrictive for our busy, efficient lifestyles), call someone else who has call waiting. The two of you should be sure to receive enough interruptions that, it won't even matter who is on the other end. When you become bored with this activity, contact the phone company and have them install conference calling. Now call as many people as you know who have call waiting and just hold the phone to your ear as each of you interrupts one another answering your incoming phone calls. This makes for a great way to spend the day procrastinating. Not only has the telephone ANNOUNCING THE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE T-SHIRT DESIGN CONTEST! IF YOUR T-SHIRT DESIGN IS CHOSEN TO BE USED FOR TtiiS 'fEAR'S .DRIVE, YOU WIN $50 CASH fill ENTER NOW! CONTEST ENDS JAf'#UARY 23, 1991. CALL STACI DUPRE, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUND, AT 370-6142, OR PETER COWLES '91, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE, AT 370-4571 FOR MORE INFO. company perfected the art of interruption in attempting to make our lives more efficient, it has also perfected the art of laziness.The muscles in our fingers are now spared the exhausting task of dialing the rotary and we have also been relieved of the strenuous exercise involved in pressing eight pushbuttons. We may now simply press one memory button to achieve the same result. Telephone intercoms and speaker phones have also allowed us to keep our lazy telephone practices. Of course, not only do the lazy and the efficient benefit from new state of the art telephone technology, the activity, exercise conscious are also reaping the benefits of the cordless phone, which allows them to cook, clean, iron, jump rope, aerohicize and even bathe while answering call waiting. It seems to be quite a miracle if we ever .actually speak with the person whom we are calling. These days we are lucky if we are able to leave a message on their answering machine. I must admit that I always feel so special after I hang up from a conversation with a prerecorded message. But then again, who out there truly wants to ta,lk on the phone, it's so much more exciting to just answer the beeps and blips that ring in our ears. Office of Computer Servkes Winter Seminar Schedule 1990-1991 Introduction to the Macintosh I MS Word· Brien Muller, Instructor In this class we will cover methods of manipulating text (selection, insertion, deletion, modification), formatting tools and techniques, document storage, and printing options. January 29th Tuesday January 29th Tuesday 9:00am 2:00pm ll:OOam 4:00pm Microsoft Word for Paper Writers- Brien Muller, Instructor In this class we will cover methods of creating let~gthy documents, facing page breaks, adding page n:umbers, creating headers and footers. You will learn what's special about a title page; how to create, Vlew, delete, renumber, format footnotes, and how to create indexes and organize the lengthy dC>CUmenL FebMJa ry 7th Thursday February 7th Thursday 9:00am 2:00pm ll:OOam 4:00pm Introduction to WordPerfect 5.1- Jami Bult, Instructor This class will focus on learning how to create and save documents, move text from one part to another, use the Speller and Thesaurus, format text, print and preview documents, and gel help. January 19th Saturday !O:OOam January 23rd Wednesday lO:OOam NOON NOON Tips & Tricks for WordPetfect 5.1- Jami Bult, Instructor This class will provide the user with shortcuts and efficient ways to use WordPerfect 5.1. january 30th W~dnesday 2:00am 3:30pm WordPerfect 5.1 for Thesis and Long Paper Writers- Jami Bult, Instructor lnthis class we will cover methods of preparing your document for laser printing, managing large documents, creating and editing footnotes, endnotes, headers and footers. February 6th Wednesday 2:00pm 3:00pm . Introduction to LOTUS 1-2-3- Jami Bult.. Instructor Lotus is the industry standard Spreadsheet package for IBM computers. This seminarwill focus on introducing Lotus 1-2-3. Topics that will be disc:usse<l include creating and saving spreadsheets, using basic commands and functions, customizing spreadsheets. February 8th Wednesday 9:30am 11:30am Introduction to the VAX I Mail- Eric Boehm, Instructor During this seminar you will learn how to use Kermit on the mM PS/2 system to log on to your account on the VAXcluster, useEKE (a text editor, to creal!! files), list, purge, and delete files in your account, send mail messages to other users using VMS mall. January 24th Thursday 10:00am NOON You may sign-up for a seminar either by stopping by OCS or calling 370 • &293. SIGN-UP EARLY and l'<!serv• vour soot!! Schubert, Copland, & More! WE Want rto tJ3e tyOur ~avorite Caterer .. ORCHESTRA 7:30 • 9:00 p.m. Thursdays Memorial Chapel All are Welcome especially String Players, Basstwn, Trombones, and Oboe. 13usiness Luttelieons, :Hors cf'Oeuvres) rJJinner Parties, Meetings Ca{{ ras '.for 5!{{ Of ~our Catering t]{j.ecfs 11nion Co{Cege tJJining Services :J{a[e 9{ouse - 3 70-6132 Roommates getting on your nerves?! Trying to find a pl ece to write I! paper?! Come check out the CHUC ROOM Basement of Humanities

CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 7 Proctors Theater January 26 Peter Pan 8: 00 prn Student price $12.50 February 24 Tulsa Ballet 8:()0 pm Student price · $9 .25 March 7 Forbidden Broadway 8:OOpm Student price $7.50 April 6 Side by Side by Sondheim 8:OOpm Student price $7.25 Purchase your tickets in roam 408 of the college center. . A fun night out with your ;peers. ROSES ARE RED' AHD VIOLE'I'S ARE llLlJE-BlJT._ A TELEPHONE GUT CERTIFICATE IS \TilE PERFECT PRESEJ!IT FROI! TOU FEBRUARY 14TH--VALENTINE'S. DAY This year give the perfect gift a!ter.native UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES Available tor purchase and Valentine's day delivery from the TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE. College Center-103. FOR MORE IHFORJIATJOH OM ·U NIOH COLlEGE TELEPHONE G!FT CERTIFICATES CAU3'10-64H. Pro-Choice Meetings Every Monday at 6:30p.m. in Rm. 105 Social Sciences If you care about the issue, then prove it! Attend the meetings and find out what YOU can do! Faculty Research Deadline The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals is Tuesday, February 12, 1991. Questions concerning the Facu1ty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. .- ~ : : .. ·· Table .-·--= .. · To .,n .. i~· -. _ .. ,.~J'v. The Department of Philosophy Union College 1991 Winter Term Colloquia APhilosophicaiResistanoo to Freud Death of a S3lesman: The Search for the Father -- Inconsistent Beliefs Professor David Sachs Johns Hopkins University January 25, 3:45P.M. Humanities Bldg., Rm. 213 Joel Rosen, M.D. Austen Riggs Center, Inc. February 15; 3:45 P.M. Humanities Bldg., Rm. 213 Professor Richard Foley Rutgers University February 22, 3:45P.M. Humanities Bldg., Rm. 213 Stability and Justification inHume Professor Louis Loeb The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor March 8, 4:00 P.M. All colloquia are open to tho public. Reception immediately following in the Humanities Lounge For further infonnation, contact the Philosophy Department (518) 370-6376 Huma:qities Bldg., Rm. 213 Upcoming Spring Term Speakers Professor Akeel Bilgrami Professor Chad Hansen Professor Lynne Rudder Baker Professor Dorothv Pnrf\er

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17,.1991 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Eye on the World: The Iraqi Crisis Hits Home Continued from page 1 Abroad programs that Union runs. While the number of people who were originally signed up for the trip was 24 as of last spring, there are only 12 students who are presently in Greece with Professor Patrik. According to Professor Thomas, three of the students who withdrew did so for reasons other than the Iraqi cns1s, but the other cancellations are directly related to the tensions in the Middle East. One of.the students who was signed up for Greece but decided against going is Julie Weidemann, '91. \ ... After th~ talks [between Secretary of State Baker and Iraqi Foreign Minister Aziz] on Wednesday and the news that war was imminent, I began to reconsider [whether to go or not.]\ Although the Terms Abroad office told her that if there was trouble, the students could just come home, Julie said,\ ... I just didn't want to go for two weeks and come back.\ While there is a possibility of cancelling the program, only two trips which were already in progress have been cancelled in the past 22 years, recalls Professor Thomas. In Poland, in the late 1970s, the Socialized Medicine program was cancelled when Poland shut its borders to everyone. In 1981, the earthquakes in Greece were so severe that, during the ninth week of dases, the students fled to a Mediterranean island, for about a week until the earthquakes had subsided. Once they felt that it was safe enough, the students returned to the mainland and promptly flew home. If any Terms Abroad program is to be canceHed, it will be done by Union President Roger Hull. Professor Thomas, after having spoken to President HuH on several occasions, feels that there are two situations which might warrant the Greece tenn abroad being cancelled. First, if there were a wave of terrorism, President Hull may not immediately end the program. The problem with bringing the students home in the event of terrorism, however, is th:e terrorism itself. It may, in fact, be safer to keep the students where they are, rather than risk possible dangerous travel situations. Second, if enough students' parents have decided Yo!W~th~ ov~r h~e! Wheres tn~ egg~Pg?. .. TO: Students Contemplating a Non-Union Study Abroad Program FROM: William W. Thomas. Director of Terms Abroad Beginning in the winter term of 1991, a new policy will be in effect for permission to study abroad on a non-Union program. Dean Underwood has fonned the Committee on Foreign Study to approve or deny requests to study on such a program. This year, the committee consists of Professors Day, G. Gmelch, and Olberg; Deans Mammola and Schadler; Andrew Lech '91 and Elizabeth Sorkenn '91; and myself. Please follow the directions below if you are seeking approval for a non-Union program. 1. If you will be a SENIOR while abroad, please bear in mind that Union has a senior year residency requirement (see 1990-91 catalogue, p. 31), which essentially means that while you may participate in a Union term abroad while a senior, you may NOT participate in a non-Union program unless the Committee on the Standing of Students agrees to waive the residency requirement. Such waivers arc granted only in exceptionally rare circumstances, usually involving your having been prevented from studying abroad during the junior year because of dra...;;tic personal circumstances. If you believe that your circumstances indeed do fall into this category, you might wish to discuss them with Dean Mammola, a member of the Committee on Standing, to get his reaction. If the Committee on Standing does grant a waiver, please foitow the procedure for applican~s who will be juniors . . 2. I~ you will be a JUNIOR while abroad, please obtain an application form from Mrs. Edwards m the. f~rms Abroad office. Once you have returned the completed application form and your essay cxplammg the rea~ons for your choice of a non-Union program, the Committee on Foreign Study will consider your petition as quickly as is feasible and will notify you promptly of its decision. Plea~c do not expect, h?wever, next-day service. The Committee on Foreign Study expects you to provide cogent academic and/or personal reasons for your choice of a non-Union program. Mere P?rsonal preference :Will not b~ sufficient reason for approval of your petition. If you wish to discuss your plans wtth me, I wi11 be more than happy to do so, but please bear in mind that I am only one member of the committee. If the Committee on Foreign Study approves your petition, please obtain from Mrs. Edwards directions for obtaining course approval and withdrawing from Union. to pull their children 1 out of the program, there would be no reason to continue. The one special precaution taken by the Greece Term Abroad is to give more attention to something known around the Term Abroad office as the \Terrorist List\. This list, which must be read by every student going on a Union Term Abroad, is a sort of \trouble-shooting\ list, giving advice to students in order to avoid problematic situations. In addition to going over the \Terrorist List\ prior to their departures, the Union students recently went over the list in Athens, step by step, with Professor Patrik. Student's Safety Linked To Military Struggle In the Western Hemisphere, Union is paying close attention to the Term Abroad in Mexico, led by Professor Byron Nichols. Sources close to the Term Abroad .office report that Professor Nichols' concerns are based on the assumptions that a military conflict is, at this point, inevitable. If the fighting is perceived as being between Iraq and NATO or UN fOFces, then there is not as much to worry about in terms of the well- being of the students. However, if the fighting is perceived as being Iraq versus the United States, sources indicate that Professor Nichols would be more concern~ about the real threat of anti-American sentiment in Mexico, which could endanger the Union students who are currently there. A Belated Letter From France By ROB DILS You know, you don't realize how much you really love ketchup until you go without it for a couple of weeks. Greetings from Rennes, France. We've been here for eight weeks_ and we're really starting to enjoy the French- dubbed \Magnum P.l.\ and \MacGyver\ repeats on television. We're learning the phrases we'd never learn from our books. We now know how to say \Man I'm hung over,\ and that whenever you are surprised, you say \Oh the cow!\ in French. The city is old French, like most of Europe. There are cobblestones everywhere, which is hell for the blucher- wearer. The most popular places in Europe are Amsterdam and the Union Bar (the name of the Rennes hotspot). I guess there are a lot of nice things to see in Amsterdam, because someone seems to go there every weekend for one reason or another. The phrase of the term is easily, \the diving dollar.\ The exchange rate has seen better days, but most things would still be expensive, even with a good rate. We've beeen living on bread and cheese, with an occasional visit to McDonald's for a $3 (American) Big Mac. But they do sell beers right in the restaurant, which is the way it should be. In France, the word is soccer. Soccer is about as popular as the combined interest in football, baseball, and basketball in the U.S. American football has caught on a little bit. The newspapers give the results of all the sports from soccer to team handball to ping-pong. Beer pong is yet to make its debut in France. I guess that's our fault. The music here is very easy because it is all English or American. Most of it is very modem, but songs like \ABC\ by the Jackson 5, can be heard once in a while. Rap and club music are very popular, and Public Enemy is now on tour in France. However, COs in France cost up to 27 American dollars.

CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 9 INTERNA'TIONAL FEATURES PLEASE READ THIS! Italian Vacation from your international Editors We all know what it's like to fuss with the combination on .our mailboxes only to face the inevitable •.. no mall. Think about being across the world, in a strange place, away from home and friends, and facing the possibility that if there is war you may never return home. The U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf are in desperate need of mail. Please take the time to write a short letter to \Any service man or soldier.\ For Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps personnel ashore, write: Any Service Member Operation Ann Landers/Desert Shield APO New York 09848-0006 For Navy and Marine Corps personnel aboard ship, wr.ite: Any Service member Operation Ann Landers/Desert Shield FPO New York 09866-0006 ATTENTION: There is a French Club meeting in the College Center ·Pit TODAY January 17th, at 4:30 p.m. This is MANDATORY for all members. (New members are welcome.) By NEIL FALK So, you're thinking about going to Italy? Before you finalize your plans, allow me to share with you my own personal Italian experieaces. The Italian train system is great-if you know where you are going and what you are doing. The Italians have created a very convenient and civilized system for early boarding. Quite simply,large numbers of Italians crowd in front of the train and push, shove, kick, elbow, scratch, spit, sweat. and swear. Hence, when tllose train doors open, it is a free-for-all and you better start swinging! If you hold back you will wind up sitting on your luggage. My Union classmates and I were returning from Venice to Florence one evening. My friends and I had fared pretty well with the boarding free-for- all and sat in a private compartment. Some C>f my Union classmates, however, seemed to have gotten lost in the brawl. Mid-way through the train ride I decided to find them and ease some of my boredom. As I opened our compartment door I cautiously peered into the smoke-ponuted aisles. (Apparently, it is an Italian tradition to ignore \no smoking\ signs.) People were either standing up or sitting on their luggage. Beginning my search, I stepped out of our compartment and squeezed down the aisle. As I began elbowing my way down the aisle <>f the second car, the train made a stop and more Italians crammed themselves on board. I intensified my elbowing and stiff-arming and cut my way through the swaying and sweating masses and reached the connecting door to the third car. As I forced open the door I was immediately buried under GOOD NEWS! Schedule: Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU OJ 0). All are welcome to attend. TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infonnation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY- THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM . massive quantities of sweat and bad breatll .. Undaunted, I continued to fight onwards. The train system, however, is just one of many hospitalities that the Italian culture offers to innocent tourists. Another is the fine Italian cuisine. Unfortunately, to truly enjoy the many types of pastas and soups you have to win the lottery. If you don't you are going to have to mortgage the house and car to afford the food bills. I knew my wallet was doomed when I realized the cheapest drink in Italy was a glass of wine. Even complimentary bread and water will cost :you several dollars. You want to go to the bathroom? Virtually everywhere you go you have to pay for the bathroom. Apparently, going to the bathroom in Italy is a crime. Once, in tile Italian Riviera I climbed over 300 steps to get to a hostel (or is it hostile) and go to the bathroom. I was shocked when I found out that there was no charge, but that toilet paper was not included. In some public bathrooms toilets are not included! Instead there is just a hole in the floor. Having described the bathroom scenario, I shall now describe the youth hostel in the Italian Riviera. The people who stayed there were rather interesting. Some did not speak English, one did not even look human. One particular person smelled as if he had had a terrible experience with the hole in the floor. I had the great privilege of sleeping in the bunk above him. The sleeping arrangement consisted of about 6 bunk beds and 12 guys to a room. Once the lights went out it sounded as if there were 30 of us in that room. As llay in bed, I dreamt of my own bed, the Miami Dolphins, a Domino's pizza with everything on it, and Florida's soft sandy beaches. Unlike Florida, the beaches throughout Italy (although topless) were usually rocky and very hairy. Nonetheless, neither the Italian Riviera nor the bathrooms could match the danger and excitement of the streets of Florence. It is here where . the real action takes place. Sidewalks are either too thin or simply do not exist. Hence, I almost always walked on the streets. Bus terrorism is a common practice among Italian bus drivers. They seemingly enjoy creeping up on innocent tourists and flattening them. Motorcyclists, on the other hand, play a different and more intricate game. Rather than flattening tourists, they opt to tear off limbs with their handlebars. After a hard day of eluding these highly trained assassins, I would retire to my little apartment where I quickly discovered the Italian love affair with the mosquito. The family with whom I lived loved these flesh-eating beasts so much that they removed all the screens from their windows and welcomed these insects into the apartment! Two months later I finally ordered that Domino's pizza, watched a football game, and slept in my own bed. The next day I went to the beach. As I tanned under that hot Florida sun, I found myself dreaming again. This time, however, I dreamt of running up 321 steps and getting trapped in crowded train cars. The more I dreamt, the more I laughed and suddenly I admitted to myself that if I had the chance I would do it all over again.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 THE ALL UNION Rubes® By Leigh Rubin GET TRA .Hed WEE WED., JAN 23- M:ON. JAN 28 -CARRY YOUR GARBAGE- FOR A WEEK Demonstrate How Much Waste each of us accumulates Details in the CC Lobby Wed., Jan. 23 GOlH We throw away enough glass bottles and jars to fill the '1.350-foot twin towers of :--;ew York's World Trade Center ez•ery tu·o u·eeks. American consumers and . throw away enough aluminum · to rebuild our eniire commercial airfleet every three months. I YOUR Every Sunday, more than 500,000 trees are used to produce the 88% of newspapers that are never recycled. We throw away enough iron and steel to continuously supply all the nation's automakers. Americans go through 2. 5 million plastic bottles ez•ery hour. only a small percentage of which are now recycled. Every year we dispose of 24 million tons of leaves and grass clippings, which could be composted to conserve landfill space. • The ordinary bag of trash you throw away is slowly becoming a serious prob- lem for everybody. places to put what's left over. you'll need to know about recycling. Write the Environmental Defense One thing's for certain, the few min- Because the fact is, not only are we running out of resources to make the products we need, we're running out of © I'lRH Ellf Fund at: 257 Park Avenue South, New utes you take to learn how to recycle will York, NY 10010, for a free brochure that spare us all a lot of garbage later. will tell you vir- IF YOU'RE NOT RECYCLING sM l::~flWI tually everything YOU'RE THROWING IT ALL AWAY. ~ ·~~ l.'~-19

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17,. 1991 THE ALL UNION By Leigh Rubin GETTRA Hed WEE WED., JAN 23 - MQ~N. JAN 28 -CARRY YOUR GARBAGE- FOR A WEEK Demonstrate How Much Waste each of us accumulates Details in the CC Lobby Wed., Jan. 23 · We throw away enough glass bottles and jars to fill the '1.350-foot twin towers of ~ew York's World Trade Center el'er:r tu·o weeks. American consumers and indu~;tr 1 throw away enough aluminum to rebuild our entire commercial airfleet every three months. The ordinary bag of trash you throw away is slowly becoming a serious prob- lem for everybody. Because the fact is, not only are we running out of resources to make the products we need, we're running out of (!) 19R8 EllF Every Sunday, more than 500,000 trees are used to produce the 88% of newspapers that are never recycled. We throw away enough iron and steel to continuously supply all the nation's automakers. Americans go through 2.5 milHon plastic bottles et!£'1:1' hour. only a small percentage of which are now recycled. Every year we dispose of 24 million tons of leaves and grass clippings, which could be composted to com;erve landfill space. I places to put what's left over. you'll need to know about recycling. Write the Enviromnental Defense One thing's for certain, the few min- Fund at: 257 Park Avenue South, New utes you take to learn how to recycle will York, NY 10010, for a free brochure that spare us all a lot of garbage later. will tell you vir- IF YOU'RE NOT RECYCLING sM l:::a\1::'\ r:tln tually everything YOU'RE 111ROWING IT ALL AWAY. ~ ~N ' ,, '

CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1-991 Page 11 v\brt11saving. ENVIRONMENTAL Reduce Our Dependence. on Oil The Environment and the Gulf Crisis By FRANZ T. LITZ Environmental Editor Here it is, January 15, and I sit writing my weekly column for the Environmental Pages. An hour ago, a friend asked me how I could possibly think of recycling and \saving the planet\ while a few hundred thousand of my peers sit ready to fight in the Persian Gulf. The question was fair. In reality, I too had been thinking of little else than the possibility of fighting in the Middle East. But, in considering the reasons why American forces have been deployed there, one cannot help but see the enormous connection between several environmental problems and the \compelling national interests\ (George Bush) that are leading to our military intervention: energy. If oil is a principal reason for the American presence in the Gulf-and there seems to be a consensus among analysts which asserts tllat it is~then America's addiction to oil as its principal energy source is a broader problem tllan Americans want to believe. \No Blood for Oil...\ so tlle slogan goes. But at the rate Americans are consuming oil, we may as well have oil in our veins. Witll 2% of the world's population, tlle U.S. consumes 25% of the world's oil. And since the early eighties, with the drop in oil prices, the trend has not been one of conservation. In fact, the corporate average fuel efficiency requirements, which required gradual increases in tlle fuel economy of automobiles, were actually dropped after General Motors petitioned Congress in 1984. The result: a lackadaisical approach to fuel economy and a greater dependence on (foreign) oil. Oh, how long the list ofenvironmental problems caused by our addiction to oil is! Global warming, air pollution, oil spills, off-shore drilling, acid rain, etc ... Government programs funding research for alternative energy sources need to be expanded, (and in some cases, restarted). Fred Kropp, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense Fund, sees a major obstacle to improving the energy situation in the artificial pricing on energy products. \Artificial prices' 1 , he says, \do not take into account the environmental and diplomatic costs.\ These costs need to be added to the cost of fuel. Those are changes our government needs to make. But what can we as individuals do? Conserve energy. walk, bicycle, or use public transportation when possible. Drive fuel efficient cars, and carpool! Press your Congressman or woman into ,supporting tough fuel- efficiency requirements for automobile manufacturers. Set your heating lower. If each U.S. household lowered its average heating temperatures by 6 degrees, we would save an estimated 500,000 brurels of oil per day. Take shorter showers. Wash your clothes in cold water. Turn lights and stereos off when not needed. Check your tire pressure, since low tires waste gas. Unplug your TV when you're not watching it, since most TV's are equipped with \instant-on\ devices that consume electricity constantly. This is only a small fraction of ·the list of things you can do to save energy. Most importantly. be aware of the energy you use, and consider the conseqQences of our huge consumption. They stretch far beyond the amount you pay for gasoline, oil, ()f electricity. They may even stretch all the way to the Middle East, and those are hefty consequences. For more Energy Conservation ideas, see \Your Choices Count,\ available from the Natiqnal Wildlife Federation, 1400 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036-2266 For information on the New York Telephone Scholarship Program for Black and Hispanic Students, please see Lorraine Marra 408 College Center Water Conservation Conserving water saves energy and money and caD actua:Uy preserve fresh water habitat. Much energy goes into transporting water to your residence, and then more is used to heat water for bathroom and kitchen uses. By conserving water is it possible to prevent some of the pollution caused by excessive energy use, such as global warming and acid rain. Development in areas with insuffucient water supplies have caused the depletion of ground water or the diversion of rivers or other above ground water supplies. This causes the destruction of wildlife habitat and wetlands. The United States uses two to four times as much water per person as European countries. Fortunately, there Inside: ~Take showers rather than baths. * Install a low-flow shower head with an on/off valve. are a number of water-saving appliances available at your local hardware store. By installing a few simple water- saving devices, costing less than $50, the average household can save more than 30,000 gallons of water and over $60 in water and energy costs each year. The bathroom is a good palce to start since this is where 70% of indoor household water is used. * Install a space occupier in your toilet to minimize water use or install an ultra-flow toilet which uses 1 to 1.6 gallons instead of 3.5 to 6 gallons per flush. * Check water line connections, pipes, faucets and toilets for leaks. Turn off all water and check your water meter. If after 15 minutes the reading changes - you have a leak. * Think water conservation- take shorter showers, avoid leaving the water running while shaving, brushing your teeth or washing dishes. * Install faucet aerators on all sinks. * Use the dishwasher and washing machine only with full loads. Front-loading washing machines use up to 40% less water than top-loading models. Outdoors: * Plant native or drought-tolerant plants. * Water lawns in the morning to avoid evaporation. *Water lawns slowly, deeply and infrequently to encourage deep rooting. * Keep grass at least 2\ high to shade roots. * Use mulch or ground-covering plants to prevent excessive evaporation. * Use waste water from the house to water your garden. * Use a broom rather than the hose to clean off walkways. * When washing your car, use a bucket of water or a hose w~h an automatic shut-off nozzle instead of letting the hose run. Source: Rocky Mountain Institute. Earth Day fact sheet. Reprinted from \Albany Report\ of the Environmental Planning Lobby. Vol. 9 Winter 1990. The Cups Are Coming! The Cups Are Coming! We Care About U has won approval from the Interfraternity Council (IFC) to go ahead with its plan to replac(l all disposable beverage cups on campus with new reusable ones. IFC had discussed the issue in its final meeting of winter term. Each house agreed to contribute $75 to help with the initial fmancia1 outlay. Pete Cowles, of We Care About U. expressed great satisfaction in the outcome of the vote. Cowles said that the reusable mugs will be ready for distribution before mid- term. Under the plan, each student and faculty member will receive a \We Care About U\ cup, free, of course. Cup users should then receive a discount on beverages purchased in the College Center, Dutch Hollow and the Rathskellar. The fraternities will only honor resuable cups at their parties. Join the Union College Choir Men and Women needed Rehearsals are Mondays and Wednesdays at 7:00 0 m ARTS 215 For more information contact the Arts Dept.

j, ' CONCORJ)JENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 11 ~\brthsaving. ENVIRONMENTAL Reduce Our Dependence. on Oil The Environment and the Gulf Crisis By FRANZ T. LITZ Environmental Editor Here it is, January 15, and I sit writing my weekly column for the Environmental Pages. An hour ago, a friend asked me how I could possibly think of recycling and \saving the planet\ while a few hundred thousand of my peers sit ready to fight in the Persian Gulf. The question was fair. In reality, I too had been thinking of little else than the possibility of fighting in the Middle East. But, in considering the reasons why American forces have been deployed there, one cannot help but see the enormous connection between several environmental pmblems and the \compelling national interests\ (George Bush) that are leading to our military intervention: energy. If oil is a principal reason for the American presence in the Gulf.-and there seems to be a consensus among analysts which asserts that it is.....:then America's addiction to oil as its principal energy source is a broader problem than Americans want to believe. \No :Blood for Oil...\ so the slogan goes. But at the rate Americans are consuming oil, we may as well have oil in our veins. With 2% of the world's population, the U.S. consumes 25% of tbe world's oil. And since the early eighties, with the drop in oil prices, the trend has not been one of conservation. In fact, the corporate average fuel efficiency requirements, which required gradual increases in the fuel economy of automobiles, were actually dropped after General Motors petitioned Congress in 1984. The result: a lackadaisical approach to fuel economy and a greater dependence on (foreign) oil. Oh, how long the list of environmental problems caused by OUT addiction to oil is! Global warming, air pollution, oil spills, off-shore drilling, acid rain, etc ... Government programs funding research for alternative energy sources need to be expanded, (and in some cases, restarted). Fred Krupp, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense Fund, sees a major obstacle to improving the energy situation in the artificial pricing on energy products. \Artificial prices\ he says, \do not take into account the environmental and diplomatic costs.\ These costs need tQ be added to the cost of fuel. Those are changes our government needs to make. But what can we as individuals do? Conserve energy. walk, bicycle, or use public transportation when possible. Drive fuel efficient cars, and carpool! Press your Congressman or woman into supporting tough fuel- effiCiency requirements for automobile manufacturers. Set your heating lower. If each U.S. household lowered its average heating temperatures by 6 degrees, we would save an estimated 500,000 barrels of oil per day. Take shorter showers. Wash your clothes in cold water. Turn lights and stereos off when not needed. Check your tire pressure, since low tires waste gas. Unplug your TV when you're not watching it, since most TV's are equipped with \instant-on\ devices that consume electricity constantly. This is only a small fraction of ·the list of things you can do to save energy. Most importantly, be aware of the energy you use, and consider the conseqQences of our huge consumption. They stretch far beyond the amount you pay for gasoline, oil, or electricity. They may even stretch all the way to the Middle East, and those are hefty consequences. For more Energy Conservation ideas, see \Your Choices Count, et available from theN atiqnal Wildlife Federation, 1400 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036-2266 For information on the New York Telephone Scholarship Program for Black and Hispanic Students, please see Lorraine Marra 408 College Center Water Conservation Conserving water saves energy and money and can actually preserve fresh water habitat. Much energy goes into transporting water to your residence, and then more is used to heat water for bathroom and kitchen uses. By conserving water is it possible to prevent some of the pollution caused by excessive energy use, such as global warming and acid rain. Development in .areas with insuffucient water supplies have caused the depletion of ground water or the diversion of rivers or other above ground water supplies. This causes the destruction of wildlife habitat and wetlands. The United States uses two to four times as much water per person as European countries. Fortunately, there Inside: *Take showers rather than baths. * Install a low-flow shower head with an on/off valve. are a number of water-saving appliances available at your local hardware store. By installing a few simple water- saving devices, costing less than $50, the average household can save more than 30,000 gallons of water and over $60 in water and energy costs each year. The bathroom is a good palce to start since this is where 70% of indoor household water is used. * Install a space occupier in your toilet to minimize water use or install an ultra-flow toilet which uses 1 to 1.6 gallons instead of 3.5 to 6 gallons per flush. *Check water line connections, pipes, .faucets and toilets for leaks. Turn off all water and check your water meter. If after 15 minutes the reading changes- you have a leak. * Think water conservation -take shorter showers, avoid leaving the water running while shaving, brushing your teeth or washing dishes. * Install faucet aerators on all sinks. *Use the dishwasher and washing machine only with full loads. Front-loading washing machines use up to 40% less water than top-loading models. Outdoors: * Plant native or drought-tolerant plants. * Water lawns in the morning to avoid evaporation. *Water lawns slowly, deeply and infrequently to encourage deep rooting. * Keep grass at least 2\ high to shade roots. * Use mulch or ground-covering plants to prevent excessive evaporation. * Use waste water from the house to water your garden. * Use a broom rather than the hose to clean off walkways. * When washing your car, use a bucket of water or a hose with an automatic shut-off nozzle instead of letting the hose run. Source: Rocky Mountain Institute. Earth Day fact sheet Reprinted from \Albany Report\ of the Environmental Planning Lobby. Vol. 9 Winter 1990. The Cups Are Coming! The Cups Are Coming! We Care About U has won approval from the Interfraternity Council (IFC) to go ahead with its plan to replace all disposable beverage cups on campus with new reusable ones. IFC had discussed the issue in its final meeting of winter term. Each house agreed to contribute $75 to help with the initial financial outlay. Pete Cowles, of We Care About U. expressed great satisfaction in the outcome of the vote. Cowles said that the reusable mugs will be ready for distribution before mid- term. Under the plan, each student and faculty member will receive a \We Care About U\ cup, free, of course. Cup users should then receive a discount on beverages purchased in the College Center, Dutch Hollow and the Rathskellar. The fraternities will only honor resuable cups at their parties. Join the Union College Choir Men and Women needed Rehearsals are Mondays and Wednesdays at 7:00 • m ARTS 215 For more information contact the Arts Dept.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 <HilltlllrbirnsisL ~E_TT_ER_s ____ _ -----Founded at U1zion College 1877--- A Midnight Vigil A gathering of more than 100 students and professors, possibly approaching as many as 150, assembled at Old Chapel Tuesday as the midnight deadline in the Middle East came upon us. The organizers of the assembly were not really sure of the purpose, and those in attendance weren't either, but it seemed that everyone was able to gain something from the camaraderie. Questions were raised, some with answers and some leading only to more questions. What should the role of students at Union College, at any college, be during the confrontation in the Gulf? Who knows how to act or what to do? We have no personal recollection of the last time the United States was in a similar situation. At the same time, though, it seems that because there are college students who were activists during Vietnam, we now should be activists. Not necessarily that we should be against war, although if anybody should be it should be we who could.be sent to battle. But we should be at the forefront of the debate as to whether there should be war. The recent on-campus poll conducted by S.P.A.A. shows that Union students are almost evenly split about the wisdom of going to war right now. The Old Chapel gathering further reflected that division. Nationally, there is a similar split. as revealed by a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, among other surveys. It is a tricky question, one that each person could struggle with for hours, for days, for years. It is a problem so difficult that, the recent Congressional authorization votes notwithstanding, it can not be drawn on party lines. Under no circumstances should it be. If stereotypes be applied, the Republican party C()uld be called the war party and the Democrats the sanctions party. The most prominent and recent example of this, other than the aforementioned vote, can be found in the way that Jimmy Carter handled the hostage crisis in Iran. It is being said of George Bush that he does not want to sit around waiting for sanctions to work while being voted out of office. This is the wrong reasoning. Either sanctions_are the best way to achieve our nation's goals or they are not. Bush's personal political career is not goal number one for the more than 5,()()0 casualties that 48 percent of Americans anticipate. Maybe now we will find out iftoday's Union students are :part of the \me-generation.\ It looks like we're going to go the other way, and learn what it means to be active about something going on halfway around the world. Nobody can be certain how Union students will react to the ordeal. We all looked to each other Tuesday night. We may have many more nights like that ahead of us. A Minor Change Yields Major I111pact Offering students the option to obtain an academic minor in addition to their major course of study is an idea whose fruition has been a long time coming. With the onset of the 1991-92 school year, this option will become reality. An incredible amount of work was undertaken by members of the AAC's Subcouncil on Academic Minors to draft a feasible proposal for the college community to review. Last week's vote by members of the faculty to accept the proposal is evidence enough that the many hours spent in preparation were more than worthwhile. As with every change in academic policy there exist uncertainties which need to be addressed. Perhaps the most pressing of these uncertainties is the impa.ct the program will have on the number of majors in departments whose current number of majors is already small. Initial majors in these departments may opt to pursue a minor instead of a major in their course of study, thus making some of these departments \service departments\. But making the minor available to students is bound to create several important advantages. For example, pursuing a minor will guide students in the appropriate selection of courses. Additionally, for those students who already enroll in a number of a particular department's courses, the identification of the undertaking will now be on their transcript. Finally and most importantly, by adopting a minors program, the College is satisfying the needs of its students. Surveys conducted last year indicated that nearly 70 percent of the student body were interested in maldng available the option of pursuing an academic minor. The positive reaction by the faculty and administration in response to this issue can be declared a victory for students. The Administration needs guidance in form11lating academic policies. These policies directly affect each one of us, and it is therefore our responsibility to relate our opinions to these decision-makers. The results may not always be so promising, but without makillg a sincere effort to review these policies, the results may be 11n11ecessarily detrimental. Philosophy Forum A Cooperative Educational Experience To the Editor: An opportunity for .students to learn not f.Fom the textbook or the \expert\ but from each other. The forum is open to all students not just philosophy majors. Talks are to be given by students. What are the guidelines of these talks? The talk should pertain to life, our lives as young people in this day and age. We face many serious worries and pressures about life to come. Hopefully, by raising these issues, we will work through our common experience. For example, the first talk will be on education, Some issues up for discussion will be mandatory education, alternative educational situations and life as a Union student. This first talk will be within the next two weeks; we will post the time and place around campus. Most Students I have talked to seem interested in giviag talks or participating in discussion. This can be an opportunity for students working on Senior Theses to discuss your topic and get peer feedba.ck. If you have questions, call either Dan Milsky, 370-6884, or Charles Belden,at 346-5589. Charles Belden, Dan Milsky, Co-Presidents, Philosophy Forum Sports vs. Academics To the Editor: I'd like to thank Daniel Sullivan, President of Allegheny College. PA, for sparing me the arduous task of writing a lengthy negative letter in response to Union College receiving a bid to participate on a Division I level in hockey. Following Allegheny's . stunning victory in college football's Division Ill National Championship, the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl, President Sullivan had this to say: \I cannot think of a single thing that has eroded public confidence in America's colleges and universities and undermined key educational values more than intercollegiate athletics as it is practiced by a large fraction of the universities in the NCAA's Division I and II. It is hard to teach integrity in the pursuit of knowledge, or how to live a life of purpose and service, when an institution's own integrity is compromised in the unconstrained pursuit of victory on the playing fields.\ I hope our president, Dr. Roger H. Hull, also has the sense to realize or rather understands thatan education is far more important than a game . Sincerely, David Sachar '92 Co-Sports Director, WRUC Multicultural Luncheons To the Editor The Multicultural table will be using a slightly different format this term. We will have a featured topic from 12:30 until 1:00 p.m. each Friday. The first feature should be of special interest to the whole Union community as it is a TV d.ocumentary dealing with financial aid and highlights the Union College A.O.P. program. Besides Ethel David, Director of Union College's A.O.P. program, Brian Savage. '92, and Dionne Morgan, '94, those appearing on the tape are Governor Cuomo- discussing the Liberty program, and Neil Foley, Director of NYS Higher Education Services Corporation. Since the TAP grants have been cut for this term, we think that you might find this an informative video as you ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMI'ITED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. look for other sources of financial aid for the coming terms. Please bring your lunch to Room 302 in the College Center any Friday between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. All are invited. Next week, Prof. Motahar will speak about the Middle East, certainly another topic of importance. As 1 will be helping with the Multicultural luncheons this term, I would appreciate any input your readers might have. Sincerely, John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry X-6340

------~--------------------------~--~C~O~N~C~O~R~D~l~E~N~S~IS~,~J~a=n=ua=r~y~1~7~,~19~9~1----~--------------------------P~!e __ J3 Anot~er Open Correspondence with President Hull Dear President Hull: On a night in January of 1989, I sat in front of the television and watched the farewell address of Ronald Reagan. He told the country that just that morning he looked out the window of the Oval Office at our nation and saw \a shining star upon a hill.\ The next day in The New York Times, a columnist so intelligently pointed out that if only Reagan had looked out the other windows of the White House, he might have seen the many homeless people sleeping across the street, on the Ellipse. On a night in January of 1991, I sat in the College Center auditorium and watched you, President Hull, state your tendency to look at a glass that others say is 95% empty and see at as 95% full. Suffice it to say, that we do not have to examine our country all that closely before we realize that it is not a \shining star upon a hill,\ nor is it any secret that Union College's glass is not 95% fall. . I do not mean to imply that our glass is 95% empty and I don't feel that I must list reasons to substantiate this point. However, I do think it is necesssry to point out the }litfalls of being so dangerously optimistic. On a nationwide scale,. we need only to point to the soaring deficit, the sinking ec()n<Omy, and the rising population of the underclass to see the effects of President Reag;an's neglect. Fortunately it is still early in your term as president of our college, so ther~ is still time before we will see the effects of your neglectful optimism. Let this letter serve as a warning that time is running out. L!lst term I wrote to you expressing my concern with the General Education Program. {Concordiensis, Oc:t, 11, '90) I stated that the college should institute a cuniculum which stressed the clas[;ics of western civilization so tllat it would show the coun:.try that it was a serious institution of higher learning. I felt tb.at this would improve our reputation and our chances of achieving a more diverse campus. If you had taken the tilDe to respond to my ngu.ment, it would have been simple to see its majo1 tlaw in my ::reasoning which assumes that minority students would be interested in a school which stro-ngly emphasized . a cu:rriculum dominated by white, male figures. You could ha-ve argued that the student of the -nineties must be versed in the history of all civilizations. My response would have granted you this point, but, would also have encouraged the college to establish a set program of required courses that forced students to study the history of aU civilizations. This would include more classes like the Freshman Preceptorial. But, unfortunately? due to your neglect, this discussion is only hypothetical and I am forced into the position of Woody Allen's character, Fielding Mellish, in the movie \Bananas\, cross examining myself on the witness stand. President Hull, in the next few weeks you must make a decision concerning our hockey team's future which might possibly be in Division I. I respect the amount of time that you state you are giving to this decision, but at the same time, fear the emphasis you are thereby placing on the hockey program at Union. By entGring Division I, this emphasis on athletics, possibly at the expense nf attention to academics. may increase drastically. It's time to realize just how full your glass is President Hull, and to start thinking of just what we want to be putting in it. Matthew Futterman '91 Hold On to Your Cups To the Editor: We Care About U welcomes everyone back! We know that everyone is anxious to get the reusable plastic cups we publicized during fall term. For those of you who don't know abut these cups we'll remind you ... We Care About U proposed an idea that every person on campus should have his or her own reusable cup to be used at fraternity events, Dutch Hollow, dining halls, etc ... so as not to waste all the cups used on campus, as part of our effort to clean up the environment. Dining Services, IFC, and Panhellenic Council hav.e agreed to sponsor this .pr<Jgram in which every Union st11dent, faculty, and ac:li:ninistrator will be given a free reusable plastic cup. IFC h:as also agreed that the houses on campus will not serve beverages in the usual wasteful wa.y thus every student must ltave these cups, or another reasable cup, to be served IJ;everages at any party. Due to JOIN THE J.S.U. delay coordinating these various organizations involved and purchasing the cups they will not be in for another 2-3 weeks. Keep looking in C o n cordi e n s i s for information about when and where these cups will be distributed. Thanks! Dan Gilbert, Pete Cowles & Amy Rosenfeld, Chairpersons, We Care About U Membership only $18.00 Send to Box 1982 - Do You Wan-t V-ISA & ·MasterCard Credit' Cards?·· NoW' you can have two of the most recognized al'ld accepted credit cards In the vuorldu.VIsa® and MasterCard® credit cards. .. uln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TIJRNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterOirdC!I the credit cards you deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENT STORES- TUITION-ENTERTAINMENT- EMERGENCY CASH-T!CKETS-RESTAURANTS- HQTEL.S---MOTELS-G\8-CAR RENfAl.S- REPAIR5-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! c.ut.'-~~~: No turn downs! G0\.0 s't'f.\ct.r: No credit checks! ..._ 45 .,. t1l~ tt.D 't.\ ._ No security deposit! .... \'\~\1 :'f .,.c G~ tJ.i:l#- Approval absolutely guaranteed so MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODA 't LETTERS A Heartfelt Moment To the Editor, On Friday, 9 Nov., a memorial service was held for Joe Maras, formerly a football coach at Union College, who later worked in Financial Aid for Students at Union College. Several who spoke about Joe pointed out traits such as his sincere concern for people as individuals, his integrity, his high intellect, his lack of need for self-importance, and even his selfless community service as exemplified by his work with the Board of the Schenectady Girls Club. I would like here to point out another aspect of Joe's caring nature of which I should have spoken at the memorial service, but failed to do. Joe's concern for others ran the gamut from the individuals of his wonderful family to his students and colleagues at Union and beyond to the Schenectady community. But even further, he was concerned for mankind in general and thus for world peace and settling of international disputes without war, and seeing justice for all his fellow men. This he demonstrated by work for many years with the Board of the Capital District Chapter of the World Federalists. He carried out many tasks in atTanging for speakers, publicity, and newsletters, all of which benefitted residents of this city. Indeed, Joe was so conscientious that even during his days of ill health, he would show up at Board meetings when he was barely out of the hospital. Joe was truly a man for all mankind, and we shall sorely miss him! Sincerely, William B. Martin, Jr. Prof. emeritus, Union College . . . . . . . ' . . . . ' ~ . - . ' : . - ~ ' Elections for the New Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held on Tuesday, February 12. All students are eligible.· Sign up in CC 408 by Friday, February 1. BE PART OF THE PROCESS! The Residence Life Committee, which is evaluating the Middle States recommendntions that all campus housing be co-ed, invites student opinion. Please submit your reactions to the recommendation in writing to Box 2224 before Janoory 29th. Please take this opportunity to let your voice be heard. ------------------------- 1 : STUDENT SERVICES,BOX 224026,HOLLYWOOO,FL 33022 1 : YES! IwantVISA$/MASTERCARD®Credlt : I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which ls 100% refundable lfnot I I approved immediately. I I I I NAME I I I 1 ADDRESS 1 I CnY . STATE -ZIP I • -s# • 1 PHONE S. : 1 I SIGNATIJRE I I I N011';: MastaCaro ts a n:gtstem:l t111demark of M.asterdiW lntemwtoll!ll. Jnc_ I I VIsa Is a registered tradelllllrk of VISA. USA. Inc. and VJSA lntemaUonal I Setvtces Assoctauon. 1000/o GUARANTI~D! 1 I I 1.--L--------------------..J -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - til - - -

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, January 17, 1991 CONCERT BAND Rehearsal Tonight I 4:30 pm-5:45 pm Memorial Chapel Questions call: Denise or Teresa at 386-4354 Delta Psi Delta Union College's. ;cOtifACTSi t ,., ,,~.L;-- t l I :1 , ., ~ • I \~ . • 1---- .. ~ LStudent Services ENS LAB Contact Lenses For Less Fast, Convenient, Direct-to-You savings of up to 50%. All Brands and Prescriptions in stock, in- cluding Tints & Disposables. Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- tory-sealed vials. Call for information and FREE CATALOG. 800-726-7802 PRE-LAW SOCIETY Meetings held on Tuesdays CC409 7:30 p.m. All Welcome! ! 'Support ACM! Beat the Bookstore 3.5'' Disks $1.50ea. Work with IBM, Mac, and other computers Available at Student Consulting Desk - Steinmetz 102 Fraternity INFORMATION MEETING Thursday, Jan. 24, 1991 LOOK FOR SIGNS 24 Hours 7Days So you want to be considered for Financial aid? Well then .. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present Research on the Rarest Whale; The Right Whale, Eubalaena Glacialis Director of Research Center for Coastal Studies Provincetown, Mass. 10 January, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES ROOM 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 APPLY! APPLY ON TIME! APPLY EACH ACADEMIC YEAR! Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs are due to CSS by March 1, 1991. All other application materials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1991. BE A ROC VOLUNTEER! The \Reach Out Center\ sponsored by Big Brothers/Big Sisters is looking for volunteers. Roc is an evening program of Recreation, Education and Counseling for Schenectady youth. As a Union College \Mentor'' at ROC you will have an opportunity to play ping pong, foosball, basketball, volleyball, floor hockey, do arts and crafts, tutor, and more while befriending Schenectady krds in need of companionship and supervision. WHEN: Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday Night (Pick one) - 6:00- ~t:OO p.m. WHERE: Central Park Middle School (Car pools available) QUALIFICATIONS: We need volunteers who enjoy kids and who are able to help out on a weekly basis. CALL : Big Brothers/Big Sisters Schenectady office at 37 4-4523 What Time Is It? r I I ; < 'I I I I' I

.. I' I I :. 'I CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT From London to New York: \ Miss Saigon\ By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor \Miss Saigon\ is a musical based on the tragic love story of \Madame Butterfly\ using VietNam as its setting. It was conceived by Alain Boublil and Claud-Michel Schonberg, whose collaboration on the script and score of \Les Miserables\ won them prestige as well as Tony and Grammy awards in 1987 and 1988. For months, Broadway has been preparing·for the arrival of this hot London musical, and when last I counted, there had been over $6 million worth of advance ticket sales. However, in August of last year, actor's Equity announced that due to their feelings regarding equal opportunity employment, they could not condone the London cast chosen by producer Cameron Macintosh. A British man named Jonathan Pryce had been playing the part of a Eurasian pimp, and the American actors and actresses who make up Equity felt it unfair for the role to go to a Caucasian. Therefore, they sent Macintosh an ultimatum regarding the situation: replace Pryce, they said, or do not bring your show to New York, Macintosh replied with a surprising answer: Fine. We won't come. Needless to say, the theatrical community, as well as Broadway businessmen, were quite disturbed with the situation. Miraculously, Equity reversed its previous decision only a few days later. Macintosh was welcome to bring his London cast to New York, Jonathan Pryce and all. The slightly ironic twist came when I opened my Shades of Grey 8 p.m. beginning January 21 Monday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: new stages of performance. Hickok Lounge Fox Lounge Davidson Lounge CC Auditorium January 17; 18, 19-the incredible RENO! \So OK, RENO has been com- pared to Leru1y Bruce, Whoopi Goldberg, Bette Midler and Ma- donna. She is one very funny woman,- -The Boston Globe \She manipulates her explosive huninr like a .powerful weapon, lashing out at injustice ... She provides bigbly animated and riveting material and snarls her way through the show with power and punch to spare.\ -The New York Post \RENO leaves the audience in stitches on the floor while they're simultaneously biting their nails to the quick.\ -The New York Times At the Nott Theatre on the Union College Campus. r -octor's Too-where the best begins. Pri=> $12.50 and $6.00 (stwknls}. Ca.ll(518) 346-6204 SPECIAL TICKET PRICES FOR THE ONION COLLEGE COMMUNITY: Thursday 17th, Friday 18th STUDENTS $3.00 FACULTY/STAFF $5.00 Saturday 20th STUDENTS $6.00 FACULTY/STAFF $10.00 'riCKETS AVAILABLE m LOBBY OF COLLEGE CENTER H A w L A R I E G I R A s E R r L E 0 N A L program at the Drury Lane Theater only to fmd that Pryce is no longer with the cast. The role of The Engineer is now being played by Hilton McRae, yet another Caucasian, this time from Scotland. Why did Pryce leave after the controversy was settled in his favor? I have no idea. And why didn't Macintosh take this opportunity to find someone from outside the U.K. to play The Engineer? You've got me there, too. Anyway, \Miss Saigon\ is set in and around VietNam from 1975-8. Chris, an American GI (played by Simon Bowman), meets Kim, a Vietnamese prostitute (played by . either Lea Salonga or Monique Wilson) who has been given the nickname \Miss Saigon\ because of her beauty. Well, Chris \buys\ Kim one night from her pimp, The Engineer... one thing leads to another.. and by morning it's insto-love for both of them. The two get married in Saigon '(although the ceremony would not be considered binding by American standards), and are living happily together in a hut in the jungle. Suddenly the story jumps ahead three years, and we find that Chris is now home and married to an American woman named Ellen. We also learn that Kim is still in Saigon (now Ho Chi Mihn City), and has a young son named Tam who is actually Chris' child. Needless to say, here begins the conflict that runs throughout the musical until its tragic ending. Kim and The Engineer take Tam to Bangkok, hoping 1D find a way to get to the states and to Chris. In the second act, Chris receives word that Kim is still alive, and is looking for him. He decides to go to Bangkok with Ellen and his war buddy, John, to straighten the whole thing out. Once again, the clock turns to a different time, and we are now thrust back to Saigon on the night when Chris and Kim last see each other. Chris is called to the base, and due to mass hysteria, is forced to leave VietNam before he can find Kim and take her with him. Chris searches for Kim for a year to no avail, and finally gives up hope, thinking she must have been killed. An aside, a huge helicopter descends from above, lands on the stage, and then lifts the actors away during this scene. It is oossibly the coolest Continued on page 16 Displayed On Campus .. • Harriet Toben's work is on display in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. She was born in the· Bronx and graduated from Queens College with a Fine Arts degree, and studied at the Art Students League taking courses in Life Drawing and Fashion Illustration. Her fashion career started as Buyer of Sportswear at Sears, Roebuck and {::o. This was followed by a successful partnership in her own sportswear company. Mter four years, she went into business for herself creating a new look in active sportswear by giving it a sophistication it had not had before. her designs were in the most elegant stores throughout the country including Saks Fifth A venue, I. Magnin, Neiman Marcus, Bonwit Teller and Tennis Lady as well as in fine catalogs. Vogue, Self and mademoiselle magazine and others showed her clothes editorially. When the competition for the look Harriet had pioneered became fierce, she decided to retire early so that she could go back to the enjoyment of art she had had as a youth. She then studied ceramics and sculpture at the Westchester Art Workshop, the Brookfield Craft Center, the 92nd Street Y and the YWCA at 53rd Street. Her work was accepted for both the 1989 and 1990 juried exhibits of students' work at the Craft Students League. Inspired by a show at the Hudson River Museum two years ago, she started creating her own photo collages. In order to give dimension and depth to a visual scene, many pictures arc taken in an overlapping sequence which often extends over a period of time. This makes for an opportunity to create a fullness of expression that is difficult to achieve any other way. The photo collage draws the viewer into the scene in a way that is very different from other photography or art forms. Her subjects are drawn from her own life or others in specially commissioned works. The camera she uses is the Canon Sure Shot Supreme, the film is Kodak Color Gold 100. Harriet Toben has enjoyed living in Hastings-on-Hudson for the last 20 years. Bowl For Kids Sake Unkm <)oUege wi·~l be sponsoring the annual Bowl For Kids Sake fund raiser ... on · · • · ·. · · · 10. This fundraisar benefits the Big Brother/Big Sister agency in tm'~f.<~slx•1WJieir&an.:j:~f~Jld'<t~&.t).ole· to sponsor you. Teams ttf'lt)Ut)S on campus. Teams are · S'tgma Ph4 t.ast JOIN us for a Traditional Friday night dinner at the KOSHER KITCHEN $6.00 for non-meal card holders or a punch for meal card holders All welcome!

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Better Than Bran - The WRUC By RON EUGENIO The 90th year of the Twentieth Century wasn't a good one for music. Certain bands were accused of satanism and causing rapes, while a cowed majority emptied their pockets for cartoon characters like Milli Vanilli and New Kids on the Block, cartoon characters that paid more attention to their videos than their audio. The year's superstar, Sinead O'Connor, was stuck in a senseless pile of nationalistic bigotry, and whle she can't dance like MC Hammer, you won't catch her lip-syncing to \Feelings\ in a soft drink commercial eitller. So, instead of looking back at a year of vinegar, there five things to watch for in 1991. 1. The cities of Manchester and Seattle- Both places boast music scenes that betray the places' appearance. Manchester is a dreary English town, but is the birthplace of The Stone Roses, 808 State, The Charlatans. and The Inspiral Carpets, bands that still believe the technicolor Summer of Love is still in effect. Seattle is turning into Yuppie heaven, but with the grungy sounds of Soundgarden, Alice in Chains, HOROSCOPES Capricorn: Happy Birthday! Feel free to end useless relationships. This is the time to make yourself happy. · Aquarius: The new term has really gotten under way, so join Capricorn in celebrating, while you still can. Pisces: Since you became confused on the 15th, life hasn't been the same. But you will find answers and new relationships around the 22nd. Aries: Yot.I will find yourself strapped with enormous responsibilitks until March. Good Luck! Taurus: You got to know a few (3 or more) people too well this past week. You have been safe up until now, watch out! Gemini: With the war over weather the baggy sweatshirt look might not hide everything. Stay indoors to avoid embarrassment. Cancer: Scorpio, your astrological mate will need your help relaxing mid-month. Be there for them. Leo: Don't be depressed because you missed Theatetfest. There's lots else for you to do. Virgo: Your future lies ahead. Don't avoid it. Libra: You will have a very important visitor this weekend. Scorpio: Cancer thinks you need help. Play the part. Maybe you can have a good time. Sagittarius: Beware of ·running out of Christmas money. Your parents will tell you to get a job. Rescuers Russia House Godfather Pt. Ill MQrmaids Look Who's Talking Too Ski School Lion Heart Mohawk Mall Home Alone Dances with Wolves Awakenings Edward Scissorhands Not Without My Daughter Kindergarden Cop and the Screaming Trees, only good can come from this. 2. The new R.E.M. album- The rumors swirlng about album number seven are endless; will it be a double album? Will KRS-One from Boogie Down Productions be producing? Will they break up after this album? Here are a couple of cold facts. They have at least 28 songs written. It is being mixed at Paisley Park Studios. It is due next month. As for the rest, please hold your breath. 3. Rap- If you still refuse to listen to rap, you missed about 80% of what is exciting Miss Continued from page 15 thng I have ever wiblessed on a stage, not to mention the loudest. The final scene of the musical is set in the present time: Bangkok, 1978. Kim meets Ellen and tells her to take Tam back to the U.S. with Chris. She begs Ellen to listen to her, for her son must have a good life, regardless of what happens to her as his natural mother. Kim then gives Tam to Chris, and as the Americans are walking away with her son, Kim shoots herself. With \Miss Saigon\ comes a new conception of \the musical\. This genre of theater has previously been known for its light entertainment, full of singable songs, chorus girls and an uncomplicated plot. But recently, with the introduction of \Les Miserbles\ and \Phantom of the Opera\ a in music today. You also probably bought the self serving GJ lteful Dead six albums set in September. The hip-hop nation has kept it's breakneck pace, not making rules, and breaking them anyway. From Digital Underground to Ice Cube to the feminist band B.W.P., the end isn't in sight. 4. MTV- Just when you thought it only consisted of the latest tasteless Warrant romp and dancy Madonaa wanna-bes, MTV expanded the hours of both 120 Minutes (Late Sundays and Wednesdays) and Yo! MVT raps (see #3 above this). Yes, video has killed the Saigon different form has been taking shape on the Broadway stage, one which is of the more dramatic and tragic type usually associated with the opera. But this form can be problematic when trying to incorporate older components of the musical within its realm, and I found that \Miss Saigon\ was difficult to accept for just this reason. For example, the frrst scene is basically an introductory chorus number, with women dressed as prostitutes and men as American soldiers. Try to imagine the scene at the bar, with men singing \The heat is on in Saigon, the women ar hotter than hell,\ and then try to imagine taking it all seriously. To then move to such a melodrama was not an easy adjustment to make. However, some of the other company numbers worked very well, such as The Engineer's radio star, but with the addition of the hyper/confusing] unbelievable show called Buzz, at least they aren't jogging in place. Keep scanning for an occasional breakthrough. 5. Censorship- The \Us vs. Them\ mentality hasn't ceased to this day. These ~ys a reckless younger generation continues to stray from the beaten path, challenging elders with a vengance. Tried and true formats are carelessly being thrown away for movements and sounds that aren't government approved and haven't been accepted by a God- fearing public. Here's to another year of struggle. • • • two songs entitled \What a Waste\ and \The Amerian Dream\. And, although the music was not memorable or \catchy\, I really enjoyed the harmony and melodies of the songs sung by Kim and Ellen (\I Still Believe\ and \Room 317\). Yes, there was even a pretty love ballad or two. All in all, I was most impressed by the ingenuity and complexity of stage design and scenery. That helicopter I alluded to before was out of control, and the lights on the main street in Bangkok are also close to fabulous. Like many big productions, \Miss Saigon\ was a grand-scale event, somewhat more like a circus than a musical, but none the less, exceptionally entertaining, and incredibly sad. It opens in New York some time in April, I believe, and I strongly suggest calling way ahead for tickets. Enjoy! On Campus Movie CG !HI ((}) § 7! CC Auditorium 7, 8, 11 p.m. Friday .. Sunday

CONCORDlENSIS, January 17, 1991 Mon. 1/21, Hickok Lng. 8 p.m. Tues. 1/22 Fox Lng. 8 p.m. Wed. 1/23 Davidson Lng. 8 p.m. Thurs. 1/24 CC Aud. 7 p.m. By, for, and about Union Students Beta Chapter of PHI SIGMA KAPPA invites all those interested to a FORMAL RUSH FUNCTION Monday, January 21,5:30 p.m. Chicken and Ribs Dinner follow by Indoor Sports with PRIZES! State Street Thursday, Jan. 17th Rush Informational Meeting 8 p.m. College Center Auditorium All Women Welcome Sponsored by the Panhellenic Council Pro- Choice Meetings Every Monday at 6:30 p.m. in Rm. 105 Social Sciences If you care about the Issue, then prove it! Attend the meetings and find out what YOU can do! Business & Professional Women's Club P0Box413 Albany, New York 12201 ATTENTION!!! ATTENTION!!! ATTENTION!!! ATTENTION!!! State Street Club, B.P.W., National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs -- is proud to announce availability of Two $1,000 Scholarships to support women in career-related study during academic year 1990-1991! To be eligible, applicants must be: • A woman 25 years of age or older •A Current member of any district ill B.P.W. Club • Enrolled or accepted for full or part-time study in a program leading to an academic, technical; or vocational degree or certificate Deadline for receipt of applications is March 31, 1991 Successful candidates should direct completed applications and any questions to: Scholarships Committee State Street Club, B.P.W. c/o Kathy Cooke 253 C Palmer .Road East Greenbush, NY 12061 Page 17 The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Sun-Joo Shin, Stanford University, candidate for the 1991 position on Monday, January 21, 1991 There will be an informal lunch and classroom presentation entitled: \Liar's Paradox\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge There will be a public lecture entitled: \Valid Reasoning and Venn D . \ 1agran1s in Humaities 110 'tt 4:00 p.tn. All members of the campus community are wekome to attend TO ALL FRESHMEN:· COME TO THE Aw HAN GOVER HELPER ALL FRESHMEN ARE INVITED TO THE 1\<f> DRY RUSH FUNCTION ON S/\TURD/\Y JAN. 1 9 AT 1 2 N 0 ON , 1\ T DE L T 1\ PI-ll . BRUNCH, HOT BEVERAGES AND GOOD COMPANY WILL HIGHLIGHT THE OCCASION . Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available This year will be the sixth year for our summer research program. About 30 College-funded summer research fellowships of $2000 will be awarded to students who will work over the summer with a faculty sponsor. Applications are invited from students in all areas of the co liege. Previous fellows have come from all departments of the college and have worked on projects as diverse as economic planning, bibliographic work, translations, laboratory research or field work in Alaska. If you are interested in applying, you must have a faculty sponsor for your project, and the project must be at least loosely related to her/his research. Each faculty member can only sponsor one research fellow. Talk to faculty members who might be possible research sponsors. Usually you should have taken at least one course from that person, but that is not required by the program. If the faculty member agrees to sponsor your application, work with him/her to complete the application. Juniors and sophomores will have priority over freshmen. Your time commitment to the summer research should be equivalent to AT LEAST a half-time job, and is determined by your sponsor. Applications and guidelines will be available from Prof. Tobiessen in room S309 Science Center or from the Biology Office (Rm S324) after January 28th~ Applications are due to Tobiessen on Friday, March 1st . LATE APPLICATIONS WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED! Fellowships will be awarded during the tenth week of the term, so that if you do not receive one, you can find other summer work over spring break. If you have questions, call Tobiessen at 6028 after January 28th.

Page 18 CLASSIFIEDS This Valentine's Day surprise your roomma·te, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity brothers with a \Union College Telephone Gift Certificate\ available for purchase at Telecom- munications Office, College Center, 103. For more info call 370-6411. Studio Apartment available, $250/month, all utilities included. 382-1217 or 393-1654. Scholarships, Fellowships, Grants. Ed's Services, Box 3006, Boston, MA 02130 VOLUNTEER Volunteers B 0 C E S Regional Planning is looking for individuals to watch toddlers who may have handicaps for one evening on January 29 from 6:45-9:15 p.m. If interested, please contact Kathleen or Shirley at 456-9071. CLUBS DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION - Annual dinner meeting of the Inter- Faith Community of Schenectady Monday, January 21 at 6:30 p.m. at St. Clare's Hospital Auditorium with Rev. Carl Taylor speaking on \Developing A Sense of National purpose.\ NEWMAN SUPPERS Tuesday, January 22nd at 5 p.m. we will gather for supper and a Valentine coloring party for local Shut-ins and U.S. Military in Saudi Arabia. All are welcome. Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC205. THE GULF CRISIS AND YOUR LIFE - Wednesday, January 23 CC302 12:00-1:30 p.m. a member of the Inter- Religious Service Board; Visiting Professor of English, Bruce Mciver and Torn Brooks, Sargeant Major Batallion Hdg. U.S. Army will answer four questions about military options and Jim Murphy, R.C., member of Pax Christi and the Peace Reconciliation Fellowship; and Ed Bloch WW II Veteran, Presbyterian Layman will interject personal responses. Sponsored by the Religious Programs Office. All welcome. This same program will be repeated Monday, January 28th from 7-9. FOLK GROUP - Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in St. John's church to rehearse. TUTORING Union ~tudcnts who arc interested in CONCORDIENSlS, January 17, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. PERSONALS Karen, The Bills make me wanna puke, kick my heals u:p and fart... Love, A., J., J ., E. To Bakes, Stan, Doug, Steve,. John, Semper F. -The Brothers By Lei ACROSS 1 Ship's steering wheel 5 DESERT ANIMAL 10 Cry outloud 14 Met solo 15· Nimble 16 The \E\ in \HOMES\ 17 Lass 18 Attacked: 2 wds 19 Leisure 20 SEA ANIMAL 22 SLOW MOVING ANIMALS 24 Be Ill 25 Fend Off 26 STRIPED ANIMAL 29 __ Moines 30 Hall 34 Roman poet 35 Rei. sect 36 New Orleans streetcar 37 College in Rochester N.Y. 38 MORBID ANIMAL 40 Maverick: Abbrev. 41 Screams 43 \CAV\ and \LAX\ follower 44 Blood vessel network 45 Nobel prize winning chemist in 1922 46 Cheer for the Matador 47 Potato peeler 48 Braise stew 50 Record: Abbrev. 51 DEER-LIKE ANIMAL 54 PROUD ANIMAL 58 So be it 59 Work out The Islanders are poised and ready to make a run at the Stanley Cup. New cabinet to be \lynched\ by the old. BEWARE! Dear Joe, Do you know what time it is'? I thought you did. Happy birthday. Love Ya! Sue I said I went fislring and caught a striped bass. ''C3.? Their community property had been equally divided. Sllll, ~ellhar one of them was hloppy with the divorce seUiemenL Beer Wench, Believe it or not, newspapers can run pictures. Jimmy, I'm so glad you're here. You're the greatest and I'll miss you. Kisses. -Bronchitis Babe . ............ _. __ ._ ........ .,. ... __ , ______ ~\ ~·------·-· ·- - --------- --~ .. ---------·--·-··--··--·-------·--··-····· .. . .... ....... ·-·\ ___ .. _,., __ , __ .. ____ .. _____ ............... _, ______ , .... . -- ...... -·--·-- ...... ________ ...... ':\-' .......... ~ ......... ---·\·---------···-· ............. ·- ... . =-~ ~=-~~~--·=::====:=:=::-::--_ .... , ~ ,, I .. . ·~..... ; ~- .. ·- ·- Write a Personal Q Only 50¢ Q College Center Info Booth Weekly Crossword \ANIMAL FARM\ 61 Sooner 62 Mid-term or final 63 Thesaurus author 64 Oliver nickname: Variation 65 Table scraps 66 Licorice tasting herb 67 Brad DOWN 1 Crones 2 __ the Red 3 Roman llough 4 BLIND HUftTED ANIMAL 5 Ms. Burnett 6 \ between generations\? 7 Part of an hr. 8 Makes happy 9 Relieve: 2 wds 10 SCARAB ANIMALS 11 Sociehea 12 Sagacious 13 Singer Peggy and General Robert 21 Star War Princess: Variation 23 took again 25 COLD BLOODED ANIMAL 26 Greek dancer 27 Sins 28 Nibbled the bait: 2 wds 29 River in Sweden 31 Track official 32 Emulate Patrick Henry 33 Not ever 35 Strap hanger's vehicle 36 Arid 38 Corruptible By Gerry Frey 17 20 62 65 39 North American Indian 42 GNAWING ANIMALS 44 MASKED ANIMAL 46 Cllaracter in \A Mid- summer's Night Dream' 47 Pod member 49 The most 50 French income 6 7 8 9 10 u 12 l3 51 Spanish cat 52 USA ell. 53 Gusto 54 Pumpkin and apple, eg 55 Sooner's St. 56 103 57 Ship bottom ©1991 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 ·•

CONCORDIENSJS, January 17, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS Googs, PERSONALS I'll never forget that night in Tokyo. Call me soon. .Missy Jean - How's it going in Mexico? Have fun - we miss you! Hey Cooper! 1-21-70. Get Psyched!· ! Love,Akiko Michi L, Love, Rachel DFM- Sorry I've been lame this week, I'll make it up to you. Cheer Up! Love, Michi M. That was a mighty quick exit you made Sunday morning. I hope you didn't leave any unfinished business. To My Friends Overseas: God's speed ,in kicking Iraq's butt, we're all behind you. CRF, Jr. Bless tile American soldiers an.d all innocent civilians in the Middle East Bonjour Fenetre - Love, The Goldfish Girl Economics Club Meeting Thursday .. January 17th in Social Sciences Room 103 at3:30 * Short meeting to discuss this term's activities. All Members Must Attend! ! WHO TED Staff for 1995 Freshman Record APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE IN THE Dean of Students Office College Center, 306 WAYS TO AVOID WINTER BLUES AT THE COLLEGE CENTER; 1. CLASSICS MOVIES- FOOD ROOM 302 2. SHOOT POOL, CHALLENGE BACKGAMMON AND OTHER GAMES. 3. THRILL TO THE MIDWEEK FILM SERIES- WEDNESDAY NIGHTS IN THE AUDITORIUM. 4. TINKLE THE KEYS OF THE GRAND PIANO IN fHE DUTCH HOLLOW. 5. BORROW THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES VAN AND TAKE YOUR GROUP SKIING, SHOPPING, OUT TO DINNER, ETC. 6. PURCHASE TICKETS FOR PROCTOR'S EVENTS AT A SPECIAL REDUCED RATE. GET A GROUP OF 20 OR MORE S1UDENTS AND CALL PROCTOR'S FOR GROUP RATE. · 7. PURUSE THE BULLETIN BOARDS ON THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, AND FOURll-1 FLOORS FOR MEETING TIME$ AND DATES, LEClURERS, ITEMS FOR SALE, RIDE REQUESTS, ETC. 8. CABARET/COFFEE HOUSE 302 9. THINK SPRING APPLICATION DEADLINE: Thursday, January 24, 1991 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON PARTICIPATING INANY OF THESE BLUES- REDUCERS, OR IF YOU HAVE SOME IDEAS OF YOUR OWN TO SHARE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES/COLLEGE CENTER OFFICE ON THE FOURTH FLOOR OF THE COLLEGE CENTER OR CALL 370-6118 OR 370-6129 QUESTIONS: ??? CALL 370~6116 Sun Mon THIS MONTH~ AT UNION Tue .January 1991 6 7 8 Classes Begin 4 : 00 PM Swimming 3:45 PM CC302 Prog, Bd. 7:30 PM CC302 Dramatic Reading • Sophocles Ajn e.-oo PM Men's B-Bal 13 14 .15 CCAud Film: Goodfell~ 12:00 PM CC302 Martin 12:00 PM CC302 Wed Thu 2 3 CCAud Film: Tho Big 11:30 AM CCAud Chill Minerva Hour: 7:00 PM Women's B-Ba • ... Whales\ 7:30PM Hoclc9y 4'!:1J PM CC Atrium SITES Opening Reception 1 !i , 7 CCAud Film: Gorillas In 11 :30 AM CCAUD Fri Sat 4 5 1 1 , 2 CCAud Film: Goodfellru CCAud Film: Goodtetlas 4:00 PM CCAtrlum TGIF 1:00PM Men's B·Bal \Music • Monkfish Creole • 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse B:OO PM Men's 8-Bal 18 CCAud Film: Ghost 3:00 PM Men's B·Bal 7:00PM Women's B-Bal 7:30PM Noll- The Gin Garre 1 9 CCAud Film: Ghost Theate·rfest -> Luther King Reading Plateful of Questions the Mist Minerva: Ground-Water 5:00 PM Newman Club 2:00PM M!Ws I:OO PM Wo~·s B.Sa 3:45PM CC302 Prog. Bd 5:00PM CC205 . .6:00PM CC302 Dinner Newman Supper 2:30 PM Not! Mask Worl<shop 7'!:1J PM CC302 . Theater: Actor'• Shakespea~o Reading Nightmare 7:30 PM Rectory Newman Club Reception 20 21 6:00 PM CC302 Dinner 11:00 PM Swimming 7:30 PM CC302 Nightmare crosstalk: The Drafl 6:00 PM Women's 8-Ba 8:00 PM CC 409 8:00 PM Men's B-Bal Newman Club Speaker 8:00 PM Nott • Richard Rand ln \little guys• 22 23 7:00 PM Women's B-Bal Retreat • Swimming Bo02 PM Nott • Proctor'£ 8:02 PM Nott • Proclor'5 B.OO PM Mens B-Bal! Too presents Reno Too presents Reno 24 25 8:02 PM Nott • Proelor'! Too presents Reno 26 CCAud Film: Ghost Vigil lor Martin Luther ~:00 PM CC205 CC302 Reserved all day I 1:30AM CCAUO CCA.ud F~rn: DieHard 2 CCAud FUm: l>ie Hard 2 K \lll 1 T. Kinn Oau N-man S•'\\\r - Rehearsal Minerva: Environ. Risks 7:30PM CC302 7 _. 30 \\\ \--'·ey I ng On lip -·u J Q~ -...-· rM n'-\\' 12.-.n PM CC\\\' 7·30 PM u-..t.ey CCAud Film: Gross 7:00 PM Shades of Gre• Coffeehouse 8 :00 P\ \C UC c~cort Theate rf est -> ....., . \\\ · \\\\ • M ... ~· Women s Speaker Lunch 8:00 PM Shades of Grey Anatomy CCALO 7:30 PM Natt • A Night Band Perlonnance 7:30 PM Old Chapel M.L . E hies g.IV'. pu CC302 Kin\ Memorial Servloe 3:45PM CC302 Prog. Bd. ·Fox Lounge 12:00 PM CC302 t .vv .., of Scenes • In the GuH Part I Broadway Cabaret B:OO PM OO,t,. TRIUM 8:00 PM Sllades of Gray Hickok Lounge 8:00 PM Shades of grey· Mountebanks Freeze 9:00 PM CC302 Free Davidson tounga Film Series 27 28 CCA.ud Film: Dla Hard 2 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd 12:00 PM CC302 5:00PMCC302 Superbowl P arly 9:00 PM IJ/Ws Track 9:00PM CC302 Free Film Serle$ Plateful of Questions 5:00 PM CC205 N&Wman Supper 7.00 PM Women's B-Bal 7:30 PM HocJcey 30 CCAud Film: Heathers 7:30 PM CC302 Crosstall<.: Athletics 31 11 :30 AM CCAUD Minerva: N.Y. R&pLb. Party BOO PM CC302 Cabaret-·Scsnes This calendar is presented by the College Center/ Student Activili es Programming Board. X6118. Page 19 MM- y ou are going to have a fabulous weekend ... Love is in the air •.• -L- Michi L- Have a great weeke11d with Jill. Save the water. -L- Peace- Not War ! ! ! To my dancing partner on the balcony: I have two things to say - WOW! and thank y6u for the past six months. Happy Anniversary! Love, Alien Bunny UNION RUGBY: On Monday, Jan. 21st at 4:00 in Soc. Sci. an inf()rmational meeting for all members and future ~nembers of Union College Men's Rugby. Anyone can attend! THINK GLOIJALL Y ACT LOCAtLY EVERY DAY '.'\:M ..•. t;.., .. ;mo. ' ··. l.Jttf;lfw · · · ~Y .... ~it~n .· ~A·~ll'-nt:1 1 educational, entertaining events at your nngettips.

CONCORDIENSlS, J;muary 17, 1991 .~ .. ,.; . cc 409 DELTA PSI DELTA will be sponsoring a CHARITY FOOD DRIVE The Week of Jan. 28 - Feb. 1, 1991 in the College Center Look for more information in next week's Concordiensis. Big Brothers/Big Sisters B,owl For Kids · S,ake Union CoHege wiill once again kick-off the · annuar Bowl For Kids Sake fund raiser of Big · Brothers/Big. Sisters both as \bigs\ and as · ment·ors to local children ·in our evening . program. The funding to support these · prog.rams is raised primari'ly through the Bowl For 'Kids Sake Bowlathon. The Bowlathon is scheduled for Sunday, Febnaary 1Oth from 2:00-3:00 p.m. We need: 1) 'Teams of six bowlers. 2) Pledges 3) Enthusiasm ! I ! We provide: 1) F~ee bowling and shoes. 2) Free pizza and soda. 3) Pri:zes! 4) Dir~ctor billing of your sponsors. VVe would wei co me teams of individuals or clubs, fraternitie~, sororities and social groups as welL Orgamzed groups are eligible to compete for the \Traveling Trophy\ which was won by Sigma Phi last year. Students interested in participating can contact Big. Brothers/Big Sisters at 37 4-4523 or stol> in the College Center, Room 204 on Weclrlf~sda¥s between 3:00 - 5~00 p.m. Terry Andre, Un1on College Caseworker, will be available with additional information and pled~€ forms. I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education· Foundation in two categories--student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Tuesday, February 12, 191. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (81 00, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms availabl~ there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in 1he. Dean's Office (S 1 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E. F. are available in 1he Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.Fq the auidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Stud.ents who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before-it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants.

l 1 I \ 1 ' CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 21 SPORTS- Save The Oranges HuH Ponders Hockey Move The Union-Hamilton hockey game has in the past been marked by oranges being thrown at our rivals. While the hockey team always enjoys and looks forward to the lively .support of the Union · College fans, we would ask that for the upcoming Hamilton game the practice be stopped. It does not reflect well on the players, the fans or the school. As .a team we have in the past been the object of such missiles. It does nothing but slow the game down, take the momentum out of the game, and adds to bad feelings between the schools. The end result is that it does nothing but detract from tlie heated aml healthy rivalry that exists between the two teams. We feel that the energies of those who attend the game can be applied much more creatively and in a more respectable manner than they have in the past. We do not want to take away from the excitement of the Hamilton game but would like to see the enthusiasm displayed be done so in good taste. Please use oranges for food not for ammunition! Tha:nk you for your support, Brian Lucey '91 Terry Campbell '91 Rick Clifford '92 SCOREBOARD JANUARY 5 9 UNIONS UNION 10 Hockey (9·3·1) at Williams 4 vs North Adams 1 Women's Basketball {7-3.) 9 UN ION 59 vs Russell Sage 55 12 UN ION 59 vs North Adams 40 13 UNION 68 vs Smith 57 8 11 12 Men's UNION SO UNION73 UNION73 Basketball (8-2) at Williams 65 at Dickinson 70 vs Hamilton 85 Women's Swimming 8 UNION 78 vs Williams 163 12 UNION 144 at William Smith 78 Men's Swimming B UNION 62 vs Williams 181 12 UNION 142 at Hobart 88 This is our first ski trip of the season. We have chosen to go to Killington, Vt. on Sunday, January 20. The transportation is free, but the van only holds 15 people so signing-up is on a first come first serve basis in the student activities office 408CC. If for some reason the conditions at Killington are not good, we will chose another place with better ski conditions. Phi Delta Theta Winter Rush Event 12:30 Sunday, January 20th Wings & Wide Screen F All Welcome! Continued from page 1 move a women's sport up as well. After meeti11gs with the coaches, it was detenn.ined that there were no women's programs or coaches who wanted to move up. Still, Sociology Professor Eileen Kaplan said, \If coaches don't want to go Division I. that's not the end of the equity matter. If there's not a clear- cut decision to improve women's programs then this whole thing is a sham.\ Classics Profess()r Christie Sorum almost broke down as she delivered this message from four female students: \Wouldn't it be great if we could go Division I in hockey and wouldn't it be great if we could start a girls' hockey team as well'?\ -The potentially negative perception of the college's priorities. Martha Huggins~ also a Professor of Sociology spoke of smaller library and academic budgets, and fewer NCUR students this year. \We're putting potentially more money into this and certainly more focus,\ she added. President Hull addressed this concern by pointing out that any hockey move would be \revenue-neutral.\ \We're not cutting back on our programs academically,\ he said. -Union's blemished hockey history. In the 1970's, Ned Harknes~. a former NHL coach, brought unqualified students to Schenectady to play hockey and championed the withdrawal of the school from the New England Small College Athletic Conference (NESCAC), which was not allowed. Both acticns were disapproved by the faculty at the time. James Kenney, an Economic Professor, described himself as \one of the old folks that lived through the 1970's debacle.\ \The issue is integrity,\ he said. \Back then there was concern because of academic integrity. The league we're proposing to join does have (academic integrity). If this league doesn't have it, then no league has it. This league is Division I but I wish it weren't Maybe I'm naive, but I don't see this as the 'big-time hockey' that some people see. I would urge everybodY. to focus en this issue of academics and integrity. What we should ask ourselves is, is this better for our students?\ Political Science Professor Bob Sharlet would not let the memories of \Bonnergate\ die, however; Thomas N. Bonner was Pt<esident of the college from 1974 through 1979. Professor Sbarlet said that \Debate has to take place Hockey Schedule Should Union Accept The proposed 1991 schedule would be as follows: Saturday, November 9 - preseason gameTBA Friday, November 15 - Union at Brown Saturday, November 16 - Union at Harvard Friday, November 22- Vermont at Union Satur.day, November 23 - Dartmouth at Union Frtday, December 6- St. Lawrence atUn1on Saturday, December 7 - Clarkson at Union Friday, January 3- Union at Colgate Saturday, January 4 - Union at Cornell Friday, January 10 - Princeton at Union Saturday, January 11 - Yale at Union Friday, January 17 - non-league gamevs. TBA Saturday, January 18- Union at RPI Friday, January 24 - non-league gamevs. TBA Saturday, January 25- RPI at Union Friday, January 31 - Harvard at Union Saturday, February 1 - Brown at Union Friday, February 7 - Union at Dartmouth Saturday, February 8 - Union at Vermont Friday, February 14 - Union at Clarkson Saturday, February 15 - Union at St. Lawrence Friday, February 21 - Cornell at Union Saturday, February 22- Colgate at Union Friday, February 28- Union at Yale Saturday, February 29 - Union at Princeton Friday, March 6 - ECAC Quarter Finals Saturday, March 7- ECAC Quarter Finals Friday, March 13- ECAC Finals Saturday, March 14- ECAC Finals .vithin the institutional history of the college. Why does this college need to be Division I in a11y sport'? Has St. Lawrence gained by association with Harvard?\ President Hull approached NESCAC, which includes such schools as Williams, Amherst, Middlebury, Hamilton, and Bowdoin, with the intention of seeking readmission to that league, but was told that there are no openings and that there would not be for at least several years. -Whether URion can be competitive in the ECAC. \Were the decision to be yes and were we to be 0 and 24 then we would be 0 and 24 then so be it,\ President Hull told both the faculty and the students. \It's wrong for me to ever put pressure on coaches to win.\ The athletic department, of course, does not plan on dwelling in the basement of any conference. \Well over half of our current players are Division I (caliber),\ said Coach Delventhal. \What we're going to try to do is find a couple of top-notch guys.\ \I see Union College as having a particular niche in recruiting wars so that we can be successful,\ he continued. \We would maintain our . recruiting base plus expand into the Midwest. Since I've been here we've had some kids that would have come here had we been ECAC Division I. Currently 10 teams make their playoffs out of 12. Within a 3 to 5 year period we can be competitive. Right now we are a traditional ECAC (Division II) playoff bid team with a chance for an NCAA bid once every 4 years. We can be that type of team (on the next level).\ In Coach Dclvcnthal's two- plus seasons, the Dutchmen are 3-3 against Division l teams, with wins over RPI, Brown, and Alaska-Fairbanks, and losses to Michigan- Dearborn and twice to RPI. · At the student meeting, Brian Lucey, a senior tri- captain on the hockey team, spoke at length of the attractiveness of Union College to student-hockey players. It will be that attractiveness that will be relied upon to lure players to Union as opposed to the prestige of the lives, the preferential packaging of Colgate and St. Lawrence, or the scholarships offered by RPI, Vermont, and Clarkson. There will be another ope11 forum for students and faculty this afternoon at 4:30 in the College Center Auditorium. Sakala and Delventhal will both be present.

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 <!Tilttfllrbtrnsiz SPORTS Union Cagers Begin Season On The Right Foot Union's Alpine Skiers Hit the Slopes By THE. DOCTOR on a tight coarse took its toll on the Uni(m skiers. Betsy Mitchell turned itt the top women's time for Union and finished twelfth. overall. Peter Cowles proved to be the only Union man to finish, ending Continued from page 24 five. The only blemish on an otherwise perfect record came at the hands of Hartwick College, a school with an historically good program. Bill Scanlon, head of the basketball program at Union, chalked up the Hartwick defeat to several factors. Hartwick, a more experienced and older team, continually changed defenses against a Union backcourt that starts one freshman and has another corning off of the bench. Such defensive scheming forces the offense to continually adjust and make decisions. A young team will make mistakes in such decisions. When asked if youth was a deciding factor in the Harwick defeat, Scanlon said, \I don't want to pin it on anyone.\ Scanlon also said that various aspects of the Union attack broke down during the game. There are several attributing factors to the newfound Union successes. One is the improvement of the regiment of Dutchmen guards. Senior Jerry Brush at shooting guard is averaging over eighteen points a game, and is significantly su~Jporting the Union offense. The Union backcourt also features freshman addition Steven Evans out of Rome, NY. Evans, for a young player controls the tempo of the game, ~s well as the offense. Luther Winfield, also a freshman out of Buffalo, comes off the bench for Scanlon and adds much needed depth to the offensive attack. \I knew we needed help at guard~\ Scanlon said of the young backcourt. - Scanlon admits, however,. that the young team has played well beyond his expectations at the outset of the season ... We played ~ ome pretty good games,\ the coach said. Rouading off the Dutch men basketball squad are two veteran players who lead the team on and off the court. Captain Alex Nester is a senior who leads the team in rebo1:1Ilds and also averages eleven ]Joints a game. Another senior who also supports the team has recently made a return from the disabled list. Elgin Rho<les, a senior who is still recovering from a back injury, contributes greatly on the boards f<Jr the Dutchmen. The final two players on the team are Greg Corolla and Kenneth Evans, both freshmen. Corolla helps the team at strong forward while Evans, whom Scan1on tagged as the best athlete on the team, is back after suffering a knee injury early in the season. The improvement <lf the guard regiment has greatly strengthened the offensive side of the Union game. \We're geting more transition baskets,\ Scanlon commented. But the offense is not the only part of the game putting IJOints on the board for the Dutchmen. \This season the defense has caused baskets,\ Scanlo11 said. The strongest part of the Union attack is now its ball movement, \Overall the passing has greatly improved.\ According to Scanlon, tllough, the team has \average speed ... decent depth... nice chemistry... and [Sca.nlon] likes the personality\ of the players. But Scanlon's favorite part of the team is its diversity. Scanlon commented that if a player comes off the bench he is not necessar:i:ly a carbon copy of the player he replaced. Such diversity adds great character to a team, character that frustrates opposing. defenses and offenses. With all of this celebrating and congratulating over victories and new successes Scanlon warns against complacency. 'The softest part of our schedule is early~\ Scanlon said. \We have one tough game after another for the rest of the season.\ Tile tough games of which Scanlon spoke will come against 7-1 Williams, 7 ~o Hamilton, Dickinson and \Albany State is always tough,\ Scanlon said. These games will test the tme talent and nature of a ball team. Union could come out unscathed, with a 10-1 record and a team that has come together as a llnit in the face of adversity. On the other hand. the Dutchmen have yet to face a very difficult opponent with the obvious exception of Hartwick. A worse case scenario would have Union at 6-5 after its own invitational, and desperately in need of a win. Scanlon says his team, \ ... will try to take them one game at a time.\ The goal set by the Union men's basketball team at the outset of the season was to secure an invitation to a post- season tournament. After last year that seemed all but impossible. The season is still young and the team still untested, but this season's Dutchmen are a far cry from last year's squad. After seven games, . however, the team might just attain those goals. The Union Ski Team opened the 1991 season over the weekend with a meet at Toggenbutg, hosted by Syracuse. Union competes in the National Collegiate Ski Association in the Empire Division along with fourteen other teams, including Syracuse, Army, Colgate, Hamilton, Alfred, Clarkson, Ithaca, R.Pl, Albany, Hobart, and RIT, to name a few. The women's team, consisting of four year veteran senior Alison Pallota, junior Beth Foley, sophomores Betsy Mitchell and Julie Jamieson, and freshman Nicole Zymansky, got off to a good start in Saturday's giant slalom by finishing fifth overall. Pallotta finished in the top ten, followed closely by Foley. The men's team, consisting of seniors Steve Rowe and Peter Cowles, juniors Jem Sollinger and Pat Rowe, and sophomore Sean Livingston, got off to an equally strong start in the GS by also finishing fifth. Sean Livingston led all of the Union men with a tenth place finish. Sunday's slalom told a much different story. Equipment failure and a rough second run · up in thirty-first place. The team slalom results had not yet been determined when our van left to head 'home. Competiti~n in the league looks good t!J.is year, with many experienced skiers returning. Alfred continues to field a str()ng men's and women's. team and should prove to be fierce competition. Genene Ja~osz of Buffalo dominated the women's events and won them both. A guest appearance fr()m Paul Smith's Junior College enabled their men to claim wins in both events as well. Union looks good amongst the competition and should turn in a formidable year. The next race is this weekend at Hunter Mountain, one and a quarter hours south of here. OS starts at 10 a.m. on Saturday and slalom starts on Sunday at 9:30a.m. Both events are run on Hunter's F .I.S. race trail. Come out for a day of skiing and cheer on tile Union Alpine teams! You will be in for some exciting racing. FOR$20, WE'LL LET YoU HANG INlHEQUAD. $20 MID-WEEK LIFTTICKH. * W'trf hang out between the student union and the library, when you can be letting it all hang out at Mount Snow, Vermont on any one of our 84 trails. To hang-out even longer, join SnowBreak '91, Jan. 7-11 and 14-18-a 'Neek of parties, games, parties, parties and skiing! For a taped ski report, call (802) 464·2151. For more infor· mation, call (802) 464·8501. mount enow® When It Comes To Big Mountain Sluing, No One Else Is Close. •o«erfiDOd.........,\\\\Uh~~-·-collogoiD. 0 \'\\\'s-Lbl.- Discuss the Move to Hockey Team's Division I - with Coach Bruce Delventhal and Athletic Director Dick Sakala Thursday, Jan·uary 17 at 4:30 in the College Center Auditorium All are encouraged to attend/' - i ! l

I ' : l I ' I ,. r I i \ 1', '\ CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1991 Page 23 <llottntrbirnsis SPORTS J:eanne Cutrone Becomes First Union Swim:mer To Qu.alify for Nationals This Year By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Though the Union women's swim team lost a duel meet on January 8 to Williams College, the first such defeat for the team after 17 consecutive victories dating back to the 1988-89, it was not a total loss. The 163-78 defeat to the national-caliber team provided the scene f()r some great individual successes. The brightest of these accomplishments came from junior Jeanne Cutrone. who not only won two events, but also became the first Union swimmer to qualify for the Division III national meet along the way. For her outstanding effort, Jeanne Cutrone has been chosen as 1991's first recipient of the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week Award. At the Williams meet • Cutrone finished first in the 200-freestyle, but it was her winning time of 2:13.57 in the · 200 .. butterfly that enabled her to qualify for the nationals. L~st year, seven Union swimmers went to the nationals. Five of those swimmers, all of whom are juniors, are back this season: Cutrone, Kerstin Dorse, Anne Glicksman, Jen Joyce, and Amy O'Neill. All seven earned honorable mention All- American designations last year, while Cutrone, Glicksman, and Joyce earned similar honors as freshmen. Cutrone was a major contributor on last year's squad which finished with a perfect 9- 0 record in duel meets and won its first ever Division III state meet championship. She credits coach Susan Bassett for helping her to improve her 200-butterfly time by 12 seconds since she carne to Union. Her success in the classroom rivals that in pool, as Cutrone has been named to the Dean's List in both 1'989 and 1990. Congratulations and continued success to Jeanne Cutrone, this week's Con.cordiensis Sports Athlete of the week. CONCORD~ENSIS SPORTS COJ~lE$1T~(O)rNJ (O)IF i~rE W[ElEl Which NFL team holds the Ill\ 111111 reco·rd for the most points \lV sco:red in a playoff game and how many? ~ ~ NDIA¥1111l Ira£lDII ~nmcmall3 J})UD£ One 'Wittner shall be chosen from all correct entries. Submit entries to BOX 21 2 no laoor than 5:00 on the Monday after t;ach issue of Concordiensis. e · Movin' On Up By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor If the first few days of the new year are some kind of indication, it looks as if 1991 will be a year of change in the world (of sports). As we have already seen, and will see in the near future, many of the changes are not necessarily for the better. One of the most important sports decisions to us at Union is being considered even as this article is being written. To break a longstanding tradition of this column, I want to discuss sports at Union Colle.ge, specifically the Hockey program and its possible move up to the heights of Division I. I have though long and hard about the prospects of this move and the impact it would have on the college community and Union's 'reputation' beyond the school's gates. But before I go any further, let me fill you in on some of the specifics of this move. On December 17, 1990, the Eastem College A th'lcti c Association officially invited Union to join the league for play beginning in 1991· 92. (To fuJthcr clarify the situation for any confused readers, Union currently plays in the ECAC's Western division under a Division III classification from the National Collegiate Athletic Association.) An opening was created in the 12 team league in November when perennial doormat Army decided to drop out in order to play an independent schedule and win some more games. Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Clarkson. St. Lawrence, and RPI, to name a few, are all members of the ECAC. The possible implications of this move are great. Colleges and universities with a Divisicn I classification in a sport are permitted to offer athletic scholarships to team members. The exception to this rule is the Ivy League, who themselves choose not to offer solely athletic scholarships. RPI, for example, does provide athletic scholarships to its hockey players, though the NCAA last week lowered the amount of money small Division I schools can gives its athletes. Union, however, has said that they will not do this. They will continue to offer fmancial aid, as is the current practice, as well as loans and work study grants. Union officials have also said that they will not alter their admissions policies for prospective hockey players. In fact, an academic index imposed by the league itself upon its members prevents this from occurring, because specific requirements must be reached by all potential students to be granted admission to the institution. If this move were to occur, Union would have come up with more money to support and fund the expanded program. An additional referee would have to be added for each home game, as would extra security, because attendance would undoubtedly increase. Recruiting eff<lrts by the coaching staff would have to be broadened in an effort to <Jttrad many of the players to Union who would othcrw isc aucnd, say, Clarkson or St. Lawrence. School officials hope that these new funds would come from increased ticket sales. The current policy of complimentary tickets for Union students would still be in effect. However, the pick-up times for these free tickets, which seem to go unnoticed now, will be strictly en f urccd. All of this sounds fair to me. I have no problem with the school enforcing the pick-up times for free tic.kets, nor do I have a problem with increased security and recruiting. That is, if the money docs in fact come from the increased ticket revenue and not from an already strained school budgeL If all of this is true, and [ really sec no reason why I should believe otherwise, than I reluctantly approve of this proposed move. What would I need to fully approve of this, you ask? Well, to quote EC AC executive director Joe Bertagna from the January 11, 1991 issue of The Hockey News: \We've fonned what is basically a presidents' league, with the college presidents making the major decisions, and the academic index ensures that hockey players are representative of the institution, right across the board.\ If all of this really does hold true, if Union does not alter any of its current policies of admission for its hockey players~ then we should go for it. Union might not be in the class of a Harvard, Clarkson or RPI next season, or even by 1995, but we can be competitive. If my memory serves correct, we're competitive even now. Just ask RPI! SUPPORT UNION SPORTS . .... ......,, ....

0· b :c c.. UJ ....J 0 b :r a. UJ ....J u:: The Men's Swim Team beat Hobart for the first time in 21 years 142-88, whi'le the women beat William Smith 144-78. u:: Union wiU meet arch-rival Hamilton at Achilles Rink on Tuesday,. Jan. 22. Tile team captains want a word with their fans, se& p. 21. Men's Basketball On The Rebound By JARED SEL TER No one who watched last year's Union men's basketball team play could have picked them to finish well this year. To pick the team to go to any sort of post-season tournament would have been professional suicide for any sports analyst. The men's team completed the winter with an eleven win and fourteen loss performance. At this point last season the team had only two wins and had compiled five losses, meaning nine of their victories came later in the season. The team seemed to be caught in a quagmire, needing fresh talent but also needing quick improvement. Such improvements do not c?me, according to most conventiOnal wisdoms, with the aid of younger players who are new to the college basketball scene. At Union College such is nol the case. This season the Dutchmen are off to a six win and one loss record, their best start in recent years, and are looking forward to a post- season tournament bid in either the ECAC or NCAA division III tournaments. Union began its season with an impresssive victory in the Capital District Tournament that pitted four teams: Albany. Rensselaer Polytechnical Institue (RPI), Skidmore, and Union, against each other. Union faced a strong Skidmo~ team in the first round of tournament play but walked away with an eighty-six to seventy-six victory. The championship game, held on the eighth of November had the Dutchmen against the Engineers of RPI. Again, Union had their way on the court and came away champions with an impressive eighty to sixty-six win. The tournament win set a precedent for the early season as Union went on to win all of its following games save one. Victories came at the chagrin of Vassar, whom the Dutchmen humbled, ninety- nine to fifty-six, at Vassar. Union also took victories from Hobart, eighty-three to seventy-four, Norwich, eighty- two to sixty-eight, .and Kings Point, seventy-three to fifty- Continued on page 22 January 17, 1991 Skating Dutchmen Trounce A·dains 10-1; Record Now North 9-3-1 By DAN STRUM The Union Hockey Team put on a show last Wednesday night at Achilles Rink in their first home game since the winter break. Union enjoyed their most prolific offensive outing as they trounced visiting North Adams, ·1 0-1. A five-goal third period helped put the game out of reach as well as establish their dominance. In the first period, U nio11 wasted no time in setting the tone against North Adams as they scored only 1: 11 into the game. Dalton Me~l took_ a nice feed and let a qwck wnst shot fly into the upper right comer. At 7:39, Tim Cregan scored as freshman Byron Smith provided a screen. North Adams came right back only 40 seconds later on a scramble in front to make it 2-1. However, that would be tbe only defensive breakdown of the night. Following that goal, the Union defense wonld tighten up and allow only a few more quality chances. Union then added a power play goal late in the period. Senior Captain Terry Campbell controlled the puck in the offensive zone. Campbell passed back to Bill Sedergen who then scored on a slapshot from the point. Only 38 seconds later, Union scored again on a nice individual effort by Bill Railton as he broke down the middle to make it 4- 1. d . d The secon peno was marked by more physical play and hard work rather than scoring. Union got only olle goal in the period on Sedergren's second of the game. Goalie Shayne White came 11p with some big saves to ins11I'e Union's lead. He looked especially sharp on a man- down situation midway through the period as he turned away shots in a series of saves. Coach Bruce Deiventhal was pleased with the team's effort. The key to victory was Union's domination in almost every aspect of the game. Union outshot North Adams by nearly a two to one ratio, and also out-skated and out-hit the visitors. There was a balance of scoring as many players contributed. Craig Ferrero \lad one goal and two assists, Campbell bad a goal and three assists, Menhall bad two goals and two assists, Tim Cregan had two g<>als, while Rick Burchill and Jeff Jiampetti each added two assists. Union Hockey's overall record now stands at 9-3-1, as the team fared well over the winter break. They lost to Williams .. 8-6, in the first Division Ill Hockey National Rankings t)Eimira. 16-1-0 40 2)Mankata 13-1-4 36 3)Bemidji 14-2-2 31 4)Geneseo 12-1-1 30 5)Wisc. Stevens Pt. 6)Middlebury 7)Salem 8) Lake Forest 9)Wisc. Superior 10)UNI()N 12·6-0 24 7.,2-1 20 12-4-0 16 9-2-0 10 10-2-2 9-3-1 8 6 round of the Achilles Tournament, but went on to beat St. Anselm, 8-1, in the consolaltion game. Ferrero had a goal and two assists, Campbell had a goal and three assists, and Jiampetti had two goals. Then Union Q.efeated AIC. 7-4. They lost to RPI in th RPI Invitational e Tournament. However, they bounced back in beating Alaska Fairbanks to win the consolation round. Dalton Menhall had a hat trick in the\ game against RPI. He was later named to the All-Tournament team for his efforts in both games. In addition, Union scored an impressi~e win at Williams as they took the rematch, S-4. The Union Hockey Team consists of many quality hockey players. However, there are two who -deserve attention as they are approaching team records. One player vital to Unio11's success is Terry Campbell. Campbell is an extremely smart player whose presence on the ice helps to raise the play of his teammates to another level. He is currently third on the Union all-time scoring list with 144 points. He needs only three more to tie for second place. In addition, Campbell is only the second member to reach the 100-assist club. He is sure to break the record of 102 assists in the near future. Another player whose quick speed and hard shot are both assets for Union's front line is Craig Ferrero. Ferrero currently has a 22-game point scoring streak. He is approaching the record of 29 games set by Kip Churcllill. UNION HOCKEY SCORING G A f.!§.. Terry Campbell 9 20 29 Craig Ferrero 9 19 28 Dalton Menhall 11 16 27 Tim Cregan 8 6 14 Rick Clifford 4 10 14 Jeff Jiampetti 7 6 13 Rick Burchill 6 6 12 BiiiRailton 5 7 12 Scott Whitney 3 6 9 Wally Bzdell 4 4 8 Bill Sedergren 3 5 8 Jayson Flowers 4 3 7 Steve Battiston 1 5 6 Greg Eccleston 2 3 5 Bill McKenna 1 4 5 Brian Lucey 1 1 2 Byron Smith 0 2 2 Greg Steele 0 1 1

• Founded oBege 1877 Vol.. CXX, N.-. 10 Schenectady, New York January 24, 1991 ~· ,. ,. Faculty Passes Major-Minor Program Faculty Member Blasts New L.S.A.T. ! ',~;~~\\·~ r ',:,H :: By JAY FRE'ELA'ND News Editn Following almost :five years of sporadic debate,. it now appears that the a1litity to declare both a maje>r and a minor will be available to students during tl!e next academic year. Professor Bruce Reynolds of the Economics Department confirmed this today. Re:ynolds is chairman of the Academic Affairs Council (AAC} which voted in favor of tfie major- minor proposal by an 11-1 margin. Pending a]Jpr<lval by the Board of Tru~tee~ and President Hull, tile pr()gram will be available to any students next fall. The proposal for a major- minor program was :illitially tabled almost five y~s ago in order to more closel:y observe the incoming General Education curriculum_ Last spring, an AAC srubc<>uncil was formed to re()pen the major-minor prop<Jsal. According to ReyrlOlds, the subcouncil engaged. itself in several different activities to make a full assessm-ent <>f the feasibility of havin~ a major- minor program at Ulliqn. By talking with faculty-, looking at comparable sch<Jdl:s with a similr program, Clll<l p<>lling current seniors and juniors, the sub-committee recommended the proposal in its May report to the faculty. Through several revisions and two different meetings with the faculty, the proposal was passed by the AAC, and then presented to the faculty for voting. The faculty approved the program with an 80% majority in favor of implementation. Two factors that Reynolds felt were very important were that there was strong input from the students on the matter, and that there was such an overwhelming support from the faculty. Despite arguments which claimed the new program would add too much complexity to the current system, the faculty was still in overwhelming support. Reynolds also felt that the fact that 84% of Division I (Humanities) was in favor of the proposal was a positive sign. There were initial doubts as to whether or not the major- minor proposal would even be passed within this division. One argument in favor of the proposal which apepared to have great bearing was that surveys of last year's graduating class indicated that a large portion of students not only desired to have a minor, but also had taken enough courses to get one in a particular discipline. This helped dispel concerns that the minor would be too difficult to achieve in conjunction with the Continued on page 4 Program By STEVEN CARR Associate News Editor and SYBIL ZANGER One of Union College's most respected authorities on law school, Professor Joseph Board, recently expressed serious reservations about the school's new L.S.A.T. preparatory course. Professor Board, who has been in charge of law school guidance at Union for over twenty years, has several law degrees and is a professor at Albany Law School adjunct, claims that he was not asked for his opinion by. the administration before they decided to offer the course. After his discovery of the program, Professor Board told the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, the sponsor of the program, that h~ \would not keep my opinions to myself if they persisted on going through with it.\ Professor Board is against the program for several reasons: \In the first place, I'm not sure that any of these courses prepare you ... certainly, there is no reason to believe this Union College program has suddenly figured a way to teach this,\ he continued. \I can't involve Union students in this. Union Continued on page 4 Union's anti-war minority expressed its opinion at the College Center. 82% Of Students Polled Support War By MATT LANNI News Editor As coalition forces shower Iraqi military sites with constant and powerful bombing raids, Union students overwhelmingly voice their support of the war against Iraq, despite a loud minority crying \no blood for oil.\ In a poll taken by Concordiensis on Monday, January 21, 82% of the students polled said that they support American involvement in the Gulf War against Iraq. Sixteen percent were against the war, and two percent were undecided. One student commented that she \supported our soldiers\ but did not wish to state her position on the war. However, she pointed out that before the war began, she was against using force to get Ir..tq out of Kuwait. The results of this survey are in accordance with similar polls across the nation. In the most recent New York Times poll published on January 22, 75% of the nation \approved of starting military actions against Iraq.\ However, S.P.A.A. published a poll taken in last week's in last week's Concordiensis which stated that only 47% of the people polled believed that \it was necessary for the U.S. to go to war with Iraq.\ This change of opinion reflected the Continued on page 3 New Budget Increases Tuition By Smallest Percentage In A Decade H '\ t ~ I I>< By STEPHANIE FRAY The Board of Trustees approved President Hull's ' .. :,.:.'' · proposed budget for 1991-92 at its meeting on January 16 in New York City. .. rn The trustees endorsed a 6.8% ~ increase across the board for , ~ next year's budget, the lowest ~ increase in over a decade. The ::1 budget falls at only 1.8% over ~ the 5% estimated rate of -; ~ inflation for the upcoming 0 year. Hull's primary concern in o putting together the budgel was t to be able to \do that which we Schaffer Library is one area which will benefit from the new budget. want to do using our resources properly.\ As a result, tuition costs will rise by approximately $980, from $14,420 to $15,400 as opposed to the $1,065 increase last year, and . . . to it ion costs will rise by $980, from $14,420 to $15,400, as opposed to the $1,065 increase last year ... the average room and board charges (assuming that a 19· meal plan is purchased) will go up by approximately $344 in Continued on page S

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Jallllary 24, 1991 0.: '- p ~~ • ,, - - ' - - ' • (!Ivnr.orbirnsis NEWS- ANALYSIS Debate It Or Not, War Is The Answer By MATTHEW TRAINOR I consider myself a man of peace, yet when faced with a situation such as the one in the Gulf I find myself opting for war. This may seem hypocritical to many, but when one looks at the problem closely, one can see that there is little or no alternative. Saddam Hussein is not a man who wants peace. He desires personal power and nothing else. Kuwait is an incredibly wealthy country for its small size and since it was so poorly defended, Saddam Hussein could not help himself. He views the Gulf as a collection of countries that have to be ruled by somebody and tha~ somebody might as well be him. Many people feel that oil is not a good enough reason to go to war, but this situation is not just about oil. After the annexation of Kuwait to Iraq, Ir:aq became the most powerful nation in the Gulf area. With the enormous stores of wealth in Kuwait, Saddam has the ability to accelerate his chemical, military and nuclear programs, and would be able to better defend them. In a few He (Saddam) desires personal power and nothing else. Kuwait is an incredibly wealthy country for its small size and since it was poorly defended, Hussein could not help himself. years, Saddam Hussein would have a strangle hold on the entire area. Are there other solutions to this problem? How about the economic sanctions that were cutting off the imports that supported and fed the whole country? Given time, wouldn't they bring Saddam to reconsider his position? The answer to that question is no, The Complexity of War By JIM POLITES The land, impersonal interpretation of war, as defmed in Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, is a \state of open and declared armed hostile conflict between states or nations.\ For many of us, though, these three powerful letters instill a genuine fear and uneasiness deep in our souls that tends to call on all the passion and vigor we as Americans lack in society today. There is no other word or phrase in the English language that has the all-embracive impact of war, as evidences by the recent disarray, upheaval, and tension that has characterized the political and social forwn here in the United States, not to mention the now convoluted world scene as we all stare embattlcment in the face. As is fostered and promoted by the Constitution's Amendment of free thought and speech, we in this nation all have our own beliefs and extremities of this ugly word-- it would not be America otherwise. The group to the left leans toward the idea of pacifism; tlte mere thought of engaging in military combat is in itself repulsive and inhumane. The opposite, more conservative people are much more willing to resort to physical force in an attempt to win glory for the U.S. An individual such as Henry Kissinger fits this mold perlectly-- he called for a quick, painless strike on Iraq way back in August when this entire fiasco began. Comversely, in the Middle East, Saddam Hussein is calling for a 'holy war' against the malignant United States, a proclamation that is tinged with his strong convicti0n of the Islamic religion. There is a fundamental problem, though, with the thinking of this leader so intent on controlling Kuwaiti and the globe's oil strings. Saddam is more than willing to sacrifice the livelihood of Iraqi people in his quest for riches, and that is exactly the time when conflict transforms from simply a means of conversation and discussion to harsh reality in the form of losing human and for three reasons. First, Jordan was not complying with the U.N. sanctions and was leaking supplies into Iraq. We have seen recently how much Jordan is in support of Saddam Hussein rather than the coalition. The second reason is the same reason that economic sanctions would not have worked against Japan at the end of WWII. The ones in control of the country, Saddam Hussein, his political allies and his anned forces, were not the ones who were being affected by the sanctions.· It was the people of Iraq that were bearing the hardships of limited water and empty shelves. These people amazingly, do not blame their burden on Hussein. They have just finished with a war with Iran where there were worse living conditions, and in which over one hundred thousand Iraqi soldiers of all ages were killed, and yet they still support Hussein's decision to enter into another war. Why would anyone favor such a lives. Still, there is a certain invisible cloud of eeriness that seems to hang over our heads here in the States. Many believed that with the thawing of the Cold War and new found friendly realtions with the Soviet Union, none in our generation ever thought we would have to live through the terror that pervades everyone once waking up in the morning. Here we are, though, our eyes glued to a television, our hopes resting on the words of someone we had always passed off as just another personality on the screen. War certainly makes us stand up and take man, one who does not hesitate to place l!is pe()ple into danger? They love him. The Iraqi people rue raised to love and obey Saddam Hussein, for they believe that he is favored by God, and the few who don't think so choke on mustard gas. The result is that the people of Iraq would be able to sustain an enormous amount of hardship , At the moment, unfortunately, military action is the only way to force ~addam Hussein out of Kuwait, and return the Gulf to its former and r-elat·ively more balanced condition. to support their leader. The last reason is very simple in that it has been accepted in general, not just in the Gulf, that if economic sanctions do not have a visible effect within six months, there is little reason for continuing them. One can see that .another month would not have brought Saddam to his knees. The .other avenue of resolve would have been diplomatic negotiations. I am not .sure that this method had been used as well as it could have, but it should be plain to everyone that tbe time for talks had ended as of January 9, when Saddam refused to budge on his position in Kuwait. There can be no deals cut that would indicate to Hussein that he could benefit from such an action again in the future. Another problem that notice of trivialities we for so long ignored. For afl of us in society, war has a unique power to make us reevaluate the lifestyle most take for granted. Perhaps more trying, is that war forces us to look at a set of beliefs that are outdated and invalid-- merely because they were untested and unthreatened. The United Slates has ultimately decided to take the initiative and act as the chief opposition to Saddam's aggression. Many question the fact that our motives in the Gulf are really based on a preoccupation with oil rather than a quest to liberate Kuwait This is the philosophical ..... ' Americans envision is another Vietnam. This is a very different situation than Vietnam in that Iraq has a large conventional army, rather than a guerilla force. He has tank divisions and large troop battalions, that the United States Armed Forces can employ th.eir advanced technology upon. In Vietnam we were fighting small groups ofV.C. ar.d NVA hiding in the jungle that could only be ferreted out with equally small squads of men equipped with personal arms only. There were no locations that we could aim Tomahawk missiles at or fly A-10 anti-tank planes against, or effectively use the Apache antipersonnel helicopters. In fact, much .of the technology that we have today would have been a general's wet dream in 1969. The environment is also largely different. a desert does not offer as many hiding places as does the jungle, where small groups of men could become invisible. Vietnam also had the problem of enemy troop movements across the borders of officially neutral countries. Most of the neighboring countries in the Gulf, at the moment, are in support of the coalition and condemn SaddamHussein for his actions. At the moment, unfortunately, military action is the only way to force Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait and return the gulf area to its former, and relatively more balanced condition. We all must pray for a quick solution to the crisis, but should support our president in the difficult decisions that he has had to make. question that divides our nation as we enter war with Iraq-- do we remain strong in denouncing warfare or put our trust in the hands of a precious few and the world's finest military power. While this debate rages on I , let us remember that there are thousands of Americans who also lack a definitive answer to the endless spiral of war-- the difference is they are on the sands of the Middle East It is no wonder as to why me U.S. has ascended to global superiority today. Not even war and the peril of conflict will keep our soldiers from proving this greatness. That is the truest, most wonderful testament of alL

CONCORDIENSIS, }4nuary 24, 1991 Page 3 Poll Shows Students Are In Favor Of War Continued from page 1 growing support shown by Americans once the war had already started. Although there were a large number of students who supported the war, the majority fell to 69% when asked if the President and the world did everything they could to get Iraq out of Kuwait peacefHlly. Twenty-nine percent believed they did not and two percent were undecided. Debate among military experts and common Americans has been raging ever since the threat of war began. Union students had their own opinions as well. A majority of 71% believe that the Gulf War will only take a few months, while twenty percent of the students were less optimistic and believe that it will take a year or more. Only nine percent had more confidence in coalition forces by responding that the: war will take only a few weeks. When shou1d we end the war? Fifty percent of the students believed that the war should end when Iraq withdraws from Kuwait. Forty-five percent want the war to end when Hussein is taken out of power. One respondent justified this position b} comparing Hussein to Hitler and calling . him a \madman that must be stopped.\ Two percent wanted the war to end now, and three . percent had ao opinions. Many Jewish members of the campus have kept a close eye on the war with respect to · Israel. Unprovoked attacks on Israel by Iraqi forces have complicated the war. The United States government has done everything in its power to convince Israel to not retaliate. However, Israel has stated that it reserves the right to respond. Sixty-nine percent of the respondents do not want the Israelis to enter the war. However, 31% think they should. War has affected everyone's lives across the nation. It is hard for people to support the war when they have loved ones fighting in the Gulf. This factor did not stop Union students from supporting the war, even though 64% had friends in armed forces in the Gulf, while 16% had relatives. One hundred and fifty-five numbers were picked at random and called to complete this survey. One hundred and eight of those called responsed. POLL QUESTIONS: I. Do you support American involvement in the Gulf War against Iraq? 2. Do you have relatives in the Armed Forces who are in the Persian Gulf? 3. How long do you think this war will last? A few weeks? A few months? One year or more? 4. Do you believe that President Bush and the world did everything they could to get Iraq out of Kuwait peacefully before going to war? 5. Do you believe Israel should attack Iraq in response to Iraq's attacks on Israel? 6. Do you have friends who are in the Armed Forces _stationed in the Persian Gulf? 7. Do you think there will be a draft? If male, will you fight if drafted? 8. When should we end the war? When Iraq pulls out of Kuwait, or when Hussein is overthrown by coalition forces? DATE- 1/13/91 1/13/91 1/14/91 1/15/91 l/16/91 1/1B/91 1 I lB /9 i l/19/91 1/19/91 l/19/91 1/19/91 Reported Security Incidents 1/13/91 - 1/19/91 DAY OF WEEK LOCATION INCIDENT Sur Psi U -Theft from student room Sun Richmond Lot -2 males making suggestive remarks to Female student-GOA Men Davidson -Vandalism to door alarm Tue A.D.Phi -Theft of T.V. - Cowmon Area Wed All Nite Study-Keyboard missing from com- puter room Fri All Nite Study-Trespasser-Non Student warned off campus Fri S&E Area -Vandalism to Light Pole Sat North College -Vandalism to 4th floor light.in Sat Campus -Report of a Distraught Student Sat Hickok -Vandalism - Broken Window Sat West College -Vandalism - Parking sign Students Take Action By SYBIL ZANGER At 2:12 p.m. on Friday, January 18, Professor Dersch's Introduction to Sociology class left their classroom and went to the dean's office. The class had previously spent an hour discussing the war in the Gulf, which concluded with the observation that the administration had done nothing in regards to this issue. After an hour of talking, the class decided to take action. They ended up marching fervently to Dean Alford's office, for they felt this would provide some results. They waited patiently for him to emerge and then decided to move to the third floor lounge, for the class, along with some concerned people from the College Center, was much too big a group for his office. · They discussed the fact that Union, unlike many other colleges, had not sponsored anything in regards to the war in the Gulf. Students and clubs have done things, but the administration had not cancelled classes or planned speakers, and the group was concerned that many of them were not in classes where the war in the Gulf was confronted. The discussion with Dean Alford lasted about half an hour, and concluded with a few good results. From 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 a.m. there will be a television in the atrium, so the news can be watched regularly. There will also be a television set up in the Cabaret room as well as the one in the Mobil Lounge on the fourth floor. Also, as a result of students making some calls, there will be professors in the atrium for impromptu discussions all week. And finally, the dorms will be trying to get discussioPs gcing as well. It is both comforting and encouraging to see that change and awareness can be implemented once Union students take action. Admissions Expands :Prospective Search By SREEDHAR SAMUDRALA As of early January, Union College is experiencing a slight rise in applicatons received while many small liberal arts colleges across die nation have received up to 15% fewer applicatons. However, one admissions counselor said, \An up or down movement is really meaningless until the final February 1st deadt:ine.\ Union's seven-year Medical program with Albany Medical School has received more applications this year while the 6-year Albany Law program held steady. These programs have ~he earlier January 1st deadline. Union, like many colleges and universities, experienced a decline in applications last year because of changing U.S. demographics. This year's freshman class has shrunk to only 446 students. The college aims for an average of 500 students per class. Of the 2,800 students who applied to Union in 1989, about half were accepted and 32% matriculated. This year, tlh~ Admissions Department spent more time and money to attracting prospectives to Union College. The department made greater use of the existing Alumni network, current students, and they sponsored more receptions for potential applicants. Union, however, did not boost its mailings. One admissions counselor said, \Union is not big on mailing. We shouldn't hound students with mail when there are more effective networks of communication.\ The Alumni are taking a more active role in identifying prospcctives. They are encouraged to communicate with any friends and relatives who are currently high school students about the benefits of the Union College experience. Union College is already well known for having a strong alumni support system with its over 20 Alumni admission committees in the nation. Students arc taking a more active role in communicating with prospcctives through Union's phone-a-thons as well as by contacting students within their own neighborhoods. Some Union students over winter break made formal visits to their high schools and scheduled meetings with Union prospectives. In addition, the admissions department hosted potential applicants in student receptions in 15 cities from Chicago to Boston. In addition, Union College eliminated the required on-campus interview. Now interv icws are recommended but not mandatory. Mr. Henry Malin, assistant director of admissions said, \Will interest in the College be as high if they have no interview? This is the unknown factor if it can increase our apps.\ As of this year, only 8% of Union College students are not from the Eastern Seaboard states. When asked about Union's unbalanced geographical diversity, Malin said, \We're moving in the right direction. It's not going to change overnight, but it is a definite goal of the College. AI umni everywhere are working to increase our exposure. Currently Union draws many out-of-state students because of alumni connections and through its seven-year medical program. One of the factors the admissions department needs to overcome is the rising costs of the private college education. State schools have seen increases in applications because of their cheaper tuitions which tend to be more stable. Malin said, \Cost is certainly a factor, many prospectives may not even look at Union because of cost.\ Many don't realize that Union offers comprehensive financial aid packages as well some new student loan progams like the Chester Arthur Undergraduate Support for Excellence Award (C.A.U.S.E.) which was initiated by President Hull. Through this program, a student will receive college loans, and if they engage in public service work for at least fi vc years, their loan will be canceled. President Hull has many fresh ideas which he Continued on page 4 Attention Students on Meal Plan • Students. wishing to sign-up, change or drop the meal. plan fo~ spring term should do so in the Dining Services Office, College Center Room 202, No Later Than February 15, 1991. •Students already on the meal plan will be billed automatically spring term for the same meal plan they are presently on.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, .To.nuary 24, 1991 Student Requ~sts For Major-Minor Program Approved Continued from page 1 General Education curriculum. Under the proposal, everyone who currently attends Union (with the exception of . this year's senior class) will be able to declare a· minor, provided they can fulfill the requirements of the department they choose. At this time, all deparunents are preparing their specific requirements to be approved by the AAC, but the general guidelines have been set in the following paragraph. First and foremost, a minor will consist of six courses in the department of focus. Departments will not be able to require a two-term senior thesis as a prerequisite to get a minor. However, Reynolds states that doing a thesis for your major that is related to the minor. or doing a one-term independent study within the minor are both conceivable options. Individuals who choose to declare a minor will be required to choose an advisor in the area of the minor, as well as retaining an advisor in the area of his or her major. It is also conceivable at this point for some of the departments to offer more than one minor program. Reynolds referred to the arts department as an example where a minor in performing arts, visual art, or music could all be conceivable areas of concentration for a minor. Reynolds states that the new major-minor program will in no way eliminate the current interdepartmental system. He hopes that the major-minor system will also allow greater depth by allowing people to have a minor in an area completely unrelated to their major (for example a biology major with a minor in performing art). Students interested in pursuing a minor should speak with their current academic advisor, and look into the various minor programs being offered by each department Admission Season Reaching· Its Peak Continued from page 3 hopes will enhance our recognition as a small liberal arts college. He is considering making study abroad mandatory in Union's curriculum. President Hull reaffirmed that an important goal .of the school is to improve upon our ethnic diversity. In the current viewbook, a great deal of attention has been paid to multi-cultural issues. For example, there is a section which discusses student activities like the Alliance of Latino and African Students (A.L.A.S.). The admissions department this year worked harder in recruiting applicants from high schools whose populations have higher percentages of minority students. In 1986, Union opened a new position in the admissions department in charge of minority recruitment. Union has made significant strides in this area since 1980 when Union had only 3% minority students. Counter- Demonstrator~s Deter KKK Rally By JON KELLER On Saturday, January 19, the citizen,s of the capital district were deeply concerned. For it was this day that Wayne Crowley, of Round Lake, NY, had obtained a .permit for the Ku Klux Klan to stage a 25- · person rally on the steps of the Capitol Building. For reasons which may never be fully · known, the rally never · occurred. Only a few Klansmen made themselves visible to the more than 1,500 citizens who had come to counter- demonstrate. Though no significant acts of violence were perpetrated against the white supremacists themselves, as the afternoon wore on, the character of the counter- demonstration began to change from what was initially intended to be a day of non- violent protest into a racially charged battle between police officers and several African- , American counter- demonstrators. By two o~clock. tllere were several h·undred counter- demonstrators already gathered, many of whom were· carrying signs with slogans condemning racism and commemorating Martin Lu~her King , Jr. They were gathered arouncl a small area adjacent to the ·s:.teps of the Capitol Building, listening to the speakers who .spoke by megaphone to the crowd. The majority of these speakers insisted that, even i11 this day and age, organizatio11s such as the KKK and the Skinheads, another white su:premacist group, still exist and have more supporters than most people probably enV'ision. The majority of the spe-akers also urged non-violence, asking those assembled no1 to resort to the same means employed by the organizatio11 they had come to speak out against. Professor Speaks Out Against L.S.A.T. Prep Course Though the rnaj43rity of counter-demonstrators seemed to agree that tile need for peaceful protest ami unity was the calling of the day, there were several vocal minority groups, who clearly- disagreed with this approach, arguing instead that violen~e is the only way to de.al with organizations wuclt as the KKK. Support for tll.ese groups seemed relatively light, as most people interviewed said that they felt tltat peaceful protest and not violence is the key to eradicating th(\ influence of organizations such as the KKK. Continued from page 1 should not be involved in this kind of business.\ The program's pamphlet claims \Our Law School Admission Test preparatory course ... increase(s) your chance of gaining admittance to your first choice law school.\ Professor Board disagrees with the belief that a course of this kind can ~~~lp a student gain skills to succeed in law school. He concluded that Union is making excessive claims to further its program. Board further commented that the L.S.A.T.'s are \A physical endurance test that are long and grueling. People who are in good shape, have slept well, and are feeling well will do better, because their performance level will remain constant.\ He continued that people are therefore \better off running for six weeks before the test to build up stamina.\ So you want to be considered for Financial Aid? Well then Well Then ... APPLY! APPLY ON TIME! APPLY EACH ACADEMIC YEAR! Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs are due to CSS by March 1 , 1991 . All other application materials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1991. Board additionally commented that if people insist on \buying mental security, or really feel the need to go to a program like this one, you are better off spending a little bit more money and going to Stanley Kaplan. They have the experience while Union has none.\ Board brought up the point that Union's program, which costs $450~ is certainly no bargain from the more experienced preparatory courses. Professor Board believes that taking self-test programs may be a better option for Union students. My experience in general is that people who do self programs do just as well,\ Board stated. The L.S.A.T. company has a self course that you can buy for $35. \I would strongly advise students to spend the $35 instead of$45(),\ he concluded. The Physics Department is conducting a reappointment review for Prof. Seyfollah Maleki. Faculty, students, administrators and staff may contribute relevant information conceming teaching, scholarship, and college service to Pro[ G. Reich, chairman, dept. of Physics, Science and Engineering Center. Because it had b,een previously released that the KKK organizers had aJJplied for pennission for about 25 people to march, most of thl! counter- demonstrators ex;pected a high profile demonstrati()n to occur. This was not the ca.se. In fact, there were only a str1all number of Klansmen and a. few other people, who clescribed themselves as white supremacists and made themselves visible. These included an unidentified Skinhead, who lGolced to be about sixteen or seventeen years old, and a man who identified himself as William E. Dodge, the state leader of the Connecticut cha!)er of the Klan. In an intervie~ conducted by the New Yor:k Times, Continued e>n page 5 i ,, ·! .j I \ l .l :~

( ., ) CONCORDieNSJS, January 24, 1991 Page 5 Demonstration Turns Violent Continued from page 4 Mr. Dodge said that the demonstration was \a joke,\ reveaLing his disgust at the fact .that Mr. Crowley and his associates had backed out of their commitment to sponsor the rally. Dodge also said that he and his associates had brought their robes and hoods with them, but had chosen not to wear them. Many counter-demonstrators speculated as to why the KKK decided not to demonstrate. Some felt that they had never actually intended to demonstrate in the first place, but that the whole thing was undertaken in order to generate publicity for the KKK. Others felt that the Klan had come to Albany fully intending to demonstrate, but grew fearful of the 1,500-strong crowd of counter-demonstrators gathered around the steps of the Capitol Building. Andrew Feffer, professor of history at Union College who attended the counter-demonstration, concurred with this view, arguing that \the Klan decided not to march because it was apparent to them that the community would not accept their presence.\ Though from the outset it seemed that tensions were running high, it was not until the counter-demonstration was well into its second hour that its focus began to change from an anti-Klan r~lly •tO a confrontation with authority. The riot .started vtben a police officer spotted a black anti-Klan protester as he was \approaching\ one of the Klansmen. Apparently, seconds after the police officer saw this, he moved to restrain the mru1. The man then shoved the officer, and then dislodged himself, attempting to retreat by walking quickly backwards. Organizations like tile KKK still exist and have more support than most people envision. But it was too late. The officer had already begun to give chase, promptly turning the man around and placing him under arrest. At this .point, utter chaos ensued. About thirty to fifty counter- demonstratiors rushed both the arresting officer and some of the other officets who were also present. Seeing that a battle had begun, other police officers, some of whom were on horseback, came storming onto the scene. By swirling their horses about and whacking counter- demonstrators with their nightsticks, they were able to restore ·order after a few minutes. There were conflicting accounts as to exactly the true intentions of the \approaching\ black yo11th were. 1'he police officer .apparently believed that the youtll meant to threaten the Klansman. Other witnesses claim that he only intended to taunt the man. Again, it seems that the truth concerning this fine line between who was truly responsible for the violence is difficult to pinpoint. However, what seemed to strike all of those in attendance so profoundly was the fact tl!at. in these racially charged situations, violence can erupt as a result of the slightest provocation. As Adam Gahtan, senior and Classics major at Union College who attended the counter-demonstration, said, \It was disturbing to see how quickly violence can erupt at an otllerwise peaceful event and how contagious it is once it has started. It was terrifying to be so dose to it all.\ The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Edwin Mares, Australian National University, candidate for a position on Monday, January 28, 1991 There will be an informal lunch and classroom presentation entitled: \Skepticism About the External World\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge. There will be a public lecture entitled: \What is Entail ment?IJ ·in Humanities 110 at 4:00 P.M. All members of the campus community are welcome to attend. Wednesday, January 30 ... 8:00-9:30 Dry Rush • • • Wings and Shrimp Cocktails! Semi - formal Meet the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta College Approves First Budget Under President Hull Continued fram page 1 comparison to the $370 hike last year. Any cuts made in the new budget were predicated on a roll back of 1% across the board in the 1990-91 budget. Instituting a roll-back in the present year's budget means that the College will use 1% less money than The budget falls at only 1.8% over the 5% estimated rate of inflation for the upcoming year. was previously allocated. Monies alloted to supplies and capital for 1991-92 were frozen and various cost saving measures were taken including but not exclusive to the consideration of cutting three visiting professorships and changing the library's one-year subscriptions to three-year subscriptions. In terms of actual figures, $195,000 was set aside ·for inequities in areas such as faculty and staff compensation packages.. Additional! y, $1,100,000 was allotted for President Hull's CAUSE program, the installation of an on-line system in the Schaffer Library, and an increased tenn abroad budget. It also included $450,000 in additional financial aid funds. The budget provided for increased funding ~n the library's book budget as well. . • . $195,000 was set aside for inequities in areas such as faculty and staff compensation . . . $1,100,000 was allotted for President Hull's CAUSE program. President Hull plans to launch a major capital campaign that will focus primarily on raising funds for the Schaffer Library. Hull asserts that the building is \substandard\ and he intends to raise money to endorse its maintenance and increase its collections. January 29th 12:00 to 1:00 pm College Center 302 Go through the lunchline or bring your own.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSTS, January 24, 1991 FEATURES His Most Arresting Performance .. C hee.rs Star Kelsey Grammer Runs Afoul of Booze, Coke and LA Law By MICHAEL NEILL, and NANCY MATSUMOTO in Los Angeles Life does not always imitate art, nor is Kelsey Grammer the fastidious expert on ·human behavior he plays onTV. In real life, Grammer, who portrays the stuffy, uptight psychiatrist Frasier Crane on Cheers, is a convicted drunk driver who has just been sentenced to 30 days in jail-- and faces cocaine possession charges which could imprison him for up to three years. The irony of his case is that, had Grammer not simply skipped a whole series of court appointments, his legal troubles would be behind him now. Why in the world would the popular actor, 35, repeatedly fail to show up for his hearings? The .. explanation proffered by Grammer's lawyer does not quite clear up the question. \He's just easily distracted,\ insists his attorney, Robert L. Diamond. \To most people, staying out of jail would be the most important thing in their lives. He's not really geared that way.\ Apparently. The odd path that led to Grammer's sentcnce- -30 days behind bars, plus 10 days collecting highway trash-- began in July 1987, when he was arrested in L.A. for being \under the influence of an alcoholic beverage and a drug\ and was driving without a license. He was put on probation and ordered into a rehabilitation program, a typical setnence for a first offender. But in October 19&8, Grammer, who was born on St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands and appeared in New York City Shakespeare productions in the early '80's, failed to show up in court to prove he had completed rehab. Probation was revoked only to be reinstatedlO months later. Then last February, he missed another hearing. On May 16, despite a plea from Cheers Kirstie Alley, an exasperated Municipal Court Judge Patricia Gomer Schwartz lowered the boom on Grammer. \He probably,\ Diamond admits, \holds the record for the heaviest sentence for first- time drunk driving.\ Grammer's behavior with his drug charge follows the same pattern. Arrested in April1988 in possession of about $25 wonh of cocaine, he got off to a bad start by missing his arraignment--twice. He was finally ordered into a drug rehab program. \I describe it as very similar to traffic school,\ says ::;, ~puty LA Andrew W. Diamond (who isn't related to Grammer's attorney). \You go, you get a certificate, and then you get the charge dismissed.\ Even those terms proved too stem for Grammer. Last May 2 he again failed to report his progress in court, and an arrest warrant was issued. On May 10, Grammer told Judge A viva K. Bobb he hadn't appeared because he was distracted by 1.i1e medical problems of his girlfriend, Cerlette Lamme, an ex-professional ice skater. \We all have other responsibilities,\ the judge noted curtly releasing him on $7,500 bail and scheduling his hearing. Despite articles in the tabloids attributing Grammer· waywardness to a heavy regimen of booze and partying, his attorney insists the sick girlfriend story is true. Diamond says Lamme suffered seizures bccaue \there was pressure en her sinuses, pushing on her neves.\ The problem was cleared up by surgery \but from Oc·tober through March, Grammer didn't know what was causing it,\ and the stress kept him off balance. \He's been real worried about me,\ Lamme says. \I know it's no excuse, but it's true.\ Adds Diamond: \He was counting on his girlfriend; she nonnally would have reminded him. He leads a life where pople continually teU him what to do the next day. When someone says, 'See you in February 1990,' he just can't keep that kind of calendar.\ The rented Van Nnys house that Grammer and Lamme share does inded bespeak a certain inattention to detail, and it is an unusual residence for a snccessful actor. The one-story white house is dilapidated, the yard overgrown with weeds. A heap of bricks leans against the house's front, windows are propped open, tattered bamboo shades hang askew, and the only hints of affluence are three big white cars. Some neighbors are sure that endless partying goes on inside; others call Grammer and Lamme model citizens. Despite his woes, Grammer's role in Cheers seems safe for now: James Burrows, executive producer and director, has said he \looks forward to another great season with a very talented actor.\ Adds Diamond: \They know he's a really talented guy. The only thing he isn't good at is appointments and dates. One date Kelsey Grammer will keep is this Wednesday, May 30. That's the day he is scheduled to be escorted from Los Angeles County jail to face his cocaine charge. ORDER OF THE COURT 6 ounces unsweetened pineapple juice 6 ounces unsweetened orange juice 6 ounces apricot nectar 6 ounces sour Schnapps 3 tablespoons sugar Ice cubes orange slices Pineapple chunks Maraschino cherries Mix pineapple juice, orange juice and apricot nectar in bowl. Add Schnapps and sugar. Stir well. serve over Ice. Garnish with orange slice, pineapple chunk and cherry on a picl<. 6 SERVINGS TIME KILLS THE HEALING TIME By CARL R. FRIEDR.ICH, JR. Divorce me from Ti,me, my dear So I may not count every ,moment I am without you. Each Ume I ask what you are thinking I die for not hearing it. Each time. Each time I think, I rage for not sharing the moment with you. Please he,lp me In my pain- the knife twists, cruelly telling time, with each tick-tock, of the clock. When you and I are we the time stands still. Time's then conquered, and its never time for good-bye. But until that warm glory of your vision appears, the cold steel blinds the jagged hand slowly turning, completing its vicious cycle, then beginning again. How dreadful it is to know, that time's mine· enemy, but only time, will bring thine to ·me. SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM Free Printing on Rainbows Free Imngewriter copies SPECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors on Saturday 10¢ a page $5.00 maximum per day MATCH-MATES Have you ever wondered why you haven't been able to find someone who interests you? Are you sick of trying to meet someone in a drunken state? If so, then try this new innovative route. All you have to do is anonymously submit a description of yourself describing your sex, year, interest, what you look for in a mate, and your box number (no names please}. Then, Match-Mates will match you with a compatible mate by giving you his or her box number. We ask that you take this seriously. If you chose to participate you are obligated to correspond by mail to your chosen mate at least once. You may meet the perfect man or woman ... so give it a try! You have nothing to lose. Send all letters to Box #2036. Thank you, Match-Mates

CONCORDIENSlS~ JanuaTy 24, 1991 . .- . ' - . ~ ' . ., - ' . : -' . ' From January 21 to February 11 we will be interviewing five candidates for the open position in the Philosophy Department. Try to meet them at the soup-kitchen and teaching demonstration or their lectures. Mrs. Snowden will have evaluation forms for you to record your opinions. Please give them to one of your four official student representatives: Amanda Arnonoff, Brian Desmarais, Sean Ho.rnbeck, Meg Pa,rsons. The Philosophy De,partment will be interviewing Sun-Joo Shin, Stanford University, candidate for the 199i position on Monday, January 21, 1991 There will be an informal lunch and classroom presentation entitled: \Liar's Paradox\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge. There will be a public lecture entitled: \Valid Reasoning and Venn Diagrams\ in Humanities 110 at 4:00 P.M. All members of ,the campus community are welcome to attend. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present REGULATION OF SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION PROTEINS in NERVE and MUSCLE ]])Ifo MrAffiY lEo IW((])JRfiTON De.partment of Pharmacology University of Washington School of Medicine MONDAY-~- February 4, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 Sigma Phi Page 7 The Political Science Department is conducting a reappointment review of John Christian Laursen, Assistant Professor. The Department invites statements from faculty, administrators, and students who have worked with or directly observed Prof. Laursen in the areas of teaching, scholarly activity, and college service. Please direct statements to Prof. Charles Tidmarch, Chair, Dept. of PoL Sci., Social Sciences Bldg., X 6224. Dry Rush Function ·Pizza, Wings, and Movie 6:30 p.m. Friday, January 25 MANDATORY CONCERT BAND REHEARSAL FOR ALL MEMBERS. TONIGHT 4:30 p.m. - 5:345 p .. m. Memorial Chapel If you cannot attend, please call x 4354 Dry Rush Function Pizza & Wings 6:00 P.M. Friday 25th ';:-.-- ... . ., )h;, ..... tn S~ . ···he .... · ···o·ec· tad·y are ·. . • .•. · ''\.? . · X :··~·~; \i ··.• , ·.• • , · • .... · ······ ... · ·. ·.··• J • , · ·: . · ·· • . . YOU.CAN ':!lAKE. A DIFFERENCE! /IJQna.ts 'to ~h., Delta Psi Dt3lta.: Food Drive · · ~· ,, .. i•.JfJ,liJ¥:' R8~Ft~b·,'- t. · ···· . :-::;;~::-- ----~ . . ' ~ .•.. f: ;~.a; .. :. ::.t,~e,h .. =· -···-\· -~~~r 1m, 1 e:· :- · . - .. r.:on· ··n···,· . .tS...J m··· ··~a··t· v~ ~ -. 'QF·u :v - · . ' . . · · .JUI:O&· o.ia.~ .• .:J4L IS l,l:~t Jbs •. Of food • . Xkil ls~app:roz.. · plt,r student. ' . '·. -. •, : .... ' _,. _.,

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES EYE ON THE WORLD By ·ED MENKE CNN or Bust By SCOTT WEISBERG On September 28, 1989, I boarded a British Airways flight and this was the start of my memorable junior year abroad. Surprisingly enough, it was a beautifully sunny day As our country climbs deeper and deeper into this entanglement we now call the Gulf War, there is little else which seems to be even remotely as important as the ever-changing situation in the Middle East, be it thesis, exams, or any other kind of distraction. And, while watching television has never been considered a good excuse for skipping out on responsibilities, there seems to be a certain logic to sitting in front of the TV for hours on end. If you assume, therefore, that this reporter missed his deadline because he was too busy waiting to hear which SCUD missiles would be intercepted by the Patriots next, then go ahead. If you feel that this reporter is justified in his decision to do nothing but watch 24 hours of CNN without interruption, then so be it. If, on the other hand, yQu feel that there are things which take precedence over watching TV in your lives, then wake up and smell the coffee. There's a war, out there, and it's our responsibility to be as informed as possible. So .put down your Concordiensis and reach for the remote control. when I arrived; my British friends had told me the sun is rarely visible there. The first thing that stood out was how friendly the British people were. Everyone that I asked directions from was extremely helpful. When I got to Liverpool Street Station, there was a student also going to where I was headed, Colchester. He kindly showed me the way to the University of Essex. At first these huge block towers looming in the background seemedlik:e I was in for a nightmare. But once I settled in and took a walk around the campus, I felt the charm that the buildings had. The campus had two. lakes and Lhree major squares where all student facilities were located. My flatmates in the tower were from a variety of different countries such as Singapore, Ireland, and France. The University of Essex is in Colchester which is about 50 miles slightly northeast of London. Its major advantage is that it's 45 minutes from London. So it was close GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM Tt:ESDA YS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM For more information, call Car()/ Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM Come and watch the news! SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM enough to visit without having to live right in the city. Adjusting was not really a ,problem for me since I had already made some British friends from my summer job as a camp counselor. Also, my roommate from freshman year Scott sightseeing in England at Union was from London. So I guess you could say I knew a little about the British before having gone there. Everyone, faculty and students, were pretty friendly. And everyone seemed as interested in getting to know me and more about \Americans.\ My flatmates and I became pretty close. We would have dinners together all of the time. I especially remember the dinner we had at Chrsitmas time. My flatmate made a traditional Sunday meal, which included roast beef, Yorkshire pudding, potatoes, and parsnips. Fish & chips, pastries, bitters and ales, strawberries and cream, tea and bisquits and jacket potatoes are some of the foods I had a lot of. They also have different candy bars and chips which are fun to experiment with. English students hang out at their student union bar. Pubs are the big social thing on the campus. It's a casual atmosphere where everyone gathers seven days a week to drink, eat, and chat with friends. It's very different from the social scene in the U.S. While at colleges here the social life revolves around fraternity/sorority parties, there doesn't seem to be anything comparable to this there. I think the difference may have something to do with the fact that you have to buy your drinks in England. I must add, it was nice being underage and being able to drink while I was there. The classes were incredible. I was in classes with all British students and it gave me a chance to become close with many of them. They made me feel like I belonged to the University of Essex, and sometimes I even felt British. I noticed that their classes were much harder than ours. Instead of being given a deadline and assignments for the next ctass, you receive a reading list at the beginning of the term and from there it's up to you. Most of the students I met were very knowledgeable, and those studying biology like myself, seemed to know the detail of many areas. Their system was demanding, but I found it to be quite a challenge. While there, I got interested in many environmental and political issues: animal rights, lynx, Greenpeace, and Students Against the Poll Tax. I was glad students were active in governmental, societal, and political issues. It was exciting to be part of it all. My weekends were spent travelling around England. I visited Bath, York, Derby, Oxford, Cambridge, New Castle, Bristol, and London. It's beautiful. The grass is a green that is not seen in the U.S. The countryside had many open fields with sheep roaming around. I also found that the countryside was very peaceful and safe. In the end I didn't find England all that different from here, especially London, which reminds me a lot of NYC. Picadi!ly Circus with its electric lights is similar to Times Square. London tends to have very Americanized stores and restaruants. All fast food chains are there from Dunkin Donuts to Taco Bell, 7 Eleven, the Gap, Dominos .... to name just a few. The nice thing about Colchester was that other than McDonalds and Pizza Hut, the whole town was English in all respects. I also enjoyed seeing all the ancient Roman remains in England. The history in the country was remarkable. I was pretty sad to leave England, but I'm sure I'll go back soon. Until tflen I'll just have to rely on my memory and the correspondence I have with the friends I made there. SAVE THE WILDLIFE ~~ WWF

CONCORDIBNSIS, January 24, 1991 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES French Family From Hell By JILL PHILIPPS About this time last year, I started thinking aboutfinding a job for the summer. After having been on a term abroad in France, I could think of nothing but going b-ack. I'd heard a lot about being an \au pair\ in another country, but my idea of this was·that it was probably a glamourized French way of saying nanny. With the French I had after spending fall term abroad, I felt as though I knew it well enough to get by on a casual leveL But as for doing something professional or public related, I thinlc I would have been a little shaky. So I said I'll give it a shot-- what's there to lose? Applying was easy-- no interviews, just applications to send and then wait for a response. After about a month of hearing nothing, I started to get worried. Then just when I was about to lose all hope, I got a call from France! Some Madame V eronique <le Lassus was on the line sounding very anxious about my coming to help her in Paris wi tl'l her four children-- ages ten, six., and two years and one month. Oh no, I thought. I can just see myself trying to play Mary Poppins ... four kids is no joke- - This could get out of hand. So I played it safe and told her l'd get back to her .. Since I wasn't hearing from anyone else, and was determined on going to France, I figured I'd better accept before it was too late. So I vulnerably accepted my first and only offer. I arrived on a Saturday. I had a heavy suitcase in each hand, a carry-on over my shoulder, and I could just barely hold the sign with my name so they could find me. I was not alone- - there were abut 20 other people holding up signs too, all of us being stared at by hundreds of French people. This examination process lasted about five minutes before the three blond-haired, blue-eyes kids spotted me and yelled to their father where I was. They were such adorable. angelic-looking children, and the father wasn't bad looking either. The kids barely said a word, they just quietly smiled and gave me a card they had made for me. I swallowed the butterflies that were i~ ·my stomach all the whole flight over. I was relieved and felt as though this would be a success after all. These children were delightfully sweet and the new- born slept most of the day not requiring much work at all. It took about two days for their true colors to come shining through, and what loud obnoxious colors they were! Wake up time was at 7:30, to get the kids up, dressed and off to school. Mother Dearest, Veronique, got to sleep in. Rodolphe, the oldest despised getting up in the morning, and always hating what his mother had chosen for him to wear, abolutely refused to put it on. Julie (six) had long golden hair which only her mother was allowed to touch. This was fine with me since I would just. as soon cut it off than fight with her head of knots. Since Julie would simply not get out of bed in the morning on her own, her mother revealed to me her \secret\; carrying the sruDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR 'lWO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford University have Invited the Washington International Studies CoWlcU to recommend qualified students tostudyfor,one year or for one,or two terms. Lower Junior status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOTa program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index In major requjred. An altemative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University Is available for students 'With minimum indexes of 2.7. Students will have socialandathletic rights in an Oxford college.and the fees are substantially less. Many educators believe that the tutorial system of Oxford and Cambridge (in which one scholar teaches one or two students very intensively) provides a unique liberal arts education. Evaluations (written or by teleph<>ne) from previous Oxford students from your college. or in your field. can usually be arranged by WISC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WISC offers summer internships with Congress. with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level govennnent officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced jmunalists. Similar opportunities in public policy intemships are offered (with academ;ic credit) in London (Fall. Spring and Summer). The WashingttOn International Studies Council 214 Massachusetts Ave .. N.E., Suite 450 Washington, D.C. 20002 l-800~323-WISC EO/M darling into the kitchen and warm i.ng her bottle of chocolate milk in the microwave whle she remained slumped at the table in her miserable silence. How ingenious! Now why didn't I think of that? We would then go down the elevator while the loving sil>lings munnured such kind c<>m:plements to one another. Once we got to the gate of their school, they was giving it two weeks so we would both have time to work something else out. She took it all so nonchalantly urging me to stay-- that it would be a lot easier once school was out. Naively, I believed her. School finished, nothing changed, and I needed out.I could not take it another two weeks. I contacted the agency, and they promptly offered me a choice between two families; one had an onlv Anne-Cecile and Jill. would s11ddenly transform back into the angels I'd met at the airport, each giving me a kiss on the cheek, until I would see them again after school. I think that having a nanny walk you to sch()ol was something to brag about in their school. My next task was to bring Faustine (two) to the nursery when slle woke up. Depending on her mood, Faustine could be very, very good or very. very bad. And when she was she was indeed horrid. The big thing f()r Faustine was to have her motller's attention. So when she knew her mother was there she refused to let me do anything because she wanted it to be l:ler mother. And when her m()ther wouldn't come, she would sit down and scream and cry untilber mother did come. This is where \Vero\ told me her Secret #\2: closing he1· iri the batbr<>om which was wall to wall mirrors. This, 1 could not do. Angeli<Jue, the infant truly was good. She slept a lot, and needed only to be held, bathed, dressed, and changed. The rest of my job entailed that I \straighten up\ the kid's bedrooms, make their beds, do some ironing, vacuuming, etc., and prepare dinner if V ero and her husband were planning a night ()tJt. Meanwhile Vero would fiod the time to go shopping, read novels, and sew at her leisure in my presence. But the rest of the day I was free, that i.s until about 5:00 when tile kids got home. Vero allowed them an hour of cartoons a day, and the rest of their evelling would be spent joyously taking out each and every t()y they owned. Vero said this is how they always play-- after all they're just kids. Then dinner time, bath time, story time and bed. The cycle would recommence tomorrow. I sp<>ke. frankly with Vero about !tow I felt. I told her I child with pneumonia, the other was in the south of France with three children. I chose the latter. The train ride down was eight hours long which gave me plenty of time to get my courage back to nonnal, and to think things over a whole lot. I was going there armed for the worst, knowing that it could only get better. Leaving the hustle ~nd bustle of Paris and arriving in the laid-back. carefree southern France was like entering into an entirely new country. The father and daughter met me at the train station. Anne-Cecile sat quietly in the back seat, and the father, Philip, was busy on his car phone talking business. Within 10 minutes we arrived at the apartment tltey were renting righ~ on the beach. I had to walk out onto the beach to meet the rest of the family. They all had dark tans and spoke so slowly. It seemed as though if a bomb exploded, they would probably just fold up their nmbrella and slowly stroll in. Marie-Helene insisted that I go put my bathing suit on right away and join them suabat.hing. I stayed there on the Mediten:aneaH with them for two weeks. I had very little work and a lOL of free time. Then we left for the Alps where we spent the next three weeks of their s urn mer vacation. W c went Alp- climbin_g just about every day, and had wine, cheese, yogurt, and fruit when we got to the top. I felt like Julie Andrews in Sound of l\lusic. These kids were far easier to handle, and they taught me some chiltln~ns' songs in French, one of which was Doe, Ray, Me ... After the three weeks in the Alps, we went back to their home in Nimes. So I was not only enjoying working for this family, I was learning a lot of new expressions, and seeing many different parts of France, but I was getting paid, too. I'H admit the pay was really bad, but I felt as though I should be the one paying not getting paid. My experiences of being an au pair this summer were, to say the least, memorable. I cannot say that I regret having gone, although I probably was saying that to myself when I was with the first family, the family from hell. I would recommend it to others, but it certainly is \risque\ as the French wo11ld say. It's like flipping a coin, only it's anonymous people you're dealing with rather than heads or tails. Y Oll could end up with anything!

Page 10 Giants vs Bills Watch the • Super· bowl in CC30Z. Free wings and soda. CONCORDJENSIS, January 24, 1991 Chi Psi Open Rush Function All Welcome! Pre Superbowl Sun. 27 (Wings and Pizza) 2:00-5:00 P.M. I Elections for the New Editors-in-Chief of Conc.ordiensis will be held on Tuesday, February 12. All students are eligible. Sign up in CC ; 408 by Friday, · February 1. Rush Functi·on PSI UPSILON Semi-formal Dinner Thursday, September 24th 6:00p.m. BARNARD COLLEG£..COLGATE UNIVERSITY •• CORNELllJNIVERSITY HAMIL TON COLLEGE..MANHA TI AN COUEGE .. STw LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY .. UNION COLLEGE: . . . . . 1f [}l} [E IP lEw [p'[f! <Q) «D [RAM 0 N OJ~ [D) ~IT{ CG ffiA [D) lU A u!E ~~ ~ LE ~~IE [EfD) U CCJ-\ 1f~CO ~ Summer 1991 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work \Vith students from other colleges and universities at one of the follo\ving institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Manhattan College • Colgate University • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Uniull College 10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES llEI\Ili.INE: FEBRUARY 15, 1991 FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER 'I>ETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: ~D_e~n Weiner, Room S-100, Science & Engineering Center, X 6233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 BARNARD COLLEGE .. COLGATE UNIVERSITY •• CORNtLL UNIVERSITY HAMilTON COLLEGE .. MANHA nAN COLLEG£ •• ST; LAWRENCE UNIVEKSilY •• UNION COlUq~ . .. . •.' . . : ·~ .

f' I CONCORDIENSIS, J4nuary 24, 19!Jl Page 11 V\(nth Saving. Who's Fooling Who? By FRANZ T. LITZ Environmental Editor If your family were to read in today's paper the headline, \AREA GROUND WATER CONTAMINATE])- Cancer Rates High,\ chances are they would be quite alarmed. If, however, they were to learn from the next night's paper that the carcinogenic \contamination\ found in 21iters of their water was many times less dangerous than the carcinogens found in one peanut butter sandwich, chances are they would feel quite foolish, or would be quite mad at having been fooled. Yet, according to Minerva speaker Donald Siegel, Associate professor of Geology at Syracuse University, Americans have been fooled wh.en it comes to ground water contaminants. His case raises an important question in dealing with environmental issues: What should our priorities be? Dr. Siegel, in his talk titled \Ground Water Contamination: Hazard or Hoax?,\ presents a convincing case. He maintains that billions of dollars are going to remedy ground water contamination that poses no greater risk to us than eating lunch. (Many of our foods contain carcinogens more dangerous than PCB.) Meanwhile, other more pressing environmental concerns are falling by the wayside. Alternative energy programs are n()t being funded. Research into environmental technology, geared towards developing new, more efficient methods to reduce pollution, could be receiving much more attention in the EPA budgetary allotments than is today the case. Such programs would go a way towards reducing our smog and acid rain problems, but the EPA still invests in mass water-purifying projects. Dr. Siegel believes this to be a grave mistake. How do we decide what issue should sit at the top of the \action\ list? Environmental issues are no different from other social issues of the day: There are parties who benefit from polluting, parties who feel they would be better off in a cleaner environment, and parties that are ignorant of the issues. Unfortunately, the average person on the street fits in to the third category. Even more unfortunate are the environmentalists that are scientifically uninfonned, and the scientists who are paid to downplay the ecological significance of pollution. To add to the difficulty in detennining the importance of environmental issues, many of the ecological changes taking place are difficult to measure. The Greenhouse effect and global wam1ing is one such issue. Although there is conclusive evidence that points to a \thickening\ layer of carbon dioxide in the atmosphe~ (the greenhouse roof), the apparent increases in temperatures that are reported across the globe cannot be scientifically proven to be a consequence of this. Some geologists argue that the increases may be due to increasing population . densities and urbanization. Others preach caution, an.d argue that there is sufficient evidence to warrant drastic changes in human behavior. Environmental issues rarely come in black and white. We must realize this and examine the issues very carefully. If we decide that we indeed are on a paf:h toward ultimate destruction of the Earth as we know 1t, then let us detennine the priorities with one goal in mind: saving that earth. That's one our grandchildren can drip.k to. Thank You Campus Operations For Your EHorts on Recycl-ing! The Recycling Committee ENVIRONMENTAL One Term Later ••• Some Student Comments on Recycling By AMY DILLENBACK Assoc. Environmental Editor At the end of October, Union CoUege implemented the first phase of the proposed recycling program by placing \recycling bins\ strategically throughout the College Center. The campus community was ~en informed of the purpose of the bins and how to go about sorting their recyclables into their respective containers. This term, the second phase of recycling was enacted. by placing recycling bins in various academic buildings. I recently asked students what their thoughts were on the recycling program going on at Union. Several stated that it was a \good start in saving our environment\ and that it has \increased the awareness of the current problem our society is facing.\ One student stated that it shows a \better way to conserve.\ However, a vast majority of those I asked were skeptical of the program. \Where is it going?\ \Where are they taking the things in the bin?\ and \Why aren't there more bins located around the campus, especially in the dorms?\ One student expressed how the trash cans located in the mailroom area are detrimental to the recycling program. \Why don't they pull those trash bins out? With more trash cans there, peo{Jle are more likely to put things in the trash.\ On the same note another states that, \Students aren't taking it seriously, they look at their stuff and then thmw it in the trash.\ The waste of cups in the College Center was on the mind of one. Despite the questions and curiosities, many students have regarding the recycling program, the fact is we should make conscious effort to start conserving and stop wasting valuable resources. Because this is a new program, we have to work with the college and each other to make it work. Only through cooperation will our goal of improving the environment be achieved. Weighing the Costs of Recycling By KURT EBNER In the past five months, Union has undergone an incredible transformation. Due to the efforts of the recycling committee, the Union College community has become more aware of the environmental problems that we have created through our disposable lifestyles. In the SO's, everything started to come in convenient packages. Soup for one, pocket size tissue packs, and yes, even one serving containers of Cheese Whiz. Despite the fact that these products may be necessities in many people's lives, they are all an environmentalist's nightmare. Although recycling has not caught on everywhere as a popular action, it is being enforced in many states by law. As college students today, it is difficult to change, let alone change the habits of others. There must be a reason to change. Many people - perhaps uninformed or ignorant or just lazy - do not see the environment as a good enough reason to recycle. However, saving the environment may be the only reason to recycle. Recycling is not cheap. Recycled papers costs more than regular \virgin\ or non- recycled paper. In our own bookstore, the price for notebooks made out of recycled paper is higher than the regular Union notebooks, and the Union noteboks have more paper. Even the I.R.S. is hit by the cost of recycling. They looked into printing the 1040 forms on recycled paper and the prices they were quoted were as much as 42 percent higher than using unrecycled paper. Not all recycling is expensive, though. Each year 14 million tons of plastic bottles are thrown away. Only one percent of all plastic bottles are recycled nationwide. Recent technology allows new bottles to be made from old bottles at costs equal to or less than the cost of making them from a raw source. Today, there are many· uses for recycled products; more than most realize. Much of the greeting card industry is based solely on recycled paper. Cottony filling for winter jackets as well as park benches are products made out of recycled plastic. Recycling is one of the nation's fastest growing industries. Yet, without growing awareness and concern, the environment will continue to deteriorate. Although it may not be cheap, recycling is the easiest way of helping the environment. Thinking before you toss something in the trash and trying to cut down on excessive packaging in stores are two first steps. Not only will it help save the environment, it can also save you money. C 1988 EOF Please write the Environmental Defense Fund at: L:ft'C f!'9l'l 257 Park Ave. South, NY, NY 10010 for a free brochure. ~ ~~

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 @nnror}irnsis_LE_TT_E_Rs_· ____ _ -----Founded at Union College 1877--- What Price Truth? The events of the past week in the Persian Gulf have no doubt affected the lives of each of us at Union. The Middle East, thousands of miles from Schenectady, has been brought next door to us through outstanding efforts of the media. What obligation does the media have in reporting the oftentimes gruesome events of war? It is assumed that each of the news services reporting results of various conflicts in the Middle East will do so effectively and, more importantly, correctly. The news we hear 09- television and read in the newspapers is our only link to the conflict. The public makes decisions and fonns opinions regarding the crisis based on the news we hear from ovet:seas. It is however no secret that oftentimes reports are intentionally falsified for the purpose of \protecting\ the American people. Many journalists would consider reporting half- truths and even lies to go against a standard code of ethics, and justifiably so. The events of the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal illustrate the dangers involved in misleading the American public. It is clear to us only twenty years after the fact that the United States lost the Vietnam War. However. a great deal of reports issued during the conflict indicated that our troops were confident and in C<lntrol of the situation. The media used false propaganda tactics to increase the pro-war sentiment of the American public. Arguments in support of this position are understandable. Sending young soldiers thousands of miles from home to fight a war without support from back home has obvious disadvantages. Nobody believes war is easy. There have already been conflicting reports about the number of people mssing in action and the number of planes shot down. Reporting events as they happen under such severe circumstqances is not the easiest job t<l handle. Mistakes are to- be expected. It is our hope however that these mistakes are valid ones and not intentional. Let the past serve as our reminder. Coeducation 20 Years Later The tv~~ntieth anniversary (1f coeducation at Union is being marked by widespread re-evaluation of the status of women on campus. The working hypothesis of the self- study is that Union does not have equal appeal or equal opportunity for women. There must be something to this theory, as freshmen classes continue to be out of balance with men significantly outnumbering women. In searching for a solution, we must decide between what about Union must be scrapped, and what should be improved. There are many branches to the issue. Do women receive equal opportunity for learning and development in the classroom? It would be difficult to fmd evidence on either side of this question, which would suggest that women do not suffer within the academic circles. There are courses in women's studies available, which can either be looked at either as an attempt to compensate for distortions presented by other classes, or a genuine attempt at improving the academic status of women. Outside the classroom is where the debate should be properly focused. There arc complaints that women's sports do not receive the same attention as men's sports do. From afar, this may appear to be a lcgi tim ate concern. But the fact is that football and ice hockey, both of which happen to be men's sports, overshadow all other sports - both women's and other men's. Why this is tl1e case may be a difficult qucsrion to answer, and if the icc hockey team moves to Division I the situation may be aggravated, but there is no llllslaking that men's soccer really isn't any bigger than women's soccer. Residentially, women and men have similar opportunities lor school housing, and any discrepancy caused by fraternity house availabilities is subjective at best. And if I ralcrnity li fc makes campus leaders out of men, then we must not yank that resource away from the men, but seek to provide similar opportunity for women. There have been grumblings that women arc JJOt leaders on campus. Recent Concordiensis editorial posilions indicate otchrwisc, but this may indeed be an exception. If we can confirm that women do not have equal status as men, which is more likely a product of society than the direct result of life at Union College, then we must be careful not to finger the blame on false causes. To the Editor: I am sure that I am not the only one who will be addressing the war in the Gulf, so my comments wil:l be brief. The citizens of the United States did a great disservice to the men who fought in the Vietnam War, the ramifications of which are still being felt by the men who were wronged. I Pray For Peace prayed that we wo«ld not go to war, but the fact remains that we ar indeed at war and many lives are being lost on both sides. I am appealing to all members of the college community to join me in support of the men and women who are fighting this war, despite their feelings for or against it. Rather than staging protests against the war, engage in positive rallies 'that are in favor of peace, but that are supportive of the men and women in combat. I have seen the effects of the anti-war, anti- American soldier rallies during the Vietnam War, and they are atrocious. I appeal to you all to be positive, support American troops, an~ to pray for peace. Thank You Daniel Gilbert Cheerless Doormats To the Editor, Fans were severely disappointed when our \cheerleaders\ attempted to arouse school spirit at the Union vs. Elmira basketball game on January 19, 1991. During this game our \cheerleaders\ did not stand up once! Periodically a five year old, sitting next to us, felt the need to arouse the school Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMIT lED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WlLLNOTBE ACCEPTED. spirit, by leaping in front of the stands and cheering, \Go U.\ Although many in attendance did not notice this child, due to his size, he was more noticed than our \cheerleaders\. In the half-time show it was Elmira's cheerleaders, not Union's, who riled the crowd and instilled school spirit in us all. Union's new dance team, however, was quite good, though they have been together only a short time this year; unlike our \cheerleaders\ who have been together practicing for months. We ask you, what do they give us? Bench cheers! We are not asking much, no flips, no splits, no tumbles, just stand up and let your cheers be heard. Sincerely, JeffValyou '94 Carrie Watson '94 .. Y!uren Byroff . Copy Editor l~ob)'n Sachs ·Business Manager Suzanne Glass · ~fh~tti:~=g~er · · ··· · Tfl~· ·oui Honorary Faculty ~dvisor . C. W~lliaJl} H~tley STAFF: Greg Barrett. Natalie Bennett. Ron Birnbaum. Allison C. Epstein, Ron Eugenio. Michael Ezra, Stephanie Fray. Erica Frank, Jen Friedman. Seth Friedman,. Carl R. Friedrich, Jr., Jon Henes~ Karen Hurwitz~ Ed Menke, Meg Parsons, Lisa Pinrtey, Jim Polites, Tom Rotko, Sreedhar Samudrala,. Jared Selter, Jeremy Sollinger, Sybil Zanger. ADVERTISING STAFF: Melissa Klein, Andrea Rogers. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications. Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563~8339. Subscription rate: $3() per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordit.msis office, College Centert Union College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (lP). Office Telephone (518) 370~ 6155, Ad.vemsmg 7~lepttone (518)37(}.6494. · . •

i .,. '• I I i '· CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 . Page 13 A Callous Injustice To the Editor, On behalf of myself, my college, and the entife world I would like to express my disillusionment with a member or members of our community. We are a country at war. As a human being 1 am concerned with this fact. On thursday night in library plaza, we held a candlelight vigil for peace which was in my opinion very well ·attended. It gave me a great warmth to see so many people come out to express their desire for peace, and to hope that as few lives as possible be lost to this war. This vigil was not an \anti- war\ demonstration. People with all different opinions on the Persian Gulf situaton attended: There's no reason they shouldn't have, for all moral people are in favor of peace and the saving of life. The tone of the gathering was very positive. and aU who attended would attest to that fact. We realized that now was not the time to criticize or support this war, but to pray for its expeditious conclusion, so that our friends, pc.;rents, and relatives can retwn. As most of you had seen •. all day Friday and into the night there was a flame burning in front of the coUege center as a reminder that peace is more desirable than war, and in memory of those who have already lost their lives in the Gulf. Between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. the kerosene pot yielding the flame was stolen. What kind of callous, unfeeling thing would steal an object with such important meaning? This is a travesty, a horrible injustice, and it was not only committed against me, but against every person in this community, and in the world. That kerosene ball was the property of Union College, and I would like to inform the callous individual(s) who stole it, that all people, those for and against the war, should hope for peace. How could you not? War means dead friends and family for many. I ask the individual(s) to return the flame to me so that I may return it to its place before our college center. You may . contact me through campus mail. I guarantee your anonymity. That flame represents our hopes, and embodies our fears. Who are you to take it away? Sincerely, Stephen R. Kennen '92 Box 1320 MULTICULTURAL TABLE January 25th - 11 :30-1 :30 Rm,·302 ·College Center Professor Eshragh Motahar the other Villian as Hero in Gulf Crisis: The \Kicking Butt\ Persian side of talk from 12:30 to 1:00 Interested in Indonesia? Hear about the exciting plate tectonic setting of this interesting area in a Geology Department Colloquium. Dr. Robert McCaffery Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Today, January 24, at 3:30 in Butterfield Hall Rm 202 TEACH INS Questions and Answe.rs about the Gulf Thursday: Crises 4:00 p.m. Prof. Board 8:00 p.m. Prof. Motahar 4:00 p.m. Prof. Huggins LET.TERS Fight Against Coercive Education To the Editor, The Philosophy Forum's goal is to encourage students to give talks on subjects of interest and to encourage peer discsussion. The Forum will be sponsoring a talk \Educational Alternatives\ by Chuck Belden at 7:00 p.m. in Room cc302, Monday, January 28. Everyone in the Union community is invited to attend. AU Union students are invited to present talks in the future. If you are interested, please contact Chuck Belden, 346-5589 or Dan Milsky, 370- 6884. Charles Belden Dan Milsky Co-Presidents, Philosophy Forum Vigil For Peace To the Editor, Last week, the students of our college banded together outside the library to hold a candlelight vigil. This vigil was a reminder that we do not like the idea of war and that we hope for a speedy peaceful end to this crisis. We were not voicing our policital beliefs at all (in fact it wa asked at the beginning that this not be done), but instead we were voicing our love for peace and our dislike of violence and loss of innocent lives. This was by no means showing any disrespect for our country or for all of the brave young men that are fighting for us in the Middle East. How can anyone not agree with this-- peace is the ultimate desire. To remind all the members of the Union comm~mity of the love of peace, there was a peace flame placed outside the college center for all to see. Regrettably, on Friday, January 18, someone stole this flame, and left in its place a pile of snow with a red streak in it. I cannot compchend how this flame can offend anyone at all, yet apparently it has. I pity this person. I am in the process of trying to raise money to purchase a new flame. It will be replaced. I cannot allow a few senseless people to silence our prayers for peace. I am appealing to all the members of the Union community to please watch over this flame when it returns and help prevent its removal again. With peace in my heart, Greg Mishkin '92 Mid-East Thought To the Editor, What is the Middle Eastern thought abut the events occurring in Iraq and surrounding areas? This will be the focus of the Multicultural Table presentation on Friday (12:30- 1:00) by Prof. Motahar. Everyone is invited. The luncheons run from 11:30-1:30 in Room 302, College Center. Just pick up your lunch where you would normally, and bring it to 302 for good conversation. These \tables\ arc meant to broaden everyone's understanding of other cultures. Next week, we hope to have either a presentation of the Israeli thought or the questions of terms abroad during this time of conflict. Sincerely, John R. Sowa Chemistry Dept.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Janwry 24, 1991 LETTERS Union Hockey- Division I or III? To the Editor: The Union College hockey team has an opportunity to move up to the NCAA Division I level. Army's decision to leave the Eastern College Athletic Conferene (ECAC) Division I hockey league has resulted in an invitation from the ECAC for the Skating Dutchmen to fill the open spot in the league. Now that the invitation has come, should Union accept? What change~ in admissions and fmancial aid policies would have to accompany such a move? The problem many people have with moving from Division III up to Division I is they feel the program could grow out of control. When many people think of Division I athletics they think of money-corrupted football and basketball programs. It is widely known that many big- time, big-money programs have grown beyond the control of the schools they represent. Many schools have had excellent reputations damaged by problems including recruitment violations and grade fixing. The N.CAA has attempted to crack down, but this is not easy with milliom of dollars in television revenues, ticket sales, and alumni contributions at stake. In ice hockey, problems certainly exist, but on a much smaller scale, since college hockey is not a true big money sport. Here at Union, this discussion brings back bad memories from the late 1970's. Without going into details about the Ned Harkness era, the situations cannot be compared, The circumstances are completely different now. I was curious as to what people at schools with Division I hockey programs think of the possible move up for Union. I asked people on the College Hockey discussion list, an electronic-mail forum, to give their opinions. Most of the people on this list are fans of college hockey, but are not directly involved with the hockey programs at their schools. Among the questions I asked were the following: Do you think hockey players at your school would be there if they did not play hockey? Do you think hockey players at your school keep up academically with other students? Do you think that it is necessary to lower admissions standards, academic standards, or resort to breaking the rules to have a successful Division I hockey program? I received responses from people all over the college hockey world, including Merrimack, Cornell, Clarkson, R.P .I., Bowdoin, and Dartmouth. I originally had my doubts about the wisdom of a move to Division I, but after reading the response.s I received, I am convinced that it would be the right move for Union to make. Most Division I hockey schools require their hockey players to meet the same admissions and academic standards as any other student. A hockey program can be successful without breaking any rules, and even without offering athletic scholarships. While athletic scholarships are i:iilowed in Division I, many We Now Have • 0. Division I hockey programs choose not to offer them, including most of th ECAC teams. Harvard, a member of the ECAC, won the Division I National Championship two years ago, and like all Ivy League schools, they do not offer athletic scholarships or have special admissions standal:ds for athletes. Would all hockey .players be at the schools they are at if not for hockey? Most likely, some would not be. Quality of athletic programs is a major factor in choosing a college for student-athletes. An academically strong student with the talent to play Division I hockey will likely have his choice of top quality schools. The deciding factor may be the hockey program. Some hockey players would not have even been accepted at the school they are attending if they did not play hockey. A college will receive applications of many students who are considered fully qualified academically. There will probably be more qualified applicants than the school can accept. The admission decision may come down to two academically sound students with only one position to fill. The deciding factor in such a case can legitimately be a special talent or skill that one possesses and the other does not. This talent could be, among other things, the ability to play a sport. I have no problem with choosing the student with the additional quality, provided that both students are fully qualified in other areas to attend the college. Student athletes _contribute to their schools in important ways that non- athletes do not. I do not approve of choosing an academically less qualified student because of an athletic talent. A successful program can exist even if potential hockey :players are accepted to the school only if they meet the same academic standards as any other applicant. Succeeding in college requires a huge commitment of time and work. Playing a sport is an extra burden. Players must find time for practices and games, and sometimes miss classes for road trips. Student athletes sacrifice time and energy for their sport. Some compensate by choosing so- called \less rigorous\ majors. Others try to schedule more difficult classes during the off season. There are also those like RPI's Joe Juneau, who is majoring in aeronautical engineering, and doing very well. In the case of Union hockey, some demands on players could actually be reduced. Playing in the Division II of the ECAC, Union has several Tuesday night road games, resulting in missed classes on Tuesday afternoons and Wednesday mornings_ The Division I schedule would consist primarily of Friday and Saturday night games, and fewer missed classes. Probably the biggest advantage of Division I hockey at Union is the publicity it will bring. Union has a chance to join a league with Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, Cornell, Clarkson, St. Lawrence, RPI, Vermont, Colgate, and Brown. This is a list most schools would not Bagels with * Lox * Tomato/Onion Cream Cheese New York City Style *** A Real Meal Deal Dutch Hollow Restaurant hesitate to join. Potential applicants who would otherwise never hear about Union may hear .of Union through hockey, become jnterested, and apply after looking into it further. It would mean more qualified applicants, both hockey players and other students in general. This can only help Union College. Mike Machnik put it best in one of the responses I received on the computer discussion. \Finally people at Union do not want to start accepting students only because they play hockey. Well, Division II-III teams recruit just like Division I teams, and try to get players to attend their school who normally wouldn't go here. If Union is concerned about feeling pressure to bend their standards to accept poor students just because they play hockey, then all they have to do is decide that they won't do it. The only reason a school cheats is because it .wants to. No one makes it cheat.\ Union College has an opportunity that may never come again. There is no reason why Division I hockey and top quality academics cannot coexist at Union. Should Union accept the invitation to join the ECAC? That question really comes down to whether the move would be good for Union College. I am certain that it would be. Union should accept the invitation, and move to Division I hockey. Jim Teresco SAVE THE WILDLIFE WWF Quote of the Week ''Conform and be dull.\ J. Frank Dobie J\ Ji,t;) : ' ~ . ~ - • -; J •• ! LENSSLAi 1 Contact Lens~s For Less I I I I I Fast, Convenient, Direct-to-You savings of up to 50%. All Brands and Prescriptions in stock. in- cluding Tints & Disposables. Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100%. Guaranteed in fac· tory-sealed vials. Call for infonnation and I FREE CATALOG. : 800-726-7802: 1 ·~·t 24 Hours 1 7Daya I . . 1 ..!\D!!-~~ ~~ ~~-· • ·~

CONCORDIEN$18,- Jtr.nU(lrY 24, 1991 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Haw less and Entertaining: Hamlet on Screen By NED WALLEY Last Sunday night a freind and I viewed the film interpFetation of Shakespear's classic Hamlet. It starred the ever-popular Mel Gibson as the lead, and Glenn Close portrayed his mother. Gertrude. The other modem day thespians (or actors if you wish), did quite a convincing job in their roles. The setting at Elsinore Castle in Denmark, and the white chalk cliffs produced breathtaking scenery. I found its production to be flawless and very entertaining. However a friend of mine shared with me the fact that a few details had been changed, as usual in the film productions of literature. But, he also added that these changes were minute and not vital to the body of the tale. I had never read Hamlet, hn t was very entranced with tile plot. The poetry of the classic Shakespearean iambic pentameter was wen delivered and equally entrancing. I must also state that I was very skeptical prior to the show that Gibson contained enough sincerity to properly portray Hamlet. This was caused by his lack of works, to my knowledge at 'least, that showed any .sincerity for acting. We are all familiar with the characters of tb.e Lethal Weapon series and the Mad Max. movies and their lack of any outstanding qualities. But my doubts were hastily suffocated as I immersed myself in the plot. I remember Gibson saying on a talk show that the opportunity to play Hamlet was \every actor's most chaUening, and also rewarding, role.\ He performed it impeccably and deserves to be well rewarded, and awarded. Close, who is know for doing more serious mles, again succeeded h1 showing audiences her talent. Her portrayal of the !Ulive but loving mother Gertrude, will most likely earn her an awrd or two also. The conclusion of the movie is a most tragic one, as it should be in accordance with romantic ideologies. The ending is farthest away en the spectrum of condusio11s from \happily ever after.\ J did not leave feeling deprived of a ''good\ ending, but rather revelled in the fact that what should have happened in the provided scenario, actually did. I should hope that the average moviegoer would not desecrate this classic play/movie with scorn, but would rather enjoy it, if for no other reason than a change of pace. Roommates geU ing on your nerves?! Trying to find e place to write a paper?! Come check out the CHUC ROOM BEl'S ement of HumEinit ies Can you bowl? JSU Are you willing to spend one day to help kids in Schenectady? Friday Night Dinner Be a part of Big Brothers and Big Sisters Bowl-a-thon on February 10. Form a team, get some sponsors and come bowling with us. Or sponsor someone who is bowling. See our table in the College Center today or call 374- 4523. All Welcome (Please E ring Your Meal Card) BE PART OF THE PROCESS! The Residence Life Committee, which is evaluating the Middle States recommendtion s that all campus housing be co- ed, invites student opinion. Please submit your reactions to the recommendatio n in writing to Box 2224 before January 29th. please this this opportunity to let your voice be heard. ' ,__.,_..._ £·,..,· w.1-n.\\ f!i-.• (.·~ ~r .. ~ . .t~:~ t:·.~:N. ~·+ WHO WOULD YOU CALL IF YOU'VE FALLEN AND YOU CAN'T YES, IT'S RA GET UP? YOUR RA OF COURSE ... TIME AGAIN! ! ! THAT SELECTION 1991 INFORMATIONAL MEETING WHERE: COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM WHEN: FEBRUARY 4, 1991 TIME: 7:00 P.M. APPLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS: RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE- COLLEGE CENTER 405 DAVIDSON OFFICE - DAVIDSON HALL FOX OFFICE - FOX HOUSE WEST OFFICE - WEST COLLEGE APPUCADON DEADLINE: FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 15, 19$1 AT 4.·30 Applications Available Friday, February 1st •'

Page 16 CONCORDJBNSIS, January 24, 1991 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Better Than Bran • • • HOROSCOPE·S The WRUC Re·cord Reviews By Zola 1 CAPRICORN: Have you been falling behind in your work because of spending too much time in bed? Stop cuddling before you fall behind! Lucky day: Wednesday. By RON EUGENIO Sting- The Soul Cages (A & M) Lord, how a body travels. rvlr. Sumner has held so many images in the past decade, the bottled blonde megastar, the jazz fusion enthusiast, the world-weary muse on a conspiracy of hope. Now with this third solo album, the words \rich\ and \atmospheric\ only begin to describe it. With The Soul Cages, Sting has earned another title for his mantel; the important minstrel. Not since Peter Gabriel's So has an album had such a successful marriage of meaningful in tent and soulful atmosphere. Sting solves his problem of pretentiousness that bogged down 1987's ... Nothing like the Sun by taking the album's focal point away from himself (remember, \Be Still My Beatin.g Heart\ and \We'll Be Together\?) and stressing topics that go beyond his bedroom mirror. The processional \island of Souls\ harks back to \Message in a Bottle\ with its theme of mass isolation. \Jeremiah (Pt. 1)\ shifts in an off-key chorus \Everybody wants to look the other way when something wicked this way comes.\ The standout track is \Mad About You\ a string-laden melody with the ever-present acoustic guitar. On songs like this, Sting's voice makes all of the difference. Just when you thin.k his hat size has gotten a few sizes over jumbo, Sting kicks every critic in the ass with a strong contender for the 'album of the year'. Lord, how a body travels. Pop Will Eat Itself- Cure For Sanity (RCA) It's what they do best; taking every known form of electronic dance music known to humanity, swallowing it up, and excreting something new. This album is a bizarre mixture of rap, hip-hop, strings, guitar noise, the Italian porn queen Cicciolina, and a \beat that refused to die.\ Edgier than Deeelite but not as overwhelming as 808 State, Cure For Sanity wants to solve the world, thumb their noses at the Moral Majority, and be associated with Public Enemy and the Soup Dragons, but when all is said and done, all they want to do is dance. After hearing every track on the album and not being particularly moved by any of them, it may be best to just let them do so. AQUARIUS.: As the planets begin to form under your sign, your social life will take a turn for ,Lhe best, so plan your social calendar wisely to insure the best possible time this weekend. Lucky day: Friday. - ARIES: Have you been stressed lately? Balancing your love life with your academic obligations can be a drag, so indulge in · something selfish for the next few days, and recoup. Lucky day: Sunday. SCORPIO: Something wonderful is just forming. Take slow · and steady steps, but don't be overly cautious. Sometimes you . have to stop thinking too much, and just follow your heart. Lucky day: Saturday. TAURUS: There is someone or something that you have been neglecting lately. Take steps now to insure that you don't lose it for good. Lucky day: Friday. LEO: Have you been caught showing too much affection in public? Try to be a bit more discrete from now on ... your reputation is hanging in the balance. Lucky day: Monday. CANCER: Don't deny it. .. you've been swimming again in someone else's waters. The crab in you wants to come out, but wait awhile on the oceari floor before you end up caught and served for dinner. lucky day: Thursday. VIRGO: This weekend is a good one for you to get away, so go skiing, or take a drive. A little time alone will help prepare you for a hectic next week. lucky day: Sunday. SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES . . .. l 1 ISCES: People have been noticing a change in you. As long as it is for the better, stick with it. Otherwise, re-evaluate yom actions and try again another way .lucky day: Tuesday. GEMINI: The past two weeks have been mere warm-up sessions for the one coming up. Great things are in the stars for you. lucky day: Wednesday. COFFEEHOUSE REVIVAL ANNOUNCES \POT LUCK\ #4 On Thursday, January 31, Schenectady's \\Coffeehouse Revival\ will host its fourth \PotLuck\ evening. The varied artists to be featured are: SAGITTARIUS: After years of throwing caution to the wind, you are suddenly acting shy about a potential rdationship. Don't just sit around ... make that phone call! Lucky day: Saturday. LIBRA: There is something you've secretly had your eye on for a long time, and now it's finally within your reach. Go get it before it's too late ... but make sure other's don't find out about it. Lucky day: Thursday. Chest' r - a folkie who carries a big guitar, and an even bigger voice Matt Smith - acoustic rocker and so much more; Capital and Musician Magazine's first cover story artist Nancy McGrath - the first comedienne to appear at (()ffeehouse Musically Speaking Revival original duo featuring sweetly-harmonized ballads Mathew Greene - New Age guitarist showcasing original 'mood pieces' N.B. Matt will be the first Union College student to play Coffeehouse Revival The program will begin at 8:00 p.m. and flow in the order given above. The cover charge is $2.00. Food and drink will be available for purchase. (\Coffeehouse Revival\ is located inside Peggy's Restaurant, 426 SLate St. Schenectady.) For further information, contact Mona Golub at 356-9577 or 37 4-2668. ~====~============~ Department of Modem Languages and Literatures presents White Fang Green Card The Godfather III Mermaids Look Who's Talking II Flight of the Intruder Lionheart Home Alone Dances with Wolves Awakenings Edward Scissor hands Eve of Destruction Not Without My Daughter Kindergarten Cop Call Theaters for Show Times. German Film Series Der Komrnissar: Der Tod fahrt 1. Klasse/Death Rides First Class (1969, 62 min.) Directed by Wolfgang Becker. Detective story. A young girl in a mini-skirt, her head covered by her coat, rides in the night express to Munich. It is not until the train arrives in Munich and the girl makes no attempt to leave her seat that the horrible truth is discovered-she is dead. Inspector Keller presumably faces an easy case since a young man arrested in the train terminal freely confesses to the murder. Nevertheless, Keller releases him since certain facts do not corroborate. This is the third murder O_!l the same train and all the victims bear a noticeable resemblance: young, pretty, and with mim- skirts. Playing Monday, Jan .. 28 at 7:30p.m. - CC 406 DELTA e PSI DELTA Union's 1st (and only) Co-ed Fraternity Join Us, the Brothers and Sisters of Delta Psi Delta, in Room 406 of the College Center on THURSDAY (Jan. 24) to fmd out more about us .... 7 p.m. 6 'f' 6. A New Tradition ON CAMPUS MOVIE DIE HARD 2 CC Aud. 7, 9, 11 Friday - Sunday

CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 Page 17 Support ACM! Beat the Bookstore! 3. 5\ Diskettes $1.50 ea. Work with IBM, Macintosh, and most other computers. Now available in Steinmetz 102 Student Consulting Desk The next ACTUARIAL CLUB Meeting will be on Wed., Jan. 30 at 8:00p.m. in cc 203 Newcomers are Welcome! Women's Comm-ission Meeting Schedule Winter Term, 1991 Date Time and Place Thursday, Jan. 31 12:30-1:30 College Center 204 Thursday, Feb. 14 12:30-1:30 College Center 406 Thursday, Feb. 28 1 2:30-1.:30 College Center 204 12:30-1 :30 College Center 204 Thursday, Mar. 14 * * * * * * * Women's Commission meetings are open to the entire Union community. ROSES ARE RED AND VIOLETS o\RE BLUE...BUT- A TEl EPKOKE GIFT CERTIFICATE IS THE PERFECT PRESEHT FROH!OU . FEBRUARY 14TH--VALENTINE'SDAY This year give the perfect gift alternative UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES Available for purchase and Valentine's day delivery from the TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, College Center- I 03. FOR JIOR£ INFOIIJIATIOH 011 UNION COLLEGE TE~HONE GIFT CERTIFICATES CALL 370·6411. 7¥£ Want rio tEe ~)~'our :favorite Caterer .. ':Business Lunclieons, J-Wrs tfOeuvres, tJJinner Parties, Meetings Ca{{rus :For .9!{{ Oj~our Catering ~eels <Union Co{Cege 'Dining Services 5/{a{e Rouse - 3 70·6132 The Rothberg School for Overseas Students Hebrew University of Jerusalem The Horace W. Goldsmith Scholarships 1991-92 The Rothberg School for Overseas Students of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem is pleased to announce that a number of merit and need-based scholarships will be offered f()r the 1991-92 academic year. These awards have been made available through the generosity of the Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation. Horace Goldsmith, a New York businessman, was deeply involved in Jewish affairs and was a benefactor of a variety of Israeli causes. He firmly believed in the importance of American students visiting Israel for study programs. ELIGffiiLITY Undergraduate and graduate students accepted for one-year programs of study at the Rothberg School for Overseas Students may submit their applications for these scholarsnips. Applicants will be considered by the Goldsmith, Selection Committee on the basis of their academic and personal achievements, and/or on the basis of financial need. The awards will normally not exceed $4,000. (Those students awarded the Goldsmith Scholarship who need further assistance may also apply for an additional Hebrew University loan or stipend.) Costs for 1991-92 Application fee (non-refundable): $40 Tuition:One-Year, Freshman, and Four-Year Programs $3700 Visiting Student $3100 Visiting Graduate Student $2600 Visiting Research $2200 Tuition: Summer Ulpan $700 Dormitories:(during Summer Ulpan) $250 (during academic year) approx. $1000/yr Food and Expenses: $300-400/mo. Fvr further infonnation and applications pitaSe call or write: The Office of Academic Affairs Hebrew University 11 East 69th Street New York, New York 10021 Tel: (212) 472-2288 fax: (2!.2) 517-4548

Page 18 CONCORDlENSlS, January 24, 1991 ·CAMPUS NEWS CLASSIFIEDS THIS VALENTINE' DAY surprise your roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity brothers with a \Union College Telephone Gift THE MOSCOW CIRCUS Certificate\ available for is coming to the Knickerbocker · purchase at Telecommuni- Arena February 13-17. All cations Office, College Center, students are eligible for a $3 · 103. For more info call 370- discount for February 13, 14, · 6411. and 15, 7:30 p.m. ---~------ performances and the February 16, noon performance. (Full price tickets are $9, $13, and $16). If you arc interested, stop by the Student Activities office (CC 408) for your discount coupon. CAN YOU TYPE . NUMBERS into a computer? Wanted someone to type simple data into the Vax System computer on campus while earning good money. Call 374-8218. FOLK GROUP - Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in St. John's Church to rehearse. SCHOLARSHIPS Fellowships, Grants. Ed's Services, Box 3006, Boston, MA 02130. MUL.LEN MOVING & STORAGE is looking for students to work on a part-time basis weekdays 1 weekends, 518-382-1524 or 1-800-822- 0890. Ask for Rick Stoddard or Matt Shea. FURNISHED ROOM 5 minutes from campus. $175 plus utilities. Call 346~0181 from 8:00 a.m. - 9:45 a.m. STUDIO APARTMENT available, $250/month, all utilities included. 382-1217 or 393-1654. l¥i VOLUNTEER TUTORING Union students who are interested in · tutoring please .contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 3S6-4181 HELP NEEDED at the Schenectady Inner City Ministry (SICM) emergency food pantry. Please contact Pat . · Obrecht 346-4445. PERSONALS Romer: Congratulations on your 1000 points! We are proud ofyou! Love, Your DG Sisters \3 Shots and 3 Beers!\\ I can't focus!\ \Where's my hat?\ Th.e conductor's carl The Union Freshman! The date! Kevin's address! And who's keys are they anyway? Thanks Maggie &Pea! -KAL Get psyched for the Park V Fonnal! Thanks Lynn and Karen!! -C, B & K. Lise & Sue- We can't finish a bottle of Vodka as fast as we used to! Miss you and hope you~re staying safe! With Love, LFA, JLC, HJM, JAK, KLC, JLV. L. F.A.- Gray-zie! I'm working on improving my memory. Love, Jenny To my term abroad buddies, I'm so glad that .~veryone had wonderful fall terms, but I'm · even more glad that our group• is reunited. This term will definitely be the best! Luv ya, Jen Kim K.- We miss you! Best wishes to those on the Greece term abroad Love, Kim, Karen and J en P.S. Hi Bart! My Lady- . Let's M11mble. Your Humble Subject Rubes® By Leigh Rubin ·' Lou, I hope you are !laving a wonderful time in Mexico, especi!lllY enjoying the sun! I hope your trip ends better than it began. I am thinking of you. Luv ya,Jen It's just that rm really depressed about Sam and I can't handle his drinking problem. I know it's stupid. Meet cha in the car. Don't forget Delta Psi Delta's Food Drive - Jan. 28-Feb. 1 - in the College Center. PIAFH Delta Psi Delta's Food' Drive - Jan. 28 - Feb. 1 in the College Center. Please stop by. To the Sisters of Delta Gamma, PIAFI·t Get psyched for our Superbowl Party! F- Keep smiling! You're doing a great job. Everyone Chug, Vail was nice today. -L -Free Drinks Quite suddenly and without warning, Herb fell victim to the old adage, \If you don't use it, you lose it.\ \Three wishes, eh? Hmmm, let's see ... 1 wish to w~igh ~ thousand pounds. I wish to be worth my we1ght 1n gold. And last of all I wish to have a life· Marcie should have cleaned o'Jt her refrigerator long before the environmentalists discovered the now-thriving ecosystem. Herb fell for the oldest practical joke in Hell. t1me membership at the local weight loss clinic.\ Weekly Crossword \A NOVEL IDEA\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 5 Painter Salvador 1 Beer ingredient 9 Word with bag or bar 13 Target shooter 14 Scandinavian war !JOd 15 The city of seven hills 16 \KIDNAPPED\ AUTHOR AND FAMILY 18 Characters in \Gorillas of the Mist\ 19 Show up 29 Washington VIP 21 Confined 22 I.M. -. _: Architect 23 Food processors 26 Precedes \GRAM\ or \GRAPHY\ 28 Thing In latin 29 Word with shot or slick 31 Pythons and Cobras, eg 34 Coli. students' concern 37 Pavarolti eg. 39 Native suHix 40 Veracity 42 Classified items 43 \PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY\ AUTHOR .& OTHERS 46 \ poor Yorick ... \ - 47 Sault __ Marla 48 Insurgent 50 \ULYSSES\ AUTHOR 54 Precedes \IAH'': Hebrew prophet 57 Soft drink 58 CPA eg. 59 Journey 61 Unlt~ua person 62 NOVEL BY SINCLAIR LEWIS 64 Flippant 65 \I)Ef\ and \OFF\ follawar 66 \AC1 ONE\ AUTHOR AND FAMILY 67 Estimates: Abbrev. 58 Satisfy 69 In addition DOWN 1 Bisllop's hal 2 TWAIN, HEMMINGWAY, STDWE, eg. 3 Mr. Strauss: Pants manufacturer 4 Howard: Actor 5 Computer software acronym 6 Worship 7 Queen Elizabeth or Queen Mary, au 8 Stir to action 9 \_OF WRATH\ BY STEINBECK 10 Pollster Elmo 11 Ptayer endings 12 Pick of the litter 13 Quick inHials 17 Robins houses 24 Gin mix 25 Gusto 27 Saudi address 29 R.R. depot 30 Zeppelin 32 Assoc. Tech. Aide 33 County In Ireland 34 \ TRAVELS\ BY JONATHAN SWIFT 35 Parents org. 36 Sighs of relief 38 Learn by repetition 41 Norma or Charlotte 44 Roll seells 45 Rellglousgroups 47 Slings 49 Big : WWI German cannon 50 \FROM IIERE TO ETERNI1Yw AUTHOR JAMES~- 51 Call to al:tlon 52 Dlaz: City in Puerto Rico 53 Lyric poet 55 Take carao1: 2 wds 56 Pilot's Instrument rdngs. 57 AdJust Ia difficulty 60 Sea: USSR 63 Bam ©1991 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 1/91

CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 Page 19 CAMPUS NEWS Come to our N.Y. Superbowl Party N, Y. GIANTS VS. BUFFALO BILLS ==P::=E=R= 8 ~ 0 =N=A=L::=s=.~~ · PADGET sToP EATING! Psych Club - Pizza with the Profs. Friday, Ja'n. 25 at 12:30. Room 213 in Psych Building. A11 Welcome! ---------- · Jimmer- Free wings & Soda Large Screen TV CROSSTALKS: Athletics at Union - 8 p.m. CC 302. January 30th. I could eat you with a spoon. Michi L- College Center Cabaret Rm. 302 Smile ... Guys are Vile! :But your friends will be with you until the end. · -Michi M. & L. L. ATHLETICS AT UNION: Unequal For Women & Men? Panelists: Craig Ferrero '92 Mary Hayes '92 Martha Huggins, Chair Sociology Dept. Dick Sakala, Director of Athletics Wednesday Jan. 30 at 8:00 p.m. College Center 302 Co-sponsored by Crosstalks and The 20th Anniversary of Coeducation Committee THIS WEEK AT UNION Jan 27 - Sunday CCAud Film: Die Hard 2 6:00 PM CC302 Superbowl Party 8:00 PM MIW's Track Jan 28 - Monday 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. 4:00 PM CC302 Gulf Crisis & Your Life·-2 9:00PM CC302 Free Film Series 27 Jan .. 2 Feb 1991 Jan 29 - Tuesday 7:3(} PM Hockey 12:00 PM CC302 Plateful of Questions 5:00 PM CC205 Newman Supper 7:00 PM Women's B·Ba/1 Jan 30 - Wednesday CCAud Film: Heathers 7:30 PM CC302 Crosstalk: Athletics Jan 31 • Thursday 11 :30 AM OCAUD Minerva: N.Y. Aepub. Party 8:00PM CC302 Cabaret Feb 1 - Friday CCAud Film: White Palace Febfuary is Black History Month 12:30 PM CC302 Multicultural Table Feb 2 • Saturday CCAud Film: White Palace 1:00 PM MIW's Track 7:30 PM Hockey 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse presents Peg Eyres This calendar is presented by the College Center/Student Activities Programming Board. X611 B. l had a truly wonderful weekend. Thank you so much. I miss you. Keep the letters ·coming. LoveMichi ·B. 0. B. Povimy or fish? Why is my hair dry? Sasar.ras - Oh . sasafras? That same Ole - Geisha girl live! Run with them ... My Lady- The spark is there, you just need to find it. Your humble subject O'Brien- La jove est fini - translation the game is up - surrender while you still can - we're on to you! TIDEF - Stay strong! I love you and am here for you! -Whip STEVE MO: All roads lead to BUFFALO! ! Rich: We've got the handcuffs- You've got the key. Come up and see us. -We live in 253. Michi L- CHEER UP! There arc plcn ty more fish in the sea. MM&LL Jocelyn- \Once upon a time there were three bears ... and they lived happily ever after.\ P.S. How's your ear? Love, Lisa James, I was lying on your bed last night staring at the stars on your ceiling and the earth shook. THE GULF CRISIS AND YOUR LIFE Monday, January 28th in CC302 from 7 to 9 p.m. a member of the Inter-religious Service Board; visiting professor of English, Bruce Mciver; and Tom Brooks, :Sgt. Major, Batallion Hdq. U.S. Army >w~ll answer questions about mHitary options and Ken Baechel, R.C. deacon former Green Beret, now a Pacifist; Ed Bloch, WW II veteran, Presbyterian layman; and Jewish spokesperson will interject personal responses. Sponsored by the Religious Programs Office. All are welcome. NEWMAN SUPPERS Tuesday, January 29th at 5 p.m. we will gather for supper and a conversation with Walter Cook, Naval Reservist, Computer Technician at Union College and Father of two who will · share his thoughts and feelings on the War with Iraq. All are welcome. Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC203. THINK GLOBALLY ACT LOCALLY EVERY DAY Write a Personal Only 50¢ College Center Info Booth Economics Club Info. session about London School of Economics Term· Abroad. Come listen to students who have done it! Tuesday January 29 3:30 ss 103 . (Refreshments will be served.)

Pag.e 20 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 The crisis with Iro.q'~ taught me a le;st:!l. on ?ll fu-ture. $l1rpments, lm r€qmnng ~rrunt, labels ... Winter Speakers Series Sponsored by the Women's Commission and The Women's Studies Program * * * * * * Monday, February 4: Theresa Meade, History \Mexican Culture and Family on the Alta California Frontier, 1796 • 1850\ Monday, Fe~_ruary 18: Karen Williams, Biology \Hormones and Post- P~-:-tum Depression\ Monday, March 4: Suzie Benack, Psychology \Heterosexual Behavior: Student Attitudes and Practices\ * * * * * * All programs will be held from 12:30 to 1:30 In the College Center;· Third Floor Cabaret Room Bring your lunch; drinks and dessert will be provided ****** Everyone is welcome! For Men, Women, & Children Dry Cleaning RITA'S ALTERATION SHOP 15o/o OFF For Stude.nts Bus. 370-1859 Home 393-6321 527 B Nott Street Schenectady, NY _IHE ____ ~--- RAOUL WALLENBERG SCHOLARSHIPS 1991-92 A Graduate Study Program at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem for the Fostering of Future Leadership in Democracies THE WALLENBERG SCHOLARS: The scholars selected will have demonstrated both superior academic abilities as well as individual initiative and leadership skills. Nominations of students with various academic interests and of all ethnic and religious affiliatioDS are strongly encouraged. The program is non-denominational and -there are no national or religious restrictioi!S. Eligibility RequiretMnrs: Nominees must have completed their Bachelor's Degree by June 1991 or must be registered at (or be graduating from) American universities. BACKGROUND AND GOALS OF THE PROGRAM: The Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship Program was initiated in 1986. The Program was conceived in the spirit of Raoul Wallenberg; a Christian Swedish diplomat who, at great personal peril, devoted himself to the rescue of Jews in the face of Nazi barbarism. By identifying and developing potential future leaders, the Wallenberg Scholarship Program seeks to perpetuate and promulgate his example of humane and courageous leadership in preserving democratic ideals. The Wallenberg Scholarship Program provides an opportunity for a select group of young men and women who have recently earned an undergraduate degree in the U.S. to study the plfenomenon of leadership in a specially designed Visiting Student (M.A. level) program at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The program is conducted under the auspices of the Provost of the Rothberg School for Overseas Students. STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAM: The putpose of the Wallenberg Scholars Program is to study the phenomenon of leadership and to contribute to the identification and development of those likely to emerge as leaders in the future. A major underlying goal of the Program is to develop the Scholar's skill and aptitude for undertaking and implementing individual and group initiatives. The Wallenberg Program begins with an intensive Hebrew language summer course and is foilowed during the academic year with a series of weekly seminars designed specifically for the Wallenberg Scholars. The curriculum will include site visits and meetings with Israel's leaders. The Scholars are encouraged to participate in individual internships and are required to engage in a significant end-of-year group project. Eacb. Scholar will also pursue his or b.er own academic interests. The Wallenberg Scholars may also choose from a wide range of relevant courses offered in English at the Rothberg School for Overseas Students, take regular courses at the university, or undertake an independent study. The program requires 11 months-to complete. NOMINATING PROCEDURE: Nominations o(potential Scholars will be accepted only from the President, Vice President, Dean, or a Department Chairperson at the applicant's university. 1990-91: THE TWENTIETH YEAR OF CO-EDUCATION AT UNION Greg Lavine and Dav·id Pugliese were the joint winners of the Women's Commission/ Women's Studies' Logo Design Contest. Their design, celebrating twenty years of co-education at Union, will be used on T-shirts, stationary, articles, and announcements relating to this year's twentieth anniversary events. Watch for up-coming articles in the Concordy, Sentinnel, and Union College magazine as well as announcements of events. In April a major celebration weekend will be held for the college community with entertainment, speakers, panel discussions, art exhibit, theater performances, and more. Buy a T-shirt and help celebrate Union College's twentieth year of co-education. ':

' CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 Page 21 <Uvnrorbitttzis SPORTS ( NEW Y·ORK STATE :MEN'S BASKETBALL DIVISION 3 - TOP ·10 18 Hamilton 2. Geneseo 3. Rochester 4. Stony Brook 5. RPI 6. UNION 7. ,Oneonta 8. Buffalo 9. NYU \1 0. Nazareth SCOREBOARD JANUARY Hockey (11-3·2) 19 UNION4 at 20 UNION 10 at · 22 UNION 7 vs Women's Basketball {8-S) 15 UNION 59 vs 17 UNION 55 vs 19 UNION 87 at Men's Basketball (1 ()-2) 15 UNION 70 vs 19 UNION 82 vs Women's Swimming 16 UNION 131 vs 19 UNION 121 vs Men's Swimming 16 UNION 130 vs 19 UNION 87.5 vs Women's Track 19 UNION 32 at Men's Track 19 UNION 26.5 at 10-0 12-1 14-2 11-1 11-2 10-2 10-3 10-4 11-5 12-6 Geneseo 4 Canisius 1 Hamikon 3 Williams 71 Skidmore 51 Binghamton 77 Albany 59 Elmira67 RPI73 Hartwick 122 RPI108 Hartwick 153.5 Williams 71 w/Hamilton 10 w/Hartwick 32 Williams 94 w/Hamilton 18 w/Hartwick 23.5 SUPPORT UNION HOCKEY Join the PEP BAND We will be playing at this Saturday's game us. Norwich. Meet at the rink by 7:00p.m. Any questions? Contact Jim - Box 1819 ACADEMICS: DATE OTHERS WHO WORK IN ACADEME •Low-cost network serving Albany and other areas in the Northeast · •Run by Ph.D's. •Information is sent in a plain envelope, privacy assured. Academic Companions • P.O. Box 193 Clinton, NY 13323 Inside Edge: Alpine Ski Team Update By JEREMY SOLLINGER The Union College Alpine Ski Team traveled. to Hunter Mountain this past weekend for their second race of the young season, and returned with some very impressive team and individual results. Competing in the National Collegiate Ski Association Empire Division, the Dutchmen race against such formidable opponents as the United States Military Academy, Syracuse, Alfred, Clarkson, Hobart, and Ithaca. In total, fifteen teams compete in the Empire Division, all with the same ultimate goal of qualifying for the Eastern and National Ski Championships. Total team scores are determined by combining the results of each team's top three finishers. The men and women each race five skiers a meet Sunny skies and a 30 degree temperature highlighted the giant slalom on Saturday, which was held on Hunter's steep and challenging F.l.S. trail. The men's team was led by Sean \Dirty Dog\ Livingston, who after some first run difficulties, pulled out all stops to post the fastest time of the second run and finish fifth overall. Junior Jem Sollinger followed, finishing second for Union and fifteenth on the course. Junior Pat Rowe, posting his first finish of the year, was third for Union and twenty-ninth ()Verall. Senior Peter \The Doctor\ Cowles and freshman Keith Meier rounded out the top five for the Boardmen. In the women's G.S., four year veteran (or is it five?), Alison (Pablito) Pallotta finished first for Union and thirteenth on the course. Pallotta was followed by rookies Nicole Zamansky and Christina Wright who finished nineteenth and twenty-third respectively. Beth \I thollght it was an undergate\ Foley and Betsy Mitchell finished fourth and flfth for the Dutch women. In the men's slalom, sophomore Livingston once again led the way with a fourth place finish. Sollinger turned in his best slalom result of the year with a thirteenth place finish. Cowles rounded out the top three for the Dutchmen with a solid twenty-ninth place finish. On the women's side, Pallotta, after a fast second run, finished eleventh on the course. Julie· Jamieson and Wright rounded out the top three for the women with a twenty-first and twenty-second place finish. Coach Jim Schaeffer tabbed this weekend's results as \very impressive and promising.\ The men, who were often plagued by inconsistent skiing and crashes last season, seem to be on the right track. For the weekend, the men recorded a very sound fourth place finish, their best overall result in two years. The women finished fifth overall for the weekend, equaling their result at last week's Toggenburg race. This weekend, the men and women travel to Buffalo to compete in the Holiday Valley Race hosted by SUNY Buffalo. With momentum building from last week's race, a strong performance at Holiday Valley will be pivotal in the skiers' quest for a berth in the Eastern Ski Championships in March. SNOW DRIFTS: Special thanks to team spiritual leader and gatekeeper Arthur Robbins, as well as Hanz Needabar. The Union \B\ team had their first race of the season at Willard Mountain. Michael Singer finished fourth, Rob Vialardi sixth, Josh Goldberg seventh, and Art tenth. Scott Labinski said we all skied \faaast.\ THE CURLING RINK at ACHILLES RINK IS NOW OPEN FOR YOUR WINTER ENJOYMENT ~ HOURS FOR THE CURLING RINK WILL BE FROM 9:00am - 5:00 pm MONDAYTHRUFRIDAY FOR MORE INFORMATION ON CURLING: Please contact Lynn Fredericks (370-6134) GIVE IT A WHIRL ....... LEARN TO CURL !iuper Bo1NI !iunday Pizza and Wings at ZETA BETA TAU ---~r:)pen to All-

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 <!rourorbirttsis SPORTS Skating Dutchmen Raise Record to 11-3-2 M,en's Track Steppin'. O:n Up By GREG BARRETT Last Saturday, the Union College Men's Track Team traveJ:led to Williams College for a four-way meet with Har-twick, Hamilton and, of course, Williams. The Dutchm~n placed very well, scoring second by beating both Hartwick and Hamilton. leading the way was Decker. His 6. 72 in the 55m dash earned him a third place finish. Chris Brundage covered the same distance, only with a few hurdles in the way, in 8.77. This won him a third place finish. Bali Nauifen was fourth in the lOOOm with a time of 2:45.7. Continued from page 24 marked by tight checking and hard hitting. Geneseo added one more to make it 4-2, but Union bounced right back. Terry Campbell took a pass from Dalton Menhall and set it up at the point. He took one step in and blasted it right under the crossbar to make it 4- 3. Rick Clifford then tied the game only a minute and thirty seconds later to send the game into overt:ime. Union got a lot of quality chances in the overtime period, but was unable to capitalize on an.y of their opportunities. As time was winding down, neither team was willing to give any room in the defensive area. As a result, play remained mainly in the neutral zone to end the game. Union came away with a respectable 4-4 tie, but felt that they could have achieved more. According to Coach Bruce Delventhal, \We were happy with our ability to comeback in a game like this, but there is no way we should have let it get to that point in the first place.\ Union had some defensive lapses early on, but they tightened up and worked hard to come away with a tie. Goal:ie Jim Helkie played a strong game in net as he made 33 saves. On Sunday, Union travelled to Canisius to play a game only 16 hours later. However, ·they looked like a fresh team as they jumped all over Canisius 10-1 equaling their highest game ,offensive output. Union's strong conditioning program proved to be an advantage in this game played on such little rest. Captain Rick Clifford was the game's high scorer. He provided five points on a goal and four assists. Campbell and Ferrero each had four rwints. Jayson Flowers had three, COLOR GUARD FILM DEVELOPING PRICE LIST while Menhall, Railton, Battiston, Flanagan, and Tim Smith each had two points. Union peppered the Canisius goalie with 57 shots. Shayne White turned in a solid performance for the Skating Dutchmen. ..Between the BlueUnes .. The Dutchmen were ranked tenth in the nation in last week's poll. In URian's last ten games they are 7-1-2. The only loss came at the hands of Division I team RPI. Craig Ferrero continued his scoring streak Tuesday night as it is now to 24 games (5 away from the record). Terry Campbell set two milestones this weekend with his play. Terry became the all-time leading assist man in Union history. He also moved into second place on the all-time leading scorers race. Campbell has a shot to break the scoring record. Come on Union and give him your support. DOUBLE PRINT Union showed its strength early in the field events. Shawn . Mowry took second in the 35- lb. weight with a toss of 36'6\. Mowry later came back and tossed the shot 34'1/2\ for a fourth place finish. Keith \Beef\ Reynolds topped Mowry's toss with a 37'2\ put for a third place finish. In the long jump, Matt Decker sailed 20'9-1/4\ to land in first place. Rich Fleuridor was not far behind with a jamp of 19'4\ and a fourth place fmish. Glen \Crash\ Meixell vaulted his way to a first place finish and qualified for States when he cleared 13'6\. Rounding oat the field events was Ted Parola. He jumped 5'9\ to capture a fourth place in the high jump. Next was the sprints and 3 1/2 X S. 3 1/2 X 4 U2. 3 112 X 3 1/2 The distance team racked up a fourth place finish when Jon Rosenfeld crossed the 3000m line in 9:55. The 4X400m relay drove its way to a come from behind second place finish. The team consisting of Bob Lindyberg, Baq Nauifen, Greg Barrett and Will Allen came on strong, finishing in 3:42.9. The team did extremely well with great improvements over last year. Coach Dave Herrington said at the end of the day, \This team has shown a great deal of improvement over last year, both in illdividual performances and as a team.\ Their record moved to 2-1, showing that this team will soon be a force to be reckoned with. 12 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) ....................................... $3.99 15 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) .....•.........••.•.•.•.•.•.......•.•. $4.99 24 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) .•..•..............•.•.•.•............. $5.99 36 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) ...•....•..........•...•.•.....••...... $7.99 ================================================ QUALITY 4\ SINGLE PRINT 12 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) •.•.•.•.•.••.•.•••....•.•.•.•..••.•••.••. $3.99 15 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) •.•.•••.•.•..•.••••••••.•.•.•.•.•..•.•.• $4.99 24 EXPOSURE (DEVELOPING) .............. u ••••••••••••••••••••••••• $5.99 36 EXPOSURE (D EVELO PING) ........................................ $7 .99 REPRINTS SPECIAL<GOOD THROUGH .IAN. 31) 12 FOR ONLY $1.98 OR 12 PREMIUM REPRINTS $2.98 --------------~----------------- ------------~------------------- UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER 370-6188 HOURS MON. FRI 8:45 • 4:30 & SAT.ll:OO -3:00 - -

CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1991 Page 23 <ltoltOlrbitttsis SPORTS Union Scoring Career Records Robin Romer Sets and Rebounding By ANDY BRAV·ER Sports Editor Junior Robin Romer shattered Union women's basketball career scoring and rebounding marks last week, becoming the first woman in Union basketball history to score over 1,000 points. Fbr her record performances, both last week and throughout her outstanding career, she has been selected as the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. In Union's 68-59 victory over Smith on January 13, Romer sank one of two free throws with 1:52 remaining in the. second half to break Cay Lynch's (1980-84) school record of 992 career points. In the next _game, a 12-point loss to Williams, she topped the 1,000 plateau after hitting a layup and converting, the free throw at 14:46 of the ·first half. Romer finished the game with 21 points, and followed up that performance with 18 in a win against Skidmore and 19 in a loss to Binghamton. Romer entered the Binghamton game with a career total fo 556 rebounds, which 'tied her with Julie Miller (1980-84) for the all-time lead. After an eight rebound Robin Romer performance, her school record now stands at 564. As a freshman, Romer set a Union single season rebounding mark with 184, which she subsequently shattered as a sophomore by pulling down 250boards. In the 57 games Romer has played to date in her two and a half year career, she has scored 1,053 points, and is averaging 18.5 points and 9.9 rebounds a game. This season, Romer has scored 297 points through 13 games, an average of 22.8 per contest, which leads the team. Her total of 130 rebounds and 10.0 per game is second on the squad. Romer has led the team to one of its best starts ever; their record currently stands at an impressive 8-5. Romer has also won two varsity letters in softball. She hit .320 as a freshman and led the squad with a .364 average as a sophomore. In 94 career at bats, the starting catcher has 32 hits, a .340 batting average, and has knocked in 17 runs. She was also named Freshman Female Athlete of the Year. Congratulations, and continued success, to Robin Romer, the Union women's basketball scoring and rebounding leader, and this week's recipient of the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the week Award. Slienanitfans Hair Designs we enjoy our work. .. 2 for 1 HAIRCUTS Reg. $12. Now $6.00 Each so will you! with this coupon thru Feb. 15 appointment strongly recommended Tues-Fri. 9-8 Mon & Sat 9-5 372-0007 519 Union St. Sch'dy CONCOADIENSIS SPORTS @lUHES1fUCOJrNJ (OJ[F TfiHHE ~lErE~ Name the members of the If?\ Pittsburgh Steelers Super \LV Bowl teams now in the NFL Hall of Fame. ~ ~ nDIA,.Il JIM@)I JmlM1UlllCIDa£iJ J})H~ One \Y'olinner shall be chosen from all correct entries. Submit entries to BOX 212 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after each issue of Concordiensis. e Last Weeks's Ansmr: Beers beet Redsk1ns 73-0 in 1940. Last WeeK's Wl nner: Andrew Brand Mouthing. Off By ANDY BRAVER Sport Editor The Somber Bowl What can you say. Obviously, the events of the past week have changed the perspective with which we view sports in America. ln fact, they have changed the perspective of almost everything in America. The war is everywhere--on television, in newspapers and magazines on street corners, in front of people's homes, on trees, and ~n people. News programs, battle footage, articles, photographs, protests, flags, ribbons-- they are almost unavoidable, and rightfully so. Whether you support or oppose the military conflict in the \Persian Gulf', it affects you. Even if yoll don't know anybody fighting for this country, it still affects you, because, if it continues, it might be you, or me, spilling our blood on the barren, sandy, desert battlefields, fighting to restore the government of a country that most Americans had never heard of before August 2. Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm have had a great impact on the lives of Americans everywhere. President Bush has said that he wants the country to continue living its 'normal' life as the war takes its course. Of course, he is right, because to let the events that are currently unfolding control the lives of all Americans would be admitting defeat to the man whom we are trying to hard to drive from Kuwait, and power. Things, however, are not 'normal'. They never will be again. You have to look no further than Tampa Bay, Florida, to see that this is true. Before this current conflict began, National Football League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue contacted the White House in order to determine the Administration's opinion on the status of the Super Bowl. Bush told the league to play the game, to prove to Iraq's leaders that life will still continue as 'normal' in this country. Though the action on the footall fields this past Sunday might have been considered 'normal', the off-the-field activities were nothing of the sort. Possible threats of terrorism added fear and apprehension to the already troubled minds of the loyal fans who cheered and rooted for their teams. Television viewers were reminded of the events in the Gulf as they continually tried to pat it out of their minds by the continued war reports from the network news bureaus. Features on the pre- and post-game shows focused on players who had friends and family_ fighting in the Gulf and how this affected them and their play between the lines. Security for Super Bowl XXV in Tampa has been greatly increased. Air traffic has been severely limited around the stadium, and the league has announced that there will not be a blimp covering the game because of fears of terrorism. Media hype surrounding the game has been greatly reduced because of fears that people will view it as distasteful in light of Desert Storm. All of this is not to criticize the NFL or the government for deciding to play the Super Bowl or for the added security to, hopefuly, insure the safety of the spectators, reporters and players. After all, the Super Bowl is the single biggest sporting event in the world. Even without considering the massive economic losses which would have been incurred by ABC SportS and the plethora of TV advertisers, canceling the game would have been a major victory for Saddam Hussein. Football, though it is just a game, is an American institution. It is also a job, which just happens to employ many thousands of people-- players, coaches, administratiJrs, league officials, etc ... So when the New York Giants and Buffalo Bills take to the field on Sunday and go do their jobs, millions of people will be watching, trying to escape, and enjoy. We might not cheer as loud, and we might not root as hard, and we might not care as much as we would have before the hostilities began. However, it still brings a feeling of pride to Americans everywhere because, even in times of crisis, we can still play and enjoy our games. The games might lose some of their importance, but they are a release from the tension and desperation which now ftll the lives of countless American families and friends. George Bush and Paul Tagliabue, you made the right decision. For three hours on Sunday afternoon, football fans everywhere will be able to escape from reality of war in the desert, and will be able to focus .on the game of war in the trenches. Thank you! On a more positive note, the game itself. The Bills offense looks unstoppable. The Giants need big games from L.T., Carl Banks, Mark Collins, Myron Guyton, and Greg Jackson. If the Big Blue defense can contain Thurman Thomas and hold James Lofton to 50 yards receiving, they'll be O.K. I think defensive coordinator Bill Belichek will find a way to do it. Giants win, 27-21. I hopei

0 6 :J: c. llJ ....J u:: The Men's Basketball team beat Albany 70·59 and Elmira 82·67 to raise their record to 1 0-2. Rankings on p. 22. The D:utchmen tied natlonany ranked Geneseo 4-4, and routed Canlslus 10-1 over the weekend. Women's Track Place Second By MEG PARSONS The Union Women's track team is back in season and it looks as if the team has a lot to look foiWard to. In their first regular season ·meet the Dutchwomen placed second to track powerhouse Williams College and bested Hamilton and Hartwick. Placing first for Union were juniors Alix. Goldschmidt in the 20 lb. weight and shotput, and Rika Poor in the 500 meters. Both women are veterans of Union track and it looks as if they have yet another season of success to look forward to. In the second place spot were juniors Tasha LaBarr in the 500 meters, Denise Saunders in the 55 meters, and senior co- captain Meg Parsons in a rare performance in the 1500 meters. LaBarr, a transfer from Russell Sage College, is a welcome edition to the team. Saunders is a second year runner for U.C. and it appears that she also has sprinting success to look forward to. Parsons will be concentrating on the 800 meters this season as she rounds out her four year career with Union Track. Third place honors went to Lori Simkins in the 20 lb. weight throw and shotput, and Candi Mills in the 55 m~ters. These women are also veterans of Union track and field-Lori is on her way to the same success Alix has enjoyed in the weights, and as Candi gets stronger she becomes more and more a force to be reckoned with on the track. Cross country studs Clare (Liz Meg) \Mrs.\ Megathlin and junior co-captain Sandra Anselment competed in the 300 meters and the 1000 meters respectively. Both athletes are working hard and are showing the benefits of increased speedwork. Next Saturday and Sunday Union Track will sponsor the Dutchmen Games. The college events will be held in the fieldhouse on Sunday beginning at 11:30, (and ending before Super Bowl Kickoff)_ So come up and put the names with the faces and cheer on the home team. SPORTSWEEK Thursday, January 24 Women's basketball at Hamilton Saturday, January 26 7:00. Hockey vs. Norwich 7:30 Men's Basketball at Alfred 8:00 Swimming at Rochester Sprints 1 :00 Sunday, January 27 Men's Basketball at Ithaca 2:00 Men and Women's Track - UN ION Invitational 9:00 Wednesday, January 29 Hockey vs Plattsburgh 7:30 Women's Basketball vs Utica 7:00 January 24, 1991 Union Hockey Hamilton, Squeezes 7-3 By DAN STRUM Achilles Rink was filling up early Tuesday night as the skating Dutchmen were getting ready to face off against Hamilton. The Union- Hamilton rivalry has evolved into a game containing fast action and high emotion. This game has always been anticipated by the fans, and there were few who did not want to miss any action; especially not the first., goal. After it was all over, the team and the fans were satisfied with the 7-3 victory that the Dutchmen had earned through hard work and solid play. The team was satisfied with the fine effort that many players gave, while the fans were satisfied with the ice in one end which had a slightly orange tint. The Union squad was up for the game right from the start. They opened up with some big hits and some tight checks. Craig Ferrero took a pass and made his way into the Hamilton zone. He fought off two defenders and got an excellent shot on goal, but he was denied. One could sense the anticipation as the crowd groaned. Ferrero got another chance. He carried the puck around the net and then centered it. Jayson Flowers was there to receive the pass as he deftly one-timed the puck into the back of the net... .. And then the oranges came. Against the wishes of the team, the fans continued the tradition of throwing the oranges. Both teams continued the fast paced game as there was a wide open style of play with many shots. Terry Campbell back-checked nicely to thwart several Hamilton rushes. Campbell's effort paid off a few minutes later on one of the nicest goals of the season. With just over a minute left, Campbell worked his way in front of the net. After he was taken down. he swept the puck into the net whiie Lying on the ice. The team went into the locker room with a well earned 2-0 lead as a result of 15 fust period shots. Union came out a little flat in the second. Hamilton capitalized on this lull to cut the lead to 2-1. However • .- Union responded with two goals in two minutes. The first one came on a Bill Railton backhander which slid just inside the left post. The second Craig Ferrero one was a power-play goal by Jeff Jiampetti. Play then tightened up after that goal, but Union managed to strike again. Campbell controlled the puck at the point and fued a slapshot on net. RiCk Clifford deflected the puck by the Hamilton goaltender for a 5-1 lead. Union dominated the third period while Hamilton looked sluggish. Jiampetti got his second goal of the game on the power-play to make \it 6-1. Later Campbell made another outstanding effort in the defensive zone. Then he quickly joined the play in transition to make it a two on one. Clifford passed it over to Campbell who put a snap-shot in the upper comer to close out Union's scoring. Brian Lucey and Bill Sedergren were two players who stood out defensively. Theyboth checked their assignments nicely in the defensive zone while providing some solid hits in the neutral zone. Goalie Jim Helkie had a fine game in net to preserve the Union win. Union played two other games this past weekend. On Saturday, Union faced off against Geneseo. It had all the markings of a great battle as it pitted the number ten rank in the nation, Union, against the number four rank. Craig Ferrero opened up the scoring half way through the first period. With this goal he extended his scoring streak to 23 games. Mid-way through the second period, Uhion found themselves down 3-1. However, Union has the great ability to spark a comeback at any time. Rick Burchill provided that spark as he scored with just 48 seconds left in the second period to make it 3-2. Union came out fired up for the third period. It was a period Continued on page 22 UNION HOCKEY SCORING G A PTS Terry Campbell 13 24 37 Craig Ferrero 13 24 37 Dalton Menhall 12 18 30 Rick Clifford 7 16 23 Jeff Jiampetti 9 7 16 Rick Burchill 7 8 15 Bill Railton 8 7 15 Tim Oregan 8 7 15 Jayson Flowers 5 8 13 Scott Whitney 3 6 9 Bill Sedergren 3 6 9 Wally Bzdell 4 4 8 Steve Battiston 1 7 8 Greg Eccleston 2 5 7 Bill McKenna 1 4 5 Tim Smith 2 0 2 Brian Lucey 1 1 2 Byron Smith · 0 2 2 Mike Flanagan 0 2 2 Greg Steele 0 1 1

il/J1· Vol. CXX, No. 11 Schenectady, New York January 31, 1991 Hull Closes Down Satellite Campuses FIRE IN LIBRARY REVEALS SAFETY HAZARDS By STEVEN CARR Associate News Editor A minor fire in Schaffer Library this weekend raised some major concerns in relation to the safety of the building. The fire. which took place at noon on Sunday, occurred in administration on the first floor. It started when a roll of paper towels caught on fire on an electric stove which had accidentally been turned on, according to Paul Mantica, the Director of Campus Security. The fire was quickly extinguished and there was no notable damage. By STEPHANIE FRAY President Roger Hull announced plans to shut down Union's three satellite campuses at a meeting of the Academic Mfairs Council 'last week. Over the last 20 years, approximately 40 students annually have received graduate degrees from Union University without ever having set foot on the College campus. Rather, these students have attended graduate classes at one of Union's three satellite sites located in Poughkeepsie, New York, Kingston, New York, and Pittsfield, Masachusetts. The existence of this program has been a controversial subject ever since the program was first put into existence at the Poughkeepsie site in 1966. Thus, now that the two full time faculty members who have been runnh1g the program are nearing retirement, a consensus has been reached that \philosophically an extended campus is not appropriate on principle for Union College.\ Additionally, it would appear that the Pittsfield site has been operating without any form of program approval from the Massachusetts Department of. Education since the site was originated in the early 1970s. Although the decision to close the three sites was finalized before President Hull addres£ed the AAC, he encouraged the committee to seek out viable options for approaching the termination of the satellite graduate programs. According t> Professor Bruce Reynolds, Chairman of the Academic Affairs Council, three distinct groups fonned amongst AAC members in debating the issue in a closed meeting on Tuesday, January 29. Areas of concern included Union's obligation to the students involved in the program, compensation for faculty currently teaching these students, and the effects on Union's reputation if the institution were to shut down these sites. Various members of the AAC were concerned about the students who are currenly enrolled at the satellite campuses in that they are in a position to lose both time and money. As graduate students can only have three credits transferred when switching to a different institution, the President and the AAC have decided to concentrate their concerns on the students who have taken more than three classes. Professor Bruce Reynolds stated that those Continued on page 4 The major result of the fire was the qu~stions it brought up as to the safety of the building. One .student, Dan Strum, who was studying in the reserved reading section. attempted to exit the building through a fire door only to find that it would not open. Strum and two other students, after being unable to open the emergency door, found a security officer who then led them out of the building through the front door. When Strum asked the officer about the door, she replied, \Oh that will be taken care of big time, along with the second floor bells,\ hinting that there was a problem with the alarm system as well. VVhen asked about the problems, Mantica admitted that one of the bells on the second floor had failed to sound. This problem slowed down the evacuation process as the students were not aware there was a problem until security officers came to tell them to get out of the Continued on page 4 · Do You Consider Yourself Environmentally Conscious? 18% NO 11 Ofo NO OPINION YES In a survey conducted by Concordiensls and the Recycling Committee, Union students were asked questions on the environment and their responses. See article page 10. Union Goes Division I By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor At a press conference on January 28, 1991, Union College President Roger H. Hull announced that he had accepted an invitation for the College to join the Eastern College Athletic Conference's Division I Ice Hockey league starting next season. \We are very pleased to accept the invitation of the ECAC to join the Division I Hockey League,\ said Dr. Hull. \It was an easy decision to some people, but more anguishing to ethers.\ The decision itself took almost two months to make. The official invitation was made to Union by the ECAC on December 17 after Army announced that it would be seeking an independent schedule during the 1991-92 season. President Hull came to his decision after attending debates on campus with the student body, faculty, athletic department, and administration. \I wanted to hear everyone's view on the subject,\ Hull said. After listening 'to opinions from all sides and weighing the pros and cons, Hull made his decision to accept the invitation. \In doing so,\ Hull continued, \we look forward to the challenge of competing with some of the finest educational institutions in the land, but we will do without changing our financial aid policy.\ Continued on page 22 en en UJ z (jj ::iE ~ -' -' ~ ,-:i >- CD 0 ~ a. Exact Allocation of Budget Remains Unclear By MATT LANNI News Editor and LARA CHAMBERLAIN The approval of the 1991-92 budget by the Board of Trustees last week increased tuition, room and board by 6.8% to $20,815. This move has prompted many students to question where and how their tuj.tion money is allocated. Before money is distributed to different areas of the budget, it must first be collected from various sources. Thirty to thirty-five percent of the budget is generated by the Endowment Income, the Annual Fund, state aid, grants, inter-collegiate athletics, and other miscellaneous sources. According to John Hauser, Vice President of Finance and Administration, the remaining \65-70% of revenues comes from students.\ Although the exact allocation for next year's budget is not currently available, Hauser explained the budget process using the Continued on page 3

Page 2 CONCORDIENSlS, January 31, J9jl NEWS ANALYSIS The Patriots Of Our Generation By JIM POLITES Patriotism is comiTionly ref erred to as the devoted love ' suppon, and defense of one's country, in other words an unyielding national support. We all have our own interpretations ·Of what ql:l3lities should bring certain individuals national glory: in times of nonwar, it could be a Vietnam or Korean War veteran whose favorite song is God Bless America, and who walks with a miniature replica of Old Glory wherever he sojourns. Indeed these members of S()ciety are placed in a category that elevates them to a status of hero, a group looked up to \Y those of us who view them 'With admiration, regardless of 'v l1ethcr or not we bellcvc iP. By ADAM FISCHER Throughout the gulf crisis, I have preferred to state that I fully support the troops-- not necessarily the war. Among all of our actions during Vietnam, the home front decision to crucify American soldiers as well as the government was perhaps our greatest mistake. Now, in 1991, the United States is in the midst of a new international :;onflict, and it seems that many American citizens are determined not to allow the mistakes of Vietnam torepeat themselves. Unlike the predominantly covered anti-war protests of the late 1960s and early 1970s, tbere have been three distinct types of demonstrations surrounding the Gulf War. Media wise, the most visible group seems to have been, at least initially, the anti-war faction. The second faction consists of Americans who, while not supporting the government's actions, fully place their support behind troops stationed in the gulf. More recently, a third faction has made itself more nationally known-- specifically, a pro- troop pro-war movement, fully behind both military action and government decision concerning the war. However, both the anti-war and pro-war movements are disturbing. The pro-war faction ironically blinds itself to first amendment • ights by crucifying its polar opposite and demanding its dissolution, in some cases. The constitution guarantees the the causes for which they were fighting. In times of military conflict the simple answer is to say that the United States soldiers now fighting in the Middle East against Iraq's Saddam Hussein are the patriots of our generation. This belief is true en.ough: there are no more strong-willed and brave men and women in the world than those who voluntarily sacrifice family. friends, and a comfortable livelihood in order to uphold the justice our country represents. Patriotism is much more than simply a word employed to describe the actions of those who are entangled in battle. Rather it is a state of mind, an all-embracive feeling of a nation that seems to lend right to peacefully protest. Without this fundamental ideal ' our society would lose its sense of individuai.ity. Across the Union campus, I have seen some supporters of war wishing death and destruction on not just Saddarn Hussein, but protestors against the war as well. By taking a right wing, \hawk\ standpoint, the pro-war movement runs the risk of becoming too radical for people who believe in the troops, but not the war-- clearly, this has already happened. The anti-war movement is no better - '\:~m\mded by an air of naivett-; and a refusal to admit ti•~ m.n • .:diate necessity of our presencr in the Persian Gulf. One l)t the greatest misconceptioil.> in the anti-war faction is the belief that the United States is only participating due to economic necessity-in layman's terms, we're fighting for oiL Perhaps, at the beginning of this crisis, that theory was true. After the Reagan administration ceased funding for the development of alternative energy sources, the United States ran an increasing risk of getting caught in another oil crisis-- which is what happened, obviously, when Iraq invaded Kuwait. George Bush sent American troops in to prevent Hussein from attacking other oil producing Arabic countries, and hopefully, to scare him into retreating from Kuwait. But now, it's personal. After Hussein's lack of concern over the United Nation's threat of military force, four facts wre credence to actions taken, a mindset that has carried us smack into the middle of a world crisis and placed our military forces under national, not to mention global scrutiny. The last time we experienced such an immense overseas conflict was back during the years of Vietnam, when the U.S. was going through mass inner turmoil in 'the form of social protest movements. There was an inherer1t paradox concerning our mission in Southeast Asia: while an inordinate amount of American lives were beir1g lost, dissention, not approval reigned at home. Perhaps this is the reason Vietnam's legacy is that of infamy and disgust. Leaders of the time, particularly President patently obvious. First, Hussein was not going to leave-- with almost the entire world allied against him, it was now too late to save face by backing out of Kuwait-- besides which, if Hussein was somehow able to stand up against the entire world and politically survive. the resulting benefits would be enormous. Second, after three months of Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, it became, or should have become, quite obvious that the oil we were \fighting for\ was gone. Ever1 now, Hussein has shown this to be true~- by dumping Kuwaiti oil, he not only causes vast .. mvironmental damage, with the possibility of damaging Saudi Arabian water supplies, but forever .prevents allied forces from easily accessing oil deposits. Third, sanctions don't work-- if Hussein was able to survive for three months with imposed economic sanctions, three months more (and beyond) would be ineffectual. Obviously, sympathetic countries were feeding in supplies via the black market. Finally, and most important, Saddam Hussein had become .too much of a power threat to the other Arabic countries (and for that matter, to the rest of the world). He is an allied-created mess the United States was sent to clean up. Hussein's government and military power was backed, and created, by many NATO alliance countries, including France, Great Britain, and ourselves. It is simply, and unfortunately, a· Richard Nixon, failed miserably in gaining popular s11pport for his extensive military deployment. The nationalism and patriotic feeling that must accompany such an enormous commitment was. absent, and so too was the backing and undying trust needed to meet such a challenge with clear success. - The profound difference between Vietnam and the Persian Gulf is, in essence, the sense of legitimacy stemming from a true patriotism that the latter evokes. When soldiers watch television today in the Middle East,. they do not see defiant young men torching draft cards or violent demonstrations so emotional that police forces and civilians engage in their own small war. Rather, they hear of and see great tributes to their bravery and devotion to the United States. This past weekend, the spectacle,i>f a Super Bowl was even .overshadowed by the harsh reality of what many consider the most dangerous military operation we as humans will ever witness. Here we are, though, not harping on the dismal prospects of lost lives and shattered dreams but finding new and inventive ways to spread patriotism throughout all of America. Many may call question of who hates who more. Iraq, in the early 1980s, was fighting the \dreaded scourge\ of the communist backed Iranian government-- backing a \democratic dictator\ seemed, at the time, to be more palatable than allowing Iran to supposedly run rampant over the Middle Eastern countries. Now, however, the world has changed, and our government has recogoized that it has truly created a power-hungry mosnter. The pro-troop movement takes a far better stance than the latter two factions. I have heard rumors that the war is an inevitability in normal international politics, and peace is an anomaly. Similarly, some people claim that every 20 years, since the beginning of the twentieth century, a major war has occurred, and for that matter, will occur. Has it ever occurred to anyone that these types of statements are proven to be true only because what we ru:e doing with this conflict at home propaganda-- and in many cases it is jusl that. Selling a war is in no way easy. In fact, the main difficulty is finding the most sentimental of chords to pull and turning this ominous Situation into a widespread belief in our nation. Only then will patriotism Hve up to its lofty standru:ds as the means to which we as U.S. Citizens can overcome even the greatest of obstacles. No war in history will ever be winnable, to think otherwise would be naive. It is this sense, this ardent belief in Am-erica that can he the guiding force in ending conflict quicker than any type of diplomacy could. Patriotism is not just idle war lingo that can be brushed off and used every 20 years. It is a truly national is tic phenomenon, capable of enormous influence and impact. Let us not forget that without it, an irreplaceable part of all our country's actions is missing. Legitimacy can always be passed off by a few powerful figures. It is the heart and soul of a belief that can never be tampered with-- thus leaving the true authority right wltere it belongs: with the American people. people believe them to be so? What if someone said that war was an anomaly, and peace was an inevitability? It is morally shameful that people are still unable to peacefully settle their differences-- t~at they are so intolerant of each olher that they are unable to solve problems without bloodshed. But then, that is an idealistic view. We cannot ignore the existence of war-- but perhaps, in the future, we can work to stem its tide. The pro-war and anti-war movements are both too radical and far too politically naive to be effective voices of dissent or support in the Gulf War. Part of the problem behind the Vietnam War lay in the misdirection of the various war factions toward ineffective and unfair methods of support and dissent. In our world, there are really no \black\ or \white\ absolute truths. I reiterate my initial point: I support the ,troops, not the war. Pray for tlie safe return of a{{ tliose in tlie Persian (julf ... i !

Page 2 CONCORDIElVSlS, January 31, 1991 Olnnrorbtrnsis NEWS ANALYSIS The Patriots Of Our Generation By JIM POLITES Patriotism is commonly referred to as the devoted love ' support, and defense of one's country, in other words an unyielding national support. We all have our own interpretations of what qualities should bring certain individuals national glory: in times of nonwar, it could be a Vietnam or Korean War veteran whose favorite song is God Bless America, and who walks with a miniature replica of Old Glory wherever he sojourns. Indeed these members of society are placed in a category that elevates them to a status of hero, a group looked up to hy those of us who view them with admiration, regardless of whether or not we believe ir.. By ADAM FISCHER Throughout the gulf crisis, I have preferred to state that I fully support the troops-- not necessarily the war. Among all of our actions during Vietnam, the home front decision to crucify American soldiers as well as the government was perhaps our greatest mistake. Now, in 1991, the United States is in the midst of a new international ::onflict, and it seems that many American citizens are determined not to allow the mistakes of Vietnam to repeat themselves. Unlike the predominantly covered anti-war protests of the late 1960s and early 1970s, there have been three distinct types of demonstrations surrounding the Gulf War. Media wise, the most visible group seems to have been, at least initially, the anti-war faction. The second faction consists of Americans who, while not supporting the government's actions, fully place their support behind troops stationed in the gulf. More recently, a third faction has made itself more nationally known-- specifically, a pro- troop pro-war movement, fully behind both military action and government decision concerning the war. However, both the anti-war and pro-war movements are disturbing. The pro-war faction ironically blinds itself to first amendment • ights by crucifying its polar opposite and demanding its dissolution, in some cases. The constitution guarantees the the causes for which they were fighting. In times of military conflict, the simple answer is to say that the United States soldiers now fighting in the Middle East against Iraq's Saddam Hussein are the patriots of our generation. This belief is true enough: there are no more strong-willed and brave men and women in the world than those who voluntarily sacrifice family, friends, and a comfortable livelihood in order to uphold the justice our country represents. Patriotism is much more than simply a word employed to describe the actions of those who are entangled in battle. Rather it is a state of mind, an all-embracive feeling of a nation that seems to lend right to peacefully protest. Without this fundamental ideal, our society would lose its sense of individuai.ity. Across the Union campus, I have seen wme SUJ)porters of war wishing death and destruction on not just Saddam Hussein, but protestors against the war as well. By taking a right wing, \hawk\ standpoint, the pro-war movement runs the risk of becoming too radical for people who believe in the troops, but not the war-- clearly, this has already happened. The anti-war movement is no better - <:nrrf'•mded by an air of naivet\.-; and a refusal to admit ti1~ uuli!..:diate necessity of our presenc\ in the Persian Gulf. One l)' the greatest misconceptiOilJ in the anti-war faction is the belief that the United States is only participating due to economic necessity-in layman's terms, we're fighting for oil. Perhaps, at the beginning of this crisis, that theory was true. After the Reagan administration ceased funding for the development of alternative energy sources, the United States ran an increasing risk of getting caught in another oil crisis-- which is what happened, obviously. when Iraq invaded Kuwait. George Bush sent American troops in to prevent Hussein from attacking other oil producing Arabic countries, and hopefully, to scare him into retreating from Kuwait. But now, it's personal. After Hussein's lack of concern over the United Nation's threat of military force, four facts wre credence to actions taken, a mindset that has carried us smack into the middle of a world crisis and placed our military fmces under national, not to mention global scrutiny. The last time we experienced such an immense overseas conflict was back during the years of Vietnam, when the U.S. was going through mass inner turmoil in the form of social protest movements. There was an inherent paradox concerning our mission in Southeast Asia: while an inordinate amount of American lives were being lost, dissention, not approval reigned at home. Perhaps this is the reason Vietnam's legacy is that of infamy and disgust. Leaders of the time, particularly President patently obvious. First, Hussein was not going to leave-- with almost the entire world allied against him, it was now too late to save face by backing out of Kuwait-- besides which, if Hussein was somehow able to stand up against the entire world and politically survive, the resulting benefits would be enormous. Second, after three months of Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, it became, or should have become, quite obvious that the oil we were \fighting for\ was gone. Even now, Hussein has shown this to be true-- by dumping Kuwaiti oil, he not only causes vast ~nvironmental damage, with the possibility of damaging Saudi Arabian water supplies, but forever prevents allied forces from easily accessing oil deposits. Third, sanctions don't work-- if Hussein' was able to survive for three months with imposed economic sanctions, three months more (and beyond) wmdd be ineffectual. Obviously, sympathetic countries were feeding in supplies via the black market. Finally, and most important, Saddam Hussein had become too much of a power threat to the other Arabic countries (and for that matter, to the rest of the world). He is an allied-created mess the United States was sent to clean up. Hussein's government and military power was backed, and created, by many NATO alliance countries, including France, Great Britain, and ourselves. It is simply, and unfortunately, a' Richard Nixon, failed miserably in gaining popular support for his extensive military deployment. The nationalism and patriotic feeling that must accompany such an enormous commitment was absent, and so too was the backing and undying trust needed to meet such a challenge with clear success. The profound difference between Vietnam and the Persian Gulf is, in essence; the sense of legitimacy stemming from a true patriotism that the latter evokes. When soldiers watch television today in the Middle East, .they do not see defiant young men torching draft cards or violent demonstrations so emotional that police forces and civilians engage in their own small war. Rather, they hear of and see great tributes to their bravery and devotion to the United States. This past weekend, the spectacle,of a Super Bowl was even .overshadowed by the harsh reality of what many consider the most dangerous military operation we as humans will ever witness. Here we are, though, not harping on the dismal prospects of lost lives and shattered dreams but finding new and inventive ways to spread patriotism throughout all of America. Many may call question of who hates who more. Iraq, in the early 1980s, was fighting the \dreaded scourge\ of the communist backed Iranian government-- backing a \democratic dictator\ seemed, at the time, to be more palatable than allowing Iran to supposedly run rampant over the Middle Eas~ern countries. Now, however, the worltl has changed, and our government has recogltized that it has truly created a power-hungry mosnter. The pro-troop movement takes a far better stance than the latter two factions. I have heard rumors that the war is an inevitability in normal international politics, and peace is an anomaly. Similarly, some people claim that every 20 years, since the beginning of the twentieth century, a major war has occurred, and for that matter, will occur. Has it ever occurred to anyone that these types of statements are proven to be true only because what we are doing with this co11flict at home propaganda-- and. in many cases it is just that. S eUing a. war is in no way easy. In fact, the main difficulty is finding the most se11timental of chords to pull and turning this ominous sHu&tion into a widespread belief in our nation. Only then wiU patriotism live up to its lofty standards as the means to which we as U.S. Citizens can overcome even the greatest of ob~tacles. Nl> war in history will ever be winnable, to think otherwise would be naive. It is tllis sense. this ardent belief in Ameorica that can be the guiding force in ending conflict quicker than any type of dipJG)macy could. :f>atriotism is not just idle war lingo that can be brushed off and used every .20 years. It is a truly nationalistic phenomenon, capable of e11ormous influence and impact. Let us not forget that without it, an irreplaceable part of ttll our country's actions is missing. Legitimacy can always be passed off by a few powerful figlli'es. It is the heart and soul of a belief that can never be tampered with-- thus leaving the ~true authority right where it belongs: with the American people. peoJ)le believe them to be so? What if someone said that war was an anomaly, and peace was an inevitability? It is morally shameful that people are still unable to peacefully settle their differences-- that they are so· intolerant of each other that tl:!ey are unable to solve problems without bloodshed. Bu:t then, that is an idealistic view. We cannot ignore the existence of war-- but perhaps, in tbe future, we can work to stem its tide. 'The pro-war and anti-war movements are both too radical and far too politically naive to be effective voices of dissent or s11pport in the Gulf War. Part <>f the problem behind the Vi-etnam War lay in the mi:direction of the various war factions toward ineffective and unfair methods of support and di!;sent. In our world, there are really no \black\ or \white\ abs<>lute truths. I reiterate my initial point: I support the ,troops, not the war. Pray for tlie safe return of a[{ tliose in tlie Persian (julf

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 3 A.frican American Heritage Month Celebration Hosted by' Union College February 5th -Reverend Van Woods 7pm College Center Auditorium February 8th . Kwame Ture \Stokley Carmichael\ 7pm Memorial Chapel February 9th- Adelphi Repertory Theater 7pm CollegeAudltorium February 12th- Nlambl We~ster \Black Art In Motion\ 7pm College Center rm :302 February :15th -Dr. Ron Walters \Racial Paradigm In Ame,rica\ 7pm College Center Auditorium February 19th. Celia Clark ·~six Grar~dmothers­ autobiographlcal skit of six grandmothers\ 7pm Old Chapel February 21st- Michael Williams \Legacy of Malcolm X\ 11am College Center Auditorium February 22nd- .:John Amos 7pm· College Center Auditorium February 23rd -Gospel Festival 3pm Memorial Chapel February 25th- March 3r.d Alpha Phi Alpha Week 26th Movie 27th Crosstalk \Blacks under Selge\ 28th Cabaret , All events are open to the public and free of charge Events are subject to change For more Information call: Joyce . Whitted 386-4268 James Alston 370-6961 February Is Black History Month By ALISA GASS During the month of February, the Union College Community will have the pleasure of experiencing Black History Month. A subcommittee under A.L.A.S., comprised of interested students, and co-chairs Joyce Whitted and James Alston, each has been working diligently to plan a number of events for the month of February. In November, the committee began to schedule speakers and performers who will come to Unicm in order to bring cultural diversity to the campus. On · College will perform black art in motion on the twelfth. Dr. Ronald Walker, Jesse Jackson's former campaign manager, will come from Howard University inWashington, D.C. to speak on February fifteenth; Professor Michael Williams Black History Month, February 1991, bas the potential to be the best that our campus bas ever seen. February ninth, the Adelphi will speak on the twenty-first, Repertoire Theatre will perform the day which commemorates a musical ~~ entitled \How I the assassination of Malcolm Got Over . 1 ~ the College X. A great highlight will be a Center Aud1tonum from. 7 to ~ Gospel Festival on February p.m. . Professor ~hombl I tw. enty-third .. In Memorial Webster from Sktdmore Chapel that afternoon, six choirs from the Capital District Area. including a group from Union, will perform. Additionally, A.L.A.S., in . coordination with Union's dining service, will prepare cultural dinners. Also, students from the Culinary Institute of America wiH visit Union's campus for the Culinary Expose featuring a West Indian type of cuisine. Co\chairs Joyce Whitted and James Alston are hoping for support from all students on campus. Black History Month, February 1991, has the potential to be the best that our campus has ever seen. Hopefully. not only those students directly involved or related to :Slack History Month will benefit from these cultural events, but also the rest of !he students on campus will take an interest in experiencing a new or different culture from their own. Admin·istration Dodges Q:uestions About Exact Allo,cation of Tuition Revenues College Earmarks $150 Continued from Page 1 figures from this year's budget. The revenues are first pooled and then distributed to three general areas. Of the 51 million dollar budget passed by equipment, facilities, and dormitories.\ When asked about. specific allocation~ .. to departments and faculty, Hauser responded, \We believe that information is not valuable or meaningful.\ When asked about specific allocations to departments and faculty, Hauser responded, \We believe that information is not valuable or meaningful.\ Hauser justified this position · ···by ·Stati:ng Jhat the .budget :is -'.'reviewed ·inrernally by .the President and his· senior staff' after being drawn up by the Planning and Priorities Committee. However, ~iauser did present figures and explanations for the tuition, room and board increases for next year. the Board of Trustees for 1990- 91, 54% pays for salaries, wages and employee benefits; supplies, services, and financial aid ac~ount for 42.6% of the budget; and 3.3% of revenues go to \capital acquisitions.\ According to Hauser, capital acquisitions is money that goes for \library books and periodicals, new or replacement The cost of attending this school has increased for five major reasons. In order to remain competitive with other top schools, the school has made it a priority to increase the amount of money allocated for compensation, which includes salaries, wages, and benefits for all employees. Additionally, the College has S~curity Incidents 112(1191 8:00 PH 11211n 1115 ~\ 1111191 1130 nH 1121191 1:43 n~ 1/21/91 M3 A~ 1/21191 11:26 A~ 1/23/91. 6:08 A~ 1/23191 1/23/91 1/24/j! lll5!9J 1/25J91 1/25191 1!25J91 l/2Si91 1/26191 112GI!I 1/26/!1 112&191 l/26/11 112£>191 1117191 '1/li/91 1 /;7191 1i17 191 1/l7J91 1u:JJ A\ 2:17 AH 12:21 A\ 9:00 Aft 10:41 AH 4:30 PH ~:59 PH 10:52 p~ 4:49 PH 7:20 PH 1:00 A~ 1:21 AH 1:56 A~ 3:37 An 1: so lin 11:37 AH II :47 AH 1:09 PH 3: Jo •n Orf CAHFUS COLLEGE CENTE' OlD CHAPEl WEST CO~LEGE SCHA;rE~ LIBRARY !R!S PAPKING DUitH HOLLON mT COLLEGE POTTER HOUSE fO! HOUSE RICHHONO HOUSE fRnTERHITY tOl HOUSE CAnPUS GROUNDS WHITAKER IIDUSE R lCHHOHO COLLEGE ACHilLES Rl NK ALL HlTE STUDY COLLEGE CENTER ARTS HATERNITY AFIS BUILDINi, CAHPUS NEAR BAILEY fiELD S(HArtER L !BRAfl HICKOK HOUSE LAHOof PAR~IN6 APEA STUDENT HARASSED ON NYS HRUWiiY vnNDALISH TH >LOOR PAPER 0 ISPEUSE!S VAHDALISft· BROKEN U!NDOW 41H rLOO' EIIT SIGN VANDAll lED EJIT SIGN, COURTESY PHONE VANDnli!ED IN All NliE STUDY THEF\l OF PERSONAl IIEIIS FRO~ A VE~!CL\: STAfF REPORTS THEn OF A COAT HON RESIDENTS CREATING A DISiRUBAN:E VANDALISN TO PERI\ETER Of DDRII YANOALIS\ TO lAUNDRY lOCKER TRESPASSER-UNAUTHORIZED STAfF ElECTRICAL SHORT·InPROPER FUSES UNAUIHORIIED VENDOR ENTRY VANDALISII 10 COLLE6E LANH VANDAL1SII TO FIRE DOOR TRESPASSER WnRNED OFF CARPUS POIIER lOSS THEFT OF CH~lR-RECOVERED SPRINKLER SYSTEM FOUND lEAKING TRESPASSER WARNED OF\F CMPUS STUDENT ASSAULTED DY ANOTHER STUDENT TRESPASSER-ijARNED OFF CAKPUS V~NOAUSH16HT POLES H!NOP rtRE ·COUTROLLED·NO DAKAGE VANDALISHIID~EU UINDON STOLEN ftOlO~CYCLE REG. PLATE Three minutes· a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY increased the amount of student aid. \In no year have we failed to increase financial aid by a higher percentage than tuition,\ explained Hauser. Other contributing factors to the increase in tuition are academic · need,s, expanding the intei'riational programs, and expanding the lib.r.ru.-y's budget. \The market to produce an education is more expensive than the cost of living.\ ··John Hauser Upon reviewing the budget for 1991-92, there seems to be a discrepancy in the fact that tuition, room and board increases by 6.8% whereas the total budget increase is only 6.1 o/o and inflation is predicted vnly to be 5%. The 0.7% difference between the budget and fees is caused by other revenues increasing at a slower rate. For example; the budget for 1991-92 is based on a student enrollment of 1 ,920 students, which is a decrease of 20 students from the current year's budget. The tuition for next year will increase by 1.8% over the estimated inflation rate because \the market to produce an education is more expensive than the cost of living,\ concluded Hauser. Million for Bicentennial By JAY- FREELAND News Editor Last week, Union College president Roger H. Hull annou11ced a $150 million campaign in preparation for the upcoming bicentenniaL The campaign plan was passed by Union's Board of Trustees at a meeting in New York City on January 16. The trustees have set up several goals for the campaign funds. The first is to increase Union's endowment by $87 million. Of this money, $42 million will go to student financial aid, $22 million will go to library and laboratory development, $12 million will go to faculty support, and $11 million will go to academic programs. The trustees also seek to expand the expendable support of the operating budget by $25 million, and hope to attract $38 million in expendable funds to renovate the Nott Memorial and other campus buildings. According to Norton H. Reamer (Union '58), the chainnan of Union's Board, the trustees wanted students and faculty to be the major focus of th.~ campaign. Much of the current money has been earmarked for areas that will enhance the cultural and economic diversity of the College, give additional financial support to students, and increase the number of endowed professorships. Understanding that the campaign will double the Union's current endowment of $100 million places it in top 5% of all American colleges. College's current endowment, Hull stated that \Advance commitments to the campaign total $40 million. Union ranks among the top one percent of colleges in terms of alumni participation in giving, and we have received encouraging support from foundations and corporations.\ Union's current endowment of $100 million places it in the top five percent of all American four-year colleges. Plans have also been made to increase available funding for students to go on tenns abroad, to aid in rese3rch projects, and to restore other campus areas such as the theater, Jackson's Gardens, and donnitories. The national chairman of the campaign is William G. Burns (Union '54. Burns is a retired vice-chairman of NYNEX Corp. and a former head of Union's Board. Serving with Burns and Reamer on the committee are eight other Union alumni. The last major campaign staged by the College was in 1985 and raised $51 million.

CONCORI)lENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 3 African American Heritage Month Celebration Hosted by· Union College February Is Black History Month February 5th -Reverend Van Woods 7pm College Center Auditorium February 8th - K'lllame Ture \Stokley Carmichael\ .7pm Memorial Chapel February 9th -Adelphi Repertory Theater 7pm CollegeAuditorlum February 12th. l'llambl Web_ster \Black Art In Motion\ 7pm College Center rm 302 February 15th . Dr. Ron Walters \Racial Paradigm In America\ 7pm College Center Auditorium February 19th- Colla Clark \Six Grandmothers- autobiographl'cal skit of six grandmothers\ 7pm Old Chapel Febr1:1ary 21st- Michael Williams \legacy of Malcol'rn X\ 11 am College Center Auditorium February 22r:td- John Amos 7pm College Center Auditorium February 23rd -Gospel Festival 3pm Memorial Chapel February 25th· March 3rd Alpha Phi Alpha Week 26th Movie 27th Crosstalk \Blacks under Selge\ 28th Cabaret _Ali events are <:~pen to the public and free of charge Events are subject to change For more Information call: Joyce Whitted 386-4268 James Alston 370·6961 By ALISA GASS During the month of February, the Union College Community will have the pleasure of experiencing Black History Month. A subcmnmittee under A.L.A.S., comprised of interested students, and co-chairs Joyce Whitted and James Alston, each has been working diligently to plan a number of events for the month of February. In November, the committee began to schedule speakers and performers who will come to Union in order to bring cultural diversity to the campus. On February ninth, the Adelphi Repertoire Theatre will perform a musical skit entitled \How I Got Over\ in the College Center Auditorium from 7 to 9 p.m. Professor Niombi Webster from Skidmore Ad'ministration Dodges Questions About Exact Allocation of Tuition Revenues Continued from Page 1 figures from this year's budget. The revenues are first pooled and then distributed to three general areas. Of the 51 million dollar budget passed by VVhen asked about specific allocatioii~ .. to departments and faculty, Hauser responded, \We believe that information is not valuable or meaningful.\ the Board of Trustees for 1990- 91, 54% pays for salaries, wages and employee benefits; supplies, services, and financial aid ac~ount for 42.6% of the budget; and 3.3% of revenues go to \capital acquisitions.\ According to Hauser, capital acquisitions is money that goes for \library books and periodicals, new or replacement equipm~nt, facilities, and dormitories.\ When asked about specific allocations to departments and faculty, Hauser responded, \We believe that information is not valuable or meaningful.\ Hauser justified this position · J>y stafi:ng .that the.budget.:ls . ~review¢ . internally by .the President and his· senior staff' after being drawn up by the Planning and Priorities Committee. However, liauser did present figures and explanations for the tuition, room and board increases for next year. The cost of attending this school has increased for five major reasons. In order to remain competitive with other top schools, the school has made it a priority to increase the amount of money allocated for compensation, which includes salaries, wages, and benefits for all employees. Additionally, the College has Security Incidents 1120191 B:M PH 1121/91 1:15 AH 1121191 1:30 AK 1121191 1:43 AK 1121191 2:43 AH 1121191 11:2& AH 112:l191 . £:08 AH 1123191 1/23191 1/24191 1/25!91 1125191 1125/91 1125191 1125/91 l/26/91 1/26191 112&191 1/26191 1/26/91 1/2&191 1127191 II ~i 191 Jf27/9t li27191 1127,91 lu:33 AK 2:17 AH 12:21 AK 9:00 AK 10:41 AK 4:30 PH 9:59 PH 10:52 PK 4:49 PH 7:20 PH 1:00 AH 1:21 AH 1:56 AH 3:37 AH 1:56 AM 11:37 AH 11:47 AH I :09 PH 3:30 PK orr CAHPUS COLLEGE CEHTEJ OLD CHAPEL WEST CO!.LEOE SCHAFFER LISI<A~Y Am PAPKING DUTCH HOLLOU WEST COLLEGE POTIER HOUSE fOl HOUSE RICHHOND lfOUSE FRAIERm~ fOX HOUSE CAKPUS 6ROUKDS WHIIA~ER HO~SE RICHMOND COLLEGE ACHILLES RINK ALL NITE SmOY COLLEGE CENTER ARTS FKATERNIIY ARIS BUILDING CAMPUS NEAR EUL EY rJELD SCHAt'fER LIBRA~' HICKOK HOUSE LAMOM PARII~6 APEA StUDENT HHR~SSED ON NYS THRUWAY VANDALISHTH rlOOR PAPER DISPENSE~S VAiWAliSK· BROKEN WINDOW 4TH FLOOP EXIT SIGN VANDALIZED EXIT SISN, COURTESY PHONE VANDAliZED IN !Ll NilE SIUDV THEFT 0~ PERSONAL ITEKS FRO~ A VEH!CLE STAfF REPORTS THEFT or A COAT NON RESIDENTS CREATII\6 A DISiRUBAN.:E VANDALISK TO PERIHETER Or DOP.K YAHDALI SN 10 LAUNDRY LOCKER TRESPASSER·UNAUTHOR !lED STAff ELECTRICAl SHORH\PROPER FUSES UHAUTHORIZED VENDOR ENTRY VANDALISH TO COLLEGE LAWN VANDALISH TD FIRE DOOR TRESPASSER IIARHED OFF CAHPUS POWER LOSS !HEFT or CHAIR·RECOYERED SPRINKLER SYSTEH FOUND LEAKING TRESPASSER WARMED OFF CAHPUS STUOENT ASSAULTED BY ANOTHER STUDENT rRESPASSER-VARHED OFr C~HPU5 ~~NDALISH 16HT POLES MINO~ rtRE-CONTROLLED·NO DAKHGE VANOALISH· BRO~ EN U 1HDOU STOLEN HOT010CLE REG. PLATE Three minutes a day is all we ask. UNITED WAY increased the amount of student aid. \In no year have we failed to increase financial aid by a higher percentage than tuition,\ explained Hauser. Other contributing factors to the increase in tuition are academic · ne~d,s, expanding the intetriational programs, and expanding the libJ.ary's budget. \The market to produce an education is more expensive than the cost of living.\ --John Hauser Upon reviewing the budget for 1991-92, there seems to be a discrepancy in the fact that tuition, room and board increases by 6.8% whereas the total budget increase is only 6.1% and inflation is predicted viily to be 5%. The 0.7% difference between the budget and fees is caused by other revenues increasing at a slower rate. For example, the budget for 1991-92 is based on a student enrollment of 1 ,920 students, which is a decrease of 20 students from the current year·s budget. The tuition for next year will increase by 1.8% over the estimated inflation rate because \the market to produce an education is more expensive than the cost of living,\ concl!lded Hauser. College wil.f perform black art in motion <>n the twelfth. Dr. Ronald Walker, Jesse Jackson's former campaign manager, will come from Howard University . inWashington, D.C. to speak on February fifteenth; Professer Michael Williams Black History Month, February 1991, bas the potential to be the best that our campus bas ever seen. will speak on the twenty-first, the day which commemorates the assassination ·Of Malcolm X. A great highlight will be a Gospel Festival on February twenty-third. In Memorial Chapel ti:Iat afternoon, six choirs from the Capital District Area, including a group from Union, will perform. Additionally, A.L.A.S., in coordination with Union's dining service, will prepare cultural dinners. Also, students from the Culinary Institute of America wiH visit Union's campus for the Culinary Expose featuring a West Indian type of cuisine. Co-chairs Joyce Whitted and James Alston are hoping for support from all students on campus. Black History Month, February 1991, has the potential to be the best that our campus has ever seen. Hopefully, not only those students directly involved or related to Black History Month will benefit from these cultural events, but also the rest of me students on campus will take an interest in experiencing a new or different culture from their own. College Earmarks $150 Million for Bicentennial ·By JAY· FREELAND News Editor Last week, Union College president Roger H. Hull announced a $150 million campaign in preparation for the upcoming bicentennial. The campaign plan was passed by Union's Board of Trustees at a meeting in New York City on January 16. The trustees have set up several goals for the campaign funds. The first is to increase Union's endowment by $87 million. Of this money, $42 million will go to student financial aid, $22 million will go to library and laboratory development, $12 million will go to faculty support, and $11 million will go to academic programs. The trustees also seek to expand the expendable support of the operating budget by $25 million, and hope to attract $38 million in expendable funds to renovate the Nott Memorial and other campus buildings. According to Norton H. Reamer (Union '58), the chairman of Union's Board, the trustees wanted students and faculty to be the major focus of th:~ campaign. Much of the current money has been earmarked for areas that will enhance the cultural and economic diversity of the College, give additional financial support to students, and increase the number of endowed professorships. Understanding that the campaign will double the Union's current endowment of $100 million places it in top 5% of all American colleges. College's current endowment, Hull stated that \Advance cornmiunents to the campaign total $40 million. Union ranks among the top one percent of colleges in terms of alumni participation in giving, and we have received encouraging support from foundations and corporations.\ Union's current endowment of $100 million places it in the top five percent of all American four-year colleges. Plans have also been made to increase available funding for students to go <>n terms abroad, to aid in resetlrch projects, and to restore other campus areas such as the theater, Jackson's Gardens, and d<>rmitories. The national chairman of the campaign is William G. Bums (Union '54. Bums is a retired vice-chairman of NYNEX Corp. and a former head of Union's Board. Serving with Burns and Reamer on the committee are eight other Union alumni. The last major campaign staged by the College was in 1985 and raised $51 million.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 \Teach-ins\ Help Students Cope With War By JENNI\FER ARDINGER As war escalates in the Gulf, CNN and \The New York Times\ play a larger role in the daily lives of the students at Gnion College. As media is frequented, so is student awareness. As a result, a ntlmber of students approaclled the administration with a plea for campus action. The group of students was comprised mainly of Dollna Ashton, Marc Bienstock, J o~!-­ Fausty, and Sybil Zanger. These students organized and put into action \Teach-in\'; a series of daily schedtJled speakers. This series began on Monday, January 21, at 4 p;m. and ran daily through Friday, J.muary 25. Political Science Professor Marchant-Shapiro opened the discussions on January 21 in the College Center Atrium. Political Science Professor Tidmarcl1 and Professor Greenberg spoke on Tuesday. On Wednesday, January 23, the discussion was moved to the College Center Auditorium due to the size of the crowd drawn by History Professor Bcrk. Professor Berk fielded questions from concerned students about the possibilities of nuclear warfare Israel's involvement, and th~ welfare of the POW's. On Thursday, January 24, dis~ussions were led by Political Science Professor Board and Economics Professor Motahar. Sociology Professor Huggins ended this past weeks' activities with a discussion at 4 p.m. on Friday, January 25. History Professor Feffer hosted an informal, open discussion concerning the objectives and pertinent issues of war. More dormitory activities are in the process of being planned. Dean Alford best sums up the objectives of the \Teach-in\ as he writes, \while no amount of talk will bring us all together on this i~sue or mitigate the horror of war, you have helped us all to understand and ultimately, to cope.\ The possibility of future activities weighs largely on the interest and desire of the members of the Union College community. Satellite Campuses To Be Shut Down Continued from Page 1 students who have not taken more than three credits will be \set aside from the other students\ because the College is simply \not so concerned about damaging them.;, h<...d a personal interest in this particular solution due to the rumor that his brother-in-law is on the Board of Trustees at Marist College. . Accusations have also been made implying that the topic caused so much friction amongst the members of the Academic Affairs Council that the committee's regularly scheduled meetint; time was changed so that a certain r.•1ember would no longer be able to attend meetings. Fire In Schaffer Library Continued from Page 1 building. In regards to the . problem with the fire door, Mantica stated that they were assuming that the students had failed to press the \panic bar\ which allows the door to open. He said that after the students were evacuated, an officer went back to the door and opened it by pressing the bar. Strum flatly denied this possibility, saying, ''I'm sure I pressed. the bar. The bar is so. obvious, how could anyone miss it?\ Strum claimed he pressed the bar several times and then wllen that did not work, he threw himself against it to try and force the door open. In security's defense, David Gerhan, the Acting Librarian, expressed his gratitude. He commented that the officers were \very much on the ball,\ swiftly and effectively evacuating the building and putting out the fire. He said that security also acted wisely in immediately calling for Schenectady firefighters because they were unsure how bad. the fire would be. Gerhan added that the· fire laries, for once, were not full of illegally parked cars and the fire fighters were able to get through without complications. Security is now conducting a full evaluation of the safety systems in the library to make sure that it is as safe as it should be. Thousands Protest Gulf War By JON KELLER Washington, Jan. 26 - Tens of thousands of demonstrators converged on our nation's capitol today to voice their disapproval of the war in the Persian Gulf. The protestors gathered in the mall, an area near the Capitol Building, and proceeded to march down Pennsylvania A venue to the front of the White House. There were conflicting estimates as to how many demonstrators there actually were. The Washington police department estimates this number to be about 75,000, while organizers of the march said it was closer to 150 or 200 thousand. In any case, the streets were jammed with people from about two o'clock on. Oppose War, Not Warriors The vast majority of the those who participated in the march said they disagreed with the philosophical and political arguments used to justify the war, while still supporting the troops as individuals whose lives might be spared as a result of an immediate cessation of violence. As one demonstrator from Ann Arbor, Michigan said, \We are not demonstrating against the armed forces. We are here because we want to see them come home alive.\ Few Public Officials It was not surprising that only a few public officials participated in the march, as thus far the majority of public figures have been supportive of President's policy regarding the Gulf. Two who did were Charles Rangel, democratic congressman from Manhattan, and the Reverend Jesse Jackson, who, among other things, is now the host of a political talk show. The reverend spoke at the rally, urging President Bush to \stop the bombing ant;! start talking.\ His message seemed to be that the need to drive Iraqi forces from Kuwait is indeed of paramount importance; however, he was of the opinic.n that it could still be achieved through diplomatic efforts. Mixed Crowd As was the case with the Vietnam protests of the 1960's, people participated in this march for a variety of reasons. Some people, including several professors from universities across the country, clearly had solid moral as well as geopolitical arguments for why they felt the war was a big mistake. However, there was also a large contingency of people who had jumped on the protest bandwagon, people who said they felt that war is wrong, no matter what the cause may be. When I asked them what they knew aboul Iraq or Saddam Hussein or Kuwait, many of them did not have very much to say. However, it should be noted·at this time that many of the counter-demonstrators I interviewed exhibited very little forethought about why they were there as well. one told me that \we gotta kick Saddam's ass,\ while another man, a stockbroker from Connecticut, said, \I will support the President of the United States, no matter what he decides to do.\ When I asked the man if he stood by President Nixon after it was revealed that he was involved in the Watergate scandal, he immediately turned away, muttering something to the effect that the American press \is a core of drunk socialists.~~ The discussion focused primarily on three options including closing all three sites down in 1992, transferring all students and faculty to the Poughkeepsie site at Marist College, and closing the Pittsfield site in 1992, moving those students studying at the Kingston site to Poughkeepsie and shutting the Poughkeepsie site down in 1994 when all the students will be done. Although Professor Reynolds thinks a solution has been determined, a final decision has not yet been made on the details of implementing the shutdown. The termination of Union University's three satellite schools, a termination which has been deemed \long overdue,\ is now in the hands of Union College President Roger H. Hull. According to Dr. Spock, breathing can be hazardous to yom children's health. infections. When infections are coupled with irritating air pollutants the damage to young lungs is intensified. So do what Dr.Spock recommends. Call or write One AAC ~ember claimed that during the discussions of moving the Kingston and Pittsfield sites to the Marist College location, allegations were made that President Hull Public Information 730 Polk Street San Francisco, California 94109 415/776-2211 ~-------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~, I . Uses for Maxcy House Debated 1 ~ Late last tenn, Prestdent Hull set up a committee to recommend future uses for Maxcy House (across Nott I Street from G~petto's~; In hls memo, he noted that \the age and condition of the building preclude future use 1 I as. a student restd~ce. Be:y~~d that, however, the President has promised to renovate the building, and has I I satd th~t the commllt~ was free to suggest any use that you wish. All I ask is that you take the interest of I 1 the entrre ~tudent bod~ mt<J. account.\ I That ~ask ts more easily sat<! than done. The president's main goal is that the student body as a whole should I I benefit. We have be~un ollr delib.eratio~s, but to give everyone a chance to contribute, we invite members of I I ~e campus commwuty, stu<lents m p~t.J.cular, to suggest uses for Maxcy House which would enhance student 1 hfe on campus .. Please forward your tdeas to Doug Klein (Economics), chair ()f the committee, or to any of I I the other conumttee membl!!s: Fred Alford (Assoc. Dean of Students), Theresa Bett, Walter Hatke (Arts) John 1 Hauser (VP, Finance), Joe Peccora, Cherice Traver (EE), Drew Ward, or Beth Welch. ' I I Doug Klein I I Economics Dept. I I January 24, 1991 1 I HERE'S WHAT I THINK WE SHOULD DO WITH MAXCY HOUSE: I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~:;::.-,.--oo.g-KMi;\ECODOMlCSD<P~iii-rightOWa~~x: Phone-~---- I L----------------------------------1 SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM Free Printing on Rainbows Free Imagewriter copies .fJ ~ '< SPECIAl, RATES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors on Saturday 10¢ a page $5.00 maximum per day

CONCORDIENSIS, Jan~ary 31, 1991 Page 5 FEATURES Starting Over: A Minister Returns From The Cold By CHRIS WOOD Courtesy of SAUD Bernard Valcourt has shown a taste for danger, in politics and in life. Last July, an evening .of mixing rides on his 1 ,100-cc Yam aha Midnight Maxim motorcycle in and around Edmunston, B.C., with stops at a bar, resulted in a crash that cost him his vision in one eye, a broken nose, shattered cheekbones and forehead, a drunk-driving conviction and his federal cabinet position. But Valcourt, 3&, a New Brunswick lawyer with a gregarious ease in both official languages and a respected record as a consumer and corporate affairs minister before his accident, was back at Brian Mulroney's side seven weeks later-- convalescing at th.e Prime Minister's private summer retreat at Harrington Lake. And last week, Mulroney brought Valcourt in from the political cold, naming him minister of fisheries. It is a job that should provide him with more than enough political risk: no one has survived for more than four years at a stretch in the job since 1960. H u m b I in g : It was a political recovery that many of Valcourt's friends had expected. \He wil be back in cabinet soon. Michel Doucet, president of the Society of Canadians in Valcourt's home province, predicted shortly after his July accident. But he is taking over one of the most difficult and unrewarding jobs in Ottawa. As the minister responsible for Canada's $3 billion fisheries industry, his new job carries little glamour and far more problems than apparent solutions. On the East Coast, shortages of fish are forcing the closure of many of the plants where they are processed. On the West Coast, Valcourt will face fishermen's wrath over the first settlement of a dispute under the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement. That decision allows U.S. fishermen to take as much as 20% of the allowable salmon and herring catch off Western Canada directly to U.S. ports, bypassing Canadian processing plants where it previously had to be landed. Last week's shuffle also returned Valcourt to the important priorities and ·planning committee the Prime Minister chairs on Tuesdays in Ottawa. Valcourt assumed wbat he called a \humbling\ cabinet assignment with obvious zeal. Declared the minister in an interview: \I don't intend to spend any time wHh the bureaucrats in Ottawa. The first thing I intend to do is to go and listen to the fishermen.\ In the fractious fishery that task may challenge even Valcourt's well-established talents as an advocate. As a small-town lawyer in Edmonston, he fought 45 impaired-driving cases on behalf of clients-- and won 3 7 of them (he pleaded guilty in his own case). After winning the riding of Mada'\'aska- Victoria in the 1984 general election, Valcourt was appointed minister of state for small business and tourism in June, 1986, and quickly attracted the attention of Mulroney's senior advisers with his strong defense of the Meech Lake constitutional accord among New Brunswick's francophones. Two months after the Co:o.servatives won a second majority in November, 1988, Mulroney appointed him to the consumer and corporate affairs ministry. Drinks: But last July's accident abruptly sidetracked his political ascent. V alcoutt, who is separated from llis wife, the mother of his two daughters, spent the evening riding his motorcycle along the winding rural highways that surround Edmonston. He stopped at least twice for drinks at a motel bar across the Saint John River in northern Maine. Back in New Bru11swick, Edmonston police spDtted the powerful motorcyde shortly before Valcourt hit a ctub and lost control, crashing into a wooden fence. Later tests showed that his b l()od had contained nearly twice the permissible limit of alcohol. \What I did th.at night was wrong,\ Valcourt wr()te in a statement. \I acce}H full responsibility.\ At tile time, Mulroney called Valcowt \one of the most impressive young politicians I've ever run into. He's someone for wllom I have great hopes for the f11trne.\ Valcourt brings a Iltunber of key assets to his new portfolio. For one thing, he follows a British Columbian-- Richmond, RC,, MP Thomas Siddon-- in a ministry with distinct East and West Coast interests. As well, his. amiable manner is a pcten tially winning contrast to Siddon's more aloof demeanor. Valcourt is well regarded among the francophone fishermell of the Maritimes, with whom he dealt as the government's spokesman on free trade and Meecll Lake. Brian Giroux, executive director of the Nov-a Scotia Dragger Fisilermen's Association, called him a \pop11list roll-up-you-sleeves -and-get-down-to-worl.\ kind of guy.\ And Michael B-elliveau, president of the Shediac, N.B.- based Maritime Fi)IJermen's Union, described his appointment as \a positive thing for the fishery. The fact that he is French-spealdng is important for the political complexion of things.·· Valcourt will need that support-- and more. Said former Tory MP Lorne Greenaway, now Deputy Minister of Fisheries in British Columbia: \The fisheries ministry devours peoJle,\ But Valcourt clearly felt liP to the challenge. Said .the new minister: \One cannot embark on such a dangero11s journey without having fun. •• Drink For The Designated Driver TALL BOY 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce orange juice 1 ounce papaya Juice 1 ounce grapefruit Juice 1 ounce cream of coconut mix Vz ounce grenadine 16 ounces shaved ice Re.d and green cherries Pineapple slices Pour pineapple Juice, orange Juice, papaya Juice, grapEfruit Juice, coconut mix and grenadine Into mixer. Blend a few seconds, strain Into B-ounce glasses packed with Ice. Garnish with cherries and pineapple. 4 SERVINGS tJI~T::,.•·····C'H·M·A· TES . • ;-:~.; .··-:~\.\-' •. :;:,::--· . ,.M , • • '' · H~ve you ever wondered why you haven't ,, be&n abl~ .. t() find s~meone who imerests you? >\'Are. }(OU s1ck of try1ng to meet someone in a drunken . state? U so, then try this new in:n,Qvathie rout&~ AU you have to do is ·.·••· an:ony,maus:ly submit a description of yourself ~;;~~,~~~::~g, yn.~r sex~ year, interest, what you ~···~~Kr>;fer.,tli a mate,;artd~our box number (no 'js n:ames pJ&ase} .. ,Then, Match .. Mates win match t: ~()·tJ\:!it,,i~ ~'~p~ti!ble mate by giving you his ii ot .'~fll1r·llc:>* tu.umber. We ask that you take this ~, -~er~~ur.&~Y'- ·I~ yo:u chose to. participate you are , or>l!S~~~ ~o eorrespond by man to your • ., yho~en r'fl~t~ i,llt haast once. You may meet the ; , pert~~.;~Qa•Q.\lt·VMoman ... so give it a try' You · ·:~·Jitfa¥f),, .. m~th!~g. ·~~~ lo:$a. Send aU letters to Box COME JOIN OUR TEAM 1991-1992 RESIDENT ADVISOR SELECTION APPLICATIONS A VAJLABLE: RESID'ENCE liFE OFFICE - COLLEGE CENTER 405 DAVIDSON OFFICE- DAVIDSON HOUSE FOX OFFICE-FOX HOUSE WEST OFFICE-WEST COLLEGE APPLICATION DEADLINE: I)() ~()U Like 1\lds'l Can you spare 4 Hours a Week? Be a Big Brother or Big Sister r • Call Kelly at 346-4722 or Julie at 374-7504

Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS, January 31, 1991 FEATURES Crisis In The Middle East: And So It Goes By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. Well, we're at war. Kind of a bummer, but at the same time I like to think we're going to kick a lot of ass, and those that know me know . how I feel about the whole thing personally. I won't bothe1 sharing it with you all because, well, we all know what would happen. What I'm here to talk to you all about today is the jingoism which has come with this conflict. It seems to have jet-washed this normally subdued campus. There it goes again. First carne Desert Shield. With that August event, carne lines such as, \no one can have my food, drink my beer, etc ... I have a desert shield over it,\ A veiled tllreat at most. Going along with this initial movement was the good old Stars and Stripes (Stars and Bars, I'm. sure in outreaching areas)-- the flag became a fad. The protesters of the sixties gave us that wonderful flag- burning garbage, and now, those who once burned flags are either wrapping themselves in one or wearing them at top retail from Macy's or Bloomingdale's, if you .prefer. Now we have the Desert Storm. And all the news stations have jumped on the · magic carpet to catch the wind. What gets me is how it seems like they treat it as if it were a sporting event. \Corning up at six-- The Middle East! We'll have highlights, interviews, plus the weather! Don't change that dial!\ All to a backdrop of kettledrums and F-14s taking off the strips. Walk around the campus, and no one says \hi\ {I know, what else is new?). Now it's the thumbs-up ala Tom Cruise Top Gun salute. \Yea baby! Kickin' ASS and takin' Hus- ain!\ Go, Team, go. And it doesn't end there. Now its, SCUD this, and PATRIOT that, such as \Rearnan sent up a SCUD but I plopped him with a PATRIOT.\ That's not Rothberg School for Overseas Students and THE ANNA SOBOL LEVY FOUNDATION The Hebrew University of Jerusalem VISIIiug SIUdent Vtsihng Graduate Student VisitUlg Re.scarcb Student announce THE ANNA SOBOL LEVY SCHOLARSHIP For Graduate Study at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem towards the ecmpletion of Foreign Service or Military studies 1991·92 Applications are invited for the Anna Sobol Levy Foundation Scholarship for 1991·92. The scholarship, in the ar.-ount of $5000, will enable an American student to attend the Eebrew University of 1erusalem for one year •s a Visiting Student, Visiting Graduate Student, or Visiting Research Student. Candidates will have earned an undergraduate degr\\ (or be enrolled in a graduate program) in the fields of Economic Geograph''• International Relations, Political Science, History, or a related fields and must have career objectives in the m1litary, diplomatic corps, government, public service or related fields. Prior or present Commission, or any previous service in the United States Armed Forces is preferred. Candidates must be citizens of the Uni~ States and no older tllan 28 at the time of application. The award of this scholarship is based solely upon scholastic excellence, character, ability, and promise, without regard to race, creed, sex, or religious affiliation. The purp<Jse of !lie luma Sobol Levy Scholarship is to enhance and strengthen the unique relationship between the United States and Israel by creating better understanding and communication between future leaders of the two countries. This award is designed to assist a student in completing graduate requirements in his or her area of specialization. The Anna Sobol Levy Scholar will participate in a special individual tutorial course with a focus on Israeli-American relations and may study Hebrew and other relevant courses that the scholar's advisors and instructors deem appropriate. A. certificate will be issued to the Anna Sobol Levy scholar at the end of the year's program. In 1990·91, ttJtorials Vlere taught by Prof. Shlomo Aronson, and Dr. A.vraham Sela. Previous Anna Sobol Levy scholars have come from such institutions as The .Henry M. hckscn School of International studies at the Univ•rsity of Washington, United States Military Academy at West Point, and The Citadel Military College. In addition to complc~ng all Hebrew University admission procedures the candidates must also submit a Curriculum Vitae and a 2-5 page statement including a proposed study plan and highlighting past experience. Tu1taoa and £ees at The Ii'l:brev.' University of Jerusalem for 1991~92 Summer tJipan (Intensive Hebrew Study) Donnitories~{dunng Summer Ulpao) (dunng acade!Dl.C year) $3t00 $2600 $2200 S700 s 250 • approx.. S 110/mo. Food and E:tpeoses S3Q0..400/mo. For rurthtt infonnation and applicalions please call or write: The Offite or Acudemic Affair5 Hebrew University 11 East 69th Street New 'iork, N\\ York 10021 Tel:{ll2)472-ll.S8 Fax:(lU)517-1548 THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND ITS FIRST WlNTER TERM LECTURE IN THE LEWIS HENRY MORGAN COLLOQUIA DR. RANDLOPH QUA YE, ASSIST ANT PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY AND ANTIIROPOLOGY UNION COLLEGE \THE SOCIAL COSTS OF AFRICA'S DEBT CRISIS ON THE WELFARE OF CHTI..DREN\ Available for purchase and Valentine's day delivery !rom the 'fElECOMMIJNICATtONS OFFICE, Collece Cealct'· t ~!; ltOt.l urrour•~ 0'1 011011 cotl.XGI lUll' lOili CIIT (U.TtPICA TD CAI.L J7•-1'111- a New England Patriot is it? Can't be, these Patriots are winners. Now, I'm no o11e t0 criticize patriotism. In fact, I promote such Jingoism. The problem is that at Union, as usual, the students on the whole don't really take things so seriously. Patriotism is great, and we have to go about our daily lives, but, hey, tllere's a war on. We can laugh and cry about it, but try and remember. I can't even believe it, but it seems to me that many people talk about it more because it's the thing to dt>,. rather than what's doing. So, weary Featlers, the next time you give the old rah-rah stuff, I sure ho:JJe you mean it. lf you do, the11 great. If you just want to get involved for selfish reasons, tllen we don't need you. Educational Anarchy By JASON MESNHICK Commentaries Editor So you say Union offers nothing to do but drink? Well, two students have chosen to address this ptoblern and to seek a cure. The ftrst weekly Philosophy Forum was held this past Monday. Its focus is to get away from teacher oriented learning. ~harles Belden and Dan Milsky. the Forum's founding fathers, believe that students should take a more active role in their education. However, the Forum is not designed as a classroom. Chuck's talk on Monday made that clear. He sees the Forum as a place for student discussion. Any student can participate, either by giving talks or simply debating a point, be it relevant ot not. While professors are more than welcome to attend, they should be forewarned that all are students in the Forum. The goal is for student to learn from student, each of us the teacher, and an equal .• Monday's talk was quite successful. About 15 \students\ were in attendance, including Prof. Baker. The forum was casual, beginning with a short talk on alternative forms of education by Chuck Belden. Before he had a chance to finish speaki&:1g, the discussion got underway. A couple of points of interest were made which should be addressed. First is the role of money in education occurring on at least two levels. One is the economics of educating. In light of the discussion on the archetypal classroom, setting does not support learning as much as teaching. The reason given for this. type of clas:sroom setting is that many stu[Jents can pass through the class which increases the \worth\ of the class. In other words, Union can get a good return on its classes. Secondly is the worth of the diploma. Students graduating frm Onion have a vast amount of \contacts\ or Union alumni. This proports that the Union education is worth nothing aca:dernically but instead is a ste_pJ>ing stone to future economic gain. Outside of tile economics, one student felt oornpelled to talk about _pre-college education. He ask:ed how many students feel scarred by their pre-Union educ~ttion. He did not ask for respollse but instead encouraged people to remember this later in life when their children's educ-ation needs support. We as ]Je()ple in years to come will be j)aying taxes, sitting on school boards and teaching. We mt~st remember that dissatisfaction. Another stude!lt felt that the apathy so cmrent in his relationship with Union is based on previous home and school experience. No answers were given to aUeviate this but the sentiment was conveyed. One of the students present voiced an opi11ion of great concern. Each student learns differently. It is liard to cater to each student. Tlie debate will go on. This is the focus of the Philosophy Forurn. Education will continue in its traditional ways and, as ever, it is the student's resp<>nsibility to learn. The For11m hopes to facilitate that end. JANUARY 31 Multicultural Table Today SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 RECEPTION FOLLOWING IN SOCIAL SCIENCES FACULTY LOUNGE QPEN TO ALL Topic: Why 1 am a Zionist: An Afiirmation of Identity Speaker: Prof. Seth Greenberg of the Psychology Department In Room 302 College Center from 12:30 to 1 :00. .. Lunch from 11 :30 to 1 :30. . Please try to come and contribute your sensitivities to this important\topic.

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 7 Can you bowl? Cabaret Mini-Concerts: Be a part of B·ig Brother.s and Big Sisters B·owl-a-thon on February 1 0. Form a team, get some, sponsors and come ;bowling with us. Or sponsor who is bowUngg Call the Ag·ency at 374- 4523, or contact Kelly McGowan 346-4 722 ·or Julie Davis at 374-7504. February 1st: Peggy Eyres (Jazz/Blues guitar &ballads) February 8th: Miche Fambro (Latinized jazz/Rock-ala George Benson) February 15th: Dean Stevens (Original & traditional songs in English & Spani~h) March 15th: Tina Ward (Guita.r & percussion with decidedly new sound) · Elections for the new Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held Tuesday, February 12. Sign up in CC408 by Friday, February 1. NAVY NURSE WE GIVE YOU MORE PLACES TO GO WITH YOUR CAREER As a Navy nurse, you'll find more career possibilities than you ever thought possible. We have nursing positions in our hospitals and station facilities all around the world, and we need your expertise. Of course, you can expect a lot in return. You'll be part of a team of professionals- keeping current with state-of- , the-art technology and facilities and providing your patients with the very best medical treatment available. You'll get the respect and responsibility that comes with being a Navy officer- along with a solid starting salary, generous benefits (including 30 days of paid vacation), and worldwide travel possibilities after an initial U.S. assignment. The Navy also offers you many free opportunities for specialty training and advanced education. So find out more about taking your career further. There's no obligation. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: See your Navy Representative on campus Feb. 2, 1991 or call 1-800-444-7134. N . A 'lTV NURSE You and the Navy. ..tl. V I . · Full Speed Ahead. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present REGULATION OF SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION PROTEINS in NERVE and MUSCLE J]})rro MAJRW lEo Mf(Q)J]fif'(Q)N Department of Pharmacology University of Washington School of Medicine MONDAY 1 • February 4, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1!191 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES EYE ON THE WORLD By ED MENKE Cremerie Vs. Cremerie {and Why) The purity of the French lan.suage has long been maintained and protected from the influence of other languages, be they English, German, Spanish, or others. In fact, this attitude can be traced back to 1635 (under the reign of Louis XIII), when the Academic Fran~aise was established. Until recently, there was no reason to question the sometimes questionable' and often bothersome accents, spellin!!s. nnd hyphens.) In France, there are no television spocu11s oe.tncung Charles Brun going to the spelling bee with his chien Snoopy. The reason for this is the fact there are, in French, no rules which are as cut and dry enough to make into a jingle cute enough for a beagle. \I befvre E, except after C\ is easy to t:emember, ar.d helpful in many cases. However, there is no French rule which holds fast, at least not without dozens of exceptions. Anyway, let's back up a step or two. Recently, there has been a push, originally supported in May of 1990 by the Acad{mie Francaise and led by France's Prime Minister Michel Rocard, towards an overhaul of the language. In short, the idea was to improve the language by simplifying it. Their reasoning was pretty logical. If France wants to be COh\petitive in the future then French students should be spending less time trying to learn when to use their accent aigus (like\\) and when to use SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION their accent graves (like') and spend more time learning about technological advancements, computer software, and the like. The proposed changes, adopted by the government in December, directly affect over 1 ,000 words by changing hyphens, accents, and other spellings of words. For instance, hyphenated words (croque--monsieur, blue-jean) would drop their hyphens, while numbers over 100 (135) would have hypens added (cent- trente-cinq). Borrowed words which end in -er (leader) would have a u added (leadeur) so that the pronunciation would be French. But, in other borrowed -er words where the pronunciation sounds like the English \air\ (revolver), there would be no change. Also, one of the bigger changes would be the removal of the circumflex accent (or\) from over an i and a u but keep them over an a, e, or o. For example, tlot (islet) would become ilot, but batir (to buiAd) would stay the same. Aout (August) would become aout, 'lie (island) would become ile, and ~o on. However, since there is for every good rule at least one pain-in-the-neck exception, the French saw to it that there be one here as well. To avoid any ambiguity m·m (ripe) would stay the same, because mur (wall) is already a word. Makes sense. Lastly, some words would have spelling changes so that their spelling would make some sense phonetically. Since the first e in cremerie is pronounced like an ~ more than an e, cremerie (dairy) would become cretnerie. Another word which would undergo the same kind of change is evenement (event), which would change to evenement and better reflect its pronunciation. Other examples include eczema (eczema) changing to exema, asseoir (to sit down) to assoir, ne'nuphar (water'-lily) to nenufar, and oignon (onion) to ognon. Changes in the French Language have sparked a heated debate. Although the Academic unanimously approved these changes just months ago. there has already been considerable opposition to Prime Minister Rocard's idea. Fran~oise Sagan, a famous French novelist, told The New York Times, \French is a superb language; there's no reason to change it. This reform is ridiculous. It doesn't help in any way.\ The critics of the changes argue several points. First, the accents and oddities add to the beauty of the language and the richness of its history. Second, they say that the changes will cause problems for children, learning new spellings in school and old ones at. home. If there ru:e to be any changes, they argue, they should evolve through use in the language, rather than be a decree from the government. . The critics' points were sound enough that some members ·of the Academic reviewed the changes after their adoption in December. Soon after, more than twelve of the thirty-eight members petitioned tbe changes, in favor of a compromise. Originally proposed by Claude Levi- Strauss, a noted French an thrnpo 1 o gist, the co~promise involves accepting tlle changes as alternative spellings, for the time being. As time goes on, according to Mr. Levi-Strauss, one of the two spellings will emerge as the mGst widely used, and the other will eventually fade out. In fact, just two short weeks ago, on January 17th, the Academie voted to reverse their original decision from last May, and to accept the compromise, letting the usage be the final determinant. Botton:;t line: Don~t worry, both bonhomie and bonhommie are acceptable as good-naturedness, essuie-mains and essuie-main are both kosher 'for hand towel, and combatif and combattif are both combative. If your professors don't buy it, tell them that you read it in the Concordiensis. If that doesn't work, tell them to take it up with the Academie. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown ln the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH GERMAN SPANISH 1:30PM 3:00PM 4:()0 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM Come and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infonnation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM

CONCORDIENSIS, January 3.1, 1991 Looking for an edge? Looli to a full.-service engineeringlarcftitecture firm tnat's nearly a century olde A firm that can ftelp you hegin. Apply for: THE SEAR-BROWN GROUP's ANNUAL The Lake Suaess, N.Y., office of The Sear~Brown Group will award SCM OLARSHIP two $1,000 scliolarsftips for study during the senior year at a college or universit!:l attended by reCipients. This scliolarsliip sftall be applied A WARDS exclusively toward tfte cost of tuition, books and supplies for.a student wliose major ~eld of stud!J pertains to the ffeld of civil engineering, land surveying or landscape architecture. ELIGIBILITY The applicant must fiave a permanent residence in Nassau, Su\olli or Queens co!lntie.s, N.Y., and be a full~time member in tlie class of 1992 ma;oring in civil engineering, liJnd surveying or landscape ardiitecture. FOR MORE Contact your Financial Aid Offzce: The Sear-Brown Group INFORMATION DEADLINE March ISt/1. THE SEAR-BROWN GROUP FULL-SERVICE DESIGN PROFESSIONALS Corporate Headquarters 2300 Marcus Avenue 85 Metro Park . Lake Success, N.Y. 11042 Rochester, N.Y. 14623 NEW YORK NEW JERSEY PENNSYLVANIA MARYlAND UTAH CAIJFORNIA Orientation Committee Page 9 is now accepting applications for this year's committee. Applications are due Friday, Febm 8, 1991 Pic:k u;p applications from Mrs. Facenda, Dean of Students Office, 3rd floor, CC. This is not an application for OA's. OA applications will be available Mon. Feb. 11, 1991. DE/\DLINE EXTENDED ANNOUNCING THE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE T-SHIRT DESIGN CONTEST! IF YOUR T-SHIRT DESIGN IS CHOSEN TO BE USED FOR THIS YEAR'S DRIVE, YOU WIN $50 CASH!!!! ENTER NOW! CONTEST ENDS FEBRUARY 6, 1991. CALL STACI DUPRE, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUND, AT 370-6142, OR PETER COWLES ~\91 CHAIRMAN OF THE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE, AT 370-4571 FOR MORE INFO. f. .....

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 ENVIRONMENTAL V\brth Saving. Poll Shows Students Recycle ... Some Things. Do You (or Your Parents} Recycle at Home? Do You Recycle at School? 57 °/o Union Surveyed By FRANZ LITZ Environmental Editor A telephone poll taken by C oncordiensis and the Recycling Committee suggests that Union Students are using at least some of the bins now located in many buidings around campus. Of students surveyed, 81% reported that they recycle in some form. Eight percent said they do not. The poll revealed that a significantly higher number of students recycle when it is made convenient or when deposit money is involved. Well into its second term and the third phase of recycling on campus, Union is entering the realm of environmental responsibility. Most students (77%) report dropping their unwanted mail into the white bin located not 15 feet from the furthest mail slot. This can hardly be considered a chore. Nonetheless, it is a step in the right direction, especially considering the mounds of paper that used to be sent to the local landfill. An almost equal amount of students recycle their returnable bottles and cans-- 74%. This, too, is facilitated by boxes kept on dorm floors where returnables are collected to supplement the floors' social budgets. Still, whether spurred on by money, persuaded by the sheer convenience, or determined to act responsibly, returnable bottles and cans are being recycled. What about the materials that require a little more effort to recycle? As may be expected, those newspapers that must be carried from the donn room up to Carnegie or to the academic buildings are being carried by fewer students. Only 46% report recycling their newspapers, while 42% are still throwing them away. The survey shows even worse participation in the clear glass category, which consists of all clear, non-returnable glass. Ony 32% of all students surveyed deposited their clear glass in the yellow bins. This may be due to the lack of clear glass being used on campus, or to the sheer unpopularity of saving non-redeemable glass. It seems likely, though, that more than 32% of the student population drinks wine coolers and fruit juice, or uses glass in their apartments. Again, a large part of the problem may lie in the incovenience in carrying the glass to the bins in Carnegie. In the same survey, 71% of the students replied 'yes' when asked the question, \Do you consider yourself environmentally conscious? II Students were also asked to name the environmental issue they believed the most important. The most common answers were: solid waste,. global warming, oil spills, rainforests; air pollution, toxic waste dumping, and wildlife protection. GO FOR THE GREEN! WRITE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL PAGES. CALL FRANZ AT 393-4021 OR AMY AT 377-1097 Legend II Yes 111111 No m Did not Respond Of Those Who Recycle ...• 11% Unwanted Mail in the Mailroom? 14% Return Deposit Cans/Bottles? THE SURVEY: 70 students were telephoned, chosen randomly from the ZBT directory. 8 chose not to respond. Survey conducted between January 27-28 by the members of the Recycling Committee and Concordiensis En vi ron mental Pages. THE QUESTIONS: \Do you or your parents recycle at home?,. \Do you recycle at school?\ If Yes, \Do you recycle unwanted mail in the mailroom?\ \Do you recycle newspapers?\ 11 00 you return bottles and cans?\ \Do you recycle clear glass?\ \Do you conside~ yourself environmentally conscious?\ \What do you consider the most pressing environmental issue of the 1990s?\' 46% Newspapers? Clear Glass? icOtifACTSi I I 1------' ILSENSiAi I I I Contact Lenses For Less 1 Fast, Convenient. Direct-to-You 1 savings of up to 5()%. All Brands and Prescriptio:ns in stock, in~ I eluding Tints & Disposables. 1 Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac· I tory-sealed vials. I Call for infDrmation and FREE CATALOG. I 800-.726-7802: ~ t :W· Hours 1 • 1Dayl I • ffOJN..z.r .. .-.. ~\~· ---~·--·---

V\btth Saving. Crying Spilled Over Oil By KURT EBNER Millions of gallons of oil were poured into the Persian Gulf late last week from on-shore Kuwaiti storage tanks. The spill is estimated to be more than 30 miles long and eight miles Wide. The Exx.on Valdez oil spill, the largest oil spill in United States history, was almost 11 million gallons. The Persian Gulf oil slick contains approximately 11 million barrels of oil, or about 460 millions gallons of oil, making it the worst oil spill ever. Environmentalists are sure that the spill has created an ecological disaster. The military's greatest worry has been stopping the flow of oil in order to save the desalination plants in the southern section of the Gulf. The slick is days away from the world's largest desalination plant in Jubail. The plants in· the southern Gulf treat water for 12 million people (approximately two-thirds of the desert region's population) as well as Desert Sto~'s troops. The magnitude of the slick will insure a deluge of environmental problems for some time to come. Despite the fact that the Persian Gulf oil spill is significantly larger than the Exxon Valdez spill, the cleaning efforts following the Alaskan spill may be used as an example of what is to come in the Persian Gulf. The Saudis may not choose to start cleanup at this time, chOO!i!ing instead to put booms and skimmers close to the shoreline. One of the clean up techniques that may be instituted in the Gulf was surprisingly effective in Alaska. In Exxon's $10 million effort, fertilizer called Inipol, used to heighten the growth of oil-degrading bacteria, was sprayed along 70 miles of beaches in Alaska. If this process is used, we may see different results, because the bacteria used in Alaska grew under much colder temperatures. They would grow faster in higher temperatures. This is only one of the many techniques that may be used in cleaning up the spill. Other techniques used in the Valdez spill included steaming the beaches and rocks, skimming the open W,ilter, \pompom booms\ as well as more solid booms (to keep the oil from moving further), and chemical detergents. None of these methods can obscure the fact that, if and when they attempt to clean up the spill, the environment has nevertheless been severely harmed. According to Professor George Shaw of the Geology Department, \It is very unlikely that we can clean it up in any significant way. There's no doubt that this spill will severely harm the environment. They are going to try a lot of things in order to clean up the spill.\ The only sure-fire way is through natural processes. \If we look at what they were able to do for the Valdez spill, they are limited here because of the size of the spill. It is almost a hopeless ,task.\ Consequently, in the next few weeks we will be seeing devastating pictures of the harmed environment. Already, beaches along the gulf are covered with birds slowly dying because they are covered in oil sludge and unable to fly. If the oil is not cleaned up, it will filter down from the- surface and affect the marine animals below. War is taking its toll. Not only in human life, but also on the wildlife. CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 11 ENVIRONMENTAL . .. ,, The future of the Saudi Coast? Exxon Valdez cleanup. Recycle Laser Pap-er??? By liz Dobbs Yes you can! However, lately there has been some confusion about the differences between recycling laser paper and office paper. The guidelines that follow should help to clarify some of the questions that are around. Office Mix .. white bins laser paper - blue bins (labeled Computer Paper) Please include: Please include: - laser paper N non-sl1iny copier paper of any color - notebook paper - dot matrix computer paper - paper that you are unsure whether it has been laser printed or copied Do not include the following: - laser paper Do not include the following: - staples - staples - tape - anything with glue · post-it n·otes - envelopes - paper bags - cardboard · fax machine copies - tape - anything with glue - post-it notes - envelopes - paper bags - cardboard - fax machine copies - tissues or paper towels - tissues or paper towels Clip & Save S lienanigans Hair Designs we enjoy our work ... 2 for 1 HAIRCUTS Reg. $12. Now $6.00 Each so will you! with this coupon thru Feb. 15 appointment strongly recommended TuesNFri. 9-8 Mon & Sat 9-5 372-0007 519 Union St. Sch'dy Come Hear The Union College DUTCH PIPERS Sing in City Hall Saturday, Feb. 2 at 5:00 as. part of WINTERTAINMENT91 ~·· •.

-. Page 12 CONCORDlENSIS, January 31, 1991 <!rnltOlrhirttsfs -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Crying W·olf Catches Up With Us The issue of how to irnpr()ve Schaffer Library is nothing new to this editorial column. Unfortunately, the issue has not been discussed lately and we are hoping that it is not too btc to caU attention to the problem. The importance of the library to members of the college community cannot be taken lightly. Particular events of the last week highlight this point further .. Using last year's sta.tistics as a guide, the Administration's adoption of the 1991-92 fiscal budget may allow for 3.3% of revenue~ ~o be rationed out for \capital acquisitions.\ Into this category falls the purchase of new books and periodicals for the library. A recent trip to several college libraries outside of Schenectady blatantly revealed some fundamental inadequades of our library. Additionally, the degrading remarks frorn students at other colleges in regard to our library subst2ntiate this point further. There is an imperative need for a more comprehensive list of magazines and newspapers as well as books and journals. The Administration has sa.id on more than one occasion that improvements in Scha.ffer Library are one of the top priorities pending availability of funds. For the sake of students and faculty, the backbone of this institution, improving Schaffer Library must become the sole priority of the Administration. No other building on campus deserves the attention or funding that must be allocated to the library. The academic potential of.ea.ch student here is in essence a factor of what resources are available to that student. It is obvious then that those .resou:rces must be abundant. This being the case, we encourage the Administration to look again at allocation of hudget resources for next year. Act on what you have supp<>sedly committed yourselves to in the past and increase (as much as is truly feasible) the amount of money apportioned for the library. The discussion of this issue would not be complete without mentioning the small fire in the library last weekend. This occurrence llighlighted the need for physical improvements to the structure of the building. Security and fire safety measures must be improved as well. This implies more money, but money which would be wisely spent. They say the third time's the charm. This is the third time this year Schaffer Library has been the focus of an editorial. This time lady luck is on oar side in addition to common sense and reason. The primary allocation of resources from the 1991-92 budget must got() improvements in the library. Our Investment: Tell Us. Where It's Going ., .... '-· \ John Hauser When people make an investment with a firm, they usually do so only after reading a prospectus detailing exactly where their money would go. This procedure assures the investors that t11eir money is not going to foolish places that will be of no benefit to them. Similarly, the students 1>f Union College are investors. We pay the school a considerable sum in order to receive commensurate benefits. We have the right to know where our money goes. When Jolm Hauser, the Vice President for Finance and Administration, was asked to detail where our tuition goes, he replied tha.t the infonnation would not be valuable or meaningful to students. Shouldn't we be the ones to decide what is valttable or meaningful when we're talking about our money? Tuition accounts for 65 tl> 70% of the college's budget. We who pay for that mucl1 of the budget should have the resources to make the coUege accountable for where that money goes. Chances are that the administration does a decent job and that the studeats would not object to much of the al1ocation. But if this is indeed the case, then what does the administration fear by not telling us? Tell us, Let us decide if it's meaningful. Let us know what we're paying for witll our educational investment dollars. LETTERS Shades of Grey Sheds Light To the Editor: Last Thursday night, Shades of Grey confronted an audience of at least 100 students with a smorgasbord of edgy issues, the kind we prefer not to think about: racism, alcoholism, AIDS, the whole nine yards. I'm writing to express my gratitude to them, and my amazement at what they were able to _pull o£f. · I was especially impressed by the candor of the half-hour . discussion which followed the performance. I heard Union students saying - right out loud - that it's possible to go out, meet new friends, and have a good time, without going to a fraternity party and getting drunk. I came away with completely new notions of the level of maturity and responsibility of Ol:lf students. I think there's a counter-culture brewing here. I just hope that we faculty, and the administration, will rise to the occasion. Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Professor of Economics Green Light Urged For 91-92 Terms Abroad To the Editor: Numerous people have asked about the status for terms abroad for next year, given the situati·on in the Gulf. Unfortunately, I am not a seer. My advice to students thinking about a 1991-92 term abroad is to act as if there were no problem and there will be a program. Thus, go through the Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO TilE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITtED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TIJESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. application process, sign up for the appropriate prerequisite course, and so forth. You are not committing youself to the program in any permanent way. You may withdraw at any time you choose if you decide you really do not want to participate, given the political situation. lf you do not go through the application process at the appropriate moment, and \ then it turns out that we are going to be able to run the programs, it will he virtually impossible to put you into a program at the last minute. If you wish to discuss your particular situation, please come by the Terms Abroad office. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad

.- '\: CONCORDJENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 13 ' . Time To Orient Our Interests To the Editor: Orientati()n and interviewing and training tile OA's. It's a big commitme11t, but a lot of fun, too! So _g~t your application from Mrs_ Facenda in The Dean of Sittidents Office (3rd floor, CC) ami tum them in by Friday, Fe!)ru<Uy 8th. Applications for Orientation Committee arc now available in the Dean of Studellts Office! Orientation?! But it's only W~nter term. WeH. the Orientation Committee has begun planning Orientation for the 200th Freshmall dass at Union!!! The OC spends Winter and Spring terms ,planning Beth Welch ~nd Mary Levinsohn Co-chairs Orientat[()n Comm., 1991 You do -not have to be a Math, Maior to learn about being ·an actua·ry. Come to the next Aduarial Club Meeting on Wed./ Feb. 6 at 8:00 p.m. in CC 203. Newcomers welcome. The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Prof. Neil Thomason, Vass::11 College, candidate for a Phil9~ophy posi~ion on Monday, February 4, 1991. There will be an ·informallul1ch and classroom presentation entitled: \Is Morality Just a Matter ()f Opinion?\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House L<>w9r Lounge. There will be a public lecturE entitled: \Baysean Subjectivism, Duhem's Problem, and the Sometimes Unavailability of Sub:j&ctive Probability\ in Humanities 110 at 4:()() p.m. 'lllE Alll'CBI();RAPHY OF MALOJIM X 5. 95 LETTERS Off To A \Soda-less'' New Year To the Editor: Wet College opened for the winter term on Sunday, January 6, 1991 at 5:00 pm. We were looking forward to a bright, new year. Anticipating the return of the hustle-bustle of meal time, all of the cheery conversation and the answer to \How was your break.\ At 5:07 pm, a water main broke in the basement of West College, interrupting the lines connecting to the Beverage Bar. Without water, no juice, no soda! (Both the juice and soda. are postrnix dispensers, requiring syrup, water and C02.) Although maintenance and the coca-cola repairman responded p romp tl y, unfortunately, due to the nature of the break, repair was not complete until early Monday morning (Were we happy!). The water was running, however, no syrup ran throu.gh the veins of our soda dispenser! Another call to coca-cola brought the repairman. The C02 line was leaking! l'his repair was complete by 7:05 pm . . . and dinner was over! Needless to say, the inconvenience caused by the two problems created quite a series of unpleasantries. We appreciate the patience of those who obtained juice from the insulated, cold beverage dispensers that we filled and set out. We strive to provide service to you, our customer. We welcome your suggestions for improvement, and enjoy being at West for you. With this in mind, we are looking fowrard to the upcoming, successful year. Special thanks to security, maintenance and the coca-cola bottling company for their help during this time. Joann Bratge TAKE A FEW M TO GO lHROU YOUR GARBAGE. Tl1e ordinary bag of trash you tluow away is slowly becoming a serious prob- lem for everybod)'. Because the fact is. not only are we running out of resources to make the products we need, we're running out of places to put what\ h:ft over. vou'llneed to k11ow ahmtt rt'l;.cling Write the Emironmental Defen'ie One thing\ for certai11, tl1e few 111111· Fund at: S' Park Avenue South, New utes you take to learn how to recvcle will 'ti>rk. NY 10010. fo1· a frt.~ brochure tl1ut spare LL~ all a lot of garl>age l:til'r will tell you 1·ir- IF YOU'RE NOT RECYCLING ., C::iiM:\ r.t!'1 tually ever: thing YOU'RE THROWING IT AU AWAY. ~ ~~ \Our country right or wrong. When right to be kept right; when wrong to be put right.\ . Carl Schurz, 1829-1906 Address, Anti Imperialist Conference, Chicago, Oct. 17, 1899 Unio?/l College Career n r Development ;._. .... ·-:_.. ':_ ... ~ .... • Center RALSTON PURINA (BEECHNUT) WILL BE ON CAMPUS MARCH 6 TO INTERVIEW MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MAJORS FOR MANAGER TRAINEE AND PROJECT ENGINEER POSITIONS. THE DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS IS MARCH 1. SIGN UP IN THE CDC. FEBRUARY IS BLACK HISTORY MONTH, A NATION-WIDE EFFORT TOINCREASEAWARENESS OFTHE HISTORY AND CULTURE f~ ~:~~~t~. l;rit·~ ....... . ,.... • fta{.t'S \ifl<ll!• ~t ·~ .. i-}cJ.,t:!)• \'f • '\ by Malcolm X An established classic remains a IXJWer.ful, brilliant, painful, angzy book by peri1aps the rmst dynamic leader of the black revolution in 1\rrerica.- OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS. WE BELEIVE THAT READING IS ONE OF THE BEST WAYSTODOTHIS. THESE AND OTHER FINE TITLES ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE AND WE INVITE YOU TO COME CELEBRATE THIS \HERITAGE IN PRINT\ WITH US. r , 1 j!. . \ ··-e . '\.'t \ It .... 'f Fa~ERFUL DA'lS: 1HE crvn RIQi'l'S Pfl:l'1'CGRAIHY <JE\ OfAALES M:C!lE 24.95- by Michael s. Durilaln WORK A historic collection of civil rights phot~aphs frtm the rrost infltlE!l.ti.aL photographer of that era. The inages 'Will fascinaote those who Lived througb. the 60s and help enlighten a younger generation eager to lea_rn. Introduction br Andrew Young. BEID\IEI) 5 • 95 by Toni fobrrison An illustration of the legacy of slavery. Set :ill rural Ohio after the Civil War, Belovei ill a portrait of a haunted runaway slave. Wrnner nf thE' 1qFUl Pr•li~~.,,... Union College Bookstore College Center 370-6188 .a.;.z,: ce.••••TI~ I • fl. :1 .. II ! \I ... 4;.t I .II ....... , JAZZ c:tmPATlll\. 12,95 by Phyllis Rose 'Ihis stunning biography of Josephine Baker captures the essence of ·tbe fam:JUs singer and tha cclt:ural. Md historical. circtmtanc:es that shaped her Ll:j:e. 1\n :Ult.i.rnate portrait of a j;loor ,bJ.ack girl who parlayee b.er- c11ttm cmd Hours Mon-Fri 8:45-4:30 Sat. 11 :00-3:00 Ere:> 00 'lHE PlUZE 10.95 by Juan tiilliarns A docurrentaxy in pictures and wo:rds of the gnat events of the Civil Rights !obvarent, frcrn Sitmir.gham to the Freedan Riders to the colitician~ in LET 'lHE TRI.Ml'El' saN): \!liE LIFE OF MMn'lN WlHER KIN3, JR. 4.95 by Stephen B. Qates The life of Martin Luther King, Jr. COI!l?iled by the celebrated biographer. 'Ihe story, of a areat !T'Cin in tre ~,.rt,aa1,. m SFJ\lD{ OF foOIHER'S GARIEN 9,95 by Alice Walke!:' Alice WalJcer' s first collect:ioo. of non-fiction \waTellist• essays explore h 1 :.,...\, ,,~ ... I C' ~ 1 •+-~ o\\'\\'~h.;. 'lllE S'I.'1U;GLE IS MY LI liE 12.95 by Nelson Mandela Writing and speeches olus actual accounts pulled toge~~e to provide a revealing story o this black hero's life. This new edition includes fou= speeches following Mandela • s release fran prison in February 1990. PARTIN:; '!HE WATERS: AMERICA IN 'lllE KIN; YEARS 14.95 by Taylor Branch A rich epic of the ArrericaJ civil rights rrovement and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr Here is a vivid tapestry of our nation, tom and finally transformed by ~ revolutionary struggle unequaled since the Civil War. oc•

Page 1-1 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 19()1 Attenti,on Stu,dents on Meal Plan: Students wishing to sign up, change or drop the Meal Plan for spring term should do so in the Dining Services Office, CC202, no later than February 15, 1991. Applications Available for Resident Advisor Selection Pick Them U:p at Residence Life Office - CC405 Davidson Office: Davidson House fox Office: fox House West O'ffice- West College Applications Available 2/1/91 Appl ica1ion Deadlline 2/15/91 Wnton QCoUege jfacultp <!Olloquium I MARTHA D1 HUGGINS ROGER THAYER STONE PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY nPolitical Policing: U.S. Training of latin American Police and the National SecuritY Staten Tuesday1 February 26th at 4:30 P.M. College Center Auditorium Coffee and Tea at 4:00 P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND • Get theAl&T Calling Card and your first call is free. French Movie: There's no better time to speak your mind. Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, you'll get your first 15- minute call free~ -~ · .. · ... · .• With your AT&T Calling Card, .·:··'\ ?) '>.· ;'<=1 you can call from almost anywhere mar .!i,,;;L~Ji 1 ~N~.,,.,~.,., 'ti', to anywhere. And you can keep :u.L. S:!IS ~~!fa, un · d 'f d ~~t~~ ~~t • your car: , even 1 you move an ~-;-~. ~Hm .~''\~. ~......... . get a new phone number. Our Calling card is part of the AT&T Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and services designed to make a students budget go farther So look for AT&T Calling Card applications on campus. Or call us at 1 800 525!7'955, Ext. 655. And let freedom ring. Am1. Helping make college life a little easier. ATaT \'A $3.00 value for a C()aSt·to·coast Calling Card call. Applies to customer-dialed calls made during the AT&T Night/Weekend calling period, llpm to Sam, Sunday through Thursday and llpm Friday through 5prn Sunday. You may receive more or less calling time depending on where and when you call. Appli~ations must be received by June 30, 1991. The right choice. Monday, .Feb .. 4, 7 p.m. College Center 4th Floor. \Jean de Florette\

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT By, For, and' About U:nion Students By JOSHUA F A-USTY The members of Shades of Gray, the all-studetlt im:Jlro- visational theatre company, sponsored by Mountebanks and co-directed by MarcyWeia and Andy Collins, spent ·the first four weeks of reliearsals discussing what themes were important to them, deciding how to tackle them, and ,tum them into a .show. 1'he next step was playing and practicing, until they 'ltad a series of original sce11es they were happy with. The result was a Shades of Gray that dealt with importnt camplls/stu- dent/human/life issues in a sometimes painfully blatant, sometimes cleverly Sllhtle, but always. on-target and sensitive way. The scenes in Shades mirror life at Union College, creatively picturing a diverse array of the extremes-- in extremely common and all-too- familiar situations. As one member of the audience commented, \Everyone can relate to something in this-- everyone is affected by it in some way.\ The show addressed themes ranging from stereotypes and bigotry to sex and sex roles, to AIDS, peer-pressure, grades, alcohol and other drugs, DWI, small talk, friendship, image, reputation, authority figures, and human relations in general. It was not a heavy or serious show. despite the serious natme of the topics. On the contrary, it was a lot of fun to watch. The scenes were naturally funny, and although reality w.as .sometimes stretChed to make a few points (which adds to the humor of it all), they were surprisingly realistic. The actors worked very well together, and seemed extremely comfor~able. They enjoyed themselves out there, a.nd that rubbed off on the audience. One audience member felt that \all tllis complaining\ was getting .a little old and a. little boring. During one of the discussions. which were held after every Shades performance, she said, \Things are n1>t £Ding to chang~ and I'm tired of always hearing about how bad the social situation is here.\ Another student felt a little differently during the performance. He said,. \Yoll sec your friends-- you see yourself The College ~enter e3:ncl The.Cab~reVCoffeehouse are initiating a new series of performaoces by local professional art1s1s whsch Will be held on a number of Fridays in The New CabareV C?ff~eho~se,. ~.C3()~, at. 8:00.PM. These artists are all on the \New York-Boston-Capital D1stnct C1rcu1t, a C.:1rcu1t which has l:>roughl many .up-and-coming artists to the small clubs in our area such as Cafe 'Lena, The 8th Step, and Peggy's in Downtown Schenectady. In th~ past, such well-known perbrmers as Bonnie Raitt and Randy Newman have visited Union and' tlite other clubs on this circlJit. With the New CabareVCoffeehowse, we are pleased to once again make our campus a stopping place for this kind of artist at a price everyone can afford: FREEl The schedule for ttlis term is as follows: ., The Cabaret/Coffeehouse Mini-Concerts present February 1st: Peggy Eyres (Jazz/Blues guitar & ballads) February 8th: Miche Fambro (Latinized Jazz/Rock - ala George Benson) February +5th: March 15th: -Dean Stevens (original & traditional songs in English & Spanish) Tina Ward (guitar & percussion with a decidedly new sound) Fridays at 8:00PM In The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse, CC302 Skidmore Theater The Second Artnual NATIONAL COLLEGE COMEDY FESTIVAL will~ be held an Friday and Saturday, February 8 and 9, 1991. Penormances are at 7 p.m., Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. and 9:30p.m. Fea~ured are students from Amherst, Brown, Cornell, Kenyon, Skidmore, Swarthmore, Tufts, Williams, Yale 1 and the universities of Arizona, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and $outhern California. Tickets are $5 advance sale or $6 at the door. Reservations recommended, 518-584- 5000 ext 234 7. ~::===•==:~ The College Center Dramatic Reading Series presents by Robert W. Robinson Directed by Marina Bernard Wednesday, February 6th at 7:00 pm in CC302 (The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse) Free Admission & Refreshments Weekend Movie: White CCAud 7' 9, 11 up there-- doing what they (the actors) are doing, and it's embarrassing, because that's me looking like an idiot! \ One performer, Rob Kime, said, \We're not trying to change all of Union-- but if we affect just one person, this has all been worth it.\ The stuff Sh.ades deals with does make some people uncomfortable, but some would argue that discomfort is one of the best cost effective consciousness-raisers. It's no fun to look in the mirror and dislike what you see; sometimes the truth hurts. If there is a problem though, then seeing the truth can be the first step in a process of making things better. Shades makes it easier for us to ackn()wlege that there are problems, while it leaves it up to us t<> decide exactly what those problems are. We are faced witlt questions about what :needs to be done. We are left holding the ball. Shades presents a refreshi11gly clear, much needed mirror for Union College. It's nice to see :people beginning to have tile courage to hold up that mioor for the community to look into. The next difficult step win be finding people with the courage to see what's reflecting back in our faces, and then do something. about it. A Michael Jackson song from .a few years ago suddenly comes to mind ... HOROSCOPES VIRGO: Your social life will take an interesting tum, but one that will pmve rewarding in the end. So don't question the situation, just let it take you along. Luck:y day: Monday. CANCER: A surprise from last weekend may surface again within the next few days, but don't sit hy tbe phone and wait. Do your own thing, and eventually someone or something will come to you. Lucky day: Friday. LIBRA: An aggravating relationship aeed.s to be put to rest if you are to find happiness. Don't be afraid to reclaim your sanity. Lucky Day: Tuesday. SCORPIO: You've been doing more work: lately than usual, which is to be commended. Now it\s time to relax and unwind-start early, because Sunday night is right around the comer! Lucky day: Thmsday. SAGITTARIUS: Are you shying away from a certain obligation? A voiding your desk whe11ever possible? I don't blame you. K..eep up the procrastinating until you can no longer. Lucky day: Sunday CAPRICORN: Feeling lonely? Change your single status for a while, and you'Jl feel much better. Begin right away, to chase away the winter blues. Lucky day: Saturday. AQUARIUS: Take care of yourself this weekend and try not to party too hard. The week to come brings a lot of work. Lucky day: Sunday. PISCES: Do you feel like a fish out cf water? It could be due to your lack of romance. It's time to take the plunge. Lucky day: Friday. ARIES: Someone wants something from you, and if L~e request is not unreasonable, try to do them the favor. You may receive something from them in return. Luck:y day: Sunday. TAURUS: There is someone out there who finds you very attractive. Pay attention to subtle signals from someone who is too shy to approach you. Lucky day: Mon<lay. GEMINI: The next few days may be emotionally turbulent ones, so hold on tight, and remain calm no matter what happens. Lucky day: Wednesday. LEO: Things will start to pick up after a slow last week so go out and enjoy the change of pace. Lucky day: Saturday. ' FOR$20, WE'LL LET YOU HANGOUT INlHEQUAD. $20 MID-WEEK LIFT TICKET. • Why hang out between the student union and the library, when you can be letting it all hang out at Mount Snow, Vermont on any one of our 84 trails. To hang-out even longer, join Sncw~reak '91, Jan. 7·11 and 14- 18-a week of parties, games, parties. parties and skiing! For a taped ski report, call (802) 464-215 1. For more in for· mation, call (802) 464·8501. •ount eltohl® When It Comes To Big Mountain Skii~No cme Else 1s Close. •Qff .. .,..~ ......... ......,.~-·-~c c-- .. ~~--

CONCORDJENSIS, January 31, 1991 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Emerson String Quartet To Make Sixth Area Appearance Better Than Bran B •• The WRUC Record R~eviews By RON EUGENIO Killing Joke - Extremities, Dirt, and Various The Emerson String Quartet, the first c hambcr group to win a Grammy Award for best classical album in the 32-year history of Ute Grammys, will perform a program of music by Mozart, Haydn, and Bartok on Saturday, Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. at Union College's Memorial Chapel. to honor the great American writer and philosopher. Since its founding, the quartet has carried a reputation for ia novation, including alternating the first chair violin positions between the two violinists. .• ·Repressed Emotions The concert, their sixth appearance in the Schenectady Museum- Union College concert series, will be preceded at 7 p.m. by a recital of music by Hin<lemuth, Shostakovich, and Dvorak. Thcqllai1et, widely acclaimed as one of the world's premiere chamber groups, includes Philip Setzer and Eugene Drucker, violins; Lawrence Dutton, viola: and David Finckcl, cello. On the program are Quartet in E Major, Op. 54, No. 3 by Franz. Joseph Hayden; Quartet in C Major, K . . 465 \Dissonant\ by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart; and Quartet No. l, Op. 7 by Bela Bartok. The pre-concert recital will feature Sonata for Solo Viola, Op. 18, No. 5 by Paul Hindemuth; Three Duets for Two Violins and Accompanist by Dmitri Shestakovicy; and Terzetto in C Major, Op. 74 by Antonin Dvorak. The Emerson was formed 14 years ago as the professional contintiation of a student quartet begun at the Juilliard School; the name was selected The group performs over 100 concerts per year in the U.S., Europe and Far East. Its current schedule includes re- engagements in New York, Washington, Los Angeles, Chicago. London, Amsterdam, Paris~ Berlin, Vienna, Salzburg and Milan. This past summer, they appeared at the Salzburg, Mostly Mozart, Ravinia, Caramoor and Aspen Festivals. The group made it~ Carnegie Hall debut in 1988 with a performance of the six Bartok quartets in a single evening. They are to return to Carnegie this year as part of the hall's 1 OOth anni vcrsary season peresenting an all-Russian program. Both the concert and recital arc in Memorial Chapel, located at the center of the Union College campus. The h1!1 's acoustics make it a favorite of local chamber music fans. Tickets. at $14 ($7 for students), are available at Schenectady Museum, all Community Box Offices and at the door. For information, call 382-7890 or 3 72-3561 (evenings and weekends). {Noise International) As a band, Killing Joke are great. All the right .people hate them. They deliver songs on the hardcore tip and not only protest capitalism and apathy, they ridicule it. After countless years of fading away (as the best punk bands usually do), they lift their heads to show they haven't degenerated into the lazy idiots they always sing about. Extremities, Dirt and Repressed Emotions shows that even age can't stop anger. The first song \Money Is Not Our God'' stands as a parting shot toward the previous decade of materialism and decadence, and strangely enough is quite receptive to the \greening\ of society, preaching \clean air\ and \blue sky.\ while playing in their usual sledgehammer style. \The Beautiful Dead\ is about conformity, and the insistence to think for yourself. The song starts in a monotonous tone, but that's the point; to be repetitive is to be boring. (So I'll stop talking about it right now.) Suffice to say if you thought the heyday of the Ramones, the Pistols, and even Bad Brains \Mardi Gras\ Comes to Proctor's On Friday, February 8, the curtain will rise on ihe Capital Region's first Mardi Gras celebration to feature authentic Cajun cuisine prepared by a chef f1own in from Louisiana, the finest in national touring Cajun music, and an atmosphere :domed in the bright purple, green and gold that have given Bourbon St. its worldwide recognition. The Proctor's arcade doors will open at 6:30 for food, drink, and festivity. The music, which will hit the mainstage at 7:30, spotlights the talent of Polygram recording artist Wayne Toups and Rounder recording artists Michael Doucet and BeausoleiL Festival-goers will take a stroll through the \Bourbon St. Arcade,\ enjoy the taste and aroma of authentic Cajun fare, partake in Mardi Gras festiviti~s (a grand costume Si1lf!tr I Songwriter contest among other things), and listen to the world's most popular Cajun bands all night long. Tickets are general admission ($18.00) and are currently on sale at Proctor's Box Office, CBO's, Drome Sound, and suburban Carl's stores. There is an additional charge for food and beverage. For further infolrmation, call the theatre directly at (518) 382-1083. SHE STOOPS (DOWN FROM THE ADIRONDACKS) TO CONQUER on Friday, February 1, at 8 PM CC302 The Union Coffeehouse welcomes the extraordinary vocal versatility of songwriter/guitarist Peggy Eyres. With a voice that lends itself as thoroughly to botanical ballads as to bar room blues, Eyres is a veteran of the Upper Adirondack Mountain music scene. Though she's shared success with several duos and ban.ds along t~e folk-jazz-rock spectrum it wasn't until 1988 that the solo1stlsongwnter in her emerged. In 19S9, she released her first album,. \De~e~mination\ (Rough House Records), a stunning collect1on of .acoustic ?ngmal~ brimming with blues-lace bubbles of self express1on. Wh1le tounng the Norh Country with \Bio Songs\ a musical program which she developed to teach children about nature, Eyres found time to record her second album with members of Burlington Vermont's famous Unknown Blues Band.. \Ct 1 ameleonft, a sultry set of smokin' roadhouse residue, will be released ~oon after her showcase performance in Schenectady. Come catch an earful of Peggy Eyres, an artist poised on a blue note and ready to evolve into major success. were over, they are. But KilHng Joke are just getting to the point of starting a revival. It's worth a spin, a purchase. and loads of nostalgia. Blake Babies - Sun bur n (Mammouth) \Hold on to my arm/ she said: strung out on the floor/ I've been knocked down tired I've been locked outside/ I can't go on any more.\ Welcome to the mind-set of Blake Babies and the territory they've staked out for themselves. With music that's instantly catchy joined together with jagged lyrics, the Babies' album Sunburn aims their music at the masses who led lives of quiet desppation. If they were painters, they would do seascapes, beaches ... then wonder about the dead bodies lurking in their cement shoes at the bottom. The song \Out There\ pretty Green Card White Fang ' The Godfather lll The Rescurers Lion heart Flight of the Intruder The Drifters much captures the tone of the album. The sound. -- nicely dressed by prod11cer Gary Smith - hooks you in, while the l~yrics, primadly sung by Juliiana Hatfield, attack hard. \I see you when I'm passing by/ I'm afraid to meet your ey~/ I'm not stupid.\ The song ends before it begins, and by then Hatfield has leFt town (\Gonna leave this town/ Gonna leave it lil:e I found it\). The v~ideo for the song has the band cutting .each other's hair. For a group with this kind of brightness, the title Sunburn seems apt. Yet another band from Boston, and yet another band from a record label that has a great eye for consistence (Mammouth is the home of Dash Rip Roc and The Downsiders, small but sturdy). The Blake Babies realize that small hands flourish when they don't f<>llow big band rules. Awakenings Edward Scissorhands Dances with Wolves Not Without My Daughter Eve of Destruction Kindergarten Cop Lionheart Call '!heaters for Show Times. R S H A E A A N A C E R A N JJ littil rt JJ (/}) IN !FIE$ 7fDWAJL ere IJ.ru l/)) q, lF IB lB Q r61f lBl A.Nlf})

NAVY ENGINEERING AN INVESTMENT IN YOUR FUTURE CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 17 The Department of Sociology and Anthropology invites you to attend its iirst winter term lecture in the Lewis Henry Morgan Colloquia. Dr. Randolph Quaye, Assistant Professor of Sociol;ogy \The Social Costs of Africa's Debt Crisis on the Welfare of Children.\ January 31 4:~0 p.m~ SS1 05 Reception following in SS Faculty Lounge. Student Benefits , • Earn $13,800 a year for up to two years while still a student to use any way you cnoose • Additional $4,000 bonus paid when you enter program • No drills, uniforms or summer obligations while in school Training Mter College • 16 weeks at Officer Candidate School and commissioning as a Navy officer • Six months of graduate level engineering education in Orlando, Florida • Six months of hands-on engineering training at a prototype trainer in Idaho, New York or Connecticut The Navy Engineer • Starting pay of up to $27,000 with potential increases to more than $55,000 after five years • Continued professional growth and an opportunity for Navy paid graduate school • Opportunity for world travel • Outstanding marketability Engineering, math, physics and chemistry majors with at least a 3.0 GPA and having completed one year of calculus and one year of calculus-based physics are eligible. We are convinced this is the THE BEST PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITY AVAILABLE TO A COLLEGE STUDENT TODAY. All welcome. Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted ~redlt cards In the v.orld ... Vlsa® and MasterCard® credit ~rds ... \ln your name:· EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you deserve and need for- ID-BOOK8-DEPARTMENT STORE&- TUITION-ENTERT AINM EJIIT- E:t.1·ERG ENCY CASH- TICKETS- RESTAURANTS- HafELS-MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS- REPAIRs-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! ~..ctO\ G\1\\\\' ... ~ 0 . No turn downs ! c;o\.0 c~,_cllfd) No credit checks! ,.,s._,_.,.~~£0 \S~~ No security deposit! c,\IP.IIl .. ~1 .~ (/lo ta Approval absolutely guaranteed so I~ Y.! I. i! I fj :t•l ;I ti :«3•111 it•l :·1 1•1 • t.\:4 THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present ESTABLISHING a CELL'S IDENTITY: PROTEINS THAT REGULATE GENE EXPRESSION in YEAST ![})if. <C'KN'IT'lillTIA OClE!LIEI}J!E.ffi Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics University of California, San Francisco Thursday, February 7, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 Gone, But Not Forgotten. Navy engineering representatives will be on campus: The passenger pigeon. The heath hen The labrador duck The Caroliro parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows But it doesn't have to. See your Navy Representative on c!ll.llpus Feb. 2, 1991 or call 1-800-444-7134. NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy. Full Speed Ahead The National Wildlife Federation i.< working to s:r;e endailgered specie5 Join us while there's stiU time. The National Wildlife Feder:ttion 1412 16th Street. N\V. Washington, DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,. NAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION

Page 18 CLUB NEWS CONFIRMATION CONCORDIENSIS,. January 31, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS p.m. sitting. All we ask is that you register with Sr. Joan CC404 cr 370-6087 by well as for our men and women serving in Saudi Arabia. Fcbruary6th.- NEWMAN SUPPERS - Tuesday, Febmary 5th at S FOLK GROUP - Singers p.m. we will gather for supper and musicians interested in and to write notes and send being part of the music Valentine Greetings to our men ministry at the 7:30 p.m. · and women serving in the Sunday Mass .please meet at . Persian Gulf. All are welcome. 6:30 p.m. in St. John's chUFch . Go through upper dining and to rehearse. bring tray to CC203. SCHOLARSHIPS .. Fellowships, Grants. Ed's Services, Box 3006, Boston, MA 02130. PERSONALS Terry- We're gonna party this weekend! Cachaca. Love ya' Louis . B- We wuv you! Cheer up! Get psyched for an awesome weekend! - L&M- Des- When :are we going to have a repeat of New Year's Eve? Sometime soon??!! MK- - Thursday, April 18th Bishop Hubbard will be at St. John's to confer the Sacrament of Confirmation. Any Union student who wishes to be Confirmed m u:,L contact Sr. Joan as soon as possible. There will be 7 meetings scheduled during the weeks of ~ebruary · 11, 18, 25, March 4, and 11 and breaking for exams, etc. until April 1 and 8. ziTA.-i>INNE-Ji-:-saiurctay~ February 9th at St. John the Evangelist School any Union student is welcome to join Sr. · Joan as her guest for the 5 1:UTORING Union ' students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash,. Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. IHBLE STUDY AND CLASSlFIEDS WAKE-N-BAKE!! Spring BFeak '91 in J amaica/Cancun from $459.00!! A week of fun and sun at this year's hottest destinations. Don't be left in the cold - Sun Splash Tours - 1-800-426-7710. Moose- Thanks for the other day! We will survive this term. Get psyched for spring!! y ou ·look great! Cancun is in sight so get psyched. By the way, l'1l blow up the Chern Lab for you - NO PROBLEM! Let's get F.U.B.A.R.! IIOLY HOUR 0 n Love Dingbat Personals 50¢ College Center Information Booth 1'ucsday, February 5th in the · Chapel of Catholic & Family Ccmmunity Services from 7:30 to 8:15 p.m. there will be a study of the Book of Exodus followed by a Holy Hour which will conclude with Benediction at 9:15 p.m. All are welcome to come' for the Bible Study and/or the Holy Hour which will include special prayers for peace as PRE-LAW SOCIETY Meetings held on Tuesdays CC409 7: 3·0 p.m .. All Welcome! 1 • THIS VA LENTINE' DAY serprise your roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity brothers with a \Union College Telephone Gift Certificate\ available for purchase at telecommunica- tions Office, College Center, 103. For more info call 370- 6411. Feb 3 - Sunday CCAud Film: White Palace Sorority Rush Week ·> Feb 4 - Monday 12:30 PM CC302 Women~s Speaker Lunch Feb 5 - Tuesday 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. ' 7:00 PM CCAud RA Interest Mee-ting 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series z 0 - z 12:00 PM CC302 Plateful of Questions 5:00 PM CC205 Newman Supper WE CARE TO THE UNION COMMUNITY: PLEASE SUBMIT NAMES OF RELATIVES AND FRIENDS SERVING IN SAUDI ARABIA, ALONG WITH YOUR NAME TO BE LISTED ON A POSTER BOARD .. THIS WILL BE POSTED IN THE COUEGE CENTER. SUBMIT TO STUDENT ACTIVITIES ROOM 408. Rubes® I TN~ I I 1111-ll\l- II\ REAL.~r..m ttl\. 11\1- tit lilt I Mlsa:LJ./1~ ( ( Ul\11111 :.::> ..... <1: ~ w w 3: en - J: 1- .c (J) LL 0') I It was highly doubtful that Gorg would ever attain commercial suecess In his lifetime. \A life Insurance salesman ••• well. how very interesting! Why don't you come In and tell me all about It?\ Feb 6 - Wednesday CCAud Film: Animation Festival Feb 7 - Thursday 11:30 AM CCAUD Minerva: Catskills 8:00 PM CC302 Cabaret--Sc;enes Feb 8 - Friday CCAud Film: Mo' Better Blues 12:30 PM CC302 Multicultural Table Feb 9 .. Saturday SS016 Film: Mo' Better Blues 7:00PM CCAUD BHM Adelphia Rep. 7:00 PM CC302 Dramatic Reading \Tributes\ 7:00 PM M!W's Swimming 8:00 PM Men's B-Ball 7:00PM Mem. Ch. BHM: \Kwame Ture\ 9:00 PM CC302 Coffeehouse: \Miche Fambro\ 8:00 PM Men's B-Ball . t

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Fringe- Stay away from the flammable gel. Don't worry, it'll grow! Love your roommates with hair. Sue B. and pants Karen & Lynn - You did a great job! Same time next year, but not as many cameras. Love - not Tilts Date - the Girls Karen, Whip me, beat me, BURN me. - regards from below. Shorty, Relax. It wHI soon be over and you can spend time with me. Monsta. LADIES- Unlimited laundry can continue as long as Spandex and sports bras continue as dress code. Regards- The Kings Plateful of Questions, a weekly non-polemic discussion group which meets ~~~ry. Tuesday at noon 'in The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse, CC302, will be Jnlt~<it.mg a new series of topics for the Winter term. With all the talk of War IR the Gulf, many of the other important issues in our lives seem to ~ave fa:ll~n by the wayside. Plateful. .. hopes to keep these important 1s~ues ahv~ by a~dressing them regularly. The theme for all discussions th1s ~~rm w~ll b~ Does Diversity Scare You?\ Each week a different spec1f1c top1c Will be addressed. The schedule is as follows: Plateful of Questions Does Diversity Scare You? January 29th: \Politics • February 19th: \Class\ February 5th: \Race• February 26th: \Religion\ February 12th: \Gender\ March 6th: \Sexuality\ Tuesdays at noon in The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse, CC302 When you give blood ACROSS 1 Cop II: 90's Movie 5 COMEDIAN GEORGE 10 Ogden : Writer 14 John _: Actor 15 Degrade 16 Length X width 17 Fedora material 18 ACTOR GEORGE 20 British custom 21 Mr. Lincoln and others 22 Baseball essentials 23 Ms. Carter and others 25 Track event 27 Gordon __ : Sin11er 29 COMPOSER GEORGE 33 Bed bug 34 Up tight 35 PLAYWRIGHT GEORGE 36 Weather word 37 Weather word 38 Drug concern 39 Carton: Abv. 40 Angry stare 41 Pined 42 PIANIST GEORGE 44 ACTOR GEORGE · 45 Pickpockets: Slang 46 People of Nordic origin 47 Top off the tank 50 Map network of lines 51 Sailor: Slang 54 CIVIL WAR GENERAL GEORGE & FAMILY 57 Brute 58 Med. school course 59 Ms. O'Grady I you g1ve another hug. BLOOD MOBILE COMING FEBRUARY 13TH AND 20TH MORE INFORMATION TO COME:! Alnerican Red Cross + Please giYe bloou. Weekly Cro.ssword \GORGEOUS GEORGE(S)!\ By Gerry Frey 60 Ms. lane 61 Follows \DAN\: Hooten 62 Residues 63 Type of worm OOWN 1 ACTOR GEORGE 2 Curve molding 3 CHOREOGRAPHER GEORGE 4 Table scrap 5 Play loHo 6 Woodwind Instruments 7 Prohibits a Timezone 9 limb 10 Broadway Joe __ 11 Son of Zeus 12 Withered 13 Dried grasses 19 Vastly overweight 21 \Woe Is me\ 24 Emerald Isle 25 Bring honor to: British 26 _while: Former 27 Shakespeare's Antony & others 28 \ ... will beat__ to his door\ 29 GERMAN GEORGE 30 PRESIDENTIAL GEORGE 31 Notions In Dijon 32 Not \in\ people 34 Prefix meanln across 37 Comedian Wilson 38 Calif. college 40 Complain bitterly 41 Very dry 43 Grown\ups 44 Responds to the clock radio 46 LA. laws Becker 47 Car financing org. Hey Patteson, Czech it out. Waterbed and all. Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta- Keep smiling or we'll photocopy another body part!!! Love in you-know-what, }he Xerox Queens E, To my absolute friend ... get better and get psyched for this weekend of movies! Love, J Hey, Dougie, HOW ABOUT THEM GIANTS! -Mad Dog Hey, Sad1e, want to go study in Social Sciences? 1-3- C. St. Roomies - I'm glad things are better! Here's to a great end to winter term and a SPRING BREAK!! I Love Ya. MK Are you stuck between A Rock and A Hard Place? Corne to the Geology Crisis Center. Tues/Thurs. 7:00-9:00 in Butterfield 2()1! To Our Sigma Chi Dates, Squeeze down those Jello shots! We had a total blast! Love your Delta dates Happy Birthday \* * * *QUEEN\! ! Love, The Chair To the German and Amer- Asian men in our lives - You drive a hard bargain ... But you are definitely worth it!! Love, The Bananas Afoonah, Get the kids out of the dryer and bring the bottles to Michigan. Hope you feel better soon! 48 Teenage nemesis 49 Cicatri:l 50 Wound 52 Pertaining to the ear -Mavis 53 PRESIDENTIAL GEORGE 55 labor Relations Act 56 ~Angeles 57 Vale grad Page 19 Hans & Jeff, You have doubted the Giants and now you must pay! Chocolate, pizza, icc cream, candy ... kcep it coming. Michele & BcLh Tara, Thank you for saving my interview! Delta Love Michele Hi Terry! We're goin' to Cali! ! ! ! -L- It's a pleasure to have you around \Tiny\. Love Always, Big \EI\ Beer Wench- How about returning to the original scene of wenchhood some time soon? DKS, 1 Love You! You Make Me Soooo Happy! LJL I said, 1 don't sell no glass! How docs it feel to be anal? Road trip to MANGAIA. 42, Boogie, boogie, boogie. All debts or should I say bets are paid. 24 hours/day. Don't forget. -Michele Melissa- ?Como·Estas? What's·doing i.IJ·' Mexico? ~ · - · - - - - : Have fun - Please write. Love RT, LB, JS A., J. & K- Even though the toilet paper holder is extremely large and you have to climb onto the toilet to shut the door, the mailboxes are still intact. Should we go back to the open door policy? Love E. RAPE CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady Planned Parenthood: Hotline: 346-.2266

.Page 2() CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 SPORTS Women's Basketball Bounces Into Shape By RON BIRNBAUM The '<)0..:'91 season for the Union Dutchwomen's basketbaH team has been an exciting one to say the least. Entering its 4th month of play, having begun its season back in mid-November, the team has achieved an 8-7 record with nine games left to· play, just above its general seasonal goa:l of .500. I:t has also been a transitional year, with first- time coach Joanna Little attempting to tie together the relatively young team of five juniors. l wo sophs, five freshmen and no seniors into a consistent unit. Yet, as for the inc!ividt1al players themselves, there is much individual talent. As part of a competitive schedule, 2ll games played thus far have been challenging. The season began November 17 with an away victory against New Paltz and both a win and a loss in two consecutive games following against Albany. Two more loss.es were added to the tally of at home games versus St. Rose and William Smith, though a string of five straight victories versus Dominican (which brought the record to an even 3-3), RIT, Russell Sage. North Adams and Smith University brought the record to 7-3. Two home games, a loss agailtst Williams, and a victory against Skidmore ~rought tile team to its high point with. an 8-4 record at about mid-season. However, the past three away losses against Binghamton, St. Rose and Harniloon have reverted the record to a near.500 mark, similar to the final '80-'90 record of 11-12. In its most recent win versus Skidmore, the squad played a very physical tough game with a solid defense. Junior guard Jennifer Hill was commended for an excellent game. Hill, having gotten fouled off a successful layup at the end of the second half, was able to put away a free throw to end the game at 55·51. In addition, teammate Robin Romer Gunior forward) added 18 points of her own plus 9 rebounds, while freshman forward Kirsten Dibble hd 9 points of her own as well as 12 rebounds. Against Binghamton, the fifth game played in eight days, the squad lost by a narrow margin of two points, the final score being 57-55. The game started out very slow in the first half with slow steps and shooting off target, and Binghamton was able to quickly build an 11-point lead, However, the female globetrotters fought back and were able to tie things up. With Union putting Binghamton to the line at the end, the opponent was able to pull ahead. According to Head Coach Little, with a couple of more minutes, Union would have had the win. The next game against St. Rose, a Division IT team, was lost by a score of 78-64. The squad also lost to St. Rose in a championship game of the Capital District Tournament. The final score is not representative of the game played, however, which was a very strong performance by both sides, and the Dutchmen were able to break press easily. Hm had 19 points while Romer put in 17 of her own with 11 rebounds. Hamilton, the most recent game, was another tough loss, 77-53. Union was unable to stop their guard and got outrebounded by 20. In addition, height was a problem, where Hamilton had several 6- foot players that hurt Union on the boards, and Hamilton's guard, Julie Sheldon, hit six 3- pointers . Romer had 20 points in this game and Dibble had 11. To improve its play, the squad is working on teamwork of both veterans and freshmen toward coming on strong in the final nine games of the season for a shot at post-seasonal play in the NYS Championship ECAC. Though every game is anticipated as a challenge, Hartwick, Middlebury, Connecticut College, Emmanuel, and Williams are expected to be particularly . difficult. Ar:oording to Coach Little, \Our goal is to create a positive environment and to blend the talent. Team unity, good positive attitudes, pride, detennination, and hard work are all important aspects of a winning team. The coaching staff is trying to instill this.\ Comprised of a plethora of individual talents, the starting combination for the squad is a strong opening force, consisting of juniors Jean Lopata at forward, Romer at · center, freshmen Kirsten Dibble at forward and Andrea Light at guard, and depending on the opponent, either Hill at guard or junior Susan Mautner at forward. Romer and Lopata head the team as co-captains. To the Union Community: Please submit names of relatives and friends serving in Saudi Arabia, along with your name to be listed on a poster board ... this will be posted in the College Center. Submit to Studertt Activities Room 408. COME HEAR THE UNION COLLEGE- DUTCH PIPERS SING IN CITY HALL 5ATURDA Y, FEBRUARY 2 AT 5:00 P.M. AS PART OF WINTERTAINMENT '91, Perhaps most notable for her perfermance this season is Robin Romer. Serving well as an all-around player, aggressive on defense. but particularly noteworthy for leading the squad in scoring. rebounding, and steals for the past two seassons, she became the first female player to break the 1 ,000 point mark in Union history on January 15, against Williams. The last record was held by Cay Lynch of the Class of '84 with 992 points. As well as serving as a great indicator of her scoring ability, the record is a milestone for women's basketball at Union. Also. Romer was the fifth highest scorer in the nation in women's college basketball at one point during the season. In addition to holding the Union seasonal record for rebounds (250 in '89-'90); she broke the career ·rebound record of 556, held by Julie Miller of the Class of '84, at Binghamton. Romer is working on reading shot selection better and becoming more of a team player to add to her versatility. Having injured her knee during the first game of the season, Jean Lopata is back on this term. playing a very versatile forward position. As well as maintaining strong passing skills, Lopata is a strong rebounder, with high statistics over the past two seasons. The two freshmen, Dibble and Light, have proven worthy additions to the squad this season. Dibble is a very talented freshman who plays taller than 5'8\ and has good court sense. She ha~ added a lot to the team and is tough under pressure. In addition, she has fine shooting skills, sees the passing lane, and anticipates well on defense. She also leads in rebotmds this season, averaging 10.1 per game. Light has done well all-around, and leads the team in steals with 2.3 per game. She is also responsible for a big win against Albany early in the season, hitting a free-throw at the very end of the second half. Also, Light has taken on a great deal of team responsibility. proving good in ballhandling and defense. Junior fnrward Susan Mautner, who was out most of the first term, stops the center from the opposing team and has contributed to team rebounds. Mautner is also quick on defense, a good passer, and an agressive player with good shooting ability. Junior guard Jennifer Hill is a solid all-around player with good passing skills and 3-point range. In addition, Hill is a tight defensive player and a hard worker who proves solid all around. Also contributing to the squad this season are sophomores Nicole V anGendt (center), Dawn Harrington (guard), and Freshmen Michelle Kleinhans (forward/center). Denise Alexander (guard), and Chris Carrara (forward). In addition to _learning ·togetherness, the ·squad is concentrating on consistency from game to game, capitalizing on quickness, and opening better shot selection opportunities. The next game is away at Middlebury this Saturday. Multicultural Table Today Topic: Why I am a Zionist: An Affirmation of Identity Speaker: Prof. Seth Greenberg of the Psychology Department Time: 12:30 - 1 :00 (Lunch 11 :30-1 :30) Place: Co:lege Center 302 Union College Telephone Gift Certificates available at the Telecommunications Office CC 103m Phone 370-6411 for more information.

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 21 <llvnrorb irttzis SPORTS Women's Track Hosts Dutchmen O:pen Men's Basketball Off To High Flying Start By SPORTS STAFF from LaBare in the 400m with Con' t from Page 24 · • against the Saxons of Alfred. 'The Dutchmen used a 15-2 run early in the half to build a 21- 10 lead. Jerry Brescia was the key in the run scoring 8 of his 19 first half points during it. Alfred fought back to only a four point deficit at half time 42-38. The second half of the a quick time of 1:03. The 500m dash saw Meg Parsons claim yet another first for Union with a time of 1:26. Denise Saunders came on strong in the 50m dash with an outstanding time of 6.8, stealing Union's 5th 1st place finish of the meet. In the 800m run, Anselment ran a close race ending up in 2nd place with a · time of 2:38. LaBare and Saunders came back strong in the 300m to finish 1st and 2nd, respectively with times of 45.6 and 46.4. New member of the team Allison Garcia also ran the 300m placing 4th with a speedy time of 47.2. The Mile Relay team · made up of Parsons, Joy Grillon, Garcia, and LaBru:e finished the meet .off strong, placing 1st with a time of 4:30. Overall the . ' Umon squad took 1st place in the meet with a total poiRt score of69. game was all Union. Two minutes into the half the Dutchmen went on a 9-0 rampage that was punctuated by a powerful Kenny Evans dunk to give Union a 58-45 lead. After 3 consecutive scores by the Saxons, Union went on another big 10-2 run giving them a 15 point lead 68-53. The two teams battled down the stretch, hut Alfred would only get within 9. Union displayed a great deal of poise at the foul line as they scored . tbeir final 13 points of the game on 13-14 free throw • shooting. Freshmen Steve Evans and Kenny Evans shot a . combined 10-10 from the line • during the last minute. Alfred was not able to get close as three of their players fouled out. The Dutchmen won the game 93-82. Jerry Brescia finished the game with 24 points. Kenny Evans had a 17 point second half and finished with 20 points. Three other Dutchmen were in double figures for the night. Elgin Rhodes scored 15, Steve Evans had 12, and Luther Winfield finishea with 11. Alex Nestor turned in a fine defensive effort recording 3 blocked shots. On Sunday Union faced a tough Ithaca team. Both teams had a solid shooting first half and were perfect from the free throw line. Ithaca used an early 12-4 run to go out on top 16- 8. The Bombers Mike Hess scoFed 16 straight points for Ithaca and had 22 in the first half. Union managed to pull to within 4 points at the half behind perfect shooting from sophomore Brendan Chudy who had 10 first half points. The first thirteen minutes of the second half were a battle between the two teams. Union never had the lead but was never down by more than six as both teams scored back and forth. But with 6:50 left on the clock Ithaca went on a 10~0 run that put them on top of the Dutchmen 73-63. The teams traded baskets the rest of the game and Union couldn't make a dent in the Ithaca lead. Ithaca held on to win 85-75 behind a career high 3 7 point performance from Mike Hess and 24 points from John Dunne. Union had 18 points from Jerry Brescia and 16 from both Elgin Rhodes and Brendan Chudy. Chudy remained perfect for the game shooting 6-6 from the field and 4-4 from the line. The Dutchmen now are looking ahead to face a powerful Hamilton team at Hamilton this Saturday. Union lost to Hamilton earlier this season at home 85-73 in the Union Invitational championship game. Hamilton is currently ranked 1st in the state with a 14-0 record. Although it was Super Bowl Sunday, the Super Bowl was not' the only big event of the day. The Union College Track team hosted the Dutchmen Open this past Sunday afternoon at Memorial Field- house. The meet brought out a variety of competitors, incl11ding some fine \older\ runners, to go up against the Union .squad. The women's team had an outstanding day, turning in some fat times and far distances. Union began the day very strong with a sweep in the 351b. weight by me team of Alix Goldschmidt, Lori Simkins, and Carrie Evers, with distances of 36'6\ 32'5\ and 22'11 \ In the Long Jump, the team of Tasha LaBare and newcomer Jean Forrest placed 3rd and 4th with jumps of 15'1'' and 15'0\ respectively. On the track the squad from Union had a terrific day as well as placing 1st in more than half of the events. Starting the racing off, Sandra Anselment finished 1st in the 1500m with a time of 5:13. The next 1st place fmish came If you missed watching your favorite Union runner in action this past weekend, don't fret! The team is at home again this Saturday to host the Capital District meet. Come on out to cheer team on! ATTENTION: Attention Students on Meal Plan Mr. Marvin Phaup, CBO will be speaking at 3:45p.m. Thursday, Feb. 7th in S.S. 103 All are welcome. An Actuary from the Prudential will be speaking on Monday Feb. 4 at 7 p.m. in the COC. Sponsored by The Actuarial Club . \ .. ~ ( . ~ .. ' ; • Students wishing to sign-up, change or drop the meal plan for spring term should do so in the Dining Services Office, Coll~ge Center Room 202, No Later Than February 15, 1991. •Students already on the meal plan will be billed automatically spring term for the same meal plan they are presently on. Support Union Sports •

Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS, January 31, 1991 Hockey Moves Team Up Continued from P. 1 In accepting thr mvitati()n, Union could seek to proviii.e either athletic scholarships or preferential financial ai<l packaging for its hockey players. RPI, Clarkson, Vermont. and St. Lawrence aJi!! award athletic scholarships to some of its players, wh,j,Je Colgate gives preferential financial aid packages. The Ivy League institutions in tile EC AC, Harvard. Yale. Princeton, Brown, Dartmoutll·. ar.J Cornell, do not offer either for their athletes. Union will continue t() operate under its strict financial aid guidelines, in which aid is offered according to a family-'s demonstrated need. \Perhaps in this day a11d age, we risk being perceived as naive. However, in my mind, everyone - whether hockey or basketball player, artist or cellist - should be treated equally,\ said Hull. Athletic director Dick Sakala and head coach Bruce Dclventhal believe that the Skating Dutchmen will be able to field a competitive team on the icc next season. They point to Union's 3-3 record against Division I teams over the past 3 seasons as evidence. Union currently plays at the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division IU level. They will continue playing under a Division III classification for the remainder of the season, and will remain eligible for any post-season playoff ber!hs. SCOREBOARD January Men's H·o·ckey (12-4-2) 26 UN ION 3 Norwich 2 SP·ORTS Inside Edge: Alpine Ski Team Update By JEREMY SOLLINGER Holiday Valley of Buffalo was the site of the third race of the National Collegiate Ski Association season for the Union College Alpine Ski Team. Marking the halfway point of the season, coach Jim Schaeffer emphasized before the weekend that strong team performances were integral if the men and women realistically wanted to keep their hopes alive of qualifying for the Eastern Ski Championships. On Sunday afternoon, it was evident that Schaeffer's point had been made. Another consistent fourth place finish by the women and a miraculous come from behind fifth place finish for the men solidified both teams' chances of gaining a bid to the Eastem Championships. On the men's side, Sean Livingston, because of a Lack of free runs, finished fitst for the Dutchmen and tl1irteenth overall. Junior Pat \Ainslee\ Rowe turned in .IJ.is most impressive result of the season by finishing second for the Boardmen and twenty-first on the course. Peter Cowles rounded out the top three for the men with a twenty-seventh place result. On Superbowl Su11day the Dutchmen aqd women took to the Yodeler trail to compete in the slalom. A steep and challenging course saw many crashes and DNF's (ski lingo meaning did not finish.) However. for the women, Foley recorded the most grand result of her three year career. Sushi, after a blazing third place in the first run, finished up fifth overall to lead the barrage for the Dutchwomen. Slalom specialist Betsy \Mumbles\ Mitchell followed, finishing second for Union and fifteenth on the course. Julie Jamieson rounded out tb.e top three for · Union with a respectable twenty-third place finish. front of him responded with some inspiring words. \What the heck you doing MAN,\ he exclaimed. In the second run, the Dutchmen responded to Schaeffer's inspirational words. Livingston, who stood twenty- first after the first run, had the fastest time on the course in the second run by an incredible margin of .7 of a second and miraculously finished fifth overall. Cowles turned in the first top twenty result of his career by finishing second for Union and twentieth overall. Pat Rowe finished third for the men and thirty-fifth overall. The dramatic twist of events on Sunday enabled the men to claim a fifth place finish for the weekend. The women, who took fourth overall, continue to ski consistent and solid. With this coming weekend off, the Alpine Skiers travel to Swain Mountain in Rochester on February ninth. With two weeks of tough training ahead, an abundance of impressive team and individual results are anticipated at the Swain race, while simultaneously the prospect of a bid to the Eastern Ski Cha~pionships. appears even brighter. ~2951 it-li:lN.JON. 3 .. ~:.~ . ·. ·Plattsburgh -5- . On Saturday, the Giant Slalom was held on holiday's short but steep Yodeler traiL Although no one turned in spectacular individual results, both the men and women skied remarkably consistent, the primary ingredient for strong team results. The one-two punch of Alison Pallotta am! Elizabeth \Sushi\ Foley led the way for the women by finishing first and second for Union and tenth and seventeenth overall. Freshman Nicole Zannansky continued her sound Giant Slalom skiing by finishing third for the women and twenty-third on the course. The men, following; the first run of the slalom' found themselves in decrepit shape. Livingston, Jem Sollinger, P. Rowe, Cowles, and Steve Rowe all fell victirn to some variation of a slip-out or a crash. Coach Schaeffer, seeing the men's hopes of qualifying for the Eastern's dwindle in SNOW DRIFTS: Steven Rowe is back from the disabled list and turned in a strong second run in Sunday's slalom. Thanks ·to El Rancho and Lois, as well as our friends at the Chuck Wagon. Psycho Robbins and team mascot Minkey the monkey provided a great cheering section. Men's Bas~ketball 26 UNION 93 (12-3) Alfred 82 Ithaca 85 27 UNION 75 Women's Basketball (8-8) 24 UNION 53 Hamilton 76 29 UNION 37 Utica 44 NOTICE: Physjicals for Spring Sports will be held February 7th at 6:30 p.m. in the Achilles Rink Traini:ng Room. NO EXCEPTIONS!! ONE COUI?ON PEA PliRC:HASE f7{)L() * ST A~ $100 PIZZA & DELl SUBS OFF 1621 UNION 51. (Entrance On Keyes Ave.) ANY 370-2400 LARGE FAST I FREE DEUVERY' ONE TOPPING Italian Pizza PIZZA Gourmet Pizza Over Stuffed Dell Subs t;()L[) *STAt-Ill Gardem Fresh Chef & PIZZA 8c DEll SUBS Antipasto Salads 1621 UNION ST. HOURS: f r,lr:IIIC 0 [ Jn llOVf-YSAve Mon ·Sal. 11 IWI·l.AM 370..2400 COUPON \'1\llllflli?IJ FEB. 28,1991 Sunday 4 PM • 1 .AM Theta Delta Chi RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT to Benefit the American Arthritis Found.ation Registration Beg ins on Feb. 4th and runs until Feb. 11th Register in the College Center for $5. The tournament runs the weekend of Feb. 15th- Feb. 17th Great Prizes to be announced in next week's Concordiensis BUY ONE Write for Sports DELl SUB - GET ONE 1/2 PRICE Contact Equal Or Lasser Value ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE f7()L() * ST A~ Andy at 381-4650 PIZZA & DELl SUBS 1621 UNION ST. Enlronce 01' Keyes Ave 371).2400 COl)PON VAI.IDTI/RU FEB. 28, 1991

CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1991 Page 23 <!rnmllrbirttsis SPORTS Elg·in Rhodes Leads Men's :Hoops To :Sparkling 12-3 Record By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Union~s senior forward Elgin Rhodes has been lighting Up the court all season long for the men's basketball Jearn. He is near the top in almost every statistical category, leading the Dutchmen in four. For his great all-amun.d play, Rhodes has been selected as the Concordieusis Sports Athlete of theW eek. The 6'4\ Rhodes returned to action this fall after missing all but six games last season because of a recurring knee injury which be .frrst hurt as a freshman. In the cagers' last four games, RhodeS; has been a force on both ends of the court. He had 15 points and 14 rebounds agaillst Elmira in a 15-point win; 18 points and 5 rebmmds in a 3-point win against Utica; 1 S roints and 8 rebounds in an 11-point defeat of Alfred; and ~ ·~ Elgin es 16 points and 7 boards in a 10- point loss at the hands of Ithaca. Rhodes, however, does a great deal more than just score and hit the boards. In those same four games, he piled up 17 assists, 2 blocks and 4 steals, while only turning the ball over 10 times. Through the first 15 games of the season, Rhodes leads the Dutchmen in blocks, steals and assists, and is the second leading scorer as well. He is also the rebounding leader, · having pulled down a total of · 131, 50 more than his closest teammate. For the season, Rhodes is averaging 11.2 points and 8;7 rebounds a game, statistics similar to his 125 points and 8.0 rebounds a game as a sophomore. His return to the lineup this season is a big reason for the outstanding start by the men's basketball team. Congratulations and continued success to Elgin Rhodes, this week's Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Winning Ways Continue For Men's Track Team By TRACK TEAM The men's track and field team continued in their winning ways with a victory at home in the Dlltchmen Games Track Invitational. Stellar performances were turned in by the entire team throughout the day on the wa-y to winning this T AC championship meet. Sophomore Bill Taylor led the way for tlle Dut,chmen with three victories, and a state qualifying mark in the 50m. Mike Emmi had two Personal records, in tile 400m and 800m races. In the field events, Matt Decker soared great distances in winning the men's long jump, while Ricb Fleurider finished close behind for second. The field events have become an unexpected strong poi~~ for the Dutchmen this season. Freshman high jumpers Ted Corrigan and John Parola placed one-two, and Glen '\Crash' Meixell turned in his usual unusual pole vaulting performance. The weight team of Keith 'Beef Reynolds, lovingly referred to as 'Meat' by Will, Rich Pulver and Shawn Mowry round out the field in the shetput and weight throw. The men's 4x400m relay capped off the day in exciting fashion. The team of Taylor, freshman Bac Nguyen, senior co-captain Bob Lindyberg and senior co-captain Will 'The Dude' Allen carne from behind to win in the last 20 meters of the race. Will completed his second come-from-behind victory in as many weeks. It appears as though the cross country miles are really paying off. Coach Herrington is really pleased with the way the team has turned around during his third season as head coach. Great expectations are forming for this team as it closes in on the post season competition. Those interested in joining the team for the quickly approaching outdoor season should contact Coach Herrington as soon as possible. C·ONCORD~ENIS~S SPORTS CQ1lUJlE $1r ~tO) lN1 (Q)[F 1f lHHE W lE rE ~ Name the NFL teams that have lost more than 1 Super Bowl. ~~~.-11 ~m: mxol~mmll~ J}'>llrtil£ one winner shall be chosen from all correct entries. Submit entries to BOX 21 2 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after each issue of Concordiensis. •· Last Weeks's Ansvver: Joe Greene. Jack Ham, Terry Bradshaw J Franco Harris~ Jack LambertJ Mel Blount Last Week·s W1nner: Jay Freeland Mouthing Off Is On Vacation. He'll Be Back Next Weeko The Rose By MICHAEL EZRA Recently, a committee of sports writers and other \baseball men\ recommended to the Baseball Writers Association of America that Pete Rose should be denied admission to baseball's Hall of Fame. On February 3, the BBW A will hold a special vote deciding whe.ther or not to accept the recommendation and leave Rose off the Hall of Fame ballot. For the sake of the game's integrity, I hope that Rose is not unfairly blackballed and denied the honors that he deserves. No one will argue that, statistically Rose deserves to be in the Hall of Fame. Rose broke Ty Cobb's all-time hit record, a mark which, along with Lou Gehrig's consecutive game record, and Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak, stands as one of baseball's \unbreakable records\. Rose was Rookie of the Year, MVP, a 10+-time All-Star~ ·a career .300 hitter, and led his teams to three World Series wins. The question, then, is not about statistics, the question is about the events that transpired after Rose's playing days were over. After retiring, Rose took over as manager for the Cincinnati Reds, the team he played on. for the majority of his career. Rose was put under investigation by then- commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti while managing the Reds, and after a long investigation, was found to have bet on baseball, in both games involving other teams, and, more seriously, the Reds. These findings led Giamatti to ban Rose from baseball for Question life, with a chance of reinstatement. This punishment was strict, but justified, but it has nothing to do with the Hall of Fame, Rose's misbehavior took place after his playing career was finished, and no matter what he did, the statistics speak for themselves. I agree with those who say that Rose tampered with Lhc integrity of the game, but his achievements aren't going to disappear because of it. Many people argue that Rose shouldn't be allowed in because Shoeless Joe Jackson was denied admission for helping fix the 1919 World Series. To these people, I say that two wrongs do not make a right. Jackson's achievements may be tarnished by his actions, but they will always be there, and won't vanish. Jackson wss barred for life from baseball, which was fair, but by the time he was banned, he put up Hall of Fame numbers, the same as Pete Rose did. Many critics :say:t]iat Roke!s ' actions prove a lack of character that all Hall of Famers need. This is not true. Ty Cobb, known as one of baseball's best, was a prejudiced, vicious player. Babe Ruth often showed up for games drunk. Gaylord Perry threw a spitter. Did any of these players get denied? I doubt that the majority of Hall of Famers played as hard or loved to win as much as Rose. r don't agree with Pete Rose's actions. I think he deserved to be banished because his actions tarnished the game's integrity. But the Hall of Fame isn't about great men, it's about great players, and Pete Rose was one. NOTICE: Physicals for Spring Sports will be held February 7th at 6:30 p.m. in the Achilles Rink Training Room. NO EXCEPTIONS!! ..

0 b :r: 0.. Ul _J u::: 0 :r: 0 Q ~ Eii 0· 0 it The Swim Teams hit the pools at Hamilton on Saturday. The Skating Dutchmen scrappe.d out a 3-2 v·lctory over Norwich this past Saturday. Men•s B-Ball On A Roll By JASON GRAV~S The Union Dutchmen men's basketball team improved its record to 12-3 this week by winning two games and losing one in three games on the road. The Dutchmen are currently ranked 6th in the state behind Hamilton, RPI, Stony Brook, Gcnes.eo, and Rochester. They are led 'in . scoring by senior guard Jerry Brescia who is averaging 18.0 points per game. He is followed by senior Elgin Rhodes ( 11 .2) and freshman Steve Evans (10.1). The Dutchmen rebounding leaders are Rhodes with 8.7 per game followed by senior Alex Nestor with S-3. Union started the week off with a close game at Utica College on Wednesday. The Dutchmen had a poor shooting first half against the Pioneers scoring only 20 points on 9 for 25 shooting. The defense was the key in keeping it close by holding Utica to only 26 first half points. Union started the second half a little slowly and Utica built a nine point lead with 15 minutes still to play. Union then went on an 11-2 scoring run that tied the game with 11:38 remaining. The rest of the game was close. Union had only as much as a 5 point lead during the. rest of the game. After a layup by Alex Nestor put Union up 50-46 with 3:36 remaining, Utica's Derrick Mayo hit a three point jumper to bring Utica within one point 50-49. Union tmned a steal and a Utica turnover into four straight points on layups by Kenny Evans and Elgin Rhodes. After a Utica layup made it a 3 point game, Union was called for an intentional holding foul following a Utica steal. Utica's Denny Schak made both free throws and Utica had the b\ll with 9 seconds on the clock with the sc:1re 54-53 in favor of Union. Utica missed a jump shot and Elgin Rhodes was awarded the rebound on the possession arrow. Brendan Chudy made a layup with 1 second remaining but the game was over. Union's leading scorer was Elgin Rhodes with 18 points. Union faced a long road trip this past weekend. They played Alfred after a four hour ride. Another two hours brought · them to Ithaca where they spent the· night and then played lthaca the following afternoon. Union had a good first half Continued on page 21 SPORTSWEEK Saturday, February 2 Hockey vs R IT Women's Basketball at Middlebury Men's Basketball at Hamilton Women's Swimming at Hamilton Men's Swimming at Hamilton Men's and Women's Track (Home} CAPITAL DISTRICT MEET Tuesday, February 5 Hockey at Hamilton Wednesday, February 6 Men's Bask~tball at Hamilton Women's Swimming vs Albany t,J1cn's Swimming vs Albany 7:30 7:00 8:00 1:00 1 :00 1 :00 7:30 8:00 7:00 7:00 January 31, 1991 Skating Dutchmen Win One, Drop One By DAN STRUM On Saturday night, the Skating Dutchmen battled the Norwich Cadets, an opponent from the ECAC East. In a . game plagued by delays, Union used tough defense late in the third period to preserve a 3-2 victory. With nine seconds left in the game and the Norwich goalie on the bench, the two teams braced for a big faceoff deep in the Union zone. Union won the faceoff into the comer as time ran out. Craig Ferrero, who currently has won over 73% of his faceoffs, sealed the victory for Union. The game was delayed some 25 minutes due to lighting problems in AchiUes rink. Despite the delay, Union carne out strong and fired up; something which they have been making a habit of this season. Bill Sedergren caught Jayson Flowers streaking up the wing. Flowers took the pass, cut in on goal, and slid the puck in only 1:34 seconds into the game. Union got an opportunity to add to their lead with a power-play chance only minutes later. Terry Campbell is the catalyst to the Union power-play. As Dalton Menhall cut behind the defender and rushed- forward, Campbell spotted him and fired a pass on net. Menhall re-directed the puck by the goalie for a 2-0 Union lead. Union scored once again to extend their lead to 3- 0. Bill Railton made some nice moves to get open in the offensive zone. He got off a low, hard wrist shot along the ice which snuck just inside the right post. It was a period in which Union thoroughly dominated. The second period belonged to the Cadets of Norwich. They out-hit and out-hustled the Dutchmen. Norwich scored only 35 seconds into the period to get on the board. The only quality chance the Dutchmen got was on a breakaway by Brian Lucey, but he was hauled down. Each team was getting a liLLie chippy as the hitting was picking up. The stage was set for the third period battle. Norwich scored a power-play goal on a tough deflection in front to cut the lead to 3-2. Tempers were flaring and they fmally erupted in a big incident halfway through the third period. The teams engaged in a scuffle right in front of the Norwich bench. The referees went over to control things, but it seemed to get out of hand. Two players separated from the pack and ended up at center ice. Rick Birchill and a player from Norwich engaged in a big fight as the referees were unable to control everything. They danced around at center ice for a few minutes before some sort of order was restored. Both players were ejected. It took another 20 minutes to sort out all of the penalties. In all, 76 minutes of penalties were handed out in that incident. Two players who helped to preserve •the victory with their strong third period performances were Rick Clifford and goalie Shayne White. Clifford did an excellent job of back-checking to control several Norwich rushes. White made some big saves as he pounced on some loose pucks. He also anticipated one play nicely as he came way out to stop a breakaway ... It was a tough 'light for Union in Achilles Rink last Tuesday. The puck seemed to bounce the wrong way the entire night. The Dutchmen found themselves down 5-2 to visiting Plattsburgh late in the third period. Suddenly Union found some new lit'e. They were constantly buzzing around in the offensive zone. Byron Smith let a slapshot go on net. The puck trickled in on a deflection by Rick Clifford. Union had pulled to within two goals while still holding on to some momentum. Moments later Clifford shot one off the crossbar. However, time was Union's enemy as the game slipped away into a 5-3 loss. The game was marked by inconsistent play all around. Union came out slowly to start the game as they let Plattsburgh jump all over them. The Cardinals scored two goals in 17 seconds to take a 2- 0 lead. Two minutes later Union came back. Jayson Flowers fought off two defenders and passed the puck out front. Clifford was there to knock horne his first of the game. Plattsburgh was relentless with their forechecking and their third goal came as a result. There was some sloppy play on both sides for the remainder of the period. However, Union cut it to 3-2 with only 23 seconds left in the period. Dalton Menhall was providing some excellent pressure in the offensive zone. He stole the puck, split the defense. and chipped the puck over the goalie's right shoulder for the score. There was no scoring in the second period, but Union's play · noticeably improved. They finished their checks and provided some quality chances, but they could not finish the play. Union had one open net, but it was shot wide. Goalie Jim Helkie came up big on a couple of 2 on 1 situations. .• Between the Bluelines .. Union's record now stands at 11-3-2 in the league and 12-4-2 overall. There·was a fight in last year's game against Norwich as well. Craig Ferrero's streak was stopped at 24 games. Some Alumni were up to play in the Alumni game. It was good to see names like Logan, Goguen, Baratoff, Cotier, Robertson and Manley skating again at Achilles. Support Union Sports

0 Is :c c.. ~ u:: ilw Siii ~ s;if \\' ~\tu Cl ' ~ 1i:i 0- 0 6: The Swim Teams hit the pools at Hamilton on Saturday. The SkaUng Du1chmen scrapped Norwich this past Saturday. out a 3-2 victory over Men's B-Ball On A Roll By JASON GRAV~S The Union Dutchmen men's basketball team improved its record to 12-3 this week by winning two games and losing one in three games on the road. The Dutchmen are currently ranked 6th in the state behind Hamilton, RPI, Stony Brook, Gene~~. and ~ochester. \nley are led in scoring by senior guard Jerry Brescia who is averaging 18.0 points per game. He is followed by senior Elgin Rhodes (11.2) and freshman Steve Evans (10.1). The Dutchmen rebounding leaders are Rhodes with 8. 7 per game followed by senior Alex Nestor with 5-3. Union started the week off with a close game at Utica College on Wednesday. The Dutchmen had a poor shooting first half against the Pioneers scoring only 20 points on 9 for 25 shooting. The defense was the key in keeping it close by holding Utica to only 26 first half points. Union started the second half a little slowly and Utica built a nine point lead with 15 minutes still to play. Union then went on an 11-2 scoring run that tied the game with 11:38 remaining. The rest of the game was close. Union had only as much as a 5 point lead during the. rest of the game. After a layup by Alex Nestor put Union up 50-46 with 3:36 remaining, Utica's Derrick Mayo hit a three point jumper to bring Utica within one point 50-49. Union turned a steal and a Utica turnover into four straight points on layups by Kenny Evans and Elgin Rhodes. After a Utica layup made it a 3 point game, Union was called for an intentional holding foul following a Utica steal. Utica's Denny Schak made both free throws and Utica had the ball with 9 seconds on the clock with the sc::>re 54-53 in favor of Union. Utica missed a jump shot and Elgin Rhodes was awarded the rebound on the possession arrow. Brendan Chudy made a layup with 1 second remaining but the game was over. Union's leading scorer was Elgin Rhodes with 18 points. Union faced a long road trip this past weekend. They played Alfred after a four hour ride. Another two hours brought · them to Ithaca where they spent the· night and then played Ithaca the following afternoon. Union had a good first half Continued on page 21 SPORTSWEEK Saturday, February 2 Hockey vs RIT Women's Basketball at Middlebury Men's Basketball at Hamilton Women's Swimming at Hamilton Men's Swimming at Hamilton Men's and Women's Track (Home) CAPITAL DISTRICT MEET Tuesday, February 5 Hockey at Hamilton Wednesday, February 6 Men's Bask8tball at Hamilton Women's Swimming vs Albany Men's Swimming vs Albany 7:30 7:00 8:00 1:00 1:00 1:00 7:30 8:00 7:00 7:00 January 31, 1991 Skating Dutchmen Win One, Drop One By DAN STRUM On Saturday night, the Skating Dutchmen battled the Norwich Cadets, an opponent from the ECAC East. In a game plagued by delays, Union used tough defense late in the third period to preserve· a 3-2 victory. With nine seconds len in the game and the Norwich goalie on the bench, the two teams braced for a big faceoff deep in the Union zone. Union won the faceoff into the comer as time ran out. Craig Ferrero, who currently has won over 73% of his faceoffs, sealed the victory for Union. The game was delayed some 25 minutes due to lighting problems in Achilles rink. Despite the delay, Union came out strong and fired up; something which they have been making a habit of this season. Bill Sedergren caught Jayson Flowers streaking up the wing. Flowers took the pass, cut in on goal, and slid the puck in only 1 :34 seconds into the game. Union got an opportunity to add to their lead with a power-play chance only minutes later. Terry Campbell is the catalyst to the Union power-play. As Dalton Menhall cut behind the defender and rushed forward, Campbell spotted him and fired a pass on net. Menhall re-directed the puck by the goalie for a 2-0 Union lead. Union scored once again to extend their lead to 3- 0. Bill Railton made some nice moves to get open in the offensive zone. He got off a low, hard wrist shot along the ice which snuck just inside the right post. It was a period in which Union thoroughly dominat.cd. The second period belonged to the Cadets of Norwich. They out-hit and out-hustled the Dutchmen. Norwich scored only 35 seconds into the period to get on the board. The only quality chance the Dutchmen got was on a breakaway by Brian Lucey, but he was hauled down. Each team was getting a little chippy as the hittin~ was picking up. The stage was sel for the third period battle. Norwich scored a power-play goal on a tough deflection in front to cut the lead to 3-2. Tempers were flaring and they finally erupted in a big incident halfway through the third period. The teams engaged in a scuffle right in front of the Norwich bench. The referees went over to control things, but it seemed to get out of hand. Two players separated from the pack and ended up at center ice. Rick Birchill and a player from Norwich engaged in a big fight as the referees were unable to control everything. They danced around at center ice for a few minutes before some sort of order was restored. Both players were ejected. It took another 20 minutes to sort out all of the penalties. In all, 76 minutes of penalties were handed out in that incident. Two players who helped to preserve the victory with their strong third period performances were Rick Clifford and goalie Shayne White. Clifford did an excellent job of back-checking to control several Norwich rushes. White made some big saves as he pounced on some loose pucks. He also anticipated one play nicely as he came way out to stop a breakaway ... It was a tough 'light for Union in Achilles Rink last Tuesday. The puck seemed to bounce the wrong way the entire night. The Dutchmen found themselves down 5-2 to visiting Plattsburgh late in the third period. Suddenly Union found some new lit'e. They were constantly buzzing around in the offensive zone. Byron Smith. let a slapshot go on net. The puck trickled in on a deflection by Rick Clifford. Union had pulled to within two goals while still holding on to some momentum. Moments later Clifford shot one off the crossbar. However, time was Union's enemy as the game slipped away into a 5-3 loss. The game was marked by inconsistent play all around. Union carne out slowly to start the game as they let Plattsburgh jump all over them. The Cardinals scored two goals in 17 seconds to take a 2- 0 lead. Two minutes later Union carne back. Jayson Flowers fought off two defenders and passed the puck out front. Clifford was there to knock home his first of the game. Plattsburgh was relentless with their forechecking and their third goal came as a result. There was some sloppy play on both sides for the remainder of the period. However, Union cut it to 3-2 with only 23 seconds left in the period. Dalton Menhall was providing some excellent pressure in the offensive zone. He stole the puck, split the defense, and chipped the puck over the goalie's right shoulder for the score. There was no scoring in the second period, but Union's play noticeably improved. They finished their checks and provided some quality chances, but they could not finish the play. Union had one open net, but it was shot wide. Goalie Jim Helkie came up big on a couple of 2 on 1 situations. .. Between the Bluelines .• Union's record now stands at 11-3-2 in the league and 12-4-2 overall. There ·was a fight in last year's game against Norwich as well. Craig Ferrero's streak was stopped at 24 games. Some Alumni were up to play in the Alumni game. It was good to sec names like Logan, Goguen, Baratoff, Cotier. Robertson and Manley skating again at Achilles. Support Union Sports

