In This Issue: \\~ L ,. <tZ!.p·u.p'!, ~· Founded at tJnion College 1877 Concordy Motto Contest -page 2 Political Correctness on Campus -page 4 November 7, 1991 Disease Hits The Nott -page 14

NEW!i The Epidemiology of AIDS by Robert Malfetano Contributing Writer This past Halloween, Dr. D. Peter Drotman returned to his alma mater to discuss tile scope and prevention of AIDS at the Minerva Hour lecture as part of the second annual AIDS Awareness Week at Union. His address, \Safer Sex to Prevent AIDS: Now is the Time,\ was delivered to a sizeable crowd and covered an array of subjects but primarily the epidemiology of the virus. over only a few years may be singlehandedly responsible for the infection of an incalculable many during the early eighties. --Nearly one million people in the United States will soon be infected with HIV and that number is growing at a rate of 40-80,000 a year in addition to an annual death rate of nearly 20,000 due to AIDS related illnesses. -- Cases of syphilis are actually higher today than in 1951 and this increase is due to heterosexual activity. -- The number of reported cases of AIDS in heterosexuals since 1984 is increasing at a logarithmic rate or more like compounded interest in a bank. -- Heterosexual women are the most rapidly increasing group contracting mv. -- Pediatric cases are increasing significantly. --The United States leads the world with an astonishing rate of 4-5,000 new cases per month. In North America, 1 in 75 males is infected with HIV from ages 15-49; for women, 1 in 700. (Source: World Health Organization) Drotman (Class of '69) has • held numerous p osi ti ons (including editor in cbief of . Concordiensis) fmm L.A. to Bangladesh, .recehed countless accolades, and written an abundance of articles. At one point he traveled the country talking to people right before they died of AIDS related illnesses h()ping to obtain some insight on what may soon become the ntimber one cause of death worldwide. He is currently the Assistant to the Director, Division of HIV /AIDS, Center for Infectious Diseases, at the Centers for Dis-ease Control and at the forefront of AIDS research and preventive medicine in general. Well respected in the rn edical community, he is on his way to becoming one of the more influential people in modern health. He made references Lo extensive data about AIDS that to discuss here would be considerably redundant and voluminous, yet some astounding figures were broughl to light. Consider Lhe following: Dr. Drotman's office recently conducted a survey concerning AIDS at U.S. colleges and universities (Union was not involved). In the domestic college community, with a ! high rate of sex and alcohol/substance abuse, it is no wonder that the infected rate and risk factor increases significantly from the age of 18 to 24. A number of campuses also reported subst.a..'ltial numbers of infected persons. In short, college stuw'nts arc at extraordinary -- One man alone had roughly 250 sexual partners annually and through e:xtensivc travel across the Unitc.d S ta.tes Drotman works in pn. .:ntive medicine so to have a positive oullook is essential; however he notes that the AIDS epidemic and crisis will become far worse before ge.tting better. Although no breakthrough drug or vaccine 'is in :f>ight that would be readily avai'lable to the public. he concluded on a note of op~imism. Not long ago, the homosexual community had the most reported cases of AIDS yet now have decreased their numbers significantly and have greatly lowered their risk. This was accornpHshed by dramatic changes in conduct · . and attitude indicating that 1 s<>ciety may be able to master its own destiny. AIDS Awareness Week has now passed and the ever • poj)ular information table removed from the College Ce11ter, yet in retrospect, one must wonder if a brief ,inf<>rmational period can alter the values and morals that are so deeply imbedded in our society. It was comforting that a man in Dr. Drotman's position expressed such Dj)timisn and observed that ~hile the college will spend a substantial amount of money <>n their AIDS campaign, if ()nly one life is saved or one case prevented, then their effort is Jlriceless and will more than }Jay for itse-lf. W:nion (tolltge .:tacultp (tolloqui urn William Zwicker, Professor and Chair, Department of Mathematics POWER, AND WHAT MA THIEMATICS IDO J Tuesday, November ' Hl, 1991 at 4;30 pm College Center Auditorium Coffee & Tea at 4:00 pm ALLAR£ WELCOMED Student Requests Previously Denied Soviet Confence Funding by Craig Greenberg Contributing Writer A variety of issues were touched on at the Student Forum's Monday meeting. Jacques Etienne's funding request for a Soviet exchange program trip, a possible evening campus shuttle system, and residence life surveys were among tile topics discussed. Etienne approached the Forum for monetary aid, as he wishes to participate in the A mcrican Association of llnivcrsity Students' Soviet c x.c hangc program. The prowam's purpose is to expose American students to the changes in Soviet life in both Russia and Lithuania. He has only received an IEF (International Education Fund) grant which covers approx- imately one third of the total cost of $2,485. He claims that upon· approaching various departments for aid he was turned down. Interestingly, he also claims that faculty members of these departments told him that they were pressured from above not to give him any funding. The Forum will discuss any possible aid available for Jacques' trip. A possible evening campus shuttle system was proposed and discussed on lhc floor or the Forum this week. Although the advantages and convenience of a shuttle are :Sizable, the Forum views the cr~ation of such a system 11nlik:cly, due to recent budget cuts. Completed residence life surveys were divided among the Forum's members for careful e:umination and analyzation of student comments and s11ggestions. The surveys' information will be used in the ·e:umination of current proposals and in the creation of new ones. At the next meeting, these issues will be discussed further iil addition to any newly raised l()pics and proposals. November 7, Leadership Conference For College Students Goals, Careers; Self Esteem College students nationwide are inv.ited to participate in a four day conference designed to help them reach their goals, improve their self-esteem aad to assist them with their future careers. The National Leaders of Tomorrow Conference will featme eight guest speakers including such role models as former San Francisco Giants baseball player, Dave Dravecky; inspirational and motivational speaker, John Croyle; CEO of Chick-fil-A and author of \It's Easier to Succeed than to Fail\ Truett Cathy, January 2-5 at Walt Disney World's Contemporary Resort. A portion of all proceeds from the conference will benefit the Big Oak Ranch, a home for abused and neglected children in Alabama. Vonda K. Barbour, President of Leaders of Tomorrow, explains the rationale behind the organization: \Leaders of Tomorrow was formed to help college students realize their dreams. Our motto is \Dare to Dream\ and we want to instill that courage in students. Too many talented students don't fully realize their potential because no one ever gave them permission to dream before. We want to give these students the self confidence to dare to be the President of the United States, or a large corporation, or whatever their dream may be.\ During the conference, Leaders of Tomorrow will award scholarships to out- standing student leaders who have demonstrated leadership ability, been an example to I their peers, or have overcome personal challenges. Students! also will receive assistance in· marketing their resumes to top corporations looking to hire outstanding college graduates. · sports world and inspired all who saw him overcome adversity with a positive attitude. Truett Cathy, CEO of . Chick-fin-A and author·of \It's Easier to Succeed than to Fail\ will discuss his approach to professional a11d personal excellence. John Croyle the founder of Big Oak Ranch · which has been a home to · more than 1,000 children, will inspire all who hear him speak .. Other speakers include Ms. Barbour; Linda Vester who, at age 26, was NBC's news correspondent for all live cut- ins from the Gulf War; Sheryl Nicholson, the founder and President of MORE than Survival!, a successful consulting and training company; Aaron Alenjandro, Texas Tech University student and District Director for United States Congressman, Bill Sarpalius will share ideas on personal growth such as how to develop your public speaking skills; and Bill Kallenberg, the founder of Student Leadership Develop- ment, an organization that teaches students important life skills such as personal discipline and how to reach goals. Registrations postmarked · prior to November 22, 1991 will be $200 per person; registrations postmarked after November 22, 1991 will be $225 per person. The registration fee includes: three banquet dinners; all seminar conference materials; all conference sessions and speakers; two nights of entertainment ae:. Pleasure Island; and a one day pass to one of the following: EPCOT Center, Magic Kingdom Park, Disney-MGM Studios Theme Park. Convention room rates are available at Disney's Contem- porary Resort for $120 per night for up to 5 people per room. A special discount airline rate has been arranged through Delta Airlines. Eight guest speakers will address different facets of leadership and personal skills development throughout the conference. Dave Dravecky, a former Major League Pitcher since 1982, made a comeback after cancer surgery on his pitching ann that amazed the For further registration or general information, please contact Vonda Barbour at (800) ' 237-0903. S50 REWARD S50 Concordiensis is looking for a motto (Example: 11 All the news that•s fit to print 11 ) All entries must be less than ten words and submitted by 3 pm on Monday, November 11 to Box 1044 or Box 862

.. -.· . ·.;. ·.··•,•·\· ··..-..;. v.·.::-;-:··:<•\·'•:0 •. ·.······>:.-:-:·:-:-·· ; •. ··,• ... November 7, 1991 I\IEW!i South Africa's New Phases Of Political Struggle by .John McGraw Contributing Writer South Mrica is poised for an opportunity in wbich a new constitution may be drafted. Whether it will be a continuation of political deprivation, or will result in the liberation of the South African blacks is a current issue among anti-apartheid activists. In speaking to the students of Union College on Friday, Rev. Canon Malusi Mpumlwana said South Africa was entering a new phase of historical development. \We have the best moment in history,;' he said, \where there could be a unification of South Africans so that we have one non-racial democratic future.\ According to Mpumlwana, South Africa is now facing the challenge of unifying two histories, one of conquer, domination, and exploitation, and the other of struggle and resistance. He questioned the government's commitment to the unification of those histories, accusing it of practicing a double strategy of destabilization and reform. Many laws have been repealed, including the Land . Act and the Population Registration Act. \These seem to be important reforms, but look below the surface and we see nothing has changed,\ he said. Mpurnlwana illustrated this fact, citing that there are 120,000 African pensioners limited to the attention of three institutions, but, in the same area, 7,000 white pensioners are attended to by 50 institutions. The government also spends 3,956 Rand for the education of a white child, and only 970 Rand for a black child. ., Mpumlwana believes that the South African government is serious about negotiations, but that it doesn't want to lose power. Negotiations continue because the government wants to see a different constitution, but, at the same time, it wants to weaken the black negotiating organizations. Its most important weapon in destabilizing the black organizations is the use of vigilantes. The Human Rights Commission, based in Johannesburg, reports that government paid vigilantes have killed 2,640 blacks and injured another 4,077 in the past year alone. The solution to these problems, according to Mpumlwana, would be the establishment of an interim government, which would make changes in the constitution. \We are not responsible for all the evils of apartheid, but we live with that legacy, and we are saying let all South Africans share in the responsibility to undo that legacy. We can only accomplish that if we work together in an interim government. The policy of divestment was also pointed to as an important factor that led to South Africa's present situation. Mpumlwana called for the continuation of divestment policies in order to help insure reforms. The Reverend is a pastor of 16 congregations in Uitenhage, near Port Elizabeth, and serves as dean of the St. Paul region of his church. He is a longstanding anti-apartheid activist, and is sponsored for a series of speaking engagements in the U.S. by the South African Education Program at Stony Point (N.Y.) Center. His appearance at the college was sponsored by the Campus Protestant Ministry at Union, and St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, of Schenectady. Schenectady Youngsters Treated To A Haunted Phi Gam House by Jason Habinsky Concordiensis Staff This year's Halloween started a clay earlier than usual for th~ young ~hildren of th~ Schenectady Big Brothers, Big Sisters program. Oil Wednesday, October 30, th~ brothers of Phi Gamma Delta. as well as many other Unioll College big brothers and sisters, prepared a day full of Halloween fun for fifty ecstatic children. The youths arrived at the Fiji House at 4:00 that afternoon, sporting their spooky costumes. The children then engaged in fun· filled games of ping pong and pool, sessions of bobbing for apples, and hours of pumpkin painting excitement. However, the main event of this fall afternoon was undoubtedly the haunted house. The unsuspecting children were guided along the haunted upper corridors of Phi Gamma Delta, as ghosts and goblins emerged from every dark crevice. It was the brothers' perrormances ~ at provided the children with such a delightful experience. Unfortunately for all, the day had to eventually come to an end. In any case, the Halloween affair was successful. Organizer David Rosenblum had this to say about the event, \Although I am certainly not known for being fainthearted or timid, I must admit that even I was quite frightened by the spine-chilling antics of the brothers and volunteers. More importantly, thanks to the dedication of those involved, the day turned out to be an unforgettable one.\ ··-· .. :.;· Delta Phi Hosts Haunted House For Local Youth by Shani Braff Contributing Writer On St. Hallows Eve, a group of boys a11d girls from the · Schenectady Outreach Program and the Mt. Pleasant Boys and Girls Clubs had a night they'd never forget. On this night, the brothers ·of the Delta Phi fraternity hosted a haunted · house for the local youth groups. The project began when Nish N adaraja, the Delta Phi Philanthropist, contacted Project US looking for a community- service project for his house. Project US, a new service that matches Union · clubs and Greek organizations with local {)Ommunity service projects, suggested Delta Phi work with the Schenectady Boys Club. After some brainstorming, the brothers decided to host a Halloween party. The fraternity's house seemed the perfect location for a haunted mansion, since the house is 11aturally old and creaky. After weeks of planning, the brothers finally welcomed the local youtbs, ages 6-15, into their haunted home. The kids, divided into small, managable groups of 6, had guided tours. Their hosts, disguised as maimed monsters, guided the kids througl! a house of ghosts ·and goblins, including one Brother hanging from a noose and another, seemingly decapitated. The kids were exposed to other faux atrocities such as dead bodies, murder weapons, some lively skeletons, and Casey \The Boogie Man\ Cruz. There was also a bowl of eyeballs and guts (peeled grapes and cold spagheLLi) that the kids could touch and even eat. After the tour, the scary monsters took off their make- up and costumes and showed the kids that their morbid show · was just fun and games. The brothers and children socialized with Halloween treats such as doughnuts and cider. The kids also had a chance to bob for :apples. \It was great to see the :brothers and kids interacting. It showed a side of Delta Phi that most people don't get to see,\ said Nadaraja. He was pleased with the haunted house's success and hopes it will be the first of many community service projects for Lhe future. Said Delta Phi President Marty Thomas, \The project went so well that we hope it will become an annual event.\ \The reason the haunted house was such a success,\ Nadaraja said, \is that the . brothers had such a good time . planning it. All the hard work : paid off.\ REPORTED SECURITY INCIDENTS )~Y Of YEEK LOCATiON 10/ZB/91 ijUNANITIES BUILDING I 0/28/'11 fRMERNJH I 0/28/91 SO\~RITY ! •l/28191 fOX HOUSE BASEMENT 5TOoA6E J(J/29/91 fOX HOUSE I t.l/.tlrl 1 WEST COLLEGE i'J/30191 fOLLESE CEtiTER [1)t3!191 HD~INI5TRJHJOII ~REil 1013!191 BAILEY HAll lli•Jit9l kHHMOND P~RKlN6 L81 111\ll, 31 3 i L~ IriAII ~AlL lll0113! POTTH HOUSE ll!OJr?I ~ECKER ijALL llfl)!/'?1 iOUTH ,.OLLE,iE 1!1(11/9! <CmLLES RrN,. 1!103/'ll ~CHILLES LOT 11/03191 CAMPUS 6P.OUNDS ll/03191 ALUMNI @1, llOtKER ROOM! Concordiensis and get a Grasp on the Campus JNCJDEtH THEFi /COH/1ERCIAL COFFEE MAKER iHEFT/SiUDENT'5 BICYCLE THEFT/STUDENT'S JACfET unAUTHORIZED EIITRY/UIIKIIOIIN TM1PERIN6 UJTH SMOKE D£TWOP POSSIBLE UNAUTHORIZED rll'CESS TJ >TUD£NT'S RODH THEFT/STUDE~T'S CREDIT CIIRDS, ID ~liP ME•~l l,\RD ~OBBEPi liND llSSA~LHTUDENHt 3 !ION-31u0ENT5 HARASSHENT BY TELEPHONE !STAfF} SUSP I C lilUS ?ERSON TRESPi\55·{ STUDENTS) MISCHIEf !STUDWTSJ THPOWIN•i DEBRIS llf \0U5E SUSP I C IDUS PERSONS THEFT fiRE EXTINGUISHER : >ECO'.'ECH HARASSMENT STAFF MENBE~ THEFTI•iASCAP ~ GAS VMIDALISM I SIGNS & !RASH THEfT I CLOTHING

1\JEW!i A·I\JAL Y!il!i November 7, 1991 The \Politically Correct\ Debate Campus Flyers and P.C~ Courtesy of the National Student News Service In a speech at Amherst College (MA) on October 2nd to promote his book Illiberal Education, cC>nservative activist Dinesh D'Souza joked with his audience. \Our discussion should he conducted according to the strictest rules of the canon of political correctness,\ D'Souza said. \We cannot speak of our pets, but must refer to tllem as our animal compankms, and of course you know that short people must now be referred to as vettically challenged.\ D'Souza's remarks are representative of many conservatives' eff()ft.s to protect freedom of expression from the limits they believe .. politically correct\ students are imposing upon American campuses. On the other end of the political spectrum, liberal and progressive students' efforts are focused on ridding their campuses of insensitive and hurtful expression towards women, minorities and other student groups. This debate between students has intensified recently and can be illustrated by what is happening with increased frequency to one of the simplest, most obvious and most common forms of expression on college campuses -- the campus flyer. Stapled, tacked and taped in dining halls, classrooms and fraternities by a wide variety of student organizations, these small, one-page posters announce everything from fraternity parties to political parties. They are also being altered, defaced and ripped down by students who disagree with their message with more frequency than ever. Citing Racial Intolerance, Students Rip Down Environmental Flyers In a controversy highlighting the racial side of the debate over political correctness, members of the Black Student Union and the Hispanic Society at the State University of New York at Fredonia ripped down what they considered racist flyers from public bulletin boards on campus. The flyers were being used as a recruiting tool for the student-run group called Project Environment. The flyers portrayed a white male pumping liquid into the ear of a bug-eyed black male with the caption, \Environmental problems bug you?\ \I would have thought having a person of color on the poster would make it seem more culturally diverse or humanistic,\ says Chris Weisbeck, a senior psychology major and Project Environment president. \Others on campus seem to feel different. The issue here, in my opinion, is not racism, but censorship.\ Vice president of the Hispanic Society Jeanie Lopez is one of the students who feel differently. Although she believes in freedom of speech, Lopez says that she considers the Project Environment poster racist because it depicts a white man cleaning up pollution symbolically represented by a black man. Jiann Calhun, a junior majoring in accounting, agrees with Lopez. \I considered the poster very offensive because it could be interpreted in many ways,\ she says. \I thought the whole idea was insensitive.\ The bulletin boards at SUNY Fredonia are the property of the campus, according to Dean of Students L. Michael Dimitri. Dimitri says that the boards are available to announce campus happenings, not for announcing political rallies. \The First Amendment doesn't allow government universities to censor based on the content of the material in question,\ says Goodman. With the Fredonia campus still divided over the Project Environment flyer, many students are calling for more sensitivity on the part of administrators and stLJdents alike, and are using the incident as an opportunity to educate campuses on alternatives to censorship. Student Association president Jose Baez says that the First Amendment states freedom of expression cannot be abridged. \We're not telling people they can't put up certain materials,\ says Baez. \It's just that there has to be some kind of sensitivity towards issues like this.\ Colleg~ Faculty on uPolitical Correctness\ How professors view themselves and their curriculum 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% [] Pu b I i c U n i v e r s i t y Fa c u I t y (]Private University Faculty ~Public Four-Year College Faculty liD Private Four-YeaJ College Faculty 0%~~~~~~~~~-----LGL~~~~~~----~~~~~~~~-- \Most facully here are \Many courses 1 'Many courses sensitive to the issues include minority include feminist af minorities.\ group perspectives.\ perspectives.\ Source: Higher Education Resource Institute, The American College Teather, 1991. National Student News Service Mark Goodman of t\le Student Press Law Center, a non-profit organization working against the censorship of college newspapers, says that public universities cannot legally ban flyers like those tom down at SUNY Fredonia. Conservative Students Charge Censorship Over Ku Klux Klan Graffiti While many incidents with flyers on campuses involve accusations of racism or sexual harassment, some students groups claim their flyers are being physically altered because of their political beliefs. At the University of Pittsburgh, flyers of the College Republicans were doctored on September 14th with a picture of Ku Klux Klansmen brandishing torches and shotguns. The College Republic~n recruitment flyers originally contained a harmless cartoon I mocking the Democrats. Tile day after they were posted around campus someone replaced the cartoon with the KKK photograph but kept the original wording underneath that read, \Are you looking for the right group? Why not try Pitt's College Republicans.\ because we have a different view than some, they try to stifle ours.\ The case is under investigation by the campus police, according to University of Pittsburgh Public Safety Director William Brennan. \We won't tOlerate this sort of thing at Pitt,\ says Brennan. Assistant Director of Communications Bob Reteshka adds, \Whether this is a prank by some misguided youth or something more sinister, it won't be tolerated here at Pitt, from either the right or the left.\ After being notified of the changes to their flyers, College Republican members went around campus informing students that they were not affiliated with the Ku Klux Klan. National Student News Service \I definitely feel that it is a freedom of speech issue,\ says College Republican president ·Jacinta Dvorak. \Certain groups on campus claim t<> promote freedom of speech, b11t \Such diversity of students and so many student activities make Pitt a wonderful university, but nearly all of them are geared to the left,\ says Dvorak. \They seem to see us as a threat, and try to stifle our freedom of speech ..

to •n at :>t lg ln st d :s El\IVIROI\IMEI\IT Bonnie Raitt Sings For The Environment :by Jollll Samatulski Courtesy of The Atbany Report . As the Stin set on a warm night, Bonnie Raitt began to play to a packed house at the Jones Beach Theatre on Long Island. As well as pleasing thousands who had' come to see her, Bonnie was also sh<lwing her concern for New York's environment. Recognizing EPL's role as one of the leading environmental advocacy organizations in New York, Bonnie had generously donated part of the evening's proceeds to the Environmental Planning Lobby and the New York Environmental Institute (NYE), EPL's sister organization. By everyone's account, the benefit was a great success. At a backstage reception after the show, EPL's executive director, Lee Wasserman, took the opportuni;ty to thank Bonnie for her commitment to New York's environment and presented her with a tee shirt \Bonnie Raitt's generosity is not surprising given her long history of environmental concern,\ said Wasserman. \We are honored and deHghted that one of the truly great artists singing today would join EPL's efforts to help protect New York's environmental future.\ As Bonnie continued her tour across the country, her help to EPL and the memory of a great evening lingered behind. Global Change Fellowships Available For Seniors and Graduate Students Graduate fellowships are Committee on Earth and available for entering and first Environmental Sciences. year graduate students majoring in science disciplines and Areas of study are interested in pursuing research interdisciplinary and may careers in areas pertaining to include climate and hydrologic globalchange. systems, biogeochemical Applicants must be U.S. dynamics, ecological systems citizens and either entering or and dynamics, earth system first year graduate students in history, human interactions, appropriate disciplines. solid earth processes, solar Sponsored by the U.S. influences, and data Department of Energy (DOE) management. Relevant and administered by Oak Ridge academic disciplines include Associated Universities, the agricultural sciences, Graduate Fellowships for atmospheric sciences and Global Change Program meteorology, biology and includes full payment of biotechnology, chemistry, tuition and fees at a DOE- computer sciences, ecology, approved institution, a $1,200 economics, environmental . monthly stipe11d, and a three- sciences, geology, month practic1111l assignment at geochemistry, geophysics, a DOE facility or research hydrology, instrumentation, center associated with the - mathematics and statistics, oceanography and ocean sciences, and physics. Selection is based on academic performance, ORE scores, recommendations, coursework, experience, and a statement of career goals by the applicant. Fellowship appointments are for one year and may be renewed. The application deadline is Jan. 31, 1992, and awards will be announced in May 1992. For applications or more information contact Sandra Beaulieu, Graduate Fellowships in Global Change Program, Oak Ridge A'Ssociated Universities. Science/ Engineering Education Division, P.O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-0117, or call - (615) 576-7393. We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food ' *$3.00 Pitchers Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required THE IDOL • lS now accepting all kinds of Creative Writing. For more information call #4382. If you don't want to WASTE space, then write for the Environmental Section. Contact the editor at #4383

6 <U.tmrllrbtrtt.sis II\ITERI\IATIDI\IAL FEATURE!i November 7, 1991 Going Greek: The American Experience A recent proposal in the residence life report has been a topic for discussion among this year's exchange students and teaching assistants. It suggests that fraternities and sorodties host one or two international students each year. Several students were asked to comment about his idea. \Although I live in Ludlow, I have good relations with International House. We have an American experience when we live in Webster. I think all international students must live together in one house to have a special International House to gain an experience from studying and living here. We are not against fraternities and sororities, but I feel an International House is more suited for our needs. If someone wants to talk to us, he can come here (Webster) anytime.\ -Leonid Yurgelas (exchange student from Russia) \I think the purpose of hosting an international student in general is good in the terms --~ ( ..... - stated before. Personally I have had some experiences meeting people from fraternities and lhey are nice. And I have had the opportunity to see the way they live. I would reaHy not like to live in one of these places, because they are too noisy, there are lots of people especiaHy during the weekends, and people are kind of different from the rest of the ones living on campus. When an international student like me comes to the SLates for the first time, h's, in a certain way, hard to get used to and understand the American way of life; but if you go straight to live in a fraternity or sorority where people are always trying to do \different\ things or behave differently, it would be shocking for us and we would get a wrong idea of what living in the States is like. As I come from a more conservative country, in a short period of time I would be alone, because I would not accept to do the things I am not used to doing and are not right for my way of being. I am not against any fraternity; actually I like to go UJ.ere once in a while .and that is enough. I don't have problems of isolation because I love to make friends and I think that it reaLly doesn't matter where you live; if a U.C. student is interested in meeting inter- national students he would look for us. We are every- where!\ -Gabby Carrasco (teaching assistant from Mexico) \It is certainly a good idea to \internationalize\ Greek organi- zations. Getting into contact with different cultures and different ways of thinking is a valuable experience that I can only recommend to everybody. On the other hand, it does not seem to be a good idea to house international students in fraternities or sororities. As far as I can tell a fraternity or sorority is a close community of people who met because of the same attitudes, same preferences, etc. and an international student who is put in this environment is more likely to feel uncomfortable than in an International house with independent students. I am sure that everybody knows a Greek organization where he or she would definitely feel uncomfortable and therefore can follow this point. A much better idea that would serve both the fraternity or sorority and the exchange s~udent, would be to offer housing in fraternities and sororities, but to leave the choice of where to go up to the student.\ -Karsten Contag (exchange student from Germany) PEAC·E CORPS WORL.D WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the C()untry darkened on the map at the right. This small area of South America· ,;..~ was the center of the Inca empire ' - '- that was Jater conquered by Spain. J For a time this territory fell under the royal Spanish rulers of Peru ;- and then Colombia. I I I I I I 1. Name of the 4,000-mile·long mountain system stretching the length of western South America from Venezuela to Tierra del Fuego. 2. The name of the ocean to the west of this country. 3. Agricultural .products, coffee, fish, shrimp and petroleum are all significant from this country. 4. The great circle circumscribing the earth's surface. ,_.. /r/ 7th Annual Public Speaking Competition TONIGHT!!!! / Thursday, November 7th at in Upper Class Dining .

th re ~k 1e el m at ty .d te te ;e November 7, 1991 INTERNATIOI\IAL FEATURES illtlltfllrbtrnsrs 7 Future International Students May Be Orphans by Larae 'Fumidajewicz JnternatioruJl Features Editor Union students who travel abroad are in a group whicb becomes a close family because they all understand each other. That is the atmosphere that the International House provides to the exchange students who come here to study; it creates an intimate family setting as safe and secure as it is back home for them. The recommendation from the residence life report which suggests that the exchange students be pJaced into various fraternities and sororities is not, in my own personal opinion, in the best interest of the international students themselves. First, the pmposal fails to realize that there exist more \international\ students on campus than the few exchange students. The report claims that the \international\ students are isolated to Webster House. This is false. Being international refers to being born in another country and being brought up in another country's cu'ltural heritage. International House contains most of the exchange students with the ex:ception of three who live in Ludlow House on the lower floor of Webster. With these students are average American college students as roommates and floonnates. This is not the extent of the international students on campus though. British students reside in West, North, Davidson, and South. A Soviet student lives in South College also. A girl from Poland is living in Richmond. There are other students from Germany, Greece, Kuwait, Switzerland, and other countries who are members of fraternities or just living in dorms other than Webster.- There are many Asian students on campus, including Koreans, Cllinese, and Vietnamese in West and North. This is not even considering all of the Latin American and Afri~.an backgrounds repre,sented in the college comrr.illnity: Haiti, Dominican. Repu~lic, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala. Ecuador. and the PhiliJl'pines just to name a few. Also many students with an Indian iheritage reside all over the ·campus. Thus, it is misconception that all intemational students are isolated to Webster -- they are in fact ~pread throughout many donns. As for the implications of the r~idence report that we are not a truly \American experioence,\ I ask myself how an exclusive fraternity ldnd of living can possibly be more American than average Americ:an students doing everyday American things. We cu-e not freaks in Webster House ,£hat lock ourselves in our rooms and avoid all contact with the outside world .. .. On the comtrary, we very much epitomize the American spirit with o11r endless energy to learn a11d to explore new things each ami every day. And that is truly what the exchange students have come to America to expel'ience. The residence report claims that \international students are isolated to Webster. This is false.\ I d() not feel that it is appropriate to isolate one exchan~e student into such a tightly woven family that a fraterni1y represents. It is hard enough for them to adjust to the ent:irdy different way of life, let alone have to be put among~ bunch of people who are alre~dy very close friends. At the Imwrnational House it is possible to establish friendships. very easily because everyorue is getting to know each otller at the same time. Not just one international student trying to memorize the names of all the members of East Asian Studies/ ASU Fall Film Series ''RASHOMON'' ( 1986) Directed by Akira Kurosawa; 83 minutes; B'&?W; subtitles College Center Room 406 8 pm Free Admission their new sorority or fraternity. Also the other exchange students maybe sharing the same homesickness or general problems about the American culture that another international student will understand, but an American may not. At the International House, they will have that understanding person to always be there for them to help them get through whatever the problem is. Those of us who rue living there choose to do so because we sincerely care about the well-being of the exchange students. We all do our best to teach them many new words and to expose them to as many American things as possible. International House residents look out for the exchange students and advise them on any questions they have, whether the questions be about homework, personal problems, or American life in general. That is not to say that a fraternity or sorority would not be so patient and understanding as we all are towards the international students: it is that fraternities and sororities have many have functions and responsibilities that take up much of their time. I am not putting down fraternity and sorority living in any way, but I do not feel it is an appropriate place for international students to have the best typical American experience possible. I think that if for any reason the exchange student is not completely happy and comfortable with his or her living arrangements, he or she will more than likely feel like an orphan. In response to the recommendation's comment that this will help to internationalize the Greek organizations, that is true; but it is in the best interest of the Greeks and not necessarily the international students who will be directly involved in this situation. International House in the past has had college funding which could be used SPANISH TUTORING· Contact Gaby Carrasco 370-6836 or leave name and ·. ph·one number at 370·6211 .... ' .. for hosting receptions or informal dinners with professors during which the entire campus was irnvited to come to the House and :meet the international students. 'This year our House has lost all funding and dining services will not allow mea.l card punches to be used to obtain food for such floor activities. Thus, it is very difficuJt to bring the campus to Web~ter to meet international students, but there are various other opportunities at whicil people can be \internationalized.\ \We are not freaks in Webster House that lock ourselves in our rooms and avoid all contact with the outside world . • . We exemplify the American spirit with our endless energy to Jearn and. explore.\ There are many campus-VIide events sponsored by the International Student U11ion, A.L.A.S., Asian Student Union, language clubs~ etc. to promote international cultural awareness, but the attendance at these occasions is so minimal that it sometimes does not seem worth all the efforts made to organize them. If so few students can take an interest in internationalism for one ni£ht, ~6e 00 G~e~'ks \''Will -op~n · tneir houses to one international student who will change their whole insight on the affairs of the world. This kind of result would be nice, but the American experience of our exchange students should not be jeopardized for the attempted benefit of the G reck organizations. In fact, it is not up to me or the administration or the residence committee to decide what will be best for the exchange student<;. It should be their choice alone to decide upon which location of residency is best suited to their needs and desires. Why shouldn't they get to choose? We do. Given an accurate description, preferably with representative random photos, contrasting the different types of activities and lifestyles of each of their housing possibilities, the students themselves should cast the final vote on where they shall live. After all, America really is all about democracy. Family is a very, very important aspect of every culture all over the world. Our International House fmnily is a very llappy, secure family, a family that cares and has very strong friendship bonds with each other. Only during times of slavery did outsiders break up such close family ties -- and that was definitely wrong. Now this residence life committee wants lO play a supreme authority and tear apart our special international family. In my opinion, that too is definitely wrong. FRBNCH FILM LA GUERRE EST FINIE TO BE SHOWN NQV,EMBER8 Albany, N.Y.- The French film La Guerre est Finie (1966, black and white, 121 minutes, in French with English subtitles, 35 mm format) will be shown on Friday, November 8. 1991 at 7:30p.m. in Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue.. on the University at Albany's downtown campus as part of the fall 1991 Classic Film Seres sponsored by l\lew York State Writers Institute. The screening is free and open to the public. La Guerre est Fin;e is director Alan Resnais' most movinJ film, integrating. a mature political commentary with an an involving pErsonal story. A love affair between a veteran Spanish leftist exiled in Paris and young radical, played by Genevieve Bujold, brings about an inevitable clash of new and old politics. For additional information contact the Writers Institute at (518}442-5620.

8 <Uonrnrbtrnzw 11\JTERI\JATIOI\IAL FEATURE§ N~vem,ber 7 ' 1991 A Side Order of the Arab- Israeli Conflict The Middle East talks continue. Despite hesitations, Syria joined the conference in Madrid. Most of the participants view Syria's position as that which may be years ofexhaustive negotiations. Experts say Syria is \maneuvering within its traditional politics in a different Arab world from the one it used to inhabit.\ The Gulf crisis freed the Persian Gulf states from Syrian and Israeli intimidation and Iraq has been wiped out as an Arab force. The process of these changing patterns in the Middle East is working to annihilate past stereotypes and is forcing changes in the countries• usual reactions. In Lusaka, Zambia, Frederick Chiluba was inaugurated on November 2. Chiluba, a trade union leader, is the first President of Zambia to be democratically elected in over two decades. The new president now must face a bar'llcrupt country and thus must work to straighten out the economy in addition to bringing through the change to democracy in Zambia. Among his plans is to remove Government-subsidized food. In Baghdad, Iraq, the government is beckoning attempts made by relief groups to distribute food and medicine to Iraqis suffering due to the war and the trade embargo. Abdul Salam M. Saaid, Minister of Health, said he would only allow food distribution through the Government's distribution and rationing system and he accuses the relief groups of trying o appease \the good people in the United States who don't like to see others suffer\ with their distributions. He feels that these actions by relief groups will quiet Europe and U.S. opposition to continuing U.N. sanctions, a great cause of suffering in Iraq. As a result, food, belonging mostly to the U.N. Children's Fund, worth about $4 million is sitting in warehouses. Lynchings are increasing in shantytowns in Brazil from twice a month to twice a week. In a 5 month period, 52 lynchings were recorded in Salvador. Before this, lynchings were restricted to \heinous crimes\ like rapes of children or sadistic murders. Now any crime can set off a lynching. In an archdiocese study, 58% (23% under 18 years of age) of the victims were accused of petty theft and only 18% were accused of sexual assault. Police have killed 49 suspects this year and no officers were prosecuted. Also. in several of the lynching i termination groups were hired by shopkeepers to incite crowds. Salvador's mayor says the main causes of the lynchings are: high population growth and urban crowding. bear Union, I hope this letter finds you all just as I left you, and in many ways, I look forward to seeing you all once again. But beside tile International 'Hello,' my real objective is to describe the situation (as I see it) as a student at Ben Gurion University of Beer Sheva, Israel, on the evening before the Madrid Peace Talks. I would like you all to realize that I was never a politically active person before my term abroad. I just never cared enough to take a stand on many of the issues that face our generation. Politics always seemecl. to be an activity for those with little to say and a lot of big words to say it in. But I guess I have seen the light, not as much by choice, but due to the fact that you can't go anywhere in Israel, including the local pubs of Beer Sheva, without finding yourself engulfed in some kind of discussion over peace and a means of attaining it. With every liter of beer comes a side order of the Arab-Israel conflict. Through everyday life, it is painfully apparent that the State of Israel remains locked in a constant state of conflict with its neighbors. The need for an active army at all times is unarguable, as almost all of the surrounding countries are in a declared state of war with Israel. This means that everyone my age (I turned 20 last week) with few exceptions are all in the army. Directly out of high school, the boys go for 3 years and the girls for 2. This is not what mothers and fathers want to ha\Ve their babies grow up to. A11d it is from this obligation to a military state of life, ;jnd the constant fear of losing a loved one in either a terrorist attack or an actual war, that causes the debate over a peaceful end to the conflict t() be everywhere. It is the belief of some that pieces of Israel be offered to Jordan, Lebanon, and ~yria in return for a chance at· peace, similar to what seems to have arisen out of the Camp David Agreement between Israel and Egypt. These people arg-ue that the terrorism must end, that the killing of young me11 and women is not worth a change in a boundary line. No matter how much of a compromise is offered, no matter how many \ I can't help but think of a father of four children and a mother of seven who were killed last night by a group of Palestinians protesting the peace talks.\ concessions are made, [srael will remain in a state of war due to the sole fact that the neighboring countries do not recognize the right of the State of Israel to exist. In my opinion (and I d() state that it is only opinion). T .agree with the latter and beliew~ that the Arab-Israel conflict is not really about land or boundaries, but is about the fact th.at the surrounding countries <f() not recognize Israel's right to exist. Even if land if offered, peace will be temporary and €!asily broken.looagine if New Jersey were a C()Untry and Mass., R.I., Conn., N.Y., Penn., and Washington. D.C. all believed in som€!thing that was in conflict with the existence of New Jer;Sey. Now imagine, as sad as it may seem, that you are on a ~:erm abroad in New Jersey. Y\()u see the people live their hardlives, and you admire them fol' their strength. But you are only visiting, and as happy as you are that there exists a New Jersey to visit, you haven't lost a family member to the cause of defending New Jersey and you haven't h.Jd your life disrupted by bombi11gs, terrorist attacks, or even an army service of a couple &f years. This is exactly how I feell in a country that so actively participates in its history. My opinions are those of som e.one that will be leaving ill I anuary to resume the easy life of a college student in the U.S.A., my life in my own lands, not caring what my neighbors think of me. I don't k:now what will occur at Madrid~ Obviously, I hope for peace. But as I write, I can't help but think of a father of four ch!.il-dren and a mother of seven wllo were killed last night lb\ a group of Palestini.a11s protesting the peace talks. They opened fire on a bus. l lla ve tried to remain objective l»ut the politician in me just jumped at the occasion to get my five cents in. I guess that comes with the territory. I'll see you .all in January. Sincerely, Mike Alter Class of '93 In Istanbul, Turkey, Bartholomew I was installed on November 2 as the 273 Ec11menical Patriarch of Constantinople. He will be the spiritual leader for nearly 200 million Eastern Orthodox Christians and presides over 14 autonomous Orthodix churches. Bartholomew pledges to continue to seck \common ground with the Vatican\ and to aid Eastern European Orthodox churches. of the Improv Oarn~ Show Information courtesy of International Section Friday Nov: 8 at and 10 pm The New York Times (Sunday, November 3. /991) PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peele~ Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly ~0 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countnes. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. A group of islands of volcanic origin in the Indian Ocean ·~.6:><\--ll between Mozambique and ~-- Madagasca~ ' I I I I I 1. Direction of this nation from the equator. 2. A spice, used in some candy, chewing gum and bakery products which comes from the highly aromatic bark of any of several trees of the laurel family which are found in this nation. 3. Geographic name for an expanse of water with many scattered islands. 4 A spice exported by this nation which is \ the dried flower bud of a tropical f:riJIIIUO:J = !.'.J!\11,.) t ,'t11 1 w.n 1 .JJP t rm'\'\''4J·' · z lfl\\s ., r'\lmJ•IS myrtaceous tree. COLLEGE S'IUDENTS MAJORING IN Altied Health PrC)fessions Discover a challengl11g, rewuding future that pttts you in touch with your skills. Today's Air Force offers ongoimg opportuniti-es for professional development with great pay a11d benefits, no1mal working hours~ complete medical and dental c11re, and 30 days. vacation with pay per year. Learn l!ow to qualify as atn Air Force health professional. (all USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COILECf (315) 455-7060

November 7, 1991 FEATURE§ @Dtlfllrbfrusfs 9 Behind The Mask by Sari Skolnik Features Editor I t's been one week now since Halloween and I think we are aU recovering firom lhe Holiday and moving on with our re~pective lives. For some reason I :had always thought that Halloween was one day (October 31), however, at Union it seems to be a three day extravaganza. People paraded around Thursday through Saturday in various get-ups (or so they said it was a costume). It amazes me that Columbus day, Election day, and Groundhog's day go unrecognized, but yet this \childish holiday\ is a big event on this campus. Perhaps it is because our generation missed out on a Halloween or two because of the \candy scandals\' somewhere in our childhoods that a need to compensate is felt. Well, whatever the reason may be, Halloween is a time to put all our energy into the ultimate costume and assume new· and different identities. The creative energy put into preparing for the numerous Halloween parties amazes me. people's priorities are on their costumes and all work is put aside. I have friends that have agonized for weeks (alright two days) over the perfect and of cause most original costumes. My good friends, Dana and Jill relayed to me the enchantment they experienced in making their last costume at Union. First the joy of coming up with an original idea served as a catalyst to bring out their creativeness. They worked from scratch, slaved for hours over raw materials and actllally did the \old fashion thing\ and made their costumes using an actual needle and thread. After \bonding\ over their costumes for hours they were finally ready for the \big show.\ Their costumes were a success, though some e~planation was needed (they were \road kills\ which was represented by a grey cloak with a cute but inanimate skunk en it). Mter their successful yet forgetful nights they retired their costumes (or at least what was left of them) until another Halloween. Psychologically speaking, Halloween is a time that people can express their inner most desires by .playing out various 'characters. People take on the roles in which they dress up as and can blame their actions on their alter egos. I overheard someone excuse their actions by saying the \devil made me do it\ or \It's ok, I'm a football player tonite.\ These new identities also serve as a way of making social statements about those around us without actually being offensive. Some sported costumes of the stereotypical \blond\ or a favorite super hero from their childhoods, while others lived out their fantasy of being the opposite sex (I have never seen so many big chested \women\ or well endowed \men\ in one room). Halloween is a time where one can cross dress and get away with it, a time where all social barriers are put aside and freedom of expression is encouraged. too bad real life isn't reflective of many of these liberal attitudes, but for a few days it is entertaining and maybe therapeutic to regress and live out our innermost dreams without being scrutinized. INTERNSHIP FAIR tl~ ct® tmtlhro.~ NOVEMBER 13 ~([))JLJLJECGJE CJENTJEia ATffiJ[lUOO TAKE A- ·WALK ON THE CREATIVE SIDE! Apply for a position on FEATURES STAFF Contact Eric at 393-7010 . · ·. P .. o You Want~ ·viSA·:&. .MasterCard. Cre~-it Card.s? · · ·· Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards in the world ... Vlsa® and MasterCard® credit cards ... ~ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED OOWN BEFORE! V1SA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you desel'll(! and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENT STORES-TUITION-ENTERTAINMENT- EMERGENCY CASH- TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HQTEL.S-MOTELS-GAS-CAR REI'ITAl.S- REPAIR5-AND 'l'O BUIW YOUR CREDIT RATING! CUAAANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD GUAftANffED ISSUE Ofl MONEY IACIC Approval absolutely guaranteed so SENIOR NIGHT at Kelly's Pub Now EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT -Drink Specials-2 for 1 Wings-Pool Table/Darts ALL SENIORS WELCOME Proper ID Required FRIDAY NIGHT Dl NlcR? 6:00pm KOSHER KITCHEN all welcome *Please Bring Meal Card ------------------------- 'STUDENT SERVIOES,PO BOX 2596,flOLLYWOOD.fl 33022~ I • : YES! IwantvtSA®/MASTERCARD®CrecHt : I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which ts 100% refundable tfnot I I approved Immediately. ~ I I I ~E 9 :mo~s : I CJIY STATE-ZIP I 1 PH·ONE 1 I S.S.# I I SIGNATIJRE I I N<nE: Mastet<:ard Is a registered tmdemark rl MMterCard lntc:matlonal. Inc. I I VIsa Is a reglstemJ lnldenrark of VlSA USA. loc and VISA lntc:maHoraal I I Semces Assocta!ton 100% GIJARANTEEDr I l!f·11.i:ltJ:I•J;Iff';t£t•lil:Z•l:ll•l•1·\1 1 1 L_lL----~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_1--·-------------- .. -------

EDITD'RIAL <llllltfllrbfrnsis -------Founded at Union College 1877--- Changes On the Horizon ''Climb high, climb far. Your aim the sky. Your goal the star.\ --plaque in Jackson Gardens The spirit of Union College, and higher education in general, is to strive for excellence in all areas. In its efforts to be the best it can be, the Concordiensis will be in the process of changing its face over the next few terms. Articles will be more newsworthy, layouts will be more eye catching, and the overall quality of the publication will be improved dramatically. Although Concordiensis is not yet up to par with similar publications produced by other collegiate institutions, this unfortunate reality is about to change. The staff will amend its Constitution. Professionalism and quality will be the focus of its new vision. Furthermore, the newspaper will upgrade its office facilities through the installation of a desk top publishing system. Unfortunately, these changes cannot be made without the support of students, faculty, administration, and alumni. The Concordiensis is more often than not taken for granted. The publication is the primary source of information for the college community and it is this great service which often goes unrecognized. In order to accommodate the journalistic needs of the college community, the Concordiensis needs funds to finance its expansion and improvements. Although the organization does receive a sizeable budget, the initial costs of modernization exceed this allocation. Thus, the Concordiensis has been forced to cut back in other areas of luxury such as free advertising for the campus. The Concordiensis can no longer foot the advertising bills for each and every organization on campus. Rather, the staff has limited this privilege to one page per issue. Instead of the campus community supporting efforts for change, there has been much criticism and friction towards Concordiensis' staff. This scrutiny is ill- founded and unjust. The actions taken by the Business Department of the paper are by no means vindictive. Rather, they have been necessary to ensure the future well-being of the paper and the campus community as a whole. Thus, the Concordiensis is asking for support during its time of transition. While the staff has had no journalistic training nor the benefits of an advisor for guidance~ the paper's improvement will take a great deal of trial and error. However, in the long run, this period of change will enable the Concordiensis to finally achieve recognition worthy of the school it so proudly represents. LETTERS' Of Birds And Bees And Pathetic Thieves To the Editor: Last week, as you all know, was AIDS Awareness Week. Union College sponsors this event and are pioneers among collegiate institutions. We are one of very few that actually dedicate a week of in-depth lectures, conferences and other ·educational devices to teach the community about the dangers of unhealthy sexual activities. Many among us donate our time and effort o provide Union with a way of better understanding the gravity 0f AIDS. Unfortunately, someone or a few people do not respect the efforts of others. At the AIDS table set up at the College Center there was a jar full of condoms which people could pay one dollar and receive a chance at guessing the unknown amount of condoms in the jar. The right guess would have earned the winner a portable CD player. However, this jar was stolen by one of our own. Wedonotknow who stole it. The repercussions of this event are extensive. As it stands now, we lost an expensive ja-r of condoms which was donated by Health Services with the understanding that they would receive them back so they could distribute them free to members of the campus community. More importantly, we lost two days worth of donations which were to be given to the Carver Community Center. And finally we cannot determine Who the proper winner of the CD player is since we did not know the number of condoms. The seriousness of this blatant disregard for people's efforts is disappointing. It does not reflect well upon our community. If the theft of the jar was meant as a prank, then that is pathetic. It is not funny at all. Whoever the criminal or criminals are ought to be proud of themselves for indirectly stealing from a charity. If you really need condoms. the health service GIVES them away, you need not steal them. Perhaps whoever stole them would at least return the jar and if they had any kind of backbone, they would offer to pay for the two days worth of lost donations. There would be no questions asked. Now, the Brothers of Chi Psi who were in charge of the jar feel responsible for the loss and are going to pay for the two days worth of lost donations which is estimated around $50. We are all supposed to be responsible mature adults, it's about time we start acting like it. It is a waste of all of our time that a letter like this would have to be written at all. Regretfully, David Moody for the AIDS Awareness Committee and the Brothers of Chi Psi Reaching Out To Schenectady's Children To the Editor: The Place: Schenectady Reach Out Center The Time: Wednesday, October 30. 7:00 PM. The People: Underprivileged children of Schenectady and members of Union Colleges Greek organizations. The Event: A pre-Halloween party. Members of the Greek community came together to participate in a fun filled philanthropic event. We went to the Schenectady Reach Out Center for two hours of fun and games. Candy and prizes were given to all the children. All of the kids had the opportunity to carve pumpkins, paint faces, shave balloons, and play soccer and basketball. The atmosphere was electric and a good time was had by aJI. The children look up to us as role models and we can learn from them as well. The outing was highly educational. We here at Union are all very fortunate and we need to realize it. many people are not afforded the All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis opportunities that we are and participating in philanthropic events lends us a chance to give something back to the community. Helping others helps ourselves. Dennis Foley who goes to the Reach Out Center every week said \I look forward to doing this, it helps put my life in perspective.\ Many among us do donate a lot of time and effort and deserve commendations. All of us stand to gain from helping others. We would like to thank those who were there last Editors-in-Chief News Editors Associate News Editor Feature Editors International Features Editors Environmental Editor . Commentaries Editors Arts Editor Lifestyles Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editor Associate Sports Editor · Photography Editor Geneml Managez Advertising Editors . Business Manager . Subscription Manager Wednesday, encourage others to engage in similar activities, and look forward to more stimulating events in the future. The Greeks ability to work together further proves that we all have the potential to be good and should provide us with the understanding that we need to continue to work together. Thanks again. Sincerely, Allie Wapner and David Moody Steven Carr, Stephanie Fray Jeff Green, Jordan Lippner Matt Tucker Sari Skolnik, Eric Czech I<ristin Lupoli, Larae Tumidajewicz Sharon Handelsman David Burg, Reeba Manimalethu, Lea Lewis JulieMedow Julie Schlang Diana Brodsky, Nicole Goldin· Dan Strum John Scbachnovsky David Cho, Peter Fischer Wendy Oremhmd Laurel Alessio. Lauren Bycoff, Andrea Rogers Andrew Rosen .. STAFF: Greg Barrett. Ron Birnbaum, Kimberlee Brody. • Daniel J. Bullen, Stephanie Davis, Erica Frank, Matt Fuller~ : Jeff Ooogel~ Jason Habinsky. Hannah: 1. Hazen, Jon Keller., ; LoUise Oster, Rebecca Smackey, Jeremy Sollinger. • , A~VERTISING STA~F: Jennifer Anderson, Nina Clearyi •. Lisa Kapelus, Sltaron Smtth . · . . ·· : CONCOR))lENSIS is published eight Thutsdays a term by · • · the .student .body of Union College, Schenectady, .New York . 12308; Publications Office; S-usquehanna PUblications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563--8339. Subscription rate: $40 pet· year> delivered anywhere in the ... United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. ;Concordie11sis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office telephone (518) 370- 6155, Adverti_sing Telephone (518) 370..6494.

) es If you health ,y, you ~rhaps uld at f they ~.they 1e two 1tions. stions ~rs of rge of )f the 1y for ' lost nated to be ~. it's r like four this l all. lllly' \.IDS littee i Psi n ~rs to ties, 11ore the vork t we 'be ~ us :we ·ork and ody y :r ~ I, z 1 ,, s v 1 ~ 1 1 r r 1 ry., Novemller 7, 1991 LETTER§ arllnrnrbitn.sis Women's Union Seeks Community Participation Alumni Gym Editorial Ridiculous To the Editor: As a campus organization dedicated to the achievement of equality between men and women and to the betterme!lt of relations between men and women, Women's Union seeks to educate all members of the campus community about sexism. We week to promote awareness and action througil all available resourCes, such as: informational posters. films, lectures, discussions, workshops, and courses in the curriculum. We strongly encourage the involvement ef the entire campus community in our activities and look forward to creating alliances with student, faculty, and administrative organizations and with individuals in order to make our efforts more successful. harassment, violence against girlfriends/wives, and pornography. To the Editor: Usually I refrain from responding to editorials and letters printed in Concordiensis. However, ·. your recent editorial entitled \Varsity Teams and Old Dumbbells\ was so egregious and ridiculous that a response is required. To paraphrase that travesty, your editorial reflected incredible thoughtlessness and . was truly unforgivable. The entire crux of your editorial was that those who were involved in planning the · renovation of Alumni Gymnasium failed in their task because they designed the facility only with intercollegiate athletics in ' mind. As a member of the ·planning committee for that renovation I can tell you that exactly the opposite was the case. In its planning that group always considered that the new Alumni Gymnasium was to be first and foremost a recreational faci Jity for the use of all members of the campus community. The only concessions to intercoHegiate athletics were: 1) the facility would need to serve our intercollegiate swimming teams, and 2) the weight rooms were to be for both team members as well as recreational users. Had anyone on your editorial staff bothered to talk with any of us who served on the planning committee you might have learned the above. Since, to the best of my knowledge, no one on your staff was here at Union during the planning phase for the gym renovations, I would have thought that that might have been useful. Finally, you listed five specific complaints to support your criticism. Four of the five have absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the Alumni Gymnasium itself. Those of us involved with planning for the renovations had nothing to do with what equipment ultimately was purchased for usc. Neither did we/do we have anything to do with setting the swimming pool hours or planning non- athletic team programs. All of those areas are the responsibility of the Athletic Department and theoretically all could be quickly remedied. Even the failure of the aerobic room floor to be cushioned cannot be laid at the feet of the planning committee. We stipulated that we wanted such a room in the facility. The architects, etc., are the ones responsible for adequately bringing such plans to fruition. In short, your editorial was a particularly poor piece of journalism. If you do not like the way the College's recreational programs are administered, say so. But, based upon the content of your editorial and my own knowledge of Alumni Gymnasium (I use it oflcn), your attack on those who planned for its rcnov:.Hion \\as totally unfounded. Dw1ght Wolf In our efforts to educate the Union community about the meaning and dangers of sexism, the Women's Union has chosen a theme for this academic school year: \R-E-S- P-E-C-T .. Find out what it means to me.\ It will focus on violence against women, one of the most apparent and most oppressive forms of sexism. We will concentrate on issues of acquaintance rape, sexual assault, sexual/gender ln the hopes of diversifying our membership, we encourage interested women and men to join Women's Union as individuals and as organizations. Our meetings are held in the Women's Center, located at the comer of North Colannade, every 'Thursday at 12:30 P.M. This term we have sponsored a film about pornography, a self- defense workshop, and a visit by Geraldine Ferraro, a candidate for United States Senate. Upcoming events include a \Take Back the Night\ march, a Crosstalks panel about sexual harassment, a campaign about domestic violence as well as a fundraiser for the battered women's shelter in Schenectady, workshops on sexual assault and acquaintance rape, and speakers on various issues. We hope that the entire campus community will participate in these events that work toward the goal of equality between men and women. Myopia My Ass The Women's Union Steering Committee: Mahsa Khanbabai '93 Christa Kelleher '93 Namita Raval '92 WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 13 Turkey Dinner & Speaker Rabbi Bloom Jewish view on abortion KOSHER KITCHEN 6:00 To the Editor: I write with much gratitude in my heart to the writer of the ~ditorial \Hat's Off to Myopia\ that recently appeared in this paper. For never before have I laughed as hard reading this publication, as I did upon Teading this particular article. My initial reaction revolved ;omewhere along the lines of 'who in the hell's butt did this person even pull such a flippant idea from ?!?,\ but perhaps this is a major concern of many of all those people who wear hats. Or perhaps they would be better labeled by the writer of \Hats Off ... \ as: those few of unbending constitution, driven to strive against society's rigid and unjust chains, seeking to be that nail that sticks out above the rest, refusing to be hammered down. Please. A call for nonconfonnity with a focus is a contradiction in and PI itself. But such a call tm:r wearing a hat at Union, whcrt' on any given day of the week as many as half of all students could be seen wearing the always-in-vogue hat, letter/Union sweatshirt, and jeans with those matching holes in the knees ensemble, is just goofy. Jordan Dmitri Matsudaira '93 Sponsored by JSU *Please bring meal cards Volunteers Needed Canal Square 426 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305 Peggy's Presents Wednesday Union College Night DOLLAR DRAFrS (including imports) 10°/o discount on Dinner or Bistro Menu (P.S. Don't forget our Sunday Brunch) To the Editor: You all heard about the tragedy at the University of Iowa but did you hear about the good work students are doing wiLh the handicapped? One on one, they are acting as volunteer teachers and having a ball doing it. Of course such activities are not for everyone- - we all have different interests. In the Capital District we have need for some volunteers to be with handicapped individuals to give the family members some release time. Do you know what it's like to attend to someone twenty· fours a day? Do you know what it's like having to drive someone to therapy almost every day and then to several places each time. Or to drive them to rehabilitation and then have to sit around for a couple of hours because there isn't enough time to do other things I am looking for some volunteers to do some Congratulations to the ·occasional driving, to occasionally be with a disabled person, perhaps for a few hours and sometimes overnight The family can teach you what you need to know and th~ con~cLs I have arc with either stroke victims or h~ad injured individuals. If you think this might be your thing, please contact mc at phone #6340. Thanks, John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry NEW 1991-1992 UNION COLLEGE DANCE TEAM ''The U.C. Michelle Velez ltosalinda Affmito Christine Lenno~ Amy Reynolds Dancers\ Shara Gordon Jiyeon Yi Sandy Pemburn Dara Reynolds Belinda Basaca Come &. watch them at their debut performance during halftime of the UNION VS. HAMILTON HOME FO·OTBALL GAME This Saturday, November 8th at 1:30 p.m. on Bailey Field Come & Find The uuu In UoC. DANCERS!! ~ I

.. - .. 12 @.onrorbirn.sis I:AMPU!i NEW!i November 7, 1991 PER!iDI\IAL§ Jimmy, Turd, \Little Peter\ Have a nice stay on the bench in Montreal? Happy 6 months (l/36)! These ' have been the happiest ever. Sorry I laughed in Sth grade! · Thanks for being everything I've ever wanted. I Love You. We miss your long, blond, silk locks! ! It just isn't the same here without you. Love, BD & Betty Rae h. i Hey You Three Stooges: To My Comrades at the Kremlin: ! I Czech, Rolnick, Nook, Casey, \Goofy\, \Banana Man\ \The Flirt\ when are you going to call us to cook dinnerZ These are the best of times. Let's top off the semester with a bye-bye bash for Johnny Digger and Miller. Steiny, Livingst()n, Vurano, BauviHe, Sam, and coaches Eppy, Solly and Miller: Booze On! -Dave -Harold Union V-Ball: E.L. Get psyched for states! ! Good Luck and don't forget the D- word! Bz, . Keep your head high. . . the So whether its Knightsbridge, . . good times are right around the Hyde Park, Bond Street, i 1 comer. Marble Arch - doesn't really ·: -D.B. #32 - Happy Halloween - Tweedle-dee and Tweedle-dum go trick or treating, no costume necessary! Love, ye who dances naked ... matter, up or down - Circle, Metropolitan, Central, District, East London, even if you're heading up to Comden Town ... Is Love on the Underground! Patty· -Burg The commitments Rule! U • N · I • 0 • N · 'S EEK FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8 2-5 p.m. Dutch Hollow restaw-ant. Native American week. 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Collo- quium: Thomas Ricketts, University of PeiUlSylvania, speaking on \Carnap's Principle of Tolerance, Empiricism, and Conventionalism.\ 3:45p.m. S&E N114. Physics Colloquiwn: Fran Verter, Goddard Space Flight Center, speaking on \Can Galaxy Evolution Be Seen by Counting Their Star-Forming Clouds?\ 5 p.m-1 a.m. College Center 302. Cabaret. 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian film: \Rashomon.\ 8 & 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mounte- banks present \~ight of Scenes.\ 8 & 10 p m. College Center aud. Film: \~a.kt:d Gun:; 1/2.\ SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9 i 3l' t>.m Frank Bailey F1dd. Football vs. Hdm:iton. :: p.m Alumni Gym .. Men's and women's sw1mming vs. Rochester. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Naked Gun 2 1/2.\ 8 & 10 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mountebanks present \Beirut.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 10 7 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum/ College Concert series presents Trio David Shifrin, clarinet; Paul Newbauer, viola; and Margo Garrett, piano. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center Aud. Film: \Naked GW1 2 1/2.\ 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11 6-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student forwn meeting. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre. \Top Girls\ auditions. 8 p.m. Humanities lounge. Poet Louise Gluck will read from her work. Part of the Lamont Visiting Professorship Series on Autobiography. 9 p.m. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. Noon-1:15 p.m. College Center410. Wellness program stress management class with Prof. Rudy Nydegger. 3:45p.m. Bailey Ha11312. Graduate Management Institute Colloquiwn: Gloria Markfield, executive vice president, and Mary Mattis, head of the research division at Catalyst for Women, Inc. in New York City, speaking on \Women in Corporate Manage- ment.\ 8 p.m. College Center aud. Walter C. Baker lecture with John Rockwell, New York Times, speaking on \In-Between Art: Technology, Commerce and the Redefinition of Cultw-e.\ 7 p.m. Alumni Gym. Women's swimrnin!l vs. Skidmore. 7 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Action and Awareness meeting. 7:30p.m. College Center 405. Idol meeting. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre. \Top Girls\ auditions. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13 Noon-4 p.m. Schaffer Library main lobby. Book sale. 12:30-1 :3{) p.m. College Center 302. Gloria Markfield and Mary Mattis, Catalyst for Women, Inc., speaking on \Culrural Changes and Workforce 2000.\ Sponsored by Women's Studies and the President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union. 6:30p.m. College Center 204. Actuary club. 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Recycling committee mct:ting. 7:30p.m College Center 406. Spanish film: \The Summer of Miss Forbes.\ 8 p.m.& I (I p.m. Collt.:ge Center aud. Film: \The Wall.\ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14 Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-2 p.m. College Center 204. Union College investment club meeting. 4:30p.m. College Center 404. Bible study. 8:02p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre. Proctor's Too. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Collo- quiwn: Paul Genest, Union College, speaking on .. Erotic Stricrure and License in Aeschines.\ 3:45p.m. S & E Nl14. Physics Colloquilun: Javier Estrada, Saint Lawrence University. speaking on \Partial Substitution of Cop]Jer in one-two-three Superconductors.\ 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Harvard. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Ohayo.\ 8 p.m. & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Boyz N The Hood.\ SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16 9 a.m. Saratoga State Park. Union hosts men's and women's cross country NCAA qualifier. 1:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Football vs. Rochester. 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Brown. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \:Boyz N The Hood.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Boyz N The Hood.\ Dear Jen: Shulk & Toker, Sorry it took so long - Don't think we forgot about you - we didn't know you got this. We miss you!! Why stay in Paris for another 49 days when you could come back to Schenectady now! You are missing out on all of the finer things in life like me\ - ' .. Love,L & M Miss you! Love, Jordan Rubes® By· Leigh Rubin 11-13 A soci~l outcast among the rest of the tribe, Nanook refused to go with the floe. -- --- Creators SyndlCate. Inc ()1991 LBlgh Rub'\' To almost no one's surprise, Edgar's mlme·ventriloQuist act failed miserably. If-IS \It's no wonder you've been feeling light-headed, Mr. Johnson. You're working much too hard. I want you to go home and get some rest before you burn out.\ rJ l,j4:- AWFUL... FiRST ALL MY H:.A1{·1!:.Rs WERE PLLICK[D .. Tr!EN I Wt6 DIPPED IN A OOWL r:Jr FlOl)R,EGGS AND WATE.R ... &lT THEWDRST9\Rr v,d~~.BEING 5'RiNl<l.£D wm:.1· c.'-\\vEN Dlrn:RENI HE'.R&S AND 5\'ICE.S. At the battered chicken support group. 11-!6 I ! i t r I f' I l l I i ~. 1 I ·j

CAMPUS I\IEW§ <!t.onr.orbirnst.s 13 PER!iD'I\IAL!i Miller.. For a guy with no licence, no job, and no chance of finishing his thesis, you've proven to yourseLf that where there's a will there's a way. -Faceplant, Harry, the Docror, Murray Schablotnick and the Invisible Man. Johnny Jobhunt, I think I'm In Love. We might be telling those stories sooner than expected. -Your Partner In Crime. To the \Two SDT's at AD\ You Guys made my night. NO'f! ToMyRoad- Which Road was Taken? -\ The Merge\ Patty-Cakes, Same time next week, Same channel, Same couch. -Potato- Sari & Cheri- I'm sorry I ever doubted you. It was a great night .... (B - - - -!) -Wendy To 1045 (Upstairs & Down) Good Luck on Exams! It's been a greatterml Shirley & Tony, You have just won a year supply of French fries. -Mike's Dogs To the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta, Thank you for your efforts towards a Halloween party. Both the Bigs and Littles were scared stiff. -Union College BB/BS Harry \Back in Action\ Houdini, It's not genetics or luck, it's gotta be the shoes! The notorious branch is broken, Lady Luck is on your side -- soon I'll be calling you Big Epesano. The Doctor. Thomas, Warde, Scullion, I don't care if it's burth, birth, or berth. It's still a bid into the NCAA. AdamE. Rem- Happy Birthday! I Miss You! -Wendy Jen & Eric G. Shalom! It was great talking to you guys! I Miss You Both! -Wendy How About Fish Tonite? -\Chip\ CLA!i!iiFIED!i Part- Time Babysitter for, Tuesdays & Thursdays from 2 r PM to 6 PM, 3 children, 1 infant, 2 school-age, location Lenox Road. Please contact : Kathy @393-6978. 1 Mullen Moving & Storage looking for students to work on a part-time basis weekdays, weekends, Friday nights, Saturdays and sometimes Sundays. Please contact 382-1524 ask for Rick Stoddard or Penny Kissinger. This is year round work. Word Processing term papers for further information, please contact Meg @370-5352. Typing - My Rotterdam home. $2.50/pg. Epson P.C. 355-7892. , Apartment • Van Vrankcn Ave., 1 block from College. Living room, 1 bedroom, sit-in kitchen. 0 ff-street parking. $335/month plus utilities. Security. Please call 372-1015 for further information. Take Your Break in Great Britain! Exchange vacations arranged between students in England and America. Discount air fare available. Contact STUDENTS ABROAD, LTD., P. 0. Box 944, Orangevale, CA 95662. Tel: (800) 428-8538. Fax: (916) 635-1165. Free Travel, Cash, and Excellent Business Experie11ce! ! Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote the country's most successful Spring Break tours. Call Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013. collegiate crossword ACROSS 37 Type of music 38 Doesn't eat 10 Regretful one 11 Irving and Vanderbilt ©Edward Julius MISTER BOFFO by Joe Martin 1 Movie mogul 39 ·The Sunflower State Marcus ---- 40 Part of APB, to 5 Heroic tale police 9 Song syllable 41 All-too common 12 The state of being excuse (2 wds.) undama9ed 43 Short opera solo 15 Pal 47 Grotto 16 Its capital is 48 Part of the hand Dacca 50 Made do 17 Nobel chemist 51 Prevents 18 The art of putting 52 ---- Alte on plays 53 U.S. caricaturist 19 Pearson a~d Maddox 54 Fann storage place 21 - Vegas 22 Drink to excess 23 Horatio - DOWN 13 Acquit 14 \The Lord is My .. 15 Veal - 20 Extends across 22 Turkic tribesmen 23 Mr. Guinness 24 Spanish for wolf 25 Retrace (3 wds.) 26 Disproof 28 Ends. as a broadcast (2 wds.) 29 Like Felix Unger 30 Corn quantity 32 Hurt or cheated 26 \Sisti~e Madonna\ 1 Conservatives' 35 Glide~ painter 27 Screen~riter Anita 28 Chain style 31 Decline 32 Devices for re- fining flour 33 Teachers organi- zation 34 Shore protectors (2 wds.) 36 Machine part foes, for short 36 Lead minerals 2 Go - length 38 Coquette (ramble) 40 Take ---- (pause) 3 Famous volcano 41 Finis~ed a cake 4 Moves jerkily 42 Football trick 5 Hollywood populace 43 \Rock of ----• 6 Golfer North or Bean 44 Anklebones 7 ••sally\ 45 Work \<lith soi 1 8 - as an ee 1 46 Too 9 Size of some 49 New DE a 1- or gun want-ads (2 wds.) organization WHAT: SEXUAL COMMUNICATIONS WORKSHOP and such topics as Sexual Harassment and Date Rape WHEN: November 12 Tuesday 8:00pm WHERE: In the Old Chapel *Sponsored by the brothers of Sigma Chi and the Peer Facilitators

The WRUC Record Review (more fun than sexual harassment) by Matt Fuller Concordiensis Staff The Orb - The Orb's Adventures .•. (Mercury): Imagine a rainy Sunday night You're cuddled up on the couch, with ali of the lights dimmed. A cool breeze is blowing through the open window. There is a felling of heavy sedation as you balance on the line between sleep and consciousness. Slowly you drift off, approaching the perpetual dawn . . . Thanks to the Orb. The Orb is the latest of a new type of \music.\ I use the quotes because many will argue that this is not music, but rather a mishmash of sound. I'll agree with that. The Orb combines laid back acid jazz with a slowed down (very slowed) funk to keep it interesting. The result is one of the best works I've heard since Enigma broke this genre open with their debut album. If you're looking for something to make you move, try again next week. This _album is all about relaxation. The first track, \Little Fluffy Clouds\ (Hey, I didn't pick the names, okay?) starts this off right. In what I think is the only real \message\ on the album, the Orb asks \what were thS!-'skies like when you were young?\ Whether this is a warning to us about pollution or even a serious question, it gives you something to ponder while listening to the hypnotic music. If only life were this relaxing all the time ... The current single, \Perpetual Dawn,\ is about as uplifling as this group can get. It's a great song which brings back memories of De La Soul and parallels current groups such as Black Sheep. Something about this group just rubs you the right way. It's the type of music which · reminds you that even when' you're down lower than you've · ever been, there's always hope. Just forget your worries. Realize that life is too short to constantly fret. Opportunities come and go, and there will always be other chances. Undoubtedly thoughts to live by. Amen. If you're looking for some real \aJternative\ music - meaning music that you'll have to search for to find - give the Orb a spin. It's seventy minutes (more if you get the full double album) of pure spiritual bliss. I give it five slurpees (out of five). ART!i & EI\ITERT AII\IMEI\IT DISEASE HITS THE NOTT by Julie Medow Arts Editor lingerie - I cannot with a clean conscience quote them directly, but you probably get the idea of what makes theater \great\ for a Union College male. O.K., I'll admit that there were moments of visual interest for female audience members as weH, but I think it's now time to move on!. .. ). Basically, Beirut's attraction is much more than skin deep. I went to see Beirut, the Mountebanks production now playing in its second week in the Nott, in order to review it and write about it for Concordy. I went to see it in order to critique it, weed out what is good and what is bad, and send a message to you, my faithful readers, as to whether or not it is worth the three bucks it costs for a ticket. The play, for those of you who have not yet heard .about it, is a love story set in a nightmare atmosphere. Toxch, played wonderfully by Josh Fausty, has contracted a deadly disease which plagues the United States. He is quarantined in New YorkCity's East Village, an area which, because of its barren, isolated, and heavily guarded natUie, is appropriately deemed Beirut. Torch's girlfriend Blue (portrayed by Sara Teasdale, However, my mission is not what it was. I now sit here in front of my computer in order to beg you, implore you, urge you, and practically demand you to witness Beirut. The guys sitting near me last Friday night would agree with this statement, but for decidedly different reasons (namely, lots of skin and blue t/OK05COPE5 /?JY LOLLI LIBRA: SCORPIO: Things have been working out very well, but remember to exercise your right to take control of the situation. Don't sweat it. Lately you've been depressed about your social liie. Things can only get better so keep your head up ar1d you'll make it through difficult times. SAGITTARIUS: You can do well dealing with large organizations. Intuition can help planning future goals. CAPRICORN: AQUARIUS: PISCES: ARIES: TAURUS: GEMINI: CANCER: LEO: VIRGO: This is a good time for friends. Even some old, strong friendships are revived. Just be careful not to hurt anyone close to you. Career affairs will start to kick in. Your intelligence, efficiency and organizational skills will further your success if you can take advantage of it. Long distance travel can be useful and interesting now. You may meet lots of new people. Towards the end of the term you tend to get down and get upset with the person you love. Stop looking too far into things, and cheer upfl Your wit, intellect and humor can attract those that you may be interested in. Good communications is a key factor. Daily activities seem more challenging than usual. Don't stress, take it all one step at a time. You may feel sometimes suffocated and need to get away. Don't shut out the people who really care about you. They will be there when you need them. You have it in your nature to settle disputes easily. People will turn to you for help. Try to be understanding. You excel in cemmunicating through wrfting. Use your talent to help someone you care about. - WEEKEND MOVIE: Naked Gun 2 1/2 FRI. & SAT. 8 and 10 Sun.7,9, 11 Same place as always •. ~· who also makes an exceUent performance) is not infected, but wants to be with Torch .regaTdless. She sneaks into Beirut and finds him, and the two deal with the clloices (however awful they may be) d1at lay before them. This disease resembles AIDS but is much more contagious; because it is transmittable through sweat and spit, people are forbidden to kiss each other, a11d even dance together. Those with the disease wear a modem d2y scarlet letter (a blue \P\ for pesitive) on their butt, which is picked up by cameras in public places as well as in private homes (Big Brother IS watching you!). Condoms are an ineffective means of protection, so sex, ironically, is only allowed if you already have the illness. Essentially, the w<Drld is turned upside down and inside out in Alan Bowne's .B e i rut. But because the characters still resemble what you and I know, the situation tb.e playwright has created for liorch and Blue is incredibly frightening for us to watch. Can love conquer all? In a place .where passion is forbidden, where physical love is stamped out and emotional attachment smothered by the same engulfing smoke? Is there .a .difference between having a healthy body and not being able to use it, and being held JJrisoner by your sickness yet allowed to be physically free? What is it that holds individuals together in the face of impending doom? Am I being overly dramatic? Find Ollt this weekend, when you go to see Beirut ... The place where \!life and death ... are joined at the hip.\ WOMEN WANTED for th~ Pepartme~tt or th~ Arts W:i:u.ter Proou,~tion of (:;aryl ·Churchllns ''TOP. :GIRLS ·AUDITIONS.: Monday .&. Tuesd<ty;.N~v. llth .& l~th · .. startln;g at -8:0.0 PM\ in th~ · Nott. Scripts are ava#cible in. t~ Gr~en .~Raom 'Qf. th(!. Nott . . ·· and ili the :Studqnt ActivUies 0/ftt!e, · ·. . ' .. There . are 'roles . for: · · .. 'Young · lqoki[lg wo~en Older · wom~n Asia.~ women ·. Auic<~.u-Ameiic~n women . Hispa!li.C wom~n · Caucasian· women . · flaculty w<!.men · Student. women Schene¢tady Women .1'\lum:ua· worn~n -V\l()Tld.:.traveLed • womeJ;~. Stay,at·home · women . Experienced . ~()lileJt . . Inexperhmted . wom~:n Nasty · women · Happy womell Friendly women Sa<l wQmen· iUased wtnnell Big women Stllart women . Skinny wome11 Nice women Opinionated women .Tired women . Little women (We are particularly seeking actLJrtJ to play. \Lady Nijo''. who is · Japanese .&: \Kit\ who ts 12 ij~ars old. Can you kelp us?) Join us ... Campus Paperback Bestsellers 1. Four Past Midnight, by StephenKing.(SigneL $6.99.) Late:ni9.ht hours filled with horro~ and tar~----· 2. Scientific Progress Goes \Boink \by Bill Watterson. .J~n_t!r~ws & McMeel, $7.95.) Latest ~~vir> !_!!ob~! cartoon~ . 3. Seven Habits of Highly Effective Foople, by Steven R. Covey . . JFire!;i~:_~~5J ~uid(Jto_eersonalfuifliMnt__ _ _ 4. The Burden of Proof, by Scott Torow. [1'1/amer, $5.95.) A lawyer tries to solve the mysteryofhiswile's death. 5. You .Just Don~t Understand, by DEborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $1 0 00) How men and _worn en can uncferstand eac~ oth~ -~~er. 6. Memcries of Midnight, by Sidney Sheldon. (Warner, $5.99.) Vengelul Gre~~ tycQ()~ h~unts the desliryof a~ A:meric~ wo~an 7. The Women in his Life, by Barbara Taylor Bradford.(Ballantine, :s5·9~.) Sto.2' of_a_C(Jf!>O'ale r~lder!ld tile I'/O_m_e.n wh~ love him. B. TheJov Luck Club, by Amy Tan (lvy,$5.95.) Destinies ofChrnese .. _irnrrli~ant warne~ Bf1d the~ (;_hin~se-Anlerican dau!Jhters _ . _ _ 9, The Education of Little Tree, by Forrest Carter.(Univ. of NewMexlc~,_$1 O:~L Growjng u.~: 1\'_ith ~e Chf!rotc.ee way of lffe. 10. 101 Uses for a Dead Cat, by SimonBond. (Clarkson N. Potter, $5~001_ Cartoons. New G Recqmrnended The Witching Hour, by Anne Rice [Ballanhne. $t 4 00.) Grand saga as mUch about love as alchemy, famitx_secrets as the occult Haroun and the Sea of Stories, by Salman Aushd!e. (Penguin, $695:) Haroun. a 12-year-old biy sets out on an adventure to rescue hrs father.and return to him the·pre~ious gift of gab . --~- ~ - -- . . - ... ~ - --- - - Home Bef!)re Dark; by Susan Cheever . .(Ban1am, $10.00.) Moving chronicle of John·Cheever's success and failures as a son, brother. husband, and father. . ....

7, 1991 LIFE!iTYLE!i <!Lnnrorbirnstz 1s A Few Aspects Of The Homosexual/Lesbian Lifestyle by Kenneth PereJ Contributing Writer One of the beneficial consequences of AIDS Awareness week was a broad,ened education and awareness of Homosexuality and Lesbianism. For the majority of people, Homosexuals and Lesbians are perceived as a group of sexually deviant people; misguided in their beliefs, and rightly deserving nothing less than AIDS. KopefuUy, after this past week's activities, people will finally realize that Lesbians and Homosexuals are not unlike any other minority group. They are vainly searching for the acceptance and equality that an Jleople deserve. \If God wanted Homosexuals and Lesbians t<> exist together with normal Heterosexuals, why did he create AIDS? This disease is meant to punish those who practice deviant sexual behavior, and reinforce the importance of normalcy into the average, heterosexual person.\ Most people would not have the courage, or the full conviction to state the above; but at some level, they will either agree with it, or make jokes to its effect. There is little difference in implication between the above quotation, and the mid-twentieth century idiom stating that if God wanted Whites and Blacks to be equal, why did he create slavery and Jim Crow? Terming Homosexuals and Lesbians a minority group, Barbara Phillips, a lesbian for the last ten to twelve years, The homosexual and lesbian ,minority faces an obstacle that no other minority group faces; :the ramifications of discovery. paints a vivid portrait of what being Gay in America entails, yesterday, today, and tomor- row. She stated that, as with any minority group, as long as the group in question does its thing in tile background; as long as the group is uninteJested in being treated equal, and only wants to exist in a peaceful state on the bottom, or tile outskirts of society, then they are thoroughly accepted. It is only when these minority groups want the same rights and protection that the majority possesses does the back lash of violence begin. In the 1920's and 1930's, being an active Bisexual, Homosexual, or Lesbian was perfectly acceptable as long as no demands were placed upon the majority of Heterosexuals. These so-called deviant people could only find peace and safety by attending back alley bars in secluded sections of town. \Like any minority group, as long as they were discreet, there was no problem. As long as they did not want to teach our- children, or ,treat us as doctors, they were acceptable.\ It was only when they started to ask for the same rights afforded to others did the hatred truly begin. During the post war years, as all minority groups were seeking equal protection and rights under the laws, the abuse Homosexuals and Lesbians took started to escalate. As Gay men and women made their struggle for equality and acceptance more public. the police actively, and brutally participated in disrupting their activities. With alarming frequency, on and off duty \cops went into Gay bars and beat the sh--t out of everyone,\ male or female. Due to this abuse, especially involving Lesbians, the concept of Butch Dykes and role playing developed. For personal safety, one partner in a Lesbian pair would don a fake mustache and wear a suit. The other would look as feminine as possible. The roles were not an outward projection of \who would be on top,\ but rather an ad hoc response to the developing Homophobia. Even today, in an environment that appears more accepting on the surface, \men [Homosexuals] get it worse than woman. [I] would not go walking around a city holding hands with my girlfriend because it would not be safe. We must go into the closet sometimes\ for our own safety. The struggle for acceptance continues. The Homosexual and Lesbian minority faces an obstacle that no other minority group faces; the ramifications of discovery. If a Black were to apply for an apartment, his or her minority status is evident, \Fear of minorities is just ignorance about the group. The people who don't like gay people don't know any gay people.\ 'but for Gays it is not always so. In most instances, once those people who are involved on a daily basis discover their colleagues are Gays, the ramifications are worse. \Fear of minorities is just ignorance about the group. The people who don't like Gay people don't know any Gay people.\ If fhey do know Gay people , they are just unaware they are Gay. Even today. a large majority of Gay people will never \come out\ to those around them. The majority of Americans, due to lack of education, and compounded by the fear and hatred of AIDS, personally blame Gays for being different. They refuse to allow Homosexuals and Lesbians to prove, (although no one should ever have to), that they are just as good, fair, compassionate, and human. Unfortunately, \the Gay rights movement was set back twenty years due to the AIDS scare.\ The only solution to both AIDS and the acceptance of Homosexuals into American society is the education of teenagers. \Until it [AIDS] hit heterosexuals, the government did not take it seriously.\ Now that even heterosexuals arc involved. all the medical research can never prove to be as effective as education and a willingness to realize that the Gay minority, as with any minority group, docs not want to be different. They just want equal treatment and intelligent understmld.lng. Haunted Questions Did You Know ... by Betsy Rothstein Contributirtg Writer Yon have just gotten back after a vacation and suddenly you hear this question echoing across campus and you cringe at the sound ofthe words. How was your break? How was your break? How How How. Was Was Was, Your Your Your, Break Break Break? ? ? Do people lack originality at Union College or is it an unwritten law that at the beginning of each term we feel we must invade one another with this annoying, overused question. Sometimes I think people ask the question involuntarily, out of habit. There must be s<>me sort of demonic force within each of us encouraging us to ask this question over and over again to every human being alive. You have just gotten back to school after a brealc; whether it is from Summer Vacation, Christmas Vacation or Spring Break it makes little difference. You notice a pack of people bounding across campus heading right at you! Your heart speeds up and you are sort of afraid. Their faces seem familiar but you never know. in Schenectady. You think about calling Security and then you think again. You grab your mace, your Swiss army knife and your machine gun and prepare for the worst. Gradually their faces come into focus and you realize you actually know these deranged people as your friends. Before you realize what is happening they are bombarding you with questions; drilling you in fact. These questions could even- tually haunt you if you let them. How was your summer\ What did you do? Was it fun? How was your break? Was it fun? How was your Spring break? ,What did you do? Wbere did you go? Was it fun? Why are you soooo tan? At the beginning of each term these questions fly through Union College. After awhile they are so annoying and no one wants to hear them anymore. After fourteen million times of explaining your summer the truth seems so ridiculous and boring it is almost easier to lie. \For my summer I robbed a liquor store and had an internship in jail just to see what it was like. Such a great experience!\ Everyone feels responsible to ask these questions and the fact of the matter is that a distant acquaintance does not really care about your break and simply says it out of habit. \How was your break?\ is a question you cannot avoid no matter how hard you might try. You could probably give any response to this question and it would not phase the person. \How was y<>ur break?\ you are asked. ''I fell off a mountain and was attacked by a pack of wild dogs.\ you reply. \But was it fun?\ they ask you. Obviously the person did not hear a word you were saying. To show how out of control these pointless questions get I have devised a list of people's answers to this heart wrenching, profound question followed by explanations of what these answers really mean. How Was Your Break? The Answer: \It was relaxing.\ What It Really Means: He/She slept until noon everyday, rarely showered, sat in front of the T.V. and mastered the art of using a remote control. \Good. How was yours?\ only the passage of time can reduce the level of alcohol in the blood. coffee, exercise, or a cold shower will not make a person sober. 2 out of 5 Americans will be involved in an alcohol-related crash in their lifetime. 40% of all highway fatalities are alcohol related. driving ability is impaired at a blood alcohol level of . 05% which is half the legal limit to be considered intoxicated (.10%). a drink equals 1 Y2 ozs. (86 proof) liquor, or 12 ozs. beer, or 6 ozs. table wine. it takes about one hour for the body to \burn-off'' one drink This is a vague response and could indicate the person is hiding something. Pester them 1 for infonnation and continue to .----------------------- ask them how their break was every time you see them. Encourage others to do the same. \Too short! I wish it was -longer?\ After six weeks at home this is a blatant lie. \I doll 't want to talk about it.\ He/She argued with their parents ... A LOT. \Great!\ the person answers through cleoched teeth and a fake smile. He/She bas answered this question one thousand times and wants to punch you .... HARD. y N -Going away winter term? DO -Interested In being on the Orientation Committee*? y N DD If you answered \yes\ to two or more of these questions, pick up an O.C. application from Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office (C.C. 306) *Please note this is the Orientation Committee, not Orientation Advisors. OA's can apply in winter and spring tenns.

16 ar.~r.nrvrbi.rttsis CAMPU!i BU·LLETII\I BOARD Mountebanks Presents: A STAGE DOOR Production of Che 1mprov Ga.me Show FRI.DAY, NOVEMBER 8 at 8 & lO.pm CC302 Anyone interested in volunteering (one or more hours every week) at the. Battered Women's Shelter in Schenectady can call Christa or Mahsa at 386-4439· Schaffer Library Book Sale FALLTERM WINTERTERM SPRINGTERM September25 January 14 April 8 October 16 February 11 April29 November 13 Marcli3 May 27 The sale will be held from 12:00-4:00 pm in the main lebby. ATTENTION!! I! THESE ARE THE FINAL TWO DAYS TO RETURN/EXCHANGE YOUR DANA CARVEY TICKETS; THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1991 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1991 TIME: 10 AM - 2 PM WHRERE: 1ST FLOOR COLLEGE CENTER ALL TICKETS MUST BE TURNED IN Teach for America will hold a group information session Thursday, November 14, from 4:00-5:30 pm in the Career Development Center, Third Floor, Old Chapel. ATTENTION RU·GBY PLAYERS George Mason University will hold a group information session Friday, November 8, at 3~00 pm. There wi.ll be an important meeting for all current rugby players TODAY at 5:00. The meeting concerns elections of new officers and Rugby Gods. Please stop by the CDC and sign up to speak with the representative about their program. Be there at 5 :00 in the Rugby Room, Humanities; TODAY! Spread the word & be there! f£X~'ESS £119\(C:J{ PIC'l(CUP BEAT THE UNES, GRAB A BAG LUNCH AND GO OLD CHAPEL LOBBY MONDAY - WEDNESDAY - FRIDAY 11:45 - 1:00PM MEAL CARD HOLDERS ONLY UNION COLLEGE THEATRE PRESENTS BEIRUT A PLAY ABOUT LOVE IN THE PLAGUE YEARS 0Cf.31. NOV.1-2.6-9 AI 8:00PM NOV.3 AT 2:00PM NOIT MEMORIAL THEATER 1961 Celebrating Thirty Years 1991 URFC Do you care about issues affecting women both on and off campus??? Come to a W'lmen's Union meeting any Thursday at 12:30. Our meetings are held at the Women's Center (Located at the corner of North College) !NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! WHATEVER THE BEASQtl WHATEVER THE SEASON ~~~.n ~ ~ ~ :OODO wcx- \CW. _.. I .. 'lilT wnL ..,._ - ...,_r TEI.E~llCNSGIFT CEIITII'ICAUS A.Re '11E JI'IIU'ECT Gli'T AI. 'I'EANA.TM; LOUISE GLUCK TO READ AT UNION Poet Louise Gluck will read from her work at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, November 11, on the Union College Campus. Louise Gluck is the author of several books of poetry, in\cluding 'The House on the Marshland. Descending Figure. The Triumph of Achilles and Ararat. She teaches at Williams College. The reading is sponsored by the Department of English of Union College as part of the this year's lamont Visiting Professorship Series in Autobiography. The reading is free and open to the public, and will be held in the Humanities 2nd Floor Lounge. ~ fL #J~@((!flf. 0 (N]i! tE ~J!((JJ L fL ~ ~ 0 ~@(Nfi!(E ANY STUDENT INTERESTED IN THIS CONTEST SHOULD SUBMIT THREE POEMS TO PROP. JORDAN SMITH BY NOVEMBER 22, 1991 (LAST DAY OF CLASSES) FIBST FHI:ZE: $2DD SEI:IlnD PRIZE: $100 November 7, 1991 ATTENTION FIRST YEAR STUDENTS We are currently seeking . applicants for the CHESTER ARTHUR HOUSE PROGRAM. Anyone interested can obtain an application at The Residence Life Office (CC40S}. You need to return y~ur application to Residence Life Office by 4 pm, Friday, November 15. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS R R\j ~ .. - rnn REMEMBER: Payment or yo11r Union College Telephone bill is <:Sue in rull.on the 1st or the month following receipt or the bill. Unpaid telephone charges are dealt with by the Accounting om~ under existing .policies regarding student r.nancial' responsibilities and obligations. Fai!l;l[~ lg gil)! ~gU[ ~ls:Rbgm: ~ill ~b~o sha: ·wax a:~1111 io:lnss c! IUi~il~zcs io U:iiDI the ~gU~a~·s Jaoa·d.isliln~c: ~ai~ ioabillts!lQ Dt~~l!:cislc[ oc na~~i~ Er.adc:~l tUIDS:t:[iQlS FROM: 1/YTDO 10 TBX STUJ)ENT POLICY AND PllOCEIJI7RES MA!IU/llt'PG. 7 Baker Lecture Tue., Nov.12 8pm CCAud JOHN ROCKWElL Music Critic MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL CHICAGO BEARS . AT MINNESOTA VIKINGS MOKDAY. NOV. ll TH AT 9 PM ON TilE !!!,Q SCREEN IN cc 302 FREE :vnJNCHIES SERVED!! ijltniott Collegr $atull!' (!Colloquium William Zwicker, Professor and Chair, Department of Mathematics POWER, AND WHAT MATHEMATICS DO Tuesday, November 19, 1991 at 4;30 pm College Center Auditorium Coffee & Tea at 4:00 pm ALL ARE WELCOMED

November 7, 1991 Union's Volleyball Team Selected To State Tourney Courtesy of Sports l nformation The women's volleyball team at Union College has been seeded 16th in the 16- team field of the New York State Women's Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament which will be held this weekend at Stony Brook College. The 20-15 Dutchwomen will compete in Pool Play Saturday at 11 a.m. against top seeded RIT, No. 8 seeded Rochester, and No. 9 Albany. The top two teams in each of the four pools will compete in the championship round Sunday with the bottom two of each pool participating in the consolation round. Th.e championship match is set for 5:30 on Sunday with the consolation championship match scheduled for 2:45. This marks the second time in the last three years that Union has been invited to compete in the state event. In 1989 the Dutchwomen finished ninth after entering the tournament ranked 13th. Union finished with an overall record of 27-16, setting a school record for wins in a season. It is just the fourth time since volleyball became a varsity sport in 1975 that the Dutch women have been invited to the stat-e event. Women's Soccer Looks To ECAC's Continued from page 19 though it could not take advantage of breakaways. While it had been believed that a loss versus St. Lawrence would have put Union in an even lower ECAC position, a win would have helped, and winS' versus both teains would have kept Union in the NCAAs. With Union nationally ranked tenth in the northeast region, the squad anticipates Clarkson next and hopefully Geneseo, which has a 12-5-1 record and got a first round bye along with Hartwick. Though little is known about Clarkson, Union has defeated other teams with better records than Clarkson (7-7-1) and has gone through one tourney already, but will continue to prepare to play better teams than itself despite a team's lower rank. Though it doesn't allow Union to rest, this game gives it another team to play before Geneseo and the chance to show that it belonged in the State Tourney,. The squad is not very hurt physically, is prepared mentally, and is accustomed to individual positions. Better yet, Union has a 9-0-1 home record, another psychological ·motivator. Beating several good teams on the schedule has allowed Union to set its sights farther .than the initial 500 record. There's great excitement in being seeded in the states and getting an ECAC northeast bid in the same year. This is indeed a great payoff for a winning season. Hopefully the team can continue to extend the advantage. SPORTS TRIVIA Qloncordiensis ~ports Question of the Week: Who won the World Series MVP in 1983? Winner receives a small cheese pizza from Domino·s. Send entires to Box# 1847 no later than Monday. · Random draw of winning entries. Last Week's Answer: Ken Dryden !iPDRT!i Men's X-C Strides Into The NCAA's by Greg Barrett Concordiensis Staff This past weekend the Men's · Cross-Country team hosted the State Meet at Saratoga. Sixteen teams were in attendance including the University of Rochester which is ranked number one in the nation. James Dunlop .of Rochester and Todd Orvis of Albany, both of whom are nationally ranked, provided awesome competition that thrilled the many - spectators in attendance. The Dutchmen fared reasonably welL Greg Barrett was the first harrier to cross the line with a new course PR and a seasonal best. His 28:40.7 scored him a seventieth place finish. Doug Winship was not far behind crossing seventy- fourth in 28:52.0 Ed \GIMME SOME SUGAR!\ Dorsey was third for the Dutchmen with a 29:39.4. This won hjm an eighty-fourth place finish. Marc \Socks\ Sheridan was l02nd in 31:30 followed by Rich \Gumby\ Zembek in 31:55.8 for a 1 05th place finish. Rounding out the team were Josh \Inspector 12\ Haines and Pete Pror.zel in 3 2: 2 7. 3 and 341: 4 6. 5 respectively. Both Protzel and Hetines scored big with new PR's. 1'hese \mighty sevell\ will co11tinue on to the NCAA Re:gional qualifier on. Nl;)11ember 16. Union will again be the host for the competition at Saratoga State Park. Over twenty teams arc sdteduled to compete from the New England area and the cornpctition will be fierce. Be sure to come out and cheer for yollr favorite Dutchmen on No~ember 16 at high nocrnl Captain Rick Clifford Dutchmen Leads Skating Continued from page 20 chances were limited to earlier in the game. Merrimack played a more balanced game scoring three goals in each period while Union's offensive output was limited to the second period. It was interesting to see how various players were going to react to the different style of play. Senior Dalton Menhall continued his ever aggressive play while notching a goal. Rick Clifford Senior Scott Whitney is considered to be Union\s top defensive player. In additi()n to his strong defensive skills. Wllitney has the ability to tum in transition to offense. as pro'Ven by his three assists collected in the season opener. Railton and Ferrero both h.ave a nose for the net as they are members of Union's top line. Raiiton's two goals and Ferrero's goal and two as.sists lead Union's offense. Freshman linemate Chris Albert adcled two assists in his first game in a Dutchman uniform. Freshman Goalie Luigi Vi II a had .a strong showing in the pipes. Despite the nine g()als (one being an empty netter), Villa came up with some big saves: as he faced 42 sholS. It was a good showing for most players as the Skat:ing Dutcllrnen got their feet wet. The team fared well, but there is a l()ng schedule ahead and Coacil Bruce Delventhal is looki11g for some players. to rise u:p and lead the team. 'The next game is this Friday, away in Burlington against the University of Vennont. /) .·· o···rt····· ····· ··. ,'p ... :····· .. , ... s.· -~ _.

1s @nnrorntrtt.sis Dutchmen Tie College Record With 57-7 Win Over Gettysburg by Joltn Schachnovsky Associate Sports Editor With Sports Information Boasting the nation's third- longest current win streak, the Union College football team won its 15th consecutive game by pounding host Gettysbwg, 57-7, last Saturday. The win tied the all-time Garnet record for consecutive victories while improving the Garnet's 1991 record to 7-0. The first time the Dutchmen won 15 in a row came when a freshman quarterback by the name of Brett Russ piloted the team to wins in the final two games of 1988. The then- sophomore quarterback helped the team win their first 13 games of the 1989 campaign before losing to Dayton, 17-7, in the 1989 Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. Union dropped a 27-20 decision at Rochester in the third game of the 1990 season (a loss that ultimately kept them from competing in the NCAA Tournament), but have not lost since (including a 33-19 win at Plymouth State in the ECAC North title game that ended the 1990 campaign). Division III Allegheny (22) and Division IAA Holy Cross (17) rank as the nation's top two current win streaks. Since Russ took over the starting quarterback duties in the third game of his freshman year, the Dutchmen own a record of 33-4. Union remained in fourth place in last week's NCAA Division III Eastern poll behind Ithaca. Glassboro and Cortland. They were in third in the Lambert Poll behind Allegheny and Lycoming. Despite being the only undefeated team in Upstate New York, Union dropped : from second lst week to third · this week with three first place votes and 58 points. Ithaca. remained in first place 10 place votes and 74 points while Cortland moved from third into second with three first place votes and 60 points. Buffalo State moved into fourth with 28 points while Rochester fell to fifth with 15 points. The Dutchmen lead the 16 Upstate teams in scoring offense (47.9), rushing offense (197.9), offensive average (506.4), and defensive average (229.3). Senior tailback Vlad Telemaque is second in rushing with his 125.6 average and is third in scoring with his 9.4 average. Senior punter Mike Richardson leads the region in punting with his 39-yard average. Offensively Union's numbers are gaudy. Defensively the numbers are stingy. Through seven weeks the Dutchmen's offense is averaging 298.4 yards on the ground with 30 touchdowns and 208.0 yards in the air with 11 scores. Overall, the Gamet is moving lhe ball at a 506.4 average and scoring 47.9 points a game. Defensively, the Dutchmen Defenders are surrendering 91.4 yards and five scores on the ground and 137.8 yards and five scores in the air. Union has picked off nine passes and recovered 16 fumbles. Last week against Gettysburg Union broke out to a 20-7 halftime lead before scoring on its first four possessions of the second half (the 1st possession ended on the Bullet four as time expired). Russ completed 14 of 22 passes for 188 yards and a touchdown before leaving the game in the third quarter. The running game, led by senior tailbacks Alex. Felipe-121 yards and touchdowns of one and 41 yards-and Telemaque (75 yards on 12 carries with a 38-yard TD run) as well as by freshman tailback Chris Irving-11 carries, 98 yards and touchdowns of 13 and four yards, helped Union pick up 352 rushing yards on 50 attempts. Nine receivers accounted for the 16 completions (worth 232 yards) with junior tight end Brad Brundage and senior wideout Gene Ray each pulling in four-Ray for 64 yards and Brundage for 35 including a six -yard TD. Sophomore placekicker Greg Harrison picked up nine more points with a 2&-yard field goal and a six for eight PAT effort. He now has 60 points this year, which puts him fourth in the Upstate scoring race. The defense also had a great day. Senior end Jaimy Farnan was in on 12 tackles including four sacks worth 45 yards. Senior defens.ive back Tim Kempski picked off his fifth pass of the year and returned it 44 yards to paydirt. Junior tackle Scott Mcintyre set up a Union score with a fumble recovery while junior split end Andy Girardi recovered a fumble on a kickoff to help the Dutchmen to a score. Junior defensive back Ross Eberhart picked off his second pass of the season while sophomore Mark Mulholland and classmate Matt Schmitter each had a sack worth 11 and seven yards respectively. NCAA playoff selections will be announced on November 17 at 1:30 p.m. Central time. WRITE FOR SPORTS Contact Dan at 374-8296 or Schach at x4151 to apply for a position !iPD·RT!i November 7, 1991 ... ',• ~ . ' ' . . . ' . ·. : . ' . ' : \ ' . . . ' . ' ', . . . ' ' . . . ' . . '. . : UNION CoLLEGE FooTBALL PRESENTS THE RUSS REPORT Senior Quarterback 6'1, 205/bs. Holliston, MA AN UPDATE Senior quarterback Brett Russ is Union's nomination of All-ECAC/ All-American. Here is an update of his season and career totals: SEASON Team Att. Comp. Pet. Int. Yds YdsGame TD Long Score WPI 23 15 .652 0 192 192;0 2 44 UNION, 49-27 HOBART 26 15 .577 2 161 161.0 0 27 UNION, 44-17 ALBANY 19 10 .526 0 100 100.0 0 14 UNION~47-7 NORWICH 22 19 .864 0 188 188;0 3 22 UNION,66-0 RPI 31 19 .613 0 170 170.0 1 31 UNION,35-10 C. GUARD 28 15 .500 0 215 215.0 1 50 UN10N,37-7 GETTYS. 22 14 .636 0 188 188.0 1 26 UNION,57-7 ... ........................ _______________ .,. _____ .,._.,. __ .,. ______________ , ______________________________________ ,_., _________ ... ______________ .., ______ .. __ .. ___ TOTALS 171 106 .620 2 .1,214 173.4 8 50 Rating--134.7 CAREER 1,023 570 .557 39 6,631 179.2 46 XX UNION IS 33-4-0 WITII BREIT RUSS AS THE STARTING QUARTERBACK. The Dutchmen competed for the national title in 1989 and wcn the ECAC North Title in 1990. Union has won its last 15 in a row,the third-longest winning streak in the nation at every level. BRETIRUSS NCAA Bound Men's Soccer Looks To Big Matchup Against Ithaca On Sunday Continued from page 20 a tricky, quick player, have provided the team with invaluable depth at the striker position. As tile first post season game in the past five years approaches, the '91 Dutchman forward with fine moves, has six goals on the year. Leibhoff, who also has six goals, has enormous speed and strong one vs. one skills. Their improved ability to work together by making combinations ill the attacking third of the field has given opposing teams nightmares in the latter part of the season. The other frontrunning tandem of Eric Cressman and Tim Walsh have perhaps been two of the Dutchmen's most u11sung heroes. Giving thirty hard minutes a game at striker has not given other teams the chance to rest after they have been chasing Oleson and Leibhoff all half. Cressman, a skillful fast striker, and Walsh, squad is preparing themselves with intense practices and hard physical training. On Sunday, November 10 the team faces Ithaca University, the number one ranked team in New York SCORING: G A Pts Mark Oleson 6 618 Jeff Mela 4 4 12 Stewart Savage 2 1 5 Brett Miller 1 1 3 Dan Wilmot 0 3 3 Kevin Wilmot 1 0 2 Adam Epstein 0 1 1 State. A win would mean the Dutchmen are one step closer to a division three national championship. What seemed like only an impossible dream at the beginning of the season is now very much a reality. TAKE A ROAD TRIP AND SUPPORT U COLL SOCCER, 1:00. SUNDAY. G A Pts Jermey Liebhoff 6 2 18 Tim Walsh 3 2 8 D.J. Hodson 1 1 3 Dave Chodosch 1 1 3 Jeff Vilterra 1 0 2 Eric Cressmen 1 0 2 Jem Sollinger 0 1 1 Goalie lee Popp~r 13 Goals, 114 Saves; 4 Shutouts, 10-4-1

November 7_, 1991 !iPDRT!i <llonrnrbtrnsfs Jaimy Farnan Leads Union Defensively As Dutchmen Go To 7-0 by Dan Strum Sports Editor The Union Football team is enjoying another fabulous season. This week's 57-7 win over Gettysburg tied a college record f0r most consecutive victories at 15. More importantly it raised their record to 7-0 leaving the Dutchmen in prime position for post-season play. Union received a great all-around effort from many players. However, Jaimy Farnan was a standout on defense. For his outstanding achievements this past week, Jaimy Farnan has been selected as Conc()rdiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Farnan, who hails from West Sand Lake, NY, is one of the Jaimy Farnan CO-Captains on the Dutchman squad. His quite impressive statistics for the Gettysburg game included 12 tackles and four sacks for 45 yards. This Senior End has led the Union defense throughout the course of the season. He played JV in his freshman year while playing backup defensive end in his sophomore year. In his junior campaign, Farnan had 62 tackles, good for third overall on the team. In addition, his 6 sacks tied him for first on the team. This year Farnan is third in tackles while leading the team with 8 sacks. The Union Football team has been unstoppable of late. They are cruising for greatness. Jaimy Farnan has played an integral part in Union's defensive stand. As a great coach once said, \Offense wins games, Defense wins championships.\ It's just a matter of time. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Jaimy Farnan, Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Union Swimming Begins Another Season by Andrew Wagshul Contributing Writer The time has come, once again, for the swimming team to return to the ice-capped waters of our beloved pool. There is not a day that goes by in which one member of the team says how much they love a cold dip in the polar ice cap during Schenectady's balmy winter months. With this kind of enthusiasm and incentive to spurn us on we embark on a new and promising season. Both the Men's and Women's teams have come off successful seasons, and both teams return strong lineups as few seniors graduated last year. Along with the returning, a strong corp of freshman will add to the present power of both teams. The Women's team, captained by Jeanne Cutrone and Amy O'Neill, will try to continue the success that the past few years {top 4 in the state the last 3 years) bas bestowed upon them. The Men's team, captained by Chris Walsh, Andy Wagshul and Tony Tremaglio, will strive to further the increasing success the team has enjoyed over the last 3 years:. It will be a tough battle for the Men to improve its 4th place finish at states last year, which by the way, was an improvement of 7 places from the year before. Given the present attitude and hard work of the teams, it would not surprise this member if we do as well if not better than last year. The addition of two more coaches, Mark Walsh and Kathy Kavaney '90, will help both teams improve much more at a quicker pace. The more coaches we have the more attention they can pay to those swimmers that need instruction. So far it appears to be working, to which this past weekend was evidence. Union held its third a11nual relay meet, which felt like the longest 4 hours in history. This meet exists to give us a chance to get our feet wet in a relaxed atmosphere, while allowing us to see where our competition stands compared to us. Both teams swam pretty well, considering we've only been in the water 3 weeks, coming in 3rd out of 7 teams in their respective meets. The Union women missed oat on second by 4 points to Hartwick, while Division one Vennont came in first some 50 points ahead. The Men's meet, on the other hand, was much closer with only 18 points separating 1st and 4th. Hartwick took first with 144 points, Coast Guard had 140, Union had 134, and Vermont had 126. There were a few outstanding swims for U11ion led by Julie Benker, who qualified for nationals in the 100 backstroke in her first event of the season. Ann Glicksman swam close to her iJersonal best in the 200 free, which was faster than her time at last year's nationals. Freshman Scott Bowden swam a few personal best times in the 100 and 200 freestyle after taking a year off for elbow surgery. Sven Zabka and Chris Yousey turned in fine performances in the 100 Backstroke. These are just a few of the highlights, but the whole team deserves credit for a job well done. This coming Saturday the team takes on University of Rochester for the first time here at Union. This meet promises to be a hard fought, (if you can believe that in swimming), close competition. Rochester has consistently been one of the best in New York and in recent years made a name for itself at nationals. Last year at Rochester's sprint meet both Union teams squeaked by Rochester. So this year their looking for revenge. So, if you have nothing better to do and even if you do, come by the pool for a little while and help cheer us on because it really helps and we really appreciate it. It's time for the lesser known teams to start getting some credit for the hard work and dedication that we put forth in Union's honor. So, come by for we might surprise you with a little excitement. THANKS!! Women's Soccer Finishes 4th In State Tourney Continues Post-Season in ECAC's, Ranked 4th by Ron Birnbaum Concordiensis Staff With an I 1-6-1 liecord, the women's soccer team at Union has pulled off an amazing season thus far, picking up another win thi'S week. Entering the State Tourney a week ago Wednesday at the third seed, the squad defeated Keuka College in the first round at home with a 2-1 win. They then suffered consecutive losses to Skidmore (5-0) and St. Lawrence (1-0) in the second and third round at Ithaca College this past weekend; Union took fourth place. The team, seeded fourth in the ECAC consolation, continued post-season play at home yesterday versus Clarkson, and if victorious will play Geneseo on Saturday at Hartwick. Keuka brought Union into the top 4 playoffs in the State Tourney Union's sophomore · forward Tina Mesiti scored her · first goal of the year early in the first half on an assist by senior midfielder Cindy Butler. Keuka returned in the second to score one with 11 minutes left and bring the game into overtime. After two regulation overtime periods, the game entered two sudden death ' overtimes. Butler scored in the ; second with under six minutes left off an assist by senior SCORING: G A Pts Jen Holder 6 5 17 Deb Montano 2 26 Heather Gauntt 2 1 5 Sabra Hall 2 0 4 Ann Ramaley 1 1 3 Cindy Butler 2 1 5 Tina Mesiti 1 0 2 While Union was strong and controlled in the first half, ·having several scoring opportunities, Skidmore came back with a quick counter- attack to score the first goal, and the team fell apart from there. Until this time, Union had been holding its position offensively, and Skidmore then got an offensive breakaway at midfield point, going one-on- one with freshman keeper Jen Manna. The remaining four goals were scored on breakaways with defenders left behind, two in the first half and two in the second. Nonetheless, junior defender Megan Howell covered excellently at sweeper with speed and experience, subbing for freshman Liz Landa. According to freshman midfielder Heather Gauntt, \IL was all nerves. That was the first time that any of us on the team had played in anything so big.\ Another player claimed, \People's spirits dropped when they got 3 in a row off breakaways\ and another stated, \Get away. I hate sports reporters.\ Quite simply, Skidmore played an excellent game and Union was not prepared, outsJJot 28-9. St. Lawrence, played Sunday, was a much more even game, 0-0 at halftime. Union as a team played a better game versus their opponents Lhan during the regular season. G A Pts Deb Danforth 4 4 12 Chris Nytransl<y 2 1 5 Liz Landa 2 0 4 Chris Weske 1 1 3 Rika Poor i 1 3 I Marcie Heffernan 1 0 2 Goalie Jen Manna 22 Goals, 211 Saves, 8 Shutouts forward Jen Holder. After a shot by Holder rebounded off the keeper's hands, Butler knocked in the winning goal. Also of honorable mention is sophomore midfielder Allison 1 Foster, who acted as a vital midfield anchor. The following loss to Skidmore at Ithaca on Saturday showed a lack of tournament experience for the whole team. possessing the ball more often, though each side had its opportunity at breakaways. yet, 14 seconds into the second half, St. Lawrence was able to put in a miskick off the defender into the right comer of the net. While the squad had been caught off guard, the goal never broke the team apart, and Union continued to play well Continued on page 17 . . . ' . . . . . . . . ' ,; . ' . . ' ~' SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (7-0) Union 57 Gettysburg 7 FILED HOCKEY lth aca 7 Union 1 Union 2 Rochester 0 MEN'S SOCCER (12-4-1) Union 3 Skidmore 0 WOMEN'S SOCCER (11-6-1) STATE TOURNEY Union 2 Keuka 1 (4 OT) Skidmore 5 Union 0 St. Lawrence 1 Union 0

t:· ::·:>') ; '~ ~§ .~;,:: > :::,:::. ,,.. ~ Dutchmen Football runs strong at 7·0. See page 22 Union's Tim Cregan drives hard to the Merrimack net. NCAA's Men's Soccer Qualifies For THE Tournament by J.D. Sollinger and Adam H. Epstein Concordiensis Staff For the first time since 1986, the Union College Men's Soccer team will be playing playoff soccer in November. After completing their regular season with a brilliant four game win streak, the Dutchmen, along with the other thirty-one top division three teams in the country, qualified for the National Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament. What has been the key ingredient to success? Why has a team that for the last two years has been under .500 in winning percentage able to win ten games for the first time since 1986? Clearly, the reasons are many. The combination of a new coaching staff inheriting a young but talent laden group of players has enabled the Dutchmen to reestablish themselves as a New York soccer powerhouse. Perhaps the single most important ingredient to a successful soccer team is the defense. Simply, if the defense can prevent goals from being scored, their team will always be in the match. That is exactly what the Dutchmen \D\ has done all season. The backbone of this rock-solid defense has been sophomore goalie Lee Popper. He has recorded four solo shotouts on the season and combined for two bagels with Freshman Dan Rosenfeld. Rosenfeld, along with classmates Tom Rischer and $$$ Lander have emerged as solid backups and give the Dutchmen a great deal of depth at the keeper position. Directly in front of Popper is senior co-captain Donald llodson and sophomore David \volleys are my game\ Chodosch. Hodson's consistency on defense, :partic11larly his heading ability, as well as his secret weapon long throw-in have resulted in .goals saved on defense and .goals scored on offense. Chodosch has established llimself as one of the state's best man-to-man markers. Game in and game out Chodosch has shut down the ~dversaries most potent scoring threat Co-captain Adam :Epstein has also been a key factor in the success of the Dutchmen \D\. His marking ability, speed, and ability to make attacking runs from his right back position has given the Dutchmen an offensive threat from the back. In addition, the establishment of himself as a leader on and off the field has been instrumental in tile blending of the rookies and upperclassmen. Junior Dan Wilmot, in his second year at left back, has also helped solidify the Dutchmen defense. His improved heading and his educated southpaw ability has given Union another offensive threat from the back. Junior Joel Volterra has been instrumental to the team, SPORTSWEEK FOOTBALL NOV. 9 vs. Hamilton 1:30 MEN'S & WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY NOV. 16 NCAA Qualifier al Saratoga Park 9:00 MEN'S SOCCER 1:00 11:00 :~· NOV. 10 at Ithaca WOMEN'S VOllEYBALL •I '\JOV. 9 at Rochester ~ '· 1 ~---------------------------------------------d proving to be a very competent utility man on defense as well as in the midfield. Stuart Polk and Rick \Sleepy\ Scharff, two freshmen defenders, have steadily improved over the season and have provided tough marking on their teammates during tactical sessions throughout the year. Senior midfielder Brett Miller has returned from his sabbatical in fine form. An intelligent player with a fine first touch, Miller's play as of late has been a key ingredient in the success of the Union offense. Chicken Stu Savage has also been a fine addition to the U midfield. His skill level and ability to slip the ball through an opponent's legs has enabled him to become a strong outside midfielder. Jeff Mela has provided the midfield with a commanding presence in the center of the field. His strong head game and distribution skills have been a key link between the midfield and strikers. Jeremy Sollinger has also provided a link between the midfield and strikers. His receiving of the ball skills, quick turns and constant changing of the fields has forced opposing defenses to key on him thus opening up space for other players to shine. Frosh Kevin Wilmot has provided a spark for the Union midfield while coming off the bench with his intense work rate. In addition, Junior Jed Nosal has seen increased playing time and given the midfield depth as a result of his fine distribution skills. Justin \the Stepmeister stepover\ Pechar also adds depth to the Dutchmen midfield and has pushed the starting halfbacks to the max in practice. SU'ikers Mark Oleson and Jeremy Leibhoff have done most of the scoring for the Dutchmen, and ultimately that is what really wins games. Oleson, a deceptively fast Continued on page 18 November 7, 1991 Skating Dutchmen Drop Opener 9-6 Despite Good Showing by Dan Strum Sports Editor Well, the moment finally arrived. All of the waiting was over and the Skating Dutchmen were ready to embark on their new season in the ECAC Division I ranks. Merrimack was the visitor and Union played host in front of 2,198 fans in Achilles rink. There was an air of electricity as the two teams set to faceoff. The puck was dropped and a new era of Union Hockey was underway. Unfortunately for the Dutchmen, they were on the short end of a 9-6 score. However, there were many positive notes which could be extracted from the game, a game in which the Union hockey team had a lot to be proud about. The Dutchmen came out flying in the opening five minutes of the game, but just couldn't seem to put the puck in the net. Freshman Keith Darby came in on a bouncing puck right in front, but the shot floated just wide. Merrimack settled down and built themselves a 3-0 lead by the end of the first period. The opening half of the This Week In: HOCKEY se<:ond period will be remembered as one of the greatest offensive flurries put forth by the Dutchmen squad in recent history. Union tallied six goals to climb back into the game. Senior Craig Ferrero opened up the scoring for Union only one . minute into the period. Ferrero picked up the puck in a crowd, came down the left side, and fired a hard wrist shot just inside the right post. The crowd erupted and Bill Railton retrieved the puck from the referee to preserve this piece of history. Rail ton added a goal of his own just two and a half minutes later. Freshman Alex MacLellan. a defenseman, tied the score at three just two minutes later. Union took the lead as Railton got his second goal of the game. In fact, the Dutchmen built up a 6-4 lead on goals by seniors Tim Cregan and Dalton MenhalL Some shorthanded situations enabled Merrimack to tie the score at 6-6 by the end of the second period. The Dutchmen tired a bit in the third period and finished the game with a 9-6 loss. They had a few opportunities in the third, but most of their good Continued on page 17 Sat., Nov. 9 Union at UVM 7:00 p .. m ..

' I, I f Union's Tim Cregan drives har<l to the Merrimack net. NCAA's Men's Soccer Qualifies For THE Tournament by J.D. Sollinger and Adam H. Epstein Concordiensis Staff For the first time since 1986, the Union College Men's Soccer team will be playing playoff soccer in November. After completing their regular season with a brilliant four game win streak, the Dutchmen, along with the other thirty-one top division three teams in the country, qualified for the National Collegiate Athletic Association Tourname11.t. What has been the key ingredient to success? Why has a team that for the last two years has been under .500 in winning percentage able to win ten games for the first time since 1986? Clearly, the reasons are many. The combination of a new coaching staff inheriting a young but talent laden group of players has enabled the Dutchmen to reestablish themselves as a New York soccer powerhouse. Perhaps the single most important ingredient to a successful soccer team is the defense. Simply, if the defense can prevent goals from being scored, their team will always be in the match. That is exactly what the Dutchmen \D\ has done all season. The backbone of this rock-solid defense has been sophomore goalie Lee Popper. He has recorded four solo shotouts on the seaso11 and combined for two bagel~ with Freshman Dan Rosenfeld. Rosenfeld, along. with classmates Tom Rischer and $$$ Lander have emerged as solid bac1cups and give the Dutchmen a great deal of depth at the keeper position. Directly in front of Popper is senior co-captain Donald Hodson and sophomore David \volleys are my game\ Chodosch. Hodson's consistency on defense, particularly bis heading ab~lity, as well as llis secret weapon long throw-in have resulted in goals saved on defense and goals scored on offense. Chodosch has established himself as one of the state's best man-to-man markers. Game in and game out Chodosch has shut down the adversaries most potent scori,ng threat Co-captain Adam Epstein has also been a key factor in the success of the Dutchmen \D\. His marking ability, speed, and ability to make attacking runs from his , right back JlOSition has given the Dutchmen an offensive threat from the back. In addition, the establishment of himself as a leader on and off the field has been instrumental in the blending of the rookies and upperclassmen. Junior Dan Wilmot, in his second year at left back, has also helped solidify the Dutchmen defense. His improved heading and his educated southpaw ability has given Union another offensive threat from tile back. Junior Joel Volterra has been instrumental to the team, SPORTSWEEK FOOTBALL NOV. 9 vs. Hamilton 1~ MEN'S & WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRV NOV. 16 NCAA Qualifier at Saratoga Park 9:00 MEN'S SOCCER NOV. 10 at Ithaca tOO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL NOV. 9 at Rochester 11:00 proving to be a very competent utility man on defense as well as in the midfield. Stuart Polk and Rick \Sleepy\ Scharff, two freshmen defenders, have steadily _improved over the season and have provided tough marking on their teammates during tactical sessions throughout the year. Senior midfielder Brett Miller has returned from his sabbatical in fine form. An intelligent player with a fine first touch, Miller's play as of late has been a key ingredient in the success of the Union offense. Chicken Stu Savage has also been a fine addition to the U midfield. His skill level and ability to slip the ball through an opponent's legs has enabled him to become a strong outside midfielder. Jeff Mela has provided the midfield with a commanding presence in the center of the field. His strong head gaine and distribution skills have been a key link between the midfield and strikers. Jeremy Sollinger has also provided a link between the midfield and strikers. His receiving of the ball skills, quick turns and constant changing of the fields has forced opposing defenses to key on him thus opening up space for other players to shine. Frosh Kevin Wilmot has provided a spark for the Union midfield while coming off the bench with hi.s intense work rate. In addition, Junior Jed Nosal has seen increased playing time and given the midfield depth as a result of his fine distribution skills. Justin \the Stepmeister stepover\ Pechar also adds depth to the Dutchmen midfield and has pushed the starting halfbacks to the max in practice. Strikers Mark Oleson and Jeremy Leibhoff have done most of the scoring for the Dutchmen, and ultimately that is what really wins games. Oleson, a deceptively fast Continued on page 18 November 7, 1991 Skating :Dutch men Drop Opener 9-6 Despite Good Sho:wing by Dan Strum Sports Editor Well, the moment finally arrived. All of the waiting was over and the Skating D11tchmen were ready to embark on their new season in the ECAC Division I ranks. Merrimack was the visitor and Union played host in front of 2,198 fans in Achilles rink. There was an air of electricity as 'the two teams set to faceoff. The puck was dropped and a new era of Union Hockey was underway. Unfortunately for the Dutchmen, they were on the short end of a 9-6 score. However, there were many positive notes which C()uld be extracted from the g;ame. a game in which the Union hockey team had a l()t to be proud about. · The Dutchmen carne out flying in the opening five minutes of the game, but just couldn't seem to put the puck in the net. Freshman Keith Darby came in on a bouncing puck right in front, but the shot floated just wide. Merrimack settled down and built themselves a 3-0 lead by the end of the first perioo. The opening half of the This Week In: HOCKEY seco11d period will be rem~mhered as one of the greatest offensive flurries put forth by the Dutchmen squad in recetU history. Union tallied six g.oals to climb back into the game. Senior Craig Ferrero opened up the scoring for Unio11 only one . minute into the period. Ferrero picked up the p11ck in a crowd, came dowlt the left side, and fired a hard wrist shot just inside the right post. The crowd erupted and Ilill Railton retrieved the puck from the referee to preserve this piece of history. Railton added a goal of his own Just two and a half minutes later. Freshman Alex MacLellan, a defensenian, tied the score at three just two minutes later. Union took the lead as Railton got his second goal ()f the game. In fact, the Dutcl!men built up a 6-4 lead on goals by seniors Tim Creg211 and Dalton Menhall. Some shorthanded situations enabled Merrimack to tie the score at 6-6 by the end of the seco11d period. The Dutchmen tired a bit in the third period and finished the gam~ with a 9-6 loss. Th~y had a few opportunities in the third, but most of their good C()ntinued on page 17 Sat., Nov. 9 Union at UVM 7:00 p.m<l

7, 1991 !iTUDEI\IT FORUM JUNIORS Joe Pecora The Office of Junior Representative is an in:1portant student leader position. I woald like to take this opportm'lity to inform you about the position. It not only serves as a direct line to our class, but also to all others. The position holds a full vote with regards to all issues. On Friday, November 8, we mast elect a student to best serve our interests. It is a necessity that we have a student leader informing us abot!lt the various iss~:~es facing this campus now aHd in the future. More importantly, we need a leader conveying our feelings alDout those issues to the Student Forum and the Administration. It is crucial that you know I am Pro-Studellt because of my involvement in many student activities, and that I am Pro- Greek because of my involvement in the Greek System. Although there are a number of different interest groups on campus, we must take a stand together in order to promote our interests. Student division will not benefit us. This is a critical time for Union. Already, major changes are taking place. We need our interests represented in the best possible way. It is vital. I believe that my credentials qualify me for the position of Junior Representative. At home, I have worked with various Congressman and was invited to speak about peer pressure by a local police department. At Union, I was a member of the General Education Board-assisting in the discussions for improving GenEd. Now, I am a Regional Director of Ambassadors and a Student H<>st for Admissions, member of the Maxcy Use Committee-assisting in the determination of the future use of what once was the Beta Theta Pi Residence, a \Union Today\ Alumni Host for the $150 million Bicentennial Fundraiser, and involved in athletics. I will be an effective Junior Representative. I would appreciate your support tomorrow, Friday, November 8. Vote JOE PECORA. Thank you for your consideration. Jacques Etienne Hi, I am Jacques Etienne a member of the junior class. Needless to say that I am running for the third junior representative position open in the Student Forum. My interest in runniRg for this position does not only express my interest in student government, but also serves as an iRdicator of my personal character. In my three years here at Union College, I have been very active ifl numerous campus activities and organizations. My demonstra- ted leadership skills at running different events have been acknowledged by students both on and off Campus. As a member of the junior class and Union College as a whole, I seek this position because I am well aware of the challenges which it presents and with the confidence that I will be able to tum in a strong performance. So, on Friday, November 8th, 1991 vote JACQUES ETIENNE for junior class representative. FRESHMEN Jarrett Bockler Hey Union. Pay attention. Election day is right around the corner and don't let it pass you by. Look, listen, and keep an open mind. Remember the best representative is one who knows when to act and when to speak. As our class grows together as a unit, it is your responsibility to elect an individual who will best express the opinions of the class to the faculty and administration. It is my opinion that with my communicative skills as well as my ability to work with others, I can best suit the position of Freshman Representative. As a senior in high school, I demonstrated many of these skills as a chairman in Government in Action and as an active member in the Leadership Class. In the leadership class I coordinated a Thanksgiving luncheon for underprivileged senior citizens. In addition, I was also the co- chairman and the designer of the Mentor Program, which allowed gifted elementary students to work on an accelerated level. Remember, voice your opinion and vote Friday, November 8th. Thank you, JARRETT BOCKLER. Sean Gill Hi, my name is Sean Gill and I am nmning for the office of Freshman Representative. I believe that we need to start developing our class and becoming more cohesive. I feel that my communicative ability along with my listening and learning skills arc esscAtial qualities I can bring to the class. I would like to take an active part in addressing matters that revolve around the presclilt, and our future. My leadership qualities began to develop throughout my high school years. I was President of National Honor Society for my junior and senior years, and was also selected to be a Peer Facilitator. I have spent lots of time organizing events and taking the time to prepare exciting acti. vi ties for everyone. I am accessible and willing to listen to all ideas that people have and discuss what we conld make of them. I would also like to conduct class meetings to keep everyone informed and explore isswes that need to be taken care of. Also, through Administration I plan to present ideas regarding problems such as rape, fire alarms, and security. A responsible Freshman Repre- sentative must be able to keep his classmates aware of what is going on, and not take matters into his or her own hands. I hope on November 8th, you take me into consideration and vote for me. Thank you. Hallie Heller Members of the class of 1995: My name is Hallie Heller and I am running for freshman class representative. I was an active member of student government in my high school and I would really like to continue my involvement with the Stt1dent Forum here at Union. If elected I will do everything that I can to insure that we, the Bicentennial Class of 1995 have input on issues that concern each one of us. It would be a great honor for me to represent this year's freshman class. I would appreciate your votes, and if elected, I will put forth my best efforts to make our years at Union the best they can be. FRESHMEN Jon Miller \Knowledge rnay give weight, but accomplishments give luster, and many more people see than weigh.\ (Earl of Chesterfield). Even though I do not have much experience in high school politics, nudge me by my accomplishments. Thro~:~ghout high s~.:hool I have become a member of the Occupational Education Advisory Council, and the Chairman-of-the-Board of Student Engineers. I have excellent communication skills .md the ability to hold a position as a freshman class officer. I have participated in the Varsity Alpiac Ski Lcam and Varsity Track team in high school. Overall, I know that, if elected, I can live up to your expectations. So remember, It's Miller Time! Tara Minardi Hello, my name is Tara Minardi and I'm running for freshman class representative. I can imagine how hard it is to choose a representative after knowing people only a short time. However, it is truly essential to get to know the candidates and put effort into these electioRs in order to make a conscience decision on who's going to represent and support our ideas. I've had three years experience as being class president at my high school and believe that I've had significant interaction with our student body here at Union, combined to make for a strong representative. I'm extremely interested in our class and it's well being. however, I'm not prepared to make any promises because I feel it would be unrealistic at this point in time. It is more so my aim to seek out our needs and wants as a class, and I'm prepared to do ..til I can to attain !:hem. Erin O'Neil Hi! My name is Erin M. O'Neil, and I am from Winchester, Massachusetts. I hope to become a part of Union's Student Forum. I feel that I am qualified to hold a position in the Forum, due to my prior experience in High School. I was a four year representative of the Student Union at Winchester High School, and held the position of Secretary my Senior year. I FRESHMEN and JUNIORS: was very involved in extracurricular activities at my High School as well. My activities included: peer tutoring, Drug and Alcohol peer educator, 2 year vice- president of the Spanish Club, SADD, and volunteer work at the Winchester Hospital Our class, the Class of 1995, is one of a kind. We are Union's Bic~m~nnial das::., and the four years that we spend here should be special. If elected, I will do my best to provide our class with new and different opportunities that will distinguish our class from any other that has passed through Union College. I encourage you all to vote on Friday. I wish all lh~ other candidates the best of luck. Thank you. Stacey Rainey I will do the best I am able to for the class of 1995, and that is the only promise I can make. Joe Sullivan I, Joe Sullivan am running for Freshman Class Representative. I feel it hard to convey my thoughts to you through writing, but it will have to suffice. I have had much experience in being a representative for a student body. I have been President of my high school class during my Junior and Senior year and vice-president during my Freshman and Sophomore years. During my Junior year, I attended a national leadership conference in Washington, DC entitled Presidential Class- room. Here I was able to meet students from all over the world and debate with them on specific issues. I believe that this helped me to view issues in many different ways before making a final decision. Enough of my history. I am presently a pre-med major and a member of the Union Crew team. I plan to play intramural hockey in the winter, and I am also looking to form a rock band. With my wide variety of interests I feel that I am able to represent the class in its wide variety of needs, ranging from academics, to athletics, to social life. For this reason, I, Joe Sullivan am asking for your vote for Freshman Class Representative on November 8th. Thank you.

1991 !iTUDEI\JT FORUM ELECTIDI\I!i JUNIORS Joe Pecora The Office of Junior Representative is an important student leader position. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you about the position. It not only serves as a direct line to our class, but also to all others. The position holds a full vote with regards to all issues. On Friday, November 8, we must elect a student to best serve our interests. It is a necessity that we have a stl:ldent leader informing us about the various issues facing this campus now and in the future. More importantly, we need a leader conveying our feelings about those issues to the Student For11m and the Administration. It is crucial that you know I am Pro-Student because of my involvement in many student activities, and that I am Pro- Greek because of my involvement in the Greek System. Although there are a number of different interest groups on campus, we must take a stand together in order to promote our interests. Student division will not benefit us. This is a critica.l time for Union. Already, major changes are taking place. We need our interests represented in the best possible way. It is vital. I believe that my credentials qualify me for the position of Junior Representative. At home, I have w<Jrked with various Congressman and was invited to speak about peer pressure by a local police department. At Union, I was a member of the General Education Board-assisting in the discussions for improving GenEd. Now, I am a Regional Director of Ambassadors and a Student Host for Admissions, member of the Ma~cy Use Committee-assisting in the determination of the future use of what once was the Beta Theta Pi Residence, a \Union Today\ Alumni Host for the $150 million Bicentennial Fundraiser, and involved in athletics. I will be an effective Junior Representative. I would appreciate your support tomorrow. Friday, November 8. Vote JOE PECORA. Thank you for your consideration. Jacques Etienne Hi, I am Jacques Etienne a member of the junior class. Needless to say that I am running for the third junior representative position open in the Student Forum. My interest in running for this position does not only express my interest in student government, but also serves as an indicator of my personal character. In my three years here at Union College, I have been very active in numerous campus activities and organizations. My demonstra- ted leadership skills at running different events have been acknowledged by students both on and off Campus. As a member of tbe junior class and Union College as a whole, I seek this position because I am well aware of the challenges which it presents and with the confidence that I will be able to turn in a strong performance. So, on Friday, November 8th, 1991 vote JACQUES ETIENNE for junior class representative. FRESHMEN Jarrett Bockler Hey Union. Pay attention. Election day is right around the corner and don't let it pass you by. Look, listen, and keep an open mind. Remember the best representative is one who knows when to act and when to speak. As our class grows together as a unit, it is your responsibility to elect an individual who will best express the opinions of the class to the faculty and administration. It is my opinion that with my communicative skills as well as my ability to work with others, I can best suit the position of Freshman Representative. As a senior in high school, I demonstrated many of these skills as a chairman in Government in Action and as an active member m the Leadership Class. In the leadership class I coordinated a Thanksgiving luncheon for underprivileged senior citizens. In addition, I was also the co- chairman and the designer of the Mentor Program, which allowed gifted elementary students to work on an accelerated level. Remember, voice your opinion and vote Friday, November 8th. Thank you, JARRETT BOCKLER. Sean Gill Hi, my name is Sean Gill and I am running for the office of Freshman RepFesentative. I believe that we need to start developing our class and becoming more cohesive. I feel that my communicative ability along with my listening and learning skills are essential qualities I can bring to the class. I would like to take an active part tn addressing matters that revolve around the present, and our future. My leadership qualities began to develop throughout my high school years. I was President of National Honor Society for my junior and senior years, and was also selected to be a Peer Facilitator. I have spent lots of time organizing events and taking the time to prepare exciting activities for everyone. I am accessible and willing to listen to all ideas that people have and discuss what we could make of them. I would also like to conduct class meetings to keep everyone informed and explore issues that need to be taken care of. Also, through Administration I plan to present ideas regarding problems such as rape, fire alarms, and security. A responsible Freshman Repre- sentative must be able to keep his classmates aware of what is going on, and not take matters into his or her own hands. I hope on November 8th, you take me into consideration and vote for me. Thank you. Hallie Heller Members of the class of 1995: My name is Hallie Heller and I am running for freshman class representative. I was an active member of student government in my high school and I would really like to continue my involvement with the Student Forum here at Union. If elected I will do everylhing that I can to insure that we, the Bicentennial Class of 1995 have input on issues that concern each one of us. It would be a great honor for me to represent this year's freshman class. I would appreciate your votes, and if elected, I will put forth my best efforts to make our years at Union the best they can he. FRESHMEN Jon Miller \Knowledge may give weight, but accomplishments give luster, and many more people see than weigh.\ (Earl of Chesterfield). Even though I do not have much experience in high school politics, nudge me by my accomplishments. Throughout high school I have become a member of the Occupational Education Advisory Council, and the Chairman-of-the-Board of Student Engineers. I have excellent communication skills .md the ability to hold a position as a freshman class officer. I have participated in the Varsity Alpine Ski team and Varsity Track team in high school. Overall, I know that, if elected, I can 1i ve up to your expectations. So remember, It's Miller Time! Tara Minardi Hello, my name is Tara Minardi and I'm running for freshman class representative. I can imagine how hard it is to choose a representative after knowing people only a short time. However, it is truly essential to get to know the candidates and put effort into lhese elections in order to make a conscience decision on who's going to represent and support our ideas. I've had three years experience as being class president at my high school and believe that I've had significant interaction with our student body here at Union, combined to make for a strong representative. I'm extremely interested in our class and it's well being. however, I'm not prepared to make any promises because I feel it would be unrealistic at this point in time. It is more so my aim to seek out Ollf needs and wants as a class, and l'm prepared to do .till can to attain them. Erin O'Neil Hi! My name is Erin M. O'Neil, and I am from Winchester, Massachusetts. I hope to become a part of Union's Student Forum. I feel that I am qualified to hold a position in the Forum, due to my prior e~perience in High School. 1 was a four year representative of the Student Union at Winchester High School, and held lhe position of Secretary my Senior year. I was very in valved in extracurricular activities at my High School as well. My activities included: peer tutoring, Drug and Alcohol peer educator, 2 year vice- president of the Spanish Club, SADD, and volunteer work at the Winchester Hospital. Our class, the Class of 1995, is one of a kind. We are Union's Bicentennial class, and the four years that we spend here should be special. If elected, I will do my best to provide our class with new and different opportunities that will distinguish our class from any other that has passed through Union College. I encourage you all to vote on Friday. I wish all the other candidates the best of luck. Thank you. Stacey Rainey I will do the best I am able to for the class of 1995, and that is the only promise I can make. Joe Sullivan I, Joe Sullivan am running for Freshman Class Representative. I feel it hard to convey my thoughts to you through writing, but it will have to suffice. I have had much experience in being a representative for a student body. I have been President of my high school class during my Junior and Senior year and vice-president during my Freshman and Sophomore years. During my Junior year, I attended a national leadership conference in Washington, DC entitled Presidential Class- room. Here I was able to meet students from all over the world and debate with them on specific issues. I believe that this helped me to view issues in many different ways before making a final decision. Enough of my history. I am presently a pre-med major and a member of the Union Crew team. I plan to play intramural hockey in the winter, and I am also looking to form a rock band. With my wide variety of interests I feel that I am able to represent the class in its wide variety of needs, ranging from academics, to athletics. to social life. For this reason, I, Joe Sullivan am asking for your vote for Freshman Class Representative on November 8th. Thank you.

. t ~ I ; '. l I by Jeffrey Green News Editor For reasons of confidentiality, the names of those involved have been omitted. During the week before Orientation of this year an · incident involving racism occurred on the Union College campus. On a Monday night in 'September, at approximately 12:30 AM four students, one · Caucasian and three African- Americans, left the A- Plus convenient store and proceeded to drive away. As they were leaving, two officers pulled into the parking lot, turned ·around, and followed the vehicle to the stop light. The four students drove in through the main gate and made their way toward a fraternity house. The police car bad followed by . means of an adjacent off campus street. The police officers shined a light on the students and said \Hey you guys, keep it on campus.\ .The . students, puzzled by the order, proceeded into the house. From inside the house, one of the four students noticed that the police had stopped directly in front of the house. He went • outside to see what was going Founded at nto:n College 1877 Schenectady, New York ~m~mammmmwma November 14, 1991 on and one of the officers shouted, \Let me .see some I.D. right now.\ As tile policeman took the card the other three students joined them outside. He took the other Union identification cards and told the students to move back. The A desk offker told the arrested student he was being charged with harassing a police officer. The student could not believe what had happened. officer then told bis partner to call for backup. :By this time 'several other stadents had congregated in front of the house. Within minutes six other squad cars arrived on the scene. Fourteen pclice officers now surrounded the group of students. The officer who had originally fo'llowed the foursome turned to one of the Mrican-Americaa students and ordered, \Hey yo a, take your hands out of y<>ur pockets.\ The student asked. why. He was immediately gra.bbed by the ~boulder, spun arcund, thrown against the car andfrisked. The officer answered. \I want to search you for ha11d grenades and other weapons.'e The same offlce1 randomly )icked anothe.1 African- American studeEt and said, \You have a lo11d mouth. You're going do'Nllttown.\ The other students asbed the officer for an explana.tion. His response was. \]f you don't shut-up you'll be joining him too.\ A few rnini!t-es later the officer handcuff~ the student and placed him iru the police c.ar. Immediate[ y following this, Union soourity officers arrived and asked f()r the cause ()f arrest. The policeman responded, \Titese- guys were making trouble at A-Plus.\ Friends of thede:tained party told the officer tl!at they wanted to bail him out J:\igllt away. The officer repl:ie:d~ \Do not fellow him down:town.\ In the front seat of the ]JOlice car sat the arresting officer's partner. The student askoo ller why he was being arrested and the female officer oold llim she did aot know the tea.son and he should ask her :J>'artner. The ·arresting officer answered, \Your being arre~t.OO for being a loudmouth.\ Tll.e student then told the officer :th!lt he had not read him his rig~ts- The officer completely ignored this statement At the station the female police officer asked the arrested student for his address, if he was addicted to any drugs, as well as many other questions. A friend of the student, while trying to see what was happening, was told by the arresting officer, ''I'll throw you back here as easily as I threw your friend in here.\ A desk officer told the arrested student he was being charged with harassing a police \If you don't sue, he'll drop ; the charges. If you do sue he won't drop the h \ ,c arges ... officer. The student could not believe what had happened. The arresting officer then said, \Yeah you pushed me. You remember?\ After the student denied the charge the arresting officer replied, \Just come tomorrow morning. It's no big deal. Go before the judge and it's like a traffic ticket.\ The nex: t morning in court, the judge told the defendant, \Y01u being charged wilh pushing 2 police officer with your chest and knocking him off bala11ce.\ The arresting officer is ~stimated as being six foot four and at least 210 pounds v:hile the student is :five foot 11ine and 150 pounds. The defendant pleaded not guilty and then was appointed a publioe defender. One of the lawyers reviewing the case said, 'The whole thing is [expletiv-e]. You're a Union College student with a clean record. This should never have happeaed to you.\ Due to conflicts between the student's and lawyer's schedules the publk defender would not be able to appear in court until after the trial was supposed to have been completed. The student's family came to Schenectady to talk to the Dean of StudeiJts, Joseph Mammola. The student, his family, the Dean, a In ember of the faculty, and the tbree witnesses met . with the Schenectady Police Lie11tenant on the Monday befo1e tile trial to discuss the matter. The lieutenant said, ''This should have never happe-ned. He (the officer) should not have been on campus 11nless he was in hot C~ntinued on page 3 In This Issue: Top Ten Differences Between London and Schenectady -page() The Erection Killer Strikes Thousands -page 13 This Week In Capita·} District Sp()rts -page 18

EDUCATION FORlliE REAL WORLD Graduate degn:e programs \~_Ph.p) m lntemaqonal JUliW::. widi an empltasis on ~ontempor.uy policy-relevant ISSUes. Area and Fnodloaal :Fields: Q Intenmerican Studies (U:S.·Latin American Relations) ll Soviet and East European Srudies llMiddle East Studies 0 International Relatbns 0 International Business Management 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Comparative Development 0 International Economics A~ly by February 1 for assistantshiQS md other fmancw aid. North• South Center Ullllll.llt' DP .14··1 Stu(Jents who are interested in lnl.e!a.meric:2n issues are p.4fticularly ellCOlJnged to apply for N.«tb-Soulh Cerller Graduale Assistartships. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL SIUDIES Admissions, Room 1 .3S2 Coral Gables, FL 3312~3010 (305) 284-4173 by David Levine Contributing Writer Union's seventh annual Public Speaking Competition was held in the Upper Class dining hall on Thursday. November 7. Twenty-nine contestants had competed for the nine spots in Thursday's final. The final contestants were expected to interpret a small quotation or saying in an approximately three-minute long extemporaneous speech. The speeches were to be judged by four judges on a scale from one to seven, based upon the speaker's creativity, imagination, coherence, substance and delivery. The judges were Professor Dersch, Professor Marincola, Rick Burchill (class of 1992) and Student Forum To Implement Shuttle Bus System by Craig Greenberg Concordiensis Staff Various topics were presented and discussed at this week's Student Forum after the introduction of its newly elected members. Topics examined included the proposed shutt 1c system, terms abroad, graduation, Jacques Etienne's funding request. resi<lence life surveys, students' right to serve on two committees, and surplus food dumping. Again, the proposed shuttle system was discussed. The problem facing the Forum and the Administration is where the additional money for a \luxury\ shuttle service will come from. Some member exp~ored the idea of cutting back Octher areas of security, while others hrain~tormed ideas for raising . the needed funds. Eventually, it was agreed to sell passes at the beginning of winter term to students wishing to use a shuttle bus service at night during winter term. A ticket wi11 be valid for the entire term, and funds raised from ticket sales will pay for the shuttle bus service. However, it is important to note that a shuulc bus will be provided by a private company, meaning that any incident of damage to a shuttle bus would result in the end of the service. Furthermore, the escort service will remain unchanged. Also discussed, for each foreign country to which Union students can travel on a term abroad there exists a fixed number of slots available for that country. With this year's addition of Brazil to the terms abroad list, there will be no Continued on page 3 I\IEW!i • IC Mary Levinsohn (class of 1992). The nine contestants were Dave Andelman, Mike Andelman, Tom Fallati, Pat Haskell, Greg Mishkin, Mike Rolnick, Sreedhar Samudrala, Harry White and Liz Youngman. The first speaker was Harry White wllo spoke on the quotation \Fun is like life insurance, the older you get the more it costs.\ Mr. White elaborated on this quote by conjuring up images of the prospect CJf drunken Union College parents stumbling home at three-thirty across the front lawn. While it is seemingly acceptable for a college student to act in such a manner, the cost of such an action to a parent would be more far reaching. Dave Andelman, who placed third, • 1n uccess eU:tborated on the saying \We · are drowning in information and starving for knowledge.\ Mr. Andelman used this quotation to stress that ideas '''I, Tom Fallati, ~am a 'Geek. '' ue much more important than specific facts. For his efforts Mr. Andelman was awarded fifty dollars. Pat Haskell fillished in second place for his ili.scussion \Life is too short to be small.\ Haskell stressed that tllis idiom referred to the moral character of people. He discussed that a lack of protection against the passage of the AIDS virus reveals a small character. Haskell received one-hundred dollars for his efforts. Tom Fallati, the winner of the competition, opted for a humorous intel'pretation of \Appearances often maybe deceiving.\ Fallati was able to win through a speech that involved self- deprecation. He started out his speech by saying \I Tom Fallati, am a geek. n Fallati won one hundred and fifty dollars for his performance. All of the contestants demonstrated their ability to deliver spontaneous speeches. Based upon the popularity of the contest and the quality of the contestants it is evident that there will be many more public speaking competitions at Unio!l~ .~ • • • , , • , ~ , • , • ' • • ~ , \ - ~ • ~ ' ' , ·, • ' r • • • ,~ • QUOTE OF THE WEEK: '''Dean Alford dreams of tropical ecstasy with Shirley from rwhat's Happening'!,, --Andy Rosen '92

EDUCATION FORlliE REAL WORLD G~duate de~e programs (~ Ph.D) m International Affurs witfi an emphasis on ~Olltemporuy policy-relevant lS)lles. Aru and FnoctJonal. Fields: 0 lllteramerican Studies (lJ.S.-Latin American llelations) 0 Soviet and East European Studies 0 M:iddle East Studies 0 International Relations 0 International Business Management 0 International Security and Conflict Q Comparative Development 0 International Economics Aj>ply by February 1 for assistantships and other fmancw aid. North• South Center ~JilYIJ.Siff CIP ll&ll Students who are interested in lrltemnerican issues are particularly l!1lCO\lfaged to apply for North-South Ctnter Graduate Assistarohips. by David Levine Contributing Writer Union's seventh annual Public Speaking Competition was held in the Upper Class dining hall on Thursday, November 7. Twenty-nine contestants had competed for the nine spots in Thursday's final. The final contestants were expected to interpret a small quotation or saying in a.n approximately three-minute long extemporaneous speech. The speeches were to be judged by four judges on a scale frorn one to seven, based upon the speaker's creativity, imagination, coherence, substance and delivery. Th.e judges were Professor Dersch, Professor Marincola, Riel< Burchill (class of 1992) an~ 1\JEW!i • IC Mary Levinsohn (cla.ss of 1992). The nine contestants were Dave Andelma11, Mike Andelman, Tom Fall~ti, Pat Haskell, Greg Mishkin, Mike Rolnick, Sreedhar Samudrala, Harry White and Liz Youngman. The first speaker w~ Harry White who spoke ()fl the quotation \Fun is lil<e life insurance, the older yoll get the more it costs.\ Mr. White elaborated on this qllllte by conjuring up images of the prospect of drunken Union College parents stumbling home at three-thirty acrllss the front lawn. While it is seemingly acceptable: for a college student to act im such a manner, the cost of ~uch an action to a parent wot1ld be more far reaching. Dave Andelman, who placed third, uccess elaborated on the saying \We are drowning in information and starving for know ledge.\ Mr. Andelman used this quotation to stress that ideas \1 Tom Fallati, am a Geek.\ are much more important than specific facts. For his efforts Mr. Andelman was awarded fifty dollars. Pat Haskell finished in second place for his discussion \Life is too short to be small.\ Haskell stressed that this idiom referred to the moral character of people. He discussed that a lack of protection against the passage of the AIDS virus reveals a small character. Haskell received one-hundred dollars for his efforts. Tom Fallati, the winner of the competition, opted for a humorous interpretation of \Appearances often maybe deceiving.\ Fallati was able to win through a speech that involved self- deprecation. He started out his speech by saying \I Tom Fallati, am a geek.\ Fallati won one hundred and fifty dollars foe his performance. All of the contestants demonstrated their ability to deliver spontaneous speeches. Based upon the popularity of the contest and the quality of the contestants it is evident that there will be many more public speaking competitions at Union. GRADUATE SQIOOL OF l~TER.NATIONAL STUDIES Is Safety At Union An filusion? M'flissions, Room t 382 Coral Gables, Fl33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 by EriCa Frank Concordiensis Staff Union freshman Mark W cisman cannot decide what i~ more infuriating: the loss ()f Student Forum To Implement Shuttle Bus System '-Y Craig Greenberg Concordiensis Staff Various topics were prc~cnted and discussed at this week's Student Forum after the immduction of its newry elc<:tcd members. Topics examined included the proposed shuttle system, terms abroad, g rLI<Iuation, Jacques Etienne's h 11111 in rr fl'fllJr><:f rf'<:ii!f'nr(' !if\ ~ . • t.:r.,:.ys, :;rudc.nt;' right to sc.rllC on twn committees, and :-.urp[us food dumping. Ati,ain, the proposed shutt[c ,yo; tcm was discussed. The proNcm facing the Forum and ·fK \drnini,tr~ttinn is where the ach! 11i1mal money lor a \luxury\ ,fltlttL· '~'f\'IC~~ will come fr<llrL Sulltl..\ nKmhcr explored tiel' Hkanf cufllllg hack other arc~!\ o: '>t'curity, while othen hr;Jin--tnrmt\d iri<:a<.: fnr rai-;ing the needed funds. Eventually, it was agreed to sell passes at tlle beginning of winter term to students wishing to use a shuttle bus service at night during winter term. A ticket will be valid for the entire term, and funds raised from ticket sales will pay for the shuttle bus service. However, it is important Lo note that a shuttle bus will be provided by a private company, meaning .1-,\'t .,M,. ;,....,....;,.:~,...'\. ,.....r r1.., • ...,......,. ....... .., ff\ ... ,......_ ... ~i.J .u.J..,..J.J.....,QaL U.t. \. .. h..t..Jtu.tc,- l.-\J a shuulc bus would result in the end of the service. Furthennore, the escort servic c will remain unchanged. Also discussed, for eacil foreign country to whic:h Union students can travel on a term ahroad there exists a fixoo numher of slots ava!lahlc f()r that country. With this year's addition of Brazil to the terms ahroad list, there will be fl() Continued on page 3: his wallet or the Deans' seemingly ineffectual te;sponse to his plight. \I'm mad that the ullool is trying to link the incident with alcohol. It doesn't matter if I was drinking or not;. it still would have happe n~d. It seemed like the Dean VYas more concerned about u11derage drinking than the safety ·Of the students. jj . .. - .. .. •·s···'\\ ..... ·~ .. . ,.. . '~'eitsm;nt \.Q~WV} n ;::. was attacked. by tbr~ skinned men at appto\f:mately 1 a.m. on Octobet 30tll while retlltlling alone ro his .dQ1l'tll. He said the men were sittirlg on a bench outside of Silliooan Hall when they asked for ll \'light.\ QUOTE OF THE WEEK: They \jumped\' him when he stopped to accommodate them, taking his wallet and leather jacket. and kicking him in the head. They left him on the ground, unconscious. He was later treated at Ellis Hospital for a ooncussion. \I was scared. I couldn't • understand why this had happened. There was so much C<lnfusion and I just wanted them to lea-v:~ as soon as possibl(}. . tty ()U :always dream of truttliitlg. l 1 ll do 'this or that if · ttie 'incident~ Weisman returned hntne to Pelham. NY for a few days to recover. He said that his town's close proximity to New York City bas helped to buffer the shock. · His parents share his attitude, \I see this thing all the time. · It's not so uncommon. Accidents happen and Schenectady seems like every city. I guess there's going to be crime everywhere. This is nothing that I'm ashamed of - it could have happened to · anyone.\ However, he said that he was · angry that greater overall security tnea5ures bave!t't been • tak~n by 1:ij.e schooL · · · yo~'te ·sate. The · you watf with the 'ht>.tf.,..,. can say is that if soroeone • · ·· to stop you. you better tun. . flin general~ though, this · hasn't changed my view of Union. The only thing that may have changed is that! may not walk alone.'' \Dean Alford dreams of tropical ecstasy with Shirley jJr({])Trrtt PWhatps Happeniu1tgfl! H --Andy Rosen '92

Ncnember 14, 1991 <ll.onrnrbirn.sis J Union Student Falsely Arrested On Racially Motivated Charges Future Of A Shuttle Bus System Positive Continued from page 2 additional slots allocated. Therefore, each country's total allocated slots for a tenn abroad is being reduced to allow for concern was that by funding Etienne, they would be setting a bad precedent. If asked by other students for funding ihey would have nothing to give. However, the Forum did suggest that Etienne try to gather funding from clubs on campus which may benefit from his experience abroad. Conti1111ed from :page 1 pursuit <>f a suspect.\ He also contacted the A-Plus night shift enployee who had been on duty during the night of the altercation. The employee stated tltat the four students had caused ~110 trouble. The lieutenant told the student md his family, \If you don't s11e he'll drop the charges. If you d<> sue he won't drop the charges and you'll go through a lengthy procedure which will take years to resolve.\ The Schenectady Police Commis.- sioner ,talked to the judge and event1.1ally convinced the arrestin~ officer to drop the charges,. After two straight weeks of meetings downtown. with the help of U11ion College faculty and the Dean, charges were dropped and tlle student's name was cleared. The story does not end h.ere. As a result of the ()rdeal, the student has a great deal of mistrust for the local JlOlke. \I felt like I no longer wanted to be at Union College. I was insecure about leaving the campus.\ The stadent ere<lits this fear with what occ Uil'ed during his many visits to the Schenectady Police Depart ... ment. Other officers at the station would give ,the s~11<lents resentful looks making for uncomfortable visits t() a building which was intended for public safety. \As an African-American srudent you are not safe anywhere you go, especially if you are alone. You get the feeling you need video proof or witnesses · because when you are outside you are a prime suspect for anything. I don't think this would have happened if I was not a young black man.\ The student believes that, today. African-Americans no longer feel the safety that the police department is suppose to represent. \Whenever I see a : police car I feel uncomfortable · because I never know what may happen.\ the addition of the Brazil program. The reason for a freeze on the number of total slots is related to the substantial cutbacks in Union's budget. Residence Life surveys were still being processed, but it was decided that data gathered from the surveys would at least be broken down in to the categories of (Grccl</Non- Greck), (Male/Female), and (by class). Results of the surveys will be printed in the winter term's first issue of Cvncordiensis. a!vn _, , ... itttsis Founded at lJn'f:m Colle~:e 1877 Another issue touched on at the Forum was the debate over whether or not to allow seniors who have not earned enough credits to graduate by graduation, to walk with their class on graduation day. The Forum agreed to endorse this assuming that such a senior is missing no more than the credits of three courses and has registered for summer or fall courses to fulfill the graduation requirement. Registration for needed courses was felt to show intent by a senior in this predicament. In additio11, an asterisk should be placed next to the names of such seniors in the. graduation ceremony program. Seth Ellis' position on two committees, (SAC and Conduct Committee), was questioned by the Forum on the grounds that the Faculty Handbook prohibits a student from maintaining a position on two related committees. The Forum agreed with the Faculty Handbook and decided that Ellis would have to choose Detween his two posts. would like to invite all memb.ers of t.he Union College faculty to contribute to the paper. For more information call: Jacques Etienne's funding .request for a trip to the Soviet Union and Lithuania was debated at length on the floor of the Forum. The Forum decide not to fund Etienne because of their limited remaining budget of only $300 for the entire year. Their Finally, the Forum is looking into the iclea of donating surplus food from the food service, which is usually thrown away, to local charities. Before this plan can be implemented, legal liabilities of the college must be worked out. S.tephanie at 346-8367, Steve at x4154 or Jordan at 374-5778 only orre ~WJsly doll ?/ It you want tha m~or retailers and tlle econqny to S\lMVe;youre gontna hcNe. to do better han that !! ... REPORTED SECURITY INCIDENTS DATE 11/4/91 11/4/91 11/4/91 11/4/91 11/5/91 11/5/91 11/5/91 11/6/91 11/6/91 11/7/91 11/7/91 11/8/91 11/8/91 11/9/91 11/9/91 11/9/91 11/10/91 11/10/91 11/10/91 LOCATION South College Reldhouse Vale cemetery Huntley Lane AI. Gym Office Off campus Fraternity Richmond Hse. Several locations 17 South Lane Mechanical Rms. var. bldgs. Davidson Hall/Loading dock area Steinmetz Copy Ctr. Fox/Davidson Lot Achilles Rink Mott Memorial Greene Room All Northside Campus Lots Alumni Gym. Fox Hall Anyone interested in volunteering INCIDENT Vandalism plaster wall Theft .of fire extinguishers Vandalism-head stones Students harassed by motorcyclist Theft/money from staff desk Harassment-non student Trespass-non student Student dispute Theft cleaning supplies Vandalized windows Tampering with mechanical controls Vehicle blocking dumpster Missing copy machine meter Thett of several students' license plates Vandalism emerg. phone & propane storage b1n Vandalism to thermostat Thett of several students' license plates Trespass non student Obscene phone calls (staff) SAVE THE WILDLIFE (one or more hours every week) at the Battered Women's Shelter in Schenectady can call Christa or Mabsa at~SCt-4439· ® WWF WC>RLD WILDLIFE f!DERATION

November 14, 1991 l\IEW!i <llonrnrbirn.sts 3 Union Student Falsely Arrested On Racially Motivated Charges Future Of A Shuttle Bus System Positive Continued from page 2 additional slots allocated. Therefore, each country's total allocated slots for a term abroad is being reduced to allow for concern was that by funding Etienne, they would be setting a bad prcccdcm. If asked hy Dthcr students for funding they W<luld have nothing to g ivc. However, the Forum did suggest that Etienne tr:y to gather funding fmm cluhs on campus which may bcncfi t from his experience abroad. Continued from page 1 pursuit of a suspect.\ He also contacted the A-Plus night shift employee who had been on duty during the nigllt of the altercation. The employee stated that the four students had caused no trouble. The lieutenant told the student and his family, \If yoa don't sue he'll drop the charges. If you do sue he won't drop the charges aad you'll go through a lengthy procedure which will take years to resolve.\ The Schenectady Police Commis- sioner talked to the judge and eventually convinced the arresting officer to drop the charges. After two straight weeks of meetings downtown, with the help of Union College faculty and the Dean, charges were dropped and the student's name was cleared. The story does not end here. As a result of the ordeal, the student has a great deal of mistrust for the local police. \I felt like I no longer wanted to be at Union College. I was insecure about leaving the campus.\ The student credits this fear with what occurred during his many visits to the Schenectady Police Depart- ment. Other officers at the station would give the students resentful looks making for uncomfortable visits to a building which was intended for public safety. \As an African-American student you are not safe anywhere you go, especially if you are alone. You get the feeling you need video proof or witnesses because when you a:re outside you are a prime suspect for anything. I don't think this would have happened if I was not a young black man.\ The student believes that, today, African-Americans no longer feel the safety that the police department is suppose to represent. \Whenever I see a police car I feel uncomfortable because I never know what may happen.\ the addition of the Brazil program. The reason for a freeze on the num bcr of total slots is related to the substantial cutbacks in Union's budget. Residence Life surveys \,\Crc still being processed, but it was decided thm data gath (Ted from the surveys would at k~st be broken down into the categories of (Greek/Son· Gred), (Male/Female), and (by class). Results of the sur,·cys will be printed in the winter term's first Issue of Concordiensis. @on ,,~. itttsis F01mdetl ut iJi.i;m Colle~c 1877 Another issue touched on at the Forum was the debate over whether or not to allow seniors who have not earned enough credits to graduate by graduation, to walk with their class on graduation day. The Forum agreed to endorse this assuming that such a senior is missing no more than the ;;redits of three courses and has registered for summer or fall courses to fulfill the graduation requirement. Registration for needed courses was felt to show intent by a senior in this predicament. In addition, an asterisk should be placed next to the names of such seniors in the graduation ceremony program. Seth Ellis' position on two committees, (SAC and Conduct Committee), was questioned by the Forum on the grounds that the Faculty Handbook prohibits a stu<lcnt from maintaining a position on two related committees. The Forum agreed with the Faculty Handbook and decided that Ellis would have to choose between his two posts. would like to invite all members of the Union College faculty to contribute to the paper. For more information call: Jacques Etienne's funding request for a trip to tbe Soviet Union and Lithuania was debated at length on the floor of the Forum. The Forum decide not to fund Etienne because of their limited remaining budget of only $300 for the entire year. Their Finally, the Forum is looking into the idea of donating surplus food from the food service, which is usually thrown away, to local charities. Before this plan can be implemented, legal liabilities of the college must be worked out. Stephanie at 346-8367, Steve at x4154 or Jordan at 374-5778 on[j one UfaS]y doll ?! It you want the mqjor retailers and the econqcy to survive. youre sonna have to do bette!\ than that!! ... !l\1tsft Convocation janua1JJ 8tli 7:,00 p.m. REPORTED SECURITY INCIDENTS DATE 11/4/91 11/4/91 11 /4/91 11/4/91 11/5/91 11/5/91 11/5/91 11/6/91 11/6/91 11/7/91 11/7/91 11/8/91 11/8/91 11/9/91 11/9/91 11/9/91 11/10/91 11/10/91 11/10/91 LOCATION South College Reldhouse Vale cemetery Huntley Lane AI. Gym Office Off campus Fraternity Richmond Hse. Several locations 17 South Lane Mechanical Rms. var. bldgs. Davidson Hall/Loading dock area Steinmetz Copy Ctr. Fox/Davidson Lot Achilles Rink Mott Memorial Greene Room All Northside Campus Lots Alumni Gym. Fox Hall Anyone interested in volunteering INCIDENT Vandalism plaster wall Theft of fire extinguishers Vandalism-head stones Students harassed by motorcyclist ThefUmoney from staff desk Harassment- non student Trespass-non student Student dispute Theft cleaning supplies Vandalized windows Tampering with mechan1ca1 CO\tro!s Vehicle blocking dumpster Missing copy machine meter Theft of several students' l1cense plates Vandalism emerg. phone & propane storage bi:: Vandalism to thermostat Theft of several students· l1cense p:ates Trespass non student Obscene phone calls (staff) SAVE THE WILDLIFE (one or more hours every week) at the Battered Women's Shelter in Schenectady can call Christa or Mahsa at 386-4439· WWF WORLD WILDLIFE fEDERATION

\o • ·-,· ' \· atl11tfllrbitltsis NEWS ANALYSIS November 14, The Union College Bureaucracy: A Necessary Cost Of An Education? bJ Jordan Lippner News Editor Last spring, in the midst of the \Hathaway Incident,\ the Union College Board of Trustees informed the student body lhat \the college is a business, a corporation; and therefGre must be run as such.\ I realbed that what this trustee was really trying to say was that the Union College administration is a bureaucracy. Well, years ago when I first heard the word, I assumed that it must be a bad thing, for it was quite hard to spell. B-u-r-e- a-u-c-r-a-c-y. Later on, as I learned its meaning, it did not seem so terrible after all. Howe\Ver .Utcr three-plus years at Union College, I find that I have :Feturned to my original conclusion that a bureaucracy is \a bad thing,\ at least in the form that it exists at Union College. My fellow students, we are the \creme de Ia creme of American youth\ (thank you, Professor Berk). Yet term after term we put up with an incompetent administration which fails to serve our interests. From the time when we are granted admission, throughout the ensuing four years, Union's bureaucracy keeps running with both eyes aimed .at making a profit, rather than enriching the lives of the stude11ts. Proof, you want proof? Well let me first look at two recent incidents in which the students were the victims of our beloved bureaucracy. This past Tuesday, November 12,. the members of the junior class took their turn at the pre- registration bonanza going on at the Registrar's office. While things appeared to be runn1ng smoothly, eighteen students found out that perceptions at Union College have a habit of being deceiving. Ms. Judy Peck of the Registrar's office spent the afternoon telephoning tnese eighteen students, informing. them that the Registrar had made a mistake in allowing them entry into fue class \Film as Fictive Art.\ It seems that the members of the Registrar had failed to enter into their computer the correct limit due to some bureaucratic mix-up, thus allowing 53 students to sign up for the course in stead of the designated 35. Tllese students were forced t<l go through unnecessary hassle at the end of a term, when no one has time for, or the mind for, administrative blunders. J olm Schachnovsky was one of tile students inconvenienced by this bureaucratic misctie. He was quite frustrated by the whole incident, stating that \given such a routine task as entering course selections into a computer, one would think that they could get it right.\ The Registrar is a department which has refused to change its methods due to self-proclaimed efficiency. Perhaps it is time for this part of the Union College Bureaucracy to concede its inefficiency and open up to new ideas. My second gripe of the past week has to do with a much more grave incident. As reported by Conc.ordiensis this past week Mark Weisman was assaulted by three locals as he left a party last Thursday night and proceeded to go back to his dormitory. That the incident even occurred, only the administration can be to blame. The state of security on this campus, especially when considering the city in which Union is situated, is deplorable. To begin with, Schenectady has the highest crime rate in the country for a city in its class. Yet this fact is seemingly ignored. The administration's current policy is to deploy only two security guards at night. That's right. Union students are supposed to feel secure because somewhere on this campus there are two officers driving around. This is completely unacceptable. Furthermore, if there is a fire alarm. both of these bureaucratic droids go to the dormitory in question. Therefore there is not a single security guard roaming the campus during an alarm. Knowing this, it would not surprise me if a delinquent purposely pulled an alarm at one end of the campus, in order to secure freedom to commit a crime at another end. STUDENTS AND FACULTY MEMBERS Interested in learning how to conduct effective interviews and in other aspects of Oral History are invited to attend a two-part WORKSHOP ON ORAL HISTORY Led by Professor Andor Skotnes, of Russell Sage College and formerly of The Columbia University Oral History Project To Be Held MONDAY 18 NOVEMBER, AND FRIDAY 22 NOVEMBER, 1991 FROM 3:30-5:20 P.M. IN SOCIAL SCIENCES ROOM 112 Sponsored by the Oral History Subcommittee of the Bicentennial Steering C()mmittee Campus security is a problem which demands urgent attention. No Union student will be safe until there are more than two security guards patrolling the campus grounds. President Hull, I hope that after a year in this war zone of a city you have realized that taking down fences will not benefit the college community. After all, do we really want to invite more people, like the three who ganged up on Mark Weisman, on to campus? I think not. Whether it is a bureaucracy which is concerned for the students or the students' money, remains to be seen. The recent attack on this Union student has another interesting twist which also demands attention. Following the altercation, Mark went to talk with Assistant Dean of Students Fred Alford. To Alford's discredit, he was not compassionate but domineering. Caught up in the school's bureaucracy, Alford seemed more concerned with the fact that Mark had been drinking and was under the age of 21 and what this could mean for the school as far as liability was concerned. Dean Alford, don't you think it was rather an inappropriate time to discuss the problem of minors on campus drinking? Whether Whether mark was drunk or -= had abstained from alcohol all night is meaningless. The fact of the matter is that he was assaulted and would have been even had he not been drinking. Well that about sums up my gripes over the events of the last week. But what about the rest of the time we are here. What about the residence life forms that we all fil.led out to no avail as incoming freshmen. I chose co-ed dorm, suite, and non-smoker. I ended up in Webster House. Why doesn't our administration do what other schools do, sending each incoming student a personal description sheet and then try to match up compatible students. It might not work all the time, but it certainly would demonstrate a genuine concern for the welfare of the student body. I could go on and on, but I believe I've made my point. We all have gripes with the administration and how it treats us like cogs in a machine. But by keeping to ourselves and continuing to just go through the motions is not the solution. After all, next time you read about a student getting assaulted, it could be a friend, or it could be you. Union College students will always be subject to an administrative bureaucracy. However, whether it is a bureaucracy which is concerned for the students, or the students' money, remains to be seen. Which would you rather have? S50 REWARD S50 <!rnltfllrbirnsis \We Need A Motto\ Concordiensis is looking for a motto (Example: \All the news that's fit to print\) , All entries must be less than ten words and submitted by 3 pm on Friday, November 22 to Box 1044 or Box 862 ~ ' I ' t l

,, ' i i: r November 14, 1991 CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD <llnltfllrbirttsiz 5 M.exica:n Restaurant 482-5297 455 Sand Creek Boad, Albany, N.Y. (Just East of Wolf Road) OPEN Serving Mole Pobla:no, Fajitas,. Enchiladas, Tacos, Burritos, Taquitos, Carne Asada, Chi,le ReUenos, Chimichangas, Tostadas, and other Mexican favorites. Steak, Chicken and Fish Dinners as well. Children welcomed. Most items $4.95 to $8.95. Eat in/Take out. Look for the Giant Cactus. WHEN PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE, SOME PEOPLE WANT EVERYTHING. (ltt think thatt perfectly reasonable.) R tirement should be everything you dreamed it would be. With good health, you may spend a quarter of your life doing the things you've always dreamed of -like travelling the world, starting your own business, or playing tennis twelve months a year. RETmE YOUR WAY, WITH TIAA-CREF SRAs. TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities are a unique way for members of the education and research communities to save extra money for their retirement years. Through tax-deferred savings, TIAA-CREF SRAs can help provide the ex:tras that will make your retirement truly enjoyable. They will supplement your basic pension and Social Security in retire- ment, and they offer real beneftts now: • The benefits of tax deferral. • A broad range of allocation choices. • NO sales charges. • Among the lowest expenses in the insurance and mutual fund industries:\ • A variety of ways to receive income, including lifetime retirement income, payments over a f. xed period, or as cash. TIAA-CREF CAN HELP MAKE YOUR DREAMS COME TRUE. W1th the help of TIAA-CREF, retirement can be your chance to look after yourself the way you've always wanted. After all, nobody deserves it more. ,----------- 1 GET YOUR FREE SRA KIT I I I I which includes a slide calculator for estimating tax savings. Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730Third Avenue, New York. NY I Or call 1800-842-2733, ext. 8016. 1 NamdPieasc print) I A1lclreJ~ I I _ru~y--~----------~~~\'~'---~~p(_nc_k ____ __ I Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M I lnJ'Iiluli<'\ (Full name) I I Titlt I T!AA ·(\REF l'crrticipan/ ~================================' DTh•D~ l>a.vt ;,.,_ Ph\\' ( ) If Y'·'~ S\cull Stcurily ft. * A..M. Be.rt Co., Be~t's lnsuran~e Reports; Lippu• Anal!flic~tl &rPues li1wrporah!J, Mut11al FtUtd Performance Analysis. CN Get your hands Concordiensis and get a Grasp on the Campus Support The nGHTING DUTCHMEN at tile HOME FOOTBAI,L GAME UNIONvs. ROCHES'I'ER This Sat., Nov. 16th at 1:30 p.m. on the Frank Bailey Field and Watch the Half.-Time Show of the U.C. Dancers Union~s Dance Team Come f:l Find The· ''U'' in u.c. Dancers

I ,, INTERI\IATIONAL FEAT:URE!i November 14, 1991 Bursting Out Of The Bubble On November 9, the United States decided to join in on the economic sanctions against Yugoslavia in tile hopes of pressuring the country's republics to stop the civil war. As of friday, Lhe European community has decided \to withdraw trade preferences, end a uade agreement and economic aid, and urge the United Nations to impose an oil embargo.\ Officials say that the U.S. probably would decide to deny Yugoslavia preferential tariffs and would withhold a grant of $5 million that was to aid Yugoslavia in its transition to democracy and a market economy. Washington has also pushecl to slash subsidies on farm goods by 75 percent and export subsidies by 90 peFcent but so far the European community has resisted these cuts in fear of harming its farmers, who are highly subsidized. In a separatist Muslim enclave of Chechen-lgnush in Grozny, U.S.S.R. civilians and militiamen took control of airports and blockaded streets in an effort to prevent Soviet -;oldicrs from cnfor(ing President Boris N. YciL-;in'scmcrgcncy rule, Ycltsin decreed on Friday that rallies be banned and a curfew be imposed. m tllis enclave. This measure was taken by Yeltsin as a step to quell ethnic unrest and thus protect the free-market refonns he has been seeking for to restructure to economy. The region's President, General Dzhokar Dudayev, called together men aged 15 to 55 and claims t<J have 5,000 soldiers, 62,000 volunteers and the support of the nearby republics of Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. This general has also canceled Mr. Yeltsin's decree and declared his own military state of law. Chechen-Ignush, consisting of 1.3 million people had declared itself an independent republic on November2. A Soviet airliner was hijacked on November 9 and forced to land in Ankara, Turkey. The hijackers armed with grenades and pistols told Turkish officials that they were from Chechen- Ignusll. The plane had over 160 passengers on board. In Germany, tens of thousands of people, including church and labor leaders, in more than 100 cities marched to protest attacks on foreigners and to \mark the anniversary of a Nazi program against Jews in 1938.\ In addition the day celebrated the second anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. After the fall of Communism in East Germany, there was a rise in the number of Eastern European and third world refugees and witll them came a rise in hate groups. Racist violence has been occurring since. Some of the anti-racism protesters were said to have been carrying window frames with broken glass as symbols of recent attacks as well as the 1938 Nazi violence against Jews that brought in the Holocaust. Thanks to The New York Times (Sunday, Novemb~r 10, 1991) - International Section - for the provided information. by Wendy Towber, :Pam Leinson, Jen Shulkin, Rachel Tuck Contributing Writers Last year's numerous hassles including essays, meetings, and bureaucratic details have all proven to be worth the effort. Surrounded by the iron gates we all know, Union provides a false sense of security that contrasts frorn real life. Living in an international city for 3 l/2 months has definitely been an eye opening experience. W.e have been exposed t<> a. variety of cultures and much diversity as we visit palaces, cast:les, museums, theater, and of course the night life and pub scene. Living on PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washingtm~ DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly 90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle wm·ds and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. The largest, but most sparsely populated of tl;le Central American nations. I I I I I I I 1 1. A usually extensive land area having a relatively level surface raised sharply above adjacent land on a1 least one side. 2. Capital of neighboring Honduras. 3. Nickname for the swampy and indented land of this na1i()n which boarders the Caribbean and is often host to numerous small i11sects. 4. Branch of U.S. military specializing in amphibious landings and ,assaults. our own in central London has forced us to use our freedom responsibility. We are always trying to take :advantage of where we are because we know our time here is limited. Ahhough we are having the time of our Hves in London, we are excited to come back inside the gates to what we consider home. East Asian Studies/ASV Fall Film Series \OHAYO\ ( 1959). Directed by Yasujiro Ozo, 94 minutes; color; subtitles. Friday, November 15 College Center Room406 8pm Free Admission .,

....... November 14, 1991 11\JTERI\IATIOI\IAL FEATURE§ C!Llllt1)lr~irnms Socialized Medicine '91 ''The Best\ .by Richardson M. Fleuridor Contributing Writer Margaret Thatcher, the former prime minister, changed the system a little. She installed what is called an \Internal Market System.\ In this system, the GP receive a food and may use it to purchase the services of hospitals or may open their own clinic. Faced with this situation, the hospita Is must compete with each other for the GPs \business\ by providing better care at a low price. Overall the system seems pretty good. When the morning classes ended, we had the afternoons free to do what we like. Visiting various places such as the Tower Bridge, Big Ben, and ca<;tlcs was worth evcry second. The places were simply breathtaking and magnificent. But we must admit that driving on the left side of the street with the stee-ring wheel on the rit:ht 'hk l1f thL· lar \\;t' pr~..·rty \~~..·ird .. Socialized Medicine '91 was excellent. The program, whose purpose was to study health care in the United States, England. the Netherlands. and Hungary, lasted eight weeks. The first week was spent in the U.S. We visited various hospitals in Albany and Schenectady. Among them were St. Clmc's Hospital, V .A. Hospital, and an HMO. Albany, Medical, a tertiary care unit, was fllund to be very impressive due to its techno logy. The health c arc system is financed in variou~ ways by the state and federal Medicare and Medicaid and different types of insurance syqcms. At the- end of the '.\ l't.:l-. \''-' lt1lllHI tllll that tht' ' y s t c m \~ a -. u Hll pI i l' at c d . t.\l'idU'lll~ and <..''\l)t'fl,IH' t\2'·; ul tile (i~I'). It \\a-; a rtlugh week, but we survived and we were soon on our way to Europe (the party place). :\ft,-r thr<..'\' \~<..'t'l-.' 111 ltlltd,lll, w~ took a krry lllr L'lblll ht1urs down to the Netherlands. The people were all tall, blond, blue eyes, and very nice. Their streets were \spotless.\ Their modes of transportation were very efficient and so was their health care system. Like the English, the Dutch do not pay their physician when they go to see him. An insurance system pays for them. The insura11ce system is, of course, fair since it is based on the individual's income. Top left: Frank Wessels, Mike Park, Prof. Hull, Susan Hulse, Arnon Rubin, Hillary Sussman, Neil Kanterman, Dave Schmidt, Richardson Fleuridor. Bottom left: Jeanne Capek, Corey Logan, Josh Aron, Pamela Finger, Jennifer Schimmel, Kathy Tran Regi Pathrose, Robin Sachs. ' With great anxieties and many worries Prof. Thomas bade us goodbye. We met in England and quickly got used to the \funny\ British accent. Their system is financed by ~National Health Service (NHS). This means that the hospitals and general practitioners (GP) receive money from the NHS and not from the patients. Dr. Armstrong said \once a Br itisher is born, he is guaranteed primary medical care without paying.\ The problem with this system, however, is that there's a queue. The waiting period for certain operations are longer than a year. Amsterdam had many interesting things to offer. Drugs were one of them. A government organization, the GG & GD. distribute methadone (a synthetic drug used to treat heroin addicts and is itself addictive). There is absolute control over the drug's ·distribution and no problem once or ever with this idea. Amsterdam is also known for its practice of euthanasia. This is the idea that an individual has the right to terminate his or her life in a hopeless medical situation. But best of all, Amsterdam offers the 'Red Light District.' This is a designated area where prostitution is tolerated. The females are literally displayed through windows for \shoppers.\ Most \Soc. Meders\ love the red light district. 'The two weeks in Holland went by very quickly. The PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZzLE For further information about Peace- Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you wiLl learn about one oQfthese countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the sqllares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. The first country to which Peace Corps Volunteers were sent In August 1961, this West African country was formerly called the Gold Coast. 1. Agricultural product from which chocolate is made. 2. Extensive land area having a relatively level surface raised sllarply above adjacent land. 3. The God of Islam. 4. The Gulf of borders this country. remaining weeks were spent in Budapest, Hungary. It took us eighteen hours to get there from Holland by Eurall. Budapest is a very beautiful ci.ty. The architectural design of the city is gorgeous. Budapest seemed like an aggregation of large beautifully decorated buildings and was filled with ancient monuments. Hungary, however, faces ,great economic difficulties. The .situation is really bad and as a result the health care system is poorly funded. The doctors (who get less pay than a tram or a bus driver annually) must rely on tips from patients to boost their incomes. The ethical questions underlying the practice of tipping doctors are evident and unthinkable. In conclusion, I thought that the countries were very nice and interesting. Socialized Medicine was without a doubt \the best.\ We would like to thank the members of the Terms Abroad office for all their help and a chance to sec Europe. We would also like to thank Prof. Hull of the Chern istry Department for his patience and guidance. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU.OIO). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM Come and wtJtch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infonnation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM

FEATURE§ ''Farts ' Boogers and Burps'' by Andrew Rosen Concordiensis Staff I sit before my word processor and find myself entJenched in the biological milieu. I've analyzed the psychological influence of Geraldo on our drinking youth, the tunneled vts1on of statistical masturbation and my own personal detestation of yarns. I began to branch off in tho11ght. It began with Nipsy Russel, long time celebrity star of the unfortunately defunct \Match Game.\ It flowed unceremoniously to the Ropers - wily the hell didn't Stanley just get rid of Helen, she's such a kvetch. Jeannie and Chochi brought a gentle globe of saline down rny cheek. Finally, where did Yukon Cornelious get the money to go looking for silver and gold in the jaded cl~ssic, \Rudolph the Red Ncsed Reindeer\? I began to ponder many things. It comes down to fluidity. I don't care to explain the exact correlation, but on a busy Saturday morning at approximately 1:30 a.m., my visionary wisdom gleamed and I found my topic. The brain trust told me what to write about: farts, l5oogcrs and burps. It's a simple argument. All three arc as natural as the change in seasons. Unfortunately, they all become the western understudy in social faux pas. Why? Nobody will ever know. What I offer is the voice for all those closet farters, belchers and nose pickers. I will define the variations and carry you to the promised land. My good friend and athletic phenom, Juan, casually stated: \Parts are a part of life. It's natural. You just have to live with it.\ WeU said. brother. The fart is perhaps the most influential of these three \ai:lments.\ I personally remember my freshman year in high school (Buffalo, by the way, is probably one of the top 17 cities cited fer \farting excellence\). I was in Mr. Allen's science class leaning back on my chair trying to absorb the Bohr Model of the atom. Like a flash of lightning, I felt the starched tickle of fluttering rectal wind and I knew that a textbook Class Ill fart had been executed. In retrospect, I actually carry a great deal of pride. From that day on, I would not be afraid to admit that I was a farter. You should be proud of your farts just as you would large muscles or a good tan. Any productive assessment begins with a solid analysis. I believe that farts can be divided into four basic categories. The most common is the class I or \standard\ fart. Amongst your friends or in complete solitude, this light ripple exhumes a fair yet predominant aroma. The class II fart may be the single most satisfying fart on the planet. It involves a loud, scratching burst yet fails to break that barrier between Glade and toxic shock. The class III continues to be my favorite fart. It begins with that bloated feeling in your stomach, as if the last ball of Skellar Grease Burger refused to be digested. The 3-4 second stream of heaven is usually quiet enough to throw even the greatest sniffers off target. This one's best in a crowd or elevator. The class IV fart is the most dangerous. It arrives by stealth and becomes toxic to even the stuffiest of noses. However, why is there so much commotion if every single human being on this planet farts into one of the four mentioned categories above? Even Geraldo won't touch this one. My good friend Jason offers this theory: \It reeks. It's like a foreign substance.\ Most people want to blame the social rejection of farts on theit foul donation to the air we breathe. I'd rather suck back two liters of Juan's gas than live in Newark, however. Burps offer a middle ground. How many times have you been in the bar room, kicking back three or four glasses of iced Meister Brau, working the \rap\ with that potential nocturnal \aid\ when the wrong thing comes out of your mouth: \Hey Kristen, you look good tonight (BELCH!) Oh, excuse me.\ Biologically burps arise from air pockets resulting from improper food ingestion. The release of this air runs through the rough surface of our throats and mouths and enters the world as a pounded mouth-fart. I understand that sometimes ~ burp can be misconstrued as rude or interrupting. But what•s the difference between standing up in the middle of class to burp and standing up to yell \Dean Alford dreams of tropical ecstasy with Shirley from 'What's Happening'!\? They're both loud interruptions in class. Just as the fart is natural and omnipresent, why, then, . · ·Do You ·w·ant VISA &. MasterCard Credit Cards? · . Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards Jn the vmrld ... VIsa® and MasterCard* credit cards ..... ln your name.\' EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'IURNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard® the credit cards )IOU deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENl STORES-TUITION-ENTERTAINMENT- EMERGENCY CA.SH-TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HQTELS-MOTELS-GAS~AR RENTAI.S- REPAIR5-AND TO BUilD YOUR CREDIT RATING! CUARANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD CUAIIAMTIED ISIUI 011 MONIY lACK Approval absolutely guaranteed so MAIL THIS NO RISK .COU~ON TODAY can'J: we burp in front of eacb. other after a good pastrami sandwich? I like those SatunJ:ay afternoons over break when you turn on a good football game and have a sandwich with your father. He kicks back on the La-Z-Boy and out comes a thunderous eruption of intestinal air. You wait and before you can read the score off the screen, you KNOW he had a corned beef sandwich, pickle and diet Coke. lt's almost enjoyable to play !that same prediction game with your friends. \Jason come over here and tell me what kind of sandwich I had ... (BELCH!) II II J~ 11 ..., ... en, can you te · whether I had the tuna salad or the cheeseburger ... (BELCH!) .... \ There are some peopl~ who have turned B.I.G.'s (bur]) . identification games) into ·i:t science. AMERICA, LOOSEN UP! It's only a burp and like the fart, it's completely naturaL I LOVE to pick my nose. I: remember attending a meeting with Professor Ludwig twCJ springs ago to discuss my upcoming term abroad ill England. I had only one thought: do they pick their nose in England? If they did, I could simply wipe my boogers under the couch- my personal favorite. If they didn't, I'd need to pack tissues to escape the obvious embarrassment of being solely responsible for booger deposition under a clean couch. Sometimes, in class., you nose will itch. Wha.t begins as a simple extranasaJ scratch soon becomes 3 thorough probe. What cC>me;£ out could be one of those crispy boogers; it could be one of those wet ones; they can be soft, they can be hard; they can be easily flicked or they may stick to the top of your forefing·er as you flick, demanding immediate emergency wiping under your desk. If you're tremendously proper, you carry a handkerchief. We all know that the only reason to carry a handkerchief when dressed formally is to prevent the ugly task of accidentally flicking one's boQger on yourself (technically called \autoflicking\). In any case, people pick their noses. Depending on the defense one assumes to prevent accidental speckling on your neighbor or yourself, everyone sticks a finger in their nose with only one purpose in mind. I don't want to hear anyone complain about farts, boogers, and burps any longer. I don't want people to look at these three absolutely NATURAL occurrences and squirm in their seats. I am the voice and my disciples will follow. Eat your beans, blow your nose and have that extra pickle. The day will come when the fart will become the social nonn. Sex will never disappear. We may become safer, but let's wait for the day when a fart will be worth a hundred roses. Let's wait for that day when a burp will demand a particular kind of wine. Pick your nose and wipe it under your kid brother or rub it on your sister's dress - have some fun! Parts, boogers and burps will live forever despite the quiet reservations of the unfortunately closeted minority. ------------------------- 1STUDEHT SERVICES.PO BOX 2596.HOLLYWOOD,Fl 33022~ I ,_ • : YES! I want VJSA®/MASTERCARD® Credit : I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which ls l 00% refundable If not I I appro\100 Immediately. I I I I NAME I I I 1 ADDRESS 1 I CITY STATE -ZIP I I I 1 -PHONE S.S.# 1 I SIGNATIJRE I I NOTE: MasterCanl ts a n:gtstcm:H.mdemark d MasterCard lnlemsllonal. Inc. I I VIsa Iss ~steml tnuknark of VISA. USA. Inc. and VISA In lema donal I I Sc~us AssoctatloJL 100o1o GUARANTEED! I I I L---L-----------------------------------------~- ------------------------ ANNOUNCING THE Steinmetz Symposium on Student Creatil'e, Scholarly, and Research Achievements Friday, April 10, 1992 1:30 - 5:30p.m. We encourage presentations or exhibitions by students from all four classes. Participants must be sponsored by a member of the faculty. Now is the time for students to begin thinking about their presentations and contact faculty sponsors. Be a contributing member of. the Union Community! Take part in the Steinmetz Symposium. Do you care about issues affecting women both on and off campus??? Come to a Women's Union meeting any Thursday at 12:30. Our meetings are held at the Women's Center (Located at the corner of North College) !NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! ••••• - ................. ~ '*~\'4'\\'\'- .. ~··-( •.• ~ ... _ .... ~ ... 11 .... ' ... k• .... ,... .~ ·-· ·+·\· ... ~ .. - .... -- ...... ~ + •• ~ -

'November 14, 1991 CAMPUS BUL:LETIJ\1 B:OARD <lrvnrorbitn.si.s 9 <!toltfilrbirnsis would like to YOU wish the college community Good Luck during Final Exam week and ! an enjoyable Holiday Season! Stratton has a lower price for anyone pursuing a higher education. $22 mid- week. $29 on weekends and holi- days. So you can save $10 any day and every day with a current colJege I.D. And you get 92 exciting trCJils, a 12- passenger gondola, plus all the extracurricular fun you can handle. Now, how's that for financial aid? © Stratton Corporation, l.95i1 VERMONT • Macintosh Classic® System. Macintosh LC System. Macintosh /lsi System. Now's the right time to buy an Apple® Macintosh® computer system. Because right now you can save big on Apple's most popular com- puters and qualifying printers. And Macintosh is the right computer to help you achieve your best, throughout college and beyond. What's more, you may even qualify for the new Apple Computer Loan, which makes buying a Macintosh now even easier. So come in right now and check out the big savings on Macintosh. But hurry- these special savings last only through january 5, 1992. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH THE UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 © 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademariG of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer.lnc.

EDITORIAL WJtltfllrbtrnsis~ ---F11unded at Union College 1877-- Bring Back the SA Ts Over the last three years it has become increasingly apparent that the administration has made a huge mistake in deciding to drop the SAT score as a criteria for admission into Union College. As the school continues to encounter a great deal of difficulty in keeping acceptance percentages low, the institution should feel compelled to stand out in other areas of the admission process.The reinstitution of a SAT requirement could ultimately enable the school to do just that. The benefits are twofold. While the student body remains sick and tired of attending a \mediocre\ school, admitting students with respectable SAT scores could enable Union to move up in the ranks of America's best colleges and universities. Jt would be nice 1 to see Union College make a name for itself beyond the borders of i New York State. It is unfortunate that Union alumni choose to display only their graduate degrees on the walls of their respective offices. In short, it is disgraceful to find Union diplomas buried in dusty comers of attic chests. The administration must do something to make Union a more widely respected institution. Moreover, it is obvious that an admissions office which can boast of its high mean SAT scores will attract students of a higher caliber. Clearly, a school's quality is a direct reflection of its ! student body. Thus, the admissions office must terminate its practice of accepting \promising\ students who simply can not make the grade when it comes to standardized tests. Unlike other fundamental problems at Union, this solution is a : simple one. Bring back SATs. The Cure For Union's Social Blues Over the past few weeks, discussion of social alternatives has resurfaced in the Union College community. The hope is to take the burden off the Greeks, who have been responsible for providing i the campus with most of the popular social activities. Also, there are strong voices urging for alternatives to the Greek parties, because some people enjoy more diverse social activities. The point repeatedly raised by the faculty of the Student Activities office is that there are plenty of social alternatives for students. Almost every night of the week, there are more than enough acceptable events planned by the school to keep even the most skeptical student busy. These events range from famous speakers, dramatic productions, and rock bands to Monday night football on widescreen televisions. The problem with these activities is that they have not been popular as social' environments. The most popular social activity at Union is, without a doubt, hanging out with friends, and perhaps at the same time making new ones. This is what is commonly done at fraternity parties and the main reason for their success. Hand in hand with the notion of hanging out is relaxing with a drink or two. After busy days of study and work, students, not unlike their older counterparts in society, want to unwind for a little while with their friends. If an event does not allow for such activity, it will not be a popular occurrence (except for the rare amazing event, such as the play \Beirut\). 1 This phenomenon is clear in the difference between holding identical events in different environments. For example, every Monday night a football game is shown on a widescreen television upstairs in the College Center and very few people attend. The strange thing is that fifty feet off campus there is a bar which happens to be packed with Union students watching the same game, on a similar television. The same discrepancy is apparent in the fact that when there is a rock band in the College Center no one shows up, yet when a fraternity hosts a band, hundreds of people are willing to buy tickets to get in the door. ' I believe that the remedy for Union's social alternatives problems : is the re-establishment of an on campus bar. The idea has been tried before with minimal success because it was not approached from the correct angle. The bar should not solely be a place where twenty-one year old students can have a beer and listen to a jukebox. It should be a place where everyone hangs out and the twenty-one year olds can drink. At the same time, the bar could host the potentially extremely popular events such as bands and football games, and also new ones; for example, comedians and improv nights. This would breathe life back into the dying social alternatives schedule, keep students happy on campus, and probably make money for the school (instead of losing it to local bars.) As one would expect, such an establishment would instantly be a hit with the people who could drink. The other students would soon follow for various reasons. The bar would become the place to be on campus because of the activities held. The non-drinkers would have fun because they could hang out witll their friends and have a good time. Eventually, people would become used to hanging out and would begin to show up regardless of the activity being staged. There are many legal and logistical problems which would have to be faced in order to make this plan a reality. However, it is feasible and definitely would be worth the troable. Most other colleges and universities have highly successful versions of the campus bar. Additionally, Union already has a perfect place for the bar. Ever since Beta was evicted, Maxcy House has gone unused. If renovated, the building could potentially become a great bar. It is time for Union to join the real world and get its social zJI.Crnd.tivc.s effort back on its feet - LETTER§, November 14, 1991 Who's Apathetic- Students Or Faculty? To the Editor: In the pastfew weeks I was involved in organizing the Public Speaking Competition. The event occun:ed this past week on November 4, 5, 6, and 7. Although I was not the major organizer of this particular event, I was still angry at the turnout. Well over two hundred students showed up, but only one faculty member (other than the ones invited to be judges) showed up. It seemed to me that the faculty is quite hypocritical. The faculty is quick to judge the students as being apathetic and not involved, yet only one of them shows up for the biggest non-alcohol related student run event. I think that the faculty is too quick to judge students in a negative way. Often I see letters and articles in this paper that are negative. Yet rarely do I ever see a positive letter more than two lines long encouraging students to participate more. Positive reinforcement is very important to make students feel better and participate more in events that are beneficial to our campus society. Faculty: Please do not be quick to judge our students as uninvolved. There is plenty of brilliance on this campus but sometimes it takes more than an insult to bring it out. Please in the future, compliment the student- body. Use condescending comments only where necessary. Thanks, Chip Skudolnik ('93) Concordiensis Comes Up Short To the Editor: Last week's editorial stated that future \articles will become more newsworthy.\ While I applaud the intent, I am disappointed with the effort. It is disgraceful that certain newsworthy events on campus have been neglected in the past and continue to be neglected during this period of declared change. Specifically, \Not a Love Story,\ a documentary on pornography sponsored by the Women's Union was not acknowledged by the Concordiensis staff. Union students are often criticized for their apathetic attitudes, but in this case, Concordiensis seems to be the culprit. This controversial issue brought many students and faculty together demonstrating the campus-wide interest. The debate over pornography involve political, emotional, social and cultural concerns. If such a complex debate is not worthy of reporting, then I ask, what is? I find it ironic that a college • which boasts ~bout its scientific advances prints an environmental article on Bonnie Raitt that took place over two months ago, 20 miles away, rather than printing issues that are pertinent to life today on campus. Hopefully, with a new format, the Concordiensis staff will do their jobs and recognize important events that take place at Union. Eve-Lynn Miller '92 Input Sought On Course Evaluations To the Editor: This week all professors should have banded out course evaluations (the green sheets!) in all of our classes. These evaluation f()rms are really important for all of us at Union. You see, these evaluations are the only means that we, as stlldents, have input into the academic state of our college. Professors use our comments on these forms to improve the quality of their teaching, Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis department chairs use them when evaluating the competency of their faculty, and every other year when . professors are considered for pay increases, the student evaluations are crucial. Considering the important role that these evaluations play, a committee has been fonned to study this evaluation process. We are interested in hearing what members of the college community have to say about course evaluations. Do you think they are effective'.? Are they necessary? Are they asking the right questions? Do you feel confident about your confidentiality? etc .• etc., etc. Please· drop us a line at Box 1170 and let us know, or give me a call at 386-4131 if you want to talk in person to one of the committee members. Any input will be gratefully appreciated. Gregory Mishkin, '92 Chairman, Student Evaluation Committee

EDITORIAL -~~4(1\ ~ .. • \imi!IIIJI!I~~ monrur~ ntrnsts ---Founded at Union College 1877-- Bring Back the SATs Over the last three years it has become increasingly apparent that the administration has made a huge mistake in deciding to drop the SAT score as a criteria for admission into Union College. As the scllool continues to encounter a great deal of diJficulty in keeping acceptance percentages low, the institution should feel compelled to stand out in other areas of the admission process.The rcinstitution of a SAT requirement could ultimately enable the school to do just that. The benefits are twofold. While the student body remains sick and tired of attending a \mediocre\ school, admitting students with respectable SAT scores could enable Union to move up in the ranks of America's best colleges and universities. It would be nice to see Union College make a name for itself beyond the borders of New York State. It is unfortunate that Union alumni choose to display only their graduate degrees on the walls of their respective offices. In short, it is disgraceful to find Union diplomas buried in dusty corners of attic chests. The administration must do something to make Union a m<>re widely respected institution. Moreover, it is obvious that an admissions office which can boast of its high mean SAT scores will attract students of a higher caliber. Clearly, a school's quality is a direct reflection of its student b<ldy. Thus, the admissions office must terminate its practice of accepting \promising\ students who simply can not make the grade when it comes to standardized tests. Unlike other fundamental problems at Union, this solution is a simple one. Bring back SATs. The Cure For Union's Social Blues Over the past few weeks, discussion of social alternatives has resurfaced in the Union College community. The hope is to take the burden off the Greeks, who have been responsible for providing. the campus with most of the popular social activities. Also, there are stmng voices urging for alternatives to the Greek parties, because some people enjoy more diverse social activities. The poirtt repeatedly raised by the faculty of the Student Activities office is that there are plenty of social alternatives for students. Almost every night of the week, there are more than enough acceptable events planned by the school to keep even the most ske]ltical student busy. These events range from famous speakers, dramatic productions, and rock bands to Monday night football <lll widescreen televisions. The problem with these activities is that they have not been popular as social environments. The most popular social activity at Union is, without a doubt, hanging out with friends, and perhaps at the same time making new ones. This is what is commonly done at fraternity parties and the main reason for their success. Hand in hand with the notion of hanging out is relaxing with a drink or two. After busy days of study and work, students, not unlike their older counterparts in society, want to unwind for a little while with their friends. If an event does not allow for such activity, it will not be a popular occurrence (except for the rare amazing event, such as the play \Beirut\). This phenomenon is clear in the difference between holding identical events in different environments. For example, every Monday night a football game is shown <ln a widescreen television upstairs in the College Center and very few people attend. The strange thing is that fifty feet off campus there is a bar which happen\ to he packed with Union -;tudcnts watching the same g:.1mc, on a similar television. The same discrepancy is apparent in · till' fact that when there is a rock band in the College Center no one shows up, yet when a fraternity hosts a band, hundreds of people arc willing to buy tickets to get in the door. I believe that the remedy for Union's social alternatives problems is the re-establishment of an on campus bar. The idea has been tried heforc- wit.h minimal succe\\ he.cauc;e it was not approached from the corn~c t angle. The bar should not solely be a place where twenty-one year old students can have a beer and listen to a jukebox. It should be a place where everyone hangs out and the twenty-one year olds can drink. At the same time, the bar could host the potentially extremely popular events such as bands and football games, and also new ones; for example, comedians and improv nights. This would breathe life back into the dying social alternatives schedule, keep students happy on campus, and probably make money for the school (instead of losing it to local bars.) As one would expect, such an establishment would instantly be a hit with the people who could drink. The other students would soon follow for various reasons. The bar would become the place to be on campus because of the activities held. The non-drinkers would have fun because they could hang out with their friends and have a go<>d time. Eventually, people would become used to hanging out and would begin to show up regardless of the activity being staged. There urc many legal and logistical problems which would have to he faced in order to make this plan a reality. However, it is feasihk and definitely would be worth the trouble. Most other collc:ge;-, <Jmi universities have highly successful versions of the ,_Jmpu' b;l..: Additionally, Union already ha.o;; a perfect place for the lxu. Lv.:r .,inn· lkw was evicted, Maxcy House has gone unused. If renovate-d, Lilt~ building could potentially hccome a great bar. It I\ t•me f.Jr Lnion Lo join the real world and get its social ~1~: .. tri~.~j·;~>~ -~ff~·ll'·t h:..1~k on its feet. LETTERS· Who's Apathetic- Students Or Faculty? To the Editor: In the past few weeks I was involved in organizing the Public Speaking Competition. The event occurred this past week on November 4, 5, 6, and 7. Although I was not the major organizer of this particular event, I was still angry at the turnout. Well over two hundred students showed up, but only one faculty member (other than the ones invited to be judges) showed up. It seemed to me thal the faculty is quite hypocritical. The faculty is quick to judge the students as being apathetic and not involved, yet only one of them shows up for the biggest non-alcohol related student run event. I think that the faculty is too quick to judge students in a negative way. Often I see letters and articles in this paper that are negative. Yet rarely do I ever sec a positive letter more than two lines long encouraging students to participate more. Positive :reinforcement is very important to make students feel better and participate more in events that are beneficial to our campus society. Faculty: Please do not be quick to judge our students as uninvolved. There is plenty of brilUance on this campus but sometimes it takes more than an insult to bring it out. Please in the f1:1ture, compliment the student body. Use condescending comments only where necessary. Thanks, Chip Skudolnik ('93) Concordiensis Comes Up Short To the Editor: Last week's editorial stated that future \articles will become more newsworthy.\ While I applaud the intent, I am disappointed with the effort. It is disgraceful that certain newsworthy events on campus have been neglected in the past and continue to be neglected during this period of declared change. Specifically, \Not a Love Story,\ a documentary on pornography sponsored by the Women's -- --- --- - Union was not acknowledged by the CDncordiensis staff. Union students are often criticized for their apathetic attitudes, but in this case, Concordiensis seems to be the culprit. This controversial issue brought many students and faculty together demonstrating the campus-wide interest. The debate over pornography involve political, emotional. social and cultural concerns. If such a complex debate is not worthy of reporting, then I ask, what is? I find it ironic that a college which hoasts about its scientific advances prints an environmental article on Bonnie Raitt that took place over two months ago, 20 miles away, rather than printing issues that are pertinent to life today on campus. Hopefully, with a new format, the Concor(iiensis staff will do their jobs and recognize importa11t events that take place at Union. Eve-Lynn Miller '92 Input Sought On Course Evaluations To the Editor: This week all professors should have handed out course evaluations (the green sheets!) in all of our classes. Tllese evaluation forms are really important for all of us at Union. You see, these evaluations are the only rn~s that we, as students, have input into the academic state of our college. Professors use our comments on these forms to improve the quality of their teaching, Anonymous letters and those over five hundred words will not be printed .. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis department chairs use them when evaluating the competency of their faculty, and every other year when professors are considered for pay increases, the student evaluations are crucial. Considering the important role that these evaluations play. a committee has been formed to study this evaluation process. We are interested in hearing what members of the college community have to say about course evaluations. Do you think they are Editors·in..Chief News Editors Associate News Editor Feature Editors Intemational Features Editors Environmental Editor Commentaries Editors Arts Editor Lifestyles Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editor Associate Sports Editor Photography Editor Oeneral.Mamget Advertising Editors ~ustr1ess Manager Subscription .Manager effective'] AJe they necessary? Are they asking the right questions? Do you feel confident about your confidentiality? etc., etc., etc. Please· d!op us a line at Box 1170 and let us know, or give me a call at 386-4131 if you want to talk in person to one of the committee members. Any i11p ut will be gratefully appreciate<l. Gregory Mishkin, '92 Chairman, Student Evaluation Committee Steven Carr. Stephanie Fray Jeffrey Gree11, JQrdan Lippner Matt Tucker Sari Sk(ltnik, Eric Czech Kristin Lupoli, I.ara.e Tumidajewicz Sllaron Handelsman David Burg, Reeba Manirnalethu. Lea Lewis JulieMedow Julie Schlang Diana Brodsky, Nicole Goldin Dan Strum J()hn Scbachnovsky David Cno, Peter Fischer Wendy Oremland Laurel Ale~sic. Lau:ren Bycoff, ~Rogers Andrew Rosen S1' AFI?: Greg f!Arrett, Ron Birnbaum. Kimber lee Brody. Daniel J. Bullen, Stephanie Davis1 A.&\rn Epstein, Brlca Frank 1 Matt Fuller, Jeff Googel, Craig Greenberg J Jason Ha'birn'ky, Hannah J. Hazen~ Jt)n Keller, Louise Oster~ Rebecca Smackey, Jeremy Sollinger. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Allderson, Nina Cleary, Lisa Kapelus. Sharon Smith CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Tllursdays a tenn by the student body of Union College~ Schcenectady~ New York 1230S; Publications Office; Susquehanru Publications, Inc., Box. 388, Sidney, New Yorkf 1383tl (6()7) 563~8339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivere.tl anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Com.e~rdiensis office, College Center, Union College. Conco;r«!iensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (5.18) 370w 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 370..6494-.

LETTER!i ar.~urrnrbirttsis 11 Cheers For The UC Dancers TO· the Editor: I would like to take the readers back to the school year 1989-1990. it was during that year a junior, Ellen Matloff '91, decided to single-handedly put together a basketball half time show dance team. With much sweat, tears and countless sleepless nights, Ellen put together a team and faced much skepticism from the administration, different directors and the student body. Nevertheless, she laid a strong foundation on which the Union College Dance Team could build. Now, only two years later, the Dance Team (now known as the \U.C. Dancers\) performed its first football game this past Saturday. This has been such an accomplishment for me, the team, and even Ellen. Just in the past two years, I have seen the team undergo a metamorphosis from a group of dedicated girls practicing in the basement of Potter house clad in only burgundy Union T -shirts and black cotton pants into a group of energetic terpsichoreans looking sharp in their burgundy and white vests, black pants, and sparkling maroon and silver .porn porns in their hands. As the year 1992 comes upon us, we have great plans for the basketball season. This year we have decided to establish a theme in our dance routines so that the crowd could be familiar with us and look forward to participating in our performances. The theme is \Find the 'U' in U.C. Dancers.\ This essentially means tl1at _ during each of our half-time performances we will be making a \U\ in one of our formations and we invite the audience to \cheer the 'U\' Now At The Dur:ch Hollow Rest:-auRant Start your winter morni·ngs off with a Hearty Breakfast. Stack of 3 Pancakes with Real Vermont Maple Syrup Canal Square 426 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305 $1.95 Peggy's Presents Wednesday Union College Night DOLLAR DRAFTS (including imports) 10°/o discount on Dinner or Bistro Menu (P.S. Don't forget our Sunday Brunch) during our show. These changes in the dance team could not have been possible without the support of the campus community. Marching out on the football field and hearing the cheers from our supporters was such an uplifting feeling for all of us on the team. Yet, there was much support that we received from \behind the scenes.\ On behalf of the dance team and myself I would like to extend gratitude and appreciation to the following people: the Administration and Dick Sakata for giving us the chance to perform at the football game; George Cuttitia for announcing us in past basketball games and this past weekend's football game; Mrs. Marra, Mrs. Clarke, and Mr. Bloomrosen for bearing the brunt of our financial and clerical frustrations; Student Forum President Brendan Clifford and the Student' Forum; especially Tyrone Foster, our finance repre- sentative, who gives us friendly advice and help from everything to money, being a judge at tryouts, and finding a DJ for our music; all our peers who served as judges duting our tryout procedures; former dance team members Christine O'Connor and Caryn Beianger who with their dedication to the dance team helped us through our rocky stalit this season; those gids who were dedicated to trying out but did not make tbe team yet still wish us luck and congratulations; my room- mates, Caryn and Jen, for being extraordinarily suppor- tive duri11g the pre-game anxiety attacks; and most of all, the U.C. Dancers: Chris Lennon, a veteran from the first dance team, Michelle Velez our Vice-Pres. Co- Captain, Jiyeon Vi our treasurer, Shara Gordon our public relations manager and secretary, Rosalinda Affinito our communications/social activities manager, and our rookies Sandy Pembum, Amy Reynolds, and Dara Webster (not \Dara Reynolds\). Ellen would be so proud of us! Again, I thank everyone for their undying support and love for our team. Please watch for our upcoming games and fundraising plans. We are also thinking of entering a competition this year. Our next performance is at this Saturday's home football game (the 16th). Keep watching and enjoying us dance. Remember, \come and find the 'U' in U.C. Dancers\! Sincerely, Belinda C. Basaca, '92, President/Captain of the U.C. Dancers Big Brothers/Sisters Thanks U To the Editor: I'd lilce to take this opportunity ID thank the Union College Community for the tremendous support Schenec- tady County Big Brothers/Big Sisters and the Reach Out Center have received this trimester. At the risk of leaving someone out, I'd like to itemize some of tb.e support we received: *We have over 40 active Big Brothers and Big Sisters making a positive difference in the lives of their \Little\. Weekly attendance at ROC of a minimum of 12 reliable involved volunteers part- icipating in the gym, tutoring, games, arts and crafts and ~ponsoring field trips. As well _ - as rotating volunteers from Delta Upsilon and Phi Iota Alpha. * Greek support of our fund raiser at the Haunted Hayride included Delta Gamma, ZBT, Sigma Phi, Fiji and Gamma Phi Beta. * Fiji sponsored Halloween Party. * The tutoring covers many aspects, including a Union student helping three Vietnamese ROC members . improve their English. * Delta Upsilon donated tickets to two football games. * ROC Halloween carnival provided by members of many of the fraternities and sororities brought together by Alii Wapner. * Volunteers assisted the children in building Scarecrows during the Jay Street Festival. * Several Sigma Delta Tau sisters hosted six ROC students for a cooking class. * Project US has provided information to vatious groups on campus generating some of this much needed assistance. I'm sure this is not a comprehensive list and I apologize to anyone I left out. We really appreciate the support we have received and continue to look forward to a positive working relationship with the college. The students have been and continue to make a difference in the lives of many local youth. Sincerely, Terry Andre BB/BS Union College Coordinator Class[cal Cabarec Jon Lennon- Trumpet Sarah Rudgers-Trumpet Diana Bridsky-Horn James T.C. Moore- Trombone Julie Walter-Flute Elizabeth MarorMIIe- Vtoitn Josh Aaron-Ptono Yoon Choi--Piano CC-302 \T ues~a~f. \November 19 ~efresltment:s 7:45 pm Concert <S:00-9:00 We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitches (Meister Brau) Thursday Night-Senior Night 2 for 1 Wings location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required

·~--~L~Eru'R§\:'!Y\\\'?'~·, .. x,.::::\::·:-;:·~:~··':\:t:Z'T;\;C~;;;;;i~ ·'~ ,;·.~·.;~;··:..···. '\.f..,<jt/-,·,· s:-~,..:.=~=~::.)?··x;;,~,;){')\:'f~~ -~-:f~·.:~:~-; :-v:.;:· ·· ~- ~.--·- :<6j----~-- ~-- -~~-~~\~~-~:~~-~~(ij{QoA·e;-·---~-~;:·c· ·;~---~-~S~e~cl:\ ~tJ·=··sdB!i~-~--$tv Cheers For The UC Dancers To the Editor: I would like to take the readers back to the school year 1989-1990. it was during that year a junior, Ellen Matloff '91, decided to single-handedly put together a basketball half time show dance team. With much sweat, tears and countless sleepless nights, Ellen put together a team and faced much skepticism from the administration, different directors and the student body. Nevertheless. she laid a strong foundation on which the Union College Dance Team could build. Now, only two years later, the Dance Team (now known as the \U.C. Daacers\) performed its first football game this past Saturday. This has been such an accomplishment for me, the team, and even Ellen. Just in the past two years, I have seen the team undergo a metamorphosis from a group of dedicated girls practicing in the basement of Potter house clad in only burgundy Union T-shirts and black cotton pants into a group of energetic terpsichoreans looking sharp in their burgundy and white vests, black pants, and sparkling maroon and silver pom poms in their hands. As the year 1992 comes upon us, we have great plans for the basketball season. This year we have decided to establish a theme in our dance routines so that the crowd could be familiar with liS aad look forward to participating in our perfonnances. The theme is \Find the 'U' in U.C. Dancers.\ This essentially means that during each of our half-time performances we will be making a \U\ in one of our formations and we invite the audience to \cheer the 'U\' • • : ' • • • '· • ' : ~ • '~· • • • • : I Now At The Duc-ch Hollow Resz:-auRanz:- Start your winter mornings off with a Hearty Breakfast. Stack of 3 Pancakes with Real Vermont Maple Syrup $1.95 BIG DINNER FRIDAY KOSHER KITCHEN Come One. Come Alii Great Food! 6:00pm Canal Square 426 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305 Peggy's Presents Wednesday Union College Night DOllAR DRAF'rS (inclucling imports) 100/o discount on Dinner or Bistro Menu (P.S. Don't forget our Sunday Brunch) during our show. These changes in the dance team could not have been possible with.out the support of the campus community. Marching out on the football field and hearing the cheers from our supporters was such an uplifting feeling for all of us on the team. Yet, there was much support that we received from \behind the scenes.\ On behalf of the dance team and myself I would like to extend gratitude and appreciation to the foHowing people: the Administration and Dick Sakala for giving us the chance to perform at the football game; George Cuttitia for announcing us in past basketball games and this past weekend's football game; Mrs. Marra, Mrs. Clarke, and Mr. Bloomrosen for bearing the brunt of our financial and clerical frustrations; Student Forum President Brendan Clifford and the Student' Forum; especially Tyrone Foster, our finance repre- sentative, who gives us friendly advice and help from everything to money, being a judge at tryouts, and finding a DJ for our music; all our peers who served as judges during our tryout procedures; former dance team members Christine O'Connor and Caryn Belanger who with their dedication to the dance team helped us through our rocky start this season; those girls who were dedicated to trying out but did not make the team yet still wish us luck and congratulations; my room- mates, Caryn and Jen, for being extraordinarily suppor- tive duriag the pre-game anxiety attacks; and most of all, the U.C. Dancers: Chris Lennon, a veteran from the first dance team, Michelle Velez our Vice-Pres. Co- Captain, J iyeon Vi our treasurer, Shara Gordon our public relations man2ger and secretary, Rosalinda Affinito our communications/social activities manager, and our rookies Sandy Pembum, Amy Reynolds, and Dara Wehster (not \Dara Reynolds\). Ellen waul d be so proud of m! Again, I thank everyone for their undying suppc>rt and love for our team. Please watch for our upcoming games and fundraising plans. We arc also thinking of entering a competition this year. Our next performance is at this Saturday's home football game (the 16th). Keep watching and enjoying us dance. Remember, \come and find the 'U' in U.C. Dancers\! Sincerely, Belinda C. Basaca, '92, President/Captain of the U.C. Dancers Big Brothers/Sisters Thanks U To the Editor: I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the Union College Community for the tremendous support Schenec- tady County Big Brothers/Big Sisters and the Reach Out Center have received this trimester. At the risk of leaving someone out, I'd like to itemize some of the support we received: * We have over 40 active Big Brothers and Big Sisters making a positive difference in the lives of their \Little\. Weekly attendance at ROC of a minimum of 12 reliable involved volunteers part- icipating in the gym, tutoring, games, arts and crafts and ;ponsoring field trips. As well as rotating volunteers from Delta Upsilon and Phi Iota Alpha. * Greek support of our fund raiser at the Haunted Hayride included Delta Gamma, ZBT, Sigma Phi, Fiji and Gamma Phi Beta. * Fiji sponsored Halloween Party. * The tutoring covers many aspects, including a Union student helping three Vietnamese ROC members improve their English. * Delta Upsilon donated tickets to two football games. * ROC Halloween carnival provided by members of many of the fraternities and sororities brought together by Alii Wapner. * Volunteers assisted the children in building Scarecrows during the Jay Street Festival. * Several Sigma Delta Tau sisters hosted six ROC students for a cooking class. * Project US has provided information to variolls groups on campus generating some of this much needed assistance. I'm sure this is not a comprehensive list and I apologize to anyone I left out. We really appreciate the support we have received and continue to look forward to a positive working relationship with the college. The students have been and continue to make a difference in the lives of many local youth. Sincerely, Terry Andre BB/BS Union College Coordinator Class[cal Cabaret Jon Lennon- Trumpet Sarah Rudgers- Trumpet Diana Bridsky-Horn James T C Moore- TrombC'rt-' Julie Wolter- Flute t!rznbctn ~11Jr,-Jr will·:- .;,,_.,:: Jc,sh ,.o.\Q;(}r L r I ]riC· \.'('·~~ i~ (~,.-.,I ~;,f-]r'i·::· CC-302 ~ruesClfH. ·NCI\'cmher 19 ~e{resltmenc.s 7:45 rm Com·ert ~:00-~1:(10 We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitches (Meister Brau) Thursday Night-Senior Night 2 for 1 Wings Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets o!Photo ID Required

1 ~ (U.onrorbirnsfs ;CAMPU.!i 1\IEW!i PER!iDI\IAL!i Merry Christmas early and have a great winter break to all our international friends. Hair, Hair, Hair - Who has more hait? You look marvelous! Camel Wear- By Hoofl Love, Kristin and Larae For special viewing contact Celio or Heather at 1-800- CWB-HOOF. Hola Chica Bonita, Espero q:ue tendra's mucho amor en el ano nuevo. Suenas en su angel. To: Japan Aijin. I miss you! Ton Petit Chou D.J.- Do you know what time it is? Buena suerte, Su vecina J- Mario. Love, Your Watchless Friend! Allison- Happy 21st Birthday! I Love . You! s & S in the family .... Road trip to Banana Republic to get some hats and new clothes for \him\ ... What are you doing tonight? How come you don't come by Tri-Deha anymore? I miss those late nite munchies and make outs. Please come by Walace Dear New Delta Gamma Initiates, -L Jenny- soon. Delta Love? Congratulations on your sisterhood. We Love You! ITB - Your S~ters, I am so Hot! ! Get well soon! We need someone to take out our garbage, cook our meals and watch ABC's Wednesday line up with us! Rick Clifford Your loving family. Dear Ex-pleclglings, C.D. I enjoyed Sat. night. I've been thinking of you! Please leave your other girlfriends and come back to me. My problem is not out of order anymore! Thanks for being the best pledge class! Congratulations on your sisterhood ITB- Julie (Ran~om) Dennis. Zara \I love cleaning\ Dugan. Romer, Once upon a time there was an \idioticae\ little boy. He knew the answer to the question ... Fenchel, We miss you! Hi Rachel, I miss you! Love, C.L. Love,L & M Love, Sharbo Dear Sue, Rebecca, Sarah, Selina, Nick and James - Thanks for all the walks to lunch. I really wish you wDuld stop sleeping on the couch. I can't wait for this weekend. I miss you. K. Skolsh-t, Here's to another Sunday of · couch potatoes - you brin.g the chips, I'll bring the Salsa. Love you! Hey Flurb- Sunshine Zara \I fell down the stairs ... and liked it\ Dugan. CLA.§!iiFIED!i It's been terrific getting to know you all. We'll miss you. Love, Larae and Kristin Do you always take a steak knife out with you? ? STOCKING STUFFERS! For your roommate, friends, sorority and fraternity sisters and brothers, student grant, etc. \Telecommunications Gift U•N·I·O·N· FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Collo- quiwn: Paul Genest, Union College, speaking on \Erotic Stricture and License in Aeschines.\ 3:45p.m. S & E N114. Physics Colloquium: Javier Estrada, Saint Lawrence University, speaking on \Partial Substitution of Copper in one-two-three Superconductors.\ 7 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Harvard. 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \Ohayo.\ 8 p.m. & I 0 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Boyz N The Hood.\ SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16 9 a.m. Saratoga State Park. Union hosts men's and women's cross country NCAA qualifier. 1:30 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Football vs. Rochester. 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Brown. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Boyz N The Hood.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \'Boyz N The Hood.\ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18 7-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student forum meeting. 9 p.m. College Center 302. Monday night football. TUESC'JAY, NOVEMBER 19 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 7 p.m. C()llege Center 204. Students for Po- litical Action and Awareness meeting. 8 p.m. C()llege Center 302. Classical cabaret. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 Noon-1:15 p.m. Hale House. The Wellness Program nutrition and weight control class. 7 p.m. C()llege Center 203. Recycling com- mittee meeting. 7 p.m. C<Jllege Center410. Circle K meeting. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21 Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-2 p.m. College Center 204. Union Col- lege investment club meeting. FRIDA~ NOVEMBER 22 CLASSES END 5 p.m. College Center 302. Classical caba- ret. 7-9 p.m..College Center 409. Bible study. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center 302. Mounte- banks present \Night of Scenes.\ 8 p.m. College Center 406. East Asian Studies film: \The Last Emperor.\ SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23 EXAMS BEGIN 8 p.m. Memori~ Chapel. The Museum/ College Concert Series presents \The Hanover Band.\ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 24 7:30 p.111. Memorial Chapel. St. Cecilia Chamber Orchestra. Certificates\ are the perfect gift. Available for purchase at the Telecommunications Office, College Center /103. Call 3 70-6411 for more information. APT. FUR RENT, Located near cannptas, 3 bedroom totally renovaaed, washer/dryer possible; rent negotiable. Call Pioneer Mgmt., 462-7411 or 482-878:8 evenings. collegiate cro3sword @Edward Julius CollegiatE CI'IB701 A.GROSS 48 ~od off 13 foloving 1i ke a horse 49 American league 1 Me<li tators team (abbr • .) 15 Kaving a label .::a r.aupee 7 Drink taken after 50 Part af MPH a dr.ink 51 Patron ,;::5 >Important person 27 ---- Andronicus 28 ft.scended 13 Ch~rch in Rome 53 African capital 14 Nat~ral environment 55 Take a bride 16 Fo~r 56 Persist at, as a 29 \Trivial Pursuit\ 17 City in California point edition 18 Gives a bad review sa From Lhasa 31 Feather's partner 33 Lou's partner 19 Ches;s pieces 60 Rel ig.ious recluse 21 Overly proper 61 Flatter 36 v.ierma • s river 37 ~cncolroom need 38 Short, sleeveless pe,s;on 62 Conditions 22 Part of TGIF 63 Cuddle 23 Kittl and - 24 Hors;e 25 Nuremburg no 27 Detroit athlete 29 Ticket sales for an event 30 Dessert item 32 Defamed 34 Louisville slu!!}er 35- Yat-sen 36 Pr.c~pri ety of be~avior 40 Loses weight 44 Ma~ from Mecca 45 The devil 47 StCire sign c jJ ::J a: .c 0) Q) ..J >- (() ® Cl) @Q - .. <DO> w- -!;! r\' <11(/) .,-~ \'c. ~~ Q:CD ,. -, p I !Jannent 39 ~comes due. as a DOWN !late 1 Sea. manmal M R:utgers' river 2 Kitchen device . <!11 ~al ance sheet 3 Tennis match parts >ection 4 Gad's son <!12 Lift up 5 Highway part ·~3 ~eacefu1 6 Enter furtively ·~6 Metric ---- (2 wds.) '52 lfindu deity 7 Statian 53 - board 8 Dutch painter 54 ---- order 9 Former pro league :55 ~ip mark 10 Nitwit '57 - part 11 Rome, The- City 59 ltalph Kramden's 12 Show joy rehicle Q) .Q ::J a: \I'm sorry, sir, the owner's; not home right now, but I'm sure if YO•U stop back in a few hours he'll be very hnterested.\ When proven to be ir~effectlve · against chronic cases oi insomnia, the Sandman is replaced l>y Boulder Guy.

November 14, 1!l9l LIFESTYLES Qlgnrorbirn.sfs 13 .•• :v·.::.. ··.· ............. . The Erection iller Strikes Th·ousands by Ken Perel Contrihr.i.ting Writel' SCHENECTADY, N~- 10. On a cold Winter nigllf~ in an overheated ~nd moist dorm room, the Erection .ICiller struck. Slowly and rhythmically he star1ed his assault; alth()ugh. contrary to most typical assaults,. the victim both consented and encouraged·tl\e attack. Dl'op .by drop the Erection Killer stm'ted to impregnate his victim, with death. In. .an· act .of false protection ltlld me.vcy, the Erection Killer pulled ~Vi'ay at the last possible momellt. In truth, howe-ver. thee seeds of death were already plante(!_ The Erection Killer was again triumphant At present, everyo11e is a potential ma5& mwderer. :Every man lives lik::e a loaded gun. Unlike a steel bullet,. which kills with speed and acc.11racy, the HIV vinls kills with time and confusioll. Just as a slip of the trigger can resalt in a single fatality quicker than a blink of an ere. an undetected sperm or dr()p of blot>d can accidently reek havoc on potentially h:umdreds of1poople. A bullet usually <:an o!lJy kill one person, Vlilile an HIV virus can kill countliess people. As every one is p~infully aware, this past week: Magic Johnson pub]cly annollllced he was HIV po~itive. F()F many people, the mLtial resp()nse was \I did not kllow tltat 11~ was a homosexual.\ A man who is considered an American Hero; a man who millions of p«Jple at one time or .another dreamed they would become; a man who represented the perfect mix of athlete, philanthropist, and statesman, now faces the potential risk of developing AIDS. America is finally forced to realize that even an American God is mortal, makes mistakes,. and now faces the greatest crises known to man. \At present, everyone is a potential mass murderer. Every man lives Uke a loaded gun, unlike a steel bullet, which kills with speed and accuracy, the HIV v:irus kills with time and confusion.\ Sure, Magic Johnson may have had sex with a hundred groupies in his wilder days. He may have participated in so- called high risk activities. Yet, all the potential speculation on how he acquired the HIV virus are secondary to the fact that he is HIV positive. According to the statistical probabilities of AIDS transmission, he could have had thousands of sexual partners. He did indeed place himself in a high risk group, and only has himself to blame for his current situation. To due him the greatest honor owed, he fully accepts his situation, and has decided to become a spokesmen for the battle with, and the education of AlDS. The question is whether he wiH reach the average college student. Whether we, as the • future leaders are willing to accept the realities of our environment, and claim responsibility for an our actions, no matter how large an ego. we possess. AIDS is truly the unexplainable disease. Al- though more then half the Federal medical Research Budget goes to AIDS research, no breakthrough results are available. For all intents and purposes, the medical world has no better understanding of how, and why, the AIDS virus works today then they did ten years ago. AIDS represents that Black Plague of the late twentieth century. The only way to contain this outbreak is education; not medical advances. Unfortunately, college stud- ents are highly ignorant of the ramifications of AIDS. It used to be that the greatest threat of sex was pregnancy. Although college aged preg- nancy has great ramifications for the man and woman involved, at this time there is always abortion. No matter how bad the situation becomes, a last minute reprieve always exists. \I am a college student. I am invincible. This could never happen to me.\ Although referring to pregnancy, this mentality could easily apply to AIDS. AIDS is totally different. There is no reprieve; there is no avoiding the inevitable conclusion that a life hangs in the balance. Every sexual encounter posses a potential risk. Every one night stand could be a death sentence to Esc,apades 1n NYC by Betsp Rothstein Contrih,..ting WriteT It all started off as a cltance to broaden [[ly horizons and NETWORK my wa:y to a fascinating cueer opportt1nity. Since I have no J>lans for my life after J11ne 14, 1 ~92 I looked to tbe CDC for some guidance. I v,~as given material about an inforrn~ti<mal advertising .conferenc~ with AWNY. Y()u migltt be wondering, what exactly is A WNY? After experie11cing A WNY for tile weekencl I still am not Sllce cf its true meaning. ft stands for Advertising Women cf New York. These V~~omen hav<l been putting on tltis con.fere11ce for 35 years for people N()'I\ like me; people vdth ex:perieo11ce in TV and radio copyVlt:iting; people with complete portfolios on hand anciiJeople with fashion J>Utnp s i11 2L1 the latest colors. The purpo-se of the first evening was to NETVVORK i.e. kiss UJ' to the bead honchos of .AWN¥. f!jr those of you that stiJI halfe not grasped the rneanillg of ~WNY refer to the first paragraph. My N.Y.C. to(} late ami. hence missed our first perfect opportunity to NETWORK. We were completely distressed about missing our first A WNY evening and lost many hours of sleep. The next morning we arrived in a daze, not knowing what to expect. We certainly got the most out of our $60 registration fee at the coffee and Danish bar. We were then bombarded with a wide array of workshops to attend in order to gain NETWORKING exper- ience and valuable knowledge that would last us a lifetime. We were told to \disband from our comrades and fly solo.\ Coincidentally we all had the same A WNY goals and interests and attended a workshop on copywriting. Of the group of twenty, it was very comforting to know we were the only three that had NO experience and the only ones not sporting NETWORK- ING pumps. We felt left out in the cold, completely at a loss and out of place. We tried to NETWORK but feit very insecure and short in our flat school shoes. We continued to use up our $60 registration fee at lunch on $60 bread, cold, slimy ziti and unlimited amounts of caffeine to get us through the A WNY. afternoon. For the second workshop we decided to \disband and fly solo\ as were strongly advised. When we reconvened one hour later we all felt fully inadequate as we came to the horrifying realization that in order to break into advertising we would have to continue our schooling, create a portfolio and purchase NETWORKING pumps. In our final workshop we watched in awe as one scholar from Ithaca College took charge and networked her way through the next sixty minrlt'es. We were all very impressed to say the least and the scholar will undoubtedly win the prize for annoying the greatest amount of fellow networkers in the shortest amount of time. I was in a rage that she had taken up some of MY valuable $60 NETWORK- ING time but my comrades convinced me that I would have a chance at the CAREER FAIR the following day. We awoke at the crack of dawn, so excited at the thought of arriving to the conference right on time. Once again, however, we arrived late and without our power pumps. We hiked around the A WNY building for thirty minutes in either party. Every male pre- cum drop, every unknown cut or blood drop represents a potential life sentence. Although statistically improb- able, any swap of bodily fluid, (i.e. sweat, saliva, cum, blood) raises the potential of contracting the AIDS virus. With so much unknown about AIDS, why would anyone voluntarily place themselves in a high risk situation. Ignorance. And \it could never happen to me\ mentality exist throughout aU economic and cultural groups in America. Just as many people believed that Magic Johnson must have had Homosexual affairs to contract the virus, many people felt they have nothing to worry about. \The mentality that it could never hap.pen to the handsome fGotball star, or the beautiful field hockey player, or Mr .. and Mrs. Popularity is ignorant and harmful.\ \I am a man who loves women. I wake up everyday with an erection. I masturbate while thinking about women. The women in Beirut gave me an erection. r could never get AIDS because I am not gay.\ Really? How many sexual partners have yo~u had? Do you go out to parties and cruise for sex? When you meet someone, does the question of sexual compatibility control a large portion of your thoughts? Do you enjoy sex? Have you ever had unsafe sex, at any time, ever! For most everyone, unsafe sex, (sex performed without a condom, and high risk sex, such as anal intercourse) is a blatant, unavoidable and undeniable fact. Whether co11ti11ually perfonned with a loved one, or that one time where a situation developed and a condom was unavailable, most everyone has unsafely pelfonned. Typical situation: Two pe(!)lp'le go to a party, where they both have a few drinks. They strike up a conversation, aml dedde that they mutually agree to a sexual experience. In thei.r passion and ignorance; in theLr false bravado that because the~ are intelligent, wealthy, and .go to a school with predominantly low risk sexual candidates, they can afford to havoe unsafe sex. ~s long as he performs coitus interruptus or she is on the Pill they will both be safe. Untrue. It is this mentality that will be the foundation of the spread of AIDS to all heterosexual groups. If any person practices unsafe ~ex they place not only themse.Jves, but also their partners at risk. They valiantly taulllt the potential of death, and too often, as Magic Johnson did, brutally discover they lose. Tile potential :-or AIDS on college campuses is not a joke, and n<>t a game. Unlike any other sexual consequences, (pre:gnancy and STD's), AIDS is life or death. The mentality that it could never happen to the ilandsome football star, or the b.e~utiful field hockey player, or Mr. and Mrs. Popularity is ignorant and harmful. How many people have you slept with? How abotLt tlleir partners? Arc you willimg to risk unknown lives due Lo :y<>ur misconception that unsaie sexual practices could never harm you? C()Ilege is a place and time to learn and grow. It is the time to develop into the men and women who will lead the world. It is not a time to kill a society, and destroy all manl!dnd, due to ignorance, arrog;ance. and selfishness. COllEGE STUDENTS MAJORlNGIN Allied Health Professions Discover a challenging, rewarding future tlhat puts you in touch with your skills. Today's Air Force offers ongoing opportunities for profess-ional development with great pay and benefits, normal working hours, complete medical and denta.l care, and 30 days vacation witll pay per year. Learn how to qualify as an Air Force health professional Call USAF HEALm PROFESSIONS COILECf (315) 455-7060 :;:::;; -. : =======;---- -.. -- =·> ----· 'II' \=-~~~ ;:'\ search of the CAREER FAIR. Fortunately we stumbled upon it, for it proved to be extremely helpful. There, we had the unique opportunity to have our well-developed portfolios pemsetl and our pumps polis:hetl and appraised. Since we all landed countless inter'Views with top ad agencies we feel so at ease with our future A WNY careers. ~ • .., -. • ._ ~ ' - ' '- I o .... ~ ' .. ,_. ~ <l- .~ -, • -..; ~ \\ \'I ~ • • - -· • •

:·· .......... ,.,, .... '\~ . ,. \· ··.·.· .. ·.·.: .. \• , .. ~. '\ .·: . ART§ & EI\ITERTAII\IMEI\IT November 14, 1991 What, Exactly Is Inside the Library? by Julie Medow Arts Editor \Excuse me, I'm looking for the library. Can you point me in the right direction?\ Figuring the clueless soul had lost his tour group, the sophomore woman kindly asked, \Oh are you a perspective?\ \No he said. She stared at the guy for a second, as if her were from outer space or something, and said, a bit disgusted, \Arc you ... a ... FRESHman?\ And then added, \like doing your first PREcept paper?\ Trying desperately to set the record straight, the guy took a deep breath and responded, \No ... I'm a senior. I have to write a THEsis.\ The above is a gross exaggeration (I hope). Everyone kt ows where Schaeffer Libr:1ry is located. I think the real i• :.t is to see how many of yoL have actually heen inside that nco classical building which connects Social Sciences and Humanities. And even if you have been inside, perhaps it was only to stop at the computers and say hi to someone actuaUy working on something, or to use the bathroom as you made your way up to a football game. There is, perhaps, a hint of cynicism in my tone when I say these things to you. But, come on, there are very few of us who do serious research in Union's library. So, after doing some of my own investigating. I found that there are some great resources at Union wbich we (faculty and students)· tend to overlook. I am speaking of the Rare Book Room. Where is it? On the fourth floor of the library (you take the elevator behind the reference/information desk to get there). What does it have that you need? Lots of cool stuff. At first, I thought it just housed - believe it or not - rare books. But after speaking with Ellen Fladger, the Archivist who oversees the numerous Special Collections owne-d by Union, I seriously updated my understanding of the Rare Book Room. For example, Union ILas a good deal of Modern First Editions, or books from their original da tc of publication. We have Jane Austen's !\ride and Prejudice published in London, 1813, Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass from 1855, and even sec1ions of the King James version of The Holy Bible (the one you find in a drawer of every motel ar d hotel across this great land o1 ours) from 1611. Because I think these books are coo 1, I'll rattle off a few more ti tl~s ... System of Logic by John Stuart Mill, London, 1846, History of the Expedition Under the Command of Captains Lewis and Clark, 1814, and Euclid's Elements, published in Basel in 1533. Over the past few years, Ellen Fladg'Cr has been expanding the collection, hoping to branch out into a few new directions. Ellen says that although Union has \a good collection for its size,\ she would stiH like to purchase books about the history of women, African Americans, and other groups that are not well rep~esented i<n the collection as it now stands. She would also like to see more books written in foreign languages, and in general, \books which are more reflective of the coUege's curriculum.\ The fourth floor also holds the Union Collection, an eclectic group of publications written by Union faculty and alumni, along with copies of the Idol, yearbook, C oncordy, and Sentinel. \It's as comprehensive as we can make it,\ says Ellen, \including books about the college's hist.ory. The Archives have non-current records about Union, from when it was first forming in 1795. There is also a Schenectady Collection, containing books about (duh) local history. AI though Ellen said that a good deal of faculty send their students to the Rare Book Room, the fact that most of the people I have talked with did'nt even know the library had a fourth floor suggests to me that the word has not been getting around in the classroom. She wants you to know that she's available to talk with anyone looking for historical references wllich tfiey cannot seem to find, because not everything is listed in the On Line Catalogues and/or Card Catalogue (ex tension 6620). ' In addition, I think it's a neat idea, professors, to send your students to the Rare Book Room if Union has in its William Blake's \The Ancient of Days\ possession an original or facsimile copy of the text you are discussing in class. I discovered ·the Rare Book Room only after enrolling in an English Seminar on William Blake. Yes, Professor McCord did suggest that I write this article, I am by no means using it as a tactic to get a good grade in his class. (I smile like a Cheshire cat as I gaze at my computer screen, thinking hungrily about grad school ... ) By the way, the picture aboye is the frontispiece fo- one of Blake's \illuminated manuscripts\; a poem entitled \Europe: A Prophecy.\ The plate is most commonly called \the Ancient of Days,\ or \God Crating the Universe.\ God has been working out, huh? The plate is even more magnificent in color. Check it out. !10R05COPE5 t'Y LOLL-I LIBRA: A secret admirer is awaiting in your future. Don't take anyone for granted. She could be your special someone. SCORPIO: Great times are coming in your future. Just hang in there these last tortuous weeks and get ready to CELEBRATE. SAGITTARIUS: Your charm and intelligence will help you succeed in fu1ure endeavors. Don't overdo a good thing. CAPRICORN: This is a good time to follow your intuition. Don't second guess someone. They may be just what you've wanted .. AQUARIUS: Memories last forever. No one said you could not make more. Try something new this week to add to your memories. PISCES: Don't get scared .off by someone else's misfortune. you have to take chances and believe in people. ARIES: This is an excellent time to catch up on \put off' work. Don't fall further behind. You'll regret it. TAURUS: Be adventurous during the break. You may find a new interest. GEMINI: Sometimes the ogre in you comes out when dealing with your friends. Don't let it hurt anyone's feelings. CANCER: Your pretending can pay off. Don't plan future •events•. Take each moment in stride and you will know when the right time pops up. LEO: Romantically, you are at your peak. It may only last a short time, so enjoy it while it lasts. VIRGO: When you go home for break don't lose touch with Union Buddies. You may need them more than you know.

····.··-:··-;.-.· .. ·:·····-:-: .. · .. · ·.··.·.·-:·-· .. ·. <li.IntrJJrbirttsts ART§ Al EI\ITERTAII\IMEI\IT November 14, 1991 - ;---·.;-· What, Exactly Is Inside the Library? by Julie Medow Arts Editor \Excuse m~. I'm looking for the library. Can you point me in the right direction'!\ Figuring the clueless soul had lost his t(]ur group, the sophomore woman kindly asked, \Oh arc you a perspective?\ \No he said. Sh.; stared at the gu) for a second, as ir hn were from outer spac~ or ~omcthing, ;Jnd said, a bit disgusted, ··.\rc you ... a ... l·RESIIman·.> · .'\nd then added, \I ike, du ing ) our tir\t PR Ecc pt paJX'f.'\ Trying dL'';..,\'ct\1 . .'1) to ~l't the r,',.'llnl '-lf:l!~llf, !l!l' ruy ~('<'J... :1 '\'\~' hr,· .• rh .l'i.l ''''I\\'·L·J \'\; !'_t~) J \-t_'ll!!\f ~ ~~ !\t._' ~-· '\ :!L,• ~• TJIJ:,j, .. Tht' ~'\'''· \' I'- .! ):'fl'\ ,. \ a g g 1' r .1 t i n n '· l lll • l' l' • . r \ \' f \' ll fl1' ~ ; I\\~ ' '.~ i]l' r l' s, had'kr I ihr '· : '' l.,,·:tkd T think tlh' real , .t i~ \t1 S<..'l' how many of y(\<. hav~' actually hecn in~id<.' !hat nco cla..;..;ical huilding whi..'h cnnnc<:ts Social Sciences and Humanities. And even if you ha vc been inside, perhaps it was only to stop at the computers and say hi to someone actually working on something, or to use the hathroom as you made your way up to a football game. There is, perhaps, a hint of cynicism in rny tone when I say these things to you. But, come on, there arc very few of us who do serious research in Union's library. So, afler doing some of my own investigating, I found that there arc some great resources at Union which we (faculty and students) tend to overlook. I am speaking of the Rare Book Room. Where is it? On the fourth floor of the library (you take the elevator behind the reference/information desk to get there). What docs it have that you need? Lots of cool stuff. At first, I thought it just housed - believe it or not - rare books. But after speaking with Ellen Fladgcr, the Archivist who oversees the numerous Sp.:...:ial Collections owned by lJnion, I seriously updated my umkr~tanding of the Rare Book Ronm. For .. ~xampk, Lnion has a t:ond tkal of :'\1nd..:rn First LJJl!Otb, or hotlf...:.. I rtHn their ···r1 'J.ll·ll i·tt · ·' .,.,t,l · ''lll.llfl .... ~ t- II.~ ..._ 1..' j t' lJ .,~ !'-- '- • -~~~~! !' r<·;;,.~_J.~.. {. rlil\! ... \.! ~:• Lund'-) n ~ ! ~ ! 3 ~ \\. a 1 t \\'h!tn:~m·:- L·, • .-t.\ ,.f CuJ.. .. frotH I ~:\5 anJ 1..'\Cfl ~l'diun:-. of thl' King Jaml'S \Crsitln of Th~ lloly Bih!c {the one you fir;J in a drawer of every motel ar j hotel across this great land of ours) from 1611. Because I tf. ink these books arc cool, I'll rattle off a few more titles ... System of Logic by John Stuart Mill, London, 1846, History of the Expedition Under the Command of Captains Lewis and Clark, 1814, and Euclid's Elements, published in Basel in 1533. Over the past few years, Ellen Fladger has been expanding the collection, hoping to branch out into a few new directions. Ellen says that although Union has \a good collection for its size,\ she would still like to purchase books abot!lt the history of women, African Americans, and other groups that are not well represented in the collection as it now stands. She would als<J like to see more books wl'ittcn in foreign languages, and in general, \books whi<h are more reflective of the college's curriculum.\ The fourth :fl(]or also holds the Union Ccllection, an eclectic group of publications written by Ur1i<Jn faculty and alumni, along with C(]pies of the Idol. yearbook, Conc()rdy, ttnd Sentinel. \It's as compu-ehensivc as we can make it,\ says Ellen. ''including book.s about the college':-; hi~Loay. The Archives ha>~ IIOih:urrcrBL I~cords about Lmon, from 1-'\fll!n 11 was l.1rst fumJillg, i 11 1 ISJS. There 1s aiso ,t Sd1~ncctauy Collection, ~.uHWining bu,Jks about tduh) l~h.:al history. Altlh)Ugh E lkn said Lhat a good Jcal of faculty send their students tu the Rare Book Room, the fa<:t that most of the people I lia'Ve talked with did'nt even kuow the library had a fourth floor suggests to me that the word has not been getting ar()and in the classroom. She wants you to know that she's available to talk with any()ne looking for historical references which they cannot seem to find, because not everything is listed in the On Line Catalogues and/or Card Catalogue (extension 6620). In addition, I think it's a neat idea, professon, to send your students to the Rare Book Room if Union has in its William Blake's \The Ancient of Days\ possession an original or facsimile copy of the text y(]u are discussing in class. I discovered the Rare Book Room only after enrolling in an English Seminar on William Blake. Yes, Professor McCord did suggest that I write this article, I am by no means using it as a tactic to get a good grade in his class. (I smile like a Cheshire cat as I gaze at my computer screen, thinking hungrily about grad school ... ) By the way, the picture above is the frontispiece to one of Blake's \illuminated manuscripts\; a poem entitled \Europe: A Prophecy.\ The plate is most commonly called \the Ancient of Days,\ or \God Crating the Universe.\ God has been working out, huh? The plate is even more magnificent in color. Check it out. HOK05COPE5 !?Y LOLL-I LIBRA: SCORPIO: SAG ITT ARI US: CAPRICORN: AQUARIUS: PISCES: ARIES: TAURUS: GEMINI: CANCER: LEO: VIRGO: A secret admirer is awaiting in your future. Don't take anyone for granted. She could be your special SOITI€0rle. Great times are coming in your future. Just hang in there these last tortuous weeks and get ready to CELEBRATE. Your charm and intelligence will help you succeed in future endeavors. Don't overdo a good thing. This is a good time to follow your intuition. Don't second guess someone. They may be just what you've wanted .. Memories last forever. No one said you could not make more. Try something new this week to add to your memories. Don't get scared off by someone else's misfortune. you have to lake chances and believe in people. This is an excellent time to catch up on \put off' work. Don't fall further behind. You'll regret it. Be adventurous during the break. You may find a new interest. Sometimes the ogre in you comes out when dealing with your friends. Don't let it hurt anyone's feelings. Your pretending can pay off. Don't plan future \events\. Take each moment in stride and you will know when the right time pops up. Romantically, you are at your peak. It may only last a short time, so enjoy it while it lasts. When you go home for break don't lose touch with Union Buddies. You may need them more than you know.

ART§. &. EI\ITERT Al·l\IMEI\IT <UnmrDirnsi.s DEEP AS A PUDDLE The WRUC Comment Corner by Matt Fuller Concordiensis Staff Just what the hell is sampling anyways? To some, sampling is what you do at an all-you-can-eat restaurant. In the context of music, however, sampling is a hotly contested topic. A sample is the use, authorized or not, of a previously recorded material in a different song. Sampling has been around for years, but only recently, in the age of the sue- till-you-drop mentality, has it gained prominence. One of the frrst major acts to get hit with a copyright infringement lawsuit was Vanilla Ice (great movie, too bad it didn't last a week). Not only did he use the riff from the Bowie and Queen collaboration \Under Pressure\ but he even stole lyrics from the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity. Now, other artists had used samples before him (M.C. Hammer used the Prince \When Doves Cry\ riff in his song \Pray\ and Rick James' \Superfreak\ in \U Can't Touch This\) but the difference is that Ice did not pay royalties or even ask to use it. $15,000 To Be Granted To Young Composers As 1992 BMI Student Composer Awards Competition Opens The 40th annual BMI Student Composer Awards competition will grant $15,000 to young composers, BMI President and CEO Frances W. Preston announced on November 1. The deadline for entering the 1992 competition will be Friday, February 7, 1992. BMI, the world's largest performing rights organization, and BMI Foundation, Inc. will co-sponsor the awards. The Student Compo-ser Awards program was established in 1951 in cooperation with music educators and composers and is designed to encourage young composers in the creation of concert music and to aid them in continuing their musical education. The prizes which range from $500 to $2,500 will be awarded at the discretion of a distinguished judging panel. The 1992 competition is open to students who are citizens or pennanent residents of the Western Hemisphere and ANSWER TO CROSSWORD who are enrolled in accredited secolldary scllools, colleges or conservatories· or are engaged in private study anywhere in the world. Contestants must be under 26 y-ears of age on December 31, 1991 and may enter only o11e composition. Entries are judged under pseudonyms. BMI is :proud that seven previous wi11ners of Student Composer Awards have won the coveted Pulitzer Prize in Music. They ate William Bolcom, Ge()rge Crumb, Mario Davidovsky, John Harbison, Donald Martino, Joseph Schwantner and Charles Wuorinen. The judgi11g panel for the 39th am1ual competition incladed William Bolcom, Earle Brown. Donald Martino, Carlos Surinacli and Robert Ward. Preliminary judges were Ronald Caltabiano, James Legg and David Leisner. William Schuman and Milton Babbitt are chairman emeritus and chairman, respectively, of the judging panel and Ulysses Kay is BMI's permanent consultant for the awards. BMI Foundation, Inc., was established in 1984 to support individuals interested in furthering their musical education and to assist musical organizations which are involved with performance and education. Official rules and entry blanks for the 1992 competition are available from Ralph N. Jackson, Director, BMI Student Composer Awards, 320 West 57tb Street, New York City, New York 10019, USA. WEEKEND MOVIE: BOYZN THE.HOOD Fri.-Sat. 8 & 1 0 Sun. 7,9, 11 CC Au d. He just took it. \I took out h.alf-a::..beat\ was his excuse. Hardly. This is the center of the controversy, and one which can not be worked around. Sampling is, in rny mind, a legitimate form of musical creativity. To hear a popular scng and realize your own l:yrics for it has to be seen as acceptable. Granted, it can be l'ooked upon (and often is) a ccp-out, but in this modem age there is little the groups can do to ensure a successf:Ul song. T'he problem comes with the question of royalties. Obviously the original artist deserves a portion of the profits. Without Bowie and Queen, Vanilla Ice's two-penny lyrics would have been heard ])y no-one. A more recent example is PM Dawn. Their !lew single \Set Adrift on Memory Bliss\ uses the classic Spandau Ballet beat Does that make their song any less J)Opular? Does it mean we shouldn't listen to it? Does any a.f this really matter~ One thing to realize when 1. Marky Mark 2.Madonna 3. Vanilla Ice 4. Naughty by Nature 5. Siouxsie & the Banshees considerin~ this topic is \why?\ To understand this you have to lt1ok at the music community as a whole. To a large extent, radio (and MTV) determines if a band will survive. That means the programmer at a statio11 has a lot of influence on the future of thousands ofgroups. Every day he/she must listen to all of the new songs <QUt (with an MD) and determine which will receive ainime_'To ensure that they are heard, groups use already st~ccessfut and catchy beats to \Jro()k\ the Program- mer in. Uke it or not, that makes a grou Jl in many cases. The majorit:y <>f the population doesn't want to try something new. They weuld rather hear the same ~'classic\ song rehashed over and over again. A sad state ()f affairs, but what the hell, it's America. Here's a f11n game you can play. Try oo natch the artist on the left witl:l the person most likely to sue: tllem on the right. Five minute time limit: A. Public Enemy B. Jackson Five C. Gerardo D. Lou Reed E. Anyone yoll can thinkoL ATTENTION!!!! THIS IS THE FINAL DAY TO TO RETURN/EXCHANGE YOUR DANA CARUEY TICKETS: THURSDAY, NOV. 14, 1991 TIME: 9:00PM - 4:00PM WHERE: 1ST FLOOR COLLEGE CENTER ALL TICKETS MUST BE TURNED IN!! TICKETS NOT RETURNED ON THUR. NOV. 14TH WILL NOT BE HONORED AT THE FEB. 1ST PERFORMANCE. THERE WILL BE A B.SOLUTEL Y NO RETURNS/EXCHANGES DONE AFfER THIS DATE. THOSE WHO DO NOT BRING IN THEIR TICKETS WILL LOSE THEIR MONEY!!!!!

ART!i Ai ENT'ERTAINMENT Movie Series Bows To Market Forces DEEP AS A PUDDLE Reynolds Caves In On Kurosawa Issue The WRUC Comment Corner by .Bruce Reynolds Contributing Writer concemed in me third week, \recalled Reynolds 1 \when faculty outnumbered students two to one.\ IN faci. this After five weeks of steadily reporter bas learned, there were declining attendance. the East just two faculty, and one Asian Siudies/ASU Fair Film student. And the student was Series has abruptly decided to the projectionist! · make \whatevercoocessionsto · And then on Nov. 1. the market demand are necesmy\ Ul)kindest cut: no one showed the words or flint c7..ar -Bmte up. ~ro. Zitctt. Owsc-egg. · to rei;ipttite .· a . \ · · · U){ij,tame<f that l~runoosadm~ ~~~~~Y~. by Matt Fuller Conc{)rdiensis Staff Just what the hell is sampling anyways? To some, sampling is what you do at an all-you-can-eat restaurant. III the context ()frnusic, however, sampling is a hotly contested topic. A sample is the use, authorized or not, of a previously recorded material in a different song. Sampling has been around for years, but only recently, in the age of the sue- till-you-dro(J mentality, has it gained promirnence. One of the first major acts to get hit with a copyright infringement lawsuit was Van ill a Ice (great movie, too bad it didn't last a week). Not only did he use the riff from the Bowie and Queen collaboration\Under Pressure\ but he eve!l stole lyrics from the Alplu Phi Alpha Fraternity. Now, other artists had used samples before him (M.C. Hammer used the Prince \When Doves Cry\ riff in his song \Pray•• a11d Rick James' \Superfreak•' in \U Can't Touch TI:Jis\) but the difference is tllat Ice did not pay royalties or even ask to use it. $15,000 To Be Granted To Young Composers As 1992 BMI Student Composer Awards Competition Opens The 40th annual 1l MI Student Composer A wards competition will grant $15,000 to young composers, B MI President and CEO Frances W. Preston announced on November 1. The deadline for entering the 1992 competition will be Friday, February 7, 1992. BMI, the world's largest performing rights organization, and BMI Foundation, Inc. will co-sponsor the awards. The Student Composer Awards program was established in 1951 in cooperation with music educators and composers and is designed to encourage y<mng composers in the creatio11 of concert music and to aid them in continuing their mu.sical education. The prizes wllich range from $500 to $2,500 will be awarded at the discretion of a distinguished judging panel. The 1992 competition is open to students who are citizens or permanent residents of the Western Hemisphere and ANSWER TO CROSSWORD who are enrolled in accredited secondary schools, colleges or conservatories or are engaged in private study anywhere in the world. Contestants must be under 26 years of age on December 31, 1991 and may enter only one composition. Entries are judged under pseudonyms. BMI is proud that seven previous winners of Student Composer Awards have won the coveted Pulitzer Prize in Music. They are William Bolcom, George Crumb, Mario Davidovsky, John Harbison, Donald Martino, Joseph Schwantner and Charles Wuorinen. The judging panel for the 39th annual competition included William Bolcom, Earle Brown, Donald Martino, Carlos Surinach and Robert Ward. Preliminary judges were Ronald Caltabiano, James Legg and David Leisner. William Schuman and Milton Babbitt are chairman emeritus and chairman, respectively, of the judging panel and Ulysses Kay is B MI's permanent consultant for the awards. BMI Fou11dation, Inc .• was established ill 1984 to support individuals interested in furthering t:heir musical education ami to assist musical organizations which are involved with perfonnance and education. Official rules and entry blanks for the 1992 competition are available from Ralph N. Jackson, Director, BMI Student Composer Awards, 320West 57th Street, New York City, New York 10019, USA. WEEKEND MOVIE: BOYZN THE HOOD Fri. -Sat 8 & 1 0 Sun. 7,9, 11 CC Aud. He just took it. \I took out half-a-beat\ was his excuse. Hardly. This is the center of the controversy, and one which can not be worked around. Sampling is, in my mind, a legitimate form of musical creativity. To hear a popular song and realize your own lyrics for it has to be seen as acceptable. Granted. it can be looked upon (and oflcn is) a cop-out, but in this modem age there is little the groups can do to ensure a successful song. The .problem comes with the question of royalties. Obviously the original artist deserves a portion of the profits. Without Bowie and Queen, Vanilla Ice's two-penny lyrics would have been heard by no-one. A more recent example is PM Dawn. Their new single \Set Adrift on Memory Bliss\ uses the classic Spandau Ballet beat. Does that make their song any less popular? Does it mean we shouldn't listen to it? Does any of this really matter? One thing to realize when 1. Marky Mark 2. :Madonna 3. Vanilla Ice 4. Naughty by Nature 5. Siouxsie & the Banshees considering this topic is \why?\ To understand this you have to look at the music community as a whok. To a large extent, radio (and !\·1TV) determines if a band will survive. That means the programmer at a station has a lot of influence on the future of thousands of groups. Every day he/she must listen to all of the new songs out (with an MD) and determine which will receive airtime.' To ensure that they are heard, groups usc already successful and catchy beats to \hook\ the Program- mer in. Like it or not, that makes a group in many cases. The majority of the population doesn't want to try something new. They would rather hear the same \classic\ song rehashed over and over again. A sad state of affairs, but what the hell, it's America. Here's a fun game you can play. Try to match the artist on the left with the person most likely to sue them on the right. Five minute time limit: A. Public Enemy B. Jackson Five C. Gerardo D. Lou Reed E. Anyone you can think of. ATI'ENTION!!!! THIS IS THE FINAI_J DAY TO TO RETURN/EXCHANGE YOUR DANA CRRUEY TICKETS: THURSDAY, NOV. 14, 1991 TIME: 9:00PM - 4:00 PM WHERE: 1ST FLOOR COLLEGE CENTER ALL TICKETS MUST BE TURNED IN!! TICKETS NOT RETURNED ON THUR. NOV. 14TH WILL NOT BE HONORED AT THE FEB. l ST PERFORMANCE. THERE WILL BE ABSOLUTELY NO RETURNS/EXCHANGES DONE AFTER THIS DATE. THOSE WHO DO NOT BRING IN THEIR TICKETS WILL LOSE TIIElR MONEY!!!!!

CAMPU·!i BULLETIN BDAR'D November 14, 1991 The Public Speaking Committee would like to extend their greatest appreciation to all those who contributed to the success of last Thursday's contest. Thanks to the judges, contestants and of course CONGRATULATI'ONS to our winners Tom FaUati, Pat Haskell and Dave Andleman! Amy Rosenfield, Andrea Slade, Mike Saun, Liz Lacy, Laura Thatcher, Chip Sudolnick Do you care about issues affecting women both on and off campus??? Come to a Women's Union meeting any Thursday at 12:30. Our meetings are held at the Women's Center (Located at the comer of North College) !NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! Finals Study Break for all women on campus Nov.20 9:30 Old Chapel Sponsored by the Panhellenic Council The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: ANNOUNCING THE Steinmetz Symposium on MONDAY NIGI-IT FOOTBALL BUFFALO BILLS AT MIAMI DOLPHINS Daily: Mon.-Thurs. 8:30am-11:30pm Friday 8:30am-7:30pm Weekends: Saturday Sunday 12:00pm-2:30pm 12:30pm-8:30pm During these times, Macintosh & lBM computers are available for student use Oaser copies are 15 cents per page). DANA CARVEY UPDATE Student Creative, Scholarly, and Research Achievements Friday, April 10, 1992 1:30 - 5:30 p.m. We encourage presentations or exhibitions by students from all four classes. Participants must be sponsored by a member of the faculty. Now is the time for students to begin thinking about their presentations and :contact faculty sponsors. Be a contributing member of. the Union Community! Take :part in the Steinmetz Symposium. \\ MONDAY, NOV. 18TH All tickets that were purchased for the October 18. 1991 show must be turned in. All those wishing to place an ad in the Concordiensis may contact the Advertising Department at 370-6494. A'T 9 PM ON nil': BIG SCREEN IN These tickets are no lomfer valid and will not be accepted for the new show!!! A new show has been scheduled for Friday, February 1, 1992. new tickets will be issued after the old ones have been collected. A table will be on the first floor of the College center from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday, November 14. People will be available to refund your money, or you may reserve tickets for the new show. If you do not refund or exch.allge your tickets during this time, you will loose your money. cc 302 There will be no exceptions to this rule! There are still over 500 tickets that are unaccounted for, please return them on Thursday to prevent any future problem. FREE MUNCHIES SERVEDII GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to- attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GER.!'v:IAN 3:00 PM SPA:'\fiSH 4:00 PM CtJrne and watch the nnvs! TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHfNESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from inany other countries and will be recorded upon req!USt. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician. X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-I O:OOPM ADVANCE NOTICE NCAA FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP In the event Union College is elected to host the NCAA 1st Round Championship Game, tickets will be on pre-sale Tuesday, November 19 through Friday, November 22 at Achilles Rink Ticket Window 9:00am-4:00pm. PRICES: $3.00 (Student-Union College and opposing school students only; lawn seats and standing room); $5.00 (General admission; lawn seats and standing room}; $6.00 (Reserved seating, bleacher seats; limited to 1500}. There will be no refunds. Time of game 12:30 Noon Saturday, November 23,1991 (maybe subject to change). According to NCAA Championship Guidelines, there will be close supervision of entry to the game. There will be no complimentary tickets. No one will be admilled without a ticket. Additional information regarding the selection of host school and participating teams will be announced Monday, November 18, 1991. Thank you for your continued support of Union College Athletics. The Admissions Office THANI<S the entire college community for helping make the FALL OPEN HOUSE, MULTI-CULTURAL WEEKEND, and the AMBASSADOR PHON-A-THON amazingly successful. We could not have done it with out \U\I!! Thank You, Speakers Forum Concert Committee WHATEVER THE BEASON WHATEVER THE SEASON I ~ ~n . ' .. \\\ \\ 'GOOD lUCK\ \CAU. HOU~ ll 'GET WEU 'HAPPY SOON' BIRTHDAY' TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATlVE •Going away Y N winter term? D D •Interested in being on the Orientation Y N Committee*? D D If you answered \yes\ to two or more of these questions, pick up an O.C. application from, Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office (C.C. 306) *Please note this is 1he Orientation Committee, not the Orientation Advisors. OA's can apply in winter and spring terms. Mountebanks Presents: A Srage DooR Production of READINGS FROM STAR TREK A Tribute to Gene Roderberry Sunday, Nov. 17 9:00pm Food and Drink Free i ~ GUt Crdlhale ! .--~-~ .... ;;=:==:=.:=:1 The deadline for submission of advertisements in M.onday at 4:30 prior to Tuesday's paper. ' n ~rc.cn.:z l t:.'l .:.:.::.. : UNION COUEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFCATESAREAV~LABLEFOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATlONS OFFICE, ~ COlLEGE CENTEPJ103. ~ OR CAU370.6411 FOR MORE ::: INFORMA TJO~. !l{usfi Convocation Janua-ry 8tfi 7:00p.m. Memoria[ Cliape{ JZL{[ We[come WANTEO A ride to Nassau Coun-ty Area-The Giland. Early Tuesday morning, Nov. 23. \Bioomlngdales opens at 1 0 am, and I have to be there.\ Sari Skolnik-Box 1590 (

• i ~~ I. (I ) I November 14, 1991 Women•s .Soccer Ends On High Note, Final12-7-1 Record by l,ton Birnbaum Contributing Writer Oh what a season! Twenty games ,earlier, it didn't seem possible that the women's varsity soccer team would break and double the school record (12-7-1), enter the state tournament, and play in the ECAC's, all in the same year. But, believe it. After rounding up a season with a final win versus Clarkson (1-0) and a defeat by top-ranked Geneseo (6-0), the squad is exuberantly proud to have capped what is probably its best season in history. Against Clarkson Wednesday of last week, Union scored the only goal of the game in the first half. Senior forward Jen Holder scored off a corner kick by freshman forward Deb Montano. This game also marked freshman goalie Jen Manna's ninth shutout, another Union record. Union possessed the ball the whole game, exhibiting tremendous control. The fullbacks and keeper kept the ball in play by preventing Clarkson from taking shots inside the 20-yard area. Senior defender Rika Poor played wingback after an injury, doing an excellent job. She was complimented by sophomore Sarah Dingledy, freshman Liz Landa ,at sweeper, and sophomore Chris Weske at stopper. The realization of getting this far in the season was an incredible experience, and ;the work ethic showed that Union was good enough to enter both the state and ECAC tourneys. The players, now with post- season experience, can realize what it takes to get there and ~ow good the teams involved really are. According to Holder, \ ... we were surprised for the ECACs ... (it) brought our spirits up again. We never really expected it at all, and it was a shock. I guess we just didn't know what to think. The seniors deserve ilie wins more than anyone else after four solid years put in. This season allowed them to feel that their time was worth it. They carried the underclassmen to believe that such victory was possible. Attributing the seasonal turning point to the St. Lawrence game, quad- captain Cindy Butler believes the season was, \Unbelievable. I was used to being a losing team, and it was a complete change of attitude this year. I wanted to make it the best, and it really turned out to be the best.\ Commenting on the squad's new respectability, quad-captain Anne Ramaley Dutchmen Look To Cap Off An Undefeated Season Continued from page 19 Besides holding Grey to under 100 yards, the Dutchmen Defenders came up with five sacks-including three by senior defensive end Jaimy Farnan, who had four the previous week against Gettysburg. Senior noseguard Mark DeLisio recovered a pair of fumbles while junior tackle Scott Mcintyre had one recovery. Senior defensive back Mark Tullman picked off a pass as did senior linebacker Shaun Cutting. Cutting also had a sack. On offense, senior quarter- back Brett Russ, completed 20 of 27 passes for 207 yards and two touchdown. Russ, who has suffered just two interceptions all year long, has now thrown 1 08-straight passes without a theft. He now has 48 career TD passes, just seven off of Dan Stewart's Union College record of 55. His performance against the Continentals earned him the ECAC Upstate New York \Playerofthe Week\ honors. It marks the third time this year that Russ has been recognized by the ECAC for outstanding perfonnances. The Dutchmen are now 34-4 since Russ took over as the starting quarterback in the third game of the 1988 season. · Offensive Lines And Defensive Hold Firm Continued from page 18 Jason Evans is the offensive line coach, Chuck Ptiore, who helps instill the fire and work ethic that fuels their success. It is hard to believe that a line of this caliber does not get more press, but as Senior tackle Pat Varley humbly said, \As Brett and Vlad continue to break records, it is an honor for us all.\ As Captain Bill Dean simply commented \blowouts obviously speak well of the offensive line.\ As the offensive side of the line was a strength coming into the season, the defensive line was a question mark. However, Coach Jim Schaefer feels \the young Defensive line jelled well around a stalwart Senior, four-year starter, noseguard Mark DeLisio.\ Delisio dominates the middle of the field with first-year starters Junior Scott Mcintyre, and Sophomore David Mock at the tackles. The Defensive line has constantly been aided by backup sophomores tackle Chris Swiecicki (6-4, 290), and noseguard \Sweet Lou Acquarulo (5-10, 275), who have provided depth and power. The defensive line characterizes itself as a hardworking group, that has come a long way since pre-season. This group is one of the main reasons that the !iPDRT!i <!r.Itttrnrbirttsiz aMT4 ~~x~NATlONAL ~·. ···vsOCCER \_~_..., HALL of FAME. Internship Opportunities The National Soccer Hall of Fame has initiated a nationwide search for student interns. The Hall which is chartered by the New York State Department of Education produces a variety of national programs. Needed are interns for spring and summer '92 to assist in research and project management. Intern- ships are offered in the fields of development and fund raising, public affairs, marketing, sports marketing and archival registration. Participating students will acquire college credit and \hand on\ experience in these areas. The institution is keeper of America's soccer archives. It offers programming at both the stated, \It's a great wrapping up because I'm a senior and it's my last year ... we really pulled everything together. We had a lot more determination on the team. People will look upon Union more as a soccer school in the future.\ Continuing the high note, quad-captain Rika Poor commented, \It's amazing, having been one of three seniors who's been on the team for four years; it's like a dream come true for us.\ Quad- captain Debby Danforth was the final straw in this leadership. National Soccer Museum ancl the Wright National Soccer Campus. The campus is a 61 acre soccer complex designed to be the premier soccer facility in the county. The campus, once complete will provide eight regulation tournament fields, a 10,000 seat stadium, dormitory housing, indoor arena and a 54,000 sq. ft. museum. Currently four fields are complete. New projects for 1992 include the American Soccer His tory and Research Symposium - a program established for international writers, journalists and historians, the national collegiate player registry-a In addition, what Manna did. as a freshman goalie was indispensable, as she was a team leader in every way. She gave much more than was expected out of her first year, holding true to her position and setting the pace for the next three. Backup freshman keeper Heather Gauntt saw time in only one game as goalie, as Manna's endurance came through, often while sore, tired, and mentally strained. It goes without saying that Head Coach Suzanne Zaloom is incredibly pleased with the research project eventually to be developed as an inter- active/computer exhibit, an Olympic Development Team Tournament, several new museum exhibits etc. College credit is available through the Slate University of New Y erk and most accredited colleges and universities. Internships are available both at the Hall in Oneonta, NY and· on most campuses (research for registry). For additional information m: to apply contact: Will Lunn, Director of Development and Public Affairs, N a tiona! Soccer Hall of Fame, 5-11 Ford Avenue, Oneonta. NY 13820, 607-432- 3351, Fai 607-433-2377. outcome. \If someone had told me that we'd be 12-7-1 out of twenty games at the end of the season. I'd have never believed it. We had to take each game one-at-a-time to consistently remind our players that we were as good as our opponenL<>. This led to our beating better teams. Losing was something they'd learned to get accustomed to, and in one season we turned that whole attitude around.\ If the players maintain self-confidence, more winning seasons loom on the horizon. Championship Hopes Still Alive For Men's Soccer, Face Cordand On Sat. Continued from page 20 helped Union drive the ball up the field. Sollinger also played nice one touch balls to Dan Wilmot and Adam Epstein, who attacked the weak side of the Ithaca defense. Although Union's total team effort was the key to their victory, the elevation of Jeff Mela's game aided in their challenge to become New York State finalists. Mela commanded the center of the field winning crucial head l>alls, shutting down his man, and distributing to the flanks. On defense, tile Dutchmen Union defense lets up an average of just over ten points a game, and .holds potential All-Americans to an-average of just over one yard a carry. Coach AI Bagnoli stated that \Your only as good as your offensive and defensive lines allow you to be.\ In that case, the Union's linemen have allowed their team to be undefeated thus far. But do not expect to stop at just those 8 games because as Tackle Jason Evans said, \We are sick of not getting any recognition on a regional and national level,\ and with what noseguard Mark Delisio dubs as the \biggest game of the year\ coming up against Rochester, look for these men to prove something on a large scale in the very near future. were able to hold off the attack of Ithaca and with the great play of Lee Popper they accumulated their eighth shutout of the season. Popper came up big numerous times tipping possible goals over the cross bar and intercepting dangerous crosses. But it was the Union defense that held off a barrage of scoring opportunities with less than three minutes to play in the game. Down one to nothing, Ithaca put 10 players in the box and sent direct balls toward the goal. In the span of less than three minutes they had 3 corner kicks, one free kick about 25 yards out and two hrow-ins. With it extremely crowded in front of the goal Dave Chodosch and D.J. Hodson were still able to get their head on the ball and clear it out. But none of Union's clears were far enough and Ithaca was able to put the ball back in the danger zone right in front of the goal. The hooters held strong while Joel Volterra, Wilmot, Chodosch, Hodson and Epstein led the defense against the mad charge in the closing minutes of the game. Finally, after Union cleared the ball out for at least the six or seventh time the clock showed double zero and Union had won the NCAA Division Three Northeast Regional Semifinal. It was the biggest win for Union College soccer in the past five years and it now puts the Rooters one step closer to the dream of a possible NCAA Division Three National Championship. As Head Coach Aldo Nardiello put it, \We are in it to win it, not just to show up.\ The Dutchmen face #2 seeded Cortland State this Sunday on Cortland's home turf. Union lost to Cortland earlier in the season by a score of 2-0. However, this is a different Union team and they will be better prepared for the match. The New York State Championship is on the line and Union will have to perform against Cortland if they wish to become one of the top eight Division Three teams in the country. A win on Saturday rneans the Dutchmen will take on the New England Region Champion Sunday at 1:00pm. In addition, a win on Sunday means that the Dutchmen go to the Final Four for the first time in Union history. A loss means the end of a tremendous '91 season that no one expected. WRITE FOR SPORTS Contact Dan at 374-8296 or Schach at x4151 to apply for a position

Divers Soar As Swim Team Triumphs by Andrew Wagshul Contributing Editor It has been a long time since Union and Rochester have met in head to head competition in the pool. When everything was said and done, one could sense that the Ycllowjackets, who have consistently been one of the best in New York, could have waited a few more years before this rivalry was restored. Before the meet we were informed that U of R was actually afraid of us, which is something that Union, especially the men, were not used to hearing. Union should probably get used to it. Both the Dutchmen and women were ready to take it to them after Coach Bassett's daily pep talks on how tough they would be. Since only one of the biggest football games of the year was to be played at the same time, we figured that everyone would rather sit inside and watch swimming. Just kidding! We would like to thank all those who came and watched us destroy Rochester, even if only for a few minutes. It's nice to know that people know we're here too. Both teams know that getting fifth place is just as important as getting first, since the scoring goes 9-4-3-2-1 in individual events, while the scoring in relays soars to 11-4- 2. Everyone kept this in mind as Union outscored Rochester in the majority of the events. Starting with both medly relays, ~he Dutchwornen took 1st and 2nd, while the men took 1st and 3rd. The onslaught continued in the individual events as people turned in great performances one after another. As stated earlier, the Divers took ,control of their events and helped to lead the team. Tasha Zabka took on 3 Rochester divers and won both the one meter, in which she set a school record, and the three meter. Mike Cassidy and Matt Baumgartner took 1st and 2nd in both the one and three meter events. Whether they know it or not the swimmers depend heavily on the contributions of the divers. ~S! There were so many great swims that all of them cannot be mentioned here. However, there were some tnlly outstanding swims, such as Ann Glicksman's win in the 200 I.M .• which set a school record. She then came back and won the 100 freestyle. Kerstin Dorse was a double winner in the distance events, while Amy O'Neill turned in a great time in winning the 50 Free. Once again Julie Benker led the performances by breaking her 100 backstroke school record, as well as the pool record. Cliff Shaw and Tim \Cheese\ Lynch finished 1st and 2nd in the 1000 free, while Sven Zabka and Andy Wagshul finished 1 and 2 in the 200 free. Zabka won again in the 100 back with a personal best time, as Chris Y ousey took 2nd. Bill Humphreys won the 10() butterfly, and Scott Bowden swam two personal best times in the 200 I.M. and 100 free. The whole team deserves credit for a job well done. I think it is easy to say that the team is well on its way to another fruitful season. So come out and see the swim team compete as we establish a new dynasty with which other teams in the league must reckon. The Unheralded Warriors Of Union College Football by Patrick Haskell Contributing Writer Telemaque scores! Brett Russ to Gene Ray, ...... Touchdown! These are common headlines seen pertaining to the 1991 edition of Union Football. As the record books are re-written with personal and team records, the heart and soul of the Fighting Dutchmen remains unlauded on the eve of the final game of a thus far perfect season. This heart and soul is the offensive and defensive lines. One side of the ball is power and experience, while on the other is a youthful finesse; both units have gotten the job done in excellent fashion throughout ~he season. At an average weight of over two-hundred and fifty pounds, the front five of Union's offense has consistently opened holes that cars could drive through. With two three-year starters on the right side of the line in tackle Jason Evans and guard Bill Dean, and two two- year starters on the left in tackle Pat Varley and guard Jim McLaughlin, the offensive line is the embodiment of experience. But that unit would not be complete without hardworking junior center Art Leventis, the link who makes the front five complete. Of course the offensive line does receive a hand from hard-hitting fullbacks David Flynn and Kevin McLaughlin, who look like offensive guards in tile Union's offensive line plays a big part in QB Brett Russ' success. backfield. The tight-end duo of Brad Brundage and Tim Bradford, also have the size and finesse, with over forty catches between them, to round a championship offensive front. Senior Fullback Kevin McLaughlin said \hard work in the off-season\ is what characterizes this unit. With every member of ·the unit bench pressing over 325 pounds, and three Seniors benching 390 pounds, the word powerful can not be overstated. Another secret to the line's success · according to Tackle continued on page 17

!' Mike Gallant Shines In Dutchmen Net Pe;rformance Against Vermont Earns Him ECAC Rookie ofthe Week Honors Magic Re_velation In Sports World Sparks Awareness .of this announcement, AIDS activists across the country became enraged that it took a s:ports superstar's contraction of the disease to wake the country ap to this ever increasing epidemic. For the past few weeks, newscasts have been inundated with reports of angry AIDS ac;tivi.sts, who find this new found interest in AIDS to be an insult. SO WHAT! ! ! ! So it took .this courageous act by Magic Johnson to spark the world. The last thing AIDS activists should be is angry. .Corne on ... this is the time to band together and make things happen. The only reason I can see for the anger is jealousy. by Dan Strum Sports Editor The Skating Dutchmen surprised many people as they stuck with The University of Vermont in a 3-1 loss. This was a game ch&\acterized by fundamental hockey: good forechecking, solid defense, and spectacular g()al:tending. Union received all of these as they squared off against a noticeably stronger Vermont team. Freshman goaltender Mike Gallant rose to the ,occasion for Union in his firstcareer start in college hockey. For his outstanding performance in the past week, Mike Gallant has been named Coneordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Gallant, who hails from Stoney Creek, Ontario, is a freshman who was eager to get into the Union Hockey program. He is a reaction goaltender who relies on his quick reflexes and' his keen hockey se11se. He had an impressiv~ .showi11g in pre- season anal earlled his first starting mle against the Milce Galla~t Vermont CatamOIJil~s. The Vermont oftenge came at him early and often, but Gallant was there to tum away many good scoring oppcl\tunities. He held the higll. J)Owered Vermont offense sco:reless in the first period. Theyv finally .got to him in the second as Vermont opened up the scoring. Both sides relied heavily on their goaltending through()ut by John Schachnovsky Associate Sports Editor most parts of the game. Coach ;! For the past five years Ol!r Bruce Delventhal wasextreme- ' lives have .been surrounde<lby- ly pleased with Gallant's ii the world of AIDS. Everywhere performance. \Mike had an we look \Practice Safe Sex\ is outstanding performance for the phrase ()f choice. I am nCJt us\ said Delventhal. \He kept trying to say that this is ba(L T us alive early as Vennont had am just saring that it is many scoring opportunities in tattooed on all of our mirads. the beginning of the game.\ The problem is that tile Gallant's performance was message is not gettin,g indeed .spectacular. He made 42 ·through. I for one still have tile saves coming on 45 shots. 42 mind set that AIDS is a saves, now that's a decent homosexual disease that afflicts night's work. The league was not only homosexuals but als<> ready to reward Gallant for his intravenous drug users. The performance as the ECAC fact that heterosexuals get the honored him with ECAC disease stin has not dawned OJI. Rookie of the Week honors. most people~ and unless t!Jey Mike Gallant is looking to are a part of the plethora !)f have an impressive showing in surveys that are drowning Olil his rookie season for the every movement, people will: Skating Dutchmen. Union is not discuss this ever increasi:ng counting on him for leadership Jeality. and steadiness in the pipes. All of this changed la!;t Look for Gallant to come up Thursday when Earvin \Magic~' big a number of other times Johnson announced that he had: this season. Once again, contracted HIV, the virus -------..-----------------·-. congratulations and continued which often leads to AIDS. The fact is, Magic's announcement overshadowed all of their public service annCluncements. I don't want to teat a dead horse, but I feel that this announcement by Earvin Johnson shotdd bring everyone involved wi.th the AIDS eiJidemic together. It should n()t push them into bitter llfgllments about who, and what broug:ht the world's awareness int<> this new era of 11nderstanding. MAGIC ... OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU! W ~men's Cross Country Gets Noticed at ECAC's by Nataslta LaBare Contributing Writer Despite the mile and 1/2 uphill, very frigid tempera- tures, and a zillion competitors, the women's cross coun~ry team fllfecl well at ECAC's on Saturday. Tile lady harriers traveled to SUNY Binghamton to .conquer yet another hilly co11rse. After having the pleasure of competing in Geneseo two weeks ago, the lady harriers went on a rigorous training program of hills, hills, and more hills! After two weeks of Death Star, Saratoga, and Keith Wells hills, the ladies were more than prepared to attack the Binghamton course. Finishing first for Union was Diana \Where are my gloves\ Spenello. The gloveless wonder crossed the line with a super time of 21:11 placing her 64th overall. N atasha \It's not too cold for shorts\ LaBare finislled second for Union with a place of 75th and a time of21:41. Senior and Captain, Sandia \Buns of Steel\ (sorry- that cne is too good to fQrg-et) A11selment roared acro\Ss the li11e with a time of 23:18 pla-cing 94th overall. Cyn()i Huntei, Senior and Captain as well, placed fourth for Union. Cyndi \look at that blinker\ Hunter finished 113th at ECAC's with a time of 23:18. Ronnding out the lady harriers -was Kriste11 \my Pert Plus is g()ne\ Welch. Welch ran an impressive time of 23:29 whic:h gave Iter 116th place overalL Despite our small numbers, the women 1 S cress country team has made a very impressive ~howi11g this season. At ECAC's, the women placea 15th out of 32 teams and 175 competitors. The women h;ave Sllccessfully lowered their times a;nd placed better than in previo11s years. Everyone has one IS!st chance to see this b~auty ie motion: Picture this, high noon at Saratoga State Park - Chilled air, snow cove:red gmund. and 275 women \Wearing spandex and running singlets · DON'T :MISS IT! Come anrd cheer for your favorite lla.dy barrier next Saturday at S.aramga. SCOREBOARD EOOTBALL Union 51 Hamilton 17 WOMEN'S SOCCER Geneseo 6 Union 0 MEN'S SOCCEB Union 1 ltllaca 0 VOLLEJ'QAL L State Tourru~r RIT def. Union 9·1!5; 12-15 Alb.·def. Union 5-15; 2-15 Roch. def. Union Ithaca def. Union 9-15; 15•6; 2-15 16-18; 5-15 success to Mike Gallant, \This fact sent a ripple through Concordiensis Sports tile entire world, not just tlle Athlete Of The Week. sports world. In the aftermath Visiting Rochester Stands Between the Dutchmen, An Undefeated Season, and the NCAA Playoffs Courtesy of Sports I nfonnati(Jn The last time that Union's football team lost a game was the third contest of the 1990 campaign when the University of Rochester posted a 27-20 victory. A school-record 16 wins later, the Yellowjackets stand in the way of two current win streaks, a perfect season, and an NCAA playoff invitation. The 7-2 Jackets invade Frank Bailey Field in the regular-season finale on Saturday. Game time is 1:30 p.m. Boasting the nation's third- longer current win streak, the Union College football team won its record-setting 16th consecutive game by pounding visiting Hamilton, 51-17, last Saturday. Even more impres- sive than the score was the fact that the Dutchmen Defenders held junior halfback Eric Grey-who came into the game as the nation's second- leading Division III rusher with a 189-yard average-to just 88 yards on 24 carries. What's more, the first team defense, which played a little more than two quarters, held Grey to just 16 yards on 16 carries. The win improved the Garnet's 1991 record to 8-0. The 16-game streak ranks behind defending Division III national champion Allegheny's , 23 in a row and Division IAA :Holy Cross's 18 in a row. The Dutchmen have also won their bst 15 home games. The last time Union lost a game at Eailey Field was on October 22, 1988 when Coast Guard ca:ptured a 17-10 decision. Since then, the Dutchmen wo11 all seven of their 1989 games~ all five of their 1990 contests, a11d all three of this year's games. Rochester~ which kept Uni()n .()lit of last year's NCAA !Jlayoffs (after the Dutchmen lud reached the national c.h:ampionship game in 1989), stands in the way of all that. The Dutchmen lead the 16 Upstate teams in s~orin_g offense (386 points), rushin_g offense (2318 yards), offensive a-verage (SO 1 ), defensi v'e a\Verage (236) and plus/min11s writh a +14. They were second ill points allowed to Rochester. The Yellowjackets have ~lowed 91 and the Dutchmen 92. Senior tailback Vlad T(llemaque is sec()nd behind GJey in rushing with his 127.5 average and is third in scoring with his 9.8 average. Senior :punter Mike Richardson leads 1ile region in punting with his 38.1-yard average. The Yellowjackets have been :tile biggest thorn in Union's ~i<le since Ai Bagnoli took over ;tS bead coach in 1982. While Union holds a 6-3 advantage, the jackets have won three of tile last four. After the Dutchmen captured five straight from 1982 to 1986, :Rochester broke the jinx with a 24-2() win in Schenectady. The f()lfowing year, the Yellow- jackets handed Bagnoli his ~()rst defeat as a head coach, 38-3. Union won the 1989 battle, 28-6, but the Jackets rounced back in '90, 27-20. :Rochester leads the overall .!;eries, 43-33-5. Pumped up by the challenge of stopping the nation's s:econd-leading rusher, the Dutchmen showed more e:mot ion against the Continentals than they have all year long. Continued on page 17 ~up port Wnion ~ports

Union Hockey celebrates Division I home opener this weekend as they take on Harvard and Brown. Brett Russ and Union's offense looks to explode against Rochester thiS Saturday. See page 19. Clrnltfllrbirttsis Skating Dutchmen Respect In 3-1 Divisional Foe Command Loss to Vermont by Dan Strum Sports Editor No one said that the transition to Division I was going to be easy. A tough road was ahead for Union, and the Dutchmen had their work cut out for them. However, no one said that the Dutchmen had to lie down and take their knocks, being the \Rookie\ in this established league known as the ECAC. While they do concede some lack of experience, Union Hockey is out to turn some heads and command some respect in this their inaugural season. The Dutchmen did just that as they squared off against Vermont this past Saturday. Union traveled to Burlington to face the Vermont Catamounts in front of over 4,000 of their most vociferous, and loyal, fans. Vermont was corning off a big win where · they beat up on Boston This Week In: HOCKEY College, a perennial power in the Hockey East. After the drubbing was over, Vermont was enjoying a 9-3 victory and the prospects of playing a less formidable Union squad the next week. The Dutchmen used this as inspiration and were determined to bring forth their best effort. After a surprising effort by Union, Vermont had to utilize all aspects of their game to preserve a 3-1 hard- fought victory. Right from the opening faceoff, Union braved the Catamount attack with a solid game plan consisting of basic fundamental hockey. The Dutchmen tightened up their defense and received a stellar performance from Freshman goaltender Mike Gallant. This young rookie turned away several good chances in the early going, enabling Union to settle down and resume their course. Vermont had a few scoring chances throughout the rest of the period, but the game stood scoreless at the end of the Fri., Nov.. 15 vs. Harvard 7:30 p.m. Sat., Nov. 16 vs. Brown 7:00 p.m. . ·······-·~--··-----------·----- first period leaving many of the Vermont players and fans shaking their heads. The Catamounts built a 2-0 lead in the second period and added a quick goal at the beginning of the third to take a 3-0 advantage. However, t!Ji.s is not to say that Union was without scoring opportunities. A flurry at the end of the second almost resulted in a Dutchman tally, while persistence led to Union's first goal which came in the third period. Some familiar names showed up in the scol'ing · column as Union finally broke the shutout. Craig Fer:rero scored on assists by Bill Railton and Dalton Menball. Ferrero is currently enjoying a seven-game streak of his own. Although Union lost the. game 3-1, once again the Skating Dutchmen had a lot to be proud about. They got an outstanding performance from goaltender Mike Gallant, who made 42 saves on 45 shots_ He received help from the whole team as the defense was ready to sweep aside any rebound that he let up. Gallant's perfonnance was good en()ugh for ECAC Rookie Of The Week honors. The Dutchmen were not making any promises to win an \x\ number of games, or to finish in any particular place in the standings. They are just oat to earn the respect of their peers and to conduct themselves with pride in this their opening season. So far, Union is achieving this goal. With continued hard work and perseverance, the rewards for this season will he many . Men's Soccer Catapults Into SWEET 16 of NCAA Tournament by Adam H. Epstein Concordiensis Staff The Union College Men's Soccer team is now one of only 16 teams remaining in the fight for the Division Three National Championship. The field was narrowed from 32 to 16 this past Sunday when the first round of the tournament , took place. The Dutchmen, coming off a four game win streak with three of those games resulting in shutouts, were confident that they would match up well against their opponents, the Ithaca Bombers. The Bombers were seeded #1 in the region with a record of 9-1- 5 on the season. The Dutchmen were seeded fourth with a regular season record of 10-4-1. But these two teams were on opposite ends of the spectrum. The Dutchmen were peaking at the end of the regular season with four straight victories while the Bombers suffered their first loss the final game of the season. So while Ithaca was let down by not finishing their regular season undefeated, the Dutchmen were flying high with tremendous confidence and faith in their ability to win. On Sunday, November 10, they took this confidence to Ithaca, New York where they ultimately defeated the #1 seeded team in New York State by a score of 1-0. With the completion of the National Anthem, the Dutchmen opened their eyes and found themselves standing on a field ready to play in their first Northeast Regional Semifin<1J c;ince 1 <>Rfi. The Bo(}te.rs, especially the four seni()rs consisting of captains Adam Epstein and D.J. Hodson as well as Jeremy Sollinger and Brett Miller, had reached a plateau in their careers playing in, f<Jr most, the biggest game they had ever been a part of. With snow glazing the hills of Ithaca, New York, the whistle blew signifying the start of the game. From the beginning, the Dutchmen attacked the outside backs of the Bombers, the weak link to a team which had only relinquished five goals all seaso!l. Strikers Mark Oleson and Jeremy Liebhoff played pheaomenally as they were alw!lys working as a unit, dern an ding the ball and working off each other. Together they created numerous opportunities not only for thelllselves but for their supporting cast. Oleson scored the game's only goal with abo11t 2 minutes and 45 seco11ds to go in the first half as the ball was built up the left side ()f the field, and eventually switched over to the right side. Stu Savage received the ball and temporarily lost control of it bllt pressure from Epstein and Savage jarred the ball loose. Savage released the ball, threading two defenders, which allowed Oleson to put it by the Ithaca goalie. This gave Union all they needed to win. 011tside halfbacks Brett Millel' and Savage were integral to the success of the Dutchmen attack. They dominated their flanks and with the help of schemer Jeremy Sollinger, they were able to put together effective combinations which \ . ' . ' ;

