Founded . - ' . . ' . . ~ ' ' ' . ' ' : . . '. . . . ·. : . ' ' . . . ' . . . ·. - '. ' ·. . ·.. . '· ·, ' ' . . , .... '.' .. --. . '' . : , . ' . \ . - . : -_ -, . : :; VOLUNE 121, NUMBER 21 SCHENECTADY, NEWYORK MAY 7, 1992 • ommun1t • 185 a me • acta arm on by Jmrdan Lippner (/;Jews Editor students formed a liaison committee to delegate au.thority and dole out responsibilities. The membeTs of the Zwicker in the math department This sentiment of This 11 a.st Monday in a committee were responsible for dem()nstration of political recruiting President Hall to · activislll amd solidarity on the speak at the rally. and for · volunteering and of becoming more active, aware and involved was shared and re- iterated by a number of students who took their turns Union College campus, attracting an three major local approximately two hundred television networks and the students were joined by radio station WGY to the members of the faculty, event. According to Aram administrt~tion, and local press Fuchs, the committee members at a peac.efrnl rally infront of the · had originally planned to only College ·Center to protest, ask \Bull to write a letter, in specficall,,. the Rodney King the name of the Union College trial and mbsequent rioting, . community, to New York state and more ;generally, rilcism and 1· government officials, stressing violence in.America. the disgust on campus with the The rall!.y, which consisted of 1 King trial and the national a dem()msttr:ation march around . rioting. Fuclls a-dded that it was the calli]JUS and various ' Hull, along with Dean speeche:s ])y members of the Marrimola, who helped focus college community, was the committee's attention on organize!~ by members of the : doing much more. student bt<Hly, in conjunction The result of this cooperative with the President of Union effort between students and the College .. :Roger Hull, and Dean administration was the march, of Stude::nlls;, Joseph Mammola. a fund-raising campaign. and a The students most series of sveeches which responsi])l'e for making the heightened awareness on the demonst:l'ation become a reality Union College campus. To a were Da!ll Ril-ey, Aram Fuchs, crowd of two hundred plu.s, Kevin I>a11tzler, Joe Kotwright, Hull initiated the series of brief Caroly11 McKenzie, Angela talks urging Union students \to Rudolph, and Ruth Lerman. get more involved in the local These se'fe.ll students, desiring community.\ The President to foe 11~ on the Union elaborated, describing the commu11i~y on the recent various ways in which students tragedy tlhat occurred in Los can volunteer their time and Angele!;, e-nlisted the help of · energy, such as the various s111dent organizations Schenectady Big Brother/Big ranging ifr()m SPAA to the Sisters program, We Care MSU. After rounding up a about U-Sche11ectady, and the sizable lltJmber of student new tutoring program volunteers, the origina1 seven organized by Professor William at the microphone. Kevin Dantzler told the attentive crowd that \injustice breeds . injustice\ that racism knows · · no bounds and therefore : whether one is \a Jew, a Black, · a woman, a homosexual, a Hispanic, we must all speak out.\ Dantzler implored his fellow students to continue to be active after the rally, but Hull initiated the series of brief talks urging Union students to get more involved in the community. also to channel the activism in a positive manner. Continuing on this theme, Alex Namzoff, a senior political science major asked those at the rally if this country was indeed a land of e~ual opportunity for all races. Namzoff spoke about the many societal problems which plague America, such as homeless, the . great wealth disparity which exists, and the growing number · of impoverished people. His ' primary message was that all · of the speeches and all of the rhetoric essentially are rendered meaningless, if people are not · prepared to follow their own · words up with action. In closing, he asked ofthe crowd, \what are you prepared to do about it?\ Another student, told how she would \love to go to Hamilton Hill and help out\ but that she is afraid of the local police and what they might do. After what happened to a fellow African-American student in the fall (Concordiensis 11!14/91), she exclaimed \I don't feel safe enough to walk off this campus by myself.\ However, while her fear is quite real and understandable, she recognized the solemn need for people to stand up not only for their individual rights, but for the inalienable rights of others as well. She concluded her remarks by quoting a passage from the Holocaust documentary \Genocide articulatio g a poem which was written by a priest in Nazi Germany: \They came for the communists, and I did nothing. They came for the Jews, and I did nothing. They came for the Gypsies, and I did nothing. They came for the homosexuals, and I did nothing. When they came for The Deep In This King Carpet Issue: Trial Thougl1ts -pages 3-4 -page 8 111e, there was no one left to do anything.\ Peter Myers, a political science professor, took the rally down a different path when he addressed the demonstrators. Myers explained how beneath. any racism which might have permeated the whE>le Rodney King ordeal, the underlying issue was clearly violence. The attack on King was excessively violent, but that instance was merely a microcosm of the larger problem. According to government figures, violent crime and rape are significantly on the rise. This, he said, must not be ignored. The last theme touched on by Fuchs, was that of the vote. He pleaded with those in attendance to register and to get others to register. His message conveyed the belief that a vote ;;an be a powerful tool, for social change. Lastly the organizers of the rally have set up a donation fund, hoping to raise $5,000 to send to Los Angeles to help rebuild the ravaged communities:. A donation booth can be found currently in the college center. As Fuchs put it, his \fraternity social 1ues were $110, a pitcher at Kelly's is $3, we can give up a brew for someone to have a meal.\ Kevin Dantzler, a member of the liaison committee, expressed his gratitude to the Continued on page 2 Schach Talk -page 19

. . .:·>·:: ·.. . . . .... ~ ·. .... .· . ... -:: ·:. · ....... · ·.·. ·.: '. · ... ·. . . . . . . . ' .· . ·... . - . . : . . .· . . . . ... K . D .. IDg eCI.SIOD SparksUC ·Concern Continued from page 1 college administration 'Yho he said were \tremendously helpful. Quite a pleasant surprise.•• Specifically •. Dantzler d ted President Hull, Dean Mat11rnoia, and sociology professor Martha Huggins, who referred the organizers to attorney Mark Mishler who specializes in police brutality and civil and human rights violationso Huggins also introduced Dantzler to Dr. Alice Green, a lawyer with the NAACP in Albany, who will be showing a video later this week about police brutality. As a result of the positive turnout at tile rally, Dantzler, a senior has \renewed faith in the students at Union College.'' He commends every student for coming out and supporting the rally. Most impo:rtantly, Dantzler felt that the ral:ly demonstrated \that both white and black students want dialogue with each other.\ Rodney King, a black man, was beaten by four white police officers incessantly for eighty·one seconds. A jury - without any blacks on it, declared that the officers use of force was not excessive, leading to the n~tion~wide rioting which has left forty people dead, and almost a billion dollars worth of damage. How will this be prevented from reoccurring? As one student stated, \we must respect each other, and love each other. It's the only way it's going to work.\ CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 2 Union Retne~nbers The Holocaust by David Levine Stqf{Writer Last week, poople all around the world remembered the suffering of the Jews in the Holocaust. The Jewish Student Union sponsored a two-day remembrance on Wednesday, April 29 and Thursday, April 30. A memorial, which included the stories of Jennifer Cohen, a Union student who visited Auschwitz, a speech by Holocaust survivor Lily Klein and Jewish Student Union member Beth Pincus was held on the first evening. The second day included a showing of the movie \Genocide and a speech by Professor Berk. In addition, an exhibit about the cone.entration camps was Buchanan gain support in ·the erectedintheCollegeCenter. U.S. In Italy, Mussolini's Jennifer Cohen was the f:trst daughter. a neo-fascist, is to tell her accounts to the becoming more popular. Kurt audience in the College Center Waldheim, who is alleged to Auditorium on Wednesday have been a mass executioner evening. She discussed her trip in the concentration camps, to Auschwitz, one of the • was elected President of largest concentration camps, Austria. which is located in Poland. On Thursday April 30, According to Cohen, one , before a near capacity crowd in miHi<>n Jews were killed in : Social Sciences 016, Genocide, Auschwitz. I a 1982 Academy Award AEPi Granted Housing Upon her arrival at i winning documentary, was Auschwitz, Cohen was . shown, A workshop, led by offen.ded by a sign that referred • Professor Berk followed. The to the trail that her group was • · movie thoroughly outlined the going to walk as a \sight- ! causes of the Holocaust. The seeillg route.\ Cohen stated i film showed how the Jews tl1at this is the type of s•gn • . were persecuted by the tllat should be in a museum · common people, as cities and not at a concentration · turned into war zones for Jews. camp. Cohen then discussed ' Jews who were given the the Uving conditions of the option of leaving Germany caml), She observed that the were not accepted by other camp was surrounded by • •· countries. Even the United electrically_charged barbed-wire :. States turned away 900 Jews- fences. Prisoners were forced to '• who had arrived here on a boat. work long days, were fed very . The movie addresses the little, were painfully •' question of why the world was ex.perimented upon, and were ·I not appalled at the atrocities. of forced to sleep six to eight in : which they had become aware. the same bed. Many prisoners · The movie was followed by were-executed and gased. Cohen · • a workshop led by Professor described her visit to ·, Berk. Berk discussed the Auschwitz. as a very emotional : dangerous ideologies of racism. experience. For 1900 years, the Christians by Ali Wapner Staff'Writer After a five year struggle to · get a house on campus, the Alpha Epsil()n Pi fraternity has emerged victorious, Since its installment on the Union College campus in 1986, the fraternity leased an off-campus apartment at 305 Seward Place. Fqr the 1992~1993 academic year the apartment will no longer serve as a fraternity house. The Stude11t Affairs Council (SAC) received three requests for on~campus housing. The Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity. meeting the requirements the best of the three candidates, was selected. The brothers will Editor-in-Chief News Editor~ . . . Ned.W~Uey.· · · Jordan Lip!)ll~t~ ~bn: ;Polite$., · Lara Chamberlain, J~ffGreen~ Matt Tucker Executive· Editor · · · . .. ·· .. ·. · Pi!m'!.,ei~sol( JntematiOOal Features: Editp:rs .· · l{rlstin Lupolif. ~·'I'urili®jewtcz, , · Leat;e~i$. :Beth Pip:cus~ .• ·Maya~~stJl\,llunt · ·Arts EditOO's Omi¢ Shoonat~;:Cort :aou~get · .. -LifeS,tyi~s $ditor StacyCetvellifip~CmaSeife:C .. Feanu:es ~ditot · • · - ·.·. · i Sari Skolriik: · · · C~pus ~gt Editors Dlana :Brodsky, Nic01e G.oldiu: · Spans Editor . · . . · · .. · J~h\Jt:Sc;nachnovsky Assistant $ports Editdt · .·Ohuek RodmM Pliotograp~y Ediror · . . David Cbo~ Pete( ltisclwt: · · Advertisinglklltar.~- • · Lauren Bye()ff~ JenShulkin · SubScription ·Managers · • ·Matt Grabowsl9.~4tldfe··· ~ wl{os.en: r FitlanoiallBditor · ·. · Rh.ietds Day: · .1 Sl'All'F~ .(Jr~g Earret~. Ron Birnbaunt, D:atUel J. a,ullea, .. Adam Epstein, Erica Fr~J Stephanie Fray, Craig Greenbe:t'~i .: .Jason Habinsky. Hannah :r. Itaz-cm, Lisa Rofbauer~ Tasha ·14.: Bare, David Levine. Sean Livingston, Julie Medow, .Ri6h · Morgan, Louise Oster, PeterProtzel. Betsy Rothstein. Sreedhar Samudrala, Jeremy Sollinger,. Alii Wapner; Erit W~inberg. · . .· · AlJVERTtSJNG STAFF: !ennl;fer A.n.d~rson •.. Sharo:il · Smith, Julie Schlan;g~ · · · · · receive the first floor of Raymond Hou.se, adjoining Sigma Chi. Although they will only occupy one floor and be denied access to private kitchen facilities, the fraternity will be provided with use of a common room which can be used for social functions. Jeff Gandel, the president of Alpha, Epsilon Pi, says that he is very pleased with ~he decision. Raymond House will provide a \nice location to enhance our place in the Greek community.\ In addition, Gandel says that having a house will \enlarge our philanthropy and rush programs.\ Hopefully, Gandel says, the fraternity can expand their successful annual event of the ultimate frisbee tournament to benefit Big Brothers/Big Sisters and Proctor's Theatre. Marcy Wein, a member of SAC, said that Alpha Epsilon Pi was the best suited candidate for on-camp11s housing. Because of such aspects as the fraternity's diversity and community service, the SAC 1 does not foresee any problems with their decision. Marcy Wein adds that as more groups receive on-campus housing, students will have \more freedom of choice\ because juniors will be able to live off- campus. if they so desire. Trish Williams, the Dean of Residence Life, says that she \does not question the SAC's ability to choose which groups receive housing.\ The fraternity petitioried SAC and, upon the council's acceptance, Dean Williams decided the place the fraternity will occupy. Alpha Epsilon Pi will be subject to a review every two years and, like every other Greek organizati()n on campus. must fill their house to 95% occupancy. If. the requirements, set by the SAC, are not met, the house will be taken away. Lil.-y· Klein, the next speaker, · had taught their children that · • the Jews killed Christ. The was brought to Auschwitz in religious teachings help'ed lead 1944. She recounted how her family was loaded up in a cattle to the anti-semitism necessary train with other Jews and that for the Holocaust to have she was separated from her happened. Anti-semitism was entire family with the also aided by the high ex.ception of her sister. Mrs. unemployment rate. People had Kl · b t by a the need to find a scapegoat and e10. was ea en up . Gerrn~n soldier, and she never they applied their hatred to .the • Jews. saw her mother again. B k After the Jews were freed According to Professor er , • the importance of the existence from the camps, Mrs. Klein of Israel is revealed when was reunited with her sick father and moved to the U.S. with . .studying the Holocaust. If . Israel had existed during WW II hirn and her sister after the war. millions of lives could have She chose to live in this been saved. Professor Berk does countiy because of how kind · . not believe that those people the U.S. soldiers were when who would not help the Jews the 1 ews were freed. , .Mr~;. Klein was motivated to were anti-~emitic. Any German who made an overt effort to talk about her experiences after help the Jews probably would having seen an article in a have been killed. People in newspaper about people who · 1 claim that the Holocaust never foreign natiOns simp Y happened. Mrs. Klein believes preferred to deal with their own . th H 1 · problems. that studymg e 0 ocaust 18 Professor Berk believes those important because people need • .people that risked their lives to to be educated about the past to · prevent history from repeating · help save Jews and those Jews · 'itself in the future. that did survive the Holocaust Beth Pincus, who concluded . · are heroes. Professor Berkdoes the events on Wednesday, · not believe, despite the rising explained why it is especially • anti-semitism in the world, important to remember the that another Holocaust against Holocaust, even fifty years the Jews will happen in our after it began. The political lifetimes. By studying the events of the past few years, • Holocaust, Berk believes that she argued, have shown how people will give \no racists have been able to gain posthumous victories to public:. support. For example, . Hitler.\ she s11w David Duke and Pat · WRITE FOR NEWS

~--- ./ King Decision SparksUC Concern Continued from pag~ 1 college administration who he said were \tremendously helpful. Quite a pleasant surprise.\ Specifically, Dantzler cited President Hull, Dean Marnmola, and sociology professor Martha H u,ggins, who referred the organizers to attorney Mark Mishler who specializes in police bnutality and civil and human rights violatioms. Huggins also introduce<! Dantzler to Dr. Alice Green, a lawyer with the NAACP in Albany, who will be showi11g a video later this week abol.lt police brutaliily. As a result of the positive turnout at the rally, Dantzler, a senior has \renewed faith in the students at Union College.·· He commends every student for coming out and supporting the rally. Most importantly, Dantzler felt that the rally demonstrated \that both white and black students want dialogue with each other.\ Rodney King, a black man, was beaten by four white police officers incessantly for eighty-one seco11ds. A jury without any blacks on it, declared that the officers use of force was nor excessive, leading to the n~tion-wide rioting which has left forty people dead, and almost a bi Ilion dollars worth of damage. How will this be prevented fmm reoccurring? As one student stated, \we must respect each other, and love each other. It's the only way it's going to work.\ CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 2 Union ReJDeJDbers The Holocaust by David Levine Staff Writer Last week, people all around the world remembered the suffering of the Jews in the Holocaust. The Jewish Student Union sponsored a two-day remembrance on Wednesday, April 29 and Thursday, April 30. A memorial, which included the stories of Jennifer Cohen, a Union student who visited Auschwitz, a speech by Holocaust survivor Lily Klein and Jewish Student Union member Beth Pincus was held on the first evening. The second day included a showing of the movie \Genocide and a speech by Professor Bcrk. In addition, an exhibit about the concentratioR camps was erected in the College Center. J enRifer Cohen was the first to tell her accounts to the audience in the College CeRter Auditorium on Wednesday evening. She discussed her trip to Auschwitz, one of the largest concentration camps, which is located in Poland. According to Cohen, one million Jews were killed in Auschwitz. Upon her arrival at Auschwitz, Cohen was offended by a sign that referred to the trail that her group was going to walk as a \sight- seeing route.\ Cohen stated that this is the type of sign that should be in a museum and not at a concentration camp. Cohen then discussed Buchanan gain support in the U.S. ln Italy, Mussolini's daughter, a nco-fascist, is becoming more popular. Kurt Waldheirn, who is alleged to have been a mass executioner in the concentration camps, was elected President of Austria. On Tllursday April 30, before a near capacity crowd in Social Sciences 016, Genocide, a 1982 Academy Award winning documentary, was shown. A workshop, led by Professor Berk followed. The movie thoroughly outlined the the living conditions of the AEP • G t d camp. She observed that the . 1 ran e camp was surrounded by . electrically charged barbed-wire causes of the Holocaust. The film showed how the Jews were persecuted by the common people, as cities turned int<l war zones for Jews. Jews wh.o were given the option of leaving Germany were not accepted by other · countries. Even the United States turned away 900 Jews who had arrived here on a boat. The mo\Vie addresses the question of why the world was not appalled at the atrocities of which they had become aware. H • fences. Prisoners were forced to Ou SIng work long days, were fed very little, were painfully by Ali Wapner Staff Writer After a five year struggle to get a house on campus, the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity has emerged victorious. Sin cc its installment on the Union College campus in 1986, the fraternity Kcased an off-campus apartment at 305 Sl:ward Place. Fqr the 1992-1993 academic year the apartment will no longer serve as a fraternity b.ouse. The Student Affairs Council (SAC) received three requests for on-ca1npus housing. The Alpha Ejlsilon Pi fraternity, meeting the requirements the best of t.lle three candidates, was selected. The brothers will Editor-in-Chief News Editors Ned Walley Jordan Lippner, Jim Polites, Lara Chamberlain, JeffGreen, Matt Tucker Executive Editor International Features Editors Commentaries Editors Pain Leinson Kristin Lupoli, l...anle Tumidajewicz. Lea Lewis. Heth Pincus, Maya Rosenblum Arts Editors Carrie Sherman. Cort Boulanger Lifestyles Editor Stacy Cervellino, Cara Soifer Features Editor Sari Skolnik Campus Page Editors Diana Brodsky, Nicole Goldin · Sports Editor John Schachnovsky AssistaiLt Sports Editor Chuck Rodman Photography Editor David Cho, Peter Fischer Advertis.ing Editors Lauren :Bycoff, Jen Shulkin Subscription Managers Matt Grabowski, Anrlrew Rosen Financial Editor Shields Day 1· STAFF: Greg Barrett, Ron Birnbaum,. Daniel J. Bullen, · Adam Epstein, Erica Frank, Stephanie Fray~ Craig Greenberg, Jason &binsky, Hannah J. Hazen, Lisa Hotbauer, Tasha La Bare, David Levine, ~ean Livingston, Julie Medow, Rich Morgan, Louise Oster. Peter Protzel, Betsy Rothstein, Sreedhar Samudmla, Jeremy Sollinger, Alii Wapner, Eric Weinberg. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith, Julie Schlang. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Tllursdays a term by ' the stude-nt body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; P'ublications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563~8339. Subscription rate: $40 :per year, delivered anywhere in the· United States. Mail Subscriptions to Cont1ordiensis office,. College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscribes: to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Tel~phone (518) 370- 6155, Advertising TeletJhone (518) 370-6494. experimented upon~ and were receive the first floor of forced to sleep six to eight in Raymond Ho1:1se, adjoining the same bed. Many prisoners Sigma Chi. Although they were executed and gased. Cohen will only occupy one floor and described her visit to be denied access to private Auschwitz as a very emotional kitchen facilities, the fraternity experience. will be provided with use of a Lily Klein, the next speaker, common room which can be was brought to Auschwitz in used for social functions. 1944. She recounted how her Jeff Gandel, the president of family was loaded up in a cattle Alpha Epsilon Pi, says that he train with other Jews and that is very pleased with the she was separated from her decision. Raymond House will entire family with the provide a \nice location to exception of her sister. Mrs. enhance our place in the Greek Klein was beaten up by a community.\ In addition, German soldier, and she never Gandel says that having a saw her mother again. house will \enlarge our After the Jews were freed philanthropy and rush from the camps, Mrs. Klein programs.\ Hopefully, Gandcl was reunited with her sick father says, the fraternity can expand and moved to the U.S. with their successful annual event of him and Iter sister after the war. the ultimate frisbee tournament She chose to live in this to benefit Big Brothers/Big country because of how kind Sisters and PFoctor's Theatre. the U.S. soldiers were when Marcy Wein, a member of the Jews were freed. SAC, said that Alpha Epsilon . Mrs. Klein was motivated to Pi was the best suited candidate talk about her experiences after for on-campus housing. having seen an article in a Because of such aspects as the newspaper about people who fraternity's diversity and claim that the Holocaust never community service, the SAC happened. Mrs. Klein believes does not foresee any problems that studying the He>locaust is with their decision. Marcy important because people need Wein adds that as more groups to be educated about the past to receive on-campus housing, prevent bistory from repeating students will have \more itself in tile future. freedom of choice\ because Beth Pincus, who concluded juniors will be able to live off- the events on Wednesday, campus, if they so desire. explained why it is especially Trish Williams, the Dean of important to remember the Residence Life, says that she Holocaust, even fifty years \does not question the SAC's after it began. The political ability to choose which groups events of the past few years, receive housing.\ The she argued, have sllown how fraternity petitioned SAC and, racists have been a@le to gain upon the council's acceptance, public support. For example, Dean Williams decided the she saw David Duke and Pat The m()vie was followed by a workshop led by Professor Berk. Berk discussed the dangerous ideologies of racism. For 1900 years, the Christians had taught their children that the Jews killed Christ. The religious teachings helped lead to the anti-semitism necessary for the Holocaust to have happened. Anti-semitism was also aided by the high unemployment rate. People had the need to find a scapegoat and they applied their hatred to the Jews. According to Professor Berk, the import.mce of the existence of Israel is revealed when studying the Holocaust. If Israel had existed during WW TI millions of lives could have been saved. Professor Berk does not believe that those people who would not help the Jews were anti-semitic. Ally German who made an overt effort to help the Jews probably would have been killed. People in foreign nations simply preferred w deal with their own problems. Professor Berk believes those people that risked their lives to help save Jews and those Jews that did survive the Holocaust are heroes. Professor Berk does not believe. despite the rising anti-semitism in the world, that another Holocaust against the Jews will happen in our lifetimes. By studying the Holocaust~ Berk believes that people wi II give \no posthumous victories to Hitler.\ place the fraternity will ! ••••••••••••••••••••••• occupy. Alpha Epsilon Pi will be subject to a review every two years and, like every other Greek organization on campus, must fill their house to 95% occupancy, If the requirements, set by the SAC, are not met, the house will be taken away. WRITE FOR NEWS

\ j;' r: I CONCOADIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 3 The King Trial: A Blow For Race ·Relations By JIm Polites News Editor Wha:t many didn't r:ealize until tbe trial's sad finale la!;t week :is that the issue weat , much deeper than simple ! · i police• civilian relations. With Sadly, headlines of the ·past a jury that conspicuously that minorities and their integratioll in our society is an issue that will never disappear altogether. There is a significant :percentage of our week have taken a number of consisted of one Hispanic. on-e alarming angles and Asian, and ten whites, th,e population that is NOT white- we and our leaders must realize that to allow racial problems to persist only leaves the door open to destructive social perspectives. Dozens killed. verdict released a tension thmt Hundreds injured. South hadbeenbrewing for years. Central Los Angeles suffers millions in rioting damages. Race Relations set back decades. All of this in response to the Rodney King trial decision, where officers were acquitted of police brutality in what seemed like a clean cut conviction. This case was special from others: a civilian videotaped the entire incident whe::te the motorist was surrounded, kicked, and beaten. ln its aftermath, the L.A.P.D. ·Commissioner resigned and a nationwide examination of our poiice . procedures opened. That proved only to be a small indication of the tumultuous storm that would grip the West Coast. I Many would say that th.e i strife. questi()n of race relations in th·e i Many .assert, probably ~nited S~tes has largely been : · correctly, that something like Ignored smce the 1960's. :when 1 the Los Angeles riots were just the ~truggle of Afncan- : waiting te happen- the Rodney Amencans~ led by figures such •, King trial just served as a The verdict released a tensiOtn that had been · . brewing .for years .. as Maitin Luther King- was a : top agell(la item. . Today, the Presidents of OUli' : generlhtion- Reagan and Bushl- ' seem more than willing t.o ! pusll topics like affirmative ~ action and racism further allld • further into obscurity. The bottom line, however is detonating front. No matter what tile circumstances preceding these tumultuous events though, the fact remains that we will all be left with images .of anguish and feelings of bitterness; Yes, places of business were torched, windows broken, and doors kllocked down; the monetary damage is monume11tal. Perhaps the most gra):lhic picture I will carry with me is , appropriately, one of revenge and re~ibution. In w.llat will no doubt linger as the gmesome symbol of the King tri·~ aftermath, there was tlie grou.-p of African-Americans who )'~nked the white truck It was impressive to see tlt.e ~rapid orga11ization on campt~s ;;tgainst the King clecision. driver fr<Jm his cab and beat him se!nseless.. The use of foreign objects was especially grues()me- it was the type of thing that makes you cringe and d()se your eyes in the movies~ Unfortunately, it was real life this time. Nzro1!Ving the scope a bit, it was refreshing to see that a good deal of the Union population saw fit to partid]Jate in the campus marcb and demonstration. Thou~h we are all constantly rernin<ledof how college is four years Otut of the mainstream of real lif<e. it was impressive to see tile rapid organization (and subsequent support) against the Ki.llg decision. President Hull made an ap]Jearance in front of the College Center on Monday morning, and he was . surr()unded by students, faculty, • st!lff, and even television • carn.eras. The demonstration- even on its relatively small sca:Le- proved that our · community still can exert great inf111ence on troublesome . social problems. !bough relative sanctity now reigns in Los Angeles, there are ~till a myriad of issues to settle. I've heard that the King trial defendants might now be I charged with civil rights viclations- this should be au(}ther step toward invigorating the racial q11estion. :Regardless, there will forever be many divergent interpretations of what h!tpJJened in Los Angeles aside from the obvious feeling of its tra~ic proportions. I think racia tension runs much deeper th3n any of us wants to admit. • • • What A Wonderful World by Matt Karlyn Washington Correspondent Many months ago a video, taped by ~ Lake View Terrace. California resident. George Holliday on March 3. 1991, was released. It revealed the reckless beating of one black man by four Los Angeles policemen. We all saw the tape and the overwhelming assumption that many of us have made is that this was an outrage. However, more importantly, is the news that came last Thursday, April 30, 1992 (no, not 1962). A jury of twelve. split equally between men and women, and including not o11e African-American, released a verdict of not-guilty on ten of the eleven charge:s against four men and were hung ~n only one charge:, excessiv-e force under color o{ authority (which all four were charged with) against Officer Laurence Powell, on whicll charge the judge declared a a verdict the world sees as .prejudicial and heinous. Following the verdict, the city of Los Angeles went up in flames and American communities everywhere felt the heat. mistriaL Officer P()well wa.s Maybe this event also cllarged with assault with a deadly we!lpon (with Sgt. bas demonstrated Koon, and Officer Wind and that prejudice is Brisenoe), and fili11g a false . outdated and will police 1eport (with Sgt. Koon). Sgt. Koon was further charged not be tolerated with accessory after the fact. anymore. Ahnos.t 40 years after the _...;:;.. ________ _ landm.ark Supreme Court . The brutality in Los decisi()n of Brown v. Board ()[ Angeles, which lasted up to education of Topeka Kansa.s three days in some areas. left (1954) the court of tbe State{)[ • 44 people dead, over 2,000 Califmmia. only days after injured, 8Ild a countless number giving a man the gas, delivered I· of stores looted and left in ll~y,you in there-whaw It like be\n~ a sometii\~ f. .. ruins. Riots broke out in New York .City and Chicago and even here in Washington, in the Georgetown area. a few stores vrere smashed as people expres!led their anger over the verdict in the trial of Rodney King. J.11 Washington last Monday there was also an I ' organized demonstration . outsi«:le of the Department of Justice which then proceeded to block c()ff a few of the bridges that lead from Washington into Virgimia. The Mayor of the District had asked for Monday the 4t11 t<J be a day of silent protest and the Post on Tuesd.ay reported that 14,000 District employees did not show UJl to work so that they could share in the country's ang11ish.. During the trial, the pr()secuting attorney relied hea'Vily on the infamous videotape, what we all thought wo!!ld be more than enough to con viet the guilty men. However, the jury was not co11vinced and chose to believe tile defense attorney who seemed to place more of the blame for this episode on Mr. King. One of the jurors in the case was quoted by Newsweek ma~azine as saying. \It (the U!pe) clearly showed what was · g()ing on there - the fact that Rodney King was not being abused. Rodney King was direc;ting the action.\ Yet, this wa~ not the reaction of millions of other people, Continued on page 4 Concordiensis is beginning a new _policy that I requ1res all articles to be turned in by 6:00 p.m. the Monday preced- ing publication. The articles must be :S'Ubmitted on either :Macintosh or IBM Microsoft Word.©

; 1 ' CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 3 The King Trial: A Blow For Race Relations By Jim Polites News Editor Sadly, headlines of the past week have taken a number of alarmiNg angles and perspectives. Dozens killed. Hundreds injured. South Central Los Angeles suffers millions in rioting damages. Race Relations set back decades. All of this in response to the Rodney King trial decision, where officers were acquitted of police brutality in what seemed like a clean cut conviction. This case was special from others: a civilian videotaped the entire incident where the motorist was surrounded, kicked, and beaten. In its aftermath, the L.A.P .D. Commissioner resigned and a nationwide examination of our police procedures opened. That proved only to be a small indication of the tumultuous storm that would grip the West Coast. What many didn't realize until the trial's sad finale last week is that the issue went much deeper than simple • police-civilian relations. With a jury that conspkuously consisted of one Hispanic, one Asian, and ten whites, the verdict released a tension that had been brewing for years. Many would say that the question of race relations in the United States has largely been igRored siRce the 1960's, when the struggle of African- Americans- led by figures such The verdict released a tension that had been brewing .for years. as Martin Luther King- was a top agenda item. Today, the Presidents of ollr generation- Reagan and Bush- seem more than willing to push topics like affirmative action and racism further and further into obscurity. The bottom line, however is that minonues and their integration in our society is an issue that will never disappear altogether. There is a significant percentage of our population that is NOT white- we and our leaders must realize that to allow racial problems to persist only leaves the door open to destructive social strife. Many assert, probably correctly, that something like the Los Angeles riots were just waiting to happen- the Rodney King trial just served as a detonating front. No matter what the circumstances preceding these tumultuous events though, the fact remains that we will all be left with images of anguish and feelings of bitterness. Yes, places of business were torched, windows broken, and doors knocked down; the monetary damage is monumental. Perhaps the most graphic picture I will carry with me is , appropriately, one of revenge and retribution. In what will no doubt linger as the gruesome symbol of the K.ing trial aftermath, there was the group of African-Americans who yanked the white truck It was impressive to sEe the rapid organization on campus against the King decision. driver from his cab and beat him senseless. The use of foreign objects was especially gruesome- it was the type of thing that makes you cringe and close your eyes in the movies. Unfortunately, it was real life this time. Narrowing the scope a bit, it was refreshing to see that a good deal of the Union population saw fit to participate in the campus march and demonstration. Though we are all constantly reminded of how college is four years out of the mainstream of real life, it was impressive to see the rapid organization (and subsequent support) against the King decision. President Hull made an appearance in front of the C:ollege Center on Monday morning, and he was surrounded by s tudcnts, faculty, staff, and even television cameras. The demonstration- even on its rclati vcly small scale- proved that our community still can exert great influence on troublesome social problems. Though relative sanctity now reigns in Los Angeles, there are still a myriad of issues to settle. I've heard that the King ! trial defendants might now be · charged with civil rights violations- tilis should be another step toward invigorating the racial question. Regardless, there will forever be many divergent interpretations of what happened in Los Angeles aside from the obvious feeling of its tragic proportions. I think racial tension runs much deeper than any of us wants to admit. • • • What A Wonderful World by Matt Karlyn Washington Correspondent Many months ago a video, taped by a Lake View Terrace, California resident, George Holliday on March 3, 1991, was released. It revealed the reckless beating of one black man by four Los Angeles policemen. We all saw the tape and the overwhelming assumption that many of us have made is that this was an outrage. However, more importantly, is the news that came last Thursday, April 30, 1992 (no, not 1962). A jury of twelve, split equally between men and women, and including not one African-American, released a verdict of not-guilty on ten of the eleven charges against four men and were hung on only one charge, excessive force under color of authority (which all four were charged with) against Officer Laurence Powell, on which charge the judge declared a mistrial. Officer Powell was also charged with assault with a deadly weapon (with Sgt. Koon, and Officer Wind and Briseno), and filing a false police report (with Sgt. Koon). Sgt. Koon was further charged with accessory after the fact. Almost 40 years after the landmark Supreme Court decision of Brown v. Board of education of Topeka Kansas (1954) the court of the State of California, only days after giving a man the gas, delivered .· a verdict the world sees as prejudicial and heinous. Following the verdict, the city of Los Angeles went up in flames and American communities everywhere felt the heat. Maybe this event has demonstrated that prejudice is outdated and will not be tolerated anymore. The brutality in Los Angeles, which lasted up to three days in some areas, left 44 people dead, over 2,000 injured, and a countless number of stores looted and left in Hey, you in there-whats it liKe be\n~ a someD:Xly f. .. ruins. Riots broke out in New York City and Chicago and even here in Washington, in the Georgetown area, a few stores were smashed as people expressed their anger over the verdict in the trial of Rodney King. In Washington last Monday there was also an organized demonstration · outside of the Department of Justice which then proceeded to block off a few of the bridges that lead from Washingtoll into Virginia. The Mayor of the District had asked for Monday the 4th to be a day of silent {}rotest and the Post on Tuesday reported that 14,000 District employees did not show up to work so that they could share in the country's anguish. During the trial, the prosecuting attorney relied heavily on the infamous videotape, what we all thought would be more than enough to convict the guilty men. However, the jury was not convinced and chose to believe the defense attorney who seemed to place more of the blame for this episode on Mr. King. One of the jurors in the case was quoted by Newsweek magazine as saying, \It (the tape) clearly showed what was going on there - the fact that Rodney King was not being abused. Rodney King was directing the action.\ Yet, this was not the reaction of millions of other people, Continued on page 4 Concordiensis is beginning policy that a new I requ1res a II art i c I e s to be turned in by 6:00 p.me the Monday preced- ing publication. The articles must be submitted on either Macintosh or IBM Microsoft Word.©

CONCORDIENSIS I MAY 7, 1992 I PAGE 4 .a Continued from page 3 citizens like all of us, who saw the tape and were not manipulated by the defense into The King Verdict From The Nation•s Capital . believing that it was necessary to hit Mr. King more than 50 times to keep him from moving so that he could be handcuffed. The verdict delivered by the jury tells us ,that the actions taken by the four policemen was not excessive. If that is true I would Hke to ask them, What is ex·cessive'? Furthermore, would it have been excessive if it were black cops beating a white man? King's lawyer, Steve Lerman, clearly believes that this may be true. Mter the trial he stated that, \It may be that twelve white jurors aren't going to convict four white cops for beating a black man _ it may be as simple as that.\ During :the havoc that engulfed the L.A. area, Mr. King himself nobly addressed the situation and called for peace between all those fighting. Newsweek reports that with trembling voice he stated, \Can we stop making it horrible? It's just not right. We can get along - we just gotta. II The President addressed the situation sool! after by sending in the troops md addressing the nation. He ~aid, \We have seen images - we will never forget. None ()f this is what we wish to think of as America.\ However, this is America and this has always been America. It's upsetting to realize that the United States has not only been the land of the free,. but also the land ()f the oppressed. Blacks were slaves for years and were victims to prejudicial behavior f<>r even longer. ....... -- -. -- ...... ---- 1 .- •.. l. -:-,:t. ~-- .... - .. ·r·r.·-:t. ··.i··-· .,... •.• I• I: I I --- •• L_- 1 • I 11 .1 - ••• - .. • r--.t ~ . • t-:1 1-!t H ...... -·· _ .. B -'J _, .. • ._ ••• _ .... J. tl!::;:· ·-· ._.. ._. ·-· .._.. .._.. ._. Applic8t.ion avail:3ble at tt1e CDC BECOME A CAREER ASS I' STANT Reported· Security Incidents 4127192 4127192 4/29/92 4/29/92 4/30/92 4/3 0/92 4/30/92 4/30/92 413 0192 4130192 5/1/92 511/92 5/1/92 511/92 5/1/92 5/1192 fi/1192 511192 5/1/92 Barley ;:;e!d Vaodalism-Grafilti oajnted on astroturf College Center ..!libll:mall!.!fu!Ll!nc-.uti\\'onwiUJ.n .J.lfiru.e_.aw;alaii.Lrrnu..· __ West Co!le~e ;: rat ern ity College Ceotar Game area Davidson S&E Bldg. Soyth College South College Fraternjty Webster Lot Not! Memorial practice roo rn Davidson H~~· College Center · sys!em-reoajred, Possession of !3 B pistol - Cpnduct Charges liled. _ Minor fire on s!OV!!·oo damage or injury Vandalism-wall damw;ed, Vandalism-2 wjndows broken Burn jog odor reported- motor burned out-no damage. Theft of telephone from student's uo!ock!MI room Students throwing things oyt o · u~per !eyel wjodo\Vs Yandaljsm-Stude[JI's motorcycle oushed over RE!({Orted harassm&nt of female si!:Jdent Djsag reeman! be !weer 9i rlfrjeod-boyfrjand, Trespass-yjsjtor Warned off campus Trespass-Vendor entering unoccwied studenj's rooms, Warned wgarding access po!ic'. Postal authorities cfl!!cking on ----- stamp machine sequrjJy. OH Fox House Eichmood Hse campus theft gf M!<~Ss keys. Ejro alarm caused by bUrnt paoer .. no damage or j njyrv Probl~m between boyfrjend- g!dfrjend re· personal proper· Col!~e Center .J.P;;urQ.a.!bmlemUL.J:wwilu..h ...,inw.IO\\]ic,..awte ... d __ Chet's ~tudent. Eox H2use Fajlure to Identify upon entering Securjtv de&k (flsldence hall Co!'lduc! charg!!S So Terrace !.a. Alhrca!lgn among s1udenfs and yliJI!ors, Non gugls warned (Iff camgys Maybe this event . bas demonstrated to the ,people of the United States that prejudice is outdated and will not be tolerated anymore. Maybe we C!Ul now start practicing what we preach and enter a new era in which we really become the land of the free. Many political figures also came out to voice their opinions, the majority a which denounced the jury's verdict. Benjamin L. Hooks, :national leader of the NAACP, was quoted in the Washing~on Post as saying the verdict iS 9 11 ... 0utrageous, a mockery of justice.\ Mayor BiB Bradley called the verdict \senseless\ and said that it could, \never blind what the world saw.\ Even a large number of Congressmen and women made statements that n()t only showed how shocked they were t() hear the verdict, but also denounced it. The people of this nation are outraged. Linda Johnson Phillips, a black wornan who attended the trial was also quoted in the Post. She believes that the verdict shows that, 11 ... the color .of your skin determines the degree of justice that you get... What am I going to tell my twelve year old daughter?;' A decision like this one sets us back about 60 years to a time when it was considered a way of life to act the way Sgt. Koon and Officer's Powell, Wind. and Briseno did. However., for them. that night is not over with this jury's verdict. The Post reported just a few days ago that the Justice Department believes that a federal grand jury will indict the four men and they will, once again. have to face charge!; for what happened the dreaded night of March 3rd. Tht\y might be hugging each other now, but they will not get ()ff the book for the beating <>f Mr. King. They are hated by the American people and will Bever again be able to show tlieir faces in public without hearing a snare of disgust. It is very unfortunate that tllese four men alone had to bring back to this country that historic feeling of black. vs. wl1ite. However, it is alsG these fcm men that might just make us realize that something like this can not be allowed to happen again, Our policemen are . there to enforce the law, .not .to. break it. As citizens of ,this nation we must be able .to. beli~ve in a11d trust those people whose job ·it is to protect us. They are there to help us,. not to beat us. The riots- that !lave broken out across the nation. are hurting innocent people and must cease. This issue is not black vs. white. In fact, the most recent Newsweek poll shows !that 73% of whites feel that 1he courts ruling was not justified. Also, in the same poll, 77% of whites feel that if the federal governmen1 can take acti()n against the four inen they would favor it. This shows that there is a very large white population out there that wants to see justice served. We must come together and fi.ght this not because we are black or white, but because we all believe that in this case the judicial system failed. Career Assistant Positions AvaUable By B.arl>ara Cash Are you tired .of your job? Are you looking for a new and. exiting position? Are you interested in meeting new people and developing new skills? Are you work study eligible? lf so, the Career Development Center is your answer! The Career Development Center, with their friendly staff, is an ideal place to work. Not only do; you learn a great deal of important skills:, b11t you also have the opportunity to develop your own interests and career goals. Two positions are available for the 1992-93 school year. The first position is tb.e WCIDWAMI {What Can I Do With A Major In .•. ) Liaison. This .position entails organizing a Multicultural Newsletter and Career Network, and planning the annual Multicultural Dinner. bJ addition; both positions include a variety ()f office and outreach programs. If you are interested, stop by the Career Development Center on the Third Floor of Old Chapel to pick up your application. Applications are due May 15th. To learn more about the positions, two information sessions will be held at the CDC: Tuesday, 5/12 & Wednesday 5/13 at 7:pm. From Backpack to Briefcase This program is designed to address issues of ir1terest for students who are anticipating the transition to \Life after Union\ Budgeting for Beginners • Tuesday, May 12, 7:90 p.m. CDC Learn how to bu<lg~t your bucks and stretch your new salary. Find out what to expect for rent costs, loan repayments, car expenses, taxes, etc:., as well as strategies for balancing those expenses. Alumni Panel - Wednesday, May 13, 7:30 p.m. CDC Recent graduates will discuss issues they faced in making the transition from ·college to professional life. Featuring Jay Freeland (Financial Management Program, GE), Julie Davis (VISTA Volunteer:, Schenectady Municipal Housing); and Meg Powers (Head Desk Assistant, ABC World News This Morning). Changing Rela11onships ~ Thursday, May 14, 7:30 p.m. CDC · This discussion will focus on how one's relationstlips with peers, parents, fiends and significant others change after graduation. Also covered will be the topic of how to maintain a social life once you leave the college campus. Please sign up in a.dv-a.nce for these programs in the CDC library. Political Science Term In Washington On Thursday, May 14 at 4:30p.m. in SS llO,an informational meeting' on the 1993 Term in Washington will be held. The Term, now in its 15th year, provides for twenty students to spend Sp-ring term in Washington where they will serve as interns in Congressional offices, attend seminars, and take a course in the architectural history of Washington. Preference goes to Juniors, Sophomores and Seniors (in that order). All majors are eligible. Applications will be available at the meeting. Dead1ine for applying will be June 1.

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 5 Ford, GM, and ·Chrysler Turn In First Quarter Profits MBA Programs: Do They Really By Shields Day · Business Editor All three of the major U.S. auto produ<;ers turned in 'their rust quarter yields last weet with mixed results. Ford, which has been in a five quartet slump, announced a profit of $337.9 million - more than double what most eX:perts had predicted. General Motors also turned a healthy profit - one of $179.3 million. Conversely, Chrysler had to announce less exciting news regarding their %13 million loss. Ford's impressive announcement excited stock buyers enough for their stock to soar up $1.88! This jump easily put Ford atop the Big Board's most active list and served as a catalyst in a rally across the board. $61 million of their profit came from the sale of their Dealer Computer Services subsidiary ta:st month. Their recent success will keep all Ford factories running at full capacity throughout the second quarter in hopes of riding this recent wave of success to finish 1992 in the black. General Motors which has been in .a 6 quarter slump .also posted impressive gains. Although their profits will only res111t in an increase by two ce.nts a share, this is certainly a positive way for GM to start the year. A large portion of GM's success can be attributed to the recent shake up in GM management. As reported in the Concordiensis 3 weeks ago the old president and board chairman were replace by John Smith and Robert Stempel. Although these two have only been at the helm for a few weeks, a certain confidence in GM has resulted since their induction. Last, and certainly least, is Chrysler. Stuck in a pothole they cannot seem to get out of. Chrysler is still riding in the tumble seat of U.S. auto production. Reporting a $13 million loss, Chrysler was the :only one of the three not to ·make a profit. Chrysler's reports wOllld have been even worse had it not been for their sale of over 1/2 of their Mitsubishi holding (totaling $88 million).. Chrysler took a big gam b1e and decided to launch two new cars - Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge Viper. Unfortunately the gamble did not pay off. In times when the ecomomy is sa sluggish one can only wonder why Chrysler would introduce such lavish cars! Could an end to this recession be on the horizon? vile automotive industry is one of the biggest sectors of our economy, and as good a place as any to start a recovery. Ford's promising returns uplifted the entire stock market which may be exactly what is needed. A strong boost from s11ch a major part of the economy is certainly the right step towards revival. Source: Wall St. Journal ·P · .~ U· ') . repare s. By Shea Wallon Contributing Writer Over the past decade, more . and more ·College graduates felt a need to go to a business school. The hope was that they would be better trained and prepared to tackle any job. But according to B. Joseph White the dean of the University of Michigan Business School, most business schools get a B minus for their efforts in preparing what he calls competent business 'leaders for tomorrow's challenges. Dean White, a business school teacher and business executive, sees some major gaps in the M.B.A. program's education process. Today, students might learn about corporate strategy and finance, but they do not lear.n operational effectiveness- how to achieve world class quality. for example. ail Michigan M.B.A. students in corporations like Xer()x. Federal Express and Motorola for the opportunity of real-life training. The seco11d part Dean White feels most M.B.A. programs leave out is that they do not care enougll about the non- business systems of society. education, health care, and the justice system. He feels the executive mindset should include leadership on social~ racial, and environmen ta1 problems. The third part to Mr. Wbite's philosophy is to get students involved in helping to fill the economic void in the former Soviet bloc. Michigan has just set up the- William Davidson Institute with a $30 million grant to assist emerging economies in eastern and central Europe. Dean White's theory shows Write for Business This is where Dean White's new program comes in. The name of .this new program is Multidisciplinary Action Project. It aims to gather all those new concepts about managing to regain competitiveness from the Japanese and others and teach managers how to act on the ideas. The M.A.P. program is a business residency that places there is a lot more to the -business world than just strategy and finance. Perhaps the other business schools should restructure their program to fit the mold of Dean White's theory. If you happen to be one of those students interested in continuing on to receive your M.B.A., make sure it is the program you want . . : \ . ' . and Finance ' Call Shields x41 20 Source: NY Times · <!rnnrorbirttsi.s articles must be submitted on the Monday preceding publication on a 3.5\ hard disk. Both Macintosh & IBM Word Perfect© are now acceptable. i SlANLEY H. KAPlAN &.: Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now and get your home study materials. • You may attend classes at any of our 150 centers nation-wide. • Call489-0077 Alhany Kaplan Center Tired of dorm laundry rooms? £Thl~ri~itl1Il ((:l!J)ilJil JLiti!Rmlcd!Jry Brand New Store Now Open 24 Hours! Save Money with ... Huge Double and Triple Load Washers Bigger, Faster Dryers While Washing ... Use our large tables for homework, Shop at Price Chopper or Brooks Drugs, Eat Pizza or Chinese All located in Sheridan Plaza with plenty of convenient parking Price Chopper * Sheridan * Gerling St. Coin Laundry Rosa Rd. Ellis Hospital Nott St. Located only three blocks from Union Campus! I ' ''

You are invited to support Union College and its porograms by participating in the t1 NlON COMM UN·ITY ANNUAL FUND PHONATHON Tuesday, May 12, 1992 & Wednesday, May·l3, 1992 5:30-6:30 Din:ner 6:30-9:30 Calling Hale House Dining Room Would you like to speak vvith enthusiastic Alumni who have already committed to give to Uniorrr? Then join Co-Chairs Jim Kenney, Assoc:. Professor of :Economics, & Theresa Vlva, Manager of the Rathskeller, for dinner & calling Union Alumni to ask that they fulfill their pledges to the :BOth Annual Ftmd. Your Extra Efforts Will Ma~e A Real Difference! R.S.V~P. immediately by calling 37Gl·6142 or by returning the reply form belo,.., 'to the Annual Flllld Office - Lamont House - :Jrd Floor. ---·---· .. •••·----·- .. ,_..,,,. __ U••••-·---·--·-- .. •----...,•~••-•••..._ .. ,_,.,_,,,_•<HI•: ; ! i i i Yes, I will attend the Union Community --Annual Fund Phonathon at Hale House. (please circle) Tuesday, May U and/or Wed11esday~ May 13 i Name l ----------------------------------- ! i ' ! Campus Telephone ------------ ~ i : ~ ~ E r ! ~ : E ! 1 l ! ~ : ~ ~ i .: ; i, ·----·------·---·- .. ·-------- Application available attr1e CDC BECOME A CAREER ASSISTANT J\.U~T LOOK AT 1R£ lH£ 'VIJY You sruFF YOURSELF. .. ifs NO WONDER YOURE .5PLifliNG ALL YouR .SEAM51 Nag!!Jety Ann From Backpack 1o Briefcase This program is designed to address issues of interest for students who are ;anticipating the transition to \Life after Union\ Budgeting for Beginners - Tuesday, May 12, 7:30 p.m. CDC Learn how to budget your bucks an(j stretch your new salary. Find out what t10 E!Xpect for rent costs, Joan repayments, car ei<pens&s, taxes, etc., as well as strategies for balancing those expenses. Alumni Panel • Wednesday, May 13, 7:30 p.m. CDC Recent graduates will discuss isstJes they faced in making the transition ifr()m college to professional life. Featuring Jay Freeland (Financial Management Program, GE), Juli~ Davis (VISTA Volunteer, Schenectady Municipal HC»using); and Meg Powers (Head Desk Assistant, ABC World News This Morning). Changing Relationships • Thursday, May 14, 7:30 p.m •. CDC This discussion will focus on how or:~ e's relationships With peers, parents, fiend:s and significant others change after graduation. Also covered will be tha topic of how 1o maintain a social life once you leave the college campus. Please sign up in advance for these programs in the CDC lib1ary. collegiate crossword @Edward: Ju 1 ius ACROSS 40 \l 'etat, c 'est -\ 1 Jack of n~rsery 4-1 Sample TV show rhyme 4-3 Bllrl - 6 Food with lox 44 VP Aaron, and 11 RiVer adjacent t() family Rutgers Corlege 46 Emperor or pianist 13 Branch of the 4 7 Tennis can military 4~ Attacks ·15 Mouthl ike opening '5() Was victorious :16 City in Texas 53· Chicago newspaper 17 Sweet potato 53 Following closely 18' Whirled around on behind one foot 55 Certain Asians 20 Wire measure 56 Bitter conflicts 21 Actor Joh·n - 57 Hinder 23 Cabs 58 Passover dinner 24 German port 25 Pa·f nt substance 27 - mother DOWN 10 Permissive 11 Kingly 12 From Carson City 13 Mornlng, in Marsei 11 es 14 Disposes of 19 Draft aninta 1 s 22 Puts up a picture again 24 Soviet government 26 City in Ohio 28 Young ani111al 30 Mythical bird 31 -Guevara 33 Desires, a·s for knowledge 34- wagofi 35 Former 36 Angry 37 Shad-1 ike fish 28 Sma 11 brown birds 29 Capital of Iran :31 Part of the bo~ :32 1\':o one specified l Former Italian 38 Profession of (abbr.) 33 Movie sci -fi thriller president TV's \Quincy\ 2:Man or monkey 39 Slopes 3 Hilly region of 40 Backless slippers Morocco 42 Ice device 4 \Take - from me\ 44 Mistake 5 Unspoken, but 45 Data, for short :34 - section. in math unQerstood 48 Trumpet attachment :J5 Defeat soundJy 39 South Pacific kingdom 6 \- in Arms\ 49 \Your majesty\ 7 Like the Gobi 52 Unit of co~puter 8 Actor Gerard information 9 .Foes 54 Jar part - \:So do you come to this barn often?\ Being somewhat of a rookie, Manuel didn't want to take any chances. \

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 7 A Little Less WisdoJD, And A Lot More Drugs by Betsy Rothstein Something really strange . seems to be taking over this campus. I don't reaUy understand why, but it seems as though students, left and right are feeling the overwhelmin!! ·ge to get their wisdom teeth .t. Maybe it is one of those new trends along the same lines of goatees, cowboy boots and chugging beers(no offense to these trendsetters). As teeth are getting yanked and bmtally ripped out of mouths, I have a feeling that we will see many blown up faces in the near future. Although these people may look absolutely ridiculous and slightly deformed, whatever you do, DO NOT LAUGH! As you approach your blown up friends, be cautious-they are in no mood for jokes as it is excruciatingly painful for them to laugh, to eat, and to speak. A few weeks ago, I sat for about two hours and stared at a swollen-faced friend who had yellow and gray bruises invading either sides of her face. \Do I really look awful?\she kept asking me. It was at this moment that I fully grasped the true meaning of a white lie. \It's really not that bad, you can hardly tell\ I attempted. I had to look away from her because I thought I was going to laugh. Luckily she has a great sense of humor and she laughed at my blatant white lie. When I asked my friend ''Penelope\(hopefully some of you remember this friend from Top 10 Singles 1. Mint Condition \Brea.kin• My Heart (Pretty Brown Eyes)\ (Perspective/A&M) Last Week: No. 3 2. Celine Dion And Peabo Bryson \Beauty And The Beast,\ (Epic) No.4 3. TLC \Ain't 2 Proud 2 Beg, .. (Laface/Arista) No.7 4. Richard Marx .. Haz:ard,\ (Capitol) No. 6 5. Bruce Springsteen \Human Touch/Better Days,\ (Columbia) No.5 6. Color Me Badd \'Thinkin' Back,\ (Giant) No. 11 7. Kathy Troccoli \Everything Changes,\ (Reunion/ Geffen) No. 8 8. Cece Peniston \We Got A Love TI1ang, .. (A&M) No. 12 9. Mariah Carey \Make It Hap• pen,\ (Columbia) No. l 10. U2 \One (lsland/PLG) No. 16 a previous article), about her experience of the removal of these useless teeth located somewhere in the deep, dark comers of your mouth, she had quite a response: \It was a fu . .ing joy, let me tell you!\ · As it turns out, \Penelope\ informed me that she cried really hard for a week and stressed over the fact that the doctors made her wear one of those flimsy hospital gowns that open from the :back, and that \they would not even let me wear underwear!\ She also informed me that afterwards, her face was so swollen that they had to put her on \roids\(this is \Penelope's slang for Steroids-by the way, she does shoot up frequently so this use of slang drug terminology is not out of the ordinary). She claimed that the swelling refused to go down for three weeks, and she felt like Bugs Bunny when he gets a toothache and wraps his ears atound his chin. In all seriousness, getting your wisdom teeth out can be quite a traumatic experience, especially if you get all four out at the same time and they are all impacted. The dentist, in most cases does not bother to inform you that this means tha:t he/she will have to smash these pointless teeth into tiny pieces and then pull each piece out one by one. He/she also fails to inform you ,that for some odd reason, there might just be a little pain involved. After getting your wisdom teeth ripped out of your gums, you really have to wonder Top R&B/Soul 1. Atlantic Starr \Masterpiece (Reprise) Last Week: No.2 2. GlennJones\HereiGoAgain (Atlantic) No. 3 3. Aaron Hall \Don't Be Afraid,\ (Soul/MCA) No. 4 4. Chris Walker \Take Time,\ (Pendulum/Elektra) No. 5 5. Joe Public \Live And Learn,\ (Coiiimbi~) No. 6 6. Bebe & Cece Winans \It's O.K.,\ (Capitol) No.8 7. Keith Sweat \Why Me Baby?\ (Eiektra) No. 9 8. Mariah Carey \Make It Hap- pen,'' (Columbia) No. 10 9. Hammer \Do Not Pass Me By,\ (Capitol) No. 13 10. Brotherhood Creed \Hel- luva,\ (Gasoline Alley/MCA) No. 14 where the expression\It will only hurt for a minute\ originated. When this phrase involuntarily flies out of your tieing dentist's mouth, right before he/she injects a gigantic needle into your gums and before he/she pulls out his handy pair of pliers(none of which you see on the little dentist tray) he/she really means\It will only hurt everyday for a week unless we put you on hardcore drugs.\ · Getting my wisdom teeth out was a nightmare, but with this new craze of wisdom teeth extractions, I wouldn't want to frighten anyone, or to discourage anyone with my story. Well, maybe I'll just highlight the experience. Mter my ex -dentist (I fired him after this incident} chiseled out four impacted wisdom teeth, I recall waking up and asking\Is it over? Was that it?\ In my haze I did not know where I was or what was happening. The next thing I knew I was on a couch in my family room. With the wonders of modem medicine, I felt no pain at all, and I barely remeber the ride home. I remember thinking that it was not so bad and why did everyone feel the need to make such a big ordeal out of . ? lt. However, when I awoke the nex.t morning, or was it evening,(! had no concept of time) I fully understood the pain of which everyone had forwarned me. I could not open my mouth, the pain was out of control and I felt as though someone had taken a hammer and pounded either side . top C&W Singles I. Vince Gill ~Take Your Memory With You,\ (MCA) Last Week: No. 4 2. Steve Wariner \The Tips Of My Fingers,\ (Arista) No. 5 3. Aaron Tippin \There Ain't Nothin' Wrong With The Radio,\ (RCA) No.6 4. Tanya Tucker ~some Kind Of Trouble,\ (Liberty Pro) No. 12 5. Tracy Lawrence \Today's Lonely Fool,'' (Atlantic Pro) No. 11 6. Mark Chesnutt .. Old Flames Have New Names,'\ (MCA) No. 8 7. Garth Brooks \Papa Loved Mama,'' (Liberty Album Cut) No. 10 8. Brooks & Dunn ••Neon Moon,\ (Arista) No. 9 9. Ricky Skaggs .. Same 01' Love,\ (Epic) No. 13 10. Hal Ketchum \Past The Point Of Rescue,\ (Curb l>ro) No. IS «H992 by King Features Synd. I ' of my head. I soon realized that my daily drug dosage would consist of Steroids, Tylenol with Codeine with a few stronger pills thrown in here and there if the pain was unbearable. I felt like such a junkie, but real:ly there was no way around it; I never thought I was going to be a normal human being again. A few days later, the pain still had not subsided and I returned to that haunted dentist chair that appears to be a comfortable, reclining lounge chair, but in actuality is the chair from helL Once again though, I lied back in that hell chair and began to play with all the silver gadgets surrounding me. I began to press all the mysteri9us buttons, half expecting sirens to go off, or something to blow up at least. if I happened to touch the wrong one. When the liar entered the room,(i.e. the dentist who claimed \it will only hurt for a minute\) he put on that painfully kind doctor face and peered into my mouth with one of those silver instruments-the one with the mirror on the end of it. \How are we feeling today?\ he had the nerve to ask me. \What is this WE shit?\ I wanted to ask him, yet I couldn't because I could barely open my mouth, let alone speak. So, I burst into tears. I felt that this was a pretty effective way to get my message across and to make him feel guilty at the same time. \I take it you're still in some pain.\ he tells me. What a perceptive man. The next thing I knew lie .handed me a little packet entitled \The P()wer Pill\. I tuflled the packet over and read the directions. \HIGHLY A])DICTIVE\ were the only W()rds I understood. Tilis was • rea.Uy comforti11g. The i11g.redients were in that pharmaceutical li~go with wllich I am not yet completely familiar. As it turned out, for some orld, unexplainable reason, \'The Power Pill\ had a strange effect on me. According to my ex-dentist, it was s11pposed to \Ulke an edge off the pain and aUDw me to sleep''. Again, he 1 lied to me! Instead o0f \taking tlu edge off my p.ain~·. this little deranged pill gave me s11ch horrible nightmares that I was afraid to sleeiJ. I ran downstairs to my parents bedroom in the mid(fle of the nigflt, in yet another narcotic haze. I sat on their C(}uch with my eyes nearly poppiing out of my head. I was wide awake and tenified. \Revenge of the Ner<ls\ was on television and · instead of making me laugh, · aU ()f the actors scare<l me and I thcught I was wa:tclling a ho:t:ror movie. For those of you that are still contemplating getting your wisdom teeth omt, I hope I cid not discour!hge you. Re2Lly, it will only ilart for a miiJute and when your face e:xpl()des and you look like a freak for a couple of weeks, no one will notice. \WishingiWell® 6 3 8 4 2 5 7 4 8 6 2 7 3 B A F c y N T H 0 I 0 E w 7 5 2 6 8 3 5 2 7 3 6 4 a L E u G R A w K E A s A G 2 6 3 8 3 7 4 s 2 5 8 5 7 E 0 M E H v N c E s T y I 3 8 4 7 2 6 8 5 7 2 4 6 3 A T c s p I H 0 I A E A N 7 4 6 3 8 4 6 2 5 3 6 :2 8 0 T L 0 E 0 D s u c 0 E p 8 5 3 6 2 7 4 a 3 6 2 7 4 A w L I c N w s A N R f I 5 2 6 3 8 5 7 6 2 4 3 5 7 A E G s T N u s T N p T N HERE IS A PLEASANT UTILE GAME that will giv.e you a message every day. It's a numerical puzzle designed to spell out your fortune. Count the letters in your first name. If the number of letters is 6 or more, subtract 4. If the number is less than 6, add 3. The result is your;,key number. Start at the upper left-hand corner and check ()0-El of· your key numbers, left to right. Then read the messa~E the letters under the checked figures give you. NEED EXTRA CASH??!! I WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN , SOME FUN, EASY MONEY! STUOEr-.JTS WHO WOULD LtKE · TO WORK ON REUNION WEEKEND • f>1AY 29TH, 31lTII & 31ST. PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE OR CALL ALISON OR PEG AT X6168.

by Stacy Cervellino Lifestyles Editor Last week I participated in the Dramatic Reading series(thanks to .Julie Shanebrook), entitled, \The Women of Union Speak.\ I was surrounded by women from all walks of life who read poetry and sections of their thesis' and papers they had writtell and I thought, there are some exceptional women at this sch<Jol and I want to find them and to write about them. Thus, this article was spawned at a Dtamatic Reading. It is one cf many more to come telling the stories of exceptional women at Union. I was lucky enough to discover one such exceptional woman, Arnie Yuskaitis. Arnie is a senior here, the youngest of a family of three, from a small town in New Hampshire. So what makes this girl who lives in the midd,le of the woods so amazing? Everything. Amie is one <Jf those people who was gifted with extraordinary drive, motivation, and the courage to push themselves as far as they can go. Here at Union I know that there are a greaLdeal of people who are involved and busy and hard working, but I also know alot of people who do absolutely nothing. They don't have any goals, any interests, any driving motivations or passions, they just get by. Arnie is one of the most self motivated people I have met here. She has no ·· one telling her what to do or when to do it, except herself. It all began in ballet classes, when Amie was four. - She took four years of ballet and then at the age of seven decided to follow in her sister's footsteps and began taking gymnastics classes. At the age of eight she was competing in four events-the bars, balance beam, floor, and vault, as she worked her way up from class four, the lowest class, to class two. In class four Arnie was third in the state, in class three she was second and then first. and by the time she was sixteen she had achieved class two status. Arnie not only excelled in gymnastics, but in other sports as well. In high school she played field hockey in the fall, · in the winter she was on the gymnastics team, and the the spring she ran track. But, wait there's more. She also went to gymnasti.cs practice with the U.S.G.F. after school practices. She'd come home, make herself dinner, do her homework, and then get to bed :by two or three only to wake up again at 5:3'0 to start all over again. The work-outs :lasted for three hours during the school year and seven hours during the summer at gymnastics camp. This is a driven woman. Think about what you where like at eight years old. Would you have had the courage and motivation to 'compete in and win gymnastics .competitions? Or h.ow about when you where in high school, at the ripe age of sixteen? Imagine going from one practice to another, working and working at one of the most tiring and difficult sports that exists. Gymnastics requires not only strength, but ski:ll, dexterity. intense concentration, and the drive to J>ractice over and over again. Its difficult to imagin.e, but she did it, and she did it well. A gymnast's career can be cut short by injuries and s<>rnething as simple as growing too much, as was Arnie's. But that was just the beginning. In her senior year ()f high school, Amie found bike racing. By now you've probably figured out that this is no ordinary woman. In higll The AIDS Epedemic Affects·· Union Coll~ge by Cara Soifer Assir;tant Lifestyles Editor bubble which hides the truth; that the disease is rampant and does not discriminate. If your not affected physically by it, One weekend in April, from there is much chance you will 7:00 t() 9:00 p.m. on Friday be emotiDnally. and all day Saturday, I attended This I discovered that an AIDS workshop at Union. weekend, as I saw surrounding Until this workshop I was a me all walks of life. Drawn firm believer that once you together to find strength for have been to one Lecture on themselves and the sick were AIDS, you've heard it all, and the friends. and close relatives immediately you are an expert of loved ones with the virus. I on the subject. So, I entered did not feel out of place in this the workshop eagerly, yet a room where hope and faith little aloof. Leaving on filled the air. I knew some Saturday evening, though, my must have seen me as another perception and knowledge of ambitious youngster, out to fix the dis ease increased in the world in between chemistry accuracy trei'Jlendously. I and spending daddy's money, realized attending workshops yet most just accepted me into cal! be inc~edibly useful. ~ew their circle of concerned, eager evidence IS constantly bemg .~ participants in the struggle to ?iscovered, but. more sustain the integrity of people Importantly, each time you with AIDS lives. hear the: facts, the easier it The workshop was a training becomes to assimilate them center for volunteers who into your life. Seeing and hearing the effects of the HIV and AIDS virus helped me break out of the protective would work at the Damien center, a living room atmosphere \hangout\, where IJeople with HIV or AIDS can come to. Besides the available ~ounseling, the center provides tmbiased, friendly people to talk with. My role at the Damien center would be primarily to listen, and hope fully to befriend the strangers who decide to give the center above St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in Schenectady a try. The workshop was successful. Our group of twenty trainees quicldy became closer, sharing our fears and aims for the future. I learned to see past many different stereotypes and see the infinite choices one can make when deciding on a lifestyle.. Of course there is a point when ; attending AIDS ·lectures and workshops becomes futile. Taking prevetive actions and trying to help then is the next logical step. But for most of us, during a crazed school year, staying informed is the next best thing. DRUNK DRIVING KILLS CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 8 school, we were all active but how many of us had the ability to really push ourselves physically or mentally? Its easier said than done. There is something to be said for the person who, instead of riding their bike around the block. ride it to see how much further they can go, how much faster. Arnie didn't have a coach saying okay, ride twenty miles today, she just did it. To Amie it comes naturally to go beyond the ordinary, to test her physical boundaries. to go beyond the limit. She doesn't know how to just get by or to be lazy, those are not words in her vocabulary. So, with her own money she bought her own bike, started training by herself the August before she came to Union and she won her first race,· a Criterium. A Criterium is a ten ~ile race around a track, just like in '\Breaking Away.\ After Arnie received a license from the U.S.C.F. she won her second race. On paper it all sounds so easy but in reality Arnie really took on a challenge. She pushed herself all summer to ride faster and further, every single day. She wouldn't let herself slack off, because she had a g9al in mind, to keep getting better and better, to see results~ 1\nd she does see results and they motivate her even more. Arnie not only works hard at her cycling, but also at keeping her body strong and ltea:lthy. She takes pride in her body and works hard for it She lifts for about two hours every day in addition to riding with the Union cycling team fer 25-40 miles a day. What motivates this woman? Knew1ng that she will get better, that she will see results. She keeps going by not letting herself get discouraged, she says, \just pu( your head down and go.\ In Arnie's mind we are only young once and this is the time to follow your dreams. After graduation her dreams are taking her to Colorado where she hopes to train with a cycling team. Her tiltimate goal is to one day compete iD the Olympics. I have no do.ubt in my mind that she'll be there. If you've ever wondered what makes someone Olympic material, just get to know Arnie. She just has thjs spark inside of her that k~ps her going. That paired with a positive attitUde and a se11sitive and generous personality. will take her anywhere she wants to go. JSU Elections with Ben & Jerry's Monday 7 ... 00 p.m. Kosher Kitchen! ' 1 ' • afJlltfllrbitttsis Needs Help! If you are interested ln any o·f the foll.owing please call X6155. • Layout • Photography • Writing

- - .. •' . ' .' . ' '· \ - · . · - · EDI·:EDB-I,Al: CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 9 Another Unnecessary Cliche Every time I hear a fellow stQdent using the word apathetic, I immediately lose interest in what he or she has to say. This adjective must certainly be the most overused descriptive term on campus. And as aU cliches-are destined to lose concrete definition through their overuse, the term apathetic also follows suit. The incident that has sparked this assault on cliches was the viewing of Channel13's Monday evening report on the Rodney King case. During this report, the anchorman asked the on-site reporter if she had witnessed any protests in the Capital Districtthat lacked enthusiasm. The reporter answered by relating her visit to Union's rally held earlier that day. She claimed that there had been a lack of organization, enthusiasm, and full-fledged campus interest. She also noted that it had seemed very difficult for the organizers to entice students to participate, especially the whites. But the biggest blow to my pride of Union came when she stated that all in all, there was a general feeling of, none other than, apathy. Previously I had felt that the term apathy was almost solely used by disgruntled Union students. But when this outsider to the college ,community used the same cliche tenn, I was shocked. Her choice of words may have stemmed from a snide remark by one of Union's less happy students. For this to have happened is fascinating. How can a student believe that there could be any benefit from the use of such a derogatory term regarding the reputation of the college? Certainly this type of statement is a form of future occupational suicide. However, my reasoning has not proven to be among that of the majority. The more an individual uses the term apathy, the more he or she is prone to become the epitome of their abomination. In other words, if a person Iieplaces action with such non-action, there can be no positive results. There is no question that students on this campus have transformed the word apathy into a cliche. And cliches, by their nature, do not promote one's in.tellect or vocabulary, but only produce an aura of simplemindedness. Tim~e To Take A Look In The Mirror Schenectady Thanks TD Chi To tbe Editor: r think it is quite admirable that Union students care about the injustice done to Rodney King. However, I also think that in light of the extreme violence that has erupted all across the nation. we must look at the deeper. more complex problems inherent in our society. The riots that have taken place in the last few days are in response not only to the verdict in the trial concerning the beating of Rodney Ki11g, but more importantly to the deep seeded inequities in our country. What this country should be doing is asking itself; is this country really what it claims to be? Is this country a land of equal opportanity for all regardless of race. creed. or color? Is it acceptable to have such a gross imbalance. in income distribution? Is it acceptable to have thousands of people living on the streets? Is it acceptable t()have thousands of people unable to support themselves? If the answer to any or all of these questio11s is no, then we mu:st do something about it. Everyone wants to see the injustices done away with. but few are willing to sacrifice what they have to do so. Think about it. How many of us would be wilUng to make $30:,000 a year instead of $60,000 a year so that the difference could go to create jobs for the jobless? How many _of us would be willing .to give up our vacations in the Caribbean so that an inner city child might get some extra help in learning to read? We seem to be caught up in the mentality that all we need to do is give an increasing Share of an expanding pie to the underpriviledged. Well, the pie ain•t growing anymore. We need to seriously consjder the taboo word: re-distribution. We need to make some real sacrifices so that the future generations might avoid this type of strife and chaos. I would like Uni'on students to ask themselves; what did I do to deserve the upbringing I received? What did the children living in South Central Los Angeles do to deserve the apbringing they received? As far as I am concerned . the answer in nothing. These inequities are a product of Olll\ nation's history of racism. We may have made some changes on the books, however the rear problem still exists. Take some time to think about what 'it would be like to be an African-American in this country, or even this school. Think about what it woulcl be like to go to a school where there were fifty white students and one thousand and aine hundred black students. The pangs .of racism and discrimination may not seem so real or pertinent to the average white person, but from the terrifying -violence taking place right now I would bet that they are quite real for the average black person.. The leaders. the future leaders, and the ordinary citizens of this country need to take a long hard look at these problems, and then make some concrete changes to rectify them. Until then all of the rhetoric will mean absolately nothing. Sincerely., Alex Namzoff AEPi 3rd Annual Ultimate Frisbee Tournament To the Editor: On the weekend of May 16- 17, Alpha EpS:ilon Pi will be hosting its third annual ultimate frisbee tournament. This year's event will raise money for two charities. A portion of tbe funds will be donated to Pr<Jctor's Theater in order to aid them in the renovation and maintenance of this non-profiit organization. The other portion of the funds will be used to :purchase tickets for .a production at Proctor's for uncler-priveledged children who participate in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Reach-Out Center program. In this way, AEPi will benefit two extremely worthy charities that do a great deal for the Capital District. In last year's tournament, Delta Upsilon edged out Phi Gamma Delta for f'll'st place in the men's tournament, while Gamma Phi :Beta beat Sigma Delta Tau for the women's championship. This year, AEPi hopes to see even more Union College groups participate. The tournament is open to floor teams, Greeks, clubs, and any other Union College group. All that is needed to form a team is approximately ten players. The entrance fee for this year's tournament is just $30, so get a group of friends together and enter a team. The games will be held on _ Saturday. May 16, on West~ Beach and the Nott field. Depending on the number of entrants and the weather, tbere may or may not be garnes played on Sunday. An awards ceremony will follow the tournament with trophies being presented to the top finishers. The entire college community is invited to participate or just come out and watch this exciting and competitive event. For more information or an entry form call either Jeffrey Gandel at 377-5433 or Hal Poret at 381-1678. Sincerely, Brad Rothenberg To the Editor. I am writing to commend the efforts of the Theta Delta Chi -Fraternity in assisting with the environmental clean-up of Pleasant Valley this past _ Saturday, May 2. The fraternity was there - thirty ·members strong-as we filled . two immense dumpsters with debris that had been thrown carelessly over the hills leading to 1~890. The entrance to . Schenectady will be more attractive in the future through their efforts. Thanks to all the brothers who contributed to our city with such good spirits and great fun. Schenectady and Union College are fortunate to have them as members of our community. Sincerely, Brian H. Merriam, Chmn. Pleasant Valley Project We Miss Union .... NOT To the Editor: Here we are in dismal drab Vienna. There's not much to do here except our intolerable, tedioas, and painstakingly ; difficult school work. The music llere is atrocious and performed. by mediocre, run-of- the-mill musicians. Yesterday, we heard the skating Dutchmen theme song being pounded out by the Vienna Philharmonic, but the trumpet section was simply no match for that of our Union Pep Band. The art and arcllitecture renders about as much beauty as the physical ·plant building at Union College. The culinary expertise here in Vienna is approximately comparable with that of West College on the last Sunday of spring term when they're serving leftover stew. and the beer tastes as if it were freshly brewed from tbe crystal clear eclge of the Mohawk River .••. N 0 T .. .. See ya in June when we'll hate to come home--this part is true. Sincerely. Vienna Term Abroad D.G. Olymp.ics Coming Soon! Winners will receive over $60 in prizes. Each team will need: • anmne • a song • 10 members (5 men, 5 women) • name of D.G. Sister/pledge for captain • registration fee of $10 a member ($100 a team) Due to recent changes in the Concordiensls we request all letters to 1he Edllor · be turned In on 3.5\ hard drtve disketts that ae Macintosh compatible including So)(. NUmber, so they can be returned to the owner the following. Wednesday. ·'

•I ~----------------------------------------· I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I - .. 0 UNION COLLEGE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE 1991-92 SPRING TERM This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Srudies courses will be announced, and srudents in Section \51 or 52\ comses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those comses, Cont1icts in examinations should be reponed to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 15, 1992. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR - Butterfield Hall HUMN - Humanities Building NWSE - North Wing, S!E Center PYCH - Psychology Building SSCI - Social Science Building S1ZH - Steinmetz Hall ·MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 9:00-11:00 AM ANT-040-01- Culture & Technology- G. Gmelch- NWSE 222 BI0-0 11-01 - Topics in Contemporary Biology - R. Willing - BAIL 201 BI0-023-01- Cell Biology- G. Smith/J.L. Salvo- BAIL 207 CER-142-01- Soil Mechanics- G. Gifford- BUTR 109 CHM-040-01 - Quantitative Chemistry - R. Schaefer(I'. Werner -BAIL 205 CHM-152-01- Physical Chemistry II- D. Hayes- BAIL 203 CHN-130-01 .. Chinese. Readings • M. Chen • SSCI 213 CLS-025-01- History of Rome- M. Toher- HUMN·us CLS-024-02- History of Rome- J. Marincola- HUMN 019 CSC-152-01- Microprocessors- C. Traver- NWSE 201 EC0-051-01- Environmental Economics- J. Kenney- PYCH 102 EC0-144-01- International Economics- E. Foster- S1ZH 106 EER-152-01 -Microprocessors- C. Traver- NWSE 201 EGL-056-01- Shakespeare After 1600- R. Stevenson- SSCI 104 FRN-139-01 -Special Topic- L. Day - HUMN 014 FRN-148-01- French Special Topic- W. Thomas- HUMN 112 HST-014-01- History of U.S. Since Civil War- F. Dudden- SSCI 103 HST -014-02 - History of U.S. Since Civil War - M. Jonas - HUMN 117 HST-014-03- History of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Peffer- SSCl 012 HST-036-02- History of Europe II- S. Berk- SSCI 014 ' HST-043-01- Europe in the Early Modem Era- E. Hansen- SSCI 010 HST-068-01- Modem Japt1nese History- D. Thut$tOn- SSCI 112 HST-117-01- AmerEcon Since The New Deal-J. Finkelstein- HUMN 116 JPN-122-01- Intermediate Japanese ill-Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 213 MTH-040-01 - Applied Linear Algebra - S Niefield. BAIL 100 MTH-124-01- Geometry- K. Zimmerman.- BAlL 102 M'1H -1:32-01 - Abstract Algebra I - V. Ferlini • BAIL 106 MTH-132-02- Abstract Algehta I- W. Zwicker- ~All.. 104 PHY-046-01 - Space Technology- D. Peak- NWSE 114 PHY -140-01 - Quantum Mechanics - K.. Schick- NWSE 303 PSC-020-01 - Social Data Analysis- T. Marchant-Shapiro - NWSE 116 PSY-042-01- Psycho! Assessment & Testing- K. DeBono- PYCH 204 PSY-047-01- Intro to Hsealth Psychology- C. Weiss- PYCH 113 SOC-062-01 - Social Data Analysis - T. Marchant-Shaprio- NWSE 116 SPN-149a01 - Special Topics-Peninsular Lit. - P. Moyano- NWSE 110 .' J. . MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 1:00-3:00 PM AAH-012-01- Intro to Art History- Part II· L. Matthew- ARTS 215 AMU-023-01 - The Baroque Era- H. A. Wilson -ARTS 313 --- - - SOC-052-01- Issues in American Education- T. Sineshaw- BAIL 207 SPN-122-01- Advanced Spanish- V. Martinez- HtJMN 019 SPN-139-01 - Intr Latin American Short Story- W. Garcia- HUMN 115 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 • 11:30-1:30 PM CSC-010-01- Computers & Computing- L. Spallholz- NWSE 112 CSC-077-01 -Data Structures- N. M. Mazur NWSE 116 EGL-023-01- The American Short Story- S. K. Dyer- HUMN 114 GRK-012-01 - Greek Reading - C. Sorum - HUMN 119 PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 SOC-024-01 - Social Psychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 113 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 - 2:30-4:30 PM AAH-090-01 - Contemporary Art & ARch - R. Phelan - ARTS 210 AMU-030-01- American Music- T. W. Ross ARTS 215 BI0-036-01 -Invertebrate Zoology- B. Boyer- NWSE 116 BI0-130-01- Comparative Animal Physioiogy- L. Fleishman- BAIL 100 BI0-158-01 - Plant M~hology - M. Frohlich - BAIL 205 CER·l32·01• Reinforced Concrete Design- M. Mafi- BT)TR 109 CHM-118-01- Inorganic Chemistry II- C. Scaife- BAn.. 104 EC0-012-01-Introduction to Economics· B. Reynolds- SSCI 012 EC0-015-01 - History of Economic Thought - B. Lewis - SSCI 014 EC0-020-01 - Intro to Statistical Analysis- L. Cavalluzzo- SSCI 104 EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financial Analysis - C. Grover - BAIL 203 EOL-022-02 .. Major American Authors - L. Slade - HUMN 116 EGL-070-01 - Contemporary British Fiction - H. Martell - HUMN 213 EGL-076-01 -Modem American Novel- F. Gado- HUMN 117 ESC-013-01 - High Level Lang Programming - L. Almstead- STZH 106 GE0-032-01- Geology ofNationalParks- G. Shaw- BUTR 202 MER-012001 -Engineering Graphics II- H. Lyons- NWSE 222 PHL-035-01- Philosophy in America- J. Ludwig- HUMN 119 PHL-078-01- Technological Values- J. Schumacher- HUMN 019 PHY Y054 .. Q1 .. Introduction to Astronomy - K. ~ew ., NWS:a 201 PSC-013-01 - Intro to Political Thought - C. Brown ... SSCI 103 PSY-010-03- A First Course in Psychology· S. Benack- PYCH 102 SOC-129-01 - Comparative Health Care system ~ R. Quaye - SSCI 010 STA-111-01 - Intro Mathematical Statistics- J. Schmee- BAIL 312 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10 - 8:30-10:30 AM BI0-024-01- Genetics- J. Boyer/S. LaBonne- BAll. 207 BI0-138-01 - Modem Parasitology - T. Styles - NWSE 116 CER-035-01 -Water Resources & Environment- P. Snow- BUTR 300 CHM-010-01- Fundamental Chemistry I- R. Silversmith- BAIL 106 CHM-010-02- Fukndamental Chemistry I-S. Hayes- BAIL 203 CHM-012-01- Fundaniental Chemsitry II- L. Hull:. bail 20i . CHM-016-01-Inorganie Chemistry I- C. Weick- BAIL 20S EER-148-01- Digital Circuits- E. Hassib- NWSE 201 Prn _n?-:tJ\? _ 'l'hP. Aml>l'il'an ~hnri ~tnn~ _'to narln _ UTTMM 11~ =1:11_..-· .... ·\\\\ ·~ 8 ::0 Q ~ fa en • ~ -< ,:-.1 .... ~ • ~ m - Q

Intro to Hsealth Psychology- C. Weiss- PYCH 113 BU1'R 300 • SOC-062-01- Social Data Analysis- T. Marchant-Shaprio- NWSE 116 CHM-0 .. 10-0·1· -Fundamental Chemistry I ... R.. Silve.· .. rsmith- BAIL 106 I SPN-149a01- .~pecial Topics-Peninsular Lit.- P. Moyano- NWSE 110 CHM-010-02 _ Fukn~ental ~hem~stry I-S. Hayes ~·~ .. J\IL. 203 . \\· . CHM-012-01- Fundamental Chemsltty II- L. Hull- bmi 2()1 ·1 I .. MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 1:00-3:00 PM CHM-016-01 -InorganiC Chemistry I- C. Weick- BAIL 20.5 AAH-012-01- Intro to Art History· Part II.· L. Matthew· ARTS 215 EER-148-01- Digital Circuits- E. Hassib- NWSE 201 . . AMU-023-01 - The Bar~ue E~- H. A. Wdson ~ ~TS 313 . EGL-023-02 _ The American Short Story - F. Gado - HUMN 116 I I BI0-018-01- lntrod';lctton to.Btology I I- K. Wtlltams/M. Frohlich- SSCI 016 EGL-073-01- Realism & Naturalism in Am Lit- B.·. MacDona.ld- SSCI 010 . BI0-150-01 -E. volut10nary Biology- J. Bover- BAIL 100 ELL-049-01 _Nuclear Technology •. J. Shanebroo .. k- NWSE 222 1· · I CER-153-01 -Environmental Engineering II- P. Snow- BUTR 300 ESC-Dl0-01 -Mechanics I- P. Weiss- BUTR 109 CHM-015-01 -The Chemistry of Things- J. Sowa- BAIL 104 ESC-020•01 -Mechanics II .. M. Rivera- NWSE 210 . CHM-182-01 - Pro~in ~tructure and Function- R. Silversmith- BAIL 203 FRN-012-01- B.as.ic F.rench m.· -E. Kirk- HUMN. 110 . . I· I CHN-012-01- Bast~ Chmese III- M. Chen- SSCI 213 . FRN-121-01- Intermediate French II- C. Laparra- HUMN014 CLS-043-01 -ClasSical ~ythology • C: Sorum SSCI 104 . GE0-015-01 • Geology of National Parks- G. Shaw· BUTR Z04 I CSC-011-01 - Programmmg for Soc Sciences- J. Castleberry - STZH 106 GER-011-01 -Basic Gennan II- S. Kellenter/A. Wwde .. l:lUMN 114 I EC0-012-01- Introduction to Economi~s- ~·Fried/D. Klein- SSCI112 HST-010-01 _ Hist & Soc: Trad Civilization ... E. Hansen/R.Wells- SSCI 112 . EER-042-01- Systems Theory I- J. Spt~elh- BAIL 207 JPN-012-01- BasicJapaneseiH- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 117 I I EER-066-01- Co~trol Sy~tems • V. Fattc ~ BUTR 109 ~HY-011-01- Introduction tu Physics I .. D. McKenna- NWSE 112 . EGL-020-01 - Ma~or Engli~h Authors II - S. K. Dyer- HUMN 117 PHY -013-01 -Introduction to Physics n- R. L. Ponting- NWSE 114 ·1 I EGL-022-01 - Major Amenc~ .Au~ors - N. S .• hour- HU. . 'MN 115 PHY -01. 4-0.2 - Elemen. ts of Mo~ern Ph .. ysics - A .. A~d~r. son- STZ. H. 106 . . EGL-024-01 - Modern Amencan Lit- A. Frazter - HUMN 114 PSC-012-01 - Intro to Internauonal Pol - S. R. Nmm - SSCI 103 · .. . .. FRN-130-01- Modem France- C. Laparra- HUMN 1!6 . PSY-0.10-01- A First Course in Psychol.ogy. V. Dawson. -·PYCH 113 I I GE0-041-01- S~c~ Geology -J. I. Garver- BUTR 201 P .. SY-031-01- A. b~ormal ~syc~ology ~ K. H. Olsen.-: PYCH102 ... . GER-0.12-. 01.- Basi.·c G. e.rman m- K. Hamm-Ehsani. . - SSCI 010 R. us. -012-01- Bas~c R. us.s~. III- Mmina.Rudko,. HUMN. . 0. 19 I I . RST ~5&-01 -The Holocaugt- S. Rerk- YUMN 019 SPN.,.Oll~Ol ~ I!ruuc Sparush II,. V, Mwtin~i!t ~ lWMN 112 HST .. 083 .. 01- Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft- S. Sargent- SSCI 012 SPN-012-01- Basic Spanish ill- L. Martinez- HUMN 115 LAT-012-01 -Latin Reading- J. S. Scullion - HUMN 119 SPN-012-02- Basic Spanish III- L. Martinez .... HUMN 115 1· I . MER-050-01 - Heat Transfer Analysis & Design - C. S. Reddy - NWSE 210 SPN-12--01 - Intermediate Spanish I · W. Garcia - SSCI 104 · . · :M:r.:T-014-01- Nobel La.ureates of La. tin Amer- P. Moyano- SSCI 014 . . .. . I I MTH-028-01 -Probability -1. Barbanel - BAIL 205 . . . . . . _ · MTH-030-02 • Ordin Differential Equations~ A. Taylor- BAIL 102 WEDNESDAY, J~E 10 : 1~:00·1:30 PM I MTH-056-01 -Geometry of Nature- M. Frame- BAIL 106 CER-023-01 - Dynam~cs and V~bra~ons - Y; K, Lee- BUTR 106 I . MTH-059-01 - Appl of Math to Eco & Mgmt II- A. Prindle- BAIL 201 CER-023-D2- Dynamics. an~ Vtbrattons- 'Y· K. Lee- BlJ!R 109 . : PHL-013-01- Freshman Seminar in Philosophy- B. Petrie- HUMN 213 EC0-017-01- C. omp Philo m U.S E.con .. o~tc Pol- D. Klem- HUMN·.·. 113 I I PHY-013-02- History of Western Philosophy- J. Ludwig- HUMN 110 ELL-012-01- Homes, Bldgs, & Egr ~c~ples- H. G. Harlow- BUTR 204 PSC-011-01 - Intro to ~erican Po.litics- G. R~her- HUMN 110 EL. L-012-02- Hof!Ies, .Bldgs, & E. gr Prin. . c1ples- H. G. Harlow- BUTR 204 1 . · ·1 , PHY-01. 3-02- Introducuon tu Phystcs n- G. Reich- NWSE 114 . HEB-<>12-01- B~c. He~re. will- D. Heckellinan. -. HUMN 112 PHY -014-01 - Elements of Modem Physics ..; C. Jones - NWSE 112 TIL-010-02 - Baste Italtan I - C. F. Dt;~nn - HUMN 110 .. . PHY-049-01- Laser Technology & Modem Optics- S. Maleki -NWSE 116 MTH·014-0l- Calculus ill- K. ~osenthal- BAIL 100 , I ·I POR-010-01 -Basic Portuguese I- I. Boone- SSCI 105 MTH-014-02- Calculus Ill- T. B1ck- BAIL 102 PSY -010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 · . · I PSY-020-01- Statistical Methods in Psych- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 WEDNESDAY, J~E .10 - 2:30:4:30 AM I RUS-122-01 -Advanced Russian- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 113 AAH-030-01 - Renmssance An & AI:chitecture- L. Matthew -ARTS 215 · SPN-121-01 -Intermediate Spanish II- L. Martinez- NWSE 201 AAH-040-01 -Modem Art and Architecture- R. Phelan- ARTS 210 I I ACC-010-01 - Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis -BAIL 207 TUESDAY, JUNE 9- 8:30-10:30 AM CER-020-01- Land Measurements: Theory..& Appl- C. Male- BUTR 109 I EC0-039-01 -Public Finance- T. McCartyn- SSCI 014 CSC-037-01 -Structured Programming- D. Hannay- NWSE 116 I EC0-137-01- Econ Perspectives on Pub Pol- E. Foster- SSCI 110 EAS-020-01- M?<I China & .Japan: N~a & Film- M. Chen -HUMN 114 EGL-025-01- Introduction to Shakespeare- R. Stevenson- HUMN 114 EC. 0-031-01- Microeconom1c ~alysts ... B. Reynold. s. - SS. CI 012 I I EGL . ..034b01- Studies in American Litemture- N. Shour- HUMN 117 }3C0·141-01- Monetary Economic.s- E. Motahar- .SSCI 112 . . . FRN-011-01 -Basic French II- L. Day- HUMN 112 EGL-077-01 -Contemporary Amencan Novel- H. Marten- HUMN 112 I OER-121·01- IntermOOiateOmnan II· t>. Lund- HUMN 113 LAT-139-01 ·Roman Satire· M. Toher • Hl1MN 119 I HST-065-01- East Asian Civilization- D. Thurston- SSCI 012 MTH-034-01-Differential Equations- S. Perera- BAIL 106 \~ ITL-010-01 - Basic Italian I - E. Giunta - HUMN 014 OPR-110-01 - Intro to Operations Research - R. A. Bowman - BAIL 20S I I LAT-011-01 -Principles of Latin II- J. Marincola -SSCI 105 PHL-163-01 - Fo~ndations: Cognitive Science .. B. Petrie- HUMN 110 . MER-012-01 .. Engineering Graphics II- M. Rivera- NWSE 222 PHL-176-01- Philosophy of Law- R. Baker- HUMN 116 1· MER-026-01- Thermodynamics- C. S. Reddy- BAlL 201 PSY-030-01- Personality- D. Spring- PYCH 113 I MER-042-0 1 ~ Engineering Design III • R. Eggert NWSE 210 PSY ·048-01 - Psychotherapy I - T. Dowling- PYCH 102 . MTH~Ot2-01- Calculus II- A. Prindle -BAIL 100 PSY-050-01- Educational Psychoogy- J. Campito- PYCH 213 I § I MTH-018-01 - Intro to Logic and Set Theory- A. Taylor BAIL 104 SOC-010-02 - Introduction tu Sociology - R. Quayle - SSCI 014 . g · MTH-101-01- Advanced Calculus forEngrs.- S. Niefield- BAIL 203 I ::c I MTH-135-01-Numbe~Th~-J.Barb~el-.BAIL. 20. 3 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE AN EXAM IN THE ~ PHL-121-01 -Symbolic Log1c- B. Petrte- HUMN 119 EVENING : tJj PHY -()13-03 - Introduction to Physics I I - D. Peak - NWSE 114 I en I PHY-044-01- Introduction to Astronomy- K. Mead- NWSE 116 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 • 6:00-8:00 PM ~ PHY-127-01- Solid State Physics- J. McWhirter- NWSE 112 CER-131--1- Structural Steel Design-S. Boulos- BUTR 300 I -< I PSC-011-01- Intro to American Politics- G. Reeher- SSCI 112 :-J PSY~038-0l ·Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 -. 6:30-8;30 PM ...... RUSwl33·01. Tile Russian Short Story!. N. Jemakoff- HUMN 213 PSC-055-01 -Defense Polley- C. Brown- SSCI 104 I ~ I SOC-010-01- Introduction to Sociology- M. Huggins- SSCI 104 ~ ~----------------------------------------1~ r • . ...--·--

PHISH To Play ~ At Union by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Trey Anastasio, Mike Gordon, and Jon Fishman were all students at UVM who were unhappy with the schools music department. These three joined together and began playing small shows around the 'Campus. They soon met Page McConnell who was at Goddard College, and Phish was born. Years later, the group has produced two albums and a tremendous following of young people around the United States. Pllish describes their music as being a mixture of types of music, \Jazz and rock intertwined with chilling crescendos and diminuendos and climaxes that make you think. Add a little calypso, reggae, barbershop and a vacuum cleaner ... \ Phish released their frrst album, Lawn Boy in 1990 and just recently released, A Picture ofNectar (named after a bar in Burlington). Although these two albums have been very popular Phish has gained most of their popularity through word of mouth and through their many concerts. The band loves to tour and the concerts are always filled with surprises; such as band members jumping on trampolines and impressive sound and light shows. This \unconventional\ band will be playing at the Union on May 17 at 9 p.m. in the Field House. Tickets are now on sale at the College Center for$5. London Symphony Courtesy of Proctor's Theatre joining the London Symphony Orchestra, he conducted the Boston Symphony, the Buffalo Musical Deemed A Success by Rebecca Parlekian Contributing Writer of the night, \Krupke\ spotlighted the hilarious antics and good voices of Jonathon The classical ·event of the season takes place at Proctor's Saturday, May 9 at 8 PM, when the London Symphony Orchestra and principal Conductor Michael Tilson Thomas present an exciting program of Bernstein, Rachmaninoff and Prokofiev(program subject to change). Philharmonic and the Los · ----------- Quint, John George. Sam Schneider, Dan Bullen. and Antonio Viva. The next act up, \Take Back Your Mink\ featured the voice of Sarah Teasdale and an extremely strong chorus. The words to the song were- very funny, made even more so by Teasdale's comical New York accent. \If I Were A Bell'' was beautifully sung by Megan Howell to her sweetheart, Sky, played by Sam Schneider. In the next act, Schneider displays a strong voice and a lot of talent with \Luck Be A Lady\. The chorus number \Sit Down Ycu're Rocking The Boat\ rounded out a very entertaining ~ste of Guys and Dolls. L!IStly, the musical Qeorge M. was featured. Although not ve-ry well known, the show c.~ntains many good songs. One, \'20th Century Love\ did .an excellent job of showcasing tile unique voices of both Jonathon Quint and Kelly Dormio. Melissa Ahrend sllcne in her solo \Billie\ and complemented Quint's voice nicely in the last set of songs featuring \Yankee Doodle\ \Over There\ and \Give My Re-gards to Broadway\. The musical revue is, indeed, a strcng finish to a busy year for the st11dent-mn Mountebanks. The London Symphony Orchestra, oldest of London's orchestras, is unique in that it is owned and run by the members themselves. In 1988, Michael Tilson Thomas became the eleventh and flrst American Principal Conductor in the ensemble's history. Tilson Thomas is a founder and conductor of the New World Symphony, the only full-time training orchestra in the United States. Before Angles Philharmonic. The London Symphony Orchestra has played a role in scoring motion pictures since the 193o•s, most recently the films \Star Wars,\ \Superman\ and \The Return of the Jedi.\ IT has performed many television concerts, recorded the great classical favorites, and has been a frequent participant in the prestigious Salzburg Festival. With Michael Tilson Thomas, i:t has recorded works by Beethoven, Copland, Mahler, Strauss, Tchaikovsky and Weill. Tickets_ are available at Proctor's Box Office and all Ticketrnaster locations. Ticket JUices are as follows; adults .$35, $25, $20 and children 12 and under $17.50, $12.50, $10. Vision Teaser IHTcli!l..tAL- Re.VENUE ~eRVICE:. Find at least six IHT!::I<t.IAL- Re.VENUE ~51{ VICE:. Mountebanks launched its first ever full length musical revue this past weekend. Directed by Margaret Gray, the show ran· for a full boor and featured acts from West Side Story, Guys and Dolls, and George M. Mallo Amendola and Antonio Viva both shone in lheir duet \Tonight\. The energy remained high as Amendola and her chorus sang the beautiful \I Feel Pretty\. \America\ was also top notch, featuring the voices of Stacey Cervellino and Ericka Johnson. By far one of the funniest acts . Top Video Rentals I. &yz N The Hood starring Ice Cube (Columbia TriStar - Rated: R) Last Week: ill<>. ~2 2. Thelma & Louise Gcena Davis (MGM/UA- R)No. 2 3. The Rocketeer Bill Campbell (Walt Disney Home Video- PG) No.3 4. Dead .\piiiKeMeth Branlllgh (Paramaunl-ll)No. 24 S. Re1ardifl~ Beary HarriS<>n Ford (Paramount- P0-13) No. 1 6. Poillt Breal! Patrick Swayze (Fox Video- P.} No. Ci 7. Doa't Tell Mom Tile Babysitter's J>adi Christina Ap- plegate (IIBO - PG-13) No.4 8. Barton Fmk John. Turturro {FoJIVideo - R) No. 11 9. Hot. Slsots·Charlie Sheen (Fox- Video - ftq-13) No.8 10. Doulile l111pact Jean-Ciawle van Damme (Co!um~ia TriSt.ar - R)No.~ 11. The Hitma11 Chuck Norris (Cannon Video - R.)No. 20 12; Child's Play 3 Justin Whalin (MCA{Universal- R) No. 28 13. Harley Dnid5Gn And The Marlboro MliJI Mickey Rourke (MGMJUA - R) No.7 14. Mobslel'3 Christian Slater (MCA/l]nivcrsal ~ RH-lo. 12 IS. Jun&le Fever Wesley Snipes (MCA{Univcrsal- R) No. 14 16. Pure Luck Martin Short (MCAfUniversal- PG) No. 10 17. City Slickers Billy Crystal (Columbia TriSrar- PG-13) No. 15 18. Backtntk ·oeanis Hopper (Vrslron Videc -R)No. 2S 19. Freddy's Deacl: The Final N\qhtmare Robert Englund (Columbia TriSrar- R) No. 9 20, ·Body Puts Jeff Fahey !Paramount - R) NC!. 17 BUY YOUR PERSONAL SO¢ AT INFO. BOOTH (C.C.)

Drifting Sands by Cort Boulanger Arts Editor \Things are not always what :they seem\. At least this is . the philosophical claim of the mystery thriller White Sands, starring Will em Dafoe, Mickey Rourke, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. This film opens with Dafoe, portraying a local sheriffs deputy, attempting to solve the mysterious death of a man found deep in the New Mexico desert. The story takes a quick turn when Dafoe's character decides to follow a lead, and suddenly ends up subinet:ged in a world of Hlegal arms dealing and government coverups. Miraculously, Dafoe is able to shed his rural, naive skin to become an international criminal within a matter of hours . From this point on, White Sands starts to become much more clouded. The story begins to take abrupt turns, most of which have little substance beyond the original surprise. For Dafoe's character, it eventually becomes a question of \Who do you believe?\ Is it the smooth talking Rourke, the beautiful and seductive Mastrantonio, or the respected F.B.I agent? Dafoe is per,plexed, and so is the viewer. The natural beauty of the s:cenery is, at times, almost dizzying, which adds to the bewilderment of the story. It seems as though this confusion is the only thing that the ploy relies on. This become.s .painfully obvious when it is announced that the sand after which the movie is titled is a~ctually crushed rock. \THINGS AREN'T ALWAYS WIIA T THEY SEEM!\ Rourke's character has a line relating to the con that states, \Ifs not about taking sides, it's about confusion.\ If confusion is the true goal of this movie, then it is a success. This Joint Is Jumpin' This Joint ls Jumpin Courtesy of Proctor's Theatre \This Joint is Jumpin\' Friday May 15, at 8 PM when a musical revue featuring the jumpin' beat of Scott Joplin, Fats Waller and Irving Berlin comes to Proctor's Theatre. This non-stop, energy packed evenillg of song and dance features hot jazz vocalists Gail Nelson, Ken Prymus~ Jannis - Warner and Ty Stephens and the fancy footwork of the tap- dancing Rhythm Queens~ The production is under the musical direction of Danny Holgate, who has created nightclub acts or arrangements for Lena Horne, Cab Calloway. Carol Channing and others. Choreographed by Barbara Simon. who has dance with Bob Fosse and at Radio City Music Hall, and. directed by Jeffery Moss who is known for - UNIOI.J COI.LEGE IlEAl TIJ SEBVICES SILL:IMAN IIALL- 370-6120 t-IOSTS THE ANNUAL I-lEAl TH F Aln lliURSlJA~ MAY 14., 1992 1 flAM-2PM COLlt:GE CENI ER AI JliUM AVAILABLE THAT DAY FOR 'I'OUROUESTIONS AND INFORMATION WILL BE. AliJIINY Kllii'ALU YOGI\CEtHEn DEMONSTnATE YO(~/\ FORI lEAL TH KATE MAACIIESIELLO LIFEST/\RT IIEALTfl SEHVICES ALCOHOL ABUSE REHfiBILITA TION LIFESTARf GAOUPTHERI\PISf SPOIHS MEUICIHE OF ALDi\NY SPORTS MEDICINE THOMAS FASHOUER AMF.IIICAN CANCER SOCIEr Y ~LLAnO ClllflOPO/\CTIC Orr-ICE CHIROPRACTIC AS A TREAT MENJ on. ROOEnr rox CAN VISIUN AFFECT GRADES? VISION EFFICIENCY SCREENING MULTIPlE SClEJIOSIS SOC. MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SUE NAPIEASKI CANCER EDUCATION Be PATIENT SERVICES NANCY CRANDALL LUPUS FOUNUA liON LUPUS OCJROTHY GOMBERG MVP IIEI\1.111 PlAN HEALTH INSURAI~CE Sl EVE FLA V.ELL SCII'DY FAMILY IIEALTII SEilVICE PllENATALCAAE. BIRTH CONTJ\OL CARULMONE MAniON MERflELl DOW .INC. NICOOERM PATCH ALLERGIES PAIGE LEVACK CllEI\lJ. . . . . CAPifi\LJlEGION EATING DISOflDERS EAliNG DISOrlDERS CINDY POSEROW AMEIIICAN HEU CllUSS BLOOD rnESSUFlE CLINIC GALEI<.EELE'I SCII\DY FAMILY IIEI\LHI HIV-AIDS DIANE GRACE ST. ClARE'S WELtNESS CENTER SMOKING CESSATION WEIGHTMANAGEMENr KAREN KETCHUM CONSlJL T liNT UIF.JICII\N GENEHIIL NUTRITION/HEALTH UNIONS DINING SERVICE ANN ADAMO llli: CEN I EJJ FOil SPOIIfS MEDICINE IILUI\N'I' MEU. Cf:N I En SLEEPING OISOf'lOERS EA TIIJG DISORDERS SlO'S. FAMILY PLANNII~G • FITNESS SCREENING YOU AHE CURUIALLY INVIlEU TO UROP BY. ALL OF THE EXHIBIT$ ANO SERVICES ARE FREE. PLEASE MARK YOUR OFFICE CALENDARS AND REf.1ND YOUR FRIENDSfFAMLIES, AND CO-WORKERS TOA TENDI f.tAY14,1992 COLLEGE CENTER ATRIU~t 1 OAM -2PM SEE YOU THERE! h:is. direction as well as scenic and costume designs for Broadway and network television, \This Joint is Jnrnpin\' promises to be a jazzy evening full of Broadway fmesse and .showmanship. Tickets for this show are available at the Proctor's Box Ofiice and all Ticlcetmaster locations. Tickets are $20, $18, and $16 children 12 and under, $10, $9, and $8. 3· - 4' Bedroom Apartments Available for '92-\93 Newly Renovated, Washer - Dryer Available Back Yard, Front Porch, Large Kitchen, Modern Bathroom - New Carpet Throughout • Please Call Monday through Friday 9:00 am-5:00 pm 4.62-7411 Evenings and Weekends: 482-8788 · Natasha's.Stars · . ·. ARIES (March 21-April 1.9) High energy becomes you, though you may spend.a good part of this week wonder- ing why life is so cantankerous. What you always counted on now becomes unpredictable. This weekend you push and shove everything back into line. Romance? Oh, it's yours to have start- ing this weekend. TAURUS (April 20-May 20). Be reasonable now. If you want success, let a partner take the lead. And don't dig in your heels. So what ·if you can come up with a zillion options? You might consider running away, though by the weekend, you long to ·be ac- countable to Just the person you rebelled against. GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Oops ... you thought you had EVERYTHING under control, only to find out there's a wild card out there. (It might even be you, if you take responsibility). Negotiations are the tradema~k of the week. By this weekend, you see just how good you were you at diplomacy, etc. Experiment. CANCER (June 21-Juty 22) Listen to your inner voice all you want, but partners, co-workers, friends and loved ones, ALL put ripples into your week. Worry less and be more present with the moment. Humor works, be- causehy the weekend, all those trouble makers are ready to kiss and make up. LEO (July 23-August 22) You are over-working, and you continue to do just that. For your own good, be less fuzzy and more direct. If you are -good,~ the s~ars send you a mag- nificent weekend, and an early one at that. You know how to work in multi- ples, fortunately. Now pick and choose from all those invitations. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) Put away those dancing shoes. You're supposed to be one of tho5e practical, hard-working signs, and what are you doing? Flaking out big time? You learn · the true meaning of karmic reckoning this weekend~ which isn't a weekend, because you have to work. Top 1 0 Movies 1. Basic Instinct starring Michael Douglas 2. White Men Can't Jump Woody Hanelson 3. Noises Off Michael Caine 4. My Cousin Vinny Marisa Tomei 5. Waylle's World Dana Carvey 6. Ladybugs Rodney Dangerfield 7. Th.e Cutting Edge D.B. Sweeney 8. Article 99 Ray Liotta 9. Once Upon A Crime John Candy 10. Stop! Or My Mom Will Sh.oot Sylvester Stallone LIBRA (September 23-0ctober 22) No comment may be your best bet this week, as uproar on the homefront seems inevitabl'e. Don't worry if things don't tum out how you· d like. You do well with charm and flination, and everyone (well, nearly everyone) for- gives you by the weekend. And you're back at it, you wild thing. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) You wonder how you ·ever got yourself so busy with all theseprojects. And there are all these personal matters that lure you, too. Whether yo11 go with duty or temptation this week is up to you. The good news is, yoa radiate into the weekend. No one (nearly) can say no to you. SAGIITARIUS (November 22- December 21) Changes could occur in the financial department. Don't kid yourself about what's going on here. Observe, enjoy and make the most out of an opportunity. But don't pat your- self on the back, yet. Expect a busy weekend where you're in clemand. And remember, mum's the word. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) The perks in the next few days make it all worthwhile. Get into them and make the most of all the attention. Do pat yourself on the back, because it • s your radiancethat • s gotten you this far. Let another indlllge you this weekend. even if you are a little shy. AQUARIUS . .(January 20-February 18) You emerge happier than ever after a somewhat grueling week. Forget what goes on and worry less. Some of you may be happier left alone and off doing your own thing. By the weekend you call the shots and yo11 could have exactly what you want. PISCES (February 19-March 20) Push while the energy is tltere this week, because at some point you will blow out. Remember you're not ex- pected to run in first gear all the time. You need to idle once in a wllile, too. And you '11 need the dow(! time, since you are about to have a bout llf spring fever. / WRITE -FOR ARTS

By Larae Tumidajewicz Int. Features Editor Lately I have had a lot of people ask me what is this this intensity that I have for the existence of International Hollse, My response to them fammes and countries ;while telling them about mine, On May 4 in Paris, 12 militants were sentenced t(1 hang by an Algerian military court. The 12 men were said to belong to the Islamic Salvation Front, an opposition party oullavved by the military-backed Government of AJge.ria. After it won the January parliamentary elections, the government cancelled the elections, banned this party, jailed most of its le~ders and placed about 9,000 of its members ·Ln detention camps. The men were charged with killing and mutilating 3 soldkrs during an November attack on an army post. is that my interest in the people ofdif.fercnt C()untries of the world bas always been there. To ~tk whh people in person or to- write to )Jenpals from forei:~n places _is a rewardiflJl' exper:ience. Currently 1: have :pe.n:pals in Korea, Japan, Ru5sia~ Poland, Spain, Gre~t Britain~ Finland, Mexico, and New Zealand. I love to IJear ab()Ut their M~ feelings are best summed up im the words to the song \WeJcome to My World.\ Elvis Presley sang it at his Aloha Concert in Hawaii, the first satellite concert for the whofe world to see. Here are the words to the song: In an exchange of letters, Angolan guerrilla leader Jonas Savimbi says that the two killings in his movement last year probably were due to a CIA plot. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d demanded an account of the deaths of Tito Chingunji and his brother-in-law Wilson dos Santos. Mr. Chingunji was the movement Unita's (the National Union for :the Total Independence of Angola) principal Washington representative and had become a popular figure with the Republicans. S avimbi claims that the killings were by two members who had defected from his movement two months ago and that Chingunji had plotted with the CIA in the late i980's to overthrow him. Tens of thousands of Kurds have returned to Taq Taq, Iraq to rebuild villages that were destroyed by Iraqi forces during the 1970's and 1980's. Despite a six-month-old economic blockade on the area, farmers are tending their fields and orchards. Trade from Turkey has picked up and campaigning is active for the May 17 elections for a leader and a Jegislative assembly. Yet Baghdad has built up forces near Dohuk, a security zone for the Kurds, and near Zakho. Thus, lthe Kurds are in fear of another attack by the Iraqis. Welcome to my world Won't you C<l:me on tn Miracles like this Only happem now and then .... Step into my be art Leave your c!res bellind Step into my world Built witll you mind ..... . lll Knock and the door will be open. Seek and yotl will find. Ask and you'D be given The key to fhis heart of mine. I'll be waiting; there With my a.Jms unfurled Waiting just [{)r you To welcome to n1y world ..... . ... Welcome to My World. In Manila, Phillippines, seven candidates want to succeed President Corazon C. Aquino in ne~t Monday's elections. In addition, 80,000 people are running for 17,000 local posts. The four main candidates are: General Fidel V. Ramos, Mrs. Aquino's former chief of staff and Defense Minister, Eduardo Cojuangco Jr., estranged cousin to the president and head of a rich, ordered opposition party. Ramon Mitra, the Speaker of the House who is backed by the governing party Power of Democratic Filipinos, and Miriam Defensor-Santiago, the Immigration Commissioner. Rivalries are becoming intense and 25 people have already died in election-related incidents. Information from The New York Times - International Section- Tuesday, May 5, 1992. The words have a powerful ' message .... one which I believe in. This is the very song which I skated a solo to at the Achilles Figure Skating Club Exhibition on March 22. The dedication of my program read as follows: \To all rn y frieml~ irom all over the wo:rld: J wish you a safe journey home. Take with you all the memori:es of the happy times: we have shared. Although we wiJl be worlds apart, our h~ts will remind us that we are ONE WORLD.\ I hope now that you have a better understanding of my sincere concern as to the termination of the International House at Webster as of this June, and to the bleak outlook for tile future existence of an international house elsewhere on the Union campus. PEACE CORPS WOR:LD WISE Pu'ZzLE For further information about Pecu:f! Corps, writi! Bc!x 896. Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps bas voluntee1·s &erving in nearly 90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle WOI'ds and then unsc:l'amble the letters in the squares to produce the name ·Of the country. Jll'lJ/.If)J = J,11.JIUtiJPJ\t\ liJIJJI.tU '''·\tt~) ·,- Jllfl ,,,,ll JIWrJ}/IJIIJ,IJIIr l t1Jit'.Jl\\ll\r 1 :r~~•imJo~ Formerly called the Gilbert Islands, this nation: consists. of three widely separated main groups of Southwest Pacific Islands. I I I 1. Closest continent to this island nation. 2. Hypothetical line approximately along the 180th meridian, near this nation, designated as the place Where each calendar day begins. · 3. European country which held protectorate over this nation beginning iln 1892. 4. Unit of measurement equal to .62 mile. :··~·**~**~*****~···· t 6thallen' fl.er THE INTERNATIONAL ! ~ ., · & · . ® CRC~SNUMBEA GAME ?$' flo DlflECTIONS: . 'h tO * .k Fill each squ11rewith a number. one ltuough nine. ll'J~l{/. ~ \i:'F' • r.lorizontal :!qiJares should add to lotals on right. ?$' ft • 'IJertical squares·soould add to totals on bot1om '?JJZ.5 i+ ..r..t.. .., !Diagonal SQilUtres tttrOtJ ..si2... ~ t::olal in Upf:ier ar1d ~ower ?.i\ * TJ.IEAE M.-v BIE MORE * ~ Tl!AN ONE SOtU11()N. * {+ T();{1ay's Ch;~llenge * flo Time 1 ~inu tes -& ft. , 0 Seconds * flo Yo\LLr Wo:rkirng +J- ft- Tirne t..iiinuies t} ft ·SBC()nds -f+ t @,992 by l<mg Features Syndtcale, Inc. # tt * *1*••*'**'*•••••••••*•.-.t:- Sliare .52l Moment Witli tlie Wor{d. • • Internationa{ ee end! I j ·l ,.; 'I I

I '·· . ·· ·· . . .. ·. . . · . · · · , .· · .... · ·EE&:EidiiEiii CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 15 ,by Dass Seaman Feature:; Editor Did you ever in your life consider if ina:nimate things had feelings? When I was younger, I had s:tuffed animals. I'd always feel g-uilty after I out grew them beca:use I left them in a pile. I thought that they'd feel sad, sq11ooshed and neglected. Then I moved on to trees and wondered whether they hurt wllen they are chopped down into firewood or paper. Rigllt now. as I'm writing • I'm :looking at my carpet. It's that ugly brown color littered with crumbs, dirt, hair, and little pieces of what ever ( and I cqosider myself a relatively neat person). What if carpets had feelings? Have you ever wondered what a carpet might have to say about its life? Probably not. If you think about it, carpets would have a lot to say. The life of a carpet actually probably isn't to great and if carpets could meet somewhere, I can see there being a \carpet's anonymous. We c~m't stand being walked over an:ymore.\ An oriental rug sadly admits that some woman called her an imitation and then rudely spilled hot tea all over her. A collage dorm hal'lway rug sobbed that he's buried in a heap of pizza crusts and wings at the end of each weekend. And those poor d0oor mats! They have it really bad. \People just think that WELCO:ME means ••come and stomp on me\ . I feel so ~en The Department of the Arts presents f ~ ® [ta 0 lfll.~ . bY Michael Weller (a work in progress) starring EmilyBaer Robert Leung Jonathan Quint Sam Schneider Waher Soule Mary Tung Tuesday, May 12th, at 8:00PM in CC302 Free Admission Neil Simon's for granted.\ And so the sob st()ries continue on. They've been through the spilled beer and vomit and cigarette ash from parties. They experienced the house hold pet and its tOoiiette training. Perhaps the carpet has had the opportunitry of hosting a fiesta for fleas. And after years of stai,ning, spilling, and walking on the carpet, we then say ,\This carpet is disgusting.\ Although I .am not a (:atpet myself, I personally think that there are a lot of advantages in being one. Imagine being vacuumed every week. Give me that Eureka massage! Also, by the end of a carpet's life, he must be a connisueur of all types .of food, tasting from free samples. If I w~re you, I'd be glad that carpets don't talk because carpets ~lso haV'e many secrets. They .know who you've been rolling around with late at night in: the TV room while everyone else is asleep. A carpet is the only one who can identif)' the cui prit ·of an unidentifiable stain, when no one else seems to know anythin!l about it. If you think you !:rear your carpet whispering threats of blackmail, rest assured that it is your imagination and guilty conscience. I sappose my living room carpet kn<>ws where that hidden Easter eg;g is that no one could find last year. I remember my mom s.tanding alone in the living IDom saying out loud \Now where did I put that egg?\ Like the carpet was going to answer her? Silly mom, carpets don't talk If the carpet was a boy, he'd know what all the tupperwear ladies' underwear looks like by looking up their skirts. If the carpet was a girl, she'd see what's hanging. Carpets are very much a part of our lives. We've played Parker Brothers and Trivial Pursuit on carpets. We've watched the Brady Bunch on carpets. The Supreme .:ourt has made monumental decisions on carpets. The President of the United States has carpet in the While House ! Carpet is everywhere. This is just written in appreciation of all the carpets. Remember, the carpet is your friend. WEDNESDAY; MAY 20TH 5:00PM THE PAGEANT I PARADE STARTS FROM CITY HALl IN SCHENECTADY, MARCHES THROUGH DOWNTOWN·AND ENDS WITH A COMMUNITY PICNIC IN RIVERSIDE PARK . 8:30PM THE SHOW CONTINUES IN MEMORIAL CHAPEL, UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS. Tlte NeW WORIJ> DRJ.'ER COLUM8\J~: THE NEW WORLP ORDEil INCLUDES A CRITICAL ANALYSIS AND BIOGRAPHY 0~ COLUMBUS, AN ElABORATE PARADE AND LARGE SCALE PAGEANT FEATURING IIERDS OF CARIBOU, I\'ATIV£ AM£itiCANS, A GIANT MOTHER EARTH AND INFORMATIO•N ABOUT THE JAME:S i>AY HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT. BREAD AN~ P•UPPET THEATER WAS FOI:INDED IN 1963 IN NYC. ITS WORKS INCLUDE COMPLEX STYLIZED COMPOSITIONS WiTH MASKED PERFORMERS, OVER·LIFE-SIZE EFFIGIES, COLORFUL PARADES, IMPROVISED MUSIC:, AND THEMES OF SOCIAL I POLITICAL 1 ENVIRON MEW AL S IGNI FIC:ANCE. THII'J'PROJEcr IS MAPE POSSU lE. 'I~ PAilT·I!iY A. GRA.Nr FROM THE liLA WALLACE·READER. S DIG: EST ARTS PARTNERS PJtOGG'!oU\ WHICH IS AI>MINISTEnED IY THE ASSOCIATION OF I'Ei:FORMING ARTS PRESENTER:!, UNION COlLEGE IS ONE OF 7 NATIONAL RECIPIENTS FOR THIS THREE PART PROJECT D!IDI<AT\EI> TO Al1DIEN<:E DEVElOPMENT AND THE aUILDING OF C:O.IV\MUNITY RELATIONS THRI!(JUt;H. A.ll.TS PARTNERSHIP. ALL PER.FQR.MA.NCES &. WORKSliOPS AilE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLI( ALSO: THE JAMES BA'\r\ E.XH IBITION .BY PETER SCHUMANN MAY 3-30, THE COLLEGE CENTER, UNION <:.OLLEGE / The Odd Couple Freshman Class Meeting May 7, 8~ 9 - 7 p.m. Featuring: Directed by: Assistant: l.n the Nott Rick Burchill Kevin Dantzler Andy Goldberg Walt Soule Ned Walley Aimee Murdock Kristy Holbrook Dalton Menhall EmilyBaer Fran Rubenstein Sold out Oil Thursday Friday, May 8th at 4:30 p.m. in the Pub$ Come talk about the upcoming class BB.Q & more! .,.

, CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 16 Aud, Patty, Kristen Will you Marry me? Love, Ed Kristen, Patty & Aud, Thank you for the HoJo experience. It was ... well It was... Love, Ed AEPi Ultimate Frisbee Tol!rnament AEPi Ultimate Frisbee Tournament May 16- 17. Just 30$ per team call 381-1:678 for more info. , Self-Defense WmkshopSunday ' May 17th 6-9 3$-sign up in 1 CC Atrium 5/13-5/15 Or Call . ext.6917 Chunk: I suppose a rock is out of the question. Karl !-----,..---------- To all the people who've I: K'vetched over me ... Thanks · Love, Mono AEPi Ultimate Frisbee Tournament AEPi Ultimate Frisbee Tournament Nouee... We miss you!!!! Don~t worry you will survive. Come back soon so that we can party! Love P &J May 16-17. Just $30 per team. Call381-1678 for more info. FOR SALE: 1989 Fard F-15() pickup truck. Y ery good condition, marooa, hed liner. Tara- SM1LE you will be able I· A~ing price $75~(). ·6 cyl,. . • _ · cr.Ulse, 30~000 nubs. Call to talk soon enough. Hal1g tn Penny Adey Ext. 6645 or 377- there. Love, your Soc buddy . 0010 Drumm: Would you care for a· Meister Brau or how about just haifa brow? Wendy- Start relying on your friends more-that's what we're here for. Otherwise, you'll never get better. We hope to see y-ou back on track soon. FUI Brothers & Pledges- We want to thank all of you for your time and hospitality. Thanks for the great food and an excellent night all together. Everyone had the best time. We hope you all did as welL It couldn't have been a success without you! Thanks again, The pledges and sisters of 2:.1.T. : Interested in purchasing a used Macintosh w'Hard Drive. Please call Marc at Ext. 4005 w/ details. FURNITURE FOR SALE VERY CHEAP! MUS1' SELL! CONTACT 381-6990 UeN•I•O•N•'S EEK FRIDAY, MAY 8 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 7 p.m. Nott Memorial. \The Odd Couple.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center409. Bible study. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \The Prine~ of Tides.\ 10:·30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Mark Rabin. SATURDAY, MAY 9 Noon. College Center patio. Battle of the Bands. 7 p.m. NottMemorial. ••The Odd Couple.\ 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \The Prince of Tides.\ 10:30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Smith and Bakken. SUNDAY, MAY 10 Noon-6 p.m. College Center410. First aid squad information meeting. 6-8 p.m. College Center410. Studentforwn. 7:30p.m. Old ChapeL futerdenominational Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \The Prince of Tides.\ MONDAY, MAY 11 10 a.m.-3 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 11:50 a.m.-12:50 p.m. College Center. Italian conversation table. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con- versation table. 7-8:3 0 p.m. College Center 409. Speaking Hands meeting. 7-8:30 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Action and Awareness meeting. 7-9 p.m. College Center404. Newman Club meeting. TUESDAY, MAY 12 10 a.m.-3 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese conversation table. 12:20-1:20 p.m. College Center. Brazilian conversation table.7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Pre-Law Society. 7-9:30 p.m. Union College dining hall. Spring room lottery. 7:30p.m. College Center. Crosstalk: \Student Rights\ at Chet's. 7:30p.m. College Center. CDC information session: Seniors--changing relationships. 8 p.m. College Center 302. The Arts Department presents a play, \Fishing.\ WEDNESDAY, MAY 13 10 a.m.-3 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 10 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Self- defense registration. Noon-1 :30 p.m. Old Chapel. Staff Associa- tion unc eon and fashion show. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. GermaJI and Spanish conversation tables. 4 p.m. College Center. CDC information session: Seniors-making transition to work. 6:15-8 p.m. College Center205. Asian · Student Union meeting. 6:45-9 p.m. College Center 406. Brazi!Lan Club. 7:30p.m. College Center. CDC information session: Seniors----balancing your budget .. THURSDAY, MAY 14 JO a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Union College Healtlt Services Annual Health F.air. Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 406.· Investment Club. 4:40p.m. SS104. The Biology Department and Biology Club present a seminar \The Care and Study of Injured Birds at Berkshire Bird Paradise,\ featuring live birds, videos, and slides. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Support group. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Concert Choirs of Union College and Queensbury High School with Union College Chamber Orchestra present John Rutter's \Magnifi- cat,\ with organist, Hugh Allen Wilson. A:Iso works by Boieldieu, Beethoven, and Debussy by the Chamber Orchestra under the direction ofHilary Tann. FRIDA~ MAY 15 i2.15-J :30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 3:45p.m. S&E N114. Physics Colloquium: Dr. Richard Fork, RPI, speaking on \Ultra Short Laser Pulses.\ 5 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Mitch Frasier. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehou.se. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Fried Green Tomatoes.\ SATURDAY, MAY 16 11 a.m. Memorial Chapel. Prize Day ceremony. Noon-6 p.m. College Center atrium and patio. Delta Chl cabaret. 2-4 p.m. Memorial Chapel, The Political Science Department presents Senator Alphonse D' Amato. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: ..Fried Green Tomatoes.\ ' 10:30 p.m. College Center atrium. \No- body's Girls.\ SUNDAY, MAY17 6-8 p.m. College Center 410. Student fmum. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: ..Fried Green Tomatoes.\ 9 p.m.-Midni8ht. Achilles Rink. The C()ncert Conunittee presents \Phish.'' I collegiate camo,uflage N A M tl I D R u F L u s c M A I M u N D M· I L . E K c I· N u R c u I 0 y R u c R E M R E l I ' K T D u .N 0 M N M u N 0 X N u E 0 A 0 .R u M u I s E N G A M N N R 1 s A A c u M E N u T u N 0 N E X u N u M p u I M 1 I B E c G T E G I T N 0 L c T T L N u I R u A u u L K I A K N, K E B w L E N s 0 M N A R E -o R E A L I I E G G E T y B N R . y L R D u M s 0 s I p F 0 I T p R I N M u E R A T E I N D s T M u 1 M D A c 0 X E N 0 0 R 0 R M N u I c N A R F N X I B .. Can you find the hidden ALUMINUM IODINE ARSENIC IRON chemical elements?· NICKEL RADIUM BARIUM KRYPTON BORON LAWRENCIUM CADMIUM LEAD CARBON MAGNESIUM FERMIUM MANGANESE FLUORINE MERCURY FRAN<';:IUM NEON GOLD NEPTUNIUM SILICON STRONTIUM SULFUR TIN TITANIUM TUNGSTEN URANIUM XENON Roses ·are Violets are red blue Buying A Personal is what vou should a. do ·To brighten a day or make someone smile 50¢ at the C. C. Info Booth It'll be worth your while

CONCORDIENSIS •MAY7, 1992 • PAGE 17 H 1 1V -.TEST:ING SCHAFFER LIBRARY ·wJLL BE_OPEN AT 12:30.P.M., N:OT 10:00 A.M., ON SUNDAY, MAY 9, DUE TO A POWER OUTAGE. THANKS, IN ADVANCE FOR - Cat·t 61.2·0 , For Info. COMMU'N:ICATING THIS TO STUDENTS! ,, ' ' ' ; ********fiNNOONCEMEtiT****** 1 . :The Block 0 ·Award Dinner will be 1 . held Wedn. May 20, 1992 . _, flthletes., .. · · · · . pic It up yoa:r ·• tickets at the lumni Gym by M<1y 15. 1992. No one will be admittfld wi:thoat a ticket. Attention all199Z GRADUATES All 1992 Union· College graduates who have borrowed tmough the Stafford or SLS loan program$ while enrolled at Union College, must attend an. exit interview counseling session. Attendance -t an e;dt interview session is a GRADUATION REQUIREMENT. Sessions will be held in the Auditorium of the College Center on: Tuesday, May 11 at 8:30 a.m. Tuesday, May 12 at 6 p.m. Wednesday, May 13 at 10:30 .Lm. Wednesday, May 13 at 3:00 p.m. Thursday, ~May 14 at 9:30 Lm. Thursday, May 14 at 7:00 p.m. Friday. May IS at ll:lS a.m. Friday, May IS at 2:30 p.m. Call th~ Financial Aid Office by May 8, 1992 at x6123 tD regiater for a ~e~aion or to 1chedule a more convenient time. TELECOMMUNI .. cATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE. PERFECT GIFT X370-6411 The Biology Department and The Biology Club Present a Seminar: Self-Defense Workshop Sunday, May 17 from 6-9 p.m . Location T .B.A. $3.00 SignupinCC Atrium Wed., May 13- Fri., May 15 or call J en at x6917 Place a Personal at 7heJnfo <Booth only SOct each Union College's RAPE CRISIS SUPPORT GROUP Meeting (weekly) Call 6121 for infG .. Ways You Can't Get AIDS The HIV vints is not spread through casual social contact at school, work or in public places. AIDS is not spread by: • Donating :&lood •Toilets, bathtubs, swimming pools or sinks. • Hugging or shaking hands with an infected person • Mosquitoes, pets or other insects or animals. • Using utensils, dishes or food handled by an infected person. USIIERJ ARE REEDED fOR GRADUATIOn June t4Ttl CIUODAY>AT IO:oonm. 1r IRTEREJTED PUlAJE JIGn IR ROOM408. COllEGE CERTER UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE PRESENTS PH ISH Tickets: $5.00 Available Now in cc 408 (Student Activities) Achilles Rick Sunday, May 17, 1992 9:00pm Door. Open at 8:1.5 pm 1992-93 Fafl Term Prescheduling Procedures The ca.-e and S1udY uf lniur-ed 13ir-ds at IJerkshir-e 13ir-d va.-adise Prescheduling materials will be available. at the Registar';s Office beginning Friday, May 15th. S1udents should revie'N t.he course listing, consult with their adviser and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to 1-----------1 have additional choices ifl mind in the e~ent one or more of their first three Speakers: Peter Dubacher, Curator; Jody Stollmack '78 Featuring live birds, video and slides Thursday, May 14, 1992 at 4:40pm (Refreshments at 4:30) Social Sciences Building, Room 104 Union College, Schenectady, NY Covered topics will include research at the facility, internship opportunities and the upcoming field trip to the Paradise on Friday, May 22nd. For more information contact: Jody Stollmack, 381-6008. This project is funded in part by a grant from IEF. ~nion <!College jfatultp (!Colloquim RUT1i STEVENSON ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF EWGL!SH THE RENAISSANCE POWERHOUSE OF WORDS TUESDAY. MAY 26, 1992 AT 4:30P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDrTORJUM COFFEE & TEA AT 4:0Q PM ALL ARE WELCOME TO A TrEND choices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULE FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the departme11t These are referred to as \list• or •card• courses, and are so indicated on 1he course listing by an asterick (*). Lists for these courses will be posted bu tile departments on MONDAY, MAY 18TH. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, MAY 22ND 1o find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those ac:lmitted to a list course must gel a reservation card from the department. Iii order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated ~y the department. You are permitted to pick up no more that three (3) cards. PLEASE NOT: cards not picked up by 4:30p.m. on MONDAY, MAY 25TH WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A •LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Student will be admitted to Whitaker House at the iime printed on their preschduling form. Onc:e inside, they should verily that the courses they have chosen are not closedl. If one or more courses are closed they should select new ones and correct trneil prescheduling form,. They should see a staff member in the Registar's Oflice who will preschedule them. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed ion the label of the prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier that their assigned time. However, they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILl CONTINUE ON FRIDAY, MAY 19TH. Additional course chang\'s may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in September at the FIELDHOUSE. Student who don't plan to return to Union for the Fall term, except for seniors who are ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ com~~~g~·m~~med~~~ouWNOTFYTHEDEANOFSTUDENTS SPECIAL NOTICE ..... ADDITIONAL COURSE English Department--summer 1992 EGL 027 COMEDY EGL 031 SHORT STORY DESCRIPTIONS: EGL 027 COMEDY: The nature of comedy, as shown in prose, fiction and ·drama. Includes the works of Aristophanes, Boccaccio, Rabalais, Shakespeare, · . Twain, and Roth. Draws upon the work of varioiJs students of. comedy (Bergson, Freud, and others) to get some philosophical-psychological understanding of humor. P. Heinegg; MW 6·9, Term I, Ju11e i5.July 28 EGL 031 MASTERPIECES OF THE SHORT STORY: A sampling of some acknowledged masterpieces of the short story. Begi11ning with Boccaccio's Decameron, this survey will move from Renaissance Italy to contemporary America (Raymond Carver). Along the way it will explore the work of Flaubert, Chekhov, Kafka, and D.H. Lawrence. Apart from savoring the virtuosity of the performances, the course will_ concentrate in the short story as a kind of culture;! snapshot, a brief but intense literary vision of a time and place, a faith (or loss of faith), a tragic or comic (or both) way of life. P. Heinegg; TTH 6-9, Term I, June 15.July 28 REGISTER AT WELLS HOUSE ARE YOU AWARE? LAST DAY TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY MAY 8TH,1992 IMMEDIATELY. Potential Fal11.992 •graduates• should also immediately notify the Registar's Office of lheir plans to fil'lish their studies at the end of Fall Term. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Fall term do not need to preschdule their courses. Fall term course prescheduling will tal<e place from TUESDAY, MAY 26TH thru FRIDAY, MAY 29TH in the Registar's Office in Whital<er House. Office of the Registar, May 1992 Marine Term Abroad Next Spring Bennuda cape Cod Schooner Expedition North Atlantic Environmental Studies Marine Policy Marine Biology INFORMATION MEETING WED~, 4:30PM MAY 13 5.5.110. ; Contad Pr&f. Kaplan (x6Z30) If JOU have questions . ; l ''\J 'I I 't i ,\ J J

,.---101: Lax Team Gains ECAC Bid by Cort 'Boulanger Concordiensis Staff The Men's Lacrosse team gained new life when they received tlleir fourth straight ECAC post season tournament bid. This invitation came as somewhat of a surprise, since the Dutchmen believed that they had squandered their chances after a one goal loss to Albany State. The scenario had been set for a final game showdown to see who would advance to post- season play. The Dutchmen took the lead early, on goals by Scott Whitney and Nate Fitch. The Great Danes of Albany did not fold, however, as they stormed back to take the lead. The game remained tight throughout, without either team able to establish a substantial lead. Seniors Mike Richardson and Mike Cassidy each scored their ftrst goals of the year, while Gene Ray added a hat trick. But in the end, it wasn't enough, as a last second drive by Fitch was thwarted by the clock. This loss left the team downtrodden and disconsolate, believing that their season was over. However, the Lacrosse gods must have been smiling on the Dutchmen, as they backed in to the playoffs as the fourth and by Hal Poret Contributing Writer final seed. This good fortune • ,------------ set up a rematch. with arch-rival The second round of the Nm Hartwick, the team that beat playoffs are underway, the Dutchmen earlier this continuing ati exciting year of season and knocked them ollt hockey. The story of the of ECAC com~etition in 1991. Smythe division this year has Last years EC.A:C game against been the Vancouver Canucks Hartwick was .riddled with - who have emerged from their controversy. with Hartwick role of division doormat. Led scoring in dcuble overtime to by rookie sensation Pavel win, despite the fact that time :aure. the Canucks defeated the had already ex.pired. Winnipeg Jets in round 1. In Furthermore, the Hartwick the other Smythe semi-final, team was unable to win the Edmonton Oilers led by ex- gracefully, and the end result King Bernie Nicholls defeated was a hideollS melee that etched the Los Angeles Kings who a blackmark on the featured an attack ofseveral ex- gentlemanly sport of lacrosse. Oiler .greats, including Wayne This rematch gives the Gretzky and Jari Kurri. Dutchmen a grand opportunity Nicholls, Joe Murphy and for revenge. Vincent Damphousse combined for 37 points while Esa If Union is \Victorious they will play the winner of the Albany-Cortla11d St. game on Sunday afternoon. Albany is the second seed in the ' tournament, C()urtesy of their win over Unio11, and will host Cortland on Friday. If the Dutchmen are able to play to their pQotential, there is no question tllat the ECAC crown is a pos~iblity. But fan support is c:rudal. The game is at 4:00 Friday at the Hartwick \Cag-e\ in Oneonta, NY. The Hartwick fans will be there ... will y()u? Tik.kanen shadowed Wayne Greztky, limiting his ability to perform, as the Kings continued their growing trend of early playoff exits. In round 2. Oiler goalie Bill Ranford stopped 40 Canuck shots, leading Edmonton to a 4-3 ov.ertime win, however, Vancouver managed to salvage game 2 before the series shifts . to Edmonton. Last year's playoff shockers, the Minnesota North Stars: took the sputtering Detroit Red: Wings by surprise and jumped out to a 3-llead before the Red Wing netminder Tim Chevelctae awoke in time to UCBLUpdate keep Detroit alive. Led by Steve Yzerman and Sergei Fede:rov, the Red wings are battling (literally) the Chicago Blackhawks who defeated the St. Louis Blues in six games. Chicago has already taken a 2-0 lead winning both games in By UCBL Staff CONCOADIENSIS•MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 18 Update Detroit with excellent play fr()m standout Jeremy Roenick. De.troit's frustration at its home W()es is already s·howing thrrough as was seen when Re:d Wing tough guy Bob Probert leveled Chicago goalie Ed. Belfour, leading to one of De:troit's numerous senseless pe11a1ities. The Red Wings will be .hardpressed. to come back a.g~in st the high-flying Blackhawks who have won 4 games in a row, and are ret11rning home for games 3 md4. · Shifting to the Wales C()nference, the Adams diwision has the Bruins and Ca.:nadiens meeting in the pl&yoffs for the ninth straight year. The Bruins have won 3 of the last 4 playoff meetings between the teams, and won ganne 1 in Montreal, ripping superstar goalie Patrick Roy for 6 goals. Recent acquisition Ad:am Oates led the team with 11 points in their first round win over Pat LaFontaine and the: Buffalo Sabres. Expect an e:Kciting battle between these lo11g .time rivals. i!linally we go to the most talented division. the Patrick. Thoe New York Rangers led by captain Mark Messier (it even scmnds like Messiah) coasted tllcough a banner season in which they captured the President's Trophy for best record, and will most likely ha'Ve the MVP (Messier), best defenseman (Brian Leetch) and R()()kie of the Year (Tony Amante) awards. The Rangers struggled through a tough secies with the New Jersey De:vils,led by veteran speedster Mi:ke Gartner's 6 goals, as well as 10 goals from the Messier- Annonte-Adam Graves line. H()wever, the Rangers now face :the high-sceriog Pittsbur:gh Penguins, who dispatched with the Washington Capitals in seven games, and m()re importantly, seem to ha-ve discovered a new word-defenre. The Penguins had an unimpressive season finishi11g with only 8 3 points, surprisingly low for a tellm with the likes of Mario Lemieux, Kevi11 Stevens a11d Jaromir Jagr .. Eut wait. Its the playoffs, and to Mario Lemieux that means its time to start trying. It was Mario's: 7 goals and 10 assists in 6 games, which enabled t:he defending cll.ampions. to advance past powerful Wasbington. The Rangers will need continued excellent pl~y from their 3rd line of Darren Turcotte, Kris King and P11.ul Broten who were a combined plus-22 against the Pengui:ns during the reglllar seasgn, to defeat the Peng11ins, who ha-ve already won game 1. Pittsburgh's excellent defense . and goalie Tom Earraso's great play is slowly draining .tile Ranger's hopes of bringimg Lord Stanley btck to New Y ark. Captain~ superstar Messier did not play game two due to back spasms, but Lemieux also had to leave tile game due to all injury to llis wrisL Don't be Slll\prised to see this series' winner carrying .tile Stanley Cup in June. Hopefully the excitement -of .the playoffs will open sports fans' eyes to this great spo:rt. Would you rather watch 6 of 8 first round series going to 7 games, or watch 16 blowomts as the Bulls coast unchallenged to the NBA cllampionshiiJ? Hockey is definitely on tile rise. The San Antonio Spurs captured sole possession of first place Sunday night with a 105-90 victory over the 76ers in the Union College Basketball League. Forward Ron Prior set a single game scoring record as his 53 points boosted his scoring average to the top of the league scoring leaders chart. The Spurs(76ers game, which was the highest scoring game thus far, saw eight players score double digits. Jamaal Muhammad's 19, Greg Cavanaugh's 18, and Jim Polites's 11 led the Spurs. while Billy Callahan and Glen Bogdonovich pa~ed the Sixers · with 27 and 19 respectively. · In other action around the league, the Charlotte Hornets beat the Lakers, Golden State also beat the Lakers, and New York defeated Philly. CHARLOTTE HORNETS LOS ANGELES LAKERS Stevie Evans collected 30 points and Kenny Evans 24 as the Hornets posted a 83-67 victory to improve their record to (2-2). The Lakers were led by 6'7\ Eric Whitely who poured in 31 for the losers. Los Angeles falls to (0-4). GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS LOS ANGELES LAKERS Mark S todden, Tony Marcon and Luther Winfield C()m'bined for 65 points to lead the Warriors over the Lakers in last week's UCBL acti()n. Stodden's 24, Marcon's 22 and Winfield's 19 were too m11ch for the (0-4). Lakers. Eric Whitely had 24 for the losers. Water Polo Ends Successfu·t Season NEW YORK KNICKS PHILADELPHIA 76ERS John Toomey scored a game high 25 points to pace a <6 point victory for the Knicks. David Rhodes and Will Beckford chipped in 16 and 12 respectively f.or the winners. The Sixers were led by Billy Callahan and Ramsey Baker's 17 point efforts. Team standings are as follows: SaJJ Antonio Spurs (3-1), Chic~go Bulls (2-1), New York Knicks (2-1), Dallas Mavericks (2~ 1), Philadelphia 76ers (2-2), Ch:ll'lotte Hornets (2-2), Golde11 State Warriors (1-2), Los Angecles Lakers (0- 4). ~upport ~nion ~tblttitS! by Lee Schachter Concordiensis Staff . This past weekend ()f May 2· 3, the Union Water Polo team went to Williams for a tournament involving Union, Williams A and E teams, Amherst, Boston University, Tufts, and Middlebury. It was a rare spring season tournament-the second of two. Union went 3-2, as veteran and freshman talent combined for a solid defense and an improving offense. The Dutchmen exploded to a very strong start in their first game on Saturday against Middlebury as senior Chris Walsh scored four goals in the first quarter while freshman Geoff Wolfe had three. Walsh and Wolfe were Union's leading scorers for the weekend. Senior Tim Lynch and freshman Adam Horst shared time in goal, as a strong defense helped pa:ve the way to a 15-4 victory. The other starters, Tim Judge, Cliff Shaw, Dave Robison, and Scott Bowden, contributed to a f,owerful front, supplemented by a strong, fresh bench co-nsisting of Luke Payne, Horst, Erica Saltz, and rookies A~ane Rozwadowski, Jenn Te:rrell. and Lee Schachter. It was a total team effort, with everyone filling in wherever heilp was needed. C()ach Mark Walsh's strategy . was to go all out and use the beJlch· arid use it oft·en. Welsh's strategy worked in the ne\t game against Will~ams B as well, with a final score of 18-ll. Again Chris Walsh and Wolfe led the scoring with 11 go:als between them, as B()lwden followed them with three goals of his own. S:all.urday's third game featured UnJon versus Amherst. Two .fatigued teams battled it out. a11d while it was tied going int() the final quarter, Amherst o:utlasted Union and took the g3me 8-5. Good defense was the: story .of the game on both si<les, but in the end Union came away with a 2-1 record on S~turday. ~unday was scheduled to start wiitb a matchup between W:illiams A and Union, but Union chalked one up in <the wLn column when Williams was unable to show up. Union instead played Boston University. a11d in anotller clos.e game, the Dutchmen were touched Ollt by the score of 9-7 in a· game which appeared slow ~d apathetic. In the end, however, Union outscored its opponents 45-32 in a tournament marked by defense and aggressive pLay. The rest of this spring season will be spellt practicill'g, scrimmaging, and getting ready for the action-packed fall season. This past seascn, Union finished fourth out of twenty teams in the Mid- Atlantic Conference and since this season followed a season in which the team was winless and finished twentieth, vwas voted Most Improved in the Northeast by the United Sta.tes Water Polo magazine. Congratulations and good ltJck to the seniors, Chris Wal~h. Tim Lynch, a11d Tim Judge, whose hard work, especially that of Walsh, was instrumental t() the founding and development of the team. Thanks for everything!

CONCORDIENSIS ~MAY 7, 1992 • PAGE 19 Nate Fitch Scores His Way to Athlete of the Week By Chuck Rod,mail Assistant Sports editor The news is out! Junior and three year starter Nate Fitch has taken opponents by surprise as he has proven to be a skilled and dangerous atlllete on the lacrosse field. Fitch has scored a total of 73 pts. this .season. That breaks down into 51 goals and 22 assists. He has scored five or more goals four times and he has scored eight or more total points five times. Fitch has taken the lacrosse team to new heights as he has helped them to establish a record of 8- 4, some of the wins and all of the losses being against extremely tough teams. Fitch was second in scoring the past two years, trailing only All- American, John Keller. For his career, Fitch has 172 points (117 goals-55 assists). Recently Fitch. was nominated by the Union lacrosse team to become an All-American. Tlle nomination signifies all of his accomplishments on the lacrosse field as he bas raised his game, and the game of his teammates to a new and exciting level of play. Fitch has contributed to the team consistently for the past .three years with this year being the highlight of his tremendous presence on the field. For all of his accomplishments on the Lacrosse field Nate Fitch has been named Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Union Crew Seeds To Nationals ' by Daniel J. Bullen Concordientis Staff This past weekend's State Championship races in Coming, New York typified Union Crew's season. The day began with fair weather, in which Union raced well, with fol!r boats qualifying for the finals and three for Nationals. But later in tile day, the weather turned foul and the finals couldn't be raced. This type of adversity is not uilfamiliar to Union Crew, which had to face cold, ice and oil slicks early in the season. Two of the three boats which qaaified will be going to Nationals, held at the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia next weekend. This marks a great success for Union after its difficulties with conditions, and it is with great enthusiasm that Union rowers, look to next week. Last week in State competition. three Union boats qualified for Nationals. On a day when all of the fmals were cancelled on account of ·tlle weather, Union's performances in the morning heats were enough to get three inviations to the Dad Vail. Before the weather turned nasty, the men's lightweight four finished its season undefeated with the fastest time of the fourteen boats in its class. The four will not., however, compete at Vails so that they can :row in the men's varsity eight which finished second in its heat with the third best time in its race of nine. This is the boat which will represent Union's men at the Dad Vail. The men's pair missed qualification for Nationals by only a few seconds, as did the novice four. which .finished third in a heat The women .also qualified, finishing third in their heat, beating an Ithaca boat by a small margin, and while they also didn't get to row in the finals, they will beat out again at the Vails. The novice women qualified for the finals at States, but their time wasn't good enough to send them to Nationals and they never got to race in the final, and so had to leave their season open ended. Union also sent out a lightweight women's four last Saturday which finished fourth and didn't qualify for either Vails or finals, which is fine, for all four women who rowed in that boat were from the eight which is going to Philadelphia. So for the last time this year Union will load up its boats for this competition at the Dad Vail, marking the finale of a hard fought and successful season,. SPORTS WRITERS: You must have all articles on disk in the Concordiensis office by 5:00 p.m. Reduce, Reuse, Separate And Re~ycle MONDAY!! / chach Talk by John Schachnovsky Sports Editor The Sp()rts world is abuzz with the numerous sporting events th2t are taking place. With the NBA and NHL play- offs in full swing, the Kentucky Derby and the Indianapolis 500, and the B2seball season in full swing, it truly is a great time to be a spo:rls fan. So what am I going to discuss today? ... BOWLING. This week, the city of Reno announced it will be home to the new National Bowling Center. 1'liat's right, a National Bowling Center is going to be constructe(f for the masses who love the sport of Bowling. I personaHy do not feel that Bowling is a sport .. .it is a leisure time activity. However, I do not feel that it deserves the · label of \s:port\. I can live with the fact tlla.t some nonathletic, beer guzzling, pseudo-men try and make it serious, but how can one 2et serious about a sport that has its celebrity fans as Homer. Simpson, AI Bundy, and Fred Flinstone. I had not felt this hostile about the sport until I heard, recently, about the new \Bowling Mecca\ in Reno. The foll~>wing is a list of features ~t this new center for Bowling ~eatness. - 1.200 seats - instant replay screens for all 80 of it's lanes - a three-story higlt replay scoreboard - all ofit will be in a bowling ball shaped geodesic dome - it will also house a movie theater with moving seats - and a valet service that has curbsid~ check-in for bowling balls · You might be wondering how much this atrocity is going cost the good people of Reno to initially build. Hopefully your only concern is how much longer is left in this article, but if you do care about the price tag ... 25-35 miUion dollars. In these troubled times this is definitely the first thing that comes to mind when one thinks of national necessities. If you are still not convinced that this is one of the worst athletic brainstorms in the history of mankind, keep reading: This building, which will be open in 1995, will only be used for tournaments. Add to this that the American Bowling Congress and the Women's International Bowling Congress are the only two organizations to approve their championships there, and that is only once every three years, and this adds up to one big waste of money. To all of you aspiring Union bowlers, it is a great day for bowling across the country. , For the rest of you, the other 99%, I'm sorry for an article on bowling, but as sport's fans I feel it is a necessity that you know our sport's world is not a perfect place, as we once believed it was. (jree~ o/o[[eyba[{ cr'oumament MAY 16-17 All Houses must pay 1 Dollar for every member & pledge in a I check made payable to Big Brother/Big Sisters to play in tournament Send to Box 25 > '

'WOMEN'S TRACK May 16 & 17 ECAC meet at Williams 9:00 May 22 UNION SPRING CLASS'IC 5:00 MEN'S TRACK May 8 & 9 State Meet at Rochester '9:00 May 22 UNION SP,R.ING CLASSIC 5:00 GQLF May 9 Williams lnvy 1 OlOO BASEBALL MEN•s ]liACI£ GOLF Hobart 3 Union·1 Hobart 10 Union. 0 Union 6 Skidmore 4 RPI126 Union 50 Middlebury 414 Union 423 Union 50 Sienna 21 Union 419 Trinity 428 Sienna ·380· Union 419 . Skidmore 6 Union 5 SOFTBALL WOMEN•s·JMCI MEN•s TENNIS Union 8 Hartwick 3 Union 77 Sienna 10· Binghamton 6 Union 3 ,Skidmore 8 Union 1 Hartwick 15 Union 11 Russell Sage 7 Union 2 RuS$ell Sage 6 Union 4 WQMEN'SUX Hartwick 16 Union 10 Union 3 Vassar a Williams 9 Union 0 MEN'S LAX Albany 15 Union.14 Union 1'7 St. Lawrence 12 Union 18 PQtsdam 12 C!tDltfllrbirnsi.s :MAY 7 199:2' Lady Tracksters -Still On The Run By Tasha LaBare Concordiensis Staff \The stage was set for the ladies outdoor State meet last Friday and Saturday. The blazing Dutchwomen traveled to Ithaca College to run against women from around the state. First of all, before the real mmpetition started we had our ovvn little challenge going on in Friendly's.Alix was crowned Queen peg Board. Moving on to the serious stuff.... Friday was a day of trials and semis for all except Lori and Diana. Lori made her mark in the discus circle with a toss of 29.46. Way to go Lowie my woman! Diana is a Freshman, that is the only reason I can fi11d for her doing the lOK. Yes sports fans. Diana ran 6 miles on a track. Count them, 24 laps. Not only did she do it,. she was awesome (even though I made her cry)! Diana ran this insane race in 42:46.51 and placed 3rd overall. AMAZING! Nadine AKA Deanie pounced into the lOOm hurdle race to run a blistering pace of 17 .46.: Go Girly Go! Denise, once again, ran an amazing lOOm dash in a time of 13.48. The girl runs like lightning. To round out tbe night Tash, Rika, and Joy stepped up to the line to run the 400m dash. Paul was unf()rtunate enough to re-strain her hamstring and had to take herself out of the race. Tasha and Rika both advanced to the final round of the 400. Rika raced her semi in a 59 . .59 and Tasha rolled in with a60.7. Saturday, we finally got a day without rain. It was a beautiful sun filled morning with Eye of the Tiger willowing through the air. Alix competed first for the women in the shot, hammer, and javeLin. Behind curtain #1 Alix was seen putting her shot. She launched the shot out to 10.66 meters for a sixth place finish. Curtain #2 was a display of Alix and her hammer. This was thrown an amazing 35.68 to ~rive Alix a 2nd place finish in the State Finally ~ behind curtain #3 Alix gave a lesson on how to throw the javelin. She taught everyo11e a thing or two when she threw the jav. 30.22 and placed 5th overall. The 4xl jumped onto the track~ and finally they had some ciecent hand- offs. The girlies ran a --- 51.58 and placed 4th ovemll. Let's get t11at time down girls! Rika and Tasha showed up ' once again to run the fiaals of · the 400~ The race was quick with Rilca running a grea11ime 1 of 59.3. Tile race gave ·Rika a : 2nd place finish in the whole ' entire state! Tasha ran a 60.8 and placed 4th overall. To round out the entire weekend, the team of Tash, Denise, Deanie, and Rika unloaded on the track to run the 4x400~ The ladies dropped their time by 10 seconds tOo run a 4:13.1 to place 5tll overall. I would just like to warn Lowie about the side effects of drinking 12 gallons of Diet Coke in one sitting- your bladder gets really full, Also I recommend that everyone dine at Joe's in hhaca. We got to see a y()ung lady grab her shoulders and ballc.like a chicken, and Deanie got the entire restaurant to serenade her. Happy Birthday nadine- NOT! Go()d luck at the ECAC's next ~eekend. Seniors, this is it, make it worth it! The W-atson Is Coming Dutchmen Hope To Sweep Hamilton By Eric Weinberg Concordiensis Staff Going into Tuesdays do11ble header with Hamilton, the Union College baseball team has lost fourteen games and won only six. Along wit!I the suspension of five of tbe team's main contributors. the Dutchmen have been inconsistent, both defensively and offensively. The 1992 season has been one marred by controversy, but the dub remains optimistic going into the final two games. The double header against the upstate rivals from Clinton, is a make-up game from April 11. Kevin Sullivan tole me, \We are still going into the last two games to end the season on a positive note. Hopefully we can sweep Hamilton and build for JJext season.\ A couple of wins would help coach Gary Reynold's squad boost its morale after six members of the team were suspended for the rest of the season. After the St. Lawrence series, senior tri-captain Craig Ferrero, junior Marco Mancuso, and sophomores Bill Sharp; Craig Rrondt>r, and P~iJl Haydock, were involved in an incident on the Cantoll, New York campus. Following the incident came the suspension of the players by the Union College athletic department. Jim Dever, the team's manager, was also involved and suspended. With the loss of these players, the pitching staff took a hard blow, and it was evident that the arms of Bronder, Haydock, and Mancus() would be hard to replace. Against Hobart last week, the Statesmen hit the ball hard sweeping a twin bill 10-0 and 3-1. However, the second game was highlighted by a two hitter by freshman Scott Newton. In the opener, Union shot themselves in the foot by committing costly base running blunders, and various fielding errors. · Despite the controversy, the rest of the team, like Sullivan is looking to end the season with two wins. But since the Dutchmen were never able to sustain consistent efforts throughout the spring, they have been unable to put together any kind of winning streak this season. Support Union Sports

Founded ollege 1877 • • + ' • • - - ' • ' • - ,, • ' ~ ; ' \ • ' • • • • - ' ·.' - • - •• ! . - :' • • . ' ,. ~ . ' •.• .. VOLUME 121, NUMBER 22 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK MAY 14, 1992 Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa Elects New Me1nbers On May 5, 19?2, the following student~ we're elected to the Alpha Cha'})ter of Phi Beta Kappa Honor Society. They will be initiated on M~y 25, 1992. Seniors - Class of 1992 Andrejkovics, Paul J. Bortscheller, Betty Bhatt, Paresh Cole, Chandra B Davey, Elisa A. - Fallati, Thomas R Fay,Tracy A. Glastetter, Kathleen E. Hagy, Melissa A. Kurtiz, Marc M. Pinney, Elizabeth E. Allison, Kristin* Salenger, V. Rawn* Wilson, Anna M .. * *Albany Medical CoDege Rapaport, Rachel Rosen, Andrew R. Shanebrook, Julie Smith, Susan L Sarin, Anna B. Steinvurzel, Mark D. Sullivan, Jennifer C. Kelly Turbiasz, Agnes Vialardi, Robert V. Wolfe, Nancy S. Juniors- Class of 1993 Dorrnady, Shane P. Gansle, Paul B. Matsudaira, Jordan D. Selkin, Bryan A. Scaccia, Michael P. CIOIIIGik: RGeYI. lUG de by, Veronica Rogers Concordiensis Staff On 1'uesday May 5, the Crosstalk series continues, as the topic. for discussion was the very controversial Roe vs. Wade <:ase. A five member panel, two student and the faculty, lewd the discussion which was preceded by a few words from Dean Mammola. He introduced the panelist, Profess<Or Andrew Peffer of the History department, Jennifer Ardinger of the Union College Wome11l's Union, Professor Robert baker of the Philosophy department, Sister Marie O'Ryall R.S .C., Tom Fallati of the Newman Club. As the Mammola stated. this Crosstalk was not a debate, but more a discussion of different views cf the Roe vs. Wade case. Professor Baker spoke fust, presenti11g a background view of the Roe vs. Wade cases. He brought up one the most difficult aspects of the abortion contronrsy; When Does Life Begin? He said that until there was real evidence, documented and agreed that the fetus is a life at a certain time, the state should not impose restrictive abortion laws on women. Baker said that these laws could put the mothers life in jeopardy. His views did not cause much of an uproars during the discussion as he embarrassed pro-choice stance. - Next, Jennifer Ardinger spoke. She brought to the audience's attention very pertinent point, foe example, reproductive freedom. She also argued if Roe vs. Wade was overturned, women would resort to other objects to perform abortions. Ardinger stressed that this is unnecessary. as there is an unconditional need to lceep abortion legal. She also spoke about the question about when life begins. Everyone has such differnet ideas of when it begins, and this continuously adds to the struggle over abortion. _ Ardinger seemed to be . focusing on the rights of . women and the public's · knowledge, or the lack there of. Patrick Allen Named To Head Union College Teacher Program 1 She said that women should not be forced to have unwanted children, but that society needs to cut down the pregnancy rate altogether. Ardinger called for more protection, education. and Planned Parenthood clinics. Aringer's final point was that \We must not eliminate abortion as an option\. CO<u rtesy of Union Colle§e Public Rehltions Patrick Allen, who has taught English at Union College and Shenendehowa High School for about twenty years, has been named director of Edu~ational Studies at Union. He succeeds Jan McDonald who has accepted a position at Phillips University in Okl;:kh()ma. She joined the College in 1988 as the first director of the program. Allen earned his PH.d. and master of arts in teaching from Indiana University, and his bachelor's from the University of California at Berkeley. He served as assistant professor of English at Union College .from 1969 to 1976, and administrative intern to the provost in 1975. At U ni()ll, Allen has taught America11 and English literature,. English methods courses for Educational Studies, the College Experience, and a number of non-credit courses. At Shecendehowa, he taught corses including AP English, World Literature and World Culture. pre-college writing, and Regents English. He was also a member of the school's Professional Performance Review Committee. AUen, the author of a number of articles and reports on the state of secondary educatio11, is at work on a book on teaching at the high school level. Union:s Educational Studies program offers a four-year underg~duate program, a five- year cornbined degree, or a master of arts in teaching (M.A.T} for certification to teach science, math, English, social studies or a foreign language in grades seven through :twelve. Professor Feffer gave a historical view of abortion~ and of women, saying that women were trying to achieve better equality, and a better self- image, which includes the right Continued on page 2 In This Issue: Student Forum Elections -Pages4 & 5 A Senior's Worst Nightmare -Page 7 Nintendo Vsa Sega -Page 14

. . > :·. ·' .... . ·: . ' ·. . ' . . . ' '. . . .. . . ' . . .. . . . ..... ' . :: . . .. .. ;. . ' : .. : : . : . . ·... . . . . . :- . . . '. ' - . -_. . ' ' . . U:nion College Prof'.essor :Helena Birecka Courtesy of Union College Public Relations Helen Bairecka of Sollenectady, research professor in the Department of Biological Sciences at Union College, has been awarded a Fulbright grant to lecture and conduct research in Turkey. Birecka's grant was annour,;~ed recently by the J. Willian, Fulbright· Foreign Scholarship Board and the United States Information Agency. Fulbright: advised a number of master's and Ph.D candidates. Her research interests include plant physiol-ogy; biochemistry; and plant alkaloids and their synthesis. willingness to share ideas and experiences with people of diverse cultures. More than 181,000 \Fulbrighters\ -- over 64,000 from the U.S. and 117,00 from abroad--have participated in tl.e program since it began. Reduce.~ Reuse~ ·Recycle CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992 • PAGE 2 Paul Gansle , Receives -AIURP Fellowship Courtesy of Council on Undergraduate Research Paul B. Gansle of Union College has received from the Council on Undergraduate Research, an Academic- Industrial Undergra-duate Research Partneiship (AIURP) Fellowship for doing research this summer with Karl DeJesus in the Department of Chemistry. This particular award to Paul B. Gansle is s,ponsored by SmithKline Beecham Phannaceuticals. The Council announced a t<>tal of ' $112,500in fellowship awards to student and faculty mentors at 41 different undergraduate institutions. AIURP Fellows get $-2,500 stipends, using funds provided by ind'u:stry/foundation sponsors. Several of the sponsors cffer opportunities to the AIURP awardees to perfo'rm research in their corporate laboratories during · the summer following their research experience on their home campuses, and several other sponsors allow AIURP awardee& to compete for available positions. The AIURP program provides a unique cooperation betwee.n the academic and industrial communities to promote tfue intellectual growth amon~ ·undergraduates. The suppo:Ft of tile faculty's mentor and student relation positively enhances both individuals in their personal and professional pursuits. Birecka began teaching at Union in 1970. Previously, she was a research associate at Yale University and a consultant to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria. She earned her masters in 1944 from Agricultural University in Perm, U.S.S.R., and her Ph.D in 1948 from Timiariazev Agricultural Academy in Moscow. In 1975. she became the first woman to be named a full professor at Union College. At Union, she has Birecka is one of 1,800 U.S. grantees who will travel abroad for the 1992 academic year under the Fulbright Program. Established in 1946 under Congressional legislation introduced by fanner Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas, the program is designed \to increase m-utual understanding between the people of the United State:s and the people of other countries\ Under the Fulbdght Crosstalk: Roe vs. Wade Program, some 5,000 grants are awarded each year to American students, teacher:; and scholars to study, teach~ and conduct research around the world, and for foreign nationals · to engage in similar activities in the United States. Individuals are selected on the basis of academic and professional qualificati()ns, plus their ability and C()ntinued from page 1 to choose what they do with their bodies. When he brought up the pro-choice vs. pro-life issue, he said \pro-choice not anti -life\. He also saicl that the women making the decisions abo-ut their own bodies \do not take abortion lightly\. Professor Feffer also mentioned his opposition to some of the pro-life ideals. He said that for pro-life to be a more valid ideology there bas to be more heavy concentration on other issues besides when life begins. Governmental policies, especially legislation for women, have to be looked at. More emphasis has to be directed towards compensation for maternity leaves, or legislation for child support. So far, he stated, .tbat these issties have not seen much . energy put into them by pro- life advocates. Professor ~ Peffer's closing comment was 1 that he believed that the pro- life movement was more of a move to change the roles of women back to the way they used to be more than trying to save the fetuses. He was assuredly advocating the right of women to choose what they do with their bodies. Sister O'Ryan spoke fourth. She stated right away that she was a pro-life advocate, and a feminist. She mentioned contraception and her belief that abortion in Roe v Wade was a backup to contraception. Sister Marie said there was a \Death Obsession\ of Americans. that \out of sight\ was \out of mind\. She said that a11 life needs respect. As the others did, she questioned how we define life. She expressed a fear for women and the trauma they go tllrough because of an abortion. Sister O'Ryan stressed the importance of men supporting their children, because then maybe abortions would slow down. Her last advice to the crowd was to . \choose moral commitments\ and to \choose partners wisely\; that pregnancy was no rite of passage for young girls. Lastly, F allati, of the Newman Club, spoke. He told the audience that he wa~ not interested in expressing a personal belief in pro-choice or pro-life, but more so the social and family factors that surrbund the abortion controversy. He said that Roe v Wade was not a fair judgement because it clouds social commitment to fetuses. Fallati believes that supporting pro-choice beliefs isn't necessarily saying that the · fetus is not a person. Each . individual must make their own case, which includes making their own decisions. For abortion to be a . constructive procedure, he said . that it should only be used in cases of rape or incest, because now there is a blatant growth of abortions in America. Fallati said that people . who get pregnant, and tltose who get them pregnant, should I i ve up to t'heir · responsibilities. Abortion · should not be a quick way ,out. . lt was hard to tell what side Fallati believed in. He agreed that it was a complex issue though. After, Professor Baker spoke again, and he tried to put a more definitive answer on the question of when life begin? Professor Baker said that the being has to have self consciousness to be a person. Moral THEORIES should not get in the way of a women's rights. The law would be too limiting if abortion was made illegal. and this in turn would c•·eate a volatile situation. Then Fallati added th~t. he believed that Roe v Wadr cannot be a compromise. that this case opened the door for abortion. At this point, the right to have abortions was getting the most privileges and this was leading to the growth of abortions. After all the speakers. students and others came up to speak. There were no harsh arguments,. just opinions from both sides of the issue. Many points were brought up, for example, that getting abortions can be more apparent within different s:ocial classes. One student with a pro-life stance stood and spoke, with many students responding that women need the right to choose. One woman stood up and brought a very realistic side of pregnancy to our attention. She said that while abortion is a traumatic experience, carrying a baby to full term, and then being force to give it up for adoption. realizing it is out there somewhere, is more detrimental to the women in the long run. She stated her belief that a women should not be a \baby factory\ for parents who can't have children. The constant theme throughout the discussion was that women's rights need to be addressed. WRITE FOR NEWS

Union College Prof'essor Helena W'ill!i Courtesy of Union CoNege Public Relations Helen Bairecka of Schenectady, research professor in the Department of Biological Sciences at Union College, has been awarded a Fulbright grant to lecture and conduct research in Turkey. Birecka's grant was annour,,'ed recently by the J. Willian1 Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board and the United States Information Agency. Fulbright: advise<l a number of master's and PhD candidates. H.er r-esearch interests include platlt phy:dology: biochemistry: and plant alkaloids and their synthesis. willingness to share ideas and experiences with people of diverse cultures. More than 181,000 \Fulbrighters\ -- over 64,000 from the U.S. and 117,00 from ahroad--have participated in u.e program since it began. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle CONCORDIENSIS ·MAY H, 1992 • PAGE 2 Paul Gansle Receives AIURP Fellowship Courtesy o{Council on UndergradlUite Research Paul B. Gansle of Union College has received from the Council on Undergraduate Research, an Academic- Industrial Ulldergraduate Research Partnership (AIURP) Fellowship for doing research this summer witll Karl DeJesus in the Department of Chemistry. This particular award to Paul B. Gansle is sponsored by SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals. The Council announced a total of $112,500 in fellowship awards to student and faculty mentors at 41 different undergraduate institutions. AIURP Fellows get $2,500 stipend~. using funds provided by industry/foundation sponsors. Se-veral of the sponsors offer opportunities to the AIURP awardees to perform research in their corporate lab<>ratories dw-ing the summer f<>llowing their research experience on their home campus~s. and several other sponsors allow AillRP awardees to compete for available positions. The AIURP program provides a uni~ ue cooperation between the academic and industrial communities to promote the intellectual growth among undergraduates. The support of the faculty's mentor and student relation positively enhances both individuals in their personal and professional pursuits. Birecka began teaching at Union in 1970. Previously, she was a research associate at Yale University and a consultant to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria. She earned her masters in 1944 from Agricultural University in Perm, U.S.S.R., and her Ph.D in 1948 from Timiariazev Agricultural Academy in Moscow. In 1975, she became the first woman to be named a full professor at Union College. At Union, she has Birecka is one of 1.800 U.S. gran tees who will travel abroad for the 1992 academic year under tlle Fulbri.ght Program. Estab lhshed in 1946 under Congressional legislation intro-duc:ed by former Senator J. Wi11i am Fulbright of Arka11s~s. the program is designe<l \to increase mutual underst~nding between the peo}}le of the United States and the poeoJJle of other countries\ Under the Fulbright Crosstalk: Roe vs. Wade Editor ~in~Chief News Editors Executive Editor International Features Editors Commentaries Editors Progratn, some 5,000 grants are a~ arded each year to Americ(lll students, ~chers and schola.r~ to study, teach, and conduct research around the world, md for foreiga nationals to engage in similar activities in tile United States. Individmals are selected on the basi~ of academic and professft()nal qualifications. plus tlleir ability and Ned Walley Jor®m Lippner, Jim Polites. Lara CIMIDlllerlain, Matt Tucker PamLeinson Kristin Lupoli, L:ttae Tumidajewicz Lea Lewis, Beth Pincus, Maya Ro~blum Arts Editors Carrie S.herman. Cort B()ulanger Lifestyles Editor Stacy Cerr-ellino, Julie Schlang Features Editor Sari Skolnik Campus Page Editors Diana RrOOsk:y.. Nicole Goldin Sports Editor .John Scbacllnovsky Assistant Sports Editor Chuck Rodman Photography Editor Da~M Cho, Peter Fischer Advertising Editors La11ren Bycoff, Jen Shulldn Subscription Managers Matt Gra!)()wski~ Andrew Rosen Financial Editor Shields Day STAFF: Greg Barrett. Ron Birnbaum, Daniel' J. Bullen. Adam Epstein,· Erica Frank, S tepharue Fray, Jason H:abinsky, Lisa Hofbauer, Matt Karlyn, Tasha La llare, David Levine. Sean Livingston, Julie Medow. Riclt MClrgan, Louise Oster; Peter Protzel, Veronica Rogers. Betsy Rothstein. Sreedhar Samudrala.Jeremy SolUnger, Alli W~er .. ADVERTISING S'fAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith . CONCORDIENSIS is published eigllt 1'Jlursdays a term by the student body of Union College. St:h(laectady. New York 12308; Publications Office; Sus.queharu)a Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New Yrulc t3&:3E (607) 563-8'339. Subscription rate: $4() per year., deliV\er(HI anywhere in the United States. Mail Suhscripti()ns to Colleordiensis office, College Center, Union CoUege. Conc&rcliensis sub~cribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office 'felephone (51&) 370* 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 370-6494. Continued from page 1 to choose what they do with their bodies. When he brought up the pro-choice vs. pro-life issue, he said \pro-choice not anti-life\. He also said that the women making the decisions about their own bodies \do not take abortion lightly\. Professor Feffer also mentioned his opposition to some of the pro-life ideals. He said that for pro~life to be a more valid ideology there has to be more heavy concentration on other issues besides when life begins. Governmental p<>licies, especially legislation for women, have to be looked at. More emphasis has to be directed towards compensation for maternity leaves, or legislation for child support. So far, he stated, that these issues have not seen much energy put into them by pro- life advocates. Professor I I . . Feffer's c osmg comment was · that he believed that the pro- life movement was more of a move to change the roles of women back to the way they used to be more than trying to save the fetuses. He was assuredly advocating the right of women to choose what they do with their bodies. Sister O\Rya11 spoke fourth. She stated right away that she was a pro-life advocate, and a feminist. She mentioned contraception and her belief that aborti<>n ill Roe v Wade was a backup to contraception. Sister Marie said there was a \Death Obsession\ of Americans. that \out of sight\ · was \out of mi.nd\. She said that all life needs respect. As the others did. she questioned how we define life. She expressed a fear for women and the trauma they go through because of an abortion. Sister O'Ryan stressed the importance of men supporting their children, because then maybe abortions would slow down. Her last advice to the crowd was to \choose moral commitments\ and to \choose partners wisely\; that pregnancy was no rite of passage for young girls. Lastly, Falla ti, of the Newman Club, spoke. He told the audience that he was not interested in expressing a personal belief in pro-choice or pro-life, but more so the social and family factors that surround the abortion controversy. He said that Roe v Wade was not a fair judgement because it clouds social commitment to fetuses. Fallati believes that supporting pro-choice beliefs isn't necessarily saying that the fetus is not a person. Each individual must make their own case, which includes making their own decisions. For abortion to be a constructive procedure, he said that it should only be used in cases of rape or i11cest, because now there is a blatant growth of abortions i11 America. Fallati said that people who get pregnant, and those who get them pregnant, should live up to their responsibilities. Abortion should not be a quick way out. It was hard to tell what side Fallati believed in. He agreed that it was a complex issue though. After, Professor Baker sp<>ke again, and he tried to put a more definitive answer on the question of when life begin? Professor Baker said that the being has to have self consciousness to be a person. Moral THEORIES should not get in the way of a women's rights. The law would be too limiting if abortion was made illegal, and this in turn woul<f create a volatile situation. Then Fallati added that he hel icved that Roc v Wadr cannot be a cotnpromise, that this case opened the door for abortion. At t!J.is point, the right to have abortions was getting the most privileges and this was leading to the growth of abortions. After all tile speakers. students and others came up to speak. There were no harsh arguments, just opinions from both sides of the issue. Many points were brought up, for example, that getting abortions can be more ap))arent within different soeia1 classes. One student with a Jl>ro-life stance stood and spoke, with many students responding that women need the right to choose. One woman stood up and brought a very realistic side of pregnancy to {)Ur attention. She said that while abortion is a traumatic experience, carrying a baby to full term, and then being force to give it up for adoption, realizing it is out there somewhcFe, is more detrimental to tile women in the long run. She stated her belief that a women should not be a \baby factory\ for parents who can't have cllildren. The constant theme tluoughout the discussion was tilat women's rights need to be addressed. WRITE. FOR NEWS

u 'I •i i I I; j, i 'i I' . ' - . · · · · . · . ·. · · ·· . •. lli!III11Diif!i CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992 • P.AGE 3 Native Alnerieans? by Diego Hojraj Contributing Writer l\ast summer, I drove out to Billings, Montana to work with Native Americans. Within a week I began working with the Indian Health Board, which is a local clinic. A few days later I secured another job wor.king in a hospital on the Crow Reservation 50 miles W ki \th R \ away. or ng on e es. gave me a completely different perspective with respect to the U.S. It also opened me up to a nation of people abOut whom I had very little knowledge. I was surprised at my ignorance and rather ashamed. Yet I know that though I should burden much of the blame, the society in which I was educated, should share that burden. That is to say, much of what I learned about the Native Americans was distorted, to a major extent, by my elementary and high- school teachers. The history that most of u.s are familiar with is the one found in our biased history texts. Jt:Portrays the brave US soldier fighting, during the 1860's and 1870's, the savages of the plains suffering several losses, such as the B:attle of Little Big Horn, 'yet overcoming in the end .so that the US could expand to the western coast. What is not discussed in the textbook;, is the culture of the American Indian tribes, all similar in the respectful way they tr€ated the earth, the family, lllld the community, although somewhat different, of course .. in their customs and language~. Even a brief glance at .this culture~ would lead one to believe that these were not savages. 'These people lived on vegetabl~. berries, as well as the meat of the Buffalo, killing only what they needed to survive. What also is not discussed~ is the brutal way ,in which tmese Indians were treated. Not only men, hut women, children .and elderly people were massacred by the army, as exemplified by the famous Battle of Wounded Knee. Buffalo were slaughtered by the thousands, many of them were killed in order to provide more land for cattle owned J)y the US cattie ranchers; with their main sou:rce of food gone, the Indians suffered even more. Soon after the battles, Native Americans were herded into many camjps in the West; it is believed that the Nazi concentration camps of WWII were mode:led after these Indian camps. The government placed the survivors in reservations, which we::re to be their new homes, an(!, as promised, they would be able to live like the WEEKLY SUMMARY OF CAMPUS INCIDENT REPOFITS MOND~Y, fJIA'Y 4, 1992 THROUGH SUNDAY, MAY 10, 1992: PATE LOCATION INCIOENT 514/92 S&E Vandalism·Wirld!!lw broken 5/4/92 Richmond Hse Paim damage lo turntfjxtures 514/92 Oayjdson Hss Unaut.horized e!!ltry-student jnto another studan!\s room 5/4/92 Fieldhouse UnauthorjZac! dl!lmpjng·Yisitor Oympster jdeotj!ied-Warnirog Issued 515192 Oayidson Hsl! Reported odor of illegal stJbstance 515/92 Richmond Rd Verbal harassment of student by Yisitor-suspec;t located and 515/92 Wast College 515/92 Fox House Abandoned bjeyde·plac;ed In Lost and found 5/6192 Fraternity Lj!e Safety Yiol{lhOO·Smoke Detector covered 5/6192 Vale Cemetarv Vanda!ism·lleadslones owhed. .. 5/6192 UCPH Kjtch•m Mjnor grease 1ita·SFD 9!1 scene No damat;~e or i11jury 516192 Soy!h College vaodalism-8roken WjOd()W 5/6/92 Dayjdson Trespass-vendors solicitiDg In resjdence balls-lden!ifjed and warned 517192 Alexander La Repeated acts o1 yandaljsrn to safety ljgbts and barrlcad es protecting ponstructjgn exoayation 5t7192 Webster Hse Reckless behavior, stydent to student Ct>mlyct Charges 517f92 Campus Opr s,s,92 l'raterntty Vandaltsm-4'x8' wmdow broken 5/8/92 S&E Chemjcal qdor !Ill basement- tanks vented ani! flushed Problem corr?cl!ld 519192 Era1ernqy Lrte Safety Vidlatton·atmse of 519192 materials used tor decoratjons ;i/9/92 Fraterotly theft of students l>jke from jmjde unlockec# b uildtnQ DoOrs propped open 51! 0192 Jackson's Damage to gro~ods caused py Gardens l(jsjtor's yahjcle boiog .drjv!ln jnto the gardens area ;il 1 0192 JacKson's Irespass·YJSitors warned off Gardens c;ampus 511 0192 Yale Ceme1ary ''landahsm· heac:Jsrooe ousbe(j !!Ver old days. These reservations, however, weFe nothing more than plots of the most barren land available, certainly tokens when compared to the long stretches of plains they were used to. In addition, their main source of food was now near extinction. Thus it was evident the old days would never return, to try to relieve them would surely conflict with the \laws\ of the white man. The only option available was to integrate, yet Native Americans were so psychologically and physiologically different from the whites, who now dominated them, that even this was impossible. The white people brought mooy things to America, including a number of diseases. The immune system of the Indians had not evolved with the influences that shaped the immune system of Europeans; illnesses devastated the Indian nation which had no biological defense. Yet the greatest obstacle to integration is the deep-seeded anger and mistrust the Indians harbor for their new unwanted neighbors. It is easy to understand such emotions if one sees all that was taken from them, and all that was, and continues to be, forced on them; not only their land, but their culture, indeed their whole way of life was stripped away leaving a civilization, once thriving, in ruins. The f;rst generation of reservation Indians now found themselves without any useful survival skills (the old ones already outdated). They, however, could not and would not live as their enemies did, and refused to learn their ways; thus they did not teach their children anything, neither anything from their previous culture, nor any useful job skills, nor coping skills that would have served a useful for the society developing around them. Nevertheless, these children were promised an education, as written in the many volumes of treaties signed by the US government (which did not want to appear as outright thieves, but more like fair traders), and were sent to federally funded catholic schools. Yet what was taught in these schools was far from helpful to these children; on the one hand. the students were prohibited from practicing anything that was remotely related to their past culture. On the other hand, they were taught only .to serve, and they were told that they would never make it in society as anything but servants~ With education, the last bastion of any society, corrupted, the following generation reached a point where they could not trust, neither tile white man nor themselves to succeed. Compounding the problems of the past are the hurdles of the present, such as the discrimination they experience by businesses and local governments alike. In the political scene, for example, there are still few or no Native Americans holding any positions in the city of Billings, Montana. Su.ch vacancies are also recognized in local boards and committees. The few that do join are often ignored or shunned when any decision is at hand. As for businesses, Indians are not given the same educational opportunities, and cannot compete for the same jobs as whites. In addition, those wl!o are able to complete a good education are still at a disadvantage due to the color of their skin. As late as the 60's their still were only a few professionals around. Even today, a large majority refuse to work in white society; most of them live on the reservations and collect welfare. Most of them don't get jobs because they don't have the training, they don't have the desire, or because they don't have the confidence to succeed (which is probably the saddest reason of all). The few who do make it in white society, face obstacles from all sides. They not only find problems with the white people they do business with, they also find themselves at odds with their own people. That is to say, they are frowned upon by the majority of the Indian people who have shunned white society, and are viewed as the equivalent of an \Uncle Tom\. The question then arises, \but what do they do with their time?'' They most likely spend it on drugs, alcohol, or anything else that will help them to forget their problems. Here think are the roots of alcoholism on the Indian reservations. If we see what they've been through, we cannot help but realize that alcoholism is more then just a life-style, or biological disease. This is the problem that the IHS and other Indian organizations are dealing with. Aside from chemical dependency programs, they set up cultural enrichment programs, child day and night camps, field trips, and picnics in their goal to help Native Americans gain back their self- respect. Hand-in-hand with such a goal. is the cre~tion of a culture that is uniquely their own, one that is able to fuse those parts of their past culture, and the culture of the present U.S. society which are not in bitter conflict with each other. My recommendation for the mitigation, and finaJly abolition, of alcoholism; then Native Americans would take into account the history, as well as present day situation of this group of people. -----!!I!!IJI!!I!!!!-- '~. J ,. I 'l

,. I CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992 • PAGE 3 Native Alnericans? by Diego Hojraj Contributing Writer Last summer. I drove out to Billings, Montana to work with Native Americans. Within a week I began working with the Indian Health Board, which is a local clinic. A few days later :l sec\lfed another job working in a hospital on the Crow Reservation 50 miles away. Working on \the Res.\ gave me a completely different perspective with respect to the U.S. it also opened me up to a nation of people about whom I had very little knowledge. I was surprised at my ignorance and rather ashamed. Yet I know that though I should burden much of the blame. the society in which I was educated, should share that burden. That is to say, much of what I learned about the Native Americans was distorted, to a major extent, by my elementary and high- school teachers. The history that most of us are familiar with is the one found in our biased history texts. It'Portrays the brave US soldier fighting, during the 1860's and 1870's, the savages of the plains suffering several losses. such as the Battle of Little Big Hom, yet overcoming in the end so that the US could expand to the western coast. What is not discussed in the textbooks, is the cl!lture of the American Indian tribes, all similar in the resj)ectful way they treated the earth, the fami:ly, and the community, although somewhat different, of course, in their customs and languages. Even a brief glance at this culture, would lead one t0 believe that thes.e were not savages. These people lived on vegetables, berries, as well as the meat of the Buff.alo. killing only what they needed to survive. What also is not discussed, is the brutal way in which these Indians were treated. Not only men, but women, children and elderly people were massa~red by the army, as exemplified by the famous Battle of Wounded Knee. Buffalo were slaughtered by the thousands, many of them were killed in order to provide more land for cattle owned by the US cattle ranchers; with their main source of food gone, the Indians suffered even more. Soon after the battles, Native Americans were herded into many camps in the West; it is believed that the Nazi concentration camps. of WWII were modeled after tllese Indian camps. The government placed the survivors in reservations, which were to be their new homes, and. as promised, they would be able to live like the WEEI<L V SUMMARY OF CAMPUS INCIDENT REPORTS MONDAY, MAY 4, IS92 THROUGH SUNDAY. MAY 10. 4992: DATE LOCAT:ON 'NCIOE~'\ another student's roo[!) 514192 Fteldhouse Vnauthonzed oumprng-Visrtor Dumpster 515192 Oayrdson Hse Reponed odor of illegal substance 515/9 2 West College 515•92 ~ox !-louse t\bar1doned b'CVcle·olaced •n Lost and Found 51619 2 Fratermty Ltle Safety Yio!al!on-Smoke Detector covered 516192 Vale Gematarv Vandalism-headstones oush!ld 51619 2 UCDH Kttchen Mtnor grease fjre·SFO on sceo§ No damage or injury, 516/92 South College Vandalism·Brokeo Window 516/9 2 Oayjdson Iresoass-yendors so!jcjtjng in residence ha!!s-ldeot!1jed and wamed 5,7192 Alexander La Repeated acts g! vandalism to 5!7192 5!7192 5,'7/9 2 hl 92 5 8 92 519192 519192 s, 1 0 92 5!1 0192 5!1 0192 safetv lights and barricades protsr;tjng cgnstrqctjon ncayation Webster Hse, Reckless behayjor- student to student Con duct Charges. Achtlles Lot Posstble va!ldaljsm to staff Campus Opr ~rateml!y Yandai!SQ1-4'X8' I'\I!OdOW broker S&E Chem,cal odor m basement- tanks yemed and flushed Problem corrected l=ra:erJt!v Life Safety Ytolattor-abuse o' Frate['Jr\y Life Safety v,oJaMn-llarnmable rnatena!s used for decoral!Ons Frat!HOI!v Thef! pf students bike from rnstde unlocked burldrng Doors. prooped open Jackson's Damage to grounds caused by Gardens Y!Stlor's vehtcle berng drtven mto the gardens area Jackson's Tcespass-yrsttors warned o11 Gardens campus Vale Cernatary Vandahsm-b§adstooe pusheg 0 old days. These reservations, however, were nothing more than plots of tfue most barren land available, certainly tokens when compared to the long stretches of plains they were used to. In addition, their main source of food was Row near extinction. Thus it was evident the old days would never return, to try to relieve them would surely conflict with the \laws\ of the white man. The only option available was to integrate, yet Native Americans were so psyc halo g ically and physiologically different from the whites, who now dominated them, that even this was impossible. The white people brought many things to America, including a number <>f diseases. The immune system of the Indians had not evolved with the influences that shaped the immune system of Europeans; illnesses devastated the Indian nation which had no biological defense. Yet the greatest <>bstacle to integration is the deep-seeded anger and mistrust the Indians harbor for their new tmwanted neighbors. It is easy to understand such emotions if one sees all that was taken from them, and all that was, and continues to be, forced on them; not only their land, but their culture. indeed their whole 1vay of life wac;; stripped away leaving a civilization, one;: thriving. in ruins. The f;rst gcnc1 at ion of reservation Indians now found lhemsclvcs without any useful survival skills (the old ones already outdated). They. howev cr, could not and would not live as their enemies did. nnd refused to learn their ways: thus they did not teach their .cttildren anything, neither anything from their previous culture, nor any useful job skills, nor coping skills that 'Would have served a useful for tile society developing around them. Nevertheless. these children were promised an education, as written in the many volumes of treaties signed by tlile US govemment (which did Rot want to appear as outriglilt thieves, but more like fair traders), and were sent to federally funded catholic schools. Yet what was taught in these schools was far from helpful to these children; on the one hand, tile students were prohibited from practicing anything that was remotely related to their past culture. On the other hand, they were taught only to serve, and they were told that they would never make it in society as anything but servants. With education. the last bastion of any society. corrupted, the following generation reached a point where they cotild not trust. neitller the white man nor themselves to succeed. Compounding the problems of the past are the hurdles of the present, such as the discrimination they experience by businesses and local governments alike. In the political scene, for example, there are still few or no Native Americans holding any positions in the city of Billings, Montana. Such vacancies arc also recognized in local boards and committees. The few that do join are often ignored or shunned when any decision is :Jt hand. As for businesses, Indians are not given the s:Jme educational opportunities. and cannot compete for the same jobs as whites. In addition. those who arc ahlc to complete a good education are sti II at a disadvantage due to the color of their skin. A~ late as the 60's their still were on[y a few professionals around. Even today, a large majority refuse to work in white society; most of them live on the reservations and collect welfare. Most of them don't get jobs because they don't have the training, they don't have the desire, or because they don't have the confidence to succeed (which is probably the saddest reason of all). The few who do make it in white society, face obstacles from all sides. They not only find problems with the white people they do business with, they also find themselves at odds with their own people. That is to say, they are frowned upon by the majority of the Indian people who have shunned white society, and are viewed as the equivalent of an \Uncle Tom\. The question then arises, \but what do they do with their time?'' They most likely spend it on drugs, alcohol, or anything else that will help them to forget their problems. Here think are the roots of alcoholism on the Indian reservations. If we see what they've been through. we cannot help but realize that aJcoholism is more then just a life-style, or biological disease. This is the problem that the IHS and other Indian organizations are dealing with. Aside from chemical dependency programs. they set up cultural enrichment programs, child day and night camps, field trips, and picnics in their goal to help Natiw Americans gain !1ack their self- respect. Hand-in-hand with such a goal. is t.hc creation (1J a culture that is uni4ul'ly thnr own. one ihat is al1k Ill fu..;c those parts of their pa'-1 culture. and the culture of thl' present U.S. society whid1 arc not in hith:r connict with carh other. 1\1y recommendation fm the mitigation, and finalh < abolition, of alcoholism: then Native Americans would tak c into account the history, as well as presc111 day situation of this group of people. Bicentennial Series May 19 8:00P.M. Henry Louis Oa-tes In The Welcome Table: Remembering James Baldwin/' · renowned black-studies scholar Henry Louis Gates wlll teH a . -parable about political correctness and ideological conformity by · ; examining the changes in black author James Baldwin caused by criticism from 1960$ radical black activists. Gates is professor .of -English and Afro~Amearican studies, chai.rman o.f the Afro-American :Studies Department, and director of the W.E.B. DuBois Institute for : Afro-American Research Research at Harvard. He has taught a1 Valet Cornell'~ and Ouke and is author of The Signifying Monkey: ; Towards a Theory of Afro-American Literary Criticism~ which won the American Book Award in 19899 .. He was winner of: the Anisfield- Wolf Book Award for Race Relations in 1989. ·All are wefcome to our 1991 .. 92 series. ADMISSION FREE. AU events win be in Memorial ChapeiJ except for Aprile and May 21, which will be in . tnt College C~nter Auditorium. . ~ ' ' rot more information, can- (518) 370 .. 6608. i\ ..... ·. ' ..

' ' ' \ ' \ ' \ ' ' ' ' • Q•• > ', '• •· '• ,\ > ' • > ' ' • : ; ' • \ ' ·,, : ' • ,\1 '\ ~ ' ' • ' < '• '' ,. ' 'I ' ' • \ • ' •' ' • ' ' Student Forum President Alex Sklavos. I am Alexander Sklavos. For the .pas:t year I have served · on the Student Affairs Council, · and on the Student Forum as one of the three junior class • representatives. I have been a party to positive change in campus life and as Student · Forum President I can ensure that the changes for the better continue. To properly represent the students tllat elected us was a major concern this past year. Although all students are welcome t<J sit in on Student Forum meetings, most people do not. I11 an effort to reach out a survey regarding residence Life was distributed, all classes llad class meetings at least oBce a term, and the Student F()rum meetings were held in locations that were more accessible to the students (Fox and Davidson lounges). In the future I would like to see all of the F()rnm meetings held in an area that is highly visible to the students, for I know that there are many students that would like to contribute if encouraged. This past year also saw tile creation of the college's first tru:e social alternati~e, \CHET'S.\ CHETS is unique in that it is one of the only places on campus where all of the college community can interact. The battle for CHET'S was a hard one, and I will fight for its continuance. To further social alternatives, I will also work towards a spring festival. A festival mt~ch like that at any other college comparable to Union. Finally, I would most like to see the continllation of a Student Forum that reaches out to its commanity and its needy. Upon discu.ssion in the Forum; myself and fifteen other student create Share Our · Strength. This group seeks out and delivers any excess food from the campus eateries to the local city mission. I have been witness to what the student body has done and what it is capable of doing. We are capable of growth, and the future will bring just that. . ' Vice President. Administration Evans Legros My name is Evans Legros and I am running for the office · of Vice- President of Administration. The Vice- President of Administration has the job .(:)f directing the operations cf the ComQ1ittee on Committees, which basically oversees all of the Student Forum committees, organizations, and campus clubs. The Vice-President of Administration shall assume the responsibilities of the Student Forum President in the case of his/her absence. I have hld the pleasure of serving on the Student Forum for two of my three years here at Union College. During my freshman year I was elected class Vice-President and the following year r was elected President of the Sophomore class of '93. My two year experience on the Student Forum shows that I possess the leadership abilities necessary to successfully fulfill the duties of Vice- President of Administrati()n. Vice President Academics Megan Griffin My name is Megan Griffin. In seeking tile office ·Of Vice President f<>r Aacademics, I hope to work <ln your behalf. I would serve as a liason between tile students and faculty, in communicating your concerns, your needs, and also, your visions. Union is a. school of high academic stallding. I think we v 0 T E · · could be e'\'en better and improve ow standing in the academic community at large. Together, vre can make a difference. It would be a great privilege to W()dc for you! Karen Hurwitz Hi! For those of you wllo don't ah·eady know me, my name is Katen Hurwitz and I am running for Vice President of Academics for the 1992- 1993 school year. The Vice- President of Academics is responsible for attending weekly Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) meetings and then reporting back to tbe Fomm. Among other issues this year, the AAC discussed the possibility of having a dinner to recognize Dean's List Students. Perhaps next year this and other great ideas can be implemented. My involvement and experiences at Union are sure to be beneficial to me if I arn elected. I have twice served on Forum as a Class Representative during my first and second years here. I am familiar with the Forum's strengths and weaknesses and its potential for Sllccess. I am currently a Resident Advisor and Gateskeeper and I have alS<> been involved with the Jewish Student Union, the Ambassador Program, Concordiensis, and Orientati<>n. Ideally, the Student Forum should be representative of tile entire student body. In addition, it should enable each and every student an opportunity to voice their concerns about Union, and have those concerns relayed t() · · our Administration. Clearly, not enough interaction between the Forum and the student body takes place. If I am elected, I hope that you will find me approachable with your concerns and suggestions. Ill addition, I hope that Student Forum can continue to foster a close working relationship between the student body, faculty and administration at Union. I personally will be motivated and dedicated to the office to the best of my ability. I would appreciate your vote. Senior Class R,ep Ro,xanne Schneider Hi! I am Roxanne Schlleider, and I am a candidate for the position of 199 3 Seniol' ......... ,.,., • Representative. I believe that I could be an effective representative of the Class: of '93. Since transferring here two years ago, I have be:come quite involved in a wide range of student activities and· organizations. This experience has given me a broad look at the college, and with this· experience I can best reJJresent · the diverse aspects and V\aried interests of our class. There are many issues that our class faces as we move towards our senior year. As we plan for our last year a11d our plans for after college, we are still integral parts of the Union community. We all deal with issu~s concerning sec11rity, parking, Gen-Ed requirements academics, and the social sc;ene: as well as many other facets of campus life. It is my- hope that we can come together as a class to develop an opiniora and a plan so that we can .!;olve these problems; and c:ome together to spend an am!IZing final year here. I would lilce to be an aiding hand in all of this. · I would appreciate your v()le on Friday. Thank You! Lara Chamberlain My name is L~ra Chamberlain and I am mlllling v 0 T E · for Senior Class May 15 . Representative. I believe that the S twd:ent Forum not only can Wl!)rk toward but also achieve students' goals. For example, . although the flew pub came under student debate, it stillcan be used to demonstrate 11le Student Forum's ability to target a goal ~d· work witli tile administration to accomplish it. - Student Forum. sbowld continue to push for its aims. If it can also broaden them'. our ~tudent power can only mcrease. This is where the selection of your Senior r~pre~entative is imporumt, as each Forum member has the opportunity to take charge. I feel my previous experience on Student Forum will aid me in this leadership positi<>n and my involvement in Concordiensis editing sllows my dedication. If elected, I will try my best to represent the diverse interests that our senior class will hold as I work with ()thers to establish and meet the ~pals of next year's Student Forum. Junior Trustee Lee Poppe~: When I first attended Ulli<Jn College I was enthusia:stic about getting involved with Union's activities. I ha'Ve successfully been able to participate in the activiti~s at Union and hope to furtller contribute and help improve this school. I was elected as class representative and have been a member of the stllde:nt Forum for the past year.lliave also been appointed to the Committee on Committees through tbe Student For11m. Through these roles I ltave been able to voice the student bodies opinions on issues tllat I feel are pertinent for the administration to hear. I !lave also had the opportunity to participate on Union's Men's Soccer team and have IHlen selected to be captain for tbe upcoming season. In additi()n~ I hold office with my fraternity and am on the executive ooar(l of the Inter-Fraternity Cou11ciL I have represented Union as an Ambassador and will introduce perspective students to this school next year as a Gatekeeper. I would now like the opportunity to voice our student bodies' opinions t<> the Bo~ of Trustees. v 0 T E

l'Mt'W ?'tiit Student Forum Elections Junior Class Rep Peter Savage We do actually have a voice in the affairs of the administration! The Pub (Chet's) is a perfect example of the administration listening to · the needs ofthe students. Your job is to elect someone who· will not be afraid to take a· stand and voice your opinions· and ideas. As we reach the end of our Sophofl1ore year~ there are a great many issues which have been raised and most of them have produced action, but there are <>t.hers which need resolution_ As Junior Representative to the Student Forum,. I would like to further discussion of topics such as the reinstating of Camp Union, continued improvement of the concerts presented at Union, an increase in th~ ·quality of dorm· life and longer hours in the library. :Please feel free to tell· me anything we need to change. or improve, my Box number is 192&, I would like to hear from you. Damon Keller . Who is Damon Keller? If you dom't know me, you've probably seen me stroUing across campus with a unique bounce in my step and sporting a baseball hat uncharacteristically low. So what does this mean to you? These are both traits associated with myself which I never knew I hac. However, I have been told I do these things because they're different from the \average normal person 11 • So what dol care:, these are the little things that make me an individ11al. What is wrong, is that Uni()n College forces. people t<> care. When students enter this school as freshmen, many are swept into the Greek societies. I am one hundred percent for the Greek system, yet I do fed it divides our campus into s·tereotyped . cliches, separating individuals both Greek and independent. The students fall in.to categorized units, each unit · different from the next. My major obje~tive is to break away from the idea of people in units, and free the individuals in people. This can only be done througlt. student activities on campus. On our campus, everyone holds a common ground and title; we're all Union students. With the support of my class, I genuinely believe I can produce positive change on our campus. Thmk-You. ......... . -· ~ ~ .. · :· .• · -:,> Bill Nook In the next year, our class will be fac:ed with many important iss:ues such as off- campus housing and terms abroad, It is imperative that we, as the class of '94, take an active role in these issues. There are also, however, a lot of other smaller issues that are equally important and need to be adlressed. . Some of these issues include the rearrangement of our academic sciledule to permit study periods before exams, expanded health services where we can have a school doctor on call for more than ten hours a week, an increased campus security by keeping the fence up around tbe campus, by adding more lights and C()urtesy phones, and by making the all- night study safer. I belie'Ve that I can represent the voices and needs of ()UJ class and will take an active: role, with your help, in these issues. Thank you for your support. Sophomore Class Rep. interested in representing all of you in Union's Student Forum next year. Student Forum, as you know. is the main link between students of this campus and the administration. In ()rder for tllis important governing body to be useful and effective it needs representatives who are willing to devote their own time and energy in the hopes of improving the campus, based on the input of the students themselves. After being at Union now for · almost a full year,. I think that most of you will agree that we are e::xtremely fortunate at this school. This does not mean, however, that there is not . room for improvement. That improvement sh()uld be based on what you, tile students Want,. and my sole promise to you is that if elected I will listen thoughtfully to your ideas and suggestions, and make them heard in Student Forum to the best of my ability. Jon Miller The time has come to vote for your representatives in Student Forum again, and I .know you. are wondering exactly what I did as Vice- President of the Freshman Class. To begin, I helped bring about Chet's, also known as the Pub, and I am currently on the Chet's committee. I also ()rganized o11r Freshman BBQ, which will be held in about a week. I have just been placed on the college's Security Advisory Council. in order to improve the safety of the students on this campus. Environmentally, I, with help from Dining Services. reduced the waste of the paper napkins across campus. Many other · objectives have been achieved, while I served on the Student Forum, and I would like to continue to do this for my class. I feel that I bave the time, organization, and responsibility to hold this position, so when it comes time to vote, don't forget \It's Miller Time.\ Erin O'Neil Hello Class of 199.5! My name is Erin O'Neil, and I hope to be re~elected to my current position as our class representative to tile Student Forum. The past year has been a productive one for the Forum, our greatest achieV\ement being the Mike Quinn Class of 19\)5: My name is Mike Quinn and I am greatly , introduction of \Chet's\, Union's new on-campus pub. I am pro11d to say that I helped to bri11g this much needed social alternative to the Union College community. . I've also been workimg alongside with our two otller representatives on issues which pertain specifically to the Class of 1995, sucb as the meal plan and on-caiTipus housing; as well as class activities and meetings. The upcoming freshman class barbecue wbich we have planned should be an excellent OpJlOrtunity to bring our class together, and I hope to meet more of you and hear your ideas about how to make Union a better place for our class. Consider me when you vote on Friday. I have almost a year ()f experience behind me, and as a sophomore, I hope to have a louder voice in the Forum. I pr.ernise that I w:ill serve our class. and each one of you to the best of my ability . Good luck to all the otber candidates, and don't forget to vote! Hallie Heller Members of the class of 1995, although it seems like just yesterday when we were voting for Freshmen Class Representatives, the time for elections bas approached again. For those of you who are unfamiliar with me, my name is Hallie Heller and I am presently the Freshman Class President. Having the experience of working with the members of the Student Forum, I feel that I have gained imperative knowledge of the active role of a participant. At this point in time, I am fully aware of the needs of an officer. I enjoy dedicating my time and thoughts to serve our class. I think that having gained this experience I am utmostly capable of participating in the Student Forum for another year. I would like to stress my optimism of being a part of the Forum and think it would be beneficial if I were to continue as a class representative. Student Forum Spotlight by Brendaa Clifford Student F ~rum President After having rnet four times, the Forum is releasing this term's first spotlight There is no exc!lse f<>r the delay. Today's spotlight will briefly cover the Forum's main work for the past five weeks. In an effort to discover the bookstore's pticing methods, I met with tbe Bookstore Manager Elias Majlaton. The prices are primarily determined by the distributors. According to Mr. Majlato-11, the store does provide the students with the best possible deals. I also met with Paul Mantica to discuss concerns . over security resp<>nse time. His statistics indicate that resources are being allocated in the most efficient manner possible. One former resident advisor stated that security response time has noticeably improved since her freshman year. Most important, the Forum is initiating two academic scholarships. These awards will be given to students who have both excelled scholastically and contributed significant service _ to the College. The IFC is being encouraged to offer a similar scholarship. The Forum will be meeting Sundays at 6:00 in CC409 beginning on ~ay 17th. Meanwhile. all those interested in running for office must !lave obtained the required amount of signatures. The petition sheets were due on ~ay 11th. Elections will be held on the 15th. Good Luck. The VP of Finance did not submit an article and was no.t present to have a · photograph taken. Her candidacy is uncontested ..

I l ,! ,I \ ·' an common Women & Others by Stacey Cervellino Lifestyles Editor Marina Bernard; The first thing that comes to mind when I think of Marina. in the context of Union College is theater. However, the theater is ' only one .part of her story, a story of a strong and talented woman. Marina was born in Haiti and moved to America with her parents when she was ten. Now, I've known her for almost three years and I never noticed that she had an accent, so this was all news to me .. She was sent to grammar school speaking only Haitian Creole and French in a school without bilingual education. But ... :te was young and children can learn a new language quickly, especially if it will stop all the teasing. Coming to America was a culture shock for both Marina and her parents. In Haiti her well educated parents held high statns jobs. In America, · because of the language barrier ' the only work they could find was as factory workers. For Marina the shock was racism. Much to my surprise, although Marina always knew that she wanted to be an actress, her first love was and still is math and science. She won all kinds of awards in these areas of study and came to Union as a Civil Engineer. But she found that being an engineer left her no room to explore. Her schedule for the next four years was already planned out from tbe fiFst day she set foot on campus. This kind of restriction was not for her. She kept saying to ;perspective, not to purposely herself, I can do something exclude the Black community, else,.andshe did. but because, as Marina put it, She tGok Acting with Prof. many Black people do not Bany Smith, a man whom she c'hose the theater as a career or says she owes a great deal to. take it seriously. Tl:tey feel Bany brought her into the . that because they have beem theater ~iving her the chance to given the opportunity ;to attend play SIICh roles as Mother • a private school and because Superior, in \Agnes of God,\ they are representatives of their the ~aym in ·:The Visit,\ and I , c~mmunity. they cannot, an.d God m \The Ltfe and Death of , w1ll not, \waste\ four_ years Everyome.\ Marina was lucky being an Arts Major or :a beca11se Ban-y chose plays that Philosophy major. The eyes coulcll>e cast with women and of society are judgmental and men of all races. In other cri-tical when judging the Black words lhey were plays that community. gave a Black woman a chance Marina is going against the to act ~in a traditionally White grain, being a Black actress and . ~heater, a theater that performs an Arts/Philosophy maj'(:)F. Wh.ite plays, written by White She said that many members of playwrights. the Black community here at Most plays performed at Union gave her a hard time Union are written by White when she first became involved playwrights from a White in the theater, which they saw ----------------------------------- as White person's world. T() A. L 0 ' Ok In to find Black voices in the theater she has sought out the works of Black playwrights, many of them introduced to her by Prof. Barry Smith. h ~ t She has also created her own e U U re voice by starting her own · I I · theater ensemble called lnner Voices. This ensemble consisted of Black female by Julie Medow contributing clairvoyant Today I went to a psychic. It wasn't my first time; I've always been interested in spiritual nonsense to a certain degree. So, considering my life is about to change drastically (no job. no home, no future), I thought now was a perfect time to glance ahead. For $50.00 an hour. Don't laugh. A friend and I called Reverend Stephen Rooinson (Director of the Psychic Studies Institute and certified psychic-medium) about a month ago to schedule appointments. Today was the first available time slot he had for both of us. My friend {who wishes to keep her name out of the article, and will henceforth be referred to as \Chakra\) figured Stephen must be doing well if we had to arrange the sessions so far in advance. We realized just how well he was doing when we saw his car: a gold Mercedes-Benz with vanity plates reading \IM SYKIC\. He parked next to his secretary whose plates read \WEREALLl \. I parked next to the secretary, feeling like my plates should say \BG SUKR\. Inside the building there was a board listing upcoming activities at the Institute. Some exciting things· are happening in June, namely, the Psychic fair. I thought it might be a lovely idea for the CDC to contact the Reverend and .coordipate; that way we could havi! a \Psychic Job Fair\. Picture it: you don't have to bring your resume, because the employees already know all your past experiences. Things that make you go Hmm ..• S<l, we were five mint~tes eaxly, and the psychic was not in his office; in fact, the door was locked. At the top of the stairs there was a huge poster for the featured movie; Ghost • (Surprised?) Chakra banged on the door. The Reverend was certainly taking his time, and Chakra and I wondered what was up. \Maybe he's out of body, and we should leave a message.\ Nah, we thought. Chakra banged on the door again. \I know!\ I said, \We are suppose to walk through the door!\ Our patience was wearing thin. Then we saw the Benz. Soon after, we 'met Stephen Robinson. The Reverend was kind of cute. But we weren't there to socialize. Chakra made me go first. Meanwhile, she sat in the waiting room/library (more on that later) listening to a new age tape and reading the Times. We were told to bring a piece of jewelry that we wear frequently, pictures of people we had questions about, and a tape recorder. Yes, I do have a copy of my session with Stephen, and no, you cannot . hear it. But it was definitely ... illuminating. Not everything he said was true (lilce, my grandmother can't possibly be the spirit following me around ... she's still alive!), but a lot did make sense. Most of it did. Hey, he knew I was an English major, and he saw me teaching in the future. He pinned som.e relationships to the waU wi1hout me saying a word (freaky .. .I didn't even ask about people and be brought them up.) I can't explain it. It was cool. O.K.. you agnostics out there, stop ragging on me. I have more to tell. After I went, it was Chakra's turn. Left alone, I began snooping around the place. There were other movies one could rent besides from Ghost , · like Fi.eld of Dreams, Shirley MacLaine's Inner Workout , artdCooking with Kumra, the Gourmet Vegetarian . Books covered the shelves. witb titles like I D-eserve Love , Beyond Ccdependancy , and The .ESP Wl)rkbco/c. One can purchase t-shirts and postcards. crystals and self hypnosis casettes. Plas, the Reverend takes Visa ancl Mastercard. There was a rack of magazines as well. I picked up a copy ()f Meditation (April), because it advertised sex just like Cosmo does. Well, not just like Cosmo ... Meditation 's article covered the much- debated issue of Tantra- Spiritual Sex. I couldn't resist. The quote pulled from the article and blown up read \Sex is nature's LSD\. Sounded like a good read. Too bad I didn't understand another word the thing said. By this point, I had to go to the bathroom. On the back of the door it said \Please don't pollute other people's energies by lighting a cigarette.\ I · wondered if I was offending any . spirits byjust peeing. I did a little impromptu ceremonial crossed-legs dance, the vibes felt fine, :and so I went for it. A lot of people responded to my experience by saying they wouldn't want to know about the futwe. \I mean, what if he tells me something terrible?\ commented one superstitious friend. \I think it's all a big crock. And I want you to say this in the article,\ said an!>ther. Well, for one, Stephen wouldn't tell you something terrible, because if . he did, mo one would go to him for ~dvice. and he wouldn't be able to afford the Benz. Secondly, who cares if it's all a .bis crock? Cbakra and I bad a great time. students from local high schools in Schenectady. Their ages ranged from 13-15. She began the group to bring the snuggles and the voices ()f Black teenagers to the sta~e. Adults usually don't want t() listen to the voices of the teenage pop11lation, but Marina learned that they have a lot t() say. In the ensemble sh-e taoght the students through theater games and Improvisational exercises and took them to theater competitions. Marina commented that it is very different to work with a B'lack cast. She says that Black actors are taught to be a certain way~ to represent tbeir culture as intelligent, upstanding people. The theater asks people to look stupid an<! foolish sometimes, something that is not easy for a Blaclc person to do freely because they feel tile eyes of society upon them. Marina calls it a Catch-22. As a Black person you are watched not: only by Whites but by Blacks as well and you are often caught in the middle, afraid to act too Black .and afraid to act too White. Marina referred to this dilemma as being trapped · between two cocoons, a Blaclc one and a White. one. These cocoons at certain points in her life have made her bitter and effected her friendships with her White friends. lt is very difficult for a Black women to learn to tr11st anyone White after they have heard a White male say very loudly as they pass by after a class,. '\Kill tlie Negro.'' This happened here at Union College and it set Marina 1 S tl'llst in the White population back a few years. It became vety difficult for her to see individu~ faces. After a. while, sbe ollly saw . White. When things like that happen·, she said she almost wants them to happen again so she could react differently 9 so she could prove that she was attacked, verbally in a way just as damaging as being beaten physically. This incident was the catalyst for the memorable and controversial monologue that Marina wrote and performed at the end of eachper:fonnance of ... Before the Butterflies.\ In it she cries out for an end to all the conJusion and the hatred and the small- minded.ness and ultimately an end to the hurt she feels~ the kind of hurt that makes you want to ·give up because it never lets up. The material in Marina's monologue raised a great deal of questions and discussions, and helped to begin a llealing process for her. AU the attention was worth it because it raised the voices of other individuals and her voice was not alone. This healing process was continued in the summer theater workshop Marina taught this past summer at Union. She worked for six weeks with a culturally diverse group of high sdtool students writing monologues and creating theater pieces. These students helped to re- unite her love for the theater with her belief in a hope. for humanity. This is part of what \eve\ her senior project which she wrote and is directin.g and acting in is all about. Its about meeting that one person who gives you hope in the purity, innocence and decency . ofpeople. In \eve\ she shows both sides of the struggle, both sensitivities, in the kind of confrontations and honest conversations that sho11ld and need to take place in society. This struggle also encompasses what it means to be not only Black, but Haitian and female. It is a struggle to fight oppression and to not become your own self oppressor. Marina is a talented director and an effective teacher. This Fall students in New York City will be lucky enou:gh to have Ms. Bernard as their teacher. After her experience in the workshop last summer she applied to Teach for America and was accepted. This program recruits college seniors to teach for two years in shortage areas. After the two years you can go on to get your permanent certification. Marina is planning on becoming .certified, to get a PhD in philosophy, to organi.ie · another tlleater ensemble,. -and to keep writing. Marina's interests all come from. t® s~e root, her desire · to find truths. She said, \Life is· not e<Uted~ :life is raw, I like . raw theater/ ·not Cosby or Broadway shows, but h<>nesty, the real thing~ rm .glad that I have had the chance to know someone like Marina. someone so intelligent- and stromg and talenteiJ., ·She is . definitely destined to do great things. I ' I' .,

I by B'etsy Rothstein ConcQrdiensis. Staff Did you know that there me 33 days, 33,000 hours aJld 2.5 billion seconds left u11til graduation~? So, what are ro11 doing ned year? Do you bllve a job yet? Are you go:ing to graduate 'S<:honl? Are you going to graduate . . time? Wh.at i:s . your Thesis on? Do you like it? If you ask any or all .ofthese questions to a senior YOU ARE SO ANNOYING! Well, you may just be naturally annoying but if you ask these questions you deserve to be tortured for a few days. :Do you really think that pe<:1ple care about what exactly a senior is going to do o11ce they've graduated? When I hear these insane questions raging around campus I just want to cringe. They're almost as boad as the \HOW WAS YOUR BREAK?\ the question that everyone is forced to ask and to answer in order to fill up lttlls in conversation. I think tbough, that an awkward lull in converation is far better th.an having to ask and answerthese typical questions-at least y()u could just stand there, :pi,ck your teeth and glance at y()ur watch a few times. Or, y()u could always pull the old \I need another beer\ and then y()u ditch that wall of a conversationalist...subtly of course. No senior in their ri~ht mind, wrong mind, drunk-en mind or any other kind of mimd wants to be invaded with these questions-these horrible, horrible, mind-wrenchillg questions (that was for you, Cody). Most seniors, (actually I really ha-ve not done a formal statistical study on this matter- I was too busy enjoying my thesis and looking for a job) do not want to deal with the A Senior's Worst NightJUare dilemma-WHAT DO YOU WANT 'TO BE WHEN YOU GROW tr-P7 You mean you haven't gtown up yet? What is your problem? After fow years in Schenec:tady, New York you haven't figured out what you want to do with your life? There must be something really, really wrong witb you. The \Do rou like your thesis\ question bas. got to be up tltere among tbe worst. What are these .people thinking? \Yes I love spending 12 million hours typing into a computer. It's a real grow:illg experience .. •• When you are five your parents and/or your parents' friends, tewer above you and peer down into your into your face and ask \SO WHAT DO YOU WANT TO BE WHEN YOU GROW UP?\ ·You tell them something insaneiy typical SllCii as President of the United Stales, an Astronaut, A Ballerina ()I a Pilot. At this point in y()mr life you may not even know what networking is and power pumps may not even come in your size yet, but you are Sl!lfe of your answer nonethele1;s. In my case though, I told my parents I wanted to be a train conductor and a duck- I guess I had high aspirations. After your parents and/or your parents' friends laugh that idiotic older persons laugh for tif1een minutes or so, they tell y~u to go outside and play, to get in the car, ot to clean your room. You then grow up and realize you have no intention of becoming what you were so sure of at age five. I could become a train conductor, I guess, but I doubt if Union College has adequately :prepared me for that lifelong goal. As far as the possibility of my becoming a duck. the CDC (according to Andy Rosen, \how can you trust sorne'thing that has the same initials as the Center for Disease Control\) has given me a few leads. Maybe I am just misinfonned though and/or apathetic (what a cliche of a word) and perhaps I missed out on a train conductor course or one of >those incredibly informative CDC sessions from hell telling you what you can do with a major in ... oh, maybe I am being too harsh with the CDC. \All I want to know is what exactly is a wami and what makes it wicked?N (A quote from Carol Harris) At this deranged point in a senior's life they do not want to be bombarded with questions about their life, the future, etc ... Wben you are a Freshman, the thought of what you want to be when you finally grow up does not enter your mind. You're still trying desperately to figure out the true meaning of the word NAIVE. Sophomore year is when yon have to make that hair raising, bold move of deciding on a major. You're cocky since you're no loQger a Freshman, yet still a dork on the surface. This year flies by and you still don't know what you want to do with your life and do you care? No, you•re Still tOO far away fFOffi the reru world and you've only begun to grasp the full meaning of a dru.tiken stupor. You still have not fully grasped standard chugging position, but no need to worry. By Senior year ,this will come naturally if you've gotten anything out of your $20,000/year education. According to John lfyouneedmeyoumightbeableto- findmeintheCollegeCenter Fox, \Junior year is the College Center\. John, you must realize by now that every year is the College Center for you. He also profoundly stated, in the College Center of course, that \Junior year sucks-you don't know what you're doing or why\. As one wise Senior pondered the isSlle of Junior year, she concluded that \Junior year is that time in your life when you intellectually divorce yourself from the social scene and you begin to look introspectively on tbe college experience as a wllole. After the second hour of her long- winded monologue my eyes began to roll into the back of my head, and I zoned for awhile. I ke:pt nodding my head and smiling though, so this wise Senior would not catch on. Finally, Senior year Spring tenn can be summed up in one word: REG~SSION. It is Senior year when WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO WITH YOUR LIFE AND WHY? suddenly hits you in the face and you can no longer ignore it. Liz Wales confronted this dilemma wholeheartedly and landed herself an incredible job opportunity out in fdaho as a potato farmer. She keeps trying to peer pressure me into joining her but I might just have to pass on this one. Congratulations tbough, Liz-I am sure your parents will be very proud of you. I wonder if the CDC knows that yes, you too can become ·a potato fanner with a double major in English and History. So, do people really care what seniors are doing next year? When people ask those questions I get these horrible flashbacks from the beginning of the term (it may just be from all the hard-c()re drugs I was on when I got rny wisdom teeth out) small talk bullshit (no one edits this paper anyway, so I can have as many spelling mistakes, swear w<>rds and run-on sentences as I want)-What classes are you taking, Are you going out tonight etc ... For many seniors their life-long plan chartges weekly, daily or every houF on the hour. Therefore you get to tbe point where you begin to make up far-fetched, yet believable stories. It's the persisters that I really ca11not stand. Once you've respon-ded ••No. I have no life after hne '14\ they continue to pester · you. \You mean you have no job and no place to live? · Aren't you neiVous?\ D<> the persisters really care th!lt I could be living at home next year. hanging out with my parent's friends, delivering newspapers, hopefully in my green jeans or .in Otsie's st()!en purple sweater on S us!ln 's stolen mountain bike, wllile simultaneously chugging. a beer as it drips onto my brand new cowboy boots?? You hear these ql!estions over and <rver again and suddenly that one random chugger in the midcle of the afternoon on a Tuesday asks you what you are d~ing next year and PANIC S1RIKES ... Note [!o11, the Editor-in- Chief: The editors are respons;b/e for proofing .all articles, and also decide wizen artistic privi/ed8es are given to our writers. P.S .- Betsy, there are only 792 hours, or 265,120 seco!ld.s left until your graduation. J1y the way, what the hell are JiJU doing next year? -Ned 11/ute ~ ~- . eatts~~4o4t New requirements for submitting Concordiensis articles: • All articles are to b,e submitted on a 3.5\ hard disk • either IBM o·r USing Macintosh Microsoft Word .. • Articles are ,due on the Monday preceding pub- lica,tion by 7 p.m. I • I.

1 i l THE INTE;RNATIONALLY RENOWNED WEDNESDAY, MAY lOTH· ··5:00PM THE PAGEANT I PARADE STARTS FROM CITY HALL IN SCHENECTADY, MARCHES THROUGH DOWNTOWN A:ND ENDS WIT·H. A COMMUNITY PICNIC IN RIVERSIDE PARI<. s·:3·o ·PM THE SHOW CONTINUES • IN MEMORIAL CHAPEL, UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS . THE COLUMBUS: THE NEW WORLD ORDER INCLUDES A ~RITICAL ANALYSIS AND BIOGRAPHY OF COLUMBUS, AN ELABORATE PARADE AND LARGE SCA·LE PAGEANT FEATURING HERDS OF CARIBOU, NATIVE AMERICANS, A GIANT MOTHER EARTH AND INFORMATIOH ABOUTTHE JAMES BAY HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT. BREAD AND PUPP.ET THEATER WAS FOUNDED IN 1963 IN NYC. ITS WORKS INCLUDE COMPLEX STYL:tzED COMPOSITIO_NS WITH MASKED PERFORMERS, OVER-LIFE-SIZE EFFIGIES, COLORFUL PARADES, IMPROVISED MUSIC, AND THEMES OF SOCIAL I POLITICAL I ENVIRONMENTAL SIGNIFICANCE. ALSO: THIS PROJECT IS MADE POSSIJl£ IH PART BY A GRANT .fROM THE LILA WALLACE·REAI)ER S DIGIST ARTS PARTNERS PROGRAM WHICH IS ADMINISTERED BY THE AS,SOCJATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS. UN10N <:Ol~EGE IS ON£ OF 7 NATIONAl. RECIPIENTS FOR THJ~ THIU£ PART PRO.I£CT DEP'ICATEP TO AUDIENCE OEVELOPM.ENT AND THE JUILDIHG OF COMMUNITY RElATIONS 'rHkOUGH ARTS PARTNERSHIP4 THE JAMES BAY EXHIBITION BY PETER SCHUMANN MAY 3-30, THE COLLEGE CENTER, UNION CQLLEG£ ,

· · . . . .· . · · · · . . ·.· . . .·.. . . . .·. EDI:I: . 11141r CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992.• PAGE 9 • actsm The problem of racism has been the predominant issue plaguimg tbe nation recently, culminating in the Rodney King verdict. But people should not be shocked by the aftermath that ensued. This case was brought to national attention and glorified by the media, which heightened the growing tensions between this country's tw() dominant ethnic groups, Blacks and Whites. This could nc>t possibly have been a unique incident. However, the media decided to bring only this sole case to intemationru attention. The violen.ce that followed is just another sign to the world that America is losing the power and ability to solve her internal problems. Since it is our domestic policy that dictates our foreign policy, such countries as Japan might not be off base when making derogatory remarks concerning the might and leadership potential of America. H we can destroy racism, then many of the other problems that Olli country faces, such as drugs and violence, might follow suit. Racism is not only creating a huge schism on the national level, but is also adversely affecting this College. There have been no major attempts to unify the student body, and policy has been 1o withdraw oneself from the issue, in hopes that it will work itself out in due course. By distancing ourselves from the problem, we only make things worse. We need to get out and show out true feelings. No more hiding behind what is supposed to be said. Only through discussions where people ask questions they have always been scared to mention, can we begin to mend this increasingly separated institution. In other words, forget politics, and stress sincerity. Many students feel that Union is an island floating in the middle of Schenectady, two totally .different worlds. But, this school is also a reflection of the 'real world,' and the problems that exist 'here,' will usually only be worse out 'there.' For us not to recognize that such a problem as racism exists on this campus, is equal to a denial of its existence anywhere. It only takes one incident by a member of another race, to plant the seed of insecurity, and a lack oftrust of that different race as a whole. This might not be rational, bat it is instinctual. A black member of the student body asked me \How would y()u feel if you were the sole bollweevil among a great white cotton field?\ A New Point of View To the Editor: I'm writing to commend you (and your staft) for t~e editorial that appeared in the April 30 edition. (\What Does the Future Hold\) The editorial addressed a number of issues, but the predominant one is the inevitable deterioration of our country that will result from taking the easy way out in so many important areas of life, such as education, work, and community involvement. Greed, narcissism, and shallowness in both our leadership and general population are the chief Interested • culprits. There seems to be · real difficulty in distinguishing between activities that are truly productive and those that are merely profitable. As you correctly pointed out, we will be in deep trouble if our young people do not reverse present trends. I see Concordiensis only infrequently but have enjoyed it on those occasions. Keep up the good work. Sincerely, Lewis Stern P.S. Since you might be curious, I'll add that I'm a 70 year old retired GE engineer. zn writi.ng for the Concordiensis or just helping out? We need the extra help! Get Involved!! 'If interested contact Box 13SS · or show up at mandatory nights at 7 . p.m. 3rd noo·r CC 3&4BEDROOM APTS Available for 92~93 · . • All appllaaces • Washer &1: dr)'er • Pordles • Yard • Parlda-' ·Carpet • Seud·fuiDishe4 CaD 370-5498 The problem of racism will not go away unless there is an earnest desire by both sides to come to a resolution. This goal can only be reached through cooperation and a genuine desire.to try and learn what it feels like to be some<>ne else. And the only path that leads to such a desirable destination is education through communication and experience. Native American Awareness Week To the Editor: Do y.ou lcltow that alcoholistm, as well as all the associated ;Social problems have reached epidemic proportions with the Native American population\/ Do y!)D know that there are over two hundred languages in the Indian nation? Do you imow. anything of Native American history and/or culture thatt lias not come from our sorn e what biased elementar)l and high-school · textbQ.oks? From May 8th through the 22nd. S.P.A.A. (Students for Political Awareness and Action) will be offering a Native American awareness week for the campus community. Some of the events organized for this week include a dramatic reading, several films of Indian poets and writers, a week long menu of Native American cooking at · the Dutch Hollow restaurant, an informati()n booth, as well as local Indian speakers. We realize that this event is a bit off from the actual awareness week, but we think awareness should not be restricted to seven days of the year. it should be everyday. All are invited to come and participate next week to learn about our old neighbors whom most of us have forgotten. Sincerely, Diego Hojraj The President's pathetic Decision To Presi<le11t Hllll: There are so many words which descnibe bow I feel about your sel edion for my graduation ~peaker that I do not even know where to begin. Suffice it to say that your action bas left me disappointed, offended, a11d angered, to mention just a few. Paul Ts()ln.gas i~ a pathetic choice to replace Tom Brokaw as the class of 1992•s commencement speaker. Everything tliat you did, from your choice to the mere fact that you. made the choice, is repugrumt.' ·· ' -\' · · · To begin with, Tsongas is a boring, middle cf the road persona1it)V wh<> will have nothing to say that could possibly captivate my attention. More importantly, however, is the ominous fact that. Tsongas is a quitter. Rather tham :press on harder with his camp.aign, he folded up his tent. as tile pressure became more illtense. What an exemplary role model for a graduating class to have. What type of earnest insight could he possess and be able to share With us. Is he going to tell us about the benefits of having no internal fortitude? Will he speak about any of his political plans which he decided were not good enough for the rest of the cou11try? Was Tsongas really the best replacement that Union College could attract? I tend to think not. I certainly hope not. Secondly, wily did you take it upon yourself to choose our ·graduation speaker?H 1 abhor your self-righteous attitude that you believe that you know what is best fol' us. When Mr. Brokaw chose to break his contract, news: of this should not have been kept furtive. Rather the senior class as a whole should have been informed and asked for input in the selection process. To expedite this a senior class meeting could have been held. If for some reason a meeting would not have been feasible, than perhaps someone else from the field of journalism should have been selected as that is what tile senior class had previously indicated an affinity for. President Hull, you did the same thing last year concerning the selection of the commencement speaker for the class of 1991. You really are a wondrous piece of work. The campus threw theif weight behind you in 1990 when you ran for office here, and above . all else, you proclaimed that you would be a president for the students. Well, two years into your reign, your open door policy bas rivaled George Bush's \no new taxes\ pledge. Do you mean anything you say, or are you just another master of rhetoric'] Jordan Lippner '92 Due t;o recent cha,nges in ·the- ·Concordiensis, we prefer all Letters to the Editor to be tlJrned in on 3.5\ hard drive diskettes that are Macintosh or IBM compatible, including box Number, so they can be promptly returned .. ' ... ~ ~ • ~ ' ......... > ' •• • .. ') ) J

-- . ......_..,_ , _ __, - - --..- ~- -- ~----- --~ -~ ... ~----------------------------------------·~ I •Updated• 1! I UNION COLLEGE I~ 1 6 · FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE ~~ .. ) I~ I I . I I This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for TUESDAY, JUNE 9 - 11!30-1:30 PM . I Grad\tate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in Section \51 CSC-010-01 - Computers & Computing - L Spallholz - NWSE 112 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. CSC-077-01 - Data Structures- N. M. Mazur NWSE 116 I I Conflicts in exami!lations should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar EGL-023-01 - The Ameri~ Short Story - S. K. Dyer - HUMN 114 · not later than Friday, May 15, 1992. GRK-012-01- Greek Reading- C. Sorum· HUMN 119 1 I Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 buildings to be used. · SOC-024-01 - Social Psychology .. K. DeBono - PYCH 113 ARTS _ Arts Building NWSE - North Wing. S/E Center · I ·I BAIL-BaileyHall PYCH-Psychol?gyBuil~~g TUESDAY, JUNE 9 - 2:30-4:30 PM . BUTR- Butterfield lhlll SSCI - Soc~ Sctence Bwlding MH-090-01 - Contemporary Art & ARch - R. Phelan - ARTS 210 I I HUMN- Humanities Building S1ZH- Stemmetz Hall , AMU-030-01- Am. erican Mu.sic- T. W. R.oss ARTS 215 . ' BI0-036-01 .. Invertebrate Zoology- B. Boyer- NWSE 116 MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 9:00-11:00 AM BI0-130-01- Comparative Animal Physiology- L. Fleishman- BAll..100 I I ANT -040-01 - Culture & Technology - G. Gmelch - NWSE 222 BI0-158-01 - Pl~mt Morphology - M. Frohlich - BAn. 205 . BI0-011-01- Topics inContemporary Biology- R. Willing- BAIL 201 CE. R. -132-01- Reinforced Concrete Design- M. Mafi. 1- BUTR.-. 106 I I BI0-023-01- Cell Biology- G. Smith/J.L. Salvo- BAIL 207 CHM-118-01- Inorganic Chemistry IT- C. Scaife- BAIL 104 . CER-142-01- Soil Mechanics- G. Gifford- BUTR 109 . EC0-012-02 -Introducuon to Economics- B. Reynolds- SSCI 012 I CHM-040-01- Qu~.titati. ·ve·Ch· .emistry- R. Schae. fer{f. Wemer -BAIL 205 _ EC0-015-.01 - Histo.· ry of~o~.omic. Tho~ght- B. Lewis- SSCI. 014 I CHM-152-01- PhySical ChemiStry II- D. Hayes- l3All.. 203 EC0-020-01- Intro to S~stical AnalystS- L. Cavalluzzo- SSCI 104 CHN-130-01 - Chi_nese Readings - M. Chen - SSCl213 EC0-034-01 -Intra to Finan. cial Analysis - C. Grover. - B. AIL. 203 . I I CLS-025-01- History of Rome- M. Tober- HUMN 115 EGL-022-02- Major American Authors- L. Slade- HUMN 116 · CLS-025-02 - History of Rome - J. Marincola - HUMN 019 EGL-070-01 - Contempolllrf. British Ficti()n -H. Marten ~ HUMN 213 I . CSC-152-01 -Microprocessors- C. Traver- NWSE 201 EGL-D76·01 ·Modem Amencan Novel· F. Oado • HUMN 117 I .. :SC0-051-01 - :Snvironmenud :SCQnomiG~ ~ J, Kenney~. PYCH 10Z ESC-Otg~01 -High Level Lan~ Prosmmmir-.g- L. Atmstead'\ STZY 106 _ . · .. a EC0~.144~01- Intenmti.·onaiEconom.ics -E. Foster- SlZH 1.06 OE0-032-01- Geo. logy ofNauona1Parlcs- 0. Shaw- BU1R. 1fJl I EER-152-01- Microprocessors- C. Traver- NWSE 201 MER-012-01· Engineering Graphics ll- H. Lyons- NWSE 222 EGL-056-01- Shak~~ After 1600- R. Stevenson- SSCI 104 PHL-035-01- Philosoph~ in America- J. Ludw. i.g - .. HUMN 119 1 FRN-139-01- Special Toptc- L. Day- HUMN 014 PHL-078-01 .. Technological Values- J. Schumacher- HUMN019 FRN-148~01-: French Special Topic- W. Thomas- HUMN 112 PHY-054-01 -Introduction to Astronomy- K. Mead -.NWSE 201 HST-014-01- History of U.S. Since Civil War- F. Dudden- SSCI 103 PSC-013-01- Intro to Political Thought- C. Brown- SSCI 103. 1· HST-014-02- History of U.S. Since Civil War-M. Jonas- HUMN 117 PSY-010~03- A First Course in Psychology- S. Benack- PYCH 102 HST -0. 14-03 - ~story of u.s. Since Civil War - A. Feffer • SSCI 012 SOC-129. -01 • Comparati.ve li~th cm.-e .system .. R. Quaye - SSCI 010' I HST-036-02- Htstory of Europe II- S. Berk- SSCI 014 STA-111-01- Intro Mathematical Statistics.,. J. Schmee- BAIL 312 HST-043-01 -Europe in the Early Modem Era- E. Hansen· SSCI 010 HST-()68-01- Modem Japanese History- D. Thurston- SSCI 112 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10 .. 8:30-10:30 AM 1· HST-117-01 - Amer Econ Since The New Deal- J. Finkelstein- HUMN 116 BI0-024-01 -Genetics.~ J.Boyer/S. t.aBonne- BAIL 207 . JPN-122-01- Intermediate Japanese ill-Y. Nakagawa- HUMN213 BI0-138•01- Modem Parasitology- T. Styles- ~'WSE 116 · MTH-040. -01 - Applied Linear Algebra - S Niefreld- BAIL 100 CER-035-01 - Water .Resmw .. ces & Environment- P. S. now - BUTR 300 · I MTH-124-01- Geometry- K. Zimmerman- BAIL 102 CHM-010-01- Fundamental Chemistry I .. R. Silversmith- BAIL 106 · MTH-132-01 -Abstract Algebra I-V. Ferlini- BAIL 106 ..... CHM-010-02- Fundamental Che~istty I-S. Hayes- BAIL 203 I MTH-132-02- Abstract Algebra I- W. Zwicker- BAIL 104 CHM-012-0l -Fundamental Chemistry II- L. Hull- BAIL 201 PHY-046-01- Space Technology- D. Peak- NWSE 114 CHM-016-01-Inorganic Chemistry 1- C. Weick- BAIL 205 PHY-140-01- Quantum Mechanics .. K. Schick. NWSE 30(3 EER-148e01- Digital Circuits. e. Hassib .. NWSE 201 I PSC~020-01- Social DawAnaly3is~ T. :Ma.rchant-Shapiro- NWSE 116 EGL-023-02 .. Th\ American Short Story- P; Gado ... HUMN 116 PSY-042-01- Psych. ol Assessment & Testing- K .. De. Bono- PYCH 204.. EGL-073-01- Realli:. · m & Naturalis .. ·. rn in Am L.· it- B. MacDona!. d- SSCI 010 I PSY-047-01- Intro to Hsealth Psychology- C. Weiss- PYCH 113 ELL-049-01 -.NuclearTechnology- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 · SOC-062-01 - Social Data Analysis - 'f, Mawhant-Shaprio- NWSE 116 ESC-010-01 - Mechani~s I - P. WQiss - BUTR 109 SPN-149a01- Special Topics-Peninsular Lit.- P. Moyano- HUMN 110 ESC-,020-01- Mechanics n- M. Rivera .. - NWSE 21.0 I FRN-012,.()1 - BQSic French m - E, Kirk - HUMN 110 . MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 1:00-3!00 PM FRN-121-01 -Intermediate FrencH n :·e. up~- iR1MN 014. I. AAHe012·01 .. Intra to An History • Part ~ • L. Matthew • ARTS 215 OEO·OU-01 - Oe~logy of.National Parks - CEJ. Shaw • BUTR 204 AMU-023-01 -The Baroque Era- H. A. Wilson- ARTS 313 GER-011-01- Bas1c.Oerman II- S. Kellenter/A. Warde- HlJMI'it 114 nTn 1\10 n1 Tn ... -d ... .,....:---. •-- n.:-1- ......... T T· v ''':11..: .... .-nn..Jr n---1-..1:, . .-... ~~t\\\'T n-.~ \UC'IT n1n n1 n-..: .... 1). co---· rr--....1· r't: .. ,:1: ......... :-- n TJ.,.- .... ,..-m '\~T-11..... C'~r\'T ..... ,., •

£ .:1 J. •\J\'I' f J. ,. J.J.IUU LV J.l.MJaJ.U. I£ ;:,y. \.IIUJUgJ • '-'.· l) • .C. J.. 11..-1.1. J. J.J . . J.JJ.J.. J.J•\J\I':;J-uJ. • • J• .:JIIi:UI:VUIUU.l!. • .L\'I .:J.O .k.k.k • SOC-062.-()1 - Soci@l Data An@lysi~ - 'f, Mawhant~Sh~rio- NWSE 116 ESC-010-01 ~ Mechaniys I - P. WQiss - BUTR 109 1 I S. PN-.149a01- Special. Topics-Peninsular Lit.- P. Moyano- HUMN 110 ES. C . .m0-01- Mechanics.II -.M. Ri.vet .. a -NW ... S.E.210. · .. FRN-012,.()1 - BQSic Frerich m -E. Kirk - HUMN 110 · . MONDAY, JUNE 8 - 1:00-3!00 PM FRN-121-01- tnterrnediateFrencH·n =tt up~- ttt.1MNOI4 1· I . AAHm012-0l • Intro roAn History· Part II· L. Matthew· ARTS 215 OEO·OU-01 ·Geology ofNational Parks· 6. Shaw • BUTR 204 AMU-023-01 -The Baroque Era~ H. A. Wilson- ARTS 313 GER~011-01- BaskGerman II- S. Kellenter/A. Warde- H.'Olvftit 114 I BI0-018-01- Introd~ction to_Biology I I.; K. WilliamS/M. Frohlich- SSCI 016 H.ST-010.-01- Hi~t & Soc:Trad Civil.ization .... E. Hansen/R. Wells- SSCI 112 I BI0-150-01- EvoluttonaryB1ology- J. Bover- BAIL 100 JPN-012-01- BastcJapane~m- Y. Nakagawa- HlJ¥N 117 . CER-153-01- Environmental Engineering II- P. Snow- BUTR 300 JPN-012..:02- Basic Japanese ill-Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 117 . . I CHM-015·01 -The Chemistry of Things • J. Sowa. ·BAll.. 104 MTH-030-01 - Otdin Differential Equations .. I. Muckenfuss- BAIL 102 I CHM-182-01 - Pro~i.n ~tt\1. ~tun~ ood fun~lion- R. Silvmmith -BAIL 203 PHY .. -011. -01 - InU\Od. . .u~t~o. n to PhyG~~ .. §· I- P. MQK. enllii& .. - NWS~. 1.12 . 1 CHN-012-01 - Basic Chmese ill - M. Chen - SSCI 213 PHY -01.3-01 - Introduction to Phys1cs U - R. L. Ponttng - NWSE 114 I . CLS-043-01 - Classical Mythology - C. Sorum SSCI 104 · PHY -014-02 -Elements of MOdern Physics - A. Anderson - SlZH 106 CSC-011-01- Programming fot Soc Sciences- J. Castleberry - STZH 106 PSC-012-01- Intro to International Pol-S. R. Naim -· SSCl103 I I . EC0-012·01- Introduction to. Economics- H. Fried/D. Klein- SSCI 112 PSY .. 010-01- A First Course in Psychology- V. Daw. son- PYCH 113 . , EER-042-01- Systems Theory I- J. Spinelli- BAIL 207 PSY-031-'01- Abnormal Psychology- K. H. Olsen- PYCH 102 . EER-066-01 - Control Systems - v. Fatic - BUTR 109 RUS-012-01 -Basic Russian m- Miuina Rudko- HUMN 019 I I EGL-020-01- Ma~or Engli~h Autho.rs II- S. K. Dyer- HUMN 117 SPN-011-01- Bas~c.·· Span!sh U- V. Marti~el:- HUMN 112. ·. EGL-022...01 -MaJor Am. encan Authors- N. Shour .• HUMN' 115 SPN-012-01 -Baste Spanish m. · · • L. Martinez· HUMN 1.15. I I EGL-024-01 - M. odern American Lit- A. Frazier- HUMN 114 SPN-012-02 .. Basic S~nish ill-. L. Martinez-.~ 115 . FRN-130-01- Modern F. ranee- C. Laparra- HUMN. 116 SPN-120-01- Intennediate Spanish I· W. Garcta- SSCI 104 1 I GE0-041-01- Structural Geology- J. I. Garver- BUTR 201 ' GER-012-01 -Basic German ill- K. Hamm-Ehsani- SSCI 010 HST-058-01 -The Holocaust-s. Berk- HUMN 019 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10 ... li:30-1:30 PM ~· · I . HS'l.'-083-01 - My~mj' M~ei~. & Witvh~- s. Sw-g\m ~ SSCI OtZ ._ CBR .. oz3,.01 .. Dynam!CS ana Y~um~ons .. Y. K. I..te .. llUtK 100 LAT-012-01 - Latm Reading - J. S. Scullion - HUMN 119 CBR-023-02- Dynamtcs and Vibrations- Y. K. Lee- BUTR 109 I ME. ·.R-050-01- Heat Tran.sfer. Analysis_& Desi.gn- C. S. Reddy- NWSE 210 ECO. -.017-01- Com.p Phil.o.in US·Ec. o~.o. ~c·B.ol- D. Klein- .. HUMN.· .. 113 I MLT-014-01- Nobel Laureates of !..attn Amer- P. Moyano- SSCI 014 ELL-012-01 • Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles- H. G. Harlow- BUTR 204 . MTH. -0.28-01 - Pro~abi~ity- J. ~arbanel.- BAIL 205. ELL-012-02- Horp.es •. Bldg.s, & .. E.gr .Prin.. • cip. Ies D H. 0. Harlow- BUTR 204 I I MTH-03.0-02- Ordin Diffe. rential. Equau.ons- A. Taylor o BAIL 102 HEB-012..:01 -Basic Hebrew ill· D. Heckelman. - HUMN 112 MTH-056..01 -Geometry of Nature- M. Frame- BAIL 106 IlL-010-02 ~Basic Italian I· C •. F. Dunn· HUMN 110 · I . MTH-059-01 - Appl of Math to Eco.· & Mgm. t II - A. Prindle - BAIL 201 MTit-014-01 - Calculus m. . - K .. Rosenthal- B.AIL 100 I PHL-013-01 - History of Western Philosophy -1. Ludwig - HUMN 110 MTII -014-02 - Calculus ill - T. Bick - :BAn.. 102 . PHY -014-01 - Elements of Modem Physics - C. Jones - NWSE 112 I I PHY-049-01- Las~rTechno1ogy & Modem Optics- S. Maleki- NWSE 116 WEDNESDAY, J:VNE 10 .. 2;30:4;30 PM . . .... POR-010-01- Basic Ponuguesv I- J. Boone- SSCI 105 AAH-030·01- Renmssance Art~ ArchiteCture- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 1 I PSY -010 .. 02 - A F~s~ Course in P~ychology - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 AAH-040-01 -Mode.· tn Art and ~hitecture- ~· Phelan- ARTS 210 PSY-020-01- Statistical Methods m. Psych- L. Stailhope- PYCH 213 ACC-010-01 .. Survey of Accounung- W. LewiS- BAIL 207 RUS-122-01 -Advanced Russian- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 113 CER-020-01 -Land Measurements: Theory & Appl• C. Male- BUTR 109 I I SPN-1. 21-01.- Intermediate Span. ish ll- L. Martinez- NWSE 201 CSC-037-0.1- Structur~. Progt. ammj.ng- D. ~nay- NW.S.E 116 . EAS-020-01 -Mod Chma & Japan: Narra & Film - M. Chen -IIDMN 114 I I TUESDAY, JUNE 9- 8:30-10:30 AM EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- B. Reynolds- SSCI 012 EC0-039-01- Public Finance- T. McCarty- SSCI 014 . :EC0-141-01 ·Monetary Economics- B. Motahar- SSCI 112 EC0-137-01 - Econ Perspectives on Pub Pol- E. Foster- SSCI 110 EG. L .. -077-01 - Contempo·rary· Am. erican Novel- H. Marten- HUMN 112 I I EGL-025-01- Introduction to Shakespeare- R. Stevenson- HUMN 114 LAT-139-01- Roman Satire- M. Tober- HUMN 119 EGL-034b01 - Stu~es in American Literature- N. Shour - HUMN.· 117 MTH-134-01 - Difti. erential.· · Equations. - S. Perera- BAIL 106 ~ I I FRN-011-01 -Basic French ll- L. Day- HUMN 112 OPR-110...01 - Intro to Operations Research- R. A. Bowman- BAll. 205 GER-121-01- lntennediate Gennan II- D. Lund- HUMN 113 PHL-163-01- Foundations: Cognitive Science .. B. Petrie- HUMN 110 HST-026-01- United ~tates.i~ ~o~ld Arena- M. Jonas- SSCI 103 PHL-176-01- Philosop~y of Law- R. Baker- HUMN 116 I I HST-065-01- Ea~t Ast~ Ctvihza?on- D. Thurston- SSCI 012 PSY-030-01- Personality- D. Spri.ng- PYCH 113 . . I1L-010-0l- Baste Italian I- E. Gmnta- HUMN 014 PSY-048-01- Psychotherapy I - T. Dowling- PYCH 102 I I LAT-01·1· -0.1- Prin .. c~ples.ofLatin. l!-- J. Marinc?la.·SSCI 105 PSY.-050-01- Educational .... Psych. olo. gy.· • J. Campito -. py.· CH 213 z...mR-012--02- Bngm~nng Otaphtc$ II- M, Rtv¢J.1l ~ NWSB 222 SQC-010-02- Introduction to Sociology • R. Qrulyc. SSCI 014 . MER-02()..01 ~Thermodynamics- C. S. Reddy· BAIL 201 1 I I MER-042-01 ·Engineering Design III· R. Eggert NWSE 210 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE AN EXAM IN THE MTH-012-01- Calculus n- A. Prindle -BAIL 100 EVENING ; I • MTH-018 .. 01 - Intro to Logic and Set Theory • A. Taylor BAIL 104 I MTH-101-01-AdvancedCalculusforEngrs.-S.Niefield-BAD.,l06 TUESDAY, JUNE 9. 6:00-8:00 PM . MTH~13.5-01- Number Theory- J.Barbanel- BAIL203 CER-131-01- Stru. ctural. Steel Design-S. Boulos- BUTR 300 I I PHL-121-01- Symbolic Logic- B. Petrie- HUMN 119 PHY-013-03- Introduction to Physics I I· b. Peak M NWSE 114 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 - 6:30-8!30 PM ~· I PHY-044-01- Introducn.·on to Astron.omy- K. Mead- NW. SE 116 PSC-OSS-01- Defense Policy- C. Brown- SSCI 104 PHY -127-01 - Solid State Physics - J. Me Whiner· NWSE 112 PSC-011-01 - Intro to American Politics- G. Reeher- SSCI 112 TUESDAY, JUNE 9 - 7;00•9;00 PM I I PSY-038-01- Develop\!ental Psychology- L. Stanhope- ~YCH 213 ESC-015-51- Numeric~ Methods Md FORTRAN. L. Alrnstead ~BAIL 205 2 8 :c c ~ c;; - ~ RUS-133-01 -The Russian Short Story- N. Jernakoff- HUMN ~~~ ~· . I SOC-010~01- Intr. oduction to Sociology- M. Huggins- SSCI 104 SOC-052-01 - Issues in American Education- T. Sineshaw -BAIL 207 ~ SPN-122~01- Advanced Spanish- V. Maninez- HUMN 019 I - ~ I SPN-139-01- Intr Latin American Short Story- W. Garcia- HUMN 115 ~----------------------------------------1 (\ ..... i§ . -u )> G') m ~ ~

CONCOflDIENSiS·• MAY 14, 1992 • PAGE 12 The Odd Couple: A Review by Stace:y Cervellino Lifestyles Editor The production of the \Odd Couple\ Em:i:ly Baer's senior project, finished its run . this weekend, making it one of the most popular aJ)d successful productions this campus has ever seen. 1'he turnout for this show was amazing, they sold out every ,flight, and every night the cast provided their audience with two hours of laughter. The casting couldn't have been better, featuring Christy Holbrook and Aimee Murdock as the British bimbos with synchronized laughs, Ned Walley as whinny, worried Vinny, Andy Goldberg as slick and charming Speed, Walter Soule as Roy the polyester clad accolllltant, Dalton Menhal as Murra¥ the street smut New York City cop, and last but not least, Kevin Dantzler as tinicky Felix. and Rick Burchill as Oscar, his \divorced broke, and sloppy roommate.\ The set, designed by Prof. Charles Steckler and the costumes designed by C()rdelia Coppleson helped to add to ,the chann and success of the entire prodt~ction. The auclience win never forget Murray\s tank top and bee .socks, Speed's K -mart sandals, Vinnie's characteristic bow tie, and Gwen and Cecily 1 s nylo11 exercise suits. This was Emily Baer's seco11d time directing. She bad previ()usly directed, a very successful production vf Folks! by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor For the last two weeks, I have spent my Tuesday afternoons in the Crossgates Mall Cine:ma watching movies in order t<l .write a movie review for tllis newspaper. If you have never been to a 12ish movie on Tuesdays you must understand tllat on this day and at this time you do 11ot find your average movie-going crowd. It is an experience. I must thank my roommate for allowing me to drag her away from our roof and the sun in order to go with me on both of these ventu:res. Last week we saw a film called Leaving Normal, y(:)u have probably never heard of this film and probably wont bear of it again. This movie is not really worth mentioning. This Tuesday we saw Folks. We bought our tickets, wallced into the theatre and quickly noticed (for the second wed: in a row), that we were the only two people in the room who did not have white hair. Maybe we should have taken this as some kind of a waming about the film we were about to preview. We didnit. Folks is a film about a mid<lle aged man who is forced to deal with his parents as they become old and sick. I have seen many films witll this same theme, most of them heartwanning or tear-jerkin~; this film had neither of these qualities. Tom Selleck plays John Aldrich, a stockbroker wh() gets a call informin~ him that his mother is in the hcspital and he must fly to Florida immediately. He has not seell his parents in eight years an<l decides it is time to make amencls. Aldrich soon realizes his father is dangerously senile and these are not the parents he once knew. At this point the movie gets comple-tely unre!llistic and absurd. \Sexual Perversity in Chicago\ last Spring for a directing class. Emily is focused, easy to work with, and she knows what she wants from her actors and has the ability to express it. She was very fortunate to be working with a responsive and talented cast. The production worked so well because the actors worked so well together. They had complete trust in one another, a great rapour with each other on the stage, they constantly looked out for one another, and a wonderful sense of comic timing. Comedies can be as difficult or even more difficult that dramas to direct and act in because they require so much concentration and tile ability to be funny by not being funny. I } \ ··:,: . ,f~ ·~<;\ --.... ... \\\\'-! .. In the scelle when Felix found his meat buming in the the kitchen~ wllatmade him angry, made an audience howl with laughter. It is rare to find of group of actors wh() work so well with each other,. who act as spri11g boards for one another. instead of trying to be the center d attention. Rick and Kevin as Oscar and Felix, bounced back and forth ·off of each other, fighting lilce a married couple. The Pjge<;Jn sisters, Kristy atld Aimee, \Worked wonderfully together. Oscar's poker buddies seemed as if they had known each other for years, creatinE a relaxed, friendly atmosphere during the JOker .game. In 1l1e , show's Jlreset the actors sat on stage as tll(l audience filed in, playj11g an impromptu game of poker, in character, impro-vising their conversation. The believable and endearing performances of the actors were made :possible by the directio11 of Emily with the help of her stage manager F-ran Rubellstein. Emily not only directed eight actors b11t she broujlbt Neil Simon's pby to life, creating entertaining order out of comic chaos. Directing is not an easy task, espedally directing a comedy which invDlves timed e.ntrances, complex blocking, perfect comic build ups in the dialogue, and eight cast members. But Emily did it and she did it well. She md ller cast 311d production staff sh<luld be proud of their achievement. Anne Jackson, Tom Selleck, and Don Amech~ ·in \FolKs!\. Aldrich's parents (played by John's obnoxious sister and order. The mo~ie spends .the Don Ameche and Anne two sons move in. Finally next twenty mmut~s trym~, Jackson) come back to Chicago when you think the movie has unsuccessfully to .kill off thts to live with John and his wife gotten as stupid as it possibly couple. The .movte concludes and two children. Everything · could, the family decides it witll John's realizati~n that his in the Aldrich's life begins to would be best if John's parents parent~ are ~ore 1mpv:tant fall apart. John looses his job, died accidentally. This ·would thoo hts matenal possessL<>~s. breaks about every body part give Johr~< and his family their The _mov~e .ends wtt~ the. entire they could think of, their life ins111'a.1lce payment to get fan11ly ltvmg happtly 1.11 the furniture is taken away, and their h<>me and life back in country. Birds In The Classroom by Jody StollJDack and J.ef'f Nield Contributing Writers Pete Du'bacher, the curator and foundet of Berkshire Bird Paradise Nature Center, Inc. will be the featured speaker at a biology seminar to be held this afternoon ill SS 104 at 4:40. With the aid of live birds, videotape .and slides, he will discuss hi~ twenty years of unique hands·on experience in the rehabilitation and breeding of:permane11tly injured bfrds. Located in in Petersburg, NY, Berkshire Bird Paradise is one of tile largest bird rehabilitation centers in the state: This federally and state- licensed non-profit sanctuary houses two thousand birds of one-hundred-and-fifty species including birds <>f prey, perching birds, land birds, wadiqg birds, and waterfowl. Most have been injured as a result <lf human interventio!l; they ltave been run over by cars, trapped in fishing line ()r shot. Most of the injuries render the birds incapable .()f surviving in the wild. Because they a-e ltoused in biospheres that closely resemble their owll natural habitats alld prote<:t them from predators,. many successfully reproduce. All chicks are nurt11red and event11all¥ released intn tbe wild to propagate or re- establish their species. 1'he. researcher thus has the unique opportunity to study tl1e birds at close range. Dt~bacher will offer students the opportunity to intern for cre<lit at the sanctuary. This experience will allow students to cOiiduct independent research in physiology, anatomy, beha.vior and management (including breeding and rehabilitation) of birds. lntems will be able to blend the classroom, the laboratory Md field research by studying birds . close-up in conditions which are similar to their own natural habitats. For those who wish to get a closer look at Berkshire Bird Paradise and its inhabitants which include Bald Eagles, emus, and egrets, a free field trip will embark to the faciljty on Friday. May 22 from noon to 5 pm. The trip is open to all members of the college community regardless of their intentions to conduct internships; it should be exciting for biologists, artists, . engineers, and others who just need to escape Schenectady for the afternoon. For more details on the field trip or internships, contact Jody Stollmack at 381- 6008 cr the biology office at 370-6241. Peter Dl.lbacher, Curator of Berk~hire Bird Paradise cares for two Red-taiiEdHawks. i ~ E ii:'i I! i ! '0 ~ @ 8 ~ ~ a: -i ~ 0 •i ,, ~~

S liipwrecf&_d .9l t Union I found myself bobbing and swaying in a familiar ocean where acquaintances, friends,. faces blurred into waves of movement Bumped, crashed, bombarded, almost drowned by football jackets, sweaters, note books, bookbags, bodies of water Swishing in my ears, the sea of voices sounded like thundering whispers, cracking of the ocean It frustrated me that I found myself in such bad weather Like clockwork, these storms · come and go almost every hour and as a seaman I should have know better than to swim here now. Treading on blue and grey tile, I saw a bottle In desperation, seeking for news- a letter, I fought my way across the current and heaved a sigh of exhaustion for the bottle was empty I felt foolish as if someone had just witnessed my attempt, my hope all in vain Weak: with disappointment I set a drift, . giving myself over to the will of nature. And soon I felt the waves calming taking on a gentle, subsiding quality LandHo! Sunshine seeped, then spilled into my sight as the shore sweetly sucked me from the waves. The door opened. Dry land was under my foot ( and no under toe) I was free from the College Center at 12:20. by Dass Seaman, Lifestyles Edit()r GLCA looking For Arts Students by Cort Boulanger Arts Editor The director of the GLCA Arts Program, Alvin Sher. will be visiting Union on Tuesday, May 19th. GLCA stands for Great Lakes College Association, a consortium of twelve northern midwest colleges including Denison, Kenyon, Oberlin, Ohio Wesleyan, and Wooster. The Arts Program of the GLCA is based in New York city, and its basic goals are to ... provide advanced experience of knowledge in highly focused arts areas, and to provide a broadened knowledge of all the arts as currently practiced in New York.\ These goals are achieved through seminars, but more importantly through apprenticeships, where prospective arts students gain valuable, hands-on experience. Since 1967, more than 2000 students have entered the program, inclu.ding four from Union last yea<~. Amy Cypress, Julie Garfield, Fran Rubenstein, altd Sara Weiner were all fortunate enough to participate in this program during the 1991 Fall Term. The p.rogram provides opportunities for students in the visual. performing and media arts, which includes creative writing and literature. The internships available include everything from working directly in an artist's studio, to wor:king in a Broadway prod11ction office. Mr. Sher and the four Union alumni of this program will be in Room 21() of the Arts Building at 2~00 pm of the 19th to discuss the program. All students interested in this unique program are encouraged to attend this informational session to learn more about the GLCA New York Arts Program. Union College; Queensbury High School to Present Play Courtesy of Union Public Relations Union College and Queensbury High School musical groups will be brought together in combined performances of John Rutter's Magnificat on Thursday, May 14, at 8 p.m. at Christ Church, Glens Falls. Both concerts are open to the public. The concert at Union is free. Tickets for the Friday performance at Christ Church are $2. Written as a concert piece in 1991, Rutter's setting of the famous \Song of Mary\ consists of seven movements, two of which will feature soprano soloist, Gisella Case. Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music at Union College, will be the organist and the 35 member U11ion College Chamber Orchestra will accompany the work, all under the direction of Ned Crislip, choral director at Queensbury High School. Preceding the Magnificat, the Union Chamber Orchestra will perform Caliph of Baghdad Overture by Boideldieu; the second movement of Beethoven's Symphony No. 7 and Petite Suite by Debussy. For that p&rtion of the program, the orchestra will be conducted by Hillary Tann, associate profe:ssor of music at Union College. WRITE FOR ART·S GET READY FOR D.G. Olympics !! Each team needs: • teamname • team song • lOmembers (5 men, 5 women) • name of D.G. Sister/pledge to be captain • $10 registration fee for each team member. . Each team gets: :~· • a team T -sllirt • a cbance tO. win amazing prizes for playing great games. ,, Register May · 19-22 • In the College Center ·. Natasha's St~rs ··. · · ARIES (March 21-Apr:il 19) One. thing no one c:~n accuse you of, espe- cially this week, is dragging your heels. Mars moving into your sign has you the firecracker of the zodiac. You heat up any situation. And as for the · weekend- ooh Ia la. play you will and play you must. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) You are such an ear:thy, solid sign, and this • week you need to gather together your , possessions. Be careful though - someone may really resent being • treated like a possession. Talking. could fun her inflame ~hem. Try ac- . tiens rather than words. Work on a cozy, cuddly weekend at horne. GEMIN·I (May 21-Junc: 20) K.eep a • certain rnaner hush-hush. Remember,, secrets can be fun. You could get what' you want, whatever that may be (and as long as it is within reason). Though money is on your brain, you cenainly have a party all w~ek and weeken long. Make the most of these •high vibes. CANCER (June 21-July 22) You ride the roller coaster one more time. And remember what goes up, mlJSt come down. Or better yet, what goes, down must go up again, And you d (go up and stay up) for quite a while.· You\re the Mpersonality kidR lassoing that object of your desire. Be sure you want it. LEO (July 23-August 22) You are on a roll most of the week.. You may plummet for several days, but rather than cry the blues, recharge your bat- teries. You explOde into a burst of ener- gy and vitality this weekend. Those around you burst into a similar frenzy. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) · You\reon top of the worldmostofthis · week.. First, a you\re veritable force to be dealt with at work.. Then you're highly sought after on the social scene. Worry less, dear Virgo. Trust and it all works om. Plan a ~eluded weekend away with a loved one. LWRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Responsibilities could hit very hard · this week, but in between handlir.g everything, you manage to focus, cre- ate and manifest. You h:~ve many. many reasons this weekend to · celebrate and toast to life. A special friendship plays an enormous role in the outcome -of the weekend. that is. , SCORPIO (October 23-November Z 1) You gain big time with your inter- personal skills this week. Business as- sociates, as well as social acquaintances. respond big time to you. Of imponance is to get down to the basics to rebuild so you c:~n skyrocket to your desires. Definitely a lleavenly period. SAGIITARRJS (November 22- December 21) You\lllike the nex.t few clays, since everyone who knocks on your door seems to want and adore you. Careful, careful - don't mix. business with pleasure though it cer- tainly might seem tempting. Consider calling a spade, a spade, and taking a vacation week off! CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) You are definitely the workhorse of the zodiac. It ~ems as if you are psychic, becau~ you intuitiv~­ ly know hQw to get it all done as fast as possible. And for good reason as the fun times roll in early this week. You charge the air with intensity and ... Oh well. it is spring. AQUARIUS (January 20-February l8) You not only delight those close to you this week, but you infuse others with. happiness. too. As you skip . through the fields, please do take time to be loving to a. friend who can't seem to get past the moody blues. Right now you are on. the magic carpet of life. PISCES (February 19-March 20) You need to recharge quickly this week if you are to .handle all that breezes in. Go for the moment (<md tlle opportunity). bcca~ what is once of- fered, may never be offered again. There is plenty of time for work tomor- · row. (Or how about nex.t week'!) Cl9!r.l by Rill~ Features Syml. ·Remember' to Vote for Student Forum

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY' 14, 1992 •PAGE 14 Nintendo V s. Sega AN~Pri War Has Begun!! By Shields Day Business Editor Nintendo bas just jumped out of the frying pan only to land in the fire. In a week that should have been spent rejoicing by Nintendo executives, it only ended in another headache. After winning out over Atari's $160 million law suit against Nintendo, Sega (Nintendo's major competitor) dropped the price of Genesis by $20. Last Friday a jury announced after only four quick days of deliberation that Nintendo did not abuse their monopoly power, and Atari would not receive the $160 million they were seeking. Many are surprised that after a 10-week trial the jury was able to reach a decision so quickly. In the late 1980's when Nintendo came out with a superior video game system, Atari's 2600 and 5200 became obsolete. Although the jury did agree that Nintendo did in fact have a monopoly in the video game market, they were deadlocked on the decision of whether or not Nintendo used restrictive or exclusionary practices to keep Atari out of the market. This case is as monumental for Nintendo as IBM's case was in the late 1970's. Both companies were acc11sed of illegally obtaining a monopoly by less prosperous companies with inferior products. Despite the excitement and joy that Nintendo must have had after winning the suit by Atari, the next day they had more trouble. Sega initiated a There are positions available for next year on the following committees: Academic Affairs Council Admissions Liaison Committee Athletic Liaison Committee Chet's (the Pub) Committee Campus Operations Committee Concert Committee Conduct Committee Film Committee Finance Committee General Education Board Honorary Degree Committee Planning and Priorities Committee Social Committee Speakers Forum Standing of Students Sub Council Student Affairs Council Student Traffic Appeals Committee Writing Board Applications may be picked up starting today in room 408 of the College Center. They should be returned no later than Monday, May 25 at 4:00p.m. price war by slashing $20 off the price of its Genesis system. Nintendo thus retaliated by taking $30 off Super NES. This year sales have only iThc:reased by a tiny 5% - the major reason for price cutting. This 5% is extremely small w ben compared to past years w'ben rates sometimes reached over 100%! The reason for this lack of buying is due to a satwated market. When Nintendo first came out (boring old 8-bit), there was such a high demand for it that they never needed to reduc~ their price. Bu.t now that 16- bit Super Nintendo is out, consumers are wondering if they really need to update their 4 year old systems. Sega and Nintendb are both desperate to hold a major.ity of the video game market because accessmy sales hold the majority of profit in this business. · Sega typically attracts the mqre mature player with their variety of sports games, while Nintendo usually grabs the younger customer. Last Christmas Sega reportedly sold greater than two times more video game systems than Super NES; however with the recent addition of the NES Super Scope Six, Nintendo is quickly gaining ground. What should we expect to see in video games in the future? By late fall·ofthis year (luckily just in time for Christmas), both Sega and Nintendo will introduce a $200 CD attachment for their systems. With increases in technology coming along too ·quickly, it is difficult to imagine what video game companies will come up witll next. Whatever the future holds, it is unlikely that Nintendo or Sega will be around to witness it. The turnover rate in this industry is fairly quick - remember Atari, Intele.vision, Coleco Vision and Vetrex? - and new companies are anxious to get their foot in the door of such a profitable business. . Source: Wall. St. Journal DRUNK DRIVING· KILLS Write for Business &: Finance Call Shields x4120 P[ace ·a Persona{ in tfte Concordiensis- on{y 50¢ at tlie CC Info '13ootli . fS1ANLEY H. KAPlAN • • Take 'Kaplan Or Take Your Chances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now and get your home study materials. • You may attend classes at any of our 150 ·centers nation-wide. • Call489-0077 Albany Kaplan Center AHention All Sophomores There will be a class meeting at 7:30 tonight. The meeting will be held in the College Center - Room 410. Refreshments and food provide<t AGENDA •PUB ·HOUSING ·TERMS ABROAD a OPEN DISCUSSION • The opportunity for Juniors to be released off campus has become available. • The Junior lottery for housing will immediately follow this meeting. • EXTRA INCOME ''92\ • Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures: For information send a stamped addressed et'l'Velope to: Galaxy Travel, Inc., P.O. Box 131.06, Silver Springs, MD 20911-3106. · i . I

4 ir is a l I I I t I l I ; ~ ,, I ~ ~ i 1 I ·t ' i I I 1 ! CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992• PAGE 15 - CLA.§!iiFIED!i PER!iO·I\IALS To: The guy in the riddled shirt, Well Mr. TDX, thanks for being in the right place at the rigJ:tt time· Saturday night. You really do k11ow how to cheer a girl up a11d make her smile. Thanks again'! ~ Your #tlfan Panasonic Word Processor- Letter Perfect, Big Screen, Huge Memory. Must Sell- Very Inexpensive, Call 374- 7504 Dear Grant,· Good Luck this week. I hope they're not too hard on you. Can't wait to see you so you can tell me everything .... Love, Jocelyn To Matt K., I'm_ sorry I couldn't find out for you but I hope that it's not as bad as you thought. When we both get out, we can .Party together. To Snuffles, Before you know it things w,ill be ill 'Clear sight. From C.K. Interested in subletting an apartment on Gillespie St. for the months of July and August? If so, call 370-6973 or 386-4233. ~-Fran To Ed:· I love you and miss you very much. I can't wait ·to see you again! Love, A Would like to purchase a 1990 yearbook... If willing to part with yours, call 370-6039 during work hours {Mon-Fri,. 9-5) Are you Karen-oid? Jen, I Love You! ~Jordan Matt, Please stop keeping secrets from those who care about you. You're giving me an ulcer! 1988 Pontiac LaMans, 2-door, 4 speed, swrroof, cruise, 4 new tires, AM/FM stereo cassette, $2200, ,can be seen in Lamont Pkg. Lot, 374-2421 U .. N. 1•0• N• 1 S FRfi!JA Y, MAY 15 12.15-1 :J.O p.m. College Center. Russian a:nd Japanese conversation tables. 3:45p.m. S&E N114. Physics Colloquium: Dr. Richard Fork, RPI, speaking on \Ultra Short Laser Pulses.\ 5 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Mitch Frasier. 7-9 p~m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7 p.m .. College Center p:atio. Coffeehouse wii:hfree vegetarian fooo. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center !lud. Film: \Fried Green Tomatoes.\ 10:30 p.m. College Center atrium. \Heart and Soul.\ SATURDAY, MAY 16 11 a.m. Memorial Chapel. Prize Day. Ncon-6 p.m. College Center atrium and patio. Delta Chi cabaret. 8 &: 10:30 p.m. College Center.aud. Film: \Fried Green Tomatoes.\ 10:.30 p.m. College Center atrium. \No· body's Girls.\ SfiNDAY, MAY 17 6-8 p.m. College Center 410. Student forum. 7 :3;() p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Pr()testant worship. 7 :J() p.m. Memorial Field House. Bread & . Puppet Theater introdu~tory meeting. 8 &: 10:30 p.m. College.Center aud. Film: \Fried Green Tomatoes.\ 9 p.m.-Midnight. Achilles Rlnk. The Concert Committee presents \Phish.'' MONDAY, MAY 18 11;50 a.m.-12:50 p.m. College Center. French conversation table. 2-9 p.m. Memorial Field House. Bread & Puppet Theater rehears:als and workshops (dmner). 12: JS-1 :30 p.m. College Center. Italian con- versation table. 3:45p.m. S & EN114. Physics Department C()lloquium: Dr. Noah K.eishk:owitz, Uaiversity of Wisconsin at Madison, speaking pn 4:30-5:30 p.m. College Center 302. Students for Political Action and Awareness meeting. 7-8 p.m. College Center410. SADD meeting. 7-8:30 p.m. College Center 409·. Speaking Hands meeting. 7~9p.m. Memorial Chapel. Teach-in.· 7:30p.m. Crosstalk atChet's: \Is Union Falling Dpwn?\ 1UESDA Y, MAY 19 11 :30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup an:d beverage club. 2-9p;m. Memorial Field House. Bread & fuppet Theater rehearsals and workshops (dinner). 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese c001vetsation table. 12:20-1:20 p.m. Colle;ge Center. Brazilian conversation table. , 4;.3.0 p.m. College Center 404. Bible study. 7 -<J p.m. College Center 203. Pre-Law ~ociety meeting. . . 7;-JO p.m. College Cemter 410. Alcohal awaxeness meeting. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Bincentennial Series speaker, renowned black-studies seholar Henry Louis Gates on \The Wel- come Table: Remembering .James Baldwin ... WEEK WEDNESDAY, MAY 20 12:15-1:30 p.m. College C~nter. Gennan and Spanish conversation tables. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 409. Women's Studies and Women's Commission speaker, Professor Faye Dudden, history, on \Women's History{l'heater History: Connections and Problems.\ 4:30-5:30 p.m. College Center 302. SPAA meeting. 5 p.m. Schenectady City Hall. Bread and Puppet Theater parade, ends with a picnic in Riverside Park in the Stockade. 6:45-9 p.m. College Center 409. Brazilian Club. 7-9:30 p.m. Old Chapel. Union Sentinel address. 8-10 p.m. College Center 302. SPAA meeting. 8:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Bread & Puppet Theater perfo:rmance \Columbus: The New World Order.\' 9:30p.m. Senior Class party at Chet's. THURSDAYI MAy 21 II :30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents independent scholar Harold Fromm speaking on \Reconstruing American Ecology.\ Noon-2 p.m .. College Center. Chess table. Noon. Colleg-e Center circle. Alcohol Awareness mock car crash. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 406. Investment club. 3:45p.m. S & E Nll4. Physics ColloCJ.Uium: Dr. Philip Kosky, G.B. R. & D., speaking on \Diamond from Gases.\ 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Department senior thesis defense: Michael Scaccia '93 on \Obligation and dle HIV Infected Physician.•• 4:45p.m. HUM 213. Senior thesis defense: Darren VanHouten '92 on \Ethics of 'freatment.of Birth Defective New boms.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Support group. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Abortion debate. FRIDAY, MAY 22 12:15-1;3() p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 5 p.m. Track. Men's and women's Union Spring Classic. 7-9 p.m. College Center. 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center 406. Asian Student Union m~etmg. . . . . . .. 8-10 p.m. College Center 302. SPAA meeting. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Orand Canyon.\ SATURDAY, MAY 23 2-5 p.m. College Center aud. Gospel concert. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: 1 'Grand Canyon.\ SUNDAY, NAY 24 2:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Piano c()ncert by Scott Hirni '93. 6-8 p.m. College Center 410. Student forum me-eting. ·· 7:30 p:m,Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant worhship service. 8 & 10:3() p.m. College Center aud. Filtn: a.Gtand Can.yon.\ !Rsunion Wee~nd !May 29-31 : MEET AND MINGLE WITH A.tUMNI FROM TilE CLASS Of' '21 TO THE CLASS OF '91. SOME HIGHUGHTS OF THE WEEKEND: ···MINERVNS RACE···ONE Ar'D TIIREE MILE RACES, IN AND AROUND CAMPUS. SPECIAL PRIZE CATEGORY 1'0R CURRENT STUDENTS. • ... EVENING AT TilE ATRIUJ\t ... ENTERTAINMENT BY A SIX PIECE JAZZ !lAND. ·-ALUMNI PARADE .. ·EACH REUNION ClASS MARCIIES, IN COSTUME, COMPETING FO~ ONE OF THE THREE REUNION TROPHIES. -·ALUMNI CONVOCATION··· 'WELCOME OF HIE CLASS OF 19921NTO TilE SOCIE\l OF ALUMNI, PRESENTATION OF' PARADE TI\OPHIES. HELP HONOR PROF. BILL TIIOI\1.\S . foS HE RECEIVES THE FACULTY MERITORIOUS SERVICE AWARD FROM ·mE ALUMNI . COUNCIL ···AI.L·:YOU·CAN-EAT PICNfc ... ALEXANDER FIELD MUSIC PROVIDED BY SKIP PARSONS DIXIELAND JAZZ BAND. ·-SHAKE RATTl.E AND ROlL AT TilE SATURDAY NIGIIT CELEBRA~nON···MUSIC PROVIDED BY SPEcrRUM ,(L2 PIECE BIG BAND) AND DJ JOHN PARKER. ··FIREWORKS--BY THE NOTT. *****••········································$·····················*······· FULL SCHEIJULE OF EVEJ'JTS: THURSDAY, MAY 28 w .. trnm• \ 7:30 • 9:00 p.m., Strauss lnunge. Jnl Flm1r, College Center. Informal coffee antl !Oesscrl reccplion. FRIDA.Y, MAY 29 IAI11mni c;, . • >~: 8:00am. · 1.1:00 a.m., S1:1tlium Golf Cour>e. All alumni and 11ldr families faculty, administrators and studenis are invited 10 gcllf at litis fun event. Reservations are limited 5 ~ please reserve early and indica1e >':lur preferred lee-off lime (8 • II a.m.) and your preferred pla;ing partners. $ 35.00 per person. Fe-e mdudes: greens lees, cart, food and beverage. \' •'< \\'l' R11.-~: 1:3() p,m. Register at Memorial Fieldhouse. I mile and 3 mile race rnutes on arnpus. I mile race begins at 2! p.m~ 3 mile ra<e will follow, Race T-shins for all entrams l're· ~lstratlon $3.00; $5.00 I he day or I he mce. 'l:raannine lb~ Globe\: 3:JO p.m .• Room 016, Social Sciences Building. Pwfessnr Bill Thomus lead; a presentation by alumni ami current students on their experiences during a Union Term Abruatl. An ppportun~;~hask !luestions abot&t U~on'l foreign study program. ~.:1-;,w tn ' a ' · •· 3:3() p.m., Room I 12, Social Sciences Building. Professor ~harles Tidmarch will dis.:uss the 1m Preside~tial Camp{lign. IEvenint: at the Atrium: 9:00p.m. -Midnight, College Center. A lively gathering, featuring a New Orleans ·azz band. SATURDAY, MAY 30 ReUnion Class Phnh)graphs: 10::00 a.m., Libral)' Field, adjacent 10 the Noll Memorial. Alumni Parade: 11:00 a.m. Fo~s on Nonh Lane, near the Psychology and Arts Buildings, mcves 10 Alexander Lane, then to. South lan<: to Memorial Cbapel to seating in Library Plaza. Al11mni Convocation: Noon, Scllaffcr Library Plm. Presentation of Alumni Gold Medals, Faculty Meritorious Service Award and p<~ratle trophies. Chimes Concert: 12:30 p.m., Mcllllorial Chapel, by Peter K. Smith '70. All· You-Can·Ea! Olumcy J>jcojc: ll:31J ·3:00p.m., Alexander Field. An unlimi1ed buffcl nl\finger·lickin\ [ood. Grilled chicken, hamburgen, bot dogs, an assnrtrnent of cold salads, dessert and beverages. Enjoy the music of Skip Parson's Dixieland Jazz Band. SIZ.OO per .person. Shake Raule and Roll at (he Satllrdav Nieht eelcbraJjnn: 8:00p.m. • 12:00 midnight, Achilles Rink. A mixture of music to please all ages. Dance to the big bam! music of SPECTRUM and rock and mil tunes of DJ John Parker. Cash bar. A. wonderful opport11nity to mingle with alumni of all ages. Advance llckel• $4,00 per person~ $8,00 per person a! l~e doer. Fireworks: 9:30 p.m. Library Field Memorial Service: 9: !5 a.m., Memorial Chapel. (Jon Voya~e Brunch: 10:00 a.nt. • 1:30 p.m., Upper Class Dining Room, Cullege Ccnler. $8.51) per . person. Happy Bjnhday 10 \II\· lA Bicm(ennial Worksliopl: 10:00 a.m., rollege Center AUthtnnum A~ncmle Professor Byron Nichols, Co·chahrrnan of Union's Bicentennial cnrnmillee w1ll hring '\ up w date L>ll 1he ni'I.-IC '\\ 'loinn 1 t;. ni~ntennial C<lebrntion, and will solicit your ide: as 00 how lu make Unifl0°!! 2H01h anniversary a rnu~h1g su«css.. Oues(ilm und Answer Sessjon wj3h President Rneer II !lull: 11:30 a.m., College Center Audnnrium For more lnforrnalion, cn!J.the Alumni Office at J70·61o8 ,. ________________________ ., I ReUNION Wt;EKENI) S'IUDENT REGISTRATION FORM I ~. Tic:kclt. for alt cvcJ::~IS EXCEPT 71te r:;cJ1{ Tounum1t'i1t may be purchased al the dout ~~ TOTAL COST . I ~ .flillE t! AUENDINO Of EVENT I I Ttl! !RSP&Y. MAY ;!8 I I Welcome Reception FR. EE II S ••· I fRIDAY, Mr\Y ~2 I Alumni Golf I 35.00 pc:r peuon t1 $ ·1 I Tourn:amcnt. R~naucn' Required I Slodium Golf Course .I Minerva's Race S Jllll In advance # __ S I I Shirt Sit.e: I j,OO day of race (I mile) I SM#_MEO#_ # __ I LG I_ XLG #_ (3 mile) J .• Seminar: 'Spanniog lhe FltEE 11 _ s ,q. J Globe' I Seminar: 'Campaign '92' ::EE 11 s ---\\-· 1111 1 Evcnina 111he Atrium ... ~. 1 S 11· SADIRDU. MAY JD All· \'uu·<\an·Eot-PH:I1lt S [l.i~l JlCr porsan II S __ _ I Shokc, Rl'ltle & Rnll S -i.tlll illOLI-.n•• t! S I at th.: S•turd•y Nipr I 'IIJIII It the: dour · Cclolualioa I I SUNQI\Y, MAY 31 L '\' a. ... Yoyroce ....... h . s Ull i''\ J1CISOO • -- , J -~-------------------1 .p . .

CONCORDIE;NSIS' TODAY Economics Majors Required Thesis Meeting The Department of On May 22, 1992, the College Bookstore, College Center, will activate the returns of Spring term textbooks to publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook purchases prior to May 22, 1992. Sociology and Anthropology Thursday, May 14 3:30 P.M. Invites you to attend its S.[>ring Term Series 1992 ss 103 Majors·in Economics, Industrial Economics, Managerial Economics, and IDJECO Who Will Be Writing a Senior Thesis in 1992-93 Conversations with Alumni!ae o,n Life After Union May 14 7:00-9:00 P.m. Social Science Faculty Lounge \Getting a Ph.D. in Sociology.\ Teresita Camacho, Ph.D. TELE· COMMUNICATIONS ALL GRADUATING SENIORS WITH COLLEGE LOANS (NDSL/Perkins, UC Gen, Swope, Ryder, Nelson, Schaffer) Sociology at the University of New Hampshire GIFT CERTIFICATES Nai'lCE Students who may be planning to take courses at a,college other than Union should be aware of the ruling regarding academic credit (see page 45ofthe Academic Register)which states: \Students with 18 or more credits towards graduation. may not :receive credit for oourse work taken at a two-year college.\ Union CoUege Child Care Center Summer Program, June 2?-Sept. 4, 1992 Openings available for . children 18 months to five years old, full or part time. Call Steve Sargent at .. 370-6360· Academic year program begins ~eptember 8, 1992 Call Steve Sargent (6360) for information and application. DON'T FORGET '' •• STARTING MAY 11 To Sign Up For Your MEAL PLAN for Next Year. This may be done at the Checker's Desk in either West College or U pperclass Dining Hall or come to the Dining Servic.es Office, Room 202, in the College Center. ATTENTION- SENIORS The four \rain\ tickets for commencement exercises will be issued as follows: College Center · Room 205 TUESDAY, MAY 19, 1992 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tic~ets and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you would like. At that time, we are asking that you submit \The Senior Survey\ sent to you from the President's Office. We have been instructed not to issue rain NOTICE to All Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors NEXT WEEK is FACULTY ADVISING WEEK Be sure to check with your advisor foT a time to sign up for an advising appointment. REMEMBER Make An Appointment! ! ·see Your AdYisor! ! ARE THE· PERFECT GIFT X370-6411 You MUST see Mrs. Mitchell BEFORE Graduation! College Center Auditorium May 26, 27 & 28 10:00 A.M. • 2:00 P.M. ALL questions answered abo.ut loans .••• payments .•.• grace periods ..... deferments Interviews last 10 -15 minutes. Each person seen privately, individually. Dutch Hollow Restaurant ' will be closed on Friday, May 29, 1992 - at 7:00 p.m. .and Saturday, May 30, 1992 at 2:00 p.m .. in order to accommodate ReUnion Weekend Events. Sc.rrybut no meal cards win be honored during these times. ~------~------~------------------_.~--------, Who Is At Risk? When Magic Johns()n told the world he: had AIDS, many ()f us finally understood that a person who looks and feels fine can be infected with the HIV virus a11d can infect others. Mter ten years of dealin:g with AIDS, we lrnow there are certain people at particular risk. • If you bne bad many Sei: partnerS during the last few years or if you 'bad sex: with someon~ who bas l1ad m()re .tllan one partner, you may be at risk. o Yuu are lilt risk if you bad a blood transfusion between the years 1978 and 1985, or if you are a hemophili:ae. o Men who llave had se\ 'vlth men, and wDmen who have had sex with bjsexual men, are at risk. - · o If yuu are an IV drug 11ser you are at risk. o Finally If you have S!iphilis~ gonorrhea or anotller sexually transmitted disease, you may be at risk. · If you fall into one of th.ese group you lt:la.y want to consider being tested. It's the only way to 'know if you are carrying the HIV virus and ca11 IJass it on to otheo1s. ff you are a woman thinking of having a baby and you fall into one of 'the above groups, please heed this special wamirlg: You can pass the virUs to your baby before birth. You can reduce your personal risk for AIDS in several ways. Y ()U can limit sexual relations to one relationship with one non-infected partnel'. If you can't be s11re ·of your partner's HIV status. use a condom with a spe!'ffiicide. Do not share intravenous needles. Remember th.at al<:ohol can impair your judgement and cause you to take foolish risks. Your doctor can tell you more about AJ])S testing and how to. control your risks. You can also call the Public Health Service's toll-free hotli.n.e ~~ 1-800-342-Ji.IDS. tickets without the completed survey. Students who do not t-------~~~~~~~~---------,-----------1 pick up their tickets at this time may lose their opportunity for 1992·93 Fall Term extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats h:as been Prescheduling. Procedures determined, extra tickets will be proportioned and sent to the Prescheduling materials 111111 be available at I!Je Regista(;s Office beginning Friday, May mail boxes of those seniors who have requested them. 15th. Students should review the course listi11g. consult with their adviser and select the OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR courses they wish to tak&. !It is advisable fors\udents to have additional choices in mind Attention all 1992 GRADUATES All 1992 Union College graduates who have borrowed through the Stafford or SLS loan programs while enrolled at Union College, must attend an exit inteiView counseling session. Attendance at an exit . inteiView session is a GRADUATION REQUIREMENT. Sessions will be held in the' Auditorium of the· College Center on: Tuesday, May 12at 8:30a.m. Tuesday, May 12 at 6 p.m. Wednesday, May 13 at 10:30 a.m. Wednesday, May 13 at3:00 p.m. Thursday, May 14 at 9:30 a.m. Thursday, May 14 at 7:00p.m. Friday; May 15 at 11:15 a.m. Friday, May 15 at 2:30p.m. Call the Financial Aid Office by May 8, 1992 at x6123 to :register for a session or to schedule a more convenient time. in 1he event one or more ol their first thr~e clloices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE EVERY STUDENT IS R:EOUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULE FORM. ~F THE ADVISER 'IS UNAVAILABLE STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CtlfURMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with th~ permisSion of the deparJment. These are referred to as \lisr or \card\ .courses, and are so indicaied on the course listing by an as !erick (*)~ Lists for these courses Will be pc!Stad bu the deparlrJients o!'l MONDAY, MAY 18TH. Students should sign these lists te~ indicate an intere:st ar1d then return to the department on FRIDAY, MAY 22ND to linCI out whether or ni(Jt lhflY have been admitted to the course. Those aclmitted to a list C~»Urse must get a r&sef\'ation card from the department. In order to pick up a card • .rou MUST nave )\OI prescheduling form validated by the depar:tmenl You are permitted to pick up no more that three (3) cards .. PLEASE NOT: cards not picked up ·GY 4:3:() p.m. on MOND~Y. MAY 25TH WILL BE GIVEN TO THE · NEXT PERSON ON liH£ WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE AlLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \liST\ COU.RSE Vt/I'THOUT A CARD. Only these courses I require permission cards. Student will be a.drraltted to Wnitaker House at the time printed on their preschduling form Once inside, th~· st1oiJid verify that the courses they have chose(! are not closed. U cme or more courses :are cll)sed !hey should select new ones and correct their prescheduliflg form,. They sh0ould sse a staff member in the Register's Office who will preschedule tllem. The date a11d time for each student~s appointment is printed io11 the label of the prescheduling form. Swdents may not preschedule earlier that their assigned time. Howol\er they may come an~ time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PR,ESCHEDULING VWILL CONTINUE ON FRIDAV 1 MAY 19TH. Additional course changes may next be made duri119 the wdropfadd\ period at Registration in September at the FIELD~OUSE. SIUdent \'il~o don't plan to return to Union for the Fall term, except for seniors who ate completing hir rEQuirement early should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS IMMEDIATELY. Pot:ential Fall 1992 \graduates\ should also ,, immediately notify the R99lstar's Office of .their plar~s to finish their studies at the end of Fall Term. Students Who will be on a Union ~lla~eterm abroad for the Fall term do not need to preschdule their C()Urses. Fall term ljiourse prescheduling will take place from TUESDAY, MAY 26TH !Ju~:.~ FRIDAY, MAY 2nH in !he Registar's Office .in. Whitaker House. · Office of the Ragistar, May 1992 TEACH-IN Monday, May 18 7:00 p.m. CC Auditorium TOPIC; \What can we do about injustices in · the Criminal Justice System?\ SPEAKERS INCLUDE; Commissioner Mills of Schenectady Police Presidents of Schenectady and A.lbany PDA Mark Mishler • Civil Rights Attorney Martha Huggins • Prof. of Sociology and others. ' ! l ~ •' ., ,•

. g l I I j \l ., I ,j ' ! ti: . ·' ; ' ' .. I ~ l II ;j :1 :l :J !l (J \ I :1 ~ '! 1.~ ; i l :! i 11 J f 'I ·I ii i~ 'I ., ' ~ i CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992.•PAGE 17 • (jreef( Wee!( Scfietfu[es . ~ t1XCN3:30) 5/14 EVENT· s·oFT··BAL· L. . ~ .··. \\. (N12:3Q) S/l·S· . . • . . . · . . ll) KA / X'¥ )~------>~. 5/16 ( 4:00 N) ,.....,_ __ '\\--' (5:00S) (4:00S) (5:00N) 5/15 (5:00 R) (6:00R) .Acl>(3:302 ' W (J)~K ./ (5:00W) L4> R Kl:<3:30} (6:00W) I,<)) 5/14 ~ ~ XS'< 3 :Jffi > B9TI(2:30)) • 5/15 - II) WIA (12:00) .1<ll ' !J:30) /• L\ '£1.1(2;30)/ AX < E- 9~(4:30)> ~E-~!') <~= (1:00) ~~0 Q u - - - - - - - - LX AEII <i > . FUI(2:30) > (12:00) < ~ E-~~=: 'PY(3:30) <C!l=;;> AL\<l> ~~o rr.:, u AiPA 4>A9(4:30) <I>EK(3:30)) (1:00) > 5/15 (3:00) (3:15) A <I> A ~1:(3:00) ) __.... __ _ (3:45) (S:OON) (SEMI- FINALS 3 PTS.) (5:00S) (FINAL 3:00N 7 PTS.) EVENT: ULTIMATE ·5/16 (t:OOA) (SEMI- (FINAL FINALS 12:00A 3 PTS.) 7 PTS.) (12:00~) R=Richmond W=West Beach A=Alexander Field EVENT: VOLLEYBALL 5{16 (4:00) (SEMI- (FINAL 1:30AT FJN\ALS DELTA 3 PTS.) Pill 7 PTS.) (4:00) EVENT: TUG-OF-WAR 5/16 (3:00) (SEMI- FINALS 3PTS.) (3:15) (FINAL 4:00 7 PTS.) r------ The30-Game Report Card By Rich Morgan Concordiensis Staff Well,. for the two weeks that it lasted, the Yankees were making bem.wers out of even the most skeptical sports experts. However, that time is long since gone, and the Bronx · ' Bombers have regfessed back to their late-1980's playing style that left them holding up the rest of the American League East. After winning their first six games of the season, and after taking an impressive 15- 10 record on a 1 0-day road trip, they have faltered by losing their last 6 consecutive games. Their season up to this point can be summed up in one word .. .injuries. Three of their starters left for infamous disabled list, all of which were potentially major impact players. Pat Kelly missed I? games with a sprained thumb (poor baby); Danny Tartabull, their 5-miUion dollar man, was also out with a leg injury, and Mike Gallego, who has yet to play a game as a Yankee, still awaits a return to baseball. With all things considered, however. the Yankees have still made an impact. Now in fourth place, hopefully the return of their starters will be a boost to the struggling ballclub. There have. been a number of bright spots - Roberto Kelly is third in the league in hitting and second in hits ... Charlie Hayes has committed only one error in the 31 games played so far ..• Andy Stankiewicz, who has been filling in for the injured Pat Kelly, has a .309 batting average. It's still early, but they have to make a move to gain back the confidence that led them to their best start in 60 years. GRADE: B. Conversely, the Mets have done ~ust the opposite. After a horrendous start, ~he Forest Hills team took off, and recently had an 11-game home winning streak snapped. They currently sit in second place behind the dominating Pirates. Their pitching, arguably the best in the majors. has finally come around. Bret Saberhagen, who dropped his first two games of the season (with an ERA of 18.00), has won his last two and has brought his ERA down 14 points. Along with their ace, David Cone, he is among the league leaders in strikeouts. One offensive improvement has been that of recently aquired Dick Schofield, their second baseman from California. Aquirecl for his defense alone, he has proved himself an asset on the bases. Although his BA is only .231, he has reached base in all but two games this season. One major disappointment has been that of Bobby Bonilla. The Six-Million Dollar Man has not exactly earned his paychecks as of yet. batting a mere .246 with only 2 home runs. If tbe Mets are going to · contend with the Pirates, his bat will be needed in a big way. Despite these minor setbacks, the Mets can still be a force. GRADE: B Until next time ... ****** m • r1 ****** ... . . . . ' ' ' . . I • . I , , _,-- j: . ' ,, i.

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992 • PAGE 18 Softball. Season • • Continued from page 19 walks and had 5 errors of their own, with ill,il$ for both sides well spread-out over the innings. It was the second game that allo'Wed the squad to break its losing streak, where the pitcher walked seven Union batters. Hits were even between the teams, where freshman outfielder and sophomore outfielder Cluis W eske each had two hits; Twombly and freshman Micl1elle Parker each had one alon,g with an RBI; and Howk also h2d an RBI. For starting freshman pitcher Allison Draizin. it was her far best perforrna11ce, without a walk or hitting a batter, and the few hits given up were not · costly. Of the tltree runs gotten by Hartwick in tl:Je first, only one was scored on a wild pitch. The final two-gamer versus arch-rival Hamilton on May 6th provi<led the chance for subs to play in preparation for next year's season and give seniors the chance to put in one final effort. The 9-6 loss in the first game ;Still contained hits by senior centerfielder quad-captain Roselle Eisma, who had a hit; senior catcher quad-captain Robin Romer, who had two hits and two RBis; senior secondbaseman quad-captain Jean Lopata with a hit and an RBI; Howk. with a hit, and freshman thirdbaseman Deb Montano with an RBI. With another 7-2 loss in the second game, the only runs scored in the first and seventh · innings, the first run by Lopata, put in off Hawk's RBI. After hitting a solo triple, Howk was then brought in at the game's end by Eisma. Also credited are Eisma with a double and Romer with a hit. While the expectations had been higher at the start of the season, it became • acceptable over the course of the season. to use fuis as a growing year, especially considering the large percentage of freslnnan on tfte team. While there was a considerable gap between the fresllmen and upperclassmen, the freshmen gained exper:ience to carry Union into next ~ear. As pitcher, Draizin has become better equipiJed to deal with the game at college-level, and is expected to do what is necessary to prepare in. ,the off. season. Wllile Eisma, Romer, and Lo]Jata will be greatly missed .on the team, to find people to replace this core will only come from experience. Freshman Chris Nytransky's improvement shows her potential to take over at catcher, while Twombly and freshman Nicole Silvestri are expected to return at second next year. The outlook for recruiting also looks positive, with the possibility of two new pitcher-catcher combinations coming in. With .only two returning seniors next year, the team is still extremely young but will allow for future growth and growth throughout next season. Thanks To All Concordy Writers! .. The Concert Choirs of Union College and ~~ Queensbury High School present John Rutter's at: Union College Memorial Chapel Union College, Schenectady May 14th at 8:00 p.m. The work wiD be accompallied by Hugh Wilsont organist and the Union College Chamber Orchestra under the direction of Ned Crislip. A program of W()rks by Boieldieu, Beethoven, and Debussy under the direction of Hilary Tann, will also be performed.

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 14, 1992 • PAGE 19 New York Rangers - Burden Of Winning The Stanley Cup chach by John Schachnovsky Sports Editor by Hal Poret Concordiensis Staff It is overtime of game 4 in the .second round matchup between th,e Rangers and Pittsbt~rgh Penguins. With si~ty seconds remaining on New York defenseman Jeff Beukeboom's holding penalty, the Penguins are furiously attacking the Ranger net. The puck goes behind the net, squirts between Ranger Mark Hardy's legs and Ranger leader Mark Messier pounces on it. But this time Messier fires the puck out o{ the zone, and the Rangers kill off the Pittsburgh power-play. Two minutes later, Messier takes an outlet pass from Brian Leetch, races up the right wing, fakes a pass to linemate Tony Amonte freezing Pittsburgh defenseman Ulf Samuelsson, and fires the puck past Tom Barasso, giving the Rangers a commanding 3-1 lead in the series. Then Messier snaps out of his daydream, back into the real world where he carries the pressure of erasing 52 years of painful memories. He painfully recalls that not only did he fail to clear the puck, but his rookie-like mistake of trying to stick- handle in his own zone while short-handed led to Pittsburgh's winning goal. As Penguins' playoff standout Ron Francis deflected a Larry Murphy shot past Ranger goalie John Vanbiesbrouck at 2:47 of the overtime, all Mark Messier could do was agonize over the mistake he had just made, which let the Rangers' control on the series slip away .. Is the pressure getting to him? Rangers general manager Neil Smith lraded for Messier this season with the hope that his playoff experience, and leadership ability would help the Rangers break their playoff jinx. And Messier has certainly produced for them. Messier's 35 goals and 72 assists helped the Rangers to a team .record 50 wins. His heart and determination have robbed off onto the rest of the team. which now believes that it can win. So where is the pressure corning from? Messier has won five Stanley Cups with the Edmonton Oilers., including one without the help of the great on~ •. W a.yDe Gretzky He has wo11: the Conn Smythe trophy forr playoff MVP. He has woil tthe Hart Trnphy for regular s.eoason MVP, and is the obvious ;c:lloic~ for the award this yellf~ Ma1k is also the third-leadi:ng pl!lyoff goal scorer of all-time. S& what does he have left rto prove? Messier is the most det~rmined. hard- working player you will find, and he ....,in not accept defeat. The diff~r~nce now is that he is with a teaun that has managed to make= :it past the second round of tile playoffs only once in the last '12 years. In contrast to New ~ !Qrk's <>ther team, the Islanders:, who won 19 straight playoff :series from '1980 to 1984, ttlle Rangers' only highlight was making it to the Wales Conference finals in 1986, bel'ore being crushed by Montreal The pressure is coming ic.om !tlte media, the fans and Jllostly from himself. The presslll\e is to do it in New York. lit is hardly fair to say that all tile .Jltessure is on Messier, .md n<>t the rest of the team. Tile fact is that it does seem to lle getting to him. Though Messier is tied for the team lea<l witb '7 playoff goals. he has al:so rnade 3 crucial errors which l~d to Ranger losses. M:e:ssier turned the puck over twic:e. in front of his own net, reslllting in 2 goals for New Jerse:y in game 6 of that series, a 5-3 New Jersey.victtOry. In addition, 5 of his 7 go11Ls came in losing efforts. a.s opJ)Osed to co-goal leader Mike G-artner, whose goals werte big factors in four Ranger victories. And what of the fact th:at the Rangers beat Pittsbur~!J both times that Messier sat otlt with back spasms. 'J'IIis is not to belittle Messier's: iJCrformance. but to show wh11t a well-rounded team this Ran~er team is. Messier has shoW11 brilliance, assisting Jan Erix:()n's game-winning goal in .:g=tme 4 against the Devils, W~Ub a beautiful pass between lDevi[ defenseman Fetisov's l~gs. He also assisted on three ltanger goals in their 8-5 victory in game 5 against New Jerser and he scored 2 key goals in tlleir ~arne 7 win, to clinch tile: series. However, many ottller Rangers have stepped UIJ their performance a notch. Sixteen Ranger skaters • have scored goals in the playoffs -including enforcers If I were to tell you that race are asking is Joey Kocur and Tie Domi. theFe ,jg a sporting event going Why isn't it being watched. Even winger Kris King, who is on, as we speak, tltat is the Finally. I will give them an not usually a goal scorer ,bas champi()nsbip evebat in that answer.IT IS BORIN(]. It scored 4 times, including an sport, your ears would is without a doubt one of the incredible 3 game-winning probably perk up a bit. If r most boring things to watch. goals. Veteran forward Mike then t()ld you that the U.S. was If I had to choose between the 'Gartner, who has had a history the defending champion in the America's Cup and C~Span, I of bad playoffs with the event and that they were would put it on the latter and Rangers has been spectacular, defending champions,. and had break off the knob. It is just scoring goals and inspiring won the event the most out of not fun to watch. I did in fact other players. Brian Leetch any competitor in the turn it on the other day only to who became the fifth sport. .• ever ... your ears might see one of the skippers .• that is defenseman to score 100 points pop up even higher. If I Lhan one of the head guys ... get in a season, leads all told you that the U.S.A. had knocked in the back ()f the defensemen with 13 playoff won the first match i11 the best head. He started wobbling points and of course the four ()Ut of seven series and had around and almost passed out. goaltending has been solid with lost the second by only 3 That was pretty cool, but come Mike Richter and seconds, you might even want on how often does this h:appen. Vanbiesbrouck sharing time. to watch the next match. The second race was the closest Well all of this is true race in championship One sour note for the and it is the America's cup that competition, but if it weren't Rangers is that they played the I am talking about. All of the for my trusty friends on last 3 games without winger above is true, except for the Sportscenter, I would never Adam Graves, who received a last part. .. nobody is watching have known, or cared for that four game suspension for his it. That's right, aside from a matter. slash which broke Pittsburgh few diehards~ the America's cup The fact of the matter superstar Mario Lemieux's is about as importa11t to the is a lot of us don't care. If the wrist. The Rangers will miss sport's world as the Super USA keeps the elitist piece of Graves who came over from Bowl is to an lditorod sled dog. metal... well that would be Edmonton this year and wbo's The question that many people great, but let's get back to bond with Messier has been a in San Diego watching the more important things. real strength for the team. 1--------------------=----- Graves had five playoff goals already, before his suspension. Undoubtably, this incident would have been over-looked if it werep't Lemieux, but the league has a responsibility to protect its marquee players like Lemieux, who are big targets for illegal stick fouls. Though Lemieux is irreplaceable, bis teammate Jaromir Jagr has stepped up his play to meet the challenge of playing witllout Lemieux. Jagr's dazzling play, especially his unbelievable goal to win game 5 in New York, enabled the Penguins to take control of the series. All things aside, what will be remembered is who won the series, and who will eventually go on to challenge the Boston Bruins in the Waies Conference finals. With such great talent and high expectations, nothing less than a Stanley Cup championship will be acceptable to the fans but more importantly to the players, who have worked so hard for it. Unless the last Ranger game of the playoffs is a victory. the whole season is a loss. That is the burden of the New York Rangers. Softball Season Comes To A Close B:y Ron Birnbaum Concordiensis Staff Well, the Union softball team's season unfortunately has gone o11t with less than a bang. Out of its final five opponents faced (including Albany, North Adams, Russell Sage, Hartwick, and Hamilton) one sole vict<>ry was achieved versus Hartwick to split one of Union's final three double- headers scheduled. Yet. though this wtts far from being a totally unsuccessful season, this brought the final seasonal record to 7-12 and made chances for post-seasonal consideration null. Tile first 10-4 loss to Albany at home brought Union to an exactly even 500 record at 6-6. With Union having been in the lead in the second inning, in the fourth tile Great Danes sc<Qred three to pull ahead 4-:>. Breaking away in the sixth with four runs off several walks and wild pitches. the Dutchwomen were unable to answer at the bottom of the inning~ with only five overall hits to Albany's ten. North Adams was an even bigger loss for Union at Union, with a final 15-4 score after the fifth inning based on a ten-run rule. The enemy scored continuously with four rtJns in the second, five runs i11 the fourth, and six in the fifth, Union's only runs comi11g in the first, second and fifth. With a 15-3 record for Adams at time played, Union was again out hit 2:1. The first of three final away double-headers, Russell Sage had been considered a team versus whom Union had to play well for post-seasonal consideration. In game one, Union had been up 4-0 in the second, but Sage gr:and- slammed in the third to tie things up and then scored one m<>re to go ahead. One more run later run for Sage led to the final 6-4 loss. Despite the 7-2 defeat in the second game, the game was much closer than the score, tied until the bottom of the sixth when Sage put i1t five runs. The two for Union were scored by junior rightfielder Kim Twombly (who als() had the only two hits for Union) and freshman short stop Stephanie Howk on a passed ball. Somewhat closer in playing level was Hartwicl, an 11-15 loss, Union gettin,g on base eleven times off walks and four after being hit by pitches in the first game. Yet the Dutchwomen still gave tlp 7 Continued on pag;e 18

<irllnntrbirtt.sis MAY 14, 1992 ~ UNION COLLEGE GREEK BEACH VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT To BENEFIT SCHENECTA.DY BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS FRATERNITY TOURNAMENT (2 ON 2): SATURDAY, MAY 16 Preliminaries l. DELTA PHI (12:30-l:lS) 2. SIGMA Pili Quarter-Finals I SUNDAY, MAY 17 Semi-Finals Finals LazTeam Falls in Playo&s I 3. ALPRA PHI ALPHA I (1:15-2:00) 4. KAPPA SIGMA I 5. BETA TBETA PI (2:00-2:45) I 6. DELTA CIII I (11:45-12:30) 7. PHI GAM!A DELTA (2:45-3:30) I 8. PHI SIGMA KAPPA I 9 • THETA IlELTl\ CHI (3:30--4:15) I 10. PSI UPSILON I (12: 30-1:15) 11. ALPHA EPSILON PI (4:15-5:00) I 12 • DELTA tiPS ILON I 13. ZETA BETA TIIU (5:00-5:45) I 14. SIGMA CHI I (l < 15-2: 00) 15. CBI PSI (5:45-6:30) I 16. Pili DE:LTA 'l'BETA I SORORITY TOURNA~ENT (6 ON 6): SUNDAY 1 MAY 17 I Preliminaries : Finals l. SIGMA DELTA TAU • (3:30-4:15) 2. DELTA GAMMA 3. GAMMA PEI BETA i I (S:00-5:45) (4:15-5:00) 'f----------l 4. DELTA DELTA DELTA I (2:00-2:45) (5:45-6:30) (2:45-3:30) CHAMPION CMMPION by Cort Boulanger Concordiensis Staff The Men's Lacrosse team finished the 1992 season with a disappointing loss to Hartwick on Friday. This game culminated an 8-5 season for the Dutchmen, along with the careers af nine seniors. Tournament drawinqs were done randomly by Dean Marnmola. All. games will be. played on Fiji •s . sand volleyball court. There will be a brief a•rards ceremony folloWlng tne fratern1ty and sorority f1nals on sunday. At this time, trophies will be presented to the champion· and runner-up of eac~ to~rr1ament, and a donation of several thoui><Hld cl.ollar:!; 'Will be made to Sclkenectady Big Brother{Blg S1sters on behalf of the Union Greek Community. REMEMBER: Free barbecue a~ soda ~11 day Saturday and· sunday. Union, who entered the ECAC tournament as the fourth seed, travelled to Oneonta to .attempt to halt a three game losing streak to Hartwick. Unfortunately, the Dutchmen opened the game with their characteristic slow start, falling behind by as much as 6-1. Senior Will Winship, playing in the last game of his illustrious career, lumbered up field, split the Hartwick defense, and fired a shot to the upper comer of the net, trimming the deficit to four goals. However, Union could not get much going offensively, mainly due to the spectacular play of the Hartwick goalie. He thwarted the Union attack repeatedly throughout the game, including several close range, one-on-one opportunities. Trailing 9-2 at halftime, the Dutchmen were able to mount a respectable comeback, but it was too little, too late. 'the COHE BKOW YOUR ~UPPORT FOR THE UNION GRBCIS !II Tired of cold, wet springs in Schenectady? Corn:siderr ~hce T:erm Abr~tll.cl in Frr:eibut8.1 199~~ In Freiburg (at the edge of the Black Forest of southwest Germany close to the French and Swiss borders), April is like May in Schenectady, and May is like June. Who can go? Any student who has completed at 'least two terms of German. Never had German? Begin it in the fall (German 10), continu€ it in the winter (German 11), and wing .off to Europe in the spring. (A Union Term Abroad term abroad costs little more than a term on campus, and all scholarships apply.) By the time you get back you will have completed five/ sixths of a German minor--not a bad plan, given Germany's economic dominance in Europe, east and west. For more information, come to the TErms Abroad Office, Hu 211 $$$ ATIENTION JUNIORS $$$ THE THOMAS J. WATSON TRA YELLING FELLOWSHIP ** INFORMATION MEETING ** Tuesday, May 26, 1992 7:00pm Social Sciences Building, Room 103 Greg Angus, '90, former Watson winner will join Beth Ann Isenberg, this year's winner, and members of tl1e Unian College Watson Selection Committee to explain the application proc:ess, and answer your questions. If you want information between now and then, you can: Conta'l Prof. Klein, SSJ09, x6056; Look at the tonlents. of the Watson information folder on reserve in Schaffer Library, under Prof. Klein's name; or Return the tear-off below to receive information by return mail. --------------------------------------------- YES!! i WANT TO TRAVEL FOR A YEAR AT SOMEONE ELSE'S EXPENSE. NAME:. ________ Box#: ____ _ MAJOR(S): ___ _ PHONE:, ____ _ GRADUATIONYE~----- Return .this tear-off to Pro£ Klein, Department of Economics game ended with the score of 16-9, sending the Dutchmen prematurely to the g.olf courses. The highlight of the game was a goal by senior attackman Trey Wherum, whose quickstick shot gave the plentiful (and spirited) Union fans something to cheer about. This senior class of Winship, Wherum, Scott Whitney, Gene Ray, Dave Donaldson, Mike Cassidy, Mike Richardson, Dennis Foley, Chuck Mamone, and Brian Geraghty, enjoyed four winning seasons of lacrosse. Ho-wever, despite a 54-19 record over these past four years, they were unable to experience a post-season win. Two of these losses, however, were one goal losses to Hartwick in '91 and to Clarkson in '89. One goal games were also the nemesis of the Dutchmen this season. Springfield., Williams and Albany all edged Union by one goal. Had Union been able to steal one or two of these games, the season might have had a brighter conclusion. The Dutchmen will get yet another chance to avenge their losses to Hartwick on the opening game of next season. But for now, all they can do is wait. w s R p I f 0 0 r R T E T s CONTACT BOX1847

Founded oHege 1817' VOLUME 121,NUMBER 23 SCHENECTADY I NEW YORK MAY2t 1992 Steven Spiegel to Speak at Union Author, Professor, Scholar to Discuss U.S. Policy in Middle East by Jordan Lippner News Editor Politics in the World Arena, is the most widely read of its kind in the United States and was published in its sixth edition in On Tuesday, May 26 at ·S the fall of 1990. p.m.. Stev.en .L. Spieget Testimony to his expertise professor of Political Sciertce in the areas of foreign policy at UCLA and well renown I and the Middle East, Spiegel author of numerous articles and · had on countless occasions books, will present a lecture 011 be.en consulted by radio, \The Middle Bast Peace television, and newspaper Process and U.S.- Israeli reporters from around the world Elections.\ Professor Spiegel . ' . to discuss current world events. is being sponsored by the In America, he has appeared on Union College History CBS, CNN. \Larry King department as part of the Live,\ and ABC radio among Frederic Miller Lecture Series others. As far as foreign ·media in Memory of Anwar Sadat. is concerned, the BBC, Mr. Spiegel is considered by Australian radio, and The many to be one ofthe foremost International Herald Tribune, experts on the Middle East. ' have each solicited his Spiegel has· earned this praise expertise. in part due to his status as a Among his other awards, well published and widely read Professor Spiegel has received scholar. His articles have the prestigious PEW' Faculty appeared in publications Fellowship in International ranging from The New York Affairs administered by the Times, The Washington Post, Kennedy School of The Wall Street Journal. Government at Harvard Middle East Review, and Commentary. UGiversity. Furthermore, he has twice been selected by UCLA's political science honors students as the \best teacher\ of the year, and in 1985 a student survey nruued him one of the four \most recommended\ teachers on campus. Dr. Spiegel is a much sought after personality to speak at engagements throughout the country and around the world. In recent years he has spoken in cities ranging form Washington~ Baltimore, New York, New Haven, and St, Louis, to Ames, Iowa and Oberlin, Ohio. Spiegel's lectures have also I brought him to such foreign capitals as Lisbon, London~ Moscow, and Tel Aviv. The History department urges anyone who is interested in the events of the Middle E~st, and how those events affect America. to attend Professor Spiegel's talk on Tuesday night. Additionally' Spiegel has p . o· A d R • • ;~~~.~~ ~~· ·~~h~: r1ze · ay war ec1p1ents concerning the Middle East and William F. Alloen Essay Prize ..................................................... Meli!!Sll Fanrl foreign policy, of which The Toni Subklewe 0 h A b I l • C ,.n• American Institute of Chemists' Award ...................................... Neil B. Grodsky Andrew·w A-h 1 ·-...:~d n...:.~ MarloC Anlc~dola t er ra - srae l OnJilCt; \'\\' -.. n=................................................ · .. . American S«iety of Civil Engineering Award .......................... Michael R. Saum Arnold ]. Biule;man M~morial Award ................................... Anne R. Glicksman Making America's Middle Eaft American Chemical Society Award in Analytical Chemistry ...... Timothy R. Cregan David Brind Mc:rraoriali'Jize .................................................... .Julie C. M<>dnw Policy From Truman to Samuel S. Feuer Prize ......................................................... Vincent J. Giaimo Joseph D. DotyP\r~c .............................................................. Jarro J. Gala .. in h . Roben M. Fuller Prize ........................................................ !Cristin L. Trudeau Bryan A. Sclkin Reagan, was IS most recent. JayS. Berger Hans Hainebac:IJNemillrial Prize This work received unilateral Bruce M. Garber Prize .......................................................... Belinda C. Basaca in Germm L.:itoerature ........................................................ Heidi D. Howarth General Electric Power Generation Steinmetz Award ............... William C. Rooney Hans Hainebacli ~enl<Jr!ial Prize praise, from both conservatives Shankar Gokhale Prize ......................................................... MarieN. Wheeler inJudiaica ....... ~., ............................................................ Lauric I. Goo!!le and liberals. C omme11 tary Charles B. Hurd Prize ............................................................ Susan R. Richter Jeremy D. Sollin~tcr h Ingvar Ingvarsson Prize ..................................................... William F. Phillips Oswal ... Heck J,l!Jl-4) . Irwin Steingut Prize Thomas R Fallati exclaimed \t at thanks to ... ' .............................. · · Warner KingPrize ................................................................ Jeffrey R. Gower Samuel M. Hesson 1'rize ......................................................... lan A. HaJJI mel steven Spiegel's new book, it Ethel Kirchenbaum Memorial Prize .......................................... .Jacky A. Rosati John l wanik Prizoe ......................................................... l..arae M. Tumidajewio is nOW possible tO diSCUSS this William E. Lasnik (1968) Prize .......................................... Mark D. Steinvunel Thomas]. Jud.solllll:lclllorial Book Award ...... - ............................... Lintht L Lin Donald C. Loughry (1952)-Hewleu Packard Prize ........................... James Hedrick Harold A Larrabee ll'rize:.. ... ... .. .. .... .. Kerry A R linrlcr issue in an educated way.\ · James D. Teresco • · .......... ... ..... · ............... D~a A. M~mxchio The wall Street J ournlJl Danielle M. Mathews Minerva Prize_ ..................................................................... Namita D. Raval heralded the book as \a Charles R. Calkins Christa M. K~llehcr Edith Emilee MacCoy Prize .................................................. Gregory J. Barrett Lewis Henry '~OJrgan Prize ....................................................... Michael!. Park masterly and incisive book th~t John Lewis March Prize ........................................... .Jennifer C. Kelly Sullivan Mrs. Edwin L. RichPrize ........................................................ Marc M. l<uritz. should be valuable for expert£ The Moles Prize ................................................................... Jeffrey R. Gower Shawn Jorgensen d Ia alik ., R. E. Morgan Memorial Award ........................................... Jeffrey R. Cusmariu Charles Alexmder:Rich~mond Prize .............................................. Nilcsh Shukla an ymen e. Psi Chi Service Award ......................... , ............................. Melissa A. Wyman Lisa tv1. Tail Professor Spiegel's latest Martin Terry Resch Prize ....................................................... James D. Terescc Rotary Clubofr 5cllellectady Foundation Pri1.c ....................... Paul J. Andrejkovics work, in addition to receiving Roben L. Royal Award ......................................................... Andrew Wickline Daniel Shock:el Prize in Creative Writing ................................. David W. ffopson h . l Mortimer F. Sayre Prize ......................................................... Panl E. Vezzetti. Freling H. S1nitiL Prize .......................................................... Andrew Wickline muc praise, 3SO WOn hi1n Edward S. C. Smith Geology Prize ............................................ Daniel R. Jahne Timothy J. J. S<Juhan further recognition as it WOI1 Dr. Reuben Sorkin Award ......................................................... Julie P. Walter MiltoB Hymes Stoer11feld Prize .................................................. Keny A. Blinder him the National Jewish Book Ralph W. Stearns Prize .......................................................... .Jcseph Demczar Roger Thayer ~tone Prize ..................................................... Kevin R. Dantzler James Henry Turnbull Prize .................................................... .James E. Dykes Wessel Ten Br~<:k V;an Orden Prize ......................................... Caroline J. ?aine A ward. As well, Spiegel' 8 Lee and William Wrubel Memorial Prize ............................. Daniela E. Hoffmann Eugen~ I. hd:is P:tize ....................................................... David w. !Iopson foreign policy reader At lssue~:~i~Aicaidieimiy jofiAmieni·cianiiPoeitsPrii'ziei ... i .. i ... i .. i .. i ... i .. i···i--i ... i .. i .. i. Miaxiim~il~iani\ iLi. Fi.iHieiincigiR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cioiniitiiniuieidioin;p~a~g~ei2~~~ In This Issue: Election Results -page 4 If You At·e Black, Don't Drive -page 7 Blind Date -Page 15

, •, ,· '~~·· ·• , I . ,. , , • . . . . . . . . . CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 21, ~992. PAGE 2 Teach-In At Union College on Police B · tality Semn Livingston Concordiensis Staff In the wake of the Rooney King verdict and the ensuing civil unrest, Union sponsored a Teach-in last week on the subject of Police violence. Specifically, this Teach-in attempted to demonstrate that the Rodney King incident was by no means an isolated case. The two speakers featmed at this event were Mel Staley and · Walter Mishner, both of whom ; are residents of the Capital . District. The first to speak was Mel Staley. Mr. Staley attempted to convey his own experiences ' with police brutality. Over the · past few years Mr. Staley has tr:weled the streets of Albany with his video camera in the ·•opes of documenting police · orutality. The second speaker was Walter Ivfishner. Mr. Mishner has been an active participant in the Albany Civil Rights movement for many years. As an attomey he has specialized in Civil Rights cases, and he has also served on a civilian review board which attempts to· curb improprieties in the Albany pohce department. According to Mr. Mishner the rebirth of the Civil Rights movement in the Capital District occurred eight years ago, following the 'brutal police murder of Jesse Davis on July 8, 1984. Since that date their have · been many conscious efforts on the part of concerned residents of the Capital District to check police activities. Efforts have manifested themselves in the creation of many Civil Rights groups and in the formation of a civilian review board. Unfortunately, Mr. Mishner .painted a rather dismal portrait of the success of these organizations. He was quick to point out that the review board, of which he was a member, had little or no power. Mr. Mishner blamed lack of manpower and funding as the .... essential impediment to the Civil reforms for which he ha~ been an advocate. Vety regretfully he acknowledged that the Capital Districts police departments are also aware of these shortcomings and seem Jess willing to reform their behavior since the threat of punishment is so small. In fact, during the period from 1978 to 1988, there were 151 civil rights cases submitted to the Albany bureau of Internal Affairs. Of those cases only six were prosecuted. Despite this rather pessimistic portrait of the situation, Mr. Mishner insisted that we should not give up. . Only :through persistence and participation can we hope to correct the ills of our judicial system. 1992 PEW Science Symposium \Ethics and Science\ Courtesy of Union College Public Relations. Advances in science, reproductive technologies, the human genome, the computer, raise new and serious questions about tile role of ethics in science and science education. Scientists, science educators, policymak:ers and stlldents will discuss those questions in a Pew Sdence Symposium titl~ \Ethics and Science\ May 29 and 3(} hosted by Union College. The symposium :is free to the public. Medical ethicist Robert Veatch~ director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University, will deliver the keynote address, \Doing Science Ethically: A New Understanding of the Role of Values in Post Modem Science,\ May 29 at 6:30p.m. in the College Center auditorium. \This conference addresses two different kinds of issues, the etltics involved in the application of science to modern problems and the implication of scientific misconduct,\ said Terry Weiner, associate dean of faculty at Union, who with Robert Baker, Union professor of Philosophy. coordinated the sympo~ium. The symposium wiLl consist of four sessions, each exploring a different set Of ethical questions: science under Hitler, reproductive and biological technologies, plagiarism and computer hacking, and the science curriculum. All events are in Union's College Center auditorium. May 29th from 1: 10 to 2:45 p.m., \A History, Lesson: Scientifk Practice Under Hitler\ moderated by Union Prof. Steven Sargent. history. Panelists are Richard Siegmund-Schultze, guest researcher at the University of New Hampshire, on \Mathematics;\ Union Prof, Mark Walker, history, \Physics;\ and Sheila Weiss of Clarkson University on \Biology /Medicine~\ May 29th 3 to 5 p.m. \Ethics and the New Biology\ moderated by Prof. Baker. Speakers include Larry Palmer, vice president fOl' academic programs and campus affairs at Cornell University on \The New Reproductive Technologies;\ and Norman Daniels. professor of philosophy at Tufts University on \The Human Genome Project.\ May 30th, 9 to 10:45 a.m., \Ethical Problems in Everyday Science\ moderated by Union Prof. David Peak. physics. · Speakers are Dr. Ned Feder and Walter Stewart of the National Institutes of Health on \Plagiarism and Scientific Research;\ and Deborah Johnson, associate dean of huma.~~ities and social sciences :1t Rensselaer Polytechnic 1 nstitute, on \Hackers Hijackers and Other Computer Terrorists.\ May 30, 11 a.m. to noon, \The Place of Ethics in the Science Curriculum,\ a panel discussion with Prof. Baker, Union; Prof. David Horung, Saint Lawrence University; and Prof. Johnson, Rensselaer. The symposium is sponsored by the New York State Cluster of the Pew Program in Undergraduate Science Education. Besides Union. members of the cluster include Barnard College. Colgate University, Cornell University. Hamilton College, Manhattan College and Saint Lawrence University. Prize Day Recipients Fred w. Bruhn·Prize ................................................................ Scott Preische Eastern College Athletic Conference Medal of Merit.. ................................................................. Julie L. Be~er Freshman Athletic Prize .................................................. Christopher M. Irvmg William B. Jaffe Medal.. ........................... ., ................................. Breu C. Russ William A. Pike Memorial Trophy ..................................... BradfoniC.Brun~e Ronald E Plumb Memorial Prize ............................................ Mark A. DeLISIO ~ Robert B. Ridings Award .......................................................... JeanS. Lopata President's Commission Prizes Senior Thesis Prize .......................................................... Julie Shanebrook Senidr Scholarly Activity Award ................................ Eli7.abeth R. MacAnhur Alhletic Promise Award .................................................. Elizaooth B. Landa · Mindy B. Kessler Julie L. Benker Community Service Award ............................................ Christa M. Kelleher Amy B. Joslin Senior Athletic Award ....................................................... Roselle J. Eisma Herrika D. Poor Julian B. Hoffman, M.D. Memorial Award ................................... Phu Trong Le Daniel F. Pullman Prize . . F Ph'll' Engineering ................................................................ Wilham . 1 Ips Humanities ........................................................................ Wanda A. Fast Frances Travis Memorial 1\ward .......................... .; .................... Lurqes E. Ramo~ Horatio G. Warner Prize ...................................................... Thomas R. FallatJ -George H. Catlin Prize ............................................................ Nancy S. Wolfe Joseph Daggett Prize ............................................................. Jeffrey R. ~ower Ftanlc Bailey Prize.! .................................. , ....................... Brendan. M. Clifford

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 21, 1992 • PAGE 2 Teach-In At Union CoUege on Police B tality Sean Livingston Concordiensis Staff In the wake of the Roofley King verdict and the ensuing civil unrest, Union sponsored a Teach-in last week on the subject ()[ Police violence. Specifically. this Teach-in attempted to demonstrate that the Rodney King incident was by no means an isolated case. The tw() speakers feat 111ed at this event were Mel Staley and Walter Mislmer. both of whom are resi(ients of the Capital District. The first to speak was Mel Staley. Mr. Staley attempted to convey his own experiences with police brutality. Over the past few years Mr. Staley Ius tr~veled the streets of Albany with his video camera in the 1opes of documenting police mutality. The second speaker was Walter Mishner. Mr. Mish11er has beer1 an -active participant in the ~lbany Civil Rights movemmt for many years. As an attorney he has specialized in Civil Rights cases, and lie has also served on a civilian review board which attempts to curb improprieties in the Albany police department. According to Mr. Mishner the rebirth of the Civil Rights movement in the Capital District occurred eight years ago, following the brutal police murder of Jesse Davis on July 8. 1984. Since that date their have been many conscious efforts on the part of concerned residents of the Capital District to check police activities. Efforts have manifested themselves in tht: creation of many Civil Rights groups and in the formation of a civilian review board. Unfortunately, Mr. Mishner painted a rather dismal portrait of the success of these organizations. He was quick to point out that the review board, of which he was a member, had little or no power. Mr. Mishner blamed lack of manpower md funding as the essential impediment to the Civil refonns for which he has been an advocate. Very regretfully he acknowledged that the Capital Dislricts police departments are also aware of these shortcomings and seem less willing to reform their behavior since the threat of punishment is so small. In fact, during the period from 1978 to 1988. there were 151 civil rights cases submitted to the Albany bureau of Internal Affairs. Of those cases only six were prosecuted. Despite this rather pessimistic portrait of the situatioll, Mr. Mishner insisted that we sh<mld not give up. Only tJarough persistence and participation can we hope to correct the ills of our judicial system. 1992 PEW Science Sy • IUm \Ethics and Science\ Courtesy of Union College Public Relations. Advances in science, reproductive technologies, the human genome, the computer, raise new and serious questions about the role of ethics in science and science education. Scientists, science educators, policyrnakers and students will discuss those questions in a Pew Science Symposium title~ \Ethics and Science\ May 29 and 30 hosted by Union College. The symposium is free to the public. Medical ethicist Robert Veatch, director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georget()wn University, will deliver the keynote address, \Doing Science Ethically: A New Understanding of the Role of Values in Post Modern Science,\ May 29 at 6:30 p.m. in the College Center auditorium. \This conference addresses two different kinds of issues, the ethics involved in the application of science to modern problems and the implication of scientific misconduct,\ said Terry Weiner, associate dean of faculty at Union, who with Robert Baker, Union professor of Philosophy, coonl.inated the sympo~ium. The symposium will consist of four sessions, each exploring a different set of ethical questions: science under Hitler, reproductive and biological technologies, plagiarism and computer hacking, and the science curriculum. AH events are in Union's College Center auditorium. May 29th from 1:10 to 2:45 p.m., \A History Lesson: Scientific Practice Under Hitler\ moderated by Union Prof. Steven Sargent, history. Panelists are Richard Siegmund-Sc hultze, guest researcher at the University of New Hampshire, on \Mathematics;\ Union Prof, Mark Walk:er, history, \Physics;\ and Sheila Weiss of Clarks()n University on \Biology(Medicine.\ May 29tfl 3 to 5 p.m. \Ethics and tile New Biology\ moderated by- Prof. Baker. Speakers include Larry Palmer, vice president for academic programs and campus affairs at Cornell University on \The New Reproductive Technologies;\ and Norman Daniels, :professor of philosophy at Tufts University on \The Human Genome Project.\ May 30th, 9 to 10:45 a.m., \Ethical Problems in Everyday Science\ moderated by Union Prof. David Peak, physics. Speakers are I>r. Ned Feder and Walter Stewart of the National Institutes of Health on \Plagiarism and Scientific Research;\ and Deborah J oh11son, associate dean of hurn~ities and social sciences :1t Rensselaer Polytechnic 1 nstitute, on \Hackers 1:-lija~kers and Other Computer Tenorists.\ M~y 30. 11 a.m. to noon. \The Place of Ethics in the Scie11ce Curriculum.\ a panel discussion with Prof. Baker, Uniofl: Prof. David Horung, Saint Lawrence University; and ProL Johnson, Rensselaer. Tile symposium is sponsored by t11e New York State Cluster of the Pew Program in Undergraduate Science Ed11cation. Besides Union, mem h-ers of the cluster include Bam!lrd College, Colgate Univ-ersity, Cornell University. Hamilton College, Manhattan College and Saint Lawrence U niV\ersity. Prize Day Recipients Fred W. Brutm Prize ...................................... ···-·· .................... Scott Preische Eastern College Attllctic Conference Medal of Merit ........................................... ·-····················Julie L. Benker Freshman Alhlet.ic Prize ................................................. Christopher M. Irving William ll. Jaffe Medai... ............................... _, __ ,,_,. .................... Breu C. Russ William A. Pike Memorial Tmphy ...................... _, ............. Bradford C. Brun~e Ronald F. Plmnb Memorial Prile ............................................ MarkA. DeLisio Rohert B. R.idingsAward .......................................................... JeanS. Lopata President's Comn11ssion Pm:cs Senior TllcsJs Prize ......................................................... Julie Shanebrook Senior Scholarly Acuvity Award ................................ Eii1.abc~ R. MacArthur At.hlct.ic Promise Award ................................................... Ehzabelh B. Landa Mindy B. Kessler Julie L. Benker Cummunuy SciVJcc Award .............................. -............. Christa M. Kelleh~r Amy B. Joshn Senior Athletic Award .................................................... Roselle J. Eisma Herrika D. Poor Juhun B. Jloffrnan, M.D. Memorial Award ............. _ ..................... Phu Trong Le Daniel F. Pullrnan Pme _ . Engmcmng ............................................. ·- ......... William F. Phillips Hum antics .................................................. _ ................... Wanda A. Fast Frances Tnv1~ Mctllonal Award ............................ _ ................. Lurdes E. Ramo~ HoratioG.WarnerPntc .................................... _ .............. Thomas R. Fallau George II. Catlm Pmc ...................................................... Nancy S. Wolfe Joseph D~ggen PrilC ............................................................ Jeffrey R. Gower Frank RailcyPrirc • . . . .......................... BrendanM.Clifford

ic S, What U Need To Know About The Watson Fellowship by Professor Do. Klein Contributing Writer Juniors interested in · applying for the Watson Travelling Fellowship should · plan to attend an informational meeting next Tuesday, May 26 at 7:00 pm in Social Sciences room 112. At the meeting, Greg Angus, '90, and Watson winner from Union will join Prof. Klein and other members of the Union selection committee to discuss the· fellowship and the application procedure. Answers to some commonly asked questions are given below: What is the WaJSon? Since 1968 the Thomas J. Watson Foundation has each year awarded fellowships, cWTently worth $13,000 each, to graduating seniors from approximately 50 small liberal arts colleges. The money funos travel outside North America in the year following graduation. The fellowships, in the words of the Foundation \provide Fellows. an opportunity for a focused and disciplined Wanderjahr oftheir . own devising-- time in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations . and abilities,. view their lives and American society in greater . perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more infonned sense of international concern.\ When are applications due? Applicatians will be due in to Prof. Meade in the History Department by Monday, October 5i, f992. How do I apply? Write up your proposal in 4- 6 pages, and ask two people to ' write letters o.f recommenclat:ion. At least one of the letters should be from someone wha can judge not just you, but also your proposal. Also have the registrar send a transcript to the selection committee. All materials should be delivered to Prof. Meade by the October 5 deadline. The selection committee at Union wiH interview approximately eight applicants, and from those interviewed, select Union's four finalists. 1Df you are selected as a finalLst, i you have several weeks tw revise and expand yo•ur proposal to 10 pages, includim~ bo~h a careful description Oif your project and a persom!IL statement. Finalists au.e interviewed by the Director olf the Foundation sometirrn.e , between early November :mel · mid February. and awards aroe announced in mid-March. What are my odds o;f winning? 'The project should invoJ!ve investigatil}.n into an area of demonstrated concern ancl personal comrnitmellt. Furthermore, because the year!s experience should not involve extended formal study at a foreign university~ the project should be one which can be pursued with great independence and adaptabiliity. In short, the project should be personally significa·nt, imaginative, and feasible.\ It would hdp the selecti:oq committee if you could be~ as specific as possible, •' particularly with regard to :the personal significance of :your project, and its feasibility. That depends on how mam:y people apply. We are allow·eil to nominate four finalists I() the Foundation, and of th<»ste four, we usually have one 01r two winners from Union OCill. the last four years we have ruad seven winners), but it ~is possible for all four nominee:s to win. Nationwide, filt:y small liberal arts colle~e:s i: participate. Of the total ()f , , about 200 finalists, /IQ fellowships are awarded. Thos:e are pretty good odds. What sorts of projects are appropriate for the Watson? Quoting the Foundatim11: You might like to look ()Ver lists of past winning projects contained in a folder on reserve in Schaffer Library. The ' folder, labeled \Watson\, is on reserve for Prof. Klein. some more business-related proposals. This is what seems to have happened in the last two years. Won't the Watson interfere with n1y career plans? Absolutely not. If you have a job offer, or have been accepted into a graduate school, your slot will certainly be held . for the year you are away on the Watson. If you do not have a job lined up. or a grad school acceptance, winning the Watson can only help your prospects. Tile prestige of winning a Watson, plus the experience which you will gain can only enhance your career. (Susie Knoll, '87, had Princeton asking her to apply after she returned from her year.) If you are still unsure on this point, you are probably not Watson material. Whom do I see for more infonnation? Decreasing AppDeations Rave Not Affected Standards In 1990, the then Director of ~the Foundation, Steven Licata, indicated that Tom Watson,. fr . ., had expressed the desire to s.ee more Watson Felln~~Vs \pursuing projects related to business\. I spoke to Steve Licata a!)out this, and :he assured me that all types <Of proposals would continue to be welcomed, but that ~ne Foundation wants to encourage Contact Doug Klein, Economics Dept. (Room 109, x6056 or x6228 ); Theresa Meade, History; or Margaret Schadler. Biology or Dean's office. Other members of the faculty, friends, and family can also help in planning your project. UNlO N COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY\' SUMMARY OF CAMPUS fN.CIDENT REPORTS by Sean Livingston Concordiensis Staff Upon an examination of the Union applicant pool over the past four years it becomes apparent that the number of applications being submitted has been on the decline. Applications for the class of 1992 numbered 3437, where the numbers of applications for the class of 1995 was 2891. This drop of 546 applications constitutes a 15~9 percent decrease. These dwindling numbers coupled with a conscious desire to keep the class sizes somewhat equal has resulted in a corresponding rise in the acceptance rates. For example, the class of 1992 had an acceptance rate of 39.4 percent, the class .of 1993 49.4 %, 1994 51.8%, and 1995 63.9%. Based on these numbers it could be assumed that thP quality of the students accepted to Union is .also on the decline. However, a different set of statistics categorically refutes that such a trend has begun. Through an examination of the performances of these respective classes during their freshmen years visa-vi the percentage ,of students in each class on academic warning, it becomes apparent that their is little correlation between acceptance rates and students ability to academically perfonn at Union. Of the freshman who entered Union for the 1988-1989 academic year 11.9% of them received a G.P.As below 2.00 and thus where on academic warning. In in following three years as the acceptance rate jumped to 63.9% one would think that there would also be a corresponding jump in the percentage of freshmen on academic warning. However, this was not the case as in fact the percentage of freshrneo from the class of 1993 on academic warning was 10.79b, the class of 1994 7 .40%, amd the class of 1995 11.7%. In reality it appears that their i!l no correlation between acceptance rates and the abiliit)' of those accepted to perform a1 Union. Jim Schaefer of tlhe admissions office in an attenup.i to explain this phenomem1111 stated \80% of the studetnt~ applying to Union COUJld perform well here.\ Often :tlh~ admissions office fac•e:s applicants with identical lli!811 school records and must lode past their acadern i~ achievements to determim~ which student could contribrute best to the Uni•Qil community. From this pon11t it could be said that fhte increase in acceptance rates I() Union has not decreased ;t:h~t academic standards of ttiiLs institution. MONDAY, MAY 11, 1992 THROUGH SUNDAY, MAY 17, 1992: PATE .LOCATION li£ll£9Z l7 Souto L<~- ~tl119Z Smith House :ill2£e2 S~E Bil~!lm<1DI :;i/l2192 l:!uotle!l: Li!, 5/12/92 Dutch Hollow :i/1 ;j/§12 College Cgnt~[ sn3tez payidson Lge 5/14/92 8chilles Binl:s :i/14/9~ Huntle)l Lane 5/14/92 8chjlles Lot lilllWi!~ ~hi[2gle .12ridg! 12£lli'9a l:IQ~ll1 I!Zr(§!;;! 505/9~ North College lj/1§/92 Eox !.Qyng!i! li/16/92 Fr§ternit)! .:ill!W!~ !.lii!.IDs:lUli Q~r llS!.!Islog 121 lill §t9Z Bi!tbrnQnd t:!:;;!l; !ill !l£92 Bi!.lbDJQnQ !::l!!l.... li/lZl§l~ Q§YjQ§Q!l 1. I.' lWZl!lZ S!:<bilf!!i!r ! ib ~llZl~~ MSM<biD!i! I iilb: · esu~iog IQ! li/l ZI~Z 5QUlll ~QII!i!!l§ ~[!!~ fil1W~Z Ei !ll!fb!:!US!i! l..!ll INCIDENT Window screen ouljed joose- susoec;t attempted forced entry .I!J.gft of two stucenrs bicycles from jnsfde unlocked building. Strong <>doc-determined to be uncap~ed sewer line-corrected Prooerty damage auto accident Shoplifti11g problem-resolved Two portraits damaged-believe cause to be accidental Vandalism-glass door broken Vandalism-paint splattered on exterior walls, Vandalism-light post globe destroyed by 8 B 's Property damage au!o accident. Vandalism-globes and light for three liqbt pgs!s damaged Reckless bebav~or-students Harassjn g phone calls Mjoor firg • cause intentional- No injury or serjous da!]aQ!i! Physjcal altercation among student§-Conduct Charges filed, Theft Qf item from staff member's vehicle, Possible. !heil of student's room key. Core changed, Unauth(!rized entrv-mioor yand a!is:m tq studeot's room Vandalism-electrjca! panel c~:~ver d!smant!EH!, . Yanda!jsm-ceramjc urn broken vaoda!lsm-sjudent's car damag!Kl Yengor reports bej ng harassed by students during deljyerl§s, Damag& caused to student's Y!i!hicle cy hit and run accident.

c s c ' j j r CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 21, 1992 • PAGE 3 What U Need To Know About The Watson Fellowship by Professor D. Klein Contributing Writer Juniors interested in applying for the Watson Travelling Fellowship should plan to attend an informational meeting next Tuesday. May 26 at 7:00 pm in Social Sciences room 112. At the meeting, Greg Angus, '90, and Watson winner from Union will join Prof. Klein and other members of the Union selection committee to discuss the fellowship and the application procedure. Answers to some commonly asked questions are given below: What is the Watson? Since 1968 the Thomas J. Watson Foundation has each year awarded fellowships, currently worth $13,000 each, to graduating seniors from approximately 50 small liberal arts colleges. The money funas travel outside North America in the year following graduation The fellowships, in the words of the Foundation \provide Fellows an opportunity for a focused and disciplined W anderjahr of theii own devising-- time in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more infolllled sense of international concern.\ When are applications due? Applications will be due in to Prof. Meade in the History Department by Monday~ October 5, 1992. How do I apply? Write up your proposal in 4- 6 pages, and ask two people to write letters of recommendatiOn. At least one of the letters should be from someone who can judge not just you, but also your proposal. Also have the registrar send a transcript to the selection commit tee. All materials should be delivered to Prof. Meade by the October 5 deadline. The selection committee at Union will interview approximately eight applicants, and from those interviewed. select Union's four final,ists. If you are selected as a finalist. you have several weeks to revise and expand your proposal to 10 pages, including both a careful description of your project and a personal statement. Finalists are interviewed by the Director of the Foundation sometiRle between early November and mid February, and awards are announced in mid-March. What are my odds of . . ? wmnmg. That depends on how many people apply. We are allowed to nominate four finalists to the Foundation, and of those four, we usually have one or two winners from Union (in the last four years we have had seven winners), but it is possible for all four nominees to win. Nationwide, fifty small liberal arts colleges participate. Of the total of about 200 finalists, 70 fellowships are awarded. Those are pretty good odds. What sorts of projects are appropriate for the Watson? Quoting the Foundation: Decreasing Applications Rave Not Affected Standards by Sean Livingston Concordiensis Staff Upon an examination of the Union applicant pool over the past four years it becomes apparent that the number of applications being submitted has been on the decline. Applications for the class of 1992 numbered 3437, where the nun:bers of applications for the class of 1995 was 2891. This drop of 546 applications constitutes a 15.9 percent decrease. These dwindling numbers coupled with a conscious desire to keep the class sizes somewhat equal has resulted in a corresponding rise in the acceptance rates. For example, the class of 1992 had an acceptance rate of 39.4 percent, the class of 1993 49.4 %, 1994 51.8%, and 1995 63.9%. Based on these numbers it could be assumed that tht> quality of the students accepted to Union is also on the decline. However, a different set of statistics categorically refutes that such a trend has begun. Through an examination of tbe performances of these respective classes during their freshmen years visa-vi the percentage of students in eacll class on academic warning, it becomes apparent that their is little correlation between. acceptance rates and students ability to academically perfonn at Union. Of the freshman who entered Union for tbe 1988-1989 academic year 11.9% of them received a G.P.As below 2.00 and thus where on academic warning. In in following three years as the acceptance rate jumped to 63.9% one would think that there would also be a corresponding jump in the percentage of freshmen on academic warning. However, this was not the case as in fact the percentage of freshmen from the class of 1993 on academic warning was 10.7%, the class of 1994 7.40%, and the class of 1995 11.7%. In reality it appears that their is no correlation between acceptance rates and the ability of those accepted to perform at Union. Jim Schaefer of the admissions office in an attempt to explain this phenomenon stated \80% of the students applying to Union could perform well here.\ Often the admissions office faces applicants with identical high school records and must look past their academic achievements to determine which student could contribute best to the Union community. From thts pomt it could be said that the increase in acceptance rates to Union has not decreased the academic standards of this institution. \The project should involve investigation into an area of demonstrated concern and personal commitment. Furthennore, because the year's experience should nQt involve extended formal study at a foreign university, the project should be one which can be p u r s u e d w i t h g r eat independence and adaptability. In short, the project should be personally significant. imaginative, and feasible.\ It would help the selection committee if you could be as specific as possible, particularly with regard to the personal significance of your project. and its feasibility. You might like to look over lists of past winning projects contained in a folder on reserve in Schaffer Library. The folder, labeled \Watson\. is on reserve for Prof. Klein. In 1990, the then Director of the Foundation, Steven Licata, indicated that Tom Watson, Jr .. had expressed the desire to see more Watson Fellows \pursuing projects related to business\. I spoke to Steve Licata about this, and he assured me that all types of proposals would continue to be welcomed, but fhar fhe Foundation wants to encourage some more business-related proposals. This is what seems to have happened in the last two years. Won't the Watson interfere with my career plans? Absolutely not. If you have a job offer, or have been accepted into a gmdu!ltc school. your slot will ccrtain[y be held for the year you arc away on the Watson. If yo;~ do not have a job lined up, or a grad school acceptance, winning the Watson can only help your prospects. The prestige of winning a Watson. plus the experience which yoll will gain can only enhance yorur career. (Susie Knoll, '1H. had Princeton asking her to apply after :~he returned Ef()m her year.) If you arc sli II unsure on this point., you arc probably not Watson material. Whom do I sec for more information? Contact Doug Klein, Economics Dept. (Room 109, x:6056 or x6228); Theresa Meade, History: or Margaret Schadler, Biology ()f Dean's office. Other members of the faculty, friends, and family can also llelp in plam1r n g your project. UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY SUIVIIMARY OF CAM PUS INCIDENT REPORTS MONDAY, MAY 11, 1992 THROlllGH SUt·.WAY, MAY 17. 1992 DATE 5111192 5/1 2192 5/1 2192 5/1 2t92 5/13192 5/13192 51! 4/92 5114192 5/14/92 5/15/92 5/15/92 5!1 5/92 5/16/92 5/1 6192 5/16192 511 6/92 5/1 6/92 511 7192 5!17192 5/1 7/92 51!7192 51!7/92 LOCATION 17 Scu:~ La. Smth House S& E Bas e:r:ent Hun~ley La Pule:~ Hollow College Center Dav,<Json lge Achilles Rnk f-'unt'ey Lane Ach1~les lot Whpole Bndge South Terrace Nor:h College Fox i.ounge Fra1ernity Carn3JUS Opr parktoa lot 81chrn!)nd Hse Bichrn!)nd H!e Dav1dson l.L. Schafjer Lib, Macbjne Lab Park jng lot Sout1l College are!l Eiellihouss Lot INCIDENT ~~ere en .Q1!!l.!l<;! lo~se_-u_ susoo;:ct atterngted forotd erory Theft of two student's b qc'es from 1nslde unlocked bu' ldonq Strorll odor-ae:ermned tc be uncal)ped sewer hne·ccrrected Property damage auto acc•denl Shophlt•ng problem- reso'ved Two portra•1s damagec-~el·eve cause to be aCCidental Varcfahsm-gtass door b•qker Vanc!al•sm-pa•nl splltter'=d on exter•or waits. Vandal•sm-light post glebe destroyed by 8 B 's Progerty damage auto acc•dent Yandallsm·globes and I ght for threll' light posts damage-d Reckless behavior·studeots. Hara-ssmQ phone calls Mmo r fire cause il\ten !Jooai- No 1n1ury or senous damage Physjcal altercation amcong students-Conduct Charges filed Tbelt of item from stall .Jl)Bmber's yebtcle Poss1ble theit of studert's room key Core changed Unauthorized entry-mtnar yanc!alism to studenl's room Vaodalisrn-electncal pa111e! cover dismantled Vandalisrn-ceramic urn !broken Yandaljsm-studen!'s car ..Qamaged vendor reports bemg harassed by students dunoq del•'felli.§..._ Dam ace caused to stud~ nt's yehde by hi! and run ac:pdent ' ' '' ,, ,, ... ' ', . ' ·:' ' . .· . · .. •' . ' '•t ' . ' . ' ' ' . ' ' . . : ' ' . .., • . . A$ ' ' . ' - ' . . ' - . ' ' '

.:. ·a~Eii!§ .. ·- ·.· · · .. _ ... ·. ·. OONCORDIENSIS • MAY21, 1992 • PAGE 4 STUDENT FORUM ELECTION RESULTS PRESIOENT VP ACAUEMICS VP FINANCE VP ADMINIST'RA TION JR. TRUSTEE ALEXANDERSKLAVOS KAREN HURWI1Z DIANE PALMER EVANS LEGROS LEE POPPER SENIOR REPRESENTATIVES JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVES SOPHOMORE REPRESENTATIVES LARA CHAMBERLAIN (Pres.) ROXANNE SCHNEIDER(V.P.) - PETER SAVAGE (Pres.} WILLIAM NOOK (V.P.) DAMON KELLER (Sec./]'res.) HALLIE HELLER (Pres.) JONATHAN MILER (V.P'.) MICHAEL QUINN (Sec./Tres.) !to ............. .,_ ··-·· ~ ., ~ - _,. ' ... - -·- .. _ -· ....... ,. - \~ .,, ,._ ... ·-~- -- ·- -· ... - , .............. - ..... , .......... - .... - .. , ___ ----..-·- ,_,_ _______ .. -- -----~~- .... --- -- ......... ~.:

Sopbo~nores Hold Second Class Meeting 'by Lee Popper, Bria Lallgberg, & Mia Catano Contributing Writer interested in liv~g off campus. Although this doesn't ; · guarantee off-campus housing, : and improvements are hoped to be made soon. · QtJite a lot was accomplished at last weeks. Sophomore Class Meeting. Despite the disClppointing turnout, the sophomores discussed issues co11cerning housing, Chet's, and WAC. f'lle current dilemma of ca.tOpus housing was the first , iss11e discussed. Sophomores whoattendecl the meeting were tol<l by their class officers that a C()rnp:romise had been reached witlt Dean Williams con(erning housing for next yeu. Dean Williams has agreed to allow a large portion of tlle students who requested to live .off campus to be rel~sed~ A sign up sheet has beell placed outside the resiodence life office for any sopllomore to sign up if •• Sophomores should sign up immedi~tely because this privilege is limited and will be given to the students who are signed up according to their lottery numoor. The next issue was our new campus pub, now called Chet' s. The class officers said that Uni-on's new social alternative has been very successful. Feedback from the Sophomores at the meeting was quite positive as they expressed hopes for the administration to now help assist in improving Chefs. Finally, the officers discussed the efforts that were . made to improve the consistency of Union's new WAC requirements. This system is now being evaluated by the head of this program, l .. ·[s··a·· .:· - . ·. ~· -· . . . . .. ; ,•-' ··.: .. ·\: • • 'I :·. • . -~: :. . r :;r.· ... : :· Union C<1llege · May 29-30, 1992 • ,. 0 •.. . ; A History Lessrrn: Scientific Practice uilaer Hitler ·1:10,.-.2.:45-p.m• ModeratM: Pamlis:ts: Professor Steven Sargent Union Coliege · Reinhard Siegmund-Sch~ltze · · Guest l(esearcher _ The University f>f New Hampshire \Mathematics\ · Professor Mark Walker '· .. Due to a large attendence at the last sophomore class meeting, many issues were . dealt with, bringing abou1 . some necessary changes. The new Block·Housing program · has now successfully been . ,implemented, student's now · have the opportunity to be · released off campus, and ' suggestions for the pub have been instaled. In order for your class officers to be successful!' liaison's between the administration and the student body they need your input .ami to hear you:Ji, opmtons. Hopefully students will be · encouraged to contact their class officers at any time and will attend all of the class meetings in the future. i: · ... - . · Union College ·~Phy~ics\ Professor Sheila Weiss Clarl;son University \Hinlogy/Medid ne\ Elhira.l Pro~Jems in EverydayScience . Ethic! and.111.e New Biology 1:011 • ~::00 p.m. M ode-t~ttor: Spt!•1\-crs: Professor Robert Baker Union Co11ege · \The New Reproduclive Technologies\. Larry [',llmer ViL-e l'rcsidcnt for·Academic Programs and Campus Affairs Cornell University · \The I Iuman Genome Project\ Professor Norman Daniels Tufts University· . · .. Ke}'n:ote ~ddress 6:30 • \l:flO p.m. '\Doing SCience Ethically:. A. New Understa11ding of the Role of Values in Doing J>ost~Modem Science\ Dr. Robert Veatch · · Kennedy School of Ethics · · ·. Georgetown University · t):OO -10:45'a.rn. · Mod~rator: Spenkers: l'ro(esstlr [),wid fleilk Unil>n CollL'!1<' \l'l.l~iarisn1.nul S~ientifk l~,·~t'•lfl\h\ Or. NL'<l F(•d<•r .md Mr. Wnltt·rSIL'\V.trl N,ltitm,\1 ln~litui-c~ ni I {,•,11th \l.l.ldt•rs llifMkcr~. ,llltf < lt h<•r <..'mnpull'r Tcrrori-.h\ . Pt•horah ]t•lnb\n A~Mh'tillt!' ()t,.',,ll llum•mili<os .md Snci,ll Scil'll<'<'\ ·H,·n~'cl,t<'r l'ulytt•<'lllll<. ''\111111<' The Place of Elhics in the Science Curriculum 11 :00- 12:00 noon f',uwli sis: l'rnll'ssor l(llhcrt n,,t.;,•r Unin11 Cull.:gc Professor Dnvid llornun~ S.1int l.,lwrc•ln' Univt•rs•ty Dt•hum h Johnsun As~ot1,,te Dcc11\ I htm.mllit'b ;md Social Sl\it•nct•s f{ens,l'I.IL'r l'ulvt.t·,·hnk ln;o,lltutt• · Ope11 to I he public.: •• College Center Auditorium For illfor•nali<>ll. pl~,;,;c cunl.wt: ll•lic C.rilfilh Pnlyondy • Cornell Unh•etsity, ~17 Sp.1cc Sd~n~,:;; ii~,t;ln~g. lll1.1t ,,, NY 1 IX'i1 • lh(l71 ~'i> ~7111 . . .. - . . ·-· .._ __ ... - - ..,.__..... ··-··· . . ll.lrimtdC'i•llcJ!lC• C\ufgolc University • Cnn1~1l Univ!?rsity • llamiltoll.C<iiiL•ge • M,l;thalla>!Cnllt•t:•· • <;,unl I ,,wrt•nt· 1 • Utlll\<'I\'>IIY. l111u '\ 1 ,lt,·g·· I992-I993 COLLEGE CALENDAR SEPTENBER l9 9 2 6 Residence halls open· (Freshm~n only) 6-9 Freshman orientation 8-9 Freshman advising 8-10 Fall term registration 10 Classes begin 2~ Last day for changes in schedule NOVEMBER 1992 13 Classes end 20 Fall term ex.:~ms begin 25 Ex~m~ end; recess begins 25 R~sidence hall~ close at 3:00 p.m. JA:WARY 1993 3 Residence halls o~en at noon 4 Winter term classes begin 4-6 Winter term registration 15 Last day for changes in sch~dule MARCH 1993 12 15 19 20 28 29 29-31 APRIL 1993 Classes end Winter cerm exams begin Exams end; recess begins Residence halls close at noon Residt:nce halls open at noon Spring term classes begin Spring term r~gistration 9 Last duy for changes in schedule JUNE 1993 4 Classes end 7 Spring term exams begin 10 Exams end 13 Corrunencement YOU ARE INVITED TO THE NEWMAN CLUB PICNIC

. . . ' ' . , &I·§ . CONOORDIENSIS • MAY 21, 1992 • PAGE 6 Ross Perot -- The X-Factor by Jim Polites News Editor I couldn't believe my eyes on. Monday night a~ Tom Brokaw reported the results of a recent 1 CNN Presidential poll. It had ·am Clinton registering 24% of 'the nation's vote, incumbent George Bush gaining 28%. and a Texas millionaire named H. Ross Perot leading with 33%. Now it's true that I haven't been following the race for Chief Executiveship as close as I sbot~ld (many can probably say that), but this recent boom in popularity for a relative unknown seems to have passed the stage of a simple fascination. The amazing thing about all this is that as of May 18, 1992, Mr. Perot has yet to 1eclare his Presidential ::andidacy. In the wake of this May poll, and a heightened media blitz that all of a sudden has something exciting to write about though, Perot is on the verge of jumping in with both feet. It was only one month ago that Perot lagged in relative obscurity, .some 20 percentage points behind President Bush. He was the x.-factor, the unknown quantity whose noise was only pe11king the ears of a few. Now, as Bush even concedes, he's captured the imagination of a great many. What can be said to explain such a spirited r,ise in popularity'? It might very well have something to do with the state of our economy. If nothing else, H. Ross Perot is viewed as the epitome of good .business, someone who can manage tlte state of affairs astutely and efficiently. He describes himself as '\a guy with a bad regional accent who has a huge net worth\. Two tllings can be said at this point. First is that we may very well be witnessing what many have been · predicting for a year or so now: a public concentration on domestic affairs coupled with an intoleration for rhetoric about all the good things we do internationally. ¥ es, we did win a war in the Persian Gulf. But there is only so much of this people can take. While war victory is a glorious memory, it is fading fast and people are now wondering out loud why their savings are diminishing and paychecks aren't going a$ far. Second, it must be remembered that the American· electorate is a fickle bunch, moods and voting trends tend to be swayed very easily six months prior to an election. Credit here can also be given to Mr. Perot. His coy, frank: attitude is refreshing compared to others who have hedged on tax: pledges and dodged drafts. The amazing thing is that Perot has done very little in terms of speaking out on bread and butter political issues. As Clinton says, \the less he does, the higher he goes in the polls.\ What a helpless feeling it must be for a Democratic chaHen.ger, fighting for respect, Ross Perot: Ri$e·of a billionaire,·:_ · ·' . •.-. -::., .--·· : .. ~-- ., ;_ ~. . ;«.. ... 1969 ent asKs Go·Jernrn U s. ; h. m to nelp . . ' . \ poWs In ·a· astP...SI • \ soutne . es \ \ater recew ·~ l-J\edal ,o_r d . tingulsne DIS . s rvice pub\IC e 1953 Graduates from Naval Academy 1979 Rescues tw employees t~k hostage. en m lra; 1 1:956 : Marries Ma B . ligot · trrnin h gam 1984 Sells EDS to General Motors for $2.5 billion; . leads effort to .reform Texas public schools '\951 u norab\e pO 'irom discnarge ·ns worl< · beQ' NaV)' ~ sa\esman as\B WHITE .C.&-N u ~ I '\992. to run tor p..grees 't president ~ get P orters . suP ballot 1n name on 50 states OOYOU LII<E 9U6H? .to endure. The few issues that Perot has been o11tspokeu on are ones that tend to tug at your heartstrings just a bit, like his crusade to account for POWs in Viebi~. He asserts tllat some .of the 1300 or so left over from 1973 must still be alive. Simply put. that's good politics. Just so I don't everstep the boundaries of reality lle.re,. let me add just a couple more thoughts. Like I said, anyone can be a front-runner ill May before a November election. Americans just seem, if there is any question, to fall back on ' the two major parties- it's a fact of our voting system. Maybe H. Ross Perot win be around making noise come Labor Day, when he'll have the unenviable task of facing a negative media blitz by both Clinton and Bush. Until then though, we could witness a fading 1llird party candidate or an extremely exciting summer campaigning season. Let the games begin, gentlemen. JU'W.9L~S W.9ISA£PE'1J TO tEl£ .91. ~'EP01(PE9{? Come ,Write For News! Informational Meeting Wednesday, May 27 at 6:30p.m. CC 303 The Friends of the Union College Library will present an evening with Professor Carl George and the \.elephant folio\ edition of Audubon's Bfrds e>f Amer'ica on Friday, May 29, 1992 at 8:00 p.m. in Room 016 of tfte Social Sciences building. The elephant f.olio Audubon is a major landmark in American bookmaking and in ornit~oil.ogical illustration, and Union's set has a colorful history of its own: it was purchased from Audubon by a foresighted Eliphalet Nott, and was stolen and recovered under dramatic circumstances in 1971. Professor George, of Union's Department of Biological Sciences has a strong interest in natural history illustration. The talk should appeal to everyone and is open to the public. Think Globally, Act Locally

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY21.1992 • PAGE 7 If You're Black, Don't Drive Note fr the Btlitor- 1 ·post, from which he has in-Chief: •• 1e following has · refused to resign despite been taken from Gran m a · demands that he do just that. International, a Cuban Revealing his mastery of newsletter. Its initial statistics and his control of his publication date was March 31, subordinates. he states that the 1991, however., we feel now is policemen is question had only an oppotune time for re- given King 50 or 60 blows. publication in order to J>rovide · Apparently this was not an example of intemational · enough to elicit praise from public opinion on the illcident. the authorities, since the police chief described the incident as a The large U.S. cities are plagued with huge .traffic problems. In order to protect ·Citizens from the dangers stemming from violations of traffic regulations, police in that country heavily punish irresponsible drivers~ in accordance with the circumstances. simple 'abenation.' Perhaps technically the beating cannot be considered irreproachable, since it did not meet its primary objective of eliminating one more black man. It only gave him 11 cranial fractures. irreparable brain damage and possible loss of vision in one eye. His face .. was permanently disfigured,, and soul to the delicate task of immobilizing that terrible criminal. Because of this, they · did not realize that a nearby resident - perhaps an enemy of law :and order or a reverse racist - filmed the whole thing with a video camera, creating what could be considered a simple ; demonstration of how big city police forces treat black people. , The video tape was sold to a , television network, which couldn't resist the temptation to broadcast such a find coast to coast. The filmed material · was such a hot property that it topped even the fictionalized crime reenactments aimed at simulating the real violence reigning in that country. The broadcast of that video tape had a huge impact. The institutions condemned the brutality. The support of Hispanics is vital in this city, as it is one of the places where Mexican immigrants and ' undocumented workers are most likely to make their · home. They say that Los Angeles has the second largest Mexican population in the world, following Mexico City. , In contrast, blacks are not a large segment of the · population. Of all the large U.S. dties, Los Angeles is the one where the black population has grown the least. African- Americans make up only 17 percent of Los Angeles' population. compaied to 25 percent in New York, 70 percent in Washington, two- . thirds of the Detroit population . after a similar incide11t when~ black man was bea.ten by a white policeman of Columbian origin; that incident spru:k:ed violent clashes betwe.en Blacks and Hispanics. Organizations and demonstrations have demanded the resignations of t:he police chief and the mayor. Judging from the attitude of the latter .. they must feel that the uproar over a routine piece of police work is greatly exaggerated. Especially when this social threat comes from a black person. In Los Angeles in early March, Rodney King, .a 25- year-old black man on J>arole, minutes after committiJJg the dreadful crime of drivi11g too fast, was subjected to violent persuasion with the g()al of rehabilitating him. CAUSES OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENT DEATHS IN THE UI\IITED STATES . For one part of the U.S_ population, heart disease .. cerebrovascular accidents ami cancer have been surpassed as: the primary causes ()f death. Young black males died most often IJy violent mea11s .. Representing only 12· percent of the population, they are six times as likely to die from such causes. When he was capttlred by several dedicated policemen, · three of them gave him a hearty beating, as a result of which the wayward black man nearly died, according to the doctor who examined him. The three public servants !brew him to the ground and then kicked him and beat him with their nightsticks. After all, he was just a black man. The beating turned into a S()rt of master class for 13 o-ther IJolicemen, who coldly and indifferently observed the scene. L.A. Police Chief Daryl Gates is a ,man wllo is determined td confront the bitterness and incomprellension resulting from his difficult ~ -· ALCOHOL even though his right cheekbone was surgically reconstructed. It's understandable that these peacekeeping officers amidst the city's dangerous traffic, should devote themselves body \ ·DRUGS BEING QLACK drama of unbridled, abusive police violence against a defenseless human being sparked the indignation of people all over the conntrv. S'{weral African-American md Hispanic organizations and and 40 percent in Chicago. On this occasion the Hispanics and the African- Americans worked together to tbeir mutual interest. This was just the opposite of what happened in Miami last year, Police violence against black people has been on tile rise in the large U.S. cities, where tile African-American population is also plagued by poverty and social deprivation The majority of those arrested and tries in tile United States are black, a much greater proportion than of blacks in the total p<>pulation. Alm()st half of the country's prisGn populatio11 is black. Traffic violations, simple infringements anywhere in the world, have become serio11s crimes in places like Miami and Los Angeles, and can even result in death if the protagonist of such a terrible act has the misfortune to be an African-American. Therefore, for thei.- sheer survival, blacks in the United States must renounce the dangerous right to drive a motor vehicle. This Week ·1n History On June 7, 1776, in Continental. European countries, were made by ... June 5, 1991, the U.S. H()use .of Congress, Richard Henry Lee (Va.) · Secretary of State George C. Mar- Representatives approved, 273-158, moved \th~t these united colonies sh.all ... June 4, 1951, the Supreme a civil rights bill that so0ught ·.to are and of nght ought to be free and Court upheld the convictions of 11 reverse decisions h.anded -down ~y independent states.\ ... June 4, 1805, leaders of the U.S. Communist Party ·the U.S. Supreme Court im 1989 ... land and naval campaigns forced ofadvocatingaviolentoverthrowof !June 6, 1~91, the U.S. Dept. ()( Tripoli to conclude peace with the the U.S. government ... Juae 2, 1952, &Wcation released results of a matlt- United States ... JuneS, 1933, Con- the U.S. seizure of the nation•s steel ematics test in which 125,000 stll- gress ratified the dropping of the mills ordered by Presideot Truman dents across the nation had taken gold standard ... June 3, 1940, the ita avert a strike was ruled ilJegal by part; the majority of those tested did U.S. okayed the sale of surplus war itt.e Supreme Court ... JuneS, 196~ not do as well as had been expected material to Britain ... June4-7,1942, 'senator Robert F. Kennedy (D.~ for the grades they were iru ... June the Battle of Midway took place, · N.Y.), 42, was shot in the Hotel Am- 7, 1991, the Labor Dept. reported rendering Japan its first m~jor defeat jbassador, Los Angeles, after that the nation's unemployment rate ... June 6, 1944, U.S. Alhed forces !celebrating presidential primary vic- jumped in May to 6.9 perce!nt from invaded Europe at Normandy ... t~ries ... June 6, 1968, Sen. Kermedy. 6.6 percent; on tlte other hllnd, after JuneS, 1947, proposals later kno;wn ·dted .... June 6, 1984, former vice ·declining for 11 months, the number as the Marshall Plan, under ~hich 1pres1dent Walter Mondale won the of payroll j()bs in the economy rose the U.S. would extend atd to Democratic presidential nomination /by 59,000 in May. ~ . . ' ' - . . ' ' . ' . . . . . .

Summer By Cort B()ulanjger Arts Editor D11e to the ingenious trimester schedule, which makes it near impossible to obtain a decent summer job, most Union students wilt find themselves with a good deal of free time come mid-June. An easy way to kill time, while relaxing in air conditioned comf()rt, is to view one of the many movies that bomblud the theaters every summer. As in any other summer, the main theme of this gronp of blockbusters is SEQUEL. In all, m-ov.ie goers will recognize familiar characters in six movies, proving that Hollywood is afraid to branch out in: new directions. Aside from the sequels, the usual slew of thrillers and comedies will grace the screeos this summer. Here is a sampling of a few: \Le thai Weapoll 3\ Yes .. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back in the modern day version of \Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\. Also back i~ Joe Pesci in the same role that gave his career a much needed boost. Who k11ows what's .in store for the :viewer in the fulfillment of this epic trilogy. Hopefully, number three will return to the shoot- em-up excitement and one liners iQf the origina:l, rather than tile politically conscious message of \Lethal Weapon 2\. AlthouBh Apartheid is a very · noble issue to confront, the frivolity of the script lessened its seriousness. \Alien3\ Although it has been thirteen years since the origi11al \Alien\, its: popularity has 11ot subsided. This movie promises to contain the same gruesome acuon as tile ' previous two, with America's favorite heroine, Sigourney Weaver, donning a slick new do. \>Batman Returns\ After the immense financial success of the original, a seq11el ::ould not be far behind. Like \Batman\, the cast of \Batrnall Returns\ is star-st11cled. Michael Keaton returns as the darker, more mysterious version of \Batman\, :wagi11g war against the crime of Gotham City. Replacing tliC Joker as Batman's nemesis is the Penguin. played by Danlly DeVito. Michele Pfeiffer aloo stars as the sexy and st~Ury Catwoman. \Patriot Games\ Even though this movie, adapted from the Tom Clat1cy novel, follows the adventures of the same main character ~. \The Hunt for Red Octobe1\ the actor has changed. Dlle to a financial dispute, Hatris()n Ford replaces Alec Baldwin as the heroic CIA agent, Jack Ryan. In this film, Ryan is focced to protect his wife (Anile Archer) and daughter against m international terrorist ring. \The Last or tile Mohicians\ Based on the famous novel Movie by Jarn~s Fenimore Cooper, this story sbould be familiar to all Eng!isll majors. It stars Daniel Da:y Lewis as Hawkeye, a white rna1 wb<> was raised by Native ~ooerican Indians. This film sllo11ld provide some geograpl:!i!!Cal illterest to Union students becau-se the original novel w~~ set near the Capital Districtre~ion, \Far .1111d Away\ Husb11:n>d an!l wife Tom Cruise utd Nicole Kidman star in this Bichie Cunningham The Union College UospE£ £me:t-nf'£e .. Directed by- Minister James Bellamy \ ) 0 ~ .. ~ 0 ~~ 0 0 0 0 Presents o., \!) 0 a I) 0 0 0 Saturday , May 23, 1 992 . ~ a~ o r ~n .. 111.e Co£13e Center A.ud.i.tortum 0 00 0 o., 0 0 0 a-t Unwn Cof!eqe ft\om 2:00 to 4:00pm 0 0 ~ C>O 00 .. 0 0 00 0 \ ... 0 0 ° 0 0 0 0 Preview picture, filmed in Panatvision Super l Jltra UnbelievalJle 70. This movie appears to be the •roances with Wolves\ set in Ireland, meaning it relies more on tne overpowering imagery rather than the actual story. \A League of Their ()wn\ \The Natural\ meets woman's lib. Laverne OiFazio directs this roovie abqcut women who take tto the baseball diamonds w!Jen the men go off to World War IT. This bevy of baseball bea11ties includes the likes of Madonna and Geena Davis. \Pet Semetary\ an !I \Honey I Blew Up the Baby\ These two movies are grouped together because they are both jnst obviously riding on the coat tails of their predecessor-s. Unfortunately, both of these , movieS' will enjoy early financial success before the poblic realizes this. · Natasha' s Stars · ARIES (March 21-Aprill.9) Count .en this being a most dynaooic week -vihere powezplays, intense olle·<>n-one .dramas and deep insight all c:ome into !PI ay. Your martian inventiveness pulls ;you out of any hassles. probuem;; and the like. Be more perky- wtth a ifriendship that makes yo11 twinkle and twinkle. TAURUS (April 20-May 2:0) Snug- gle in close and heat up the nights this 'i.Veek. Avoid at all costs getthng into a tangle, powerplay or stand-off. Reach otlt for another and try an avant garde ap-proach. Accept the spotliglnt atld the responsibility. You get what y-oll want. Smile. dear Bull. GEMINI (May21-June20~Knock, ~o0ck. Opportunity appean; at your tlo()r, and it could be in more than one fo0nn. Listen to your instincts regarding 'llow to handle a stressful. repeating sinuation. Your response wifil be to w:aJk away (FINALLY) to s:eek out a:nother experience ...... and a far, far b-etter one at that. CANCER (June 21-July 22) Direct yo0ur high energy where it counts. bef\.ore a deeply emotional sit\iation is triggered. Of course, Moonchttld, you arre captain of your own solllll!lld how ytOu navigate these waters is your cboice. Use the weekend for a l!eatt-to- hea:rt talk. L-EO (July 23-August 22) What's goillg on is the result of past \.errors • ., Sit and look at what's happt'llillg at home. Be honest with yotuself, and if y.otL do, ypu are able to get wltat you waat. You enter a phase where aU you ha;ve to do is wish upon a sta:r. Why don't you try it this coming we:ekend? 'VIRGO (August 23-Septenilber 22) YtOID leam the meaning of stress this week. Look inward for aJts.wers. Rec:ognlze your own compuls:ive thtO~Dghts and feelings may have put you in this mess. Explore where your lo.!lie could have been faulty. You can tltell start with a clean slate. UBltA (Septembtr 23-0ctoller 22) Ttj :to not jump on the roller coaster in mid-ride. You could take a rough tumble. But never fear, a l()ved ()ne can kiss and make it all better. You lo'le being dusted off and nurtUred to com- plete wholeness again. Wow. what a healing weekend- and what a time in your life !!I SCORPIO (October 23-Novelliber 21) Be less insecure and less materialistic if you really want to mu- imize your life's potentials ae tbey wave, tempt 81ld lure at the gate. You find the sttength to start walking through this passage of your life.. SAGITI'ARWS (November 22· December 2 l) Don't take the momen· tary peace for granted. If yo11 toot your own hom. ;rou could be very, very sony. You get to see just bow much you can jinx yourself. Partners are holding the :;tronger hand right now. Remember that, and enJoy getting into being submissive - for now. CAPRICORN (December 22 · January 19) Move out ofthe dark space and funk you are in. (You do this quite natutaUy flUs week.) Let go of a friendship that isn't, and won't work for you. Do some image building. In- dulge yourself ever so slightly. be- cause, by the end of this week, you get a second chance. AQUARIUS (January 2()-February 18) Perky, are11't you? Reconsider the judgments that may have brought you to where you are right now. A new order may be appropriate. Worry Uttle, think less. andjust be. Rightnow your charisma, creativity and clarity can bring you amytlrlng - well, a)IJiost anything. PISCES (February 19-March 20) Know you are. being admired. Maxi- mize the limelight and shoot your bow and arrow now. You hit {no surprise. to anyone) the buU's-eye. Whether it's the pot of gold atthe end of ihe rain- bow, or love and lust incamate, it's your pick. Life is on a roll. Say little for the moment. Cl992 by .King FeatW'N Synd.

d at a in ess en- are a 's A Different v:i ew Of P .. hish by Demmon Keller Contribuiling Phishead Finally, a true break from the staunch conservative side ef :Union College. May 17, we were given ao alternative from overconsumLng in the dark undergrounds :ofcampus and we moved towards Achilies Rink. The band Ph:isll brought the flip side of·u;m stereotypical students. L(i)IFlg hair, sandals. and an attitude slrietly based on enjoying lllie performance ahead. As we pr«<Ceeded into the rink, I was surprised at the ~11umber of no:n,...Union Students but at the sante time the crowd meshed togetrne1 well. For the space the schtool had to work with the con.eert setting was very well d()oe. Seating was abundant and :there was ample room in the :trron:t of the stage for dancing. Achilles Rink had a new air aoowt it. There were nil hollering rnf comments like \Safety School'' or \Ref. Get A Real Job\ md essentially for the same price. The only h()stility can1e from the no smoking rule. This however, was not abided by once the sllow began. The band played music mainly from their albums Lawn Boy and A .ficture Of Nectar with some add lib and extended jams. The fact that many Union students awaited t.he common bar room mix scmg Fee which was never played disappointed some, but tile overall consensus agreed tllat it was a good show. The band, unlike Blues Traveler, seemed out to please the crowd and not just collect our cash. All the band members were very enthused as they played well for such a 'l:engthy time. The timing of Sunday night s-eemed to have little affect on tile :crowd resp()nse mainly because many of the non Union students were probably already out of school. My only complaint was the constant ringing in my ears for tbe next day. But you have to g:ive a little to have a night of excellent o.n-campus e:lltertainment through which y-ou can lose yoor mind and body for under ten dollars~ \St·u:dents . of Co I' or at· Union'' Co~es:y of the Arts Dep;ll1Inent The Depal'tlment ef the Arts is pleased .to announce the opening of Lisa Tait's Senior Honors projecrt ill the arts. The project is a phlotographic essay entitled \StudJents of Color at Union College\. The exhibit, ccmprised off 30 black and white photogta]>bic portraits, attempts to bdng new insight Ans:wer .To Crossword Puzzle int-o what it means to be an AfrO·American or Hispanic student living in a pl'edominantly white college cemmunity. The exhibit _y~jll-­ be displayed on the first floor of the Arts building ~ginning Swday May 24th and will-run through Saturday May 30th. Am artists reception will be held on Wednesday May 27th fr<>m 4 to 6PM. All .are welcome. Louise Gluck a-t Union Courtesy of Public Relations Poet Louise Gluck will discuss her work at 4PM in the Union College Humanities Lounge and read from her work at 8PM in room 302 of the College Center at the College on Thursday. May 21. The public is invited and admission is free. -Gluck is the author of several books of poetry includiltg Firstborn, The House CJj the MtJrshland, Descending Figure,an.dArarat. Her collectba The Triumph of Achilles was the winner of the l97S N!lticnal Book Critics AwardfvrPoetry. She teaches Englisll at Williams College. Gl1lclc\'.neading is sponsored by tbe U.nion College Depu1Jnent of English as part of tbe 1~2 Lamont Visiting Professorship Series of Autobicgraphy. Top Video Rentals 1. The Fisher King starring Robin Williams (Columbia TriStar - Rated: R) Last Week: No.1 2. :Boyz N The Hood Ice Cube {Columbia TriS.tar - R) No.2 3. 101 Dalmatians Walt Disney ;Home Video -. G) No. 22 · 4. Ricochet Denzel W ashi!lgton ·(HBO Video - R) No. 30 S. Dead Agam Kenneth Bnnagh '(Paramount -· :R) No. 4 : 6. Curly Sue Alisan Porter ;(Warner- PG)No. 8 · 7. Other Peoplets Money DaDily De Vito (Warner- R) No. 6 8. Sbatterecl Tom Berenger (MGM/UA- R) No. 7 9. The Doctor William Hurt (Touchstone- PG-13) No.5 10. Deceived Goldie Jlawn (Touchstone - R) No. 3 11. Necessary Roughness Sc()tt Bakula (Paramount- R) No. 21 12. Thelma & Louise Geena Davis (MGMJU A - R) No. 1 1 13. The Super Joe Pesci (Fox- Video - R) No. 13 14. Billy Batltgate Dustin Hof- fman (TouchstG'ne - R) No. l() 15. Rambling Rose Laura Dem . (Live Home Video - R) No. 16 · 16. Paradise Melanie Griffith I (Touchstone- PG-13) No. 17 ~ 17. Regarding Henry Hurison Ford (Paramount - PG- 13) No. 12 . 18. The Silence Of The Lambs Jodie Foster (Orion - R) No. 9 ~ 19. Fievel Goes West (MCNUniversal- G) No. 20 20. Barton Fink John Tarturro (FoxVideo - R) No. 19 • Union St. Apts., 800 Block 4 Bedroom 3 Bedroom $750 + Security $600 + Security 2 Bedroom $500 Heat lncL +.Security Entire House 2 levels - $1900 + Secur.ity - 9-·11. B-edrooms Foster Ave 2 Bedrooms • $400 + Security 393-2947.. Lcare Message I

by Adam Perlow. Contributim! Writer Managell)ent of Fidelity Magellan, the nation's largest. mutual fund, is changing again. About two years a~o Moms J. Smith took over the fund from superstar Peter Lynch, who chose to retire for family reasons. Mr. Smith will depart on July 1 for tile same reason. Magellan will then receive a new manager~ Jeffrey N. Vinik. For those professionals involved with tile stock market, or for anyo11e wbo is a mutual fund investor .. the knowledge of this management change is extremely important. However, for those at Union College, particularly the graduating seniors, the change in management and interest in mutual funds should be something which each senior looks into. All too often individuals invest in a particular stock before acquiring enough. information to justify it as a sound investment. Simply falling in love with the new Dodge Viper automobile and reading that every copy for the next two years has been pre sold, is not a good reason for buying stock in Chrysler. Without developing a list of examples proving that most SENIOR Americans blow less than they think theyr d() about stock investments~ I would like to I explain an alternative to going to graduate roltool for acquiring g()od perso11al investment rechniques. This altem~ttive is a mutual fund. A mutual fund is n<>thing more than a pool Qf stocks and :bo11ds. The investor is usually cll.arged a minimum initial investment and a load ~sales tax). Ey buying a mutual fun.d, the investor is left to relax while the pressure 'Of success i; put on carefully selected professionals. If, for :instance. tbe investor bought a !ltock g,rowth fund. )ll\Qfessionals are left in charge cf deciding wltich stocks to purchase. The stocks :purchased are not for the individual in-vestor, but rather for everybody holding a part of tllat mutual f11nd. Therefore. Ietum is eq11al ro the amount of ~hares each investor holds. By llaving professionals choose tile stocks, :[ndi vidual risk is €:Onsiderabl'flower. Mutual funds should be c::onsidered by all graduates llecause twenty five years from mow inflatiolk will have grown considerably. The most relevant eJt~tmple is our children's ctllle~e education. If one paid nn Attention to mutual f11nd opportllllities earlier in life, one would be slapping <>neself in the head, much as our .parents are doing today. While a mutual fund is not the <lnly :long term inve&tment to consider, it is one tllat should be strongly considered. Fidelity MageUan, as mentioned earlier, is this nation's largest growth fund. It is the third most .Profitable fund in this ·country. Investments are made in seven to eight hundred different companies (stocks), some of whicl!. are foreign c<>mpanies. The minimum initial investment is $2500 plus a load of 3% (note tha.t a l<>ad of 3% or below is considered a relatively low load). In 1988 the Magellan fund was up 23%. In 1989 it was up 35o/~. And in 1990 it was down only 4.5% (which was m11ch better than the market). Finally in 1991 it was back: up a remarkable 41%! (If you had bought the Magellan fund at lhe beginning of 1991, today you could sell your shares at a 41% profit.) In addition to lowering in vestment risk by purchasing a mutual fund, the Magellan fund does not charge the investor to sell his or her shares, while buyi11g stock requires the investor to pay a broker's fee. Obviously a stock's minim tun initial UNEMPLOYIVIENT RATE FALLS by Shields Day Business Editor It's finally happened. After nine months of increasing unemployment rates, the trend has fmally stopped. Although the drop in the unemployment rate was not a huge decrease - it only fell from 7.3% to 7.2% - at least the economy has something to build on. Over the past four weeks, over 126,000 new employees were hired. which is the largest payroll increase since last May. Although the figures do Jl()t represent an immense change in employment figures, they have already bad an overall effect on the economy. Many experts had predicted that the Federal Reserve was going to once again lower interest rates. By lowering interest rates, the Federal Reserve attempts to encourage investment. By lowering interest rates, investment becomes more attractive because there is less interest to pay back on a loan. However. for the fiSt-time in quite a while, the Federal Reserve decided not to lower· interest rates. It seems that the Fed is content with the rate they now aie offering and feel that this rate has lent a hand in the rece11 t upsurge in employme11t. For the Fed to take a stamd against easing interest rat.es proves to be a very positive sign. The significmce of the drop in the unemployment rate is enhanced wl!enone looks at the time of year when this bas <>Ccured The n11mber of people looking for jobs is almost at its peak for the year. With so many higta schools and €:olleges finishing up for the :Summer (all except for Union th.at is) the 1111mber of people looking for jobs is growing rapidly. file government )ll'edicted tll11t the labor force ~rew at a r~tte of 290,000 workers last month! These mumbers are certainly not favorable- especially to Union students wl10 cannot begin tlteir summer jobs until all other colleg~ st11dent have put ill their bid foo: ~umtner work. Althoug!J the drop in 11nemploym.ellt is admittedly small, it may in fact be better til.an a larg(l unsubstantiated jump. After .sucb. a long period of increasi11g unemployment rates, a slow steady recovery is almost always preferred over a rapid, sporadic one. Even though Union students looking for work would prefer to see a sudden employment binge just a classes are ending. the economy will be ni11ch better off in the long run with a slow stea<ly recovery. The most :promising statistic f<>r college students shows that the unemployment rate for teenagers happened to be the category with the largest overall decline! Certainly the ecooomy is not out of the hole yet. Without an increase in consumer spending, there will not be a recovery. Unfortunately, income has not budged, which does not help iJtitiate a spending flurry. Luckily spending tends to be contagion$ - CDri1petitor investing in capital often sparks his rival to do ;the same. Ht>pefully this summer will stimulate a buying trend large enough to last throughout the rest of the fiscal year. Source: Wall St. Jor.tnal Write for Business and Pinanee Call Shleldslr4UO CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 21 , 1992 • PAGE 10 investment is petite in comparison to one for a growth fund, b()wever, this article is directed t() those of you wbo will SOOil be working and bave the ability to partake in. such an investment. The ()ther advantage to a growth fund is that the chances Gf a mutual fund encountering inflation is considerably lower than that of most other investments. While most funds usually have a minimum initial in vestment, future contributions are not mandatory, but if desired are easily made. Most funds; like the Magellan fund, all<>w you to invest as little as oue hundred d.ollars at a time. While SQme investors clloose to put o11e large sum of money in the fund from the start, many ,choose to add a little each month. This w3y, tlle investor minimizes his ,or her risk, and simultaneously can add to the investment w!J.en he or she feel~ economically comfortable in doing so. The Fidelity Contrafund, which has actually been more profitable than the MageJlan fund over the past five years, is another example of mutual funds. The professionals in charge of this fund have chosen to buy overlooked stocks. This fu11d is comprised ()f stocks they believe have been un(lervalued by the rest of the industry. Jeff Vinik, the newly appointed Magellan fund manager, was responsible for part of this fund's success. l believe that if you clloose .a gooo. sGlid, long-tenn .growth fttn<i .now and slowly begin investing, your life will be economically much more relaxed when the time comes to send your children to ccllege. Choosing a good fund is not difficult but should not be chosen quickly. There are three spectrums of risk with mutual funds: high, medium, and low risk. Do not immec!_i.ately jQillp to conclusions aDd decide tltat a high risk fund is not worth the money. The truth is, investors oilr age have the greatest ability to invest in high.risk funds because there is more time to recover from big losses. Both the Magellan and C<>ntrafund are considered medium risk funds, and have become two of the best funds in this CQUntry, Mutual funds are a safe(relative to other investments), intelligent. and ecQnomically feasible way to invest for your future financial responsibilities. While there are many other options for making investments, rn utual fu11ds · are one that all graduating seniors would be wise to consider. Write for Bu-siness & Finance Box 452 Me1aaorial !iervice& Held For Professor Stone Monday, May 25, 1992 2:30PM Memorial Chapel Neall ARllen Jra Fridy, May 29, 1992 2:30PM Memorial Chapel --Please Attend-- Interested in being a STUDENT CONSULTANT? Pick up an application in the Office of Computer .Services or calf 370-6293 for information.

for sea wth be to not be low tely not the in is and a her and y to for tual all be . · .·. · .· · .... ·. . • .· .. · · ... ·· ..... · .... ·· ·. Elli:EtiRI.AI.r CONCORDJENSIS•MAY 21,1992• PAGE.11 ELECTING NOT To E.LECT The Student Forum is one of the main governing bodies at our ·esteemed ·college. Getting oneself elected is quite an undertaking, and the accomplishment of such an act is a great honor. Or; at least, it should be. The elections held last week offered 14 positions, yet there were only fifteen candidates. Out of these fourteen, only two had ,competition, and sadly enough, one offered absolutely no candidates. I do not wish to become a pessimist, but when viewing aD incident such as this, I cannot help it Where was the competition? I cannot believe that out of a student body of 2,000, only fifteen people felt they were qualified enough to fill these positions. The competition7 which has been quite fierce in past elections, has almostdwindled to extinction. ou_tline ()f one's objectives and a photograph to be printed in Concordiensis (these last two proved to be optional). 1 have regretfully concluded that these seemingly simple tasks have proven themselves to be too great a task for our fellow students. One possible eKplanation of this blatant lack of commitment is th.e glorious spring weather we were experiencing. Unfortunately for tll()se too lazy to run, spring weather cannot be added to one's learning e~periences (or one's resume). When constructing the paper last week, 1 was. quite shocked by this .showing of extreme indifference to such an important event. Upon returning home, I voiced concern to friends about the lackadaisical attitude shown by our student body. Some replied that they had considered running, but had never gotten around to picking up a petition and obtaining the required number of signatures. After this remark, I felt compelled t(), applaud those who met the requirements, which were to obtain 100 signatures from members of one's class, and submit~~ We have chosen to use a derncoratically elected student panel to make decisions concerning our sti11t at Union. Much more can be accomplished through this system titan thn)Ugh the New England style town meetings. Those elected will \()ice their opinions, which in fact is what we sb.ould be voting. In the f11ture, I will find it much more difficult to listen to someone complairting abotLt the ills of Union, if that person is involved in no extra-currictJlar activities and did not run for office. An utter disrega.rd for do11ating one•s time in exchange for no material rewards seems to be on the rise. Unless this trend is stopped in its tracks, and forced to C()mpletely reverse itself, my view of the future is not a very pcsitive one. Mr. Lippner's Pathetic L,etter. To the Editor: I really do not know where to begin in criticizing Mr. Lippner's letter \The President's Pathetic Decision\ in the May 14 issue of Concordienris. First of all, I am no supp<)rter of President Hull. Secondly, I am a registered Republican and thus would not myself have voted for Paul Tsongas. That not withstanding. I find it necessary to defend both of them in light of your uninformed, inappropriate, and generally unbelievably obnoxious letter. First of all, the man you describe as ·••a boring. middle of the road ]Jersonality\ is a career statesman who bas devoted a large part of his adult life to Jlublic service. unlike Tom IJ.rokaw who. although possibly interesting, is a very well paid employee of the media industry - the same news media which is responsible for failing to convey the substantive issues Paul Tsongas was attempting to address in its rush to tell us w~ere Bill Clinton was playing golf. Second of all, I am sorry that Mr. Tsongas \will have nothing to say that could possibly captivate [your] attention.\ ls tb.is because of your lack of interest in the issues facing the nation in the upcoming election, or simply the result of your apparent inability to, like most of the uneducated electorate, appreciate a candidate who focuses on issues rather than style? Further, I was unaware tb.at the purpose of the graduation speaker was to assiduously cultivate your attention. Please tell us. just when did the world begin to revolve around you, Mr. Lippner. While we are on the subject of your world, I must ask you just how do you perceive tb.e political process to work in the United States? You characterize Mr. Tsongas as a \quitter\ with \no internal fortitude.\ I see that you are in dire need of a lesson in basic American :politics. In a presidential race in a democracy, when a candidate has incurred significant debt without rallying sufficient electoral support, the responsible thing to do is drop out of the race, instead of continuing ta attack your party's candidate, damaging his chances in the November election, and wasting huge sums of money. In light of the didatic and uninformed cant of whicb. your letter is composed, I think your accusatioll of self- righteousness is misdirected. Paul Tsongas would probably not have been my first choice either. However, due to the cancellation of Tom Brokaw,. we had to do the best that we could. I may not agree witb. President Hull's penchant for unilateral action either. However, just what would you have done if you knew (other than make a nuisance of yourself, of course)? Criticism of insubstantial rhetoric is laudable- just keep in mind that being a critic does not exempt you from your own standards next time you decide to put pen t<> paper. Marc Kuritz '92 Self-Serving Committee To the Editor: Pursuant to my letter which was published in last week's Concordiensis. I would like to issue an apol(}gy to President Hull for one of the statement's which I made. While I still condemn his \unilateral\ decision makingp I realize after baving spoken with the head of Union's bur~aucracy, that my comments were misdirected. Rather than assail President Hull, it appears that I should llave focussed my energies in the direction of the Honorary Degrees C()mmittee, which perhaps. acted in a more .unilateral way than did the President. This committee failed to fulfill its responsibility to the senior class in two ways. If I understand correctly Hull's description of the selection process, it went something like this: After the senior class had filled out forms ex.pressing their choice for a commencement speaker, whoever might have received the most vates was put aside in favor of a personal choice of oae of the committee member's, Rachel Rappaport. According to Hull. she believed that she might be able to get Billy Crystal, and thus the committee tried to woo him. This failed. Then the committee decided to go after a politician, at which time Hull said he could get Tsongas, wlrich he did. Why were the recommendations of the senior class completely ignored? Why did the individual members of the committee feel that their personal affinity's take precedence over the wishes of the entire senior class? The whole reason behind having the class of '92 fill out those selection forms was so that a speaker could be cllosen which the class as a whole wanted. not so the speaker would reflect the interests of the selection committee. While this committee acted,. for lack of a better word, in. a self-serving manner, I do twt completely fmd fault with them. After all, the members were only behaving in the same way which all committee's Oil tb.is campus do. Jordan Lippner ·~2 Please submit Letters to tile Editor on a 3.5\. hard drive diskette that is Macintosh or IBM compatible. Include box number so that they can 'be returned promptly. Bashing Unwarranted To the E<litor: Please permit me to 1eSJKJnd to the Letter from J o:rdan Lippner '92 appearing in your May 14 issue. Mr. LiJlpller is entitled to his opinion ()f P'aul Tsongas. It woul11 be distressing: if solileone on campus did not object to a commencement spellker, because it wculd sugge.st that the speaker. unlike Mr. Tsongas, was unknown or unmemorable. The ff()llorary Degrees Committee felt ltim to be an intelligent and hollol'able contributor to the nl!tienal political debate,. somethi11g that indeed made him memomble in 1992, and worthy of b())l()r. As to the issue ()f the selection Jlrocess, Mr. Lippner is misinformed, his Hull· bashing unwarranted. The senior class elected three representatives to sit Oil the Honorary Degrees Cornmittee. From the beginning ()f the process. it was understood that they would play a spocial role in the selection of the .:Speaker, as well as contributing fully to the proces:s of selecting the other honorands. This was the case. Each participated at every sblge of Response T() Mar~ Kurit2' \Pathetic Lett~r\ To the Editor: Just a few brief C()rnments. After all,. it is quite a)lparent from your letter that ro11 can make better use of a thesaurus than I can anyway. Willie you berate me for ex.pressin..g my tow opinion of Tson~a~. you iefend yov argumellt merely by .!xpressillg yo11rs. Our commencement spe~lcer is supposed t<> \cultivate .. our attention. Thirdly, your statement in regards to the poli ticaiJ)r<>eess really doesm't hold rnucb \Weight. If you are 'llnclear 011 this point, see Jerry Brown. Lastly, you ask what would I ba\e '<lone. Well, shotJld I assume tllat you only read the parts of my letter which suited your CJpiDion'l After all, l clearly state<l what I believed sl)ould have beerulone. Sincerely yours, Jordan Lippner '92 the process. Each was consulted in advance of every action, and fully informed at every stage. Tbe other members of the Committee, as well as the President, were responsive to their suggestions. All approved the fillal result. Along with the other members of the Committee, each deserves the thanks of the college community for the time each s:pent and the contribution each made. Ours was a year of disappointments: not only was Brokow yanked to Siberia by NBC at ah awkward time, but another honor and, a distinguished member of the Class of 1942, died, quite literally, after the letter offering b.im the honorary degree had been mailed to him, but, 11nfortunately before he had received it. He will still be honored, as will four other worthy recipients, including a commencement speaker who correctly rates substance above style. Clifford W. Brown, Chair Honorary Degrees Committee Correction To the Editor, Regarding the Concordiensis article on \CROSSTALK: ROE vs. WADE\ (May 14, 1992 edition): I clearly stated in my opening remarks of the Crosstalk that I believe that life begins witlt conception. Overall, Veronica Rogers' article was fair and objective in ller reporting. Thank you for your attentioa to the above matter. Sincerely. Sr. Marie O'Ryan, RSCJ Religious Programs Office Note from the Editor-in- Chief: Last weeks front page article entitled \CROSSTALK: ROB vs. WADE\ was riddled with grammatical mistakes. We would like to apologize for any misquotations as the situation was beyond our control.

CONCOADIENSIS• MAY21, 1992 • PAGE 12 IF You Dnl new by Betsy ,Rothstein contributing writer Note: People that gossip are not prone to one sex and therefore the names in the following conversation should be viewed as either male or female. Pat: I heard that so and so hooked up with so and so last night. Chris: No, really, how do youlmow? Pat: Well, I saw her talking to him for over twenty minutes. Chris: Do you think she hooked up hooked up with him or just hooked up with him? Pat: I heard she's a slut-she's been with so and so, and so and so, -that I know of. Chris: He's such a scammer. Do you know what he did to so and so? She's scarred. for life. Pat: Do you think she likes him likes him or just likes h . ? tm. Chris: I don't know, but she was hanging out at Planned Parenthood this morning. Pat: What were YOU doing at Planned Parenthood this morning? Chris: Well, I wasn't actually there but a very reliable source told me ... but don't tell anyone you heard this from me. I hate gossip-you know how it can get out of hand. Does this type of convetsation sou11d familiar to you? Did you hear something like this today, yesterday, last night or maybe even ten minutes ago? How do we know this useless information? Why is it that we know so much about people's personal lives when we do not even know them? It's pretty amazing when we actually meet those legends we have heard so much about. Suddenly at a party, in the heart gf the college center or in that wild new bar, Chet's, you are introduced to them; it's destiny at a school this small. You ru-e face to face with a stranger, yet you feel as though you know them since you heard where they were last Saturday night at 3.:27 AM. You smile knowingly as you shake their hand-you may even have an unexplainable smirk planted on your face. \What is so funny?\ the legend asks you. \011 I was just thinking about something else .•• you know that girl behind you? I beard she has a thing for small farm animals. \No really? I always suspecte~ sqmething like that about her. \Hut don't ten anyone!\(i.e. you can tell anyone you want as loag as it does not get back to the person it is about). school's over ... now get a real education. 2 weeks includes air and most meals! only for i 8-35 year-Oids! call (800) 466 0610 •tram east coast conditions apply contiki By Leigh Rubin ----· $'·1 S' Not content with what nature had pr'!vided her, Maude seriously considered udder Implants. ·l'his conversation may seem a little out of hand, yet this is exactly how thi11gs get blown out of proportion. Why do people care so mach about this useless information? I'm convinced th:.,t everything changes in a two week time span anyway. I 'Could say that discussing current events would be a far greater way of passing the time. but hew stupid and unrealistic is that? The fact of the matter is that people tluive on gossip. h gives them something to do and takes the attention away from themselves for awhile. While gossip can be an enjoyable way to spend your lunch or a Sunday morning, it can also be cruel and damaging when the info1mation being spread around is false. I really believe that three fourths of what we hear around campus are lies or at le~t outrageously exaggerated It is a scary game of telephone wilere everything is distorted · ,..- For example take Julie Medow. She fractured her ankle and while she's been parading around. campus telling people she tripped or something, the: story that I heard was very different. She was sprinting te> fi-Plus for a pack of Meri~,(it is a rare occurrence t() see Julie smoking a dgarette., so something really must have been wrong~VIe can only · Top 1 0 Movies . 1. Basic lmtinct starring Michael Douglas 2. Lethal Weapon 3 Mel Gibson 3. Wild Orchid :2 4. White Me:n Can't Jump Woody Harrelson 5. Beethoven Charles Grodin 6. Folks Tom Selleck 7. Wayne's World Dana Carvey 8. Split Second :Rutger Hauer 9. The Player R()bert Altman 10. Sleepwalker- imagine ... )and a mad deranged doid by .the name of George(he sweeps for coffw~attacked her and dr~gged her to a pru-ty in Hamilton Hill. As it tums out she had a great time.(Well, I can only assume she had a great time since I spotted the disheveled Julie roBing in around 10:33 AM). When I asked various people for their opiniens concerning gossip I received some surprising respollses: According to Emily ''Meetmeoohindtbebleecllersfors omegoodgossip\ Baer, '\You're only as good as you:r last rumor\. Chris\ Sometimesihangoutint hecollegecenterwitbJ ollnJ<'ox\ B'Orio believes that \Gossip is a form of daily entertainment\. Then there is Dalton \'Smoothmove\ Menhall, in Ray Bans, wh() intellectually schmoozed that \Gossip is imperative to the existence of Union College .. \ Fimllly. I spoke with the infamous fohn\ Ifonlyicouldrn(}vemybe<tintothe collegecenter .. Fox(ontside of the college ceiiter of coiJI'se) who nostalgicall-y informed me that \At a small school it is inevitable that people will constantly talk. abont other people.\ A few minutes later, as an afterthougllt, he passionately revealed that \Without gossip you•re not anything\. . Word Play MULTILATERALISM - freedom .of international trade and currency trlmsfers so as to achieve for each country a trad- ing .balance witll. the total trading area but not necessarily with any one particular country. From the above word, find 20 five- or more-letter words. By Leigh Rubin l§ci AT 'G-It .ESCAGH 1 keeping a vigilant wa:tch o\er . . ort;l:-erc3SS abstract was the avant& guard. There are various forms. of gossip mongers and we all know who they are. The first type are the ones who have nothing better to do with their time then to use their subverse gossip tactics to pump people for information. These people are easy to deal with because you can either avoid them,deny everything, or the most interesting option weuld be to make something tip and see how fast it is spread across campus or overseas for those on term abroads. The second type,. the dangerous gossip mongers, are the silent ones. They do not provide input to the conversation whatsoever, yet secretly absorb the information. My friend \Penelope\ believes that these gossips are deadly, for they are file cabinets waiting to be opened, \unleashing their fury\. Everyone, both male and female gossip and there is no point in. denying that it exists or that we all take part in it. The important thing is that we have to be aware of how trivi~ and meaningless it really is and bow it can potentially nave damaging irreversible effects to its victims. Think about the worst piece of gossip you know .... hold that thought... If only you knew: what people were saying about you,you might think twice about what you were saying about them. POSSmLE SOLUTIONS lateral multilateral later latter trail trial trait stare stale stair state stain trust tulle trill still slate stammer slime slammer Write For L I F ·E !i T y L E !i

' ' . . ' . . . CONCOROIENSIS MAY21,1992 PAGE 13 - - · l:IEE&:t~·t::; . -- The Woman In Blue by Julie Medow Contributing Klutz Ah, Senior Spring. Four glorious weeks left. I've never felt better. In fact, I've been so cheerful, that I can often be found singing to myself in the bathroom, and leaping down the hallway ... And that's how I broke my foot. In the hallway. Over an obstacle, and into a plant. As I lay there, flat on my back with my leg elevated above my heart (I took Health in 7th grade), I · knew the diagnosis was not going to be a pretty one.. I was the only one on my floor. \I've fallen, and I can't get up!\ I screamed. Survival tactics kicked in. and I slid down the hallway and the stairwell on my butt. \Hello? SOMEONE SAVE MEf\ I love melodrama. Of course, Ellis Emergency Room (the Phi Beta Kappa Group) said it was a minor sprain, and sent me home without an ace bandage. The next day, however, the genius physiCian called me to say there was a minor detail he overlooke4. \I thought it was dust on the x-ray,\ he said, \but 1 think it's a fracture.\ Hey, no problem b:uddy .. Just give me your lawyer~s natne .... So, now I've got this BIG BLUE fiberglass beauty on my leg (toe to knee}, and as I sat around with my friends, we came up with some uses (and abuses) for the cast. First, let me teU you, I went blue by choice (I'm pro-choice by nature). The other color options (just like when you buy a car) were white (it will get dirty), black {matches my wardrobe, but too morbid}, and fluorescent green or pink (cheesier than velveeta. but great with acid washed shorts). I think I did 'the right thing. My new handicapped friend, P.J. Lee, tends to disagree, however, feeling that his white cast is \more personalized ... you can't sign a blue cast.\ This is the only drawback. Although someone mentioned that this might put a damper on my ability to hook up, Erica said \I think guys find casts a tum on.\ I know the guys she hangs out with. They would My compassionate \! ' -~ ····STOP!.!!· ~.: f Don't Cut Your Hairlll r4>B's Ct{lrr'-.9!-'I!J[O!J'.lS .are coming .... Wed .. May 27th and Thurs. May 28th In front of College Center from 10:00 AM m 3:00 PM each day. Only $5 a haircut •m proceeds go to Cerebral Palsy • Cutters from 9{T.y IS Jif1LI!l{SJ7LL09( (in Rotterdam Mall). roommate Louise thought that I might be helpful to my sorority duri.ns Greek Week. \Yeah! We get someone nonnal. and tie them to you for the three legged race!\ Super idea, Weez. Wanda witnessed me trying to keep a copy of Concordy from flying away. \That cast will make a,r1ice paperweight,\ she said as she stuck the crumpled pages under my heel for safe keeping. \Perfect!\ I knew where I bad to go for assistance in this matter. Something drastic had to be done, and fast I hobbled down the hallway. and knocked on my savior's door. \Hi Gimpy,\ she said all smiling and tan, \what can I do for you?\ \Betsy;\ I said, \I've come to you for support and guidance.\ She led IIle inte her room, and locked tile door. I looked her in the eye that her bangs don't hide. \I would never ask for this favor unless I was in dire straits.\ \I fully understand. You want your Brothers In Arms tape back.\ \No Betsy. Not Dire Straits~ dire straits without the Top R&BjSoul capitals.\ \Oh. I don't see.\ \I know that, Betsy. But it doesnrt matter. I may not be able to walk, but I have vision enough tor both of us. What I need is ... your painkillers.\ \From the liar?\ \The very same. The man who pulled out your wisdom teeth weeks ago still has you happy as a queen bee and higher that a kite, and I need a fix.\ Although she was hard to convince (\I NEED 'EM ALL! I WON'T GIVE 'EM UP! I WON'T!\ she screamed, clutching the child proof bottle in her hand,) I wacked the wonderpiHs out of her fist with my crutch, and when she was down, I held her there with my big blue cast on her stomach. \Listen Bets,\ I explained pleasantly, looking down at her disheveled body, \I hope this doesn't ruin our friendship. But I'm in extreme pain, and I might be dangerous if I don't get numb quickly. Plus, my friends are bugging the hell out of me.\ She nodded frantically, which I took as a sign of submission. I let her go, and then popped a wonderpill in Top C&W Singles my mouth, balancing gracefully on my crutches at the water fountain as the thing went down. I am writing this a few hours after the above incident actually occurred. I now sit with blue leg propped on my printer, and dandelions woven between my newly-painted toes. I am finding this whole thing rather funny, although I don't know if anyone besides from my codeine-stoppered self would agree. There is just no way I can deal with my physics lab, so I think I'll go draw !n the \Beauty and the Beast\ activity book my roommates got me at Chopper. Senior Spring is still o.k. By the way, so you don't ask me when I'm getting the cast ot'f (most annoying que~tion next to \What are you doing next year?\) it's a not-so- terrible two weeks. Please feel free to tell me you like the color of it, though. And if you bump into P .J. (you can bump ... but don't knock him over!), sign his cast, and tell him that you like mine better. Top 10 Singles · 1. Red Hot Chili Peppers \'Under The Bridge,\ (Warner) Last Week: No.2 l· Kris Kross '\Jump (Ruf- fltouse/Columbia) Last Week: No. 2 2. Jodeci .. C<lme & 'Talk To Me,\ : (UptownJMCA.) N<J. 3 1. Sawyer Browu. .. Some Girls Do, .. (Curb Album Cut) Last Week No.3 2. Travis Tritt '\Nothing Short Of Dying,\ (Warner) Last Week: No.4 3. Collin Raye .. Every Second,\ (Epic) No. S 2. Michael Jackson \In The Ctose4 .. (Epic) No. S 3. Bryan Adams 'Thought I'd Died And Gone To Heaven,\ (A&M) No.4 3. Tracie Speacer \Love Me,\ (Capitol) No.4 4. Chaka Khan .. Love You All My Lifetime, K (Warner) No. 8 S. Luther V andross \'Sometimes · It•s Only Love,\ (Epic) No. 5 4. Billy Ray Cyrus .. Achy Breaky Heart,\ (Mercury) No. 8 4. Sophie B. Hawkins \Damn I Wish I Was Your Lover,\ (Colum- bia) No.8 5. Sir Mix-A-Lot .. Baby Got Back,\ (Def American/Reprise) No. 7 S. Ricky Van Shelton \Back- roads,\ (Columbia) No.6 . 6. Alyson Williams .. Can •t Have · My Man, .. (OBR/Columbia) No. 6 6. Doug Stone .. Come In Out Of The Pain,\ (Epic) No.7 6. Def Leppard .. Let's Get Rock- ed,\ (Mercury) No.6 7. BoyzllMen .. PleaseDon•tGo,\ · (Motown) No. 7 8. R. Kelly & Public An- nouncement .. Honey Love,\ (Jive) No.9 7. Little Texas \First Time For Everything,\ (Warner) No. 10 7, Celine Dion \If You Asked Me To,\ (Epic) No. l1 8. Prince And The N.P.G. .. Money Don't Matter 2 Night,\ (Paisley Park/Wamer) No. 12 9. Meli'sa Morgan \Still In Love WithY ou.,\ (?endulllrn/Elektra) No. 13 10. Michael Jackson \In The Closet,\ (Epic) No. 10 8. Trisha Yearwood \The \Woman Before Me,\ (MCA) No.9 9. George Strait \Gone As A Girl Can Get, .. (MCA) No. 13 10. Alan Ja.:kson \Midnight In Montgomery,\ (Arista) No. 20 9. Arrested l)evelop111ent \Ten- nessee,\ (Chrysalis/ERG) No. 14 10. Genesis \Hold On My Heart.\ (Atlantic) No. 20 ACROSS cordial 86 Lend a hand 3See96 Dawn coins 790nce 1 Isle of Wight 46 Scored a 89 Large game 41nvenlor 42Tolamb surnamed yachting hole in one fishes Howe 44 Kentucky Clay center 48 Lipstick's kin 91 Uses credit 5 Fehinlu· bluegrass 81 Finnic 6 Containing a 49 Word before cards hively 45 The stars of ianguage rare-earth food or music 95 Splinter 6 Crouching 1n this puzzle 83 Vanc:ouver element 50 West Indian groups fear 4 7 Arranging in lslan(j Indian 11 Malign fish 96 Like grass in 7 Anagram for folds 84 Meadow 16 Me~ican dish 54 Philippine the morning live 49 Carbonated music? 17Convex peasant 97Tradeor 8 Stewart or drink 86 Molded relish molding 55 Marsh barter Steiger SO Billiards 871t follows 18Actress marigolds 99 Dress up 9An Island shot opera or Audrey 59 He loved an 100 Remove the 10 Forage 51 Ancient hunting 20i<lnd of Irish Rose rind ~ants Greek coins 88 Contorted tapestry 60 Nostrils 101 Kind of skirt 11 ratUng or 52 \The-of 89 Part of n.b. 21 Grass or goH 62 Fits of 102 Silent star food follOW· War· 90 River to the follower uncertain Theda ers 53 Strong Moselle 22Ravoked a temper 104 Eye amo· 12 Fashions wrapping 92 \I wculd not legacy 64 Mad as a wet rously 13 French paper talk of-or 24 Collection ol hen 105 Prom seasons 55 Humorous women, but anecdotes 65 Pitcher follower 14 Raided the 56 0rder of of citizens· 25 Nortarboard Darling 106 Remove refrigerator Greek (Stanton) ornament 66 Youth org. surgically 15 Dismissal architecture 93 Postpones 27 •small minds 67 \1- Rock\ 108 Deserves from an of1ice 57 Practical ~OagiJers can never (song) 110 Actress- 16 Explosive joke i6 With 3 Down, ha ,!ldle great 68 Forty winks Dawn Chong used in 58 Ancient lrisll creator of 69 Automotive 111 Dairy grenades clans Mickey 29 Cry to the veteran structure 19 ConnBCt·or 61 Blueprint Mouse matador 71 Ransack and 113 Of an hour associate addition 98 Supermarket 30 It's before tar rob 115 Ranch hands 20Vawn¥ 63 Rower welter cr needle 73 VOice a 117 Senle down 23 Took out 70 Pilde or 101 European 32 Prophet complaint snugly 26 Understands goblin blackbirds 33 Elec. units 75 Pub measure 11 B • -for 28 Giva fonh 71 Declaim 103 Gruel of 34 ()f grandpar· 76 Direct a Ada no• 31 Cover violent~ maize meal 41nts fencing thrust 119 Gladdens colllJ)ietely 72Valuabe 106 Wsight of 35 Babylonian Improperly 120 Cartoon duck 34 Coral islands wood India .llaro 78 Legal 121 Fits one into 36 Way or 73 Southern 107 Soliloquy 37 Scotch devil fJolession another enemy lead· side-dish starter · 3tShleid 80 nruly tufts 122 Kind of In 74Meadow 108 Brew~r·s 40 - Of the art of hair puzzle 38 Ch~rful moms naed 41<iatehsight IZ Resoundad DOWN songs 75 \Tralawr:t 108 Dack rnop d 831nfant's 1 Beach 31 TOWfl in of theW s• 112 Youth.org. 43 Scrap of complaint shellers SUrrey, ~aVNright 114 Legal matter information 85=ofjoy 2Cccknay's EnJiand 71 oung 116 Brit. unit af 45 Became leu (var. residence? 400 french woman heat ..... - .. ' '

EEai:I.JHE& · .·· . • . · . · . . · · . . · . · . CONCORDIENSIS • .MAY 21, 1992 • PAGE 14 Clinton .~ Bush Can ··Kiss· My Tush by Dug B.artell Associate Features Editor As the presidential race boils down to the wire, I, as a loyal tax-evading American citizen have a lot of decisions to make. With Geol'ge Bush liikely to be joined by Ross Perot and Bill Clinton on the November ticket I must ask myself, who do I think is the best choice for president? But that big question should further be broken down into smaller questions which would allow us to get past the coat and tie and into the real man. I then propose some questions that all presidential voters .should ask. Who do I trust with the button to all that radiation? Who would I let sleep with the first lady? Who would be most willing to mow that huge White House Lawn? What kind of underwear does my ideal president wear- Boxers. jockeys or butt floss? Does he watch g-movies or x-movies? Is his wife a babe? Does he ·ever pick his butt at bowling alleys? Will he scratch his balls at the inaugural address? Does he want to be like Mike? Is he good in bed? Does he use a hanky or Puffs plus? Is his cola of choice Coke or Pepsi? Will he drink c:m Fitzhugh Lundlow day? Has he ever done a naked Washington Memorial run? Did he have to take two science courses in college? Does he beer goggle? Does he enjoy a .good tractor pull? Does he get that special warm feeling at the end of Rocky? Does he believe that professional wrestling is real? Would he prefer Stove Top or Potatoes? Does he laugh out loud when watching David Letterman? Has he ever or does he ever aspire to )referee a curling match'? Do the cartoons in Playboy get his engines going? Will ~e swear to annex Mexico jso that Corona wouldn't be ~o damn expensive? · Would he refuse t<l pay a lot for that muffler? Does he walk to school or carry his iunch? Will he be the ,kind of guy I want other cou'ntries to think all America.IJS look like? Is Miller Lite his favorite beer because it's less filling or because it tastes great? What does )le read on the toilet? W!J.eit in the shower, which nand does he use to squeeze the bottle and which hand catches the shampoo? LasHy- Is he the kind of man to take America :by the jewels and twist until we promise to get off our welfare butts and turn this country back into what it 11sed to he? Will he wither or thrive? Will he be a hard nose or a candy ass? Will he use the pr~per underarm deodorant? Ladies and Gentleman these are the issues 1 place forth to be answered. I have indeed asked these questions to myself and have come to one conclusion. I want a lawn - mowing, boxer -wearing, X:- movie watching' ball scratching, sprite drinking, naked run doing. playboy reading, Mexico taking, Miller Lite drinking, hard nose kind of ' guy who couldn't care less what deodorant he wore or wether or not he ever got to be like Mike. After reviewing my list of qualifications I still wasn't sure who would male my ideal commander in chief. I'm pretty sure Bush wears butt floss and so he's out. Bill Clinton isn't any good in bed, (unless he's Stupjd. IAttle Ballad Witb a Moral Then the doors were opened and a new girl came to try by Cindy Hills Contributing Writer / Girls, here's a story of Jenny Brown It's rather sad but true She lived right here in Hickory Town Perhaps next door to you They swore she was the quickest shot But never a soul would fear For Jenny's shots were not with guns Just liquor or some beer Jenny outdrank. all tbe men Who sauntered in with poise They challenged her night after night And stumbled out like boys Week by week and month by month It seemed she'd be the best For no man here to Tennessee Could ever pass her test First rum, then vodka, then the salt Before tequilla time Then swallow quickly. toss it back Then chase it with a lime But still she wouldn't let them quit For Jenny was still frisky , She'd hand them s~otsof ~in and bourbon And cha~ hers down with whiskey A half an hour sometimes passed But some could last for more But always before closing time Her opponent hit the floor And Jenny'd tum and laugh or smile And turn back to the bar \No man will ever beat me And I've proven it so far.\ For all the rest of Jenny•s life That statement would stand true A IDa!! would never bring her down But a woman just like you It was a normal Wednesday night The bannaids sat and smoked With Jenny and the bartender Who calmly drank and joked To beat old Jenny's drinking skill Her name was Jesse Fry She pulled a stool up to the bar And called out for a shot And Jenny ordered the very same •cause challenge made her hot The two began and there they were From ten until the dawn The town had heard and crowded in And some stood on the lawn For this was such a big event Could Jenny ever fall? The thought of yet another girl Who drank intrigued them all They finished vodka, teqwlla too The scotch and then some rum So Jesse slurred to the bartender For Proof 151 The proof was high as were the stakes And Jenny didn't hear The noise had drowned 011t Jesse's call The crowd had drawn too near Slle didn't see the bottle slip and on the bar it shattered It crashed next to her fresh lit. match Then flames were all that mattered For Jenny~s shirt and sooll her hair Had all burst into fue And all the town was too compact To leave despite desire So Jesse, Jenny and the bartender 1oo Had seen their final day The alcohol of Jenny's fame · Had led her fate astray It's at Heav~n 's gate, o. r so it goes, That Jenny stands right now Awaiting God's forgiveness for Her sins in solemn vow So listen young girls, gather 'ro11nd And learn from Jenny's sin If ever you pass a bar in town Walk by and .dmLt go in. alone), so he's out. I'm also pretty sure that Ross Perot doesn't wear any deodorant and so he can be eliminated. Therefore, I've come to the conclusion, upon lack of anY other qualified competition, only one man could ever possibly lead our nation. Only one man is truly qualified to call himself the president of the United States. You guessed it. Me. Y:es sir I am the man that will set the U.S. straight. 1 am the beer-goggling, Rocky loving son of a bitch that will once again lead the U.S. to the promise land, not the compromise land. We'lll:ia:ve things done our way, the way we :like them best. Give me four years in office andl'llllave all those other leaders eating our dust; be it Hussain, Quadafy, Arafat, or :Brian Mulroney up there in Can.ada. I'll balance the budget, create world peace, eliminate nttkes, end the recession, and even mow the White House Lawn. Then I'll have lunch. I'll kiss babies, kiss ass, kiss deep and kiss those other countries goodbye. I'll slloot my mouth off, shoot commies, Next Week! Uncle Edna See below. and shoot a 38 on the back nine. As a nation you will ihave a leader completely ~capable of bowling a 220, :chugging a beer, redecorating the Oval office and negotiating those tricky trade tarrifs with the Japanese. I am truly the well-rounded choice of a new 'generation. But i can~t do all the work by myself. I'I:l need a V.P. But who? Someone out there is bound to have an idea as to who my :ideal running mate will be. Is it you? Is it a friend of yours? Send your suggestions with a brief explanation to: Doug in '92 (box 83). Vice PTesident will be revealed next week. So there you have it. You 'II Dig l)ug in '92 ~ Slf\NLEY H. KAPlAN ! Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now and get your home study materials. • You may attend classes at any of .our 150 centers nation-wide. : • Call 489-0077 Albany Kaplan Center 3 8 6 BEDROOM APTS/BOUSE Availa.,le lor 93•93 • All appliances •lVasher El dryer .. Porehes Yard • Parking • Carpet • Semi-furnished Call :570·5498 Uncle Edna Answers your questions about life. Send questions to: Box 83. Uncle Edna can't wait!

I I I j ' by Dass Seaman Features EditlJr Blind I said smiling, knowing that I It was silent. I looked had notlling better to do while I around the table at the forks, was waiting. He knew it too thoe knives, our cups filled with Have y 011 ever beeo on 8 and smiled apologetically. water, the hang nail on my blind date? I've heard Tlte waiter came over and th11rnb. Yep. I looked up and stories about how these things asked if he could take our order. noticed our waiter coming end up, but![ never imagined in I began to say \Yes.:\ but at towards us with what might a million years what ·would the same time he said, \A hopefully, oh pltase. be our happen on mine. You would couple more minutes.\ food. !lot believe what happened, but I was completely starving, \r[ think our food is coming,\ Its the truth. but I said sweetly to the waiter, I said excitedly. We were supposed to meet at \A couple more minutes.\ \Fast service,\ he said with this little place called Finally, about ten minutes relief. \Christopher's\ at one o'clock later tile waiter came back. I The waiter set our food down for lunch. I waited for about ordered a salad. He ordered the and we were both extremely an hour and was on the verge triple layer \Lumberjack's content; with our food that is. of saying \See Yat\ wllen this Manwich\ and a beer. We I couldn't wait 11ntil this sweaty panting guy stumbled both watched the waiter miserable thing is over. Eat into the cafe. disappear into the kitchen. rutd run is my motto. \Oh God,\ I thought. \So?\ 1 said · Alan looked at his incredibly \Could this be jt?\ In ·his ''So .... \ be said. huge sandwich. It 11.ad a six :baggy khakis and untucked There was a painful pause. I . in ell pile of meat, cheese, W'.bite tee-shirt, he began smiled. He smiled. lettuce, tomato, and several scanning the place for scmeone \Welk. I'm so glad I've unknowns. He looked at me who fit my description. 1 finally had the chance to meet and waited for me to take my buried my head in the menu. you,\ Isaid. first bite. Polite~ I thought. but before I knew it,. 1 heard He said enthusiastically, Then be took the biggest bite heavy breathing and a voice \Yea your voice sounds I'd ever seen. that spurted, \Karen?\ different on the phone!\ . AU of a sudden, the huge \Ah yeah? Oil, Alan. y 00 \Yea .. e. So, what are you layered insides of the sandwich must be Alan. Hi\ studying. at school?\ came bursting out of the other \Hi! he said, completely out \I d()n•t really study.\ And side. There was nothing left in of breath. \ I'm so S()rry I'm he laugiled to himself for a between the bread. He took the l~e. I mean, nice to meet you. while. Private joke. I thought. bread apart and tried to hn sorry but my bike got \No really,\ he said. \I'm a reassemble the sandw·ich. He stolen because I forgot to lock writer.\ trieod picking up the gooey it up when I went in to the \Great. I'm a math major.\ insides, but because of all the store to buy-- long story. \Nutnbers .... \he mayo, it slipped out of his Anyway, I'm sorry.\ contemplated. Then he fingers and back onto the plate. \Its' OK. Want to look at confessed, \I'm a math moron.\ I giggled and he looked up, the menu?\ I offered. \I bet you're not that stupid,\ really embarrassed. I looked \Yea!\ He began s~anning I assured. He looked at me back down at my salad. He this menu. He looked up and with swprise. I explained,\ I was struggling with tbat mess noticed I wasn't looking. mean, you're not stupid. It's by using his hands. He got so \Are you going to look at your just that math isn't so bad.\ frus;trated, he stabbed the mess menu?\ The more I spoke, the softer I with his fork. He smiled \I've mem.orized it already,\ got. triumphantly, as he put the He took anot:ller bite., carefully this time. He covered all the sides of the sandwich with a finger to prevent the sandwich from bursting again. He smiled at me as if for a approval. I smiled back. I couldn't help b1at notice the glob of mayo and tile string of lettuce hanging from. the comer ()f his mouth. I pretended not to notice. As though he felt an itch. he wiped it <>ff with the &ack of his hand. \The lettuce and mayo was now en the back &f his hand, and b.e saw it tlilere,. realizing it was on his face. He made a face like. \Oh great.\ and nonchalantly wiped it on his lap. \So. are you going to write a novel or do you like poetry?\ I said, trying to make conversation. ;,I write mostly sbort stories and poetry,\ he said. He began talking about his work, but I could hardly concentrate on his words because he had a poppy seed right in the center of his teeth. I was trying so hard not to stare, but that poppy seed was staring right back at me. I just kept on saying \'Yea... Uh, huh... Great,\ tryi11g to sound interested. He . cleared his throat and seemed to prepare to say something important. \Karen he said seriously. \I'm really glad I've had the cl!ance to meet you. Michelle talks about you all the time. I'm sorry for being so strange a11d quiet in the l:leginning. That's how I get when I'm nervous ... \ and just as he said that he reached for his beer. He must have still been rather nervous because he totally spazed and spilled it all over me. \Oht\ I 'd . d . • S81 m · esparr. \Oh!\ he said in even more despair. \ I'm so sorry!\ He leapt up with a napkin in lland to come to my rescue. He wasn't looking and he went head on CRASH into a waiter carrying a huge tray of desserts. There was a tremendous clatter. Tllen the whole cafe was silent. I saw it happen in slow motion. Up went ice cream parfait, apple pie, chocolate mousse. Down went tile ice cream parfait, the apple pie. the chocolate mousse-- all over Alan. who presently had been knocked to the ground. Alan was totally A la mode. I burst out laughing. He started to laugh too, but he held it back and said, \It's not funny.\ I shook my head \No\ and kept laughing. \It's not funny,\ he said smiling and threw a piece of pie at my face. It splatted on my face and we laughed even harder. I threw what was on my face back at him and we got into a dessert fight. We got kicked out of the cafe and walked home, sam piing our free dessert off each other. It was true love. If you don't believe me. ask Alan. No, better not. He'IJ tell you we met on \The Love Boat.\ r:-;------::----------------- -Sandwich back togetb.er. :J\f!,wman Cfu6 I Catfwfic Campus 9vlinist r----------------------s The . rrbrt~~rcrBlrll/Jii trrf-flil:~ M rus rzlnion Co[{ege Metrwria{ Cliape{ June13,1992 Saturday.. 6P.M. • EXTRA INCOME \92\ • Earn $20Q-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Galaxy Travel, Inc., P.O. Bo>e 13106, Silver Springs, MD 20911-3106. I Know You Think You're Creative Write For Features! Submit to Box 1904 or Box 83 Concordiensis Staff would like to thank President Hull for welcoming us to his home {or discussion and dinner. .. \·

·- Dear Dear Uncle Edna, I have been .lonely for a long time. How does one go about getting a date for Friday . h ? mg ts. -c.s. Dear C.S. Walk into tbe college· center and strip naked. Hold up money. Scream: \Take me! Take me! I'm Your's! If that doesn't work, the Acme \inflate a date\ service is open until midnight. Dear Uncle Edna, How did you aquite such mi unusual name? D.D. DearD.D. My mother and father were brother and sister. What more can I say. Dear Uncle Edna, My parents expect a lot from me here at Union. I was wondering if you could give me a hint on how to get better grades.jj. Dear J.J. Community College. Dear Uncle Edna, Every day after math class I leave with terrible headaches. I recently have gotten glasses but they don't seem to help. What do you suggest? -U.K. Dear U.K. Stop guing to math class. Dear Uncle F.dna. Recently I've noticed myself being ignored by all others around me. This is very depressillg. I need to know what I can do to be noticed. I feel my life isn't worthy living when nobody knows I excist. - M.K. DearM.K. What was that? Trivia Test by Linda Luckhurst 1. The Alphabet: What is the most written letter in English? 2. Mottos: What is the Great Seal of the U.S.'? 3. Biology: What is the tympanic membrane more commonly called? 4. Aviation: Who was the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean? S. Game Shows: Who h<>Sted the 1954 TV quiz show, \Earn Your Vacation?\ 6.' Earthquakes: What ca,uses e~hq\lllkes? 1. Definitions: What is an om- nivore? 8. Music: Who recorded the July, 1981 number one hit siltgle, .. The One That You Love?\ · Tri~ia Test Ans_wers 1. E; 2. E Pluribus Unum, Latin for .. F.rom the many, one; .. 3.. the eatdrum; 4. Amelia Earhart; 5. Johnny Carson; 6. the sliding of rock withln the Earth's crust; 7. some- thing that eats both plants and animals; 8. Air Supply l:ll992 by IGng FeatUl'fll! $ynd. · Dear Uncle Edna, I am a female and ca-n't get along wf.th any of the g\'-JS on my floor. Any suggestions? -P.S. De3r P.S. Midol Dear Uncle Edna, Recently at a fraternity party I had two gla:sses of beer dumped on my head. Other people laughed hut I didn't think it was funny. WJJat should I do? -P.O. Dear P.O. Have a little more to. drink and join the festivities. Bes:icles, beer is good for your hair. Dear Uncle Edna, Who do you think are the Jcn most annoying people in the world? Just curious. U.P. DearU.P. Here goes: 10. Bob Sagat 9 .. My neighbor Ron 8. 11he Encyclopedia kid on TV 7.Pee Wee '6.Mi.ke Tyson 5J~arsha Brady 4.My 5th grade art teacher 3. Tom Brokaw/ Paul TS()ngas 2 .. Richard Simmons 1 .Pauli Shore Door Uncle Edna, Why are the lids at Dl4U h Hollow always the wrcm,g size? -L.Z. DearL. z. You must be ordering the wrong size drink. The mama:gement would never make a mistake. Dear Uncle Edna, Edna I -have fallen in love with a guy who l think is great. but f'm.not sure; if he knows 1 txist. What do you suggest. Dear monymous, DB what I do. Get some.courage, approach him witb a smile and beat around the busll. Honestly- beat a bush y()u'll feel much better. If you have any questions to Uncle Edna, send them to: Uncle Erina box 83. Vote Dug in '92 \;It's a sick worl:d ... He's a happy guyl'' (see pg. 14) ®\98? BY tl\1\lf G~OEHW6 (wlffi Steve. Va..,c.e) \MPEA(H BUSH ~

NATIVE AMERICAN READINGS AGAINST THE END OF THE WORLD FREE. FOOD CCPATIO 7:00PM FRIDAY, MAY 22 FITZHUGH L.UDL·OW PICNIC Saturday) May 23, 1992 CHESTER ARTHUR COURTYARD 4:00 - 7:00pm Raindate - West Dining Hall 5:00-6~·30 pm RATHSI(ELLAR- CLOSED ALL DAY WEST DINING - OPEN FOR BRUNCH, CLOSED FOR DINNER DUTCH HOLLOW- CLOSES AT 1:30 PM -REOPENS AT 8:30PM FRESHMAN FLING FOR THE CLASS OF '95 JACKSON'S GARDEN MAY 24, 1992 FOOD - 11 :30 AM- 1 :30 PM FUN- ALL DAY WRISTBANDS AND 'MEAL CARDS REQUIRED FOR ADMISSION UPPERCLASS DINING HALt WILL BE OPEN l0:30 AM ..: 1 :30 PM FOR BRUNCH TO SERVE UPPERCLASSMEN FRESHMAN ONLY The Department of History Pr-esents The Frederic Miller Lecture Series in Memory of AnwarSadat THE MIDDLE EAST PEACE PROCESS AND U.S. ISRAELI ELECTIONS by Steven L. Spiegel Professor of Political Science at UCLA and the author of The Other Arab-Israeli Conflict: Making America's Middle East Policy. from Truman to Regan. He has appeared on many network teLevision programs. Tuesday, May 26, 1992 at 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel - Union College Professor Spiegel .has also published in many well-kn(}wn magazines and journals including The New Republic. The National Interest. Commentary. Orbis. Middle East Review. and International Studies Quarterly. The lecture is free and open to the public. Fol' further iunformation contact Professor Stephen Berk:, Department of History, Union College, 518-370-6075. Attention all 1992 GRADUATES All1992 Union College graduates who have borrowed throughtbe Stafford or SLS loan programs whlle enrolled at Union College, must attend~ exit interview counseling session. Attendance at an exit interview sessi()n is a GRADUATION REQUIREMENT. Sessions will be held in the Auditorium of the College Center on: Tuesday, May 12 at 8:30a.m. Tuesday, May 12 at 6 p.m. Wednesday, May 13 at I 0:30a.m. Wednesday, May 13 at 3:00p.m. Thursday, May l4at9:30a.m. Thursday, May 14 at 7:00p.m. Friday, May 15 at 11:15 a.m. . Friday, May 15 at 2:30p.m. Call the Financial Aid Office b}' May 8, 1992 at x6123 to register fora session or to schooule a more convenienttime. USHERS NEEDED:FOR GRADUATION JUNE 14, 1992 !SIGN UP IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES CC408 i\ 'New Age Spring Solstire Concer1 with A New Age Spring Solstice Concert SCOTT HIRNI '93 and CHUCK RODMAN '95 on ·Piano and i~ATIHEW GRABOWSKI '94 on Saxophone Sunday, May 24, 2:30 pm Memorial Chapel Admission is Free Interested in voluntary ser·\.,llce, :but want to stay on the States? Want to make a one-yellr commitment rather than two? Learn more about: VJ,STA (Volunteers ,jJJ: Service to America) ihere will be a.Jt Information Session: Wednesday, May 2:i at 7:30 pm in the CDC Featuring Juli.e Davis, Class of 1991 '*Please sign UfJ'.in advance in the CDC STUDENT FORUM ELECTION RESULTS PRESIDENT Ale:xlllnder Sklavos VP ACADEMICS ICaren Hurwitz VP FINANCE Diane Palmer VP ADMINISTRATION Evans Legros JR. TRUSTEE Lee Popper SENlOR REPRES·HNTATIVBS Lara Chamberlain (Pres.) Roxanne Sc:hneider (V.P.) JUNIOR REPRESENTATHTES Peter Savage (Pres.) Willia..rn Nook (V.P.) Damon KelleT (Sec./Tres.) SOPHOMORE llEPRESENTATIVES Hallie Heller (Pres.) Jonathan Milner (V.P.) Michael Quinn (Sec.Tres.) rcJutch tHollow ~esta.urant WILL BE CLOSED ON Friday, May 29, 1992 at 7:00 p.m. and Saturday, May 30, 1992 at 2:00 p.rn. in order to accommodate ReUnion Weekend Events. Sorry, but no meal cards will be honored during these times. TEL Em COMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES IF YOU DO NOT WISH TO BE ON THE MEALPLAN YOU ARE CURRENTLY ENROLLED IN, FOR FALL TERM. ARE THE PERFECT GIFT X37Q .. 6411 PLEASE FILL OUf A NEW CONTRACf CHANGING OR DROPPING YOUR PRESENT MEAL PLAN BY JUNE 5 TO AVOID INAPPROPRIATE FALL TERM BILLING. THIS MAY BE DONE AT THE CHE.CKER'S DESK IN EITHER WEST DlNRNG OR UPPERCLASS DINING, OR THE DINING SERVICES OFFICE. COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 202. $$$ ATTENTrON JUNIORS $$$ THE THOMASJ. WATSO.N TRAVELING FELLOWSHIP · * * INFORMATIO:N MEETING * * Tuesday, May 26, 1992 at 7:01> pm Social Sciences Building, Room 112 Greg Angus, '90, former Watson winner will joill.IJ&-111 J\nn Isenberg, this year's winner, and members of the Union College Watson Selectie>ll Committee to ex:plalrl tile application process, and answer your questions. If yotl want informati()n !tfJ:tween now and the, you cafl: . -Contact Profes:sor Klein, SS 109, x6056; -look at the contents of the. Watson informatiOI!l\ 1()1der on reserve in Schaffer Library, under Professor Klel!l'$ name; or ...,;Return ~e tear off belowtto re~:eive infonnation by retum mail. r - ..... YESIT'iWANTTO TRAVEl FOII,AYEAR ATsOMEONE ELSEiSEXPENSE.- - -I :INAME-· ----------BOX#: PHONE: I IMAJOR(S): --~-~-~~~ ........ --~RAD. YEAR: _____ I ,Balllrn!hls.lftar-Q[ DfL!»Ii l:Sifin.Jl.epw:li11enLof ~nQO)jcs _ _ _ I i

P;ER!iOI\IAL§ Congtatulations to the new initiates of Sigma Delta Tau! our (iedication and patience has fillally paid off and I know you'll agree- it was well worth the wait. Remember all the . things you learned along the way e~nd the fact that you'll always be my little lambs. lHE Thank you for everything you have given to the house and especially given to me- its more than you will ever know. Love and BTG, Randi Wendy- I am so glad you are feeling better and back on track. I really missed you these past few weeks. Love, the :printer To Pearl: Flanagan, We love and miss you. Rest in Peace. Your boys, Delta Phi Sublet Apt. July- August- $140 per month- call Marc Daniel #4310 \C ak. ?\ an youm e me.... , GO LOOK 2'i '\ --] CONCORDIE~IS • MAY 21, 1992 • PAGE 18 To: Victim #1 and Victim Watch out for spring senior \B\!I! She~s out to kill. JP Betty, Here's to our broken \common bond\ It wasn't that strong to begin with! -JP Deb- In case I have yet to thank you, thanks a lot for all of y()ur help lately. I look forward to working with you next year! Love, Me Kit Hathawa.y at Blvd. Bookstore 15 Center Ave. Albany May 24 3pm Buy ~- ALL -INPORTANT QUS:$TION 15 THIS;SUGAR: '' Wf,!Ar ,fg THE. MEANING OF CIFE?\ IT UP IN THE DICTIONARY ! FOR SALE: 1989 Ford F-150 pickup truck. Very good condition, maroon. bed liner. Asking price $7500. 6 cyl, cruise~ 30,000 miles. Call Penny Adey Ext. 6645 or 377- Mttl Your PERSONALS I U·N· 1·0· N· 'S EEK FRIDAY, MAY 22 12:Jj-J:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japmese conversation tables. 5 p.m. Track. Men's and women's Union Spring Classic. 7-9 p.m. College Center. 409. Bible study. 8 p.rn. College Center 406 .. >.sian Student Union meeting. 8-10 p.m. College Center 302. SPAA meeting. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Gra.Itd Canyon.\ SA TIJRDA Y, MAY 23 2-5 p.m. College Center aud. Gospel concert. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Gra.Itd Canyon.\ SU/IIOA Y, MAY 24 2:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Piano concert by Scott Hirni '93. 6-8 p.m. College Center410. Student forum meeting. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant worship service. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Gra.Itd Canyon.\ MONDAY, MAY 25 10 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center aud. Marine CoiJ>s recruiting. 11:50 a.m.-12:50 p.m. College Center. ItaliaJL conversation table. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con- versation table. 2:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Memorial Service for Prof. William Stone. 6:30-8 p.m. College Center 404. Newman Club close out party. 7-8:3{) p.m. College Center409. Speaking Hands meeting. 7-8:3{) p.m. College Center 204. SPAA meeting. TUESDAY, MAY 26 10 a.m..-2 p.m. College Center atrium. MaiD!eCorps recruiting. 11:30a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and be...,erage club. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. 12:20-1:20 p.m. College Center. Brazilian conversation table. 4:3() p.m. College Center 404. Bible study. 4:3() p.m.. College Center aud. Faculty Colloq11ium: Prof. Ruth Stevenson, speaking on •'Tile Renaissance Powerhouse of Words.\ 7-8 p-m. College Center203. Pre-Law socie1y. 7:30p.m. Crosstalk at Chet's: \Seniors Speak\ 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. History Depart· ment Anwar Sadat Lecture Series speaker, Steven. Spiegel, University of California at Los Angeles. 9 p.m. Karoake at Chet's. WEDNESDAY, MAY 27. 10 a.nt.·2 p.m. College Center atiiu.rn. Marine Corps recruiting. NoonA p.m. Schaffer Library main lobby. Book sale. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 4-6 p.m. Arts Building. Artist's reception for Student's of Color at Union College. 6:45-9 p~m. College Center 406. Brazilian Club. THURSDAY, MAY 28 10 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 405. Investment Club. 4:40p.m. SS 104. The Biology Department and Biology Club present, Robert Lauzon, Albany Medical College, speaking on \Cell Death During Development: What Marine Invertebrates Can Teach Us.\ 7-8 p.m. College Center409. Supp<>rt group. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial. ·~eve,\ a play by Marina Bernard '92. 8 p.m. College Center aud. Women's Union film: \Still Killing Us Softly.\ FRIDAY, MAY 29 10 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 2:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Memorial Service of Prof. Neal Allen. 1:10-2:45 p.m. College Center aud. Pew Ethics and Science Symposiwn: \A History Lesson: Scientific Practice unde:r Hitler.\ 3-5 p.m. College Center aud. Pew ]thlcs and Science Symposiwn: \Ethics and the New Biology.\ 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Department senior thesis defense: \eve\ a play by Marina Bernard '92. She will also perform at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. 4 p.m. Butterfield, 201. Nikolai Sobolev, deputy director of the Institute for Theoreti- cal Physics and Astronomy in Vilnius. Litlumi.a, speakin on \Diamonds and the Upper Mantle. 6:30-9 p.m. Ramada Inn, Schenectady. Pew Ethics and Science Symposium Keynote Address: Or. Robert Veatch, Georgetown University, speaking on\Doing Science Ethically: A New Understanding of the Role of Values in Doing Post-Modem Science.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Classical cabaret. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Hook.\ SATURDAY, MAY 30 9 a.m.-10:45 a.m. College Center a11d. Pew Science and Ethics Symposium: \Ethical Problems in Everyday Science.\ 11 a.m.-Noon. College Center aud. Pew Ethics and Science SYJn,posiwn: \The Place of Ethics in the Science Curriculum.\ 8 &: 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Hook.\ SUNDAY, MAY 31 7:30p.m. Old Chapel.lnterdenom:in.ational Protestant worship. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Hook.\ soc at Gang~ It's time to· stop ' \bringing the team down.\ It's all ball·bearings these days! the cc Booth collegiate crossword @Edward Julius Collegiate CW8723 ACROSS 1 - trial (1925) i Gem resembling a beetle 13 Writer of \Bre<tk- fast at Tiffany • s\ 14 Mr. Mann 15 Certain teeth 16 Paints 18 Actor Warner ---- 19 ''My Gal -\ 21 The Beehive State 2Z - majesty 23 Ziegfeld workers 25 Surfeit 26 Explosive 27 Baby's footwear 29 A Kennedy J() Ocean animal (2 wds.) 32 Dual-purpose couches 34 Recede 3~ African antelope 3o Worked at the ::Jrcus 40 I.uect larvae 44 Georgt's lyricist 45 Hermit 10 Plant branch 47 Conmon prefix 11 Recording-tape 4a Actress Theda ---- material 50 Laminated rock 12 Tardy 51 Statistics measure 15 NFL team 52 Cabell or Slaughter 17 Loses hair 53 - lawn, ZO School subject rllinois 23 Georgia product 54 ••west Side Story\ l4 Entrance to the character ocean {2 wds.) 55 Smaller 27 Best-selling book 58 Repeating 28 Irish dramatist 60 Odd 31 Pants part 61 Make invalid 33 Software error 62 ~wards 36 Agreed 63 Gro~nd up by 37 Element 192 rubbing 38 French river DOWN 1 Type of triangle 2 Card game 3 Express an opinion 4 ''On Golden - 11 5 Sumner in Soissons 6 Class meeting 7 Bombarded 8 Prisoner 9 CClach Parsegh ian 39 Works with cattle 40 Farm job 41 Do hospital work 42 Prepared for boxing 43 French legislature 46 Pasture sound 49 Made inquiry 51 French revolutionist 54 Prefix for byte 56 Shrub genus 57 Electric ---- 59 Prefix: three

' ;· ). Lady 'Tracksters Finish Strong Schach Talk By Herrika D. Poor Concordiensis Staff The Women's track team tr.aveled to Williams this weekend to conclude their post- season. Yes, we are stiU competing; believe it or not. Six women made this journey to Williams and we all did well. Senior Alix Goldschmidt was the first for the team to complete her event, tbe hammer. Competing in her last ECAC meet Alix threw a 32.24 in the hammer. 1'he women continued with senior Denise saunders running the lOOm dash in a 13.73. Nadine Filosi continued the day for union in the 100 hurdles. Nadine ran a 16.96 and made it to the finals . This was a personal record for nadine who had never broken 17 .00. Tasha LaBare and Rika Poor finished out the first day for Union in • • • • Continued on Page 20 Francis, Larry Murphy. Rick Tocchet, Jaromir Jagr and of course Kevin Stevens. who scored 123 points this season, second only to his currently inj!Jred teammate, Mario Lemieux. And it was no fluke. Jagr, the Penguins 20 year old Czechoslovakian phenom who dazzled the Rangers with his skating and stickwork~ is already making Boston defenseman look stupid in the Penguins next series with tlle Bruins. The Pens are the defending champions, have a fabulous coach, Scotty Bowman .. and are playing good, smart hockey. And despite all this, the Rangers did have an excellent chance to put the series away. With IS minutes left in game 4, and the Ransers leading 4-2, the Penguins Bvb Errey was assessed a 5 minute major penalty for his hit on Paul Broten. If the Rangers had scored on the ensuing power- play, it would have been all but over. Even if goalie Mike Richter had been able to step a 65-foot Ron Francis shot, and held on to win, the Rangers probably would have advanced. They were that close to taking complete command of tbe series and silencing all doubts. So what can we say now to _explain why the Rangers failed? Well, the correct question to ask is what can the Rangers do to improve for next season, and there are several options. First of all~ goaltender John V anbiesbrouck has a very high market value now, after the fabulous year he had, and any team ~at hopes to contend should be thrilled to -have a goalie of his ability and experience. And the Rangers can certainly t~ve with only Richter in net~ who Coach Roger Neilson seems to prefer anyway. E:xpect V anbiesbrouck the 400m. Tasha ran a 61.30 and rika ran a 59.44 which moved her into the finals. After a wonderful but huge breakfast, the Union women headed back to Williams for day two of competition. First on the track was the 4xl00m team of Denise. Rika, Nadine and Tasha. The relay finished eighth in a 51.44 .. Nadine then had to run the 100 hurdle finals and she just missed placing as she ~crossed the line with a 16.70, another personal record, and a new school record. Rika was next on the line in the 400M. Finishing in sixth place and in a time of 59.34 Rika picked up the first point for Union. Ending the day was the 4x400M relay team which cut three seconds off their time from states. Despite a few nervous stomachs, the team of R~a. Tasha, Denise and Joy Grillon ran very well finishing in a time of 4:09.11. The relay team ran a great time together, but·the individual times were also impressive. Tasha and Rika had 61.4 and 61.5 respectively, while Denisehad a 62.1 and Joy. coming off an injury, carried the baton home for a sixth place finish and another point in 64.1. Although Union did. not gather tnany points we ran well and ladies, we did not finish last. Please come support the Union Track team in their last meet of the season on friday, May 22 at 5;00 at Frank Bailey Field. Now that [ have finished writing ·the article, I would just like to add a little note. I will be graduating in June and I just want to thank all the members both the men and women's team for all their support over the past few years. I have made some great friends and I will miss all of you next year. I wish you all the best of luck. by John Schachnovsky Sports Editor All-star who, dominates every game he is in. The fact is, everyone in the world knows who Michael Jordan is. He is outspoken and cares about the community he is from, and is living in. I overheard a soorts writer this past week talk about the fact that athletes are not great role models for kids. because being a pro athlete is an unrealistic goal He continued by adding that if these athletes were ordinary people they would be very far from role models. Well if you had to have one exception it would be Jordan. He represents everything a person and an athlete should be. Broadway They have said ·that it 1s impossible to do ... well I am going to try .and do the impossible. The fact is it is almost impossible to say how good Michael Jordan ,really is. Well, for all of the \Jordan Critics\ out there it is ttme you faced the facts. Michael Jordan is the best player in baskketball history. Michael Jordan is the best athlete. at his sport, e:ver. The game that he recently had against the Knicks is not the deciding factor in my opinion about him, it is the way that the game he played enforces the opinion. Against the Knicks in game 7 of their amazing 4 out of seven series, one player from either team was going to take charge, and even though he had been neutralized, as best as the Knicks could, Jordan took over. He scored 18 first quarter points which led to 42 total points. Gatorade has their entire ad campaign surrounding one thing .. .If you drink Gatorade you are being like Mike. In none of the adds do they say anything else than BE LIKE MIKE ..... DRINK GATORADE! In their minds Michael Jordan is who everyone wishes they could be. And as the years go by, it looks like they hit the nail on the head or possibly defenseman James Patrick to be the main trade bait in any Ranger deal. And who is there to trade for? Be certain that the Rangers are seriously considering going after Eric Lindros~ who is slated to be the next Mario Lemieux. The Rangers leading goal scorer, Mike Gartner is now 32 and the Rangers will need a dominant scorer like Lindros who in a few years could be one of hockey's · improvements, as they blew 2 huge leads in the Devils series, · and as they could not hold a 2 goal lead for 10 minutes against the Pens, even with strong goaltending for the most part. But nevertheless, this could be the most talented Ranger team ever and even if no changes are made, the Rangers will be strong : contenders next year, curse or no curse. The thing is though, Jordan is so much more than just 42 points in a huge seventh game in the playoffs. If that is all he was, we could label him great. The fact is we can't. because he is so much more. Jordan is the leading scorer per game in the history of the NBA, play-offs and regular season. Jordan is the MVP of the league this year, hands down. He recieved more votes than the other candidates ... combined. Michael Jordan is a perrenial I feel sorry for sports fans who are gone, and the ones who are not here yet, they are going to miss one of the class acts in the the sports world. When people talk about life and sports coming together, the glue that holds them are people like Michael Jordan. finest. Lindros has not yet .-----------------------------------.. played an NHL game, but his performance in the Olympics on Canada~s silver medal team showed great promise that he can definitely help a team to a Stanley Cup. The problem with acquiring Lindros is not the money. The problem is that the Rangers may have to break up the chemistry of an already successful team to get him, and they will be less likely to do this than will a team like the Philadelphia Flyers who have little to lose by taking a risk. One possible course of action for the Rangers is to accept that they lost with a team that very well could have won, and to not disrupt what they already know they can win with. After all, the Rangers will already be adding Soviet superstar Aleksei Kovalev, their first round draft pick, to their team at some point next season. Many of us saw Kovalev's brilliant play in the Olympics, helping the Unified Team to a gold medal. Kovalev and fellow Russian Sergei Zubov, who the Rangers will also be getting, will bring their artful finesse style of hockey to the Rangers. One last off-season move should be to acquire another big -hitting defensetnan to go along with Jeff Beukeboom in shaking up opposing offenses. This years playoffs exposed the Rangers need for defensive More than a parcel, less than a truckload When you have valuable shipments that are too big for a standard 70-pound parcel, too small for a full truckload and air express is too expensive, you need THE MOVERS, Inc. An Express Service for Small Shipments The Movers system was designed to meet the needs of a student to mcve small shipments rapidly from school to home, and back again! Our cont~i~ers hold ~etween ~00 and 500 pounds of your belongings- what~ver 1t IS. From s~ereo eqUJpr:nent, small appliances to sporting a d clothmg and books. - 00 s. You Call - You Pack We Haul Local Long Distance & Commercial Moving Packing, Storage & Distribution Services (518) 861 .. 6501

a!nttntrbirttsi.s MAY 21 19'92 Union Crew Has Best Finish Ever at Nationals by Greta Wil~;on Concordiensis .SttJtf At 5:30 A.M. tlley are awoken by the sounds ()f their alarms. As they mak.e their way to the boat house, the sun begins to rise above the horizon. They engage in a quick warm-up on land to loosen lthe muscles and fully awaken their exhausted bodies. After each oar is brougllt down to the water's edge, the coxswain gives the command, \hands on!\ and the rowers 'bead for their boat. With extreme care the rowers gently place their boat alongs:ide the dock onto the Mohawk River. \Run your blades out!\ commands the coxswain, and the rowers obey. \One foot in, and shove off in two. One .... two!\ With obedience and grace, the boat of eight eager competitors, an.J their coxswain, make their way off the dock. What lies ahead is only known by their coach; however, the rowe~rs are prepared to work hard. For 9 months the Union Crew Team has trainedfor the 1992 Dad Vail Reg~ttta in Philadelphia, Pennsyl varnia. This collegiate regatta is the largest in the world witll over 100 teams and over 1000 rowers from across the United States and Canada competing for a medal. The spectators number in the thousands as they watch the intensity among competitors. This year., both Union's varsity me11 and varsity women made it to the semi-finals. This is tile first time ever that Union lias had two boats in the semi-finals of the annual Dad Vail Regatta. All of their hard work By Hal Poret definitely paid off! Concordiensis Staff The varsity men's heavy New York sports fans• weight eight captured a third in last hopes for a championship the quarter-finals, providing . \ team died Sunday, as the New them with a spot in the semi- 1 York Knickerbockers were finals. In the semis, Union finally eliminated by the took a competitive fourth Chicago Bulls 110-81 in game which was just one boat short 7 of their second round playoff from the finals. All in all, their series. The· Knick's loss. efforts were endless as they left · coupled with the defeat of the the name of Union crew as a New Rangers at the hands of competitive team to watch out the Pittsbur~h Penguins last for. The varsity men's eight Wednesday, means there will consists of rowers Gary Chase, be no more excitement at Kevin Puppe, Matt Forester, Madison Square Garden this Tucker Lounsbury, Matt Kirk, season, unless you like the Rob Cressman, Pete Schwab, circus or dog shows. The Matt Green, and coxswain J.J. Knicks defens~ finally Weiner. The men are pleased succumbed to the Bulls attack. with their accomplishments allowing 100 points or more and are looking to capture a for the first time in the medal next year. playoffs, 42 of them coming The varsity women heavy from Michael Jordan. But what weight eight have come a long an amazing playoff run it was, way this year. They owe it all by a Knick team which to their coach Jim Swabb, who relatively few people expected volunteers his time to coach . to beat the Pistons, let alone the varsity women. He trained take the defending champion the women extensively, and in Bulls down to the wire. Besides the end it was worth every the excellent play of center minute. The women fought Patrick Ewing, in games the hard for a fourth in the quarter- Knicks won, the key to their finals, which qualified them for success was defe11se. The the semi-finals. They had ferocious Knick defense held achieved their main goal, to the explosive Bulls to an make it as far as the semi- average of 89.5 points a game finals of the nationru Dad Vail through game 6 (20.4 points Regatta. Though they did not below the Bulls' season make it to the finals , they average). With the inside know that they rowed their strength of Ewing, Charles very best, which was exactly Oakley, Xavier McDaniel, and what they wanted to do. To see reserve forward Anthony their coaches satisfaction with Mason, the Knicks were able his rower's efforts was a medal to outmuscle and outrebound in itself. The varsity women's the Bulls 242 to 214 before eight consists of rowers Pnina game 7. In a very physical Miller, Holly MacSweeney, series which saw 4 Knick Greta Wilson, Carrie Savage, players called for flagrant fouls, Ashley Re.eve, Kristina the Knicks rough style of Freny~a, Kathy Jo Champion, defense clearly shook up the Jen Voerman, and coxswain Bulls offense. especially Julie Murphy. Congratulations superstar runner-up Scottie to the family of Union Crew! Pippen. Pippen's atrocious ---·- ~· - ..... _...,,,...,, -=-;m\lm~WJ~.a;u~~r.-\.·'\ ' ~:. .. F-.1.• :.· *~)<.·<.~4.<1•-•<~>~·~ .... -,., ~ ., , ,,;-~ '<~~,.,-,-''\\\'' . ..,.., ..- . • .370 shooting percentage was a major factor in the sub-par performance of the Bulls. However, despite the admirable effort put forth by New York, their quest to reach the Eastern Conference finals for the first time since 1974 is over. New coach Pat Riley has worked wonders with this Knick team and their future seems very bright now that Riley has given them the confidence to win. Patrick Ewing is a star at center, and his 34 point, 16 rebound performance in game 1 in Chicago (a 94-87 Knick win) proved that he is ready to lead a team to an NB A championship. The · Knicks virtual theft of Xavier McDaniel from the Supersonics has given them a very solid scorer and rebOunder at the small forward position. The Knicks also get great rebounding from Oakley and Mason. and have a solid point guard in Mark Jackson. And Riley has their defense playing better than any team in the league. What the Knicks really need is a true scorer at the guard position. Ewing can take over a game and McDaniel will often step up with clutch shooting, but unless Starks is on fire, their outside game is lacking. Teams feel safe double-teaming Ewing, preventing the ball from getting to him, because the Knicks possess no real perimeter shooters. Starks is a decent shooter and Gerald Wilkins is exCiting going to the hoop, but you're not going to win with them over a team like the Bulls who has such a variety of offensive weapons. Greg Anthony is an excellent defender and ball-handler, but teams will let him shoot the ball all day, wh~le they concentrate on the Knick big men. The Knicks find themselves in the interesting positio11 of having gone from the chokers who let Boston steal the Atlantic Division. to title contenders, in only 2 weeks. The coaching staff has a lot of thinking to do about next year, but expect the Knicks to draft some perimeter shooting. · The Rangers future looks equally bright, but their demise this year cannot be told in such a positive light. Unlike the Knicks, the Rangers were the best team in their sport for 80 games. and were the favorite (if any team was) to win their first Stanley Cup in 52 years. And aside from all the usual hopes and expectations, the Rangers truly possessed the talent to bring home the Cup. This :year they were a real threat. This year, real Islander fans <lid not laugh at the Rangers elimination or yell \1940\'. This year, they just sat back in their chairs and breathed a huge sigh of relief. So did the Rangers choke? Is there really a jinx? Did the strike stop the momentum they had built up? None of these are really legitimate answers. The fact reinains that we are in an age of .great parity in tqe Nlll... There 111e no dominant teams like the old Montreal Canadiens or the Islander and Oiler dynasties of the 1980's. There is no magical home-ice advan~~ to carry the Rangers like there is for the NBA's best .teams. Simply put, the Rangers play in the toughest divisioll in hockey, and lost to a team which has stepped up its playoff performance to the point that they are probably as good as the Rangers. They were beaten by a team with players like Tom Barasso. Ron CDetinued on Page 19 . --~;;.,.:~:

Founded 1877 I' • • :••\ ' I I ''; • •' .·.:,-: :1' '.'' '' • • ·~··, ':·:\ ,' ,··~ .. '•) ':,' _ _.,·, >•oo: .·' .. ,:• • ,·I • ~ ,:~'~<,_, VOLUME 121, NUMBER 24 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK MAY 28, 1992 No Significant Programs Cut; Financial Aid Increased by David Levine Concordiensis Staff According to President Hull, despite the fact that that Union College lost $1.4 million from its budget this year, the budget was balanced without making any significant cuts in the school's programs Union College received almost $1 million less compensation from New York State this year then it received last year through Bundy aid and Tuition-assistance grants. Bundy aid is given to an institution on the basis of the number of students who graduate each year. In the 1991-1992 school year Union received $810,000 in Bundy aid. Due to the cuts that have been made in New York State, this amount has been cut by a whopping $540,000. The school will only receive $270,000 in Bundy aid for the 1992-1993 school year. In addition, New York State has cut its Tuition- assistance grants. The grants are awarded to New York State residents on the basis of need. President Hull has been very critical of Governor Cuomo for allowing these cuts to be made. · To be able to balance the budget the school has raised the price of tuition, room, and board by about 6.8%, and has made about $400,000 in permanent reductions. The President has cut $75,000 from his budget, including a $25,000 · cut in his discretionary fund, and a $45,500 cut from the Academic Excellence Fund. Nearly $150,000 has been cut from the Academic Mfairs spending. Most of the cut resulted from the President's decision not to past. $25,000 has been cut from the Student Affairs spending. College Resources, the department in charge of raising money for the school, has had $75,000 cut from its b11dget. Administration spending will be reduced by $2:5,000 and Campus Operations will receive $20,000 less. Lastly. the scbool expects to save $20,000 fr()m a new billing system that directly bills departments for loiJg distance service. President Hull has stated, that despite state cuts in aid, UIJion College will remain committed towards increasing the financial aid available to students. There will be a 12.2% increase in financial aid for the 1992-1993 school year. $250,000 will be used for Need Blind admissions. The nature of this aid is in grants. When combined with the 12.2% increase in loan-based aid, total financial aid will increase by 16.6% for next year. In an attempt to rearrange the budget, the school will also charge some of its expenses to the endowment. That amount is going to be $150,000. The budget is not funded to pay audit fees, bond administration fees, the bad debt write off, the Character Research Project write off, and short term interest expenses on its line of credit. These expenses will be paid by the endowment. A recent study released by Institutional Studies reveals that Union•s current financial coiJdition is probably about average when compared to 31 similar schools. In average salary paid to the faculty, Union ranked 15th 'out of 32 sch()ols, paying its professors an average of $49,200 a year. The average salary for the 32 $50,034. In terms of total average compensation for faculty members, Union .tied for 14th at $63,400. The average compensation was a little higher at $63,494. In terms of tuition, Union ranked 27th at $15,420. The average tuition was $15,682. All of the statistics stated were for the 1991-1992 school year. Union's increase in tuition is about comparable with the nationwide ave~e. Overall, the budget problems that the school were rumored to have been having, were not very serious. The budget was balanced without any cuts to significant programs. Financial aid was increased by - 16.6% despite the severe cuts in state aid. Union's tuition, seemingly high, compares favorably to similar schools_ Ranking of Union in Compensation and Average Teacher Tuition Rates 1. 2. 3_ 4- 5_ 6. 7. B. 10. 11. 12. 13. 11_ 16. 17- 18. 20. 22. 23. 24- 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. AVERAGE COI1PENSRTION ALL RANKS - 1991-92 Lehigh· ~lesle'::lan Flmhersl:. R.P. L J..le 11 es 1 e':l Smilh Swarthmore Haverford Hill iams ~L p- [. Bucknell Colgal:.e Trinity UNION Clark ML Holyoke F & 11 Oberlin Vassar Davidson Middlebury Bowdoin Carlelon LafayeU.e Skidmore 51:.. Lawrence Colby H. & ~lm. Smi lh Grinnell Dickinson Bates Hamilton 11EnN 78,200 72,900 72,800 72,200 69,700 68,600 66,600 66,500 66,500 65,000 6-1,300 6-1, 100 63 900 63:1oo I 63,400 62,500 62,300 62,200 62,200 60,600 60,600 60,400 60,300 60,100 59,700 59,600 59,000 50,700 56,600 56,400 56,300 56,200 63,494 1. 2. 3. -1. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 23. 24. 25. 26. I 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 1991-92 TUITION Middlebury Bales F Be t1 Amherst: Hamilton Williams Swarthmore Oberlin Vassar Wesle'::lan Trinil:.y Carlel:.on H. & Wm. Smith Bowdoin Colgal:.e Haverford Wellesley HI:.. Holyoke Skidmore Colby Lehigh Smith 51:.. Lawrence Bucknell Lafa'::Jet:.te Dickinson Ut~I ON R. p. I. Clark ~-~- p. I. Gr-innell Davidson 22,'300 * 21,-100 * 20,885 * 16,690 16,650 16,635 16, -165 16,375 16,250 16,250 16,220 16, 170 16,077 16,070 16,012 15,992 15,966 15,950 15,785 15,710 15,650 15,650 15,620 !5,550 15,-175 15 450 15:42Q] 15,150 15,000 13,985 13,424 13,150 MEAN 15,682 (excludes comprehensive fees) schools was slightly higher!!a!llllt ~!111111!~illllllllll!llllllllllll!l!l-aJIIIIIIIIIIB.IIIIIIl~ll!lllllllllllllllllll.~.,..~lllllll~~~~llllllllllll!l~llllllll--~-----, A View of Ross Perot -Page 3 Health Care for American Veterans -Page4 Student Forum Budget .. page 14 Final NHL Update -Page 16

I. .... ':·..:i-=:·••tc .. · · ·.· · ·· · · · .· · .. : .. · · · · .·.· .· · · · · ·. · .·· .· · · · .. · ·. . ·. · .. · · .:· ·. .· ~~~~---~=- ·:.· .· _- ' _·, ·- ' ,-- ___ .· . . . - - . J • --. -· owns The Ups andD of Union's Stu Activities Bud dent i tget by Verl()llita Rogers ConclPrdiensis staff Although people say that:, Union is faJiillg into debt, 1 money is stili flowing . Each i year the StudetttForum and the : Finance Committee compile : budget allocations for student activities fo1 :the following ; year. They b!lse their decisions : on the previous year's 1 expenditures for the activities. : While some c:lu]) budgets went down, the 111ore prosperous : clubs received a budget · increase. With the amounts of money allocalle<l to these clubs each year, and tile rise in total budget, is Unicrrneally in debt? Looking at the list of '92's budget and '~3~s budget, there is an obv i()US cutback in many of the smaller clubs. Coffeehouse, Cabaret, Arts Club, Psychoi<Jgy Club, and Fencing are ;a few clubs that . went from having a sizeable budget to ha..ving nothing. There is a q11estion as to why their budgets. v.rere cut. Low ; productivity witlliri'the club~ or · lack of p!lFticiiJation are possibilities. A few other · small clubs wllich had low budgets, have bad their budget dissolved, ~uch as the Philosophy Fomm. Classics Club, and Speaking Hands. On the other side of the spectrum, clubs that received no money during the '92 year will Feceive more money 'than expected. Clubs like the Cycling Club, FLAG, Karate Club, Rugby(Women), Peer Facilitators, and Circle K, will '· be getting a budget which should help with the organizations' goals. Some of these clubs are very helpful in the Union College Community. Peer Facilitators is a useful program that provides the student body with peers of the same age, who are !rained in helping with social dilemmas, and issues that · surface at Union and in society. · FLAG is a helpful dub in raising awareness of homosexuality; theCycling Club. and Rugby club are good . extra-curricular activities that • that have enjoyed student . involvement. The new Pub (Chet's) will have a recently installed budget in '93 to help with the expenses of running it. Many other clubs at Union will have some budget increases. Water Polo, Women's Union, Film Committee, Big Bro/Sis, We Care About U Schenectady, Shakti, Ski Club(Alpine), SPAA, and Men's Kugby are a few of these clubs. Big Bro/Sis and We C.are About U, are two clubs · :tliat should not lose money because of their usefulness to tile Schenectady Community, · which in tum enriches Union's ·Community. On the ct1tback side, some .of the clubs that had big budgets that are going to be lessened are WRUC, Concordiensis, Concert CommiUee, Garnet, and Sentinel which all exceeded over $10,00Q in '92 and will !have cutbacks of $1,000 to. $10.000, depending on the relub. It will be an interesting thing to see if there are any rnajor repercussions because of these cutbacks next year. Some other smaller clubs will get little cutbacks that might just be because of the necessity of keeping the total budget at a reasonable level. The total increase in the budget for the '93 year will not be too large, in fact it will only grow by about $4,000. Union is filled with many opportunities to get involved with organizations of different natures. It is important to get involved with these clubs while they are available. If people start to show a lack of serious interest, there could be 1 the threat of abolishing man)' (){ the clubs that make the college experience more worthwhile. CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 28,19~2 • PAGE 2 Stu~dent Forum Spotlight by Brendan Clifford President, Student Forum Last weeks Student Forum Spotlight was not printed because it was submitted on paper and. not on a macintosh disk. This will be the last spotlight of 1992. Over the past two weeks the Forum has been finalizing the 1993 budgets and trying to establish annual recognition for academic achievement. An annual $1.000 scholarship will begin next year. The Forum sought an alumni endowment to fund this venture, but that is not possible because of the amount of money required. This scholarship will be based on financial need,. scholastic achievenent and service to Union College. Also, Sophomore Representative Blaine Langberg is trying t() establish an annual dinner to recognize Dean's list students. Last year's attempt to do this was not very successful. The Forum is hoping that, with proper preparation, next years attempt will be an excellent experience for both parents and students. The budgets for 1993 were completed at the last meeting. With the recent increase in budget from President Hull, the Forum was able to fund more clubs than expected. These finalized budgets. will be available in the student activities office this week. Finally, I want to congratulate all those whtl ran for election two weeks ago. At the very least you had the courage and interest to run for office.. Look forward to the upcoming dinner when the old Forum will meet the new Forum. Again, congratulations on your election. This • the last . lS iSSUe of the '91-'92 Year Activities Budget Editor-in..Cilie:f News Edioors Executive Mtor Intematiolld Features Editdrs Commentari.es Editors Ned Watley Jordan Lippner, Jim Polites,·· Lara Chamberlain,· Pam Leinson · Kristin Lupoli, Larae Tumidajewicz Lea Lewi$, Beth Pincus •. Maya Rosenblum Arts EditOI's Carrie Shennan, Cort Boulanger Lifestyles Mltor Stacy Cervellino, I ulie Schlang Features Mm Dng Bartell, ·Dass Seaman Campus Pag-(l Editors Dim1a Br()(Jsky, Nicole Goldin Sports Edito:r John Schachnovsky Assistant Sj)(lrts Editor Chuck Rodman Photograplly-Editor David Cho, Peiet Fischer Advertisin~Editors Lauren Bycoff, Jen Shulkin Subscriptio~t Managers Matt Grabowski, Andrew Rosen Financial Bf:itor Shields Day STAFF: <l:reg Barrett, Ron Birnbaum, Daniel J. Bullen, Erica Franl::, Stephanie Fray, Craig Greenberg. Jason Habinsky, Hannah J .Eaten, Lisa Hofbauer, tasha La Bare, David Levine, Sean Livimg:;ton, Julie Medow. Rich Morgan, Louise Oster, Peter Protzel., Betsy Rothstein, Sreedhar Samudrala, Alii Wapner. ADVERTI~ING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith RECRUITER.: Matt Tucker CONCORlllE!NSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student t.o<ly of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publitations Office; Susq11elianna :?ublicai:ions, Inc., · . Box 388i, Si9ney. ~ew York ·1:3838 (1507) 563-833:9. · · Suhscripti<Jn rate: $40 pet year;. delivered anywhere .in the United States: Mail .Subscript~ons to Coilt\iordiensis o(fice, College Center;· Uniofi College,- C~Jneol!(lieosis subscti~es ·. to the Inter(i()ll~giate Press {IP). Otlke. Telephone· (518) 37() .. 6155, Adve:.rlisin!l Telephone(5~18)3.'10.:6494. · · ; : ' ! ! ACTIVITY Actuarial CILJb ALAS PSCE Arts Club ASU Big Bra/Sis Biology Cabaret Cheerleaders Chemistry Circle K Classes Classi~ Club Coffeehouse ·concordiensis Concert Band Concert Comm. Crew Cycling Club Dance Ensemble Dance Team Dutch Pipers Economics Club Equestrian Club Fencing Club Film Committee First Aid Squad Fitzhugf:i Ludlow FLAG French Club Frisbee Club Gaming Assoc. Garnet Garnet Minstrelles Geology Club German Club Gospel Ensemble Holding Account Homecoming Idol FC I '93 Budget. $3oo I I $12,000 I $2,500 I $0 I I $2,100: ' $3,500 I I I $1 ,645 $0 $1,290 I $270 $435 $2,000 : $0 I I $0 I $29,910 I $2,790 I I $25,000 I $18,930 $820 $4oo I $400 $490 $350 $1 ,500 so I $22,1 00 $1,870 $3,000 $715 $910 ' $100 $1QO j $21 ,350 . $430 $6oo I $248 I $2,365 I $5,000 I $2,000 $3,000 $1 ,965 I - '92 Budget ISJ ACT! VITI I '93 Budget : '92 E>udq et I $340 I $1 ,375 ! $1.,590 $11,105 Karate Club I $2,605 I $0 $1,300 Matching Funds I $1,500: $1,000 $600 Mountebanks I $13.100! $13,050 $2,100 .. -- i $3,4oo r I •NSBE $:3,427 $2,830 ·. Outing Club I $3,180 $:3,258 $1 ,617 Peer Facilitators I $2.256 i $0 $1.,000 Pep Band I $665 I $650 $1,110 Philosophy Forum I $0 I $250 $290 Physics Society $240 I $300 $0 . Pre-Health I $705 I $790 $2,000 Pre-Law $330 $530 $480 Psychology Club $0 $502 $1 ,505 . Public Speaking $785 ' $650 $30,520 Rugby- Men I $4,460 I $4,100 $2,770 Rugby - Women $3,055 $0 $26,000 · Russian Club I $250 I $450 $20,780 SPAA I $935 i $600 $0 • Scuba Club $10 0 I $500 $500 . Senior Fling $3,000 i $2,000 $479 Sentinel $9,034 $1 2,096 $450' . Shakti I $2.00 ~ I $500 $400 Ski Club - Alpine. I $10,925 I $7,500 $1,500 Social Committee $1,645 .$4,000 $1,005 Pub I $5,355 I so $22,000 SHPE $2,445 so $760. SNC $2,135 I $0 $4,00.0 Spanish Club $975 ! $730 $0 Speakers Forum $26,050 $24,550 $800. SpeakinQ Hands $0 $515 $450 .SADD $2,836 $600 $150 Student Forum I $3,240 $2,200 $25,000 Studeht Activities I $15,000 $1 S,OOO $450 Waterpolo $3,81 5 $2,775 $820 We Ca~e About U $350 I $400 $425 • We Care - Schtdy $4,090 $2,076 $2,500 . Women's Union $5,990 $1,0()0 $6,801 ~t.C $20.,000 $3 0,700 $2.000 Van Account $E), 700 $3,100 .. I $1,965 Totals $330,2.1 o·l $3215,800

., I CONCORDIENSIS• MAY 28,1992\ PAGE3 ' ' ····.: ... · . . .. . .:: oss ero • • by Uenjamin Salzillo Contributing Writer The Tonight Show: May 19, 1992. It is Johnny Carson's fourth to last show,· a boisterous and appreciative crowd greets him as he emerges from his technicolor bulwark. Carson says: \!feel like Ross Perot. You're applauding, but 1 haven't said anything yet.\ Like most late-night talk- • show humor, this extempore jape by Johnny is acutely reflective of the today's political and cultural climate. In the past month, Ross Perot -- Texas billionaire, philanthropist, and would-be President -- has galvanized the people, seduced the media, and confounded political gurus who don't know what to make of a man who has bailt a cogent potential candidacy out of a few television appearances. Nevertheless, the latest TIME/CNN nationwide poll shows Perot on top with 33% of the vote; Bush comes in second with 28%; and Governor Clinton trails with 24%. Several other state polls, including critical places like Texas and California, also have Perot leading tbe field. Suddenly no one is ruling out a historical phenomenon; Ross : that a candidate's rhetorical Perot just might be the first • campaign prtOrn ises about Independent in this nation's , his/her's plan .for g.(weming are · history to be elected President. , not set in st011e, they are Yet as Johnny Carson, the susceptible to all kinds of media and particularly the : adjustment wh:en the theories political establishment have. are put intoprllctke. Moreover, pointed out, Ross Perot has condition s c hang e: really not outlined what he international cencerns can would do if elected. He has no obviate domestic concerns, platform yet; he talks about arbitrary eve11ts like a verdict \stopping the bleeding\ of the from a trial can radically alter economy, but offers no specific the cultural a11d political programs. He claims the landscape. 'Illle best we can nation must balance its budget hope for in a President is not and free itself from debt. but someone who ,Fill'(JOI1ts to have again he offers no solutions,. '. all the answers immaculately the answers, I can think on my drawn out in 3·~ 5 or 7 point toes, tum on a dime and lead • plans, butrather~.!lc~mpelling, anybody through Hell and . aggressive, aclmirable and back\. This I believe is the ; , honorable pe1s0n who has the attraction to Perot; it's a . respect and con:fi<lence of the visceral attraction, almost · people, as well as the ability to mesmerizing and certainly handle any eve11tual situation, exhilarating. But this is also not just th()se Jlremeditated by why a Perot platform -- what reporters and special interest he says, stands for or promises groups. -- will remain fluid and hard to Ross Perot deClrly fits this pin down. To be sure, he will bill. Whether yo11 like him or offer basic themes and not -- and few pwple seem to approaches to solving the fall into the latter category-- nation's most basic problems, you can't not resjlect him; he but things may still look has been surro11oded by and sketchy; the platform will graced with Stl<ce:ss all his life. most likely be in outline form, And to rnan:y ])eople, Ross short on specifics. Perot is a here: tile self made Is this a pfoblem? It just a \IF YOLJ FUT ME IN shouldn't be. What most , CHARGE, l:'LL GET THE people should keep in mind is , JOB DONE\ attitllde. To Refle.ction by Jim Polites News Editor Well, this week will mark the culmination of yet another year of Concordiensis- it's funny how time can pass so quickly right in front of your eyes. It seems like only yesterday that I fnst sat down to write this c<>lumn as an underclassman, now only a few days separate me from senior standing. This, as with anything that comes to a close (whether temporary or permanent), is a perfect time to reflect on all the things that have happened during the school year. It was-undoubtedly- a time that gave birth to new faces of celebrity (both good and bad), revealed shocking news that touched us all, saw many popular names fight battles in the courtroom, and provided moments of joy and triumph, pain and sorrow. As the summer months loom drearily ahead, it must be remembered that there are still questions to be answered and Fales to be filled. The important thing- for all- is simply not to forget, because history is a phenomenon that can always be referred to- it provides experience like nothing else. Think way back to Fall term,, where four distinct events stick out in my mind, ones that brought attention to themselves worldwide. First there was the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. He was seen .as a candidate who would have SOII!e trouble getting through the rigors of a democratically-led Senate Judiciary Committee even if his performance was flawless. Enter a young woman by the name of Anita Hill, who accused the candidate of sexual harassment when the two were colleagues. A crisis- and media · • · circus- was born. Next there was the Kennedy rape trial, where Senator Edward's son was brought up on charges following a drunken night in Miami. He, like Judge Thomas, was vindicated- at least legally- from any wrongdoing. inspiration. The first five months of 1992 have seell its fair share of activity . as well. The Presidential race has come down to tbl'ee mai11 candidates: Third, we had an ex- Klansman come perilously close to being governor of L<lUisiana. David Duke appealed to those middle class whites who were willing to listen to his lightly veiled message of racism. Luckily, 1 Duke's hopes for this and subsequent ones for the White House were dashed- who knows where he'll end up next. Finally, lest we forget the shock of reality that came just about three weeks before the New Year, when Magic Johnson announced that he had con~acted the HIV -virus. In the months since we have been treated to an individual whose heroism stretches far beyond the basketball court. he is an , an incumbent wh!()se p<>pularity . bas taken the largest nosedive in history p a Democrat challenger who- i:s fighting just 1for credibility, and a !millionaire wll:o bEs said little ·of substanoee yet continues to · capture a natio11's imagination. Go figure. Disturbingly, we all witnessed witll shock and horror the after111ath of the 'Rodney King trial· where Los Angeles for se'Ver~l days resembled a Ma2i:11g inferno of many people, this smacks of fraud and rhetoric:. all style, no substance they say. These nay- sayers want his positions, his so-called \white papers\ replete with the facts, figures and jargon grown from the fecund fields of Cambridge, Mass. And Pet:ot, under increasing media scrutiny and public expectation, has promised to file the requisite forms when he formally becomes a candidate -- presumably sometime next month. Yet it is :Probable that when the time comes, Perot's official platform will be vague, his positions indefinite and his plans for governing mostly unclear. There are two basic reasons why this win be the case. First: Ross Perot has built a massive following with broad based ideological support because he is perceived as a leader: a dynamic and compelling personality capable of tackling any challenge. The man's life is testament to this; he has been a successful and aggressive businessman as well as a sort (lf renega<le diplomat who bas ardently :pursued the cause of American MIA's. No matter in what arena he plays, or even if he wim or loses, Ross Perot is always seen as a • doer. And ri~ht now, with Washington in )l()litical grid- lock and the ce11illry crying for action, a hard-nosed CEO might be just wihal we want, ami need. Secondly: Perot is a very smart man. He is articulate. I wise. and insightful. He ' ex11des an air of C()nfidence that looks, smells~ feels and tastes like: \TRUS1' ME! Look at my life, the decisions J've made, the success I've enjoyed . • • T am a firsi dass person; and though I rn:a:y not have all : man, the outst<ler and underdog taking on the big, bad and broken system. Here is someone, whe with nothing · but the suppmtt 0f the people and a couple hundred million of his own doll:.r8 -- not the NRA's, not tile l}il industry's and not the •~\payers' -- is going to kick a seemingly inc()rrigible and impervious government clear out of stagnation. It already seems apparent that Perot will radically alter the political history of the n:ation, and if he wills, doubly so, We seem perched on 1he edge of monumental clhange, and it looks like a heroic homunculus is leading the c:lurge. Maybe we should give the little man a shot at it? riots and chaos. It proved that Co11cordiensi.s for the final we are never immune to inner time as undergr;aduates- best of strife in this country- hopefully luck. I see Dlyself only too L.A. will mark the point at clearly in your same shoes at which concerted and genuine this juncture: 11ex t year. efforts for refonn begin. Though you wjll all hear this As I said earlier, there are ad infinitum up until many more things to consider Commencememt, don't be too than the ones listed. The eager to leave tb.is place just above simply came to mind as yeL It's the freest time of your I looked back at a year of life· enjoy it v,;bile you can. change, conflict, and surprise . .,_ _________ _ Hopefully, there will be much more of the good (like economic recovery and harmonious race relations) rather than tlle bad (like · another Mike Tyson debacle) in coming months. One final note:. To you seniors who will be reading Suggesti·ons for Concordi? Just drop them in our box.

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 28,1992 PAGE 4 The State of Health Care For American Veterans by Matt Karly-Jt Concordiensis Str.ff The armed torces nav\. always played a maj<>r mle in the structure of the Uni.ted States. From planes to tanks. the military has been glorified throughout our h•hs tory .. Beginning with the American . Revolution and ending; wtith the Persian Gulf War, America has shown its strength as a . militant world header. However. what happen::; when you put aside all the glory of · war and all the victo1·ies over · the years? What happe11s when you shut the history oooks and find out the real story .ft:'()m the people who were there?' Here I am not speaking of eNN or ABC News, I rne:tll the countless number of V\eterans who have served their ti:ountry in war, who risked the.ir lives for a country they hardl~ knew, who killed numeroas people who might have been :friends, and who today are being forgotten. For many years now a major question has been coming to Washington from n urnerous retired war heros. 'Tiney are curious to know why tiley are not receiving the free medical care they claim they were promised when they ag:reed to fight for their countr)'. In the past. retired veterans had been receiving health care at minimal costs. Althou~h they were not formally granted free medical care upon their rennoval or retirement from the service, veterans had been given ;necessary health care for millimal costs. Now, serious res1Iicti<Jns have been placed on these benefits and many veterans are finding it difficult to :pay for the care they so desperately need. I·ll 19 86 Congress enacted a bin. Public Law (PL) 99-272, whlch set up the original test for t!he eligibility of free med.ical care to veterans. This billes;ta:blished three categories tllat would be used to judge if veter~ms could receive free medical treatment. Using this sy£tem, a veteran would be evaLuated based on his or her disability status, income level , ami ceJ.tain other characteristics. ThLs is the first step that Congress and the President took, almost twenty years after Vietnam, that stopped the heaJt!h care benefits that veterans had been receivituz. . . - However. it did not stop in 19~6. Congress took PL 99- 272 and later amended it with PL !01-508 which modified the categories in the previous bill by establishing two new categories. It now became mandatory for a veteran to be illsabloo in order to receive free heiilth care. Secondly, income leYel:s were to be used more frequently in deciding whether a ve~eran could receive aid. Acc()rdin to Anne Stewart of Cartoon Corner ~v:n~Ertt CliiTING \VV<B; .•• NGJ IF ~LY WE H4D ..x:JI1.;· 9J WE u A\' 1A)i(E; 10 o.-11'11/ ptCUJ: .. the Congressional Research Services (CRS), \In order to qualify for mandatory free health care it is absolutely . necessary to be suffering from a service connected disability, ·be a former prisoner of war • (POW), or have a disorder associated with exposer to Agent Orange, a chemical used in Vietnam to clear away thick forests to enable the invader . access to a more visible target.\ Also in this category • are those vets whose salary is •less than $18.,843 if single and $22,612 if married with one dependant, plus $1,258 for each additional dependant So, what happens if you are married and make about $23,000 a year and have a child to support? You are a veteran, who for one reason or another, believed that you have the right to health care. You may have received this benefit for 10 years, or so, and now Congress is telling you that because it does not have enough money that you will not receive the benefits anymore. They tell you that. as a veteran, you fit into the \non-mandatory\ category. Mary F. Smith, of CRS, reports that the Veterans Administration(V A) is allowed to provide hospital carte and nursing home care to veterans only to the extent that space and resources are available, and if they agree to contribute an unspecified amount to the total cost of care. This includes veterans with non-service connected disabilities who have incomes above the required amount stated previously. Furthennore, talking about useless programs, what about the National Aeronautics Space Administration (better known as NASA)? NASA is a program designed to spend billions on curiosity. The space program is a great idea if and when we have the money. Not only do these things cost an excessive amount of money, sometimes they don't even work. The United States is currently pouring billions of dollars into programs that are either outdated or not necessary and they are cutting programs that aid people who are in desperate need of help. One such program is the United States Information Agency which was formed many years ago to try to influence countries to choose clemocracy over communism. This was a time when many nations were making the crucial decision whether to join with the United States in fighting for democracy or join the Soviet Unions' attempt to spread communism throughout the world. The United States would send to these nations Health Tips Controlling aging 1 o ways to help retain youth and prolong the onset of aging. 1 Muscle mass= Americans . &· Blood•suga .. tol~rance: tend to lose 6.6 pounds .of . . Some diabetes cases lean body mass each year, with · caused by c:tn increaSE! in body fat the rate accelerating after 45. and loss of muscle mass. Control Control factor: exercise ·factors: E:xercise; diet. _ · ··- · · · . 2 Strength: The average· · · 7· Cholesterol: Bad choiEis~ • · personloses 30 percent of . . .... t$roll~adstti~t1eartdfse~se,· his muscles and nerves be- · ·. · gciod ghoh~sterol helps proteCt''· tween age 20 and 70. Strength againsrit. CQritrol factors: Low and size of remaining cells can.. fat diet; ~xercise. . . . ·be increased. Control factor: . ' •••. ··a· ,._.~pera~ure:The pody'$ more exercise • . · · . :- ab1hty to regulate temp- . 3 . Calories: At age 70 a . · · ., ·· ere~ture declines with age. Control person needs 500 .fewer . factors: Regular exercise; diet._ calories per day to maintain b_ody • _- g- Bone .den$ity: Bones· lose weight. Control factor: reduce:~ •. • , ._· ,,.:':mineral content and become·. calorl$lntak~:- ·> ·.,.,,· · . w~a~eFwiu:(age. Controi factors: • 4 ~:~!~~~~fe~ta~e;;,~~~;.' ';!~r~~=~ciJJm; st~ss ·· · · ·· body is 43 percent fat compared •.. ··1·0·:Aerobic capacity: The to 25 percent at age 25. ControJ, .. _ -..... OO(jy's .efficient use of oxy- factor: convert fat Into muscle · gen declines by 30·40 percent by exercising. by age<65. Control factor: 5 , Blood p'essure: Mo~t _ _ . A~roblc :exercise. Americans show an in· · · · SOURCE: Cl'licago Tribune, ~13iomark(ilm'. · crease of blood pre~ sure with . ·. by )f)ll!ltam evans, PHD and lr;win H . age. Control factor: Exercise~ · .. _ Rose~b~ig,M.b. literature and propaganda in support of the American idea. Now, the tlu·eat of communism is over and the United States is still pouring billions of dollars into the libraries of · . foreign nations. Congress continues to fund this, but limits support to the men and women who guaranteed . freedom for this nation over the yeru's. It is time to start thinking of the people, those who guarantee democracy and justice in this country. They deserve more than what they are getting and the government of the United States must take steps to make sure they get it. ·We have the money, it is simply being put in the wrong places. Let's come together and help the men and women who risked their lives for our future. To· Congress we must send a message: Get your priorities straight. It is time that we embrace those people who are responsible for a free and democratic America, together we must now fight for them so that they can reap the benefits of democracy for which they so boldly fought. Nutritional information for day 15 menu In grams Total calories 1,284 % calories from fat 11 Total protein Total carbohydrates Total fat

CONCOR[)IENSIS • MAY 28, 1992 • PAGE 5 APPRENTICESHIPS OFFER VIABLE SOLUTIONS TO by :Shields Day Busi;m~.ss Editor High scllo<>'l students who are not goi11g on to college are no longer subject to most of the dead~,end jobs usually waiting fo.: t:ltem. Thanks to special a:pprenticeship programs springing up across the Unite() States. a student with onl)tl a high school diploma now has some viable alternative; to college. With c«>Uege tuition so daunting tlie.se days. close to 20 million Americans between the ages IQf 16 to 24 skip college. Only 1/2 of all freshmen 111ake it the full four years to ~raduation, leaving only 25% of American youths entering th.e job market with a Bachelor's: Degree. These depressing figw:es show that 75% of v.eople entering the work force oDly have a high school diploma, and most are only capable of applying for low skill level jobs. Apprentioeeship programs are aimed at the high school student wllo knows that he or she will not be attending college, but has higher asp.iration~ than McDonald's. . . Dollars & Sense . · ' ' . , by UJryon El~on ·, · Money's tight for nearly everyone these days. But personal and family recreation ~re sti11 important for good mental a.nd physical well- being. \Leisure activities don't have to be expensive in ()rder to be fun and worthwhile,~ sa.ys financial expert Lyle Shamo_ Pursue interestthatrequire little or no expense, such as hiking, writing, drawing, or IJird-watching. Collect SOotnething. From barbed wire to wildflowers, the range of in- expensive collectibles is vast. Enroll in community education classes to le~rn more about your spe- cial interest. Y <Jll can study anything from compwters to photography at very reason!!!ble costs. Read. You.r pllblic library offers an inexhaustiblle treasure at an un- beatable price. Learn ·a l()raft. Woodworking, sewing, autc:> Iepair, and countless other crafts are handy skills. They can also be therapeutic as well as sources of e:::xtra income. Rent or b11y :a used musical instru- ment. Perha..ps a family member or friend will teeach y<Ju free of charge. Use localterm.is courts, swimming pools, and oth:er public recreational facilities. Participate in sports that don't re- quire expens:ive gear. Rent or borr<>w sports equipment that you use only occasionally. If you want to bu~ your own equipment later on, you\\U be ina better position to make an illformed purchase. Buy sports equipment at yard sales, or watch for!10od buys on used items advertised jj), the newspaper. Join a local sports group for en- thusiasts ofbtlcycling, rafting, or run- ning, for e1Kample. They sponsor competition~, ·k:eep you informed COLLEGE High school guidance councilors ,can now recommend these programs to students as a reasonable solution to college. Every day after school, students can travel to these training grounds to learn practical knowledge and skills they will need after their graduation from high school. Sears, which has a prospemus program in Illinois, offers a comprehensive service technician program. Students arrive at the center after classes and learn as little or as much as they feel like doing in one afternoon. Trainees work by themselves, which allows each student to work at a speed that is comfortable for them. When they are stuck, need assistance, or checking their results. there are always plenty of knowledgeable, veteran Sears service technicians to lend a hand. The technicians who are asked to help teach at these centers are carefully selected. Most do not know much about teaching, but are selected for their superior knowledge of their subject and their ability to interact with teenagers. They are taught to be both teachers and friends. Since most about upcoming activities (many of them attlittle or no cost), and usually rent equipment at discount rates. · Take advantage of discount tickets for community events through credit unions, employee associations, com- munity activity calendars to find free and low·cost concerts, fairs, plays, and exhibits. Visit nearby tourist attractions. There are probably many good vaca- tion spots closer to home than you think. , Travel during the off-season to avoid crowds and to benefit from discount rates. You may qualify for discounts by ordering tickets well in advance of your trip. Cl992 by King Features Synd. Votes and money An annual survey by Money magazine reflects Americans' opinion on U.S. economy: Bush administration's effect on personal finances Worse off -37% Better off IS% More likely to vote for candidate who will back: Deductible · college costs -- 80% Middle class tax cuts Deductible IRA accounts Tl% Federal support - 64% for day care Who can be tmsted to make national economy decisions? Economists Corporate leaders Federal politicians -41% .23% 113% SOURCE: Money magazine studen,ts enrolled in these classes .are not usually the strongest academic students, their mentors are careful not to discourage them and are quick to praise their accom:p'lishments. They constantly remind them that a 'C' in English class does not necessarily mean they cannot be successful in their career choice. High school guidance councilors can now recommend programs to students as a these reasonable to college solution Besides the Sears program in Illinois, there are many other programs across the country. In Boston, hospitals train students in medical fields such as surgical technician .and medical secretary. In Oklahoma, programs .specialize in metal working. Oakland, California has a program specializing in accounting .and printing, and Detroit runs a program preparimg students to work in many of the car part factories in the area. Before this ·~ra of high technolo,gical machinery, one only n~ded to be mechanically inclined to pursue a career as a manual laborer. However, n()w that technology has miniat11ri.zed and complicated so ma11y simpl'lf household appliances, their repair is no longer .as simple as it used to be. Students must now be taught_ a multitude of complex clectnc al, physical, an <I chemical laws (such as Ohrn 's law) befDrc begi11ning to tackle even the simpl~t of jobs. The complex terms are taught alongside a ha11ds-on repair session, which helps to ease student's fears of complex equations and teJtninology. These kinds of programs have been arour:td for quite a while in most oiller countries and America is j ust starting to pick thtm up now. Needless to say. almost all politicians see the merits of these programs and heavily support them. It is programs like these that tllat will make tlle differe11ce between a high school graduate stuck in a dead end. blue collar jGib for the rest of their life and one who actually picks a career that they enjoy. These programs benefit the companies as well as the students. Since high schools help pay for these programs, it is much cheaper for the company to train future employees this way, instead of waiting until after graduation. The companies also find hard working, dedicated students through this process and know they are training people truly interested in this particular profession and not someone who is merely between jobs. Although these programs are a bit late in coming, their timing happens to coincide perfectly with their necessity in society. College tuition bills for someone who is not a great student and is unlikely to finish all four years are extremely unnerving. These programs offer a genu.ine solution to many high school students. In the next few years, plans to increase the number of these programs are numerous. With any luck. these programs wiJI continue to provide a practical solution for many high school students. Source: Wall St. Journal SIGMA XI NOMINATIONS Aniolek, Kenneth w. Barrett, Erin R. Barrett, Gregory, J. Berven, George R. Calkins, Charles, R. Carlson, Beth L. Challey, Darren VI. Cregan, Timothy R. Cusmariu, Jeffrey R. Danforth, Debra D. Eisma, Roselle J. Fazzone, James L. Grodsky, Neil B. Hall, Chadlee D. Hoffmann, Daniela E. Holden, Stephanie Jahne, Daniel R. Koehn, Douglas P. Kusiak, Steven J. Lamberton, M. Rawlings Macherone, Brian S. Moore, Michael Nield Jeffrey A. Richter, Susan R. Rooney, William C. Royce, Philip R. Sachar, David S. Sorin, .Anna B. Steinvurzel, Mark D. Stieglitz, Theodore C. Teresco, James D. Trudeau, Kristin L. Valerio, Donald A. Vezzetti, Paul E. Westby, Erik L. Wheeler, Cory D. White, Johanna M. Yuskaitis, Arnie M. Zembec, Richard S.

Knead b:y Sunny Sbailam Contributing Writer Tha.t was the question I heard Kristy ask as she laughed heartily. gave me a wink, and walked towards Emily. a memller of the ~read and Puppet Theatre. As Emily kneeled on the ground and pounded and squishred and kneaded the dough with allller might, I wondered what the connection this bread had with the puppets ... Apparently the founder of this Bread and Theatre production is a man by the name <>f Peter Schumann. He was born in Germany and raised in poverty, where bread serve<l the staple-diet. The introduction of the bread in the puppet show was designed by him t() keep the body and soul together; the fresh bread would feed the stomach while the puppet show would feed the mind and the heart. An<l to those who participated in the puppet show, many had satisfied appetites. We got a taste of the realities of repression and war; we felt the violence that destroys tl'1e harmony uf nature. The magnitude of this show was incredibk. Over 1 00 people (many of fhem Union- affiliated) participated in a life- size p11ppet show which began at City Hall, paraded into the stockade, and ended in Riverside Park. In only a few days e¥eryone learned their cues and c:tme together, splashing their colors into one another to bring alive a painting, an idea. The beauty and power of the Bread and Puppet show originates from its simplicity. They have no conventional scripts. Nobody ever sits down witll a pen and paper and writes lines down. In fact, there are very few lines if any. Most of the play is performed through. mime and music. And it is usually performed in freedom of the great outdoors - in parks, gardens, or parades. The openness of the play is par,ticularly important since Schumann believes that art should accessible to and enjoyed by everyone, not just the wealthy. When we think of puppets, very often we imagine hand puppets or marionettes. But Bread and Puppet addresses life size political, social, and environmental issues that are critical in this day and age. Therefore they have life size puppets, real people wearing masks. The masks are like magic; they create a facade. No matter what you are feeling at the time, the power of the mask may transform you into a shiny, happy person - on the outside, of course. On the inside you may be at war, maybe with yourself. Such was the case right before the parade began and we were about to put our masks on. A lively discussion was sparked among the Butchers in the play (myself included). Although we were Butchers, we did not cut meat. Instead we .participated in the genocide of the native people of our co1,1ntry. We were capitalists who took glory in removing the masks of the indigenous people, literally stripping them of their etlmicity, and making them into puppets of our own. There was controversy as to whether or not we should even Noted Holocaust to Speak at New Writer York State Museum Courtesy of NY State Education Department Noted Holocaust a11thor and speaker, Gerda Klein will share her ex~riences as a Holocaust survivor and examine the positive lessons for humankind in \Reflections on the Holocaust\ a lecture series at the New York State Museum on Th11rsday, June 4th from 7:30 to 9 p.m. The 1 ecture is free ~. part of the \Remember the Children Lecture Series\ at the State Museum which focuses on the memorfies of eyewitnesses and the live:s of children during the Holocaust. The program is underwritten in part by Maika and Eitan Evan. Tile grant is given in memory of Maika's parents. Leon and Sonia Mohill, those lives were changed forever by their eracounters with children of the Holocaust. Mrs. Klein will share her experie-nces as a Holocaust survivor and examine the positive lessons for humankind. Mrs. Klein has received numerous awards for her writings devoted to the preservation of human rights and dignity. Her works include All But My L if e , an autobiography hailed as one of the most beautiful and moving documents to come out of World War II. and Promise of a New Spring. a tender allegory that introduces children to the history of the Holocaust in a non-frightening way. The lecture complements the exhibit Remember th(( Children. on view at the New York State Museum from June 1st through September 18th. Through a combination of interactive video. recreated environments, photographs, survivors' accounts and participatory activities, tbe exhibit conveys the full weight · of tile experience of the Holocaust to youngsters and offers them an opportunity for understanding the need to overcome hate and prejudice. Any be playing the roles of Butchers. Some people did not like the idea that the capitalists were portrayed as Butchers. Other people were frustrated with other issues, such as the fact that we were announced as the Schenectady Association Against the Gulf War and All Consequent Wars. Did this mean that everyone in the play had to be anti-war? Did this mean that everyone in the play mad to be anti~capitalism? Not necessarily so. The irony of this whole show was the questioning of whether or not the motives of tllis puppet show were to transform the actors (and the audience) into their own living puppets. What a nightmare if this were so! Was this an indoctrination? How could this be so when anyone was free to walk out of the show at anytime? Sure we had masks on, but we also had the freedom to take the masks off. By participating in or viewing the play you needn't risk your dignity and individualism. And if anyone made the effort, they would realize that the Bread and Puppet Theatre is very open to criticism and discussion. That is what they believe in. They want passion. They want attitudes. They want l-ove. They want intellect. They want rage. They want s:orrow. They want a response. There is no single interpretation to the s.ymbolism of their plays. Every person sees something different. Just bear in mind tllat the purpose of art is to communicate and elicit a r~sponse and the moment you CONCORDIENSIS •MJ\Y 28, 1992 • PAGE 6 Help? al)andon the art is the moment you abandon the communication, the moment you abandon yourself. We are fortunate; Union is one of only seven places in the nation to receive a $66,000 grant from the Lila Wallace Foundation-Reader's Digest Arts Partners Program. With this grant we will be able to host the Bread and Puppet Theatre for three weeks in the fall. This is no rinky-dink project! They will be \in residence\ with us, conducting a workshop. This means we will be able to generate energy, struggle, and create with them. Their stay with us will be a golden opportunity. Grab it if you can. If you think that the show is too deep for you, bear in mind that it is only as deep and political as you allow it to be. Involvement in Bread and Puppet is also an excellent opportunity to hang out, meet some cool people, and have some fun! And who knows, maybe you might learn something. Puzzle of the Weeki · Top Video ·Rental~ 1. The Fisher King starring Robin Williams (Columbia TriStar - Rated: R) Last Week: No.1 2. Boyz N 1'he Hood Ice Cube (Columbia TriStar - R) No. 2 3. Deceivecl Goldie Hawn (Touchstone - R) No. 10 4. The LastEoy Scout Bruce Wil- lis (Warner- R) No. 23 5. Ricochet Denzel Washington (HBO - R) No_ 4 6. Curly SUe Alisan Porter (Warner - PG) No. 6 7. Dead Again Kenneth Branagh (Paramount - R) No. 5 8. Other People's Money Danny De Vito (Warner - R) No. 7 9. Billy Batbgate Dustin Hoffman (Touchstone - :R) No. 14 10. Necessary Rollghness Scott Bakula (Paramo11nt - R) No. 11 11. Shattere'<i Tom Berenger (MGM/UA- R) No. 8 12. 101 Dalrnations (Walt Disney Home Video - G) No. 3 13. The Doctor William Hurt (Touchstone- .PG-13) No.9 14. Thelma & Louise Geena Davis (MGM/UA - R) No. 12 15. The Super Joe Pesci (Fox- Video - R) No_ 13 16. Rambling Rose Laura Dem (Live Home Video- R) No. 15 1 7. Regardi11g Henry Harrison Ford (Paramount-- PG-13) No. 17 18. The Sile11ce Of The Lambs Jodie Foster (Orion - R) No. 18 19. Paradise Melanie Griffith (Touchstone - PG-13) No. 16 20. Point Break Patrick Swayze (Fox Video- R) No. 21

Far and Away by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Far and Away is a story of a man and a woman overcoming hardships, entering a new country and falling in love. This film stars the real life married couple, Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman. The film takes place in Ireland, Boston and Oklahoma around 1892. Joseph Donnolley (Cruise) is a peasant fann ~who's house was burned do~rv n by a wealthy landowner. He comes to the house to seek revenge and is kept in the house as a prisoner. Shannon Christy (Kidman) is tbe daughter in this family. She explains to Cruise that she is a modem women and longs to go to America. She tells him of the opportunities in America, one being free land. She asks him 'to accompany her on the journey and Cruise goes along with her, as her servant boy. When the two arrive off the boat in Boston they do not find the glorious life that Shan non originally dreamed of. They are robbed, must share one small dilapidated room, and begin working in a factory plucking chickens. They .pose as brother and sister and endure many hardships in Boston. Cruise begins to box at the local club and they try to save enough money to go West and get the land they have dreamed of. This unlikely couple of a wealthy girl and farm boy find that America does hold a place for them. This movie gives a real feel of what America was like at the time when the West was opening up and people were leaving their homes and struggling to start a new life for themselves. The love affair is very touching between these two because they have gone through so much together ana finally fulfill their dreams. Try a change from all the sequels this summer and give this historical romance a try. A Cabaret With Class Roe vs Wade or Quayle vs Brown by Cara Soifer Lifestyles editor If you have ever wondered before what the important leaders of our country do behind closed doors, you will be happy to discover that Dan Quaylewatches sitcoms. While some actually work overtime. our vice president flips the channels on his remote. But luckily for his sake, his career might be sustained another four years because of ~he latest T.V show he has viewed. Last week, Mr. Quayle in front of an ·audience in San Francisco, boosted the president's campaign by condemning the actions of Murphy Brown. The fictitous character on the show entiled \ Murphy Brown\ gave birth to a child in the latest episode, making her a single parent. Quayle finds her decision detrimental, in fact poisonous, for society, and proceeded to expand his opinion into the theme for their re-election campaign. His oppposition to this woman's personal choice and the entire network's decision to create the storyline will bring Bush and himself much popularity amongst the conservative, republican group that already supports them. Howev<Cr, some experts believe Quayle's puMica.lly announced disgust at po()r Murphy·'s behavior was directed at the 60% of the voters who have not decided which party to side with yet. In that case, Quayle might influence people to believe cens<>rship in the television network is necessary to keeJJ American morals and values from disintegrating. Hopefully, though, people will not agree that Murph) is \mocking the importance of the fatilers. by bearing a child and calling another 'lifestyle choice\(New Y ()fk Times, May 21), as Dan put it. Of course, it would be nice to live in a little house, with a strong, worldng father and an energetic. caring mother. Yet, that scenario rarely fits the description of the typical American family anymore. Many females are left with no other choice th:an to support themselves and their children without a male .partner. Others just witih to live that way. Its .comforting to know that Quayle is trying to install some kind of morals into society, yet he will achieve little by magnifying the importance of a two parent family. Yes, our coon try's inner cities would probaJly flourish if there were more stable family foundations child:ren could grow from. But this dream is far from coming true for the foundation cracks have been widening way too long now. Quayle should try accepting the \lifestyle choi<oee\(NYTimes) that Murphy Brown and so many otheF women choose. Instead, he infers the need for cens()rship in T.V., as Bush's spokesperson relays his message, telling the public that they are \certainly concerned ... with the networks and the prod11ction people who need to be aware of the ramifications of their programming\ (NYTimes ). One furious producer, Diane English of \ Murph) Brown\ tells the press that Murphy \better make sure abortion remains safe and legal\(NYTimes) if he \believes a woman cannot adequately raise a child without a father.\ Yow have to wonder why Mr. Quayle never made any public remarks about the sitcom \My Two Dads.\ Sonnata from ''The Musical 1------------r------------------------ by Julie Medow Contributing Writer Offering\ performed by Freshman Jennifer Huang. Top -1 o Singles .:· . . · . Natasfta!s. Stars · · . ·' ;'\ ;· · 1. Joe Public ~Live And Learn •• ARIES (March 21-Apnl 19) The Tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m.. an exciting Classical Cabaret will be performed in CC302. The program begins with a pianist named Joon Choi, a Sophomore, playing a Chopin Nocturne and a Schubert Sonnata. Julie Walter, Senior, will next perfonn an original piece for the flute written by Professor Hillary Tann called \Windover\, and then A Doppler Fantasy for flute and piano. Professor Hugh Wilson will join the Cabaret as they collectively perform a Bach arrangement f()r flute. violin, and harpsichord. The evening entertainment will end with a I hope I got all of that correct. In any case, the students (and faculty member) performing Friday night are doing the college community a great service by exposing us to a different type of music than what most of our ears are used to hearing. I'm sure that the Cabaret will prove to be both entertaining and educational as well. Most of all, classical music is, if you ask me, one of the greatest stress relievers known to man (and woman). Take the time to hang out in the Cabaret room and unwind Friday night before preparing to study for finals next week ... soothing music is just what the doctor ordered (Columbia) Last Week: No.2 ' week begillS and ends on a high note. 2. Red Hot Chili Peppers \Under ·What occu:rs in between is u~ in the air. The Bridge,\ (Warner) No. 3 T~ke a~other look ~~ an Important 3. U2 .. One .. {Island) No. 5 fr!endslup and what It means to ;:ou. 4 B ' .. , Fmances get tested when an associate . · ryan Adams. Thought I ~ pulls a p<JWer play. Stay steady and in Dred And Gone To Heaven, · command<Jf your sh.ip. (A&M) !'l'o. 6 TAURUS (April 20-May 20) Go for 5 · Mrchael Jackson .. In The the brass ring early in the week. Listen Closet,\ (Epic) No. 9 to your ir.~stincts before you take a 6. Def Leppard \Let's Get Rock- strong stand as the weekend rolls in. l ed,\ (Mercury) No.7 Don·~ wo;ry too much, as your per- , 7. Sir-Mix-A-Lot ~Baby Got sonahty, 111tellect and all your finer Back,\ (Def Arrierican/Re · ) N assets carry you effortlessl7 over the 12 pnse 0 · humps. Y()u can statt beammg now. . . ~ GEMINI(May21-JW1e20)Youare . ~· Sophie B. Hawkins Damn I definitely a force to be dealt with this ! 'Yish I Were Your Lover,\ (Colum- . week. Reverse course and try another : bra) No. 15 approach if you must. One thing is for . 9. En Vogue \My Lovin' (You're sure: You will not settle for less than Never Gonna Get It)\ (Atco East- the best- and you won \t have to. You West) No. I end this w·eek on a high (very high) 10 \W . d AI\ y k . note. . etr an ov1c ·· · ·· · · · · \Smells Like Nirvana .. (S . CANCE~ (Jun~ 21-July 22) One· Br 5 ) N 20 ' co ttl to-one rela.tmg bnng:s about changes, 0 · 0 · and you no longer can take what was Top R&B/Soul· 1. En Vo~e \My Lovin' (You're and Never Gonna Get It)~ (Atco East- West) Last Week: No. 2 Metrop.olitan Museum Cloisters Featured at Ne I for granted. Financial ventures (of all sorts) need restructuring. The good news is, you get thl11gs back on track by the weekend. Celebration is the order of the day - excuse me, the weekend. York State Museum A day trip to ~he Cloisters Anderson, curator .of the and the.Metropobtan Museum Empire State Plaza Art of Art ts feature by the New Collection, accompanies the York State . Museum on trip which begins with a tour Saturday, June 20 from 6:30 exploring the relationship a.m. to 1 ~.m. . between the gardens, tapestries . The fee IS $60 per person and and other artifacts at the mclu.de~ transportation, all Cloisters. A slide lecture at admtssi~>ns, . tour~ ~nd the Metropolitan Museum of pres~ntatiOns. PreregistratiOn Art reflects on the ways in ~eqmred. by June 10, For which the garden is used in mformation on how to register artworks from the Museums call518/474-580I weekdays. permanent collection .. 2. Kris Kross .. Jump,\ (Ruf- fhouse/Columbia) No. 3 3. Jodeci .. Come & Talk To Me,\ (UptownjMCA) No. 4 4. Tracie Spencer .. Love Me,\ (Capitol) No. 5 5. Luther Vandross \Sometimes It's Only Love,\ (Epic) No.6 6. Alyson Williams \Can't Have My Man,\ (OBR/Columbia) No.8 7. BoyziiMen \PleaseDon'tGo (Motown) No. 7 8. Chaka Khan \Love You All My Lifetime,\ (Warner) No. 10 9. R. Kelly & Public An- nouncement \Honey Love, .. (Jive) No.9 10. Michael Jackson .. In The ·Closet;'' (Epic) No.19 LEO (July 23-August 22) Your ef- ficiency is tested all week, mainly be- cause a partner demands attention, and you need to get things done. Your natural, a11imal magnetism pulls in what was distant Purr all you want, but take good care of this item, if you want it for keeps. Don't take others for granted. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) You act like it's a weekend, even during the week. A late case of spring fever keeps; you out <>n the prowl. You enjoy socializing - picking and choosing. What is likely to stop you is fatigue. D() pace yourself as you walk about and smell the roses. You are thrilled wit:h your pic kings. LIBRA{September 23-0ctober 22) You need to get matters in order, and qmckly at that. Distractions abound. Expect a problem involving a child or loved otJe. Rethink recent decisions, though flight now you need, and must have, so!1lle one-to-one talks. Negotiate a truce, if you must. Always look to the long run. SCORJ>IO (October 23-Novcmber 21) Be lll!ore playful, and you will be a lot happ1er. Refuse to try resolving (one more time) a home situation that does not work and isn't going to. Let go of the past and open yourself up to a brave,new world. You get a taste of what lies ahead this weekend. Yum. SAGITTARIUS (November ~2- December 21) Move from a centered spot and Ret those creative juices flow. Do not d-eny what exists; simply em- hellish what is. You diseover a more nurturing., caring approach gets you much further. The weekend starts late, but, for )'OU, it can be a lot of fun. Relish the here and now. CAPRiCORN (December 22- January t9) What starts out as a fairly nonnal week may have you scratching your head for a long, long time. Your planetary ruler does a back flip. Use care dealing with the week's challen- ges. You let off steam this weekend, but you could also use this energy to problem solve. It's up to you. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) Just about when you think you have it all handled this week, you have to backtrack. If you're a woman, this involvesa man -the past haunts you. If you're a man, you may face a real identity crisis. Use this period for some heavy duty soul-searching before you launch o11ce more. PISCES (February 19-March 20) Others Vlill appreciate your steadiness in this most unsteady period. You un- derstand much more than you are wil J. ing to acknowledge. Be careful about playing Jumb when it involves ~ome· thing that makes you feel vulnerable. You neecl to clear the air. Busy as you are, make the time. lt:ll992 by King Features Synd. The tour focuses ?n how the Participants enjoy lunch and flo:w~r has bee~ mtegral to dinner on their own and artistic masterpteces through leisurely time to explore the the centuries. Dennis Museum. Write :for .9trts I I I l I i I j J ,I I I I I

CONCOROIENSIS • MAY 28, 1992 a PAGE 8 · Student Forum Budget Comments Many ?f the proposals. on .the 1993 Student Foft!-m Budget There are other teams that als{) remain at the dub status, a!lpine caught. me a hi~ ~ff. gu~d. U mon ts a school that has typic~ly lJt?en skiing, and rugby, for example .. But there also exist other problems in pr~:md of the .ability 1t Jrtves students to start clubs. And ?ne n:ught fmd the 1993 budget, namely, the arts. At a school that is not known for its this substantiated agrun fo~ next .year, as the total allocatiOns mcreased arts department, the Student Forum has decided help contribute to our by $13,410 .. However, wtth thts mos~ recent budget proposal, more mediocre standing. All the artistically oriented clubs had their badgets clubs had therr bu~gets cut rather th~ hik~. . cut (except for the $50 increase Mountebanks received). How can the Included m the cost of tUition IS a fee t_o help pr~wtde the school condone such actions as it simultaneously prepares to announce necessary fu11:ds, bat there ~ee~s. to be a blatant rm~use. of thts. money. an entiliely new arts center. The mos~ n~tlceable case hes In ~~ fac! that Crew ~s. still considered a Problems ex~,st everywhere, bllt in such an easily accessible club. This hmders then:t from at~mng si~ble q~antttles o~ m~ney. from location as the Student Forum, they .:>hould not be toler~ted. It is our the. sports depa~ent smce that Is not considered to be therr place 111 th.e money that they allocate, and we elect these offtcers as our Umon commumty. H~wever, the cr~w team more ~an proved the fact representatives. However, if one is not happy with any of the actions tha! they are one of U mon 's most n~ttonally comp~tlt1ve sp~rts teams by that they take, then it is the responsibility of the student as a constituent, therr recent s~~ce~s at the ~ad Vail Regatta .. Th1s r7gatta I~ one o_f the to infon:n them of one's opinions. I do not mean to t~e away llll:Y of most competttlve m the nation, and the varsity men s team JUSt rmssed the credit that the Student Forum deserves for undertaking such a time- the. final.race by one. boat. The varsio/ women's ~am also de~onstra~ consuming task, but simply wish that the student body would make its theu national potential as they made 1t to the setrn-finals. But It remams opinions heard more often and therefore would legitimatize the that such an enthusiastically backed team must still provide their own Forum's actions. ' uniforms and many of the other costs. ' . ' . .. - . ' . :'· E:D-IH-M-·E.:IIJJ:l\·111-E·&· - : .. · -· ·_ - · -- - Responsive Committee Abused Privilege To the Editor: It is probably not fruitful to prolong the commencement speaker exchange, but it seems appropriate to respond to the criticisms leveled by Jordan Lippner '92 against Rachel Rapaport '92. The Honorary Degrees Committee conducted a poll of the senior class to detcnnine its preferences as to speakers. 11le poll asked, inter o_!ia, what type of speaker the class wanted, and whom specifically it might wish to hear. As to type, the results were 108 votes for humorous/entertainment, 43 for political, 40 for media, and 3 for educational. As to persons, the top choices were Robin Williams (86 votes), Billy Crystal (51), Chevy Chase (47), and Tom Brokow (46). Although there were reservations about some of these choices on the part of some members of the Committee, a good-faith effort was made to invite the top four personalities favored by the senior class (using both direct and back -channel approaches). Messrs. Williams. Crystal, and Chase were otherwise engaged; Mr. Brokow accepted. Given the reai possibility that the desired entertainers might be unavailable (as proved to be the case), and given the senior class' preference for a speaker from the field of humor and. entertainment, Rachel Rapaport, who knew someone connected to Bill Cosby, volunteered to see if he might be a possibility. Mr. Cosby was also otherwise engaged; had he not been, the Committee would have been pleased to consider his candidacy, given the senior class' preference for humor/ To the Editor: President Hull. This time be published. These letters that entertainment, despite his I find myself compelled to attacks Rachel Rappap()rt. you are writing are NOT absence from the original list. respond to the myriad of letters Jordan was not at the Honerary written by Jordan LiDDiler, the Rapaport should receive recently submitted to Degrees Committee meetings, News Editor for the thanks, not criticism, for her Concordiensis from Jordan and I am sure that he is basing Concordiensis, but rather as efforts. Other figures, Lippner. It seems apparent that these accusations on either Jordan Lippner, the ordinary including alumni in the field of Mr. Lippner is arrogant and assumptions or hearsay--both everyday Union student. You entertainment, were also unprofessional in his of which are dangerous have the obligation to separate considered. journalism. practices. the two and ·to use t:be same When Mr. Brokow pulled First, as News Editor for the Now that I am finished channels as Mr. Kuritz and all out, due to events beyond his Concordiensis, Mr. Lippner attacking those letters, I will the other individuals are control, returning to the field should know better than to attack another of Mr. Lippner's required to use. of entertainment would have publish accusations and letters, \Response to Marc The letters to the editor are been ludicrous: if there were opinions that are based on Kuritz' 'Pathetic Letter'.\ C()me not editorials, and all students, problems with seven-months' assumptions and mmors. on Jordan. It is pitiful te see regardless whether they- are on advance notice, there would · Obviously, Mr Lippner has you stooping down to this staff or not. should tJave the have been more with seven- now realized that his letter of level. What need is there to same opportunities to respond weeks'. We turned to Mr. May 14, \The President's take a stab at Mr. Ku1itz' to others. By your not waiting Tsongas from the field of Pathetic Decision,\ contained writing style. The words that until next week to publish politics, the area of second incorrect assumptions about he uses are fine and they do your response to Mr. Kuritz' choice by the senior class, a the commencement speaker not show his ability to u£e a letter, you have abused the person who had come fully to selection process. He attests to thesaurus, but rather it sb:ows position of News Editor that national attention after the poll this in his letter of May 21, his ability to use intelligent you hold, and you deserve to be hadbeenconducted. \Self-Serving committee.\ words. But more importantly, reprimandedforthisbehavior. I fail to see how the However, in this letter, he does it is terribly unprofessional for Sincerely, committee could have been the same thing again, right you to respond to a _letter to the Gregory Evan more responsive to the desires l-afte-==\'r!!:'\h_e_fi_n_is_he_s~a.;.po-lo.;;g_izt_· n..;g;...to-:-_e_di_.t_or_be~£~o!'\re_•_·t .... h_as_ev_e_n_b~een-1t------M-• ... · silki_·_a._'9_z_ of the Class of 1992, as Th C •tt R. d- expressed in the canvass of its e · 0 m m I · e e es p 0 D . S' wishes. t-----------------------1 To the Editor: Bad Timing confinnation and announced his Mr. Lippner's criticisms of President Hull (who was instrumental in securing Mr. Tsongas at the eleventh hour), Rachel Rapaport (who, together with the other seniors on the Committee, well represented the class by successfully urging the Committee to seek the class' top four choices), and the Honorary Degrees Committee (which endured a long year with several disappointments) are unwarranted. As members of the Honorary Degrees Committee we feel compelled to correct the misleading allegations made against us. The Senior Class members of the committee ran· a survey in early October requesting the Senior Class to rank several popular candidates and suggest any alternatives. The results were as follows: commitment~ to be our 1----------- Let us look forward to a commencement with a famous speaker, and a set of other honors and equally worthy of recognition. Sincerely yours, Clifford Brown, Chair Honorary Degree Comm. Robin Williams 86, Billy Crystal 51, Chevy Chase 47, and Tom Brokaw 46. We then met with the active alumni correspondent and tried to use various contacts to invite each of these candidates to our graduation. In addition we pursued an intimate contact with Bill Cosby as an alternate should none of the aforementioned people be Commencement speaker. · 1 Much to our dismay. in early May he informed us that he could not speak at our graduation on June 14th because he had been invited to Siberia. At this point, since none of our other candidates had responded, President Hull recommended to the committee inviting Paul Tsongas. to speak. Due to our limited options and lack of time, as members of the Senior Class we felt Hull's recommendation was in our best interest and enthusiastically endorsed his suggestion. As a result, J>aul Tsongas accepted and we are eagerly awaiting his arrivalll To the Editor: It is tempting to bash students for their apathy in producing , only fifteen candidates for fourteen student government positions. But there is another answer. The timing is all wrong. At this point in the school year, everybody i-s focusin,g on the end of this term and the beginning of summer. No one wants to think about fall term yet. I strongly suggest that the ' Student Forum chat1ge its policies and fill most student government positioitS at the beginning of fall terrn. In particular, I thi11k the -----------------------1 available. If you have any further questions, please contact one of us by writing to box #996. 1 Committee on Committees should postpone appointing student members to important committees until more interest in them can be generated among the student body at large. Only in this way will student participation in College government reflect the diversity of outlooks and interests on the Please submit Letters to the Editor on a 3.5\ hard drive diskette that is Macintosh or IBM compatible. Include box number so that they can be returned promptly. Tom Brokaw responded favorably in December. and upon our' return to school in January we received his Thank You. Garett Lasewicz Rachel Rapaport campus. Sincerely, Steven D. Sargent Assoc. Professor

,: ' CONCORDIENSIS• MAY28, 1992 •PAGE 9 A Challenge for Union To the Editor: I would like to address what I believe to be a serious problem on the Union ,College campus. Mter spending nearly half .of this term on crutches, I realize how grossly inaccessible this campus is for physically challenged individuals. While I was only temporarily disabled, I can only imagine how impossible it would be for any person with a lengthy or pennanent disability to make their way around this campus. First of all, the Science and Engineering building is the only academic building with both an elevator and a ramp; none of the other academic buildings have even a ramp. It is impossible to entet: the Social Sciences, Humanities, Psychology, and the· Arts building without dimbing stairs. Furthennore, although it is convenient to have handicapped parking behind the Science and Engineering building, there is not an adequate entrance (one without stairs} within close proximity to those parking spaces, Physically chall~nged students can live only: in North or South Colleges because thes~ ~re the only two donmtones thai have ramus to· their entrances. Als<>. there are no elevators in these or any other dormitories, making things more difiicult for physically challenged students. Simple tasks such as doing one's laundry become impossible. Given these few examples, it becomes easy to understand why incoming physically challenged students could not possibly consider Union as a viable choice. Ev~n if one was able to master getting back and fortll from the dormitory to the classroom, socializing in the various campus establishments, such as the Skellar or listening to a speaker in Memorial Chapel, would only present further htrrenes. · Presently, this campus is unable to provide sufficient facilities for disabled students. Clearly, if we cannot adequately accommodate disabled students, we cannot begin to offer any job opportunities for faculty or staff who, for instance, might be confined to wheelchairs or have other permanent disabilities. We at Union are .trying to create a more diverse campus. D<>esn't diversity include physically challenged individuals? Mark Tollman '92 Farewell

CONCORDIENSIS • MAY 28, 1 992 • PAGE 1 0 A Very \Random\ Glimpse The Future In. to \Y Betsy Rotlr.stein contributing writer Author's note: I'm a little horrified to be writing ahout some of these .expressi()ns but the point is to make these eivil engineering/Rugby playing prize-winners more aware of the way they sound. Ass \I feel like ass.\ \I look like ass.\ \I smell like ass.\ I can honestly say th.at before I came to Union College I never ever heard a more disgusting set of expressions compared to these. S illce this is my last opportunity to criticize, generalize, exploit and to use my \creative privileges\ a s N e d ''ThispaperwouldneversUIYivew ithoutme\ WaJley put it, I am going to take full advantage of this ()pportunity of a lifetime. I just do not understand wllere this fine collection of \ass\-like expressions originated. I mean, I know I lead a sheltered life. but did someone just wake up one morning puking their brains out,(as a res\Ilt of chugg;ing too many brewskys in a meat market) glance at then· ass and come to the grand conclusion:\! feel like ass\? Why is this such a widespread negative expression? What exactly is so wrong with everyones' ass? I mean. I could understand S()meone \smelling like ass\ if they forgot to shower for let's say a month and a half, afterfuanging out in a beer/sludge-ridden haven in standard chmgging position, but even tilen the expression make:s no conceivable sense. Wi:ili such an esteemed \institution of higher learning\ you would think people could come up witll a more creative way to describe their deep and profound physical state of being rather than to insult the physical well being of tbeir ass. Just today I was visiting a sick friend by the name of Fraflcesca ..Blancbe\ Mattii when she was asked, \How do you feel?\ Her response of \Well I felt like ass an hour ago, but now I'm okay,\ did not surprise me at all. Okay, so maybe I am taking this expression too much to heart or to ass. I mean, what kind of rational sense does this make'? Is our $20,000 dollar plus education resulting in this vulgar expression alone? As T began to write my final Concordiensis article ever( with tears in my :eyes of course) I thought al>t>ut what Union would be like at my twenty fifth class reunion. Will we return to Union for one of those crazy, out of control reunion weekends and then walk around the next day completely hungover saying little other tllan \I feel like ass, I look like ass and I smell like ass\? Or, will there be other ridiculously~ overused. random expressions to replace them? The following are my predictions for the future of Union College: First of all, maybe it is a· viscous rumor, but I heard Scllaffer Library is sinking. Call me Ciazy, but really, you'd never know we went to a school with such an incredible engineering department. If in fact the library is sinking, maybe in twenty-five years the library will be submerged underground and students will need to clirnb far underneath the earth to get in there in order to waste a lot of time and pretend to do work. Secondly, the College Center will have magically disappeared. (Sorry John, but since this is my final article I feel the need to abuse you.) After graduation, John\Nothingcomesbetweenme andmycollegecenter\ Fox is going to temporarily lose his rnind and will experience a slight case of College Center withdrawal. One dark night, he will return to his horne away fi:om home, load up the entire building, (Chet's and all) onto a truck.. He will then strategicatly relocate \his\ fine establishment to Marblehead, Massachusetts to the Fox estate. John will assume full authority of this building and will wine and dine his friends,( such as Otsie\Idontleavehomewithout rnydudebeadnecklace\ Gustavson) in the Dutch Hollow restaurant. Noone will be able to enter Chet's without a dudebead necklace and this will be strictly ·enforced. Students will be shuttled on a daily basis to Marblehead Massachusetts to obtain their mail, which of course will be distributed by none other than John\ C.C. '~Fox unless of course Andy '\TheJohnFoxofthejuniorclass\ Goldberg becomes salty(an annoying, overused word) without his quality College Center time. Funding for this shuttle will be tough, so I predict that President Roger\JordanLippnerandlaretig ht\ Hull will hold one of those ever so effective Town Meetings to resolve the issue. I predict that as a result of one of these meetings(i.e. a doid fest from hell) the steel black fence will be removed and the Union College community and t:he Doid community will A Blast From The By Julie Me.'tlow LeiSt Time Contributor As Betsy looks towards the future, I am resigned to regretting my past. Wdl, not really regretting. j11st re- evaluating. Some of y-eu may have attended the Cross1alk this week, which dealt with what seniors would do diffe~rently if they had a second shot. I was too cool to attertd the Crosstalk, so I've decided to now tell you a bit aoorut some things I (and random interviewees) would ~hange. These are the advantages of writing for the paper ... you don't actually have to go to events. you can just write around them. E1ica says she would have \joined Leeder's Video much earlier\ (she j()ined yesterday .. .limited offer tlrree- • '• r ~ '• I,\ Besty llovegivingpeoplemiddlenarnesi nmyarticles Rothstein .says she \wishes I b.ad road tripped to Cornell with Julie and Erica more than once\ (long story. The gist of it is that we nearly died). Of course, her biggest regret is that she didn't realize the joy of bashing individuals week engagement). \I mean, the membership is free, they sell baseball hats, take cbecks, and have a much more varied selection than Chopper.\ She also wishes she \never lost that damn funnel I made freshman year. It was a beauty.\ via Concordy until this year. We can all Jearn a little l~sson from her attitude: \What do I care if they hate me forever? It's just a joke!\ The truth is she was denied membership into the College Center Club the summer after freshman year (they hold hell week there mid- July to early August to see if the pledges can stand being with Jon Fox in 95 degree weather). That's the real reason for her latent bostility, if you ask me. But then again, what do I know ... I got a C- in Intro to Psych. I regret that. An anonymous friend (who regrets that she has to be kept .anonymous) wishes she had ·~sown some more wild oats at Union. I mean, as it stands, I didn't sow enough oats to eat lhem for breakfast. That's sad.'' Obviously. the poor girl never got to attend Jungle Love. That's one thing I don't regret: never dressing up like Betty or Wilma to hang out with guys who always look like Tarzan. (Sorry guys, I'm competing with Betsy for the most brutal article award. Your good name had to be become one. Don't ask me why, but I think that the man that works Security, the one with the red bea11d is going to have his work cu.t out for him. Thirdly, the Nott memorial will no longer exist but will appear to be little more than a re])lica of stonehenge( i.e. just a bunch of rocks inthe middle of nowhere.) f()urthly, terms abroad will lJe changed radically. Instead of going abroad, the new(I must say that they do sound so ex::citing)terms abroad will be to Troy, Niscayuna, Amsterdam,(No, JJJilie\I' macodeinaddict\ Medow, this is tile one in New Y ()l'k-not the one in the Netherlands) Scotia and V eorhesville. Voorhesville may not be the most popular cption though due to the fact tlut anyone who goes there never gets out alive. When I asked various people what they think Union College will be like in twenty-five years I receive<! phenominal responses: Emily\ Squirrelkillercatsupad diet\ Baer believes that \Security will have a Most Wanted list of which she will be =#1 most wanted for all of my unpaid parking tickets.\ Emily also believes that Ma:rge, the lady from West will have a gun for those sly Freshman that try t() sneak into West without a meal card. When I questkmed my friend \Penelope\( a.k.a. Elica''Ineverspeakmymind\ Levine), she brutally resiJOnded, with clearly a look of vengence in her eyes: \I don't give a f.~.about Union Cellege's future-I'm more concerned with mine. I was a little worried about her \salty\ attitude and sent her to Past sacrificed on the way to the firiisllline.} There were a plethora of regrets concerning Formals. \I rejlret buying a dress that I was swe no one else would have.\ \I ,regret all four of my dates.\ \I regret taking a freshman my senior year.\ (However, one senior friend claims just the opp()site: \I regret not exj)loring the freshman class earlier.\) Men regret as well. \Everyone always told me they tllought my ex-girlfriend was a bitch while we were going out. I di<ln't believe them. Wow, do I regret not listening to my buddies.\ (Common adage.) I've actually overheard some Uni()n men saying to one an()ther \Man I wish I had gotten that itch checked out sooner.'' Many men wish they had balanced their beerpong-to- Julie \IwantmyownprivateJuncl eLove\ Medow for some tranquimers. * * * With less than three weeks :left of my college careerj(J haven't yet calculated quite how many hours and seconds are left-I'm letting Cody\I'nr -secretlyinlovewilhadoidnarnedG oorge\ Bohl handle that.) I can't help but wonder what Union College will be like in the future .. .in let's ~Say twenty five years. I mean~ will someone still be writing these articles abusing anything and everything about Union College and will Mike \Idoameaonightclubroutin e\ Saum stiD get offended by them? Will people continue to overuse the s:arne annoying expressions, Olf will there be new ones? Write For Lire- !it:yll!!i DRUNK DRIVING KilLS study-time more usefully. \lfl had known that Professor Staff was going to fail me anyway, I never would llave put my :Paddle down!\ O.K. Here's what I regret. I regret getting a D in geology. I regret never fooling around in the Nott, the CHUC room, or tile Library. I have a feeling that I am going to regret making fun of Chi Psi. If it had to happen: at all, I regret not breaking a bone earlier in my college career. And lastly, I regret any time when I to()lc this place too seriously. Thanks for reading my stuff for the past two years. Bye. EVERY DAY 1- r i

are les nd ill by be I 01' it in I emor1es o International students uniting for their first of many dinners together Apple-piclcing and \apple-kicking\ .... Whichever you prefer. International House hosts a wild cultural party full of fun, food,. laughter and \Long la.sting friendships ... \ by Larae Tu111idajewicz lnt'l. Features Editor It seems like ollly yesterd:uy that Gaby po~ped into m:y room with a gre~t big friendlly hello. That was the start of a wonderful year at t:lne International lEo use, full of memories that will: last a lifetime .... Many th·nughts wander through my mimi as I reali~e that my friends will soon be leaving for theitr homes. I share some of my memories with you as I look back upOln this special year. Those first few days took a lot of getting to know eac::h other, but si11ce then tine Americans and the: internation:al students at International House have been one big, hapjlly family. I remember thle students wanting to ju:st \casually :stroll\ throug;h Schenectady afte:r midnight, ntOt knowing the poople they miglht have come up ag;ainst. That first weel:end we ~ll went on a fall picnic to Thatcher's Park and for appl~­ picking, or as Hir<Oko called it, \apple-kicking.\ I reca.:ll Leonid playin~ guitar amd singing Russian songs. We also leamed that it is acceptab4e to drink pickUe j11ke after sho.ts of Russian vod.ka. Then tllere was tile International reception, where we gathered <witlt exchan~e students fwrn other local colleges. What a wild time 1',;/e were having on the dance floor, especially Leoni<l with his hiip thrusting Elvits impersonations. Afterwards mll of us headed ov-er to Kama Alpha and reaJl y got to be better friends by practicing om slam-dancin,g. That was the night Per, a stadent fro.m Sweden, asked \ what do you Americans iPUt in vour be.er ringing the !bell afld chantiiJg with the Chi Psi brotheas while James, fro-Ill York, stoad up and yelle,d, \Screw Hruvard .... Harvaid sucks.\ All those great Mond:uy night parties at D\ Chi. These brothers almost seemed to \adopt\ the international students and always had fmn times with them. Especia!Uy that last party of lihe fall whe!n we all said good- bye to tile British sludents. What a funny 1irne we had at the ice skating party. To watch everyone ;gliding wiLil the greatest of eas:e or the paiJl of a tumble. Shcrtly after that we had ou.r 1'1mnksgivin g dinner, with everylbody helping out to cook tho~e two hu~e turkeys with all th.e ~ixings. Leonid has ma;:n:y m emorablle quotes from the fall, about swimming pools amd about thie lobster. DmitrJ\ ()O the other hand will be most remembere-d for his George Bush interpretations arad \Do you se:e my point?\ Winter term we had Ollr winter fonnat ll<:>w beautifllll the Old Chapel looked with aill of the fancy lights and the wild times we had dancing around the upstairs and downstairs in our conga line. Also a bunch of us went to the culinary expose and Dmitry insisted to the waitress that we be :-.crved first because we all had to be somewhere. It worked .... he is a good politician. How about that ski weekend in Vermont? Going sledding down the ski run in the middle of the night. Does everyone even remember doing that? People sleeping everywhere and looking so cute all dressed up in their ski outfits. But don't forget all the adventures we had on the 4 hour drive there .... German Fasching party: the game with the play ... \Do you really love me?\ the folk dancing around the room and that made me sick? I thought this was chocolate milk!\ On an1Jther one of our international excursions7 we all loaded up three or fcur cars and drove ap to Skidmore to hear Ghosthoase pla,y. After taking three wrong turns and everybody arguing that their way was better, we finally made it there. but only managed to hear the last song of the evening! Parents weekend we got together and presented an international fashion show and presentation of the Japanese tea ceremofly. Halloween was the next big celebration for us. Remember how long it took us to mix and match all the different outfits? Dmitry in his clown nose and Gaby with her \Besame mucho.\ Everybody piled onto the porcll of President H111I's house to trick-or-treat for Snickers bars. Then we lteaded to Smith House where we bobbed for apples. more too often dunking each other's heads in the water completely. I think back to the day Kristin and I took Leonie! to Joe the barber for a traditional Union College hairclit. 1 remember the shocked look on his face when he asked where all his hair had gone. And the time we took the Russian boys shopping for clothes .... we came horne with posters of Marilyn Monroe, and lots of goodies for Leo, but Dmitry was not satisfied with any .of the American goods. Our intramural soccer team .... with James being highly motivated and Leonid telling everybody that he ltas the ball, no matter where it happens to be on the field. We also had a female volleyball team. All of us had fun screaming things our in everyone's native tongue. At the Harvard Hockey game, I can still hear Gabv into each other, tile limbo ...... how low can you go? International \Cultural\ Party: lots of different foods and drinks, dancing, and laughter. The wild swings of the bat at the pinata ... everybody running for safety from Marie's strength. Rich with the broken pinata on his head. Everyone was very, very happy after that party .... Gaby and her men fr()rn Chippendales. WOW! Dinner discussions about cows. Kristin's birthday party with the giant pig. German Christina at the slot machi11es in Atlantic City. Karsten's traditional bot chocolate in the evening. Watching television together in the lounge and eating weird things. The many fire alarms when the showers kept setting it off in the early morning hours. Gaby's collection of various beer and soda cans. Recently, the DG Olympics and an astounding second place victory! All the laughs we had sucking the jello and stepping all over each other while crashing down the pyramid. Dancing around at the daquiri party together. We have had the best of times together. These were just a few memories off the top of my head written in stream- of-consciousness. I wi 11 always think back about these special times as though they just happened yesterday. but I will also look forward to the future and making new memories. I will make the most out of today; for when tomorrow comes, this will only be another yesterday ..... \How low can he f!;o?\ ·' '

CONCORDIENSIS • MAV'28, 1992 • PAGE 12 Flowered Shirts, Earmuffs, & Umbrellas by Dug Bartell Associate Features Editor up to the heavens wi~h a two tickets somewhere weathermen. Maybe gesture of admiration aml be (anywhere) South. FJ01rida. busdrivers? No-roads are bad. throttled by a four ounce Arizona. Cuba. Pennsylvania. Mothers? Nope-too many raindrop. Anywhere, Just so lon~ as things to worry about. Not It has been said that no job As tile drop lands, however, this anywhere can be found even skiers, joggers, cyclists, is more treacherous than that of even before the rain has had subordinate on a map an.O. so or golfers. These activities are an Up state New York time to soak in, a munchkin long as the weathermen there all rendered sterile by the meteorologist during the time land torrent of air completely have a shot in heH, then this fluctua~ions. Not even dogs or of year when flowered shirts, and deftly dries your anywhere is the .place to be:. Cats could possibly like earmuffs, and umbrellas share questioning skin. This inrer-seasonal peppering getting wet then dry then bot equally the horirs of the average This torrent brings with it a of natural phenomenon must ~en cold then hot then wet- day. Canadian cold front and while do some good to someone and an during a trip to the A morning drown in rain you stand bewildered, five foot somewhere. It m us:t. neighbors Maple. will be brightened by a drifts of snow pile around you. Somebody must get out of bed The conclusion has to be lunchtime full of radiance Having completed its hourly in the morning and pray to god drawn then that nobody enjoys which in turn might convey weather cycle, Flagstaff again that there be two and a half what has happened in the world an illusion of spring. But no. appears and as you thaw the inches of rain preceding 50 of meteorology lately. Soon the sky fades g:my and the only gesture made to heaven degree temperatures, stmng Nobody. So why complain? earth is whitened by a pesky involves a clenched fist and an winds, hailstones, fog, lllue Next time that it's 90 for a the eye of a tornado. Look to the heavens and praise the lord that you don't live on a fault line or in an avalanche zone. Be happy you don':t have the same weather as my parents, who, \used to get 3 feet of snow in July\. Be tbankful we live in an age where there still are weather patterns. With the environment the way it is,. our children might be :getting \Third degree sunburns in January.\ :~<.-·: ~ <- Trlvta Te~t · '· \. ~ b11 Ll11tl~ LUckhUtsi . . layer of atmospheric dandruff. erect middle finger. skies, sleet, locusts and t!hree whole week and then plummets Having gone to bed in During this time of year or four hours of driving snow. into the 40's don't bitch and 1. Dri 1 ~k.s: What is tlae national Anchorage you wake up in even the most die-hard Someone loves it. :But moan. Be .thankful you aren't alcoholic cb::ink of Mexico? Flagstaff- bright skies and Northerner would, a the drop of Who? buried under lava or trapped in 2. Texas: 1-Iow many different s:pringl'ul hopes- only to look a hat, turn in his galoshes for Not mailmen. Certainly not flags have flown over the state of ·------------------------------------..~-----------+Texas, ami what countfies clid they _ represent~ Dear Uncle Edna u-Dear Uncle Edna, Recently my sister had a baby boy who neryone says looks just like me. What do you think that means? - JK DearJK, It means he probably won't be getting a date to the Senior Ball. --Dear Uncle Edna, Which pizza place tfo you feel is the best in the area? -pl Dear pi, Whichever has the best coupons. --Dear Uncle Edna, Did you ever get that \not so fresh\ feeling? -md Dearmd, Every time I drink fraternity beer. --Dear Uncle Edna, What has been the /Jiggest thrill of your life? -Jk Dearlk, I was 16. My couch. Cheerleader. Clothes off. Deep breathing. Nuff said. --Dear Uncle Eflna, My golf handicap is 15. What's 1ours?- jn Dear jn, My swing --Dear Uncle Edna, Recently, as I looked in the mirror, I wondered why men have uipples. What do you think?-BN DearBN, Titty· twisters, Purple- nurples, clothespins. etc. --Dear Uncle Can centers be night?- Chuck Dear Chuck, Edna, day-care open at I think you've taken a few too many philosophy courses. --Dear Uncle Edna, I think being in school until June is great. What do you think?- A H DearAH, I think you're on crack. u•Dear Uncle Edrta, Last Friday I hooked up with a girl notorious for sleeping around. I know she has a reputation but 1 really like her. What should I do?-CO Dear CO, For starters try penicillin. --Dear Uncle Edna, Batman 2 is cominf! out soon 1-Vith Danny DeVito ttnd Michelle Pheijfer. Who do you think should IJe considered for Batr:nan 3?-jc Dearjc, Dan Quayle as Egghead and Alex Trebec:k as the riddler. --Dear Uncle Edna, I an an independent freshman guy who is looking to join a gNek organization. Where till you have the best till~e?­ ok Dearok, r<PB Send your Questions to: UNCLE EDNA BOX 83 Next Year .. . . Write For ~eatures! Contact DUG- 4027 DASS -4041 Jackson's Garden 3. Literature: Who wrote \Barry Lyndon'!\ 4. Space: Who was the first woman in space? 5. G~Dgraphy: What two cout1tries share ownerslliJl of the Tierra del Fuego? 6. Time l\lagazine: Who was Time magazine's Man of theY car in 1963? 7. Ocem1 Uners: Wh.at was the Titanic's sister ship? 8. Mmic: Who recordetl the August, 1957 number one hit single, 1. Tequi Ia; 2. six: U.S., Spain, France, Mexico, The Republic of Texas arHJ1l1e Confeder~te States of America; 3. William Th~ckeray; 4. Valenti11a Tereshkova; 5_ Argentina and Chile; <i. Martin Luther King, Jr.; 7. the 01 ympic; 8. Deblli-c Reynolds © 1992 by King Fe<~ltUe:s Synd. The sun of spring and it's breeze does drain, Every drop of stress from every vain. And were I to curl into a ball and snooze, No pride or face would I fear lose. For those who swear their work to keep~ Relax. unwind, undress, and sleep. Douglas W. Bartell 5-12-92 By Leigh Rubin \Now be careful, dear. Your dinner is very ~o,~! If you -want it to cool down, don't blow on 1t.

to lord fault the of the our in ate of they _ 'Barry first two the > was in as the u the Spain, of ates of ray; 4. tina ng,Jr.; CONCORDIENSIS • MAV28, 1992 • PAGE 13 PER!iDI\IAL!i Chicken Butt- SMILE I Love You- see you sunday- Love me Professor Peffer, How about another episode of I Love Lucy tomorrow'? To Sasha Lewis: We've been · admiring yo11~ for q_uitesome time and we can't put out · thoughts int() words! Your Secret Admirerers Question:What do you .get when you cross a booger, Andria and a hammer? Congratulations to the new initiates ·Of Gamma Phi Beta. Best wishes from the sisters of Delta Gamma · Answer: A late night massage fest in J's Gardens The sisters uf Delta Gamma extend our congratulations and best wishes to the new initiates of Delta Delta Delta D and B Thank you so much. You saved our butts; Ga & E ~o the boys who saaw us naked- The Nott win never be To the new initiates of Sigma Delta Tau- Congratulations and all our best- The sisters of Delta Gamma Brian, Al Peck, Eder and Jay. Congratulations. Clap it up Brothers! Finn but Ginger the same and You'll never • =-----:-------- know who we were... Foley, Thanks for everything. Your hard work made us all U·N·I·O·N·'S FRIDAY, MAY 29 REUNJON WEEKEND 10 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 12:15-1:3() p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 1-2:45 p.m. College Center aud. Pew Ethics and Science Symposium: \A History Lesson: Scientific Practice under Hitler.\ 3 -5 p.m. College Center aud. Pew Ethics and Science Symposium: \Ethics and t..~e New Biology.\ 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Department senior thesis defense: \eve\ a play by Mari..-•1a Bernard '92. She will also perform at 8 p.m. Li'\l the Nott Memorial. 6:30-9 p.nr.. Ramada Inn. Pew Ethics and Science Symposium Keynote Address: Dr. Robert Veatch, Georgetown University, speaking ~m ••Doing Science Ethically: A New Understanding of the Role of Values in Doing Post-Modem Science.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Classical cabaret. 8 & ]0:30p.m. SS016. Film: \Hook.\ SATURDAY, MAY 30 REUNJON WEEKEND 9-10:45 a.m. College Center aud. Pew Science aad Ethics Symposium: \Ethical Problems in Everyday Science.\ 11 a.m.-Noon. College Center aud. Pew Ethics and Science Symposium: \The Place of Ethics in the Science Curriculum.\ 8 & 10:3{) p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Hook .. \ SUNDA ¥, MAY 31 REUNION WEEKEND 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant: worship. 6 p.m. C10llege Center 410. Student forum meeting. 8 & 10:-30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Hook.\ Rubes® By Leigh Rubin \?top being so stubborn, George. We've been c1rchng fo.r hours ... W 11en are you going to pull over and ask for directions?\ MONDAY, JUNE 1 11:50 a.m.-12:50 p.m. College Center. Italian conversation table. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French conversation table. 7:30-8:30 p.m. College Center 204. SPAA meeting. TUESDAY, JUNE 2 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. hcully soup and beverage club. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese conversation table. !2.:20-1 :20 p.m. College Center. Brazilian conversation table. 6 p.m. College Center 302.CrosstaL\. 7-8 p.m. Co1lege Center 203. Pre-law society. 7:30-9 p.m. Colkge Center 409,410. Eating disorders meeting. ~ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. Faculty members play jazz. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 3 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 6:45-9 p.m. College Center 406. Brazilian club. THURSDAY, JUNE 4 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 406. Investment club. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Support group. FRiDAY, JUNES-CLASSES END 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. SATURDAY, JUNE 6 No listings. SUNDAY, JUNE 7 6-7:30 p.m. College Center 410. Student forum meeting. By Leigh Rubin -~ Origins of the all-beef wiener. Professor Feffer, How about another episode of I Love Lucy · tomorrow? Foley, Thanks for everything. Your hard work made us aU lood good. By the way Happpy Birthday Sharon and Dave To myfriends at the Mail R_oom: Thank you for your kmdness and speedy service ~ach day· you are doing a fine JOb. see you tomorrow To the graduating Tri-Delts things will never be the sam~ without you. Good Luck! To my favorite people, It is really hard for me to say goodbye to you guys. Right now, I want to let you all know how much you mean to me. I want to thank you f()r putting up with my many horrible mrods, but most of all I'd like to thank you for just being there. I'll miss you so very much. (In no particular order) Brian, Jenny, Rich, Dana, Jason, Jay, Nicki and Andy; best of luck always. I love yo11 always. The Strawberry-Blonde Bombshell! --------------------- To my new favorite people, I'm sorry it took me so long to realize what wonderful, caring people you are. Best of luck always; we will keep in touch. To Becky, Tara, Sarah and Kristen. Love always, Diana Scoce, T met you day one and my life was never the same afterwards~ I love you more than you'll ever know. I care! Love Always. Your Dork Di, Just remember I paid Penn for your joiJ! Hah Hah! I'll miss you all the time; this place will never be the same! Thank Goodness for Mr. Phone! Love Always- Jenny! P.S - I promiese to never forget our fri.endship! For Sale: 1989 Ford Fl50 Pickup Truck 30,000 miles, cruise contfol, 6 cyl, am/fm radio, maroon 7100$ Call ext 6645 or 377-0010 For sale: new double bed. great condition and new desk 150$ for both and willing to negotiate, caD' 346-9258 For sale: 4 drawer dresser. great conditi<Jn. for more info call 346-9258 For sale &ig Brown very comfortable leather couch. call 346-9258 Two bedmom apartment for sublet during summer months - on Gillespie St. Please call 370-6973 ()r 386-4223 if interested. collegiate crossword @Edward Julius Collegiate CW8724 ACROSS 51 Sl~ngy head 10 - y utang 53 \And mine - 11 Wreath for the head 1 Cowboy's panatela one\-- Shakespeare 12 Fuel hydrocarbon 6 Footwear component 54 Pulver's rank 13 Before this time '14 One-cel~ed anim~ls (abbr.) (p<>et.) 16 Dealer 1n women s 55 Metallurgy device 15 Old-E~glish letters hats. (var.) 21 Sh 17 Cut 1 nto sma 11 57 Organization for . <Jut of discovery P ieces .24 Zhi.vago's love Greg Norman 26 Oratorio solos 18 Distance from the 58 Leg t ' · . a o s oppos1te 27 All dressed up x-ax~s . 62 Organized massacre 30 -·example 19 Suff1x for d1ffer 64 Actor who played 34 All' 20 Military headdress Gene Krupa (2 wds ) 37 o· ~~ndce ak7ronym 22 Mr. Rather 65 c 1 • 1Vl e . s 1rt 2 . a m 38 - avlS 3 M1ss Carter 65 Concisely witty 39 p · t· th 25 \-so many h a1n 1ng e town i 1 , P rase red (3 wds.) ch dren... 67 Lock of hair <lO st · h 28 Prefix: wine op s1gn ~ apes 29 Virgil hero (var.) DOWN 41 F~enG~ ladles 31 Flaming 114 C1ty ln Texas 32 Kitty's cry 1 Uniformity 115 rtarted a fight 33 Quite a few 2 High rank or 2 wds:) 35 Ending for ham or 48 46 R-d dil et position oa s.gn sem 3 \-My Mind\ 52 ~apoleon and Haile 36 Certain part of 4 A s easy as - Selassie (abbr.) Congress (2 wds.) 5 Actress Charlotte, 55 Robert Burns for 42 Mr. Be 11 ow and family one ' 43 Spiritual meeting 6 A speakeasy, nearly 59 Roman 901 44 Have title to always (2 wds.) 60 Armed forces head 47 Salt trees 7 E 49 \Darn it!\ mporer of note ( abbr ) 5 B Like Methu se 1 ah 61 Black· cuckoo · 0- volente 9 Mr. Wallach 63 Dog's snarl

Diamonds and the Upper Mantle Dr. Nikolai Sobolev Institute of Ge<Jiogy and Geophysics, Novosibirsk, Russia & Visiting Professor (92-93) Un.ion College Nikolai Sobelcv will give a special lecture in the Deparrnent of Geology's Colloquium series,dl.lling his brief spring visitt~ tlle United States. Dr. Sobelov is currency the Deputy Director of the Institute cf (le()\ogy and Geophysics in Novosibirsk. Dr. Sabelov is the author ofmany)l'llbilcations in both Russian and English on the origin.and diamonds, kimberllte:s, and high pressure minerals. He has recently submitte11 papers to Nature and EArth <:llld f' lanetary Science uners on diamond inclusiOns :in gamet.s and pocassium .in clinop)Toxenes of crustal metamorphic rocks. as indicruors of ultrahigh pressures. He and four colleagues were awarded the Lenin Prize (the highest awani:Unhe former USSR for scientific connibutions) ill 1976 fot their work entitled \Meomorphic Facies Series.\ Dr. Sobelov and his fanti\y will be moving to the United States for the92·93 academic year, where Dr. SQbe\i>v will join the faculty m the•Depanment of Geology at Umon college for one year. Friday 29 May 1992, R-efreshments at 3:30 ptn, the talk will commence at 4: (]() prn Bunerfield Hall, R<Jorn 201 Scha!Tcr Library- Extended Hours Sunday, May 31 - 11imsday, June 11 In addition to the regular library hours, Schilffer Lihrary will have the following extended hours: :JI :00 P.M. · 1:00 A.I\L (these hours are for studyin.g only) No circulating t>r rcsc IYe materials will he cll:l.fgcd out. No reference desk senicc. Please help us to keep rood and drink restricte<l to the All Night Study area. The Pre-Law Society would like to congratulate its new co-chair on their election. We also wish all of our members a great summer and we hope to see you again next year. IF YOU DO NOT WISH TO BE ON THE MEALPLAN YOU ARE CURRENTLY ENROLLED IN, FOR FALL TERM. PLEASE FILL OUf A NEW CONTRACf CHANGING OR DROPPING YOUR PRESENT Jv\EAL PlAN BY JUNE 5 Are you interested m visiting an elderly person who 1 ives alone in Schenectady and wants compa11y 'I If so, joi11: Ado pt-A-Grandparent Statring next fall, all you need to do is volunteer one: hour eith-er weekly or bi- weekly. Please come t() a man d a t () r y first meeting Monday June l at 8:00PM in CC 409. Any Questions, call 4081, or 4489. ~VoJ.PHJ H~<:J5'1-iltlf.J *~~ti Classical Cabaret &\'oiJ'~J *!l.:<:J~'III~JJoolj.J *!l>li<:J Friday, May 19 CC302 8:00 II I II I II I I I I Ill I Ill II \' I j, I I I I I Ill I Apartment to Sublet Julyl- September 1 Drivevvay & Yard 3 Bedrooms Call393-3119 ~ut:ch tf!Dllow \Restaurant WILL BE CLOSED Q:N Friday, May 29, 1992 at 7:00 .p.m. a11d Saturday, May 30, 19?2 at 2:\)0 p.m. Ambassador Meeting . Wednesday, June 3 7 PM CC Aud. All Welcome II CONCORDIENSIS\ MAY 28,1992 • PAGE 14 ADD\TlONAL COURSES ENGLISH DEPARTMENT ~SUMMER Jqqc_ EGL 02.7 COMEDY EGL 03\ SHORT STOR\' DESCRIPTIONS~ EGL 02 7 ·Comedy The nature of coinedy 1 as shown in prose, fiction and dra1na _ Inc·ludes the works by Ar~stcphanes, Boccaccio, ~abelais., ~hakespeare 1 TWain, and ~rnJ • _ Draw:s upon thP. work of var:tbus students o~ comedy (Bergson, Freud, and others·) to g\t some philosophical-psychological understanding of humor. 'p, Heinegg MW 6-9, Term I, June 15-July 28 EGL 031 Masterpieces of the Short Story A sampling of sorne aC:knowl·edqed .masterpieces of the short story. Beginning .with Boccaccio's Decameron, this survey will move from Renaissance Ital:y to contemporary America (Raymond carver). Alonq the way ~t will explore the work of Flaubert, Chekhov, Kafka, and D.H. Lawrence. Apart from savoring the virtuosity of the performances, t~e course will conceil~rate on the short st·ory as a kind of cultural_s~a~shot, a brief ·but intense lite~ary vision oE a time and place, a faith (or loss of faith), a tragic or comic (or both) way of life. P. Heinegg TTh 6-9, Term I, June 15-July 28 REGISTER AT WELLS HOUSE GARDEN HELPER NEEDED 1-2 TIMES PER WEEK $8o00 PER HOUR CALL MRS. ENGLISH 377-9043 THIS SRPING AND PREFERABLY SUM:M:ER ALSO '92-'93 STUDENT FORUM BUDGET ACTIVITY '93 Budget ACTIVITY Actuarial Club $300 ISU ALAS $12,000 Karate Club ASCE $2,500 Matching Funds Arts Club $0 Mountebanks ASU $2,100 NSBE Big Bra/Sis $3,500 Outing Club Biology $1,645 Peer Facilitators Cabaret $0 Pep Band Cheerleaders $1 ,290 Philoso_ghy Forum Chemistry $270 Ph_ysics Society Circle K $435 Pre-Health Classes $2,000 Pre-Law Classics Club $0 Psychology Club Coffeehouse $0 Public Speaking *Concordiensis $29,910 Rugby- Men Concert Band $2,790 ftugby - Women Concert Comm. $25,000 Russian Club Crew $18,930 SPAA C_i_cling Club $820 Scuba Club Dance Ensemble $400 Senior Fling Dance Team $400 Sentinel Dutch Pipers $490 Shakti ·- Economics Club $350 Ski Club - A!2_ine Equestrian Club - $1,500 Social Committee Fencing Club $0 Pub Film Committee $22,100 SI-R: First Aid Squad $1,870 &NE Fitzhugh Ludlow $3,000 Spanish Club FlAG $715 Speakers Forum French Club $910 . 8_Q_eaking Hands Frisbee Club $100 SADD Gaming Assoc. $100 Student Forum Garnet $21 ,350 Student Activities Garnet Minstrelles $430 Water:Q_olo Geology Club $600 We Care About U German Club $248 We Care - Scht~ Gospel Ensemble $2,365 Women's Union Holding Account $5,000 WHU.C Homecoming $2,000 Van Account Idol $3,000 ~ $1 ,965 . Totals '93 Budget $1',375 $2,605 $1 ,500 $13,100 $3,400 $3 '180 $2,256 $665 $0 $240 1 $705 $330 $0 $785 $4,460 $3,055 $250 $935 $100 $3,000 $9,034 I $2,001 $10,925 $1,645 $5,355 $2,445 $2,135 $975 $.26,050 $0 $2,836 $3,240 $15,000 $3,815 $350 $4,090 $5,990 $20,000 $330,210

udes g a I OONCORDIENSIS • MAY 28, 1992 • PAGE 15 The SUllivan Sheet . by ~ick sullivan CIDCAGO WHITE SOX PROFILE P.itcher Wilson Alvarez, who threw a no-hitter last year against Baltimore in only his .second major league appearanc~, once fanned 21 batters in a Little League game , .. Pitcher Alex Fernandez was originally selected by the Milwaukee Brewers in the first round of the June L988 draft, but opted to attend the University of Miami. For tlleChisox, Fernandez only appeared in eight minor league games before being . called up to the major league roster ... Why does catcher Carlton Fisk weat such an odd number - as in number 72? According to .. Pudge,\ it's because that was the year his son was born, his rookie year with the Red Sox, and it was .the year that represented a turnaround in h.is career. In fact, Carlton's son, Casey, plays collegiate ball at Illinois State in Normal, Ill. .. . Shortstop Ozzie Guillen starred in a Venezuelan soap opera during the winter of 1989 ... Pitcher Greg Hibbar·d is an avid golfer ... Outfielder Lance Johnson : was a teammate of the Twi us' Kirby P11ckett at Triton Junior College in · CJ1icago from 1981-83 ... Catcher Ron Karkovice helped his high school, Boone, in Orlando, Florida, tCJ the 1981 Florida State Champion- sllip ... Newly acquired pitcher Kirk McCaskill was the captain of his college hockey team at the Univer- sity of Vennont and also was placed -on the Dean's List while studying Sociology ... Pitcher Jack Mc- D()well is a progressive rock record- ing artist in his spare time ... Outfielder Dan Pasqua averages a home run every 20.7 at-bats .,. Pitcher Ken Patterson is an avid fan a11d investor in small scale motion pictures ... Pitcher Scott Radinsky plays the drums for teammate Jack McDowell's band, V.I.E. W. ... Su- perstar Tim Raines is manied to his · .(Cont. from 1:ight) Seminole, Florida, high school i only .a matter of time . sweetheart, Virginia Hilton. The Actually, the figllt ill the East Raineses have two children, Tim, Jr. and Andre, whose godfather is · will be between the Orioles and Chicago Cubs' star Andre Dawson • tile Blue Jays, w~th the Blue ... With Lance Johnson, Sammy . •· Jays putting away in early Sosa and Ivan Calderon all stealing : September. In the National over 30 bases in 1990, it marked the leagoe the color to be is Red. first time the White Sox llad ac- · :. With the dying out of the complished that feat since J902 .... , Pirates and the ever pFesent Second baseman. Steve Sa:r\. ran~ : ! lf-'d truct mechanism of the fourth among maJor leaguers tn h_Jts , : se es . . . . . . · in ·ur over the past five seasons ... Rehef . • Mets., and Wltll. tile . J Y artist Bobby Thigpen fllayed . ':prone San Francrsco G1:;mts, primarily as an outfielder when at- . · both the Reds and the Cardinals tending Mississippi State University · seem to be on an early . .. Outfielder Frank T:homas · collision course ta the NLCS. originally signed a footballscholar- The World Series will pit the ship with Auburn University, but Reds versus the powerhouse only played football during l1is fresh- · Chicago White Sox, with the man year ... Hitting coach Walt . Sox winning in five.(IT by John Scbacbnovsky Sports Editor Hriniakruns a highly successful hit- COULD HAPPEN!?.!?) ting school during the winter months For this article, my last of the year, I drew a blank. I needed a topic to discuss, S<' better to ask then some of m; loyal supporters ... people who have given me credit when ... The last time the White Sox won a World Series title was in 1917 ... When the White Sox lost to the Baltimore Orioles in the ,1983 ALCS three games to one, they weFe out- scored 19-3 ... Knuckleballer Wil- bur Wood is the only White Sox pitcher in their history to p()st four consecutive 20-game winning seasons (1971-74) ... The onJy two White Sox ever to win an MVP Award were Dick Allen in 1972 and Nellie Fox in 1959 ... The ollly two White Sox pitchers to capture a Cy Young Award were LaMarr Hoyt in 1983 and Early Wynn in 1 959 ... Curtent White Sox Chairman Jerry Rcinsdorf has had controlli11g inter- est w1th the NBA 's Chicago Bulls since 1985. ~1992 ''Y K:ng Features S;-nd. . credit was due, and s--t when that was called for. Pat Other predi~tions:. Haske II, ex- athlete -the Pengums w11l beat the . extraordinaire wanted an article Blaclffiawks fo~ £ames to two. I about the pathetic ness of the ~the 49ers Will announce the 'New York Mets. Well, I hate reruem:ent of Joe. Montan~ ... (or . the Mets, but I can't say how . they wdl trade htm early m the bad they are because it is just . season). not true and this is the type of -Da Bulls! team th~t can take the summer , -Monica Seles . wil~ try red and make a mochary of the NL : for ()ne day, nof like It and go ast and come out in ~ack to blonde. first...easily. After turniung -the U.S. basketball team down the Met idea Haskel than will have one scare ~n their . told me to write about the great way to the gold .. .I m not St. Louis Cardinals and all of say~ng from. who, I'm just their glory. Well the Cardinals saymg they \:'Ill have one. are in first place, I'll give Pat Okay that ts enough ... befo~e that, but that's all I'll give 1 ma,te ~ore wrong picks, I 11 Haskell. Come July and call Lt qmts. Th~s .to all my August I doubt we'll see the follo~ers, Save thts tssue and Cardinals where they are. get a good l~ugh over the O'kay, I've given Haskel too su~mer. Seno11sly, thanks much time in the paper, the agam and have a great next idea I recieved was from summer ... Go Mariners. Dalton Menhall, he told me to write about overweight ex- varsity athletes. A great idea, if I only had a few volunteers 1 other than Dalton himself. Well, I appreciated the advice from both you, but I can't see my last article of the year being one of these topics. So what am I going to say to leave off the year. Well the only way I can make people tllink of me over the summer is by giving you predictions that you can turn to and laugh at during the summer. So without further delay, here are my predictions for the end of spring through the summer, and into the early fall. In baseball, the story of the American League will be the Chicago White Sox. The Sullivan Sheet that is in this issue of Concordiensis tells bits and pieces about the Wbite Sox ... so learn it, it will come ill handy come October. Don't worry Yankee fans, I am sure the Yankees will be in the mnning until late June and tllen die ouL.oh come on, it's (Cont. to left) Cfh£ ~lon. Co~e !beparrl:m.mt o{ tk. fPe{o'LITlin& dhl~ 7klon. t!.o/L9c.. C!.hol'L Saturday May 30, 1992 at 8:00pm and C!.£~ d'11u1.~_, .!J(urd §fa.cty 9o· SPu~ufm.t Proudly Present World Renowned Artists Nicolai Shopsha and Adalena Krivocheina Performing piano and vocal works by: Ow Verdi, G. Rossini, f'. Chopin, f' .. Uszt, P. Tchalkovsky, S. Rachmaninoff (and others) in Memorial Chapel Union College Tickets: $10 General Public $7 Union Community $5 Students For Reservations call 386-4415. Purchases and Payments taken at the door.

CHnttntrbirnsis MAY 28, ·1992 NHL UPDATE BALTIMORE ORIOLES the leader in saves? 7. Who is the Orioles' aH-time leader in stolen bases? 8. Who is the Orioles' all-time leader in home runs? by Hal Poret Conco':diensis Staff play-offs. The Pittsburgh Penguins are also riding a little 7-game The NHL's Stanley Cup winning streak of their own, Finals between the Pittsburgh going into this series. Since Penguins and the Chicago being down 3-1 in their first Blackhawks began Tuesday round series against night in Pittsburgh. Going Washington, Pittsburgh has into this series between such gone 11-2, defeating the equally talented teams, little is favorite New York Rangers, certain besides that one ex- and sweeping through a Boston Islander great will get to hold team who had themselves up another cup- Pittsburgh's swept the Adams division Bryan Trottier, or Chicago's regular season winner, the Brent Sutter. But one thing is Montreal Canadiens. The for sure. Both of these teams Penguins hardly seemed to are on fire and hope to show up for game 1 against steamroll their opponents as Boston, but managed to defeat they have done to their last the pesky Bruins who featured victims. an attack led by newcomer The Blackhawks who are Adam Oates and Olympians making their first appearance in Steve Heinze, Ted Donato and the finals since they lost to Joe Juneau. In game 2, the Montreal in 1973 hope to take league's best player Mario home thejr first Cup in over Lemieux returned 2 weeks three decades. The Penguins earlier than expected from his who won the Cup last year wrist injury to score 2 goals hope to repeat and continue and set up one other in a 5-2 what could become a real Pittsburgh win. dynasty. But, whoever wins In this game, Boston scored expect one of the most exciting first, 59 seconds into the game, finals in a few years. but Pittsburgh's defense held The Blackhawks are cmTently the Bruins shotless for the last on a play-off record 11 game 18.5 minutes of the period, winning streak which saw allowing the Penguins to come them polish off the St. Louis back. From there it was all Blues in six games and then over. The interesting story for sweep through Detroit and the Penguins has been the Edmontonwithease.Chicago's Lemieux-Jaromir Jagr defense anchored by Chris connection. Jagr, who idolizes Chelios and their goal-tender ~mieux., has been phenomenal Ed Belfour have been nothing m the play-offs in Lemieux's less than superb. Thanks to a absence, and he has sparkled spectacular performance by since Mario's return. Jagr who Belfour in net, Chicago has has 9 play-off goals, is just allowed an incredibly low 1.75 about as big and tall as goals a game through their last Lemieux, has an incredibly two series. The way that this long reach like Lemieux, and Blackhawk team completely even patt~ms his game style , dominated the Edmonton Oilers after Lemieux. Because of this . in their last series proves what he even looks like a left-handed an excellent team they are. version of Lemieux on the ice, In game 1, Chicago came though Jagr is easily noticeable out and blasted the Oilers 8-2, with his long hair sticking out making Oiler goalie Bill of his helmet, and by being the Ranford, who had previously . only NHL player to wear #68. been stunning, look like swiss As one Pittsburgh fan even cheese. Game 2 saw the Hawks pointed out, rearranging the outshoot the Oilers by an letters in J agr's first name Jaromir · MAR ' amazing 45-14 margin and win • g~ves. you . 10 4-2. In game 3, Edmonton JR. The mam difference ts that finally put up a fight, but Jagr. alwa~s seeJ?ls to be Chicago star Jeremy Roenick: hustlmg w~Ile L~m1eux seems . silenced the Oilers with his : to be toymg wtth the other game-winning goal 2 and a half team. . . minutes into overtime. . In the decidmg gam~. on a Roenick. who led Chicago B.oston power-play, Mano used with 53 goals and 50 assists h~s long reach to steal a pass in during the regular season his own zone, race passed (seventh in the league in Adam Oates, and put a move scoring), added his ninth and on .defenseman Ray Bourque tenth play-off goals in game 4, which made Bour~ue w.ish ~e a 5-l pasting of the Oilers, to had ~at. out the .senes wtth hts complete the 4-game sweep. ?wn InJury (:Which ~e suffe~ed Chicago winger Steve Lanner m Boston~ senes ~Ith who's 29 regular season goals 1 . Montre.al). ~mally. Le~ueux. was his worst production in 5 leaned m as If he w~re gomg to years, has also shined in the pull the puck to his left, and 1. \\'hat team did current pitching fl\ d h k · coach Dick Bosman once th..r.ow a lppe t e j)UC mto tile upper · no-hitter against in 1974 wllen he rigbt corner passed helpless was with the Indians? goal-tender Andy Moog. 2. How many times did fornter O's Moves like this which seem to manager Earl Weaver win 11 00 or be coming more frequently more games in a season? from Lemieux make you have . 3. What Oriole pitcher h()]ds ·the to bite ycur tongue from · smgle season reco,rd for most vic- openly declaring him the tories? greatest hockey player ever- ~· Name the last Oriole pitcher to don't forget Oretzky quite yet. wm 20 or more games in a single But Chicago better be worried 5. Name the only Oriole •to ever about Lemieux.. 50 or more bases in a- single 'PuAS sa;m~'\'cl l!U!}f ;\q ?;66T <:!> £££ l,(l!M ABJ -Jnw ~!PPH ·g ~z:sz 1{1!1<\ {Jqwng IV 'L ~SOI 4l!M.zaup.mw.<dd!J. \9~t>96l u1 L'> ~lols OJO!-ll:ldv sJn'l ·r; !v861 UJ OZ: UOI<\ J:l)j;)!PP08 :;nf!W ·v !0861 UJ r;z; UOA\ ~U01S o;)AalS \£ !COS, '6L. 'l L. -6961) ~A!d ·z: ~s. V puupp'!O \1 The real key to this series is season. the defense and goal-tending. lr:;==================~~ We know only too well that \It t: _ ffJ • rr ·I. r f both teams can score like says tru:. unton Cot-t-ege Cnit-a Care crazy. The deciding factor will fi most likely be which defense center as openings or its Sumtner can cut down on the other team's shot count, and which Session (6/29-9/4) and for tfie goalie comes up the biggest in J the clUtCh momentS Of the .9l.cauemic year program {begins 9/8). II series. Chicago goalie Ed Belfour is very capable of r'Jl.na yuur parents stealing a series as he has done against Detroit and Edmonton. Want to enro{[ you ~ So is Pittsburgh goalie Tom r.: Barasso wh() made every clutch 24 fiours a tfay. \ \ save against the Rangers and :2_ ... ~- ....t:::'- Boston, to win the big games. ~ .\. ~ Chicago's defense has also been incredible, shutting down the Oilers best line of Joe Murphy, Bernie Nicholls and Vincent Damphousse, and keeping the Oilers power-play, which blew away Vancouver, scoreless in 19 attempts .. But now they are facing the Penguins power- play. Now they are facing Mario Lemieux who has (brace yourselves) 11 goals and 16 assists in only 11 play-off games. And if they look too much at Lemieux, they'll be hit by Jagr~ Kevin Stevens, Rick Tocchet, Ron Francis, Larry Murphy •. etc; Even roolcte Sean ~cEachern and aging veteran Trottier have put in substantial contributions for Pittsburgh. In addition, the Penguins have looked impressive against tougher . competiticn, whi.le the Blackhawks have defeated an injury-riddled Blues team, the RedWings who were torn and tattered from their series with Minnesota, and the Oilers who . were playing well, but are not as talented as the Rangers, Bruins or Capitals (who Pittsburgh defeated). Depending on who wins, it will be interesting to see who will be awarded the Conn Smythe award for play-off MVP ~ out of all the worthy candidates- Lemie11x., Jagr, Barasso~ Roe nick. Larmer. Belfour .. et<:. Expect a very tough series, but the Penguins may just have too many weapons, to go along with a great defense and goalie. for the Blackhawks to handle. For information call Steve Sargent, ext. 63.-iO. THANKS TO ALL SPORTS WRITERS '!t' STANLEY H. KAPlAN !, Take Kaplan:OrTaktYourChances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now and get your home study materials. · • You may attend classes at any of .our 150 centers nation-wide. • Call 489-0077 Albany Kaplan Center · • EXTRA INCOME ''92\ • Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel' brochures. For mfonnatioQ send a siamped addressed enve1ope to: Galaxy Tmvel, Inc., P.O. Box 13106 Silver Springs, MD 20911-3106. '

