.I :··' ,' ,·• • • ·,, '' 'i. ' .' , .. : • I '' •• ''• '~.:,,, ,· \.''• •• :'•. -.- ,' .' :, .. • •• ,',''- ,· • .'.' ••,,'\ ':.: ,\ APRIL 1, 1992 VOLUME CXXI:, NUMBER 16 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK Unexpectedly Reinstitutes Camp Union Saturday, and not on West By Gladys Folmar Beach.ln addition to a campus Contributing Writer . photo and Jello slide whicil ----------- 1 will take place on the Nott field, the event will mark the return of the outdoor evening movie, as the College will present the Rocky Horror Picture S how a cartoon special, and Fast Times at Ridgemont High. Furthermore, highlighting Saturday night's venue, will be the comedy of Dennis Miller in the old Chapel. Union College President Roger Hull, in an exclusive interview with Concordiensis, has annoanced his decision to bring back Camp Union this Spring. His plan. which he developed in conjunction with a few representatives from the senior class, calls for the festivities to commence on Friday, May 29, and continue thr-ough Sunday, May 31. I \News of the return of Cam!) The Camp Union Union will probably shock a Committee, which has been number of the faculty and meeting covertly with Hull all students who were here t() year long. has managed to woo experience the last one ill back to Union, a number of 1989,\ Hull speculated. acts which have played the However, the president further event over the years. Kicking commented that after looking, off the event on Friday. May 1 into the matter. he believed 29th, will be the band Squeeze, .. that \there was really no reasoll which will be making its i . why the event should have second Camp Union ·,been outright cancelled. More appearance. Other acts so, Camp Union, which was a throughout the weekend much anticipated event of the include. among others, Jimmy long Spring term, merely Cliff, Nirvana, and needed to be modified appropriately, a band which somewhat.\ played at the last Camp Union President Hull believes that in May of 1989, NRBQ. by bringing back Camp As was the tradition, there Union, the student body wiU will be a campus wide once again have an opportunity breakfast and barbeque. to come together as a whole. However, the food will be The event will' provide ao served on Lhe field adjacent to atmosphere as it did in the the football field, all day . past, where the students call relate to one another as students, and not a members of an orgamization or class. However, Hull warned, that should the rules of the event not be adhered to, he will have not other choice but to once Kicking off the event on Friday, May 29th will \Qe the band Squeeze again cant:el it. In explaining how he reached his decision to bring back Camp Union, Hull explained that he had spent the summer dwelling ()O a number of issues which were of concern to the student body, such as housing, term abroads, and social alternatives. It was over the summer that the president decided tO! take a serious look at Camp UniC>n. Hull conclu.ded that the event · had been canceled by the administration of former President of Union College, John Morris (Presmo), for reasons which were quite hypocritical. Elaoorating, Hull spoke of the claim which was made by the former administratiC>n, that there could no longer be \outdoor. events with amplified music.\ He then cited their llypocritical action of instituting the Spring outdoor concert series which had signed bands such as Blues Traveler and the Psychadel ic Furs to play outdoors at Union. Also, the logic for cancelling outdoC>r films in the Spring seemingly does not exist. As well, the college's assertion t.bat the event had to be cancelled as police would arrest all minors which they viewed possessing alcohol just did not llold its weight. Schenectady Police officers can not come on to campus unless they are invited by the college. Thus all that needs to be done is either eliminate policemen as the acting security, or hire officers who are at the time, off duty. A certain fraternity on this campus partakes in this latter idea for their big spring outdoor party and they seem to have no problems. They have not had one instance where an off duty <>fficer has taken it upon himself to arrest a Union student who was either in possession of, or consuming, r ' I, I I \ ' alcohol. Furthermore, the issue of liability was a major concern on the part of the administration. However, if proper precautions were to he taken, the college would be no more liable than it is every time an organization on campus has a function at which it serves alcohol. After all, the administration docs not serve, or promote alcohol during the event. In order to prevent alcohol abuse, no communal containers, cans, or bottles will be allowed at Camp Union. If a person is to drink, then that person is going to have to get the alcohol on his/her own. Fraternities will have to be dry for the weekend, no kegs or cases of beer should be present in any organizations respective house. Security will periodically inspect the houses to insure compliance. The use of hospital wristbands will once again be implemented. Every student must wear one for the duration of the weekend. As for campus guests, Hull and the Camp Union Committee are still debating whether to allow friends of students into the event or whether to limit entry only to alumni of the school. As for the all important Continued on page 3 In This Issue: The State of The Union -pa.ge 3 Coupon Corner -page 7 Top 5 Union Hockey Excuses -page 8

' ' \ , I . . . ' . . . . ' ' . . . CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 1, 1992 • PAGE 2 Campus Improvements By Pres. Hull by Ned Walley . Editor in Chief The current recession has deeply affected our country on the whole, and has made everyone tighten their financial belts. However, througll innovative mo!ley-raising techniques (discussed elsewhere in this issue), President Hull has dramatically increased Union's endowment, has finalized previously undecided building proposals, and has actually brought the tuition under $15,000. The first of his campus beautification projects will be the rejuvenation of Jackson's Gardens. The project will cost upwards of five million dollars, and wiH be centered around an intricate, globular, field-stone terrace. Underneath the terrace lies the new bowling alley, accompanied by Union's own disco to rival the best Manhattan has to offer. Both of these will be open to Union students and faculty free of charge, and around the clock. The decision to redo the gardens at frrst met with much opposition from alumni who had not visited the campus lately. However, once photos of the gardens' decrepit state had been distributed to those not in favor of the project, they quickly changed their stand on the issue. With much pleasure from the college community comes the announcement that the Nott Memorial's renovation will be completed by the end of Fall '92. Once its doors open, it will house the college's art collection. Ever since our current president has come into office, the collection has been growing at astronomical rates, although the sources of purchasing funds have not been identified, causing much distress for the accountants. If the prospect of displacing the Union College theater from the Nott Memorial leaves you groaning at the thought of an even less cultural college community, rest assured because an auditorium is under construction that will seat 3,500. This new facility wiU rival Proctor's, the \jewel\ of Schenectady, as the capital region's foremost theater. These accomplishments are truly amazing feats, especially when the whole country is suffering financially. And we have only one man to thank for getting things done, President Hull. So if you see him go up and shake his hand, and say \thank you for making this a better school.\ Above: Jackson's Gardens Improvements. Below: The new home of Union Theater Write For Con- cordiensis x6155 ·. · ·· · . . · . . · · . ·. .. . . . · . · · LE;t;J;ED!i . New Plans For the Nott To the Editor: President Hull recently announced a second donation for the restoration of the Nott Memorial. Much to the administration's surprise, the generous donator preferred to remain anonymous. However, certain conditions placed upon the 5 million dollar gift point to the philanthropist's real identity. The actual list being too long to print here, we will only include the most conspicuous conditions. \Tastes just like the stuff I used to drink at fraternity parties.\ Among them are: Anyone entering the Nott must first remove their outside play shoes and put on their slippers. There was also a request for a rniiW.ature trolley track to run along the inside of the building, tooting on the hour. Every weekday afternoon there is to be a story hour. A porch swing is to be located on the West Beach side of the new additi()n of a playground. The playground will include a sw.ing set, a jungle gym, and a large sandbox. The most obvious condition which leads to the donator's true identity is the request for the renaming of the Nott Memorial to the Roger's Memorial. As generous as the donation is, the administration Toresees upcoming conflicts with the· new plans. Thanks anyway, Mr. Rogers- -after all, we are college students however much we might want t<> return to those younger, carefree days. Free Backstage Passes To ¥ 10,000 Maniacs! For more information you must go, in person, the the back door of the Physical Plant Building, knock three times rapidly. When the door is answered ask far Gino. Cash preferred. Dress inconspicuously. Not available without a Union College LD. Something to look forward to: Bon Jovi to play at Union College ... Fall, 1·992 at Memorial Chapel. Details to come. Answers to King Cl'ossword

I t i, ) j t I I ' CONCORBIENSIS • APRIL 1, 1992 • PAGE 3 The State Of The Camp Union Returns By Hugh Jazz and Flaming Moe Contributing Writers Many scholars argue that once you build a machine that a fool can use. only a fool will use it. Too bad that saying has nothing to do with this article. Why does a stick of gmn have grooves on it? For better traction? I just don't understand. When cats are having sex, do they do it doggie style? I'm glad that Union is opening up a pub. Now I can actually pay for beer. When people say that they are laughing with you and not at you, they're lying. Don't believe everything you read ... except this. The unusual thing about Mike Tyson's sentence is that it will be the first one he'll ever finish. A void random sayings. A man buys a ticket to board a plane. Suddenly, for some reason, he decides not to board. An hour later the plane crashes and all are dead. Some dismiss this as . .. coincidence. How to cope with a failing relationship? Read page' 122. JFK, blown away, what else do I have to .say? Read the book, it's better. ·For a good time call 555-1433, ask for Candy. I iL!!L that mao from Nantucket. Every night is ladies night. A void random sayings. Not only was that repetitive ~that was also redundant. It was better than Union Cats. They say that if your pareflts did not have children, neith()r will you. Love is a baLtlefi.eld. Thanks for the info, Pat. Pay what you weigh. Is Davy- still in the navy? I will not e~t green eggs and ham, I do not like them, Sam I am. There is a thin line between fislli~g and just standing there loold11g stupid. Don't blow it, keep t11e poet. I want the gate locke<!, the dog out, the kids in bed b:y nine and leave a note for the nil!:rnan, no more cheese! Avoid random saying. How much for the little girl? Aloha, Mr. IIand. Aloha, Spiccoli. Heroe 1 s a little ditty about Jack and Diane. Why can't you get soft ice cream in a sugar cone? WARNING: object~ in mirror are cl&ser than they appear. Outside of a dog, a book is a man's !}est friend. Give a hoot, don•t JlOllute. What' is really in a Po~ Poo Platter? Think of the bright side, there will be enough room in the new pub for two people to play flip the cup. '( es, I'll have the cream of sum yung gui. Call your moth~:r. Whenever looking at your lot in life, be thankful you'J:~ not in Milkwaukee. Avoi(l people with hooks. There bad to be a second shoo:tel:'. how do I get my name in Afldy Rosen's articles? What'!; the point of the crash positil)n on a plane? If a plane is goi11g to crash, you'll die anywa~. Ed never has two cups of c CJffee at home. Enrico Palazzo! !Enrico Palazzo!!Enrico Palazzo!! Wham, bam, I am a man Uob or no job, you can't tell me that I'm not). Whateve~ happened to Spandau Ballet? Who cares? Don't slurp your soup. And the brook that bounds through old Union's grounds. I can't believe yot1're still reading this. It's black it's white, yeah yeah yeah. I think Juan Valdez exports a little bit more than coffee -- if you get my drift. How does Wonder Woman ever find her plane? You take the good, you take the bad, you take them both and there you have, . ......... . Why haven't they graduated from West Beverly yet? Continued from page 1 matter of security, all bands will perform on the football field which already provides a fence for containment. There will be security guards, or off- duty policemen who will both patrol the field and monitor entrance onto the field. No one without a wristband will be admitted. These precautions will eliminate the problematic threat which local high school students pose. It will be impossible for these outsiders to \crash\ the event with these guidelines instituted. Camp Union is an event which students of the college have for the most part, responsibly enjoyed since 1979. Hopefully, after a two year hiatus, the campus community will meet the challenge as defined by the new guidelines, and help re- establish the event once again, as a Union College annual tradition. Campus Incident Reports DATE LOCATION INCIDENT 3/2/92 Fraternity Kitchen Problem with oven. Cook killed chicken-burnt. 3/2/92 Fraternity Problem with exterior chimney masonry. Santa found. 3/2/92 Achilles Rink Theft of soda-grape. 3/3/92 West College 1st floor Problem with interior door locking mechanism. Door replaced. 3/3/92 West College East Lawn Damage to lawn caused by manic depressive lawn mower. 3/4/92 Fox House North Entry Vandalism to entrance door glass. Panel replaced with cork. 3/4/92 Richmond & West Suspicious person attempting to gain entry to 3/6/92 Davidson Lounge buildings. Presmo asked to leave campus. Vandalism to lounge window. Streakers involved. Good snow. 3/6/92 Administration Lot Minor molor vehicle accident-two staff members angry over possible NHL strike. 3/7/92 Off Campus Lenox Rd. Students stealing City street signs. Security assisted. 3/7/92 Webster House Annoyance - telephone calls 3/8/92 North Col1ege Annoyance r telephone calls - underwear man. 3/8/92 College Center mail boxes Safety Hazard-metal strip protruding -removed from breasts. 3/8/92 Bailey Field Theft of Lacross Nets. Union 10. Hamilton 7. New Fiscal Policy Lands Hull In Jail By Sean Livingston Contrib11.ting Writer Over spring break shocking news rocked the Union community. Our esteemed President Hull was arrested for the sale of stolen goods. Troy police reports show that at approximately 12:30 last Thursday afternoon President Hull was arrested for selling stolen electronic equipment out of the back of a school van in Arbor hill. Upon further investigation. into these allegations it appears that out president was not just out to earn a quick huck, but instead he had noble reasons for this illegal activity. During these years of recession, many private institutions like Union have been suffering from the financial stress of declining applications and enrollments. Union however has weathered these economic strains quite well. It now appears that our success can be mainly attributed to our President's dubious investment ventures. It would seem that the sale of stolen goods is just a small part of the master plan to keep the hallowed halls of this fine institution open. When questioned about these allegations President Hull responded. \If it wasn't for the activities of the otht:r administrators and myself~ Union tuition would be in excess of thirty thousand dollars a year. Don't you think the majority of Union students would condone my actions since it's saving them so much money?\ Upon further discussion with our President it became obvious that he was quite interested in undergraduate response to his actions. I would strongly urge you ~o write President Hull at the Troy correctional facility to give him your opinion on his administrative activities. As for other rumors about the sale of illegal narcotics, we must warn you that none of these allegations have been substantiated as of yet.

CONCOROI EN SIS • APRil1, 1992 • PAGE 4- New Courses Announced for Fall Term by Jon Keller and Jacqueline Smith Concordiensis Staff As many of you already know, there are a wide variety of courses offered each term which are not listed in the academic register. Below are some of the offerings for the Fall term of 1992. Please remember to con suit with the professor to be sure that you have the proper prerequisites before leaping into these enlightening and (at times) rigorous courses (* deootes card course). Seminar in Skepticism and Apathy (Dr. Hull, MWF 11:15-12:20) We will explore the contemporary notions of quietism and non-participation in the political process. Extra credit awarded for exemplary demonstration of committee organization and subsequent non-assemblage. Pertinent questions strongly discouraged. Advanced Oxymoronic Theory (Professor G Beebe T, Tb 3:00-3:15) Why is truth :self-refuting? Is knowledge its own reward? How do I know that I know that I know? Focus will be on oxymoronic pantdigms, such as military intelligence, compassionate conservatism and poetic truth. Lateness appreciated, attendanc·e optional. * Manhood ill the Age of Reason (Professor Stallone, Men's L. R., time TBA) The course will focus on how to be a man in this age of encroaching sexual equality. We will view, cri ti call y analyze, and acclaim several Tarzan, John Wayne and Ronald Reagan films. Non- aggressive emotional outburst is grounds for automatic failure and/or ostracism from the male community of the campus. Materials Fee: $50.00 for steroids. *Art GallerJ' Etiquette (Professor S. Siddiqi, MWF 1:15-3:()0) Joining us from the University of Delhi, Professor V()~T ~V121:~(7 131:2~1\ ~V~CI~L U.S. AIR DISCOUNTS Out of LaGuardia to? ,.. -- - ti • CROSS· TALK • : ~ • ~~ -~ t 4 :• t ~ t Should one ' 4 : : take Prof. : 4 • t Berk's Mid- ~ t Term or t I Paper Final 4 4 4 •• . •• • ~· a t .t : Survivors discuss your : ' : t best route to academic • t heaven. t t a : ,. -~ - Siddiqi will enlighten students as to th·e suitable facial expressio11s and properly punctuated \Mmm Hmm\ usage apropos to the gallery environment. There will be exploration into the legitimate level of pseudo-orgasmic excitern ent in response to impressionist paintings. The student whose final paper most verbosely interprets the meaning df a painting never viewed previously will receive the only \A.\ Prerequisites: pretentious disposition and/or manner of speaking. * The Liberal Imperative (Professor Keller T, Tl! 1:30-3:241) The course will focus ·on the elucidation of the absurdity of all conservative political reasoning. Class exercises will include verbal lynching of the Dan Qllayle persona, David Duke trivia and group mocking of Jesse Helms' failure to have any impact on American politica·l thought in the twentieth century. ('Praise the Lord, and Pass the Ammunition..\) Required :Reading: WiUiam S. Burrouglts, Naked Lunch: Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, Generation. of Swine; Abbie Hoffman; Woodstock Nation. * Worksbl!,p in Cynicism :1:1 (Pro.fes5or D. MHsky Sat. Eve5·. 12:00-4:00 a.m.) The course: will focus on the existential hopelessness of the human condition, the analysis of the pmbolem of \selling out,\ and the illusory nature of \the good 1 ife.\ The existence of God will be posited, and summarily di;gmissed. Prerequisites: Strong distaste for existence:; depression/self- bathing stro11gly encouraged. * Seminar in Annoyance (Professor D. Abrabami MWF 8:45-9:50) The course will explote the various way!: in which people a11noy other people. We will begin with fundamental theories of imcessant mimicry, inane banterirng and obnoxious nicknaming. As the term progresses, we will examine more advanced theories of paradoxical, dogmatic, and unrelenting ad hominem argumentation. For the final project, students will be. required to attend and critically analyze an insurance seminar. Prerequisites: obstinate, argumentative disposition, or the major in philosophy. • Anarchism in the Modern Era (Dr. M. 0. B. Rule; class meets only on national hotida:ys) This course will explore the utility of anarchist political thought and activity, including embassy bombing, FBI/CIA infiltration and tower collapsing. Bach student will be required to destroy at least one national monument, deface a national symbol, or paint a moustache on his or her COJ1gressional representative. Prerequisites: Prior experience in the clandestine conduct of U. S. foreign policy in the Third World, or Idol painting. ATTENTION: ·. 'l. Presenting - A Concert PeterTosh opens for Bob Marley in Memorial Chapel ·Tickets on .sale l\l.ow*

I .. f £ l l CONCOROIENSIS • APRIL 1, 1992 • PAGE 5 ;iflon~ters ®f l\otk~bieW By Cort :Boulancer Concordiensis Staff The eagerly awaited 1992 \Monsters of Rock\ tour opened at Union last Saturday, much to the delight of the standing room only crowd behind the Memorial Chapel. The docket for \Monsters\ was enough to satisfy the most die hard heavy metal addict. The performers included Ozzy Osbourne. MetaUica, Skidrow and Judas Priest; but the real highlight .of the afternoon was the impromptu reunion of legendary heavy metal band, Motley Crne. This tear jerking reunion placed a tear in the eye of even the meanest metalhead. Despite earlier scheduling problems, the administration decided to forgo the outdoor concert band ban andrnove the event from the D avidso n Lounge to the field behind the Memorial Chapel. Attendance for the show was tremendous, with a:lm.ost one ftlundred percent campus participation. For the once in a lifetime event, Union students tripped themselves of their L.L. Bean Boots and J. Crew Bam Jackeu and donned the traditiollal meta!( attire of black tee-shirt!:, leather jackets and adorning sp3k:es and jewelry. To add to the authenticity of the co11cer!l, a tattooist was hired by the administration to paint :tree tattoos (the most popular tattoo was one of the Nott with a giant snake wrapped aro11nd it). The potential off-campus visitor problem turned. ,out to be an unexpected pl-easure. Instead of causing \s:ecurity problems\ the local Basic Instincts By Carrie Sherman Concordiensis Staff Basic Instincts starring Michael Oouglas and Sharon Stone. is a murder mystery thriller which has already begun to make great strides for the women's movement. Stone is an author who si seen as an independent career women who lives her life without any reliance on men. She lives alone and supports herself as an author or mystery novels. Stone seduces Douglas and is in control of the relationship from it's beginning and throughout the film. A leading character who is successful, beautiful, independent, and \together\ is a positive role model for all women. This movie also displays heterosexual relations and lesbianism, together as reasonable options for \0\'omen. This give women the mess2ge that they are free to choose the sexual orientation they- prefer without encounterin~ -any prejudices. Lesbians are prominent characters in the film and are seen as progressive women. This movie should be applauded for depicting l.esbians in this way, lesbianii.~m is usually not seen at all in films, other than for pornographic purposes. This film will definit~ly help to revive the women's movement which has recently been sliding. The American viewers will begin to l'espect and admire the hone:st and innocent persona that ~tone's character displays. Wllmall's search for respect as ;a n()n- _sexual individual co111es to light in this morally sensitive film. Schenectady citizens bonded with the Union students creating an atmosphere of peace ami brotherhood. The evening culminated with a rousing rendition of the Crue's immortal \Horne Sweet Horne\ with all the concert goers holding hands and singing in un.ison. This was such a special moment to all that witnesses because it was possibly the last time anyone Top 10 VIDEO RENTALS 1. Spring Break 2. The Way We Were 3. Conan, the Masterbater 4. Behind the Green Door 5. Friday the 13th, Part XVIII, Jason Says Hi 6. KRULL 7. lshtar 8. Yentil 9. Best Defense 10. Basket Case II World Famous Exhibitionist Thurs., 4/1 • lO p.m. Memorial Chapel- BRING YOUR $BILLS No cover charge for faculty 69¢ for Students The Crue dons a new look would see the Crue alive again. The only blackmark on the evening was the horrific display of our respected. President Hull. After ten games of beer pong, Pres. Hull raB up on the stage naked and screamed Crazy Train by Ozzy Osbourne at the top of his lungs. He punctuated this performance by biting the head off a live bat and shouting \The Devil is King!\ With this incident aside, the \Monsters qf Rock\ show was a definite success. Due to this success, the administration has planned other outdoor concerts for later this term. The most notable show, that will be put in place of Camp Union, is a duet concert with Michael Bolton and Barry Manilow. Be sure to leave that date free on your calendar; it's a show you don't want to miss. NEW ARTS COURSE OFFERED FOR SPRING TERM ARS 012 Intro to Breakdancing This course will explore the fundamental techniques of breakdancing. Students will learn to 'Moonwalk, back spin, etc. The course will be taught by Professor Smith, the star of \Breaking Two, Electric Bugaloo.\ SIGN UP NOW SPACE IS LIMITED! Professor Smith in action - .I .. \ I I J • ~

World In A Trance by K.lngsisback A wave of my.sterious events have plagued the world in the past week: --A man feH 500 ft. from a gondola in Switzerland after pointing to a sparkling light down on a slope. He was found amazingly unharmed but apparently in shock as he kept m urn bling \He lives!\ --The N.Y. Stock . Exchange experienced a record high this week as buying accelerated especially in shoe company stock. One particula.r company that speciaLizes in blue suede shoes experienced a 200% boost in profits. --The German Prime Minister was heard recently stating that he had high hopes in the coming year as a new saVior had come. In a recent interview, David Hasselhoff suddenly announced plans to quit his singing career as he \can't compete.\ --In Moscow, a frightening wave of rebellious youths have flooded the streets. Claiming to be led by a vision, they dress in sequineg wide lapel jackets and fringed tight pants, play guitars and practice gyrating their hips. AS of now, no injuries outside of 2 dislocated hips have occurred. --In Peru, archaeologists found strange markings that appear to have been burned into the side of a cliff. The markings resemble a large E a:nd in form and the scientists believe they have discovered the key to an ancient civilization. Further excavations will be performed. HA\f'PY 1-\ourz ~ ?peci':J.f:t' r~\\~@1 New Medical B·rea.kthrough Promises to Make Impact Worldwide by >Ima Lushe Confirmed Alcoholic In a recent press C()nference, the Surgeon General an11ounced that drinking alcohol is beneficial in extendiJJg life. Doctors have rece~tly compiled results of experiments showing that people who const~me alcohol live longer. According to reports, alcohol decreases stress and improves male/female relations as it relaxes the body and lowers the inhibitions imposed by society. In supp()rt of the Surgeon General's announcement, the Drugs and Food Administrations released a booklet of healthy recipes. A fev; favorites are printed below. .Singapore Slung Juice of half a lemon Half oz. Benzene Half oz. cherry Brandy 2 oz. Gin Decorate with orange slice, top with baking soda, stir, serve witll straw. Blood..v Mary One and a half oz. V()dka 3 oz. tomato juice 2 oz. tabasco sauce. One third jigger lem()n dash Dash wmcestershire sauce Salt and pepper to taste, shake with ice, strain. Gin 'N Thonic Juice and' rind of half a lemon One andAthal.f oz. dry gin Quinine water with ethanol Put lime,. gin, ice cubes in g oz. glass, fill with quinine water. 3 parts dry Gin 1 part lye Dash plain soda Gimlet Shake gin and juice with ice~ strain. Top with soda Drink quickly \EV\en in the East, they are practicing healthy drinking ... \ ffii ~lb~ \~ \JJo..t.J ! --rh e. A-\ min, s. tra\-i on t-o :3rect+ e><pe 1'\ soes .•• u Step Ri3ht- In- Sit! ~ov(Self c\o\'-Jn ... f 11 )(:) +he best No wALL 'HA_, ~~~ \'own , ----- ''Alice to the Moon!'' Now you can too ~ 1994 Ter1nAbroad A viewer's reaction to the film \I used t() like milk.\ SPANISH HORROR FLICK 11 La Vuelta de Ia Vaca Gorda\ (The Return of the Fat Cow) Mon., 8 and· 10· p.m. CC 505

_ · - King· Crossword · · ACROSS 1. Quick punch 4. New Eng- land cape 7. Florida resort 12. Pierre's friend 13. Kimono sash 14. Gabriel, for one 15. Peruse 1:6, Maty or John~ 18. Crude metal 19. Inexorable 20. Track trans- actions 22. Letter 23. Verdi opera 27. \ Leave - to Heaven .. 29. Golf scores 31. Lamb product 34. Mernbyr of deer family 35. Found on golf shoes 37. Pickle container 38. Beginner 39. Garden tool 41. Cutting tools 45. Chile con- 47. River in England 48. Be con- cerned 52. Storage pl~'lce 53. Eschew 54. The Lion 55. Urban railways 56. Hocks 57. Vetch 58. Between bee and dee DOWN !.John- Astor 2. Love, Roman style 3.Name in intelligence testing 4. Wheel parts 5.- dic:tum 6. Low h:aunts 7. Authol' of \Death in Venice,. 8. Tavern 9.- Kltan 10. Hebrew letter 11. Early O'Neill play 17. Scottish Gaelic: 21. Military dress hat 23. Greek marketplace 24. Labor org. 25. - Plaines, Ill. 26. Peer GynCs mother 28. Ogle 30. MD group 31. NY time 32.007, for one 33. Title for Alec Guinness 36. Riza Pahlavi, once 37. English physician 40. Papal cape 42. Mediterra- nean vessel 43. Banish 44. Meaning 45. Bounders 46. Selves 48. Hiatus 49. The yellow bugle 50. Oath 51. German article - -~ · · . - ·_ · · -Soap Updates by·.Seli Gro.ves -. · .~ I · . _:. ALL MY CHILDREN: Trevor begged Natalie not to 'lose the ground they gained before Janet's pregnan- cy announcement. Timmy was bul- lied at school because of Trevor and Natalie. Trevor tried a new tack with Janet, feigning concern for her wel- fare. Joe reprimanded Stephen for not recording Janet's pregnancy. Gloria told Craig she wouldn't leave Pine Valley, and then she demanded more money to keep their videotape from Dixie. Ceara and Jeremy planned a New Y ear·s Eve wedding ceremony. Will asked Hayley for a date in New York. Wait To See: Gloria begins to make plans that (she hopes!) will involve Dimitri. ANOTHER WORLD: Jake managed to save Paulina who asked him why he did so when he could have inherited her money if she was killed. Although drawn to Cass, Frankie remained cautious about her feelings. Byron demanded Felicia tell him when a ramp will be installed at TOPS. Paulina confessed to Rachel that she shot Jake and then agreed to an arrangement with him. Rachel vowed to stand by Paulina, telling her that years earlier ,as a desperate young woman, she shot Mitch Blake. Rick called Lucas with more information about Jenna's birth father. Wait To See: Olivia begins to feel trapped by her own devices, and lashes out. AS THE WORLD TURNS: Helen asked Lisa to sign papers changing her divorce settlement with Eldridge. She refused and called Grant for help, explaining she didn't want Tom to fmd her divorce settle- ment papers. Gavin told Jade he's handling the Arthur situation. Susan's not sure Larry was telling the truth about skipping Jennifer's birthday party. Contlor found Marcy with the DeWitt file; later Kirk saw Marcy with Lucinda. Kim and Bob reaffirmed their wedding vows. Kirk learned Lucinda sold all her Walsh stock. Wait To See: Lisa's nightmares seem to be only just beginning. BOLD & THE BEAUTIFUL: While apologizing to Bill for his out- burst, Blake noted a photo of a beautiful woman whom Bill iden- tified as his late daughter, Caroline. Later, Blake spotted a waitress (Faith) who looked just like Caroline. Margo showed Blake an old newspaper clipping about the kidnapping of one of Bill Spencer's identical twin daughters. Sally, desperate to save her company, tried to urge Jake to steal th~ Forrester fonnula. Meanwhile, Clarke con- tinued to show himself as the perfect doting husband and father. Wait To See: Blake sees a way to solve more than one personal problem. DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Roman was deeply touched when Kimberly, Kayla, and Shawn threw him a surprise welcome home party. His and Marlena's love was strengthened as they began rebuild- ing their lives and family. After Lawrence studied a drawing from the John Black file showing a wolf nursing two human infants, Lawrence called Ivan to come to Salem immediately. John found a broken half of a locket, a photo of an uniqentified woman with a birthmark behind her ear, and a gnarled piece of gold in the satchel. Unlrnown to him, Carly had the same birthmark. Hawk vowed to get rid of Jack by using Desiree. Tired of wait-: ing for Hawk to finish their con game, Howard told him he's cashing in Jack's stocks and taking off. Meanwhile, Jack was erroneously identified as the Christmas bandit. Wait To See: Kiriakis' plans for Bo and Carly included using Roman and his '\family.\ GENERAL HOSPITAL: Tony experienced a close can during surgery. Dominique suddenly took off on her own, leaving Mac hurt and bewildered. Realizing what could happen if he didn't act now, Tony finally made a decision about his fu- ture. The struggle for control of the ELQ board continued between the Quartermaines and the other con- tenders. Mysterious, unmarked Christmas gifts arrived for Scorpio's family. Wait To See: The past rushes in on Scorpio. GUIDING LIGHT: Daniel proposed to Holly. Ross told Mallet the two suspects in Jean's death are Daniel and Roger. Frank got a lead on Luvonoczek's whereabouts in Paris. Despite the ~facts\ on his birth certificate, Alexandra told Nick she was sure he was her son. Daniel ad- mitted to Holly that Jean had come to Springfield to accuse him. Holly asked him if he was her murderer. Roger revised his story of his invol- vement with Jean. Based on infonna- tion from Blake, A:lan-Michael told Alexandra that Vanessa may be in- volved with a client. Wait To See: Vanessa has some tricks of her own to pull on Alan-Michael. LOVING: Although she was fall- ing in love with him, Dinah Lee told Trucker off. Carlymet with Nick and Ruth, desperately seeking to have access to her son. Nick and Ruth told Michael about Carly's money deal, and that he would have to go with her for a while, but could return to them if he wanted to. Trisha was unable to effect a new truce with Trucker. Ava was nervous about Carly and Michael and suggested she tell Paul the truth before the wedding. Giff and Gwyn grew closer. Wait To See: Carly faces a shocking revela- tion. ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Upset that Viki dian 't tell her about the kidney problem, Megan went out to have the best time of her life, and bumped into Humberto, whom she knew once as Hudson and Hei:nrich, and they both headed for Atlantic City. Max, meanwhile, certain that Luna was his good luck charm, persuaded her to go to Atlantic City with him. Later, Max saw Megan drinking and called Viki. While Megan planned for a night of romance with Humberto, she got drunker, .and sicker. Wait To See: Dorian and Jason deal with new feelings between them. SANTA BARBARA: Angela stole the bullet from Craig's drawer, but he found them as he tried to kiss her. Angela wrote \warning letters\ to Warren, vowing to make him pay for betraying her, and then planted them in his room, giving the prosecu- tion more \evidence\ for their case. Later, Angela told Lionel their scheme to lure out the real killer was backfiring. David and Julia decided to take the risk and put Mason on the stand for Warren's defense. Angela saw the bullet on the evidence table and realized Craig is the murderer, and she also realized that he knew that she knew the truth. Wait To See: Gina's feeli11gs for Craig could put her child in danger. YOUNG & THE RESTLESS: An angry Victor destroyed Nikki's liquor supply atld vowed he '11 see that she's cured of her dependency on alcohol. Victoria discovered Nikki's reason for drinking and rushed to tell her father about Nikki's continuing battle with pain. Jill told Jack not to interfere in her private life, especially where it concerns her attempt to win J()hn back. Desperate to have another child, Lauren plied Paul with drinks, then had him spend the night with her. Dru misinterpreted Neil's conversati.on with Olivia. Later, she told Olivia of Nathan's wish to have a child and that a baby would prove how much she loves him. Wait To See: Scott stumbles on a horrifying secret. ~ 1991 by Kin!l Features Synd. RATZ by BEN SIVIITH- · _ C_oupon·c~rner· ·. · . · by Diana Queenan . ·. . ' Here are this week's offers: PALMOLIVE GENTLE SKIN CARE BAR REFUND OFFER, P.O. Box 2338, Libertyville, Ill. 60198 (receive back your purchase price, up to $1. 79). Send in your cash register receipt along with the Pal- molive Gentle Skin Care Bar in- dividual bar or multi-pack UPC symbol. Store form required. Ex- pires 12/31/91. EDGE BUY 2 GET 1 FREE OFFER, P.O. Box 246, Young America, Minn. 55553-2460 (receive a free can of Edge Gel). Send in your cash register receipt dated 9j 1 through 12/1/91 along with the POP from any combination of two: Edge Gel or Edge After Shave. Send the disk from the cap ofthe Gel, or write the UPC number on the form from the After Shave. Store form reqaired. Expires 12/31/91. BUBBLE TAPE BUBBLE GUM \TUNES FOR YOU\ OFFER, P.O. Box 5733, Stacy, Minn. 55079 (receive a free BASF 60-minute Chrome Extra cassette tape). Send in three Bubble Tape bubble gum plas- tic label bands with UPC symbols. Store form required. Ex pi res 12/31/91. AMERICAN BEAUTY PASTA RECIPE BOOK OFFER, P.O. Box 2214, Young America, Minn. 55553-2214 (receive a free recipe book and $1 in coupons). Send in four American Beauty Pasta product UPC symbols. Store form required. Expires 12/31/91. BLAIREX LABORATORIES, INC .. , P.O. Box 15190, Evansville, Ind. 47716-0190 (receive $1.50 cash and $1 in coupons). Send in either your dated cash register receipt or the UPC symbol from Blairex Broncho Saline. Store form required. Expires 12/31/91.

~nttntrbirttsis APRIL 1 , 1992 QContorbicn~i!j Fan of the Week 1. Gerald Levert Duet With Eddie Levert \Baby Hold On To Me,\ (Atco/EastWe~r) Last Week: No.4 2. Mint Condition ~E.reakin' My Heart (Pretty Brown Eye:s)\ (Perspecti vef A&M) No. 8 3. R. Kelly & Public An- nouncement ~she 'sOot That Vibe,\ (Jive) No.5 4. Tony Terry .. Everlasting Love,\ (Epic) No.9 5. Prince & 1'he N.P.G . .. Diamonds And Pearls,\ (Paisley Park/Warner) No. l1 6. Michael Ja-.::·s()n \Remember The Time,\ (Ep.<..) :'h 13 7. Patti LaBelle \'Somebody Loves You Baby (You Know Who lt Is)\ (MCA) No. 10 8. Queen Latifah ~Latifah's Had It Up 2 Here,\ (Tommy Boy) No. 16 9. Vanessa Williams .. Save The Best For Last,\ (Mercury) No. 17 10. M.C. Brains .. Oochie r()()rhiP\ (Mo 1wn', ~;d ?.1· Deviled Eggs -hard boiled egg- -sour cream- Top 5 Union Hockey Excuses! 5. Our Skates Were Dull 4. Nobody Wore White 3. \That Damn Bob Hussar\ 2. \Injuries My Man, Injuries\ 1. Gave Ulp in Fear of a Strike Happy April Fools .Day -~~ \fi:~ ~ .. 4$7 ). Quote of the Week: '7r..vonder how I did on my sociology exam? 1~ed,tet~et ~a,~tm4 '~ -Christian Laetner to Bobby Hurley after sinking the winning shot against Kentucky SUPPORT THE SKATING DUTCHMAN . . . This Weekend at the Knick! tJ-a~e~te:t tJet 1/tJ.r.(,!/ i . \

\ • : ' ' < I ' ' ' • ' • • • ' • • j VOLUME t2t,NUMBER 17 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK APRIL 9, 1992 Frances Conley Delivers Speech On Sexual Harassment Eric Czech. was the first student to enjoy a beer served by the college in 8 years. by David Levine Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, April 1 Dr. Frances Conley delivered a speech discussing \Ruminations of an Academic Maverick\ before a near capacity afternoon crowd in the College Center Auditorium. Dr. Frances Conley, a professor of neurosurgery at Stanford Medical School, resigned her position last May after having received unfair treatment when she complained of having to work through twenty-five years <Jf subtle sexual haras~ 1ntmt. She has subsequently rejoined the faculty after a committee was named to investigate her complaint Conley began the speech by giving a summary of the problems that she had encountered while working for Accepted Students To Visit Union Courtesy of Admissions Office The Collegeis admissions cffice, wltich mailed out .decision letters March 27, is 2slcing members ot the Union ~ommunity to assist in the 11ext phase of its program - ~ncouraging- admitted students to enroll. \We're asking everyone to take some time to let these students know what a special place Uni()n is,\ said Ann Gotwals, russistant dean of admissions and coordinator of the visitation days. There will be two Monday visitation days, April 13 and 20, which will include a panel of faculty, administrators, students and alumni; a session for parents with the dean of students and director of residence life; meetings with faculty in their respective departments; tours of the Science and Engineering complex. Students also may visit selected classes during the day. or meet with a financial aid officer. Visits are also planned for Saturdays, April4, 11, and 25, with student and faculty panels and campus tours. On Saturday, April 18, there will be group info:r:mation sessions with an admissions counselor and campus tours. Acceptance letters were mailed to 1,620 regular decision applicants and 180 early decision ones, according to Dan Lundquist, dean of admissions. Applications totaled 3,240, an increase of 12 percent over last year. The acceptance rate was 55 percent. Continued on page 3 Stanf<Jrd. She claims to have received numerous sexual innuendos from the acting cltairman of the department for which she worked. She became aware of the fact that two employees had already filed grievances when she launched her complaint. Conley took her complaint to the dean and the president of the university. A search committee was set up, and the committee chairman was somebody that Conley staunchly opposed. Conley resigned her position at this point and continued her work with the Palo Alto Medical Center. She also resigned her position on the Medical Faculty Senate, which had placed sexual harassment on their agenda for prior meetings. The female students that testified to the Senate, according to Conley, were treated with insensitivity. After having left Stanford, Conley decided to write an editorial to be submitted to various newspapers. She received assistance in writing the article from a well respected writer for Time magazine. This person failed to warn Conley of the repercussions of writing the editorial. Mter having sent the editorial for submission, the San Francisco Chronicle responded with a front page article entitled \Sexual Harassment Rampant at Stanford School of Medicine.\ After having seen the negative publicity, Conley was advised to return to the faculty, in a move to quell the publicity. A panel investigated the behavior allegations, during which forty women testified. The accused, Mr. Silverberg, was asked to leave his position and was recommended to receive \sensitivity training.\ After Silverberg left, Conley returned to the medical staff. In This Issue: What About the March? -page 4 Hey Ivan, What's With the Furry Lunch? 6 Conley elaborated on the fact that sexual harassment has co11tinued to exist in the medical community for many years on the premise held by some male doctors that women are inferior. According to Conley, doctors have always been considered gods, and nurses have been considered maidens. In addition, some men believe that women arc only capable of being nurses. A senior medical student at Stanford was sexually harassed at the laboratory which she worked in. She was given a research position in a small, specialized laboratory, a position which she was grateful to receive. Her mentor was very helpful in her research until he decided to impose himself upon her. The student accepted an invitation to go to the opera with the professor out of professional courtesy. She was forced to go to a bar with her mentor, and he preceded to infonn her of his sex.ual tendencies. After the evening, during which she. rebuffed his sexual advances, the student decided to remain quiet about the incident so that she could keep her job. For the nex.t two years, the professor disparaged the work of the student. When she applied for residency, she did not receive one interview in the entire state of California. A good Stanford Medical School graduate will always receive interviews, at least from the less prestigious hosj)itals. According to Co11ley, the professor, well known in his field, used his influence to block the student from getting a job. This is not an isolated case. Somebody that was involved with a similar case at the University of Minnesota was quoted as saying \He will be Continued on page 3 Sports Quiz -page 20

. : ~-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . ' . . . . . : . . . . . . . : - . . . . . ... . .' . . Women's Politict1/ Movement Speakers On Ct1mpus by Lisa Hofbauer Concordiensis Staff On Thursday, April 2, an enlightening discussion about the connection between women and politics was held. Representatives· from both the Capital District Women's Political Caucus (CDWPC) and the Eleanor Roosevelt Democratic Committee spoke to a disappointing audience of two students, thus illustrating the need for such a discussion at Union. The women outlined the purpose of their organizations. These groups often work in conjunction with each other and concentrate mostly on health issues and equal rights for all people. Marj<>rie Geiger, representative from CDWPC, briefly outlined the history of her organization. The CDWPC is operating in its 21st year and was founded in Washington D.C. by the likes of Gloria Steinem and Flo Kennedy. The goals of tbe organization are to get more women elected into public office, and to focus more attention on women's issues. The CDWPC is considered the political arm of the women's movement; each state has a local chapter that targets its .. own state's weaknesses. The Albany chapter has been active for 11 years. The group makes sure would be comprised of at least that their candidates support the 50-75% women of all races. following issues: pro-choice, The front JOW of people at the public funding of day care, the trial were all white men. She ERA, and the rights of all told of an instance in which her p eo p 1 e, i n c 1 u din g group didn1t approve of the way homosexuals_ The organization the Albany city council acted; frequently works in her group mobilized support conjunction with the National for new candidates and elected Organization for Women three new officials to the (NOW) and NARAL, a pro- council. choice lobbying group. Karen LoPiccolo, a supporter ' CDWPC has its own political and active participant in · action account {PAC) which legislation for women and . allows it to contribute money representation of women's , to those candidates who views in political offices, · support CDWPC's goals. stressed the fact that these The national Women's groups are \grass-roots\ Political Caucus does not organizations; most of the endorse male political campaigning for their candidates, but' the CDWPC candidates are done by door-to- does. The group deals with door solicitation, write-in issues, not political parties, votes, and phone trees. She and investigates their stressed that lobbying is a year- candidates' views by asking round process. A candidate them to fill out a four page must receive positive questionnaire on. major issues. reinforcement for the enactment They also consider the viability of beneficial legislature and of a campaign before endorsing negative reinforcement for the the candidate. passing of policies that are not Sheila Healy. a in the interest of the women's representative from the Eleanor groups. Roosevelt Democratic Committee, also once ran as a The women claimed that delegate for Jesse Jackson. She · today's young women are claimed that homosexuals have politically \apathetic because no rights at the present time they don't realize how close and are discriminated against L~ey are to losing what we had for housing and jobs. She also to fight so hard for\ and that stated that her dream was, if \the erosion of women's rights another trial like that of Anita is the story we need to tell.\ Hill occurred, the front row GE Scientist Establishes Award At Union Courtesy of Public Relations L. Berkley Davis Jr., a recipient of GE's prestigious Charles P. Steinmetz Award, has awarded the College a grant of $10,000 to endow the GE Power Generation - Steinmetz A ward to support outstanding senior design projects in mechanical engineering. Davis, manager of Low Emissions Gas Turbine Engineering at GE in Schenectady, was honored by the company for his development of technologies that reduce nitric oxide emissions from gas turbine generators. The Steinmetz Award is the most prestigious recognition given for technical achievement by GE to its employees. As part of the award, GE makes a $10,000 contribution to the college of the recipient's choice for the furtherance of education in engineering and science. \This has been one of the highlights ofrny career,\ Davis said, \and it gives me the opportunity to do something special for Union and to recognize the students who do outstanding work in their design projects.\ Davis specified that the grant be used at Uni<>n to establish an annual a-ward for the best senior design project in mechanical engineering. Davis presented the grant to Union College President Roger H. Hull and Frank Milillo, the Thomas J. Watson Sr. and Emma Watson Day Professor of Mechanical Engineering and department chair at Union. Charles Proteus Steinmetz, for whom the award is named, joined General Electric in 1892 and was one of the world's foremost electrical engineers. At Union, he was professor and head of electrical engineering and applied physics from 1920 to 1923. Every Day CONCORDIENSIS APRIL 9, 1992 PAGE 2 T AKYIW AA MANUH BR.INGS AFRICAN ~ CUL'TURE ·TO UNliON STUDENTS by Alli Wapner Concordiemis Staff Professor Tak::yiwaa Manuh, coordinator of the Women's · - Studies Program at the University of Ghana, infonned : students last Friday of the gender discrepancies which . occur in her native culture in : Ghana. Whae women constitute 51.2% of the . ,population and account for 70% workers in the rural, agricultural industries, they are continually being discriminated against in society_ This conflict arises from social and culttual biases which, according to Professor Manuh, have been. embedded in the mentality of tbe citizens of Ghana. Because women are only employed in the agricultural, fishing, and service sectors of the economy, parents do not give their daughters an Op)Jortunity to achieve an education beyond high school. To these parents, an extended education does not benefit young women who have no other cboice for a career except in the limited job market. Because of this, only 23% of the women in Ghana are functionally literate. The social patterns that women are expected to follow are designed for childbirth. The average female will have 6 children within her lifetime and the availability of contraception is extremely })<)Of. With the respo11sibility of taking care of a large family and little opportunity for higher education, the job . market for women :in Ghana is still confined. In the 34 years of the country's independence, not many women h2ve entered executive politicaL positions. . The Provision National Defense Council (PNDC), the ruling body of government in Ghana, has never employed more than one W()man at a time. Women have never been appointed to any decision making positions in any of the countrY's 110 districts. Although· women have been used as the scapegoats for Ghana's economic recession, the situation for women has improved slightly. 48.2% of the female :population attends -school and, in a 1989 survey, researchers have found the literacy level .to have risen to 32.5% among women. Due to improved sanitation conditions and health care, the average life expectancy for women is now 56 years: Government has followed the improvements of making life better for women in Ghana. Women now have the right to form their own households and to own property. This has given women an economic freedom. While their main importance in society still remains to perform ritual functions. such as direction funeral services and celebrations for childbirth. women have gained more \clearly defined roles,\ says Professor Manuh. Women still have a long way to go before they reach complete equality to their male counterparts. Perhaps the culture of Ghana can illustrate the incredible triumphs women have made in sach a short amount of time. Women have broken the mold of a society based on tradition and replaced them with strives towards literacy and an expanded job market. As the economic crisis of Ghana improves, the bias against women parallels this course. .. l TI1e I C oncordien~is I Staff would like I I to apologize for I last weeks I printing of ' I I Joe Marras' I photograph as I I Sports' Fan of I the Week. I ! Disrespect was I unintentional. Fiction writer Paule Marshall will give a reading of her work at 8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel on the Union College campus on Wednesday, April 22. She will participate in a question and answer session about her work at 4:00p.m. in the Faculty Lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Building. Paule Marshall is the author of Praisesong, for the Widow. Brown Girl. Brownstones. The Chosen Place. The Timele$$ Peoole. and a book of novellas, Soul Clap Hands and Sing. Her most recent novel is Daughters. Paule Marshall is appearing as part of the Lamont Visiting Professorship series, which has brought many distinguished writers and scholars to speak at Union and to participate in classes. Admission to her presentation is FREE, and the public is welcome.

Women's Political Movement Speakers On Campus by Lisa Hofbauer Concordiensis Staff On Thursday, April 2, an enlightening discussion about the connection between women and politics was held. Representatives from both the Capital District Women's Political Caucus (CDWPC) and the Eleanor Roosevelt Democratic Committee spoke to a disappointing audience of two students, thus illustrating the need for such a discussion at Union. The women outlined the purpose of their organizations. These groups often work in conjunction with each other and concentrate mostly on health issues and equal rights for all people. Marjorie Geiger, representative from CDWPC, briefly outlined the history of her organization. The CDWPC is operating in its 21st year and was founded in Washington D.C. by the likes of Gloria Steinem and Flo Kennedy. The goals of the organization are to get more women elected into public office, and to focus more attention on women's issues. The CDWPC is considered the political arm of the women's movement; each state has a local chapter that targets its ·own state's weaknesses. The Albany chapter has been active for 11 years. The group makes sure that their candidates support the following issues: pro-choice. public funding of clay care, the ERA, and the rights of all people, including homosexuals. The organization frequently works in conjunction with the National Organization for Women (NOW) and N ARAL, a pro- choice lobbyin~ group. CDWPC has its own political action account (PAC) which allows it to contribute money to those candidates who support CDWPC's goals. The national Women's Political Caucus does not endorse male political candidates, but the CDWPC does. The group deals with issues, not political parties, and investigates their candidates' views by asking them to fill out a four page questionnaire on major issues. They also consider tlle viability of a campaign before endorsing the candidate. Sheila Healy, a representative from the Eleanor Roosevelt Democratic Committee, also once ran as a delegate for Jesse Jackson. She claimed that homosexuals have no rights at the present time and are discriminated against for housing and jobs. She also stated that her dream was, it another trial like that of Anita Hill occurred, the front row would be comprised of at least 50-75% w01nen of all races. The front row of people at the trial were all white men. She told of an instance in which her group didn't approve of the way the Albany city council acted; her group mobilized support for new candidates and elected three new officials to the council. Karen LoPiccolo, a supporter and active participant in legislation for women and representation of women's views in political offices, stressed the fact that these groups are \grass-roots\ organizations; most of the campaigaing for their candidates are done by door-to- door solicitation, write-in votes, and phone trees. She stressed that lobbying is a year- round process. A candidate must receive positive reinforcement for the eaactment of beneficial legislature and negative reinforcement for the passing of policies that are not in the interest of the women's groups. The women claimed that today's young women are politically \apathetic because they don't realize how close t.'1ey are to losing what we had to fight so hard for\ and that \the erosion of women's rights is the story we need to tell.\ GE Scientist Establishes Award At Union Courtesy of PuNlc Relations L. Berkley Davis Jr., a recipient of GE's prestigious Charles P. Steinmetz Award, has awarded the College a grant of S 10,000 to endow the GE Power Generation - Steinmetz A ward to support outstanding senior design projects in mcrh;mical cnginceri ng. Davis, manager of Low Emissions Gas Turbine Engineering at GE in Schenectady, was honored by the company for his development of technologies th al reduce nitric oxide emissions from gas turbine generators. The Steinmetz Award is the most prestigious recognition given for technical achievement by GE to its employees. As part of the award, GE makes a $10,000 contribution to the college of the recipient's choice for the furtherance of education in engineering and science. \This has been one of the highlights of my career,\ Davis said, \and it gives me the opportunity to do something special for Union and to recognize the students who do outstanding work in their design projects.\ Davis specified that the grant be used at Union to establish an annual award for the best senior design project in mechanical engineering. Davis presented the grant to Union College President Roger H. Hull and Frank Milillo, the Thomas J. Watson Sr. and Emma Watson Day Professor of Mechanical Engineering and department chair at Union. Charles Proteus Steinmetz, for whom the award is named, joined General Electric in 1892 and was one of the world's foremost electrical engineers. At Union, he was professor and head of electrical engineering and applied physics from 1920 to 1923. ~-----\'1! Every Day CONCORDIENSIS ·APRIL 9, 1992 ·PAGE 2 T AKYIW AA MANUH BRINGS AFRICAN . CULTURE TO UNION STUDENTS by Alii Wapner Concordieflsis Staff Professor Takyiwaa Manuh, coordinator of the Women's Studies Program at the University .of Ghana, informed students last Friday of the gender discrepancies which occur in her native culture in Ghana. While women constitute 51.2% of the population and account for 70% workers in the rural, agricultural industries, they are continually being discriminated against in society. This conflict arises from social and cultLiral biases which, according to Professor Manuh, have been embedded in the mentality of the citizens of Ghana. Because women are only employed in the agricultural, fishing. and service sectors of the economy, parents do not give their daughters an opportunity to achieve an education beyond high school. To these parents, an extended education does not benefit young women who have no other choice for a career except in the limited job market. Because of this, only 23% of the women in Ghana are functionally literate. The social patterns that women are expected to follow arc designed for childbirth. The average female will have 6 children within her lifetime and the availability of contraception is ex trcmely poor. With the responsibility of taking care of a large family and little opportunity for higher education, the job market for women in Ghana is still confined. In the 34 years of the country's independence, not many women have entered executive political positions. The Provision National Defense Council (PNDC). the ruling body of government in Ghana, has never employed more than one woman at a time. Women have never been appointed to any decision making positions ia any of the country':; 110 districts. Altho11gh women have been used as the scapegoats for Ghana's economic recession, the situation for women has improve:d slightly. 48.2% of the fernale population attends school and, in a 1989 survey. researclters have found the literacy level to have risen to 32.5% among women. Due to improved sanitation conditions and health care, the average life expectancy for women is now 56 years. Government has followed the improvements of making life better for women in Ghana. Women now have the right to form their own househ()lds and to own property-. This has given women u economic freedom. While their main importance in society still remains to perform rit1:1al functions, such as direction funeral services and celebrations for childbirth, women have gained more \clearly defined roles,\ says Professor Manuh. Women still have a long way to go before they reach complete equality to their male counterj)arts. Perhaps the culture of Ghana can illustrate the incredible triumphs women have rna de in such a short amount Otf time. Women have broken the mold of a society based on !tradition and replaced them with strives towards literacy amd an expanded job market. A.s the economic crisis of Ghana. improves, the bias against women parallels this course. I I I I I I I I I The Co.ncordiensis Staff would like to apologize for nast weeks printing of J tOe M arras' pluotograph as Sptorts' Fan of the Week. Disrespect was unjntentional. I I I I I I I I I Fiction writer Paule Marshall will give a reading of her work at 8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel on the Union College ,campus on Wednesday, April22. She will participate in a question and answer session about her work at 4:00p.m. in the Faculty lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Building. Paule Marshall is the author of Praisesong for the Widolt', Brown Girl. Brownstones. The Chosen Place, The Timeless People. and a book of novellas, Soul ClrJ.Q Hands and Sing. Her most recent novel is Daughters. Paule Marshall is appearing as part of the Lamont Visiting Professorship series, which has brought many distinguished writers and scholars to speak at Union and to participate in classes. Admission to her presentation is FREE, and the public is welcome.

\ .... . . . : . . · . . . . . ·. . . . .· . . . .. .._ . . .... · .. · .. · : ·. . .. : . ·_.·· · ... · · .... ·. . . . .··. . . . -~-i ·E. • ... :~.-· ·: ; .. ·· .··.. · · .. · . . . · .. ~ .. · · · · · · · · · · · ... · ... · ... · ·' ·. · ·· · .. ~tAl ltlaW• · · CONCORDIENSIS \APRIL 9,1992 • PAGE 3 Stanford University Professor Recounts Incident of S-exual Harassment Albany Law School Presents Symposium: Terror and Seeurity Aboard lnterJtational Airlines Continued from page 1 . able to influence her career opportunities for the rest of his life.\ According to an article written in a Harvard magazine entitled \Sex and Secrecy,\ sexual harassment is epidemic at Harvard. Women, who are finally being allowed into medical school with similar credentials to males, need to be provided with avenues to express their complaints on sexual harassment. Conley. one of the :first influential female doctors, did not know how to avoid the harassment she suffered for twenty-five years. Conley compared her plights to those of Anita Hill, who was finally able to have her complaints against Clarence Thomas heard recently. Although Conley is hopeful that sexual harassment will decline, she does not believe that any significant changes will occur until stereotypes .. . perpetuated ,about women are curbed. One of the most detrimenta,J stereotypes, according. to Conley, i·s that women are happiest at home. In addition, men such as Wilt Chamberlain and Magic Johnson have been glorified despite their acknowledgements that they have slept with thousands of women. Conley asserts that one· result of the stereotypes is that women working comparable jobs to men are paid considerably less. Full female professors, with equivalent rank and length of service, make six thousand dollars a year less than their male counterparts. The stereotype that women are married, and their husbands already make money has helped to promote this injustice. According to Conley, gender discrimination will not die until some men are willing to aclcnowledge the equality of women in today's society. Courtesy of Albany Law School The Pan Am 103 trial starts April 27, 1992, in New York City; fourteen days later, the Korean Air trial begins in Washington, D.C. In tesponse to the issues of perceived security weaknesses and the reality of terrorist activities that will be raised by these trials, Albany Law School's Justice Jackson Lecture Series and the Albany Law Journal of Science & Technology will present a two-day symposium, concerning terrorism and security aboard international airlines. Using the Lockerbie bombing of Flight 103 as the focal point to demonstrate the deficiencies in current security · systems, the symposium will investigate the use of legal remedies as a method for both · ensuring increased security and preventing terrorist attacks and explore the possibility of Accepted Students to Visit Campus Continued from page 1 \We had the option to go heavy and overadmit to get a big class, or use our increase in applications to keep us under the 50 percent acceptance rate,\ Lundquist said. \We have decided to combine the two, to go out a little heavy as well as hold the line on academic quality.\ Lundquist estimated that more than two-thirds of the accepted students have already visited the campus. CAMP:US SECURITY INCIDENTS 3130/92 3/30/92 3/30192 3130/92 3/31/92 3/31192 3/31192 411/92 4/1192 412192 413/92 413192 413/92 4/3/92 414192 414/92 514192 4~5192 \flst92 g/5/92 S&E Basement Burnjng ot!or reponed-source was chemjca!-no hazard-vented Oayjdson Student reports theft of cash from room-door unlocked Potter Bsmt. Theft of studenrs text books lgclsed Chapier room Schaffer Lib. Vehicle parked on sidewalk S&E • N110 Vaoda!ism·broken wjndQW. Lamont Lot Vaoda!lsm·Siaff member's car antenna broken. Qampus Grnds Jwo female students harassed by male yjsjtot Social Scjence Theft of cash from facyltv member's desk College Center Harassment of Staff member by ' male Richmond Hse Theft of student's cookware, Potter Hoyse Vaodalism·wjodow jo entrance door broken Alexander La Reckless drjyjng-studeot- Condyct Cha~es filed, S&E basement Odor rrom Neutralizatjoo tanks, Oayjdson Vandalism-Washing machines damag West College Theft o( ski racJs from student's West college Vandalism-Courtesy phone No, Terrace La, Suspjcjous gersons·two males harassing students, Arrested for trssgass-turned oyer to Lamont Lot Vandal!sm-Stydeot's car entered and fire extjnqylsbers discharged. Raymond Hse: Yandallsm-Vendjog machine, So Terrace La, Vandal!sm·vis!tor's car wjndow brQkeo, Campus Grads, Yanda!ism-parlsjng signs and barrloadfHi·Can'Jgus map at Alexao!l§.c and Soyjh lane damaged Non Memgrlal Yar!da!lsm·emergency phone In ba§!iment, utilizing various organizations- -including the United Nations-- to enforce security abroad in high risk airports. An ,introduction by Albany Law School students, Joel Michael Schwarz and James Stacy,' will open the symposium on Friday, April 24, at 7 p.m. The evening's speakers will begin with Paul Hudson, President, and Families of Pam Am 103, who will discuss descriptions of the day of the bombing and the events that led up to the bombing. Nicholas Gillman, from the plaintiff's/victim's steering committee, will discuss the plaintiff's arguments to be presented at the upcoming April trial. Speaking as the Chairman of the Korean Airlines Survivor Group, Hans Ephraimson will compare the overlap between KAL and Lockerbie relative to security problems. the protection of innocent passengers, and the scope of terrorism on behalf of governments. Chris Witkowski, who has testified at many of the hearings on Lockerbie, will make suggestions for improvements in airline security. Sonia Popovich, a professor at Columbia University who is an expert in technology and security, will argue against the prevailing theory about Pan Am 103. John Sassaman, Editor in Chief of the Albany Law Journal of Science & Te<:hnology, will offer closing remarks. Saturday, April 25, 1992, will focus on papers presenting the legal issues. Delivering the frrst paper, Nancy Jean Strantz from Alberta, Canada. will discuss the faults in our legal system that led to Lockerbie and a resultant look at the legislative and security changes. Joseph Board, political science professor from Union College and Adjunct Law Professor from Albany Law School, will serve as moderator for Robert Friedlander, former law professor at Northern Illinois University and Ohio Northern University, when Mr. Friedlander delivers his paper on Legal Remedies in the U.S. and International Enforcement. Dionagi Fiorita, a specialist in aviation law and former representative of Canada on ICAO, and Sonia Popovich, will offer commentary. Joseph Board will moderate the afternoon's session. Lawrence Goldhirsch, an attorney representing one of the victims involved in KAL, will comment the damages recoverable under the Warsaw Convention. How should fear and suffering prior to death be compensated to the victims' families? Nicholas Gillman, who has tried other cases concerned with this compensatory damage question, will offer commentary. The President of Victims of Pan Am 103, Bert Ammerman, will speak on the lessons learned from Lockerbie. Arik Arad and Isaac Yeffet, both fonner heads ofEl AI Airlines, will discuss sec11rity problems in the airline industry. Associate Dean Patricia Youngblood will close the session. The free symposium will take place in the Dean Alexander Moot Courtroom at Albany~Law School on Friday and Saturday, April24 and 25, and will be open to the public. For more infOirnation contact Merilee Marsh at 472-5867. ~he Pub will be open every TUESDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY Beginning at 4:30 NAME THE PUB!!! Mail in your pick from the top 5 below to box 2063. The winner gets $50 1. CHET'S (Chester Arthur) 2. THEPIT 3. GOOGLE'S 4. JACKSON'S HOLE .. 5. THEJUGG Mail in by Sunda 4/12 I l

CONCORDIENSIS • APAlL 9, 1992 • PAGE 3 Stanford University Professor Recounts Incident of Sexual Harassment Albany Law School Presents Symposium: Terror and Security Aboard lntea••tational Airlines Continued from page I able to influence her career opportunities for the rest of his life.\ According to am article written in a Harvard magazine entitled \Sex and Secrecy,\ sexual harassment is epidemic at Harvard. Women, who are finally being allowed into medical school with similar credentials to males, need to be provided with avenues to express their complaints on sexual harassment. Conley, one of the frrst influential female doctors, did not know how to avoid the harassment she suffered for twenty-five years. Conley compared her plights to those of Anita Hill, who was finally able to have her com plaints against Clarence Thomas heard recently. Although Conley is hopeful that sexual harassment will decline, she does not believe t.hat any significant changes wi II occur until stereotypes \\ :perpetuated .about women are curbed. One of the most detrimental stereotypes, according to Conley, is that women are happiest at home. In addition, men such as Wilt Chamberlain and Magic Johnson have been glorified despite their acknowledgements that they have slept with thousands of women. Conley asserts that one result of the stereotypes is that women working comparable jobs to men are paid considerably Jess. Full female professors, with equivalent rank and length of service, make six thousand dollars a year less than their male counterparts. The stereotype that women are married, and their husbands already make money has helped to promote this injustice. According to Conley, gender discrimination will not die until some men are willing to acknowledge the equality of women in today's society. Courtesy of Albany Law School The Pan Am 103 trial starts April 27, 1992, in New York City; fourteen days later, the Korean Air trial begins in Washington, D.C. I:n response to the issues of perceived security weaknesses and the reality of terrorist activities that will be raised by tllese trials, Albany Law School's Justice Jackson Lecture Series and the AI bany Law Jou!'nal of Science & Technology will present a two-day symposium, concerning terrorism and security aboard international airlines. Using the Lockerf:Jie bombing of Flight 103 as the focal point to demonstrate the deficiencies in current security systems, the symposium will investigate the use of legal remedies as a method for both ensuring increased security and preventing terrorist attacks and explore the possibility of Accepted Students to Visit Campus Continued from page 1 \We had the option to go heavy and overadmit tQ- get a big class, or use our increase in applications to keep us under the 50 percent acceptance rate,\ Lundquist said. \We have decided to combine the two, to go out a little heavy as well as hold the line on academic quality.\ Lundquist estimated that more than two-thirds of the accepted students have already visited the campus. CAMPUS SECURITY INCIDENTS 3/30/92 3/30/92 3/30/92 3/30/92 3/31192 3/31/92 3131/92 4/1/92 411/92 412/92 4/3/92 413192 4/3192 4(3192 414192 4/4192 4/4192 S&E Basement Burning odor reported-source was chemjcal-no hazard-vented Dayjdsoo Student reports theft of cash from room-door unlocked Potter Bsmt Theft of studenfs text books locked Chapter mom Schaffer Lib vehjcle parked on sidewalk S&E - NllO Yandaljsm-broken wjndow, Lamont Lot vandalism-Staff member's car antenna broken. Campus Grads Two female stydeots.harassed bv male vjsj!or Socjal Scjence Theft of cash from facu ltv member's desk, College Center Harassment of Staff member by male Richmond Hse The!! of student's cookware. Potter Heyse Vandaljsm-wjodow jo entrance door broken. Alexander La Reckless driving-student- Conduct Charges filed S&E basement Odor froro Neutraljzatjoo tanks Dayjdson Vandalism-Washing mach1nes damaQ West College Theft o! sk1 rack from student's West college Vandalism-Courtesy phone. No Terrace La Suspjqous.persoos-two males harass1na students, Arrested for trespass-turned oyer to Schenectady Pol1ce Lamont Lot Vandalism-Student's c9r entered and lire exl!oawshers discharged __B.ayroond Hse. Yandallsro-Yendjng machme So. Terrace La Yandalisro·Yisitor's car w1ndow barricades-Campus roap at Alexander and South Lane damaged. Noll Meroorjj\1 Yanda!lsro·eroergency phone jo basement utilizing var:i()US organizations- -including the United Nations-- to enforce se-curity abroad in high risk aii]Jorts. An introd.l!ction by Albany Law School students, Joel Michael Sc!hwarz and James Stacy, will open the symposium ()fl Friday, April 24, at 7 p.rn. The evening's speakers will begin with Paul Hudson, President, and Families of Pam Am 103, who will discuss descriptions of the day of the 13ombing and the events that led up to the bombing. Nicholas Gillman, from the p laintiff's/victim's steering C()mmittee, will discuss the plaintiff's arguments to be presented at the upcoming April trial. Speaking a.s the Chainnan of the Korean Aiirl ines Survivor Group, Hans Ephraimson will compare the Otvcrlap between KAL and Lockerbie relative to security prDhlem s, the protection of innocent passengers, and the scope of terrorism em behalf of governments. Chris Witkowski, vvl:io has testified at many of llie hearings on Lockerbic, will make suggestions for improvements in airline security. Sonia Popovich, a professor at Columbia Urniversity who is an expert in tec.imoJogy and security, will argue against the prevailing theory about Pan Am 103. Johm Sassaman, Editor in Chief of the AI bally Law Journal of Science & Technolo~y, will offer closing remarks. Saturday, April 25, 1992, will focus on .papers presenting the legal issues. Delivering the ftrst paper, Namcy Jean Strantz from Alberta, Canada, will discuss the faults in our legal system that led to Lockerbie and a resultant look at the legislative and security changes. Joseph Board, political science professor from Union College and Adjunct Law Professor from Albany Law School, will serve as moderator for Robert Friedlander, former law professor at Northern Illinois University and Ohio Northern University, when Mr. Friedlander delivers his paper on Legal Remedies in the U.S. and International Enforcement. Dionagi Fiorita, a specialist in aviation law and former representative of Canada on ICAO, and Sonia Popovich, will offer commentary. Joseph Board will moderate the afternoon's session. Lawrence Goldhirsch, an attorney representing one of the victims involved in KAL, will comm cnt the damages recoverable under the Warsaw Convention. How should fear and suffering prior to deal:h be compensated to the victims' families? Nicholas Gillman, who has tried other cases concerned with this compensatory damage question, will offer commentary. The President of Victims of Pan Am 103, Bert Ammerman, will speak on the lessons learned from Lockerbic. Arik Arad and Isaac Yeffet, both fanner heads of EI AI Airlines, will discuss security problems in the airline industry. Associate Dean Patrie ia Youngblood will close the session. The free symposium will take place in the Dean Alexander Moot Courtroom at Albany Law School on Friday and Saturday, April 24 and 25, and will be open to the public. For more infonnation contact Merilee Marsh at 472-5867. will be open every TUESDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY Beginning at 4:30 NAME THE PUB!!! Mail in your pick from the top 5 below to box 2063. The winner gets $50 1. CHET'S (Chester Arthur) 2. THEPIT 3. GOGGLE'S 4. JACKSONS HOLE ~ 5. THEJUGG Mail in by Sunda 4/12

CONCOR Dl ENS IS • APRIL .9, 1992 • PAGE 4 What About The Mareh? by Jordan W. Lippner News Editor This past Sunday, Paul Tsongas, Jerry Br()Wil, Bill Clinton, and Jesse Jackson joined roughly 600,000 fellow Americans marcbing on Washington DC, ·in 'What was to .l>e the largest· abortion-rights demostration this country has ever witnessed. The march itself was irrefutably the most sigmificant pro-choice event in America, since the Supreme Court rendered its Roe v. Wade decision in 1973. People from aU over America, from California to Maine, converged on our nation's capital expressing outrage, disgust, and fear over the painful reality that Roe v. Wade is on the velige of being overturned. This could happen as early as April 22, when the Supreme Court, which has been packed with conservatives by Reagan and Bush, hears before it the Pennsylvania state law which levies heavy restrictions on abortions. These restrictions directly contradict Roe v. Wade. Consequently, a Supreme Court vote upholding the Pennsylvania 'law will mark an end to an American woman's right to choice. However, what should be of more immediate concern to \pro-choicers and for that matter, all women, was the lack of coverage by the press which the march liecei ved. It would not be that smprising to discover that there exist many people, both on and off this campus, who were not aware of the march. After all, while the march was taking place, CBS was showing info·mercials and basketball, ABC was airing car People from all ove:r America converged on our nation's capital expressing outrage. racing and spring football, and NBC presented golf! Could something such as a riveting golf match really be more worthy of television coverage than the largest protest march since Martin Luther King and his \I have a dream speech?\ Now the media is known for its liberal side, .so can this ·lack of coverage be attributed to anything but outright sexism?! Lastly, I wish to take issue with the Pro-Choice and Women's Union organizations here on campus. These two groups can be vital parts of the college community if they are organiZed and committed. It is unfortunate that neither of these two groups chose to make the campus aware of the march, or arrange for a bus to take interested Union students down to Washington to participate in the demonstration. Instituting Sexual Politics week as an annual occurrence is a much needed and welcomed event. · However, if information and publicity . concerning an abortion-rights march are not part of either of theae two group's respective agendas, then perhaps they need to be reevaluated. The debate over abortion will .probably rage on until there are no more rapes., no moFe accidental pregnancies, no more health risks to the mother due to child birth. However, while this debate continues to storm on right in front of our eyes, we should not desensitize ourselves to the other issues which are interwoven and just as consequential. The Failure of Politics Today by Jim Polites News Editor I've always believed that the events of politics and those of the sporting world are similar in a number of ways. I'm not referring to how President George Hush played baseball for Yale or\ that New Jersey Senator Bill Bradley first heard audience approval on the basketball court. It's something more broad and nebulous. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to get at here. Take as an example the most important domestic political event going on right now: the Democrat's quest to find a viable challenger for Chief Executive. At one time, it was universally thought that finding a Presidential n()minee would be a fruitless search, 9ne that produced -at best- a sacrificial candidate. George Bush was riding a veritable tidal wave of American approval, and very little was wrong with his Administration. It was at this point that a little-known (nationally at least}, former Senator from Massachusetts announced his candidacy for President. Paul Tsongas was going to challenge a victorious war leader. Tsongas' voice shouldn't have been silenced by a lack of funds. As the Persian Gulf euph~ria wore off though, and the economy began to sour, the other names started to trickle in: Clinton, Harkin, Kerry, Brown, Wilder. Personally as an observer, I think Mr. Tsongas had the finest . platform, the clearest message •. and was undoubtedly the best Democratic hopeful. He served as a perfect foil to 'Jeorge Bush - honest and believable - especially in l:he wake of the President's reneging on his 'no new taxes\ pledge. While Clinton, the race's frontrunner, was dogged by accusations of avoiding the Vietnam draft and adultery, it was Tsongas who plugged away undaunted. That was until, of course, he .s~pl y ran out of money. It is a shame that the future status of our country must be reduced to such base levels as financial support. Was Paul Tsongas the most att:ractive and articulate candidate? Probably not, but he had great things to say. His v()ice shouldn't have been silenced by a lack of funds. Getting back to the sports comparison, probably the Were t€S\ling brecci imP,lantcs on 'Jctl., to~_ . . it th~yre sate -\Or gulnea pt~ .. ~ second most important event in the U.S. took place last weekend in Minneapoiis: the Final Four and NCAA Championship. What I am refreshed by watching these games every year is ·the enthusiasm and love for the Mr. Tsongas had the finest platform, the clearest message game these guys exhibit.. Sure, some players' motivation is to impress nationwide audiences for future multi-million dollar contracts. But there are many more who realize just the same that only a small handful make it to the professional ranks. It is sports at its purist level: kids playing a kid's game wllere the reward is pride and prestige for your school - not just a huge, guaranteed paycheck. I guess what I'm trying to • say is that our political system today can take a very valuable lesson from the excitement and frenzied action of college basketball. I'm not that naive as to say there are no politics and financial reward in colleg;e sports - if anything there is too much. It's just that something as important as our next President of the United States should be determined by ,alot more than campaign contributions. To allow it to continue is a tremendous failure for all. Write for NEWS! Call :x:4151

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 5 • We Won't Go Back We Will Fight Back by Matt Karlyn Washington Correspondent April 5, 1992 marked a historic day in the history of the United States. As early as nine o'clock in the morning, people began to assemble on the Ellipse outside of the White House to begin the march on Washington in an effort to inform the United States Government that women, men and children of all ages are, \Mad as hell, and aren't gonna' take it anymore.\ This was a day where up to 750,000 people of all ages, black and white, male and female, children of all ages, Republicans and Democrats, rich and poor, came together to fight for a common cause, the right to choose. In the very first amendment of the U.S. Constitution we, as Americans are given the freedom of religion. the freedom of the press, the freedom of assembly, the freedom of petition, and the freedom of speech. We are allowed to choose what religion we are to practice, what we say, what we write, where we assemble, and who we petition, but, there are places in this country that women cannot choose what is to be done to their own bodies, and there is legislation that is on the floor, cases in front of the Supreme Court that will. if passed, deny this right even further. Here we are speaking about abortion and a woman's right to have one, or- two, or as many as she chooses freely and legally. Here we are speaking of the freedom of choice, a freedom inherent in the constitution, that is being denied to women. April 5th was a spectacular day, under clear and sunny ~kies, the cherry blossoms blooming just a few blocks away, we marched down Pennsylvania A veune to The Mall in front of the Capitol Building. A march organized by the National Organization of Women (NOW) and supported by various groups such as the National Abortion Rights Action League (NARAL), and others, was one of, if not the biggest, march that Washington has ever seen. Spanning two miles from the Capitol to the Washington Monument, people chanted, \What do we want? CHOICE! When do we want it? NOW!\ We hollered and screamed, committed to our goal, being heard by the government and obtaining choice for all. Guests to this event included Jesse Jackson and Patricia Ireland, the President of NOW, who stood in front of ·this crowd confidently, and without question, stated, \We will prevail.\ Congressmen and women, both Republican and Democrat, also showed to speak to the hundreds of thousands of people. Representing both major political parties they showed that the issue concerning the right to choose, and a woman's right to reproductive freedom, is not a partisan issue. Republicans made it abundantly clear that it is not necessary to be a Democrat in order to be pro-choice. Cyndi Lauper showed up to sing a song titled \Sally's Pigeons\ which she dedicated to those who lost their lives to illegally preformed abortions. Holly Nier also presented a song to those who died without choice. In her song she sings, \If you care about life, why don't you care about mine? I want to know why, oh, why, oh, why.\ These songs brought out great emotion as the crowd listened intently. They are songs about death due to the loss of freedom of choice. On this day there was also a weak pro-life demonstration on the sidelines which tried to influence the mass of people marching toward The Mall. They made an effort to be heard, but were silenced by the chants from those who believe in the Constitution and all that is American. On a good note, no major incidents were reported and no serious ' conflicts between the two sides arose. To those marching, the effort just did not seem worth it. It was abundantly clear that this show belonged to pro- choice America. As many of the speakers spoke for choice, much of the grief was aimed at the White House and President Bush. Some seemed aggravated that Bush was not doing m()re in support of choice and continually aimed marsh comments toward him an:d his administration. However, people were not heFe to campaign for their favorite candidate, Democratic candidates Bill Clinton and Edmund \Jerry\ Brown showed up to gain some much needed support. They had both asked to speak to this crowd, but were denied that opponunity to gain votes as the New York primary quickly approached. The motto for the day here in Washington was, \We won't go back ... We will fight back.\ This referred to going back to the days when women, staves imported from Africa, and IJOOr white men were denied the right to vote, own land, oi be individuals. It was a society of wealthy men, an oligarchy ruled by one breed. P.atty Ireland stressed the idea that, \We cannot return to the days when people were denied the right to choose their actions. We must fight this, we must fight back.\ Jane Fonda made a special appearance on this day. She boldly stated that, \We are the faces of Pro-Choice America. We are here to say to the government, you have enough problems of your own, • • stay out of my womb. We are the majority, we are pro-choice America.\ On November 3, I 992, you have the power to give all women the power of choice. By voting for file Freedom of Choice Act of 1992. on the ballot in November, no woman will be denied the right to an abortion within the first trimester of pregnancy. If a person truly believes that an abortion is wrong, that docs not mean that you must vote against choice. Those who choose to believe this are more than entitled to their opinion. In fact even some pro-choice activists believe that, in some cases. abortion is not correct. However, that does not give the government, predominantly men, the right to pass legislation, or decide court cases, that dictate what a woman can and cannot do with her body. As Americans we have the freedom to do many things that citizens of other countries are denied, one of these freedoms included the right to choose our actions. Together we must fight for the continuation of tilis important right so that our lives, and those of our children, and their children, are guided by the ideas of the Founding fathers, that of freedom of all men and women, created equally. We have come this far, let's not return to the more primitive age that this country saw many years ago. . . . ·. . · . . · · E£&:EIUIIEii by Dass Seaman Concordiensis Stqff I had been fortunate enough at the end of winter term to be poor. Too poor to fly anywhere on Spring Break. Instead I had the wonderful opportunity to spend 22 fun-filled hours in a small (but faithful) red Mitsubishi with two compatible chums and a road map. We were taking that straight shot down on 195 to Singer Island, Florida. I brought along a samll notebook which I adoringly began to call \my log.\ I am going to recount some of our adventures for your reading pleasure. To protect the safety of the involved, Fran will be known as Beer, Stacey will be called Joy, and I will be Dass. The beginning ... Excitedly, we all piled our overpacked bags and beautifully exotic ivory bodies into the car. As I recorded in the log, this is how the story goes .. 9:51am. We're off!! 9:51 am. We pull over. I'm Too Sexy For This Trip Stop. Where is Beer's wallet? 9:52 am. She was sitting on it. We're all OK and we're offl Sunny, happy music is a must for a road trip, so naturally Beer cranked up \Walking On Sunshine.\ Visions of beaches and palm trees swooned in our heads. Since our beginning was Queens, New York, we passed through scenic highways and neighborhoods. Then \Welcome to Staten Island. The home of garbage, pollution and toxic waste.\ Oh Mama, Florida take me! 12 pm. Dass hocks a gooby. Desperately she needs to spit. She rolls down the window in the front seat. She gathers her phlem. Her mouth puckers, ready to fire out the window. She spits ... AHHH, Joy screams in the seat behind her as the gooey slime splats and oozes on her window. Beer is pissed (because it is her car). She pulls over right then and there on the highway. Joy is still screaming in \gross-me- out\ horror. \Get out and clean that off my car,\ Beer demands. Dass in socks, with a tissue, gets out and does the deed. On with the road trip ... I suppose while you're on the road for a while, the look of the highway, or the smell of feet. gets to the travelers and they began to have \Deep Road Trip Thoughts.\ Beer ponders: I'm so glad that there are only three of us so that we can each have a juice box (because, folks, juice boxes come in packs of threes). If there were two of us, we'd have to fight over the last one. If there were four of us, we'd have to have 12 juices (3 packs) for us all to have three juices. Thanks, Beer. Dass was wondering how cool it would be if they passed a prison transport bus with twenty psychos handcuffed and chained and when they'd pass them, the psychos would all scratch, pound, drool and moan in the windows. Yea, real cool man ... One of the essential parts of a road trip is key music. They decided as a rule that the driver was Queen DJ. Second Rule: any song that has been heard in the Skellar has the right to be fast-forwarded. Third Rule: oild nostalgic music. I soon felt as if I was re-living the Eighties when Beer plugged in her mbt. I was brought back to those loving happy days of Junior High. \Walk Like an Egyptian,\ \Heart and Soul\ bu T-pau, \Don't You Forget About Me,\ and that song \You Are My Obsession. Wh() do you want me to be to make you sleep with me?\ Y&u know? Remember those classics? Huh? Strange how the lyrics come back to you. Soon they got in to 65 mpi:J speed limit territory. Joy, a:s the co-pilot, records: Speed limit changes to 65. Dass i£ psyched. We are scared. After they wait in traffic, forever, (traffic is a must on a road trip) and passed this horrible accident, Dass felt free and happy to drive 65. Soon, Dass was in the middle lam~ cruizin' (she felt cool). This guy in a huge white car (with at least 17 kids i11 it) began drifting from the right into Dass' lane. She couldn't find the horn, so she decided to change into the far left lane, but there was another car right where she wanted t() go! Dass was trapped. She jammed on the brakes (for sure Dass saw Death) and the red Mitsubishi swerved...... ERRR! (car noise). Then the moronic guy in the white car realized his grave mistake and steered away from Dass' vehicle. Dass honked the hom (she found it). Joy flipped him the bird as they drove past. Beer, who was snoozing in the back:, drowsily said. \What happened?\ \Ah ... nothing, Beer\ A near accident is optional for a road trip. They passed a sign \Draw Bridge.\ So Dass did_ 6:40 pm. We passed the town (or should we say planet) of Zebulon. Now, the hardest part about driving is the night driving. In North Carolina tQo Florida, Continued on page 6

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 6 Hey Ivan, What's With the Furry Lunch? by Andrew R. Rosen Concordiensis Staff Squirrels are killing this country. Stop everything right !lOw! Put your beer down. Stop eating, stop studying. Tell him m her to go home and cover the jugular for Chip and Dale are lovable Disney favorites no more. Grab your Red-Rider B.B. Gun and take control. The casual feast before you on or within every garbage can on this campus appears innocent enough. Beneath that grey and brown furry sheathing, however lay Pandora's modem day disciple. Any vermin capable of walking up the side of a tree is more than capable of afflicting vice elsewhere. The business world and medical field have o.nly recently been subjected to sudden gueril'la tactics. Former Dean of Housing, Mr. David Wood (now living amongst buddhist/polygamists in the lower east side of Manhattan) recently addressed the squirrel issue dw.ing an interview with Popular Mechanics magazine, saying: \Oy to truly become o,ne with the universe, with or without goyim, we must realize the potential threat of these once-beloved, passive creatures. They [the squirrels] m!lst not permeate the peaceful m()rality of our society. Not that I'm trying to kvetch or anything, but it's like what my fourth wife, Esther, once said, 'A had knish can ruin anyone's kanna.\' International experts recently convened a United Nations emergency meeting ~t lodge #217 in Canajoharre to vrepare themselves and the wDrld for the inevitable squirrel battle before us. Locally, Union College squirrel activists held what they described as a \significant\ group (:)f talks with Rathskeller Manager, Ms. Theresa Viva. Only titne will tell if any substantial progress has been or will be made. Why hate squirrels? One, they look like cats, and I hate cats. Two, they truly are menaces to our society. Overindustrious and extremely altruistic, they hunt the ground for nuts so that they c:an eat during the winter. NUTS! ! ! Who eats just nuts? It makes me sick to even discuss: it. As mentioned above, many problems in today's wudd can easily be pinned on these gross rodents. Ten years ago, somevvhere in the neighborhood of forty to fifty corporations had. their international headquarte.rs reside in New York City. It ,was in the mid-1980's that now imprisoned I van Boesky- had a simple and apparently innocent lunch with a squirrel. Oh sure, they talked of family and friends and financial times, but how many people kn<Jw that one of the topics included certain \junk\ bonds and blue chip stocks? Former VYaiter, Jason Habinsky, remembers the lunch: \I brought Mr. Boesky his salad and- he proceeded to take the walnuts off his bed of lettuce and give I'm Too Sexy Continued from page 5 tllere is nothing. Absolutely 11othing. Beer insisted on the late shift (and Dass didn't Iesist). Instead, Dass stayed up with her. Our conversation led t() talking about their loves for :Rick Springfield and Duran Duran. Dass told Beer how she ll!sed to KISS the TV screen with pure ecstasy when Simon LeBon was on. Why do the reute chipmunks' cute fuzzy cllildren's idols sing about \I can't get no satisfaction?\ Joy, i11 the back, didn't appreciate their conversation because she uttered with gutteral p~tssion. \Pull over. I gotta puke;'\' Beer drove from 12:30 am to 6:30 am (she was extremely wired). By the time it was 6:30, she kept on mumbling, \I want to drive. I got to keep on driving,\ as she dazed at the palm tree in the rest area parking lot. Joy and D~ss had to peel her fingers off the wheel and secretly chuck her Metallica tape out the window. They put her to bed in the back. Dass bad the last l!our of driving. How happy it was to arrive at our little baby blue them to the squirrel who then just put them in the pocket of his suit - the squirrel was styling, by the way! I thought that was innocent enough until I then saw the squirrel slip Mr. Boesky a sheet of paper with writing on it.\ It's at this point that Mr. Habinsky begins to get very upset, almost crying. \The squirrel then winks at Boesky as he gets up to leave. Tiley stiffed the frickin bill! Left me to pay it out of my paycheck. The next day, I picked up a Wall Street Journal only to see that Archer Foods, Inc., the parent corporation and international distributor of fine Nabisco products (including walnuts!), had risen almost 200% in one day of trading. It was then that I sensed no good was taking place.\ Recent undercover work revealed luncheons of similar magnitude between the same squirrel in the same suit with many powerful CEO's in New York. SEC officials then offered immunity to the squirrel in exchange for testimony that would support the indictments of Boeksy, Michael Milikin and many scandalous CEO's. As a result, some twenty to thirty corporations have transferred their international head offices out of New York and into lesser squirrel-tainted cities. Although an isolated incident, this unfortunate example has spread to other areas of our society, many times reaping similar misfortune. The Jarvik-7, a man-made, • • • and white Best Western at 7:44 am. Singer Island was the town of a million and one grandparents walking and holding hands. Some think it's cute when grandparents hold hands. Joy said \it was sick.\ Thankful to God that they had arrived to the cloudy location where the movie \Cocoon\ was filmed, cranky, scumy and tired, Beer. Joy and Dass rejoiced. Thank God it's over (and the best part was that we got to do it aU over again on the way home!). a.Itificial heart, remained in a patient for over a year and offered a true sense of'l:tope to tllose people awaiting heart transplants and other major ailments. What people failed to witness was the systematic abuse of Medicare and Medicaid funds by a particular doctor in Frankliaville, New York and tbe unfortunate experiments asing the Jarvik-7. That doctor was a squirrel. Geraldo did, in fact, address llle issue. \Patients scammed by squirrel physicians\ aired and the truth was revealed. One woman (who wished toremain anonymous) explained a tragic ordeal involving her husband's death. \The whole experience was a traumatic one,\ she began. \Earl had only smoked tllree packs a day, three and a half, tops! When he went in to discuss the sudden trouble he was having, breathing and all, as well as the deep and tortuous chest pains, the doctor, I mean, the squirrel looked at bim and just shook its head. The receptionist scheduled the operation and the Jarvilc-7 was implanted. \We then received a bill for $345,000. Medicare covered it. All of the sudden, Earl gets this letter from the FBI that he's under investigation for fraudulent reimbursement. We explained what happened and the FBI agent said he\d come down to the doctor's office with us. When we got there, the building was vacated. Earl got payments as well as the bad example it set for young, aspiring doctors across the so nerv()US, he dropped to his knees and complained of chest pain again. His cigarette fell out of his mouth, igniting a pool of gasoline next to him. The hospital said he died of third degree burns the following day although I know it was a faulty heart. \The agent showed me a picture of a squirrel with a lab coat on. I knew it was the same squirrel because the coat had .a coffee stain on the right sleeve. The FBI agent explained to me that this particular squirrel had done some serious damage in three other states. My husband died because of that scandalous creature!\ Geraldo went to commercial and I cried.\ To say Union College is immune from similar bestial infiltration would be absurd. These tragic instances reveal a new evil, a true evil. The next time you see a bushy, brown and white tail ascending the bark of a nearby pine, or scavenging through a garbage can, remember the fate of our nation's economy. Remember how innocent investors were swindled out of hundreds of millions of dollars because of a squirrel. Remember how Earl died. Remember the mourning of his wife, the emotional story of a simple heart replacement and the illegal country. Multiplied many times, this form of financial abuse can easily explain the sudden shortfall of health coverage for many people. All because of a squirrel. Maybe cats ain't so bad after all. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . ,. • • •• • • ·• • •• • • • •• • • • • ,. Concordiensis SUBSCRIPTIONS • $40/yr . $100/3 yr. • DON'T YOUR PARENTS WANT TO KNOW ABOUT UNION? • •••• .. .

A Study Travel Experience In France Education ·Aroun.d The World A chance of a lifetime wi!ll be offered to a select group of high school and college students wishing to earn college credit through the University of New Orleans whil'e living and studying in the south of France this summer. UNO's The Glories of France program began in 1983 to give students the opportunity to improve their fluency in the French language and. at the same time, earn college credit. Thnmgh the collaboration of UNO and the Cours Intensif de Francais (CIF), The Glories of France is taught at the University Paul Valery in Montpellier, France. from July 3 tluough July 31. College students who have completed at least two semesters of French and are in good standing at their respective universities. are eligible to apply. The program is also open to high school students who have an overall B average and have completed at least two years of French with a 3.25 or better and are at least 17 years old. Students will be taught by University of Montpellier·and UNO faculty selected for their ability to integrate the travel and cultural ,experiences of the students with classroom learning. Students wil1 also be a part of French culture through the many scheduled activities, field trips, and travels througnout southern France. An optional post-study tour,. July 31 through August 1, is available to all participants and features travel to f9mous landmarks of France such as the Mont St. Michel, the chateaux country, and Paris. For more information and a brochure, contact Marie Kaposchyn, The Glories of France, University of New Orleans, P. 0. Box 569, New Orleans, LA 70148, (504) 286- 7455. %e (j{ories of !Trance The rapid pace of global change and the demands of an interdependent world community are challenging college and university faculty and administrators to revise the way they teach students about : the world around them. In an effort to promote the internationalization of curricula, educators are meeting with leading academic, political, and community leaders worldwide, including members of the Polish parliament, the Social Democratic and Labor Party in Northern It:eland. and the Hong Kong Development Trade Council, through International Faculty Development Seminars. These short-term, intensive seminars, which are offered through the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE}, a nonprofit organization, allow faculty and adm in is trators from universities and colleges in the Write for International Features PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace Corps, IU'rite Box 896, Washington DC 20526 INSTRUCTIOJ'-lS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly 90 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares. to produce the name of the country darkened ()n the map at the right. One of the first three former Soviet republics to gain Its independence 1 I I 1. Sea which separates this nation from Sweden. 2. Capital of neighboring Lithuania. 3. The largest country which borders this nation. 4. Soviet leader who annexed this nation. International Student Cards Now Available Thinking of traveling to Europe this summer? Planning ahead is the best way to get the most out of your travel dollars and a great place to start is with ·the International Student Identity Card, sponsored in the United States by the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE), a nonprofit student exchange organization. The internationally recognized card. which costs only $14, is available at Union College's Terms Abroad Office, Humanities Center. Telephone: 370-6002. Among the benefits of the card is access to special student airfares that can save hundreds of dollars. These airfares, the result of negotiations between various international airlines and CIEE, are available at Council Travel, CIEE's budget travel subsidiary. Contact Council Travel at 205 East 42nd Street, New York. Telephone: (2l2)661-1450. While traveling abroad, holders of tile International Student Identity Card are automatically covered by a basic accident and sickness insurance package and have access to a multilingual, toll- free, 24-hour traveler's assistance hatline that can provide emergency medical, financial, and legal assistance. The card provides proof of student status for access to student discounts in many countries around the world. Available free of charge to all cardholders is fue \International Student Travel Guide,\ a 24- page directory that contains information on student discounts in 65 countries. The International Student Identity Card, which last year was issued to more than a million students in 74 countries, has for 23 years been a standard document for students traveling abroad. It is available to any student at least 12 years of age who is enrolled in a program of study leading toward a degree or diploma at an accredited secondary or post- secondar-y educational institution during the current academic year. More information on the international Student Identity Card is available from CIEE, Dept. ISS-97, 205 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017. Telephone: (212) 661-1414, ext. 1108. The Council on Internatiomil Educational Exchange, a private, nonprofit, international organization, has been a pioneer in student travel and educational exchange since its establishment in 1947. It develops and administers study, work, and travel progtams for American and international students at the secondary, undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels. U.S. and abroad to exchange views witll scholars overseas and examine their own disciplines with an international context. Through participating in the seminars, which are hosted by prestigious institutions such as Hanoi University, Vietnam; the University of Limburg, Netherlands; and the Chinese University of Hong Kong, educators are able to learn firsthand about issues that are shaping the course of world events. Up()n returning to their home campuses, participants then incorporate this added dimension int0 their teaching, and share a new international perspective with their students, colleagues. and the local community. \The information acquired and the personal observations and insights I bring back will be reflected in my teaching, my research and , writing, and in presentations and conversations over the next many months,\ said a history professor who participated in a recent seminar in Berlin. Each seminar focuses on a particular theme and takes place in the nation under discllssion. Upcoming seminars include: \Russia and the Repllblics: Union or Disunicn?,\ \Understanding Vietnam's Historical Perspective,\ \A United Germany: Implications for the Future,\ and \Zimbabwe South Africa, and Southern Africa in the 1990's.\ During the seminars, which last between one and two weeks, the Jlrogram topic is explored through daily lectures and discusgions, which are conducted in English and led by local faculty experts or specialists from the public and private ·sectors, and through site visits to businesses, government institutions, and 'private organizations. Participants also interact with local academics by obser:ving classes, attending receptions, and arranging meetings with their peers at local universities. The International Faculty Development Seminars series was established in 1990 and since then over 320 representatives of community colleges, colleges, and. universities have participated in programs held around the world. The 1992-1993 scheduJe includes seminars in Brazil .. Chile, the Dominican Republic, Germany, Hong Kong. the Netherlands. Northern Ireland, Poland, Russia, the United States. Vietnam, and Zimbabwe. The seminars are open to full-time faculty and administrators at two- and four-year institutions of higher education worldwide. For more information on upcoming International Faculty Development Seminars. contact CIEE, Department of Professional 10017, (212) 661-1414, ext. 1455. The Council on International Educational Exchange, a private, nonprofit international organization, has been a pioneer in educational exchange initiatives since its establishment in 1947. CIEE develops and administers study, work, and travel programs for American and international students at the secondary, undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels. \Yellow Pages\ Of International Travel Student travelers who want to really experience an()ther country as an insider can now turn to Work. Study, Travel Abroad: The Whole World Handbook 1992-93. Compiled by the Council on International Educational Exchange and published by St. Martin's Press, this $12.95 paperback compendium details hundreds of opportunities for work, study, and travel in 75 countries. For example: WORK a~ a bartender in Ireland, as an English teacher in France or Japan, as a volunteer ()n developrn ent projects in Guatemala or Zimbabwe, or as a business intern in Taiwan. STUDY Hindi in India, Arabic in Egypt, art history in Italy, literature in England, engineering in Germany and Russia, cr business administration in Singapore. 1RA VEL by bicycle through Eastern Europe; trek acros.s tile mountains of Nepal; ride a bus through Chi11a; or crew on a yacht making stops in the South Pacific. Geared to college and university students, the WORK, STUDY, TRAVEL IARf!.OAD provides valuable tips on gettiQg around within each country, including hundreds of resources that can provide additional information. New to the eleventh edition are expanded health and safety guidelines, budget tips for travelers on a shoestring, introductions to each country by experienced travelers familiar with the territory, and updated reviews of books to read and films to see before you go. WORK, STUDY, TRAVEL ABROAD: The Whole World Handbook is available at many bookstores and at Council Travel offices across the United States. It can also be ordered from the Council on International Educational Exchange, Information and Student Services, 205 East \42nd Street, New York, NY 10017. Orders must be prepaid and include either $2.50 for first-class postage or $1 for book-rate postage. The Council on International Education Exchange (CIEE), a nonprofit educational organization has been a leader in student travel and educational exchange since its . establishment in 1947.

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992• PAGE 8 Excess Verbiage by Julie. Medow Concordiensis Staff Here is a brief, but comprehensive, guide to many frequently overlooked phrases and speech patterns at Union. I'm Sllre there are more, but these select words stand out in my mind as predominant Union-isms ... 1) Random (adj.) This refers to anything that happens to you which is out of the ordinary. For example, when asked \How was your night?\ and y()ur answer is \Oh well .r started out watching T.V. but ended\ up doing ·naked beer slides at (fraternity of choice)\ your evening was clearly a random one. \People places, and things can be random, you know?\ said a friend of mine. \Time can be random, a,nd any combination of these concepts ... une:xpectedly finding a certain person at a certain place at a certain time... etc... is what:random is aU about.\ And that was a randmn definition. 2) Anal (adj.) Here is a perfect example of a word which has undergone serious mutation over time. Understanding and identifying an anally retentive/fixated person was once a privilege given solely to Freudian scholars. \Anal\ has since lost many of its clinical con.notations, allowing any poor individual with uptight study habits and a clean desk to be labeled as such by messy, carefree types. Usually, someone gets called anal when they are doing better in a class than their friends are. (Jealousy can play a big part in who is anal, and who isn't.) No one wants to live with a truly anal person though, because these maniacs get up at six, run two miles, and refold their underwear before you've decided whether or not you are going to sleep through your thesis meeting. Annoying. 3) Cheesy (adj.) This is by far my favorite expression because of its many applications. Cheesy, loosely defined, refers to a guy who . wears lots of gel in his hair (excluding Christian Laettner, who can get away with anything in my book), tank tops and acid washed jeans, leather jackets, loves top forty music, wears too much cologne, carries a lighter but doesn't smoke, and comes up with great one-liners. For example, I recently met a complete cheeseball (derivative) on -my spring break. I was wearing a silver sweater, and he commented that it looked good. \Thanks I said, \but I kind of New Magazine For Guys Launches Inspired by the outstanding success of Lang's SASSY maga:zine, Dale W. Lang, Chairman of Lang Communications, has rounded up the teen market by launching a unique general interest maga.zine, named DIRT, for guys ages 14 to 21. As a general interest magazine, DIRT will cover sports, gitls, cars, music, fashion, grooming, celebrities, humor and current events. It went on sale March 24 and will be distributed on newsstands and in such alternative markets as convenience stores, comic book stores and record outlets. Launched as a quarterly, Lang's goal is to publish DIRT monthly after the fourth issue. Dale W. Lang's company, Lang Communications, also publishes Work in g Woman, Working Mother, Ms., Sassy and Success magaziners and owns television properties as well, including the new \Jane based on Sassy magazine and hosted by that magazine's editor-in- chief Jane Pratt, airing on WNYW/FOX 5 in New York. )lfichele· ~~· Paludi, Ph.D~ Associate Professor of Psychology at' Hunter Coil~ge and union .AJum vr..r'..ll ~nt a lecture entitled ''\Ivory ?ower. .Sexual F....a.rassment on Camous\ based on a ree-.\\D.t voiume in her series on the ?sychology of vVomen (SUN~ Press) 11:30 A:.\'\.1 Thursday~ -~ 16 Campus Center Auditorium feel like a Christmas tree.\ His immediate comeback: \I'd love to be a present underneath it.\ He was oozing velveeta. (Later, my friend came up with a stellar response: \You should have told him that he'll never get a chance to unwrap it.\ This proves that the best way to combat cheese is to think like cheese.) To expand on this definition, I'd like to mention the fact that people can be placed in sub- groups once they have been pegged as cheese of some sort. There is the \Velveeta\ category alluded to above, which, as we all know, is a blended/processed variety of five cheeses. There is \Cheese Whiz,\ which comes out of a can like whipped cream, and is easily spread on crackers. (\Would you like a Ritz with your man?\) Lastly, there is \Microwavable Cheese Whiz\ for when things get really bad. Women can also be quite cheesy, but in different ways. A cheesy woman goes up to your boyfriend, knowing that you two are dating, and asks him point blank: \What are you doing with her when you can have someone like me?\ Her hair doesn't move when the wind blows, she wears an entire outfit in one color (like, uhm, bright red), and she frequents Tom's tanning and laundry. Her nails are long and have star decals on them, and -she wears spandex as regular clothing. Oddly enough, she's threatening to non-cheesy women. A woman··this cheesy doesn't pump gas or know how to drive stick. 4) Loser (adj..) Although obvious, this word needs to be discussed. Losers are aH over tne place, .and can take on many forms. My mother has a theory ahout losers from college: \Look at Sam Katz. He wasn't })opular in college. He wasn.'t in a fraternity. Now he has a wonderful home, two beautiful daughters, and a swimmi11g pool. He makes tons of money, and never cheats on his wife. No, he's not the best looking man, and he has funny legs, but he's a senior partner at his law firm.\· I don't care what my mom says, Sam was definitely a Big Loo twenty years ago, and i nevr would have dated ·him. Call me harsh (another Union- ism), but that's just the way I see it. Losers can blossom; my mom is right about that. But I'm not going to sit a1ound, wasting my time waiting for an amazing transormation that may never come. (I'll probably eat these words one day.) The nice thing about calling someone a loser is that you can do it discreetly, by placing an_ \L\ formation of thumb and pointer finger on your head. A true loser won't even understand this gestu:re. But your oh-so-cool friends will burst out laughing. 5) Lastly, I'd like to introduce you all to a term used daily without second thought. Whole Nt~ther (adj. I think). A warped combination of \a whole bunch\ and \another\ gets you to this ambiguous phrase. Used quite .specifically as a calculation of many events, whole nuther embodies everything that can't he said as you exchange gossip at your mailbox on your way to Steinmetz. \What ,happened this weekend?.\ one individual asks. \Well I went home, and had a great dinner ytith my parents,\ begins the second person. \I also ran into my ex- boyfriend ... but that's a whole nuther story. I'll call you later!\· Well, as I end this article, I'd like to share a little tale with you. Last night, something very random happened to me. My anal roommate came home with this totally cheesy guy. He's actually the loser who sits in front .of me in French, but that's a whole nuther story .... TAI<E BACK THE: NIGHT Rally and March Against Sexual Violence April 10, 1992 7-10 PM Washington Park Lakehouse • Come hear speakers address the role of self-defense, the connections between rape and racism, the impact of sexual violence on Native American women and fhe e.xistence of domestic violence in the lesbian community. • Listen to the music of local artists and the voices of survivors. • March through the streets of Albany. • Experience a closing performance by Haloa, a women's theatre group from SUNY Albany. · *lnterpreted·f~r people with hearing impairments .. Mobility assistance will be. provided during the march. • Sponsored by the Albany Caun1y Rape Crisis Center. • Office: 447-7100 * Hotline: 445-7547

· · ·· · · · · · · · ·. :.' · · · ··. : ·. ·· · · ~=:::n,l· -T-··· · · ·--1· ':Ji..· · - .. -· . .-. , . . . ~ . . . . EH' ··••• r~a· ·. · CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 9 What's Really Behind the No Name Cafe body. The opening of the No Name Cafe has brought to Union a long awaited, and necessary social alternative. Its arrival will hopefully cause the suppression of hostile feelings towards the college's social life, which, until recently, has solely revolved around greek activities. But there still lies much skepticism as to whether or not the pub wiH attract only a specific clientele, thereby, chasing all others away. To combat this problem, a variety of bands has been lined up to perform, ranging from blues, to jazz, to the typical alternative college rock group. The diversity in these artists' music is one of the most positive characteristics offered by the pub, since it caters to a wider spectrum of people. The location also promises to play an integral role in deciding its fate, as tP,e college center acts as the heart of all student activities, thereby attracting the most diverse crowd on campus. It is the pub's aim to capture these people while they are here, and form them into a group encompassing more of the college community and promoting a more unified student However, such a degree of social interaction can only be reached if there is a sincere effort made on the individual level. Our school has its fair share of exclusive social groups, which leave many out in the cold, whether it be a fraternity, or on~ of the many discriminatory/reverse discriminatory clubs. These groups' mere existence promotes certain ideol():gies, and can even have certain general characteristics placed on them. But they can never pin down the individual member, which is from where the pub hopes tt> draw its crowd;. those willing not to have social limitations pi aced upon them IJy an outside force. AU of this might seem a bit severe for just describing a campus beer drinking facility, but in its re-creation one might possibly see: an administration that actually might be here to cater to its students; a campus community that migllt not be as apathetic as everyone seems to think; and possibly, a more unified~ yet simultaneously diverse student body. Who Are Those Uninformed Students? To the Editor: Some of you may have spotted a student or two wearing a military uniform around campus, at least at one point in your college careers. Many of you have probably realized that these people are in ROTC, but you probably don't know what it is all about. Since I am an Army ROTC cadet, I would like to take this opportunity to share some information with you about this program. The Army ROTC (Reserve Officer Training Corps) program was started in 1916, to supply the army with men trained as officers who could be called up in time of war. Today, men and women in Army ROTC are commissioned as officers, in both the full-time and part-time army .. Currently six students are enrolled in the branch at Siena College. The program itself, which can be completed in 2, 3 or 4 years, consists of classes in leadership skills, management skills and military tactics and strategy. There is also a weekly \Leadership Lab\ where students get hands-on military skills training. In addition, there are occasional weekend training exercises where you can learn such skills as rappelling, white water rafting, cold weather survival and marksmanship. Besides the training ROTC cadets receive, they get financial benefits as well. There are merit based, 2 aJJd 3 year scholarships which pay 80% of tuition. 1'bese scholarships also pay fer lab fees and provide money- for books as well as $100 per month as a tax free allowllnce. Contracted cadets also ha-ve a guaranteed job waitinjl for them in the Regular or Res-erve Anny upon graduation. I hope I have enlightened some of you about the ROTC program and hope I maybave answered any questions -wllich you might have had. If I fuave sparked your interest in joii:Jing the ROTC program, y()u are more than welcome to ~omtact me, or Captain Bill Adanls at 783-2497 for more detlciled information. Sincel'ely, Jared Galazin '93 Community Service with a Twist To the Editor: Most fraternities on campus usually have one big community service project per year~ From the Delta Gamma Olympics to the Phi Delta Theta aU night softball marathon, greek organizations come up with creative gimmicks to try to raise money for a special cause. Kappa Sigma will do the same this spring with an unusual event. .On April 24, 1992, Kappa Sigma is sponsoring the First Annual Union College Cow Drop. The details of the event are rather humorous. The rugby field will be divided into one thousand, four by four foot squares. Deeds to each individual plot will be sold for $2 apiece. At one o'clock in the afternoon on Friday the 24th, a cow will be led onto the field and allowed to roam freely over the plots that were sold. The person owning the plot on which the cow \hears the call of nature\ will win a grand prize of $400. The organizers of the event are donating the proceeds to Ducks Unlimited, an organization that protects and restores the endangered wetlands of North America. Ducks Unlimited was founded in 1937, and since then it has completed over 5,000 projects aimed at protecting over 5 million acres of wetlands . The Brothers of Kappa Sigma chose this organization becaus() the environment is an important cause which is overloolced by many fundraising evellts on this campus. All members of the Union College community, as -well as the Schenectady comm11nity, are invited to buy plots ~llich will be on sale in the College Center. Any questions cabout the event can be clarified l>'y the Brothers of Kappa Sigma, Matt Lanni 7 BEDROOM HOUSE Available for 92-93 ·Large bedrooms • 2 modern bathrooms • Large kitchen ·All appliances. ·Washer & dryer ·Large deck •Alarm system ·700 South Avenue \A Union Tradition for 19 Years\ can 370-3275 days 370-5498 evenings (leave mesutme) Wake Up-- You're Not Dreaming r<I>'s of Your Choice Are Actually Delivering Breakfast! Sat. Aprilll th--delivery On Sale in College Center For Only $3--Proceeds Go to Cerebral Palsy Two MORE CENTS by Stephanie Fray Although the administra-tion has already begun to boast of Union's selection as host for the National Conference of Undergraduate Research in 1995, it is unclear as to whether or not the college is truly ready to take on this task. This uncertainty stems diectly from student acco11nts of both disorganization and lack of guidance given to this year's attendees in Minne.apclis two weeks ago. Although the complaints were both numero11s and diverse, the account to follow will focus primarily on one specific situation. Upon arrival~ one student discov~red that her presentation was scheduled incorrectly. ln short, her philosophical analysis was grouped with studie.s on art and music. To her dismay, Union's coordinator, a member of the board of NCUR, was of no assistance. In fact,. he was no where to be found during the entire weekend. Moreover. when the student coincidentally burn)Jed into him in the hotel lobby and explained her plight., he casually shrugged his shoulders and stepped away. Mter he failed to act in his capacity as both a lloard member and a c;haperone, the student was forced to fend for herself. As a res11lt, she was asked to change her oral presentation to a poster display and was once again given tile run around in her search for computer facilities to prepare for this unexpected change of()lans. Many Union students in attendance were u!)set that there were absolutely no group events planned. By th~ same token, althougb. one chaperone once resided in the Mi11neapolis area, she made no effort to suggest any points of interes.t throughout the city. Furthennore, it is apparent that the institution spent a great deal of money unnecessarily on accommc;-dations. In short, both chaperones failed to help make the: experience a positive one and many students left the conference feeling bitter. The college clearly had difficulty directing the handful of students it so proudly sent to NCUR this year. Jf tllis is at all an indication of the college's ability to organize the conference for over one thousand attendees two years froiii now amidst numerous other bicentennial events, the administl'ation has its work cut out for it. ANONYMOUS L.ETTERS AND THOSE OVER 500 WORDS WILL NOT BE PRINTED. THERE WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONS. All Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Condordiensis office by 4:00 pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis.

· CONCORDJENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 10 STEINMETZ SYMP·OSIUM ON STUDENT CREATIVE, .S ----------------=----------PROGRAM of EVENTS • APRIL 10, OPENING SESSION 1:00 P.M. College Center Auditorium Greetings; - Margaret H. Schadler Introdudi()D of Speaker - Robert Baker KEYNOTE SPEAKER - Richard Selzer, Union Alumnus Class 1948, Physician, Author SESSION I 2:00 p.m. - 3:20 p.m. A Humanities '019 - Faculty Moderator - Stephen LaBonne David Sacllar - Immuno-neuttaHzing Epito.pe of h-FSH (beta) That Confers Contraception in Female Rats Andrew R. Rosen - Hydroxylamine Increases cGMP Production in Isolated Islets of Langerhans Sponsor - George Butterstein Gregory J. Barrett - Analysis of Carbon Redistribution Following Defoliation SJM!ns~r - Peter Tobiessen Donald Valerio and Michael Scaccia - Isolation and Sequencing of a eDNA Clone for Regulation of Drosophila Neural Development SJM!nsor - Stephen LaBonne B. Humanities 110- Faculty Moderator- John Marincola Jennifer Lyn Cohen -A Literary and Bioethical Analysis of Dr. Robin Cook's Mystery Thrillers Spomsor - Anne Scott Catherine Alquist- Women Warriors in the Ancient World Sponsor- John Marincola Joshua Fausty- Prescriptive Ethics Within a Deterministic Universe Spomsor - Jan Ludwig C. Humanit·ies 112 - Faculty Moderator - Eshragh Motahar Richard Burchill - Analysis of the Productive Efficiency of Police in New York State Spomsor - Harold Fried Eliza~.eth MacArthur - The Effects of Deregulation on Interest Rates and Monetary Policy Matthew Steckler- Effect of Defense Cuts on the U.S. Economy SJ»BS()r - Eshragh Motahar Karen Harwitz- Thurgood Marshall and His Unconstituted Leadership in the Assault on Segregated Education SJ»DSitr -James Underwood D. Humanities 114- Faculty Moderator- Harry Marten Adarn B. Fischer - Collapse and Restructuring of Chivalry in Malory and Shakespeare . Nicole L. Smith - Just and Unjust Ways of God SJ»BS()r - Elizabeth Mazzola Toni Subklewe - Detachment and Connection: Hand Imagery in L' Avventura Spons()r • Edvige Giunta Erica L. Frank - Dramatic Reading \Childhood Meanness\ SpollS(Jr • Jordan Smitb E. Humanities 115 - Faculty Moderator - Donald Thurston Panel 011 Tei'JII Abroad in Japan Randi Levinson - Japan Bashing Chris Matteson- The Japanese High School Student Studying in the Ullited States Julie Sh.anebrook - The Economic Status of Women in Sweden and Japan Sponsor - Donald Thurston F. Humanities 116- Faculty Moderator· Suzanne Benack Laurie Cummings - A Multi-scale Assessment of Dissociative Experiences Spomsor - Suzanne Benack Erin Reams and Robert Vialardi - Product Perception as a Function of Product Price Suzanne Kerin - Image-enhancing Products as a Model of Persuasion and Self-monitoring Propensities Melissa A. Wyman - The Effects of Self-Disclosure on Attraction Sponsor - Kenneth DeBono G. Humanities 117 - Faculty Moderator - Roset Khosropour Rawlings Lamberton- Interaction of a Jet of Air with an Acoustic Resonator SponsDr - Roset Khosropour Karsten Contag - Blue Salt: Color Center Defects in Salt Crystals SponiDr - James McWhirter Peter Protzel - The Study of Trace Elements in Human Teeth Using Proton Induced X-ray Emission (PIXE) Spons()r ·Christopher Jones Charles R. Calkins - Cellular Automata and the Bootstrap Percolation Problem Spons()r • Gary Reich H. Social Sciences 010 - Faculty Moderator - Camille Laparra Papers in Foreign Languages Denise Haft - Los Sltnbolos Arquetfpicos en Los Pasos Perdidos de Alejo Carpentier (in Spanish) · Sponsor a Victoria Martinez Wanda Fast- El Poder de las Mujeres en Don Quijote (in Spanish.) Sponsor a Pilar Moyaoo Marisa Purpora - Simone de Beauvoir et la Question de l'Identite Feminine au Vingtieme Siecle (in French) Rebekah Bagnoli - La Vision Sociale de Balzac dans Le Pere Gori'ot a Travers l'Etude de la Transformation de Rastignac (in Frencll) Sponsor.- Camille Laparra 1 Social Sciences·ot2- Faculty Moderator- George Gmelch Culture and Community in Rural Barbados Timothy Vaughan -The Evolution of Rural Barbadian Domestic Work Chester Urban - The Occupational Subculture of Barbadian Fishermen Eric Johnson- Hurricane Janet and the Modernization of the Barbadian Fishing Fleet - Sara Finnerty - Impact of American Television in a Barbadian Village Andrea Bruhn- Union Students and Barbadian Home Stay Families Sponsor - George Gmelch J. Social Sciences 014- Faculty Moderator- Thomas D'Andrea Debra D. Danforth - The Development of Pronominal Reflexives in Pre-School Children Sponsor - Thomas D'Andrea Karen D. Neddermeyer - Comparing Recognition and Event Frequency Judgements: The Role of Expectation Sponsor - Hugh Foley Kathleen E. Glastetter - Do Children See Letters Better than Adults? Evidence for Structural' Theory of Reading Sponsor - Seth Greenberg Erik Westby - Teacher's Perceptions of Creative Students Sponsor - Vicki Dawson K. Social Sciences 103- Faculty Moderator- Sharon Gmelch Beth Ann Isenberg - The Effect of Situational Factors on Acquaintance Rape Sponsor \ Kenneth DeB~no Sara L. Fike - Domestic Violence and Police Involvement Sponsor - nene M. Kaplan Cynthia Butler - Alcoholism and the College Student Amy Joslin - Feminist Participation Based on Individual Definitions of Feminism Sponsor • Sharon Gmelch SF:SSION D •••••• Arts Building-3:20p.m. -4:10p.m. POSTERS - Dance Studio Jeffrey A Nield- A One Year Daily Survey of Waterbirds at Collins Lake Spoasor • Carl George Phu Le and Ellen Park - The Art of Biology Sponsors - Carl George and Walter Hatke Beth Carlson and Roselle Eisma - Androgens in Pregnancy Spon~r - George Butterstein Susan Richter - Construction of an Instrument for Doing Fast Time-Resolved Infrared Spectroscopy Sponsor - David H~yes Theodore C. Stieglitz- Comparative Avalanche Spectra in Sandpiles of Differing Composition Steven James Kusiak - Condensation and Agglomeration of M~ in the Early Solar System Sponsor - David Peak Agnes Anne Turbiasz • AIDS Prevention Among College Studemts Sponsor - Carol Weisse Lurdes Ramos - Comparison of Conflict in Black and White Romantic Relationships Sponsor - Suzanne Benack Charles Calkins - A Parallel Approach to 3D Cellular Autornata James D. Teresco- Self-Organization in 3D Cellular Automata Sponsor - Michael Frame James S. Robertson- Color Card- Sun Workstation Application Sponsor - George Williams Michael D. Moore - Victorr - A Voice Programmed Robot Brian S. Macherone - Autonomous Robot Sponsor - Cherrice Traver Wayne Sheets- Computer Based Aircraft Auto-Pilot and Flight Management System Darryl· Marchionne - Electric Vehicle and Battery Performance Sponsor - Frank WitCks .. '.' - • J ,· - • • - • • ,, •• '. (. • - ~ • • • • -~ ;;: Sl A B c [

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 11 .SCHOLARLY and RESEARCH ACHIEVEMENTS 10, 1992 • UNION ·coLLEGE----------------------- PAINTING, DRAWING, PRINTMAKING, SCULPTURE PHOTOGRAPHY AND THREE~DEMENSIONAL DESIGN ·EXHIBmON Arts Building - Atrium Gallery and Second Floor PAINTINGS .. Atrium Gallery Amy Cypres, Carol Harris, Edward Walley Sponsor - Walter Hatke · DRAWINGS - Atrium Gallery and Second Floor Mia Caetano, Lauren Entes, Nicole Goldin, Edward Hirshfield,.· Matthew Kelley, Alison Kocsis, Carolyn Levy; Wendy Liebeck, Gregory Palmer, Jennifer Robbins, Mami Schneider, Melissa Tolan, Jennifer Voerman, Margaret Weber, Natasha Zabka, Hallie Sirota, Jennifer Huang Sponsor - Walter Hatke PRINTMAKING .. Sponsor • Sandra Wimer Sara Weiner, Carol Harris, Danielle Triola, Christopher Zuhr SCULPTURE • Sponsor - Chris Duncan Alison Kocsis, Kristine Drew, Annamaria Levito, Alix Goldschmidt, Eugenia Rutherford PHOTOGRAPHY • Sponsor - Benjamin Martin Katherine Ross - Generations of Mothers and Daughters Lisa Tait- Minorities at Union, 1992 Suzanne LaDuke - Portraits, 1992 Group Exhibition, Second Floor Lara Greenberg, William Railton, Mathew Trainor, Anna Patton, Allison Schneider, Rozlyn McCall, Megan Kenney, Ashley Reeve mREE-DEMENSIONAL DESIGN .• Sponsor - Chris Duncau Scott Whitney, Scott Marrero, Randheer Shailam, Jennifer Drazen, Charles Kemp, Glen Meixell SESSION ill ...... 4:10P.M.· 5:30P.M. A. Humanities 019 - Faculty Moderator - Leo Fleishman Daniela E. Hoffman - Effect of 6-MBOA on Reproduction and Sex Ratio in Pine Voles Sponsor - Margaret H. Schadler Catherine J. Marshall- Specializations of the Visual System to Habitat Conditions in Anoline Lizards Anna Bess Sorin - A Behavioral Test of Visual Acuity in Anoline Lizards · Phu Le and Nidhir Sheth - Spectral Sensitivity in GoldfiSh Under Diurnal and Nocturnal Conditions Sponsor- Leo J. Fleishman B. Humanities 110 - Faculty Moderator - Karl DeJesus Neil Brett Grodsky - Tryptophan Fluorescence of ATCase and its Catalytic Subunit Under Various Denaturant Conditions Kristin L. Trudeau - Tyrosine Fluoresence to Monitor the Denaturation of a Protein Sponsor - Ruth Sllversmitla Timothy Ryan Cregan - The Binding of 2-Acetylnaphthalene to y -Cyclodextrin and Modified f:J-Cyclodelrtrins Sponsor - Thomas Werner Lalbachan Budhai - Synthesis and Reactions of Chiral Organosilanes Sponsor • Karl DeJesus C. Humanities 112- Faculty Moderator- Suthathip Yaisawamg Marie N. Wheeler - The Effect of External fudebtedness on Reform in Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia Sponsor - Bruce Reynolds Kristen Fifield - The Role of Government in Economic Development Sponsor - Harold Fried Sreedhar Samudrala - The Transformation of the U.S. Hospital Industry 1988-1991 - A Case Study of Ellis Hospital vs. New York vs. U.S. Sponsor - Peter Prosper Dalton W. Menhall II- Productive and Scale Efficiencies in the U.S. Hospital Industry Sponsor· Suthatbip Yaisawamg D. Humanities 114 - Faculty Moderator - John Garver Philip R. Royce - P~ovenance Analysis of Newfoundland's Foreland Basin Strata from the Ordovician Era Sponsor • John Garver Arnie Yuskaitis - Chemical Composition of Surface and High- Uranium Well Water from the Sunapee Area, NH Sponsor - Kurt Hoilocher Daniel R. Jahne · The Migration of Heavy Metals in Contaminated Water from a Landfill Sponsor - George Shaw Wendy L. Witmer- Partial Orderings Arising from Graphs Sponsor - Alan Taylor ' . ' . ~ .~ . , ' . ' . ·. . - . - ' . - : . ' ' . E. Humanities 115 · Faculty Mod~rator - Donald Thurston Panel on Term Abroad in J.apau, continued Heather Bobo - Changing J:apanese Management Practices Jeffrey Googel - The Non-Decision to Drop the Bomb Stephanie Torto - Should Japan be a Permanent Member of the UN Security Council? Sponsor - Donald Thurston F. Humanities 116- faculty Moderator- Richard Wilk Steve Sawicki - HydroelectriiC Power Generation Using an Oscillating Water Columm System Sponsor - Richard Wilk Patrick Richard Varley- Inv-estigation of Blood Flow in the Human Heart via Aortic Wind T1.1nnel Modeling Sponsor - J, Ric::bard Sb1111t1brook Darren Challey - Optimization of Electrostatic Precipitator Performance Sponsor • Frank Wicks Charles R. Calkins ·The Administration of a Programming Contest: An Object Oriented Approach Sponsor - David Hemmemdinger ' G. Humanities 117 - William Zwicker Brad D. Rothenberg - Social Choice Theory Sponsor - William Zwicker Michael Rizzo, Jr.- The Effects of Glasnost on Historiography in the Soviet Union Stephanie Fray - Soviet Influence on Czechoslovak Reform Sponsor - Robert Sbarlet Thomas Fallati - The Challenge of Pluralism: Religion and American Democracy Sponsor - JDsepb Board H. Social Sciences 010 - Faculty Moderator - Camille Laparra Papers in a Foreign Language, continued Synn~ve Smeets - Der Begriff der Freiheit bei Goethe und bei Schiller (in German) Francesca Mattii- Goethe und Schiller: Zwei Wege zur Wahrheit (in German) Christopher S. Eisler - Zwischen Phantasie und Wirklichkeit in Tiecks Der Blonde Eckherr (in German) Sponsor - Auton Warde I. Social Sciences 012 - Faculty Mooerator - George Gmelch Culture and Community in Rural Barbados, continued Kristen Ruckstuhl - Barbadian Women and the Female Headed Household Jonah Weiner- Child Rearin.g in a Barbadian Village Kristin Neilbergs - Coming of Age in Rural Barbados Zara Dugan - Death and Dying in Rural Barbados Sponsor - George Gmelch J. Social Sciences 014- Faculty Moderator- Jill Salvo Lee Metchick and Deborah Frease - Danazol's Effect on Exploratory Behavior Sponsors - Carol Weisse amd George ButtersieiD Hetal Thakor Amin - Parasemal Analysis of Aspergillus parasitious Sponsors - Jill Salvo and .Joseph Salvo Sunita Shailam - The Healin~ Heart - The lniportance of Caring and Compassion on the Pmrt of the Physician Sponsor - Virginia Dei'Scll Belinda C. Basaca - A Cross Cultural Analysis of the Sociology of Medicine in the Philippines versus the United States Sponsor - Randolpll Quaye K. Social Sciences 1~3- Faculty Mooerator- Kenneth DeBono Cara Lynn Cuite - Reinforcimg Fear Appeals Karen Neddermeyer - In-Gt:<Jups, Out-Groups, and Persuasion Mary Levinsohn - Depression and Persuasion Allison King - Attitude-Beha'Vior Relations: The Ro_le of Previous Behavior Sponsor - Kenneth DeBoa.- L. Social Sciences 104- Faculty M€0derator -Paul Genest Michael Scaccia - Obligation and the HIV -Infected Physician Sponsor - Robert Baker Julie C. Medow- Images and Uses of Food in Italian American Film and Poetry Sponsor - Edvige Giunta Andrew Lip man - Stoicism amd Free Will Sponsor - Paul Genest BANQUET FOR PRESENTERS, MODERATORS AND SPONSORS Upper Class Dining Hall 6:00p.m.

\Seinfeld\ and \Lost In Yonkers\ Come To Proctor's Jerry Seinfeld, star of his own hit show \Seinfeld\ ()TI NBC and a regular guest ()R \The Tonight Show\ and \Late Night with David Letterman,\ will appear at Proctor's Theatre on April 9, 1992. \Jerry Seinfeld is easily one of the best stand-up comedians working today. So, it is with a great deal of excitement that we add him back to our 1991-92 season schedule,\ commented Gloria Lamere, proctor's Executive Director. \He had cancelled a previous date because his series had been renewed and taping did no0t allow for touring in the fall. But we were recently able to reschedule the. date for spring, April 9.\ Seinfeld is one of the busiest comedians working today, appearing in clubs, conc~rt halls, and casino showrooms :in addition to his numerous TV appearances and weekly comedy ·series. Seinfeld's universal appeal led to his first TV special, \Jerry Seinfeld's Stand- Up Confidential,\ seen on HBO in 1987-88. He has also served as host for NBC's \Spy TV: How to Be Famous\ and Showtime's \Aspen Comedy Festival.\ His intelligent and subtle style earned him America's \Funniest MaJe Stand-Up Comic .. recognition at the 1988 American Comedy Awards. And,mostrecently, he co-hosted the \1991 Emmy Award Show.\ Born in Brooklyn and now maintaining residence in both L.A. and New York, Seinfeld says he bocame fascinated by comedians at the age of eight watching tJtem on television. \I've always been completely focused on it. Stand-up is not work to m~. There's nothing in the world I\d rather do.\ When_ asked why he never takes a vacation, Seinfeld replies, \From wha1? My whole life is a vacation;\ All seats. for this show are $25.00. Lost in Yonkers will be at Proctor's A.pri:l 11 with two shows, one at 3 p.m. and at 8 p.m. When Neil Simon's Pulitzer Prize-winn]ng play, \Lost in Yonkers,\ ~tomes to Schenec- tady two ()f its stars will be stepping directly from the Broadway stage to the stage of Proctor's Theatre. Mercedes McCambridge will star in the role she played on Broadway. Susan Giosa leaves the comedy, \'!Breaking Legs,\ to play opposite her. McCarn bridge plays Grandma Kurnitz, the grandmother who rules her home with an iton fist and who is caring for her two teenage grandsons while their father goes off to sell scrap iron in the South. Giosa plays Bella, the love-starved aunt of the boys. Set in 1942, the story deals with the relationships of the boys with these two women and an uncle. The play has won the Tony, Drama Desk, Drama League and Outer Critics awards in addition to the Pulitzer Prize. Others in the cast include Jeff Maynard and Alex Dezen as the 13 and 16 year old grandsons, Ned Eisenberg as the shady Uncle Louie, Martin Shakar as the father, and Carol Harris as another aunt. This is the first national company of \Lost in Yonkers,\ starting out on a two-year tour sponsored by American Express Gold Card. American Express Senior Vice President,. Gold Card Marketing, Lewis M. Taffer, notes that Neil Simon's \unique ability to make us laugh nourishes the thrill that only a live theatrical performance can provide. And we welcome the opportunity to help bring his latest Broadway hit to audiences everywhere.\ Gene Saks and Emanuel Azenberg have directed and produced respectively, as they did the original production which continues on ·Broadway. Tickets are $28.00, $25.00 or $20.00. - Arts Lecture On Print Making In The 60's and 70's Thorn O'Connor, Professo0r of Printmaking, University at Albany, will present a lectu:re \Printmaking During the 1960's and 1970's,\ Tuesday, April 14, 1992, 10:30 am in the College Center Auditorium. The lecture is in conjunction with an exhibition of prints from the Herman and Rose B ur~ts Print Collection that is sh()wing in the Strauss Lounge of :the Campus Center April 6-April 17. (Viewing hours are set from 1:OOpm- 3 :OOpm Monday through Friday.) Professa>r O'Connor, a teacher for thirty years, is a Tamarind Fellow and his work Poet Audre Lorde TO Read New York State Poet Audre Lorde will read from her wol'k on Tuesday, April 14, 1992 .at 8:00 pm in Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue on thle University at Albany's downtown campus. Tile reading, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by the New York State Writen Institute. Lorde recently received the Walt Whilman Citation of Merit for Jl(lets and will serve as State Poet for 1991-93. The citation is prresented biennially, under the a.egis of the Writers Institute, to pay tribute to a New York State poet and his or her body of work. Write t·or Arts & Entertainment· is included in the collections of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.; National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C.; Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia; Smithsonian Institute, Washington, D.C.; Museum of Modern Art, New York; Whitney Museum of American Art, New York. VISUAL ARTS - CALL FOR ENTRIES The 14th Annual Photography Regional, open to photographers within 100 miles of Albany. ENTRIES: Entries must be hand delivered to the Albany Center Galleries, 23 Monroe St., Albany, NY: April 30 & May 1, 10 a.m. ·5:30 p.m.; May 2 & 3, 11 a.m.- 4 p.m. FEES: $5 per eney, maximum of 5 entries, lifih entry free. (nly a maximum of 3 can be selected for exhibitionl PREPARAT ON: Entries must be framed and ready to hang with a 3x5 Index card attached, Identifying the artist's name, address, phone number, title of piece, media, & price. JUROR: Jock Sturges PROSPECTUS: For prospectus call (518) 462·4775 EXHIBITION: May 22 -July 3, 1992 CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE t2 Phi Beta Kappa To Bring Noted Filmmaker To Un~ion Stan Brakhage, who has made over 200 independent films and won numerous- awards fm his work, will visit the campus for two days this month as Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. He will present a program on Gertrude Stein: Meditative Literature and Film (including two of his films based on Stein's Visions in Meditation) on Thursday, April 16 at 11 :30 a.m. in S S 016, and a retrospective of his films (with comments and explanations) on the same day at 7:30 p.m. in the Col:lege Center Auditorium. On Friday, April 17,. he will meet with interested students and faculty for a discussion of film making. The time and place will be announced. Brakhage's films range in length from nine seconds to four hours and incorporate a wide variety of forms arid techniques. ·Among the most recent, in addition to Visions in Meditation, are Faust 4, City Streaming, and The Delicacies of Molten Horror Synapse. Brakhage taught film history and aesthetics for many years at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and since 1981 has been Professor of Film Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder. He has written several hooks (including Film at Wit's End, Metaphors on Vision, and !.. .. Sleeping, and received an impressive number of honors and awards. He has had a retrospective at the American Museum of Moving Image, and two at the Museum of Modern Art. In 1986, he received the American Film Institute's Maya Deren Award for outstanding independent film and video artists. He was awarded the McDowell Medal in 1989, and in 1991 was an honored quest at the London Film Festival. The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholars Program makes available every year a number of distinguished scholars who visit about 100 universities and colleges. Its purpose is to contribute to the intellectual life of the campus by making possible an exchange of ideas between the visiting scholar and the resident students and (aculty. Natasha's Stqrs. . ARIES (March21-Aprill9) You've got your ha11ds filled this week as you try to straigllten out what complicated last month. This weekend, you pass the peace pipe and celebrate recent gains. Now isn't kissing and making up fun? Some mistake you for the Cheshire cat. You grin ear to ear on Monday. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) The grass may he greener on the other side, but you're learning not to 'covet' so badly or so much. Feeling better about yomself, you may have\'a shopping spree or romp. You realize this weekend the grass is as green as you i need it right at home. Forget those foreign pastures! GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Thls week highlights you, and you certainly are a force to be dealt with. Your clear- ness and effectiveness come out of the recent murky confusion. Money mat- ters DO get handled, and by the weekend, you're all ready to talk and share your feelings. Love is in the air. CANCER (June 21-July 22) You may be strll playing out a gothic novel this week. though you can choose to put it all in perspective. You get to show what you are about.- inttigue. mystery, gelJUineness. It's really your call as to which way the chips fall. You are definitely the commander of this ship. LEO (July 23-August 22) You hit the jackpot early on this week, though you may then experience a downward slide. You can rationalize it all you want, but it's when you recognize your part as a player that you reverse your direction. By the end of the week, you create a wonderful weekend for you and all those around you. VIRGO {August 23-September 22) You are in tile spotlight all week long. Changes are brewing at work, thougll you can't be sure of the outcome. 'Ihink success, and count on success, and you should come out on tqp. This weekend, vanish and recharge your batteries with a favorite person. And who could that be, hmmm? LmRA (September 23-0ctober 22) You're zooming to the top this week Check out the real truth before you 1aunch into action thi's weekend, or you find yourself a sorry Libra holding Cupid's broken (ouch!) anow. Watch a tendency to throw yourself into your work to escape. Escape won't work; perspective will. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) The theme of the week is together- ness, though to some of you, it may look like letting another have all the control. The real lesson here is that there are solutions that can make both of you happy. 1bis weekend you get out on the town pretending all is well. SAGITIARIUS (November 22- December 21) Even you, one of the most sociable signs in the zodiac, may have enough of partners, friends, as- sociates and their weirdness. You may make some important decisions as to what you can and cannot do. But they're irrelevant this weekend when you are in a runaway mode. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) Work demands attention - there have been problems there. Your nerves are fried and you are like- ly to snarl at a partner, or anyone around you. You get to root of all this evil during the weekend. You cleanse and recharge and once more return to a loving stance. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) You extend both sides of the week into long weekends and what goes on is obvious: two days of work at best. Of course, you could plug your high libido into creatively energizing your work and becoming a member of your own Peace Corps. Looks like play, play, play, either way. PISCES (February 19-March 20) You need to get certain personal mat- ters tied to your security handles this week. You are likely to be one of the more serious-minded members of the zodiac though you do get nipped mid~ week by the spring fever bug. Be more nurturing to those you care about, even if you are hassled.· Cl992 by Kills· Feat\li\Na Synd.

' 1 I White Men Definately Can't Jump by Cort Boulanger Arts Editor White Men Can't Jump is an ex.tremely appropriate title because this movie never g~ts ·Off 'the ground. Despite an interesting premise and a talented cast, White Men Can't Jump airballs on its entertainment potential. Woody Harrelson stars as a hoakie (sound familiar) ex-college llasketbal'l player who is forced to hustle games to pay back mob debts. It also stars Wesley Snipes as a hustler who- is trying to get his family out of tile ghetto. Although this scenario allows for many possibilities, the movie loses its focus and tries to become something it is not. The plot becomes bogged down by the over-developing of Harrleson's relationship with his girlfriend, played by Rosie Perez. Their constant bickering becomes tiresome and her obsession with. getting on Jeopardy! To alleviate their money problems creates a bizarre and rather lengthy recreation of the popular game show. As witnessed in this scene and many others like it, the everyday dialogue between· characters is confusing and not smooth flowing, often allowing for long,. unnecessary pauses. With wbat they are given to work whh, Harrelson and Snipes do a ,good job with their roles. However, no matter how well done the other aspects of the movie and, a bad script makes for a bad movie. . What is lost in this failure is he)w the urba11 culture is developed. The basketball itself becomes bigger than life, an inner city folklore of sorts. It shows the protocol that exists between the players, which includes talking trash and costant bragging about hoops prowess. The scenes filmed on the basketball courts are by far the most entertaining, however, eventually even the humorous bantering becomes tedious because the scenes are dragged out too long. White Men Can't Jump is a clever idea that somehow got lost along the way. Instead of a fun film about street basketball it turns into a romantic, politically correct jumble (with predictably all of the white and black stereotypes of the beginning of the film being eliminated in one convenient fell swoop) that bores the viewer. Lighten up Hollywood. Skidmore College Theater Presents Spring Season The Skidmore College Department of Theater is pleased to announce the 1992 Spring production session. Peter Shaffer's Eq u us explores the childh()Od e:ll{periences that permeate one•s lifetime. When Alan Strang, age 17, plucks out the eyes of six. horses. Martin Dysart, a psychologist, is left with the responsibility of discovering the reasons behind this violent act. As Dysart goes deeper into Strang's mind, his own awareness and rationale begin to break down. The production is direct~ by Adain Gibgot, a senior, with design elements by David Yergan and Sherrie Coleman '93. Performance dates were Thursday-Saturday, February 27-29 and Thursday- Saturday~ March 5-7 at 8 pm, and Sunday, March 8 at 3 pm The seminar production, The Threepemmy Opera by Bertolt Brecht, with music by Kurt Weill, asks the musical question: \Okay~ okay. okay-- so the cold war's over! - But what about the dass struggle? And why can't a free market economy take ~care of the poor?\ The Threepenny ()pet a ls dire(! ted by Lary Opitz. Mr. Opitz is the scenic designer, with lighting design by David Yergan, and costume design by C()nnie Singer. Musical direction for the piece is provided by Judy Fitzner- Atchinson with vocal direction by Anne Turner, and choreography by Barbara Opitz. Performances are Friday- Saturday, April3-4. Thursday- Saturday April 9-11 at 8 pm, and at 3 pm on Sundays April 5 and April 12. The C hamgeling by Thomas Middleton and Those interested in cr~ating ceramics at Union. starting next fa'// Please contact ,Ned Walley at 386-4306 or Box 2202. William Rowley is a classic of English literature. Beatrice V ermandero is a young noble lady betrothed to a man she does not love. In order to free herself frQm this . plight, she entices the service of Deflores, her father's deformed servant. This Jacobean drama is a masterpiece of the macabre exploring the virtues and vices of human sexuality. It is directed and adapted by senior Victoria Love, with scenic .design by sophomore John Beckman and lighting design by junior Caleb Ruth. Costume designers for the production are seniors J. Ryan Dunn and Victoria Love. Performances are Thursday- Saturday, April 23-25 at 8 pm. Admission for all of the abo~e is $7 general, $5 student and senior citizen. Group rates for 10 or more are available. Top Video Rentals 1 . The Rocketeer starring Bill Campbell (Walt Disney Home Video- Rated: PG) Last Week: No. 1 2. Thelma & Louise Geena Davis (MGM/UA - R) No. 3 3. Regarding Henry Harrison Ford (Paramount~ PG-13) No.2 4. Point Break Patrick Swayze (Fox Video- R) No.5 5. Hot Shots Charlie Sheen (Fox- Video - PG-13) No. 6 6. Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead Christina Ap- plegate (HBO - PG-13) No. 7 7. Mobsters Christian Slater (MCA/Universal - R) No. 8 8. Double Impact Jean-Claude van Damme (Columbia TriStar - R)No. 4 9. Jungle Fever Wesley Snipes (MCA/Universal - B.) No. L 1 l 0. Pure Luck Martin Short (MCA/Universal - PG) No. 13 11. City Slickers Billy Crystal (Columbia TriStar- PG-13) No. 9 12. Dying Young Julia Roberts (Fox Video- R) No. 12 13. Harley Davidson And The Marlboro Man Mickey Rourke (MGM/UA -R) No. 10 Woody Harfelson and Rosie Perez in \White Men Can't Jump\ National nallery of Offers $14,000 Internships Art The National Gallery of Art will offer three paid internships for 1992-93 to qualified African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, Native American, and other minority U.S. citizens. Interns will work on special projects in the Gallery from September 14, 1992 through June 11, 1992. The stipend is $14,000. Now in its third year, the program is designed to provide an introduction to the operation of museums and professional experience for minority . students considering careers in museums. To be eligible, applicants must have completed at least an undergraduate degree by September 1992. The deadline for applications is April 17, 1992. \Educational efforts for minorities continue to be a high priority for the National Gallery,\ said J. Carter Brown, director of the National Gallery. \The internship program has proved of great mutual benefit both to the Gallery and the talented individuals who have participated.\ Previous interns are currently employed at the National Endowment for tile Arts in the dance program and at the Baltimore Museum of Art as publicity assistant. Another is pursuing a Master of Fine Arts degree at the Art lnstitute of Chicago. For more information about the program and an application, contact: Amy McCampbell, Academic Programs, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. 20565. Phone: (202) 842-6182. FAX: (202) 789- '2681. Campus Paperback Bestsell~rs 1. Life's Uttlelllstruction Book, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hil~ $5.95.) Advice for allaining a full life. 2. The Ann, by John Grisham. !Island/Dell_, $5.99.) Young lawyet' confronls the hidden woOOngs of hiS firm. 3 Fried G.-1 Tomatoes at 1M Wllisl!e Step Cale, by Fann1e Flagg • (~raw·Hil $6.95.1 A woman's rememberanOO ci loo '\the deep Sw1h ~. The Prtnoe ot Tlcle8, by Pal Cooroy. (~ $5.99.) . Southern man con1roo1s his family's past 1n New Yort< City. s. You J1111t Don't Understand, by DeOOrah Tannen.(Ballan1ine, $1 o.OO.) HOIV men and women C3!1 understand each olher better . !i. Heartbeat, by Danielle Sleel. (Dell, $6.50.) A chance !lflCOU!l'IM leads 101o11eofa man and woman, bolt1 achi6Ver.i in the wOOd ofteleviSIOII. 7. Wayne's Worid: Extreme CloSe-up, by Mike Myern andRoiJin Ruzan. {Hyperon. $7.95.) Based on SatUI!Iay Night LNe sk~ a. seven Habits of Highly Effective POQille. by Steven R. CANey- FilaSide. $9.95.) Guide to personal fulfillmenl _ 9 Scientlllc ProgrMS Goes \Bolnk by Bin WalfllrSOn. • (Andrews & McMeel. $7.95.) Latesl CaMn & Hobbes cartoons __ _ 1D. Unnatural Selectlon,by Gary Larson . (Andrews. & McMee1. $7.95.) Coi1eG1ion ol Fa/ Side camons. Ager.:nl ..... dOnO.AIIIt\ ~&xlka:n..L83A:c!r. ~ 11111 Wild~ Boy, by James Hynes. (Washmglon SquarePrnss,$9.001 An American imcoort abroad in lrelard li\ds himStlll taking p!llt\' the v'olmce of COi1lei11IXli8Y lrisl1 polilics. ihe Shsfbrol!ke Bride, by Catl1erine.Coolter. {Jove. $5.99.) The magnificG!\IIIirst novel in a bilogy of love 1m<! adventure. 2app!, by Wilham C. Byham, Ph.D. w~ Jell CDx.(Fawcell. $10.00.) How to lmpro~e quality, produdivi1y, and employee saUsfaction. AS110<:!An6N\\ -~-......oc~Anoot<Jf'cou.EGE\\\\\

10,000 Maniacs In Review by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Last Sunday night a .relatively s111.all group of Union. students enjoyed the 1 10,000 Mania~s in Memorial Chapel. Sine~ it was first announced tfi at the group would play heie at Union there were many co1nplaints about the location ()of the concert. People did uot feel that the chapel was a !fitting place for this type of c:o:mcert and were upset that they could not dance in this bui_ilding. With President Hu J:l no longer permitting outside concerts the chapel was oiie of the only places the C()ncert committee could come up with for this- concert. Mem o.-ial Chapel was a good size fer this show and the rink or fi.el d house would have been t()O large and the sound would have gotten lost in these huge buildings .. People did in fact dance and everyone who attended the concert seemed to greatly enjoy it. If this concert had been in the rink it would have been embarrassing because of the small turnout; as it was Memorial Chapel was not e:ven full. A blue grass band, The Heartbeats, opened for 10,000 Maniacs. This band was made up of four women. They played (or about 45 mimates; although their music was good it was on a little too long and was rrot the type of music that most Union students carne to hear. The 10,000 Maniacs played for about two hours and played a mix of new and old songs. Although she was ~ked several times, especially towards the end of the show, the group never played \Peace Train.\ The group's lead singer, Natalie Merchant, interac:ted very well with the Union audience. She pulled two Union students up · onto the .stage to dance with her. The band came out for two encores and in tile second one Natalie asked for a hymnal and sang \We Gather Together.\ This went over very well with the crowd. She complimented us on our beautiful campus, and told us how lucky we all are to be here at Union. Sometimes we talce this place for granted and t(:) llear a highly acclaimed singer envying us for being at Union is perhaps what we need to make us appreciate Union. The concert committee should be commended for bringing this gro-up to Union. However it was: unfortunate that more students were not there to appreciate ttis concert. Homemade Theater To Present a Coup/a White Chicks Sitting Around Tal/cing \It's hard we~k:. having fun!\ says one character in John Ford Noonan's zan~ comedy, A Coupla Wliite Chicks Sitting Aro1111d Talking.· The play, whi<Jh was a huge hit Off-Broadway in the early 1980's, opens a.t the Spa Little Theater, Sarat()ga Spa State Park as Home Made Theater's spring producfi()n of the 1991- 92 season. A tour-de-force for two actresses, \W bite Chicks\ . concerns the search for true identity during the revolutionary 1980's. Michelle Summerlin- Yergan ~nd Kathleen Karl Shaw share laughter and emotional turmoil as Maude Mix and Hannah Mae Binder. The elaborate kitchen setting and lighting is designed by Garrett Wilson. Costumes are by Pamela Lyttle and Deborah Koransky and the Director is Johathan Foster. The Concordiensis is searching for artistic people to fill the positions of Layout Staff. Please call 370-6155 if interested. • Performances also on April 11, 24, 25 and May 1 & 2 at 8:15 pm and a matinee on Sunday, April 2c5 at 2:00 pm. Tickets are $14 and $12. An optional Dinn-er/Theater package is available with the Gideon Putnam for an additional $14 peer person plus tax and gratuity. For additional information or reservations call Home Made Tlleater's box office at 587-4427. Top R&BjSoul 1. Vanessa Williams \Save The IBest For Last,~ {Wing/Mercury) Last Week: No.2 2. 1'LC \Ain't 2 !>roud 2 Beg,\ (LafacejArista) N0o. 5 3. Glenn Jones \Here I Go Again,\ (Atlantic) No. 3 4. AtJantic Starr ... Masterpiece,\ (Reprise) No.4 5. Chris Walker ~Take Time,\ (Pendulum/Eiektra) No. 6 6. Aaron Hall \Don't Be Mraid,\ (Soul/MCA) No. 8 7. Phyllis Hyman .. When You Get Right Down To It, .. (PIR) No. 7 8. Sounds Of El:ackness \Tes- tify,\ (Perspective( A&M) No.9 9. Be be & Ce~:e Winans \It's O.K.,\ (Capitol) No. 10 10. Keith Sweat \'Why Me Baby?\ (Elektra) No. 14 SCUBA CERTIFICATION PROGRAM Union Pool Mondays 6-9:30 Starting 4/13. Taught by D!hing Discovery $210-Spring Term. Includes equipment & open water dives. Call Susan Bassett x()484 . to register or stop by the pool. CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL9, 1992 • PAGE 14 Norman Mailer To Speak At SUNY Albany New Y01k State Author Norman Mailer wiU read from his work on Thursday,April 23~ 1992 at 8:00 p.m. in Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue on the University at :Albany's downtown campus. The reading, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Mailer recently received the Edith Wharton Citation of Merit for fiction ·writers and will serve as State Author for 1991-93. The citation is presented biennially, under the aegis of the Writers Institute, to pay tribute to a new York state author and his or her body of work. A prolific and controversial writer, Norman Mailer's work displays a wide scope, a. wiUingness to explore contFoversial themes and to experiment with different forms and styles. His first novel, THE NAKED AND THE DEAD, based on his experiences in the Army in the Philippine mountains during World War II. was published in 1 ~48. A critical and commercial success, the novel was at the top of the NEW YORK TIMES best-seller list for eleven weeks and brought Mailer immediate recognition as one of America's most promising writers. THE NAKED AND THE DEAD remains one of the classic novels of World War II. During the 1960s, Mailer developed a hybrid literary form, combining fiction and nonfiction narrative, in THE ARMIES OF THE NIGHT (1968) which won both the . Ptllitzer Prize and the National Book Award and brought Mailer both popular and critical acclaim, and MIAMI AND THE SIEGE OF CHICAGO (1968), which won a National Book Award. Mailer won a second Pulitzer Price for THE EXECUTIONER'S SONG 1979), a nonfiction novel on the life and execution of conv-icted murderer Gary Gilmore. The book was also nominated for the American Book Award and National Book Critics Circle Award. Mailer received an Emmy nomination for writing the script for the film version of THE EXECUTIONER'S SONG. Mailer has published a wide range of books including THE DEER PARK (1955), on the interlocking power relationships in America of sex, money, politics and Hollywood; ADVERTISEMENTS FOR MYSELF (1959), a collection of essays, letters and fictions on the subjects of politics, sex, drugs, his own writing, and the works of others; WHY ARE WE IN VIE1NAM? (1967), a disk jockey's violent, vulgar narrative of a bear hunt in Alaska; OF A FIRE ON THE MOON (1970), a book on the Apollo 11 moon landing; THE PRISONER OF SEX (1971), an essay in response to the women's liberation movement; MARILYN (1973), a novel- . biography of Marilyn Monroe; THE FIGHT (1976), a report on the Muhammad Ali-George Foreman fight in Zaire, Africa; ANCIENT EVENINGS (1983), a historical novel set in Egypt during the nineteenth and twentieth dynasties (1290- 1100 B.C.). Mailer's most recent work is HARLOT'S GHOST, released in the fall of 1991. At 1,310 pages, it is a work of epic proportion and ambition about the people and the plottings of the C.I.A. during the crucial decades of the \American Century.\ For additional information contact the Writers Institute at . 518-442-5620. Con cordi ens is SUBSCRIPTIONS $40/yr. $100/3 yr. Alumni-Keep Up To date on Events at Union! Put a Personal in Concordiensis! 30 words or less & only 50¢ each. Fill out form at the information booth.

CONCORDIEN:SIS •APA!l9, 1992 • PAGE 15 by Shields Day Brcs:iness Editor Ask any college student today to name the most successf1.1! company of our time anti the most popular answer will certainly be InternaUcnal Business Machines .{IBM). If not careful, the comp~t:ny our generation has alw.a:ys equated with prosperit~ and success may soon fa!J into one of the millions Gf other companies buried in 1tlle NYSE during this recession. For the past few years IBM has been gradually. losing market share and desperately Facin needs to tum itself around. Last year in an attempt to regain shareholder confidence, IBM an11ounced they would begin a reorganization of IBM employees. This employee reorganization has only promoted the younger executives while leaving the veterans stagnate in positions they have held for many years. A few weeks ago this plan backfued in IBM's face when three of their top executives left within two weeks! William Grabe, the top U.S. marketer, said, \I had no delusions that I was going to go run IBM. I just didn't see that happening.\ The other two top executives who left IBM were Senior Vice-President George Conrades and Michael Armstrong. In additi()n to the internal problems IBM is facing, sales were also down last year by For the past few years IBM has been gradually losing market shares . . . 10%! The problem in sales stems from the fact that most companies either (1) already .have a satisfactory computer or (2) would rather purchase a cheap IBM clone capable of Experts Ask U.S. Government To Increase Spending by ·Gary Chase Cot~.c.ordiensis Staff Rec-ently, six Nobel Laureates: Md ninety-four other economi5ts wrote a letter suggesti11g that the U.S. government increase federal spending to stimulate the economy. They feel that the hann do11e. to the economy by increasing the budget deficit in the short run will pay off. Present g:rowth predictions fall short of ~hat they feel will be necessary to foster recovery. After gi\ling the economy a boost, tlte economists called for action; to decrease deficit spending~ Washington does not feel that 1bis plan will provide a lasting stimulus to economic activity. It is. therefore, unlikely that the plan will be implemented. Indicators show that the economy is indeed recovering, but only gradual progress has been made. The Conference Board, a business research organization, found a significant rise in c<>nsumer confidence last month. When consumer confidence rises, people are more likely to spend their earnings and purchase products and services thus causing gr<>wth in the economy. The National Association of Purchasing Management's monthly index for March rose to its highest level since September. A survey of Purchasing Managers also indicated that new orders grew to their highest level since June 1988. This information is welcome SENIORS!!! because manufacturing has been in a slump and these indicators show ~at production is expanding. There is also evidence that payrolls grew in March. Economic activity in the United States in years to com(, will probably not grow at the rates that it did in the 1980's. The gains being made should not be viewed as insignificant. Taking drastic measures to promote an immediate recovery might have harmful effects in the future. I hope that policy makers will not be influenced by the desire to improve economic c<>nditions in the short-run to help aid political interests, but rather that they will be concerned with the overall healtll of the economy for the future. Source: Wall St. Journal Are you }taving a tough time identifying potential employers, discovering the hidde11job market, and keeping motivated during your job The CDC is offering a JOB SEEKERS' CLUB for students who find themselves in this kind of situation. Join us for this program designed to assist seniors in their search for full-time employment in the challenging job market we have tooay. Drop-ins are welcome to take part in this informal program. sear(;lt? Do you wish you b11d some new idea~about career opti()llS, job op- porttl!rities, and bow to get hired? Don't delay! Sign up today in the CDC to keep on target and in control of your own job searcb! R .. fE .. L-A-X !!! .... 1mes running all IBM software. IBM's high quality standards are not enough to entice purchasers to pay for an overpriced computer during this recession. In an attempt to solve this problem, IBM announced that they will start selling clones of their own computer. That's right, IBM may soon become it's own toughest competition! Starting in Europe next year, IBM will sell clones of their own computer produced by an Asian firm. These clones will not bear any IBM name or logo - so that IBM's quality standards will not decline. If this plan is successful, these same computers will be available to U.S. consumers in -a couple of years. Although IBM will certainly remain in the business spotlight for many years to come, they will soon have to find other ways of making a profit. As computers are rapidly becoming a household word, the need for new ones arc declining. In order to remain atop the personal computer industry, IBM will have to expand their product variety. Aside from diversifyin!; nto other areas, one way might be to increase their software department. Although the demand for computer hardware may be declining, there will always be a need for new, updated software! Source: Wall Street Journal Interested in Writing for Bus,iness & Finance? Call Shields x4120 or write to Box 420 THANK YOU STUDENT PHONATHON VOLUNTEERS FOR RAISING OVER $36,000 FOR UNION'S ANNUAL FUND. Christine Alexander '94 Daniel Aquirre '94 Adam Bach '95 Jason Baker '95 Eric Bennett '95 Scott Bowden '95 Jennifer Brown '95 Michele Srustolon '95 Ryan Burke '95 Justin Carignan '95 Kitren Clair '95 Susana Cunanan '95 Brian Davenport '95 Adam Davidoff '95 Jeremy Denise '95 Mark Derkazarian '95 Daniel Donoff '93 Kerstin Dorse '92 Roselle Eisma '92 Jordan Ely '93 Tenley Fisher '95 Thomas Fisher '95 Andrew Frisbie '95 Alexander Furman '95 Alex Green '92 Dawn Harrington '93 Marcie Heffernan '95 Stephanie Howk '95 William Johnson '95 Lisa Kapelus '93 Michelle Kleinhans '94 Susan Laing '93 Elizabeth Landa '95 Theodore Lee '93 Scott Lewis '95 Jean Lopata '92 Tucker Lounsbury '95 Jennifer Manna '95 Christopher Matteson '92 Owen McCarthy '95 Nadine McLaughlin '92 Craig Mochson '95 Debora Montano '95 Eric Murray '95 Anna Paravalos '95 Luke Payne '94 Adam Perlow '94 Stuart Polk '95 Lee Popper '94 Amy Reynolds '95 Adam Roberts '95 Dominic Romeo '95 Jason Rothschild '95 Brett Rubin '95 Eugenia Rutherford '95 Lee Schachter '95 Stuart Sherman '95 Nicole Silvestri '95 Joseph Sullivan '95 Elisabeth Tripp '93 Antonio Viva '95 Matthew Walker '95 Christopher Walsh '92 Marc Weintraub '93 Bart W eisenfluh '95 Angelique Wolf '92 A special thanks to intercollegiate team members who made up over half of the attendees participating in the phonathon. REMEMBER, OUR NEXT PHONATHON IS MAY 19TH AND 20TH! ~

CONCORDIENSIS. APRIL 9, 1992 I PAGE 16 PER!iONAL§ Who wants to make a Vanni's' run? Love, B & J Rockin at Tholos! L()ve, T & B The Best of Broadway Showtunes. Every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. on WRUC 89.7. Twombly- SPRING TERM! We're still taking those late ni_ght study breaks - I'll work \something\ out! Love, Reeb[ Lea& Maya- SO GOOD to have you back! Missed you! Love,Reeba To Fatty: Confucius say - people in glass houses should not throw stones. Confucius say: wise men check under cars before driving- Toker, We miss you! It's not the same here without you. Love US Matty K- Thank you for your new addition to the paper. Can't wait to hang out this weekend. Your #1 Fan. Rachel & Wendy - We MUST start earlier next Monday. Cold cans are just waiting for us. Love, Me Yasoo42 K.leomenous- How about a little CY A Dance Club action? Love, A.R. The Coffeehouse Onllective would looooove to thank the thousands of students and faculty who helped out, and PERFORMED last term! ESPECIALLY Prof. Ross, prof. Meyers and Mike Migliozzi! THANKS! ! Burg: Will 10,000 toblerones or dinner really make up for it? ? · Sorry again .... Karia and PD A, Do you miss the \french fries\ yet? I miss those guys. Love, Mana · la Madre Let the Personals War Begin: Hey Peg Legs, We forgot to tell you something that happened last term. Oh Brett Swiller borrowed your two comforters when D slept over at our place. Sorry to tell you where you've been sleeping the last 3 months. The Doctor CLA!i!iiFIED!i 2 Seniors have a lot of . furniture in great condition and need to sell it. Everything is very inexpensive. Call 374- 7504. You don't need to be 21 to be at the Pub! COMING ...... WCIDW AMI Psychology Wednesday, April 22nd, 7:30 p.m. in the CDC. Reduce, Reuse, Separate And Recycle April 9-15, 1992 For Sale: Inexpensive furniture, great condition. Call: 374-7504. Perfect for off campus apts.!!!! THE PLACE TO BE SEEN IS AT THE PUB!! Tutoring positions still available! Foi' more information contact Barbara immediately - B(}x 279 or phone X4070. Buck a beer ... at the Pub! ~~lUI©l~Wll~ ~©~~~~t~~~ ~~~~rru©l~Hr Apr 9 11 :30 AM CCAud: Minerva Adam Rosman '87 3:00 PM Men's Tennis vs. Rensselaer 3:30PM CDC Job Strategies 4:00 PM Softball vs. Williams Apr 10 Friday Steinmetz Symposium 8:00PM CCAud Movie: JFK 10:30 PM CCAtrium: Cafe \Miche Fambro\ Apr 11 Saturday 12:00 PM Baseball vs. Hamilton 1 :00 PM Softball vs. RIT 2:00 PM Women's Lacrosse vs. William Smith 3:30 PM JV Women's Lacrosse vs. William Smith Apr 12 Week3 Sunday 9:00 AM CC305 Arts Exhibition 12:00 PM Baseball vs. Utica 8:00 PM CCAud Movie: JFK Apr 13 Monday 9:00AM CC305 Arts Exhibition 3:00 PM -7:00 CC302 A.L.A.S. Exhibition Apr 14 Tuesday 9:00 AM CC305 Arts Exhibition 10:00 AM -12 CCAud Visiting Artist Lecture 3:00PM Baseball vs. Williams 3:00PM Men's Tennis vs. Siena Apr 15 Wednesday 9:00AM -1 :00 CCAtrium Job Fair 9:00 AM CC305 Arts Exhibition 12:00 PM CDC: Summer Job Fair 6:00PM CDC: Multicultural Dinner and Speakers 7:00 PM Women's Lacrosse vs. Rensselaer 7:00 PM Men's Lacrosse vs. Springfield 8:00 PM CCAud Movie: JFK 10:30 PM CCAtrium: Cafe \The Groovy Buddhas\ 7:00PM -8 CC203 Pre-Law Society Meeting 7:30 PM CDC :Graduate School Planning for Juniors 6:45PM -9:00 CC406 Brazilian Club

.. CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 17 s r E ·collegiate camouflage A K N 0 S Y N N I :I T s 0 E R 0 s T B E C U M M I s B y R I p 0 p 0 V G I H A A N T E s D 0 H 0 A R K N S A N N A K I M T N A 0 F E I A U T E c I p R I G N F A M N S C K 0 E L A 0 R E .I T T I H W I E G U L T W P E K I E L H N 0 D R T A . M S L E H E A T S 0 I R U H Y 0 D 0 W S D S 0 I R Y R B 0 L .R R E D U A N N E W 0 R D U L E 0 C R P Y E L L E H S N S l S W E B Y R 0 M C 0 L E A M E D N A S K C T N A Y R B S A H F R 0 S G N I M M U C H A N S Can you find the hidden poets? AUDEN BROWNING BRYANT BYRON CHAUCER' COLERIDGE CUMMINGS DANTE DICKINSON FROST HOUSMAN KEAT~ MACLEISH MASEFIELD MILLAY MILTON NERUDA 'PATMORE POE POPE PUSHKIN SANDBURG SHELLEY TENNYSON WHITMAN WHITTIER WORDSWORTH YEATS . · . Kjng Crossword · . ACROSS 1. Wretc::hed city area 5.Man of patience 8. Reach across 12. Mona- 13. Constellation 14. Accumulate 15. Hebrew measure 16. Devoted adherent · 18. Biased 20. Senseless 21. Sea biid 22. Fixea service I charge 23. Goddess of peace 26. Separating 30. Russian community 31. Pallid 32. Meadow 33. An associate 36. City on the Rho11e 38. Buttons or Skelton 39. Make a mess of 40. ~Robin -- .. 43, Share 47. A kind of lyric poem 49. Seed covering 50. Hodgepodge 51. Labot org. 52. Supernatural power (Pol}'n.) 53. Marlin or Acheson 54. Resinous substance 55. War god DOWN l. Word with basin or bowl 2. City in Ohio 3. Addict, today 4. Fur-bearing animal 5. Nippon 6. Evangelist Roberts I. Part of A.B.A. 8. Musical instrument 9. Italian city 10. Actor Aida 11. Hawa-iian goose 17. A row' 19. Wrath 22. Winnow 23. Mischievous child 24. Narrow inlet 25. Go astray 26. Golfer's goal 27. Under the weather 28. Born 29. A fuel 31. Marry 34. A son of Poseidon 35. St. Philip- 36. Melody 37. Jerusalem thom 39. Unreasoning fear 40. Footless 41. Evans or Carnegie 42. Opera feature 43. Chinese wax 44. Sandarac tree 45. Cattle (dial.) 46. Greek .under- ground 48. Wire measure I I \'Wait! We're playing to see whobuysr•• ••Take a look at this hamburger,. Ed. What would you say was the ~ause of death T' 1. Eric Clapton \Tears In ~eaven,\ (Reprise) Last Week: No. 2. Amy Grant \Good FOr Me,\ (A&M) No.2 3. Genesis \1 Can't Dance,\ (At- lantic) No. 3 4. The KLF Featuring Tammy Wynette ·\Justified And Ancient,\ (Arista) No.5 5. Mint Condition \Breakin' My Heart (Pretty Brown Eyes)\ (Perspective/ A&M) .No. 6 6. Mariah Carey \Make It Hap- pen,\ (Columbia) No. 9 7. Celine Dion And Peabo Bryson \Beauty And The Beast,\ (Epic) No.8 8. NKOTB \If You Go Away,\ (Columbia) No. 7 Flick Pic~s by Debbie Fletcher MY COUSIN VINNY If you're looking for some real belly laughs, this is the movie for you. It's a courtroom comedy star- ring Joe PeS<:i and Marisa Tomei. Pesci plays the title character, Vinny, who has just (barely) passed the bar exam after six tries. Even he's not so sure he's ready to practice law. However, he's forced to do so when a family crisis arises. Vinny ·s cousin, Bill, and a friend, Sam, are arrested while driving through Alabama. It seems they made a stop at a convenience store in W ahzoo City. Bill pocketed a can of tuna, and lte's ready to confess to shoplifting, but the cops inform him the store clerk was murdered. Innocently, Bill says, \I shot the clerk?\. This is per- ceived to be a confession. Deter- mined to nail these two Yankees, the detectives arrest them for the mur- der. So, it's Vinny and his sidekick, Lisa (Tomei) to the rescue. Straight out of Brooklyn, complete with ac- cents, these two make quite a scene in the courthouse. The judge (Fred Gwynne) cites Vinny for contempt of court because of his outrageous clothing. However, Lisa's skintight duds get a big smile of approval, so ' she's allowed to help with the defense. By Leigh Rub in n:smU£.~N. ONCE WHEN I WAS A fOP. I AG\UALLY RtTRIE.V£D A J SlfcK Tl-IAT MY M\SltR HAD lHRoWN OV£R FiV£ HUNDR£0 YARDS! Gramps tells another one of his far-fetched tales. lf·8 Several logging accidents left larry visibly gun-shy. Concordiensis SUBSCRIPTIONS $40/yr. $100 /3 yr. Send a check to box #2577

*PERSONALS* Bring your personal along with 50¢ to the Information Booth. Please use no mor~ than 30 words. DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT !'hl/ln••t•IJI llrp.ul<llfllt I 'l'''l'l,•tf•t• \ '\\', '· ',J SI'IUNG 'IEIU\1 COLLUCJU lA. 1\li.;f,tf/t• WI tlt1· l\·,.,r/,nr.;c tl/' 1\f(l111/ ~III'IISfll Ptoh·~<>lll t. .tt\d ~;,,u)d l:ln~id;\J i\ll.ltllk l\'Hi.\'t•tc:ity AJ 1 1 d \, JL»02 -~ .p; l'.l\1. . Unio~ 1 College ri Ir ~~opmetlt '\4:_..·-:_ ';-\e._.· Cente::r LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB? LOOKING1'0GAIN SOME EXPERIENCE THIS SUMMER? COME AND EXPLORE THE SUMME-R JOB FAIR IN ; THE COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM ON i WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15 . FROM 10-1 ® Welcome Alumni Council Special Subscription Rate $40 ·per year $tOO for three years Students, Faculty & Staff interested in working on Jerry Brown's Presidential Campaign, please contact· Daniel Collmder 462;.2730 WCIDWAMI (pronounced ''Wicked Wammy'') WHAT CAN. I DO WITH . A MAJOR IN PSYCHOLOGY? AND THE UPPER CLASS DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED FOR EASTER SUNDAY THIS YEA-R. n,,,r,•ruttl\' 1111 llldll lrrtd 1111' ftltil.r; P/ l IIII\~'II.<;IJ~ l'tplt•c;.;.L'I I t'lllllll1 I ).n:i~ Utlit'l\ t:o!h•gc.• ,,,.,11 ~-1. ·Jlll),! 1.·1\ I' ~I 1./rHI;IJ!f(fl'i!il/f 111Jrf ~u/iSIIIIIIillft.<WI l't~'h•c..:c..ot J,L\' ( •• ltlit•ld llollllJl\hi·l r• t nUq~«' The Aca,demic Opportunity Program is please.d to · annour:~ce the following graduate school A panel discussion designed to explore CAREER OPTIONS FOR ·Undecided Students The Biology Department is currently conducting third-year (reapp<lintment) reviews of Drs. t\1.1\· p;, jliU) .H' 1'.~1 Sil'illhrrr·ne mr C~uift, t\tmu•u~tmt ,,,t Clni!'hmt l{••tkwJ'fiPII l'rnlt·~;c:nt l'hilip·l~lllillll lflli\'l'l ~il \'Ill Nllt It' llllllH' J\l.l) 1' 1 . )t1t.J2 l 1r, I' ~I ( t•ll,•qw 1 -Ill' 1 .. ld ''' llo. · llt!lllllllfl. ~ Jq,l~~. 1{111 \11 \II ·~·11.-q'''' ~~·- ··r· ,, h• u ... ,.,,l·h, l~niJ'Ih•ll lll\'\\•hd•h lo•llo•hll11; II• tl•• 1111111.-~llllil'l~urll)~l' I PI' llutht•J lllh>iltl II••''' It I, t•il•·t•·• '•Ill l ·111•1 I• acceptances: Kevin Dantzler, '92 Georgetown Universit\:) School of Lavv· Leo Aeishman and Stephen LaBonne. Any member of the Union College community who has had personal experience with the teaching, research, and/or college service activtties of either of these teachers is encouraged to subm~ verbal or written testimony. Please direct your comments to Prof. Robert Olberg (x6509), chair of Stephen LaBonne's review committee, or Prof. Peter T obiessen (x6028), UNION COLLEGE SPONSORS TRIPS TO OLANA, CAPE COD Schenectady, NY (March 31) The Union College Academy for Ufelong Learning is sponsoring two cult1:1ral excursions - one to the Hudson River Valley homes of Frederic Church and Robert Livings1on, the other to Cape ~d and Martha's Vineyard. Olana, the home of Hudson River School painter Frederic Church, and Clermont, the home of Uvingston, an inventor and drafter of the US. Constitution, will be the highligh1s of.a bus tour through Columbia and Dutcilesscounties on Thursday, May 21. Cost is $25 per·person including transporiation and lunch. chair of Leo Fleishman's review comm~tee. Deadline for signups is April17. The trip to Cape Cod and Martna's Vineyard, June 4-7, will include stops at Plymouth, Hyannis, Old Sandwich, Chatman, Provincetown, Woods Hole, Oak Bluffs and Edgartown. Cost for that trip, including lodging, transportation, guide and most meals is $359 per person.,d.ouble occupancy. Deadline for sign ups is April 24. For more information on the trips, call th4l Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Union College at 370-6638. Uni'Ylon College fl /'\') Career I J Development ;_.. .. ·~;. .. '\_. .. · Center .JliST FOR .JUNIORS c;raduate S~hool: To go or not to go? Tips on applying and Special Fellowships: What are they? Where are they? How do I get one'! Professors Klein and Board will discuss the Watson and Rhudes fellowship opportunities. Professors will also advise on applying to graduate school: Prof. Klein for the MBA, Prof, lloard for law school, and Prof. DeBono tor graduate school in general. Tue,day, April 14, 7:30pm in Old Chapel - First Fluor The Department of Computer Science is conducting a reappointment review of Associate Professor David Hemmendinger. Any students, facuhy, or administrators thai feel that they might be able to contribute to this review should submtt written comments on Prof. Hemmendinger's teaching, scholarship, or college servit:e to David Hannay, Chair of Computer Science. via Campus Mail. Interested in becom.ing a Tour Guide? .Apply to be a Union College GATEKEEPER Applications are available in the Admissions Office. Deadline for application is Thursday, April16. REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROF. JOHN SPINELLI The Electrical Engineering Department is conduc1ing a reappointment review for Assistant Professor, John Spinelli. All members of the college community Artistic Lf eople ~ee~e~ who have knowledge of Prof. Spinelli's teaching, personal activities, or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to Prof. Michael Rudko in the ElectriCal Engineering Department to he.lp with layout for the Concordiensis All Welcome! Larry \Tutt\ Tuttolomondo will be the new director of the Union College/Communtty Jazz Orchestra beginning this term. larry is a protessional jazz educator and !)erformer whop has performed throiJghout the United States, Canada, and the Carbbean with noted artists such as Clark terry, Art Blakey, Bill Watrous, and Uonel Hampton. All students woo are interested in playing with the Union Jazz Orchestra should submit their name, phone number, and principle instrument whh the sei:retary of the arts department by April 20th. The first meeting time will be posted on the door of the arts department office on April 21st. Tentatively the Jazz Orchestra will be recording 8 tunes in June for future promotion of the CJrganization. SIGN UP NOW! LATINO/HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH CULINARY EXPOSE Thursday, April 16, 1992 UPPERCLASS DINING Pa:-ctr \'· \··GJ· .• B•ta,j F-a.r: Pmue ,.s ... u·P'JJa;; 8tead· i=:-~ej Fure Pl!tlt:llm 'P,arcuo \fQdUtOJ 5:00p.m. lJE..C,SE.Ri BEHR,uES Coffe~ (8ustdol Soda Pm<!. Co.ada.s No Chu~e to i.,r.,or'l College St~.<dents on the Meal Plar. S 1: 95 10 lJmon CoUc:!:Je Corrunun•t:- S!S ·9~ for General Pl.Jbbc Adnuss1ons S1gn t:p 48 hour~ 1n aQvwcc a.t Dutch HoJ,ovo Restaurant·: · 4 ·p~j and-; • 9 PM Upperclass or We~t Dmmg Hat:· Lum:h or Dmner Times D1mn:1: Serv1ces Office· S.:o am • 5.00 pm ~ Telephorte. :-0..6050 Wnion (ollegc jfawltp (,olloquium JAMES LAMBRISOS PROFESSOR Al>D CHAIR. GR 4 {JL'ATE I/.4VAGE11E.VT JNSTITL'TE The Economic I l!/1te of Life: Has l(,otfno F:conom_v Come To The CwemmMI A11d 111e Courts? THURSDAY APFIIL 30 JQQ] AT4·30PM COLLEGE CENTER ACDITORIUM COFFEE & TEA AT 4:00P.M ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND Martine Cadet, '92 New Vork University Wi 1 son Mart inez, '93 Union College 5-Vear MBA Program • Psychology Majors ·Inquiring ,Minds Wednesday, April 22 at 7:30pm Career Development Center Co-Sponsored by: Psychology Department Union College 370. 6257 & Career DeVelopment Center Union College 370-6176 SENIOR THESIS DEFENSES April17 - 3:45 - The Ethical Development of Achilles In Homer's Iliad • Dana Manocchio '92 (Directors: Profs. Genest & Sorum) April17- 4:45- Economic & Philosophical ·Implications of Insider Trading- Alex Green '92 (Directors: Profs. baker & Lewis)-· May 1 - 3:45- Dissociative Experiences In the General Population: A Comparative Study of Undergraduates and Alumni- Laurie Cummings '92- (Directors: Profs. Benack & Petrie) May 1 - 4:45- Free Speech and the .Feminist Critique of Pornography- Eve-Lynn Miller '92- (Director: Prof .. Baker) May 8 - 3:45 -A Study In Difference: Heldegger & Nazism- Doran Abrahami '92- (Director: Prof. Davis) May 8- 4:45 -The Problem of Evil - Kerry Blinder '92 (Director: Prof. Davis) May 22- 3:45 - Obligation & llle :HIV Infected Physician- Michael Scaccia '93 - (Director: . Prof. Baker) May 22 - 4:45- Ethics of treatment of Birth Defective Newborns- Darren VanHouten '92 - {Director: Prof. Baker) May 29 - 3:34 - eve, a play by Marina Bernard '9 - (Directors: Profs. Baker & Smith) Performances May28-30, Nott Memorial, 8:00 NEED EXTRA CASH??!! WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN SOME FUN, EASY MONEY! STUDENTS WH.O WOULD LIKE TO WORK ON REUNION WEEKEND - MAY 29TH, 30TH & 31ST. PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI 'OFFICE OR CALL ALISON OR PEG AT x6168. WHEN YOUR SEARCHING FORA UNIQUE GIFT GIVING IDEA ... TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE ATTHETELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER·1 03. OR CALL 37CHi411 FOR MORE INFORMATION. UNION COLLEGE Department of Biological Sciences The Biology Department and Biology Club present \LEISHMANIA METABOLISM: THE SEARCH FOR NEW DRUGS\ Janet Keithly, Ph. D. NY State Department of Health Albany, NY Thursday, April 16th, 1992 4:40pm Refreshments 4:30 pm Social Sciences Room I 04

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 9, 1992 • PAGE 19 Do to circumstances beyond the control of the Sports Department, Athlete of the Week is not featured in this issue The Bull~ call time -out a~ t~ 'Nait 'or Michael Jordan to land ... - -_· · ... ·.sports -a·u:i~-' ·: __ ~- _·,. :·: _: · .. ··by Larry.:Iluri~an: · \· ~-',_: · - . . . . MINNESOTA TWINS 1. Who is the current owner of the Twins? 2. Who holds the longest hitting streak in Twin history? 3. Who holds the Twins' pitching record of 42 games started in one season? 4. Who holds the Twins· record with 1,939 games played? 5 .. Name the only Twin pitcher to ever lose 20 games in a single season. 6. Who is the Twins' all-time leader in saves? 7. Name the last Twin to hit an inside-the-park home run. 8. What manager did Tom Kelly replace during the 1986 season for the Twins as J~mw A:-s~ ·s ~~!011ga 1sup~8-e I 66I u1 ornJl!H8\Bd ;}){!W · L ~(98 -Z861) 80{ ql!M S!A\BQ UO'M: ·g ~ 1961 U! so w-e~ OJPgd . s ~( t L- I 96 T) M~Jq~{ -H){ UOWl\EH ·p ~~961 ll! reB){ Ul!f · £ ~086 T u:~ s~w-s8 I£ re xm~~Jpuu1 u~)l ·z ~PBil{Od ·~ pu:J ·I ~upport Wnion ~ports --The Editors 3-4 Bedroom Apartments Available for 92-93 Newly renovated, Washer & dryer available, back yard, front porch, large kitchen, modem bathroom, new carpet throughout. Please call Monday through Friday 9:00 am-5:00 pm: 462-7411 Evenings and Weekends: 482-8788 chach alk by John Schachnovsky Sports Editor I know base ball season is upon us. I now tllat only a few short days ago, Duke became the first team, since the UCLA team of the mid-1970's, to repeat as champion of NCAA Division I basketball. I realize the NHL is on strike and winter is rapidly coming to a close. I realize all of these things, but I still want to talk hockey. Don't worry though ... this is good!! This past weekend the NCAA crowned a champion ... and I'm not referring to the Blue Devils. The same Saturday night that gave us Duke and Michigan gave us a new NCAA Division I ice hockey charnpion ... the Lake Superior State Lakes. The scene was set in Albany, at the Knickerbocker arena. The final four consisted of three national sports JlOwerhouses ... Michigan, Wisconsin and Michigan State~ as well as a small school from the upper peninsula of Michigan, obviously no rnatch for the perennial Big Ten giants in football and basketball. The Lake Superior State Lakers ... what in the hell is a Laker? C'mon 11ow, we have the Wolverines .• .the Badgers ... and the Spartans ... rettl names that mean something. How can a Laker be a National Champion? The fan contingent from the small school was muclt smaller than the other schools as well. This is not surprisin_g when one realizes that Lake Superior State has under 5,000 ~tudents while the other final fom teams have over 35,000. 011 top of that SSU had cheerleaders ... that's right cheerleaders. Imagine the routine ort the ice between periods .. .im:agine a split!?!? Well the fact is that Lake Supef!~r ~tat~ won the NCAA championship and that should bring a smile to Uni.on fans when looking at our hockey team's prospects for the coming years. It is easy to put Union in place of Lake Superior in all aspects. This is a slap in the face for all critics of Union's chances in tlivision hockey for the abovementioned reasons. Union's size, and its lack of national exposure, will not be its downfall. Everybody should stop knocking our program, and our chances, and especially our fans .. _it will come in time: just ask a Laker fan, if you can find one! Women's Softball vs. Williams 4:()0 Men's Basketball vs. Hamilton Women's Softball vs. RIT Women's LAX vs. William Smith Men's LAX vs. Springfield 12:Cl0 1:Cl0 2:Cl0 7:Cl0 Men's Baseball vs. Utica Men's Baseball vs. Williams 12:00 3:(10 Camp Enjoy a helpful and rewarding summer at Carmp Sussex. whii:h is located in the beautiful mountains of northern New Jersey and is about one hour fr()ltm New York City. We need M/F counselors, Head pioneering, social worker, LPNIRN/Student Nlurse, Jewish Cultural program. Salaries are attractiwe! Please call for more information or write to Camp Sussex 33 Blatherwick Dr. Berlin, N.J. 08009 l'hone (609) 753-9265 or (718) 261-8700 DRUNK DRIVING KILLS

,f·=i:l.:~;w~i;;<wBt~~w~$hb2 ,, .... ~\' ... ~;:,;;~<:0:. W~·•4',..-. As spring term begins, the Women's· Lax team gets ready to f.ace-off. The Dutchwomen softbalil team .looks to Improve on tl1elr season of a year ago. Qinltfllrbfrttsis APRIL 9, 1992 ~~~ Pitching Strong For Dutchmen in 1992 by Eric Weinberger Concordiensis Staff On their arrival from Fort Myers this Spring, the 1992 Union College baseball team is optimistic for a solid season. Despite their 1-4 record, the Dutchmen, coached by Gary Reynolds in, his seventh season, have been in all of the games. This is attributed to strong pitching. Freshman Scott Newton, sophomores Paul Haydock and Craig Bronder, and senior tri- captain Craig Ferrero, have all pitched superbly over the first week of the season. Along with Ferrero, captains Bob Francello and Scott Preische are looking to finish off their careers on high notes. Don't let the four losses deceive you. This club has not lost by more than two runs in their last four games. This stretch is highlighted by an 8-7 win over RPI, previously ranked 18th in the country for Division III. The Dutcilmen split the double header with the Engineers losing 1-0 in the second game. The day before that, Union travelloed to Hartwick and got swept 3-1 and 4-2. On the afternoon of their cross town match-up with Albany State, spirits were optimistic. Sophcmore manager Jim Dever exclaimed, \This will be an exciting year for Umion College baseball\ He also stated that Coach Reynolds is extremely happy with the overall character of his club. Reynolds ha& been especially pleased with the early pitching success. Despite a spring training injury,, sophomore i11fielder Kevin Sullivan remains optimistic, and is excite<l to be a part of this club. Union should be excited abo11t their upcoming homestand of games against Hamilton, Utica, Williams, Rochester, and RIT. All home games are played at Central Park. With strong pitching and some timely hitting., Union has a cilance to put together a solid 1992 season. Writt for ~ports ~all ~cbatb x4151 Men's Lax Starts Season With a Bang Thrashes Oswego State 13-6 hy Cort Boulanger Concordiensis Staff The Union College Men's Lacrosse Team ended its first week of the 1992 regular season Monday with a 13-6 thrashing of Oswego State. This game played in front of the Bailey Field faithful concluded a fairly successful opening week for the Dangling Dutchmen. Although the Union head coaching debut of Kevin Morris resulted in a disappointing loss to arch-rival Hartwick, a late resurgence by the Dutchmen proved to themselves that they could compete with the better teams In Division III. Due to a lackluster beginning, Union found themselves down by as much as 8-1 before halftime. Led by goals by attackmen Ted Sidel and Nate Fitch, Union reduced the Hartwick lead to four goals, but eventually fell short losing 16-10. After shaking the early jitters. Union was able to play some inspired lacrosse, forcing Hartwick to merely hold on until the waning moments of the game. In the following game against the Division I juggernaut Siena, Union again started the game very tentatively. The solid performance of junior goalie J .R. Van Order kept t.he Siena offense at bay while the Dutchmen remained stagnant on the other half of the field. At the end of three quarters the score was a baseballesque 6-2, but in the last fifteen minutes the Dutchmen exploded for eight unanswered goals to crush Siena. This past Saturday, the Dutchmen embarked on the enjoyable journey up the throughway to scenic Rochester. The U of R team has been a program in tu1111oil since the school decide<i that due to budget cuts this would be their last year of intercollegiate lacrosse. Union took full advantage of the Yellowjackets misfortu11e by opening a big lead and 11ever looking back. Hometown hero Tim Fisher netted four goals and freshman Cory Holborough added three more enroute to a 21-12 victory. Freshman Mike Lupichinsky was also cited for his grace under pressure. Since the Dutchmen opened up such a big lead, other freshmen were pressed into the game situation to gain valuable experience for the future. SUPPORT UNION . ATHLETICS THIS SPRING!

• • ' • ' - ' ' • ' • • • • ~ - • < •• ' • ~ '• - • • • '. ' ' .:. • • • • • • • ,·- VOLUME t21, NUMBER 18 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK APRIL 16, 1992 Watson Fellowship !iAC Make& Recipient to Pursue Studies in Spain to lanprove Caainpu!i Hou&ing an increase in the number of students living in college owned dormitories wi II eliminate the immense loss of revenue that the college suffers every year due to to extra beds. b:v Lisa Hofbauer Concordiensis Staff The Watson Fellowship program is designed to give students the opportunity to pursue a project of their own design in a foreign country. This year, two recipients were chosen; one has accepted the Fellowship. This year's recipient is Beth Ann Isenberg, a se11ior from Saratoga Springs, NY. Ms. Isenberg will be going to Spain to purs!le the topic of \Redefining Women: the Role of Women in Post-Franco Spain\. She will be travelling to six different cities and will interview women in all different positions, from housewives to business women. She plans to investigate the effect that Spanish culture has on women. Profess()rs Moyano and Stanholpe recommended Ms. Isenberg for the Watson; she also roceived assistance from Sharon Gmelch. Ms. lsenberg learned about the Watson Fellowship in her freshm-an year, and went to interest meetings about the program during her junior year. She started thinking about applying for a Watson during the summer between her junior In This Issue: Th.e Volatile Question of Abortion GM Self Pg. 5 Undergoes Purging Pg. 7 Un.i()n College Swimmers Take On The Nation Pg. 15 and senior year; she had completed an independent study about Franco and was inspired by the subject to apply. When asked whether she ever' thought she would win, she responded, \The odds arc a little bit better than one to three .. .I tend, in things like that, to not really put myself ahead.\ She Beth Ann Isenberg will be going to Spain to pursue the topic \Redefining Women: The Role of Women in Post- Franco Spain.\ is still working on her thesis, which is on the effects of situational factors in relation to acquaintance rape; because of this, she said, \it hasn't really hit me yet that I've won.\ She was working on her thesis while preparing her Watson Application. Ms. Isenberg has taken many Spanish and Anthropology courses while pursuing her Psychology major. She took three years of Spanish in high school and has enough courses to have a Spanish minor, in addition to her already-existing Anthropology minor. She has also taken many Women's Studies courses and Spanish Lit/Civ courses, in which she has studied what life was like under Franco's regime. She is involved in various on-campus activities, including the Philomathean Society. Each recipient of a Watson Fellowship is given a year to travel in the country of his/her choice, and Ms. Isenberg will leave for Spain in mid~ September or early October. . She had been planning to take six months off to travel even if she did not win the Fellowship because she was tired of classroom life; she said that it would have been \a free- floating time for me\. She is not certain about what she will do in the future; she is happy because the Watson will provide her with the opportunity to do ruore work in Anthropology. She would like to pursue a career that will help her combine her interests of Spanish and Psychology; hopefully the Watson will be . able to help her find such a position. The other recipient of a Watson Fellowship. Marie Wheeler, will not be accepting her Fellowship because of a job offer in New York City. Her winning topic of study was \The Evolution of Capitalistic Financial Markets in Eastern Europe: Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary\. Applications for the Watson Fellowship must be submitted by October 5. Next year's committee will be comprised of the following faculty members: Teresa Meade (History), John Marincola (Classics), John Spinelli Continued on page 3 by Alii Wapner Concordim:;is Staff After an intc11sive review of Gmelch Report, .the Student Affairs Council (SAC) has created several new policies to improve on-caruJus housing for next year. The annual report surveys student residences and. tllables the council to asses d<lrmitories in need of ren()v~tion and construction. member Alex ~lavos. the suggestions, w!Iich have been sent to the administ..ation, have been done in the hopes to \improve and mak~ campus life more equitabl~ for all students.\ The S.AC hopes that the new housing policies will make living on campus more desirable. Once these policies are institlited, the SAC and administration predict that This Week in Union College History '~. . ·~~ ·':'\ One year ago students and teachers listened to William \Kit\ Hathaway read his poetry to show support for tlu fired English teacher. Students continued the protest by boycotting morning classes. One of the most innovativl' policies is the creation nf a \block housing\ lottery system. This will allow groups of 6 or 8 students to live in a block of rooms on the same floor. Friends can now live together rather than be separated because of a low lottery number. An added benefit of this policy is that male and female can live in adjoining rooms of their section on a co-ed floor. Sklavos says that the new option of block housing will not interfere with the integration of incoming freshman in the dorms. The SAC is still deciding on which floors the \block housing\ policy will be made available. They do emphasize. however, that the group of students who chose this living option will be responsible for their area. This includes cleaning of excessive trash and the safety of their personal property. Another new proposal is an early senior lottery. Once th c seniors who wish to live on campus designate their desire tiJ do so, room allocation t<) different classes can be don c more effectively. After the senior lottery. juniors who wish to Jive off campus can form a trade-off system with the seniors who are living in the dorms. Sklavos says that this, too, will help to eliminate the problem of extra beds. In addition to these new policies, the SAC has made recommendations to the administration and to residence life for renovation in South and North Colleges and for an expanded lounge space in West. The SAC also hopes to start a special subcommittee for campus housing. This will allow the council to improve communication between administration, faculty. and students. The council will be able to better accommodate student suggestions and to eliminate the dissatisfaction with the current housing situation.

CONCORD lENS IS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 2 R'ules For The Greek Voll'eyball Tournament Slated \No Name Caf8\ For May 15 Courtesy of Cafe Planning Committee and Dining Services 1. Union identificatio11 rn ust be presented in order to enter the cafe area. Guests ofUnion students, professors and faculty are welcome but must be accompanied by the Union host. Once in the cafe all students reg·ardless of age can enter any section of the cafe. 2. A State License must be presented before enteri11g the cafe if you wish to drink alcoholic beverages. Then. the person's name (if he/she is not a guest) must be fou11d on Union College's master list of students which has birthdays. Only after this process is completed will a person be given a wrist band for drinking. The number on the wrist band must remain intact and he visihl~- in mder to obtain an alcoholic beverage. 3. There will be only one alcoholic beverage given per wristband. A person cannot transport multiple d1inks to a table even if each person at that table has a wristband. Each person must claim the drink in person at the bar and transport it back to his or her sea:t. Do not wave your wrist at the bartender and expect to be served. 4. Intoxicated patrons will not be served. The existence of this Cafe is totally dependent on student behavior. VIOLATIONS l. New York State Law will be obeyed at all times in the cafe. 2. Any attempts to falsify one's age will not be permitted. 3. Any attempts to buy an alcoholic beverage and pass it to anyone under the age of 21 is strictly prohibited. This rule includes giving \sips.\ 4. Any attempts to buy a wristband and give it to anyone under the age of 21 is strictly prohibited. Edito~~in-Chi~f · . . 'Ned Watley · S~ecutiv~ Editor . . . · P&rn :teinsoij: N'em Editors · .. · . · .. ·. · Jurdan :r.;ippnet~ lint Po lit~, . . .· ·· · · LataCbambetla;R.leff Gre¢n, Matt !ucket·'. · rntemational Featur~Editars · .. · .lY'i$titl.ikU:J'oli~.· · · · . . . 4u'a6 'tumid4l~wicz .· · Commentaries Editti,rs Lea Lewis, rte~b~ Matdinatethu · Arts Editors Carrle .sbetri'tanj ·C<lrt $ouia.nger Lifestyles Editor · ·· ··. · · .. · • ·· · • ···.:·Jul1e$cb~g Features Editor · · · Sari Skolnik Campus Page Editors Di.aila n.J;0cJsky, Nicole.Qoldlt'l Sports Editor Jolm Schachnovsky Photography Editor David Cho, Peter Fischer Advertising Editors Lauren Bycoff, Jen Shulkin Subscription Manager Andtew Rosen Financial Editor Shields Day STAFF: Greg Barrett, Ron Birnbaum, Daniel J. Bullen, Adam Epstein, Erica Frank, Craig Greenberg, Jason Habinsky, Hannah J. Hazen. Lisa Hofbauer, Jon Keller, Tasha La Bare, David Levine, Sean Livingston, Julie Medow, Rich Morgan, Louise Oster, Peter Pretzel. Betsy Rothstein, Sreedhar Samudrala, Carrie Shennan, Jeremy Sollinger, Alli Wapner. ADVERTISING STAFF: Jennifer Anderson, Sharon Smith CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 1383S (607) 563-8.339. Subscription rate: $40 peJ' year~ delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to .Con.cordiensis office, College Center, Union Col1e:ge. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (lP). Office Telephone (518) 370;. 6155, Advertising TeleJ)hone (5·18) 370.6494. . . . . . . . . . . PENALTIES l. Violator's names will be forw<~rded to the Dean of Students. 2. Violators will be expelled from the cafe for up to one year. Repeat offenders will be permanently expelled from the cafe. 3. Violators will have to pay a substantial monetary fine. 4. Any otber penalties that the Dean of Students deems prudent to implement. THE EXISTENCE OF THIS CAFE IS TOTALLY DEPENDENT ON STUDENT BEHAVIOR AND PATRONAG& DO NOT COME IF YOU CANNOT ABIDE BY THESE RULES. by Eric Glazer Contribu#ng Writer The third ·annual Greek Volleyball tournament will take place on the weekend of May 15th. Once again the tournament will benefit Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Schenectady. In the past two years the event has raised over $15,000. The tournament consists of teams of two players each in the fraternity ·bracket, and six players in the sorority. In the past two springs every Greek organization has participated. In both years Delta Gamma has won the sorority championship while Theta Delta Chi and Fiji battled it out for the fraternity championship each spring, with each winning once. Each organization competing in the event donates one dollar for every member and pledge to Big Brothers/ Big Sisters. Furthermore every living Greek alumni and every Greek's . parent will be receiving information about the events are being asked to help the beneficiary. The event attracts hundreds of students as well as members of the Schenectady community. Once again there will be a free barbeque and free drink offered to all who come to watch. Fraternity and sorority deadlines for signing up are coming quickly upon us. For information about the tournament caH either Dave Andelman at 374-8296 or Eric Glazer at 386-4168. Graduate School Applications Bring Advisors And CDC Together b:y Sean Livingston C oncordiensis Staff On the afternoon of April. 7 Graduate School Advisors met with Joanne Tobiessen of the Career Development Center in hopes of establishing a closer working relationship. This was done for the purpose of increasing Union students' ability to gain acceptance into graduate schools. A developing national trend among colle~e graduates has been created by the current recession. Instead of attempting to enter the shrinking job market, many , graduates are ()pting to prolong their education in an attempt t() become more desirable as potential employees. Hence, competition for graduate scho()ls has simultaneously increased. One area of the application process which received particular emphasis was preparation for graduate school entrance exams such as the GRE's, MCAT's, and LSAT's, exams which have become increasingly important in the face of this new competition. At this meeting it was suggested that perhaps the Union style of teaching, specifically, essay examinations, did not adequately prepare the students for the rigorous multiple choice exams they would encounter on the graduate school tests. For this reason, in the following years it can be expected that both the CDC and the Advisors will be encouraging their students to take courses such as the Princeton, and Kaplan reviews i11 hopes of enhancing test taking skills. This meeting was also designed to inform the Graduate School Advisors on the vast resources that the CDC offers to the Union community. Within the con text of this short meeting it was impossible for Joanne Tobiessen to discuss all the tools the CDC offers, but she did reveal some of the most important ones. These being: courses on interview techniques videotaped mock interviews, and extensive listings of alumni involved with graduate schools. Although this meeting did not evoke major revelations. it can be seen as an important step by the Union faculty to pool its resources and enhance student acceptance rates to graduate schools. AU of which will undoubtedly be beneficial to the Union community. ~appp Qfa11ter & t)a11~ober Weekenb jfrom C!ontorbiensis SAVE JHE WILDliFE WWF WORLD WILDLIFE fEDERATION

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL16, 1992 • PAGE 3 Dr. Leonard Jeffries Spe sAt SUNY Albany Student Forum Spotlight by Josh Kaplan Contributing Writer On Monday night at Page Hall on the campus of SUNY Albany, professor Leonard Jeffries delivered a speech. For those of you who are unaware about who Professor Jeffries is, or what he stands for, allow me to enlighten you. Jeffries is a City University of New York professor who has a history of making anti-white, anti- Semitic, anti-Italian, and anti- gay statements in his classroom and in the public forum. The Boston Globe (2/16/92) said that he \has. managed to offend just about every minority group you can think of.\ Among those who have condemned him are Governor of New York Mario Cuomo, . Senator Alfonse D'Amato, ·New York State Attorney general Robert Abrams, the New York chapter of the NAACP, the American Jewish Congress. the City University of New York Board of Trustees, Sons of Italy, and The New York Times. Included among his strong beliefs are that Blacks are biologically superior to whites, a statement which he emphasized in an article published by New York Magazine ( 1/21/91), and that rich Jews and the Catholic Church initiated the slave trade business. Dr. Jeffries' antics in the classroom include berating students as individuals calling them \stupid\ for believing what they had been taught in schools, churches, and by their families. Two of Professor Jeffries' more biting statements were made to the outrage of Blacks and whites alike. The first carne following the destruction of the space shuttle Challenger. He applauded the destruction of the Challenger stating that the crash would deter white people from \spreading their filth throughout the universe.\ (New York Magazine (1/21/91). In that same article he accused Black males of succumbing to the \white pussy syndrome,\ that is, pursuing white women. He went on to call Diana Ross an \international whore\ for her involvement with white men. In another article published in the Los Angeles Times (11/3/91) Jeffries was quoted as having labeled the noted Black scholar Henry Louis gates, \a faggot and a punk .... How can (someone like Gates) have the interest of African-Americans at heart when you sleep with white women.\ Both statements illustrate the bigotry and racism wh.ich pervade the teachings and preachings of Professor Jeffries. With the lecture scheduled to begin at 8 p.m., protest groups began to gather outside Page permitted to receive money for speaking in their campus. Through the actions of the various opposition groups at the rally on Monday, the protesters hope to prevent any other speakers of the caliber of Dr. Jeffries from being allowed to speak on their campus or any other. The general consensus of the protestors was that the world has experienced enough hate and bigotry already. by Brendan Clifford Student Forwn President ·The Student Forum has succeeded in having the administration address some of the longest existing complaints of Union College students. Efforts are now being made to address exorbitant bo~:~:k. store prices, secllfity response time, and diversity among engineering societies. ;:'' ·: · .. ' . . - . ,. ' -· · · President Hull and the :~: . ,\ .. · .. IJ n:i ·0 n . ·' Forum have finally agreed on :. - .. ' .. · · ' the funding of student activities ·• •. . f;!>Oll~ge : :::: ;~~:~:,:~~. ~:;~e:,; budget will increase by 6.7%. :·Pb.liOS-fJpbyl ~~rei~~~~~:n~~ 1 :~ ~~~~:~ :. •. ~ · . . . · •;: · . . ·. . • .·. ·. · >: percentage rate. The college c·ollo qnta also agreed to increase its · · ~· . ,• ';:' , ' · . .•. • · · ··· ··· · , · _ funding of crew by 1 ,000. In . . .. ~ courtesy of Public Relations . Office. exchange the Forum has agreed to accept $19,000 of crew's expanding budget. The ever important residence life recommendations have recently been passed by the Forum. These recommendations w iII hopefully be incorporated into policy. Student!> may go to the Office of Resi<:lence Life for information on these recommendations. The illustrious \No-name . cafe\ has been opened for business and so br it has been quite successful. 'The rules for the cafe are listed ill this paper. This venture's success is totally dependent on student obedience and patronage. As mentioned earlier, the controversial topics of security effectiveness, exorbitant book store price, an<l diversity among engineering societies are on the agenda. The new Forum meeting time is Sundays at 6:00 PM in room 409 of the College Center. Students are encouraged to attend these meetings to give the Forum increased input. hall at 6 p.m. Among the .· Felmon Davis~ associate more than twenty student and · · · •. professor of philosophy at community organizations Union 'College, will give a talk which gathered to voice their titled H abermas on Truth and opposition to Jeffries and his the Ethics ·of Consensus on views were Jewish, Italian, gay rights and Catholic groups. April 24 at 3 : 45 p.m. ·in Room . 213 <>f the Humanities The only organization mak!ng Building at Union College. Wat&on Fellow&hip voice in support of Dr. Jeffries His ta1k is part of the Spring was a socialist group who felt . Term .Colloquia sponsored by that Jeffries was correct in Union's Philosophy most of his preachings. Aside ·Department. Those talks are from a few very heated . free to the public. . arguments, no problems Other colloquia sponsored by . occurred, and the protest ran the- College;s Philosophy. smoothly. Professor Jeffries was paid a Department will be by Jay·- Garfield of Hampshire College stipend of $1,500 by the on Eliminativism .. and· student activities fund of the state University at Albany to · Subst-an..tialism on May 15 at ak M d · h d 3:45 p.m.; .and Philip Quinn of spe on ay mg t. an many the University of Notre Dame SUNY students felt that was on Swinburne on Guilt , also inapropriate. Protestors • Atonement and Chtistian stated that the money came Redemption on May 19 at directly fmm a fund which all 3:45 p.m. Those talks also students pay as part of their will be in Room 213 of the tuition. and that a speaker of Humanities Building. this sort should not be ._ ___ .....,. _______ _. Continued from page 1 (Electrical Engineering), Dean Schadler (Biology) and one more faculty member that is as yet unnamed. An applicant must submit an abstract about their topic and obtain an academic sponsor. Eight applicants from Union are selected and interviewed; the committee then narrows this l.E.F DEADLINE group down to four candidates. These candidates must then expand their abstract to ten pages. These applications arc then sent off to the Watson Foundation. The director of the Foundation, which changes every two years. then comes to Union to meet the candidates. The winners are notified in early Spring. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is May 15,1992 Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the writtea approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S 100; Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. ' Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit ·t.hem to the same office on forms available there. Forms ror Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S 100). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. ate available in the Dean's OffiCe. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines~ or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Associate Dean. When preparing budgets~ please remember that per diem rates are nonnally limited to $50-$85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, tllen the prpposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ..ee ........................... ••••••• FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 15, 1992. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should re directed to De~ Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are nonnally limited to $50-$85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates avrulable. If your research includes work with human subjects, then tbe proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Commiti.Cc before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee.

COr-JCOADIEMSJS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 4 D W David Wels to What Can You 0 ith, Give Presentation A Major in Psychology on J.F.K Assas,si·n.ation by Barbara Cash Contributing Writer Oae of the biggest academic decisions you are likely to face in college is selecting a major. A frequent concern heard at the Career Development Center is how to relate a major to a career. One of the responses students get at the CDC is: major in what you enjoy. Often that is hard to understand because it is difficult to see that link between major and career, with valid reason. Your major at Union may seem to have no direct link with your eventual career goal. Psychology majors may not become lawyers. Psychology majors ma:y not become New York Times book critics. Your ext rae urric ular activities, summer experiences, jobs and internship::; coupled with your academic career 'combine to male your skills and experiences extremely marketable. As a result, your major can lead to a variety of careers. To assist students with choosing a major of deciding on a career, the CDC will be presenting their Spring Term \What Can I do With a Major · In .... \ (WCIDWAMI--- pronounced \Wicked Wammy\) PSYCH 0 L 0 G Y. This panel presentation, which features Union alumni, is designed to explore career options for undecided students, students with a Psychology major, and anyone else interested in learning about the marketability and employment possibilities for those with a Psychology major. In addressing this issue, Janet Harrington Mattis, the Associate Director of the Career Development Center, explains that \the purpose of this program is to assist students in identifying career options, to present appropriate job search strategies to liberal arts students, and to give students an opportunity to meet Union College graduates in their chosen or considered major.\ To Place a Personal Ad: Fill Out Form At Information Booth Cost: 50 Cents . Northwestern Mutual Life Northwestern Mutual Ufe is offering immediate career opportunities ire MARKFI'ING FINANCIAL PLANNING SALES We are looking for active, bright, highly self-motivated individuals. Positions available in the Mctmpolitlft New 'Ycd ara. including Westchester, RodtJuld, Dukhess,. Oranp, and Ulller CliDIIntia. To inquire, please a.DUICl: .ADuda Vooris N~MIIIIIIIUfc l.O.Box710 -Po•ahkeepsie, NY 12602 (914) 452-8640 4lJATues~ AprtL 14~ -iC> Fnda~ April ll!b. $. ~..o~d. ~· A<I>.O. A•n·lnltf'f.1i.t. ~·a &.wwp The WCIDW AMI workshop · is co-sponsored by the . Psychology Department and the Career Development Center and is scheduled for Wednesday, April 22 at 7:30 pm in the CDC. For more information, please feel free to call the CDC at x6176 or just stop by. Also, please try to sign up in advance at the CDC. Take advantage of this opportunity to explore career options within Psychology! Courtesy of Schenectady Public Library Community Relations The assassination of John F. Kennedy will be the,..subject of a presentation given by researcher David Wels on April 20 at the Schenectady Public Library. The lecture, video presentation, and question ·- answer session will be in tile McChesney Room at 6:30 P.M. R~m~[fi}©J~rr ~@ ~~~ . ~@[fi}©©rr©ly Wrr~~~rr~ The Political, Economic, and . Social issues surrounding the Kennedy Presidency will be · discussed; the very reasons for which he was assassinated. Many essential facts about the assassination that are less publicly known will also be presented, and they are rarely, if ever, presented by the media. Those who are deeply concerned with this controversial topic should attend. Please direct any questions to David Wels, 374- 8791. Please Make Sure All Articles To ·Be Published Are Handed In On Microsoft©Word Disks Tired of dorm laundry rooms? £Thll9ri cdl~um. C ~iim1 lLCitllilliD. ~y Brand New Sto~re Now Open 24 Hours! Save Money with .... Huge Double and Triple Load Washers Bigger, Faster Dryers While Washing ... Use our large tables for homework, Shop at Price Chopper or Brooks Drugs, Eat Pizza or Chinese All located in Sheridan Plaza with plenty of convenient parking ' Price Chopper ' I * * ' Sheridan Gerling St. \ Coin Laundry -- \ Rosa Rd. Ellis HOSJ)ital Nott St. lunionl Located only three blocks from Union Ca]TI_pus!

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 5 The Volatile Question ol Abortion by Jim PoHtes News Editor To be honest, I've always carefully avoided addressiQg the volatile question of abo:tltion. There's just not enough tjme (and space) in a column such as this to give one of today's most divisive social issues the attention and scrutiny it warrants. There's the moral dilemma in terms of killing, the consideration of a motller's health, whether she became pregnant thanks to rape or incest, and can stretch far into genetics in terms of wanting one sex of baby over another. Inject religion into the situation and you have utter turmoil. In the wake of the Apdl 5 Pro-Choice March on Washington (an act of solidarity that I was inforrned far outnumbered the civil rights demonstration thirty years ago), it seems everyone n<lw is jumping into the fray. Here's my two cents. The landmark court decision of Roe versus Wade, which declared that women maintain a nation.al right of privacy to have an abortion if they wish. is today iH jeopardy of being overturned. President Bush's newest Supreme Court nominee- Clarence Thomas- will likely tip the balance of power towards the conservatives, which means a new era of the abortion issue is not far away. A reversal of the Roe v. Wade decision would effectively cancel the national right to privacy, and leave the The reversal of Roe vs. Wade would cancel the national right to • privacy. issue of abortion up to the separate States. It's what George Bush and many republicans have been striving for for years now. Write for NEWS! Call x4151 CAMPUS ll'lCIDENT REPORTS DATE LOCATION JNCIQENI 416192 Achille~ Lot by street person 116192 Machine Lab Hit and run-staff members parkin!;l !ot yehjcle damaged 41719 2 No Terr.ace False fire alarm-City pull box 417 1 92 Webster Lot Yandalism·student's vehicle WIOdOW-brokeh 41719 2 Collage Canter Unattended dog running loose 4/7192 Campus SafelY Theft of UCDH keys-cores 41819 2 S&E Basement Yandalisro-door to mamtenance closet damaged 4/919 2 Becker Circle Vandalism-! ight pole glob\!s 4/9192 Wells Lol Parkjng yiolations 4/9192 College Genter Portable sound agujpment reported to be damaged 4/9192 \-19 19? 419/92 Alumni Gym Vaodalism-yehide ran across 4/919 2 Wes1 Ce>l!ege Suspegted abuse of mega! . substance, 4fl 0192 Fox Hcme Theft of room fire extinguisher 4!1 O(g? North College Annoyance telephone calls. 411 019? Achjl!es Rink Yandalism·erne!'!Jency telephone 4/1 0192 Mem Chapel Yandalism·Window broken and stamed glass cracked, 411 0192 Off Camus Staff member jnyo!yed jo minor property damage accident wilh collage vehicle. 411 0/92 Dayidsqo I lie Safety Violaiion·room smoke detector damaged 4110/92 Dutch Hollow Disorderly condugt-a!tempted theft of soft drjnks-Con!,Juct Cha!'!JeS !Hed 4111/92 EoxtQayidson Vandalism·rear wjndow Wiper. 4/11/92 Oavidsoo Theft·siudeots room key stolen core changed. 4112192 College (;enter Student's personal checks lost or stolen. Let me tell you what I see as terribly wrong with those who believe in the pro -life movement (headed by our own Chief Executive). The first problem I have ,is that (predominantly) male, aged · Senators and Congressrnell are sayin.g that they have some type of rite to make I'Vhat should be a woman's own decision. Needless to say, abortion is a very personal- and very individual- choice to make. The fact remains, though, that it is the woman's body to do as she sees fit- no one (especially politicians) should be able to infringe on such privacy. My. second major argument against these 'pro-lifers' may come off as a bit radical but I'll pres:-; on regardless. This idea came to me as I was looking through the USA Today sometime last week. What I found relating to a front-page account of the Washington March is what has ·bothered me most about right- to-lifers. Pictured was a wotuan holding a crucifix in one hand and a 'STOP MURDER' sign in the other. The thing is, her age couldn't have been less than sixty-five. It just seems to me that it is this type of individual who serves as the The pro-choice movement is characterized by a youthful earnestness. hack bone to the 'a11ti-killing' movement. For the most part. these arc not women who will get pregnant and lmve to live under the vices of anti -abortion legislation. The pro-choice movement, meanwhile, is charac tcrizcd nol only by a youthful earnestness (as evidenced by lnst Sunday). but a sense of our country's future as welL For it is these adults- those who today roam such places as the college campuses- who matter most. The conservative coalition against abortion really lacks lm not. s;pnM {Xess chat~ ... 'fle voted for \1\e ... U\ce anvJhtf.\9, ? a~ rent flil:Al\.11\e ... both foundation and direction- it seeks to repel the legitimate needs (namely the universal right to privacy} of women who deserve such personal freedom. I feel that I must finish by injecting my own evolution of the abortion issue. because it's one far different from the clear pic turc bovc. Up until about two years ago. I considered myself a staunch Republican. ready and wiHing to take t.he right to life party line. As I hccamc more politically awa.re and followed the trials of abortion. I carne to realize that I was listening to the wrong people fm the wrong reasons. I'm not quite ready to he labeled as pro-choice. though I'm certainly kaning in that direction. I'll he the first to admit that I still don't understand all of it's loaded implications anu points of contention. Maybe when more people do, Roc versus Wade will stay exactly where it sho~dd: protecting the rights of a woman to have :m abortion. r

CONCORDIENSIS ·APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 6 Met Museum :Conservator Marincola, To Speak African a Women Film Festival At SUNY Albany Compliments of Public Relations Office Michele D. Mruincola, an art conservator with the Cloisters of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City will give a talk titled \Restoration Versus Conservation: How Should We Preserve Our Artistic Heritage?\ on Wednesday, April 22, at 4:30 p.m. in Room 215 of the Arts Building. Marincola, who deals primarily with sculpture, will discuss the controversy in restoring paintings (the Sistine Chapel, for example) and how fakes are discovered. She will also discuss what she calls the \tools of the trade\ and the materials that are used in art conservation work. This Spring, Marincola is an .adjunct faculty member in art at Williams College through the Williamstown Regional Conservation Laboratory, widely considered one of the foremost art restoration facilities in the country. She has held positions at the Piui Palace in Florence, Italy; the Bayerisches National Museum in Muflich, Germany; the Menil Collection in Houston; the Brooklyn Museum; and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. Also, she has received fellowships from the Kress Foundation, J. Paul Getty Trust and Hebrew Technical School. She earned her B.A. from Brown University, and attended Rhode Island School of Design. She earned her masters degree and 'certificate of conservation from the Institute of Fine Arts' Conservation Center at New York University. For more information, call the Arts Department at 370-6201. Courtesy of SUNY Albany The Martinique film SUGAR CANE ALLEY (1983, 103 minutes, color, 35 mm format, in Fre11cll with English subtitles) will be shown on Friday, May 1, 1992 at 7:30 p.m. in Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue on the University of Albany's downtown campus as the first event in the AFRICANA WOMEN IN FILM FESTIVAL, 1992: WOMEN FILMMAKERS, which will be held May 1-3, 1992 at the University at Albany. All Festival events are free and open to the public. _ · ·· · · · · · · · ·· N t · · h · ,. ·s · · · · · ·\ . , _.. >-- •. . -_. .. . a as a s-. tars . · · ·.- ·.. .. • ' • • • ·.' ~ • ' •• , • • i ' • ' •• Set in Martinique in 1931, SUGAR CANE ALLEY, directed by Euzhan Paley, paints a rich impasto of native life under French colonial rule, seen through the experiences of a shanty-town boy seeking an education in the big city. SUGAR CANE ALLEY established Paley as a major new filmmaking talent. ARIES (March 21-April 19) The full moon this week tests your views of perfection. He careful not to blow out a mate or loved one. Talk comes cheap as you have much to say and you've been sittin~ on it for a long, long time. Be your snuggly self this weekend - if you know what's good for you. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) The bull is known to be the most sensual of all signs. and it seems as if you are off proving it this week and this weekend. Let some of that endless creativity into your work to avoid trouble with mal- contents and grumbling bosses. Let another take the lead this weekend. GEMINI (May 21-June 20) You may have 'sat' on things too long, as you let a loved one know (to their shock and amazement) just where you stand. However, know you are one step closer to happiness. Resist that spend- ing spree - it isn't healing. Healing may mean changing patterns. P.S. It all works out. CANCER (June 21-July 22) Work must take a high priority right now, and aU the hemming and hawing won't char1ge that fact. Instead of doing a juggling act and appeasing no one, maintain a single focus. You have all weekend long to pacify a love-d one. Expect the first heat wave of the season. LEO (July 23-August 22) That little green-eyed monster gets uncorked thls week. You need to talk about it, work it through or find a solution before it uncorks your life. No worry really, since your inventiveness is endless and you prove it. So, did you say you were going on retreat this weeke11d? on th.is week and you '11 have reason tor celebration. The focus is on a career coup and also on surprising events in- volving a friendship. The whirlwind pace does get to you by the weekend. But- then you can plan on a luscious retreat - just for two. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) Check out all rumors and confirm all messages, and when every- thing goes haywire anyway, blame it on the full moon. Tiying to hold it all together is futile. Try laughing instead. Let it go, and you have a wonderful few days with a special friend. You've much to be happy about. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) You need to get to the root of a problem. Negotiate, talk, pull back, whatever.' If it doesn't work, you're likely to chuck it and run away. Now is the perfect time to get those wonder- ful travel brochures out and plan that trip. Be available for talks this weekend. PISCES (February 19-March 20) Popular, aren't you? Don't fuss if everything doesn't always go your way. You're still getting a lot of life's goodies. Use care with finances this week because you have a surprise ad- venture coming up where you'll want to feel loose and easy. Use your im- agination this weekend. ~1992 by King Features Synd. The Festival continues on Saturday, May 2nd at 2:00 p.m. in Humanities 39, University at Albany uptown campus, with a lecture by contemporary filmm.ake.r Ayoka Chenz~ra. Two .of her award-winning short films. HAIR PIECE and ZAJOYT A AND THE BOOGIE SPIRIT will be shown as part of her presentation. Chenzira also has produced and directed award winning documentaries on child abuse and violence against women. A :pr0fessor at City College of New York in the Communications Department, she is in the process of completing her first feature length film. From 6:00-7:00 p.m. in the Lab Theatre, Performing Arts Center, University at Albany, there will be (!.ll open discussion on DAUGHTERS OF THE DUST, a film written and directed by Julie Dash. The Best Way For Future Lawyers To Prepare For The Challenges Of Tomorrow. LSAT Preparation Course Includes: Following the discussion, a series of films, produced and directed by Africana women filmmakers, will be shown at 11:00 p.m. in the Recital Hall, performing Arts Center, University at Albany. On Sunday, May 3rd, at 2:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall, noted film historian Pearl Bowser will present a lecture. accompanied by short films and film clips, on New Women Filmmakers. Pearl Bowser, a film producer, archivist, and scholar of African and African- American film, has lectured widely in the U.S. and .abroad. She is the director of African Diaspora Images, a C()llection of fHm and artifaets ~hat document African a11d African- American film history.. Tile Africana Women in Him Festival is co\sp()nsored by The Department of'Theater, University at Albany~ The Institute for Research on Women, Office of the President, Department of Women's Studies. St11dents Association Office Educational Affairs and the New y;():rk State Writers Institute. Revolutionary F:ilm Ma:ker, Stan Brakhage, To Visi!t Courtesy of Union Public Relations Office Stan Brakhage, an award- winning independent film maker with over 200 films to his credit, will present several programs at Union College, on April 16 and 17. His presentations are free to the public. He will present a program titled Gertrude Stein: Meditative Literature and and Film (including two of his films based on Stein's Visions of Meditation ) • .on Thursday. April 16 at 11:30 a.m. in Social Sciences 016. Also on April 16, at 7:30 p.rn. in the College Center auditorium, Brakhage will deliver a retrospective of his films. On Friday, April 17, he will meet with students, faculty and members of the public for a discussion on film making. The time and location of that event are to be announced. Brakhage, who is professor of film studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, is the Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar at Union. Brekhage's films range in length from nine seconds to four hours and incof]Jorate a wide variety of forms and techniques. Among hi~ recent films are Faust 4, City Streaming and The Delicacies of Molten Horror Synapse. He taught film history and aesthetics for many years at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. He has written several books indudillg Film at Wit's End. Metap},ors on Vision, and I ... Sleepi11g. He has done retrospectives at the American Museum of Moving · Image and at ·the M11seum of .Modem Art.· In 1986, he received the American Film I11stitute's Maya Deren A wn'd for outstanding independe11t film and video artists. He received the McDowell Medal in 1989, and was an honored guest at the London Film Festivalin 1991. The Phi Beta Kappa Yisiting Scholars makes available every year a number of distirlguished scllolars who visit about 1 00 universities and colleges. It s purpose is to contribute to the intellectual life of campus by making possible an ex~;hange of ideas between the visiting scholar and the resident students and faculty. If you're looking for the best in LSAT and law school preparation programs, call The Ronkin Educational 01oup. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) Don't take the pursuit of perfection too seriously. You can have a real howl this week when the full moon plays havoc with your checkbook. (Or you play havoc with it.) Odds are, you for- get everything because of the distrac- tion of a wonderful weekend. • 40-hour course that stresses critical thinking, argument analysis, and logical reasoning LmRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Do some soul searching, then come out and state your case. Your magnetism and charisma carry you a long, long way. By the weekend, you may have fought and conquered. Your problems are on retreat ... that is, if you do not take a walk on the wild side this weekend. SCORPIO (October 23~N'ovember 21) You seem to be still up for that roller coaster ride. You start and end the week on an up note. (yre won't discuss the in-between.) Use the quiet periods to recharge your batteries since your social life is so demanding and you need to be at your premier best. Don't forget to buckle up! SAGITI'ARIUS (November 22· December 21) Meet the challenge head • Uve tutorials • Three diagnostic exams • Three practice exams • Homework materials that include released LSAT's • Toll-free Dial-A· Teacher line • 1\vo-day clinics are available for an additional fee fON~N E D U CAT I 0 NA l G!H U P LSAT Gold Package includes: • LSAT Preparation Course including all benefits listed above •1\vo-day LSAT Intensive-Study Clinics on Logical Reasoning and Logic Games • Law School Success Program that covers law school exam preparation, legal writing, legal research, Albany 437-1800 and career planning. LSAT Platinum Package includes: • LSAT Preparation Course as outlined in our LSAT Gald Package • LSAT Intensive-Study Clinics • Law School Success Program • Law School Selection Assistance Program • Law School Application Assistance Program WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16,.1992 • PAGE 7 Disney Opens New Park Outside Paris by Karen Myers Contributing Writer The $3.9 billion Euro Disney theme park and resort complex opened to the public this past Sunday. The 5000 acre resort is located in Marne .. La-Vallee, France, 20 miles east of Paris. Six hotels with 5,184 rooms, 10 theme restaurants, 414 cabins and 181 cabin sites exist on the mammoth property. Disney's designers, the \Imagineering\ unit, incorporated detail in Euro Disney which far surpass that in Florida and California. Although the American flare of the other Disney parks is maintained in attractions like the Buffalo Bill WHd West Show and Michael Jackson's \Captain E.O.\ a European slant was certainly added. The popular American \Disney Tommorrowland\ depicting a space-age 1950's, was replaced by an exhibit derived from, the ideas of Jules Verne and Leonardo da Vinci. In addition, a 360-degree movie about the French culture was constructed to meet French demands. The French government shared the cost burden of this elaborate design with Dis11ey. Disney contributed $160 million of its own capital which multipl,ied to $2.4 billion following a European popular stock offering. French authorities aided the cause by installing low-interest loans totalling about $800 million. GM Undergoes Self-Purging by Shields Day Business Editor General Motors' board of directors emerged from their conference room this past Monday to make a very unexpected announcement. After only one meeting, a movement was passed to replace 5 year chairman of the executive committee Robert Stempel. General Motors, which has been the world's biggest car manufacturer since the 1960's, recently saw their stock price fall below Ford's - the smallest of the three major American car producers. Over the past two years GM has lost $11.66 billion dollars under Stempel and the board of directors are calling for a change. John Smale, an outside director on the board of directors, took over Stempel's position in a very unusual takeover maneuver. Very rarely will an outside director oust a reigning executive officer in order to place himself as the new executive officer. LLoyd Reuss, the presi~ent of GM appointed by Mr. Stempel five years ago, has also been replaced. His replacement is GM's European division president John Smith. Smith recently turned around GM's European division making it the most successful Reduce, Reuse, Separate And Re~ycle car manufacturer in Europe and the most profitable GM factory. Under Smith's rule. GM Europe saw five straight years of profits. He was meticulous in rejecting many risky proposals and in turn was rewarded by receiving the highest position in General Motor's corporation this past wee1c. GM is hoping John Smith will be able to recreate here in the U.S. what he was so successful at while in Europe. On Tuesday, the day following the purging, GM stock soared up 1.25 in a day when the Dow Jones lost over 40 points. Many feel that this replacement has been long overdue and are expecting General Motors to once again rise to the top of the U.S. car market, With all the trouble that the Japanese economy is having, the cost of Japanese cars is expected to rise substantially. Although it will take a while for John Smith to reorganize GM's production, this should give an additional boost to domestic car sales. It is unfortunate that GM waited so long to replace Robert Stempel because U.S. cars will have a definate advantage over their ' toughest competition as the Japanese try to pick up the pieces from their broken economy. Source: Wall St. Journal Furthermore, the government allowed Disney tax breaks on ticket sales, provided cheap land and fueled a considerable amount ·Of money into the infrastructure. The investment is expected to be extremely beneficial to both parties. Regardless of some negative French The actual attendance should re~ch 14 or 15 m,illion in its first year ... sentiment about the park, socialist government officials recognize that the park has created thousands of jobs. While France combats a 10% unemployment rate, Euro Disney employs . 14,000 workers on the site i tseH, not to mention the outside busimess the operation generates, and its ability to lure investors to the region. The French also hope t:hat park attemdance will enhance tourism in Paris. Europeans appeat to be receptive despite the ongoing recession, as is indicated by the amount of tickets and hotel room nights already purchased Disney's is pred.icted to flourish financially from this project. The U.S. company owns 49% of the operation, leaving 5 1% to be traded publicly in Europe. In order to break even, the park must attract between seven and eight million visitors in the first year. Disney ant,icipates approximately 11 million patrons, yet Salomon Brother's analyst, Margo L. Vignola, expects the actual attendance to reach 14 or 15 million, boosting Disney's net income $75.5 million in the next six months. This would imply a 27 cent increase per shate for the fiscal year endi11g September 30. After one full year of operatio11, at the close of fiscal 1993, Vignola asserts that Disney will accrue about 13% of the world's operating income from theme parks and Fesorts. reaching $145 million. Furthermore, the new park provided extensive advertising opportunities for other Disney projects. Attractions featuring \Beauty and the Beast,\ \The Little Mermaid,\ and the upcoming film \Aladdin\ are all undergoing development. Top Magaz,ine Ed:itor to Deliver Skidmore's Harder Lecture Courtesy of Skidmore College News Grace Mirabella, publication director of her namesake magazine, Mirabella, will deliver the eighth annual F. William Harder Lecture in Business at Skidmore College on Tuesday, April21. Entitled \The Entrepreneurial Challenge in a Competitive Environment,\ the talk will begin at 8: 15 p.m. in Gannett Auditorium of Palamountain Hall. A reception will follow in Daria Hall lobby. Admission to both is free and open to the public. Ms. Mirabella's personal experience with meeting entrepreneurial challenges stems from her most recent publishing venture - the launching of Mirabella magazine in 1989. Combining journalis'tic reports with photographic layouts of current fashions, the monthly magazine has defined a new readership niche. Roy H. Campbell of The Philadelphia Inquirer called the p11blication \an Esquire for women.\ A veteran of more than four decades in the worlds of fashion and publishing, s.he spent many of those years .at Vogue magazine, where she was editor-in-chief for 17 years. Under her guidance. Vogue enjoyed unparalleled success in the women's magazine market, as demonstrated not only by its influence in the fashion world but also by its growth in circulation, from 4()0,000 to 1.2 million readers. A portion of those advertising revenues is helping to support the special missions of several non-profit organizations. S in.ce 1990, Mirabella has headed a unique program in which the magazine shared its success by donating a portion of its ad revenue to organizations that com bat AIDS, illiteracy, and breast cancer. In 1991, she was recognized by the Women in Communications and received the organizaiton's Matrix Award for Career Excellellce and Outstanding Achievement in magazine publishing. Other recent articles include a special award in 1989 from the Council of Fashion Designers, a leadership award in 1987 from the Girl Scouts, and the 1987 Susan G. Kornen Foundation Award for Excellence in Meclia. Mirabella is a past member of the board of governors of the Coty Fashion Critics Award program, has served on the advisory board of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. and is an honorary board member of Catalyst. a national non-profit organization for plac i11g women in key management positions. Skidmore's F. William Harder Lecture Series in Business was endowed by the late Mr. Harder, a long-time investment consultant who served 12 years on the college's board of trustees. Write for Business Cf5 Finance. Call £hields x4120 or Write Box 452 IPlJ1f liN A JPJERSONAIL AT TJHIJE TINJFO JRMA Tli 0 N

CONCORDIENSIS •APRIL 16, 1992 •PAGES Improvements To Campus Housing Are A Must Campus housing absolutely must improve. That is as clearly stated as possible. Even so, the administration has not made any noticeable improvements. They have let dorms remain in tile same condition - excluding some minor interior re-decoration - which has left on campus housing a very undesirable option. Their failure to act in accordance with the students' demands can only leave a stain on their reputation fn the eye of the entire college community. According to administrative policy, all students must live on campus until their senior year. This could be much more easily adhered to if the college would create better living conditions. P\resently, donn life consists of living with one roommate, and in tbe case of Fox and Davidson, two other suite-mates. The typical donn floor contains people one might have absolutely nothing in common witll, sporadic late night noise problems, and dirty bathrooms. How can the administration conclude that cases such as this might even approach the term desirable? This leads to the trend of finding off campus h~using. Not only can students live among friends and coll~ge contemporaries (if they choose), but there is also a vast increase in the amount of privacy offered. More often than not, off campus housing consists of a few friends that all have singles, share a common living room, and have unlimited use of their own kitchen. This not only adds comfort to daily life, but gives the individual much more personal freedom than experienced by a dorm student. Greeks are typically believed to have much better living standards than independents, when in fact, most conditions in these houses are equal, if not below the average college provided dorm . The key factor in making greek life more pleasurable lies in the fact that they live among friends. Many dorms are filled with people who have nothing in common and do not interact socially. Given such circumstances, these people usually do not have a greater than average d&rm experience? Now, the problem has been formally submitted for consideration, but a problem that does not offer any possible solutions is just another idle complaint. So, what can the administration do? The natural option would be for the college to build on campus facilities that are smaller than the present donns and have the conveniences of apartment life, similar to the situation that exists in Smith House Another possibly more far-fetched option would be for the college to purchase the row houses on Gillespie, University, and Park. After the necessary restoration, the school might arinex this property into the present campus grounds. Undoubtedly, the administration has considered many proposals, but their shortcoming lies in the fact that they have yet to act upon any of the alternatives th3:t might willingly draw students back onto campus. The Fight Continues for Homosexual and Bisexual Rights To the Editor: In reference to Mr. Jared's Galazin' s Letter to the Editor in the April 9. 1992 issue of the Concordiensis, I llave a few points of my own with which to inform the Union College community about the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program. Mr. Galazin. in his enlightening letter, welcomed individuals who may be interested in ROTC to obtain more information; however, he did not tell you who would be unwelcome to do so. The \opportunities'' provided by the military for students are not available to all people. Many students use ROTC as a way to pay for their education. All students should be allowed to do so, but that is certainly not the case. The fact is, the Department of Defense (DoD) openly discriminates against people on the basis of sexual orientation according to DoD Directive #1332.14. The military had demanded refunds of educational scholarships, denied diplomas, discharged, and even imprisoned service-members, ROTC students, and !Cadets solely because they are or are suspected to be lesbian, gay. or bisexual. Women are disproportionately ten times more likely to be dischar~e<l. on the basis of sexual orientation. Schools across the cou11try have begun phasing o11t ROTC and military recruiters: from campuses as a way to u~rge the President to eliminate this policy and to eliminate discrimination from tb.eir campuses. For example, Rutgers University is tile first school to remove fo11r-year ROTC scholarships in rrotest of anti-gay discriminatio.n. Don't get me wrong~ 1 am not against ROTC. There's no better way to serve our co0u11try and, at the same timoe, get financial aid/support for you education that to get in\Volved in tile ROTC. But wh~t does one's sexual orientation l!ave to do with his or her leadership abilities and capacity to serve in the military? Saying that straight seNice- members would be uncomfortable using the same locker rooms as ·their gay, lesbian, and bisexual cohorts just doesn't cut it as an excuse. Gay, lesbian, and bisexual people are not necessarily turned on by seeing a member of the same sex c.jlange or by sharing the same living quarters. Gay, lesbian, and bisexual people are not attracted to every member of the opposite sex. It is also a myth that gay, lesbian, and bisexual personnel pose security risks as potential blackmail victims. It's plain and simple: ROTC treats lesbian, gay, and bisexual people as, not just second-class citizens, but non-citizens. The President, as Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Armed Forces, bears complete authority to eliminate this policy. Write a letter to the President and urge him to sign an Executive Order immediately rescinding Department of Defense Directive #1332.14. Write to: George Bush, The White House. Washington, D.C. 20500. Delta Upsilon Fund Drive Successful To the Editor: The brothers of Delta Upsilon would like tD thank all of those who purchased tickets to their \Night of Chevy Chase\ and who made donation to their American Red Cross fund drive. We would especially like to thank the Union College film committee for their contribution towards the movie rental, and the sisters of Delta Gamma for their generous donation. With the over $450raised by this event, Delta Upsilon will be able to help sponsor a van that will drive the disabled around the capitol distrhct. All of the donations that were made were greatly appreciated and more are always neede.J so if you can, donations can :still be made to this great cause. If you wish to find out how to make a donation contact Ramsey Baker or Peter Cocozza. Thanks again for all the campus wide support and look for future Delta Upsilon fund raisers later this spring. Sincerely, The Brothers of Delta Upsilon I'm Pro-Choice and I Vote! To the Editor: On Sunday April Stll, Just under a million people marched through Washington D;C. to show their support for women and their inalienable rights. This was not simply a rally for abortion but a statement to the United States government tl!at women are tired of being mistreated. People of various ages, races, sexual preference, religions and political bel:iefs, came from across America to support their opinions. \We won't go back, We'll fight back\ was shouted along with other catchy slogans as we marched through the streets to the nation's capitol. Simultaneously, signs and banners were being distributed, and buttons. tee-shirts, and stickers were being sold along the crowded streets. People brought drums and guitars and hummed melodies reminiscent of the sixties. The American people joined together in raising our voices to show that we are willing to put up .a fight for what we believe. Accompanying the thousands of people were politicians both Democrat and Republican. In addition many celebrities showed up, actors and singers begging the policy makers of America to hear this crucial message. The fight is not simply for the right to have an abortion, as speaker Ron Silver pointed out, .. No one likes abortion,\ the fact remains that whatever legislation is passed women will continue to have them preformed. We are fighting thus for safe, clean, legal protection of our women- mothers, daughters, sisters and friends. Unless the governmep.t is prepared to increase welfare funds (:)f as some banners read: \When George Bush is prepared to baby-sit\ this is an issue which touches everyone. As Charon Asetoyer of the Native American Women's Health Education: Resource Center said, \Choice is not just whether you choose to have an abortion. It's the right to choose options such as family planning, the right to have healthy ch:ildren, housing ... The choice issue is not defined by a few, but by everyone at a personal level.'' It is about our constitutional rights to our. own bodie~. An important aspect stressed is the power of voting. We the people have put the c11rrent government leaders in power and it is likewise possible to change that. This is the first sign of a break in the general apathy that seems to have descended upon most American people. The anger felt by women at being abused by a provincial government seems to have triggered political action. and perhaps this is just the begin11ing. \First they came for the Communists, and I didn't speak up because I wasn't a Communist. Then they came for the Jews. and I dictn•t speak up becamse I wasn't a Jew. Then they came for the trade unionists, .and I didn't speak up because I wasn't a trade unionist. Then they carne for the Catholics, and I didn't speak u}} because I was a Protestant_ Then they came for me and by that time no one was left t() speak up.\ Pastor Martin Niernoller. Sincerely, Ruth Lennan New Requirements for Letters to the Editor Due to recent changes ~in the Concordiensis we request all Letters to the Editor be turned in on 3.5\ hard drive disketts that are Macintosh compatible 1i'ncluding Box Number, so they can be returned to the owner the following Wednesday.

.. ·. . . . . . . . .. · ... :. · .... · ··... .. . .. •. ;:·'1=·-T~·E···uli·· .·.::· .. • ' - : ' • ·' - • • • 1 ~ • ' ' ' ·~-= ;Eiilllllll' ,.. ' CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 9 A Lesson In Respect To the Editor: I am sitting here writing this letter feeling very .ilngry, :resentful, and disappointed, as a result of recent events. Allow me to explain further. I am a member of one of the many greek societies on campus which, as you know, ~ftave a tradition of opening their doors to the campus community for social gatherings. What has recently happened at one such gathering has filled me with anger and disgust. I take great pride in the appearance of my house. I was raised that when a person invites you into their home you are to treat it with the same respect you have fo1 your.own home, if not more. I realize that when there is an event there is bound to be =.~ mess the next morning. That was not the problem. There were four things that raised me to this level of anger. Durin!\ the gathering I, along witi1 another member of the society, spent a half hour installing a new lock on a second floo-r window whicll some perso11 felt the need to break in order to allow in uninvited guests. When I go to a gathering at :a person's house I; 1) Have an Invite, 2) Use the front door, 3) Do not feel the need to destroy property to get in. In the morning, I was iHformed that a shelf full of antique books were stolen. I applaud those students' zeal for knowledge but somehow feel that they are taking the wrong approach to becoming educated. We would have gladly allowed you to read them in the comfort of our liviNg room beside a relaxing fire in the fireplace. However, you will have to excuse the way the slate on the fireplace looks. More philistines felt AI PAC P:olicy Conference in D.C. To the Editor: On April 5-7, we joined close to three thousand delegates, one thousand of whom were college students from across the country~ at the 33rd Annual American Israel Public Affairs Committee (MP A C) Policy Conference in Washington, D.C. The conference enabled many of Israel's strongest suppotters an opportunity to gather, evaluate recent events in Israel and abroad, and focus on thecurrent shift of American foreign policy towards l]sra.el. Delegates at the conference spent Tuesday mU~rning lobbying their Members of Congress about iissues important to the pro-Israel community. Among the distin1Juished guests were Thomas Dine, Executive Director of A.iiPAC who addressed the \State of AIPAC,\ and Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley (D- W A), who discrussed \Congress' Role in the U.S. Middle East Policy.\ Israeli Ambassador Zalman Shoval described \Israel's Visiion of Peace,\ and one session, \1992: The Race for the White House\ included speakers Ron Brown, Chairman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), and Richard Bond, Chairmall! of the FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM $1 000 in just one week. For your fraternity/ sorority team or other organization. Plus receive a $1000 bonus for yourself'! And a FREE WAlCH just for callin!J. Call 1·800-932·0528 Ext. 65 Republican N ation!ll Committee (RNC). Other speakers included Senator Joseph R. Biden (D~DE), Senator Connie Mack (R-FL) and Representative Larry Smith (D-FL). At the closing ceremony on Tuesday, Vice President of the United States Dan Quayle, spoke about the \U.S.- Israel Relationship.\ This past February was the first anniversary of the Persi31l Gulf War and Saddam Hussein's brutal Scud missile attacks on Israel. The Israeli Government supported U.S.. goals in the Gulf War by refraining first from a pre- emptive and then from a retaliatory strike against Iraq. The connection betwee11 Saddam's unwarranted aggression against Israel, and Israel's lack .of involvemell!t with the Arab conflict i11 Kuwait could be easily identified. Thus, there wa:s support for Israel from Jewisll and non-Jewish communitie:S throughout tile world during;, and after the Gulf War. Support for Israel, however, requires a full-time committment. Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East who shares Americar1 values and ideals. While there is a rising anti-foreign aid sentiment in our country today, few people realize that onl:Y ffcrrilm D. Poor William E. Stevenson eo.ows 1.2% of our budget is invested in foreign aid, only a fraction of which goes to Israel. Assistance to Israel is critical in advancing democracy, enhancing regional stability, and promoting peace and other U.S. values and security interests in the Middle East and abroad. In addition, the passage of loan guarantee legislation remains the highest priority for the American pro- Israel community. Providing absorption loan guarantees, at no cost to the U.S. taxpayer, assists Israel in the resettlement of refugees from the Soviet Union. As representatives of AIPAC, we hope to stimulate activity at Union by sponsoring pro-Israel speakers on campus, launching a letter writing campaign to Members of Congress, and establishing a group of students who share our common goals. If you are interested, please stop at our infonnation table in the C.C. on April 20- 21, or contact Karen@ Box#1042, or X4201. Karen Hurwitz '93 Allison Goldberg '95 Nikki Goldin '94 Jenny Lovenhein '92 Becki Stein '93 Elissa Mirkin '95 The following members of the Class of '92 have ziven to the Senior Class Gift Drive tor Union College (aij of April 14). Please join them iD tlleir efforts to strengthen our College. Gifts may be brought to the third Door of Lamont H()tJSe or sent via camJJuS mail to: Staci Dupre, Lamont House. All gifts will be matched by an anooym()oS donor. Please call x6142 for further information. Antoinette Aime Heather Almy Paul Andrejkovics Joshua Art)o Deborah Beaudry Klmberlee 'Brody Lalbachan Budhai Beth Carlson Jeffrey C11smariu David Donaldson Kerstin Dclrse Roselle Eisma Michael F1anagan Elisabeth F'oley Tobias Gado Bret Goldin Erica G4lsllko Cristi11 Grace Alex: Green Daloo11 Gustafson Pete;r Hackett William Hahn Daniel Jahne Amr J-oslin KimlJerly Koenig Joce:Jyn K()rn Danue[ LaFleur Robert Leung Maey Leviosohn Jo1'11an Lippner Daniielle Mathem; PniiBa Miller Jeffn!y Nield Bnic:c Patryn Brigham Pendleton Heidi Phelps Herrika Poor, Scnilir Gift Drive Co.Chair Eugene Ray Betsy Rothstein Philip Royce William Stevenson, Senior Gift Drive Co-Chair Mary Tung Robert Vlalanli MarcyWeln Karen Welsek Marie Wheeler Arnie Yuskaitis Seniors making a donation to Iillis year's gift drive may vote for the use of their CUmlllative class dollars. All money raised will go to the category with the greatest number or votes at tbe close of the Class of '92 Senior Gift Drive on April 30. The three categories to choose from are: The 80th Annual Fund for Union College:, the Nott Memorial Restoration Fund, or the Camplis Pub. The first 92 lllonors of $20 or more receive a Class of '92 mug. they needed to prove their strength in destroying a corner of H. Congratulations! They also proved that their intelligence is considerably lower that their strength. It was possibly :these same very strong, but stupid, persons who felt the needs to take chips off of a pedestal honoring a dead UniiDn Alumni who gave !lis life during the Civil War. With all of the happenings of the last twenty four hours I do not see any reason why the society that I am a part of should ever open its doors to the campus again. I believe that if more of this type of behavior occurs other societies may follow suit. I fear that soon the campus will find themselves confronted with a very closed and polarized social life. For those who respect the wishes and homes of others,. I thank you. For those who can not respect those wishes, I urge you to look at yourself and what ycu are doing to our community. If you can not act like an adlllt, I pity you at the end of your four years. Sincerely, Christopher P. Everett '92 The More Things Change ••• To the Editor: I am wel:l aware that many who read this are going to be outraged at what they consider to be a gross exaggeration of the facts and probably will venture to blame me with arriving at some far-fetched conclusion. I suppose that is the risk wllich a student of political science takes when he presents his analytical deductions to the general public. However, I mean to make clear that I am not concluding anything. I leave that task to the reader. Here's the situation. We have a once-powerful state, which was recently involved in a conflict with the United States, but due to recent events has fallen into economic and political turmoil. One man, a man with a strong political career, rises to the top and claims that he can get his country back on its feet. Unfortunately, he claims that in order to do so, he must be given the power to override Parliament and, in fact, possess absolute authority. If you guessed that I am describing the state of affairs in Russia following the end of the cold war, and the man in question is Boris Yeltsin, you ate correct. However. if images of the state in Germany some sixty years prior come to mind, you are also correct. In either case, it probably seems shocking that there is a similar trend in both of these scenarios. But once again, I am not making any direct judgements or accusations based upon these facts. Actions like that are better left for the mere emphatic elements of the news media. Of course there are obvious dissimilarities between these two cases. For example, the ideologies. character, and goals of Yeltsm and Hitler appear to differ in great degrees, and from what we have seen so far, so do their actions. But it is the similarities, many as they are, that need our attention. In light of this situaticn, here is some food for thought. Does humanity as a whcle (scholars aside) become wiser as the decades progress? Or is it a case of each generation learning for itself? No doubt, we have deep responsibility to learn from the experiences of the preceding generations, but inevitably each generation will make its own mistakes, even if they are far from original o11es. It is easy for us to forsake an interest in the past because of our commitment to the present. Even more than this. it is apathy for the present which will surely make the past obscure. Well, its surely something to consider. Outen Appetit. Sincerely, P. O'Mealy ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER 500 WORDS WILL NOT BE PRINTED. THERE WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONS. All Letters to the Editor must be submitted on a Macintosh microsoft word diskette; signed with a name, 10, telephone and box number. They must be submitted to the Condordiensis office by 4:00 p.m. on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis. Disc will be returned the following week to your mailbox.

For Sunday, A.p1il' 12: The lnternalional Atomic Energy Agency told Japan that its plans for storing plutonium in Tokyo could pose problems in Asia and urged the city to put these stores under international custody. Japan had commissioned shipments, each containing a ton of plutonium, from Europe to Japan this fall. The Japanese Government plan to reprocess and reuse this atomic waste to provide nuclear power. Officials of the Agency fear that other countries with nuclear ambitions would use Japan's justification for storing stockpiles to store plutonium and reprocess nuclear waste. The silent presidential race in Mexico has begun again. As in the past, no one who plans to succeed the .Jlresent leader, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, will pubLicly announce t'heir intentions in order to appear loyal to the President. By the tradition of the past 50 years, any man who takes over the presidency must have been chosen by the President as his successor. The only knowledge at this point is the movement of Luis Donalda Colosio, president of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, into a new Cabinet Post, Secretary of Social Development. This move ''Barbie's by Deborah Seward Associated Press MOSCOW- She's short on clothes, lacks a beau and doesn't know what a surfboard is, but Veronik:a is something America's Barbie doll isn't: inexpensive for Russians. \Veronika disappears as soon as she hits the shelves,\ said Dmitri Arkhangelsky, the chief designer of Russia's hottest new doll. Slightly taller and wider than Barbie, she is the Russian response to growing demand for Western-style goods. And she's the key to success of the Krogozor toy factory, one of thousands of Russian businesses testing free-market reforms. \When prices rose this year, our dolls became more expensive than meat. Sales fell. So we looked for a doll to get our clients back and decided to make a world-class model,\ said Albert Sherstenikov, the factory director. Sherstenikov summoned Arkhangelsky, who had been the popularity of American places him into the Administrations group of the chosen ones. In Cairo, Egypt, Colonel Muammar ei-Qaddafi told the president that he agrees to abide by the U.N. resolution that his country turn over the two officials accused of the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 in 1988. Yet Colonel Qaddafi has reservations. The United Nations Security Council voted to impose a trade and air travel embargo against Libya unless the two officials are surrendered. Jn addition, the Council demanded that Libya give France access to four men possibly involved in the destruction of a French plane in 1989. For the third time in less than a week, the heads of Yugoslavia's three nationalist parties called a cease fire. The three groups, Muslim-Slav Party for Democratic Action, the Croatian Democratic Union. and the Serbian Democratic Party, affinned the right of return to all refugees and opposed territorial gains by force. The Yugoslav army was not a party to the truce. Fighting and border attacks broke out on April 13 near the town of Foca and Visegrad. Information provided by The New York Times, International Section (Monday, Apri/13, 1992) Russian Barbie dolls among Russian girls who like her bright clothes, accessories, and her friend, Ken. Asked to design a new doll, Arkhangelsky found his muse in his 18 year old granddaughter, Veronika. Her auburn hair and slim good looks contrasted with the looks of the hefty dolls with strange blue or yellow hair that the factory created under Soviet rule. The first trial run of 1,400 V eronikas was ready in less than a month. The doll was a hit. Krugozor turned out 20,000 in February and 30,000 in March. April's target is 40,000. \We'll build our production around the Veron:ijca line. First the people, then the clothes, then the other accessories,\ said Arkhangelsky. At 160 rubles ($1.60), Veronika is a bargain for Rusgians compared to the Barbie. The American doll costs 1,000 rubles ($10), one with a party dress costs about 1,800 rubles ($18), and one with a surfboard runs about 2,500 rubles($25). The For :Fra:nce It's A Cultura.l S·ca:re ·Be·caus·e- The Mouse Is Everywhere ••• by William Drozdiak The Washington Post MARNE LA VALLEE, France - Five years in the making, at a cost of more lhan $4 billion, Disneyland's :£irst theme park in Europe opened its do()rs Sunday to enthusia:;tic cheers from the young at heart and scomfl:ll snubs fr()l11 French intellectaals who lament its present as a \cultural Chemobyl.\ As do\Ves .flew into the air, trumpets blared a fanfare and chHdren sang a multilingual chorus of\It'.s a Small Wo1ld,\ Disney's cilairman and chief executive officer, Michael D. Eisner, surveyed his 11ew domain from the Chateau <le la Belle au Bois Dormant (Sleeping :Beauty's Castle) and declared t.hat Disney's fo!llrth park \represents a return tO< our roots.\ Disney's other foreign venture i:s in Japan. Seeki11g to reassure those who abhor the vast playgmund -- one fifth the size of Pads -- as a Trojan horse of America's cultural invasion, Eisner sought to persuade the contineBtal crowd that the Disney phenomenon \Was largely inspired by European fairy tales, including Germany's Snow Wllite, England·s Peter Pan, lt!lly's Pinoccllio and Fran~e's CinderelLa. Even before Sunday's opening, Europe's biggest construe tion project after the Channe 1 Tunnel linking England and France has stirred heated controversy. Actors, writers, philosophers and essayists have warned that Relative'' average ~oviet worker ma:k:es 960 rubles ($9.60) a month_ Because of the high price of raw mate:rials, Veronika wears simple C()!t()n dresses. Becacuse the factory has lots of pla:stic and paint, she has a range of high heels of different colors, mainly silver, gold, or white. She also is heavily made up. Long bbck eyelashes are painted around her deep btlue eyes. She has bright red cheeks a11d deep pink lips. \We want to make her very beautiful,.\ said factory worker Lidia Dsabinka, as she attaclied hair to o11e dell Arkha11gelsky is designilllg a furniture set for Veronika. He would also like her limbs: to bend better. and he would like to give V.eronika a sister. Barbie's big edge on Veronika is Ken. Krugmzor designers have been wor:kin,g to come up with an acce:ptable design- for Veronika's. \young man,\ as Arkhangelsky calls him. But the prototype must be approved by a council of the Education Ministry, which Jlas so far rejected every proposaJ. Courte8y of The D(Jify Gazzette French youngsters could succumb to Disney's wholesome frivolities the way they have fallen for the Big Mac. Leading cultural arbiters such as writer Marguerite Duras and critic Bernard Pivot worry that teenagers will abandon a rich heritage of literature in favor of roaring down the Big Thunder Mountain railroad, flying aboard Dumbo the Elephant or ogling the 3-D spectacle of Michael Jackson's Captain EO. People living near the site also have complained, but for different reasonso They loathe the prospect of 120 nights a year of noisy fireworks shows, and they tell civic authorities that the horn -tooting by park trains makes their dogs howl and their geese honk incessantly. , Those concerns seemed overwhelmed, however, by Sunday's turnout in spite of a suburban train strike that crippled public transport to the site 20 miles east of Paris. Thousands of visitors from all over Europe jammed the entrances as early as dawn, prompting Disney executives to open the park an hour earlyo When the communist-led transport union announced a strike to coincide with opening day, Disney executives tried to keep the trains going by offering operators and their families free tickets to the park. . A bomb attack Saturday night toppled a power line pylon and caused brief electrical outages to the park's six hotels, but fears of a nightmarish .traffic saarl failed to materialize and California- style sunny weather glowed over the new Magic Kingdom on its inaugural weekend. In launch,in.g. Disney's biggest business gamble, Eisner lauded more than 1,700 European companies and 10,000 workers involved in building the park. Roy Disney, the company vice chairman and nephew of the founder, said, \More than a few drops of French blood flowed through Uncle Walt's veins.\ He cited the family's origins in the little Normandy town of Desinee-sur-Mer, which his ancestors left during the Norman Conquest. And he also contended that Walt Disney, who served in the ambulance corps here during World war I and was awarded the Legion of Honor. always said that \he got some of his best ideas from France. II The emphasis on Disney's European origins was aimed at countering the rise of chauvinistic resentment in recent weeks, as Left Bank intellectuals and \France first\ right-wingers joined force.s to challenge Euro Disney and its momentous impact on France's cultural landscape. II A horror made of cardboard, plastic and appalling colors, a construction of hardened chewing gum and idiotic folklore straight out of comic books written for these obese Americans,\ the conservative polemicist Jean Cau complained.

a 's a 's It 's a u CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16, 1992 • Has Anyone Seen My Green Jeans? by Betsy Rothstein Concordiensis Staff Someone stole my green jeans. I'm serious! I do not normally accuse people of stealing my things since my lost items tend to tum up either right in front of my face, or in that dark, lint-ridden corner underneath -my bed. However, in the case of my green jeans, they were definitely stolen or else someone is borrowing them for an overextended, obnoxious, rude, mentally deranged, sick amount of time. Call me paranoid, but I bet the thief or thieves think that since I am graduating in June they will be able to get away with this horrible, heinous crime. I am sorry, but jeans do not just get up and walk away by themselves, especially green ones. Every time I see someone wearing green jeans it is like I have this detector on. If I spot green jeans out of the corner of my eye, my head automatically snaps around in hopes that they will be mine and I can simply knock the thief down, give them a harsh . war~ ortwo and.ta)reiback my jeans. , This reminds me of last Spring when I borrowed a friend· s mountain bike,(sorry to bring up this excellent memory. Susan) and a lifetime member of the local Schenectady Mountain Bike Theft Ring sawed through the railing on my porch to steal the bike. I had locked the bike up the previous night and the next morning as I was on my way to class, it did not phase me at first that the bike was gone. Halfway up the road though. I did a complete 180 and raced back to confront my bikeless porch. My first thought was that someone had played a sick practical joke on me. I stood there in shock for a very long time, refusing to believe that it had been stolen. When I came to my senses though, and observed the broken railing, my heart plunged into my stomach as I realized I would have to tell my friend that her bike was gone. Mter that, every time I noticed a freak flying around Schenectady on a black mountain bike, I viewed them with a skeptical eye. Most people have st~len something at one point or another in their lives. When [ asked various people of their personal stealing experiences [ received some enlightening responses. \I stole perm rods from a beauty salon, earrings, lipstick- ! was a big kle_pto as a kid.\ \I often sample tons of bin food before buying it.\ \I ordered a pizza from The Dutch Hollow on one of those courtesy phones in the College Center, and tllen stole it. I didn't feel bad since the girl that works there always gives away free food to boys anyway. , It is amazing how people rationalize stealing to themselves st> they will not feel guilty about committing a crime, a federal crime for which they can potentially go to jail. Here are a few examples: \My leather jacket was stolen so I don ~t feel bad about taking this one.\ (This is your basic eye for a11 eye, tooth for a tooth thief.) \It's not going to put CVS under, so why the hell not?\(This is your business- minded criminal.) ~ '\No dn:e wifJ miss {t-tpere are so many of them.\(This is your logical thief.) \My $20;000 covers the cost of this cookie from The Dutch Hollow.\ \It's Union College property-I've paid for it already.\ \Stealing can be a thrill, just to see if you call get away with it. It's a challenge. \(This is your over-achiever thief.) I guess I clo not really consider bin stealing true stealing since there is very little guilt involved. In many ways I believe anything in bins is fair game(yes Cody, this does include bagels.) It is not as though you lose sleep after committing the serious, hardened criminal act of swiping four chocolate covered raisons from Price Chopper. There are various types of stealing. The first type is your hardcore kleptomaniac or someone involved in grand larceny(i.e. stealing stereos and televisions). The second type is your average bin robber, pack of gum here. piece of candy there thief. Then there are the worst thieves of all: The Borrowers. These are people who have no intention of retuming your things. They are the worst kind because they are so sneaky as to ask your permission to steal your things. It's funny how people borrow your clGthes(possibly my green jeans) and then try to pass them off as their own. Everyday people borrow pens knowing full weB they will not return them at the end of the class. The owner would never dare ask for lhe pen back- that would be a very anal thing to do. Sometimes you borrow something and as time passes you. believe the owner has undergone an intense mem?ry lapse and has no recollection that you ever borrowed anything. Suddenly, mysteriously. magically. the item has changed hands and the new owner(i.e. the thief) has acquired perhaps ... a brand new pair of green jeans. On Spring Break, some friends and I lost our luggage on our flight in between Cozumel and Cancun(basically a flying bus ride from hell). I immediately envisioned the worst: One hU;ndred short Mexic~m men parading around the airport in all of our summer clothes. Luckily this did not happen since Henri Lopez, the flight agent from Mexicana Airlines, who by the way has a serious eye-blinking problem, got everything back to us. What a guy! Fortunately, my green jeans were already lost(i.e. stolen or permanently borrowed) by. this point, or else I woul~ believe that a miniature Mexican man by the name of He.cto~ was strutting around Mexico m my green jeans. Stealing is stealing. There is no way arom1d it and no rational excuses for it. In ancient times, whoever stole my green jeans would have had their hands chopped off. If I had it my way though, they would have their legs chopped off. It is a federal offense and whether it is something large, such as a car, or something small, such as a raison, or something in the dark, forest green, hemmed and perfectly tapered model, IT IS A CRIME. Lifestyles Needs Help! If Iizterested Call Julie x4075 §h,akt:- Raise& 51500 in Charit:y Concert by Sreedhar Sam udrala Contributing Writer On Wednesday, April 8th, Zakir Hussain and Sultan Khan, two of the world's foremost Indian classical musicians performed together in the Memorial Chapel at Union College for the first time. Approximately 480 people attended this concert which lasted three hours. Through the duration of the concert the audience watched with amazement as the tabla and sarangi were played with the utmost dexterity. The tabla consists of two individual drums known as the Baya and Daya which communicate with each other through intricate rhythms while playing around the moods of the raga. The sarangi, one of the sonorous bowing instruments of India, plays a series of notes known as the raga and is considered to be most like the human voice. The concert opened with the Indian vocal group singing in \Jatiswaram\. a South-Indian dance piece, while Professor Thomas Ross directed the ensemble and kept pitch on the · tambura, a drone instrument. Nilesh Shulka. the Master of Ceremonies for the evening. introduced Zakir Hussain and Sultan Khan with the words: \Please sit back and enjoy this new dimension where time and space seem infinite. where the fine line between our imagination and reality vooishes, and we are left with a blissful peace that has no translation.\ At that moment, the artists appeared before the awaiting audience. Professor Ross accompanied the first half of the performance on the tambura. The first two compositions were in Raga Dhani in slow and medium tempo in Teen Tal, a cycle of sixteen bc:1ts. A beautiful alaap. a solo by Sultan Khan on the sarangi. opened the piece. An impressive tabla accompaniment brought !he piece to a close. Followmg this, Sultan Khan sand a \Iori\, a Rajasthani lullaby titled \Sojaare\. This concluded the first half of the concert. In the second half of the program, Zakir Hussain performed a tabla recital in Teen Tal. In his performance, he explained how his compositions can describe various images such as the leap of a deer, the movement of a truin, the festival of Holi and many others. Sultan Khan kept a repeating melody known as a \lehra\ throughout. The concert ended with a grand finale followed by a standing ovation. Shakti, Union's South Asian Society, thanks the Concert Committee, the Department of Arts, Student Activities and Public Relations for their support. All the proceeds from the concert went to SEW A- Rural hospital in G uj uraL India. 3-4 Bedroom Apartments Available for '92-93 Newly renovated, Washer & dryer available, back yard, front porch, large kitchen, modern bathroom, new carpet throughout. Please call Monday through Friday 9:00 am .. S:OO pm: 462-7411 Evenings and Weekends: 482-8788 .. I , I I I I I l l I j , I l

~ . PER!iOI\IAL§ \I apologize to the wornen's lacrosse team for exP,ress:ing my thoughts of the gaml! in public. Terry Ratb'.Well To all DG Sisters and Pledg:es, SMILE! ! You've got a lo1 to be happy about! ! I.T.B., Katne.-ine DearE.K.: Thanks for being my roommate for the last two years. We've had some rell:llly special moments and I'H re[lUy, really miss you next fall te:rm. I love ya little buddy. P.S.P'.D. Nish, Manny, Denise, and Eugene: · Welcome to the family. If you liked the Bll!sh, you'll love the Burgundy. Hopefully I'll limp in this weekend. Sincerely, C. Jl.()ssi Tri-Delta Sisters & Pledges:, On behalf of the brothers and pledges of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, we would lili:e to thank the sisters and pledge:s of the Delta Delta Delta Sorolity. The fraternity/sorority \mbxer\ we had last Saturday night was a huge success:· The festi-vi:ties began with a brother/sister and pledge switch where eur pled.ges got to meet the 'Tri- Delta sisters, and the Tri-D·elta pledges got to meet our brothers. After a few hm!Ts of the \getting to know ;you sessions,\ as well as several rememberable moments which will be left untold, the four groups joined together and we had a very enjoyable tirne. Once again, we would lil<e to express our gratitude and we look forward to having ID!ore functions with your sororit:y in the future. The Brothers & Pledge.s of Delta Upsilon Bret, . Happy Birthday! Have a great day! Boozie: Love~ Nick Thank you for being the1e for me Saturday night. Beli~\le it or not, you made me feel better. I love you. Love Me Lisa Lenninger - Great outfit Saturday 11i ght. You definitely take first iprize for the Ann Romano look alike contest. Sari- Sorry about the mix-up wvith the staff box last week. We want you back- soon! TheCI'ew! Every ();ay CLA§!ii:FIED§ WCIDWAMI Psychology - Wednesday, .April 22nd at 7:30 p.m. in tile Career Development Center. *#! ?! AMAZING ! ! ! PANASONIC Word Processor Type-set - Looks Professional - Cheap! Cheap! Cheap! Cheap! Call 37 4-7504 CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 12 Put a Personal in Conco.rd.iensis! 30 words or less & only 5'0¢ each. Fill out ·form at the -information booth. :CROSSWORD ACROSS 42 Faux- 10 Puts in a new floor 43 In - (behind in 11 Stern 1 -system payme~t) 12 Nullify 6 Disagree with, in 45 DumbbEll 13 ~id·icule law 47 Lubrioeates 14 Musrtcal group 11 Baseball hall-of- • 49 Neighibor of Turkey 19 Miss Williams farner, -Baker 50 - cme' s time 22 Former world leader, 13 Reduces in rank 51 Turldsh chamber and family 15 Show excessive 52 Snakelike fish 23 Las Vegas hotel devotion 53 Sidekick (abbr.) 26 Novelist Franz - 16 Learned 54 Newer film versions 27 Knocks down by 17 Govern 57 One TV show punching 18 European country 60 Most sarcastic 30 Abbreviation before (abbr.) 61 Slanders a date 2D wa·ll ach and Whitney 62 Aroma 32 Do 1 ores De 1 - 21 Bed support 63 Physician of old 35 Animal tracks 22 Lowest point 36 Certain race horses 24 Fine earth DOWN 37 Mus1 im 25 Fedora 38 Most arid 26 Large grasshopper 1 Constructed with 39 Dispatched --t----1--t 28 Zuider - stand.ardized units 40 Offensive, as an 29 Put on a new book 2 Try t() equal or odor cover surpass 41 - Purchase 31 What Edmund Hillary 3 Issue a new lease 44 Before conquered 4 RetirEment account 46 Celebrations 33 No ----, ands, or 5 Famou~ king 48 Tree product buts 6 -fuehrer 50 Fundamental r,--l--+----+-+---1--+--1 34 liere: Fr. 7 Flightless bird 55 Famous do 11 35 Gave a conceited 8 Statist ica 1 56 Superlative suffix smi 1 e measu-res 58 Slangy throw 39 - Delta 9 Put ·i:nto service 59 \-nightingale .•. \ (§Edward Julius Collegiate CW8710 · seo&Zii · ·. · . ·. •· . · · · · ·· ·· · ·. · ·· ·. · · · High Sailing Season For Softball Squad by Ron Birnbaum Corzcordiensis Staff This season the Union women's softball team is off to a flying start once again, with a 5-l record after facing its first four opponents. two of its bouts, consecutive home double-headers: versus Utica and Siena, (}Tie a llome game versus Williallls, and the other the season opener away at Albany. Although a yot~ng team, Union has been affected very little by that C()nsidering players' individual talents and their strong ability to function together .as a team. Head coach Sue Zaloom returns to lead the pack for her third consecutive year, assistant coach George Cuttita for his fourth, and manger Jill B-erstein for her second. The team took away a 5-l victory after its first game versus Albany~ one of two games, the sec()nd to be played later this montl\. Although this is always a tough start, Union has deft~~ted the Great Danes in four out of five games over the past thee years. Freshman starting ]Jitcller Allison Draizin · gave up no earned runs for the opponent despite four Union errors, a11d senior catcher quad- captain :Robi11 Romer hit in an important RBI as part of one of Union's nine hits over Albany's two. Two days later, the squad migrated to Knickerbocker fteld in Albany for its first double- header versus Utica, considered a home game though the team was not used to the field, and it earned a 6-4 victory in the second game after a primary I 0-6 loss. While the loss could be attributed to Union's six errors over Albany's four, the team still bad ten hits over Utica's four. Senior cen terfielder quad -captain Roselle Eisma went 3-4 hitting in this first _game. Romer had two RBis, freshman firstbaseman Michelle Parker had a two-base hit to block in an RBI, !llld freshman shortstop Stephanie Howk had an RBI. Aside from errors, the team was not used to the field here and threw the ball around too much. The next game Union downplayed its errors and came back with hits. Robin Romer went 3-3 hitting with two RBI's, and sophomore fielder Chris Weske had two RBis as well. Weske also had a three· base hit as did senior secondbaseman squad-captain Lan Lopata. One RBI was also contributed by Parker for the go ahead run and 6-4 win. Home soil was finally found when Union returned for its first real home games, a double-heacler versus Siena which resuJted in 7-4 and 4-2 wins. With the first game Union had ten hits over Siena's three and Union's Howk had the only RBI. For hits, Parker and Romer had two each and Weske scored three runs. Each team had three errors, and two of Siena's four runs welfe earned. In the second game, Union was outhit and had mo:re errors than Siena, yet was able to go ahead in the bottom of the fifth with three runs when the score was tied 1-1. Siema scored its second run in the t()p of the seventh, too late. Romer and Howk each batted in tV'Vo and had a hit, junior fielder Dawn Harrington had two hits, and Lopata and freshman catcher/firs tbaseman C hr:is Nytransky each had a hit. Staying at home for its m<l'st recent game, Union defeated Williams 10-9 in an eight- inning game. Up in the top of the fifth 8-2, .the Dutchwomen allowed Williams to come back and tie with two base-on-balls, two errors, and two hits alld two RBis. In the seventh each squad scored one to bring the score to nine all, and in tfue bottom of the eighth junl()r fielder quad-captain Kim Twombly led off, getting on base off an error, and replaced by freshman Jen Brown :as pinch-runner. Brown w:as bunted over to second by freshman thirdbaseman Nic()!e Silvestri on a sacrifice and then allowed to tag-up with a SA.C flyball to centerfield. The game winning hit and RBI to bri11g Brown home carne from Weske, a shot between short and third for the current 5-l record. Tough schedule challenges this season are to include St. Rose, a Division 2 team to be played this week; Binghamton~ always tough; and Skidmore~ the best team to be played in several years besides Russel Sage. Other teams to be faced this week include Oneonta and New Paltz, both away. At this point Coach Zaloom 's outlook is extremely positive. This being the best team she's coached in three years, in playing skill and cumulative batting average~ fundamentals are always stressed here so all can execute well when needed. As pitcher. Draizin has pitched every inning of every game thus far and is expected to continue as starter throughout the season, working with Romer at catcher to gain confidence and move the ball around the plate. Backup pitchers if needed include Lopata, who throws consistently and currently starts at second, and Silvestri, who rotates in at third. At this point if the team continues playing as it is, it should definitely be consider for post-season play .. anything else would be a disappointment, and the 91 seasonal record of 17-5 shonld be matched or surpassed.

.. CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 16, 1992 • PAGE 13 The Department of Modern Languages is conducting a reappointment review for Professor Camille Laparra. Members of the CoUege community familiar with professor Laparra's work are invited to direct their comments, to either Prof. Anton Warde of Prof. William Thomas, in the Humanities Building. Correction: Michele A. Paludi, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology at Hunter College will present a lecture entitled: \Ivory Power: Sexual Harassment on Campus\ based in a recent volume in her se~ies on the Psychology of Women (SUNY Press), Thursday, HIV TESTING INFORMA- TION CALL HEALTH SERVICES X6t20 The Biology Department is currently conducting third- year (reappointment) reviews of Drs. Leo Fleishman and Stephen LaBonne. Any member of · the Uniom College community who has had personal experience with the teachiAg, research, and/or college service activities of either of these teachers is encol!lr:aged to submit verbal or written testimony. Please direct your comments to Prof. RobertOiberg (x6509), chair of Stephen LaBonne's review committee, or Prof. Peter Tobiessen (x6028), chair of Leo Fleishman's review committee. NEED EXTRA CASH??!! WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN SOME FI!JN, EASY MONEY! STUDENTS WHO WOULD LIKE TO WORK ON REUNION WEEKEND - MA.Y 29TH, 30TH & 31sT. x5168. TELECO:MMUNI ·CATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES April16, 1\992 fmm 11:30 am-12:30 pm. The Campus· Community and the General Public are invited to attend The Economics Club invites you to : The Mechanical Engineering Dept. is conducting ReappoilltmentReviews of Professors Rudolph J. Eggert and Richard D. Wilk. All members of the Union College community familiar with their teaching, scholarship, or college service are encouraged to send written comments te Prof. Frank Milillo, PIZZAwiththePROFS. ARE THE PERFECT GIFT this lecture. ~ Thursday, Aprill6, CC Cabaret Area Noon Chairrnan,Mechanical Engineering, SH218. COFFEEHOUSE 7:00-10:30 P.M. OPEN MIKE. NIT'E and FREE GOURMET DESSERT NITE FRIDAY CC302 ROBERT AVON SMITH SUMMER RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP IN BIO-MEDICAL ENGINEERING AT UNION COLLEGE 1\.wardetl to students in the sciences or engineering who participate in a summer researcil program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of College faculty. An award ($2,()00) will be made available to a student selected on the basis of ability to conduct independent resea~~:h in the field and commhment to the summer research program. It is suggested that students discuss the matter wkh Professor Shanebroolt. S1udents interested in applying for the SlJMMER 1992 FeJiomhp should submit llletterto the Dean of Engineering, Lawrene& J. Hollander, outlining the proposed project and name of faculty advisor, Wrth signatures of botMhe sttJdent and the advisor. We would like to identify the recipient by May 1, 1992. Contribute to IDOL Send literary submissions to Missy, Box 577 and for art submissions, such as black & white photos, paintings, etc. contact Jessica X4361. Deadline: April 23 The Department of Geology at Union College presents: How did the first continents fonn? A Geochemical perspective using rare earth elements Owen Evans State University of New York -Stony Brook Monday 20 April, at 4:15 pm Butterfield Hall, Room 202 Refreshments provided. please bring your own coffee cup. WINE TASTING SEMINAR Thursday, April23, 1992 7:00 pm College Center 203 'l'his seminar, presented by the Dutch Hollow restaurant, will feature j()hn Pramaggiore, Director ofFine Wines for Channer Industries. Mr. Pramagglore will help you choose with confidence the correct wine and demystify the wine list Seating Is very limited. Yott must be 21 years old to sign up for tile seminar. Sign up with the cashier in Dutch Hollow Restauran~ Monday through Friday between 9:00 am aJJd 5:00 pm. FREE UNION COLLEGE Department of Biological Sciences The Biology Department and Biology dub present \UTILIZATION OF 16-S t- RNA~DIRECTED PROBES as INDICATORS of · MICOR.BIAL ACTIVITY in ENVIRONMENTAL SAMPLES\ Dr. Ellen Braun-Howland, Biology Department, R.P.I. Thursday, April 9th, 1992 4:40pm Refreshments 4:30 pm Social Sciences Room 104 ••Dr. Braun- Howland is a candidate for the \Cell Biologist\ Position SUNDAY, APRIL 19, 1992 WEST COLLEGE HOURS OF OPERATION BRUNCH- 10:30 AM- 1:30PM HOLIDAY BUFFET- 5:00 - 6:30 PM RATHSKELLAR HOURS OF OPERATION 4:00 - 7:00PM DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT AND UPPERCLASS DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED We can help with ...... . *'Friendly, experienced peer tutors. Free help to all students at any stage of the writing process. ~Free manuals on documentation: end notes, footnotes, & bibliographies. *-'A variety of reference materials, including style · sheets for TJarious disciplines. <8? Computer diagnostic testing on request. We're on the second floor of Whitaker House (abo:ve the Registrar's office). Mondays to Fridays, 2:00 to 4:30p.m. & Sundays to Thursdays, 7:00 to 10:00 pm 1tnton (:ollegtjfacultp ({olloquiunt JAMES LAMBRINOS PROFESSOR AND CHAIR, GIVIDUATE M.ANAGEL'v!ENT INSTITUTE Tlze Economic Value of Life: Has Voodoo Economics Come To The Govemment And The Courts? THtJR.SJJAY, APRIL 30, 1992 AT 4:30P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COFFEE & TEA AT 4:00P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO AITEND UniYlon College fl rCJrca I J Dcvcl~pmcnt ;_. ~-!·\'L· CL:Iltcc JUST FOR JUNIORS Jump Start Your Coreer Search: Career Planning and Job Search Strategies to Start Now . Learn about what you can do this spring and summer to make your senior year job search productive. Tuesday, April21, 3:30 and 7:30pm CDC WCIDWAMI (pronounced \Wicked Wammy\) WHAT CAN I DO WITH A. .MAJOR IN PSYCHOLOGY? A J)anel discussion designed to explore CAREER OPTIONS FOR. • Undecided Students • PsychoLogy Majors • Inquiring Minds Wednesday, April 22 at 7:~0 pm Career Development Center FEMALE UN10N C. RAPE SURVIVORS FREE/CON FIDENTI.Al GROUP DISCUSSION For more info. SENIORS!!! (time. date, location) Call 6121 You don't have to leave your name This is 1he first time Union wn offer a service of this kird to its v.omen (sponsored by Rape Crisis and Union Healtt1 Service) The CDC' is offering :r JOn SI\EKEHS' Cl.llll for students wl>o find themselves in this k111d Are you having a tough time idenrifying polential employers, discovering lhc hidden job market, ami keeping motivated during your job 1 ;. ~< of situation. Juin us for this prognun dcsig11ed 10 assisr seniors in then senr<:h for full·timc employmcnl ~~ €S 1111hc d111lknging julllllarkel search? Do y<ln wish you hnd sorne new ideas nbuut cart:cr OJltions, job OJl· port unities, and lrowlo \' ·, . \'\.'C l~o~vc ltJd:.1y. l>l'np-ius nrL· ,. ,;,.,.,. 1\ I· .\1, welcome to Hike pun tn this infomml prugmm. llun'l delay! Sit:n up lo>eluy in ll1e CIH: In gel hireol'l keep OU lnrgcl UIUJ ill \.'Ull(rul ur)utll\ t)WIJjlJIJ M'Hn:Ji! R-E-L-A-X!!! .JOB SlmKI•:RS' CLlJil THURSDAYS AT .l:Jill'l'vl AI'Rll.ll,, 2.1, JO AND 1\IA\'7 '-----· --- --- ··- _.. .. - •··. . The Department of Geology at Ur1ion College presents: The Biology Club and Biology Department present the eleventh annual WHALE WATCH '92 Pr()vlncetown, Cape Cod April25& 27 Mechanism for the formation of deposits of. Platinum Group elements in layered intrusions Cheryl Peach Columbia Universily Thursday 16 April, at 4:15 prn Butterfield Hall, Room 201 Refreshments provid~d, please bring your own coffee cup. Price of $30 includes bus, motel and whale watch, The bus leaves Union at 8:30 Saturday morning and re1u rns Sunday Evening. Make your reservations with Biology department in room S-324 (payment required) I ~ l l j j 1

Stodden #1 Pick in U .C. Basketball Courtesy of UCBL Mark Stodden., a 6'6\ power forward, was the· first player sel'ected in the new Union College Basketball League. The \Draft\ was held last Friday at Commissioner Sascha Lewis's residence where Stodden was selected as the #1 lottery pick. The new league features 64 players with eight teams captained by past and present Union College players. The \Draft\ was conducted in a similar fashion to the NBA selection of college players for its teams to assure a well balanced league. The UCBL draft was also highlighted by two unexpected incidents that have caused controversy among officials very early in the League's existence. First, Gene Ray, captain of the Bulls, surprisingly traded his # 1 pick Stodden to the Warriors for Je:tcy Walker and Greg Holmes. Warriors captain Tony Marcon was later quoted as saying, \ It was a complete joke. My proposal to trade two players for Stodden was just a gesture of humor but when coach Ray took it seriously I realized I could make an unbelievable steal. The Warriors are extremely happy while the coaches in the league were as stunned as Marcon, however; Gene Ray assures that his team will be as competitive as anyone. Only time will tell. The second and perhaps more controversial event took place in the third round when Matt S teclder was drafted by the Spurs. Spurs coach Ron Prior thought he had made the best pick of the round when it was discovered that someone had mysteriously removed Steckler's name from the draft char,t of eligible players. Speculation surrounding Prior's involvement has run rampant and investigations are continuing. At this point it looked as though the draft would go \Up in Smoke\ but order was soon restored and the draft continued under the most relaxed conditions possible. Surprisingly enough, 6'9\ Jim Dever was the final player selected in the draft. The UCBL season kicked off last Sunday night at 7:00P.M. with a double header in the field house. Games are played at 7:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M. EST on Sundays and Tuesday evenings. Fans are encouraged to come and support their favorite teams. For any other information call Sascha Lewis at 381-6898. In Sunday night's Double Header the league proved to be very competitive as the first League game was decided by a point while the second game ' produced a double overtime thriller. In the opener, Philadelphia hosted Chicago and had to overcome a seven .point deficit at the half to edge the Bulls 57-56 in regulation. Billy Callahan poured in a game high 20 points and 18 rebounds. Ross Eberhardt and J e1ry Walker paced the losers with 19 and 17 respectively. The second game of the night featured the Spurs and the Knicks who had to go to double overtime for the final decision. The Spurs battled back from a 27-23 New York lead at half time to tie the game on Jamal Mohammed's break away lay up with one second left in regulation. The Knicks jumped out early in the first overtime but to no avail as the Spurs once again evened the combat. In the second and final overtime Greg Cavanaugh led a Spurs charge that resulted in a 72-69 final decision for the under- manned San Antonio squad. Ron Prior led all scorers with twenty-four points while Cavanaugh stroked 19 for the victors. Greg Dolan also had a career best 17 boards for the winners. The Knicks were led by Will Beckford and John Toomey who each hit 18 points. Union Baseball Earns Split With Utica by Eric Weinberger Contributing Writer As the second week of the baseball season ends, the Union College Dutchmen still remain strong on the mound. But even though the pitchers are doing their jobs, the team is 2-6 prior to their matinee game at Williams. On the trip to Williamstown, the Gary Reynolds coached Dutchmen are eager to put a few wins together to get to the .500 mark. On the Tuesday road trip, the Dutchmen may introduce two new players to the line-up. Kevin Sullivan, a sophomore infielder from Plattsburgh, who has recovered from an ankle injury he sustained during spring training. David Tessitore, a freshman short- stop, is eligible to play at Williams; and wil_l be looking to get some hometown support back in Schenectady. Tessitore states~ \I am looking forward to contributing all that I can to the team.\ Last weekend, Union played two games against Utica College at Central Park. The first game was close throughout, but the Dutchmen put it out of reach with some late i11ning heroics, and won 14-3. Timely hitting was supplied by Craig Ferraro, Mike Johnson, and Scott Preische. Bob Francello also had a solid day at the plate to help Craig Bronder earn his second win of the year. Union probably should have saved some of those runs for game two, which they lost 1-0. Scott Newton pitched a stellar game, with a Utica home run midway through the game being the only mistake. The Dutchmen were never able to mount an offensive attack against Utica in the second half of the double-header. After Williams, Union is at home against Rochester on the 17th, and RIT on the 18th. Both are scheduled to be double-headers. If the team can get a few hot bats, to help a solid pitching staff, it will be able to pick it's record up. CONCORDIENSIS APRIL 16, 1992 PAGE 14 \Play Ball\ by Rich Morgan Concordiensis Staff Even though the unpredictable Schenectady weather has brought us a touch of snow this past week, the season is still spring., which can mean only one thing: baseball is back in full swing. More specifically, · however, is the return of New York Baseball Fever. As the first full week of baseball comes to a close, Yankee fans sit high atop Cloud 9, whereas Mets fans watch in horror as their team stumbles on the first rung of the ladder to the top of the N.L. East. Now, I will attempt to be as unbiased as ,possible (yours truly am New York's number one Yankee fan), although at times, it may be tough. But, the important thing here is that it's time to play ball! The Yankees ended their first full week of baseball a perfect 5-0, sweeping that team from Massachusetts in a mini 2- game series (long live 1978!), followed by a three-game sweep of the Tigers in Detroit. It has been a definite week of surprises for the Yankees. Their combination of timely hitting with that of good starting pitching (which is surprising, as all Yankee fans can attest to) has helped lift the Yankees to their best start since, believe it or not, the Ruth and Gehrig years (1933, to be precise)! Although the upcoming 4-game series with the Toronto Blue Jays may not be as crucial as many may think, the Bronx Bombers will need all the energy and momentum they can muster up after such a dismal 1991-2 season (71-91). Some of the pleasant surprises for this seemingly resurgent team in week #1 include: clutch hitting by regulars such as Roberto Kelly and Don Mattingly, as well as newcomer third baseman Charlie Hayes. Is it finally possible that: after 10 years and 38 players since the Lax • • Continued from page 16 after scoring on the feed from Nate Fitch with 3:49 left on the clock. This draw was short lived however, wben less than a minute later the Chiefs scored taking the one goal lead. Springfield was able to fend off the furious attack of the Dutchmen while slowly killing time of the clock. A last ditch effort by senior midfielder Gene Ray barely missed the net, but it was enough to draw a penalty with two seconds left. A long distance screen shot at \Nettle Years\ that the Yankees have found a stronghold in Hayes? Only time wiU tell (already, echoes can be heard emitting throughout the College Center of \162-0! \; who knows?). On the other hand, the New York team of Forest Hills has not had a fafry tale beginning, but more like something that can be read in a Stephen King short story. This year marks the first ,time in twenty years that the Mets have lost their first three home games of the season. Recently acquired pitcher Bret Saber~gen has had some difficulties in his first two outings, losing both games in the process (a combined 18.00 ERA). Not only has pitching be~ a problem, but the lack of hitting has not exactly eased the teams' pains being felt this early in the season. The whole team seemed to enter a slump simultaneously; an art which was perfected by the Yankees of 1991-2. Ironically enough, the only real consistency in their lineup so far has: been that of ex-Yankee captain Willie Randolph, whose .318 BA leads the team after one week of play. One other bright spot which can possibly turn their poor start around for the better is the arrival of the newest Met, Dick Schofield, just acquired from the California Angels. Not necessarily known for power hitting (only about a .230 lifetime BA), his fielding percentage is exceptionally high, and can prove to be a sound player at shortstop. It might be just the punch that the Mets need in order to reverse their current situation. It is very early, however, and the Mets do have one of the most potent groups of starting pitching in the majors. Once this team gets on the ball, the New York Mets will be a force to be reckoned with in the National League. Enough with babbling baseball gibberish - let the road trips begin! • the buzzer by Scott Whitney was blocked prematurely, never reach the net and ending Union's three game win streak. Overall, this was the Dutchmen's best effort of the new season, but unfortunately they lost to a team that they should have beaten. This loss makes Union's game Wednesday against Williams all the more crucial if they are to attain a post-season playoff birth. Support Union Sports!

·. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .· ..... · . · .. ~ · ... ·.·_·:· ..... ;!i·· ,1.1 .... ·.·.· .·/a.·.·· :E. ~~··· ... ·.· . . . ··· . ..· . · ...... D .. . - , ' . ' . . . ,. ' . CONCORDIENSIS •APRIL 16,1992 • PAGE 15 Benker and Humphries Rank Among The Top In The Country by John Schachnovsky Sports Editor Over the past few years. the Union College ath 1 letic community has seen the Men and Women's swim teams take dramatic strides in the Division III intercollegiate swimming community. This strive to swimming greatness carne to a peak a few weeks ago when Bill Humphries and Julie Benker ranked among the best in the country at the Division III championships. For their gr:eat achievment, Julie and Bill have been named this week's Concordiensis Athletes of the Week. Bill, a second:.. year lettennan, was ranked 18th going into the nationals, however, that was not good enoQgh for Bill. He stepped up and finished at 14th. Humphries still has two more years of eligibility left, so the sky is the limit for the next two yeats. Bill already holds the Union record for the 50, 100. and 200 yard Butterfly. Benker, a three year varsity letter winner, finished third in the 100 yard backstroke. She broke her own record of 59.3, by posting a 58.82 at the Nationals. For those Union students who have not seen these two swim or any of the swimmers at Union swim, it would behoove you to make a mental note to go next season to a meet or two. Once again congratulations to Bill and J um~ for being awarded this weeks Co n c o r die n s is Athletes of the Week. Through It All, Crew Rows On by Daniel Bullen Contributing Writer The Union College Crew Team has had to face more than just tough opposition at the starting line. This year the team had to battle cold, rain. ice. an oil spill, and now an injury to the head coach Tom McClarence. Through all of this, the team has managed to post strong results from its two races so far this season. During Spring break, the team trained in the cold on the Hudson, as the Mohawk remained ice covered. This only sharpened the teams desire to row, and they showed their determination in their strong finishes lnst Saturday. In a Skidmore Regatta, which was also moved to Albany because of ice chunks on the fish creak in Saratoga. the novice women took a close second, the varsity women took a competitive third of four. The varsity light weight men's four won their race, and the varsity eight placed thir<l along with the novice four. This weekend, the varsity and novice fours both had their races scrubbed dut to bad conditions, and the varsity women placed fourth; tile novices took third. Tile competition for this years crews has so far been local, consisting ()f: Skidmore, RPI, SUNY A:l bany, and the University of Vermont, with Boston College showing up this weekend. So now, with no race to look forward to this weekend, the crew team has time to hope for some breaks; nicer weather. a cleaner river, a healthy coach, and good conditions. The results have been solid so far, and the rowers are sure that their relative successes have insured them a secure starting .point for further good racing. A week from Saturday, the teams will travel to Hobari/William Smith colleges in an attempt to reclaim cups which were lost last year. After that, they will go to state competition to prepare to qualify for the Dad Vails on May 1. Union ·Ruggers Battle It Out With #1 Ranked Team by Dave 'Balls' Austin Contributing Writer The Union Men's Rugby Team travelled to oswego, N.Y. this past weekend to take part in the third annual Greased Weasel Tournament. Hopes were high as the team arrived Friday Night to join the other seven invited teams in the Pre- Game festivities, but as the alarm clocks went off at 8 am Saturday morning, these mighty warriors rose from their mandatory eight hours of rest to find the Rugby Gods indignant with the tourney at hand. The thirty-seven degree temperature and driving rains were dogmatically brought into town as a show of their disapproval. Union's first match was played at 10 am against the number one ranked team in New York, the University of Buffalo. Taunts and jeers were heard from their team and spectators during warm-ups, but they quickly stopped after watching those players such as Eric ''Muffin Cakes\ Murry, and Eric \Dave took my car WHERE?\ Atlman stopped Buffalo cold. Union's aggressive fifteen man style of rugby kept the defending champions scoreless for the first ten minutes of play. It wasn't until an infraction on a line out play that U.Buff .. was given the oppurtunity to score on a penalty kick, making the score 3-0. Following a Lou Holtz style speech at half-time, by the team's coach Skip\'Yo' is ebony for listen up\ Ayco;x, Union repeatedly pushed into scoring position, and tile Serum out-muscled the stunned rivals. Yet the rugby Gods looked on disapprovingly, and kept Union from putting points on the board. Late in the second half 11 second infraction was called against Union allowing Buffalo to extend it's ' 3-0 lead to 6-0 on another penalty kick. As the rain continued to fall, and the mud multiplied, th~ final whistle blew and the victory was all but sealed for Buffalo. It was Union's first loss of the season, but the Ruggers held their heads high. That muddy battle proved to the New York league that the Union A-Side poses a threat to all opponents yet to be encountered this season. Following that match , our B-Side team took on the University of Rochester's A- side Team. Due to Union's delegated numbers, many ofthe A-side players from the Buffalo game played the second match not fifteen minutes after the end of the first. The intensity of the first game carried over, and bone-crushing tackles were seen throughout those next forty minutes, J>ut fatigue set chach by Joh~ Schachnovsky .Sports Editor I thought it was ovelf! I. along with the rest of y0tll, felt the hockey season VI as finished. There was no VI4'Y the players and the owners would stop squabbling and pl2y hockey. Well... they did. ,_arid without further delay i b1,i11g you my predictions fmr tile 1991-92 NHL play-offs first round. If you think these are a tad biased that's because they are. In tbe Campbell Confen·ence we will start in the Smy!lle division. The probable first round matchups pit the Vancouver Canucks hosting the Winnipeg Jets, and the L()s Angclas Kings hosting, the Edmonton Oilers. In the Canuck-Jet series the magic word is talent. The Canucks are a hot team loaded with l()ts of talent, while the Jets 3lfe an average team that made it into the play-offs because the Calgary Flames had one of the worst seasons in their his;tmy. The nod goes to the Canu.cks 4 games to l. The Kings-Oilers series will not go past 4 games_ The Kings are one of the most stacked teams in tile NHL when it comes to play-off experience. While it is tme that they have choked in years past, this trend will end ... especially with the newly acquired Jari Kurri taking tile playmaking reigns out of Wayne Gretzky's hands. 'Tl!is will add to the goal scoring of Gretzky __ .IGngs: 4-0! The Norris division was the sight of last years cindere1la story ... the Minnesota N ortll Stars. This year, the Stars fin<! themselves in a snnilar situation as last year .. .in foilltlt place. The problem this year is that they meet the red htQt in and the fresh Rochester players were able to score repeatedly, making the fillal score of 18-0. In a post-tourney interv iev.,. with Concordiensis. our Hooker, Medon \The Slawaki Kid\ Michaelides was quotea:l as saying after much deliberation .. \Dude ... I am under the distiittct impression that Union co•uld have transcended the Buffalo final score had the condition~ on the pitch been m()re serendipitous towards our vein of play. This tournament 'ha~ been most propitious towanl the structuring of our fifteen- man-style of play. En Garde~ Clarkson!\ Union's Men's Team travel~ to Potsdam, N.Y_ this weekend to take on Clarkson in wllat should be a spectacle that even ~otsdam's finest will take part m. Detroit Red Wings, and the magical carpet ride of a year ago will not take place. The Steve Yzennan led Red Wings will trample the Stars in five games. The St. Louis Blues led by perennial all-star goal scorer Brett Hull, will be this years over achievers, as their series with the Blackhawks will go seven games, and the Blues pull a surprising seventh game upset of the Blackhawks in overtime. In the Whales Conference the path is much caskr to predict. The Patrick Division will go through the formalities as the Rangers and Caps prepare to meet in the play-offs for the third year in a row. At 1 he time of this article the Penguins and De vi Is had not yet finished jostling for spots. however it is only a fight to sec who will lose to the Caps and who will lose to the Rangers The Adams division will sec the .worst of first round matchups and one of the best. The Montreal Canadians will destroy the Hartford Whalers in four straight games. I feel bad for the Whaler fans, who, for the umpteenth year in a row, will get their hopes up, just to have them shattered again. The Bruins will tde their play-off experience into their series against the Buffalo Sabres. This will be a hard fought series with the Sabres taking it in seven. In the next few weeks sports fans get to witness one of the best events in athleties ... The Stanley Cup Play-Offs. The games are set. ... Hockey is BACK! GoocJ luck to all fans and GO CAPS!! DRUNK DRIVING KILLS

BASEBALL MEN'.S TENNIS SOFTBALL April17 vs. Rochester 2:00 April16 at Skidmore 3:00 April 1 6 at New Paltz 3:30 April18 vs. RIT 12:00 April21 vs. RPI 3:00 April21 at Colgate 3:00 April17 at St. Rose 3:00 April20 at Colgate 3:00 April22 at Vassar 3:00 WOMEN'S LACROSSE MEN'~ LACROSSE April 16 at Hamilton 3:30 April18 at Hamilton 2:00 April21 at Oneonta 3:30 April21 vs. RPI 3:30 GOLF MEN'& TRAiiK April16 at Skidmore 10:00 WIMER'& IBAJiK April18 at Albany 9:00 April17 vs. Dominican 1:00 April22 Union lnvitational5:00 April 20 at.Hamilton 1 :00 <l!nltfllrbirttsis APRIL 16; 1992 Union Woaa-ae:n Coaa\'pet:e Well, Despite Weat:her by Herrika D. Poor Concordiensis Staff After ending the indoor track season on a very high note of school records and personal best times the Union College Women~s track team started their Spring season off well. After waiting a week and a half for the first races. due to the weather last Wednesday finally came. RPI and Siena travelled to Union for an afternoon of racin!f. Starting off the day for Union was the 4x100 relay of Joy Grillon, Tasha Labare, Nadine Filosi, and Rika Poor who won the race with a time of 52.6. All four women ran well and continued to do so throughout the afternoon. Nadine was next on the track running the 100 hurdles, which she won, in a time of 76.1. Tasha ran the 800 and won in a time of 2:30.6. Joy ran both the 400, where she took second with a time of 65, and the 200. Union stacked the 200 with four women in the race, all of whom ran well. The winner was Rika with a time of 27.9. Right on Rika's heels was Denise Saunders, who took second in 28.9. Joy took fourth in 29.9. and Christian Mafasani was sixth with a time of 32.2. This was Christina's debut on the track and she held her own. The other sprint event on the track was the 100 in which both Rika and Denise ran. R1ka won a very close race with 13.2 and Denise was second with 13.3. Also on the track for Union was Diana Spenello who not only ran a person11l best time in the 3000, bat won in 11:29.9. Dia11a also contributed to Union's success off the track by winning the high jump with a high jump of 1.42 meters. L()ri Simkins was the lone thrower for Union and she won the hammer with a throw of 27.7. Lori took second in the other three throwing events, the disc- 30.09, the javelin· 19.35, and the shot put- 9.67. Union ended the day with a win in the 4 x 400 meter relay. The relay team of joy, Denise, Nadine, Tasha, and Rika cruised to victory in a time of 4:24.9. Despite all of their victories Union finished the day in second place overall. This past weekend Union travelled to Ithaca for a long day of competition against fifteen other scho()ls. Despite stops and starts to avoid thunderstorms t lt e Union women ran well~ despite a frustrating start. Starting the day was the 4 x 400 meter relay of Denise, Rilc.a, Nadme, and Tasha who n.n a 51.2 despite lousy hatl{i-offs and getting disqualified. This relay team will be the o11e to watch as they try and (jllalify for Nationals this seaso11. Forgetting the relay Tasha and Denise went 011 to run the 100. Tasha ran a U.3, Denise a 13.39 and the other two Union women in the rae~. Christina and Carrie Garfinkle ran time of 15.2 and 14.7 respectively. This was Carrie's first race for the women's track team since she was a member of the \walking wounded\ all winter, we're glad she's back. These four ran again in the 200 wit!J. Tasha finishing first for Union in 27 .5. Denise was next with a time of 28.4 and she was followed by Carrie who finished in 31.9 and Christina in 32.3. Diana doubled up in the 1500 and the 3000. She finished the 1500 in 5:23.5 and the 3000 in 11:43.1. Nadine ran a tough race in the 400 hurdles and finished a 79. Running the 800 for Union was Rika and Joy. Coming off the bus after a rain delay both women ran well. Rika crossed the line in third place with a time of 2:26.3 and Joy finished her first 800 in 2:39.2. Union also competed well in the field events. Starting her final season with Union track Alix: Goldschmidt took first in the hammer with a throw of 38.2, third in the shot put with a throw of 11.14, and fifth in the javelin with a throw of 27 .65. Also throwing for Union was Lori who threw a 25.58 in the hammer, a 9.53 in the shot put and a 19.85 in the javelin. Both women also competed in the discus. All in all the Union women have had a good start to the season and are looking forward to this weekend at Albany with a hcautiful track and hopefully some nice weather. Union Lacrosse Set Back by Springfield by Cort B4)ulanger Arts Editor The Union College Men's Lacrosse Team hosted the Springfield College Chiefs under the lights last Saturday Night despite torrential wind and rain. Those fans who were loyal enough to brave the elements witnessed one of the most exciting Lacrosse contests in a long time. Although this game pitted the 3-l Dutchmen against 1-7 Springfield. the Springfield record was very deceiving because of their c~allenging schedule. Six of Springfield's losses came at tile hands of nationally ranked teams, including Salisbury State, Middlebury and Hai1wick. In all of these games the Chiefs kept the score close but were unable to pull it 011t in the end. True to form, Union once again spotted the visitors a quick lead, trailing 3-0 early in the first period. The Dutchmen roared back however, taking a 4-3 lead on goals by attackmen Nate Fitch and Tim Fisher, who took turns setting each other up for scores. Springfield did not falter, however. They took advantage of Union penalties and eventually regained the lead in the latter moments of the first quarter. But with one second left in the period, Nate Fitch beat the Springfield goaltender to knot the game at five a piece. The second quarter also displayed the same back and forth action with neither team able to pull away. Once again the Chiefs took the lead late in the period, but this time a last second attempt by captain Scott Whitney to tie the score sailed just wide. In the second half the scoring subsided some, mainly due to the strong play of the Dutchmen defense. Brian Harris was particularly sharp by intercepting Springfield passes and starting fast breaks. On the other end of the field, the Union players were making the Springfield goalie into an All-American by not putting away excellent opportunities. In all, the Dutchmen took forty-seven shots, and were only able to put eleven of them in the cage. After falling behind 11-10 late in the game, Cort Boulanger tied it for Union

.I l . . ' . ' . \ ' . . . . . ' . :, . . ' ' ' ' . . . . . ·, .. ; ' VOLUME121, NUM~ER 19 APRIL 23, 1992 . SCHENECTADY I NEW YO'RK . . . Career Development Center Releases Survey Of Class Of 1990 Dnid Levine Concordiensis Staff The Survey of the Class of 1990 was released by the Career Devel()pment Center on April 2nd. The survey, done each year, shows how many Union College graduates are\' engaged in further study, employed, or unemployed. The Career Devel()pment Center was able to chart the progress of Union College graduates thr()ugh phone cans and mail sur:v{!ys. Nearly ninety percellt. of l!lSt yeat's graduates tesponded to · the · . survey. Thirty-one percent of · the respondeots are engaged in further study, sixty-three percent are employed, and nearly six percent are unemployed. The unemployment rate fqr Union graduates wlio responded to the yearly survey,. has tripled since 1989. The most popular areas of employment f()r Union College · alumni who responded to the survey were sales/marketing (7 .9%), government (5.8%), finance/banking (5.6%), and mechanical en;gineering (5.6%). The most n()table increases, according to Janet Mattis. the associate director of the Career Development Center, have occurred in government and education. Since 1986, the percentage ·of responding graduates employed in government jobs has increased from 1.5 percent to four percent in the same time period. The most notable decline saw jobs for Union College graduates in electrical engineering fall from 10.3 J>ercent in 1986 to four percent in the past year. This is .probably due to the decline in Union College students who opt to major in electrical engineering. The areas of employment , as well as the unemployment rate, were very different for the two sexes. The most popular areas of employment for females were sales/marketing (5.5% of responding female graduates), and education/student personnel (5.5%). Males tended to be employed in Mechanical engineering (7.6%), areas of further study. according to the survey. Law school attracted 7. 70/o of the responding graduates and 5.6% of the graduates went to medical school. .Both areas of study, however. have seen considerably fewer Union College graduates than they were a few years ago. ln the past three years, the percentage of students going to law school has dropped from 11.7 to 7.7, and over the past four years the amount of graduates in medical percent in each field. Four years ago, almost no Union College graduates went to graduate school in these fields. Men and women who entered, for the most part, comparable areas for further study. Thirteen percent of males pl!lrsuing fllrther studies are going to law school, and ten percent of females pursuing graduate ·studies are also going to law school. Exactly the same number of female graduates are goi11g to medical Career Development Center-·Fiv,e .. Year Tabulation Category .l.2!!l ll£.2· 1988 \19$7 ~ -~ Number of graduates 483 476 511 521 503 Number ef respondents 430 428 462 449 390 Percentage of 89% 90% 90.4·% .86.2% 78% graduates responding Further study B5 (31.4%) 143 (33.4-%) 139 (30%) 143 (32%) 140 (37%) Employed 271 (63%) 274 (64%) 306 (66%) 285 (64%) 244 (63%) Unemployed 24 (5.6%) 8 15 Traveling 0 2 2 Largest areas of employment (% of responding graduates):. Finance/Banking 5.6 7.7 6.1 Mechanical Engineering 5.6 7.0 5.6 Electrical Engineering 4.0 4.9 8.7 Government 5.8 4.4 3.9 Sales/Marketing 7.9 4.0 5.& Education/ Student Personnel 4.0 3.7 5.0 . B LISiness/Management 4.7 3.7 3.9 Largest areas of further study (% of responding graduates): Law School Medical School ·science Education Graduate Engineering Business (MBA..) Sales/marketing (7% ), Government (6.6%). and Finance/Banking (6.3% ). Only two percent of the female graduates were unemployed while 7 percent of their male ., counterparts were jobless. Law school and medical school were the most popular 7.7 10.1 6.7 5.6 8.7 7_6 3.0 2.8 2.2 3.0 2.3 0.7 2.8 2.1 2.6 1.2 1.2 1.5 school has dropped from 11.3% to 5.6%,. Janet Mattis was impressed with the increases in the amount of students going to graduate school in science and education. The percentage of students going to graduate school in science mdeducation has increased steadily to three 17 6 4 N/A 6.5 7.7 5.3 5.1 9.1 10.3 NIA 1.0 5.6 4.1 N/A 1.5 4.9 2.6 11.7 9.5 7.6 11.3 N/A N!A N/A N!A 2.0 1.3 L8 1.5 school as male graduates. In general,. more women pursued studies in education and political science, while men pursued studies in science and engineering. The survey, which lists all of the graduate schools now being attended by Union College graduat.cs. sccrns to contain very few top-ranked graduate schools. Of the thirty-one students from the class of 1990 that are currently in law school, only two attend law schools that were ranked in the top fifteen nationwide by · U.S. News and World Report (March 29, 1990). The same is true for medical schools. This could be explained by the Geographic Representation of Respondents, included in the summary of the survey. Sixty- eight percent of the respondents currently live in New York and Massachuseus. Almost aU of the respondents live in the northeast, and wantin.g to remain in this area could have affected their choices of graduate schools~ It is important. according to Ms. Mattis, that students avail themselves of the resources of the Career Development Center. The CDC has lists of many job and career opportunities. The CDC also sponsors workshops in resume writing. interviewing skills, and job search strategies. They also have information on graduate schools. On Wednesday, April 29 at 7:30 p;m., Hank Malin, the Associate Director of Admissions of Tuck Business School at Dartmouth College. will present information about strategies in applying to Business School. Malin, the former assistant Dean of Admissions for Union College. will make the presentation on the third floor of the Old Chapel, in the CDC office. Despite current economic problems that this country faces, Mattis stresses that finding career opportunities is not as hard as the media would have people believe. In This Issue: The Church Should Do More -page 9 Stan B,rakhage Film Fest -page 11 Men's Tennis Schock's ECAC Rivals -page 15

. ' ' . . . ., . . . / \- '' ' ' . Beta'& Chart:er Rein&t:ated by Ali Wapner Concordiensi~ Staff Last term. C oncordiensis reported that the Union College · chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity was in danger of having their charter suspended. The fraternity had been awaiting a decision from their nationals as to whether their chapter would be shut down. After many meetings between Beta Theta Pi's national representatives and the brothers at Union College, the charter has been reinstated. Will Bagbey, the district chief of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, said the Union College chapter '\will continue to exist.\ Tile reason for warning was due, Bagbey says, to problems caused by brothers who no longer attend Union. The fraternity's national headquarters would not specify tbe problems, but only· said that they were originated by alumni members of the fraternity. Beta's national representatives said that a new program will be instituted within the Bela chapter at Union in order to insure that such conflict never occurs again. In addition to improved risk management policies, nationals are in the process of working with the brothers at Union College to create programs to facilitate . communication between the chapter and the Union community. This will include new community servi'ce projects and regular meetings with a committee appointed by nationals. This group will be comprised of district managers and alumni of the fraternity. Nationals have also created a new Cllapter Reporting Guide which will enable brothers to accurately report all expenses to national correspondents. In short, Bagbey says the brothers are no longer subject to a revocation of their charter, but \a closer review by national.\ Bagbey added that he does not \foresee any problems in the . situation.\ Matt Schmitter, the president of the Union College chapter of Beta Theta Pi, said tllat the brothers are working very hard to establish :better relations within the commll,llity. During the past few months, the organization has sponsored two philanthropy programs which raised over $2,00~ for the Schenectady area. Marc Weintraub, the president of the Inter Fraternity Council, says \Be.ta is doing a good job.. in tl1:eir improvement Weintraub is \not worried\ about the recovery of their relatio11s and administration, according to Baohey, the brothers are continuing to comply with national rules and, once these mew programs are fully instituted, Beta cam renew their place in the Greek commtJnity. Union College & Albany Med. Professors Edit Brookings Report Courtesy of Union College public relations Robert Baker and Martin Strosberg. both professors at Union College, and I. AJan Fein of Albany Medical College, are editors. of RatiOJ)alizing America's Medical Care: The Oregon Plan and Beyond, a report issued today by the Brookings Institution in Washin~ton, D.C. Joshua Weiner. a senior fellow at Brookings, also is an editor. CONCOADIENSJS •APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 2 of State Summer Secretary Announces om·budsma:n Program Internships Courtesy ofNew York State Public Relations A voluntary summer intern · program for high. school · college and graduate studentS in • the Department of State's 15 regional ombudsman offices has been announced by Secretary of State :Gail S. Shaffer. Since 1984, students have had the opportunity to earn credits for helping the department's regional representatives administer Governor Cuomo's Ombudsman Progtam. The program, initiated by .executive order in 1983, helps citizens with questions or problems they're having with state government and has generated nearly 300,000 cases since it's inception. \With schools either closed or with lower enrollment, we're looking for students who will be spending their vacation at The report is based on Brookings conference last year at which academics, physicians and politicians explored the medical, ethical and financial implications of rationing health care such as ill the so- called \Oregon Plan \. That conference was sponsored by Union College, Albany Medical College and Brookings. · Baker, of Schenectady, a home to assist us,\ Shaffer said. Such assistance include handling telephone inquiries, making contact with state agencies on a client's behalf, preparation. ef draft responses to letters referred for state agency fdllow-ups, research and occasional on-site inspections. Interns also work closely with the offices of the governor and. secretary of state researching issues, planning speakers, and organizing community outreach programs. The summer program is part of a series of internship programs that are offered throughout the year at state offices in Albany~ Bingham ton, Buffalo, Hauppauge, Jamestown, Hempstead, Montour Falls. New York City, Potsdam. Poughkeepsie, Rochester • Staten Island, Syracuse, Utica and White Plains. Students interested in applying should contact the Concordiensis office. professor of philosophy at Union, specializes in medical ethics. S trosberg, also of Sche-nectady, js . .associate .professor o( . mapagem;ent ·in Union's G1aduate Management Institute. He specializes in health care management. Fein is associate professor of surgery at Albany Medical' College. Complimentary copies of the report are available from Brookings. Students Support Recycling Laws Editor-in!-Cbief ExecutiveEdit()r N~ws Editors · Ned. Walley PamLeinson _ · Jordan Lippner, Jim Polites, Lara Chamberlain, Jeff Green, Matt Tucker Intemation;,U ·Features .Editors · Kristin Lupoli, ~ Tumidajewicz Commentaries Editors Lea Lewis,. Reeba Manimalethu Arts Editqrs · Carrie Sherman; Con Boulanger Lifestyles Editor Stacy Cervalin, Julie Schlang Features Editor · Sari Skolnik Campus Page Editors Diana l3roclsky, Nicole Goldin Sports Editor . . . John Schachnovsky Assistant Sports 'Editor ChuckRodman Photograpl1y Editor David' Cho. Peter Fischer Advertisfrig Edii:or,g·. LautenBycoff, Jen Shu1kin Subscription M~tnagei · · · · · Andtew Rosen Financiai.Editoi' · · · · .. 'Shiel~ Day • ' . ~ '. • \ ; ' .~ l -. . .-· ·1 • \' STAFF: Greg Barretto Ron, Uirnba:um~ Danjel J. Bullen,- Adam Epstein,. Erica Frank; Stephanie Ftay,.C:raig Greenber<g~. · Jason- Habinsky, Hannah J. Hazen. LiSa H<lfbatter, Tasha La Bare, David Levine, Sean Living$t9n, Julie Medow·. Rich Morgan, Louise Oster, Peter Ptotzel, BetsyJ~athstein~· Sreedhar Samudrala, Carcie Sherman, Jeremy Sollillge.t, Alli Wapner. . · . ADVE-RTISING . StAFF: · Jennifef Antferson1 Sharon Smith CONCORDIENSIS ·is. pul}li~hed eigb:t lbursdays a t¢rm by 'tile student body .. ofUnion College, Sc~enecta~y, New Yqrk. 12308; Publi~ations Office; Susqueh~t'laJ?u.btications,lnc~, Box 388, Sidney-; New York 13'83:8 (607) 563·8339. Subscription rate': $40 per yetU.\ d.eliv~r¢ ~ywhere iri .the ·. United States. Mail Subscription$ to Qotieordiensis of~ice, . : College Center, Union· College. Concordi~n$is su~sonbes to the Intercollegiate Press (IJ?), Office Telepllone (518) 370:- · 6155. Advertising Telephone (.518} 370.;()4?4.. :. .: ··. ·. ·· :· .... ' 1 Recyding of newspapers, glass and cans should be required by low in all communities.' 1 7 % § Agree Strongly [J II (3 • Agree Somewllat Neither Agree nor Disagree Disagree Somewhat Disagree Strong!)' Source: Planet in Peril: 1989 Nr.tionol 3% 37% 38% Wildlife Federation survey of 500 undergraduates National Student News Service \Chet's'' Courtesy of the Pub Planning Committcee The pub planning committee has determined the winner for the \Name the Pub Contest.\ After a weekend of accepting suggestions, the committee Chosen as Name of Pub chose the five best names, and then published the names in the Concordiensis. Then, 1 counting the votes for tile top five, the committee determined a clear winner: Chet's. The surprising thing about the name is that at least twenty five people had suggested it. ! Theref01;e. a winner was chosen 1 by randotn out of the twenty five. The pub committee would like to thank all the people who helped make the task of naming the pub easy. The committee hopes that the name. \Chet's\ will become a long-tasting tradition at Union. I I .·

• o; r· ·, • ,_ i - • ' • \ _. CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL23, 1992 • PAGE 3 The Irony ol A I D !i !IJy Jim Polites News Editor. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. It seems as though a week ~annot pass without us learning cf a new contraction of this disease (or at least the HIV -vir11s)- somethi11g that makes 11s shake our heads and wonder who could be next. This J)ast December, both the sp()rting world and the United States at large was shocked and saddened by Magic Johnsolf~!; tragic announcement of his HIV condition. It was the result of what he described as a myriad of unprotected sexual e11counters. Despite the obvious frivolity of his actions, Magic instantly forged t() a position where he could be of great service to a serious issue that still had not gained it:; due attention. If anything positive can -be said ab-out someone's passion The ;b.y Matt Karlyn Wasilfngton Correspondant Rece11tly an ·unusual thing , happen~d on Capito I ·Rill', a :·scandal OO'oke·out. 'Fitfs :time 'it . ·was not a: presidential' candidate being ac:cused of having an affair, it was not a President lying to the country. and it was not eve11 Ted Kennedy getting drunk md hitting on a waitress in a local bar. This time it involved the entire United States 9 House of Represelltatives and the place they called the House :Bank. Thursday, April Hi, 1992 .proved to be a very historical day in the United States. It was t11e day the House Committee on Ethics produced a list vwhich named all those Members of Congress that overdrew on their accounts over a three year period. The House sentimettt is that the majority of the U.S. public does not have a due as to exactly what happened. This is a critical and Ii velihood-his entire existence- being taken away, it may indeed be this case. Magic Johnso11 revolutionized ·the game of basketball. He didn't just play~ be competed with a teenage enthusiasm that was botlt refreshing and contageous- his effect on others was mdeniable. Unfortunately, his excesses cff the court led to the ultimate career downfall. true to his name, though, you donlt see Magic disappear from the . public spotlight. just the <>pposite in fact. He has become the leading spokesperson on AIDS; the disease finally has an identifiable figure to head the · charge. One could never wish this dark fate on one's worst enemy, but if it had to happen, there might as well be some positive repercussions from the -gloom. Besides, what Magic Johnson has effectively done is Check fact to the members running for re-election and they may find themselves explaining the crisis and their role in it for the next few months. '· •:Now'·we must ask ourselves: \'Wnahliil nappen and wh1'h~s ·'it 'bet'ome' .one· of the· piggest ·issues · in the upcoming , election? The bank that the news speaks of, the House Bank, was really not a bank at all It was set up by the : Congress many years ago to provide a convenient, confidential, and free banking I alternative. The men and women who ran this bank, including Jack Russ, the Sergeant of Arms, were not bankers,. the institution did not follow any banking laws, and membership was not open. This was a place solely for the Members of Congress and no one else. When a newly elected member came to the House they would be offered a. House Bank account. At that time they would be told the advantages of the bank prove that those who test positive for the HIV -virus can still carry on wHh a normal life. In some cases, there is the pcssibility to be extraordinary. Magic proved that even someone afflicted can win an NBA All-Stat Game MVP trophy. and his next goal is to The sporting world took a tragic blow when Arthur Ashe admitted be was suffering from AIDS. play alongside his peers at the Summer Olympics in Barcelo11a. Not bad for an IDV carrier, not bad at all. Magic's bittersweet plight is certainly not the only one that has fou11d its way onto news broadcasts and into our llearts. Right around the time of Magic's announcement, the rock world suffered a t:Femendous loss. The AIDS- related death of Queen's lead singer Freddie Mercury added yet another chapter to this ever- expanding saga. He was- like Magic· an adored public figure, one who added glory and excitement to his industry. Admittedly bisexual, he did not hide his sexual preferences. What he did not disclose though (at least not until a couple of weeks before his death) was that he was suffering from AIDS. It is truly tragic that such a great performer in front of people was silenced by this ugly disease. Finally, the sporting world took another tragic blow just last week when tennis great Arthur Ashe admitted he has been struck by AIDS. The source was not from homosexual relations or drug use but rather the result of open heart surgery in the early eighties. Arthur Ashe, his greatest achievement winning the 1975 Wimbledon Championship. epitomized grace and sportsmanship on the court. I'llat, of course, can't be overshadowed by his tireless work in and around communities. He-like Magic- has pledged to become an AIDS spokesman, thus giving the issue some familiar voices: those of role models. Each in their own special way will bring attention and increased awareness to the nation- it's a simple fact that people listen to such fine individuals whether they're afflicted with AIDS or not. It is a shame that we have come to realize how much these great men mean to all of us after such tragedy has befallen them. The important thing is to not refer to Ashe and Johnson in the past tense- tltey are very much alive and ready to fight on. Bouncing_ Scandal included it's convenience. The establishment is right beneath all of their offices. In fact members could even stop there on their way to the floor to vote and still make it on time. · It was 'aPJlealing aild everything . was. taken care. of for you. What ma:de it even worse was that if y<Ju decided that you would ba11k elsewhere, you had to go ·down to the bank, wait in a line, and close the account that was already provided for you. In other words, it was a hassle. Before this was established a member would have to go all the way to the Treasury Department, next to the White House literally down the street, to deposit their checks. With this new bank their checks would be deposited every month for them. This made it even easier on the members because tlley rarely even had to see the bank. That is why it was set 11p. It would be run by the Sergeant of Arms who's main job was to be of service to the members. This was a service that was provided, another Congressional perk, and the members enjoyed it. What happened that brought the bank to it's closing c.ulminated around the ability for a member to overdraw on their .accounts. This was allowed and , at times, taken advantage of. If a member wrote a check and it exceeded the amount of funds available to them. the bank, and other accounts would cover the bad check and the excess money would be withdrawn from the members next pay check. So in affect the numbers that appeared on the list provided by the ethics committee was not bounced checks, it was the num bet of checks the member wrote that went over available funds. Many of the members were surprised to hear that theirs was one of the names that would appear on the list because many did not even know that : they were \bouncing\ checks. Like many of us who have bank accounts, we receive monthly statements that tell us · the funds we have available. the number of checks we wrote the previous month, and the number of checks we bounced. The House Bank worked in a similar way, however, a members account would never show a negative balance because the bad check would be held over until funds were available to them. If insufficient funds did exist at the time the check came to the bank, the member might !lave received a pbone call making him aware of this. In many cases he or she would then send the money down to be deposited but it would get there too late which caused the clteck to appear bounced. This is one of the major ways that numbers on the list accumulated. To complicate matters further, the records and files of this bank were so scrJrnbled · that even one member, Thomas Foglietta (D-PA), appeared as having four overdrafts, but did not even have an account at the bank. The House Bank was one of the many \perks\ that Congress allowed the members. Numerous Congressional leaders, including Vic Fazio (D-CA), have been vehemently opposed to these and have been fighting hard to dissolve many of them. Although this is said to not cost the tax payer anything, unlike the car and driver that the minority whip is allowed, it was still a members only institution that separated the representatives one step further from the people they represent. The November election will be very interesting. This is a very complicated issue that many, including myself, don't understand fully. However, after careful review, it is clear tltat in many cases the members are not to blame. They have all at this point cleared themselves of any money owed, and the bank has now been closed with a zero balance. Taxpayers have lost virtually nothing on this one. There are clearly many matters that the tax payers sllould be deeply concerned with, this is not one of them. Tbe major concern in the upcoming election concerns those members who overdrew on accounts that, knowingly, their next months salary could not cover. So, who's in trouble? Barbara Boxer (D-CA) will h.ave a tough time getting that Senate seat she is after. Not only does she have a very strong opponent, she in on the books as having 143 overdrafts. Roll Call, the Newspaper of Capitol Hill. Continued on Page 4

· .. ·.·· .. · . . ... .. . 1...~&1 . . ·.. .. . . . . . ·. CONCORIJIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 4 Check Bo:uncin.g: The !ic.andal Tha~ Rocked The House Continued from Page l reports that she has trailed Leo McCarthy, Lt. Governor, in the polls and the recent release won't help. Beryl Anthony (D\\ AK) got himself in trouble when he reported only 71 overdrafts. The real figure. 10-9. is going to hurt. What al>out Ron Dellums (D-CA)? His 851 overdrafts won't hurt him as much as expected. He has two . opponents in the election form the third party (California's Peace and Freedom Party). He is really not in bad shape as he tries to become the incumbent in a district run by the democrats. The check crisis is really not as bad as everyone, especially the media, is making it seem. In most cases the overdraft could have been as low as thirty-eight cents, This - happened to Jolene Unsoeld (D- W A) on a twenty five dollar April 16 proved to be a historical day in the United States. check she wrote. But, nevertheless, she \ •Concordy Writers • Please Make Sure All Articles To Be PubHshed Are Handed In On Microsoft© Word Disks CAMPUS INCIDENT REPORTS ~/l~il:!2 UQ Dioiog C!all Ill!lf! 21 gj~b't'iii![§, 411~1~2 ~a I~ Qeme!S!C}! V 1!0!::!2-li;il!l·b!i!SU:!li!tQ(!!i!liJ QV§L!Il r(!Sld S!.!JQ QS![J]SIQ~Q, 4/13/@2 Fox House ~if!il ~~b!}! ~iQI!'!!iO r.J-f:B[j]O~S!i of sm(Jke detectgr from room. .. ~L141~2 Qamp!.!!2 Qpr, H!;l[a~§lf1l~IJ! Qf lil1S!tf IJJ!i![J]Q!2[ ~L14L~2 OS!~iQ~Qn I:J~!i!· Uo£!.!lbQtiZ!i!d &;b!i!mi!:<sl !:<!l!.llsi!J!2r !Q!.!DQ-nQ OSIZIHQ, 4/14/~2 Off CS!II!blbl~ NQ!t S!re!i]t lgogrgmgt I!i!QOr!~ theft or lau!Jdr}! cart-alleged - !bat Uot!lc :~1ud!i!Dl:ii ic~QI~!i!!::i 4/14/92 UC Dining I:Jall MQre gi;§h~lUB repOd!i!d stolen- ~Q!]~ ~{~~iQ!.!~ il!i!II!~ [!ilQQ~Sil[!ilQ 4/14/~2 FQO!S C!Q!.!~!i! UC!Il.!.llbQti Z!i!Q !i!D!t}! iDlQ \ r!il~iQ!i![IGS! hS!.!I-QQOQ!.!Ql CbS!.t:g!il§, ~1141~2 Qhild Q!i!.t!i! Qtr. elliUJill Qt2t.:!l!i!w·ioiwt!ild SQJJ~ 4/1 ~/92 We~t 6egch VSlo!:!gli~m-QiQnjQ !S!l2l!i! disassernbl!i!d, 4/121~2 Qbi E~i ~Ql 8lt!lOJQI!!ilQ lb!i!fl gf [ii!.QiQ f[Q[! ~tud!ml':ii s.ar Damag!i! 1Q ~:ar ~w e1n Qbi P~i ~Ql Ib!ilfi gf !:<st liij;!!i!a~!i!rii fr!:!m §l!.Hl!i!rtl'§ QS!.(-i!!i!!D§ fOI.!D!;! SI[Jd [!ill~ rQ !lQ. ~112122 ~§[]Q[!t ~Q! f:Q§~i!!l!l:! :llS!OQS?.Iilil!D !Q §l!lff OJ~[!lb!ir:'S Q!U, ~U1 f!L22 81umoi !:.illm Ibflf! gf =:~tua~ct·~ jac~~t frclli bS!!Ill!SI~ Ll!i!S!.( QQ!,H.t~. 4!16!92 Arts Bldg, Windows !;!rQk!i!o·accigeotal. 4!17!92 MOJio. 1.21 S!.!§~~~~~~§ ~!il(~QD I!.Jt~iog !l~Sl[ ~§r§-1:§1! Q{f ~b!i!O QffiQ9[ aggcg;a, b~d ~l1 Z£~2 QQ Laadicg Oumg:z~r biQQ~~a-Uoabl!i! 112 QQQ~ ma.~a Ylilll21~ gi~:<~-ug, ~ll Zl~2 EaK Lai ~s[]!1aii51D-!21ud~or~ gg[ ~iiJ!Jg~ b[Qis!i!Olb!lils!! ligbt iiii§Q dirn~!ug, ~ll Il~2 Erat~mitl£ Ib~l1 t:i! §!UQ!i!Dl'§ if.\\~~~ Qs:lCI.I[[!ii!~ ~l1~ ~Sill£~ Wi!C~ r~~2~2tad ~L17192. :111 Zl!l2 E!2tt2r !:!Q!.l§~ !.!osu.Uil2!lii~:~d ~lllll! tbr!.'!ugb iii ll!iiJ!!g~. &~lll~l~d lb!!fl. ~if~ Sllf!!n ··~~r~ grd!i!r filii!!:! 12 replace wjndQW §lops, ~lHl.~2 Alumoi ~m !.! Di!L:!ltliUi;~:!i!l:! !i!Dl!YIWiO!:!QW b[2h~a-.Q!2odu!:ll QbS!.rg!i!§, ~l1 eL~2 ErS!.l!i!Will! Ib~U Ql ~I!.! moi QQIJ]j;!Q§lil!i! photos, ~£1 a£a2 t::lacliJ .Qall~g~ )laodaH!HD-Q!fi!:<!U ·[!i!IJQr!!i!d 1WQ g!:!rbiog IQ! §l!.!d~ot ~!i!bi!:<lfllii witb damag§d lit!l§\Sll:lll ~Sl.[!i!Q 12 b!i! !:<!.!1. ~w ~£~2 E211 ~Qt ~~~[]~~ Qlia.l~ lQ lZl!.!Q!i!Dl'§ ~~tli~l!il f2!.md·h!Qlii§iQI!i! • ' ~ii!.tl~sllhm. made the list. with the new and inexperienced. Tom Foley (D- W A) Speaker, recently called this saga to an end as members shuffled of to their respected districts to try and explain the details in clear . terms. We will probably see another year of the incumbent or a few new faces here and there. There will, in my opini·on, be no expansive turnover and the 103rd Congress wilol not be packed As the House Bank is put to a rest, and the election approaches there will be new things to talk about, more problems to deal with, and developing scandals to report. The check bouncing crisis is just one of the many problems created in Washington. After au; this is politics. ' ,-;- =: = :::- == = = = ; .-.::: = : = = - Karaoke Nite at the Pub!! Tuesday; April 28 at 9:30 p.lTI. Sing Your Butt Off Write for NEWS! Call x4151

I i ' I :;, CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 5 by Shields Day Business Editor international market far more competitive than John Deere's they are unable to pay the same wage rate. New York Daily Times, , arrived in Peoria, Hlinois on Monday, April 13. On the Caterpillar's union employees agreed to end their five month strike this past week even though no new pay contract was signed. The 12,600 striking employees have been out of work for 5 months. Their lack of confideNce in signing a new labor contract showed last week as 750 employees returned to work before a settlement had been reached. Caterpillar stock rose $2 .. 50 within 1 week of the strike's end. Starting back in November of 199'1, Caterpillar's UAW (Unite(! Auto Workers) initiated a strike when they were told they would not receive the same vay as U AW employees at John Deere Corporation. Caterpillar claims that since their customers encompass an Since neither side was willing to give up any ground, a federal labor dispute settler had to be called in to help mediate the strike. Mr. James Power, who has also mediated strikes at Greyhound and the following day, the strike was over . .However, after the stiike had ended, Caterpillar executives claimed that they ao longer WHY YOU SHOULD START PLANNING FOR RETIREMENT WITH YOUR EYES CLOSED. F or retirement to be the time of your life, you have to dream a little-about the things you've always wanted to do: travel, explore, start a business. Just irpagine ... W1th a dream and a plan, you can make it happen. Your pension and Social Security .should. provide a good basic retirement income, but what about all those extras that make your ·dreams possible? You'll probably need some .adc:litional savings. THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN. WECANHELPYOU WITH THE PLAN. TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs ), tax-deferred annuities for people like you in eduacation and research, are agood way to save fo:r retirement and save on taxes now. SRAs are easy-you make con- tributions through your institution before your taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now. You pay no tax: on your SRA contributions and earnings until you receive them as income. And saving regularly means your contribu- tions and their earnings Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M ' can add up quickly. What else makes SRAs so special? A broad range of allocation choices, from the safety ofTlAA to the investment accounts of CREF 's variable annuity; no sales charges; a variety of ways to receive income, including annuities, payments over a f1xed period, or cash. You may also be able to borrow against your SRA accumulation before you retire.* All this, plus the top investment manage- ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the largest retirement system in the country. So start dreaming and planning for the time of your life. Because tile sooner you start your SRA, the greater your savings and your retire- ment will be. ,----------- 1 I I I I START PLANNING FOR THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY. For your free TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuity Kit, sencltbis coupon to: TIAA-CREF. Dept. QC, 730Third Avenue, ,,.,, New York, NY 10017. Or call 1 800 842-2733, Ext. 8016. J Nmnt I !lilr)rtJJ' I I I lnsfitultclll (Full name) I Tille I TIAA·CREF Partit·<iJalll ~==================' 0 Y.-.r ONo tOependlng upon your institution's plan and the state yo1.1.five in. CREF annuities aro distributed by T!AA-CRI!:F Individual & lnstituti<>nal Servic~s. Inc. !\or mDre complete infOrmation, induding charges and e><penses, call I 800 842-2:733, E\'t5509 for a prospectus. Read the before invest or send needed all the striking employees back A spokesman for Caterpillar said that the company did not have a need for 1,350 of the returning empl()yees, but that Caterpillar would agree to rehire them \in an effort to rebuild good working relations.\ Workers can cheer about a new early retirement program that will soon be implemented. This will assist many of the 40 year old workers who have spent their life at Caterpillar and were unsure about their retirement program. In addition to the retirement program, all returning strikers will be able to enjoy six years of job security also offered by upper management. These are the only positive results for the union workers, as they were unable to attain the increase in wage they originally llad been seeki11g. Investors showed their ~ approval of the way Caterpillar handled the strike by sending the stock price up by $2.50 on Monday (impressive figures on a day when the Dow was off 30 poillts). Over 70% of all striking employees returned to work on Monday morning shattering claims that workers felt unwanted by the company. The most significant outcome of this strike was appeared when U A W workers were unable to receive the same pay as their John Deere affiliates. This is the first time pattern wage increases have been denied and will prove to be very significant in the future as other unions try to claim similar wage increases. Since this was the first time an outcome like this llas occured, it will be interesting to sec what happens the next time a union desires a similar request. Source: Wall St. Journal Auto Sales Fall In Early April by Shields· Day Business Editor Auto sales fell during the first few weeks of April despite their impressive March figures. Auto dealers usually see an increase in car sales when tax retums come in ... but not this year. Auto makers are percieving this as an 11nfriendly foreboding of what is to come in the next few months. A depressingly low 253,278 U.S. made cars were bought between April 1 - 10. Dealers are hoping there will be a change in sales before tile summer months or else many car salesmen will be out of work. Ford sold the most cars followed by General Motors a11d finally Chrysler. Source: Wall St. Journal Write for tJ3usiness and !Finance! Ca{{ S liie{ds ~ 4120 We Care About. U !ichener.:tad y Needs workers to help paint:! Van• leaving College Center !iat:. 10:00 AM

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 6 The High Cost ol Freedom by Sari B. Skolnik Features Editor We all dream about one, work many summers to achieve one (or are simply given one), and even get emotionally attached to one. Well, what am I talking about? A Car- your very own car. Like many others, I have dreamed about my first car for years and years and it was not until a few months ago that this dream became a reality. During winter break I investigated my dream car- A 1992 white two door Honda Accord LX 1. I test drove it twice, drove pass the dealership everyday and finally ordered it, however, when the day came to purchase it I choked- I just could not spe spending all my money on this car as well as I genuinely did not want to deal with parking it in the winter months. Needless to say for the first few weeks of school I depended on friends and the Big Brothers/Big Sisters car to get around. Then something miraculous happened, my beloved grandparents gave me an early graduation gift-their old 1982 maroon Volvo. I low:d that car-it's facade was beautiful, it carried the right image, it had only 45,000 miles on it and best of all it was free-! Well, I was so happy driving this car up the NY state thruway via exit 25 to University place. I had this new sense of freedom (I could now go to Price Chopper, Kern cleaners, and Brueggers anytime I wanted) and the road trips I could now venture on- the options were limitless. Well, basically the parking was a nuisance but manageable; however, it was a freak snow storm that ushered in a long string of events. One Saturday night I was at Rotterdam Mall (for a change) and when I was done with my shopping I went outside only to find that it was heavily snowing. I finally found my car and cleaned it off, but since I was unfamiliar with this car and I was nervous about driving in general I was extra cautious. Well, to make a long story short- it took me an hour to make it home and within this time I managed to skid into the railing on the road and do $250.00 damage to my car ( yes, I forgot not to not slam on the breaks). At this point I rationalized that these things happen and it really was not that much money because I got the car for free. The rest of winter term went by and my car was doing fine, I even started feeling emotionally attached to it and even named it-Adrienne (for no particular reason so don't try to .analyze it). I went ~ home for Spring Break and drove some people home .. Adrienne made it home fine except his/her lights would turn on and off every so often: The next day I brought A~rienne to our family mechanic, Steve. Itturned out I needed two new mufflers, and the electrical system needed to be rewired, not to mention the cost of labor. This brought me to a total of $350;00! OK, so far Adrienne has cost me $600.oo bit I got if for free. So. I went out to lunch with my parents and I offered to drive. After 1 unch we got back into the cat, put on our respective seat belts and I put the key into the ignition and it didn't start- this was nothing new so I tried again and again and again and again.... OK, the time belt (what ever that is!) snapped and it had to be towed( of course I hadn't apply for AAA yet). At this point I figured what else could break? Well, this past weekend I was driving borne for the holidays and with me were my good friends Julie, Daniela and Kevin. Since' it was raining and I am neurotic, I was extra careful about driving. Whe11 the windshield wipers stopped I was a little concerned, but when the car went from 75 to 65 to 35 while I was pressing on the accelerator I was very concerned. I calmly put on the hazards and pulled over onto the shoulder and then declared the car officially dead. You always wonder what you would do in these situations- Do you panic? Do you get out and flag down a car? D:> you pray? Do you hitchhike? Do you wish for a car phone? NO, you sit back and relsx. and tell life stories. The cop came soon after and radioed for a tow tiuck (why didn'tljoinAAA!!!!!). At this point l could go ,on and on about the upcoming -events but that would be another article(s) within itself. Some of the highlights were sitting in the car while it was being towed and a car full of Union students waving to us, the mechanic-wife-beater, J olio, the mall that was conveniently placed around the corner from the service station, consisted of gun shops and a bar and as Kevin said ·best \'America's Most Wanted' must live here.\ I could go on and on about the \David Lynch like people\ we encountered but it is irrelevnaut for this article. Anyway, we managed to catch a bus to the port authority in New York City (very nice atmosphere at 10:00 on a Friday night!) and then a train home. We had lefl Union at ll:OOam .and got home twelve hours later. As much as I feel bad about this inconvenience to my passengers I tend to think that we each shared a day and an adventure that we would never forgot. OK, the alternatOl' broke and it cost me a lot, but the car was free and ... .I could have leased a brand new Accord for almost a year now. At this point I understand and appreciate two of my good friends who, because they were fed up with their cars, just left them in their respective parking spaces· for over a year. But I cannot do this to Adrienne- he/she has provided me indirectly with adventure and I would like to believe that he/she will come through for me in the future or at least make it until graduation! Attention Food Shoppers! by Dass Seaman Concordiensis Staff wheels, but this baby cruised. That's how I play my day I thought how convenient it away was that they installed Trading Port, I love my job! electrical opening doors on the My heart touched and I wiped way in. In the past it always a small tear from my eye. I When you don't have a car to perplexed and annoyed me tbat picked up a can of stewed go to Price Chopper, or a I had to push open a heavy mushrooms and thought \This friend who can lend you a car. door. Imagine how difficult it is beautiful.\ or a friend. that wouldn't lend would have been if I was I noticed that I was hungry you her car. but doesn't have carrying a ten laying wedding (why is it that I always go food time to drive you there, and cake. But all was fixed now. shopping when I'm hungry?) you've gotten used to walking, I entered a wondrously bright and everything on the shelves Trading Port is a very familiar and clean atmosphere. A looked so delicious. I was supermarket (or is it Trading young energetic girl smiled even tempted to buy Oscar Post?). widely and chirped \Hi! Meyer's head cheese. Luckily, After compiling a list of Welcome to Trading Port!\ I rounded the corner of Isle necessary items that over the and she shook my hand. I number two: Cereals, baking past few months I've muttered, looked behind her and noticed goods, candy, and pickles. \I really wish I had_\ or \I piles of super sales coupon There was a jolly huggable really need __ ,\ and had books. Then she put one in grandmother type character almost forgotten what they my hand. \Take it, it's free.\ named Gladys standing in front were. I left my room with my And then she winked at me. of a table laden with goodies. wallet safe in my inside coat \Thank-you I said, a little Above her there was a sign pocket. I left the campus bewildered. I looked around (from God) FREE SAMPLES. world and entered (duh-duh and what should my wondering \Take Take, Eat, Eat, Sample, dun!) Schenectady. eyes should appear--but a Mega Sample,\ she cooed in her As I approached Trading Market. grandmother-like way. This Port, I sensed a different aura I strolled down Isle number was an hone~t. way of around it's brick entity. I one -Sauces, Soups, satisfying hunger pangs in a grabbed a shopping cart that Condiments. and Pasta. I supermarket, rather than was at the end of a neatly walked by three boys and three sneaking hands raiding bin connected chain of carts. girls singing to the tune of \in food. I sampled legally and Instead of tugging and pulling the Merry Old land of Oz.\ hungrily. and kicking apart the carts, one Three·· boys: Stack Stack I was amazed at how Trading ( not two stuck together) slid Stack (and they were stacking!) Port treated its customers. out with buttery ease. I drove Three girls: Price Price This cute old man with a my vehicle forward, and it went Price (they knew how to price!) \Hello! My name is Ernie\ tag FORWARD! It didn't veer off Ensemble: In this store I came up to me with a four the charmin,\ he urged. \It's OK, you can do it here at Trading Port.\ I took hold of the toilet paper and the old man went .\oo·oo-oooo\ like the Pilsbury Dough Boy does when you press his tummy. I squeezed and it was good. Gay and lively music played overhead. \You've got to shop at Trad.ing Port, 000, those super specials, yeah!\ Three men wit.h aprons and brooms came dancing and leaping down the frozen food ·isle, singing alon~ to the little ditty on the loud speaker. One of them took my hand and took me for a spin. I giggled shyly. I hadn't danced in years. Back in the old days. 1 used to be quite good and soon the three men had me dancing the Trading Port jazz step triple supermarket twist and a coupon hop. It was great fun. l waved goodbye and continued with my shqpping adventures. In the fruits and vegetables Isle, I took a single orange from the bottom on a ten foot high pile and nothing fell. Puzzled over the ripeness of a cantaloupe melon, a smart looking clerk with a melon in his hand showed me how I can smell this one spot to see if it was ripe. Of course it was perfectly luscious. \What melons,\ I said. \Thank you.\ he replied cheerfully Overjoyed with my shopping experience, I skipped down the isles, crossing item after item off my list. Can you believe that Trading Port actually carries peanut butter cover pine cones, a delicacy from a small shop located half~way up Mount Everest.? I had been craving them ever since I fell half way down that -mountain three years ago. Boy howdy, what a store! I didn't have that \always picking .the longest-shortest line problem (Hey Frank! I need a key to the register. I have an over-ring!).\ There were at least three .vacant registers calling me with their \OPEN\ signs. The register people and baggers were trying to smile the hardest to win over my affection. With the use of my super saving coupons, I must have saved seven dollars (that's handy for college students) and I only had · to pay three dol'lars for ten dollars worth of groceries. My suggestion is to check this place out. the right or left with crocked love pack of toilet paper. \Squeeze ··················~···~·····¥·······~···········; Write jfor qcontorbiensis

Our Odyssey To Athens and Beyond by Rich Morgan Concordiensis Staff The country of Greece, considered by many as the \cradle of civilization,\ is a country rich with a history and a culture several thousand years old; many aspects of its ancient past are still practiced (or have been adapted' contemporary societies wort .... wide. This past winter term has given 25 Union College students the opportunity to study Greece's ancient past, and live amongst the Greeks of today in order to experience a fairly new Westernized culture much different from our own. distance: the AcrQpolis, only about 15 minutes from our apartment • .stands high above the city, and can be seen from almost anywhere in Athens. Just below the acropolis and to the north a bit lies the ancient Agora, where many-a-gathering took place amongst the citizens of Athens - Oh, about 2400 years ago or so (the Agora provided a meeting place similar to tlut of the modem- day College Center of one Union College). The one thing we tend to marvel at most is how these awesome structures, now in ruins, have been able to withstand the test of time over several thousand years. Union Winter Term Abroad: 1 91 Temple of Poseidon at Sounion One can easily spend a year in this magnificent country aud not see all of the natural landscapes and antiquities it has to offer: being limited to 10 week Union college schedule, however, we were able to make the most of our time :in Athens. This includes voyaging outside of Athens and exploring the same picturesq11e countrysides and archaeological sl tes seen by countless numbers: from Homer to Byron, and up to the present day. Many of us were housed in a \borough\ of Athens, Kolonaki, whi:eh i~.; geographically ·advantageous·' for us. Most of the sites (including the College Year in Athens school where we studied) are within walking by Daphne Shirley Contributing Wri(er Term abroad in Greece, what do you think of when you picture it? The Parthenon? Togas? Union students conscienti.ously delving into the depths of academia, philosophizing with the likes of Socrates and Plato??? While we did our fair share of work and learning, our daily lives were truly an unforgettable yet somewhat undescribable part of the total experience that we had in Athens. Although it is impossible to summarize it in this brief article, I will try to hit some of the key points. We lived in a chic area of Athens ~own as Kolonaki, a far cry from our beloved and much-missed Schenectady. On sunny days we sat in one of the outdoor cafes. Don't breathe a word of this to the National Enquirer, but Elvis is alive and well. drinking iced coffees in SAVE THE WILDLIFE The CY A (College Year in Athens) program offers a wide variety of courses on the ancients, as well as a study of the remains they left behind. Being that Union College is a school which follows the · sometimes ominous trimester system (as we have all come to be familiar with), our course· selection is pretty much set in stone. The Art & Archaeology course which was offered, however, has provided us with the best possible way to see most of mainland Greece and learn about its classical past. Field trips were an integral part of . the €U9f,St}, taking us 'everywbere from Matathen and Mycenae, all the way to Olympia on the west coast. Our last big weekend trip was spent in the \magical\ city of Delphi, which can be justly labeled the \melting pot\ of ancient civilization. People came from all over to visit the famed Oracle, who was believed to hold the powers of prophecy. Nowadays, people come to Delphi, such as we did, to marvel at the incredibly enchanted site, which was literally carved into a mountainside. Delphi, however, is just one example of the spectacular regions which we were able to witness for ourselves. Another site enjoyed by the Union \ambassadors\ was the Temple of Poseidon at Sounion. This ageless wonder sits high atop a rocky cliff, · overlooking the Aegean Sea. Along with the breathtaking view, the sixteen columns that still remain s!'lnding provided the perfect ,,, ree '' Kolonaki Square. (Many of the Greek men look like Elvis). Although the natives reacted to us with awe upon hearing where we lived, our luxury apartments did not have central heating, modem plumbing, or telephones. We all lived relatively close to each other, but we were separated by a minimum of at least fifty stairs in any given direction. Without a doubt, Stairmaster would go out of business in Athens. Also from the myriad of cats in Athens, we concluded that either all cats live out their remaining eight lives here or that the co11cepts of spaying . and neutering have not yet reached Greece. The first day we spent in Athens consisted of a quick orientation to a rather large and seemingly overwhelming city. Then we started a two-week crash course in moderp Greek language with highest hopes of actually being able to ask and understand directions and • questions, as well as having some meaningful interaction with the Greek people. We tried to learn the basics, but once we got to the line, \Excuse me, I understand nothing,\ most of us decided that we'd had enough. If nothing else. we can all say tQ.at we fully understand the meaning of \It's Greek to me!\ Seriously. the language barrier was sometimes frustrating, thus we developed an extensive sign language. The natives usually just smiled at us, then answered us in English. We all knew the old section of Athens, Plaka,Iike the back of our hands because this was the center of authentic shopping and eating. From our plethora of purchases, we all learned how to drive a hard bargain. Popular items included hand-knit sweaters, jewelry, and worry beads, the Greek equivalent of Valium. There were numerous Greek taverns situated there which WWF WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION locati()n for our 30 minute \group photo session.\ Apart from mainland Greece, many of us had the unique opport11nity to ve11ture out on our own to is lands and countri-es within and adjacent to the Mediterranean. \Favorite\ Greek i~lands visited by Union travellers included Aegina (just an hollr and a half ferry ride from tile port of Piraeus), Crete (Greece·s largest island which lies just north (){ Egypt), Santorini, a small island (half a day. by ferry) iri tbe Aegean, best kn.()wn for its breathtaking landscapes formed from a 2,000-rear old volcanic eruptio11; finally, Mykonos, another small island located within the heart of tile Cycladic Islands, was frequented by several cmious voyagers. Besides the islands, two of the most visited cities included Cairo and Istanbul (not Constantinople). The lO or so of us who had the chance to see the 5,000-year old city of Cairo spent our time there climbing the Great Pyramids, riding camels through the desert, and touring the Nile River on half- day cruises. Istanbul provided the 10 people who visited it (at least those of us who were brave enough) the unique opportunity to take an authentic Turkish bath, as well as visit the city's highly ornamented mosques. All of these experiences have really opened our senses to view the glorious pasts of these ancient places, as well as give us a feel for the severe problems affecting each of tllese societies today. cene served traditional foods such as dolmadc!s (stuffed grape leaves), turopitas (cheese pies) and soulvald. Usually, this was all washed down with a little, or more often a lot of retsina (resinat«l wine which we were warned to mix with water, although: we never did). The effect is somewhat similar to that of _£rain punch. it llits you all at o11ce! Other delicacies included the ever-famous toasties (grilled filled sandwiches)~ baklava (a honey-s<>aked pastry). and feta cheese. Dominos hasn't set up shop i:n Athens yet, probably because they can not figure out a way to deliver in 30 minutes or less witll all the stairs there. Howe\Ver the frequented Kolonald Pizza m11st have had record sales while Union was there. Soci~l life in Athens was quite different than the usual fraternit:y scene at Union, even though Grook letters surrounded us constantly. Believe it or DRUNK 11ot, we frequented discos that l>lared our theme songs of \I Will Survive\ the top- forty Greek tune \Kalimou\ (their version of \Do Me\) songs from the movie Grease. as well as our favorite American dance mixes. Dancing ranges from slam-dancing to house dancing to the traditional Greek steps, and combined with the lovely Greek liquor OUZO, anyone call dance (or at least they think they can). These discos stay ()pen all night, and a typical walk home incorporated seeing the Acropolis at sunrise and stopping off at a kiosk (the Greek version of A Plus), for those early morning munchies. Luckily for us, we mastered the mid .. day siesta, a fundamental part of Greek life. Hopefully these analogies llelped paint a general picture ()f our lives in Greece. However, for a more detailed clescription, contact any one of the Greek gods or goddesses who recently returned to Union's campus. DRIVING KILLS

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 8 Just Another Fad, Or A Resurgence Of A Desired Black Unity An Oriental m al.e happily displays his X hat. embark upon his venomm:1s speeches' aimed at unitin.g Afro-Americans under the auspices of Islam. If people think that by wearing a clothing article with the letter X emblazoned on it that they are showing support of equal treatment for Afro-Americans, then they .are dead wrong. This X is notjttst a fad with possible positive connotations; it is much, much more. Malcolm X's stance concerning what the proper reaction to white people's 400 y~ar tyranny over Afro-Americans should be, evolved from vengeance through violence, to a view more common with Martin Luther King's opinion that only non-violence could produce any social improvements. For such a radical chaRge of mind, Malcolm X was murdered, allegeclly by one of his previous followers that did not approve of his new conciliatory vantage point. A new trend in fashion has appeared 11cross the face of America. Hats, shirts, and many other clothing articles which make a bold ~tatement with just one letter, X. But w:here were these no popular 1tems five, or even ten years ago? And wllat do people really mean by wearing them? A very humorous event cam be witnessed when a white person's garb includes such articles, laving one only to guess the reason for such an obvious contradiction. Malcolm X is most remembered for his vehement support: of violence against whites, and for his multiple orations dealing with black supremacy. How can any person, black.or white, justifiably promote these doctrines through clothing? So what lies behind this fashion of the nineties, this X? A good start for an explanation might be fol:ind through questioning a person who is proudly displaying one such X. Spike Lee, for example, is a proud customer to a certain hat manufacturer that produces X paraphernalia. He, however, has done enough research on the man that he feels capable of making a film biography of Mr. X. Now, whether or not this film will be produced using typical Oliver Stone-like presumptions and assumptions has yet to be seen. But it will most likely determine the fate of these garments, be it death, or infinite longevity. Good luck, Mr. Lee, only you can decide the fate of this fashion. Malcolm X was born Malcolm Little on May 19, 1925. He was to become possibly the most prominent radic;al Afro-American person to ever work for the improvement of his people's social status. His views were to carry him to multiple international destinations where he would Sources: Martin and Malcolm and America, Cone, J .. ; Malcolm, Perry, B.; Malcolm X, The FBI File, Carsrm C. A Celebration of Latino Culture at Union To the Editor: It has been over seven months since the Brothers of Phi Iota Alpha founded a chapter here at Union. Since then we have had a very warm welcome from the campus community. We were proud to present a most successful sponsorship of Cafe 302 with a Caribbean theme on the ninth of April. Additionally, we showed a movie, \The Ballad of Gregorio Cortez,\ which opened the minds of the viewers regarding the prejudicial treatment of Mexican and all \minority\ groups in the U.S. These events were all part of Phi Iota Alpha's celebration of Latina/Hispanic Heritage Month. Additionally, Phi-A will bring Dr~ Roman de Ia Campa to speak on Tuesday April 28, 1992 in the C.C. auditorium at 4:00 on the topic, \Beyond Hunger of Memory And 'Mambo Kings': Latinos in the U.S.\ His discussion will include the book entitled Hunger Q1 Me:mory and the movie \The Mamb<> Kings\. Using this as the basis of his lecture, de Ia Campa will dispel the myths aad stereotypes surrounding the Latino population in t!Je United States as well as presenting his view of the Latino struggle to survive and achieve in a society that is often reluctant to accept cultural dissimillarities. Dr. de Ia Campa is currently professor at the State University at Stony Brook and received his M.A. from the University of Arkansas and Ph.D. from the U11iversity of Minnesota. Among his voluminous awards and achievements illcludes serving as coordinator of the seminar on \Latin AmerLca11 Literature: Politics and Postm odemism\ at the 1987 International Association for Philosophy and Literature. Bein;g an expert in the field of Latino. issues, he has been the sulbject of many articles and publications celebrating hi~ outstanding work. Dr. de Ia Campa returns to the Capital District for the second time after being a distinguished speaker at the University at Albany's interstate Latino Conference, 1991, which marked the first of this kind in this area. Furthermore, on Thursday April 30, 1992 at 7:00 pm. Mr. Merton Simpson and Ms. Blanca McBrian will present a lecture on ••rhe Future of Affirmative Action.\ Both Mr. Simpson and Ms. McBrian are from the New York State Civil Service Office and are experts on the issues affecting affinnative action. We encourage all members of the Union College community to attend both Dr. de Ia Campa•s debut at Union and the lecture to be presented by Mr. Simpson and Ms. McBrian to celebrate Latina/Hispanic heri{age month. iVayacon Paz! Lester Singh and Rob Malfetano Previous Letter Not Annoymous To the Editor: I am the author of the letter to the Editor regarding discrimination by ROTC towards gay, lesbian, and bisexual people. I feel that a number of injustices have been done unto my letter. There was one serious error in the printing of a particular sentence. It reads: ••Gay, lesbian, and bisexual people are not attracted to every member of the opposite sex.\ This sentence should have conveyed two ideas: \Ga lesbian, and bisexual peoJ)Je are not attracted to eve:ry member of the same sex, jRJst as straight people are Aot atftracted to every member of the o0pposite sex·.\ I would like a correction with regards ·to this sentence, especially since this sentence, as it stands piTesently, was ridiculously mis(fuoted. 1 am offended by the omission of my name in my letter. By your omission of my name, whether intentional or not, the reader may construe that the author is ashamed to sign her name. That is definitely not the case. I stand proudly behin<l my points of view, and I want it to be known. I am not an individual to hide behind the mask of anonymity, neither do I want people to think that. Jane Huang We apologize for the unintentional omission of Jane Huang's name and the misprint in her leiter to the Editor in last week's Concordiensis. Union Choir Needs U To the Editor: Not many people are familiar with the topic I am going to address. In fact I believe there are only about forty people on campus ·Wlio have any knowledge of this grave issue. The topic is the Union College Choir. At this J)Oint and time it is in danget of extinction. Please take the time to read about it because there is no reason it should .have to be. If you ever b.ad a Monday or Wednesday night free at about seven o'clock and happened to be wandering through the Arts building you might pass by the Choir. You might not realize it though. In 1926 there were fifty-two males in Choir, in 1992, even after the coeducation of Union in 1971 and the successful upkeep of the quality of the Union College Choir for over a century, you will hear twenty- five people singing pieces that should be sung by no less than fifty. You wouldn't know it by the quality you were hearing though. This is the Union College Choir. The group that Union College honors, indirectly, with the celebration of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, the guy that wrote our Alma Mater, probably couldn't even scrounge up an extra five people to sing it that day. New Flash, if there's no one left to sing it you may be Anonymous letters and those over 500 words will not be printed. There will be no exceptions. All letters to the Editor must be submitted wfth a name, ID, telephone and box number to the Concordlensls office by 4:00p.m. on the Tuesday preceding weekJy issuance of Concordlensls: forced to forego this \great tradition\ too. I've talked to poople who say that Choir is too difficult, they cannot read the music, it's not at a convenient time, ... the excuses go on and on.· These same people are involved in tile crew team, football and other grueling sports. They may even be sorority and fraternity members. These various \organizationsJ' frequently demand that one gets up at early hours, middle of the night wake up calls, additional fees and purchases, painful physical exertions, and immense amounts of time. On average, Choir takes up three and a half hours a week, requires no additional monetary contribution, will not jeopardize your physical health, may enlighten yoll mentally, and will not require you to do naked Nott runs. (Although, if that's you idea of fun it's not prohibited.) Don't let yourself fall victim to any of those excuses, because that's all they are. You are the one fabricating them and are thereby committing to a type of cultural suicide. We are in dire: need of members, My kind of members. We meet every Monday and Wednesday night from seven to eigllt-thirty in Arts 215. There are no auditions, all you have to do is pick up a folder, sit down and you're in! Not only will you be helping yourself out, but you will help get Cb.oir off of the endangered list. You recycle, you try to conserve energy, you donate money to charities; push yourself that extra inch-join Choir. It even hurts less than giving blood. Sincerely. Elaine Furnari '93 President of the Union College Choir

·· ·· . · · · . ··. · · · · .. ·· . . ·. · ·. · ... · · •· ·. · lll!lmiiDIII&· CONCORD.IENSIS ··APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 9 The Church Should Do More by Jordan Lippner News Editor The root of anti-Semitism in the Western world lie.s in Christianity, and more specifically, in the writings and teachings of the Roman Catholic Church. · Since the latter half of the first century c.e. when Paul (Saul) sought to take those fellow Jews who believed in Jesus and break away from Judaism completely, developing an entirely new religion, the Church has provided the West with both justified reasoning and impetus to persecute world Jewry. For the first twenty to thirty years after the death of Jesus, Christianity functioned as a sect of Judaism and not as a separate entity. However, when Saul of Tarsus, a Jew from the diaspora, believed that he had seen a vision of Jesus rising up to heaven, he took Christianity down a path which would change the course of history. Realizing that Judaism was an obstacle to gaining converts, Paul made clear demarcations between his new religion, and Judaism. He declared that \it is not by the law that you will be fulfilled, but by faith in Jesus Christ.\ Paul was disparaging the Torah, a staple .of Judaism, highlighting a difference between the two religions. Jews at the time responded with equally incendiary remarks, as much friction developed Over the next few centuries, the formative years of the Christian religion, continuing down untill964, the teachings of the Church and the Christian doctrines themselves would instill in the Western world the notion ()f justified anti- Semitism. Early 9n, the Church taught that Judaism was spiritually bankrupt, that Jews were materialistic and evil, that the synagog11e was a den of iniquity, and that the rabbis were the agents of the devil. Christians throughout the Western world were indoctrinated with teachings such a~ these. However, these statements were just part of a larger anti -Semitic rhetoric which the Church promulgated. According to the Church, the Jews were guilty of the most heinous crime possible, Deicide. As written in the gospels, tile Jews were solely responsible for the death of Jesus, G-d·s only son. As the Christian literature states, the Romans were cleared of any guilt in connection with the death of Jesus, as Pontius Pilot, the Roman procurator in Jerusalem at the time, had offered the Jews a chance to save Jesus, which the Jews subsequently turned down. For those interested in the whole story, they can read the many accounts which exist. Many of you who will read this, in fact, just heard the story. of Pilot, Jesus.; Barabus, and the Jews, this past Sunday during your Easter service. However. tbis is a point I will get back to in a moment. In the 4th century c.e. St. Augustine decreed that the Jews must \bare witness to the truth of the New Testament.\ He elaborated further stating that Jews should be persecuted and be made to suffer, but that Jews and Judaism must not be wiped out. Thus aU Christians, whether they be the Roman Emperor, or a simple peasant, were instructed to persecute the Jews. Further adding to the plight of Jews were the accusations by the Church that Jews committed the crimes of Blood Libel and Host Desecration. Until the Vatican is willing to modify its doctrines, doctrines which it verbally acknowledge a~re false, anti-Se.mitism win continue to be perpetuated throughout the world. . Blood Libel entailed the murder of young Christian boys and girls by Jews at the time of Passover for the purpose of taking their blood in order to bake the matzoh. Host desecration involved Jews who would sneak into churches when nobody was looking, and stab the Wafers. Numerous. Church officials on various occasions claimed to have seen this done, and then to have seen the Wafer bleed. Thus they charged that Jews were killing Jesus all over again. The implications of the issues which I have discussed are far reaching. The Churches role in fermenting anti- Semitism has influenced a wide range of people; Spaniards with particular note to the inquisition, Russians and the many pogroms against the Jews, especially those of 1881- ,1882, Adolph Hitler and the Nazi reign of terror, the Ku IClux Klan, and of most recent n<Jte. David Duke a11d Patrick Buchanan. However, in the space I have hear, it is not possible to adequately elaborate on the al:love incidents. Nor could I give justice to a discussion of the Biblical accounts and demonstrate their political slant. More to the point, I want to touch on where the Church stands today on the issue of anti-Semitism. In 1962, Pope John XXIII proclaimed that it was a Pope's nsponsibility to \promote social harmony throughout the world.\ He supported his statement in his encyclical where he recognized \ the conscientious right of all men to profess this religion both in private and public.\ In November of 1964. Pope Paul VI and the 2nd Vatican Council, by a vote of 1893-99, condemned anti-Semitism. The Church later substantiated this vote in 1945 announcing that contrary to Christian doctri-ne, the Jews were not responsible for the death of Ch:rist. In making this quite lib~ral argument, Paul was acknowledging that many of the stories recounted in the New Testament were contrived with political motivations; motivations which at times superceded the truth. P'ope Paul VI's declaration was as revolutio11ary a statement as they come. However, unfortunately for Jews worldwide, his statement was not followed up by action. This brings us up to the present. Many of you observed the Easter holiday H1is past Sunday and listened as the story of how the Jews killed Jesus was iterated. Despite Pope Paul VI declaration, every year the same story, which has since its creation provoked anti-Semitic sentiments, continues to be told and re-told :to millions of Christians, many who have heard it before. and those impressionable children who are hearing it for the first time. Given this. it is quite easy to fathom why tllere still exist people who expect to see horns coming out of an individual's head, if that individual is Jewish. Similarly, it is not surprising to still hear outrageous charges such as Blood Libel or Host Desecration. The most recent accusation has taken on a modern flavor: \Jews arc responsible for the AIDS virus. They created it in a laboratory in order to facilitate the genocide of all Black people in Africa.\ The charge by Mr. Steve Cokely further states that Jewish pediatdcians inject Black babies with the virus. The Roman Cittholic Church can assert as much as it wants that its goals are world peace and social harmony. However. until the Vatican is willing to modify its doctrines, doctrines which it verbally acknowledges are false. anti-Semitism will continue to be perpetuated throughout the world, and social harmony will not be achieved. Life Vs Death; Another View On Abortion by Timothy Hadden Contributing Writer Owing to America's victory in the Cold War, I naively thought that I'd be able to enjoy the much talked about (albeit unrealistic) peace dividend. However, upon reading last week's Concordiensis, the tranquillity was shattered. Suddenly, I realized that despite our triumph over Communism, a war is still being fought in the United States-- one that will chart our future course and whose battlegrounds include places such as Union. The battle rages between those who would tax and spend America into ruin and those who would use common sense to retain America's position of strength- - it is a struggle between Conservatives and Liberals. Don't be fooled, it is every bit a war in the classic sense (one of strategy, economics, leadership, s.acrifice, frustration and heartache), but to this .conflict a fascinating new facet is added-- Psychological Warfare. Indeed, in the end, this aspect will determine the outcome. Each side, to mobilize support for their ca11se, fights a war to capture the minds ·of the people. For nearly three years (to my discredit), I have passively sat and watched as the Liberals at Union wantonly launched volley after unanswered volley (using the Concordi en sis as their Howitzer) against my Conservative beliefs. With each attack,. the Conservative cause weakened and the Liberals tightened their grip on the minds of students. Now, with no desire to be known as one who shirked his duties or who watched America crumble, I am answering my call to arms. Of late, the battle of ideologies bas manifested itself in the abortion question. By publishing stories and letters that sing praises to the Pro- Choice movement, while ignoring the opposition; the Concordiensis has clearly given its answer to the above question. Typical of its reporting (and of the larger conflict) is Jim Polites' article ' 1 The Volatile Question of Abortion,\ that appeared in last week's editio-n. Frankly, and with no disrespect intended for Mr. Polites, I found · his sophomoric treatment of the abortion issue full of biased babbling as well as faulty conclusions. On two counts, through his characterization of the Pro-Life movement and his reasons for supporting abortion, Mr. Polites highlights the futility of the Liberal Argument. A woman's body is not her own, it is God's - As humans we get to rent them out for a few decades with no option to buy. While Mr. Polites is ready to applaud the Pro-Choicers, who recently marched on Washington, he has nothing but scorn and disrespect for their legitimate opponents. Making a fatal mistake, he generalizes support for the Pro- Life movement as a handful of decrepit, mule headed, reactionary old women. Moreover, he infers that the elderly women have nothing better to do and have no stake in modem society. On behalf of Mr. Polites. I apologize to all the Grandmothers whom he unjustly offended and whose . ge11eration sacrificed more for this: country than he or I ever will. Furthennore, it should be pointed out that these women were around long before Roe v. Wade and did live under the so·called \vices ·of Anti- Abortion legislation.\ Funny, it doesn't seem to have bothered them. To counter wllat Mr. Polites tbinks, snp.port for the Pro-Life movement doesn't only come from mature women, it comes from all people who believe life, especially that of innocents, is sacred. However, Mr. Polites doesn't limit his criticism of the Pro-Life movement to bashing Senior Citizens, he assails the spirit of the movement itself. Like most Liberals. Mr. Polites argues that \the conservative coalition against abortion really lacks both fou11dation and direction ... \ On tbe conlra.ry\ the foundation of our movement is God, stronger and more resilient than any earthly force. Addition ally, our direction is ever forward-- in an effort to convince people that Life is predous, often difficult, and that faith in God will see them through. Although I might not be spokesperson. I share the Conservative desire to restore America's moral strength. For us, the answers to many of America's pressing social problems lie in traditional morality. Nevertheless. in defending the right of a woman to have an abortion, abortion activists neglect the moral choice involved. With contempt Conservative legislators and while beating their drums, the abortion activists fell upon Washington. Up went their cry, \My Body! My Choice!,\ drowning out the protests of those who would reason with them. Unfortunately, in his article. Mr. Polites seems brainwashed by this Feminist dogma. As much as I hate to rain on their parade, though the Feminist proclamation is loud. it is also dead wrong. To keep things on a purely secular level, I don't particularly like the Government forcing me to use my tax dollars to finance abortion clinics-- I've lost my right to choose. However, on this issue my objection comes from a primarily Biblical Continued 011 page 11 . - ~ -·

,, An Opening Question by Cort Boulanger Arts Editor Despite the attempts of the Admissions Department to create a more geographically diverse student body, Union students primarily hail from one of two areas. These two areas share many similarities, but comparing the two is like comparing apples and oranges, or apples and beans (sorry, bad joke). If you haven't figured it out by now, the two areas referred to are the Metropolitan region of New York City and Boston with the surrounding subwbs. Due to the enormity and diversity of these places and lack of writing space, this argument will concentrate solely on one example. In all fairness to both sides, a subject of comparison chosen had to be something that every red- blooded American shared a passion for. What better than Opening Day of the baseball season'? Admittedly, and thankfully, being from the Boston vicinity I have limited experience w.ith \The City\ but I believe that professional baseball games are that intangible factor that reveal a lot about a place. Last Tuesday morning I embarked upon my first journey to Yankee Stadium. The drive down 87 is monotonous (although no more so than the Mass. Pike) until crossing the Tapanzee Bridge, where it becomes worse. Although Yankee Stadium was no more than a stones throw away. it took almost an hour to travel five mile-~ tiur to the unrelenting traffic. When the Stadium finally came into fun view, the problem of parking arose. Although parking in Boston can be a chore, it is usually remedied if you are willing to shell out ten bucks or so. However, on this particular Opening Day, every parking lot within a five mile radius was full. After about forty-five minutes of searching aimlessly, we finally settled for parking in a back alley next to a loading dock. You could almost hear the snickering of the locals as these wet behind the ears college students left their vehicle to be plundered. Once the car was \taken care of\ another obstacle arose; getting in to Yankee Stadium. In my naivete, I expected to pay maybe five dollars over face value for a seat (or possibly even for the actual cost of the . ticket from some charitable soul burdened with too many). Instead, we were forced to pay $30.00 for a $14.50 ticket, or else watch the game on T.V. in one of the friendly neighborhood bars. This very expensive exchange transpired within twenty yards of one of New York's Finest. But then again, scalping is considered a very minor offense in the city that never sleeps. When finally in the Stadium, the game was fairly similar to one at Boston's Fenway Park. The fans were loud and obnoxious, the hot dogs were good, and the beer was bad (not to mention expensive). Despite the fact that we missed the first three innings, the tickets cost twice as much, and the Red Sox lost; it was an enjoyable day at the ballpark. After bUly experiencing New Tired of dorm laundry rooms? York for the first time, I no\ have a better understanding of the Boston-New York rivalry. The conflict comes not in the differences, but in the similarities of the two. In essence, the pmblem stems from jeal(')usy. New Yorkers like to thi11k of themselves as \A-number one, King of the Hill, Top' of the Heap\ and since Boston is their closest competition. they are afraid. This insecmity causes them to lash out at Boston with insults and derogatozy nicknames (ie. people who reside in Massachusetts are \Massholes\). Personally. I view New York as a nice place to visit but I definitely wouldn't want to live there. In actuality, New York is just a dirtier, more crowded, IUore expens1ve version of Boston. While I'm on the subject, i:t lias been brought t() my auenti·on that all, people from Massachusetts say that they are from Boston when asked. Although this might seem to be a statement of ethnocentrism, it is, in fact, the opposite. Rather than saying they are from Marblehead or Newton or Lexington, they give the general area and say Boston. They are not as vain as to say they're from Scarsdale or Westchester and expect people to know where those places are. This is yet another example of people from New York bein,g completely self- centered. One more thing; people from · Connecticut and New Jersey who pretend to be from New York; YOU'RE NOT! Please, get an identity of you're own. Sllileridlw:ro. C<r»illll JLtitud.ty Brand New Store Now Open 24 Hours! Save Money with ... Huge Double and Triple Load Washers Bigger, Faster Dryers While Washing ... Use our large tables for homework, Shop at Price Chopper or Brooks Drugs, Eat Pizza or Chinese All located in Sheridan Plaza with plenty of convenient parking Price Chopper * Sheridan * Coin Laundry Rosa Rd. Ellis Hospital Nott St. Located only three blocks from Union Cam))us! CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23,. 1992 • PAGE 10 Schenectady Courtsey of Schenectady Symphony Orchestra The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra presents its fourth and final concert of its 1992-93 season at Proctor's Theatre, 432 State st., Schenectady on Sunday. May 3 at .3 P.M. Music Director and Conductor Dr. Charles Schneider will lead the SSO in a program that includes Rossini's Overture to \Semiramide \ Saint-Saens' Carnival of th~ Animals with the Ogden Nash verses narrated by Austin Sears, Britten's Rhapsody for Two Pianos and Orchestra and Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture. The featured soloists will he Moscow born dual pianists Margarita and Olaga Malinova. The sisters, who enjoy world renown having appeared in some of America and Europe's most prestigious concert halls, emigrated to the United States in 1980. They debuted in Carnegie Hall in 1985. The sisters earned Masters degrees in music from Columbia University. They are the founders and Music Directors of the Cooperstown International Chamber Music Festival. The Carnival of the Animals is a zoological potpourri that contains pleasing and intricate bursts of music. The .Concert Master's violin turned into a Symphony rooster. a slow moving Can,.. Can, the gentle tones of cellos for the lovely Swan's song. a brief sprinkle of \Twinkle fwinkle Little Star\ and assorted groans and roars from the assembled animals are among themes heard during the fourteen sections. \Carnival of the Animals,\ a piece written for two pianos, has a fanciful narration by Ogden Nash which will be read by Austin Sears. Camille Saint-Saens wrote the \Carnival of the Animals\ to be performed only for this family. \The Swan,\ made famous by the ballerina Pavlova was the only part of the suite the composer allowed to be played and published in his life time. The two concert grand pianos which will be used for the Britten and Saint Saens pieces were donated to Proctor's Theatre several years ago by the Ken Lally family. SSO Tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for students. Teh Schenectady Symphony Orchestra features a special Family Pian which allows free admission to students attending the concert with a parent. All tickets are available through Proctor's Box Office (518) 346- 6204. The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra receives partial funding from the New York State Council on the Arts and Schenectady Local Arts Initiative Plan. . · Natas·ha's Stars . · . . ARIES (March 21-April 19) One thing no one can accuse you of, espe- cially this week, is dragging your heels. Mars moving into your sign has you the firecracker of the zodiac. You heat up any situation. And as for the weekend - ooh Ia Ia, play you will and play you must. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) You are such an earthy, solid sign, and this week you need to gather together your possessions. Be careful though - someone may really resent being treated like a possession. Talking could further inflame them. Try ac- tions rather than words. Work on a cozy, cuddly weekend at home. GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Keep a certain matter hush-hush. Remember, secrets can be fun. You could get what you want, whatever that may he (and as long as it is within reason). Though money is on your brain, you certainly have a party all wc.ek and weekend long. Make the most of these whigh\ vibes. CANCER (June 21-July 22) You ride the roller coaster one more time. And remember what goes up. must come down. Or better yet, what goes down must go up again. And you do (go up and stay up) for quite a while. You're the .. personality kid\ lassoing that object of your desire. Be sure you want it. LEO (July 23-August 22) You are on a roll most of the week. You may plummet for several days, but rather than cry the blues, recharge your bat- teries. You explode into a burst of ener- gy and vitality this weekend. Those around you burst into a similar frenzy. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) You're on top of the world most of this week. First, a you're veritable force to be dealt with at work. Then you're highly sought after on the social scene. . Worry less, dear Virgo. Trust and it all I works out. Plan a secluded weekend away with a loved one. LmRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Responsibilities could hit very hard this' week, but in 'between· handling everything, you manage to focus, cre- ate and manifest. You have many, many reasons this weekend to celebrate and toast to life. A special friendship plays an enormous role in the outcome - of the weekend, that is. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) You gain big time with your inter- personal skills this week. Business as- sociates, as well as social acquaintances, respond big time to you. Of importance is to get down to the basics to rebuild so you can skyrocket to your desires. Definitely a heavenly period. SAGIITARIUS (November 22- December21) You'll like the next few days, since everyone who knocks on your door seems to want and adore you. Careful, careful - don't mix business with pleasure though it cer- tainly might seem tempting. Consider calling a spade, a spade, and taking a vacation week off! · CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) You are definitely the workhorse of the zodiac. It seems as if you are psychic, because you intuitive- ly know how to get it all done as fast as possible. And for good reason as the fun times roll in early this week. You charge the air with intensity and .•. Oh well, it is spring. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) You not only delight those close to you this week. but you infuse others with happiness, too. As you skip through the fields, please do take time to be loving to a friend who can •t seem to get past the moody blues. Right now you are on the magic carpet of lif(:. PISCES (February 19-March 20) Y au need to recharge quickly this week if you are to handle all that breezes·in. Go for the moment (and the opportunity), because what is once of- fered, may never be offered again. There is plenty of time for work tomor- row. (Or how about next week?) ~1992 by Kins Features Synd. The History deparmtent is conducting a reapointment review of Professor Andrew Feff,er. Anyone wishing to comment on his teaching, research or service should contact Professor Jonas. Social Sciences 214-D (ext. 6072). (. !

I 0 - y :an .. nos ~. a kle tnd om are the \ a :OS, by ~ad me the to his :tde ina of i'ed I in llOS the ces >r's by for ['eh ·ny :ial 'ree ing All lgh 46- tdy ves ew uts uts I ing :re- ny, to :ial : in tis .. ber :er- as- i al to 1 to :an ya ~2- ·ew on ore nix :er- der ga ~2- the s if ve- fast the :ou Oh ary ~:to 1ers kip ime :em lOW 20) this hat the of- 1in. lOt- j: I f ~ I l l' j ~ l t l ;, l \i l I I ). !• I A Perspective On Stan Brakhage 'b-y Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Las1 Thu:rsday and Friday, ren9\ll/ed filmaker Stan Brai:IJage gave several pre~e:11tations at Union. Brak:ltage is: a professor of film studies at the University of Col()rado. Boulder. Brakhage came to Union as a Phi Beta Kappll visiting scholar. Bl'ClMlage described his films as w~:~ks of art in film fonn. There 1s no sound acC0£1lj)anying tile films which intens:ifies the power of the imag~s' pomayed. Brakhage's films. are made up of quick glance:s. of images. The images remai11 on the screen any where from a second to a minute. The pictures are shown both in and out of focus, and over and undere:xposed. He uses every day ()])jects _places and people, howe-ver because of the speed that tl!e images are coming at you, the films are often disconcerting, which may have been Brakhage's intention. This type of art was very interesting because it was a that we do not have an opportunity to see often. Brakhage has a real control over the audience. He is able to control the images we see, he may distort them as he wishes, and he also controls the . of time that we see the images.· . Moreover he has this control 1 over the viewer that most artists· don't posses. Brakhage used a technique of scratching the film in between images or over images. He did· this so the -viewer would be able to remain detached from the film. He wanted the viewer to be aware that this was film they were watching. This is a type of art ·that I have never been exposed to before but I found it very interesting and tbink we might see more of this type of art in the future. Life vs. Death Con'ti11ued from page 9 and pick up your Bibles. stalllpoint. Now, I'm well Not so long ago, in 1973, the aware of tlte Liberals' aversion Supreme Court rendered a to tile Bible and Religion, disastrous decision. Following especially in matters of the trend of exponential poliiks, a11d how this allows Feder a I (} o vern m en t them t~ dismiss Conservative ... ~~pansiqno, tll.e.:.~ourt ·JQbbed ' ctftf(j~m ~af~2l)mlng ff6ri1 ·a the States of their right to bunch of \really loony Bible ()Utlaw abortion. More than quot(;rs.\ Yet, I'm ready to this, and perhaps more acce])t the label to state my important, the mling sent a belid. I contend that a signal to the American people woman's body (or a man's for that the Federal Government that matter) is not her own; it is would sanction the murder of God\s·- as humans. we g(1t to tJnborn infants and would, by rent 1bem ollt for a few decades subsidizing clinics, even help with uo option to buy. In First finance the slaughter. Soon, Corrnthians, Paul tells us that the Supreme Court again will our ~)()dies .are tbe \temple of have a chance to make a the H-oly Spirit\ and declares historic decision. This time that we should use. our bodies around, rather than mask the for ' 2 ,tlle glory of God (6: 19~ issue in the names of the 20).'\ Call me close minded, .prota,gonists, the case should but I .am bli.nd to see what the be called Life v. Death. By butchering of an unborn child finding in favor of the fonner, has to do with the glory of we show reverence fqr God's God. However~ I'm able to gift and restore a degree of recognize that life is the most badly needed morality to the· pred()us gift that God gives country. It will return us to the and tltat to rebuke it is to sin path that we.have strayed from. agai11s f Him. To bring things In choosing the latter, we turn back odown to more secular our back to God and continue tenns for a moment, it is this lown the path that has gutted flipp~~nt attitude toward life, our country. It will become displ~,ed by groups like the !larder to turn around and find Pro-Ciloice movement, that our way back. To me, the adds to many of the social choice is obvious. problems we have in· this So, the war rages on between country. The question of Liberals and Conservatives. abortion goes far beyond the This time over abortion; next right !() privacy (a product of time, who knows? In whatever man's rnind) that Mr. Polites issue the conflict takes the writes about. I offer no form, I believe there is an apologies when I say that, in important caveat to keep in this i11stance, we must answer mind. Sometimes. the to a higher law than the politically and morally Consti 1utiOII!·- Divine Law. e:xpedient route is not the Propotl!ents of Pro-Choice, it's wisest one. Someday, we will time t& put d<Jwn your banners aU find this out. Ethics Workshop Topics: Ethics Hazing & Human Values Sunday, April26 9-12 AM SS016 All Welcome Sponsored by Gamma Phi Beta The \Changeling\ to be Performed at Skidmore courtsey ofSkidmore College The Skidmore College Department of Theatre is pl'eased to present THE CHANGELING by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley, adapted and directed by Victoria A. Love '92. THE CHANGELING, a Jacobean drama is a masterpiece of the macabre exploring the virtues and vices of human sexuality. Performances are Thursday- Saturday, April 23-25 at 8pm. Tickets are $7 and $5 for students and senior citizens. For more information or reservations call (518) 584-5000, EX2347. THE CHANGELING tells the story of Beatrice, daughter to Vennandero, a nobleman. Beatrice loves Alsemero, but is betrothed to Alonzo, a man she does not love. In order to escape her betrothal, she convinces her father's deformed se1vant, Deflores. to kiH Alonzo. Director Victoria Love has set the play in the Jacobean era. THE CHANGELING, a classic of English drama, was first performed at the English court in 1623. The play continued to be performed until the theaters were closed by Cromwell and the Puritans in 1642; in 1653, it was published and was revived in 1661 to great reviews. However. after a reprint in 1668, the play fell into obscurity. like many of the Jacobean dramas. THE CHANGELING was rediscovered in the nineteenth century and was staged again in 1954. Since then, the play has been performed many times for stage, film, and television, including the Royal Shakespeare Company's production in 1978 and the Royal National Theater production in 1988. \Awakenings .. Dance Performance To Come to Emma Willard Courtsey of Moving Images Dance Co. Andrea Isaacs and Moving Images Dance Co. with special guest Randy James are performing \Awakenings\, an evening of new dances, on Friday and Saturday May 1 and 2 at 8 PM at Kiggins Hall, Emina Willard Scllool. 285 Pawling A ve./Rte. 66, in Troy, N y. Tickets are $10 ($8 for students and senior ci tiz:ens). \Awakenings\ is an evening :-h~ \\onun~ 6oc1rd m\Itt:>~ ;::~t t'r . .-ore C~'L:!!!i;i! _,·mrrumt\ ·v ne-Jr :>rort!~sor •..;re~on ~ .. ,,urn[!. :rom :he Lmo,e:-\'tt\ ... r Hbm.>t) .iis .. \\\Jss of modern dance works by Andrea Isaacs and MOVING IMAGES DANCE CO. Dancers Melissa Corigliano, Yvonne Felarca, Dina Matzner, Cami Sholts and Janet Takami will be performing \Borrowed Ledges\ -- \a joy to see; soft and sensuous, it builds to a boil\(Daily Gazette), and the premieres of \Cocoon\, \Avalon\, and \Awakening\. Other pieces include the reconstructions of \Daydreamin\, a duet by Chicago's Mario Rico-Fuentes, and two solos perfonned by DISCIPLI.\'AR\' ~ECRETS r------~~-----,1 or n1ttlt tem·Irers kttow lind :uvrf't tell. L provo~e you ..!__ ,mUrt.ltr. fVl4 .1: ;n£or::n you .:!.· itretch !JOUr m1 n-d 1:'<.•·Jt ·h~ ;.''-'\\lbJ;,c;t'-. Jt •.q·•:;:\'.: n ~ J.:-..:~~o~:\.r :Jare Fnd.lv. \1.n : ?\J.:e Th~ (._1!1~;~ C~!Her Audltonum . ~:Th:' :\ 30 p m Gregorv Colomb \ ::hn« ·~·r -r ... ~\tTJm~ tn r'rnn.•'>St<lt'IJt •.vnunw: If ~,. L ~,,prqv •r fJI.n•·~ It '.rt).ll\.1 ... _ '.1111p~1~ Ht• o'>J IDI.IJ'\Jer ·>f tl'lt' ·t~brat~ :..1t1e Rt>d -..,1\o(Jtb·lhC 'rn.:r.:am .. :h!Vt:!Oot'll >lt tile Lruvt'rmv \- ... 1!.1~·>'•' :-ttc.;u\' aliJ ofl;ero l.f' l•.>..t...mu -1rJ prurt\>Soor.IL ~n11n11: In the Spirit of : Andrea, one from \Raven\, and one form\ Dancing with a Foot in Two Worlds\ : \sinuous mysterious and fluid, with an explicit sense of awakentin, of preparing for ritual, danced with dramatic abandon ... attractive, intriguing. even sensual... professional polish\(Times Union). In addition, a duet choreographed by Randy James of the Dan Wagoner Dance Co. (NYC) will be performed by himself and Andrea Isaacs. Randy will also perform a solo. HOW DO YO'l' <;ET \ Sl:::'lt:\lER .JOB WITHOl'T RELE\ \:-. T EXi>ERJE:\'CE'.' HOW DO YOt GET RELEV,\:\T EXPERIE\'CE WITHOl T \ su:vntER JOB'? Discussing: Latin/Hispanic Heritage Month. Hispanic Women iJi' the V.S: Phi Iota Alpha and The African And Latino Alliance of Students Proudly Present: Prof .. William Garcfa Dept. of Modern Languages Between the devil and the Deep Blue Sea. Date: Mon. April 27th. 1992. Time: 7:30pm Place: Humanities 114. ( Refreshriients wiii be served) 4-5-6-7 Bedroom Apartments and Houses for 92-93 • Washer/Dryer and All Appliances Included • Modem Kitchens & Baths • Porches & Back Yard • Well Insulated • Flexible Leases 370-5498 Evenings or 370~3275 Days

CONCORDIENSIS •·APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 12 A Touch of Brut:al Honest:y by lhtsy Rothstein Co11 cordiensis Staff Imagine you are walking through the college center during rush hour, let's say amund H :07 on a Monday. You feel: yourself begin to twitch an(! then you have the uncontrolLable urge to bang your heacJ against the wall. People look at you as though you are Oil drugs; others envy you, and ~ant to know where you acquired these drugs. You proceed t0- leap onto one of the tables and start jumping up and down. 'Y em are mortified as you know you're behavior is ridiculous. but you have no control over wllat you are doing. You go up to random people and start ~miffing them as if you are a dog. You may even start barking. You join a circle of IJeople and ruin the deep and profound/in-depth conversati.()n by clearing your throat and repeating everything that is sai-d. You walk up to another group of people discussing how much work they have and you begin to sneer at them, grimace, shrug your shou1ders and hiss. You begin to \Vhistle and people give you strange looks and tum their backs on you. You proceed !I() make a complete spectacle of yourself when you go into tl1e Dutch Hollow to get food when you begin to . spit on the guy on line in front of you. Then when you go up to place your order you begin to shriek. You ma.y think this scene is slightly ridiculous and perhaps you would even laugh at such a person in his/her tirade througb the collegte center. What this individual is experiencing is a rare neurological disorder known as Gilles de Ia Tourette's syndrome. As I began to research this syndrome for a term paper, I wondered. how a Tourette' s 2STANLEY H. KAPlAN &'.Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now and get your home study materials. • You may attend classes at any of our 150 centers nation-wide. • Call489-0077 Albany Kaplan Center sufferer might act here at Union CoUege and how people would react to a person with this condition. I definitely chose to portray tbe extreme example of the disease rather than a low scale version which is what in fact most people with the disease experience. In actuality, a person can be diagnosed with Tourette 's syndrome and their symptoms can go virtually undetected by everyone around them. These scenarios that I have created are 'by no means an indication of what the majority ofTourette's sufferers experience. It would be interesting though, to see what it would be like if a Union College student acquired this disease, in its extreme form. Suddenly you hear yourself involuntarily making obscene comments to everyone :you pass. You notice that girl that you heard was a little promiscuous and you blm~t out \SLUT\ right to her face. You pass a guy who you think is obnoxious and you llear yourself call him an \ASS .... \. On your way to your mailbox you experience involuntary muscle spasms as you smack everyone in the face and tell the mass of people \GET OUT OF MY WAY!\ You notice an overweight girl at the mailbox adjacent to yours and \FAT\ slips off your tongue before you can think straight. FACT:In 60% of the cases of Tourette's Syndrome noises become transformed into swear words; the most common of which ar~ f... and sh .. , a condition _known as Coprolalia. CouJd you imagine if every sick thought you ever had was to be revealed to everyone around you? You would have no control over what you say ; your secret thoughts would be revealed. Everyone would know what you thought of them. You cannot believe you are saying these things; yoUJ' private thoughts are no longer private and are out in the open for everyone to hear and ,to scrutinize. FACT: Multiple tics and iavoluntary swearing cause distress, isolation and psychological harm. On your way to class you pass by a female professor who once gave you a D on a paper and \BITCH\ pops out of your mouth. You feel really bad insulting people like this, so blatantly and so brutally, as :you know this are mean, cruel and hurtful. However, isn't it strange to think that these thoughts rage through everyone's mind everyday, only according to societal rules we know better than to divulge tllem? Luckily most of uB have enough sense and contml not to reveal what exactly is 011 om minds. FACT: Today, Tourette'B Syndrome affects 100,000 to 330~000 people in the United States a!Qne. Right before you enter Humanities to go to your class, you notice a local resident of Schenectady talking to a squirrel and you call out \DOID\ just as you are opening the doors of the buildinge FACT': The majority of Tourette 's Syndrome patients describe feeling a constant inner teasion. You entei your classroom. This is not your favorite class by any means; in fact you dread this incredibly long bcmr and five minute class every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The mere thought of having to sit through another one of Professor \Hove thesoundofmyownvoice's\ lectures makes you completely sick. During yet another increclibly stimulating and eye- opening lecture you raise your hand to ask a: question. Excuse me professor F .. .ing Bitch I just wanted to ask you a question. You begin to sneer at that brown-nosing classmate of yours located in the front and center spot of the room. You are obviously causing a ruckus. You are bored out of your mind from the lecture and notice there is only five -minutes left of class. \BORING WASTE OF TIME, TIME TO GO!' you hear y()urself remark to the class. FA'CTS: The cause of Tourette's Syndrome is unknowll; it is thought to be a disease of the central nervous system. While the symptoms of the disease are treatable. Tourette's Syndrome is in fact a life-loag disease with slim chances ofremission. It can be dangert>us in the sense that some sufferers of tile disease are imJ>elled towards danger such as holding their hands dose to open flames or spinning objects such as fans. The c<Jncept of the disease is amazing. Expressing your true beliefs could be horrifying to those around you. but at least it wouldbe honest. The disease can be \iewed in a humorous way as it has been depicted on varioas talk shows as well as L.A. Law. However, to the people that suffer with the condition, especially in it's extreme form, it is not funny at all. Rather, it is a lifelong syndrome with little chance of remission. The next time you walk tllrough the college center, or go to a class, think about the facts tllat your private thoughts are private and that you have control of your actions because for some people with Gilles de Ia Tourettes Syndrome this is not the case. · Write for Lifestyles Call Stacey X4041 C{~ of 1991 !lemmv ct~oM r:§ijt (!}litJe; p UNION COLLEGE The following members of the Class of '92 have given to the Senior Class Gift Drive for Union College (as of April 21). Please join them in their efforts to strengthen our College. Gifts may be brought to the third floor of Lamont House or sent via campus mail to: Staci Dupref Lamont House. All gifts will be matched by an anonymous donor. Please call x6142 for further information. Antoinette Aime Heather Almy David Andelman Paul Andrejkovlcs Joshua Aron Deborah Beaudry Kimberlee Brody Lalbachan Budhai Beth Carlson Maria Chiormitro Jeffrey Cusmariu . Patricia Donaldson David Donaldson Kerstin .Dorse Roselle Eisma Michael Emmi Michael Flanagan Elisabeth Foley Tobias Gado Bret Goldin ' Erica Goshko Cristin Grace Alex Green Dalton Gustafson Peter Hackett William Hahn Daniel Jahne Amy Joslin Kimberly Koenig Jocelyn Korn Daniel LaFleur Jonathan Lennon Robert Leung Mary Levinsohn Jordan Lippner Daniell~ Mathews Heather McNeary Pnina Miller Jeffrey Nield Bruce Patryn Brigham Pen~leton Heidi Phelps · Herrika Poor, Senior Gift Drive Co-Chair Eugene Ray Michael Rolnick Betsy Rothstein Philip Royce Denise Saunders William Stevenson, Senior Gift Drive Co-Chair Gerard Sullivan Mary Tung Donald Valerio Robert Vialardi Marcy Wein Karel1' Welsek Marie Wheeler Arnie 'Vuskaitis Seniors making a donation to this year's gift drive may vote for the use of their cumulative class dollars. All money raised will go to the category with th.e greatest number of votes at the close of the Class of '92 Senior Gift Drive on April 30. The three categories to choose from are: The 80th Annual Fund for Unl.on College, the Nett Memorial Restoration FLJnd, or the Campus Pub. The first 92 donors of $20 or more receive a Class of '92 mug.

2 he of is a be or to on as of ate of I a CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 •PAGE 13 PER!iDI\IALS Wendy- To the New D.G. Pi Alphas - Congratulations! We're glad to I'm glad I got to see your face when the new and exciting news became a news flash. Need furniture for your apartment ne:xt scl1ool year - then caH 374-7504. We have furniture in great cofldition and need to sell it all. . have you! Get psyched for an amazing experience. It'll be a time you're sure never to forget. Love, the big mouth I.T.B. The S.isters.of D.G. To the Old D.G. Pi Alphas - ·Are you as excited as we are? · Hang in there. We love you! I.T.B. The Sisters of D.G. Rachel- Thanks for keeping me out in the cold. I heard anyway - since nothing is secretive at Union. Love, me Adam- FURNITURE FOR SALE: Couch, tables, chairs, etc ... petfect for an <Jff campus apartrnen t. Everything very · inexpensive. can 374-7504 Casey, · Tease me, please me, and rock me like a hurricane. · H.P. you are the best bingo player and plant arranger at Union. Looking forward to next week. FOR SALE - 1989 Ford F-150 Pickup truck. Very good condilion, maroon, bed liner. ·Asking $8,000. Will 11egotiate. Call Penny Adey Ex:.t. 6645 or 377-0010. U·N· FRJDAY, APRIL 24 11 a.m.-I p.m. College Center atrium. State Police recruit4lg. 12:I5-I:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tablos. I-5 p.m. Rugby field. Kappa Sigma fun- draiser. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 & I0:30 p.m. College Centeraud. Film: \Bugsy.\ SATURDAY, APRIL 25 Noon-6 p.m. Outside Colle,je Center. Earth Day. 1 p.m. Tennis Courts. Men's tennis vs. One- onta. I p.m. Garis Field. Softball vs. Skidmore (2). 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Bugsy.\ SUNDAY, APRIL 26 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant worship service. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center a11d. Film: \Bugsy.\ MONDAY, APRIL 27 II :50 a.m.-12:50 p.m.. College Center. Italian conversation table. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con- versation table. 3 p.m. Tennis Courts. Men's te:nnis vs. Al- bany. 3:30p.m. Garis Field. Softball vs. Albany. 7-8:30 p.m. College Center 409. Speaking Hands meeting. 7-9 p.m. College Center 410. Newman Club. TUESDAY, APRIL 28 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. College Center 409. Diet w~h<JP. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. · 12:20-1:20 p.m. College Center. :Brazilian conversation table. 3:30p.m.. Frank Bailey Field. Women's lacrosse vs. Hartwick. 3:30-5 p.m. College Center 409; Big Brothers/Big Sisters seminar. 5 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Jayvee women's lacrosse vs. Hartwick. 6 p.m.-1 a.m. College Center atrillll1. Karaoke entertaimnent. 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Pre-law society meeting. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29 Noon-4 p.m. Schaffer Library main lobby. Book sale. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 12:30-1:30 P·\' College Center 4-10. 'S Women's Commission presents Nadia Finkelstein, Parsons Child and Family Center, SJleaking on \Children and Youth: A Search for Connections.\ 2 p.m. Central Park. Baseball vs. Skidmore (2). 4:30 .p.m. College Center aud. RDbert Ault, art therapist with the Menninger Foundation, Topeka, Kan., on \Art Therapy: A Healing Vision.\ 6:15-8 p.m. College Center 205. Asian Student Union meeting. 6:45-9 p.m. College Center 406. Brazilian Club. 7 p.m. College Center aud. Jew ish Student Union. THURSDAY, APRIL 30 Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Cbess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center406. Investment Club. 3:30p.m. Garis Field. Softball \VS. North Adams. 4:30p.m. College Center aud. Faculty Colloquium: Professor James Lambrinos speaking <ln \The Economic Value of Life: Has Voodoo Economics Come to the Govenunent and the Courts?\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Support grollp. FRIDA Y,. MAY 1 I2:25-J :30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japane:;e <,:onversation tables. I p.m. Mohawk Golf Club. Gclf vs. Middle- bury. 6 p.m. Union College dining hall. Culinary Expose: American Whole Foods Cuisine. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. College Center 302. COffeehouse. 8 & 10p.m. SS016. Film: \Bea11ty and the Beast\ 8 p.m. College Center 406. Asian Student Union meeting. 10:30 p.m.. College Center Cafe: Music by Strange Axangement. SATURDAY, MAY 2 10 a.m.-11 p.m. UniDn College dining hall. MoWlteba.n.Ks musical review. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum} College C()ncert Series presents Duo Sanf()rd Sylvan, baritone and David Breitman, pian<J. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Beauty md the Beast.\ 10:30 p.m.. College Center Cafe: Music by Larry TuttQuartet. SUNDAY, MAY 3 5 p.m.-11 p.m. Union College dining hall. Mountebanks musical review. 6·8 p.m. College Center 410. Stlldent forum, 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant worship]. 7:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Jewish. Student Union speaker Julius Lester. 8 &: 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Beauty and the Beast.\ @Edward Julius Collegiate C~l8709 ACROSS 46 Part of NCAA (abbr.) 12 Brazil resort 47 Distribute, as 13 Banking abbrevi- 1 Disarrange, as hair cards (2wds.) ation 5 Given to over- 48 Jesus inscription 14 Metric measures simplification 49 Armed sea mollusks (abbr.) 15 Arrow poi son 50 Those present 20 First 1 ady 16 Creating enmity 55 Opera solo 24 Opposite of ques. 17 Mardi - 56 Ben Hur, e.g. 25 1961 \Best Actress\ 18 Asian rats 57 Noticed (2 wds.) 19 \- Skelter\ 58 One way to determine 26 Busy 21 Call's partner 50-Across (2 wds.) 27 Hurdy-gurdy (2 wds.) 22 Steal 59 Ending for gliss 29 TV Tarzan, Ron---- 23 Exist · 30 ----- Sack · 24 Harmful snakes DOWN 32 \- a boy!\ 28 \Fiddler on the 33 - set Roof\ matchmaker 1 Former cartoon show 35 Cousteau's domain 29 Overhead railroads {2 wds.) 36 \- Were a Rich · 30 Equine sound 2 Impromptu Man ... \ . 31 Racing-type wheels 3 Packaging need 39 Card game 32 State abbreviation (2 wds.) 41 As ---- pin 33 Quartz variety 4 Six-1 ine stanzas 43 Prefix for sphere 34 Table scrap 5 Fencing sword 44 ---- room 35 At an impasse 6 Ending for pay 46 Go on -----(ramble) 37 Tend the garden 7 They have flippers 47 Activists 38 Word employments ( 2 wds.) 48 \What's ---- for 40 Toward the stern 8 Jewi stl elementary me?\ 41 Kind schools 50 Part of CPA (abbr.) 42 Brown pigment 9 Sure of being won 51 However, for short 43 --fi (2 wds.) 52 Upsilon's neighbor 44 Respond to 10 \- the Knife\ 53 Sea eagle 45 First garden 11 Siouan 54 Curved letter Rubes® By Leigh Rubin \ . In prehistoric, as well as modern, times, The Club proved to be an effective deterrent against vehicle theft. ....

< '. !ii&DBI!§ . . · · . · . · .. · . . . . . · · . . CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 • PAGE 14 Bustin' Loose Lowie impressively tossed the shot 9.32 to come in 6th. That's not all. To Found out the day, Lowie flew the discus 26.62 to end in 9th place. Wow! Nadine was the hurling queen this weekend. Firstly, she tackled the 100m hurdles with an impressive time of 17.46 and a 4th place finish. The killer came when she flew through the 400m hurdles. With ease, she ran a 1:17 and finished 11th overall. If you want to see some girls move, come watch the 4x 1. The team of Nadine, Tasha, Joy, and Rika finished in 6th place with a time of 53.24. We all hope Denise will soon be back so we can qualify for Nationals! one another blindly into the 400 and the 200. Breezing through the 200 was Joy with a split of 29.1, Tasha with a Men~s Baseball Hits T:he ·Road by Tasha LaBare Contributing Writer Is it ever nice the day of a track meet? Maybe that's why we never have any fans?! Anyway, the lady Tracksters are girly men so· outside forces don't affect them. The women traveled to SUNY Albany last weekend, needless to say there was no SUN. Struttin her stu~f all over the place was Lori Simkins. Lowie, field event person of the week, dominated throwing events. First, she hurled the javelin 20.73 meters for an 8th place finish. She then spun over to the hammer circle and heaved that 27.08 and win a fourth place finish. Spinning full circle into the shot put area, The threesome of Rika, Tasha,. and Joy decided to lead 27.7, and Rilca with a 27 .6. They next moved to the dreaded 400. Tasha placed 5th with a time of 1:01.5 and Rika carne across in 4th place witha a time of 1:00.7. Could Rika ami Tasha run any closer times? Diana did ·the dirty at Albany, she conquered the 3000 and the 5000. Hello wonder woman! Diana, with ease, ran the 3000 in a time of 11:53.2 and finished 9th overall. The 5000 is Diana's baby. She crossed the line in 4th place with a blazing time of 20:26.5. The team's injury list gets longer everyday. Let's get better everyone. For those who are healthy, please don't get injured. COLUMBUS: THE NEW W:ORLD ORDER PARTICIPANTS WANTED TO PERFORM IN THE PAGEANT I PARADE ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 20TH, AT 5:00PM NO ACTING OR MUSI(AL EXPERIENCE NECESSARY TRAINING AND REHEARSALS FOR COLUMBUS: THE NEW WORLD ORDER ... MAY 17- SUNDAY: 7:30PM LOCAL PARTICII7ANTS GATHER AT UNION COLLEGE Fl.ELD HOUSE FOR AN INTRODUCTORY MEETING. (MANDATORY FOR ALL ) MAY 18- MONDAY: 2:00 • S:OO PM 5:00PM 6:00 ·9:00PM MAY 19- TUESDAY: 2:00 • S:OO PM 5:00PM 6:00 • 9:00 PM REHEARSAL I WORKSHOP 1 DINNER PROVIDED DY UNION COLLEGE REHEARSAL I WORKSHOP l REHEARSAL/ WORKSHOP 3 DINNER PROVIDED BY UNION COLLEGE REHEARSAL/ WORI<SHOP 4 (MANDATORY) REHEARSAL TIME REQUIREMENTS AilE FLEXIBLE DEPENDENT UPON ROLES TAI<EN, SO YOU MAY PARTICIPATE EVEN IF YOU CANNOT A1TENP ALL REHEARSALS. TO SIGN UP CALL 518-370-6379 OR WRITE: LEE BLOOMROSEN, (OLLEGE CENTER, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENEC:TADY,N.Y. 1.2308. by Er.ic Weinberger Contributing Writer A lack of run production h<:ts plagued the Union College basebal'l team during the first three weeks of the season. Going int~Tuesday' s afternoon match-up at Colgate, the Dutchmen are 2-7. and embark on a five game road trip. Yet, the team has not 'lost by more than two runs all season. This leaves many of the players optimistic that the ball may bounce their way for the next two weeks. Last week against Williams the Dutchmen ·lost 4-3 in 10 mnmgs. Seniar tri-captain Craig Ferrero pitched a strong game only to receive a no- decision. Close throughout, this game didn't heat up until the bottom of the ninth Where it seemed the Dutchmen would pull off a two out rally. With two outs, back to ·back singles came off the bats of freshman David Tessitore and soph()more Kevin Sullivan. Junior Mike Johnson followed with a single of his own scoring Tessitore. But , Kevin Sullivan aggressively tried to reach third Write For Sports No matter where home is, you can still go home to Ronkin. Presenting Rankin's Student Transfer Policy. Rankin's Student Transfer Poli-cy lets you sign up for a lSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT prep course at any one of our 130 locations and complete it at anotner. For example, you could enroll now for a test prep course while college classes are still in session. and then finish up the course during the summer at the Ronkin center in your hometown: Or stop by your local Ronkin center todav .and consider our SPECIAL CONDENSED CLASSES being offered for those major June-exams. Hurry to reserve your seat nov.r! Our classes are limited to ten students per class to insure that our students get the individual attention they need to do their best on the exams. Rankin has six centers in upstate New York, seventeen in New York State, and over 150 nationwide. Call any number below to find out where there's a Ronkin center near you. Sign up today! Albany • (518) 437-1800 Binghamton • {607) 770-1400 Buffalo • (716) 838·2800 EtUCATIONAl GROUP LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT Test Preparation & Application Assistance Program We'll Make Sure You Make It. Ithaca • (607) 277~0700 Rochester • (716) 442-5200 Syracuse • (315) 425-5600 base, and was thrown out to end the inning. Williams eventually got a run in the top ,c)f the tenth. and was able to hold Union scoreless in the home half of the inning. Sullivan was sophomore manger Jim Dever's .player of the game. The sophomore infielder appeared in bis first game back from an ankle injury, and went three for four from the plate. .About the season, the always. optimistic Sullivan told me, \We are 'having a tough year, but we've been in all of the games. We are looking for a couple of breaks and finish the season strong.\ Also in his first game, Tessitore went two for four, with a run scored. Prior to the Colgate game, and a five game road trip, the Dutchmen have not played since the Williams game one week ago. Coach Gary Reynolds used the weekend to practice and tune up for the stretch drive. Mter Colgate, the team makes the difficult trip North to play St. Lawrence and Clarkson four games in two days. The Dutchmen need to put some offense together in order to come home with a respectable .500 record. Greek ·- -- ····· Volleyball·-·· · · Tournament Mayl5 3-4 Bedroom Apartments Available for '92-'93 • Newly Renovated, Washer - Dryer Available Back Yard, Front Porch, Large Kitchen, Modern Bathroom New Carpet Throughout • Please Call Monday through Friday 9:00am-5:00pm 462-7411 • Evenings and Weekends: 482-8788

to top kle the 've of for to in a t CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 23, 1992 ~ PAGE 15 chach Simkins Throws Her Way To Victory alk by Chuck Rodman Associate Sports Editor It was a good week for the Women's track team, but it was an even better week for junior trackster Lori Simkins as· she earned herself Concordiensis Athl~te of the Week. Simkins too-k control :during all of her events inciuding javelin, which she threw 20.73 meters ~i ving her an eighth place f~nish~ the hammer, which slie threw 27 J)8 meters giving h.er a fo11rth place finish, the· shot, which she threw 9.32 meters rite giving her a sixth place finish. and finally the discus, which she threw 26.62 to give her a ninth place finish. For all of her athletic achievement this past week and her dominating presence on the Women's track and field team we congratulate , Lori Simkins, Ccmcordiensis Athlete ofthe Week. or Sports by John SchachnC)vsky Sports Editor Gone Enjoy Golfing! the NHL Playoffs! Union Cycling Team Launches Intercollegiate Campaign M~en's Tennis Shocks ECAC Rivals by Karl De Jesus Contributing Writer As a junior~ Cycling Club founder Mile Kinum('92), had a dream- to race collegiately for Union College. His wish iimally came true with the help of current club president Rob Goodwin ('93}, As secretary Cole Timmerman ('95) and faculty sponsor Prof. Karl De Jesus. Mter a year of planning ~ntl hard work the Union Cycling Club was able to field ~ team in the NCAA's Eastern Collegiate Cycling Conference. Thanks to financial support from sponsors such as The Tile Room, Phaedica. IBM. Pedal Power, Screen Designs and the management firm of Goodwin, Barlett_ & Greaves-Tunnel a :small contingent wearing Union colors made their competition debut at the Army Prestige Stage Race on Sunday, April 12. With that they wrote a new page in the ilistory books as the first Union College Cycling team to compete in an NCAA sponsored event. Ironically, Kinum could not make the race as he was still recovering from a bout with bronchitis. 50 pltJs mph descent. In the end, none of the riders managed to get into scoring position. (Only the first 15 places score in the men's division while the smalleT women's group require a top 10 finish to score.) Yuskaitis rode a smart race by hanging on to the third pack on the w<>men's race and even winni11g the field sprint at the finish. Her final placing, however, was also outside of the scoring Limit. by Adam Br~sJawsky Contributing Writer The men's tennis team got off to its best start in 7 years winning its opening 3 matches before finally falling to Colgate on Mond2y. Stunning 6-3 and 5-4 upset victories over division rivals, Hamilton and RPI, have the team and its fan's spirits high eary in the season. Union took to the court for the first time· on April 8 hosting Hamilton, who owned a 5 year winning streak over the Dutchmen, in the infamously strong :Schenectady winds. But the wind didn't seem to bother any of the Dutchman players, The team got off to a fast start sweeping 5 of the 6 ·singles matches, assuring the te~tm victory before the doubles even took the court. At ill, Philip Herz, a graduate student at Union from Germany, defeated the Turkish Junior Ch~mpion, Isik \The Shark\ Okte. 6-1, 7· 5. Co-captain Garett Lasewicz beat Hamilton's Mark Doehla 6-3, 7-6 at #2. Cilris D'Orio , the other co-captain, prevailed for Union at #3 against Greg Hills 7-5, 3-6, 6-0. At #4, Chris Miller romped over Hamilton's Rob Pickels by a score of 6-l, 6-0. Adam Breslawsly rounded out the singles winners for Union by defeating Hamilton's #6 player, Tom Rizzo was edged Ql:lt at #5 in 3 sets by Hamilto11'S Chris Snyder 3-6, 7-5, 7-5. In doubles, Union bad to settle for only 1 ()( the 3 matches, although all 3 matches were extremely close. • ,.[ :ffi 1, Herz and Riz:zo fell to Hamilton's Okte and Doehla 7- 6, 6-4. Lasewicz ancl I>'Orio, playing #2, overcame Hills and Iuo0cno, for Union's lone doubles win. Dave Moroy and Jim Politis lost a hardfought match to Hamilto11' s Rob Edwards and Scott Ha-vens to round out the doubles. After the match, Union's first year coach BobJvl()ntana attributed the victory to the \experience and rnatwfty of a team led by 5 seniOJr~.\ He al&o commented tibat the addition of Philip Herz. to the Union lineup has been invaluable to the team. Not oniy does he win, but fue also allows everyone else M play one &pot lower.\ Co-Captain Garrett Lasewicz commented that \this year's rigorous pre- season (training) in whic.h we met 3 days a week a1 6:45 (a.m.) to play reaDy paid Dff.\ Riding high from their upset of Hamilton two days before, the Union team proceeded to repeat their performamce by winning 4 of the 6 ;s[n.gles, placing themselves in a position to defeat R:PI 5-4. The victory was also llhoe first over RPI in 6 year~.· The singles winners were Herz, the victory at #2 doubles winning 6-0, 7-5. Union improved its undefeated record to 3-0 by breezing over Siena 8-1 at home days later. Once again, the singles impressed with 5 victories. Herz, Lasewicz, D'Orio, Miller, and Breslawsky all prevailed. Union also proceeded to sweep all doubles matches. Lasewicz and D'Orio won at #1 8-5, Miller and Breslawsky triumphed at #2 8- 3, and Polites and Moody bested their Siena opponents 8- 6. Union suffered its first loss of the season at the bands of Division I Colgate on Monday in Hamilton, N.Y. Although the team was not victorious, it was able to prevail in 3 matches against an opponent which has allowed the Dutchmen a total of only 1 victory in their last 2 meetings. At singles, only Philip Herz was able to prevail with an impressive 4-6, 6-0, 6- 2 victory. Union · then surprized Colgate by besting them in 2 of 3 doubles matches. Herz and D'Orio won a heart-stopper at #1 doubles 7- 6, 3-6, 6-4. At #3 doubles, Miller and Breslawsky were victorious to the tune of 6-3, 7-6. Union will host Oneonta and Albany State this Saturday and Monday. Both matches begin at 3:00. Please come out and support yout Union Dutchmen. The team is presently composed of James Rawston ('93), Arnie Yuskaitis ('92), Jonathon Wintsch ('95), Goodman, Kinum and Timmerman. Competing at Army in the men's C catagory were Goodein, Kinum and Timmerman while Yuskaitis was the sole member in the women's race. The inexperience of the spirited men's team soon showed as · -they were splintered by a 1 sudden hairpin tum following a The team's promise was certainly shown at the Cornell Stage Race held on April 18- 19. P[agued by conflicts, only Goodwin and a still afflicted Kinum were able to make the race. Nevertheless, this small group was to use good teamwork against such powerl10uses as Cornell and Penn State. This paid off in Saturday's cold and drizzy 12.6 mile -circuit race where Goodwin scored Union's first intercolligiate points with a 15th place finish. Still under the weather, Kinum decided to make his contribution early on Sunday's 22 mile road race. He protected Goodwin at the front of the pack in the early miles before falling off the pace and eventually leaving the race due to a fLat. Goodwin kept his position throughout most of the race and mirrored his previous 15th place result with a strong finish in the final uphill miles. With this perfonnance Union qualified to participate in the Eastern Collegiate Cycling Conference Championships to be held on April25-26 at MIT. The squad hopes to field a team for the championships and surprise some of the establislled teams. Sports Writers: You must hand in disks to the Sports Editor. We will no longer accept article~ that are not on disks. Ed. .. a_,

BASEBALL (2-7) Union 12 Utica 1 Wil&iams4 Utica4 Ur:uion 0 Uraion 3 Union 5 RPI4 MEN'S LACROSSE (5-3) Union 13 OSU 6 Springfield 7 Union 6 Williams 12 Union 11 (2 OT) Union 8 Hamilton 6 Union 15 RPI 5 WOMEN'S LACROSSE Union 12 RPI11 Middlebury 16 Siena 11 Unior:16 Union 5 SORBALL (5-3) Union 10 Oneonta 8 St. Rose 9 Williams 9 (8) Union 1 Union 0 UniQn 50 Siena 21 C!tnltfllrbirnsis APRIL 23 1992 Men'& Track Off To A Blazing Start: by Gr~ Barrett Contributing Writer The Men's track Team is off to a blazing start! Af!Ier finishing with record performances at Indoor States. the Dutchmen brought their expertise outdoors. Despite some minor delays due to the weather, they have started their season on like right foot. April 8th saw Union hosting RPI and Siena. ilhe Weightmen showed everyo•ne who's boss. Rich PulY'er started off his season witlu a second place spin of 37 .93m in the discus. Ee then blasted the shot into RP'I's face with a fhst place heave of 14.23m! MLke White made his debut witlt a third and a fourth in the s!not and discus respectively. Chmck Clerci flew down the runway with a huge state qualifier in the javelin. His 52.74m toss landed him a first place finish and l}Ui.l.hficd him for states by 4.74m! Glen Meixell cleared 14ft. to caJ)ture first place in the pole va11lt. Angelo Nicoletta and R<Lch Zembek fi11ished second and third in the lOOm highs. They then returned to place again in the 400m hurdles. Zemb·ek was first in 61.0 and Nicoletta was Lhird in 63.2. Bill TayLor vid .. l.:J up another first !for Union sprinting a 23.5 in the 200m. Greg Barrett brought home another PR for his recordbooks. His 4:30.4 in the 1500m took four seconds off his previous best. April 1 Hh saw the Dutchmen on a bus to Ithaca for the first annual Ithaca Invitational. Rich Pulver blasted a 1459m put to capture first among an extremely tough field. Mike White was cl<>se behind with a toss of 13.10m in sixth place. Chuck Clerci threw a49.71 off a wet runway to capture fourth place in the javelin. Bill Taylor was the ironman of the day. Second leg of the 4x.l OOm, a 22.7 in the 200m, lead off of the 4 x 400m and placing second in the 400m with a time of 51.2. Rich Zembek shaved over a second off of his 400m hurdle time. He blazed through in a 59.7! Greg Barrett also put in a fine performance (after a slight rain delay) with a 2:04.4 in the ROOm. Marc Shcriclan racked up a 2:10.8 in the same heat of the 800m. This past Friday, when most were heading home for Easter dinner, the Dutchmen strolled over to Albany. The sec()nd annual Albany Invite hel<l a few surprises. The Bf()nx Express, including the Puerto Rican National Champion in thr 400m h~ing ont> of thPm Records were falling left and right! Clerici drew the first blood for Union with a third place finish in the Javelin. His 52.27m toss in the pouring rain was impressive. Glen Meixell managed to hold on to the wet slippery pole to capture fifth place finish. Ed Dorsey showed his guts finishing eighth in the 5000m with an 18:26.9. Saturday saw the runners hit the track. Chris Brundage blazed out a 1:02.9 in the 400m hurdles and followed up with a 18.7 min the 110m high hurdles. Chris Ryan pulled a fast one and picked up a new PR in the process. His 2:10.44 shaves down his personal best. Bill Taylor scorched out a 11.6 in the lOOm. Due to a mistake made by an official, Taylor was shut out of the finals due to the alphabet. Sprint coach Ken Pompey dropped the 1OOm by half a hody length to Taylor crossing in an identical time. Former Union coach Lori set a new meet record of 9:56.2 ill the 300m. The Dutchmen are off to a flying start. If they call diminish their disabled list~ they are well on their way to an outstanding season. This weekend they travel t<> Hartwick for the Hartwick Tnvitationnl. ~\~ugh Soft~all W-eek¥ Notches Two Tough Losses. by Ron Qirnbaum Concordiensis Staff This week has indeed been a rough one for Union softball. After suffering two away losses to Oneonta (8-1) and St. Rose (9-0) last week, the sq11ad had two more games cancelled including one against Ne:w Paltz and another re-scheduled game versus RIT on Friclay which was rained out. Yet, with a 5-3 winning record still, the team remains optimistic on the outlook for a strong secon.d half of its season. During both games, the team had a rough time hitting because of the pitching caliber faced, never having played opponents with such speed or ability before. Hitters did not get on base. and once there were a few on, no one llit them in. While one run was scored at Oneonta later in the game, St. Rose, a division two team, was more of a problem on Union's schedule. Though Union only had two errors, defensively it threw many wild pitches and let up several l>ase hits. Yet, both games have prepared Union more defensively for future games. A main shift to keep U11ion competitive is to make the infield more solid with veteran players. While senior qllad- captain Jean Lopata m<>ves from second to third hasc and junior quad-captain Kim Twombly from designated bitter to second, freshmen Deb Montano and Nicole Silvestri are not ruled out as infielders but part of the process to \niche\ them into th~ team for the whole squad's benefit. Any number of players may enter the DH, and the ability to move them to this and a variety of other positions when needed is necessary to show the squad its capabilities and keep it strong for the long run. Still positive in attitude, Head Coach Suzanne Zaloom admits that the two recent losses do not. change the fact that so many talented athletes comprise the team who can carry it well through the season and into post season. This includes the New York State tournament in which Union placed second last year. The key for players is to stay on top of game skills and to n()t defeat themselves on errors, as all can hit. By keeping disciplined to take the season remainder one game at a time, the squad is looking to sharpen skills with every game played and fare well versus Rensselaer, th.e first team faced this week, ill a home double-header. Other teams to be played include Bin.ghamton, away today, and borne games versus Skidmore (a double-header) and Albany on Saturday and Monday respectively.

m to a as on Founded a ollege 1877 . - . . : . . . . . . . . - . . ' . . . . . . ' ' : ' .- . . . ~ . '. VOLUME t21, NUMBER 20 SCHENECTADY, NEWYORK APRIL 30, 1992 Courtesy of White House Press Secretary In honor of N4:tional Volunteer Week and-~'\Youth Service Day, the President recognizedJeff Gower 1 a·se,nior at Union CoH-e~e · in Schenectady, New York; who works to provide low-income people in his community with a decent place to live. Mr. Gower, originally from Lexington, Massachusetts, began refurbishing low-income homes ·through a Habitat for Humanity program with his church's youth group while he was in high school. After matriculating at Union College, he saw the need for a simiiar program that could mobilize students. With Lhe support of school administrators, city officials, and fellow students, he founded \We Care About /U Schenectady.\ This group repairs homes owned by Better Neighborhoods, Inc. (BNI), a local non-profit housing rehabilitation corporation. The President's recognition of Gower and .his We Care About U- Schenectady organizati()n is the second such national acknowledgement for the group this year. American Ex.press, in their nationwide publication Connections , published a story concerning WCAU-S in their Winter issue. Mr. Gower, 22, has attended nearly 40 Saturday work days since the program started in •. onore us • Gl •• 01nt • I January of 1991. Serving as the group's president, he volunteers as many as twenty hours per week in addition to being a full- time student. He helps gut, frame, insulate, sheet rock, .and trim t)le interiors of homes Above, Jeff Gower, founder of \We Care About U,\ Schenectady. other volunteers who have no construction background. Mr. Gower and nearly 80 other volunteers contributed over $7,000 worth of labor costs on the first house they con.structed. BNI donates the At right, Gower's organization renovates a two family home In Schenectady's Hamilton Hill neighborhood. being refurbished. As a civil engineering major, with an emphasis on structural engineering and construction management; he has also trained building materials and Union College provides other needed supplies, such as power tools and lunches. The President recognizes a \Daily Point of Light\ six days a week. Daily Points of Light are those who successfully address our most pressing social problems through direct and consequential acts of community service. Individuals, families, businesses, groups, and organizations of every conceivable type are taking successful action to combat drug abuse. i11itcracy. inadcquall' education, environmental decay. homelessness, hunger, AIDS, and other critical ills. Daily Points of Light recognition is intended not only to honor lhos:e who are making a difference in the lives of those in need, but more importantly to urge every individual, family, business, uni()n, school, place of worship. club, group, and other institution in America to make serving others central to their life and work. As the President has said. \If you have a hammer, find a nail. If you know how to read, find someone who can't. If you're not in trouble, seek out someone who is ... \ According to President Bush Points of Ligllt demonstrate that problems in America can he solved. Bush further believes that \every American wants to be a point of light to those iu need, if only they arc shown how they can make a difference.\ The White House therefore strongly encourages not only every newsJlaper, magazine, television and radio station, but also every other business, group, and other institution in America, to communicate in their own way the message which Points of Light conveys. The President salutes Jeff Gower during National Volunteer Week for exemplifying the belief that. \From now on in America, any definition of a successful life must include serving others.\ In This Issue: \Pro- Life:\ No Place In Politics -page 4 Pocket Pool -page 8 Campus Responds To Pro-life Article 10 ., ' I 1

' ' . ' ' fli·EWii- - - - - - - -- - CONCORDIENSIS • Ai>RIL 3Q, 1992 • PAGE 2 Under The [nflu,ence: Julius Lester To Speak At Union The Pushing Of Alcohol Through Advertising by Suzanne Lieberman Contributing Writer Internationally known media critic Jean Kilbourne presented a thought- provoking slide show and speech last Thursday night at Memorial Chapel. The presentation, she stated, was \not a ban on alcohol or alcohol advertising.\ It was rather an attempt to open our eyes to the tricks of the alcohol advertising industry. According to Kilbourne, Americans need to get more information because most of us feel exempt not only from the influence of advertising gimics, but also from alcoholism 1 Kilbourne's shocki-ng statistics, taken from the National Council on Alcoholism. along with slides of some common alcohol advertisements, exposed the hypocr:tsy of the alcohol adverthing industry which, Kilbourne states, \sells fantasies.\ Dr. Kilbourne presented the slide show in su~h a way as to urge people to take action against this \chief pusher of alcoholism,\ as she called the industry. By portraying alcohol as a magical potion for wealth, success and happiness, the · alcohol advertising industry does not show the truth - that alcohol is a depressant drug and alcoholism is a disease. Using sarcastic and bittersweet hum our, Kilbourne expressed her anger at the way in which alcohol has become glamorized in the United States. it is a shame, she believes, that Americans have been con·ditioned to see alcohol as desireable by an industry that \has only profit in mind.\ Kilbourne rejected slogans such as \Know When to say When\ or \Drink Responsibly,\ commenting that drunkenness is never safe. and yet the alcohol advertising industry refuses to offer not drinking as a choice. Kilbourne als() attacked the industry for using sex as an unconscious st~mulus. While the commercials convince people that alcohol makes them sexy and better lovers, the facts remain that alcohol reduces sexual drive and alcoholism causes sexual dysfunction and infertility in men and women. In addition, many ads portray alcohol as an escape from the problems and realities of life. So, althougL advertising may not cause alcoholism, it does \create a climate of denial,\ according to Kilbourne. Instead of seeking drugs to solve problems, She says, we need to \change the norms\ and create a world and an environment that \people want• to live in,. not escape from.\ As a means to this end,. she proposes heightened awareness by providing more information; and counter- advertising with pro- health messages. Jean Kilbourne has twice received the Lecturer of the Year Award from the National Association for Campus Activities. She was presented at Union by Minerva and the Speaker's Forum. by Matt Tucker News Editor On May 2. al 7:00 pm in the ' Memorial Chapel, Afro- Ame:rican scholar Julius Lester · will spealc on his \journey to Judaism.\ Sorn in 1939, Julius Lester spent his youth in the Midwest and the South and received a B.A. in English from Fisk University in 1960. Since 1968 he has published nineteen books. Among the awards these books have received aJTe the Newberry Earth Day Celebrated At: Union ~;#Q1. . ~- ... _'>· Honor Me(lal, the Lewis Carrol Shelf Awud, National Book A ward F,inalist; American Library Association Notable Book, National Jewish Book Award Finalist, and New York Times Outstanding Book. His books have been translated into eight languages. He has ;published more than. one hundred essays and reviews in such p11blications as New York Times Book Review, New York Times Op-Ed Page, Boston Globe, Village Voice, The New Rep ubI i c, Katallagete, New Traditions: Explorations in Judaism, the Nation, Moment, and Democmcy. He has recorded two albums of original songs, hosted and produced a radio show on WBAI-FM in New York City for eight years, and hosted a live television show on WNET in New York for two years. A veteran of the Civil Rights Movement, his photographs of that movement were included in an el(hihition at the Smithsonian Institution and are part :of the permanent photographic collection at Howard University. After teaching at the New School for Social Research for two years, Mr. Lester joined the faculty of the University of Massachusetts/Amherst in 1971 where he is presently a full professor in the Judaic and N-ear Eastern Studies Department, and adjunct Pr.ofessor Jay R. Shanewook spoke at Earth Day. - professor in the English and ------------ issues as toxic waste, air History departments. by Maya Rosenblum Commentaries Editor April 22nd is Earth Day, a day in which people all over the United Stares do something · for the environment. The ftrst Earth Day was in 1970 and gave birth to what the modem ' environmental movement has become today. According to the National Wildlife Federation, cities all over the country participated. In New York City, Fifth A venue was transformed into a pedestrian mall. Chicago held 38 ecology fairs within the city. A bank in Pittsfield, Massachusetts offered a penny for every bottle brought in for recycling and collected over one million bottles in one week. In the past twenty years, Earth Day has brought environmental issues to the front of the minds of many Americans. Before 1970, regulations to protect the environment were practically non-existent and were not enforced. However, two months after Earth Day, the Environmental Protection Agency was established under President Richard Nixon. Many other laws have been passed as well concerning such pollution. and the purity of He has been awarded all three drinking water. of the university's most In the 1990's, Earth Day is prestigious faculty awards: still just as important as ever. The Disti11guished Teacher's This year, SPAA, Students for . Award (1983-84), the Faculty Political Action and Fellowship Award for Awateness .. organized a fout Distinguished Research and hour concert/lecture in the Scholarship (1985), college center in honor of this Distinguished Faculty Lecturer day. There were tables and recipient of the providing literature from many Chancellor's Medal, the different environmental University's highest honor organizations from both the (1986-87). capital district as well as other In 1986 the Council for areas about such topi-cs as Advancement and SupJlort of conservation, new technology Education selected him as the for recycling and landfill, and Massachusetts State Professor the rainforest. It was even of the Year and for a Gold possible to purchase \a piece of Medal Award in the National the Costa Rican Rainforest\ in Professor of the Year order to protect it and make it competitioll. part of a national park system. · Mr. Lester's biography has Ruth Lerman, co-chair of appeared in Who's Who in SPAA, said that Union AmericaandWho'sWhointhe College now owns 45 dollars East since 1970. He has given worth of rainforest land. In lectures and papers at more addition, SPAA raised funds · than 100 colleges and selling t-shirts, which they · universities. will donate to the rain forest as His most recent books a-re welL How Many Spots . DQes a The message this day should have sent out to the Union Leopard Have?, a retelling of College community is the twelve African and Jewish _ importance of being aware of folktales, the third volume of the dangerous environmental his retellin.g ·Of the tales of . crisis we are facing in our Uncle Remus, and Falling · times. Thanks goes out to Pieces of the Broken Sky, a • SP AA and all those who · collection ()f his essays of the helped make this day a success. past ten years. { -~

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 2 Under The Influence: Julius Lester To Speak At Union The Pushing Of Alcohol Through Advertising by Suzanne Lieberman Contributing Writer Internationally known media critic Jean Kilbourne presented a thought- provoking slide show and speech last Thursday night at Memorial Chapel. The presentation. she stated. was \not a ban 011 alcohol or alcohol advertising.\ It was rather an attempt to open our eyes to the tricks of the alcohol advertising industry. According to Kilbourne, Americans need to get more information bee ause most of us feel exempt not only from the influence of advertising gimics. hut also from alcoholism 1 Kilbourne's shocking statistics. taken from the National C<luncil on Alcoholism. along with slides of some common alcohol advertisements. exposed the hypocr.sy of the alcohol adverti.;ing industry which. Kil hournc states. \sells fantasies.\ Dr. Kilhourne presented the slide show in such a way as [(l urge people to take action against this \chief pusher ot· alcoholism.\ as she called the industry. By portraying alcohol as a magical potion for wealth. success and h<lppiness. the alcohol advertising industry does not show the truth - that alcohol is a depressant drug and alcoholism is a disease. Using sarcastic and bittersweet humour, Kilbourne expressed her anger at the way in which alcohol has become glamorized in the United States. It is a shame. she believes. that Americans have been conditioned to see alcohol as desireable by an industry that \has only profit in mind.\ Kilbourne rejected slogans such as \Know When to say When\ or \Drink Responsihly,\ commenting that drunkenness is never safe. and yet the alcohol advertising industry refuses to offer not drinking as a choice. Kilbourne also attacked the industry for using sex as an unconscious stimulus. While the commercials convince people that alcohol makes them sexy and hetter lovers. the facts remain that alcohol reduces sexual drive and alcoholism causes sexual dysfunction and infertility in men and women. In add.it1on. many ads portray alcohol as an escape from the problems and realities of life. So. althougL advert.ising may not cause alcoholism. it docs \create a climate of denial.\ according Editor-in-Chief News Editors NedWaUey Jordan Lippner~ Jim Pol~t¢$, Lara Cbamberlain~ Jeff Or~n~ ~tt T®k;~,. . l!am teitfson Ktf$~n ,. · · .·.· Executive Editt'tf International Features Editors Commentaries Editors Arts Editors Lifestyles Editor Features Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editor Assistant SportS Editor Photography Editor Advertising Editors Subscription Managers Financial Editor L~t:~:~··· . ~~a .. ~Sh~~Ui1 Coli llom~get· · Stacy CerveUino~ .Julie Scll1ang Sari Skolnik Diana :Srot!sk:y~ Nirol~ Goldin . :fohn Scbaehnovsky Chuck Rodman David' Cho, Peter Fischer Laurea Byooff,Jen S.hufkin Matt Grabowski, Andrew llosen Shields Day STAFF: Greg Barrett, Ron Birnbaum. Daniel J. Bullen, Adam Epstein; Erica Frank. Stephanie :Fray. Craig Greenberg~ Jason Habinsry. Hannah J. Hazen, Lisa. Hofbauer~ Tasha La Bare, David Levine, Sean Livingston. J uli~ Medow. Rich Morgan, Louise Oster. Peter Protzel, Betsy Rcthstein~ Sreedhar Samudtma~ Jeremy SoHin~r~ Alti W~pget, ADVERTISING . STAPf: Jenntfer Anderson, Sharon Smith - · . . ~- ~ CONCORl)lE'NSIS is pub~sl!ed e~~.'1'ilut'St1llf$· ate. ~ student batty of Uniun. C~ltege,Scll~~ ew •..... ·.·.. . 1230S· Publications Offi¢e; Su.$('1U~btm!l' ,.. .·. $ .. ~fl~l~:'. · ·• · Box SBS. Si<fn¢y) New Ym:t¢ 138$1 .f63 ... $:l~~;< Subscription r~te: .$40 pe.r,1~·de1iver~ ~~e ~~~~~- Uuited States. Mail Subs.cnpmons to . .. $.J,S (ll't~fh College Centem~ Union Coll~se. (!oJul<ti · . · ~~~~,,~$· t<J the Intercsllofillte Press (11'). Office , .. ·, e (518) 370 .. 6155. Advertising Telephone (518) 3170~'94;·· • • • • ,1 • • ' '.. ' ~ • ' ' • \. •• • to Kilbourne. Instead of seeking drugs to solve problems. she says. we need to \change the norms\ and create a world and an environment that \people want to live in. not escape from.\ As a 1neans to this end, she proposes heightened awareness by providing more information: and counter- advertising with pro- health messages. Jean Kilbourne has twice received the Lecturer of the Year A ward from the Natioml Association for CamJ)us Activities. She was presented at Union by Minerva and the Speaker's Forum. lly Matt Tucker News Editor On May 2. at 7:00pm in the Memorial Chapel. Afro- American scholar Julius Lester will speak on his \journey to Judaism.\ Born in 1939. Julius Lester spent his youth in the Midwest and the South and received a B.A. in English from Fisk University in 1960. Since 1968 he has published nineteen books. Among the awards these books have received are the Newberry Earth Day Celebra~ed A1: Union Professor Jay R. Shr:mewook spoke at Earth Day. issues as toxic waste. air by May:~ Rosenblum Commentaries Editor April 22nd is Earth D!ly, a day in which people all over the United States do something for the environment. The first Earth Day was in 197() and gave birth to what the modern • environmental movement has become today. According to the National Wildlife Federation, cities all over the country participated. In New York City, Fifth Avenue was transformed into a pcdes.trian mall. Chicago held 38 ecology fairs within the city. A bank in Pittsfield, Massachusetts offered a penny for every bottle brought in for recycling and collected over one million bottles in one week. In the past twenty years, Earth Day has brought environmental issues to the front of the minds of many Americans. Before ICJ70, regulations to protect the environment were practically • non-existent and were not enforced. However, two months after Earth Day, the Environmental Protection Agency was established under President Richard Nbmn. Many other laws have been passed as well concerning such pollution, and the purity of drinking water. In the 1990's, Earth Day is still just as important as ever . This year, SPAA.. Students for Political Action and Awareness, organized a four hour concert/lecture in the college center in honor of this day. There were tables providing literature from many different environmental organizations from both the capital district a~> well a~ other areas about such topics as conservation, new technology for recycling and landfill, and the rainforest. It was even possible to purchase \a piece of the Costa Rican Rainforest\ in order to protect it and make it part of a national park system. Ruth Lerman, co-chair of SPAA, said that Union College now owns 45 dollars worth of rainforest land. In addition. SPAA raised fllnds selling t-shirts, which they will donate to the rain forest as well. The message this day should have sent out to the Union College community is the importance of being aware of the dangerous environmental crisis we are facing in our times. Thanks goes out to SPAA and all those who helped make this day a success. Honor Medal. the Lewis Carrol Shelf Award, National Book Award Finalist; American Library Association Notable Book. Natiomal Jewish Book Award Finalist, alld New York Times Outstanding Book. His books have been translated into eight languages. He has published more than one hm1dred essays and reviews in such publicatiolls as New York Times Book Review. New York Times Op-Ed Page. Boston Globe. Village Voice. The New R e D u b I i c , Katallagete. New Traditions: Explorations in Judaism, The N a t i on , M o m e n t • and Democracy. He has recorded two albums of original songs. hosted and produced a radio show on WBAI-FM in New York City for eight years, and hosted a live television show on WNET in New York for two years. A veteran of the Civi.l Rights Movement. his photographs of that movement were included in an exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution and arc part of the permanent photographic collection at Howard University. After teaching at the New School for Social Research for two years. Mr. Lester joined the faculty of the University of Massachusetts/Amherst in 1971 where he is presently a full professor in the Judaic and Near Eastern Studies Department. and adjunct professor in the English and History departments. He has been awarded all three of the university's most prestigious faculty awards: The Distinguished Teacher's Award (1983-84), the Faculty Fellowship Award for Distinguished Research and Scholarship ( 1985). Distinguished Faculty Lecturer and recipient of the Chancellor's Medal. the University's highest honor (1986-87). In 1986 the Council for Advancement and Support of Education selected him as the Massachusetts State Professor of the Year and for a Gold Medal Award in the National Professor of the Year competition. Mr. Lester's biography has appeared in Who's Who in America and Who's Who in the East since 1970. He has given lectures and papers at more than 100 colleges and universities. His most recent books are How Many Spots Does a Leopard Have?, a retelling of twelve African and Jewish folktales, the third volume of his retelling of the tales of Uncle Remus, and Falling Pieces of the Broken Sky. a collection of his essays of the past ten years.

a e e j t t . - ., . ' . . . . . .. . -- - . - _. .· . . . . ·_ . . . . .. . . . . . ·. -. ..-..·~'-&•••'&. :.,- ~ ' . . . ,. - ~. ' . . - 'ilal ••••• . CONCORDIENSIS • 1\PRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 3 Crosstalk Series Features Professor William Garcia by Maya Rosell'blum and · Suzanne Lieberman Staff Writers Professor William Garcia of the Modern Languages· Department presented a crossta1k on Monday night. The topic discussed was the struggle of the Hispanic woman li v:ing in the . United States. To show two opposing viewpoints of these women, Garcia presented the poetry of Sandra Maria Esteves and Luz Maria Umpierre- . Herrera. The first JX>em entitled \My Name is Marja Christina\ presents the vie\Vpoint of a woman who believes strongly in fighting the oppression of entitled \In Response\ opposes the more submissive viewpoint of Esteves. Umpierre-Herrera believes she must fight all oppression, including sex-ism I ' ' m a ••mach1smo\ society, even if it means sacrificing her own cultUI'e. Garcia discussed the double standard that exists for . these women who must face the · discrimination of their race as well .as their sex. Playing \the · devil's advocate, Professor. Garda did not take sides but . rather let the discussion group come to their own conclusions . The ,crosstalk ended with the realiz.ation that all people must respect each other, free of any type of discrimination. Hispanics in the U11ited States .. · Pmfessor Garcia would like At the same time, however, she to thank Phi Iota Alpha and accepts her role as a woman in ALAS for inviting him to her culture. The second poem presemt the discussion. Holocaust Rem-embrance!! 7:30 - SS016 Award-winning movie Genocide (40 min.) Professor Berk leads a workshop Thursdav Apr. 30th R.eported Security Incidents 4/20/92 Wells Hquse Jot Theft -of parkin~: sjiln 4/20/9 2 Fox/Dayidson lot Parkin!: prob)em 4/20/92 Pres, House steps Trespass 4/20/92 1128 I,enox Rd. Amimal prgbJem 4/21/92 Soytb College Bgmm Door jammed 4/21/92 4121192 . Ogjet R·d. Paxkine problem 4/21/92 . Iri Delta Tlae{t/Bicy.cJe 4/21/92 Fox/Dayjdson Jot Yndalism-yehjcle 4/21/92 Dpyid$qp Faijse fire alarm Life Sa.feti yiglatiop 4/22/92 Raymond/Pqtter V!hjc!e accjdent 4/22/92 Edwards Fjr:e exUnglljsher heQk 4/22/92 C.C.enter As;d§t Schenectady Poliu, 4/22/92 Fox Va,ndaUsm Exit ligbt 4/23/92 liuntJey Lane vandalism stop sin 4/23!9 2 Dayidsgn Amnoyfince phpne caJJs_. 4/23/9 2 West CtJlege An:noyance _p)lone calls 4/24192 Dutch Hollqw Staff .. Harassment-SPD po1i1ied 4/24/92 Hale Hopse Tb eft-Office Keys 4/H/92 Fox V·a .. pdalism.J•oom . yindow 4/24/92 Wbjtake.[ V•pdalism-window 4/24/92 Fqx D!sorder)y student KtO!Jp !f{25192 OFF CAMPus Po01sible staU harassment 4/25./92 WRUC water leak 4fiSI92 :West Loadjnu No.n-student· jntnxicatign s:e.v. notlO!!d 4/26/92 Ngrth 1 1 ag!_ Ir:asb ficker-warned oft eampus ... -, Pleasant Valley Clean-Up Proiect To Begin May 1 Courtesy of Schenectady City Public Relations 0 n t h e weekend of the first of May, Schenectady citizens will yet again be attempting to clean- up the Pleasant Vam~y area of Schenectady. Located off I- 890 near exit 5, Pleasant Valley had been the dumping ground for not only the usual garbage, but also shopping carts, tires, and parts of cars . For this reason, Brian Merriam, chairmaa and founder of the Pleasant Valley Project, organized a clean-up committee to revitalize the area. \It has been going strong,\ says Deputy Mayor of Schenectady, Michael Saccocio, \and in difficult times it is wonderful to see altruism flourish.\ At least six clean-up days have been implemented which involved over en hundred and fifty people and removed an estimated six and one half tons of debris from the Pleasant Valley hillside. According to the Mayor's office. the goal is to not only clean-up an area's beauty previously taken for granted, but to als() make aware the abuses of Hlegal dumping of garbage. 'The City of Schenectady already collects refrigerators, stoves, metals, furniture, grass, leaves and twigs, and construction debris on a weekly basis,\ the Director of Waste Collection, Carl Olsen stated. Apparently. then, dumping in areas like Pleasant Valley shot1ld not occur. Merriam and City Hall are not the only participants behind the clean- up project. Among others have been Union College, : Power Tecllnologies, Inc., the · City Mission, the Mont Pleasant Neighborhood Association, and the AFSCME, locall037. Tile Pleasant Valley area used to be a sprawling pastoral parkland known as Cotton Factory Hollow. But, today no one would realize this fact. Commuters and businessmen drive through this area on their way to General Electric and other corporations. College families, too, drive through the area to get to Union and Schenectady C()mmunity College. It should 11ot be an unpleasant sight for everyone through which wllo passes. The clean-up project hopes to restore and retain the valley's original beauty. This year the clean-up project is looking toward the aid of the young, philanthropic stu(ient who loves hard work! Thus, any Schenectady project would be more of a success when Union College sttJdents come to help out. Please help to create a better Schenectady, because it doesn't just help you, it helps everyone! Join the clean-up on Saturday, 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. on the Mount Pleasant side of 1-&90 at the end of Bridge Street. .JULIU!i LE!iTER Award-winning Author ''My Journey to Judiasm\ Sunday, May 3. 1992 7:00 P.M.. In Memorial Chapel Sponsored by the JSU

2 NS w ty a A of IC Ill at w a st s: , h g a CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 3 Crosstalk Series Features Professor William Garcia by Maya Rosenblum and Suzanne Lieberman Staff Writers Professor Will iafll Garcia of the Modern Languages Department presented a crosstalk on Monday night. The topic discussed was the struggle of the Hispanic womall living in the United States. To show two opposing viewpoints of these women, Garcia presented the poetry of Sandra Maria Esteves and Luz Maria Umpierre- Herrera. The first poem entitled \My Name is Maria Christina\ presents the viewpoint of a woman who believes strongly in fighting the oppression of Hispanics in the United States. At the same time, however, she accepts her role as a woman in her culture. The second poem entitled \In Response\ opposes the more submissive viewpoint of Esteves. Umpierre-Herrera believes she must fight all , oppression, including sexism in a \machismo\ society, even if it means sacrificing her own culture. Garcia disctissed the double standard that exists for these women who must face the discrimination of their race as well as their sex. Playing \the devil's advocate, Professor Garcia did not take sides but rather let the discussion group come to their own conclusions . The crosstalk ended with the realization that all peoiJle must respect each other, free of any type of discrimination. Professor Garcia would like to thank Phi Iota Alpha and ALAS for inviting him to present the discussion. Holocaust Remembrance!! 7:30 - SS016 Award-winning movie Genocide (40 min.) Professor Berk leads a workshop Thursdav Apr. 30th 4/20/92 4l20/92 4/20/92 4/21/92 H2 I /22 4/21/92 ![21/?2 ~/21/?2 4/21/92 4/221?2 4/221?2 4/22/?2 4/22/92 4/23/22 4/23/92 4/23/92 4/241?2 4/24L2Z 4/24/22 4/24/?2 4/24/22 4L25!?2 4/25/9 2 4/25/?2 4/26/92 Reported Security Incidents Wells House lot Thdt of 9arkjng si!lD Fox/Dayjdson Jot Parking oroblem Pres. House steps Tpespass 1128 Lenox Rd. Animal problem South Cg!!ege Room Dgor jammed Phj Qe!ta Lot Trespass Oujet Rd. Parking problem Trj Pella Theft/Bicycle Fox/Dayidson lot Yandalism-yehjc!e Qayjdson Faist fire alarm Lif'f Safety yjo! atj (JD Raymond/Pgtter vehjcle accident Edwards Fjre extinguisher leak C.C.enter Assjst Schenectady Poljce Fox vanda!jsm Exjt lill'bt Huntley I.ane vandalism stop Si211 Qavjdson Annoyance phgne calls West College Annoyance phone calls Putcb Hollow Staff Harasswent-SPD uoti fiesl Hale House Tbdt-OWce Keys Fox Yanda!jsm-room Wil!dOW Whitaker van ddisrn-wjnd ow Fox Djs()rderly student #lroup OFF ~AMPUS Possjb!e staff baras;;ment WRUC water leak West Loadjng Nou-stud ent in! oxiceti on S.P.D. notified North Lane Trash Picker-warned oa camp us Pleasant Valley Clean-Up Proiect To Begin ay 1 Courtesy of Schenectady City Public Relations 0 n t b c weekel'ld of the first of May. Schenectady citizens will yet again be attempting to clean- up the Pleasant Valley area of Schenectady. Located off 1- 890 near exit 5, Pleasant VaUey had been the dumping ground for not only the usual garbage. but also shopping carts, tires, and parts of cars. For this reason, Brian Merriam, chairman and founder of the Pleasant Valley Project, organized a clean-up committee to revitalize the area. \It has been going strong,\ says Deputy Mayor of Schenectady, Michael Saccocio. \and in difficult times it is wonderful to see altruism flourish.\ At least six clean-up days have been implemented which involved over on hundred and fifty people and removed an estimated six and one half tons of debris from the Pleasant Valley hillside. According to the Mayor's office. the goal is to not only clean-up an area's beauty previously taken for granted. but to also make aware the abuses of illegal dumping of garbage. \The City of Schenectady already collects refrigerators. stoves, metals, furniture, grass, leaves and twigs. and construction debris on a weekly basis.\ the Director of Waste Collection, Carl Olsen stated. Apparently. then. dumping in areas like Pleasant Valley should not occur. Merriam and City Hall are not the only participants behind the clean- up project. Among others have been Union College, , Power Technologies, Inc., the · City Mission, the Mont Pleasant Neighborhood Association, and the AFSCME. local 1037. The Pleasant Valley area used to be a sprawling pastoral parkland known as Cotton Factory Hollow. But, today no one would reali/.C this fact. Commuters and businessmen drive through this area on their way to Genera 1 Electric and other corporations. College families. too. drive through the area to get to Union and Schenectady Community College. It should not he an unpleasant sight for everyone through which who passes. The dean-up project hopes to restore and retain the valley's original beauty. This year the clean-up project is looking toward the aid of the young. philanthropic student who loves hard work! Thus. any Schenectady project would be more of a success when Union College students come to help out. Please help to create a better Sc hcncctady. because it doesn't just help you. it helps everyone! Join the dean-up on Saturday. lO a.m. - 2 p.m. on the Mount Pleasant side of l-S90 at the end of Bridge Street. ..JULIU!i LE!iTER Award-winning Author \My Journey to Judiasm\ Sunday. May 3, 1992 7:00 P.M. In Memorial Chapel Sponsored by the JSU . . s ;. . . • . . \ . ' . . . . . : .• · ' . . . . ·. . ; • . . j· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,_. • - • ,. ' , . ' . . ' . . - . .

. . . - . ' . .. IIJ.EW!i AlliA· --~!i·l& · . · . -· · · · CONCORDIENSIS ' APRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 4 Pro-Ufe: No Place In PoDtics. by Jordan Lippner News Editor In last weeks issue of Concordiensis , an article appeared by Timothy Hadden, \Life vs. Death: Another View on Abortion,\ in which the author presented .an argument on behalf of the the \Pro-Life\ movement. While I was able to appreciate Mr. HaddeH strong religious convictions and fluent writiag style, my overall impression of his article was that he had used generalizations and half-truths in an attempt to support an erroneous cause. After a few hundred words of rhetoric, Hadden finally brought his argument into focus, declaring that \the foundation of (the \Pro-Life\) is G-d.\ Seeing as we live in a rather secularized society, my skepticism about this movement which he supports, and his argument, was quickly aroused. He went on to assail the Pro- Choice tnarch which was recently held in our nation's capital, proclaiming that the Pro.;Choicers \drowned out the protests of those who would reason with them(i.e. the \Pro- Lifers\).\ This was a skillful use of a half-truth. Yes it was true that the \Pro-Life\ protests were drowned out, as they were markedly outnumbered. Hadden states that the Pro-Choice movement neglects the moral choice. However, seeing as the \Pro- life\ mevement is based on belief in G-d, in other words faith, then by definition, it would be impossible for anyone <to reason with them. Furthermore, Hadden states that the Pro.;Choice movement \neglects the moral choice.\ This is a tremendous case of hypocrisy as it is the very same \Pro-Life\ conservatives who aadvocate the use of capi~ punishment. Hadden persists hy criticizing Jim Polites, a recent convert to the Pro-Choice side, for being \brainwashed by feminist dogma.\ By now, Mr. Hadden should be able to recognize that an attempt to bolster an argument by playing off negative connotations which are associated with being a feminist, is really quite boring and sexist. Elaborating further, Hadden remarks how he does not \partie ularl y like t:he government forcing (him) to use (his) tax dollars to finance abortion clinics. \ He mockingly says that he has lost his right to choose. Well to borrow some of Hadden's own jargon, what .a \sophomoric\ statement; When do we, the citizens of this country, besides at election · time, ever get to influence where or govemment spends its moFley? Hadden .mockingly says he has lost his right to choose. What about all of the pacifists who did not want their tax dollars spent on a war in the Gulf, or all of those Americans who would rather see the federal education budget be ten times that of the defense: · :budget; instead the opposite: holds true. If Mr. Hadden · wants to control his tax . dollars, then perhaps he should. run for office. Lastly Hadden informs us; that \we must answer to ru higher law than the Constitution--Divine law.\ · Now I tend to think that being · a junior political science major, as Hadden is, would make him privy to the fundamental principles which this country was founded on; of which the SEPERATION of church and state was one. This idea that religion should :have no bearing on how the governmeFlt functions, is what makes Mr. Hadden 1 s argument, and the entire \Pro-Life\ movement, irrelevant. In a court of law, their argument slJould be inadmissible, as the constitution does not allow for religion to influence law. Hadden concludes by implying that if Roe v. Wade is upileld, the Supreme Court will have done the \politically and morally expedient\ thing. However, of one truly e:xal!lines the 'whole' abortion debate, one must conclude that the only place for the \Pro- Life\ .argument is in a church, and not a court room. &ambling: A Legitimate Al:tern.ative? by Jim Polites News Editor The last two weeks have been dedicated to examining abortion and AIDS, two passionate and divisive social issues that in most cases stem more debate rather than provide definitive answers. Thus, I'd like to step back a bit and talk about something much less controversial, though in due time this too could become quite a contentious subject. Gambling in the United States has always been associated with the glitter and neon lights of Las Vegas and Atlantic City. Places where you can always find a bookkeeper to place a bet on the Super Bowl or see the latest prize fight starring George Foreman. It's Trump's, Harrah's, The Golden Nugget, star-studded performances, and the turnover of a great deal of money each day. No matter what the individual appeal, each day brings more vacationers and traveling busloads- most of whom hope to leave with more cash than they came. The point I'm trying to make is that gambling casinos today are one of the few sec tors of our economy that continue to thrive, even in these difficult economic times. Should we as a natioll begin to look at perhaps expanding the scope of such activity? Some considerations must be pointed out. First, you can't help but to look at the other side of an Atlantic City (supposedly one of the most undesirable places to live in the country). No more than a few blocks from those majestic l casinos lies shoddy housing 1 1 and extreme poverty- no doubt . the result of local government's · preoccupation with it's greatest ·revenue-maker. The other point I have is strictly moral: the fact that gambling is indeed a social vice- it can claim the livelihood of many who let betting become an addiction. I'm sure that in many cases those Atlantic City poor cash in their paycheck and then go lose it in the casinos, rather than saving for better housing or a future for their children, ~ Despite all of this, I really believe that my horne state of Connecticut has the right idea. They've opened one casino in Norwich to see if the general population would be receptive, and the results have been very encouraging. I believe the thinking here is very sound. Connecticut is a (comparatively) well-to-do state that has had a problem for a while now in getting people to spend anything significant. The new Ledyard casino has provided both a social alternative and more importantly, jobs for many unemployed. This could be just the push such a sagging economy needs. Now many might take objection to this type of revenue building. But I really · don't see the difference between casino gambling and say, a state lottery. In both cases, people are knowingly putting up money with the hopes of a larger fmancial reward. I'm certainly not saying that every metropolitan area in the country should pattern themselves after Atlantic City Bum~burn!: or Las Vegas (that would be hoth absurd and unreasonable). What I do suggest is that more states experiment a little bit and see if there is a market for gambling. Connecticut is currently looking into building more casinos in its capital city of Hartford. This would bring even more attention to the issue. Who knows, maybe the f11ttme will see many others following in the Nutmeg state's path. I'm not about to contend that opening casinos all over the u.s. will be the end-all cure to our nation's economic woes. How can it hurt to experiment though? A President's viability has suffered because be has chosen to let our economy run its due cyclical course. Maybe it's time to try something else. Write or <!ontorbiensis

4 uld the ; of of the a the for by de be bit for of the that the our ical try CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL30, 1992 • PAGE 5 GE Undergoes Federal lnvest.igation By Shields Day Business Editor This past week reports came out that a recently f1red 'Genenil Electric employee is turning in the company for its part in conspiring with a South African diamond company to fix price in in the industr-ial market. Edward iJ. Russell, a former General Electric vice president and general manager, brought his information to the Justice Department a few months ago and the FBI is now beginning investigations into the matter. Mr. Russell claims that his boss held secret meetings with · the DeBeers company in London, England wherein the two illegal'ly conspired to set industrial diamonds prices. Russell claims that he was fired because he protested the decision to fix industrial diamond prices, while GE states that he was fired because of \performance shortcomings\. It is not too difficult to see that Mr. Russell's recent actions are prompted mostly out of spite. After loosing his job, GE kept him on they payroll {probably finishing up their pay contract with him) but Russell was determined to improve his status. He spoke frequently with GE per8onnel in attempts to iucrease his payment plan, however \during these conversations, he never mentioned the al'leged antitrust issues.\ It seems that he was keeping this as his ace in the hole just in case GE was unwilling to give him the payment plan he desired. GE chairman and chief executive officer John Welch Jr. denied all charges brought against them by Mr. Russell and stated that GE was undergoing \a comprehensive internal inve·stigation.\ Unfortunately, this trend is beginning to happen more frequently in the United States as fired employees are realizing how much they have to gain by turning in their former employers and retiring on the profits of their inside knowledge. In speaking with Union Trustee James Newton, he mentioned how careful compa11ies must be these d(lys in rdeasing employees: \Com]Janies now must go out of their way to be sure that they will not be sued by a former employee.\ Often comp;amies now write copious letter.s of recommendation for their former employees and some&:irnes go so far as to assist them in finding a new job. Mr. Newton also recou11ted a story in which a \ secretaiy, who was recently released from her job, said she had typed up illegal documents for her company and was going to tum them in. The company is now forced to spend thousands and thousands of dollars to defend themselves again~t their former secretary! In a time where unempl-oyment is so high and law s:uits are so profitable, many unemployed do not need much .encDuragement to file a suit. What will the future hold if cotnpanies are scared to fire empby.ees? It would be nice to think: tilat we could sue our summer employers from our first s11mrner jobs and retire at the agoe of 21. Sowrc-e: Wall Street Journal Soft Drlnk Industry Be,com,es More Heal·th Conscious by Gary Chase Concordiellsis Staff Recent health. trends have hit the soda industry hard.. People are more healtll-conscious and have drifted towards other types <>f beverages that are more appealing to those concerned with physical fitness. This helps to explain why major players in the industry have decided to attack these areas of the beverage market. Pepsi has introduced Crystal Pepsi, a Cola without the artificial caramel coloring. The coloring has no effect on flavor, but Crystal Pepsi will probably taste slightly different and will bave fewer calories than regular Pepsi. Major players have realized that they must pursue health conscio11s consumers in order to survive. Coca-Cola announced recently that it will be entering the increasingly important sports-drink market. Quaker Oats Co. pioneered the market with Gatorade. Quaker was considering distributing Gatorade through Coca-Cola Co., however these 11egotiations failed. Coke will introduce PowerAde in four southern cities beginning in May. lf! recent years, the market for soda has dwindled. Growth rates in the industry have declined to ·aJmost insignificant levels. Sports drink consumption is presently about $750 million yearly and growing at much higher rates than that of soda - explaining why Coke is interested in entering the market. Coke will have to make a significant push to take market share away from Gatorade which has almost 86% of U.S. sports-drink business. Despite Gatorade's strong recognition, PowerAde will have some significant advantages. Quaker's distribution apparatus is very weak in comparison to that of Coke. PowerAde will have access to vending machines, fountain accounts (like restaurants and convenience stores), health and fitness clubs, and industrial plant sites where distribution of Gatorade is relatively scarce. However, PowerAde will have a tough time in markets. where distribution of Gatorade is strongest. We can expect a costly fighl in upcoming months for dominance in the sports-drink market. Coke intends to utilize its strength in distribution to overtake Quaker. Coke has already paid to make Power Ade the official sports-drink of the 1992 summer games. Pespi also plans to introduce a carbonated sports-drink and its distribution is expected to begin sometime before the end of the year. Source: Wall St Journal Marvalene Hughes Sends Message Of Peace To Students by Alii Wapner Concordiensis Staff In the midst of conflict and tension between college students from different ethnic groups, Dr. Marvalene Hughes attempts to break the barriers and help re-establish a community in colleges and universiti-es nationwide. As part of the Alpha Week lectme series, Dr. Hughes' speech delivered a global message to an individual level. A graduate of Tuskegee University. Dr. Hughes completed her PhD and post- doctorate work at Columbia University, New York University and Harvard University. Currently, she is the Vice President of Student Affairs at the University of Minnesota and an active member of the Association for Multi-Cultural Counselitlg. Dr. Hughes has spent the last two years conducting interviews and gathering research in thirty nine countries to obtain a consensus feeling about the problems that face minority women in ltigher education. In her lecture, Dr. Hughes outlined the major baniers that society poses in front of women in their attempts to ,get· an education comparable to that of their male counterparts. She cited physical barriers to educated as the first Qbstacle which women must surmount. H11ghes said that women in other countries are denied access to public transportation to make their struggle increasingly difficult. She stated that these problems arise from an economic disadvantage women face in the job market. Currently, women make 60 cents for every dollar that a man earns. For minority women, the figure is even lower. This has caused many to commit theft out of desperation. The number of African-American males in prison is equal to the number of African-American men enrolled in institutions of higher education. Hughes says that the upper middle class of the United States has \automatic privileges.\ These benefits include the relative ease of obtaining bank loans an.d psychological benefits such as a sense of belonging to society~ Hughes' research concludes that minority women often feel a sense of alienation: as minoritie.s, African American women who speak in public forums frequently feel that they are representatives of their small, ethnic group, rather than symbolizing the collective wishes of the general public. these psychological effect~ make minority women feel oppressed and they, thus, begin tl> believe that . they are \intrins:ically and extrinsically inferior,\ Hughes says. Tile university scene has become a microcosm for the racial tension in society. Hugh·es\ goal is to make stu de n1s aware of these problems and to give them the conficle11ce to help them remedy the si:tuation. However, Dr. Huglle s is experiencing increa:si:ng frustration due to the mixed messages from the Amer:ic:an legislature. Under the Reagan and Bush administrations, (tffiliTiative actio11 access is diminislling. The re~ent Clarence Thomas hearings are a \symbol of backl~sh\ for minorities in Amer:ic:a. Through her work with c0ilege students across the count.qr, Hughes says that the progreF»s of minority female stude11t in declining. Huglles claims the root of today~s problems lie in slavery. The imf3titution of slavery has created .stereotypes that still exist. African Americans have been dehumanized in order for the wlnites to justify their mol>iliz:ati()n of minorities. By mak.iag slaves feel as though they were not people, slave owners \got a sense that what they ..v.ere doing was right,\ Hughes says. Public education in America has denied the history and contribution African Americans have made. Hughes cites the fact that virtually every student knows the name of the Mayflower, which carried the pilgrims to Plymouth Rock, but no one knows the name of the vessel which brought the slaves to the United States. In sum, Hughes claims that whites have created an overall feeling of su.periority in America. Public administrators try to promote a sense of meritocracy: students enoneously assume that everyone starts on an equal level. Hughes says this myth has permeated into students' mentality and has created a raise sense of achievement. Using her own \person- centered\ concepts, Hughes attempts to \humanize relations between people\ in order to destroy these walls society has built between people of different ethnic groups. She asserts that people need to be heard and understood in order to begin the path of reconciliation. Her latest work. to be published this fall, describes Hughes' theories about solving the urgent problem of racial relations in America. She hopes to translate the global message of world peace to individuals in the attempt to help people accept others and transform the tension filled society in which they live. AII~~TI()~ ~~~1()[2§: ()r...L ~ 4{) ()t\ \'§ U~TIL t7VA'UUA Tl()~!

This Week: On April 26, war broke out in Kabu'l, Afghanistan, Two rival rebel groups, the Jamiat-i-Islami and lhe Hezb-i-Islami, are pittted. against each other leaving Kabul without any leaders;hip. It appears that for the first time in more than a centul)' t11e northerners have the advantage. Both guerrilla groups suffered casualties. The Ils.:aeli Anny declared that it had cleared soldiers of an allegation that they had wounded two Palestinian youths withotLt warning. A spokesman stated that the soldiers were following army regulations because the youths were writing graffiti on a wall. He says witnesses also gave an \unreliable\ and \exaggerated'' account. Locill officials and the state oil company are being blamed for the sewer explosion that killed 189 people in Guadalajara, Mexic:o last week. Wednesday's explosion ripped streets open, caused buildings to collapse and buried many people. Also, several officials will face charges for not evacuating reside11ts of a neighborhood after strong gasoline fumes were reported coming from the sewers. The Attorney General is charging 9 public and Pemex oil company officials and 2 private: citizens with negligent homicide, injury to 1,470 people and property damage. In B:angkok, Thailand, 19 political prisoners were freed over thre weekend by the military junta that governs Myanmar, previoosly known as Burma. One prisoner Mrs. Aung San Suu K)t'i has been under house arrest since July 1989. Among other r.eleased prisoners are: U Nu, the last democratically electedl Prime Minister, Nita Yin Yin May, an information officer at th.e ijritish Embassy, and Chit Khaing, secretary of the National League for Democracy. Was!hington officials were angry over an attack on an American military transport plane on Friday by Peruvi-an fighter jets. Peruvian officials say the plane was\ hundreds of miles ~ff course from a routine counterdrug surveillance missio11•' and that the Peruvian aircraft only fired after the American ~rew failed to respond to warnings. The shooting left one American crewman missing and presumed dead and wound!ed two others. A Pentagon spokesperson said the shooting is still under investigation. Source: New York Times CONCoRDIENSIS • APRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 6 - - . Why Special Interest Isn't Of Interest By Kristin Lupoli /.F. Editor Self- interest seems tobe the name of the game at Union. After 'being a student here for three years, I've come to the conclusion that most people just do not care about almost anything but themselves. It's the few who have a dream hut no support that suffer. What am I alluding to? What has caused ·so much cynicism? Well none other than . . . International House. I have lived in International House located in Webster 2nd floorfor two years now. It was the most exciting., fun place I have ever lived in, filled with memories I will never forget. I learned much from the exchange students and made many friends around tbe world. But during those two years., there was one damper in my enjoyment. The existence of International House was never stable. Last year we fought so hard to keep this family io existence. We had difficulty filling the rooms. When we asked people if they would like to live there, we always got the same answers. . . \No way, 1 have a great lottery number\ or \ Who c-ares about I.H. ?I have enough to deal with\. Even when we asked people to sign petition.s to keep I.H., the results were disappointing. We literally had to beg friends to sign. This year the same thing happened yet even worse. rm amazed that in a school where supposedly so many students go on terms abroad or want to go · that there is not more demand to live with and learn from exchange students which also helps prepare one for living abroad. If you wanted to learn about the world, the knowledge was easily accessible on campus. Yet the students are generally apathetic. Yes, I get sympathy The International House has begun to play a game, being tossed about like a ball. from people when I talk about my plight but I'm sure they don't give it five minutes more thought after I leave. International House is not the only program house to suffer; Ludlow House also bas experienced this lack ofconcem or interest in any opportunity that could possibly enhance the Union education. Now. the International House has began to play a part · in a game, being tossed about like a ball. I never quite knew these last few weeks wha.t was going on, was International House going to exist?, was it going to be moved?. was its leadership going to be removed from the students?. I, although a senior house member. was kept in the dark. As a result, I was forced to act in my own self-interest. I have had to give up my home because I did not know if it was to be the \House\ again. Yes, now International House will exist somewhere due to the fact that enough people \just\. signed up within a 24 hour period. But I wonder how long this new situatio11 will last - a year -maybe two? The \International House\ I lmew is gone already. . . what will be next? Room With a View \Our International family\ by L11rae Tumidajewicz lni. Features Editor \I do11't know what this country's coming to .... \ We hear that a lot today with the present conditions of the nation's ec()nomy. \Those J apanes.e ...... they're at it again ... \ Another phrase that is often rrepea.ted regarding the success of the Japanese people in techll()logy. Open up a newspa~r a11d all you see are the evil:; of the world and complaimts. There are stories about crimes, disasters, and international problems. Nobody takes the time to see the beamty in life anymore. People c.mly see what they want to ooe. Until a few days ago, I never realized what an emphasis society places on the scandals and corrwption. It seems that everyone has an angle and nobody can be trusted. This was even more so implanted on my mind when I read a request, supposedlly from a 7 ·year old boy with an inoperative brain tumor w:h o was collecting business cards to get into the Guiness B()ok of Worlds Records bef()re he died. This story touched me, until I found out that the whole thing was a scam. How disheartening when something that looks so sincere turns ugly. I returned home to my room at Webster very disappointed with the world. It was pretty. warm out so I opened the windows. The usually loud screeches of a police car went by, just another sign of the disintegrating American culture. But then I looked down into the street below. An elderly woman's car was broken down right in the middle of the street. I expected the people behind her waiting for the light to start shouting at her, but I was shocked. A young man of about 24 pulled over and went to help her. I could not believe this act of chivalry. Several others asked if they needed any help as they drove by. This was really something I never thought I would see .... people actually coming to the aid of a stranger in a time of need. I figured that people would mind their own business, because they just did not want to be bothered. But here was a noble example of where I went wrong. Then I realized that maybe I was only looking for what I expected to see. I sat down and began to think about all the genuinely nice things that I have seen from my bed.roam window. Usuaily I emphasize the roaring sirens, rowdy gangs, and kids smashing glass on the street below. But a lot more goes on out there. For example, every moming at 8 o'clock, a mother walks her son down to the corner to catch the bus for Catholic school. One day it was rai11ing and he was all dressed up in his little raincoat. He wa,ed goodbye to his mother as. he boarded the bus, then ran back to kiss her. It was touching, and I remember that I did not hesitate to bother my neigll.bor to witness the site outside my window. I have seen one little boy who walks his dog once in a while. I should actually note that it is the dog who is dOing all the leading, as it is about three times as big as th boy. There are birds nesting in the bush down below. They IIave chosen their spot to bring tlew life into the world ... right outside my window. Continued on page 1 The Four Kings By Larae Tumidajewicz Int. Features Editor Every deck of cards has four kings. But most people never stop to look at them 'closely. At a quick glance, they seem to be basically alike except for the different suits, but they are different in other ways as well. The reason being that they are acturuly supposed to be four different people. Not just four card people, but four famous, real people. Cards were invented as long ago as the Middle Ages, and the rulers in those ti.mes were indeed the kiqgs. The \King of Diamonds\ is Julius Caesar. He holds a battle-ax. in his hand, not the sword that you find in the hands of the other kings. The .. King of Clubs\ is Alexander the Great, who must truly have been great, for he lived 2,000 years ago. died at the age of only 33~ and is remembered for his conquest of · the ancient world. The \King of Hearts\ is Charlemagne, who became ruler of the Roman Empire in 800 A.D.1 making it into a mighty power once again after its eaf.lier destruction by barbaric tribes. The \King of Spades\ is David, who as a b()y slew Goliath and as a man ruled over Israel.· EVERY DAY ·' ,, I I

' i ·' ,, I I ·' i \'0 w ld B . . . . h U'' · n:e · or · - eg1nn1ng w11 . By Larae Tumidajewicz Int. Features Editor There is rn uch talk about \internationallizing\ Union College. I do not believe there is any sincerity in sucb remarks, when perhaps the greatest visible symbol of internationalism on the campus receives na support in its endeavors. The symbol I speak of is the International House, which in the past has offered a unique livinp •pportunity for international :.u1dents to share their cultures with Americans as well as gain a better umlerstanding of our culture. Tt seems to me hypocritical for various administrators to advocate a more multicultural campus., and then hinder attempts at the International House. One major concern has been that the international students may be too isolated. Tile solution to the problem is not to make the House obsolete, but to give the exchange students a choice for their living arrangements. U11fortunateiy~ the number of incoming international students for next year has drastically decreased, not a step in the ri£ht direction for an \mternational''campus community. And so efforts to keep the International House alive are dwindling, with only student initiatives, and no support ftom the administration. Aft~r constant setbacks and much con fusion, Residence life Ccntinued from page 6 In winter I liked to softly play Christmas songs and watch the snow falling gently in the light from the streetlamp below .Now in the springtime I can hear the blasting radios of the college students who use the nice weather as a good e:xcase for a road trip. And I arn happy at the thoughts of how pretty the campus will be witb all the trees and flowers in bloom. One day I even saw a rainbow after a bad storm, but I knocked the plant off my windowsill in the process of adrniration and the special moment was lost. I have seen the beautiful limosine of Jack Nicholson, when he came to buy a loaf of bread from the little Italian bakery a block away. I have also seen and heard the rattle of the junky volkswagen without its muffler. I can see all kinds of things from my window. required a ·roster of names before we were even told if the House would indeed even exist for the neJCt year. This proposed a potential problem, as once a person's name is on the roster list., their name is ·supposedly removed from the regular lottery. Thus, several .students, including myself, had to withdraw !their names from the list in their best interest, so that they would not be screwed when it came down to room lottery. In essence, the people that cared most about the well- being of the International House and had been sincerely fighting for its existence were given no altern~tive but to resign from this special place where they desired to live. Basically its survival had no chance aBy.way, due to the ridiculously low number of international students the House would have received. How can you have an effective International House with very few or even none of the residents being international? The coll~ge wants to boast about its Program Houses, but there will be no program houses left in existence. The story is different from each individual you hear it from , and it seems that nobody really knows all that is going on. Back on March lOth I had been personally assured by Dean Alford and Professor Thomas that they had no knowledge of these rumored ·plans that would change the current existence of the House. Dean Williams had a conversation with me which \The View\ One evening in the fall I recall seeing an elderly couple slowly shuffling along across the street. The wind came up and blew the kerchief off of the woman's head. Then the husband helped her put it back on and walked on with his arm around her. How beautiful to see a love that can stand the test of time in this fast-paced world. Mally times in the afternoons I can see the children leaving the doctor's office across the way. The smiles on their faces tell the story of how happy they are that they can now go home. I can witness t!J.ese happy things happening by just taking the time to look out my window. Then I c~m watch the sun setting over t!J.e mountains in a glori(}us haze of orange and yellow while the church bells ring in the -distance. I know that the day is coming to an end. Before I know it,.evening sets in. As I study, I can see !e(J me to believe that she W:()Uld. be llappy to help work with us in the best interest of all House members to make International House an e\en better place to live. But sornewhere along the way, decisions were made that have :pncticaHy killed what used to ~ean effective Program House. The International House will definitely not be in Webster again, and is proposed 101 be moved into Chester Arthur. In my opinion. umderhanded methods were used hy certain individuals with ~rsonal motives, to oust the senior members who wanted to live there again and several n~wcomers who bad developed a .sincere interest in the benefits d living with international students. Recently I have heard, that perhaps an International House ,could exist if it were filled up with freshmen. Give me a 'break. Freshmen are clueless enough without being told they ;are iri charge of a whole House :tint must plan activities for ilhternational students and prove worthy and beneficial to the entire college community. I remember when I was a freshman, all I had to do was make it to class, let alone plan a campus wide social event. D()es the administration really thi11k that by getting rid of all tlte sincerely interested epperclass students who have lived in the House and know what is going on, and by re]Jlacing ,them with rookie freshmen that they will have a tile light from the tower of the Schenectady town hall and the bright lights of the surroun1ling city. What usually were in~ignificant details in the world, I have come to ap]lreciate. As I lay my head down on tlle pillow for sleep, the full rnoon shines its warm light d()wn on my face. I know that fhese things will not last forever, so I will look for the g()od things out of life and take t:he time to appreciate them. I Cftll smile to myself knowing that tomorrow will be another be-autiful day in this wonderful world. %. Webster's International House used to be a place for international. studen1s to come together ;•• more succ.essful House? In my opinion, this is pure absurdity. These exchange students, especial:ly the teaching assistants, are much more older than typical coHege students. I tend to th·i:nk that someone ten years >Older will not have the tolerance for freshman pranks and noise. That would be like replacing the competent secretaries from all of the administorative departments with Ralph Kramden and Ed Norton. Does that sound like an innovali ve idea? I think not. All of this news made me very sad,and I went for a walk arouQd this campus, a campus that may never reach it's goals of multiculturalism, until the Administration learns to practice what they preach. I watched tile children from the day care center going for a walk. Two small boys tried to fly a kite ()n the baseball field. A mother pushed her twin girls for a walk by the Nott. It is hoped tllat this generation would ~row up without stereotypes and labels. That there wolil't be \my country\ and \your county\ in the future. That we will all become part of one w()rld, with a united focus upon ~ce. Ironically, a school with th<( very essence of unity in its name, cannot help to foster this kind of international development. ··union.\ A place whose yery name suggests the melting pot of different people, refuses to do its part for world unity. If the Administration sincerely hopes to achieve its noble goal of \internati()nalizing\ Union College, I sLJggest they show it. Union's motto should be: \One World- Beginning With U.\ Due to circLJmstances beyond my control, 1 was forced to reluctantly w ilhdraw from living in the International House. Living in the international dorm has truly been a very impm1ant part of my life, although it has been a constant fi£Elt to keep the House alive. Now I am weary from fighting this losing battJe ... l wash my hands of this whole .corroded mess caused by these underhanded administrative -dealings. In fac~ many do. While immersed in different cultures, they're making lUI important difference in the lives of so ma:ny. They're people just like you-people who have skills and energies to share. Perhap:s you, too, would enjoy the chance to help people to help themse:lves .• and at the same time discover new, won.derful things about rourself. Pe:ace Corps is in more countries today than e'Vet before, and needs people from a wide variety of disciplines-education, healtb, the environment, agriculture, community development. engineering, the sciences, and more. With your degree, or work experience, Peace Corps may be able to use your skills as no other job pr()spect would-putting you to work where it maners, and giving you new skills that will enhance future career or educational opportUlllities. And an experience that will last a lifetime. Amd while you may think volunteering, is out ~f-.the question, .,3011:s m PeaceCorps fmancuitbenefits are ·c· E... ~0. ~ R ... ~- . substantial and far-reaching-they DI make I\Oiunteering possible now, and r 1: give you. a unique advantage for the rl ;nSTIUmllifn;r;;ruGII{SI\iii'iii\Tii'DB;n;M~\MR;;-..;\'lOVf~ future. Fmd out more abouttoday's · • Peace Corps. .. ................... .. :::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::r:::::.·::.::.::.·:=.·:=.·:=.·::.::.::.:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=i=~=~=~=.~=.~=~=~=~:~=~=~=~=~.=~=~=~=~~~=~:::::~;;:iiE::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·-·······-·-·~·-···-·· ........ 1. • ..••• - - .•. - - . . • PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE . ?or {urtlrer,irz{ormatiou abrJut Pcacu CorpR. !!'J:it~d3v.t .896, Wa~hhzgtrm DC20526 INSTR.l.JC'TIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly ~0 nations aroul'ld the world. By solving tl1is pur.zle, you willleam about one of these countr1es. Solve the four numbered puzzle words a. ndU1en unscr~mble t.he .letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at. the nght. The breadbasket of the ·former Soviet Union I I I I I 1. The largest of the former Scuiet republics which borders ths nation to the east. Nation bordering this country to the west whose leader Ceausescu was executed after a rebellion in December 1989. 3. Nation on small portion of we:stern border whose president was a former playwright. Sea on the southern border of this nation.

Pocket By Andrew R. Rosen Concordiensis Staff I went horne for the week- end. As I drove my now eight-month-old car along Route 90 West, across the majestic farmland of Central and Western New York, I casually noticed my odometer progress to 9,994 miles. Don't forget to watch it hit 10,000! I reminded myself. The rain pelted my car like late night cracker crumbs upon rny shirt. Some idiot in a Ford changed lanes without signaling, the reject in front of me with Minnesota plates still hadn't put her lights on despite the dripping darkness .. .I looked down hoping to revel in the only comfort of the moment. One can imagine the shock, the sadness, the utter rage whisping through my veins when I peered down into the driver-friendly designed meter case to find 10,002 miles travelled to date. I almost cried. As I sit at my keyboard, my inner sanctuary thrown into cosmic shambles, I allow my mind to wander through many of life's other f rust rations-- and philosophies. This is a guideless tour, so please carry all bags with you ... When is it internationally proper to change your shower soap? I personally keep scrubbing, brushing and cleansing (I'm a rather furry creature, blessed with the gift of a bodily forrest) until the soap breaks. That's the signal that one more shower remains on the soap: one half for the upper body, the other half plus a good deal of a new bar for the lower half. Joshua Kaplan and Jason Habinsky, honorary co- founders of Union's American Gladiator fan club, fun.damentally disagree with each other. \I use it until ther' s nothing left.\ Josh cornmen ts. \One minute there\s soap, the next, I'mjust rubbing myself with my hanct\ Jason is quick to argue, \That won't happen to me~ man. I let it [the soap] go until it almost melts into my fist, taking the shape of a grip.\ Soft Soap is another story. Very few things are worse than stubbing your toe. Pict~~re the following: you wake up from a great sleep; yo11 dreamt that he or ~;he finally kissed you and m()re, yo11 signed. the lucrative co11t:ract you've always wanted, your professor drowned in a pool of horseradish or maybe something bizarre ... anything to put a smile on your face. You wake up without the aid of an alarm, ready to start your day. Out of bed, onto the floor, ill to your mbe or towel and off to the shower. On your way out the door. the big toe on your left foot (if the sh()wer is to the left of your room) jams into the metal sheathing like a Jobe's garde-n food spike into solid. day-laden S{)il. For three seconds you confem pla~e every possible action you may have taken to avoid tllis enj~tmbment, belching all known obscenities into the air. The pain arrives and you hop to the shower on cne foot, swearing to yourself, warding off appropriate tears. If your hall mates only knew. Wily is it that my shoelace always rips when I'm in a hurry? Just imagine that you have ten minutes to undre~s. excrete, shower, dry. dre&s and leave. In eight Pool, minutes, you have done What you swore could not be done and prepare to tie the laces to your Kay~Swiss white ones, you're a good minute and a half ahead of schedule. Shoe number one laces a11d ~ies with ease- one minute left and on to the nex.t sb.ee! 1'he first tier is tightened~ fifty seconds left- the second tier is tightened- forty-five seconds left- you tighten the third tier and SNAP! aU your nocturnal dreams are shattered. What was once a successful record--setting prep has gone the way of the dodo. Cara Fleischner, vocal guru and president cf Delta Delta Delta summed up a similar incident, clamorously yelping, \Damn.\ A SNAP! worth a thousand worcis. How does security and safety appropriately detennine when it's Q.k. to park in the College £enter loop or when tQ give a ticket? The brain trust giveth, and it taketh away ... Can anyone use the satellite dish at()p Sdence and Engineering? Don't you hate it when you sneeze in the middle of class and you MUST get up to go the batluoom with your face buried in your hand · like an ostrich in th~ sand? · The point is moot for autoflickers (see a previous , article). If Beverly Hills, 90210 had any more cheese in it, it would have to come with a Surgeon General's warning. I'd rather watch flies fu ... never mind. Why are there so many different types of toilet howl cleaners? Is there an expert COLUMBUS: THE NEW WORLD ORDER PARTICIPANTS WANTED TO PERFORM IN THE PAG:EANT I PARADE ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 20TH, AT S:OO PJ NO ACTING OR MUSI·<:AL EXPERIENCE NECESSA TRAINING AND REHEARSALS FOR (OLUMBUS: THE NEW WORLD ORDER • . a s MAY 17- SUNDAYo 7:)0 PM LOCAL PARTICIPANTS GATHER AT UNION S COLLEGE FIELD HOUSE FOR AN INTR.OPUcro E NII:ETING. (MANDATORY FOR All ) MAY 18 • MONIMY: 2:00 • ~:00 PM S:oo PM 6:00 • 9:00 PM MAY 19- TUESDAY: l:oo- ~:oo PM S:OO PM 6:00 - 7:00 PM REHEARSAL /WORI<SHOP'1 DINNER P ROVIDEP BY Ut(ION COLLEGE REHEARSAL /WORKSHOP l II:EHEAIUA.L I WORKSHOP 3 i::».INNER PltOVIPEP I!IY liN ION COLLEGE lt!HEARSAL I WORKSHOP\\ (MANDATORY) ' R.EHEARSAL TIME REQUI!lEMENTS Altt FLEXIBLE ~EPENPENT,UPON ROLES TAI<EN, SO YOU MAY PARTICIPATE EVEN If \'OU CANNOT ATTEND All REHEARSALS. TO SIGN UP C:All S18·.J70-o379 OR WRITE: LEE BLOOMR.OSEN, COLLEGE CENTER, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY,N.Y. 12)08. ' ,. \\ ·• ·~ \r • •- - 't' ,.: \> -. • -. ' >.,/' ' ~ ' ' .,. ,'..,... ,, , f \4 ' • CONCORD! ENS I$ APRIL~. 1992 PAGE 8 Anyone? somewhere who can explain to me why Vanish green is more effective than clear 2000 Flushes? why use either of these when you can get on your knees and scrub with Lysol toilet cleaner? lt may or may not be a question of absolute aesthetics, but it is my astute opinion that this market is flooded. to coin a phrase. What's the difference between Wonder \King\ and \Sandwich\ size bread? While on grains, I don't believe that propaganda concerning the origin of Thomas's English Muffins for a second. It's probable the invention of Stu Wein1~al, Columbus, Ohio. Who came up with the name for the \Virgin Islands\? Innappropriate, to say the least. Given that Secret is strong enough for a man but made for a woman, what criteria were used to determine this and why, then. don't all women use it? Can anybody on this or any other planet make a shirt that doesn't leave lint in my belly button? and short shots and putt wen, I'd be a pretty good golfer. Does anyo11e 0n this campus knoVI our alma matter by heruti. Has Dick Clark aged? You'd be s~rised what a little bit of blue cheese will do to a slice of pizza! If it weren't for Easter and· · Passover ocmrring on the same we.e·k-e,nd, the administration may llave bad a legitimate security problem. SiJice llalf the campus went bome or to stay with frien<ls and family for the week ·eJtd,. however. certain mass chaos was averted. Classes ()lftside are ovenated. Ca11celled classes are underrated. Dutch Hollow pizza sucks. What would the Indigo Girls have calle(J themselves if scientists had ~uccessfully agreed to elimiJJate the color indigo from the visible spectrum? This campus s:ho1lld hire a full tirne··masseltse. . - When, in any relationship, is it appropriate to fart in front ·of your boyfriend or girlfriend? I'm drinking· on: Fitzhugh ; Ludlow day. There was a kid on my floor freshman year who ignited his face after doing a flaming· shot of Bicardi 15L I won't identify him. but·his law is in a previous article. The \Door Close\ button in the College Center elevator never works. Period. If I could drive a golf ball far consistently, hit my long There's not llltL<h that can't .:be .told or analyzed in this world. I'm just too tired from doing nothing to contemplate anrthing about something tllat affects someone. Tllank you for choosing our !kirli11e, find your own lugg~ge and don't stare at the pilot unless there's som~ sort of attraction. Don't, llowever, misconstr11e idle conversation for a legitimate attempt to VIQ(). Any questions, call Greenie at x415L Spice Up ·Your Life Write For Features

PER!iDI\IAL!i . TODPSID- JEM, Don't let time run ou~. Come over to the CDC and look thru the summer job binders. You Still have some time to take advantage of these great summer opportunities. I miss you guys very much! Don't worry pledges~ I haven't forgotten about you!! Keep the mail coming. We really don't hate you You know it's not true We're writing this poem b/c we really feel blue! PIAFH Bro Bill And If you think this poem is chezy, it is b/c It was composed by Ezzy! JICM - ICH LiEBES DICH! ! Love, ABB To the DGNIS, CONGRATULATIONS! You made it! You're sisters! Keep the smiles on and take pride, it's an amazing experience. · Love & ITB Delta Gamma · We \' you M & C D.H.- I'm glad SOMEONE \Bought the Dress!\ Katia, PDA, Yana, Dinger, Maria, M~chella, Jaime & Camera-· Oink, Oink \Anyone who wants chicken, hands up!\ Patty & Kristen, Deb- ·. Hope the term is going well. I am so glad you are out of quarantine. Welcome back to the \real world.\ I'm glad the itching is over, and even happier that no one else caught it. Persons not permitted to enter who don't LIVE! HERE!! ! There's a ton of new news so keep in touch! We miss you and we love you! l.T.B. Delta Gamma Love, Me U·N· 1·0· N· 'S FRIDAY, MAY 1 12:25-1:30 p.m. Co11cge Center. Russiar1 and Japanese conversatl. m tables. 1 p.m. Mohawk Golf C'lub. Golf vs. Middle- bury. 6 p.m. Union CollelJe dining hall. Culina:zy Expose: American Whole Foods Cuisine:. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. College Center aud. The Writillg Board presents Grel\OIY Colomb, Director of Programs in Professional Writing at the University of Illinoois at Urbana-Champaign, speaking on •'Disciplinary Secrets or Wh.at Teachers Know and·W'on't Tell.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. CoffeehoUse. Cult film night. 8 &.JOp.m. SS016.Film: \Beauty and tile Beast.\ 8 p.m. College Center 406. Asian Student Union meeting. 10:30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Strange Arrangeme11t. SATUROAY, MAY 2 /0 a.m.-11 p.m. Unic.n College dining hall. Mountebanks musical review. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum[ College Concert Series presents Sanford Sylvan, baritone and David Breitman, pillllo. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: ••Beauty md the Beast.\ 10:30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music b:y' Larry Tut:t Quartet. SUNDAY, MAY 3 5 p.m.-!1 p.m. Union College dining hall. Mmmtebllllks musical review. 6-8 p.m. College Center 410. Student foram. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenomination:al. Protestant worship. 7:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. Jewish Student Union speaker JulillS Lester. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Beauty and the Bea~;t.\ MONDAY, MAY 4 11:50 a.m.-12:50 p.m. College Center. Italian conversation. table. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French conversation table. 7-8:30 p.m. CollegeCenter409. Speaking Hands meeting. 7-9 p.m. College Center410. Newman Club meeting. TUESDA ~MAYS 11:30 a.nt..-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese conversation table. 12:20-1:20 p.m. College Center. Brazilian conversation table. 2-4:30 p.m. College Center 409. Legal work- shop. 3 p.m. Tennis Courts. Men's tennis vs. Williams. 4:30p.m. College Center 404. B1ble study. 6:45p.m. College Center. Brazilian Club meeting. 7-8 p.m. College Center 203. Pre-Law society. EK 7:30-9 p.m. College Center409,410. Eating Disorders support group. 7:30--9:30 p.m. Union College dining hall. Spring room lottery. 7:30-10 p.m. Cro~stalk at Chet's: Roe vs. Wade. WEDNESDAY, MAY 6 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 410. Women's Commission presents Professor Andrew Peffer, history department. speaking on \Having Other Voices Speak: Teaching Women's Intellectual History.\ 4:10-6:30 p.m. College Center 205. Student evaluation committee. 6:15-8:15 p.m. College Center410. Student fonun. 6:45-9 p.m. College Center 409. BrazHian club. · 7:30-9:30 p.m. Upper Class dining room. Spring room lottery. THURSDAY, MAY 7 Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 405. Investment club. 4:40p.m. SS104. The Biology Department and Biology Club present Dr. Philip Funnanski, New Yo:rk University, speaking on .. Multiple Fonns and Functions of Hwnan Lactoferrin.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Support group. 7:30p.m. College Center 406. Spanislt film: \Miracle in Rome.\ 7:30-9:30 p.m. Upper Class dining hall. Spring room lottery. 8-10 p.m. College Center 302. Rape crisis cabaret. 8 p.m. N ott Memorial. \The Odd Couple.\ FRIDAY, MAY 8 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 7 p.m. Nott Memorial. \The Odd Couple.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible stu.dy. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \The Prince of Tides.\ 10:30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Mark Rabin. SATURDAY, MAY 9 Noon. College Center patio. Battle of the Bands. 7 p.m. Nott Memorial. \The Odd Couple.\ 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \The Prince of Tides.\ 10:30 p.m. College Center Cafe: Music by Smith and Bakken. SUNDAY, MAY 10 Noon-6 p.m. College Center 410. First aid squad. 6-8 p.m. College Center 410. Student forum. 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protes~tvvorstrlp. g & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \The Prince of Tides.\ CLA!i!iiFI'ED!i cruise, 30;000 miles. Call Pen~y Adey Ext. 6445 or 377-0010 I'd like to buy a USED IBM or IBM compatible computer. If you're .selling one please call Amy t x4181. SENIORS: Don't forget about the Charles Waldron '06 din11cr this Tuesday, May 5. Make your reservati()ns now by calling x6175 or return tile response card inc lt1ded in your invitation to Lamont House. FOR SALE: 1989 Ford F-150 pickup truck. Very good condition, maroon, bed liner. Asking price $7,800. 6 cyl, collegiate crossword 4 5 @Edward Julius Collegiate CW8T12 ACROSS 1 \Tiie Dark at the Top of the-\ 7 Like blood fluid 13- fever 14 Like a rosebush 16 Rubberneck (2 wds.) 18 Sports-minded (abbr.) 19 Water- 20 Dutch colllllUne 21 Map abbreviation 22 See - eye 23 Trucks, for short 25 Tavern brew 26 Writer Anais -· 27 Records 28 European capital 32 Dessert item 33 Rogers and Clark 34 Dark red 35 Connive 33 ~ockey seating area 42 \Poppycock!\ 43 Sufti~ for child 44 Opposite of pas. 45 Platoons 46 School, in Paris 49 Prefix: height 50 Baseball positions (abbr.} 51 Horse used in racing 52 You: Ger. 53 Stage-door crowd (2 wds.) 58 Record players 59 Young girls 60 Wandering 61 Puts up DOWN 11 Sl evenly 12 More shabby 13 Ancient Egyptian symbol 15 Stylish 17 Late comic Fields 23 Blow ~ne's ---- 24 Cornfvr-ts 29 Accost 30 Actress Schneider, et al. 31 Sailor's assent 32 Play U)l()n words 34 Card gclllJe 35 NFL coach Don, and 1 Run swiftly family 2 Native of North 36 Disprove Carolina 37 Lifting machine 3 Onassis, for short 38 Sumnarizi! 4 Two of three 1 ittle 39 Peeved (.3 wds.) words 40 Acts as judge 5 Iterate 41 Exit 6 Periodic payments 43 Meal 7 Author of \Confes- 47 Hungarian composer sions of Nat Turner\ 48 Uneven 8 Inquisitive inter- 54 Hockey legend jections 55 Suffix: land area 9 Deer 56 Cey of baseball 10 Pay dirt 57 L.A. campus Snorkin /LAST~IT :Before Eternit8

What Does The Future Hold Where has the work. ethic that pulled our father's fathers through the depress~ on gone? Certainly not to my generation. I am a product of the \Me\ generation, more commonly known as YUPPIES. No matter how much these people at:e scoffed upon, the youth of today are even worse. As our predecessors expected something in return for nothing, we expect everythi~g. So where does this le~vt: the _future of our country? FOR SALE. Franklin Delano Roosevelt said m hiS second Inaugural Address, \We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics\. Our parents and their contemporaries are prime examples of this. Their economic prosperity skyrocketed during the past decade, and ·only now are we even beginning to be affected by Reagan's bank-busting policies. We have lost sightofthe drive and detennination that made our country great. and have replaced it with satisfying selfish desires. We are a country filled with lawyers and bankers, not factory workers and hi-tech engineers. country in a position of world leadership. Instead, the product has been a generally egocentric, narcissistic pool of youth. We are unwining to do anything tlut is not demanded of us, and we actually have difficulty accomplishing this. Recently the student body claimed, what was in their eyes, a htlge victory over the ad:ministration in the opening of ,fue on.crunpus pub. Every beer now served is yet another monument to this widespread sentimeNt. Is this the extent of student body activities, getting beer setVed by tile school? However, a member of the student body has just been narned one of President :Bush's \.thousand Points of Light\ but is he the only worthwhile person here? Is Jeff Gowersuch a great person that he is the only member of the community capable of donating such quantities of time and effort? I should hope not. The present financial dominance of Japan is in actuality, a product of America. During the Vietnam War, our government began bringing engineers from the high-lli.sk fields of research and development for private companies to the safer •. more reliable positions offered by companies that had governmental military contracts. At this point, Japan saw the opportunity that lay in 111e fields we rejected. and dove head first into what would prove to be mucll more than merely financially rewarding. In other words, America took the easy way out in re-routing workers to what seemed then to be greener pastures. We are now paying heavily for this mistake. Another injury the Utrited States' gpvemrnent has inflicted upon its own people is that of providing an educational system that does not produce the determined, hard working, able bodied people that are necessary to keep our A major problem here is the shallowness that many students slt()W towards e~tra-currkular activities. The purpose of doing something other than the required sch.ool work is to accomplish an ideal, to make a difference. It is not merely to add one more thing to a list of extra-curricular activities .. If my generation does not drastically change its. habits, then only gravedan.ger can lie in wait. - The citizens of the United States have been selling off bits and pieces of this country, and have allowed markets that we once dominated to go abroad. This is the evolution of business, but will this evolution ()Vertake us as we slowly move away from Darwin's definition of the \fittest''? If we keep producing citizens who are only out to fill their own poclcets at any cost, then our couatry is doomed because these are the futu:re bankers, lawyers, teal estate and stock brokers. In other words, these are the people that will one day control our country. Isn't that a scary thought? Do You Remember? To the Editor: At about this time a year ago, Professor Kit Hathaway was unceremoniously dumped by the Union administration. There was a protest, a rally, a march, and a discerning eye cast upon our fledgling President. There existed an insurgent energy that surfaced for the fust time in my four years there. Through petitions and meetings, the faculty and student body joined fmces against an adrninistrati()n that compared our college to a business. with Roger Hull as acting C.E.O. Barry Smith asked if our hearts turned to stone. There were t.v. cameras, a fa.<:e-off one early Saturday morning, and Kit Hathaway himself, reading his work to a sud<iently receptive audience. It turned out to be a frustrating, but thoroughly kinetic time. Then I graduated and got a job. But I still remember the purpose of that brouhaha, and I 1 ask all those who read this now not to forget. A Student Voice is not a gift, but a light. By saying nothing, that Voice is taken away. President Hull may have settled into his job, but that does not mean you must trust him. He may still preach an open door policy, but it means nothing without an open mind. Remind him of that. This is neither a call4o- arms, nor a plea to agitate. This letter was written to ask you students--those who were there, and those who have hear-d the rumors of an Active Union Student Body--to remeber the question posed a year ago. With the termination of Kit Hathaway. your education has been compromised. Your Student Voices have been deemed mute. Anyone for tennis? Ron Eugenio '91 Due to recent changes in the Concordiensis we request all letters to the Editor be turned in on 3.5\ hard drive dlsketts that ae Macintosh compatible Including Box Number, so they can be returned to the owner the following Wednesday. The Truth Behind Malcolm X To the Editor: · The editorial, \Just Another Fad, or a Resurgence of a Desired Black Unity,'\ immediately caught our eyes. At a glance we assumed we were about to read an insightful article on Malcolm X and his influence on the recent appearance of fashions emblazened with the letter \X\. We soon found out we were mistaken. First, yott questioned the motives underlying this new fashio11 statement, and quickly fell into the trap, as many people do when Malcolm X is discussed. Many equate Malcolm X with violence and hatred towards white people. Unfortunately, few take the time to do any research on the refonned beliefs of .Malcolm X. (A.L.A.S. and M.S.U. hosted Jamal Abdul Kareem during the month of February, who dispelled such myths.) Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. are often contrasted as being opposites. This is far from the truth. Mr. King and Mr. X were not as different as some are led to believe. The one big difference between the two leaders is that Mr. X advocated self-defe11se in response to violent attacks, not \vengeance thru violence\ as you -stated in your editorial. Instead of turning the other cheek in the wake of violence, Malcolm X thought Blacks should fight back. Now how many would oppose that philosophy today. Yes, Malcolm X did preacll Black supremacy during the years he was involved with the Nation -of Islam (1954-1963}, hut after making his Hajii (pilgrimage) to Mecca Malcolm X r~alized that if lle were to be a true follower of Islam tllan he should be preaching that all . men are brothers. Malcolm X later retracted all of his earlier beliefs ofBlack supremacy. If you see anyone wearing the recent \X\ fashions, kn<>w that the \X\ stands for the unknown variable, .the unknown history, the stokll culture, and the lost languages of African IJeOples. You are \dead wrong\ in your claim \ .... by wearing a clothing article with the letter 'X\ emblazoned on it that they are showing support of equal . treatment for African- Americans\. By wearing and understanding the meaning behind the philosophies of Malcolm X, you are doing exactly that! Angela Rudolph '93 Kathryn Welch '93 Orientation To the Editor: The Orientation Committee would. like thank everyone who applied for a p~sition as an Orientation Advisor for Orientation 19'92. the applicant pool was highly competive and the selection proceSs was difficalt. We would like to congratulate all tlwse selected. We look forward:. to working with you to have the most successful Orientation ever. A Woman's Privacy And Health In Danger ' The 1992 Orientation Advisors are: Jared Balanoff~ Agatha Gogol, Heather P.odlich, Jenn Baldwin, And:y Goldberg, Chuck Rodman, Kelly Bevan, Saundra Green., Lisandra Ramos, Marc Bienstock, Dayna Greenberg. Dylan Ratigan, Ericka Bloomfield, Karina Hojraj, Pete Savage, Kathy Brownstein, Bob Hussar, Jen Scai:ia, Barbara Cash,. Julie Jamieson, Dave Schmidt, Gary C:base, Jill Jean Jenlcins, Lisa Sclmeider, Allie Conway, Alison Kates, Marie Stahl, Shelby Dennenberg, Liz Kessler, Suzanne Vialardi, Stephanie Dick, Clarke Limbert, Tony Viva, Ann Driscoll, Monique Lions, Sean Willman, Jordan Ely, Leslie Mason, Greta Wilson, Cara Fleishner, Deb Mcinerney, Liz · Wintrich, Eva Ga:ren, Debbie Murray, Carrie Wheeler, Eric Glazer, Daniella Pittocco; Alternates: Mark Hoffman, Sherine Nabih. Cam Soifer To the Editor: In 1973, the Supreme Court's decision in R{)e v. Wade affirmed a woman's right to obtain a safe and legal abortion. I commend Timothy Hadden 011 his ability to clearly and thoughtfully present his opinions in Life Vs. Death; Another View On Abortion,\ (Concordiensis, April 23) but Mr. Hadden fails to realize that being pro-choice is being neither pro-abortion nor anti- life. Rather, people, not just women, who are pro-choice support the right of reproductive privacy f()r all Americans. Both the ~.eagan and Bush administrations have packed our nation's courts, including the Supreme Court, with judges who are clearly anti- choice. Opponents of choice have instigated challenges to Roe since 1973. Now more than ever before, the case is in very serious danger of being overturned. Should this happen? state governments throughout our country would be enabled to impose their moral views on all of the citizens within their state. Mr. Hadden suggests that his tax dollars are currently being used to support the federal funding of abortion clinics. Perhaps Mr. Hadden would rather spend his tax dollars supporting the lives of children born with substance dependency and/or childhood diseases. Furthermore, his tax dollars would provide health care to women not physically capable of enduring child birth. And finally, since many unwanted children are often those born to single parents. raped women. battered women, and parents who are unable to provide the ne.cessary economic and emotional support in fostering a child's development, Mr. Hadden's tax dollars would probably be used in programs supporting 800ndoned children. The Pennsylvania case now before the Supreme Court seriously limits a woman's ability to obtain an abortion Should this or the other challenges now pending in Louisiana. Utah, and the U.S. tertitory in Guam, reverse Roe v. Wade, America's young women will either have to make major changes in their plans for their f11tures. or be forced back to the days when an accidental or unwanted pregnancy meant dartgerous or deadly trips to back a.lleys for illegal abortions. I believe that anything less than choice will put women's health and privacy in jeopardy. Karen Hurwitz '93 Sincerely~ The 19~2 Orientation Committee

CONCOROIENSIS • APRIL 30, 1992 • PAGE 11 Pro-Choice Does Not Mean Pro-Abortion To the Editor: In 1973~ the Supreme Court, in Roe vs·. Wade, declared abortion to be a fundamental constitutional right. According to Katluyn Kolbert, lawyer for tile American Civil Liberties Union, \never before has the Court bestowed and taken back a fundamental right that has been part of the settled rights and expectations of literally millions of Americans for nearly two decades\ (New York Times: 4/23/92: Al). Consideriag the number of Americans who marched in t.he recent Pro-Choice rally in Washington D.c:. it is evident that large percentage of Americans believe strongly in the Pro-Choice moveme11t. As a result of the article \Life vs. Death\ by Tim Hadden, which appeared in last week's Concordiensis, we feel it is necessary to respond to such inaccuracy. Mr. Hadden clearly does not believe that it is morally right to have an abortion, however, is it constitutionally right to restrict someone from doing so? Is it the job of the Government to \represent\ the people or is it the position of the Government to impose its moral beliefs on the people? Mr. Hadden spealcs of a psychological war being fought in the United States, between Liberals and Conservatives, this. war is not as he characterizes it. Mr. Hadden refers to the fight as one tliat ''rages between those who would tax and spend America into ruin and those who would use ·common sense to retain America's position of strength.\ Clearly, the best way to retain \America'sposition of strength\ is to adhere to the principles of democracy whicb, are stated both in the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution. That means best~wing the citizens of tllis country the rights they have been guaranteed .and deserve. To do otherwise will destroy \Am-erica's position of strength\ hy tearing the country apart as it has in Buffalo and in numerous other cities throughout the country. If Roe vs. Wade is ovett11rned by th.e new conservative Supreme Court, Mr. Hadden will witness a war that will be far from psychological; a civil war. Mr. Hadden argues that Liber.al's have an \aversion to the :Bible and Religion.\ Such a generalization is ignorant and inaccurate. Being liberal or pro-choice is not analogous to being an atheist. Perhaps next weekend Mr. Hadden should take a survey in the various Churches ~nd S ynagoges in Schenectady~ we wiU bring our pens. Being pro-choice is simply believing in .the right to choose what to do with one's own body. Using the Bible to back-up a general thesis such as Mr. Hadden's, is wrong. For hundreds of years, anti·-Semitics, racists, and homophobics have all manipulated t'he Bible to justify their cause. We believe in the great significance of the Bible, however, since the various religions in the United States have different illterpretations df the Bible, it is not just to base the law on a minority's interpretation ef it. This article is written with no disrespect to Mr. Hadden, on tlleecrni:rary, we feel that it is cur duty to educate him. What he fails to recognize is that it is possible to be both Pro-Choice and anti-abortion. Let's not tear the country into two factions by infringing on th.e constitution,al rights of tile American people, rather, lets allow each person to decide what is morally best for him or her. Anthony Albanese '93 Lisa Levittger '93 Moved By Two Articles To the Editor: I think for the first time since I came to Union I have been moved by two articles from one issue of the Concordy. I read the article, \Life vs. Death; Another View .on Abortion,\ and at first I was thoroughly peeved, then I tried to take the open-minded perspective of the article. I do not consider myself to be a flaming liberal--in all actuality, I am pretty conservative, but I get this from my upbringing more than my political views and religious standpoints. Besides being somewhat Rape Support Group Begins At Union To the Editor: I am writing this letter at the request of my friend. She is starting a campus rape support/discussion group and wishes to remain anonymo11s. The group is open to all Union women, and will meet weekly. It will be run by a rape counselor from Planned Parenthood. All discussion will be confidential and free. For more information call Health Service at x6121. This is the fust time Union has offered support seiVices of this kind to its women. Erica Frank '92 conservative (like a huge majority on the campus) I am completely non-religious. Maybe in politics it is the conservatives vs.. the liberals, but in-religion it is not fair to say conservatives vs. the liberals because that is too wide a scope of people and many like me will disagree with religious ideology even though I am thought to be conservative. So in thinking this, I also think it is unfair to say that all liberals are clueless people who don't pick up a bible and therefore have wrongful morals. It is closed- minded of someone to say that only conservatives are faithful and true believers. :Being non- religious, of course, I have a biased opinion about such issues as abortion, because I believe in Pro-choice movements. and not in the fact that a \woman's body is not her own, it is Godis.\ I am not religi()n bashing either. I truly respect people 's decisions to follow a religion but at the same time I think often people get ca.ught up in their beliefs and end up a little closed- min<ied about other perspectives. I also respect that Timothy Hadden was writing in opposition to an . article that gave supposed extremist liberal views. I don't want to-make Hberals seem like the more superior ideology, I am just trying to ~xpress some distates in Mr. Hadden's attitudes about moral conservatism. Although there will always be struggle between morals in politics and religion, it seems so redundant and. silly when I read articles by people who are so adamant about their optmons. It seems hypocritical when the people who voice thes:e opinions say how, for example, closed- minded and 11nfounded the opposition's beliefs are, but they in turn are being just as closed-minded My last comment is about the article of Bostonians vs. New Yorkers. I thoroughly enjoyed the article. Being a Bostonian (Newton, for all you picky people), I believe that Boston people are born and bred have the best spirit of any major city, i11cluding its surrounding smburbs. Of course, I am higllly biased, but I will argue with people until no end about the superiority of Boston over New York. New York bashing in the article \An Opening Questi<>n\ was highly comical and enjoyable. Veronica Rogers Write jfor Qeoncorbitnsis Another View On Abortion To the Editor: It is disappointing to see that a Union student cannot write about his views on the abortion issue without using fallacies. In his piece in last week's Concordiensis, Mr. Hadden attacked his opponents personally, tried to appeal to emotion, generalized an entire group of people as being without \reason\ or \common sense\ and made unsupported and inaccurate claims. It is also disheartening to see that he has ignored a basic tenet of our government, the toleration of other's religious beliefs. Our country was founded upon the concept of religious toleration which is why we maintain a separation of Church and State. Therefore, it is inappropriate for Mr. Hadden to assume that the abortion issue should be decided upon his religious beliefs namely that his body is God's body. It is also wrong to assert that people should \accept\ his religion and Bible simply because Mr. Hadden believes in tllem. We should not forsake the Constitution for Divine Law as Mr. Hadden has proposed because this too violates the separation of Church and State. Mr. Hadden seemed to see a need to paint Liberals as dangerous and thoughtless in order to promote his Conservative agenda. He claimed Liberals will \ruin America\ while Conservatives will \use common sense\ to save it. Liberals are truly concerned with such issues as providing health care for our citizens, saving the environment, promoting the equal rights of all citizens. and improving ·education in America. Policies which deal with these issues improve our nation by improving the lives of its citizens. I do not concur with Mr. Hadden that such policies are thoughtless and ruinous. I do not disagree with Mr. Hadden's belief that abortion is not right for him. We each are allowed our own opinion, but we must not impose our beliefs on others. Therefore, his beliefs can co-exist with my beliefs on the abortion issue because we each get to choose for ourselves. Pro- Choice is not pro-abortion; it simply lets each of us make the choice that is best in our own circumstances, and does not impose its own beliefs upon the thinking American public. Additionally, Mr. Hadden asserted in his piece that prior to the Roe v. Wade decision, women were not \bothered\ by their lack of access to legal abortions. Clearly, this unfounded -assertion is inaccurate as it is well known that prior to the Court's decision women were dying and being maimed by illegal and unsafe abortions. Women and men were \bothered\ by the lack of legal abortions because women were dying unnecessarily. Mr. Hadden may believe that his body is \rented\ from God, but I believe otherwise. It is not anyone's place to tell others how to live their lives, nor is it anyone's place to violate the privacy of anothers' body or personal decisions. Therefore, he may opt for a Big Brother state which dictates its own \morality\. but I would choose a state that recognizes my ability to think and make choices for myself. Jessica Scheinman Your Bible, My Body To the editor: I am responding to the article in last weeks issue by Tim Hadden entitled \Life vs. Death~ Another View on Abortion\. Referring to the \grandmothers\ that lived under the \vices of anti-abortion legislation\ the author contends. \funny it doesn't seem to have bothered them.\ In estimates cited in the book Moving the Mountain: The Women's Movement in America Since 1960, by Flora Davis, of the one million illegal abortions performed each year in the 1960's, more than 350, 000 women \suffered complications serious enough to be hospitalized\. Each year, up to 1 ,000 of these women died. There is little humor for the thousands of families who lost daughters, sisters, mothers and wives to \back alley\ abortions. Or for the thousands of women whose bodies, mutilated by improper · procedures and and unsanitary conditions, can no longer concieve. Or for the thousands of children born into unwanted lives: In 1970, there were 1,729,050 orphans in the U.S. and 150 incidents of infanticide (U.S. Census). Women have and always will seek abortions, whether or not we santion, legalize and control the conditions under which they are performed. The author has stated that life is the most precious \lease\ we have from God- An admirable argument, however, completly discredited by his ignorance of these womens' lives. And the moral question is not ignored by the pro-choice movement. It is afforded to each individual, rather than to impose one set of beliefs upon another person. In Genisis ; God says to Adam and Eve: \have dominion over every thing that moves upon the earth\. A woman's body is not God's, it is her own dominion. Don't you dare tell me what I may do with my body. Sarah Teasdale '94 ..

l::lliYMEIIIl:AlUE!i . . . · · · ·. . · · · . . . · . . . CONCOROIENSIS • APRIL30, 1992 • PAGE 12 Two MORE CENT'S by Stephanie Fray As the college continues :to implement both structural and cosmetic clunges, it is imJJerative that the parking issue be readdressed. At present,. parking is perhaps the biggest nuisance and unnecessary source of ~tr'ess for each and every individual operating a vehicle at Union College. The most obvious absurdity regarding this situation lies in the simple reality that the most central and trafficked building at Union Col:lege, namely the College Center, has no facilities for autorn<Jbiles whatsoever. Moreover, the nearest accommodations for modern day transport require that one break his hack carrying heavy packages to and from the building or worse, that one face the various perils of Schenectady in walking by means of dimly lit paths during evening horus to get to one's car. Aside from the harsh realities of rape, brutal assault, and herniated discs, the problem go-es far beyond the installation of additional light fixtures or tile issuance of special loading dock permits. Srucasm aside, the price of a centrally located parking facility that would accomm()date the traffic to the soon-to-be newly furbished library ano~l Nott Memorial, along with the soon-to-be constructed theater and already over-used College Center, wolJld be small clunge comparison to the costs of works in progress. In addition. the esteemed businessmen in charge of contracting these -piOjects should not have too much difficulty in convincing just -one of the respective contractors to throw in a parking lot at 110 extra cost. Of course, the college might presently find pleasure in issuing countless parking tickets. As well, most of us sleep well at night knowing that college personnel have nothing better to do with their time than follow up on these violations when they go disregarded. Furthermore, environmentalists must be pleased with the illstitutions success at finding yet another way'·to waste cou111tless trees in the form of yellow sheets of paper. Unfortunately, one member of the Security and Safety department seems ill at ea~ to issue more tban one parking citation per car per day. Ratlter, he feels more comfortable in soliciting threats of sending students to the dean. In the face of the ensuing economic crisis:, the administration should welcome the collection of )Jaildng fines. Moreover, there is a gold mine to be found in tile institution of a pricy parking privilege fee. However, the issue does tt-Ot stop there. As both President Hull and the Alumni CollflCil continue to investigate the efficiency of Union's prese11t security apparatus~ it may prove cost effective to allocate packing for visitors to campus, albeit an affiliate of the institution ()r a~ random passerby. Aside from the thousamls ()f transports security would no longer have to accommodate, the riddan~(} of this parking fiasco would actually allow the mere two security personnel on duty each night to concentrate on more significant problems. (By significant, this column is not referring to the overseeing of false fire alarms.) The aforementioned criticisms are by no means intended to justify the i11nate laziness tltat permeates this campus. By the same token, one must not construe this commentary as an uHcr reiteration of the arguments which have continued to surface between students a11d administration for many years. Rather, the thoughts cite<! are intended to serve as a reminder of an unresolved problem that has intlicted this campus for far too long. At a time in which the Union College administration commits to spending money that it does not have, and in more. areas than it llas assigned budgetary categories, a parking facility would be the ultimatee addition to the already too large shopping list. rn short, it ...vould be safe to say that more students would prefer parkimg spaces to new furniture in the donnitorics, and as sad as ~t may sound, new books in the library. The administration has given the campus a place to drink, now give it a place to -park r-----------~--------------~------------------------------~---. Countri es where abortion :is available on request Forty percent of tile world's population lives Viihere abortion is avaihll:>le on request. Europe Greece Italy Ireland Abortion legal only to save a ~·!1111~ woman's life Canada Cuba United States* $0URC~: Alan Guttm.ach~r ln$litute; Research by WE;NDY GOVIER Abortion :legal for social or social\medical Togo Tunisia Note: lime restric:tionSo,vary 'Includes Puerto Rico: may vary from s1a1e to ·state Netherlands Norway Romania China Singapore Turkey Vietnam Former Soviet Union Czec:Jhoslovakia Yugoslavia Denmark Germany Sweden Austria France . ~ : ... .; ·' .•.. .·r The Judaic Origins Of Christianity To the Editor: This letter is a response to Jordan Lipp11ets article on Christianity and anti..,Semitism (April 23). EverytOne is entitled to an opinion. bui vvhen that is made public, one ought to be responsible in tbe presentation of arguments. Mr. Lippner's interpretation of the New Testament and early Christian history is remarkable for its lack of depth and research. Jesus and his <lisdples were Jews. Early Chdstianity was seen as a sect of Judaism. Paul (Saul) was at1 educated, Greek- speaking, p-1:acticing Pharisaic Jew, and a Roman citizen of Tarsus. He had Strong connections to Diaspora Judaism and Israel, and had a Greco-Roman outlook on the world. Paul Jlersecuted the early Christians until he had a dramatic conv,ersion experience. Paul then felt called to reinterpret judaism and to proclaim the Gospel in a new way. Deeply Jewish, Paul believed Jesus was the promised Messiah and that his own mission was to proclaim such to thy Gentiles. He did so until being martyred around 60 A.D. By that time, the influence of Hellenism and Roman rule added to the divisions already taking place in Judaism. Then, a Jewish revolt led to the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple in 70 A.D. In an effort to protect itself after such divisive events, rabbinic Judaism took over with a more Continued ·en page 13 Catholic Jewish Cooperation To the Editor: Jordan Lippner's article \The Church Should Do More\ patently misre}Jresents the Catholic Church's. teachings on Judaism and alllti-Semitism. He implies tllat the Church's doctrines are anti-Semitic and that the Churcll bas done nothing in rec~nt years to counter sucll p:rejudice. In reality, the Church not only denounces anti-S ernitism, but also affirms Christianity's Jewish roots a11d Jlromotes dialogue with the Jewish community. At the Second Vatican Council, the Church unequivocally denounced anti.- Semitism. In a document entitled Nostra Aetate, issued in 1965, the Church declared that, \remembering her common heritage with the Jews,\ it \deplores all :hatreds, persecutions:, displays of anti- Semitism le-veled at any time or from any ,source against the Jews.\ Happily. since the issuance of this statement. the Church has expanded its efforts to forge bonds with the Jewish community. In a 1975 document on implementation of Nostra Aetate, the Church more strongly rejected anti- Semitism. In 19;85~ in a document directed at Catholic teachers, the Vatican stated that the Jews and Judaism should not \occupy an occasiomil or marginal place in c:atechesis,\ but that '.'their presertce there is essential and sl!ould be Continued on page 13 We Believe In God And In Choice To the Editor: We arc writin:g in response to the article p1i11ted in the April 23rd issue of C oncordiensis. Timothy Hadden propose<l tile idea that, \A woman's body is not her own. it is God·s. A.s humans we get to rent them out for a few decades with no option to buy.\ By this statement. Timothy Hadden insinuates that a woma11 sllo11ld not be allowed the privilege to choose what happens to her own body, such as the privilege of choosing to have or not to have an aboition. We realize that those who believe that abortion is murder, such as the ''Pro-Lifers,\ llold these feelillgs in high regard because. to those people. abortion is in contradiction to their moral code. Yet we want to refute the stereotype presented £llat all \liberals\ who believe in the fight for choice have no attachment to religion or the Bible. Religion is an important aspect in the lives of many Pro-Choice supporters. However, we cannot allow religion or God to enter into the politicaJ arena. Our society is m.ade up of many creeds and religions, and it is not possible to c.reate one government to legislate on behalf of each. Continued on page 13 -----------------~-------·------------------- Don't Force Your Beliefs On Me To the Editor: I am outraged by the article \Life vs. Death; Another view on Abortion,\ which appeared: in last weeks Concordiensis .. While I am sure that Ml'. Hadden meant no offense or disrespect to anyone, and while his points against Mr. Polite,s article may have been correct, I am damned sick of Bible- bashers trying to enforce their will on the rest of the country. Mr Hadden, how dare you presume to foist on me your beliefs? I do not recognize your God, and therefore the notion that my body. belongs to Him is ludicrous. My body might just as well belong to Buddha, Zeus. Odin or Beelzebub. The Pro-CboicJC movement is exactly what it states; a movement promoting the freedom to choose. It is not a group of crazed bra-burning Feminists, as Mr. Hadden seems to believe, b11t a group of people who beueve that the tenets which this -cotmtry was founded on make :anti-abortion legislation wrong. The movement does not advocate abortion per .se ,· it advocates the right f()r a woman to choose what goes on within her body. Certajnly abortion should not a:nd cannot be used as a metho<l of birth control, but to abs()lutely deny a women the right to control her own body is. atavistic, gross. and not a little bit fantastic. And for a male to dare to tell a woman that abortion is wrong, when he can have no real conception of what :pregnancy and birth are like. is ;also gross: grossly chauvinistic and backwards. If those believers in the Bible truly wish to reason with their opponents, Continued on page 13

Judlac Origins Of Christianity C•mtinued from page 12 s:ystematic reinterpretation of scripture and traditions. Strictness to the law aided Judaism in its struggle to mai11tain its identity and to survive. Christians and other fringe groups, as a result, were e:><clud.ed from the synagogue. With Jerusalem destroyed, Clrr:istianity moved out even more into the Gentile world. Exdud.ed from the synagogues, Cllristians began defining themselves apart from Judaism. Thus,. in contradiction to Mr. Lip:pner's argument, Paul did not sever Christianity and Judaism. The break came about beca11se of complex historical circumstances affecting Jews a11d Christians in the first centuq. Mr. Lippner fails to recog11ize that Christians, including Catholics,. have often been th.e objec~ of persecution. The Ku Klux IClan from its inception, in additio0n to being anti-Semitic a.nd anti-Afro- American, has atways been anti-Catholic. Also, the nineteenth century is marked by several insta11ces of violence against Catholics. and an:d- Catbolic attHlldes were widespread in tllis country into this century. Mr. Lippner is sloppy in his work. He confuses doctrine with scripture aad official teachings . witb' popular attitudes and inte1pretation. He lists no sources. Moreover, the article stro:ngly hints at anti-Catholic atti111des. There is no excuse today for such religious bigotry. Sincerely~ Sr.Marie O'Ryan, RSC Catholic Cfl!iplain Catholic Jewish Cooperation C&ilthtued from page l2 or~anically integrated.\ In a 1989 statement entitled The Church and Racism: Towards a More Fraternal Society, the Cllurch. denounced prejudice against Jews and called on pastors and educators to pr<>mete \respect for differences, fraternity, [and] soUdarity.\ In this country, the Churdt has worked in cooperation with the .Anti- Defamation League~(ABb) to - prod11ce several booklets· and stu-dy guides for Ga.thQlic teachers (see \Celebrating tiJ~· 25'lh Anniversary of the Vaticait II Declaration NasJra. Aeta.te on Catholic-Jewish; Rel:ittions .. ). 'f!he tur.rent pope, John Paul II, has been · especially outspoken against anti~ Semitism. In 1979, he became t,he first pope to visit a concentration camp, and seven years later he became the first pope to visit a synagogue. In a speech to the Australian Jewish commu11ity in 1986, he den<>UilCed anti-Semitism as 'sinful.· Finally, speaking to repr($eiJtatives of the Warsaw Jewish community in 1987 about tile holocaust, the pope stated that \because of this terrible experience, you have becotne a loud warning voice for humanity.\ In light of these and eountless other ex:amples, Mr. Lippner's blind a~;sertion that the Catholic Chllrc!I has doOne nothing to C()u:nter anti- Semitism is ludicmus. Quite the opposite, the p-.ast two and a half decades have seen a flowering of Catholic-Jewish. dialogue and coo~ation. The Catholic Churci;J has made . tenmrkabie efforts ill this area, · and the future (lf Catholic- Jewish relations is hopeful. As Rabbi Leon Klenicki, Director of Interfaith Mfairs for the _ ADL · states, ·\The promulgation of No.sr.ra Aetate, and·.the ·publication of the [Vatican doct.imellts], and the episcopal documents o0n Christian-Jewish '(!ialogue are signs of peace, marlcing (God willing) the begi11ning of a pro.phetic time and relationship. Jews and Christians have entered a new age of hope - all age of encounter and dialogue.\ Tom Fallari '92 Tim Griffin '93 Co-Presidents Catholic Campus Ministry Neil Simon's The Odd Couple May 7, 8 9 - 7 p.m. In the Nott F taturing: Directe.d by: Assistant: Rick Burchill Kevin Danzti~r Andy Goldberg Walt Soule Ned Walley Aimee Murd-llck Kristy Holbrook Emily Baer Fran Rubenstein Mountebanks Spring Musical Review by Stacey Cervellioo Lifestyles Editor At long last. tbe Mountebanks are bringing · Union College a Broadway Musical Revue. They chose to · do a review because of its . flexibility, the need for a large · cast, and for the opportunities it provides for its cast members. The opening and closing numbers involve the entire cast of people, and the musical numbers inbetween use a chorus of four to five people and soloists. This arrangement gives everyone in the cast a chance to sing, dance. and to be seen and heard by the audience. Numbers from three shows are being performed, West Side Story, Guys and Dolls, and Qeorge M. The numbers are complete with costumes, dancing. and the kind of singing you read about. This review has brought together talents from aH walks of life from on and off campus. Dr. Margaret Grey, a musical director and teacher is directing the show. Helena Binder Bress, director of last spring's production, Ten Little Indians, is the choreographer. Margery Voytko, music director for the Unitarian . church, is the accompanist. Walter Soule and Neil Kanterman have written a script for the Master of Ceremonies who will give a little background to each show before it is performed. And last but not least is J uHe Greenberg, Mountebanks' business manager who made it all happen. The original dialogue from each of the shows will preface each of the numbers. which include, Tonight. Luck be a Lady, and a group tap number set to the tune of Give My Regards to Broadway. The theme of the show is New York, the place, Upper Class Dining. A meal card is not req11ired, only a three dollar ticket which can be purchased in the College Center this week. The show is on May 2 and 3 at 7PM. The cast and production staff have worked very hard to make the Mountebanks Musical Review a success. Please show your support for theatre at Union and for all your friends who are involved in this production and be one of the lucky few to experience a night on Broadway in Schenectady. , We Believe In God And In Choice Continued from page 12 Similarly, as not all \Pro- Choicers\ are anti-religion. not all supporters of \Pro-Life\ are Bible· fanatics. We also disagree with Jim Polites' stereotype, of the elderly woman bearing a cross protesting abortion. Not all anti-abortion protesters are religious elderly women; we feel that by making this analogy Jim Polites was attempting to point out that the majority of women directly affected by anti-abortion legislation are the younger women, who would be forced to bear unwanted children. Abortion is a· universal issue. No one can deny that fact. However, if anti-abortion legislation is passed the impact will be directly forced upon the woman. Such restrictions will not stop abortion, only legalized abortions. As in the past, women, who feel abortion is their only option, will seek and have abortions, legal or illegal. The ·impact of taking the women's right to have abortions will lead to an influx of \underground\ abortions, which as statistics . sl10w lead to an increase in abortion related deaths. Women must be allowed to decide for themselves what they will do with their bodies. We disapprove of the stereotypes conveyed by Tim Hadden's article. Unfortunately, many people still labor under the misapprehension that the term \Pro-Choice\ is inter-changeable with the term \Pm-Abortion.\ Such is certai11ly not the case. What is the case is that we believe in \reproductive freedom,\ which gives the individual woman the right to make her own choice. Jennifer Ardinger '93 Alisa Gass '93 Sara Finnerty '93 Amy Pfaffenbach '93 · Don't Force Your Beliefs On Me Continued from page 12 put down the Book and present a rational and convincing argument in which you justify the preservation .of a piece of a woman's body which, in the first trimester. has no central nervous system and no awareness of it's consciousness. I do agree on one point, however; you should not have to pay for abortions if you do no! believe in them. While I respect your right to worship any way in which you see fit. I would also like to remind you that your right to swing your fist stops at the end of my nose; your right to impose your religion on everyone else is as non-existent as your right to smash my face. Overturning Roe vs. Wade will set back human rights in this country al a time when the rest of the world, as Mr Hadden points out. is just discovering how vital they are. Brad Perriello '93 Campus Paperback: Bestsel}ers 1. Lire's Little lnstntctlon Eloa'c, by H Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hm. $5.95.) Advice for attaining a lull life. 2. Attack of the Deranged Mullnl Killer Monster Snow Goons, by Bill Watlersori. (Andrews & McMeel. $895.1 Cartoons. 3. Frielr.l GINn TCiflllloilf It Ill Whistle Stllp Cafe. by Fannie Flagg. (McGiaw·HiU, 56.95.). A WOffiM's lllirl9mberance d life In lhe deep South. 4. The Finn, by Jollli Gtishain. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) YCIUng 1awyei conlrorls lha ·hidden worldriQS of his firm. 5. Sewn Habit. of Highly EfhcUve Ptople, by Steven R. CcMYy. Fll'eSide, $9.95.) Guide 1o ptll9lli1Sl fulftllmert.. 6. The Prince of Tides, by Pill Conroy. (Banlam, $5.99.) Soo1hem man confronts his.~·s pas1 irt New YOlk City. 7. Juraask: Parte. by Micllael Crictlb't (Ballantine, $5.99.) A theme park's cloned d'ncsaurs are Cl92ling a world crisis. 8. You Just Don't Undel'ltllld. by Deborah Tlllll1en. (Ballantine, $1 0.00~ Haw men and women can understand each clher be!ter. 9. lnln John, by Robsl181y. (Vnage. $11.oo.) The rills o1 passage ;.., fll1lt1Dod as seen in a variety rl cuiLinls. ...

,, Bread & Butter Puppet Theatre At. Union by Cort Boulanger Ar:ts Editor 7:30 p.m.; May 18, 2 to 5 p.m., and 6 :to 9 p.m.; and May 19, 2 to 5 p.m., and 6 to 9 p.m. Rehearsal time requirements are flexibie depending on roles taken and dinner will be provided on the 17th and 18th. Any questions regarding this program can be answered by calling 370-6369. original theatrical work to premiere October 16 to 18 at Union. Bread and Puppet is an improvasional troupe who use their unique style to make political and social statements. Recently, the troupe has taken issue witll the proposed James Bay hydropower project, which critics say would destroy large tracts of Canadian wilderness. ,, If you have always been interested in performing, but lacked the courage or experience, your answer has arrived. Starting next month, the renowned improvisational troupe Bread and Puppet Theater will begin a series of performances at Union. The auditions will be open to all Union students and no background in acting or music is required. Every Union student is encouraged to participate in this unique event. \Columbus\ is the first of three phases .in a partnership organized by Union College to develop commtmity relations through the· arts. The partnership is made possible by a gr~t of $<i6,000 from the Lila Wallace-Readers Digest Arts Partners Program, which is administered by the Association .oJ Performing Arts Presenters in Washington. With Union,. the \arts partners\ include Schenectady County Community College, Proctor's Too, the Schenectady Downtown Council and the Hamilton Hill Arts Center. Since its founding in 1'963, 1 Bread and Circus has gained an international reputation for its sometimes controversia'l performances. Those who choose to participate will be involved in a large-scale pageant and elaborate parade through the streets of Schenectady in the Bread and Puppet Theater's performance of \Christopher Columbus: The New World Order.\ This event, that features masked performers, stilt walkers and exaggerated effigies, will take place Wednesday. May 20. The company will arrive three days early to rehearse with the additional participants who will perform in the 60 to 150 member cast as puppeteers, musicians, singers and dancers. The rehearsals, to take place in the Memorial Field House, are May 17 at The seco11d phase, to take place on June 27 and 28, will bring the project partners from Union to the Glover VT home of Bread and Puppet Theater for \Our Resurrection Circus,\ an annual weekend outdoor festival that has drawn more than 40,000 :people. The third phase is a three week residency at Union in which participants will work with Bread and Puppet to create and perform an Those interested in this program should be expecting to do more than just act out a part, according to Lee Bloomrosen, director of the College Center, and organizer of the partnership. \Presenters should be prepared to deal with sensitive material,\ he said. \They should be prepared to talk about (the issues) in an, environment where people will not feel threatened.\ Relating to this performance is The James Bay Exhibition by artist Peter Schumann. This 60' by 15' mural graphically depicts the damage that this project will have on the environment. It will be on display in the CC from May 3- 30, so that students can witness the gravity of this issue. The Pre-Law Society Welcomes VITO CARU!iD Schenectady County Republican -Chairman & Delegate to the Republican National Convention May 5 7:30 p.m. cc 203 All welcome for Q & A time! Guest Conductor Leads ASO Courtesy of Albany Symphony Orchestra Tsung Y eh, principal guest conductor will lead the Albany Symphony Orchestra in the final concerts of the season on Friday May 1 at ~he Troy Savings Bank Music Hall and Saturday, May 2 at Albany's Palace Theatre. Both performances begin at 8 p.m. Charles Lazarus will appear as trumpet soloist. Symphony No. 2\ by Sergei Rachmanioff. One of his most perf!mned symphonic works, this symphony contains some of the most beautiful melodies ever written. Tsung Y eh has served as principal guest conpuctor for the Albany Symphony this past season, conducting the last two pairs of subscripth~n concerts. The season finale is a concert of great diversity. After opening with \Overture of the Seasons. Op. 89, ;, by Svoboda, the flashy, fun, and V·irtuosic \Trumpet Concerto\ dubbed The Phoenix, •• by Russell Peck will follow. The program will conclude with the romantic and ever popular Mr. Lazarus enjoys a successfU'l career as a soloist, ensemble, and orchestral performer. He has given numerous recitals and concerts throughout the United States, London and Canada. Single ticket p:r:ices range form $10-$22 and may be reserved by contacting the Palace Box Office, 19 Clinton A venue. Albany, 465-4663. ~l-J\.DD!~l~9)~\i61i1~~~~==:2:l-~:tober 22) non·ed-ln. intuitive sense and you Hold on keep to yoUISelf this will be one the few signs that stays week. Know whom you can count on Min beat.\ The vibes keep b!iilding in and hang with the trustworthy folk. intensity to a dynamic full moon over Your personality can magnetize the weekend. You like the lunar magic others, but don't count on it. Over the and are focused on .that special some· weekend, you return to your happier one. If single, you are definitely on .the self and are able to talk al:iout all you prowl. have been through. TAURUS (April20-May 20) This . SCORPIO (October 23-Novembcr weekend's full moon in your opposite 21) The full moon this.weekeitd in ypur sign honors your love of people, sign promises to display all your as- specifically, certain spe<:ial people. sets, You withdraw for a few days Not surprising since romance has spe- before the weekend to recharge, plan cia! magic for you this year. Okay, and maneuver to get what you W!Plt. Be okay, if you're ·nat interested in the sure the object of your desire is some- lighter side of life, your creativity is one you really want however, because enhanced. you may very well get them. GEMINI (May 21-June .20) Watch SAGIITARIUS (November 22- out. If you haven •t been living up to December 21) Tension is bigh all week snuff (read, responsible) you could be long. and unfortunately, you're one of sitting on Mt. Vesuvius all week long. the signs in the spotlight. Muster up the First the heat, then some steam and strength to be captain of your ship and beware of the lava!. This is,a c:hance to you'll ,c;ome out just fme :(and perhaps pull it together again. Lucky you, The a bit wi~r for it all), You \peak and weekend promises relief and li breath perk\' over the weekend ~d beyond~ of fresh air. CAPRICORN (December 22· CA.~CER (June 21-July 22) When- January 19) You Iieedto .. check it out\ ever you have a chance for a couple of this week. You could learn a lot about zzz · s, do so, because the pace is hectic those in your life and discover in the this week. Clear yow desk and return end, what is, is, and what isn't, isn't. your calls every day because the unex- Never fear, my dear goat, this uphill pected lurks. Spring fever subsides by climb has you on the mountain top by the weekend, but then you fifid your- the weekend, waving the victory flag. self in the throes of a gothic romance. AQUARIUS (January 20-February LEO (July 23-A\li~ust 22) If you're 18) Your love and devotion to those in stubborn, as you sometimes are, count your life come out big time this week. on a rough week. Keep your sense of To help, seek the unusual solution and humor and you come out, as always, break through :restrictions. You're on the old Mlion-on-top ... Your founda· the scene and responsible as the tions are tested, but by the weekend, weekend begins. you're back to your nonnal, charrnihg, PISCES (February 19·March 20) lovable self with all your admirers Your popularity is the focus,thls week. around you~ Expect some jealous tantrums from VIRGO (August 2:>-Septembcr 22) loved ones and demands from friends. ' You're in your element this week and Don'ttrytobeeverythingtoeveryone. have what it takes to be a winner. Stay Decide who and what, and honor those logical, since the other signs of the conunitments. The weekend has you zodiac go slightly berserk with the full on top again. Congrats! You may have moon. Never lose sight of who you are made your dreams reality. and what you want, and you sail into Cl992 by King Features Synd. harbor this weekend. Empire Center To Present Musical Courtesy of Empire State Peiforming Arts Center Opening at the Empire Center on April 30, 1992 is Maria Riccio Bryce's musical, Mother. I'm Here. This production will have ten performances in the Lewis A. Sawyer Theatre through May 10, 1992. Performances will be Thursdays through Sundays at 8pm with matinees on Saturdays and Sundays at 3pm. From the author of HEARTS OF FIRE comes this chronicle of womanhood wbich puts the passion and humor, the joys and sorrows and the total experience of being a woman in the spotlight.. Tickets for all performances will be $15 for adults; $7.50 for children 12 and under. For further information, call the Empire Center Box Office at 437-1845. Union St. Apts., 800 Block ~ 4 Bedroom 3 Bedroom 2 Bedroom $750 + Security $600 + Security $500 Heat Incl. +Security Entire House 2 levels • $1900 + Security - 9-11 Bedrooms Foster Ave 2 Bedrooms - $400 + Security J93-Z947, Leave Messau = = ;;;;;; ~ = § § = == = I =

Barbie's Boobs Don't Move by Julie Medow contributing writer \When you are a little girl, whatdoyou see?\ (Sara.) \Barbie.\ (Erica.) \Right And all these perfect models with perfect bodies ... and you want to be just like them.\ (Sara, again.} '\B· ·t 't \ (.E • u you can' • . . nca.. getting into it.) \Right.\ (Sara.) So, what do you do? If you.. are Sara Langevin, you get an. IEF Student B grant from the college, grab every image of femininity that troubles you, and create a multi-medi(l installation that blows the male convention of beauty t<> bits. And then you proudly display it in the atrium of the Arts Building. Monday the 27th began the week long display of Sara's Senior project, which she has been working on since the fall. For those of you who are scratching you heads at this point, \multi-media installation\ is a fancy tenn for three-dimensional art which combines. many art fonns into one display, \as opposed to still-life painting, which is all you really see at Union,\ commented Sara. For example, Sara uses painted canvases, television, magazines, books, cosmetics, and home furnishings to create a skeleton of a woman's life that is so real it almost freaked me out. I wanted to sit on the couch, do my nails, and watch \Another World\ with Sara, eating cheese and crackers while talking about how fat we are getting. Because. after aU. isn't that ·my life? Isn't it yours? At her apartment one night in October, Sara tried to describe to me what she was planning en doing, and all I could really understand about it was that the final product would be really big. And it is really big. But not just in actual physical size ... in What it says about the way in which our society deals with weight, appearance, and domestic roles for women. \The popular descriptions of the day have been 'bitter' and 'feminist'.\ Sara told me as I was jotting dow11 notes at her exhibit like a real critic would do. l can undcerstand why people would say these things about her work, but it makes me upset to hear them. For one. bitter carries negative connotations ab<Jut both the art and the arHst, and unfortunately, so does the worn-out -used-for -everything- relating -to-women's-issues term feminist. S-econdly, does , something as homest and bare and bold as Sara's work need to be labeled at all? I say, just let it stand and speak for itself. You will feel something from it, I promise. ••rt•s basically my reaction from growing up in a materialistic society,\ Sara said, and there ls evidence of this all over :tfue place. On a huge canvas jJlitroduced by the phrase \I am en Happed by ... \. painted-over Ill essages from advertisements pfove just how much warped c0ntrol product's slogans hav-e over women consumers. After all, one ad says, \You <10 n' t need a new life. You just need a new shampoo.\ (Oh, really? Will it help me get a jol>?) But a word cut out from a magazine and pasted over Barbie's face in a collage seems to carry Sara's message of what we can do about these obsessions: \Rediscover\. Sara's installation will be exhibited until May lst. Go check it out. And throw away your Barbie d:olls. Protect Yourself: Practice Safe Sunning by Car.a Soifer Assistant Lifestyles Editor Wouldn't it be a . near perfect morning to wake up · ghostly pale, rub on a·,magic lotion and instantly (4-.6 hours later) tum a dark bronZe~ Most people believe this wondro11s event could only occur of that little magic bottle is called \Hawaiian. Tropic Tanning Oil.\ Surprisingly, though. to obtain this fantastic tan--stay out of the sun! · The ozone layer has deteriorated too much (40% in some areas of Northern U.S.A. and Canada) and scientists have gotten too sharp for us vulnerable humans to ignore Teality any longer. There is no need to, since we can all gain the same effect from self· tanning lotions as we get from the dangerous .sun itself. Considering the only draw back might be that the tan lasts one week usually, there are no rational reasons why everyone who enjoys the look of a dark complexion should not use self-tanners. Trying to use the excuse that self-tanners produce a fake orange color on the skin is foolish, since advanced te-chnology has eliminated the chance of an ugly orange tan. Therefore, after choosing from a variety of name-brand products which offer bonuses, such as SPF protection, moisturizer, and vitamin E, no one will ever know the difference between a fake tan and a real one. Actually, they will notice. Twenty years down the road, when the college reunion looks like a gatherin~ of old leather bags, the clever,knowledgeable self-tanning use1s will gleam yo11thfully. in contrast against the wrinkled. aging friends -of long ago. For the stubborn sun goddesses who \\\ill ignore this article, remember, the sun's UVB rays cause skin cancer and the UV A rays CJ.uicken aging and magnify wrinkles. So, at the least, use sun protection labelled \broad spectrum\ to CCiaMof199t !Jmioiv ~· ~!ioofo UNION COLLE E Antoinette Afme Heather Almy David Andelman Paul Andrejkovics Joshua Aron Gregory Barrett Deborah Beaudry Klmberlee Brody Lalbachan Budhal Beth Carlson Maria Chformitro Jeffrey Cusmarlu David Donaldson Patricia Donaldson Christen D'Orio Kersttn tlorse Roselle Efsma Michael Emml Thomas Fallatl Michael !=lanagan Elisabeth Foley Tobias Gado Bret Goldin lamont House, Schenectady, New York 12308 (518) .370-6142 The following members of the \Class of '92 have given to the Senior Gift Drive f<lr Union College (as of April28). Please Join tllem in their efforts to s-trengthen our College. GiftS may be brought to the third floor of Lamont House or sent via campus mail to: Stacl Dupre, Lamont House. All gifts will be matched by an anonymous donor. Please call X6142 for further Information. Alix Goldschmidt Erica Goshko Cristin Grace Alex Green Dalton GUstafson Peter Hackett Willtam Hahn Daniela Hoffmann Diego Hojraj. Daniel Jahne Amy Joslin Suzanne Kerin Kimberly Koenig Jocelyn Korn Daniel LaFleur Jonathan Lennon Robert Leung Erica Levine Mary Levinsohn Jordan Uppner Danielle Mathews Heather McNeary Pnina Miller Jeffrey Nield Constance Ng wendy Oremland Bruce Patryn Brigham Pendleton Heidi Phelps Herrika Poor, Senior Gift Drive CoaChair Eugene Ray Keith Reynolds Andrea Rogers Michael Rolnick Betsy Rothsteill Philip Royce Denise Saunders Anna Sorin William Stevens:on, Senior Gift Drive co-Chair Gerard sulliva11 Mary Tung Donald Valerio Robert Vialardl Marcy Wein Karen Welsek Marie Wheeler Arnie Yuskaitls Ricflard Zembelc Seniors making a donation to this year's gift drive may vote for the use of their cumulative class dollars. All money raised will go to the category with the greatest number of votes at the close of the Class of '92 Senior Gift Drlwe. The three categories to clloose from are: The 80th Annual Fund for Union CiOIIege, the Nott Memorial Restoration Fund, or the campus Pub. The first 92 dlonors of $20 or more will recer;ve a Class o1 '92 mug. shield skin fror0rn both types of ultraviolet l~g;ht. All types of people are ~t risk during sun exposure, at all times of the year. Even a walk across campus means lathering on .lotion before IJaiid! Lastly, :the seemingly harmless trnp~ to the tanning salon will in-deed give more than an inV\isible tan line to compliment y<>ur formal dress. The artificLal light may not emit UVB nl:;'S, but the UV A rays are pres:.ent indoors and out. l Sll\NLEY H. KAPlAN Take Kapl<tn().- Take Your Chances • Be a step ahead! Enroll now ~11d get your home stlldy materials. • You may attend classes at any <>f our 150 centers mation-wide. • Call489-0077 Alba1l]J Kaplan Center The Hls!e~ry deparmtent is conduclitlg a reapointment review of. flrofessor Andrew Feffer. Amyone wishing to comment on his teaching, researcil. ,or service should contact Professor Jonas, Social Sciences 214-D (ext. 6072). .... I _,.

' - UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAl SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present ' \MULTIPLE FORMS and FUNCTIONS of HUMAN LACTOFERRIN\ ]]) ffi .. . IP Illi TI Tia IT JP IF TlJ ill :00: AN ~ }KIT !Bll«D!l.®(l;'!\' lll>r&IP.&.m'll'MIE'i\!'11' W!EW 'lf'IOJJR!l[ UINIIWIEffi§!I'!l'W Thursda·y, May 7fh, 1992 4:40 p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m. Social Scie·nces Room 104 NEED EXTRA CASH??!! WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN SDr.fE FUN, EASY MONEY! STUDENTS WHO WOULD LIKE TO 1\IORK ON REUNION WEEKEND - MAY 29TH, 30TH & 31ST. PLEASE STQ:p BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE OR CALL ALISON OR PEG'AT x6168. WHALE WATCH '92 REPORT 4 Finback whales 1 Humpback (full spinning breach and tail breach) Atlantic White Sided Dolphins Porpoises ANNOUNCEMENT Applications are now being taken for the Union College Investment Club, which manages a portfolio valued in excess of $10(),000. Any student who has taken or is taking Economics 34 (Financial Analysis) or Economics 36 (Financial Markets) may apply for membership on the Board, which has several vacancies. New members would serve for 1he remainder of the Spring term of this year and for the 1992-93 academic year. If you are interested in applying for membership on the Board, please see Mrs. Geraci in the Economics Department Office (Social Science 212) for a description of the Investment Club and an application for membership on the Board. If you have further qt~estions concerning the Club, please contact Prof. Kenney (x6081) or Prof. Lewis (x6078). Membership applications are due to Proi. Lewis no later than Fricfay, May 8, 1992. SIG,M UP NOW! UNION C<lJ:.L!:GE DINING SERVICES PRESENTS ~R~CAN WHOLEFOODS CUISINE VEGETARIAN EX'l.'AAVAGANZA NIKKI & DAVID· GOLDBECK • UPPERCLASS DINING HALJ:.i CO!.L!:GE CENTER FRIDAY. MA¥ ·. t992 · 5:00pm HORS D'OEOVl!ES Tofu Stick~ W/Cocktai.l 1Dippin9' Sauce Tempeh Salad & Whole Whe'lt Pita Wedges Stuffed 'MtJshroorn. Marinated Cucumber ·salad SOUP Mid East Carrot and <:hick Pea ·Puree ENTREE Baked Spinach :!:et.a Spanish Wlleat Baked Herbed EggJ;>lant SALA~ •Greek Cole .Slaw BREAD Pumpkin Pa~ Bolls Savory Oat 'a is cui ts DESSERT ·Macar-n~p App:hes Nikki's New Brownies Whipped •cream' Fresh F·z:-u.it No Charge 10 Union College Students on the Ml:al Plan SlO. 00 to Union CoTiege'Community s 13 • 0 0 Eo r_ General Putllic Admissions Sign Up 48 hours iltaavince at Dutch H<Jl!ow Restaurant • 2 · 4 PM and 7 • 9 PM Upperclas:S'Or West Dining HalL· Lnttch or Dinner Times Dining Se!Yices Office· Si30 am· 5:00pm ' Telephone· 3J0-6C50 Attention All 199Z GRADUATES All 1992 Union College graduates who have btnrowed through the Sta.fFord or SLS loan programs whHe enrl)l'led· at Union College, must attend· an e>tit interview counseling session. Attendance at an exit interview session is a GRADUkTION REQUIREHE~T. Sessions will be held in the .Aud.itorium of ~he College Center on Tuesday, May 12 at 8:30 a,m·. Tuesday, May 12 at ·6:00p.m. Wednesday, May 13 at 10:30 a.m. Wednesday, May 13 at 3:00p.m. Thursday, May 14 <it 9:30a.m. Thursday, May 14 at 7:00 p.m. Friday, May 15 at 11:15 a.m. Friday, May 15 at 2:30 p.m. Call the Flnandal .Aid Offi<:e by May B, 199~ al >t6123 to register for a session or to schedule a more c~nvenient time. Attention ALL 199~ GRADUATES ?La:e.a. <JlerSOfllll al . .flae :Jafo '1Joofh ·only SO• ,J, ARE YOU AWARE? UST DAY TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY MAY 8TH,t992 All Junior Biology Majors Any student who is interested in doing a senior year . project in biology should fill out the one-page application which was mailed last week. If you did not receive; an. \Application for Honors Research\ form, yo,1;1 may pick one up in the Biology Department Office. Please return the .completed form to the Biolcgy Department by May 8. Marine Term Abroad Bermuda Cape Cod Next Spring Environmental Studies Schooner Expedition North Atlantic Marine Policy Marine Biology INFORMATION MEETING WED., 4:30PM MAY 13 5.5.110. Contact Prof. Kaplan (x6Z30) If rou have l(uestlons U$11ERS ARE ftEEDEDrOR GRADUATIOn JUnE I'ITII CSURDAYlAT 10:00 011., If InTERESTED PlEASE SIGR In ROOII CLUB FRANCAIS 408~ COllEGE CERTER Si vous avez envie de voir TOTO LE HEROS, film francais soustitre en anglais. le mardi 5 moi 1992 ou Spectrum a Albany, contactez Marie (#6837) ou Bruce (#4276). Rendez-vous devont le Rathskeller 6 18h25 (6:25pm) UNJON COLLEGE DEPARTME~T OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and THE BTOLOGY CLUB Present 11 SUPERHEL1CAL DNA: THE BIOCHEMISTRY of TWISTING and WRITHING\ WIT ll. L II &. 00 m . !]Lt.\ lU lE !R{ ~ lP Thl. .. IlD • ID IE J.Fl AIR 'II'OOIE N'll' 0 IF MIT <C :R ® l!UI<rD lL (())G lY ST A \J'IE 1llNI!\YIEI1l~rrt'd' ®IJ\ WlE'W ~<Ulm~ .t~!l ~T®N\Y l!l!R$®0C Thursday, April 3t>ttt, 1992 4:40 p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m. YOU AFRAID THAT YOU WILL BE OUTOFWORK / \. THIS SUMMER? DON'T WORR.Yl IT•s. NOT TOO LA TEl COME INTO THE CDC AND LOOK THRU THE SUMMER JOB BINDERS TODAY! Concordiensis Staff Positions Available! Please Contact Ned Walley x4306

CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL30, 1992 • P~GE 17 Tired of dorm laundry rooms? ~llil~ri~crum C(O)il]l JL~mllllcd!Jry Brand New Store · Now Open 24 Hours! Save Money with ... Huge Double and Triple Load Was hers Bigger, Faster Dryers While Washing ... Use our large tables for homework, Shop at Price Cho.Pper or Brooks Drugs, Eat Pizza or. Chinese All located in Sheridan Plaza with plenty of convenient parking Price Chopper * Sheridan * Coin Laundry Rosa Rd. Ellis Hospital Nott St. I union I Located only three bl()cks from Union Campus! 3-4-6-7 Bedroom Apartments and Houses for 92-93 ·Washer /Dryer and All Appliances Included • Modern Ki·tchens & Baths ·Porches & Back Yard ·Well Insulated .. Flexible Leases 370-5498 Evenings or 370-3275 Days /10UNTEe>ANK5 5f'RING t1U'.5/CA1- REVIEW May 2 & 3 7:00 pm Upper Class Dining ~ W T!JJIDJE Nlr JF CO) IR l!JOO JELJECClrJICQ)N§ ~ 3-4 Bedroom Apartments Available for Petition for the offices of: President 3 Junior · Trustee V .P. A d m i n is t r at i o n V.P. Academics V.P. Finance Make A Difference! Pick up petitions now in the Student Activities Ofrice 4th Floor College Center! NEW· LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: · Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday-Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 Representatives for: Senior Class; '9 3 Junior Class; '9 4 Sophomore Class;' 9 5 Petitions due Ml®mcdl~~~ :OO&y JlJltl:Thl ~ltl ~h~® IP~lll]l~ Elections will be held ()ll lFrrli cdlf!lJ' \) Mfil:J n ~~liD i n the College Center The Writing Board invites the entire College community to hear Professor Gregory Colomb, from the University of Illinois, discuss DISCIPLINARY SECRETS or What teachers know and won't tell. Whether you are teaching or learning writing, let Colomb f6 provoke you, f£:J entertain you, b inform you, h stretch your mind about the possibiiities of writing in your discipline. Date: Friday, May 1 Place: The College Center Auditorium Time: 7:30 p.m. Gregory Colomb is Director of Programs in Profession.al Writing at the University of illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He is a fo1Uider of the celebrated \Uttle Red Schoolliouse\ program developed at the University of Chicago to critique and improve academic and professiona] writing. Financial support for this lecture is provided by the President's Discretionary Fund, established by the Hewlett and Mellon Foundations. '92- '93 Newly Renovatect Washer - Dryer Available Back Yard, Front Porch, Large Kitchen, Modern Bathroom New Carpet Throughout • Please Call Monday through Friday 9:00 am-5:00 pm 462-7411 Evenings and Weekends: 482-8788 TELECOMMUNI .. CATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT X370-6411 ... _ ...

. ' _ .. -' .. --._: __ .,..ll· ... nT·£_ ... ·. -. -- _· . ·, · .. ·· ·_ · · ·.. - - . . · - · .. · . :· r- ._ .... a· . .. . -. ·-- ·. - . . . .· . : .. : : . CONCORDIENSIS • APRIL 30, 1992 ·PAGE 18 Softball Squad StiU Struggling by Ron Birnbaum Concorsiensis Staff Jean Lopata lead off the scoring after getting on base with a double, in addition to Parker, Weske, and jtmior quad-captian right fielder Kim Twombly for a final 8-6 score. Credited in particular for their contributions were Nytransky, w-ith 3 RBI's, a single, and a Tennis Team :Continues Winning ·ways by Ch-ris Miller Contributing Writer This Union softball team has had another trying week with two out of four teams played, New Paltz and Skidmore, rained out (New Paltz not to be rescheduled) and two of its three games versus RPI (a double-header at home) and Binghamton (away) losses for a current 6-5 record. Uni0n only one, and even more so in the critical following inning where RPI prevented the sq11ad from getting any runs after taking :five for itself. It got its final three in the seventb, and Union was only able to come back with one run of its own. Still commended for their efforts in the close battle were senior quad-captian catcher Robin Romer for a solo homerun and two singles, fresllman shortstop Stephanie Howk with three singles and three RBI's, and Silvestri, who hadtwo singles and two RBI's. SAC-fly and Howk, going The Men's Ten11is Team tllree for four at bat and getting , hcas continued to play an RBL · superbly this past week. Polites. Jim has consistently produced for the team when - needed. Adam Breslawsky has returned this year to fill in at #6 singles. Steady as always, Adam has won some great matches. Also filling in at singles are Tom Rizzo and Dave Moody. After trouncing St. Rose (9- After the New Paltz rain-out, RPI (Rensselaer) was split one-and-one, Union taking the first game 2-1 and losing the second 10-14. In the first, Union's Michelle Parker, a freshman first baseman, stole home on a double-steal situation in the bottom of the second to open things up. RPI tied the game with its only run in the fifth off an opening single, yet Union was able to go ahead in the sixth when freshman right fielder Chris Nystransky singled to get on. She was replaced by freshman Nicole Silvestri, as pinch runner, who stole second and scored on a two-out single by freshman third basemen Deb Montano. Rensselaer was unable to answer in the top of the seventh. At Binghamton two days later. there was no score for either side until the bottom of the f>econd inning, Binghamton knocking in three. Union matched Binghamton one-for- one when Silvestri pinch ran for !Parker, wbo got on base on a fielder's choice, and scored off an RBI by sophomore left fielder Chris Weske. Still down by six after senior quad-captian center fielder Roselle Eisma scored a second run off Ny~transky's RBI in the sixth, the team made a valiant attempt to come back during its last licks in the top of the seventh with four runs. Senior qulld-captian second baseman The schedule -of teams to be c<>ntended with this week is full, including Albany, a crucial grudge~match which leads the roster. Having beaten the Danes once 5-l, the squad should be able to set the pace for itself for the rest of the season based on this game; .and ! 0) the team pulled out a great win against Vassar (5-4). The only ,Joss of the week came at the bands of Albany (4..,5). The team's recmd now stands at 5-2. The doubles line-up has also been a big factor in the ·last couple of matches. After switching the double teams around, ;the tennis team has consistently won at least two of the three doubles matches. At #1 doubles and currently undefeated is Philipp Herz/Chris D'Orio. The #2 doubles team is the combination of Garett Lasewicz/Dave Moody. Finally, the #3 doubles team with a record of 3-1 is Chris Miller/ Adam Breslawsky. Hurt by walks and errors in the second game, the Dutchwomen were up 4-3 after the first inning. While RPI did not score at all in the next three, Union consistently drove in one run in both the second and the third and two in the forth. Yet, things took a turn in the fifth when the opponent scored three and DRUNK DRIVING KILLS it should be a good indication of the squad's caliber to enter ' post-season play. North Adams, to be played today, will not help or :burt the squad for post-season consideration unless it is a str<>ng team, as it is from Massachusetts, out-of- state. For the weekend, Russel Sage, a local team yet possible deciding factor to post-season '' play, is to be faced away in Troy on Satwday and RIT at home on Sunday, another rescheduled game_ ·- '\ . ,• ... . . I ~·· • !iEI\IIOR I:LA!i!i MEETII\IIi Friday, May 1 4:30 P.M. in the PUB We 'II discuss Disorientation, Party, Graduation a·nd more! Senior . .' . .. '. ' . / - • • w • ' • • w ' • •• ' The success of the team is mainly due to the depth of the si11gles line-up. Philipp Herz~ the # 1 singles player has gone undefe:1ted this season, beating su.cb schools as Colgate, Vassar, and Hamilton. Playillg strongly at the #2 singles position is Garett Lasewicz. Garett has ncently pulled ()ff upsets against Vassar and Albany. In the #3 singles position is Chris D'Orio, wh<> has also recorded wins against Vassar and Albany. Cbis Miller, the #4 singles player, has •done well this season, 'helping the team's record. At the #5 singles position is Jim This week's matches are against Hartwick (away), Skidmore (away) and Binghampton {away). The final match of the season is next Tuesday against Williams (home). TI1e team hopes that everyone will turn out to support tbem next Tuesday. 1992-93 Fall Term Prescheduling Procedures Prescheduling materia'l.s w:Ul be available· at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, May 15th. Students should review the course listing, consult: with their adviser and select Che courses they wish to take. It is advisable for ,st~dents to have additlonal choices in ~ind in the event: one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. TO FRESCHEDULE EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO IIA'ffi TilEIR ADVI:SER SIGN TJIEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS Lrn- ,\V.AILA.BLE STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OJ! THEIR MAJOR DEFARTMENT. Sane courses are avai~able only with the permission of the department. These ar.e referred to as 11 li.sc\ Ot\ \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the co.,rse listing by an asterisk (\'). Lists for these courses will be posted by tne departments on MO!<DAY, llAY 18th. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and ch\'n return to tb.e department: on FRIDAY, MAY 22nd t:o find out wnether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitt:ed to a lise course must .get a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the depart- ment. You are permitted co pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: cards not picked up by 4:30 p.w. ON MONDAY, MAY 25t:h ~ILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PE.RSON ON THE WAIT LIST. ~0 ONE WILL BE: ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require pe.rmission cards. St~dents will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their pre- scheduling form. Once ~nside, they should verify tha~ the courses they have ch~sen are not closed- If one or more courses are closed they should select nev ones and c:orrect their prescheduling form. They should see a staff member in the Registrar•s Office ~ho will preschedule them, · , Th~ date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling fonn. Students may not preschedule earlier than their as .signed time. However~ they may C:ODle any time AFTER their appointment time if tb.eir schedule penntts. PR.ESCHEDULING WILL CONCLIIDl: ON FRIDAY, MAY 291:h. Ad<litional course chacges ma.y next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in Septe~ber at the FIELDHOUSE. St~dents who do not p1an to return to Union for the Fall Term, except for se.lliors who are completing t:heir requirements early should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE UIMEPIATE:LY. Potential Fall 1992 \graduates\ should also iwmediately notify the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of Fall Te~- Students who will be on a U11ion College term abroad for the Fall term do no~ need t:o preschedule their courses. Fall term course preseheduling wi1l take place from TUESDAY, MAY 26th thru FRIDAY, MAY 29th in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Reduce~ Reuse, Separate And Recycle Office of the Registrar !lAY. 1992

. - · , · · . 'liB .. · . CONCORDIENSIS • APFUL30, 199~ \PAGE 19 D'Orlo, Lasewlcz, a~nd Lead Tennis Team To Start ln Years Herz Best by Jim PtOiites News Editor Over the first three weeks of the season, the Men's Tennis Team bas gone 5-2 overall losing orlly to Albany St. and Division One Colgate- its best start in years. Their success can be attributed in great part to the terrific play of Seniors Chris D'Orio and Garett Lasewicz and GMI student Phillip Herz. For this trio's outstanding achievements thus far, they have been named Concordiensis Sports Athletes of the Week. Herz, a graduate exchange student from Germany, has made a tremendous impact in this his first year with the team. He hru; dropped only one set in goin~ undefeated in seven singles matches and with D'Orio has won four consecutive <loubles contests. The highlig11t came against Colgate, where he was the only player to will both singles and doubles. Lasewicz, co-captain from Bristol,CT, is competing in his fourth season on the varsity level. He is playing both number tw<l singles and doubles and has compiled an aggregate record of 9-5 in seven . matches. His best win came Monday agai11st Albany St. as he came fromlJehind to post a 4-6, 6-3, 6.,3 win. D'Orio, co-captain from Marblehead, MA, is also winding up a four year tennis career here at Union. Thus far, his win percentage on the team is best at 13-1, and he is the only player undefeated in doubles competition. His record includes three three-set wins against Hamilton, St. Rose, and Albany St. In singles, the three have a combined Fecord of 18-3- an achievement that wi:ll be severely tested during the second half of the season against teams like Skidmore, Binghamton. and Williams. Congratulations and continued success to PhiHip Herz, Garett Lasewicz, and Chris D'Orio-Con<:ordiensis Sports Athletes of the Week. Men & Women's Crews Prepare For States by Daniel J, Bullen Concordiensi.s Staff. _ This past weekend at Hobart and William Smith, Union College Crew had its last races before traveling to Corning, New York for State Championships, where Union's expectations have been set high for proving themselves faster than local and regional competitors. They also seek a spot in the National Small College Championships at the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia in two weeks with their performance in Corning. With last week as an indication, next week the team's efforts will be rewarded with selection to the Vail Regatta. This past weekend Union's Varsity women reclaimed one of the President's cups; last year President Hull and the President ofHobart and William Smith Colleges instituted a tradition of competition between Union and Hobart/William Smith with these cups, one for Varsity men and one for Varsity women. Last year both cups were lost, but this year Union's Varsity women reclaimed their cup with a crushing sixteen second win over William Smith. The men's eight. with three novices, lost their race by a smaller margin, and will have another shot at the Hobart men when they come to Union next spring. The Novice crews also performed well this past Saturday; the men's four won their race, a11d the Novice women's eight lost a close race to a fast William Smith Novice crew. The pair without coxsw11in did not row last weekend, but is waiting to break 011t in the state competition at Corning. On Sunday, after returning from Hobart Saturday night, _the Varsity men~s lightweight follt beat the lightweights from Boston College, last year's New England Champions. Head Coach T()m MacClarence was very pleased with Union's overall performances, and sees Union's chances of moving on t<l National competition as ,promising, and with all of the solid and triumphant races this weekend, Union rowers are looking forward to proving themselves superior to New York State crews next weekend, and then placing themselves in the national competition in Philadelphia. The atmosphere in the Union boathouse is very positive now, watching their unthwarted efforts pay off, having faced early in the season adversities which would have daunted lesser athletes. With an injury to Head Coach MacClarence which kept off the water for over a week, and oil slicks and bitter weather, these victories are that much sweeter. Now as the weather warms and practices can happen regularly, morale is staying high so workouts can remain focused. So with success a reachable goal, the future looks promising f<lr Union Crew at Corning and then in Philadelphia. WRITE for SPORTS Write Box 1847 Rugby Impressive Continued from Page 20 told a fellow player that at the exact moment he received the pass, a black cl()ud passed overhead. \It had a direct likeness to Skip. I was energized with eb<my. That's what made me scare.\ Union's march for the consolation championship ended with immediate forfeits from Ferdonia and Cornell after watching \The Kid's\ try. In a post-tourney interview with Concordien~is, Flynny said nothing because he left early with Ty, Barry, and Muffin Cakes so that Eric could get back: to his \Special Friend\. We did track down the Line Captain for a few words. Peter ,;yes its true that the only facial hair r get on my face is my cheesy mustache\ deBoer was q uote<l as saying \Dude ... (yes be knows Medon) Union's team has acquiesced to no team under the penalty of underdeveloped technique and execution in view of the infrastructure of this procurement toward mastering the counterproduction of this promathean confrontation of man versus the elements. This coming weekend's match will betoke the true adroitness of every last man on our team.\ All are welcome to attend Union's first and last home game of the Spring season on May 2nd. Our Ruggers take on R.P.I. at lp.m. on the Rugby Pitch in the center of campus chach Talk by John Schacbnovsky Sports Editor \Be afraid ... be very afraid!\ That is what the Washington Redskins ate saying to the rest of the National Football League after this past week\ draft. The annual selection of college players by NFL teams is usually hilighted by the lower echelon of the teams picking the best players in college in hopes of boosting their chances in the upcoming season. This tum of events has, for the past few seasons been the key to parity in the league. Well, as of a week ago, that parity stopped. The challenge to dethrone the Washinton Redskins became that much harder when the Defending Super Bowl champions drafted Heisman trophy winner Desmond Howard. The Washington Redskins were the most dominant team in the NFL this past year, and if they needed one thing in the draft it was a semi-solid reciever to start practicing to take the place of the first member of the aging \posse\ to retire ... prabably Art Monk. Well.. . .I'm no scout, but I'd say Howard is a semi- solid redver ... o'kay I'll say it...he's pretty good. I thought the lesson in sports was learned in 1984 by the New Jersey Nets. For those of you who have not had the honor to know that Michael Jordan was the third overall pick in the draft behind of all people Sam Bowie of the Nets. This draft pick set the tone for franchises in sports to start drafting the best player possible. Granted the Colts needed some defense, but they had no offense supporting QB Jeff George, so picking three defenders in the first tbree picks might at first seem like solid picks. The fact is many experts think it was great drafting. However, I, along with many other football fans know the real reason Eric Dickerson is n0w a Los Angelas Raider. Eric knew. as we ali d<l that the offense of the Colts is about as powerful as Chuck Knox's new diet. Getting Steve Emptman for the defense and Howard for the offense was the best .idea. Well, I guess that's why the Colts hierarchy is getting paid for these decisions and I'm stuck llere laughing at them. I don't have the time, space, or patientce to go through the rest of the draft. I will say that the Washington Redskins arc looking very good for this year, and even though the Colts made a fatal mistake. in my analysis, they will still be a much improved squad. The two awards I will give to conclude are my most underatcd teams and my biggest losers award. First to the Miami Dolphins who pick up two defensive players that will have an impact this year greater than anyone will comprehend. cornerback Troy Vincent. and linebacker Marco Coleman. Both are heavy hitters that will make the Dolphins big time contenders in the AFC. My big loser category goes to the Denver Broncos. This team neede<l offense to help supplement The Franchise, John Elway, and instead drafted a quaterback who played a fraction above par in the overrated Pac-l O ••• go figure. I'm sorry to all the fans who wanted to strangle their teams' General managers tllis past week. When in doubt..;remeber . .I'm a Charger Fan .. .l find it bard to sympathize. •

'· BASEgALL SQF]JALL May 2 at Hobart (2) 1:00 Union 10 Oneonta 8 Middlebury 16 VassarB Union 7 Union 5 LJnlon 17 Union 18 SLU 12 Potsdam 12 WOMEN•s TRACK May 1 & 2 State- Meet at Ithaca · April30 vs. North Adams 3:30 May 2 at Russell Sage (2) 11 :00 May 4 at HartWick (2) 3:30 • May ·e at Hamilton (2) 3:30 SOfTBALL Albany 10 Union 4 :MEN'S TRACK May 2 CTC Meet QOLF May 1 vs. Middlebury 1 :00 MEN'S TEftNIS . May 2 at Binghamton 1 :00 May 5 vs. Williams 3:00 WOMEN'S LAX May 5 at Williams 4:00 <lrnnrorbirttsis Lax Team Tops St. Lawrence by Cort Boulanger Arts Editor The men's Lacrosse Team experienced its most important victory of the season this past Sunday in a 17-12 beating of St. Lawrence. This win gave the Dutchmen a 7-3 record and kept alive their chances for an ECAC post-season bid. Union had been gliding on a rather unimpressive four game win-streak, including games against Skidmore and Potsdam last week. On Thursday, Union travelled to Saratoga to face off against a struggling, but improved Skidmore squad. The Skidmore players must have been still feeding on the fervor of the previous day's Earth Day celebration, because they kept the game close until the fourth quarter. Sophomore attackman Ted Sidel scored four goals and added an assist as the Dutchmen eventually topped Skidmore 15-9. On Saturday, Union played a weaker Potsdam team to a 18- 13 score. This was by far the worst effort put forth by the Dutchmen this season. The Union play mirrored the muddy and sloppy field conditions, with balls being dropp.ed and passes going awry. Unfortunately. this spoiled the \;11~.1y ~tarling dchut ol freshman goalie Steve Rocewitz, who played well considering the chaos around him. Captain Scott Whitney blasted four goals and freshman Cory Holbourogh added two goals and four assists. Fortunately for the Dutchmen, slipshod play did not carry over to the following days game against nationally l<mked St. Lawrence. On that Saturday. the Saints upset · Hartwick. a team nearing top ten status nationally. St. Lawrence did not have long to · revel in their victory,.however. In this game Union did . something that they had failed throughout the season; play well from the start and take an early lead. The Dutchmen . opened as much as a 5-2 lead before St Lawrence came back to tie it up. The first half was · very low scoring, due mainly to the tremen<lous saves made by junior goalie J.R. Van Order. A last minute goal by Captain Nate Fitch gave Union a 6-5 lead at halftime. In the second half, the game became more wide open as the Dutchmen put eleven goals in the St. Lawrence net. Fitch and attackman !im Fisher each contributed five ~oals, leading to the lopsided final score. On the other end of the field, the defense played by far its strongest game. The starting close defense of Jon Lucy, Brian Harris, and Will Winship prevented the Saints offense from mounting any substantial attack. The rarely acclaimed, but talented defensive midfielders, Mike Richardson, Dennis Foley~ J.R. Clearfield, Brian Geraghty and Rico Vargas, were pivotal in both defending and initiating fast . breaks that opened up many \COring oppor.l Ullilll'\ ror lhl' attack. This victory made Wednesday's garne against Albany State into a playoff to see who advances to post- season play. The Great qanes of Albany stan9 at 8-2 on the year and have a potent attack, but if Union is able to play the way they did against St. Lawrence. i1 wi·ll be no contest. APRIL 30 1992 Union Rugby Makes Noise in Upstate Tournament by Dave Austin Contributing Writer If anyone wanted to know how the last days before the fall of Atlantis felt, they should have simply ventured across the State of New York to attend this year's annual Upstate Tournament in Buffalo. Forty degree temperatures and driving rains set the stage for thirty-two teams representing schools and clubs from New York, Obi(), and Canada. The over-saturated fields forced all teams into a test of endurance and strategy to overcome the opponent and miserable weather. Our transformed flanker/hooker Mike \Oh ... I'm NOT too sexy for this game\ Saum, pronounced \SAOUWM\ by the Slavaki Kid, was overheard as saying \What we need is the Enchanted Canoe of the Kilted Yak to paddle our way to victory. Syracuse University was Union's first opponent. The #& %@! $ conditions slowed the play down considerably. Union's offense was forced into a kicking game to gain fieldl position. The first half ended 0-0. Dueller \I'll hair-weave my way tc Heaven\ prorated an emotional speech to titillate our team's covetousness for victory. but the Rugby GCJds withheld our campaign. A single pop-kick and recovery in the tryzone by the Orangeme11'g winger proved to be the deciding score of this licentious rnudlbath. Although Union was forced into the consolation round. their day was not over. Following a t!J.ree hour grace period, and a stop to Billie- Bob's 'Suds Your Duds' laundering facility, our freshly washed kits were taken to pitch #5 to take on Geneseo on our quest to bec(}lme consolation ombudsmen. A pre-game prayer to the Rug by Gods for more tawdry weather, a diploma, and, oh yes, big pectoral muscles, by Dave \Yes I'm stilJ here\ Austin. the team's Serum Captain for the past 9 years, did not deter the driving wiEld and rain from slowing down tournament play. This prayer, :along with a very ramburtetious rendition of \Singing ltl! The Rain\ did strike a chord ia the hearts of the Union Ruggers who immediately took control of the game. With tile help of our second game's scrumhalf Bill \the Scab\ E1lis, every scrumdown was taken by SAOUWM and the muddied \pill\ worked its way up and down the line witb pinpoint accuracy. The first try was put in on a ten meter jaunt by Dave \my dream is to get on a maple syrup label with .this stupid headpiece\ Davenport. Unable to counter Union's crushing defensive stance/mud- wrestling techniques. Chris \my jock is too tight for my own good\ Sears hulled his way in for the second try following a line out within Geneseo's 22-meter zone, pushing Union's lead to 8-0. It got to the point where the two teams were only distinguishable by their faces, if that. Geneseo, in a fit of discouragement, began tackling their own teammates in the hope that they were stopping a Union player. Through all this confusion, rookie Bill \without steroids my life is nothing\ Ackerbauer carried three Geneseo players on his back more than 5 meters into the try-zone to make the final score 12-0 in favor of Union. Bill Continued &n page 19 Union Rugby, puttir19 in their bid for changing the Union School color to brown.

