,. ! I nnrnr tcnsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXUI, Number IV .Schenectady, New York October 7, 1993 Homecoming Weekend'93 by Larry Paska Concordiensis Stqff Tomorrow marks the begin- ning of the annual Homecoming weekend, a three-day event fea- turing sporting events, guest speakers, and many perfor- mances. The activities begin Friday night with a field hockey game. Union will play Vassar at Frank Bailey Field at 7 PM. At 7:30 PM. a philosophy debate, spon- sored by the philosophy depart- ment, will be held in the Memo- rial Chapel. This will be an open forum, question-and-answer style · debate. At 8 and lO-PM, as well as on Saturday and Sunday, the Student Film Committee will sponsor the film ( 'liffilanger, ill the College Center Auditorium. Tickets for that film, like all other films. will be two dollars. Receptions. for each of the· . college's academic divisions will begii1 on Saturday at 10:30. TI1e humanities· and social sciences. \vhich combine their divisions, will hold their reception on the second floor lounge in Humani- ties: the Sciences division will meet on the second floor lounge of Bailey Hall~ and Engineering and Applied sciences will meet in room N 116 of the Science and E11gi11eering Building. According to Alison Brust, alumni programs assistant, \let- ters giving an update of events in a certain department are sent to students who majored in a sub- ject taught by that department each year. All students are wel- come to stop in, and since they are undergraduates, these meet- ings will help them to see their future and meet young alumni ~ and see what they are doing with ~ I . . ,, £ t 1e1r maJor. ~ , At 11 AM, men's soccer plays ~ .. St. Lawrence at Garis Field. At :; • · II :30, the Union Crew's lOth .~ \' anniversary reception will take .t place at the future site of the new ~ l?'i1f~;'tidL::~::~:;~::~;;~~~''''f.''\'fi;:~;-~;::}'i0~~T:~'~'i\i~i'~r~~;~,;~:.~{i' boat house on Front Street, in the \§. ~~~---~~- ........... -~----''----~-~~~~--....;;.;; Stockade. The Homecoming Pic- nic, sponsored by Union's la- crosse and women's softball ' teams on Alexander field, will serve lunch from I I :30 until 3, with all proceeds going to those teams. Also at I l :30. the Dutch Pipers and Gamet Minstrelles will perform music on the Lamont House porch. At noon, Peter K. Smith '70, will perform a bells concert from the Memorial Chapel tower. According to Brust. \Smith has done this con- cert for years, even as an under- graduate. He also gives the con- cert during Re-Union weekend in the spring.\ The major event of the day is the I :30 football game against Sophomore back, Frank Attah. carries Dickinson defenders with him as he marches downfleld. The homecomingfootba/1 game. against the Great Dimes of Albany, will have added significance because the Dutchmen. ranked in the Top-20 in National Division Ill Polls, have an outstanding chance ofreceiving a post-season bid to the NCAA Playoffs. Last week's game, against Dickinson College, also ranked in the Top-20, involved one of the more remarkable Union comebacks in some years. The Dutchmen are now 4-0. For more details, see page 16. Albany, at Frank Bailey Field. Duringhalftime, President Roger H. Hull will present the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy, also announced by IFC president Eric Weinberger. The t 983 football team will also be introduced at halftime.\The president will in- troduce the players of that team during halftime, and give them a momenta in remembrance of their team,\ said Lynn Boggie, assistant to the athletic director. This team made it to the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl in 1983. Following the game, at 4 PM, the President will host a reception in the College Center Atrium. Food will be provided. Also at 4 PM, women's soccer will play Plattsburgh at Garis Field. At 8 PM, a Concert of Music for Voice, Brass, and organ featuring Keith E. Kibler '73 and Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will take place in the Memorial Chapel. Also, Coffeehouse will be fea- tured at Fero House at 9 PM. To conclude Homecoming weekend, JV football will play Albany at Frank Bailey Field. The Dutch Hollow, Rathskel- ler, and the Bookstore will be open during the usual hours dur- ing the weekend. Career Development Center Helps Students in Need Ray Dolby to Speak at Union by Michelle Ellis ( 'onlrihulii1g Wriler TI1e Career Development Cen- ter hosted the annual Career De- velopment Festival on Wednes- day. October sixth at the Fieldhouse. The CDC was de- lighted with the sticcess of the festival itself. The festival was supplemented by the efforts ofthe student career assistants and pre- Festival workshops. In order to prepare stu.dents for the festival, two workshops \Vere sponsored by the CDC on Mon- day and Tuesday. Hosted by Ge- nie Rutherford 95; ai1d Tara Dana 94 ', the two workshops offered several handmits with suggestions on how to prepare for the festi- val. Before going to a company, a· student should research the company's background and btJSJ- ness profile. the student should also be well prepared with his or her own profile. The student should take their resume and have a summarizing statement and rec- ognize their weaknesses and as- sets before an interview. The im- portance of first impress'ions was stressed. as well as language and communication skills. The follow through is just as important as the preparation and letters should be sent to graduate schools or com- pany representatives after the in- terview. A resume should accom- pany the letter and a verbal con- firmation should be made by phone to make sure that your file is complete. l11e preseritations were effective and meaningful,' both for the stu- dents and the presenters. Genie and Tara were able to get people in and out of the meetings with- out delaying the proceedings .. TI1ey were both pleased with the number of students that attended, for past workshops have not been as effective. Genie thought that it was comforting that so ITiany people showed interest on Mon- day evening, as it was. two days before the FestivaL Tara urged that underclassmen take advan- tage of the festival and work- shops, \l11ere are so many things here that are not just for seniors. When it comes time to· become a senior, things would n'ot be so rushed and difficult ifpeople took adva,ntage of the CDC before- hand.\ Kate Bradley, the assistant Di- rector of the CDC, was enthusi- astic and hopeful while working to complete last minute details. She highlighted the benefits of having thirty-one companies, twenty-seven graduate schools, and eleven community service organizations, recruiting at your college all at the same time. She hoped that students would take advantage of the Festival. as it gives them the opportunity to talk with companies that they can't usually meet on campus. conti11ued 011 page 3 Courte.v_v (!f Puhlic Relations One of those very rare moments in a student's life will occur on Thursday evening, October 14th. Students will have the opportunity to see and hear a person whose name appears in connection with every single modern sound sys- tem, record or CD. Ray Dolby will reminisce on his development of Dolby sound, \THE QUEST FOR RECORDING QUALITY-A PERSONAL PERSPECTIVE,\ He will speak ill the Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m., nmrsday, Oc- ,··--. ,_--·-.-:'1' ·- .• __ . NdW$: ~-:·,.,.~ ..... '*_:·-~.-- .. *11'11 ... .-.-t.:; •. l~l ·. Business .•• :.\ ..... ~~ ...... ~.,.4 ·Student Forum ........ . 5 .. 6 World News .............. ~t E&itoriat ................... 8 tober 14th. Today we take for granted au- dio and video recording systems in which there is very little, if any, perceived degradation of the re- corded si!_,rnal. This is a relatively new phenomenon; it was not al- ways so. At the beginning of Ray Dolby's career it was common- place to hear or see quite obvi- ous impetfections and distortions in the sound or picture. Ever since his grade school and high school days in California, Ray Dolby has been fascinated co11tii1Ued on page 2 -:uit~is.,.;~~~~.*~~~~.,.,····~·~: .. ~,.:. Hot1le\16U:lint:~ ••..• --·. •·· Ht Can'l.pus News .......... ·~··· · 'l3u1letin ..... ~. ·~· .......... 13 Spotts;.~ ....... -. .. ~ ... t4 .. 16

I t~ . October 7, 1993, page 2 NEWS . Environmental Up:date: Superfund Comes to The United States by Eric Habib ( 'oncordiensis Staff The Comprehensive Environ- mental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (commonly known as the Superfund Act) was authorize<il. in December 1980.lts primary goal was to minimize the risk to public. health and the en-: vironment posed by the nation's uncontrolled hazardous waste sites, a threat made concrete by the discovery of Niagara Falls' Love Canal in 197 8. A $1.6 bil- lion resp011se fund (the Superfund) was established to cover the cost of federally-fi- nanced cleanu,p at sites placed on a National Priorities List. In establishing the. Superfund's taxing authority, Congress ex- pected that at least fotiy percent of the cost of cleanup would be financed by those operators, get)• erators, and haulers who were re- sponsible for conditions at Superfund sites. The EPA was granted considerable enforcement power to promote this major pro- gram goal: the maximization of private party contribution to clef}n-up. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) would be induced to con- tribute to cleanup through nego- tiated settlement and, if that failed, through litigation. To pro- mote thi.s process, responsible parties will be held liable for the total cost of clean-up regardless of negligence or proportionate contribution to site conditions. Further, treble damages were to be assessedto those liable parties who did not comply with an EPA order to conduct or finance a clea11-up operation. In addition, the existence of the Superfund provided the EPA with an option unique among regulatory en- forcement progr.atns. U could fi- nance clean-up in the face of re- sponsible party recalcitrance and then sue those PRPs for cost re- covery and treble damages. The EPA's ability to invoke this fund- option threat was considered the highest incentive for the respon- sible party to settle. Unfortunately, the Superfund act works better in theory than in reality. In fact, many potentially responsible parties (potential pol- luters) are able to avoid spend- ing hundreds of miUions of dol- lars on cleanups. Thes~ large cor- porations hire attorneys to put off such liabilities well into the fu- ture. It is typical for companies to wmpare the costs ·Of comply• ing with EPA manqated cleanup measures against benefits of spending less money on attomey fees. A recent article ·in 1irne mag~ine stated that companies readily acknowledge that ·it is worth spending millions of dol- lars on lawyers !o put off spend- ing hundreds of millions of dol- larson dean ups. As a result, most of the money spent .to protect Americans from the toxic resi- dues of our industrial history has been wasted.' Furthermore, Americans are getting little for this massive investmerH. Since the Superfund mandate has been put into effect, I ,200 sites' have ':, qualified for the National Priori- ties List of the most hazardous abandoned waste dumps. So far, only five percent of them have been cleaned up at a cost ·Of about $30 bi!Hon. This situation has horrifying consequences for people who live near such haz- ardous waste dumps. The Envi- ronmental Magazine recently re- ported: an informal survey of health ptoble·tns in the town nearby one polluted site revealed that, of thirteen women who were pregnant while studies were be• ing conducted, eleven delivered babies with birth defects. Under present estimates, the U.S. will be spending $185 bil ... lion per year on cleaning up .toxic and radioactive waste by the year 2000. By comparison, the current annual .defense budget is $240 billion. One person from the en• vironmental cleanup marketplace explains: \hazardous waste cleanup is a socialprobl'em, not a technical problem;\ the technol- ogy to cleanup toxic waste sites is available. Insurance companies and polluting corporations often argue about who should pay these huge cleanup fees. In the process, ~1p to 88 cents for every dollar is often spent on lawyer fees and studies. According to him, \it is a perversion of the process,. too many people looking aut for their livelihood and fudging a little bit, ordering that extra study rather than being courageous.\ Conse- quently, consultants and attorneys have· been benefitting from this while victims of ·toxic waste pay for it with their health. Compa- nies that are liable for toxic waste sites fund study after study while citizens living near these polluted sites struggle for years trying to figure out what poisons are float- ing around in their streams and water supplies and wondering what toxins are drifting in the air that .flows past their houses. Superfund i·s currently the EPA's number one priority as one in four Americans now lives within four miles of a Superfund continued 011 page 4 \Faces of Prejudice\ ·Dolby to Speak colltilluedfrompage 1 · ( 'ourle.\y of Human Rights ( 'ommis.\!til/ Thl! Committee to Combat Dis- crimination. a task- force of the Schenectady County Human Rit:hb Cummtssit~n. \\ i·ll hold a Commuutty Forum entitled. '\Faces of Prejudice\' on Thurs- da~. October 1-t. from 7-CJ::Hl p.m. in the Cafetcna Annex of Schenectady High School. Al- bany Attomcy Keith St. John will deliver the keynote address. St. John holds a law degree from Comell Law School. He is a member of the Albany Common Council where he has been instm- mental in getting legislation passed that strengthens basic civil rights for gays and lesbians. St. John teaches in the AIDS Law Clinic at Albany Law School. He is an Associate Attorney at Walter. Thayer & Mishler and specializes in matrimonial. fam- ily and disability law. St. John serves on numerous boards and holds several prcstigtons awards 1 n rcco!!nition of his courage r.nd community involvement. Follt>\\ ing the keynote address. participants of the forum will be invited to joi.n one of several round-table discussions on the topics of Non- Violent Confron- tation: Silence Gives Consent: Working with Others to Make a Difference: Sensitizing Ourselves and Others; and How to Make Our Differences a Plus. Commu- nity leaders wifh expertise in the topics of prejudice and discrimi- Kelly's Sp:ecials HAPPY HOUR- DAILY, NOON TO 7 PM. Monday - Ladies Night Ladies Drink Free During Football Game! I 0 Cent Wings at halftime $4 . .00 BUD or LITE Pitchers Tuesday- Men's Night $1.50 Dom. Bottle. $1.00 Cheddar Fries W.ednesday - Pizza Night $1.50 MOLSONS. 50 cent pizza slices Thurs·day - Wing Night Two orders of wings for $4.00 Friday ... Pitcher Night $1.00 ofT on all pitchers Saturday - Well Night - $1 Well Drinks Sunday - Sports Day Free Pool, I 0 Cent Wings, $4.00 Pitchers 501 Hattie Street 372-6794 nation w.i II facilitate each discus- sion group. The groups will then reconvene for a wrap-up session to share methods and suggestions how prejudice can be confronted and overcome constructively. F.or more infonnation. contact Helga A. Schroctcr.Tl.!e meeting IS free and open to all interested community residents and stu- dents. Refreshments will be served. ile with recording. In the last four or five decades he has luid the op- portunity to work with motion picture techniques and audio and video recording systems. witness- ing the progress and develop- ments in these areas. In this talk. Dolby wi.JI relate some of his experiences and im- pressions regarding the develop- ment of recording processes over the years, especially the ones in which he has been personally in- volved as a young engineer at Ampex Corporation, and later in his own company, Dolby Labo- ratories, in California. The lectuFe and .reception to follow are free. The event is spon- sored jointly by Union College and the Schenectady Section of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Dolby's talk will be the 61 st Steinmetz Memorial Lecture. Further infor- mation may be obtained from Lawrence J. Hollander, Dean of Engineering Emeritus. GROUND ROUND MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL *Large Screen T.V.s *All You Can Eat Wings for $7.59 *Miller Lite Draft Special 23 oz. for only $1.99 UNION COLLEGE Every Sunday and Wednesday From 8 p.m. to Close is College Night *$1.99 Tall Miller Lite Draft ... Dinner Specials D~rt League - Leagues forming at Mohawk Mall on Tuesday nights - ask at the bar Ground Round 1614 State Street Schenectady 382-8730 Ground Round Mohawk Mall Schenectady 374~0694

s r CDC Schedules Events for Needy Students · continudd from page I After the Festival was over, Mrs. Bradley stated how pleased she was and she referred to the Festi- val as a wonderful success. She stated that this was the CDC's biggest event of the year~ and pre- liminary planning for next year's Sixteenth Annual Career Devel- opment Festival will soon be un- derway. Most of the planning will occur during the springtime. Ms. Tobeissen, the Director of the CDC, also discussed how pleased she was with the Festival this year. She thought that the turnout of blfaduate schools and companies, which had increased since last year, was excellent con- cerning the state of the economy. She feels that it is imperative that students rea!iz;e that today' s mar- ket is tight . Only if students are creative and persistent, will they be able to find a job that is right for them. She also discussed the tlpcomi.ng events of the CDC, which students should utilize. !)Thursday, Oct. 7th. stude11ts must tum in their preference cards for on campus interviews at the CDC. If students are interested in companies that are.pre-screening, they should note the approaching deadlines and submit their re- sumes. 2)Information· Sessions for off~ campu~ recruiting will be con~ duCted on Oct. 13th. and 14th. 3 )Students interested in winter or summer intemships should plan to attend a workshop on Oct. 19th. at 7:00PM. 4)LeAta Jackson, a Union gradu- ate, will be speaking at the CDC about CORO (A Ten Month Post- Graduate Leadership Training program in Public Affairs) on October,7th. After discussing the upcoming events at the CDC, Ms. Tobeissen discussed-how excited the CDC is with Tomas J. Denham. a new addition to the CDC. lomas J. Denham has recently joined Union's CDC after leaving Harvard University's Career Planning and Placement Office. Mr. Denhaln received his BA in Economics at St Lawrence Uni- . ,--- versJty, and has a master of edu- cation ~t Boston University. He then entered the Marine Midland Bank's Management Training Program and continued on to Harvard's Care.er Planning pro- gram. He hopes that students will come by and introduce them- selves during the CDC's·drop-in office hottrs. He feels that Union is a refreshing change from Harvard and hop<;ls that the Union students will make use of the CDC. The CDC is an important aspect of Union College, which more. students should take advantage of and iJ1corporate into their lives. l11is statement is best exemplified through the voice of a new stu- dent, Mike Ferf,'l.lsan, \l11e Career Development Center is a monu- mental service, which more stu- dents should tttilize. The CDC offers extellsive infonnation on alumni listings, graduate schools guide books, as well as experi- enced and diverse Career Coun- selors.\. NEWS October 7, 1993, page 3 Memorial to Be Held for Mohammad Omar Courtesy l?{ Public Relations As you may know, Mohammad Omar passed away this smnmer in a tragic canoeing accident. Many of us were deeply saddened by the news of his passing. but are glad to have had the opportunity to know such a wonderful young man. The Academic Opportunity Program has planned to dedicate a tree, a Himalayan Pine indig- enous to Afghanistan and the Middle East, in his honor. The tree wi'll be transported from a Connecticut nursery and is ex- pected to arrive the second week of October. Pl.anting will take plac~ in front of the Science and Engineering Center, near the Idol, on Monday, October 18, 12:30 p.m. a marker is being made to identify the tree and two little flags, one representing Afghani- stan and the other representing the United States, will also serve as markers. To make this a tme community effort. we are asking those who are able and would like to con- tribute a dollar or two, or what- ever you can, to assist in defray- ing the cost for purchase and transportation,- which will be about $300. You can stop by the AOP office in Bailey 101 to leave ymlr donation. Don't worry if you are unable to donate; your pres- ence and support will be in a shar- ing of spirits on Monday. f,hc 18th. Spread the word. The Alpha Phi Alpha Fratemity, Inc. will be having a Memorial Pw~:.rram in tribute to Mohammad on Friday, October 8 at :uo in the College Center Auditorium. Mohammad was a member of the Alphas. Don't Forget to Vote for Student Reps on Friday October 8th! Interested in the Model U.N.? The International Relations Club Is ·having an introductory meeting In CC 406 - Thurs., 7th at 5 PM TODAY! ALL ARE WELCOME Sweet Tooth Cafe ' 1'624 Union Street * 393-5592 Breakfast & Lunch Daily, and NOW SERVING DINNERS Tuesday thru Saturday Call for Reservations for . . HOMECOMING WEEKEND Cappuccino and Espresso have arrived - . . ~

October 7, 1993, page 4 Business Solving Europe's Problems: The Plague of Unemplo.y·rnent ' ' by Saleem A. Siddiqi Contributing Writer For the last twenty years, un- employment has been an inher- ent factor in any policy decision in Europe. Apart fonn the brief interruption .of that pattem in 1987-1990, the trend has seen a steady worsening. Today, forecasters e,xpect unemploy- ment to reach up to 25% of the labor force in Spain. The French foresee their rate to be in the vicinity of the low teens. Two decades ago, European un- employment was a comfortable 2% to 3%, however, recent studies predicting 25 million people (of the labor force) out of work in the foreseeable fu- ture was a dilemma faced in the 1930's and not the 1990's. Thus, the question faced by the various European community leaders is how they aim to tackle this predicament. In attempting to solve any cri- sis, one has to clearly demark the source of the problem. However, in the case of explain- ing soaring European unem- ployment the foundation of the pains for many, is not an easy task. Many explanations abound. One school of thought sees a lack of flexibility as being the crux of the matter. This school subscribes to the view that Eu- rope has become stifled by rules and regulations. In England shopkeepers face stringent laws regarding 'hours of operation.' Shops can't open when people want to buy, bars can't open when people want to drink. Another school focus.es on labor costs: On .top of already high wages are piled a myriad of overheads that double the cost oflabor. Prominent among these bt1rdens are social secu- rity contributions by employers of up to 40% of eamings apart from the other costs of an overly pervasive, expensive, and inef- ficient state. The system of un- employment benefits or the 'dole' as it is commonly re- ferred to is another spoke in the wheel of the problem. Being unemployed is in many in- stances more profitable than being gainfully employed, hence making it an attractive profession. Finally, there is the Keynesian school. U!E is ris- ing because of a lack oft.rrowth. To create jobs on a scale that \ avoids rising unemployment, demand must outpace produc- tivity and the rate of growth of the labor force: However, solv- ing the problem is not easy .. As is evident in any economic cri- sis, every protagonist holds a piece of the puzzle, yet some are more right ;than others. For the European commu- nity, a lot is at stake. High un- employment fosters a political climate of nationalism and xe .. t1ophobia (as is evident in Ger- many). Internationalism fades and provincial protectjonism. P R I:'\ C II' L E S of S 0 l' ~ D R E ·(IRE ~\l I.::'\ ·1 I:'\\' EST I:\ G IF YOU mOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT. T hink about supporting yourself for twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately. you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. Time to tal<:.e advantage of tax-deferral. Tune for your money to grow. But starting early is key. Consider this: if you begin saving just $100 a month at age thirty. you can accumulate $154,031 * by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside $211 a ~onth to reach the same goal. At TIAA-CREF, we not only under- stand the. value of starting early, we can help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvestment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. Over a million people in education and research are already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them. Call today and learn how simple it is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side . 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it:M • *As1111Hilrg an intertJt rate of 6.50% mJikJ /o TIM Rttirenunt Annuitk Tt.it mtt i.r UJciJ J\Okiy lo.tbmP tlu por.Yr t111Atfl«t of c4mpmurJing. Lawtror hfdlur ralu wul3 proJw\ P<ry iJifltretrJ restJr., CREF terti/tattu are iJi.rtri6ut:J 6y TIAII·CREF /nJMJatil anJ'itUtitutioltdl &,..,itu. comes to the fore. High unem- ployment also stands as a hurdle in the reintegration of Eastern Europe. By not allowing indus- try to develop in th.e East due to alack ofdemandfortheirprod- ucts, one will inevitably see a migration.~f the Eastem .labor force to the West. This will only catalyze the problem. High unemploymen-t also brings world trade to its knees. Pro- tectionist policies, .controlled imports, and high tariffs. will have a ripple. effect throughout the industrializedrtati 0 ns ofthe world. est rates coupled with less em-. phasis on fiscal correction. Pro- gressive .fiscal policie.S with the aim of boosting demand artifi- cially are a story of the past. The .. only result of implement- ing such an economic philoso- phy today has .to he higher un- employment. Unemployment can only be curbed through growth, · Tight monetary policy an~ Premature fiscal policies .are 'a great way ofchoking growth. ~Y lower- i.J~g interest rates one will most probably observe a rise in out ... put, for which there hfts to be a corresponding· de.cline in unem- ployment, which will lead to an iNcrease in w.agesetc: etc, So, how do we solve this problem. The Monetarist school would argue that supply side economics are the answer. However, as we al1 know the trickle down effect in this gepre of economics is very slow. _The an$Wer for Europe I believe lies in .interest rates. Real gains can be realized through lower inter- Thus, sitting here at my com- . puter, and, solvit1,g t6e worlds ·problems, I ~ubscribe to the view that the answer for Europe lies in the question of interest rates. , Chet's Corner-- This week Chet' s schedule is very exciting! N,londay : Night Football was a success, especially with the excessive -amounts of Chet's famous I 0¢ wings that were ejil.ten. Tonight, Thursday night, Chet' swill be sponsoring JESSEASHDOWN ON ACOUSTIC GUITAR. Take . a study break or begin your night out with this live entertainment. Chefs hours tonight are from 8-1. Tomorrow, Chet's will be serving FREE FOOD te all who attend T.G.I.F. This will be a · great way for both students and faculty to begin Home- coming Weekend! Cabaret was held last Thursday night at Chefs and proved to be a huge success. Students and faculty came · out to see all of the talent that Union had to offer! Take Advanta,ge ofChet's policy ofbeing.abJe to be rented out. All organizations are encouraged to sponsor an evening at C~et's. For more information, please contact Pete Savage at 347-1774 or Deb Murray at 346- 3181. CHET'S FALL TERM SCHEDULE IS AS FOLLOWS: MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 8PM-1AM THURSDAY NIGHT- VARIOUS LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 8PM-1AM FRIDAY -T.G.I.F. (FREE FOOD) 4PM-9PM JOIN US THIS WEEK & EVERY WEEK AT THE NEW CHET'S!!!! EPA's New Pet Project Discussed continued ftom page 3 site. At this point, it is not known what Carol Browner, President Clinton's new EPA administra- tor, will do about tl1is mess. However, Browner says her agency's Superfund specialists are working assiduously to pre• pare a \reauthorization pro- posal\ for Congress in Novem- ber that will, hopefully. suggest ways to transform the current system into one that works.

• -.October 7, 1993, page 5 Student Forum Candidates for Freshman Class Representative the position of Student Senator for two years. I have always main .. tained a high I eve! ofschool S.Pirit and participation, and now I wish to continue tl~is involvement here at Union. As your Fr.eshman Representa- tive my biggest hope is to do ex- actly as the title suggests, and t1mt is torepresent U, the entire Fresh- Emily Battis Hello feHq)V ~.la:;sin~tes, my name .is Et~fly .. ~'a~tis ·and I am running for tb.e. po~itkm ·()fFresh- man Class. ~~~i~~,Jlt ~nd Repre• sentative .. _As a metnber of the Student FoJ;UJn .I will do my ut- .. man class. I ain open to all ideas and suggestions that you have, and. through this I hope to make our class one of the most amaz- ing classes to pass through Union. , . . rnost to see thaftbe wishes'ofthe Class ·Of l9~j7 are uphelc;l within the Student Fonim. FmiJiermore, with the assjstapce of my .fellow representatives' i will do my best to better campqs Jiving at Union College. If elected, I hope to con- tinue and improve the open lines of communication between the student government and the stu- dent body so that we might work hand in hand ilt a balanced part- nership to bring abouf an atmo- sphere that facilitates learning as well as fosters an active and di- verse social scene. More specifically, I think the college should sponsor more sub- stance-free activities to give those who do not wish to partake in a social scene that fosters the con- sun,lpti ori:.ci£;~{;.gh~li,GJ>ev:etag~s. I propose that 'addftfonaf activi- ties such as comedians and dance clubs be offered. It is t'ny inten- tion,that these activities will open more options to those students who do not drink as well as those who do. Also, ifl am' elected I will do my best to curb the system of fines imposed on the ·non-destruc- tive members of the student body for the vandalism done by others. I feel this practice is carried out to extremes when people not in- volved in the incidents are held liable for the poor judgment of a few miscreants. I feel that no amount of mopey can change a person's conscience. If someone witnesses the defacing of college property and has decided not to contact the· appropriate persons, then there is no monetary burden that can be placed upon them to persuade them to tell. I hope that on October 8 you decide that I, Emily Battis, am the right candidate for the Union Col- lege Student Fonun. Stephanie La Vine Hi, my name is Stephanie La Vine, and I am running for the position of Freshman ciass rep- resentative. I know that there are many people from our class that are hoping to become Freshman representative, so I just wanted to Jake a m01'nent of your time to telf you a little bit about myself. Throughout my four years of high school in ·syracuse, NY, l played ail active mle in our . ~ school'.s leadership. I participated in all major events involved with our student government and held· As Freshmen, we have a lot of excitit1g _time ahead of us. As your representative, l will werk to insure that eaj;h &nd every one of us gets to take part in this ex~ citem.ent! · Monica Scotto I would like te take this oppor- tunity to introduce my'selfto you. My name is Monica Scotto. I'm originally from Port Washington, NY; just outside of the metropoli- tan area, and like many of you, I am a freshman here at Union. I am writing to you today in regard to the upcoming student government elections for the freshman officers. I believe tl1at I am the right person for one of these offices, and I believe that with your votes I can make a dif- ference. Though I have only been here for a short period of time, i have already begun to feel a sense of community among us. how- ever, as with all communities, a leader is necessary. A person who will listen to all of your ideas and concerns and speak on your be- halfto achieve one common goal. I firmly believe that I meet all of the qualifications to be such a leader. I have the desire, the will and the determination to make changes that will lead u.s all in a new and better direction. In or- der to take on this new responsi- bility and to accomplish all t11at is necessary, i need all of your support and collaboration .. I know that together we can make Union a better place. And once again, with your help we will, Please vote for me, Monica Scotto! _Edward (E.J) Achtner I'm not one for long drawn out dissertations, therefore this will be brief. An inherent trait in poli- ticians is that they promise cer- tain' things, yet when it comes time to deliver, they are either unable 6r unwilling to coniply. To be fair, neither party has been immune, especially in recent elec- tions. Thus, I don't consider myself a politician. I feel that I am doing a service to my fellow students and the colh;!ge where we reside. Being a freshman, I am still \learning the ropes\ per say. If 1 C}m elected, I can only learn more and pass this knowledge on to you. One think I can and will promise is if I am chosen, I will make the most of my honorable position anddomy job to the best of my ability. · Erica Isaacson \Be who you want to be,· And do what you want to do, B~cau~e those that matter, don't mind,. An_d ti~Qse that mind don't mat- ter.\ Peep]!! have always told you what .to do, As a child, you are told how to dress, not to put your el- bows on the table, and not to eat th.e yell~w snow. As you ap- proach adolescence, you are told to do wen ·in school, to be home by twelve, or to go to college and become successful. now, we are here, of course doing well, and of course becoming successful (of course!). My name is Erica Isaacson, and i am running for Vice-President of the Freshman Class. I know this sounds like the opening lines to either a hippy/liberal demon- stration, or perhaps a convincing political speech, and it could be, but it's not ... and I'll prove it to you. i; ~-~· · · . ·· ... -·. · ; . I HA ~lS~'t-$0. EXP~ltfE:NCE. l11is doesn't mean that I:could po- tentially be better or wqrse than a person who does hav~ experi- ence, it just meansthatfam will- ing to learn. I can.oillyinake on promise~ not tfmt l win be the best, but that' I will try my hard- est. ' This if, fbr many. the first time you have .. ,not been told what to tlo. Do Mmt's best for you. Seth Camhi Hi, my name is Seth Camhi, and I am running for the position of Representative for our class. Throughout my high school career in Jericho I was at one time or another President, Vice Presi- dent, and Representative of my class. I enjoyed it very much because I was able to work with 'those in my class, By working togethefas a grade we were able to get things done. One person caift do it by themselves. Rep- resentatives are only the spokes- men for the class. It takes all your support and ideas for anything to be heard. I feel that if l am your repre~ sentative I wil1 be able to get your voices heard. I am very acces- sible to any complaints anybody might have, and I will try to take care of any problems that might arise. if you have any questions you can contact me at X6847, or come in and see me at 210 WEST/ My door is always open to all my classmates complaints. Please don't forget to vote. Brandon Declet My name is Brandon Declet and l am one of the many Freshman running to represent out class in the Student Forum. The Freshamn Class Representative is your voice here at UNION. l:f elected, there are a few things I would like to see changed here. First on my agenda will be the reduction of studnet vandalism fines.· Why should innocent studnents be charged for the ac- tions of a few? Secondly, as you all know we pay a Student Ac- tivities Fee. This money is sup- posed to supportstudent activities for the school but, I believe that the money should specifically be used for activitiesfor ones class. Finally, I would like to see a studnet governement that is in- volved with administration meet- ing where students could come and voice themselves. If we are going to pay 25,000 DOLLARS a year shouldn't we at least have this opportunity? Some candi- dates will promise the world but · b'e realistic and.'fhink about what you would like to see changed or . improved here at UNION and re- member vote Brandon oi1 Octo- ber 8th. Ben Fox Hi, my name is Ben Fox and I'm running for Representative of the Freshman Class. Over the past few weeks I've met most of you and for those of you I have not met. I look forward to meet- ing you in the up and coming weeks. I feel I am qualified for the job not by my credentials but rather by my personality. Cor- rect me if I'm wrong, but I feel most of us are here to balance getting a good education with having a great time. Like I said your goals are my goals! I'm out- going and tilled with a plethora (nice word huh!) of ideas on hew to make our class one of the best Union has seen in decades. I won't Waste your tin1e with cam- paign rhetoric and promises like sending our class to Cancun on an all expense paid trip courtesy of President Hull (but wou1dn 't that be nice), but I will promise to listen to yo~1r suggestions on any ideas you have and do every- thing in my power to get them passed. Thanks for support! Stephen Potenza Dear fellow members ofthe class of 1997, \Never be the first to break a family tradition.\ if Union Col- lege is a family, then we as its newest members should heed this bit of advice from Life's Little lnstmctionBook and try our hard- est to preserve the school's tradi- tions. I believe, and hope my classmates believe as well, that the traditions of Union are the very heart of the college, and if the ·heart is allowed to die. so too will the college. What do the traditions of the college have to do with my can- didacy for Freshman class Rep- resentative to the Student F omm? Being a. voice for this tradition on the Forum is one of two goals I have. It is important to ensure the Forum always defends our tradi- tions from attack - whether these attacks come on our Greek sys- tem or any other aspect of our tra~ clition. Not only will I be a voice for tradition, however, by I will also be a voice for our class, promot- ing our interests whether they be having cars on campus or cable in our rooms. I will not break our family's traditions. Nor will I resist change for the good of our class. It is our. H\m to carry on the traditi01~.:or Union College and to make tf~e school a little bet- ter for ourselves and those who will follow us. I sincerely hope that you will \-Ole for me and al- low me to work towards these goals as your representative. Thank you. -Stephen Potenza Andrew Halverstam The· meal plan that we are forced to be on is ridiculous. I do ' . .. ~ :not use 15 meals a week . and I am not on track to finishing my declining balance long before the end of the term. I have heard similar <;:omplain.ts from many of my friends. Second tcnn, Fresh- man should have a similar meal plan to that of the upperclassman. Upperclassmen can choose the number of meals they pay for per week. l11is would enable people who cat three meals a day to con- tinue to do so. bttt would not force others to pay for meals they would not eat. Does the admin- istration believe we are unable to decided when we want to eat'? Vote Andrew Halverstam -for meal plans and other socially ir- relevailt issues. Don't Forget to Vote

Heather L. Kanser Within the next four years, we, the dasss of 1997. would like to delete. create, and change smne of the polkies and pro~;.rrams. here at Union. This is only possible if we have strong class leaders and representatives that arc willing to present and speak for our thoughts and ideas. lam Heather L. Kanser. and I would like to be a represnt,ative for t·he class of 1997. ln High School! held many leadership a·oles and was active in the Student Govemetnent. there- fore. \vitncssing the positive ef- I:Ccts of a strong Student Coun- cil. I would like to continue this search foa· improvement·.here at Union. Michael J. Gifford My first i!llpression of Union wa!:\ one of strength and leader- ship, wh.ich arc two highly re- garded ideal~ ofnlyO\:Vn .. This i~ my primary reA~Otl: for iiwolve- meiH in studem gm:emmcnt - to can•· on m v staudards.ot:intellect. ,. ~ ' .. \ ' .. ' academics. andlcadership. I won't bore you with academic crcde1:1tinls l'an here, aren't I. But few students. with academic abilities ha\'c that blend ofan ap- •b proachahk natur!l and the ability t.o lead: somcthiu.g I find vital to a govemmcnt. After all. a gov-· cmment is only as strong as the people who make it so. In high school. I was on var- sity cross-country. cross-country skiing. and track. as well as other dubs. including student govcm- mcnt. Voted friendliest in my class. I wasn't exactly hard to approach. People leamed to rust me and my judgment. as well as back my decisions. This trust \\On me athletic awards. aca- demic awards. and a nomination to West Point. It all depends on that balance of sd10lastic. athletic. and character strength. I'm not a jock. rm not a geek- rm a leader. I would appreciate your \'Ote on ello!ction day. Continue the e~cel­ lent leadership which made lin ion \\hat it is today. John Vero Dear fellow Union freshman: My name is John Vero and am nmnin!! for the office of fresh- man class representative. I am from Albany. NY. and was presi- dl.!nt of my high school's student council. Any person looks f(.w the qualities of leadership. t:esponsi- bility and concem in a candidate. I hclie\·e that I have each of these qualities. I have proven my leadership in \·arious Ol'!,!<mizatinns and groups. The American Legion Boys' State Pro!,!ram. I Iu!,!h O'Brien Youth Foundation. Church Y (luth (!roup. and Neighborhood Watch arc ~omc of the prng.rams where my lcadershtp has comemtoplay. Responsibility is essential to en- sun: each student receives what they deserve from their elected representative. I pledge to use my responsibility to the m<;lxi- mum. Union College and it's students are unique. I care about the quality of education, quality of athletics, and quality of stu- dent activities at this college. I will work to include each stu- dent in the decision making pro- cess in every way possible. You wi II elect three represen- tatives fr0m our class this month. When voting, remember the necessary qualities of leader- ship, responsibil.ity, and concem. Good Luck to all candidates. Dana S. Katz We've been seeing since orien- tation. phrases like . '\A whole new ·u'\ and. '\\U' can do magic\. For the few weeks that we've been here we've met tons ofpeople, checked out the Greek scene. been inundated with s~hoolwork. doJle laundry. per- foll11ecl naked Nott runs. and have '~a ten at West (i'r sot\uchO\vyou've actually med all o(yoqr allotted meals) some 7?. tiines. ·We haven't had mw;:l~ tiine to d\~ell - • I • on the '\Old •lJ\'. Most of us haven 't'been here long enough to have mastered the names and lo- cations ofthe fratemi.ties on cam- pus. and already some of us have found aspects ·or Union that tieed changing. I've spoken to mem- bers of the student forum about some these changes and ideas to catTy them out. The following arc my ideas and ideas of our classmates. I feel that the value of the un- used meals at the end of the week on om meal plans should be added to our declining balance. or we should get reimbursed at the end of the tenn for them. I also feel that the uses of our student J.D. should be expanded to be used in all campus stores. the laundry room. and the arcade. Bcfi.ire that idea takes effect. I think change machines in the laundry room arc a necessity. Some studcaHs have cnmplained about living conditions; I feel that students should have access to cable in their rooms (if they arc willing to pay) and the gu):s in south should have access to car- pets. I'll sec\\ hat I can do guys. An important issue to me is the f~1ct that the campus is not handi- capped accessible. I thought some engineering majors could help design cement ramps for the inaccessible buildings and have the plans caiTied out by the stu- dents and \vorkers involved in the \We care about you Schenectadv\ organization. \ ~ maybe even getting a discount on materials. If this project is done completely within the school and we redistrib~ttc some funds. tu- ition should not be raised, If ad- ditional funds arc needed for this project or any other I feel that in- stead of a raise in tuition. we could host more alumni functions to attain ga·ants. Those are just a few of my ideas to help make Union better. If anybody can think of other as- pects of school that need change, don't hesitate to contact me. My box number is 0982. I have been in student council since I was in the sixth grade but I have never held an office. I knew wasn't mature enough to handle the re- sponsibility of the position. I know now that l canh<i\a'ldle it and do a good job. I am notrunning for the glory of the position and/ or becatise it is a popularity cmi- test. I would like to be a repre-' sentative ofthe class of 1997 be- cause I have ideas and I've thought ·Of ways of carrying them out. If not elected, I plan on be- ing an active member of student forum. ·sue Chihi~6rrj· ·.- ·. . I-II. i~y nm~e is ~:t!i.F@~Ikt!~L a·nd 1'111 from Hou~ton. Texas. 1'1~1 run,ning for fre.~h;~<!ll 91!1~~ repre~et1(ative. this year. at Uilion College., Tllere are. a variety of .reasorls I'd lfke to_,get involye.~ in. the student go~ernment. One main reason is that I have the in- . - . ' c terest to make a commitn1ent. I'm - - ... wiHi'ng to put in the time and. ef- foat into any project that c;trises. Also, since I ha.ve past experi.t?nce in studetit counci( I~~]; 'fa,~niiiar with handling probleniat:ic situa- tions. Third. I believeJ have good communication skills. I am able to speak and listen to people from different backgrounds. and con- vey ideas from the student body across to the faculty and admin- istration. In addition, I'm very accessible and open. so people can approach me fairly easily. Yet. at the same time. I'm not afraid of confrontation. so I'll express my O\\'n opinion as well. Hence. I'm confiden't t11at ·I can · help make a difference at Union College if I'm selected as fresh- man class representative. Azul Jaffer Hello. my name is A-Z-U-L Jaffer. and I'm running tor the position of Student Representa- tive for the freshman class. I be- lieve a strong leader is one who listea1s carefully to many ideas\ is able to make a decision that \\'ill represent the best possible ~osi­ tion for student's interest and can' stand a11d defend the class's rights and privileges. i believe a leader is someone who is not afraid to get in front of people and speak ou behalf of his/her class. I feeH can fulfill these responsibilities. I have had experience in the fieldofstudentgovemment, serv- ing as illy high school's class president for four years. I'm mn- ning for this position becau.se I w~tut to represent you··- and to make your voice and requests heard. Remember, A-Z·:U-L for SHtdent representative. Rawson Thurber Yes, I am running for Freshman Class Representative. No, I've never done .this before. l11e clos- est I came to this was when i was a class repres~ntative my senior ye4r~ Sq;_ I w6t} 't at~empt ~o bore . you with a list of accomplishm ments and Boy Scouts awards. Because~ basically, the list.ofac- • ~ ' • < • ' ' ·~ • •• \( f. f' . . .. , cot;npli~htnen.ts ~s rathefJ>.t;ief, ap'd I neve'r made it pa1 the Cub Scouts. Yet, even with this hick 9f experie11,c~, I kn_o,w .that, I am th~ fi~ht.J?.erspil for tlte joh.,. . .. . ,Cm .tlOt,.,a b#ddilJ!{ ,p<;>litieia,Jl, ~.~It .). .. ~npy~ ~!~~t L¢~N JTI<!~e·the stud'ei1t government 'ma.re. than . . ,. . , ~., ,. r .. ·. just a facade. I can get chocolate · milk in .the drinktug fountains •. faculty jello-wr~stling on Thurs- day afternoons, and half hour classes, if that's what YOU want. It can be done, it's just that no one has tried. But, before you decide to vote for me, here are some of things I truly believe in: I believe that being politically correct isn't always the best way to go. I believe that the ends never justifies the. means. I believe in standing up and being counted. I believe in love. I believe in work- ing smarter and not necessarily harder. I believe that Dylan made the right choices in choosing Kelly over Brenda. I believe in opening your presents on Christ- mas moming and not ol1 Christ~ mas Eve. I believe a family is made of love and not the number of parents. I believe the 49ers were \~rang in trading Joe Mon- tana. I believe in destiny and not necessarily fate. I believe that stu- dent govenunent can work if the right people are elected. Aaron Sicotte Great things are expected from our class. Union believes we are one of the most talented and in:£ teHigent classes to come through here. We are! And we can achieve great .. thitJ:gs; .. both indi- vidually. and:a.s 'a class. In order . to do thins w.~ .. ~r¢ going tp ·Heed representativ~~ that will make sure th~ atJn.osphere for leamjng ·and h,rtowingis_afitsb'est. We'll need l~~ople .. fbat ~know. what is best for atir da~s. people who ~m represent the class in its best in- terests, and people who win get things doi1e: I win do this and mQre. Our class is the best class; so· on electiouday'Vote for Aaron Sicotte to tnak~s.une:we .contii1 ue to be the best. Gary PiStefano , . Throitshot!t fife w~ come ~tpon many new experiet1ces.' ·one of the gre~test e~periences oqc:;urred on -~eptemlier 6, 19~3; when we fonned the Uilion College· class .~f119,7._As. i~1i:;,qining f~eshmen, .. we. w~rli'sel~f:te'd from the larg- est po'ol of applicaltts in Unions .]98 year history, To pt~t it sim- ply, we are the .~estofthe best. In turn, we com~ h>gether and combine our talents as one. In four years, we wiJI fonn an elite group of contribtit'i;'lg citizens to the work-·force· of~theworld. Here at Union we will grow to- gether as a class by interacting while sharing our thought and ideas. I believe I am capable oflead- ing the class of 1997 because of my experienc~ in high school student government and local civic groups. As a high school student, I was deeply involved within my school and my com- munity serving as student repre- sentative to my local school com- mittee and in numerous chari- table organizations. Further- more, I would like to continue contributing by using my skills as a representative to better the class as a whole. My goal, if elected, would be to pull the class together, allow- ing us to function as one. I feel that if we can successfully func- tion as a group, individually we will excel. Senior Class Representative Rachel Kest Hi! My name is Rachel Kest and I am running for Senior Class Repre- sentative. Al- though I have never served on the Student Forum. my campus experi- ence ranges from academic research with various Profes: · sors to serving· for two ye~rs as a gatekeeper. ·If elected-as a student forum member. l would strive to add another opinion in order to bet- ter serve the college commu- nity. In addi- tion. I would work with P other forum n1enibers in an effort to· strengthen tics between the students, fac- ulty, and the administration. Please re- member to vote tomorrow and I appreciate your support!

WORLD NEWS October 7, 1993, page 7 NEWS -BRIEFS India: The largest earthquake that India has seen in fifty years, struck this week. It hit at pre-dawn in a remote agricultural area. Death toll$ will not be accurate until the · rubble ·is removed, stated a local offi~ial, but early counts ranged from 10,00-30,000 deaths. The . Bosnia's Muslims Hold Out for More, But at a. high Cost World News government began a relief effort. with mobile hospitals, bulldozers and cranes, but most of the relief is being fun by private agencies. Moscow: After last week's coup d'etat, conditions in Russia became heated when thousands -of opponents of President Boris · · Yeltsin anned tliemselves in an attempt to break his blockade · and to attack the Parliament building. They also tried to seize the . state ·television which Yeltsin had previously controlled. Elite Russian military units were called in to regain control and restore order. The United States continues to stand by Yeltsin, blaming his opponent for the violence. . . Somalia: A cease fire that was put into effect last Saturday was broken this week. At least five American soldiers were killed in a helicopter crash in Mogadishu. Mexico: Proposals to raise wages and help businesses while ad- dressing American concerns about cheap labor regarding NAFT A. was announced by Mexico's President. Ireland: Irish Republican Army said that it would welcome a . new plan for peace in Northern Ireland which will attempt to end twenty-five years ofsectarian violence between the Protestant . majority and the Catholic minority. This was the first positive indication since the plan was proposed two weeks ago. Egypt: Egypt will vote on another six years for President Mubarak on Monday. Fears that a newtenn willendhopesofa·real demo-·· cratic system exist. U.S. News _, _J ; ~ ' .. , Wac~: The Treasury Department last week issued a report say- ing that officials who carried out the so called \well planned and executed\ raid on the Bran.ch Davidian Compound had altered documents for the plan. The Clinton Administration concluded that Federal law enforcement officials lied in an attempt to try and cover up their mistakes after they initially failed to capture David Koresh on February 28, 1993. · Police corruption: New York City police officers and colleagues · gave details of New York City officials committing narcotic-re- lated crimes since 1986, last week. Mayor David Dinkins ap- . pointed investigators to the Mollen Commission to recommend ways to ends cycles of corruption that have been a chronic prob- lem in the police departments. by Lara Greenberg World News Editor Maybe its just me, but the war that has been going on fer 18 months in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only confus,. ing, but beyond the explainable in boththoughtandaction. l11ere are so many factor.s involved, the NATO forces, the United States involvement and now the peace talks in Sarajevo, that it -is diffi- cult enough to keep it all straight, let alone fol'ln your own opinion. This past week, the peace talks took a major nose dive when on September 29, Bosnia's Muslims rejected the international peace platt This Step will obviously postpone the end of this devastat- ing part of Bosnia's and Herzegovina's short history. T;he plan proposed by the United Nations partitions the cotintry into three ethnic states for Croats, Muslims and Serbs. Bosnian officials demanded the plan provide for the return of at least 4% more of \seized territo- ries by force\ by the Serbian Na- tionalists, to Bosnia. They now control roughly 70% of Bosnia. The Bosnian Muslims also require the plan to include \intematkmal guarantees •• that will state once the plan is accepted it will be put into effect immediately at1d will be fol- lowed. The Bosnian Muslims said they wo'ul<f accept the idea-of partition ifthey received more than the 30% that was originally proposed. The plan currently gives 52 per- cent fbr Bosnia to the Serbs. I 7 percent to the Croats and 30 per- cent to Bosnian Muslims. The plan also includes a clause that states after two years. the .Serbian ti . ' ! and Croatian states can secede from the Bosnian Confederation. 'As otnow; reports indicate that 200.000 Bosnians have been killed. 1nostly Muslims, and over _ I million are hemeless as a direct result of the war. Now. if these numbers cannot convince Bosnian Muslim leader to accept the peace plan, you would think the Serbian threat would. Serbian Nationalist leaders warned Mus- lims that ifthey did not accept the plan, a \war to the finish\ would be put into effect. They also said they would \flatten\ the Muslims both politically and militari'ly. What could Bosnia's Mtislims leaders be thinking? Watching this happen, you would think that the Muslims were kicking ass, but this is obviously not the case. TI1ey are being wiped out. TI1is kind of attitude will leave them nothi1ig- no :people, no land and no peace. What is it that is preventing Bosnia's Muslim leaders from accepting the partition plan? Are they holding out for more? If they are, it doesn't look like the Serbs will make any more con- cessions. Do the Muslims have no compassion for their people? It seems as if that is part of it, but I think that evil thing called pride is getting in the way. I believe I can safely say that this is one in- stance where this age old disease must be abandoned. Bosnian leaders are not only hurting themselves by giving up this valid offer, but they are los- ing lives by the day, and if that \vasn 't enough, millions of dol- lars are being pumped into this area of the world. The United States alone has 25.000 out of the 50.000 peace keeping troops al- ready there. Not to sound selfish or anything, because I want this war to end just as much as the next guy. but the U.S. economy isn't in great shape to begin with. and I'm sure the money could be used elsewhere. Don't get me wrong here. I am not accepting or condoning in any way what the Serbs have been doing in the fonner Yugo- slavia for the past 18 months. Putting aside the moral issues for a moment and concentrating solely on the law aspec.t of it, in- ternational laws are being broken left and right. For example, ac- quisition of territory by force is forbidden by international law, and of course, it goes without say- ing, genocide is also. Going back to the moral issue, there is , as in all cases, two sides. There are ,the sttpporters of the dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there are those who oppose it. Arguments on both sides are very strong. Opposers of the ethnic parti- tioning say that accepting the plan would mean that tenitorial acqui- sition by force is now o.k. It would also mean that ge1mcide is a~cepted as a way of gaining ter- ritory. In principle, it sounds crazy for Bosnian Muslims, and the rest of the world to accept the partition plan. but let's be realistic here. There has been killing. raping and starvation going on there for 18 months. It has been happening for so long. that ymt begin to be- come numb to ai1y of the events going on. Admittedly. the dis- memberment plm1 is net the ideal answer to this tragedy. but it is the best solution lor the moment. and it is at this moment that people are dying. Also, as we all know here in Schenectady. winter is rap\.d\y- appmach\ng. W\n\~r \n Bosnia is roilgh, ahd with I mil- lion people homeless. how long can civilians hold out for their leaders to settle for peace? Bosnia's Muslim leaders I feel are making a grave mistake. Tme. there has not been a major attack from the Serbs. and an in- terim period may be approaching. but the condition of the people's lives have yet to improve. For purely humanitarian reasons. I feel that Muslim leaders should jump on the peace plan and. not to sound corny. make a better world for everyone. Clinton's New Health Proposal Starts Abortion Fight by Sarah R. Evans World News Slf!ff The issue of abortion has en- tered the debate surrounding Clinton's universal health plan. A single clause in the plan is the center of the debate: the clause calls for pregnancy services. l11e meaning of this clause has stirred up a lot of controversy. The United States Catholic Council, which has supported universal health care since 1919, oppose Clinton's health plan merely because of this single clause. TI1e Clinton Administra- tion was trying to avoid the issue, because Qf the emotional stimu- lated by it. The administration does not want people to side with their emotions, because they are making enemies out of groups that other wise would have been supporters. The Clinton plan calls for busi- nesses and individuals to pay for the majority oft11c insurance pre- miums. Some federal money would be used to subsidize the costs of small companies and low-income people who are now either uninsured or are receiving Medicaid. Opponents of abortion argtJe that even though it only makes up a small portion of the entire budget, any federal fund- ing of abortion would make it a govemmental endorsement of the procedure. Abortion-rights suppofters ar- gue that currently the majority of insurance plans cover abortions. By eliminatiJ)g pregnancy ser- vices from the health plan would mean scaling back services that are currently offered, which wottld defeat the purpose of the plan; to extend coverage. The United States Catholic ~~~ c.AR,a ReFORM fl.~\ ~ A \RU\&'{ ~\V~\G»l arrott1'··· ' Council contends that putting abortion along with health care negates the purpose of healing a life if one is being destroyed. l11e abortion-right supporters have counter attacked the anti-abortion movement by producing ads in favor of the universal health plan in its present state. Although both sides of the is- sue know each other well, the is- sue is now tied to something that has\\ 1dcspread popular approval. Neither side knows what the nut- come \\'ill be. Some mem hers of congress have suggested that the ahm1ion coverage be eliminated for the sake of the greater good. passing the health plan. The outlook is pessimistic for abortion-rights supporters. Last week the Senate voted to uphold the present ban on Medicaid financed ab01iions. Neither 1 Iillary or Bill Clinton has come out publicly in favor of abortion-rights when speaking about the health plan. Donna Shalala. llealth and !Iuman Ser- vices Secretary. has stated that she will tight to maintain the abm1ion coverage clause in the health plan. The abortion-right advocates are hoping that abortion will be con- sidered a health issue and not a political issue during the debate surrounding the universal health plan.

Editorial/Opinions PAGES ------ Octobe.r7, 1993 An Outstanding Effort by the Dutchmen This past weekend, the Union College Football Team put on a memorable show about the importance of not giving up, in its 23-17 comeback victory over Dickinson. · Towards the end ofthe first quarter, most fans could not have been encouraged by Union's poor offensive output, and the defensive lapses that enabled Dickinson to jump to a fourteen point lead. Furthermore, after last year's 27-3 defeat at the hands of Dickinson, many fans had reason to believe that this game would he a repeat perfonnance. Compounding the problem for the Dutchmen was the fact that they were playing against one of the best ground attacks in college football. Letters· to the Edito·r Slowly, but surely, Union's offensive and defensive Open House lines dominated the game. Union's workhorse running Dear Editor, I am writing this letter to in- Forum Debate back, Chris Irving. would carry the ball 38 times for form students of the upcoming 121 yards. Frank Attah broke a couple ofhuge runs to Open House for high school se- Dear Fellow Students: - lead to both of Union's first half touchdowns. The niors. This annual event, which Last ~onday, September 27, an dctcm1ination of Union's team was evidentthrough... usually attracts 700-900 visitors to issue was raised at the Student out the comeback. After Attah had a tremendous run our campus, win be held all day Forum meeting, that for some on Monday October lith. members·oftheforumwas-acause to the Dickinson I yard-1 ine, with Union trailing I 4-7' During this event there will be for great concern. The issue was the crowd could sense just how hard Union was work- visitors attending classes, taking raised by the President of the Fo- ing for every yard. In all, Union backs carried the ball tours and possibly dining in the rum, Mia Caetano. The issue at 62 times for 248 yards. College Center. Be aware that this hand was whether or not a mem- Thc story in the second half was Union's defense, visit will leave these prospectives ber of the Inter-Fraternity Coun- with a lasting impression of our cil or Pan-Hellenic Council should which was successful in shutting down Dickinson's campus. I encourage everyone to sit as a Greek voice on the Stu~ vaunted running attack. Craig Mosia and Marco Lainez make sure that this impression dent Affairs Councii(SAC). Pre- spearheaded Union's defensive effort. Union's defense will be a posilil'e one. Take a cedent has been set over the past was so dctem1ined that they were able to stop Dickinson minute to say hello when they are five years that the President of the from a tirst and goal opportunity atthe three yard line·. walking _by, answer t\!e_ir. ques- .Pan-Hellenic Co~mcil !!f!...d _t~e . tions, or just have a conversation President of the Inter-Fraternity With the exception of a field goal that resulted from a before your class starts. Don't Council would rotate each year as blocked punt. Union's defense didn't allow any seri- forget how we all felt when we a voting member on the SAC. In ous scoring opportunities. were inJheir shoes-make their addition, two members ofthe-Stu- C'ongratulations on a great effort. · day as· ;comfortable. plei\surable, derit Forum sat on the SAC rep• '------------------------------' and me)norable as possible. ·... resenting their class. · This was( .· Oavi<f ·tevit1¢ !!tiilt1Y-ii1:.(;11ic!f. Excctttive Edi_tor N~ws Edi1nts · · ·. ~ · ·· F~atutes Editots\'. Arts Editors Spol'ts Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Business Editors Advertising Editors Associate Pl1oto Editors · Assoc:iate Spotts Edit-ors · Associate News. Editar · Associate Editor Contputer Managet' Faculty Adviser Manager :. :·:'_ · ..... :.'<_.·::·: ::_, : __ · _:: - , .... ·:·_. =,:_ '. ; Belluda Ctago~·.Nik;i Gol9ttJ··· · · tailey ·aelsiti~ef~··· ·.·. . .· ··. bag?,i.La·c6tte . Usa Lemof~ BtiffyJ~ubensteitf · Heather ReynoN:ls· i3rianna Patn9de ·. . . ·. Veronrp~ Rogers . · Lara Gteehbei:g, C:t:Qig Greetiherg* ·· .. Oyl~il Ratigan* Shatot1 Smifh,.Fr.an Goldstein Jodie. Adams · · Josh Hah}¢s, Scott Steele. Le.9 Schacht¢r, Or~g Kalish · ·· . .·. , \AI.¢)( Kr~:is.Je.r • . . .· .· . :: ·J~~=:i;a~~~~~~!Z .... ··· .. S~qtfSc~tll1qh . · · ····· ··· ·R'acl1et K¢st Staff; Melissa Afftoltti, Thor Be1rraJ11d~1c, l3~tltr~pfJ~l11Z<f(Jtf~.it ~<:,.,;.., .• ., .. Bloch., EHzabeth D~ Jl0:)vett ·Mi<!helle .Leist,. Patn tin; · · · ... · · •·.· ... · · . · .·. ·· · MJ'l{c 'N'•elson. Larry Pa$k~h ·· . . -Robiusott;Mtcl1eHe ·&osehba~nh. J·,)·~ ·i:s~rlt~batt!'SI~v(~ttt:Sri-vastava ,1 . · 'To ~nalrze this i11 a dlfferelu do~e in contradiction of the ·stti~ perspective, let us!thirlk about our dent Forum Constitution Article own futQre for.a minute.· A Union 4. Section 8 which sta~es that\ .. degree-~ money ill th~ bahk. To~ One Senior, One Juni~r. and 011e day, tht{degre¢ gains~ ,s,feat deal Sophomore shall also repr~sent o'fres~ct However,pin realit~it\, their class on 'the Student Affairs worth'\often varies with, the ·stu- · Cou~cil .. \ bqt the a~tion ~.as , d~tlts a~ this io_stituti01 a~any done.:in con~ideratiorr of Article given ti11le,. Lefus ke'ej>' this'bigl:i : 9, Sectiou l .,:i;hich states tJ1at the q'ualitf of students an·d' · sttl'dents-~ppoit1ted will bet ... -r.ec- prospectives at the current level. ommended by the Committee on Otherwise. it will affect all of us Committees and appointed by the in the long rui1. Student Forum .. \. This was t1ot Last year this day had an ex- the procedure followed. This dis- treme~v high impact on the stu- crepancy was brought to the dents, for many raised Union to Forum's attention on the 27th. As their first choice school. It is our a result, a motion was made which responsibility to show these mandatedcontinuedGreekrepre- prospectives that Union is an ex- sentation on the SAC, until the cellent institution. Convince these constitution could be rectified. students that this is the place for them. sincerely, Mia Caetano, '94 This mqjori(v of the Student Fo- rum voted in favor of this motion on the principle that this would best serve the the Students who will be affected by the SAC 's Send all Letters to the Editor to Box 2577. Letters Must be . ·less than 500 words, and must be signed decisions between now and the time an amendment to the consti- tution can be brought to the stu- dent body. The decisions of ma- jor concern were the review of Greek housing leases. l11e Board ofTrustee action of June 14,1980 stated that \The Student Forum shall detennine which of its mem~ bers shall serve on the SAC and how the remaining non-forum members shall be selected,\ and further that the SAC \shall as- sume overall responsibility for college policy affecting fraterni- ties and $Ororities.\ For this rea- son, the Forum passed the motion to support continued Greek rep- resentation on the SAC. Later that week Ms. Caetano decided, by her own accord, that ·tile vote.wa§·ttivalidand tiuifTi did not stand. In no place in the con- stitution does it state that tl1e Stu- dent Forum .President assumes ·the rights of a Supreme Court when they 5f,eem it necessary. l11ere- . fore, the Forum voted again and reaffirmed its decision that Greek · representation Was a necessary component of the SAC, despite Ms. Caetai1o; s' efforts to stretch her authoritr beyond its bounds. _ . The bottom line is that no one member of Student Government h~s the right to assume autono- mous authority under any circum- stances. The members ofthe Stu= 'dent Forum who voted in favor of Greek representation on the SAC did it because we felt it best served the needs of the students who would be affected by the decisions ofthe SAC. By no means does the Student Forum want to leave a grey area in its constitution. TI1erefore an ammendment has been proposed that states that there will be rep- resentation from each class, one Greek student, and one independanl student who will sit on the SAC. This was proposed to ensure a balanced representa- tion on the Student Affairs Coun- cil. This ammendment will be voted on this Friday, October 8th, coinciding with the elections for the open Student Forum posi- tions, which will take place from 11 :00-3:00 in the College Center. Sincerely, Patrick Haskell, V.P. ofFinance Jonathan Miller, President of the Junior Class -· --· -····--·· - ---·--~~---·--··-------~-.....,...,...._-~~...,.,_._......,..,_,====-_...._.......~~--.--.-.-..,;,.-

\ \ f 1 ) OPINIONS October 7, 1993 Battle Onthe Student Forum -An Opinion by Matt Karlyn and Tony Sinanis Student Forum Members Why have a constitution if the people governed by it refuse to abided by its rules and regula- tions. This is a question I asked the student forum two weeks ago and again last Monday. However, falling on deaf ears, those whom I was addressing refused to listen caring not for what is right, but what they detennined was best for the students and themselves. Here's the deaL The Student Forum president, Mia Caetano, appointed three student forum mernbers, of which all were class representatives, to the Student Affairs Cotnmittee (SAC). The policy she used; althotJgh coun- teringwhat has been done in past years,· abided by the .policy de- scribed in our constitution. How- ever, she made a critical mistake by bringing to the forum the fact that, although she did what was right, her appointments did not follow the policy used in recent years which clearly violates the constitution. In other words, past years have blatantly violated the constitution and this year we tried to change this policy. However; our effm1s did not work. Here are the players. Blaine Lang berg, Senior Class President, was appointed by the president of the forum to be a member of the SA C. This was done constitution- ally. However,otherfo111m mem- bers felt that because we have dis- regarded the constitution in the past this year should be no dif- ferent. Hence, they decided that Nicki Marshall, president of the Panhellenic Council, should serve in his place. Recent years have followed that on alternating years the president of the Inter-Frater:.. nity Council and the Panhellenic Council will serve on the SAC. As Marc Weintraub served as President of the IFC last year and on the SAC, Nicki Marshall would serve this year. TI1e Problem. At our meeting two weeks ago this issue arose. A motion was made by Hallie Heller, Junior Trustee, to replace Blaine Langeberg with Nicki Marshall. A friendly amendment was made at keep Blaine on the committee and replace Antony Sinanis, Sopliomore Class Vice- President, with Nicki MarshalL This was accepted, voted on, and passed unconstitutionally. Unfortunaly, the president real- ized her mistake after it was too late. What had happened was that the forum illegally voted to dis- regard the constitution without a constitutional amendment.· TI1t1s. completely de-legitimizing the document which govems our fo- rum. TI1e Aftennath. At the follow- ing student forum meeting, last Monday, the president admitted her mistake and furiously op- posed any unconstitutional vot- ing. She firmly told the forum that last weeks vote would not stand until a constitutional amendment was made. Adamant forum members refused to accept this. After a long debate, hostile attimes, the forum finallydecided that we should vote todetennine the legitimacy of the unconstitu- tional vote. A motion was made passing by only one person. Thus, pending a vote by the stu- dent body tomorrow, an indi- vidual representing the eutire f:,ITeek population will serve on the SA C. not because that person nec- essarily deserves to be on the SAC, but because that person .is greek. nms the issue boils done to Greek. vs. Independent, not who is the best person for the committee. In addition, by .put- ting Nicki Marshall on the SAC the ratio of students on that com- mittee becomes 3 greeks to 2 in- dependent, 11ot a representative body of the student population at Union. , Their Arguments. They argue that most of the issues that the SAC deals with are ~:,>reek oriented and therefore it is absolutely nec- essary that a person representing all greeks should be on the com- mittee. In a recent telephone con- versation with Barry Smith, a member of the SAC, I asked ap- proximately how many issues that the SAC deals with are related· to the greeks. He answered that the SAC deals with issues that effect all students. Issues which range from living conditions to parking problems to greek housing. In addition, SAC meetings are open to all students. Therefore, Nicki is more than welcome to attend meetings and add to the discus- sion whatever she feels is neces- sary. It is thus not at all neces- sary to put her on the SAC as a voting member. They further believe that be- cause Greek housing is up for re- view this year that they should have a vote on the SAC now and in all years following. But, do they realize that the Greek popu- lation is not a majority on this campus??? And, the issue of Greek housing does not effect the majority of students an this cam- pus??? And that the SAC dis- cusses and votes on many other issues, not just Greek housing??? Clearly, these questions have not crossed their minds. Not only was the vote com- pletely unconstitutional, de-legiti- mizing the forum as a whole, the vote also chose to misrepresent the student body giving Greeks a disproportional voice on the SAC. Is this fair??? Clearly not. Yet, you have the choice to decide. Members of the forum voted to use the amendment, drafted last year, which states that a Greek representative, either Panhellenic or IFC presidents, shall serve in alternating years on the SAC. In addition, the amendment reduces the number of members at large to one who will be independent. Yet, this independents purpose on the SAC is not to represent inde- pendents while the Panhellenic/ IFC member is only on the.SAC to represent Greeks. Thus, the amendment openly provides for Greek representation while very little for .independent representa- tion. plf you vote yes, you wm be approving disproportionate represenation at Union, giving Greeks a larger say, per capita, at our school. By voting to defy the constitu- tion of our forum we have de-le- gitimized ourselves. By standing by the votes that have already been made, certain forum mem- bers are questioning the validity of our goveming body and con- stitutions in general. The consti- tution says that the appointments to the SAC shall be class repre- sentatives!!! Nicki Marshall is not a class representative and is thus serving on the SAC uncon- stitutionally. You have the op- portunity to change this. Vote No tomorrow. Voice your opinion and stand up for what you believe. Vote No for an \unconstitutional'\ amendment. a ~~·to our room. JnteracJiveprograms on CD-ROM cover every subject from polili~ 1o physiology. And they incorporate sound, animation, music ------ and video clips. So ordinary fopia become ----- more exciting, involving and relevant. Because a single CD-ROM disc stores more information than 500 floppy disks, you'll be able~ instantly access encyclopedias, dictionaries and extensive database$- all with the click of a mouse. . . CD-ROM technology brings vast new capabilities to the desktop. Which is why, soon, more and more computers will include a CD-ROM d1'ive. Buy one, and you're making an investment that willlastyou well into the future. Bring your papers, projects and presentations to -------- life by incorpoi'atingpho/os, clip art and a huge variety -------- of type fonts-all available on CD-ROM. Apple Macinlosh Centris~\ 610 8/230 with CJJ.ROM, Macinlosh Color Display and Apple Extended Keyboard U. Jbu still want rock 'n' roll? Plug in a pair of / self-powered speakers and the CD-ROM drive plays audio CDs too -so you can work away, while listeninp to your favorite music. Buy the Macintosh Centris 610 now, and you'll also receive the CD· ROM gift pack: two discs that include an electronic encyclopedia, a dictionary, interactive rock videos, music for your audio CD player and more (wot·th $32N CD-ROM technology puts a world of information at your fmger- tips, and enables you to work with sound, video and animation. Buy the Macintosh Centris\' 610 with CD-ROM drive, and you'll aJso receive our CD gift pack. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. While you're there, ask about financing with the Applt Computer Loan~ And .'- discover the power of Macintosh~ The power to be your bese ® FOR MORE INFORMATION S~E OR CALL CHARLES BOSWORTH .. (UNION COLLEGE. BOOKSTO~ COLLEGE CENTER - TEL. 388-6188

October 8 FRIDAY OCTOBER 8TH 7:00p.m. Field Hockey- Union vs. Vassar Frank Bailey Field 7:30p.m. Philosophy Debate Memorial Chapel Sponsored by the Philosophy Department 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium SATURDAY OCTOBER9TH 10:30 a.m.- Noon Academic Presentations/Receptions - I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Classics, English, Modem Languages, Philosophy, Arts. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. II. Faculty ofthe Social Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management Institute, Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. ... ' < •• .r 'i> • ' ~. III. Faculty ofthe Sciences. Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology. Math Lounge (2nd Floor), Bailey Hall. IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering/Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering. Room N 116, Science and Engineering Building. 11:00 a.m. Men's Soccer- Union vs. St. Lawrence Garis Field 11:30 a.m. Union Crew's 1Oth Anniversary Reception Come meet rowers and coaches at the future site ofthe new boat house in the Stockade. Call Coach Crick at 518-388-6483 for more informa- tion. 11:30 a.m.- 3:00 p.m. Homecoming Picnic Under the Big Tent on Alexander Field. Organized by Union' s·Meri' s October 10 and Women's Lacro.sse & Women's Softball Team~. 11:30 ~.m. Music by Union'.s :OutcbPipers andGar.netMinstrelles t Lamont House Porch Noon Bells Concert by Peter. K. Smith '70 Memorial Chapel 1:30 p.m. Football- Union vs. Albany Frank Bailey Field HALFTIME President Roger H. HuH presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy . Introduction ofthe 1983 Football team 4:00p.m. - 5:00 p.m. President's Reception . Everyone is invited to this reception held in the College Center Atrium .. ·· . 4:00p.m. Women's Soccer- Union vs. Plattsburgh Garis Field 8:00p.m. Concert of Music fo-r Voice, Brass and 9rgan featuring Keith E. Kibler '73 and Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson Memorial Chapel 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium .9:00p.m. Coffee House FeroHouse ~SUNDAY OCTOBER lOTH I :00 p.m. JV Football- Vnion vs. Albany Frank Bailey Field 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. 'OJlre alonc.oruicnsis - J\s Jtfilli~g as ~nur 4'finrning tir:eakfast Subscription Form Send 'The Concordiensis to Address I I Bill Me $100 for 72 issues (3 years) [ ] Bill Me $40 for 24 issues· (lyear)

The-EConomics of the Otibank Classic Visa card. HoW Student Discounts and Price · Protection contribute to Upward growth. A variety of factors have been . ~ ~ . . suggested as contributing .to the economic growth of students, including (1) more lottery winners . . • .. ! between the ages of 18 and 22, (2) a 37% increase on earnings from bottle and can returns, (3) more students d~:mbling earnings in t~e lightning round of game shows, and ( 4) the Citibank Classic Visa® ' canl. If's this 1ast one, however, that affects most students. ~The Citibank Classic Visa card offers immediate savings to stUdent cardmembers. You can save up to 26o/oon long distance calls versus AT&T with the free·Citibank Calling Servicesm from MCI! And you can capitalize on a $20 Airfare Discount for domestic flights? Savings on mail order pur- chases, sports equipment, magazines and music also abound. Maximize these savings with a low v.ariable interest rate of 15.4°/o 3 and no annual fee, .. ~ ~ i ~ q l ' ·, .'· ? : -··and you cim significantly improve your personal ~!!!!!!~!!!!@!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!i!!!!!l, · ·bottom lfue (especially if one's net incqroe tepd~; .. ,, .. t No known smiling exists. Economists. believe Washingt(Jn was .. . . . · · · , unhappybecause ~avereceivedabetterdealonwarsupp!ies.lfheouseiip ·:'J .. ·., . ·~. ~~ ~· , Ciiibank Classic Visa card, he would have been assured of getting the best price and pre,bably ' 'to. h.e ;nretcy gross). Put another way, one mtght would have been .happier. (Artist rendering of how he would have appeared on :thldlollaif'.' :,. ·•·' t fft •Mf; ·~ .. : ~ ~. · evenilaVe: ~rtortgh savfug~tbireiitvest m a ·en or t~o.(the-~~jp*J.kind, of course).~ On the way to th~·,-,. ;~ 1 \. ; .· :··'). ': ... ;~:-~.~ ~·;'; ''· ...•• • ••• : . . ~corq store, or any store for that matter, take stock of the .3 $e.ryi~es conce!fle~ with purc;ha~e~ ~<ie, ?r:t.. . ·l\f~~~h ~o,~es~ Versio~: ~e Citibank Classic cant ·ciiihari~ Price Protection~~~ RPe of the best) prices~ See 'th~ ~e 'it~m . i :The Cin~.0~c ·vJSa card will advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150. 4 To protect these investments, Buyers Securitym can cover them aga~t acci4ental damage, fire or theft (ordinarily I \. ' ', ! ' • ' ,. '• . i' .• causes for Great Depressions) for 90 days from the date of purchase. 4 And Citibank Lifetime · Warrantysm can extend the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years. 5 ~ But perhaps the features which offer the best protection are your eyes, your nose, your mouth, etc. -all featured on The Photocard, the credit card with your photo on it. Carrying it can help prevent fraud or any hostile takeover of your carcl. (Insiders speculate that it makes quite a good student ID, too.) Even if one's card is stolen, or perhaps lost, The Lost Walletsm Service can replace your card usually within 24 hours. ~ So never panic. As we all know, panic, such as in the Great Panics of 1837, 1857, and 1929, can cause a downswing in a market. But with 24-hour Customer Service, there's no reason for it. A question about your account is only an 800 number away. (Panic of the sort experienced the night before Finals is something else again.) ~ Needless to say, building a credit history with the support of such services can only be a boost. You're investing in futures-that future house, that future car, etc. And knowing the Citibank Classic VISa card is there in your wallet should presently give you a sense ofsecurity, rare in today's- how shall we say?- fickle market. ~To apply, call. Studen1;s don't 11eed a job or a cosigner. And call if you'd simply like your photo added to your regular Otibank Classic Visa card. Here's the num- ber: 1-SOO .. CITIBANK, extension 19. ~The Law of Student Supply and Demand states, \If a credit card satisfies more ofa student's unlimited wants and needs, while reducing the Risk ·Factor in respect to limited and often scarce resources- with the greatest supply of services and savings possible-:- then stu- dents will demand said credit card.'' So, demand away-call. .Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 'Savi.ngs claim is basett on a 10-minute ni!!ht!weekend call in the 1;911 to 3,000 mileage band using MCI's Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T's standard calling card mtes, effective 4/~3. Otibank Calli!l& Service long distai)Ce usage cannot be applied to o~tain b!lnefits under any other MCI.partner program or offer, including travel ~ward programs. 'Offer e)(pires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket putcliljSC price is $100. . Rebates a~ forC1hbank student card!\~mbers on t1cke\5 ISsued ~Y ISE Fl1ghts oply. 'The.A.n.nual Percentage Rateforpurchases 1s 15.4% as of8/93 and,may vary quarterly. The Annu~ Pei'Cent;tge Rate for~sh' advances.IS 1?8%. Ifa.finance charge JS tmposed, the mmlmum IS 50 cents. There tS an addtltonal finance chi'lrge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% oft he amount of. each ci!Sh advaltcetransactton( hov,:ever,ltwtll not be leSs t~al) $2.qo or gl_'Cater t~a'!:$10.00. '~e~tai_n conditions and ex~lusions apply. Please refeqo your Summary of Additio~al ~rogram lnforn'lati?n. Buyers Security_is underwrittel) ~Y The Zunch International UK L1m1ted. Certrun restncttons and lml1tat1ons apply. Underwntten by the New Hampshire lnsu!llnce Company. Servtce hfe expectan~y vanes by product and tsat·least the mtmmum based on retail industrY qata. Details of covemge are. aV!I. il!lble in your Su!ll. m.ary .O.f Addition!'~ Program !nformation: ~onarcl)'\ Noles are published by Mo~~;~rch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Commumcat1ons Company. Used by !l<lnniSSion of the publiSher. Ct1tbankcred1t cards are 1ssued by C1ttbank (South iJakota). N.A.,©I993 Ctttbank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC. be there for you with special stu· . . dent discounts, no fee, and a low rate ... so your own economy will be more like a boom than a bust. Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19.

October 7, 1993, page-12 CAMPUS NEWS Classifieds ADOPTION : Loving couple wish to share hugs, cuddles, farm animals,. and a house in the coun- tly with an adopted infant. Please call collect and ask for Tammy or Dan (518) 392-6493. TELEMARKETER- $6.00 per hour. Call Skip @372-4454 GREEKS! CLUBS! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as much as you · want in One Week! $100 ... $600 .. $1500! Matket Ap- plications for Citibank, VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Cal'l for your free t-shirt and to qualify for FREE TRIP TO MTV SPRING BREAK '94. Call 1- 800-932~0528, ext.68. SPRING BREAK '94-SeH trips, HELP WANTED: CRUISE SHIP Eam cash & Go Free!!! Student JOBS! Students needed! Earn Travel Services is now hiring '$2000+ monthly. Summer/holi- carnpus reps .. Call @800-648- days/full-time. World travel. Car-:- 4849. ibbean, Hawaii Europe, Mexico. Tour Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deck hands, Casino Workers, etc. WANTED-Campus Representa- No experience necessary. CALL tive-SPRING BREAK DIS- 602-680-4647 Ext. C147. COUNTERS-(Vacation Pack- ages). Earn cash and free trip(s). Cancun-Bahamas-S .Padre Island- Daytona. We handle bookkeep- ing-you handle sales. 1-800-336- 2260 Monday thru Friday (9AM- 5PM). HELP WANTED-GREEKS AND CLUBS. Raise up to $1 000 in just one week for your frater- nity, sorority or club! Plus$ 1000 for yourself and a free t-short. JUST FOR CALLING 1-800- 932-0528 ext.75 ... Use Classifieds THEY WORK VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNI- TIES: If you are motivated and have extra time, why not volun- teer? Come to the CDC to find the perfect opportunity. Call X6176 with any questions fWISOI\ORriD - ITODINT GROUPSt Raise as Much as You Want In One Week! $100 . . . $600. ~- .$1500! Market Aflplicatlons for the hottest credit card ever- NEWCMMASTERCARO~ Users eam BIC DISCOUNTS on GM f.ARSI Quali~ for FREET. SHIRT & '94GMC JIMMY. Caii1-80Q..950-1039, ext 75. Personals L.M. Get better soon, or else! I hope Cornelius gets along with Gerard. Love A.B. If your favorite flavor of pudding is tapioca, contact Denise Alexander. She'll be interested to meet you. To the girls at 1030 Gillespie - no more keys' Pam, Lisa, and Suzanne - Welcome Back - We missed you! To the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta- must we beg you to drink free beer? Congratulations to the newly initiated sisters of Gamma Phi Beta! To the guys at Chi Psi - The cock- tails were fun, the music was hype. Make your tables stronger, and we'll do it another night Love the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. ' To the brothers of Theta Delta Chi- thanks for the cocktails at your place I As usual, a good time was had by all. Love, the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. Caroline and De, Hope your having a ·great time in · England. We miss you~ Love, Your Delta Gamma Sisters. Elissa, Hope Israel is treating you well: We miss you! - Delta Gamma Sisters. Sheryl, Hope your having a great time in Italy. We miss you! -Delta Gamma Sisters To the brothers of Phi Delta Theta, We had a great time at dinner on Thursday night. Thanx for helpin& us with the tables- The Delta Gamma Sisters. To the Brothers of Fiji, Here's to you Here's to me Here's to friends we'll always be! Thanks for an awesome time - FIJI I From the sisters of Delta Delta Delta To Hallie, You're the best soc1al ever· congrats on a great first party! , From the sisters of Delta Delt~ Delta. I . To Jen Ferrell, Thanks for giving us the delta's back! From the sisters of Delta Delta Delta ~----------------~ Personals Student Survival·Guide Week of 10/7 - 10/13 Oct 7 - Thursday Begin Week 5 3:30 PM Women's Soccer v. Hartwick. · . Oct 8 • Friday 3:45 PM Hu213: Philosophy Colloquia 4:00 PM -9:00 Chet's T.G.I.F. (Happy H~_ur) Oct 9 - Saturday 11 :30 AM -3:00 Alexander Field:' Homecoming Picnic 11 :30 AM lamont House: PipersJMiostrelles Concert 1 :30 PM Football v~ Albany Oct 10 - Sunday Homecoming Weekend 8:00PM & 10:00, CC Aud.: ~cliffhanger\ Oct 11 - Monday Prospective Students Open House 8:00 PM & 10:00, GCAUD: \Cliffhanger\ · Oct l2 - Tuesday 8:00PM Chet's: Jesse Ashdown, Acoustic Ent. 7;00 PM Field Hockey v. Vas~ar . ..- 7:30 PMCCAUD: Philosophy,'Oebate 8:00PM & 10:00, CC Aud.: \CIIflt1i:mger\ · · 4:00 ~M -f!_:oo CCAhi~;~r:n: ·President's Hepeption 4:00 .PM WomeA's Soccer .v:-RI~It~b~r~.h · 8:00PM'& 10:00. CC Aud.: ~Ciifftrange·r\ 8:00 PM MC:_ Gala Homecoming Co_11cert . ,.,. 9:00 PM·Fero .Coffeehouse: {:Joti~:'R~adin@s . . ., . -~ - ~: . 9:00 PM Chet's: ·Monday Night Football 3:00PM Women's Tennis v. St. Rose Oct 13 - Wednesday 3:30 PM Men's Soccer v. HIT 7:00 PM Fero Crosstalk: \Freshman Orientation?\ Current as of 10/5/93. To include your events call or memo College Center/Student Activities, CC408, x6379 or x6118. START THINKING HOCKEY!'!!!!! HOCKEY SEASON TIC:KETS ARE NOW ON SALE FOR ALL STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF All tickets will be distributed on a first:..come, first-serve basis. Students are eligible to purchase one (1) season ticket booklet at a reduced price of $20.00 while faculty and staff are eligible to purchase up to two (2) booklets at a cost of $40.00 each. This option gives you the convenience of not having to stand in line prior to each game and also assures you of having the same seat for each game. FOR YOU CONVENIENCE WE HAVE SCHEDULED TWO DAYS TO SELL TICKETS AT THE COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM AREA ON THURSDA YAND FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7th and 8th, 1993 BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 11:00 AM AND 2:00 PM. After October 8th, 1993 tickets will be sold at the Achilles Rink Box Office - Box Office Hours are Monday thni Friday, 8:30 ~m - 4:45 pm. Ti<:kets will be on sale up till October 27th, 1993. When purchasing season tick~ts you must present your current Union College I.D. No one will he allowed to pick up tickets using someone else's ID ,card.

BULLETIN BOARD October 7, 1993, page 13 UNION GAY, LESBIAN AND BISEXUAL ALLIANC'E. FOR MORE INFORMATION ' . . CONTACT BOX 613 ;,\ \'i- . ' . . . . , •. ~ --~ ·. :, ·~·r_•· • . ..• - ,.. • Interested ID Llterary · DiS,cussiOn Group? · · . . . S•uden.ts, Faculty, and staff welcoine fro·m all ' ... ~ departments. Contact Edi Giunta- ext.-6041 · HEAR Y£ HEAR YE •••••• ...-- Almighty aspiring actors, those interested in performing - . or reading Shakespeare, (Students, Faculty, Union Community) your .presence is requested at an organizational session . concerning an upcoming 6 1/ight o/Shakespeare## This night, scheduled lor late October, will include scenes, dramatic readings, and monologues lrom a variety ol Shakespeare's works. This gathering shall take place on Thursday eve, - October 7th at 8:00 pm in CC406. Fortutlherlnlormatlon, please call Wallet Soule tx5685J or laura Carini tx5!J88J All are welcome Finally - BallroQm Dancing Club- This Thursday- October 7 From 4:30 to 5:30 UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES Regulation of OrganeUe Transport in Human Fibroblasts John Hayden, Department of Biology Siena College Thursday, October 14.,-SS 016, 4:40 p.m. Refreshments - 4:30 p.m. Schaffer Lfbrary BOOKSALE Tuesday, October 12 11 a.m. -.1:30 p.m. Main Lobby of Library 'The Quest for Recording Quality- A Personal Perspective\ ·or. Ray'Dolby Chairman Dolby Laboratories, Inc. ·~···, .. -·· ' . . Presented by Schenectady Section of IEEE and Union College Thursday, Oct. 14, 1993 at 8 p.m. Union College Memorial Chapel The lecture and reception to follow are free and open to the public. {;

II September 30, 1993,. page 14 Women's Volleyball Surprises Opponents by Joe Saltzbart Concordiensis Sla.ff Tims far this season, the Union College Women's Volleyball Team has surprised many in the Upstate New York College Divi- sion. With the addition of new head coach, Leslie Bogucki, and an influx oftalentedfreslunan, the Lady Dutchmen have become a tough team to beat. Led by jun- ior captains, Nicole Silverstri and Marisa Silveri, Union has comg piled a 6-7 record with just over a half-season remaining before the state and ECAC tournaments. In talking with Silvestri, one of the team's outside hitters, she feels that her young team will mature and gain the respect of older collegiate volleyball pro- grams. The team consists .of 7 veter- ans and 8 freshman athletes, none of which are seniors. Junior Jen Ahems starts at setter, responsible for coordinating the offensive at- tack. Silverstri and freshman Gretchen Voegler play as middle hitters and Silveri and freshman Heather Kanser fill the outside hitter positions. Also seeing plenty of action is Sophomore Chrissy Taraborelli, Freshman Kate Barnett, Sophomore Nina Morris at outside hitter and Sophomore Nicole Beland, Sophomore Penny Federbusch, and Freshman Cara Rothfuss as .defensive specialists. Recently, the Women's Volley- ball team suffered a heartbreak- ing five set loss to rival Hartwick, but looks to bounce back against highly ranked Hamilton College and dominate the Vassar Invita- tional. A high point of the sea- son so far was the team's win against Albany, where the Lady Dutchmen outlasted the Great Danes in a grueling three set match. Captain Silveri and team- mates Taraborelli and Ahems feel that there is a great deal of poten- tial for success in the exciting play of Union Volleyball. \We feel that with the combination of tal-. ented freshman, wily upperclass- men, and great coaching, the co- hesiveness on and off the court among the players wil:l spell trouble for many opponents.\ Revenge for Dutchmen- continuedfrompage 16 penalty in their favor the Dutchmen had a first down on the Dickinson 13-yard line. Two plays later Frank Attah tan the ball up the middle for a touchdown and a 23-17 lead. Frsm then on, the Union defense .. , di~ not allow Dickinson to get within the Dutchmen 45-yard line. In the end the score was a 23-17 Union win. This illcreased Union's record to 4-0, and extended their winning steak with Newton in the starting 1ole to seven games. Saturday the Dtitchmen will host the Great Danes of Albany for Homecoming weekend. At halftime, the football team will be honoring the members of the 1983 team which went to the Stag .Bowl. SPORTS Men's Soccer Wins· Tournament by Pat Streck Contributing Writer The Men's Soccer Team im- proved its record to a strong 4-1- 1 with a recent win over Middlebury and by taking the Manhattanville Valiant Cup. Goals by Stu \Chicken\ Savage and Ted \Yo!\ Doran provided the margin of victory in the Middlebury game. Union had leads into the final minutes of games against Cortland and Al- bany this season and made errors that have put the l-1 at the end of their record. The Middlebury game tumed things around. For the first time in a whilct the team pressed its attack for the entire game and came out with a deci- sive victory. The Manhattanville Tourna- ment was a just what the team needed to build upon the Middlebury win. The competi- tion was not as strong .as most of the teams that Union plays this season but, no team should be underestimated. As it turned out, Westfield State held close in the first game of the toumament al~ Funk, and David· \Water\ Grandwetter. Grandwetter, are- cent initiate to the No Goal Pa- trol (the starting defense of Yin \V -man\ Obermeier, Stu \Beef Stu\ Polk, and founding father Dave Chodosch)was cut down in the line of duzy filling in for hrs mentor Chodosch. An unseen Westfield player caught Grandwetter .from the blind side and he landed on his right wrist, breaking it but he should he back for post-season play. The fina,l tally was a statistical nightmare as all seven goals were assisted and Union out shot Westfield 24 to 7. the .combinations were as follows:· Kevin \Flash\ Wilmot from Jeremy \Pearly Whites\ Liebhoff; Matt Stem from Mark ''Ole!\ Oleson; captain JeffMela from Liebhoff; Stern from Liebhoff; Oleson frmn .Stern; freshman Jason \'Jaybird\ Fisher from fellow freshman Mike \Cot- tage Cheese\ Bullen; and Senior Kurz from fr-eshman Rob McHugh. The final match was against Anna Maria Co11ege was again \\ only 2-0 at the end of the first half but, Union scored four more times with barely twenty minutes gone in the second half to reach want came to be the final score of 6~0. Freshman Ted Do.tan started the scoring with help from Stern and Mela folJowedwith two goals that Wilmot and Stem as- sisted on. Meta assisted the next two goals s~ored by Oleson and Liebh.off. The final goal was Liebhoff again, this time from Stern. the ·second squad domi· nated Anna Maria .. but couldn't produce any . goals like the day before. Eric \Chewbacca\ Chu, James Grazi'osa, Jon .Buscaglia, and Keith. Woods,n,lakeup the rest . of the squadj. ~·i)!fief·whom played solidly all we¢kend. The team pl<eys':Utica away on Thursday and is at home against St. Lawrence Saturday at 11 o ,dock. l11e team is on a,roH and is going to ·pJay·some great ball. Come up and wat~,>h~ eve11 if you don't like soccer.., Mela~s Chi Psi brothers can put on· a show by themselves. lowing only two Union goals in · ' the ~irst half. Coach AI.do . w.. ... o· me· n·. s·· Rugby Beats Albany Nard1ello used some creative halftime motivation tactics in or- der to get his players back in the game. It seemed to work as Union scored five more goals in the second half to coast to a 7-0 win. One of the best aspects of the game was that the last two goals were scored by the second unit, a group composed mostly of fresh- man and led by upperclassmen Casey \Kruz\ Kurz, Byron Smith, Jon \Pearl Jam\ Pearhnan, keeper Brad \Can't fake the\ Cross -Country Runs Hard The Men's and Women's CrOS$ Country reams traveled to LeMoyne University this week- end for a showdown with many of the. top teams in the state at the Lemoyne Invitational. Occa- sional rain gave way to slipperry conditions throughout the course that left some runners sliding around the course. However, that was not enough to keep tl1e teams from navigating the course. and finishing successfully. Once again the Women's team ·displayed their team strength by taki11g fifth place out of the twelve women's teams. The top five. women all finished within an in- credible49 second span as Linda Seymour( 19th, 20:4o) took home the ot1ly individual .award among the Union runners. Dia11a Spenello(28 th, 20:54), Liza Morse(34th, 21: 13), Sarah Teasdale(37th, 21 :22) and AmeliaAudette(38th, 21 :23), and Sarah Morse(54th, 23:.02) all finshedwith the front ofthe field to take home a respectable finish. The Men's team continued to show improvement as the first four men finished within a 22 sec- ond span. Anthony Anderson(48th, 29:34) broke away ftom the foursome with Courtesy of Women's Rugby Saturday, October 2nd was the day many a veteran had long awaited. With bitter memories of losses in the spring of'92, Home- coming '92, and a close loss this past spring to SUNY Albany, the Union Women's R.F.C. was ready to avenge past defeats. Graduating only four seniors last spring, Captains Jessie Zirinsky and Gael a Schweizer were able to field an A side comprised of al- most all veterans. Making their debut on the A side were rookies Nikki Goldin, Ally Wheeler, and Amy Klaucke. The first haif got off to a quick start, with Union pushing hard behirid Albany's 22 meter line. Coming out of a scruin down on Albany's 5 1Tleter mark, the line got the ball to Gael a, who scored amidst a huge pile-up in the try zone. Although line-outs proved to be a trouble spot, the team has faith that hooker Laura Grund had problems throwing the ball in straight because of strong winds, not because ofher activities from the night before. Briefly, the ac- tion moved dangerously close to Union's 22, but fortunately wing forward Eileen Calkin ignored her fear, anns, and the laws ofthe game and threw a cross-body check at Albany's wing as she came toward the try zone. Al- though called for the pe11alty, Union regained possession ofthe ball, and continued its march back Nick Conway(52nd, · 29:4 7) sprinting in close behind. John Metz(53rd. 29:51) and Chris Colpoys(54th, 29:56) closed the top four finishers while Seth Rudin(60th 30:34), Mark up the pitch. Nearing the 50 meter mark, the serums were rucking over the ball beautifully, when it popped out to the right Seizing the opportunity, serum half Barb McCuen scooped up the ball and ran some 50 meters un- touched into the try zone. Full- back Wendy Stephenson success- fully converted the try, and Union ended the half up 12-0. TI1e B side took the pitch for the second half, determined to hold Union's lead, while Albany kept in its A's. Undaunted. the B's only allowed Albany one try. Rookie Pam Lynch fearlessly jumped on the backs of players twice her size. as d·id veteran Deena Alter. Freshman Kristeen Hoffman followed senior Eileen Col kin's example~ and made a try-saving body check, but was caught and sternly wamed by Coach/Referee/Male Nurse Andy McDonnell. Rookie prop Jody Kadish suffered a debilitating in- jury on the pitch, and was admin- istered an emergency cigarette on· the sidelines. The team demonstrated excel- lent cohesiveness, and put for- ward a great effort. l11anks to the. leadership of taptains Zirinsky and Gaela, along with the spiri- tual leadership of Zollo and Dave, the team is looking forward to a great season. Come watch us Saturday, October l6t;h as we host Oneonta State 011 Library Field at noon. Sheridan(61 st, 30:41) and Adam Russell(63rd, 31 :02) closed out the varsity seven to give the men a tenth place finish among the thirteen teatns con'lpleting the race.

SPORTS October 7, 1993, page 15 Cod.ewor·d: Bagaah! Thank God It's Over! Women's Soccer Rolls On .by Jo4! Saltz bart Conciu:_dietls/:<; Staff . Bagaah! ., Union Co;l'lege Womc:m '!iSocct:r continued, their hot streak this pastweek as they won two games, and lost one ilj overtime. After compiling a. 6,.2 record, Union is ranked 9th in the region and looks .to improve their record an;d ~anking at home against riv:1l I Iartwick and 8th ranked Plattsburgh State. The Lady Dutchmen have looked tough and aggressive in their last h.m' games, but when one of the players feels that the team is fall- ing asleep or becoming too sloppy, someone yells ''bagaah\. Then it is echoed by' others. until the whole teams joins the wild call. This code word seems to ignite the Lady Dutchmen and intimidate opposing teams. It seems to he working! Union played its own version of Monday Night Football on the wet and cold, -turf when they trounced Russell Sage 4-0 on scores from Salainos, Gauntt, Retterer, and Rock. Union out shot the Sage 26-9, taking advan- tage of the Jast, -wet turf to sus- . tai11: their offensive .attack. Tl1e defense did. a great job allowing Manna to relax in the net. Earlier it1 the week, Uni.on recorded their first win ever,against Skidmore J.,. by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Hdilor 'fhe conclusion of a baseball season often brings out a· variety of emotions from- its fans. Some experience feelings of sorrow, knowing that the end of a season marks yet another year gone by. Some experience disappoint- ment,. perhaps di'ssatisfied with their team's performance during the past year. Others experience joy, relishing in the good memo- ries left behind by a long season. W11ile_ the end ofthe 1993 s~ason ma;y leave some· sad and yearn- ing for more ofAmerica's \Na- tional Pastime\ day-in and day- out, one would be hard-pressed to find a soul wishing t<;> see the stand-tllJ comedy act known as the 1993 New York Mets con- tinue any longer than absolutely necessary. And although their season thankfully ended this past Sunday on a positive note (six :; straight wins. against the Cardi- ~ uals 'and Marlins), it has been a ~ year of calamity and embarrass- ] n'reritf6r al1 organization that held ~ a World Series Trophy as recently ~ as 1986. · -<= ::.. The year was 1988. The place 0 on a goal from Amy Powell, · was Shea Stadium, New York. . assisted by Retterer, in the first Game 4 of the National League period of play. An avenged Championship Series saw Coach Pedone vemarked that \this Dwight Gooden take a two-run was a clutch game for personal lead into the ninth inning and a reasons and also allows the con- chance to for the Mets to take a fidence we need to continue our toughe\st pmi of Dtir schedule!\ Pedone words were right on the money as Union was deadlocked in a 0-0 tie against top-ranked St. Lawrence going into overtime. Unfortunately, Union lost when the Larry's burst for four goals to 'seal the game and their high rank- ing. Yet Union played tough and expects to meet them again in post-season competition. The Lady Dutchmen play today agai11st HartwiCk and on Saturday versus Plattsburgh; catch those . rising stars. Bagaah! 3-1 lead in the series. Relief ace Randy Myers was ready in the bullpen, but Manager Davey . Johnson elected to stay with his veteran starter. With one out and a Dodger on second base, Mike Scoscia was at the plate. Facing two strikes, Scoscia swung at a fastball. About seven seconds later. it landed somewhere in the player's patking lot. The Mets went on the lose that game and the.playoff series. Baseball historians and diehard MetJans point to that moment, the Scoscia homerun in Game 4. Athletes of the Week by Mike Leding · ( 'on<'ort~/cmsis Stt!/f This week's.Athletes of the Week are Craig Mosiaand Marco Lainez the starting Inside Line- backers for our Union College football team. Last Saturday the team improved its record to 4-0 defeating Dickinson 23-17. Mosia and Lai nez led the barrage oftacklesby accumulating 16 and 15 total tackl.es api.ece. Mosi:a,had 8 solo tackles and 8 :assisted, and La inez had 9 solo an.d 6 assisted tackles. On the year·Mesia has 38 total tackles, oneJumble r,ecovery, at1d one pas~ deflection. Mosia is av- eraging 9.5 tackles per gatne. Lainez has 33. total tackles and Olie pass deflection. He is aver- aging 8.1 tac!kles per game. Mosia and Lainez are number one and two respectively on the team m tackles. well ahead of the rest oft he hard hitting defense. These two men are the leaders on a de- fcnse that has held its opponents to a total of 27 points this year. These two have been playing to- gether for four years and cmnpli- mcnt each others talents very well. This coming weekend's oppo- nent is archival Albany and will be played here at Union for Homecoming Weekend. We need to show our .support for the ('raig Mosia Marco /,ainez team as they pursue continued success. This teams hard nosed defense is complimented by an explosive offense that has put up 14 1 points on the board this year. It is time we showed some school spirit and supported the team on their way to a great season. Con- gratulations to Craig and Marco and good luck this weekend against Albany. as the beginning of the Mets' monumental collapse, one which hopefully has reached rock bot- tom with this season's 103 loss perfonnance. Dallas Green, with his hard-nosed no-nonsense repu- tation, is the man in charge ofthe rebuilding process. While re- vamping this talent-ridden orga- nization may seem like a long and arduous process, Green must take solace in the factthatthings could not passibly get worse next year. Still, there is much work to be done. Th,e 1993 Mets w~re not a group of good players collectively having off years. While flashes of talent did rise to the surface from time to time, it was often the glar- ing mistakes that took center stage. Titis team is simply, bad (meaning notgood). For example, Jeff Kent broke out this year with his nineteen homeruns, th.e great- est homerun production from a Met second baseman in club his- tory. But the man cannot success- fully field a ground ball on a con- sistent basis. The same can be said for many ofthe Mets benchplay- ~rs who often p~ovided us with memories of past little league ex- periences. Apparently, some of these guys skipped infield prac- tice in high school and hogged the batting cage .. There are so few exempt from criticism, so few who did not have a direct hand in this team's fail- ure. The Mets have now given todd Hundley three years to emerge as a multi-dimensional cntcher. Not only is he still hit- ting barely over .200, it is doubt- ful he could throw Sid Fernandez out at second. And speaking of Sid, the man 'seems to lose thirty pounds every third year and then spends the interim gaining back three times that amount. Is it any wonder that he is so often injured? Bret Saberhagen, while still pos- sessing one of liveliest fastballs in the game, ended his season on a Long Island lake. While trying to push away a drifting rowboat and prevent it from hitt.ing his boat, he slipped,. sprained his ankle, and cut his leg open. Howard Johnson still can't hit a curve ball and pretends like he doesn't know one is coming, Eddie Murray can hit and field hut has the social skills and de- meanor of a slug, and Anthony Young,. well, .he just makes me laugh. But is there really a need to stomp on a team's grave, must we examine each and every aspect of this porous collections of has- beens and never-will-be's. Maybe we should point to positives and look forward to next season. Af~ ter all, is that not what the con- clusion of every baseball season brings, a chance to ·regroup and start anew with a clean slate. But there is only positive stemming from this horrid, nightmarish of a season, it's finally over. Correction: In last week's NHL preview, the four newly aligned divisions were said to be the At- lantic, Central, Midwest, and Pa- cific. In actuality they are the At- lantic, Central, Northeast and Pa- cific. Men's Rugby Continued the ball away and after running through eight tacklers brought it in alone for 5 points. A perfect kick by Ian \Rock\ Spanier made it 7-0 and Union never looked back. Union's second try was mtich the same, a Polecat penalty deep in their. own end would prove to be fatal. DuPuy, set up by a perfect pass from Andy \Glass Jaw\ Frisbie, displayed his spectacular acrobatic skill by div- ing over the entire Potsdam pack for his second txy. A beautifully placed kick by Spanier would make it 14-0 as the halfcame to an end. Andreae, obviously disap- pointed with only two tries in the first half, both at the hands of his veteran co-captain, called upon the youngsters for four more by games end. The tone was set im- mediately by A-side virgin, Brian \Coop\ Davenport who, after leaping up 91/2 feet to spoi.l a Potsdam lineout, would dive in from five meters out to make it 19-0. Union's fourth would be yet another serum score as the Union pack would drive Potsdam back ten meters before rookie sensation Adam \Boulder\ Bach and Mike \W11eels\ Hannah pounced on the ball to make it 24-0. Union's fifth and perhaps most spectacular score would come largely due to the efforts of one man. Daven- port, not willing to be denied a second try, carried six would be tacklers for eight meters before being pushed over the try line by the rest of Union's team for the score and Spanier's kick would make it 31-0. Potsdam would get close enough however to kick a field goal after a Union penalty, thus dashing Union's hopes of a shut-out on the rocks. Not want- ing to disappoint Andreae, Seth Brown, filling in for \Glass Jaw \ Frisbie, ran in like a man pos- sessed for Union's sixth try. Spanier, wanting to live up to all he had seen that day, decided to kick his last field goal blind folded from 50 meters out. With the wind working against him Spanier kicked the ball with all he had and split the uprights to seal the Polecat's fate making the ~core 38-3. Union's Killer B's took to the field with victory on their minds and in an intense defensive battle they would not be denied. The Union B-Sides would stop Potsdam at every turn and Seth Brown's try followed by Mark Wino~:,rrad's kick to make it 7-0 would prove to be all they needed to win. The Killer B's, com- prised mainly of rookies, are off to an impressive start. The lack of experience is made up for in the detennination and dedication of these fifteen iron hearted, steel willed indi- viduals as they improve thelr record to 2-0. ,, •

. I ' ,, ' l I ·' ', f October 7, 1993 PAGE16 utc men! .~·~ . Union Rallies to Gain Revenge on Nationally Ranked Dickinson by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor During the first three games of the season, the Dutchmen offense saw explosive petfonnances over ill matched opponents. This past Saturday, was the first true test for coach Audino's squad. The Dutchmen faced an undefeated Dickinson team, who handed Union a 27-3 loss last season. After the defeat to the Red Devils, the Dutchmen proceeded to lose two consecutive games. This years team was seeking to avenge last years loss. Things did not start off well fot the Dutchmen. With their second possession, Dickinson was able to take a 7-0 lead. On the ensuing possession, quarterback Scott Newton's pass was picked offby a Dickinson defender, giving the Red Devil's excellent field position. The Red Devils offensive momentum continued, as they ran the ball down field seven consecutive times, for yet auother touchdown. As the first quarter ended the Dutchmen found themselves 111 the hole 14- 0 The second quarter started poorly for the Dutchmen. The Dutchmen marched down the field. getting the ball into sconng position. With the ball on the Dickinson 16-yard line, Newton's pass was fumbled and recovered by the Red Devils. However, the ineffectiveness of the Dutchmen's offense did not carry over to the defense. Senior co- captains Marco Lainez and Craig Mosia refused to permit the Dickinson offense to score. Union's offense fumbled again on their next possession, but Dickinson again was unable to capitalize. The Dutchmen offense finally got its act together, as junior running back Chris Irving tan the ball for a 16-yard, and a 9-yard gain. Then, sophomore Frank Attah contributed a 22-yard nm, setting up Mike Rauseo's 3-yard touchdown run making the score 14-7. When Dickinson got the ball back, they were llnable to get a first down because of the over- powering Dutchmen defense. When Union got the ball back, they storined down the field like a team possessed. Aftera 17-yard nm by Frank Attah, Chris Irving ran the ball in for a touchdown tying the game at 14, at the end of the first half. The Du.tchmen started the. second half where they had left off in the first. On their second possession of the half, the Dutchmen moved the ball to thetr. the quarter, this was a pivotal Dickinson 12-yard line. Senior situation. The Dutchmen defense · kicker Greg Harrison was able to thwarted Dickinson's touchdown break the tie, as he booted a 29- attempt, forcing them to settle for yard field goal, making the score: a field goal. and a 17-17 tie. The 17-4. Later in the quarter, key play ofthe game came at the Dickinson had the ball first and end of third quarter. After goal, on Utiion's 3-yard line. Dickinson's field goal, Umon was With under three tniTI\ttes ·left in unable to score on their next possession. Jason Baker pun,t~dthe ball into Dickinson's end, where it was fumbled and· recovered py senior . ' special te\ams stand61t:t Jim McCloskey, on the ~~d D~vil 25~ yard line. A:fter..t~cefviMi a -· - .. ' ~ - \' continu(!d'oil page 14 Rugby Rolls Over Potsditm ' ' A> • by Rob DuPoy ~ . ' Comrihutinl{ Writer As dawn broke over library field on Saturday morning, the mgby gods were smiling on the Union tuggers. As Mike \Cueball\ Valvo and others pre- pared the field, it was clear that it would be a great day for rugby. After a slight dday with the po- lice on their way down, the k Potsdam Polecats showed up with ? victory on their minds, they were ~ in for a disappointment. ~ Afteran inspirational speech by ~ Co-Captain Kirk \Dubbs\·~ Andreae, m which he demanded -: three tries per half, the Umon ] ruggers could barely contain their .... Aycox, began the slaughter. l11e first of Union's many tries was to be scored by Co-Captain Rob \Puppy\ DuPuy.·· After intensity. l11e huge crowd had amazing passing by Union's line waited long enough and with one it looked as though they would be mighty blow of his whistle the denied as BJ \Guns\ Marcoullier referee, Skip \Chicken Legs \ who, though dragging four de• fenders, was finally slowed down by the fifth Polecat that joined in. Despite the overWhelming odds BJ some how managed to get the ball out and DuPuy, with his in- credible blazing speed, snatched continued on page 1 J \ ,·.

•... .. ... ~ ~ __...-nnrnr t.ensts Volume CXXIII~ Number V CDC Releases Survey of the Class of1992 by Larry Paska Concordiensis Stqff TI1irty-two percent of graduates from the Class of 1992 are pursu- ing graduate or professional de• grees, according to a recent sur- vey compiled by Kathryn D. Bra- dley, Assistant Director of the Career Development Center (CDC). Sixty-one percent of those whore- sponded to the survey reported be- ing employed, with another seven percent not finding employment at the time. Eighty-nine percent, 464 gradu- ates, ofthe 521-memberclass, re- sponded to the survey, with this figure· being split nearly evenly between males and females. . Thirty-six percent of the females and twenty-eight percent of the males said they were attending graduate or professional school. Fifty-nine percent offemales and sixty-four percent of males re- ported being employed. The largest ares of employment among those who responded are finance and banking (7 .3 %) and sales and marketing (5.8%). For those pursuing higher degrees, law school and medical school received the highest percentages (6;7% and 6.3%, respectively). Among observations compared to the survey of the Class of 1991, tmem.ployment of graduates has dimbed(up from 4%in 1991, and the highest rate since at least 1985), and the percentage of .stu- dents enrolling in law school has decreased (down from 8% in 1991). Some areas of employ- ment have seen some noticeable shifts. those entering business/ management related fields dropped to 4.3% from 6.2% in 1991. Also, those finding jobs in electrical engineering tripled, up to3%. continued on page 2 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 --- - -· . Schenectady~ New York October· 14, 1993 Memorial for Former English Professor Held by Alexandra Gualpa Concordiensis Staff Fall at Union: Homecoming Weekend brings many alumni back to Union. As leaves begin changing colors and winter quickly approaches, the college community prepares itselffor another long winter ahead. Soon falling leaves will be replaced by fal1ing snow and students, faculty, and adminstrators will all be bundled up and fighting the long walks through piles of gleaming snow. Last week was very special for all who knew Carl Niemeyer, professor emeritus of English, who died on July 3, 1993. The memorial service was held on October 6 in the Old Chapel, and according to research professor Bill Murphy, there was an ex- tremely big turn-out, and a packed house. Professor Murphy spoke for everyone who knew Professor Niemeyer when he described him as \one of the best teachers of all time\ at the memorial service. The word which came up most often when describing Professor Niemeyer was \gentleman\. \He never raised his voice\ and he \used the English language beau- tifully\. Telecommunications Provides Access to tlte Handicapped by Shevta Srivasraava Concordiensis Staff The Telecommunications Of- fice of Union College has recently installed new jacks in the three phones at the College Center to allow the deaf and hearing im- paired people to use them. The jacks were installed so it could be easily accessible to the disabled. Text telephones allow the user to converse by typing. Their mes- sage can be received directly by another text telephone or con- verted to spoken word by a trans- lator. The new jacks can also be used to connect laptop comput- ers to external voice and data lines. The college has also low- ered the height of the phones and installed volume controls on the phones. These updates are in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act require- ments. Telecommunications also has installed 10 emergency phones, which are \hotlined\ to the Campus Safety Office. Lift- ing the phone handrest will alert security of the location of the phone and assistance will be dis- patched. There are also 19 out- door courtesy phones with four digit calling capability to any campus extension. The install- ment of the jacks were of no cost to the college because N.Y. Tele- phone paid for all the expenses. Ms. Diane Winkler, the head of the Telecommunic,ations Office was pleased to announce that transfer and hold telephone func- tions are new features that are now available to students. One feature that the office is looking into is the voice mail. The addi- tion of voice mail would render additional answering machines as unnecessary and make it much easier for the residents and fac- ulty to communicate. This year Union students had to bring their own telephones. The college had provided the tele- phones before, but there were many problems associated with them. The cost of maintenance and repair were too high and the college could not pay for all of the damage. Many of the tele- phones were also not returned at the end of the year, and this cost the college additional money. Most students were prepared and brought their own phones, but handset and AT&T telephones are available in ~he college book- store. \We never had a case of au- thorization code theft.\ said Ms. Winkler.\ Only minor problems. The students seem to be very careful with their codes. \she added. Another minor problem that sometimes arises is that stu~ dents do not pay their telephone bills. The Finance Office decides whether the code is tenninated or not at the end of the each tenn. The continued on page 4 continued on page 2 Co'!!,:te$y of Public Relations · ; Studen!s'andfaeulty tram ten mental Chall~nge. · Capit~1 Di~trict aatrtl;lus-es will The aftemo6n session will '.meet witn memb~ts:Of conunu~ include skills workshops, .in- [j~itY:~oti~.it!'~P~~titll:etwQt·k.. eluding: How to use the me- ing conference S~furday~ Otto~ dia to express your ideas; · .ber 16. \We want ttl bring to- How to run more effecti,,e g¢ther people c<>n¢~~00: with· meetings; How to build a raci.stn, se?'i$m; :homophobia multicultural organization; ,and the environment to increase (lfldf/ow to find and work With cooperative work;;; said David allies. Easter, coordinator. of Campus To register for the confer- Action, the conference sponsor, ence. call Campus Action, Ute confer~c~; titled, Conw 434-4037. The registration tinuing the M<Wetnenf · 91, is fee is $10~ $5 for students and open to all :who wish to attend low income. 'Participants may and will be held from. 9t00arn bring a bag lunch or .purchase to 4:00pm at the Campo$ Cen- lun~h at the St. Rose snack teroftheCollegeofSniutR:ose~ bar. The .aq~\fiti¢$ will stan with ~· Campus Action i$ a an address.bykeynotespeakers, m.uiticultur~il organization Naomi J-affe atTd Vickie Smith: working to support the growth Their topic: Building Unity lo of social change activism on lJ(!feat Ht~le Gw.ups; , Work- all Capital District campuses. sllcps for the ntotnirig include: Campus Action is based at Work Ag.atnst 1tacrs11t,' 1'he Albany's Social Justice Cen- . Feminist Struggle, Lesbii:m and ter, 33 Central Ave., Albany. Gf!)l Ri~ts; mtd 'Ghe 1!Jn:viro11.. NY 12210.

October 14, 1993, page 2 Professor Niemeyer Remembered Fondly continued frompage 1 Niemeyer was named the Tho~ mas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature and served as the Chairman of the English Department for five years. Professor Murphy used a quote from Henry VIII to de- scribe the achievements of the English department: it \touched the highest point ofall its great- ness\ during those five years. Among the many courses Niemeyer taught were American Civilization, Shakespeare, American Novel and British Novel. Among the many people who have been greatly inspired by Professor Niemeyer is Sally Van Schaick, the first woman to re- ceive her bachelor's degree, in 1958, before Union became coed. To her he was \a natural teacher\ who showed \gentlemanly re- spect\ for all his students. He was a very intellectual person and a gifted linguist; he read many of the Greek dramas in Greek, and during World War II, he leam.ed Russian, and taught navigation to servicemen while in the service. Niemeyer~ who was Van Scaick's advisor for her senior thesis, \seemed to be happy at Union\ and was respected by all who knew him. Niemeyer was a bachelor who lived at home with his mother for many years, but he dedicated much of his time to the Union community. He was a \delight- ful companion\ for Professor Murphy and many others. Niemeyer served on many com- mittees and was the author of many articles .and books. He dedi .. cated much of his time to \Books Sandwiched In\ a program at the Friends of Schenectady County Public Library on Mondays where book reviews are given He was also one ofthepromulgators at the discussion to make Union coed in 1970. Professor Niemeyer died on June 3 at age 86. He will be re- membered for his excellent teach- ing ~md his dedication and contri- butions to union College. NEWS wlin wi~hto attenJ> by ifyou have any question§ or suggestibri's~ . ' .·· '; .. .. - .. --· ·-·- .. , .. .• +, .. ........ Freshman Class Elections·· Results In Five-way Tie CDC Survey of Class of 1992 continued jr(Jm page 1 Bradley said, \information for the survey was collected last fall, when letters are sent to graduates. In the spring, all of the graduates are called.\ by Bharat Nawani Concordiensis Staff Posters, smiles, promises, and handshakes during the week of 8/ 4/93 all came to a culmination on Friday, October 8th, 1993. The event: Freshman Class Represen- tative Election, 1993-1994. Liv- ing up to their name of the most \enthusiastic\ freshman class at Union in years, a record number of 19 individuals ran for the 3 va- cant seats of President, Vice Presi- dent, and Treasurer. The election results were an- nounced to the student body late Monday afternoon, October 11th. The winner: Undecided! Appar- ently, due to the large amount of candidates and the closeness of the race, no candidate received 30% of the votes casted. The Union College Constitution spe- cifically states that if no candidate receives the designated thirty per- cent of the votes, a run-off elec- tion must be conducted among the five candidates who received lhe greatest number of votes. The Election Board, having tal- lied the results, have released the names [in alphabetical order] of the five candidates who will par- ticipate in the run-off election on Friday, October 15th, 1993: Ben Fox, Michael Gifford, Azul Jaffer, Dana Katz, and Rawson Thurber. All freshman are again encour- aged to exercise their tight to vote. The casting of ballots will take place outside the College Center. It's easy. It is important. So, VOTE! ' Addendum: A special congratu- lations to Ms. Rachel Kest, who was voted into office as Senior Class Representative on Friday, the 8th of October. Post Addendum: The election on Friday, October 8th, also saw the passing of a new amendment to the Constitution which defines the seating plan\''(m the Student Af- fairs Council (SAC): 3 Class Rep- resentatives (Senior, Junior, and Sophomore), an IFC/Pan Hellenic Representative, and a student at large who is independent. The surveys were started in the early 1980's, and this was Bradley's first year compiling the information for them. Responses to the surveys have been fairly consistent over the while in 1990, 89% responded. Since 1985, trends have shown graduates to increasingly choose work in Business/Management and Education. Similarly, the percentage of students working for the government and mechani- cal engineering has declined, as has students going on for further study in medicine and law. · · · ··.· .. ·. and'·~re o~h to an·· · CC4l0. Feei fre<:tto stop'. For More Information on The Gay, Lesbian, and BiSexual Alliance Contact Box 613 Freshman: Don't forget to Vote for your ReJ!resentatives · . on Friday, October 15th from 1_2:00 - 3:00 p.m. in the College Center~ Run-0 Candidates For Freshmen R \Two Concepts of Comparable Worth\ Carolyn Magid Bentley College Friday, Octboer 15th in Humanities 213 Reception immediately following in the Humanities Lounge. All lectures are open to the public. Sponsored by the Union College Philosophy Department Ben Fox Michael Gifford is the fifth candidate for Freshman Class Representative to the Student Forum. A picture of Michael was not available to ·crnT~ @onrodri~nsis Freshman, don't forget, that there will be a re-election for representatives for your class to Student Forum. Elections will be held on Friday, October 15th from 12:00 until3:00. There will Rawson Thurber be a booth set up in the college center by the Student Forum. You may vote for three of the five candidates, and a candidate must receive·30% ofthe vote, in order to be elected. The Student Fomm would like to remind all candidates and supporters that no propaganda is to be put up within 100 feet ofthe voting booth, and they would appreciate your cooperation. Dana Katz .. Azul Jaffer

NEWS Professor of the Week James McCord In the Fall of 1977, Professor James McCordjoined the English Department at Union College .. While English students.knowhim as William Blake's greatest fan, there are many other interesting facts that contribute to Professor McCord's enthusiastic character. After receiving his under• graduate degree at ~he University of California for his History ma- jor, McCord went off to Ba:waii for two years. He taught history to high school students in Maui and then his interests expanded into teaching literature at college or uniyersity level. He retumcd to ~he University of Califomia to study literature and received his Masters and Ph.D. in English .lit- erature. It was midway through his graduate studies that McCord became hooked on Blake. To him, Blake was multidisciplinary. It represented \art and literature, picture and poem. It knocked me out,\ he reminisces. by Alex Krelsler Associate News Editor McCord spent his last two years of ·graduate school writing his thesis in London on a Fulbright Fellowship, which was affiliated with theCourtauld Institute of Art. His thesis focused on \Blake's il- luminated Books.\ His completion of graduate school brought him one year as a visiting assistant professor at Washington University in St. Louis and then sixteen plus years at Union. Outside of the classroom, McCord enjoys book collecting, gardening and traveling with his wife around Europe. He states that, \they have been fortunate enough to have the opportunity to live in Bath, Florence, and Ath- ens, due to terms abroad.\ The McCords have also experienced France, London, Wales and Scot- land. His travels to Europe have certainly added to McCord's ex- tensive slide collection of about three to four thousand slides taken over the last fifteen or so years. He likes to use the slides for his own collection, as well· as in his classes. Traveling runs in the family, for McCord's son, a 1991 graduate of Binghamton, is pres• ently on a worldwide adventure. Likewise, teaching is a family tradition because McCord's daughter, a 1985 graduate of Union, is a third grade teacher in Maine. Professor McCord has written several critical and scholarly ar- ticles on Blake and is currently working on research projects that combine his interests in history, art, and literature. As for in the classroom, Pro- fessor McCord believes, \the stu- dents at Union are blessed witha great variety of kinds of teachers and teaching styles. Particularly im- portant to me is that a classroom be a spirited learning lab in which we all continually test and chal- October 14, 1993, page 3 lenge accepted ideas.\ Finally, McCord stresses that the class- room is \where appreciation and respect for the significance of his- tory, tradition, and cultural achievement takes place.\ Alex Kreisler Dupont Corporation to Award Students for· Innovation with Teflon New Psychology Professor Joins the Union Faculty Courte.\y (?!The Dupont ( 'orporation 1l1e Dupont 1994 Plunkett Stu- dent Awwards for Innovation with \Teflon\, sponsored by DuPont, is designed to recognize the best examples of student in- novation in fluoropolymer tech- nology. With an overall prize purse worth upwards of $30,000, the ,competition will evaluate new applications for the family of \teflon\ fluoropolymer resins de- veloped by students pursuing de- grees in accredited trade schools, technical institutes, colleges and universities in the United States. The studnet awards, endorsed by the Industrial Designers Soci- ety of America, will be held in alternating years with the biennial DuPont Plunkett Awards for In- novation with \Teflon\, which are conducted at the corporate leveL The competition was launched in May, 1993, with en- tries to be judged in January 1994. A six-member independent panel of distinguished scientists, journalists and industrialists will judge the competition. NASA Space Shuttle astronaut Nancy J. Sherlock, Major, U.S. Army; Dr. Emanuel Horowitz; Professor, Johns Hopkins University and National Institute of Standards and Technology Gold Medal Re- cipient; James E. McGrath, Direc- tor, Center for High Preformance Polymeric Adhesives and Com- posites, Department of Chemis- tty, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University; Lawrence Maloney, Chief Editor, Design News, Dreyv C. Azzara, Director, American Society of Testing and Materials, and Hugh Patrick Toner, Vice President, The Soci- ety of the Plastics Industry, Inc. make up the judging panel. Winning entries must demon- strate both innovation and poten- tial for commercialization that · can open or expand markets for fluoropolymer technology. Stu- dents are required to submit a pro- totype, or a paper on a reducible- to-practice application, both with supporting information, using ei- ther Teflon or Tefzel fluoropolymer resins. The com- petition will·be judged by an in- dependent panel of qualified ex- perts from the plastic~ industry, industry associations, the indus- try trade press, and academia. The First Place winner will be offered an option: a summer in- ternship, valued at approximately $10,000 in DuPont Fluoropolymers, or a $3,000 cash award. Second and Third Place winners will each earn cash awards of $2,000 and $1,000 re- spectively. The top three win- ners, as well as the winners of the ten Honorable Mention awards, will receive all-expense-paid trips tot he Awards events. Scholar- ships will be awarded to the schools of the top three prize win- ners. Cash honorariums will be given to the faculty sponsors of . the winning students, and cash awards will be given for ten hon- orable mention selections. The DuPont 1994 Plunkett Awards for Innovation With Teflon also seeks, as appropriate, to match students with customer fabricator advisors to provide ad- by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff Two new professors, Daniel J. Burnes and Leslie Fay Halpern, joined the Psychology Department this fall. Professor Burnes comes to Union College after having taught at Creighton University and Lafayette College. \I came to Union because of the faculty in the department and because my wife is from the Schenectady area,\ said Professor Burnes. A former member of the In- diana State University faculty, Professor Halpern, decided to join the Psychology Department at Union College because she wanted a change. 1 '1 wanted a switch from a large university to a smaller one,~· said Profes- sor Halpem. \I wanted a chance to get to know my colleagues ditional consultative assistance in the preparation of their entry. Scholarships to the institutions of .choice of the customer fabricator advisors of the winning students will also be awarded. Full-time students, working in- dividually or in teams, are eligible to enter. The competition is open to juniors, seniors and graduate students. Faculty sponsorship is required. The deadline for sub- mitting entries is January 14, 1994. To obtain information or an entry form, callS00-432-7536, or write to The DuPont Plunkett Stu- dent Awards, Suite 550, 400 North Capitol Street, N. W., Washington D.C. 20001. and my students better.\ \Union and Lafayette are al- most identical,\ said Professor Burnes. \But I am most impressed with the fact that Union believes in the teacher scholar model.\ \For me, the main difference between Union College and In- diana State University is that I am teaching only undergraduate stu- dents,\ said Professor ·Halpem. \In Indiana I was teaching mostly graduate students.\ Professor Burnes has done ex- tensive research on memory. \I have published with students in the past and hope to do the same thing here .. \ Professor Halpern's area of re- search is temperament and early childhood development with a specialization in social emotional development in early childhood. \The congeniality of the faculty in and out of my department and the sharpness of the students has been my most favorite aspect of Union so far,\ said Professor Burnes. Professor Halpern finds Union to be a friendly place that is comfortable to work in. \Stu- dents are generally interested,\ said Professor Halpern. \They are real curious about a new pro- fessor, but still they are a bit apprehensive.\ \All of the students in my classes are really into active par- ticipation,\ said Professor Burnes. \They ask a lot of ques- tions and are eager to participate in all my classes, except for sta- tistics.\ In addition to many new Pro- fessors at Union this year, both Professors Bumes and Halpern look forward to teaching at Union and becoming a part of the college community. A sixth year committee has been formed to evaluate the performance of Mary Cahill, Interlibrary Loan and R~ference Librarian. Members of the review committee are David Gerhan (library), Annette LeClair (library), Jean Sheviak (library), and Donald Thurston (history). Any members of the Union College community who wishes to provide comments about Mary Cahill's professional performance, professional devel~pment and scholarship, or college service should contact one of the committee members by Octboer 29, 1993. Interviews may be arranged by contacting Jean Sheviak, the committee chair, at ext. 6621

October 14, 1993, page 4 NEWS Tours of Hannaford Distribution Centers Offered D,orthy Hamill's Ice :Cap:ades to Pre·sent Cinderella Cour/e.\y of Hudwm Mohawk lnd Galeway The Hudson Mohawk Indus- trial Gateway is sponsoring a unique tour of the Hannaford Brothers distribution center on Wednesday, November3, 1993 at 10 am. The price ofth~tour is $8 ($6 for members and children under 12). Reservation.s are re- quired and can be made by call- ing (518) 274-5267. Hannaford Brothers Company, which ownes the Stop 'n Save Supermarkets, was founded in 1883 and is now Northern New England's largest food retail'er. The stores operate throughout Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York. Their more than 14,000 employees, or associates, serve hundreds of thousands of super- market customers each day, gen- erating annual sales measured in the billions of dollars. The New York Division Of- fi.ces and Distribution Center in Schodack wiU be thefocus·of our tour. In 1990 Hannaford Brothers completed construction of its im- pressive 427,000sq. ft., $40 mil- lion Distribution Center. Since then, the Schodack investment has grown to $55 million and the size to approximately 482,000 sq. ft. The state-of-the-ad: facility was needed tQ support their retail growth into our region and be- yond. There are l3 Shop 'n Save and Sun Food stores in the state and five in the immediate Capital Region. 1l1e East Greenbush store was opened in 1988 and the North Troy store in 1991. Hannaford employes about 625 associates locally. Courte.\:V of Glenn's Falls Civic Center The Gateway is a non-'profit educational corporation chatered Theatre meets ice, as Dorothy by the Regents of the State of·. Hamill's Ice Capade$ presenta- New York. 'It is concerned with tion of \Cinderella ... Frozen in the 19th and 20th century indus\' tries and architecture of the Capi- tal District. The Gateway pre- sents guided tours and cruises which interpret the. industrial and architectural history and present- day life of the communities at the . confluence of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers as part ofits edu- · cational programming. Free brochures of the summer . tour season and special to\tr op- portunities are available by call- ing Gateway. Large print and taped brochures for the sight im- paired are also available free of charge. Time\ comes to the Glens. Falls Civic Center for twe breathtaking shows, Tuesday, November 16 at 7:00 pm and Wednesday, No- vember 17 at 7:00pm. Telecommunications Makes Improvements As the new owner/executive producer ofthe Ice Capades, Dor- othy Hamill is taking the 54 year old ice show in a new direction. The once variety-driven show of Ice Capadeshas been transformed to atheatrically-based production. Cornbinihg the magestry and art- istry of world-class skating with theater and ballet, \Cinderella ... Frozen in Time\ will begin its seven month tour on September 30 in Tulsa, Okla- homa. \We are very proud to host one ofthe first 10 dates of the 50 city tour,~' commented Civic Center Executive Director Allan Vella. \We ate confident that Dorothy colltilluedfrompage 1 authorization code may be deac- tivated if the amount of money that a student owes is too high. jacks in the three phones at the College Center to allow the deaf and hearing impaired people to use them. 1l1e jacks were installed so it could be easily accessible to the disabled. Text telephones allow the user to converse by typ- ing. Their message can be re- ceived d'irect1y by m1othet text telephone or converted to spoken word by a translator. The new jacks canal so be used to connect laptop computers to -external voice anddata lines. The college has also lowered the height of the phones and installed volume con- trols on the phones. These updates are in compliance with the Ameri- cans with Disabilities Act require- ments. Telecommunications also has installed 10 emergency phones, which are \hotlimid'j to the CatnpusSafetY Office. Just by lifting the phone will alert these- curity of the locatiot1 ofthe phone an'd assistance wiiJ be dispatched. There are also 19 outdoor cour- tesy phones with four digit call- ing capability to any campus ex- tension. The installment of the jacks were of no cost to the col- lege because N.Y. Telephone paid for all the expenses. Ms. Diane Winkler, the head of the Telecommunications Of- fice is pleased to say that the transfer and hold functions of the t~lephone wyre new features that was provided to the stu- dents. One feature that the of- fice is looking into is the voice mail which will' 1 tnake it much Hamill's .involvement with the show's production will take lee Capades to a new level in family entertainment.\ Tickets go on sale Friday, Oc- tober 1 at 9:00 am at the Civic Cei:rter Box Office .and all Ticke·tMaster lecatians. To charge by phone call the Civic Center Box Office at (5·18) 798- 0202 or TicketMaster at (518) 476-1000. The Civic Center Box Office is open 9:00 am to 6:00pm Monday through Friday and 9:00 am to 5:00 pm on Saturdays. Tickets are $19.50, $14.50, and $9.50. Rinkside seating is avail- able, and discounts do not apply to rink .side seats. On opening night, Tuesday, November 16, there will he a $3.50 discount on all tickets. On Wednesday, No- vember 17,juniors (12 year~ and under) and seniors (62 and elder) receive a $2.00 discount, and groups of 20 or more receive a $3.00 discount. No double dis- counts. For group sales informa- tion and/or discount information call (518) 798-0202 or 1-800- 798-CAPADES. The Office of Graduate and Continuing Education studies wili be closed from Monday, October 18 through Thursday, October 21 for computer training on the new Datatel Colleague comP.~der. ~oO:~~r~~ . AppkMaclnlorb Color~ 4/lD, Built-in 10' Coler Monitor & AppleKejboard H. . Apple Macinlosb LC Ill 4/IXJ, Appk Basic 0>/or Monitor & Apple Ke:;hoard n. App~POIIMBOolc\'\ 14)8 4/fYJ, Built.inKejloard & 1U' BackliJ Super Twist Mrmoclnome Display. }4!pleMacinJosb Cenlristll 610 4/fYJ, J4iple Basic Color Monitor & Apple Extended Ke;board II. Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh® personal computers. You can also get special student financing with the Apple\ Comp1:1ter Loan·- to make owning a Mac® even easier. 1b see just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the power more college students '- choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best~ .® FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE OR CALL CHARLES BOSWORTH (UNION COLLEGE ~OOKSTORE) COLLEGE CENTER - TEL. 388·8188

ijtlye (flnn.cnr~itn~is ' ' News· Analysis October 14, 1993, page 5 The Value of Education in Today's Society by Veronica Rogers, News Analysis Editor 1993 has been the year ofradi- cal change. Whether foreign or domestic, this world will never be the same. A lot ofthe change can be attributed to the introduction of Bill Clinton as President of the United States .. Since his inaugu- ration the county has been turned upside down by his attempts to change the patterns installed by the previous republican adminis- trations. I applaud his c.onsistent attempt to rectify many of the pitfalls of the past presidencies. I dm1't think Clinton is a god, and I am net being naive by sayirt·g he is recti- fying old problems. I am merely there is still a problem, The inability to pay for college is a tiny cornerstone ofthe larger problem that stems from the de- generation of education as a sys- tem, beginning as early as Kin- dergarten. Many oftoday's youth don't even make it to college be- cause of the deficits su{fered ear- lier in the education process. I was particularly interested in the topic of the devaluation of today' s education after interview- ing a teacher from Schenectady High School for my Issues in American Education class. Schenectady High, which is a combination ofLinton and Mount Pleasant, is located l/2 mile from Union. Yet, the minute I stepped into tlu; building I not only felt old, but i felt like I was a million mentioning. my miles from positive feel.. \Society views the ''home\. ings about his schools as responsible The teacher! ATTEMPT to for the children's lack interviewed re- change, reorga- qnested to re- nize, rehabili-. ·.of motivation towards main anony- tate, and reform education.'' mous, so I will our society and call him Mr. it's domestic policies. Doe. Although Mr. Doe felt that Clinton has tried to make sub- today there are still good \pock- stantial efforts in order to·remedy ets'' in the educational system, the our country's ills. Whethertrying decline of.education as a whole to improve health care, revamp is gaining mote speed. The qual- our economic system, or working ity and commitment in education on education, his ideas in reform- is not as it once was. The value ing our nation can work if we can of going to school for the purpose make the ideas appealing to ev- of \higher !¢aming\ is losing it's eryone. Now that I. have given a spiel about the optimism instilled in me by this new administration,l must look at the reasons why we need so much help on_ the domestic front. I am specifically interested in the education of our youth. Although Clinton has made strides by trying to help find ways for more people to go to college, worth~ A main inhibitor in the attempt to eradicate the devaluation prol>- l~ms is that a majority of society puts the blame on the school sys- tems. Society views the schools as responsible for the children's lack of motivation towards edu- catiqn·. In agreement with Mr. Doe, the problem stems from the decline of home values. The de- veloping shift in values at home whether they be implied or taught is a major contributor towards the uprising trend of \it's cool to he dumb.\ Mr. Doe beli~ves that today for many kids sc.hools are simply babysitting until the kids can le- gally drop out (New York law, age 16 minimum). The kids who desire to drop out are often disin- terested in school because they don't feellike they are going any- where themselves. I don't believe a school would ever make a child feel like that. The lack of self-es- teem must develop other places rather than at school. Mr. Doe believes that not ev- eryone was meant to go to school, and that forcing students can cre- ate adverse effects. Mr. Doe stated that in order for kids not to go to school, there needs to be other options, such as, full time vocational training. If kids can bec.ome skilled and confident in different trades they might find their lives more meaningful. Mr. Doe gave an example that exemplifies the mentality of stu- dents who come from unstruc- tured homes. In the past preg- nancy used to be the biggest mis- take that could happen to a young ·girl. These days, it is seen as ''badge of honor\. Mr. Doe be- lieves this to be true because these girls who get pregnant can now feel important. They can give love to their young babies, and receive love in return~ unconditionally' witliout rules. the school cer- tainly doesn't advocate this, so one can only look back at these girl's home life again. This isn't to say that all homes are dysfunctional, unloving envi- ronments, but there js some truth to the notion of a flailing values system. The attitude must l:le changed so that education is viewed as a positive institution, and not as a prison. First what must change is the view that the kids are the cause of educations problems. Then maybe the kids will feel less pressure from soci- ety. Mr. Doe said that at this point society has high expectations for schools. This could stem from the There was two big instances where I really found clashing dif- ferences between my high school and this one. At one point a sec- retary came onto the P.A. system and announced the pep rally. She proceeaed to state how each stu- dent was expected to attend and if they were to leave (the build- ing] they would be locked out! How strange it sounded to be threatened like that. status seeking culture we are now tm- mersed in. The youth of America are expected to be \Where would our society be if the educational system completely collapsed?\ The sec- ond ex- ample was when the secretary announced how the successful or else they won't be able to thrive in this competitive world. All of these negative feelings that surround a once beneficial and appreciated aspect of our cul- ture are just leaving students frus- trated, unmotivated, and doubtful of their future. Mr Doe believes that before the educi:},tional system gets better it is going to collapse and then build itself up from scratch. That is a scary thought. Where would our society be if the educati,onal system completely collapsed? I hope we don't find out. Walking around Schenectady High school was a strange expe- rience. The attitude there was tough. A lot of the kids seemed bitter, on edge, I attended. an in school pep rally. nlis was orga- nized in attempt to raise the very low school spirit in order for their big homecoming football game. I watched the kids file into the gym class by class.They looked completely disinterested in being at a school function, but at least they were out of class. kids would walk to the 1,rym. This sounded so peculiar. Almost like they were a herd of animals. This attitude of having to control the students and warn them about ditching school were very foreign to me. The hour and a half that I was in Schenectady High was a learning. experience even for that short amount of time. I wish Union College could all go see the livelihood there. Maybe a few people would learn something about the real world. My hope is that Clinton will -realize that schools like Schenectady High are beginning to dominate the educational sys- tem. Not that Schenectady High was a bad place, but I could see the problems just by walking around for a s\1ort time. When Clinton decides to put a strong effort into reforming education he will focus on how strange it is that education budgets are being cut tremendously every year, but contrastably, professional athletes are getting larger and larger con- tracts every year. Does this seem wrong to anyone else? Death and Destruction: India's Earthquake by Doug Bartell Features Editor In life it often takes a major occuqence to wake the sleeping spectra of human compassion. The earthquake that struck India last Thursday goes a long way in showing that India, the United States, and most of the rest of the world, had had their eyes shut in slumber far too long. While the world has slept, its population has multiplied fivefold in the last couple of decades. While h1dia slept, its own popu- lation has grown to 844,000,000, thats 666 per square mile- crowd- ing cities and towns to the point of being rediculous. Equally im- portant is the tremendous 'over- crowding that has occurred in h1dia's economy that has- while we sleep in our ever-improving society- forced th,e Indian people to live in hl!ts of :rr.ied and stone. And so, mother nature, having let us sleep for this longrelative1y unperturbed, mother nature has again tried to wke us up with a disaster that gets not better but worse with each passing day. Death tolls have approached . 30,000, and this was written 011 Sunday! By the time you .read this, the number of bodies tossed onto the huge funeral pyre might be 50 or 7 5 thousand, and this from an earthqu.ake that was rela- tively weak on the richter scale(6.0). Compared to the strength of Indian homes, how- ever, the quake was all too pow- erful. Many of those that died were crushed beneath their own houses or the house of theirneigh- bor, ironically trapped inside and under that which was built to pro- tect them. dangerous spread of disease. It is raining in India, and the normally soothing water may wash the filth and contamination into the water supply, a supply which isn't filtered. The diseases such as Cholera and Gastroenteritis are expected to infiltrate the villages soon and we can expect to see the death toll rise even more. So, India is in trouble and the U.S. has priomised to send aid. The U.S. always sends aid. Wait for a third world country to be devestated and then apply a ban- Perhaps a more telling statistic is that far less people were injured (1 0,000) than died. They had no chance to survive the quake, not only because the quake occurred just before dawn, but because their malnurished and over- crowded bodies could not muster . dage. Alas! how small that ban- . up the capacity to fight the trag- edy wl~ich fell on them. The Indians, however., have not even begun to suffer. The thou- sands of dead bodies that are still unrecovered are rotting beneath · the mounded rubble. The fgrcy- ... some villages that ii1curred the greatest damage now .have t~ brace themselves for the equally dage is. Any aid that tl1e U.S. can send now is merely a band-aid which will cover up the much larger problem. l11e countries of the world can- not continue to be only a reaction- ary entity when something hap- pens to their underdeveloped brother and sister countries. We cannot jump in with a band-aid and then hide and wait for the next abrasion. The U.S and other first world countries have got to initiate and oversee the redevel- opment of countries such as In- dia. I do not call for the U.S. to become a third world nanny, merely to become a teacher, an instructor, a motivator. Hurricanes Hugo and Andrew woke us temporarily, but we hit the snooze button and forgot what tragedy sounded like. The near 30,000 killed in India is tragedy enough, mainly because many of the deaths were the direct result of a poor standard of living. As the .. Indians lay sleeping last Thursday, their world fell in around them and if we continue to sleep as we have, ours might fall in around us as well. I hope the alarm is loud enough. Expert Teachers Permanent Centers Total Training CALL NOW: Kaplan Center- 489-0077 The on-campus GRE Prep Course begins October 12, 1993 at 6p.m. in Bailey 201. Call Theresa Williams (388-6115) in the Academic Opportu- nity Program to reserve your spot in class

t , ... October 14, 1993, page 6 NEWS BRIEFS . . ' World News China: A medium sized nuclear bomb was tested in China last week. President Clinton urged China not to go ahead with the testing, but it took place anyway. Already shaky relations with the United States and China were worsened. In addition, President Clinton ordered the U.S. to resume the nuclear testing, which had been halted one year ago. Brit- ain and Russia are expected to fol- low suit. Bosnia: Leaders on all sides in the war in Bosnia are recogniz- ing the fact that the best plan for peace would be no plan at all, and instead opting for an illfonnal peace. Greece: Greek Socialist leader Andreas Papandreou and his Pan Hellenic socialist Movement were elected back into power this week. Four years ago, corruption charges, scandal and bad health caused forhis removaL Russia: After nearly falling, Presidellt Boris Yeltsin regained control in the largely swaying political tide in Russia. Yeltsin is debating canceling his planned trip to Japan. In addition to the struggle going on in Russia, Yeltsin is questioning what he could accomplish, and what might happen during his absence. Israel: Israeli officials wamed of the possibility for more at- tacks by Palestinian militants after two Israelis were killed in the West Bank, which was assumed to be safe due to the new peace accords. U.S. News Sports: Michael Jordan announced his retirement from the Chi- cago Bulls last week. He stated that \I have nothing more to prove in basketball\ Literature: Toi1i Morrison won the 1993 Prize for Literature last week. Case Solved: After emeq,,ring from hiding, Katherine Power was sentenced to 8 - 12 years in prison for robbing a bank and killing a Boston police officer. Jobs: Shorter work weeks are a proposed fix it by Union lead- ers and economists for diminishing jobs. Health Care: Some administrative official and children's ad- vocates say that President Clinton's new Health care plan would eliminate some benefits given to millions of children on Medic- aid. Midwest: Repairs may be too costly for many towns to restore levee as winter approaches. Experts are questioning whether some levees are worth rebuilding. WORLD NEWS Clinton's D,ecision in Somalia: Gutsy Lara Greenberg World News Editor Ten months ago, the Bush Ad- ministration sent the first troops to Somalia to try and restore some kind of order in th.:: land of con- stantly warring factions. The mis- sion was supposed to last no longer than a few months, but this esti- mation proved to be unrealistic and impossible. This past week, President Clinton announced that the United States would be send- ing 10,000 more troops, totalling U.S. troops at 20,000 in Somalia, and he added, boldly, that the United States would be out of the troubled region by March 1994. The overwhelming opinion of Congress was to tenninatethe mis- sion immediately. In the past week, fourteen American.soldiers have been killed and some brutally displayed by bein·g dragged through the streets. Countless oth- ers have been injured due to upscaled warring, linked to the United Nations' target, General Mohharned Farah Aidid. Pressure by Congress pushed Clinton into making a decision, achieve a true and lasting peace was thought of as a largely no- that everyone will agree on. Pres- madic country and is located on sure is being put on African lead- the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of ers to set up peace talks to begin Aden. Somalia was heavily this long and painstaking process arnied during this time. Twenty of negotiations. five years ago, Somalia had no Leaving the actual peace in the anm;, today it has enough to sup- hands of the African leaders ply a massive anny. Armaments sends out the signal that the included rifles, annoredpersonell United States will only be there carriers,. tanks, ~ti aircraft guns, in an effort to keep peace, not . rocket launchers and surface-to- solve problems that should be air missiles. When the weapans solved by those who live there. fell into the hands ·Of Somalian The deadline given by President warlords, they were used for fac- Clinton furthered this idea by es• tional fighting and made anarchy tablishing the fact that the United from an otherwise semi .. stable States wHI not be involved in an country. open ended war. The United States originally Leaving Somalia would cause entered Somalia because of the problems for Ainerica directly. disturbing pictures the public saw The United States' reputation as of starving people. For humani- a leader in the world would be tarian reasons, the U.S. saw it fit damaged because its credibility to enter Somalia, but underlying would be underminded. Terror- it all was this responsibility it felt ists and aggressors will decide for corrupting this nation. I am that the best way to get the U.S. not in any way attempting to to change its policies would be down play the huge effort the U.S. ·to put pressure on it through the gave to the people of Somalia. It use of excessive violence and ter- has been a huge success, saving rorism, aimed at civilians. Re- almost one million lives, and as moval .of troops would hurt So- President Clinton states \life. is returning to one that, in my opinion, is the best and most correct option for a terrible situation. \The United States has a responsibility to Somalia •.. President Clinton's bold normal\. This was a very impor- tant move for the U.S. both for the benefit of the Somalis, but also to Clinton outlined the plan to include four major prioii- ties. The first is to move in sending_ more forces and putting a deadline on U.S. involvement, deserves praise.\ ensure the protec- tion of American'lroops. Second is to keep roads open and guaran- tee relief supplies to Mogadishu where thousands rely on these re- sources to survive. Thirdly, to keep pressure on the -groups that attempt to block these supplies going through, and the last point in the plan is to maintain the secu- rity necessary so the Somalis can reach an agreement among them- selves. maiis in much more direct ways, of course. Starvation and anar- chy would be restored as a way of life, and guerilla warfare would be more prominent than it is now. boost lead- ership status and pacify its-pub- lic. President Clinton's bold move in sending more forces and put- ting a deadline on U.S. involve- , me.nt. deserves praise. He did goodl)y t)i)!it'tWose who are dis- gusted by the starvation and an- archy and by those who believe that the U.S. had a moral obliga- tion to Somalia. To say that Clinton did a noble thing might be overstating the situation a bit, but there is no doubt that the The most important reason that the U.S. is involved in Somalia is due to principle. The United States has a responsibility to so .. malia, and President Clinton wisely recognized this role. So- malia, during.the Cold War, was of m.Yor strategic importance to both the United States and the United States is doing a some- ground among themselves to former Soviet Union because it thing right by remaining. Secretary of State, Warren Christopher, stated that the Soma- lis must find some sort of middle Source: The New York Times {10/1 1193) Water Shortage Creates Volatile Situation in Mideast by Sarah R. Evans World News Stqff Water, a commodity that is con- sidered more precious than oil in the Middle East, is in short sup- ply. Water is a necessity in the Middle East, not only to sustain life itself, but also to support in- dustry. The arid climate of the Middle East, and the scarcity of rain makes irrigation a necessity for the agriculture industry. In a region where there is little annual rainfall, water is considered al- most as precious as gold. The current water shortage in the Middle East has led to a volatile situation between Israel and the Arab states. The Arab states believe that Is- rael is hoarding more than its fair share of water. Israel, on the other hand, attributes its wealth of wa- ter to solid water management and the investment of billions of dol- Jars into creating efficient i:rriga- tion systems and exploiting sup- plies. The reason that water has become such a huge concern for the Middle East states is that the populations are exploding, while the water supply is remaining the same or diminishing. Israel's population has risen by 12 per- cent, just from the influx of So- viet Jews, over the past few years. Jordan has tapped most of its water resources. In fact Jordan has over tapped its water re- sources to the extent that its aqui- fers are either almost depleted oi: they have been contaminated by over pumping; The demand for water exceeds the resources all over the Middle East. Negotiations about water rights have been in progress since the 1950's. Current negotiations have been inconclusive and frus- trating. Negotiations have been focusing on Israel's control of the - Jordan River. Pale!;tine and Jor• dan want Israel, under agree- ment, to release more water into the Jordan River. Israel's annex- ation of the Golan Heights, make the issue of water crucial to Syria as well. One of the main tributar- ies of the Jordan River, the Bajias, rises in Golan Heights. Many of the countries in the region, such as Turkey and Syria have built dams to divert water from follow.:. . ing into their neighboring coun- tries. Isra~l has $llggest.ed in negotia- tions that th~ other countries ·be- gin investing in -~esalting equip- ment. Israel has been. desalting water from the Mediterranean on a small scale. Israel has suggested that Jordan invest jointly in desalt- ing projects. This would expand Israel's presentp1vgrarn and allow Jordan more water to consume. Some of the wealthy Arabnations, such as Saudi Arabia; rely heavily on desalting for its water supply. For small,' poor countries, like Jor- dan, desalting is.not.really an op- tion because the average water user would have to pay $3 to $5 , for every cubic meter of drink- ing water. The best way to solve the wa- ter distribution problem in the region is to use the water more effectively and invest in technol- ogy that would make desalting water cheaper. At the present Is.- rael needs to conserve water :and alloW more water to flow down the Jordan River into the Jordan. Presently, the average Israeli con- sumes more than twice that of a Jordanian and four times the atnount of a Palestinian living in the West Bank. Negotiations need to continue to ensure that the issue of water does not boil over into a war. NOW-·OPEN! Inter~a,tional Coffeehouse & Kiosk Specialty Cofies& Teas ·Caffe· ··· Espresso Lattes ·Dolce . . . (518) 347-2334· 142 Jay St. Opening. 7 day$ a week Now Hiring · 10% off with a student ID

FEATURES October 14, 1993, Page 7 The Female Conundrum :A Different Mind Set by Rawson Thurber Concordiehsis Staff l witnessed a strange occur- rence last Wednesday evening. A few friends and· I headed to a party around 9:30p.m. When we arrived I noticed an extreme lack ofthe fairer sex. It was something one might call a '\sausage party\ or a \sword fight\. Then it hit me like a knee to the groin, 90210 an.d . Melrose Place were on tonight! This led to the erection (pun in- tended) of a fewquestions about the female gender, and their life- style, that have been ambling around in my head for oh-, about eighteen years. Now, for the most part,.. I along with the rest of the male popula- tion am completely baffled by the female mind-set. But since this is only one column, I'm only going to speak about a few specific things that I've noticed over my eighteen years of existence. Victoria's Secrets, lingerie heaven or male ·nightmare? Do women purposely take their boyfriends to-this unholy land for the sheer pleasure of watching them squinn? I was taken there by a .now e;x-girlf:dend .. .Jt was · truly one of the most perplexing experiences of my life. I was fn Victoria's Secrets. This was 'the place where all those magazines -1 look~d at when I was younger- had spawned. This was it, the NCROSS· 1 ~ Goddess of ·.i)lertty . . 4. Part ofWATS: 8. Gemstone J • ' • - - 12;. S.coU1ldrel 13. :Lounge . 14. 'Taxi rider 15. Countdown finale 17. Whip 18. \A friend • fl tn - ... 19. Swerves 20. More senior 22. Batman's · garb 24. \-Indigo\ 25.Perfonn successfuiJy 29. Clumsy one 30.Cartoon stutterer 31. Ga. neighbor 24 29 placeofmyboyhooddreams. Yet thinking ~bou~ g0ing out, but I fe1t completely out ofplace ~sur- I don't know if I feel like it.\ prise, surprise). The problem with \ Yeah Lucy, I don;t think I Victoria's Secrets is that once want to either, I'm having my you're there and enveloped by the period.\ opaquely perfumed-air, you long \You are too? Do you have any to .leave. Th~ thing is YOll can't tampons I can borrow?\ look at anything in there if you're \Sure but I 0nly have extra• a male. You-can't browse in flow resistant. Willthatwork?\ Victoria's Secrets, unless you \AAAAAARRRGGHH!!'' wantpeopleto.thinkyou're aper- And it goes on from there. vert. You can't sl5:ip over to a :rack Most of the woinen I've. met talk and say, \Oh honey, this would. about periods like guys talk about go perfectly with the whipped a baseball game. I don't mean to cream!\. So basically you're trivialize this aspect ofa woman's forced to looking directly in front life, it's just that all these \Mom of you, or at the ground. sometimes I don't feel fresh\ The only thing worse than .this comm~rcials are getting to me. I experienceis wh~n a girl asks you don't claim to know that much to hold her purse while she tries about the female anatomy, and its on something. My sister did this many functions; and I want it to to me for. hours on end. I know stay that way. because of this I'll be seeking Unmasking the mystery sur ... therapy in my later years. rounding the female lavatory Menstruation-It's a woman For many years the little girls thing, and should stay that'way. room was a mystery to me. The Now I know that ;this is a natu- only thing I knew about it was that ral part ofawoman'slife, bqtJ'd I wasn't supposed to go in there,. just as soon lick wet cement than and if you were playing tag with hear ah:mt it. I know that this may girls they'd always run in there sound insensitive, but I don't and hide, then ·you'd end up he- can:. I've .been sitting in gr.oups ing \it\ for the rest of recess, of girls, just kicking back and which made it hard to trade lunch talking,tl1<;ln outoftheblue, men- box, contents with the other kids. struation will rear it's ugly head. This was my only knowledge The conversations go something of the female restroom until about like this: two weeks. ago. I accidently took \So what are you guys doing a wrong tum, and ended up in a tonight?'' I ask innocently. • . · strafige·1aqd, a brave new w<;>rld . '~Ido.n't knovy, Be_ttyandlw~e ifypu will. I was in the women's I ~. Kh1g Crossword . . 7 8 . 26 36 44 45 32. Removes cargo 34. \What - ?\ pic 16. Watennelon part 33. Employee dismissal (\So?\} 35. Hill dwellers 36. Banishes 37. Remains 40. St. Louis landmark 41. -Guthrie 42. outgrowth 46. Detmis the .Menace's dog 47. Casino g'ame 48. Brazilian . resort 49. Unhearlng . 50. l)isney sci~fi 5L TV \Tarzan\ DOWN . J. Planet 2. Chum 3. Draw 4. Change 5. Crucifix 6. ~prite 7. TV alien 8. Musically wrong 9. Ashen 10. Lined up 11. Mobster Diamond 19. Agile · 20. Melville novel 21. Bread unit 22. Deck con- stituents 23. Refuges 25. Paint layer 26. Kind of drilling 27. Move like a moth. 28. Singer Dombto ~0. Songstress Lily 34. 64 That smarts!\ 36. Actor Welles 37. Orange chalcedony 38. Veritable 39.- Romeo (car) 40. Hairstyle 42. Frequently 43. Distant 44. Lubricate 45. Trifle restroom. Now I know why women spend so much tim-e inthere. It's incredible! They havecouches, and chandeliers, and a waiting room (what are they waiting for? If it's for a stall, then why don't ~hey just stand against the wall looking at their feet _and not talking like men do?). There bathroom doesn 'r even smell likeurine! This place is wonder- ful. You could J.ive there. The male rest rooms are one of the only places on the planet that grants a tremendous relief, yet you couldn't stand to be in there for an extended period. Maybe this was where the phrase \It's a nice place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there\ was originated; or was that Schenectady? At any rate it seems to me that there is a gross injus- tice being kept quite. Now I'm not blaming women completely, but the next time I play tag with girls and they run into the bathroom, I'm going in baby! Comments on my last article: I received a few letters concern- ing the my last article \Marriage and Relationships in the '90's\'. For the most part, people seemedpleased with what I had to say, but a few felt that I had no faith in the institution of marriage. So I just wanted to clear up my view point on marriage. I believe that it is possible to marry for life, that should be the only intent And I do not believ_e that one should go into marriage with the attitude that if it deesn 't work ou.t \Oh well\. What I was attempting to say was that if the marriage doesn't work out, tha\ it ~hould be recogni2;ed as a parting of ways, and not a failure. But I do thank all of those who gave me their thoughts and opinions. It helps. As always, any queslions or com- ments: Rawson Thurher Box# 2018 Uncle Edna Not Really Your Uncle, But Close Enough Uncle Edna is a Union College .\·tudent who drinkr; Miller Lile because it is less filling and not ~ecause: it la:'lfe.~_great .. Wr~te Uncle Edna instead of tha,l pesky thesi.'i- I promise to write you back Box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, I've noticed that all of George Thorogood's songs sound alike and that they are all about an ex- tremely asinine topic. They are, however, always very popular. What's up with that? -Bad to Bone Dear Bone, Your right about the quality of George's songs, case in point is his. summer hit, \Get a Haircut and Get a Real Job\ which dominated airwaves for several weeks. Thorogood plans to re- lease three more songs from his current album: \Just Ate A Sandwich And I've Gotta Take A Nap\ \Chug a Beer and Belch Real Loud\ and lastly, ''White Trash America Loves This Slop Even Though I only Know Three Chords\. Top Ten Top Ten topics of discussion al the dining service committee meeting 9-29-93. l 0. Burgo-master? Why Burgo- master? That sounds stupid. 9. Chargin_g for water,. 13 cents for oxygen, 11 cents for hydro- gen 8 .. Whe.~-:e the, hell !?_,Upperclass Pave?· _ , 7. Adding a mirrqr ball and col- ored lights to accent mirror ceil- ing at Dutch Hollow. , 6. Vali-barfbag,s. 5. Topless service at the Raths- keller. 4_ The possibility of buying a toaster for Dutch Hollow. 3. Raising the price of a tomato slice to $1.25 to help fund the Yulman theatre 2. Making every dining service employee say \Hello\ and \thank you\ not just Steve. 1. Vali-boozing at Chet's. On Campus I'm tired of walking around campus and having to alter my path to avoid running into a squirrel who refuses to move. The squirrels around here never run. In an effort to change this trend, I suggest that we all be- gin chasing these fimy nemesis up the nearest tree. TI1is would make the squirrels- if nothing else- edgier, and quite frankly, that's how it should be. Student of The Week Aimee Rodewald. Her remark- able beauty won her second place in the recent Monopoly beauty contest, a prize worth $15.00. Venus never had it so good. C!Inn.c.orbiensis is l.o.oking fur a f~fu .cralfu pe.oplt

October 14, 1993, page 8 FEATURES An Adopted Child : Biological Parents Aren't Always the Best by Alexis Leist Features Writer \Suitable for adoptions also, special insert in the back.\ Im- mediately, l had to laugh when I saw this sticker on a baby book in a Hallmark store over the sum- mer. So, they didn't forget about us, did they? We even got our own special insert! I felt like something additiomil; like a spe- cial attachment that comes with an appliance. Basically, I felt dumb. I was adopted at two weeks old. At the moment I could compre- . hend what adoption meant, my parents told me. People are al- ways surprised when they hear a person is adopted; especially when they see me and my sister because.we couldbetwins. Right up front, let me dispel some myths about children who are adopted. No, I really don't care who my biological parents are. They did not teach me values or give me love; thus they do not meet my definition of what a parent is and should be. And no, I have not suffered a trauma because of my adoption. I have never resented my biological parents for not be- ing my parents. Granted, there are kids who use their adoption as a scapegoat when anything goes wrong in their life. \Please r feel like saying to them, \you're lucky.\ 1l1ey could have been found in a garbage can. Anyway, I can recall only one time when I said to my mother and father, \You can't tell me what to do, you're not my real parents. I was sent to my room for the next five years. No, seriously I think my accusation really. hurt my parents. They probably think I wonder about my birth parents and what my life might have been like- I have no, reason to. My parents have given me everything and made me the person I am today. O.K., every once in a while I am curious about what my bio- logical parents look like. Just so I cauld say, \Oh I got my nose from my father, and my eyes from my mother.\ A.ndmaybe I would even like. to ask them why they gave me up. But deep down it scares me to think of what their answer would be - so usually I don't. But on the news lately there has been all this controversy about Baby Jessica; and it gets me thinking: ing parents and a healthy home. Who cares if they didn't (!orne from a couple's egg and sperm. A child is a child and that's all. The Worst Kind of Parisite is Human If my real parents showed up and wanted me back I would say, \screw you.\ I could neverlove them; although I'd b~; interested to see what they ~re like. Th~ judge who gave Jessica back to her biological parents was dead wrong, as well as cruel. The emo- tional trauma she will suffer from being uprooted is unforgivable. Talk about an identity crisis; l1er real parents even changed her name. Under examination, Jes- sica made it clear that she wished to stay with her adoptive par.ents. What(fver their reasans were, her biological parents gave her u.p - and nowthey have reclaimed her. She is a child, not a pet being watched for a week until its' own- ers return from vacation. Her bio- logical parents may have grown older, but they are still lacking in maturity and integrity. ·I can't think of where I would be right now if I had not been adopted. Definitely not at Union College. I would probably be working somewhere,. and that would be my job for life. No questions asked. I would never have the opportinities I now have. I would not even krtow my sister. I would be nowhere and no one. I'm grateful to my biological mother for having the good sense to give m~ away for the chance at a better life. Maybe she just didn't want me; if so, I'm glad someone else did. I really feel for Baby Jessica, and I would like to kill her real parents. They have some nerve. Her life will never be the same and ironically, she may grow up to resent her bio- logical parents. Likewise, how many stories on the news does one hear about biological parents who beat, molest, or murder their children. In the dictionary, the first definition under parent says \a mother or a father.\ To me, a parent is not only that, but also a mentor, a friend, and a teacher; a person who nurtures you and will always love you no matter what. It doesn't matter that I did not come from my parents' seed be- cause they consider me-their own, and I am. Society must overcome this fixation with genetics. A child is a child, and what makes him or her one's own is the val- ues instilled and the love given; notthe gift oflife. Bum the judge. No Means No, Not Maybe, Not Yes by Craig Pike Features Writer I have been deceived about what evil is. 11uough Science Fiction and fantasy books I have been given a picture that includes a forwardness that does not oc- cur in regular life. Evil is hutting someone so badly that they think that they are at fault. Evil, the worst, most hideaus kind, occurs under the guise of love. 1l1ere is little redemption for that evil, nothing that can be done to undo the pain and horror of a person crushed by the suffocating, twisted, devouring ties of cor- rupted, diseased \love\. All that can be done is rebuilding. Date rape, incest, sexual harassment, often severe in modes that seem acceptable, and other relation• ships of sickness that cause the mental anguish often ending in self-defeating purposeful destruc- tion of the mind, are aspects of this evil. It's my fault. !let it happen. We focled around before, so it can't be rape. I let him do it. It is not rape if I stopped strug- gling. He has nothing else but me. I'm scared. He's hurting me. Why? I hate myself. I AM less of a person now. How can you love me after what was done to me? It's all my fault. I just want it to stop. If you tell anyone I will kill my- self. I can't say anything. He hurt me. If I say \stop\ he will get mad and hurt me. He was in my nightmares again. \All I wanted to do was watch movies or play games, but he in- sisted on kissing. I was pulling away, not so much at first, but each kiss got more forceful and he was getting that \'look\ in his eyes. One kiss got 1'ea1Jy weird .- : and extremely forceful. I got so scared that I got off the couch and asked him why he was being like that. I told him that I didn't like it and that he was making me feel uncomfortable. With that he got extremely mad. He rose from the couch and asked what he had to do to get anywhere with me. I just looked at him with this \no\ look. He said \What? Do I have to do this?\ as he came toward me and raised his hand. It seemed like ages - I looked from him to his hand and back, then closed my eyes and he slapped me. After that... Why he did that I guess because he felt that was the only way that he would ever get anywhere with a girl, also he knew that he could get away with it. Why I let him get away with it Because if I told someone; it would eventually become com- mon knowledge. I tried to fight him off, but it seemed the more I fought the more he wanted it - so after a while I became passive, just an object, a toy. 1 think he liked to mess with my mind because he always eventu~ ally apologized- if not right after then the next day with roses or a big hug or just sitting with me while I cried. It's definitely me. The things I was made to do & how How do I say this? -Kissing him - holding me -Kiss his neck - I usually did this on my own to get him to stop do- ing whatever he was doing to me. -He would take my hand and do the motions with his hand over mine and then take his hand away and threatened me if I slowed down or stopped. If I stopped it was automatic that my head be shoved down there and asked which I would rather do. I obvi- ously said with my hand. -He would make me sit against a wall and stand in front of me and held my head as he lay on top of me. He threatened me if I tried to get away. What was done to me & how -Ki~sed - my head was held • .' ~ ~ • • • f •, •• ,, - <' -Kissed on neck- head held back by my hair. Pr:etty much everything was done to me by force, or, in worse cases: Knocked unconscious Tied - he loved that Out of fear There were tiines when I hardly put up a fight because of fear. I just thank God it is over.\ NO means NO. A shake of the head means no. A whimper means no. A \maybe later\ means no. If anyone is unsure, take it as NO. It does not matter if there has been sex between you both before. ;NP me~ns STOP.· Don't ever do otherwise. Don't destroy a person from the inside. I. feel that society today places too much emphasis on having · kids biologically; that in some way parents need to have some kind of genetic tie to their child or else they will look at it differ- ently (thus the reason for surro- gate mothers). If medical science . can achieve it, terrific, but to have another woman carry a baby for a couple? Give me a break. There are so many kids who need lov- Wants or Needs? Needs or Wants? by Michelle Rosenbaum Features Writer \We must distinguish our wants from our nl'!eds,\ is a simple saying that I learned in my sev- enth grade \flame and Careers\ class. At that point in life, one does not really care about wants and needs. Seventh graders usu- ally see the two as being equal. I wanted a perm, so I needed a perm, and I .got a perm! (A typi- cal want of a seventh grade girl.) Now, as college students, wants and needs are important to distin- guish. First, it is important to under- stand the literal. meaning of the two words. The dictionary mean- ing of the word want is, \a wish; a desire\ (American Heritage Dictionary, p.766). It is not a necessity. We may want to travel across Europe with our friends, but we do not need to in order to live. A need, on the other hand, is not simp1y a desire; it is a neces~ sity or an obligation. Some needs everyone has. For example, we all need food, water, clothing and shelter. Other needs are more specific to each person. A police- man may need a gun, while a teachermayneedapen. A Union student, on the other hand, may \need\ a J. Crew sweater! Now the big question, \Does ' the studen,t r.eally ne~d ,the sweater, or simply want the Record Town pulls you in. sweater? Some may say he or she You're pulled straight to the new needs it because of the awfully \U2\ CD that you \must\ buy. cold Schenectady weather. How- Do you want the CD or need it? ever, if he or she already has eight This. is where you must make the other wool sweaters, is the sixty distinction. dollar J. Crew sweater really nee- After reading Thoreau's essary? Of course, everyone Walden. I realized how much of could find an explanation for why what we have are simply wants one may need a sweater, but as a . rather than needs. Thoreau be- definition of need, the sweater Iieves we need to live in simplic- does not seem to fit. ity, and we are too dependent on There are some things which luxuries which hide oqr true in- are really difficult to distinguish · ner-selves. Once we buy more asneedsorwants. Twoweekends than we need, we will need even ago I fasted for a day to observe more to protect what we already the holiday of Yom Kippur. I de- have, leading to unlimited wants! prived mysel{ of a need and This can go on forever. It's barely lasted! It made me realize a circle we spin around everyday. how dependent our society is on I'm not saying that we should all three meals a day. I found it very sp.end two years on Walden Pond, difficult to refrain from eating. but I believe it is important for us On the other hand, there are torealizethatsometimeswehave people in this world who can to distinguish our wants from our barely afford one good meal a needs. This is especially neces- day and yet, are still alive. So, is sary in college when the m~ority the way we eat a need or a want? of us don't have the money to get What about when we go shop- all we want. Later in life we can ping? I know everyone has gone make up for everything we don't to the mall at 'least once saying, have now. For the time being, \I'm not going to buy anything.\ enjoy life in simplicity - then you 11ten all of a sudden a force from can find the real yoq! -

st ot A es n. 's of n- s us an 't SCIENCE & HEALTH Octobe:r 14, 1993, Page 9 \Fe\Males: Protect Yourself from Becoming Anemic by Pamela Lin- Concordiensis Staff WOMEN: Every day you see that big thug athlete guy, who lives down the hall, go workout and pump iron; do you ever think that perhaps you need to incorporate some iron -in your daily routine as well? You might. Due to monthly {?lood loss, many women may suffer .from iron deficiency anemia. This is generally considered to be nutri- tional diseases only common in babies, small 'children, and preg- nant women. ·aut menstrmition way also lead to depletion of the body's iron supply. There ;rre over 100 strains of anemia, the central link lying in the body's faulty red blood cells. The anemic's erthrocytes, or red blood cells, are impaired in the capacity to bind to oxygen. or lacking in size or number. Iron deficiency is the most common form of anemia. Whereas genetic background may affect other forms of anemia, iron deficiency anemia is so commonplace that it may run in families, as a matter of coincidence as much as hered- ity would . Estimates indicate that 20% of the women in theUnited easily fulfilled by a good diet. Ip adulthood, the main causeforiron .----- ........ --------------------........, deficiency is tional disease today, the usual culprit, in childhood cases of iron States may be iron deficient anemic, Or. Don Riesenberg de- fines iron -defi- ciency as \the state in wqich the amount of iron in· the hody is less than ·rt:\\ quired for nor- mal formation of· hemoglobin, iron enzymes, and other ftn1c- tioning iron compounds.\ Th.e red blood cells of iron de- ficient patients. are often mi s- shapen and un- evenly sized cells. The TYPII:5 AND CAUSES OF ANEMIA Anemia- results either from reduced or defective production or frCJn1 an e)!casslvety high rate ol destruction ·of oxygen-car,Ying red blood: cells. Apllllltlc •nemta Faile~ forrt\lation and dlvlsion qf stem cells in the marrow <:au:s!fts a ·drop in the number of red and other blood cells. Four of the main ~pes are shown below. but 81'1emla can have many other causes (such EIS various lorms'of leuk6mia). blood loss or pregnancy. This puts many menstruating women at risk for iron defi- cient blood. · Since pregnant women must maintain their own iron levels and still provide iron for the fe- tus, iron supple- ments are nee- .· essary for most pregnant lron-deftclerM:y .,..,.,.. Hemolytic-·· Jlllll(laloblalltlc ......... wotnen. Iron Lack Qllron prev\!nls tho This type Includes aU Deficient aupply of e&rlaln d f' • • bone marrow lrom making anemlas.ln Which the rate of vitamins causes lhe bot>e e· ·] c le nc y .I n sufflcie'll t\Mtmogtob•n for red cf,lll .p-ror:;fuc::;-tlcifl is m•rrdw to produce red· 11\e red Cella. The cells normal· or hlgh bulln Which cells lhBIIUe'IBrger.lhan m.en is usually· produced are ·..man and lhe cells are deslroyed normal and have \ raducee pale-centered and have a much lasrer lhan ·normal mcygen-earrylng CIOPaclly. . related to blood reduceo oxygen-carrying capacily. · J---....----------------------\· loss in the gas- trointestinal tract from ulcers The American Medical Asso_ciation Encyclopedia of Medicine American Medical Association diagnoses iron deficiency anemia as occurring when iron loss and the iron needed for growth exceed the iron intake. or colon cancer. As the most prevalent nutri- Health & Nutrition deficiency, is the inadequate di- etary intake of iron. Iron is nec- essary for early growth and any sub-minimum intakes of iron can have noticeable effects. Iron de- ficiency without anemia has been proven not to cause any lasting damage to human development and growth; however, severe cases can biochemically affect organs and their functionability. For adults, iron consumption needs are lower and generally Common symptoms of iron deficiency include pallor, leth- argy, headaches, and \blackouts\ or head rushes when standing or moving too quickly. The pres- ence of these symptoms does not ensure that a person has iron de- ficiency anemia. These symp- toms are common for many types of anemias. Iron deficiency ane- mia can be detected with a vari- ety of methods and tests, but by Judith Sheldon never I 00% conclusively. A doc- tor should be consulted before be- ginning any sort of iron therapy. Oftentimes instead of engaging upon costly lab tests ~ doctor will suggest that the patient begin tak- ing iron supplements or a multi- vitamin to see if the symptoms stop. Symptoms may cease with iron therapy; however, the under- lying cause must be found be- cause iron deficiency could indi- cate a more serious problem such as colon cancer. In the 1970's the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women Infants and Children be- gan addressing iron deficiencies; infant screening, breast feeding, and iron-fortification of dry ce- reals were encouraged to over- come iron deficiency anemia in children. Adults and young women are encouraged to control their iron intake levels with a proper diet. Beans, meats (especially liver, fish, and poultry), potatoes, rice and green vegetables are iron rich and easily absorbed by the body. Fruits, whole grain breads, and green vegetables contain iron, but may not be absorbed as easily by the body. Iron supplements, fer- rous sulfate pills, may be one the best ways to obtain iron; however, a doctor should be consulted be- forehand. Excessive iron can have as many detrimental effects as insufficient amounts. FACTS ABOUT CAFFEINE: Even if you drink a moderate amount of coffee every day (moderate is defined astwo to three . cups daily), you may be ingesting more caffeine than you real- ·ize. Caffeine is present in a great many foods as well as bever- ages, including cocoa beans, cola nuts, tea leaves, soft drinks, etc. As a matter of fact, caffeine can be found in the leaves, seeds, or fruits of over 63 plant species worldwide. For years, questions about the potential health effects ·associ- ated with caffeine have persisted, .and from time to time, it's been linked with various health problems despite the Jack of definitive research results. Jurassic Park a Near Reality For Smaller Organisms Now, according to an article in IFIC Review (a publication of the International Food Information Council), extensive re- search has not linked moderate caffeine consumption to any health risks, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, or be- nign breast tumors, and other conditions cited in the report, nor did the studies indicate any link between caffeine consumption and attention deficithyperactivity syndrome in children. For those for whom caffeine in any form makes them jittery, nervous and'sleepless, the researchers say, either cut your in- take, or give it up completely. Some people are more sensitive to caffeine than others. FOODS THAT CAN GO TO YOUR HEAD: Food can trig- ger migraine headaches. The most common culprits are choco- late (in any form), red wine, beer, too much caffeine, aged cheese, meats, nuts, citrus fruits, yogurt, or any items that are fermented, pickled, aged, or marinated. Sometimes, it's what's in the foods that can be troublesome. Dr. Seymour Diamond, Executive Director of the National Head- . ache Foundation, stated, \In people susceptible to headaches, foods containing preservatives such as monosodium glutamate (MSG), amino acids, such as tyramine (naturally-occurring amino acid), or nitrates seem to (directly affect) ... blood vessels in the head, causing them to expand, thereby resulting in an attack.\ Knowing which foods or additives might trigger a migraine headache is important. Butfood is not the only problem for those prone to these I headaches. As Dr. Diamond notes, \ ... stress, hormonal changes, and irregular sleep patterns are thought to spur the onset of migraine headaches.\ Skipping meals or fasting reduces blood sugar levels, which can provoke headaches. Although making minor dietary adjustments usually helps al- leviate the frequency and severity of headaches, Dr. Diamond adds one more cautionary note; \You should consult with your physician if you are suffering from daily headaches, or plan on making major dietary changes to control headache pain.';· by Andy Salama & Kenny Lee Science Writers Last summer, the world saw one of biggest motion picture blockbusters explode into a dino- saur crazed cult among young and old alike. Michael Crichton'sJu- rassic Park visioned the recre- ation of a 120 million year old population of dinosaurs. Charac- ters recreated the dinosaurs by ex- tracting the DNA of amber pre- served mosquitoes last meals of a dinosaur. Scientists denounced this method based on the fact that ancient DNA is far too. damaged to reconstruct and the genome of a dinosaur is much too large to piece together. For the most part ,the possibility of using old DNA to revive an extinct species has been dismissed as quackery. DNA is the genetic information of all organisms. Chemically speaking, DNA is a combination of 4 chemicals, called nucleotide bases or base pairs. These 4 chemicals link themselves lin- early and them couple to an op- positely matching strand in the form of a double helix. The pos- sible combinations vary depend- ing on the organism. To give you an idea, the E. coli bacteria con- tains about 5 million nucleotide pairs and the human has approxi- mat~ly 3 billion nucleotide pairs. The combinations of 4 nucle- otides assembling to form a se- quence of such immense size re- sults in numbers close to infinity. One strand of DNA is packed into a chromosome. Chromosomes, ranging from one for the E. coli bacteria and forty-six for the hu- man, make up the genome for that spec1es. Recently, molecular biologists at Cal-Tech have partially recre- ated the genome of a 40 million year old bacteria. The DNA of the bacteria was extracted from the preserved corpse of a bee; Raul Cano, an entomologist, who is leading this research project, proposes that once the genome of the bacteria is recreated, it will . then be inserted into a living or- ganism. Overtime, theoldDNA will replace t~e newer DNA, thus recreating the bacteria. Despite the apparent facility of this project there are several factors which could hold this research back, for several years. For example, cer- tain proteins are needed by the DNA, in order for it to function, and these can only be obtained from the DNA of the parents. This may seem minor, but this research cannot proceed unless there is a way of obtaining the proteins necessary for the bacte- ria to function. A similar project proposes to replicate the genome of an ancient virus, but th-e major constraint in this case is isolating_a virus. An advantage of this project over the bacteria project is that the virus does not need DNA helper pro- teins, in order to replicate. An- other advantage of the virus project·is that ancient viral DNA does not need to be inserted into another virus, rather it can be in- serted into any organism. l11e old viral DNA will use any DNA in a living host to replicate itself. Some biologists scorn at such projects because of the apparent danger to humans and their non- existent resistance to ancient bac- teria and viruses. Those who par- take in these projects maintain that pathogenic research is usu- ally fail-safe and practically harmless to human populations, as long as it is properly main- tained in the Jab. TI1e prospect of recreating life frorn extinct organ- isms is tempting to the modern scientists, however, we must be aware of the dangers of mixing populations from different eras. Technology has given us theca- pacity to intervene with natures processes, it is our duty to use this power responsibly. Source: Scientific American, Oct 1993 W~F\J) ~H~

,. October 14, 1993, page 10 Professors : Don't be so quick to criticize Why is it that certain professors feel a necessity to insult the newspaper? Most students assume that faculty mem.., bers should offer encouragement for hard work, and complement improvement. Instead, far too many profes.., sors are taking cheap shots at trivial mistakes that could appear in any professional paper. There is no reason why a professor should use examples of slight grammatical er- rors in the Concordiensis to illustrate illiteracy. Nobody who writes for the newspaper is illiterate, and any profes- sor who was forced to write a paper under strict dead! ines on a weekly basis, would undoubtedly make their share of errors. Pointing out spelling errors in front of a class is equally not needed. A NOTE TO PROFESSORS : You are not expected to exacerbate any reputation problems. Each time you insult the newspaper, you are belittling the work of many stu- dents, most of whom work between 10 and 40 hours a week at keeping the community informed. Furthermore, stu- dents are Jess apt to join organizations that professors ap- pear to have little respect for. This gives such an organiza- tion little hope for improvement. The newspaper is, without a doubt, a reflection on the entire student body of Union College. Insulting the news- paper is tantamount to citing the inferiority of Union stu- dents. You should be very careful in doing this because the quality of students attending a college is always (to varying degrees) a reflection of the caliber of professors associated with the institution. If the quality of Union College students has decreased during the past thirty years, part of that decline can be associated with the school's fad- ing academic reputation. The quality of professors is one ofthe ingredients in determining a school's reputation. In short, although constructive criticism is encouraged, if you can't force yourself to utter words of encouragement fqnn time to time, don't say anything at all! '<Uq.e QI.onrorhi.ensis Tire Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 David Levin~ Hdilor-itJ~(:hie.f Executive Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor · News Analysis Editor World News Editors Business Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors. I Associate News Editor Asso.ciate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser Manager Photographers ~eviP.!'l . temoi '>'.: ·-. ·. ::·; ;~ ·,::·;:t;_.;;;. , . Reynold$,: Ruben$tein . Deb·McJnemey Matt Karlyn, Caroline Paine* · Erin O'Neil* Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin Talley Belsinger* Dagan La Corte . Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Josh Haines Veronica Rogers Lara Greenberg, Craig 'Greenberg* Dylan Ratigtu:r* Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein · Scott Steele Joe Salzbatt . Lee Schachter; Greg Kalish Alex.Kreisler · David Fischer* Brett S.~unders* · ·scott Sculiipu . aach.el Kest Scott Dtl\ckemiller, Emily S¢hrlet. . ' .. - ... - . . '• . _, .. _ Staff : Melissa Afftonti,. Thor Benander, Suz); B:loe:~, :EUzabeth, . De Koven Michelle Ellis~ Sarah Evans, .Alexis Leist~ Patn Lin-, · •. Katie Murray, Bharat Navani, Mike Nelson, Larry Paska, Cr~g · · Pike, William Rice, Suzanne Roblnson, Michelle R<.;rsenb~tnli; Shveta Srivastava~ Rawson Thurber; ._ , , The c()t,(:(J~diellsi.lf tlieets.evecy M6riday and Tu~iday (lfthe a~a;;}; · . dernic year. . * indi~ates Jhat t~ edit9t i~ 9Uttren~JY:s~d¥itl:~:.abro~(l·. OP-ED Concordy Editors Letters to the Editor A Note of Dear Editor, This letter is just to prove that things are not always negative at Union. This letter is to thank Ms. Lee Clark and the Student Activi- ties office for their help and con- cern. A few weekends ago I noted that the College Center con- ference rooms and lounges were locked. I called Security to see if they-could unlock the confer- . .. ence room dob~s so that I ceuld study there. I was infonned by Security that the doors were to stay locked unless an arrangement had been made with the Central Scheduling Office. I called Cen- tral Scheduling the following week and I was infonned that a · new policy was in effect and the doors were to remain locked at all times unless a reservation was made for a group or organization. The hours at Central Scheduling are usual business hours, ending at 5:00pm and not open on week- ends. Therefore, unless a student planned properly in advance, he or she would not be able to use the conference rooms. More- over, a student could not simply use the room, a student group or organization could, but the rooms were not for individual use. Even though I explained the situation to Central Scheduling, they were unable to do anything and suggested that I contact the Student Activities office because they were in charge of the Col- lege Center and its operations. l11is is where Ms. Clark comes in. I called and explained the situa- tion t6 her, and she was very un- derstanding and patient. Though she was unable to give me an an- swer right away, she promised to follow up on this. and. call me hack. Several hours later, upon re-· turning to room, I was greeted by Ms. Clark on my answering rna- chine, with positive results. She told me that an arrangement had been agreed upon to leave the doors unlocked for student use, and reservations would not be necessary. In addition to that, she offered her assistance with any future concerns as well. It is really great to see that the administration and the students can work to solve problems·, no matterhowtrivial they are. Hope- fully this is not merely a coinci- dence, it would be great to see such cooperative efforts in the future. Sincerely, Parriela Lin ~, Class of '95 Send all Letters to the Editor to Box 2577. Letters shoul~ be less than 500 words, and must be signed. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight 11mrsdays a tenn by the students of Union Coll~ge. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078, The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS~Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions at'e due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Cohcordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. • , ·

, y 1- Arts & Entertainment October 14, 1993, Page 11 Ziggy Marley and a Sample of the Samples by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Friday Oct. 1, Skidmore Col- lege hosted Ziggy Marley and The Samples. Held in the Skidmore gym, there was plenty of room to roam around, dance,or sit in the bleachers listening to the differ- ent styles of both artists. Witl1 only about 1/3 capacity filled, the majority of the audience con- sisted of Skidmore students, and approximately 30-35% were Lasts for Long\. The Samples had a shortened show because of the technical difficulties. so they left before 10:00. The audience was noticeably upset by this. Al- though, when they were on stage, they sounded excellent, they left seemingly prematurely and this left a bad taste in each fans mouth. Ziggy Marley came on after with a whole repertoire of reggae very much like his father's mu- sic. He actually played some of Bob's music, but most of his con- cert was Union students; everywhere I turned I could see Union stu- dents . \The Audience . was filled with comprised of songs I had never heard of. The audi- ence filled w t h The sqmple.\· · grungers, preps, opened up at 9:00PM with and Rasta men\ \When it's Raining\. TI1e audience imme- diately surged towards the stage as The Samples began their show. The melodic music and airy voices made this first song a real crowd pleaser. After \When it's Raining\ The Samples an- nounced that they were having technical difficulties. They pro- ceeded to leave the stage for about ten minutes. The audience t:,rrew restless. especially after being teased with one song. When The Samples returned they played songs such as, \Did YouEverLooksonice\ the more upbeat, \Feel us Shaking\ and my personal favorite «Notbing grungers, preps, and Rasta men swayed along with the funky beat of a talented musician. I left before the concert was over. but Zim:,'Y had made an impres- sion on me, as he proved that he could hold his own on a stage, which I think is a key aspect to a true performer. J11e ,f.,'ample.\· always provoke thoughts of summer for me, and that's always a good memory to be reminded of. Hopefully Union can host l11e Samples some day as the head-liners of a concert, so we can see them for longer. They were worth seeing, even for the half an hour that they were on stage. A Cry for Revolution Graffiti Artists Unite • • by Eugene Kublanov Staff Writer what was happening andcouldn 't help giving an audible giggle. There was also all this political It's fall, as we all know, and for stuff that must have been really me fall is a time to reminisce ' pissing people off because half of about the days gone by. Well, at one wall was covered with ban- least this fall it is. At this very ter about the Greenpeace people time last year, I was enjoying the doing something or other on the rainy climate and the other nice- coast of Iceland. I liked reading ties of England. So, 1 was sitting that stuff, it was kind of like here the other day, it was kind of watching the news. TI1ere were chilly, so I decided to go into my also all these comic degrading kitchen to see if I could find any- things about the French that I thing to warm me up. The only didn't quite understand but which thing I could think of was a nice, must have been important like : hot cup of Marmalade tea, \Punch a fro& on Bastille Day\. Mmmmm, just like we used to Well, that was the University, the drink in England. There's noth- stuff at the pub was even better, ing like a cup of tea and a biscuit if it can get any better. At the from the cupboard. Then I started Hive, which was mostly a locals thinking of all the things I miss pub with prostitutes and drug about England. I missed the tele- dealers and everything else, my vision shows, I missed the great, favorite line read: \I'm so horny witty beer commercials, but most the crack of dawn better watch of all I missed the brilliant graf- out!\. There was also numerous fiti that was plastered all over the remarks about one single person bathroom walls oftheUniversity but I won't get into that. Any- and of our favorite pub- TI1e Bee- way, that line there is just good hive. clean fun, it's naughty but nice, a There was this one stall at the lot like a dirty old man. Nasty University that was a particular but harmless. Why am I telling favorite of mine. When you were you all this? Was r making a seated on the throne there was a point? No. Ahh, is my bed made? line on the left that read: \Have Oh yeah, its all the stuff I missed you ever played toilet tennis\? about England. Well back to My immediate response was of business,J was sitting around with course not, so I read on: \Look nothing to do and I had a couple right\. 'I1ten when I looked to my of hours to kill so I grabbed a pen right to it read: \Look left\. Only and pad and. went to the library after three volleys did I realize bathroom to see what I could make of the graffiti in that infa,. mous middle stall in the all-night study. The first thing I noticed was that none of the toilets were flushed, gentlemen of Union Col- lege did you all grow up in caves? If so, then you are still rude be- cause your excrement wasn't even covered up by a bit of top- soil! L To continue, what I found was an entire battlefield complete with multiple opponents, inno- cent civilians and the critics, who seem to be ever present when you just don't want them around. Opponents were kind ofboring, there was a lot of name calling which included plenty of homo- sex·ual bashing. Which is t,rreat to see in the nineties and at such a liberal campus where all the males are pretty secure with their masculinity. So, there were also the ones defending themselves against this unfair bashing. Most of the defense included statement like the following:\ I'll @#$% you up so bad your mother will get pregnant again!\. I like that, that's a fun statement. Well need- less to say it was one frat bashing another so if you read one thing you read them all. The really in- teresting ones were the ones writ- ten by the civilians. I particularly liked: \If at first you don't succeed Continued on Page 12 \THE SLEEPER HIT OF THE SUMMER!\ PJdril:k StOller, FLICKS TOM HANKS MEG RYAN SLEEPLESS I N SEATTLE This Weekend's Movie

.I ,· ~ ,.. .. < • [-~;;..,.~~.~ f October 14, 1993, Page 12 Arts & Entertainment ''Doe.s Architecture Matter?'' Improve Ame·rican Graffiti I / Paul Goldberger begins Bicentennial Lecture Series Continued from page 11 by Belinda Crago Arts Editor the table or justic.e in the court- in the center of the field where our room.\ trusty Nott once stood. Where mellow out and smoke some Just when the audience was would we run naked at 3AM in weed\. Well that's certainly an Union's Bicentennial Lecture about to give 11P hope for the im- the morning? Would Union still intelligent statement, a Cheech series was set off to an impres- portance of architecture, bethe~ame? Wernustadrnitthat · andChongapproachtolife. I also sive start with its .first speaker, Goldberger pulled through with we all would be affected in some liked \Re.adtheBtble';and \Ijust Paul Goldberger, Senior Archi- some interesting examples ofhow way or another by the loss of this · · defecate her.e because I like this tecture Critic of the New York it truly does effect our lives. He work of architecture because \ar- · graffiti, 1 like the atlllGsphere''. Times. Goldberger's speech, argued that architecture is a pub- chitecture does play a .real role Thebestinnocentbystandercom- \Does Architecture Matter?'' lie issue that affects \the public in determining what quality oflife ment however was \Bill Clinton given on October 6th, could not spirit almost as much as political is.\ This is so because, as sucks\; to which someone re- have been more appropriate with and economic matters do.\ Goldberger explained, \architec- sponded \You Unpatriotic Bas- the restoration of the Nott Memo- Goldberger came to this realiza- ture is aboutthe conservation and tard\. That's interesting, thatwas rial underway. tio!'l after receiving letters from e)(.tension of culture and aboutthe the only political.stah~inent and it Goldberger won over his au- two citizens concerned about the making of place.\ Certainly, in a . was responded to in a very dienc.e, from the start, with his en- social, and aesthetic bene.fits of way, the Nott makes Union what McCarthyesque way: You gotta thusiastic praise ofthe Nott Me- architecture in New York City. is Union. lfwebelieveinaplace, wonderifperhapstheculpritwho moria!, which· he insisted ''is a He then related these concerns to assured Goldberger, the architec- · wrote the original message wasn\t building like none other on any the movement to preserve St. ture follows that belief. A.nd so, discovered, skinned alive and dis:. American Campus. It is wildly Bartholernew's church on Park the restoration of the Nott repre- played as a warning to anyone' ambitious, slightly bizarre, some- A venue in New York City (an sents our belief in Union, if noth- else who· had anything to say what overbearing, and absolutely early eighties issue that petitioned ing else. This does not proclaim • about politics on the middle stall likeable .. \ Throughout his lecture, the NYC Landmark Preservation that Union is not committed to . walls. Maybe you can only bash Goldberger continually made ref- Commission to tear down the other social goals. Hardly. frats on that wall, kind oflike an erence to the Nott Memorial to church community house to erect In conclusion, Goldberger article, where you have to stick demonstrate what architecture a skyscraper to provide housing pointed out that the building of tothepointotherwiseitjustwon't means and does not mean in our and soup kitchen's for the pooi) the skyscraper next to St. work. Who knows? society today. and the decision to invest consid- Bartholemew's and the halt on the Well, lastly there were the crit- After thoroughly addressing erable dollars in the colossal ef- Nott Memorial funds may bring ics and those were my personal the physical and symbolic beauty fort to restore the badly damaged short term social benefit. But, favorites. These guys took the of the N ott, Goldberger ap- Nott Memorial. With these build- architecture is about the long . rational approach. They were proached deeper issues concern- ings in mind, Goldberger argued term, suggested Goldberger. . tired of all the crap, so they de-. ing architecture. He proposed that the preservation and restora- \Maybe that's what it comes cided to voice themselves and that in a time of recession, AIDS, tion of two such works of archi- down to in the end\- \It's here to provide a solution to all this frat and homelessness, say that bashing and rehashing. \You frat should we bother \It [th N tt M • I) • \ldl something guys all make fun of each other, with restoration e 0 emorta IS WI ·. Y that mattered . butyoushouldlookatyourselves, and preservation? ambitious' slightly bizarre, yesterday still you're animals, you shouJcJ have Should buildings matters to- your livers checked for diseases\ be considered art somewhat overbearing, and day, and . and my utmost favorite, obvi- when their primary more impor- ously written by an individual function is shelter? absolutely likeable.\ tant will still wellversedinthelawsoflogic:'\ Or do buildings L-----------------------___j mattertomor- It's unfortunate the fraternal sys- have an aesthetic presence that tecture would hardly mean that row.\ He insisted that architec- tem has to be a basis for all this make our lives better? Exactly, social justice would not get ture is way in which generations bickering, can't we all just be what is the point of architecture, served. There may have been less speak to each other. Goldberger civilized and get along\. That · d G ldb Wh'l 11 'd h b 1 statementwaswritteninthefresh- . propose o erger. 1 e a a1 to t e poor ecause t 1e sky- proposed that the purpose of any the art L!Jffs and optimists in the scraper was not built, but where college comes down to the pass- est ink, as far as my Apache track- audience awaited for some rev- does that leave Union. Ifthe trust- ing down of culture from one gen- ing instincts could determine, so elation on how architecture will ees here decided to tear down the eration to the next. Certainly, the I'm pre~ sure that .all the hick- improve the \quality of life\ he Nott would they really use the generations have done \Naked ering stopped after that individual d 'tt d tl t 1 1 h h · explained the situation to the a m1 e 1a t 1ere was no pos- money to c ot e t e poor m Nott Runs\ for over a century 'bl bickerers. s1 e way to measure the effect Schenectady or provide a few here. Goldberger concluded \and that architecture has on our lives, more scholarships? Even if they ifthere is any reason for the res- So, now I was sitting in the or even if it makes any impact on did, Goldberger suggested, would toration of the Nott Memorial it men's bathroom; and I was done tl · A h · 1 \ there, I had read and reread the 1e commumty. .rc ttecture tie money compromise by the is to make sure that the dialogue d 't 1 f b' 1· f · 1 b ' walls at least eight times and oesn so ve some o our tgger oss o Its centra sym · ol? ' continues into the next generation problems- \it doesn't solve AIDS Imagine walking on campus and the generation after that.\ frankly the fumes Were overpow- or cure cancer. Its not bread on one day only to find a vast abyss ering consciousness. So, I did the next logical thing, I went to the RICHARD O'IRIEI'I .... = ... E El CE 111 MY~ I 111£ ·- -- lal,l&llll .. K you thought 1t1e II'IO'M was OUhgeOUI· Qolt out! Hell comes the~ lYe rock vefSion of INs tantiizing late oc -. monsternand a fishnet~ It's mad. tt's bad. k's a IIIIVII'·to-be.fargotten nlllhtln a tnt waJil with Janet and Brad. 1JIUII:HIJI, SlUG, .. (mar IIGI 11e suirablc tar a11 audience~ ... II;: Chet's Corner On Monday nights, Chet's features MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL with their famous 1 0 cent wings. Tonight, (Thursqay, October 14) MITCH FRAZIER WILL BE PLAYING ACOUSTIC GUI- TAR. He has become a favor- ite entertainer and a huge tum- out is expected. Everyone is invited and your enthusiasm is greatly encouraged. The per- fotmance begins at 9pm. Come early to make sure you get seats! Friday afternoons will be T.G.I.F (Thank God Its Friday)! From 4pm until 9pm, T.G.I.F. offers free food, free entertainment,and an opportu- nity for students and faculty to interact in a relaxed environ- ment. This is a great way to start offthe weekend- so please come andjoin us! To purchase alcohol you must be 21 years of age, but there is NO AGE REQUIREMENT TO ENTER andenjoyChet's festivi- ties. In addition to the usual se- lection of bottl~d beer, mixed drinks, and soda, pitcher's are now available at Chet's.! Come to Chet's and join your friends in an evening full of laughter, smiles, and fun! Last week Chet's had record numbers of wings eaten at Mon- day Night Football. Jesse Ashdown entertained us all with his guitar playing and T.G.I.F. began an amazing Homecoming Weekend for all! AU campus organizations are now able to rent out Chet' s any day of the week. To sponsor special events at Chet's, please contact Peter Savage at 347- 1774 or Deb Murray at 346- 3181. CHET'-S FALL TERM SCBEDULE IS AS FOLLOWS: MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 8PM-1AM FRIDAY-T.G.I.F.(FREEFOOD) 4PM-9PM JOIN US THIS WEEK & EVERY WEEK AT CHET'S~!! women's room to see if the graf- fiti there wasn't more inspiring than that I had seen in the men's room (And to see if the toilets were flushed). They were and it wasn't. Despite the multiple in- teresting illustrations which ac- companied the quotes, there wasn't much there to speak of. There were a· couple of \ I had intercourse with this rnany frat guys and this frat guy's got this and that\. There were some com- mentaries about individuals, which were quite informative, but nothing that was particularly witty. One' line,however, did catch my attention·and held it for about ten minutes as I tried to delve into the meaning which was hidden:beyond the print. The line read:''So and so is hung· like a horse. Neigh!\. At first it'may seem to the casual reader that a horse had actually entered the women's bathroom, seated itself in the third stall from the left and felt it necessary to report that its casual acquaintance, So and So, was hung like a horse. Now this female horse knew this because it had seen male horses and this homosapien's penis actually re- sembled that of a horse. After it was done reporting this message on the wall it expelled the noise horses usually make, which would be \Neigh''. This point I'm still not clear on ancJ that is how the noise the horse actually ut- tered happened to appear on the wall. Some how I have trouble believing that the horse would • ' , ' ' · • •· ~ • , I . · { t ~ ~ 1 ; • wnte that sound because it is more of a natural reaction, like a sigh and you wouldn't write down \Sigh\ when you're trying to relate a message to someone. So anyway, the point I was try- ing to make was that after ten minutes I was convinced that, in fact, this was not written by a horse, but by ayoung lady of ob- viously superior intellect. Well, I left the bathrooms and shuffled home, missing English . graffiti even more than when I had entered the malodorously in- famous middle stall. I cry out to you Union \College let's make our graffiti fun. That's all I'm looking for is just a little fun, dammit. Let's stop this stupid homophobic frat bashing and get personal. Let's write about indi- viduals, let's bash Canada, but enough of the frat bashing, it's just plain boring. The answer is not to criticize, especially not in the same arena the object of criti- cism is l~cated i11 .. Let's get origi- nal, Jet's raise the level of Ameri- can graffiti to the next level, let's make it something we can all be proud of. My hat goes off to all of you civiliaiJ.S who were respon- sible for at least some of the fun stuff on the walls. Keep it up, work hard an~ maybe you can be the leaders of the graffiti revolu- tion which is way overdue. The time is ripe for revolt, Union Col- lege unite and let's see what we can accomplish when we ALL, Greeks and Independents pool our efforts together into a vat of boiling originality. I thank you for your attention. 1-

- a d h I j .. et is in be be ol- L, of ~----------· .. ----- Arts & Entertainment October 14, 1993, Page 13 Sculptors' Drawings and Wallworks 1 tural projections, site plans, and Courtesy of Chris Duncan construction notations. The draw- Professor of Visual Arts ings have a clarity and crisp Now on display in the Arts graphic quality that reflects the Atrium of Union college is an carefully organized character of exhibit of the works of various his sculpture. Jeanne Flanagan's artists entitles Sculptors ' Draw- work has some graphic and tech- ings and Wallworks 1 This show nical similarities to Mayer's- they brings together works by eight are also combinations of coli aged regionally active sculptors in an photographs and diagrammatic attempt to reveal some of the drawings - but the overall effect thinking and formative processes is more about texture and density, that go into producing a piece of . about reproducing in two dimen- sculpture. The notion ofdrawing sions a feeling for the material was stretched a little bit to include grittiness of the sculpture and its works on the wall and. pieces that site. SueRees' work, in these ex- are in some way preparatory or amples, is purely photographic. ancillary to fully realized sculp- Rees manipulates images of tural projects. A quick glance at medical hardware, tubing, navi- the work makes it clear that this gation maps and fading flowers diverse group of artists use a wide on richly colored backgrounds to variety of methods and materials produce a melancholy meditation in their image making. on the body's frailties .and death. Ed Mayer, Jeanne Flanagan, These photographs were origi- and SueRees all incorporate pho- nally exhibited on the floor, to graphic processes into their where they formed a grid through work. Mayer's images serve as which one made one's way as if both plan for and documentation through a field. of the actual structure. He incor- In each of these artists' work porates photographic records of the use ofphotographicreproduc- built work with precise architec- tion serves to objectify the con- tent and lend a distanced reality to what is being represented. And what is being represented- a cairn built of sticks, a box of skeletal bronze casts, momenti mori- in each case indicate rather more Romantic inclinations than one might expect from the method of presentation. A residue of the Romantic also resides somewhere in ideas about discovering form through pro- cess. It's a cr:eative approach that requires faith in the intuitive and may find· beauty in the found, the discarded, and the transitory. Paul Mauren explores this area in .his small plaster and mixed media pieces. Like Sue Rees, he uses repetition and variation. Mauren is willing to see if the subtle changes he rings on the small plaster rectangle can produce dif· ferent poetic resonances. His careful placements and juxtapo- sitions of everyday materials form quiet, beautifully scaled and nu- anced pictures that suggest but don't tell. Larry Kagan also makes wall pieces. In his work, linear steel takes the place of the drawn line. Apiece like \Still ,Pfe With Endive\ plays with the con- trast between rough scrap mate- rial and the elegance of the line, the delicacy of the form de- scribed. In a more straight ahead drawing style, John Isherwood also produces images which emerge from the act of making. His dark drawings of sculptural forms are at once rough and el- egant, and they share with his sculpture a concern for mass, sur- face, and a raw materiality. My own work has something in com- monwith this sensibility. Though not directly related to my sculp- ture in the sense of being plans or proposals, they explore the devel- opment of form through the pro- cess of doing. The five drawings were made one after another in one session, proposing variants on a single form. The nature of the making process remains vis- ible in the finished work. John Hock's exuberant pictures of once and future sculptures don't share the brooding found in many of these works. They are direct and accessible, optimistic. Their bright colors and quality of im- mediacy seem to suggest that it's no problem to construct multi-ton sculptures twenty feet high. The work in this exhibit in- cludes many approaches to the idea of representation, and some processes and materials not tra- ditionally associated with draw- ing. It suggests that in an age of video and CAD sculptors con- tinue to have a need or a desire to work in ways that, while physi- cal, are more immediate than sculpture itself, and they continue to find the ways and means to make this work valuable to them. The works will continue to be on display until December 2. For moFe information, call the Arts department at 518-388-6201. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY.OCTOBER14 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- \COLOR ADJUSTMENT\: a landmark study of prejudice and perception in Television Age, tracing how African Americans were reluctantly \integrated into America's primetime family. Albany Institute of His-. tory & Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany 7:30pm, $5, 463-4478. FRIDAY. OCTOBER 15 ~ BALLROOM DANCING: Capital District Ballroom Dances, Germania Hall, Third Ave. at 107th St., Troy; 8 pm, $9, 384-0335. BENT: by Michael Sherman, an opportunist sells his heart and humanity to survive the Nazi Holocaust, Albany Civic Theatre, 235 Second Ave., Albany; 8 pm , $10, 462-1297. CYRANO DE BERGERAC: a 17th century comedy, Schenectady Civic Players, 12S. Church St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $10,382-2081. GREASE: a touring production of ''the 50s\ musical, Palace The- ater, Albany; 465-4663 .. MARTHA MOOKE: electric viola, Recital Hall, PAC, SUNY, Albany; 8 pm, &4, 442-3995. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: Forbidden Games, tow children display the effects of war by imitating the cruel world . around them (in French w/ subtitles), Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany; 7:30pm, free, 442-5620. TOMMY TUNE ... MOONLIGHTING: Proctor's, Schenectady; 8 pm, 346-6204. SATURDAY. OCTOBER 16 . FRIENDS OF CHAMBER MUSIC: Canadian Trio, piano, per- form Beethoven, Ben Haiill & Shellerrdorf, Emma Willard School, Pawling Ave., Troy; 8 pm,. $6, 27J.:8135. SUNDAY.OCTOBER17· BENT: 3 pm, see Friday, October 15. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 19 CAROLYN FORCHE: poet,journalist, author of Gathering The Tribes and edi- tor of Against Forgetting, reads from her work, NYS Writers Institute, Assembly Hall, Campus Center; SUNY, Albany; 8· pht, 44'2~j620. WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 20 CYRANO DE BERGERAC: see Friday, October 15 . LEWIS TURCO: poet, educator, author of The Shijtit1g Weh, and Dialogue And Emily Dickinson, reads from his work, NYS Writers Institute, HUM 354, SUNY, Albany; 8 pm, 442-5620. SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGE: a Stephen Sondheim production, Proctor's, Schenectady; 8 pm, 346-6204. THURSDAY.OCTOBER21 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- \TROUBLE BEHIND\: explores the origins of today's racism through the history of a seemingly typical small town, Corbin, Ken- tucky, home of Kentucky Fried Chicken. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 7:30pm, $5, 463-4478. CAMINO REAL: by Tennessee Williams, Theatre Department, Arena Theatre, PAC, SUNY, Albany; 8 pm, $6, 442-3995. CYRANO DE BERGERAC: see Friday, October 15. LYNN REDGRA VE: in \Shakespeare For My Father,\ an elo- quent and hilarious celebration of two lives in the limelight, hers ,<. and Sir Michael Redgrave, Hart Theatre, Empire Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $20, 473-1845. TINA HOWE: playwright and Obie Awardwinner for distinguished play writing, presents a seminar in play writing, NYS Writers Insti- tute, HUM 354, SUNY, Albany; 4 pm, 442-5620. FRIDAY. OCTOBER 22 BENT: see Friday, October 15 CAMINO REAL: see Thursday, October 21. CYRANO DE BERGERAC: see Friday, October 15. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: All The King's Men, a portrait of political corruption, Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany; 442-5620 . PACK OF LIES: Theatre Voices, City Arts Office, Chapel & Orange, Albany; 8 pm, free, 439-6404. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff -

' . i October 14, 1993, page 14 CAMPUS NEWS Classifieds Student Survivai.Guide . . . HELP WANTED: CRUISE SHIP JOBS I Students need~d I Earn $2000+ monthly .Summer/holidays/ full-time World travel. Caribbean, Hawaii Europe, Mexico. Tour Guides, Gift ShopSales, Deck hands, Casino Workers, etc. No experience necessary CALL 602-680-4647 Ext. Cl47 Week of 10/14 - 10/20 TELEMARKETER- $6 00 per hour Call Skip @372-4454 SPRING BREAK '94-Sell trips. Earn cash & Go Free''' Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps Call @800•648-4849 WANTED-Campus Re-presentative- SPRING BREAK DISCOUNTERS- { Vacation Packages). Earn cash and free trip(s). Cancun-Bahamas- S Padre Island-Daytona. We handle bookkeeping-you handle sales. 1- 800-336\22<30 Monday thru Friday (9AM-5PM). HELP WANTED-GREEKS AND CLUBS. Raise up to $1000 in just one week for your fraternity, soror· ity or club' Plus $WOO for yourself and a free t-shoft. JUST FOR CALL- ING 1-800-932-0528 ext.75. GREEKS' CLUBS! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as much as you want m One Weeki $1 00 ... $600 .. $1500! Market Applica- tions for Citibank, VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your free t-shirt and to qualify for FREE TRIP TO MTV SPRING BREAK '94 Call 1-800-932-0528, ext.68. FLEXIBLE HOURS - Help Fellow students find scholarship money. Write to Jennings Associates. P 0. Box 9088. Schenectady. NY 12309. Earn $500 - $1000 weekly -stuffing envelopes. For details- RUSH $1 00 with SASE to· TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK! SELL QUA!:-riTY VACATIONS! THE HOTTEST b·ESTINATIONS! Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, South Padre Island, Florida. Work for the \Professional\· Spring Break Com- pany. Easiest Way towards free trip. Be~t Commissions. Sun Splash Tours 1 800 426-7110. Birthright, Inc. . Crisis Counseling, free and confiden- tial pregnancy tests, :referrals and a friend. Schenectady 370-1532. Al- bany 438-2978, Ballston 885-4ll7. Ski Free This XMAS Snowbird, Park City, etc. need ten:tps this Xmas. Ski Pass included. For information and appl-ications send $5.00 check with return address to Was11tch Temp 2748 Brinker Ave, Ogden, Utah 84403 nATSt SORORri'D3 STUDENT GROUPSt Raise as Much as You Want In 01118 Week! $100 . . . $600 .•. $1600! Oct. 14 - Thursday Begin Week 6 8:00 PM Chet's: M'itch Frazier, Acoustic Ent. Oct 15 - Friday• 3:30PM Field Hockey v. St. Lawrence 3:45 PM Hu213: Philosophy Co.lloquia · Oct 16 - Saturday 8:00 PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Sleepless in Seattle\ Oct 17 .. Sunday 1 :00 PM JV Football v. RPI 8:00 PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Sleepless in Seattle\ Oct 18 - Monday 8:00 PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Sleepless in Seattle\ Oct 19 - Tuesday 3:30 PM Women's Soccer v. Middlebury 4:30 PM CCAUD: Pres. Hull on \Law of the Sea\ Oct 20 - Wednesday 8:00 ·PM M:emorial Chapel: Dr. Ray Dolby 4:00 PM ~9:00 ·chet's T.G.I.F. (Happy Hour) · · 8:00 PM & 10:00, CCAUD: ':SI.eepless in Seattle\ 9:00 PM·Fero Coffeehouse: Pawha/Hyman Unplugged 9:00 PM Chet's: Monday Night Football. l. Group Five 57 Greentree Drive, Suite }D7 Dover, DE !9901 Market Applications for the hottest credit card ever- NEW GM MASTERCARD. Users earn BIC DISCOUNTS on GM CARS1 Qualify for fREE T. . SHIRT & '94 C.MC JIMMY. ··current as of 1dt12193. To il\c!ude your events call or memo College Canter!Student~dt3Mities:.CC!!Qe,.x63%9;of:~.1 1,8i;.·;t'; Call 1-80().950-l 039, ext 75. ., CAMPUS ·SECURITY REPORT UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKL V INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY OCTOBER 4, 1993 THROUGH SUNQAY. OCTQBER 10. 1993 MONQAY, QCTO~ER 4, 1993· t2·28AM Fox House 9:15AM· Brownell Gate 1.20PM Fox, Dav1dson LOt 2 45PM S&E Lab 8 27PM .Bronner House TUESPAY. OCTOBER 5, 1993: 2:03AM Becker Hall I 0:15AM 5:03PM 6'0SPM South Lane Ach1lles Lot West College WEDNESDAY. QCTOBEA. 6. 1993: 8:00AM Bailey Hall 5:15PM 8:04PM College Center Raymond North JHURSPAY. OCTOBER 7 1993: PATE. TIME; LOCATION HARASSMENT: Student rece1vmg obscene phone calls. HARASSMENT: Staff member harassed by labor p1cket. ATTEMPTED THEFT: Student's car entered and searched- No theft/No damage INJURY: Chem1cal splashed on student-Paramedics responded- No senous InJUry. HARASSMENT: Student rece1v1ng annoyance phone calls. FIRE ALARM: False fire alarm caused by faulty detector- Work order filed tor replacement. TRAFFIC HAZARD: Vehicle blockmg roadway, towed and immobilized. TRAFFIC HAZARD: Vehicle blocking parking lot, towed. THEFT: Tires stolen from stud.enrs biKe (81ke was locked to the 1st floor bike rack.) VANDALISM: Emergency telephone vandalized-Occurred over the Oct. 1st weekend. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen from game room area. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room fire extiriquisher found discharged in parking lot. 1:12AM College Center VANDALISM: Stall partition pulled from wall·1 st floor men's 2:00AM 8:55AM 8:30PM 9:1OPM 9:1OPM 9:1OPM 9:10PM Becker Hall Delta Fihi West Lot West College West College West College West College room. VANDALISM: Window broken. FIRE ALARM: Caused .by cooking. PARKING VIOLATIONS: Unregistered vehicle immobilized. THEFT: Seat stolen from student bike. (Bike was chained to the first floor bike rack.) THEFT: Student's bike stolen. (Bike was chain$(! to the first floor bike rack.) THEFT: Tire stolen from student's bike. (Bike Wil$ chained to the first floor bike rack.) , THEFT: Tire stolen from student's bike. (Bike was chained to the first floor bike rack.) NOTE. ALL OF THE ABOVE THEFTS FROM WEST COLLEGE OCCURRED BETWEEN 6:00PM-9:00PM ANYONE WHO MA VI-lAVE OBSERVED ANYTr!ING SUSPICIOUS IN THE AREA IS ENCOURAGED TO CONTACT THE . CAMPUS SAFETY OFF!CE WITH THE INFORMATION. USE CARE IN LEAVING YOUR BIICES ,_, LOCKED ... MAKE SURE YOU HAVE A HARDENED CHAIN I LOCK AND THAT YOU LOCK THE WHEELS AND FRAME. INCIDENT FBIPAY, OCTOBER 8, 1993: 2:00AM A.D. P~i 2:30AM 5:00PM 9:56PM 9:57PM 10:25PM ~AI!JBPAY, 12:1 SAM 1:56PM 2:30AM 4:00AM 8:57AM 12:11PM 1:30PM 5:45PM 6:58PM 6:58PM 8:37PM Fox/Davidson Lot Raymond Lot Memonal Chapel South College Area Old Chapel Area Q~IQIHO:B l! lUa; Achilles Rink Area Alexander Lane Admm. Bldg. Area Memorial Chapel Area North College Butteiiield Hall Phi Delta Theta Lot Fox House Edwards House Edwards House Fox House SUNPAY, OCTOBER 10 19&;1: 12:59AM Hickok House 3:00AM 3:50AM 4:30PM 7:50PM West College AD Phi Area North Terrace Lane Fox House LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering;damage io smoke datector·Violation Notice Filed. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Hit and run-Two student's cars damaged. SPD notified. PARKING VIOLATION: Unreg1stered vehicle immobilized. VANDALISM: Window broken. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Possess1on and use of an air rille. ATTEMPT TO LOCATE: Parent of juvemle visitor attempting to locate the juvenile. VANDALISM: Student's car mirror damaged by another student-SPD involved-Student arrested tor Criminal Mischief. RECKLESS DRIVING/ENDANGERMENT: Car was driven on the sidewalk while pedestrians were walking in the area. (Suspect vehicle is a red hatchback Toyota or Subaru). ABANDONED PROPERTY: Suspect abandoned a blue bicycle that he was carrying when approached by Campus Safety Officer. Bicycle placed in lost and found. RECKLESS DRIVINGIVANDALISM: White Ford Escort drove across sidewalks and lawns. FIRE ALARM: Caused by cooking. VANDALISM: Photograph in west side stairwell damaged. VANDALISM: Student's car wiper damaged. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION/VANDALISM: Smoke detector intentionally disabled/damaged. FIRE ALARM: Caused by smoking in hallway near the detector. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Improper door lock installed on student's room door, Violation Notice filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported-Could not be confirmed. ATTEMPT TO LOCATE: Parent of visitor requested assistance in locating and vefllying safe arrival of. v1s1tor. HARASSMENT: Bias !'elated annoyance telephone calls. THEFT: StUdent's bike stolen. (Bike was chained to a tree). VANDALISM/MISCHIEF: Construction material scattered about the area. DAMAGE:- Window broken-Reported as accidental caused by winds.

., ! l Greetings To rny artsy fartsy ex-roommate who lives downstairs, Happy 20 Bri. HeyGaloozeQueens(C&G) We were wondering if you pay. two housing bills or is it a split cost? Wannabe Galoozing! C&)) Mc.Crazy- Mol~on, Camels, .the American dream! We miss you! Good times await! Lys1,1 and An- drea. To E.B.- Say goodbye to the \scammer.\ We'll tlnd you an-· other! Love, P.P. Morgan, ti1y friend Mario, dane\' ing Dave, and charming Allen. Thanks for answering the phone and putting ·up with, me all the time. Fondly, P. ·Jenni. What is this thing that's called love? Does it come frombere or above? Though the question asked is as common as air, I find myself asking. out of great . despair. Through the diStance I reach out for you, A man in love, what else can I do? _Michigan. Stodden- we're waiting ........ Humorous left-handed hockey player seeks blond/redheaded BODACIOUS math major. Willingness to maintain a long- 'distance relationship is a must. Sorority girls need not apply. Automobile wanted. Must be an automobile. Should not be 1,1 Saab. (That means, not a Saab.) Mitra- What's. up en brogue? Any Yahtzee this weekend? I'm Jenniferp., Havel told you lately sorry our bonding didn't go as that I love you? I have something plam1ed, but I'll make it up to you: _. for your wrist. Can you g!less OK? Be good and may the force what it is? ESC be with you! Love, AZ Daniella & Julie- We miss you so much, have an amazing time, can't wait to spend some quality time at Union- Love Deb & Chantal Krista- Bring us back some Ital- ian men! H.Qpe you're having fun! Andrea and Lysa. Sean, you were· great last Satur- day night! Rumor has it that you think this is a joke! Think again little buddy. Later, cakes. -S.A. Hey Jenni-I'm tenibly sorry, but apparently pigs do fly .. (If you'll skip VA, I'll skip the U. of Mi- ami.) Your partner in crime, Blondie. P.S. Do you want to crack the whip or should I?? To all the stars in WOK- \Time it will soon, it will be ... \ Toots- Thanks for hanging in on Saturday. Don't forget your vi- tamins. Love always, Me. Are you feeling ill? I am-perpetu- ally. I'm sticking out my tongue! 143 and nose! Good ol' Southern girl seeking three ex-roommates for fun and bondage. Must be able to eat with chopsticks, like jello, watch cheesy movies, procrastinate. Watching fish a valuable asset. Lee- German bicycle, water pitcher, laser, incense, pant leg, girly comb, mittens, Obi Wan Kanobi- l11e Spitzers Mike Bullen- You have the po- tential to become the new Hugh Heffner of the soccer team, but always learn from past mistakes (avoid all boxes of cottage cheese!) -The old Heffner Looking for a single .. fluffy\ man, one who enjoys naked wrestling and Walt Disney movies. Write to box 1383 A6. The Air Force, food stuffed in the side of your mouth., the Wife of Bath, Rome, Italy ... I don't know Hanna! A.P.S.- you 're the bitchiest &est friend, but I still love ya, S.G.P. Bethanym Thanks for all the yummy yack you did for me. KC Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever; One foot in sea, and one on shore, To one thing constant never. .,Then sigh not so,Butletthem go, And be you blithe and bonny, CotiVerting all your sounds of ·woe Into Hey,nonny, nanny. NEWSFLASH: Bill Ferguson jumps ship and becomes liberal Democrat, according to 1st floar Fox North news source. Jeff, I hope that you ate having a super time in Israel. I miss you! Two months down, three to go! I'm counting tile days! Love, Elsya P.S. 111e gang says Sha- lom! (I.L.W.Y.L.M.) KEB, Wenn wir unseren kaffee noch nicht gedrunken haben, mussen wir SOFORT ausgehen! -PLI NISJI- Great job with Schenectady 2000. Thanks to you I can live in this fine city. I say, NlSH FOR MAYOR! Blaine To my Italian Friend: Can we still be friends? EJ still Love, P. Jenni, Jenni, Jenni. What does it take for you to date me? SAG. Jonny Aurora, how's the psych major? Good Luck with your career. TP Heather, get some fish. I don't expect you to watch yet. PERSONALS Farah, don't give up trying. The one you need is right in front of you. SG Karin, everyone knows you're rocked because you're laughing like that. Bruno, whatever happened at McGill'? Curious Ecology Class- mate. We would like to thank Mike Fiol for incr.easing the level of stualiness at Union. His rugged good looks, sense of humor, and unmatched ability at small talk made him the catch of campus. Virginia or New Jersey, can you choose? Hopefully New Jersey. M. Troubh, just wondering how Bi.ngus and Buttcheese and Grundle are doing. Love, Nikki. ~y little Virginian; I don't need the fish to watch them! To my cohort in tree making 101, Happy 20th Birthday, I love you! To my large Chinese ex- roommate(the one with the vio- lin and love of men). I simply love you! Beth - Although you're 19 hours away, I wanted you to know that I miss you and that I love you. I can't wait to see you. Love, Mike. Hi, to the sexy blonde, British guy -Andy from a sweet, American women, see ypu Wednesday nights at Kappa Sig - as ususal. We few, we happy few, we band of British brothers, couldn't get into your party but managed to get into your goal, thanks FIJI. Pizzaman, Bring the Ragu and extra long noodles. We'll bring the Boboli. - women of Asia To my turtle, Happy 21st birth- day. I love you more than Anne! Hello ... Thank you is not a sen- tence. Try a verb or maybe even a noun or two. Oh Bruno, you love god, we want to have your children and be your love slaves. But you must say hello first. To the Saturday morning early riser, we promise you won't to play anything but folk next week. GRUB! You silly boy. Kiss and make up. Not necessarily in that order. From your favorite grub fan. O.K. We can't forget the Ameri- cans cheers Mike, Dale, Ian. Try and score next time. Eh! Bailey 54th state NEVER! You'll become a colony (again) first. Who ate the pies, who ate all the pies? You fat B@#$%~'D Walt you ate all the pies. Hey Naomi, you are not really a psycho, that's me, your british friend. October 14, 1993, Page 15 To the met1 of the basement of Webster from the women of the basement. Hi. DAVE, can we iron grilled cheese sandwiches together sometime soon? I miss you .. Sheryl, the sit up club isn't the .same without you.. Come back soon. Love, P, H & J VIRGINIA #1 May the South rise again. Romance Iritelligent, attractive SWF, seeks intelligent, adventurous, whole- some guy who enjoys simple pleasures of life, walks in the park, Friday eve's in, Sat. eve's out at local jazz clubs. Serious replies only. Photo optional. Box 1383 AI.. Looking for Junta, the mountain girl who climbs mountains-alone, and dies out of the impurity of the world. Send replies to box 1383 A2. Aging hydra looking to cohere tentacles with a much younger virile strain of protozoa with a love for finger food, puppets and bonsai. Must have a Ph.D. in Classics, and be an able-bodied martial artist. Send applications to Nancy. Active Union Male junior seek- ing female friendship to reveal my wann, sensitive personality. Box 1383 A4. Rich arrogant snob seeks same for companionship-profit. Send re- sume, cover letter and portfolio to CC Box 1. Tali blond, blue eyes searching for affectionate female compan- ion to make sense out of this world. I hope you like love songs, starry nights, late night romance, fine dining (not West), movies, conversation, and a chance to meet someone other than at a party. Respond to Box 1383 A 7. ISO SJF to enjoy skeetshooting, big game hunting and boxing matches. Reply to Box 1383 AS. SBM looking for a SF so we can share loving times. I enjoy step- ping, rapping; as well as roman- tic walks. I am wann and sexy, there is no better. Respond to Box 1383 A9. Portly gentleman of substantial means seeks easy woman to as- sist in ceremonial capacity. Flu- ency in Dutch or Finnish is a must, accompanied by ownership of lap sized pets and desire to groom small dogs. Reply to Box 1383 AlO .. Wanted: Female VAX user. Should already have disinfectant installed and should possess a large node. Bob- Desperately seeking Judy. Box 1383 All. Gay male at Union looking for wann sincere male for friendship and maybe more. I like Star Trek: Next Generation, quiet evenings, and weekends outdoors. Box 1383 A12. Seeking anyone who has any of Elvis' early adult movies. Please contact box 1383 Al3. Seeking anyone ... I am a lonely guy, but a nice guy, who would like to meet anyone who would be my friend. Box 1383 A14 . Burly blond Maine man ISO won- derful, sensitive female, who can drink me under the table. Must have impressive moose call and handicapof 4 in golf. Must have been educated over 2nd grade. Box 1383 A15. Searching for special woman. Must enjoy rolls in the snow . Outdoor experience required. Own sleeping bag is not neces- ·sary. Box 1383 A16 Seeking paper girl. Must fetch on call. Must not sleep. Perfect spelling suggested. Wanted: Person or persons tore- place Andy Lipman as hiking pattner for Adirondack Mountain climbs, Spring and Fall. See Ted, Central Mail. SHM 5'7\ 145 pounds or rip muscle looking for a girl to domi- nate me. She has to be sweet, caring, attractive and most of all intelligent, with a body that can kill a man! Balding middle aged Mexican man seeks exotic, Asian belly dancer who likes Jeopardy and can drive a tow truck. Must have fishing pole. Persistent female in search of sci- ence oriented male who looks good in black pants and is easily BOTHERED. Would like to hear your heart beat again. Think you can play chess? You're wrong. If you want a postal match, respond to box 1383 AS. Smooth soft skinned sensual female seeks well-built blue- eyed bright male to touch and hold at night. Box 1383 A 16 MEN NEEDED for ballroom dancing. 2: 1 female ot male ra- tio. Th 4:30-5:30, weekly, $30 for 6 lessons. For info call x6818, x6818, or x6830.

.. ) ' I ' ~ '\'. , I : : i ~~ ! r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ... ' ... ; Entering the 1993-94 hockey season, the team to beat in the Eastern College Athletic Conference is the RPI Engineers, The team from Rensselaer returns, losing only one senior to graduation from the previous year, when it finished in the ECAC with a 15-6-1 mark and placed fourth in_ the ECAC tournament. RPI's offense does not center around one player. Last · year nine players scored ten or more goals, yet none were present in the top ten ECAC scorers. Heading the team offense are leading point scorer Xavier Majic ( 12-17-29) and ECAC all-Rookie team forwards Tim Regan (9-8- 1 7) and Bryan Richardson (11- 16-27). RPI also sports a tough defense on the ice, led by ECAC Second Team All Star defenseman Brad Lyzell (4-16- 20). A key to RPI's successes, however, will be the play of ECAC First Team All-Star and All-American goalie Neil Little (14-5-1, 2.71). A big year from the senior netminder should place RPI at the top of the ECAC and could advance them far into the NCAA tournament. Although RPI is the favorite going into the season, they are not a lock to hom~ .the championship. Two teams that figure to give RPI a run in the conference are the Harvard Crimson and Clarkson Golden Knights. Harvard, although finishing last year with a conference best record of 16-3- 3, look to rebound this year from a disappointing ECAC tournament where they placed third. Harvard's strength this year lies in the return of their top-rated defense. In goal, Harvard is very deep with two oflast years ECAC All-Rookie Team Goalies Aaron Israel (7-2-1, 2.89) and Tripp Tracy (9-1-2, 2.46). Roaming the blue line, Harvard has all six of their defenseman returning from the last season, including captain Sean McCann (2-3-5) and offensive threat Lou Body (3-13- 16). Harvard's only concern this year is replacing the loss of three of the team's top scorers, including ECAC Player of the Year Ted Drury. Seniors Chris Baird (6-12-18) and Brian Farr~ll (7 -18-25) should step up on offense and take over the goalscoring duties. Also, the Harvard offense will benefit from the return of junior Steve Martins (2-7-9). The Crimson look for Martins to assume a key role on the offense this year after being sidelined part oflast season by an ankle injury. The other team in the hunt, the Clarkson Golden Knights (12-6-4), enter this season the defending champions, after a strong finish the previous year that was capped by their second ECAC championship in three years. Although losing two of their all-time scorers to graduation, Clarkson still ECAC H·OCKEY PREVIEW by GeoffGardner Contributing Writer possesses key elements of their championship squad including their leading scorer and First Tea All Star forward Marko Tuomainen (19-20-39) and junior Patrice Robitaille (15-12-27). Clarkson also looks to get some immediate help from the incoming freshman class that includes forward Jean-Francois Houle, son of Montreal Canadians great Rejen Houle. Stepping in full time between the pipes is Jason Currie (3-3-1, 2.84) after sharing the ·duty last year with Chris Rogals. Clarkson's biggest concern is on defense, where three lettermen were lost to graduation. The Golden Knights will look for help from the freshman class along with the stepped up play from the remammg defensemen to compensate for the loss of key veterans. Leading the freshman defensive prospects asked to fill the gaps is Adam Wiesel, a 4th round draft pick of the Montreal Canadians. as it had in the 92-93 campaign. Sl. Lawrence is a good, young team, capable of making a run at home ice in the playoffs. The Saint's offensive should be led by 1992-93 ECAC Rookie of the Year and leading team goal scorer Burke Murphy (14-8-22). Senior forward Spencer Meany (5-11- 16) and junior Brian McCarthy (5-4-9) will also be looked upon to contribute in the goal scoring. A trio of sophomores compose the young core of the Saints' defense, which includes ECAC All-Rookie Team member Jeff Kunkle (2-· 3-5). Senior captain Mike McCourt (-1-l-4) is the only upperclassman in the defensive group. After a successful 1992- 93 season in which the Brown Bears tied for third in the ECAC and finished second in the tournam~nt, the team enters a rebuilding year. Lost to graduation was the successful senior line of Scott Hanley, Derick Chauvette, and Mike Ross. The Bears this year will be . Vying for looking for Kelly Jones {14-14- the last home-ice 28) and Chris Kaban ( 11-14-25) playoff spot are a to step into the first line and lead series ofteams on the the team's offensive. ECAC All- rise. Leading the way R.ookie Team member Ryan &ocJ' 1 · · d IS an expenence Mulhern (13-8-21) will also Colgate squad, who last year _ figure to be an important player despite finishing 11th, extended in the Bear offense. A k~y to secon~-seeded RPI to three Brown's success in 1993 will be games m the quarterfinal round the play of the eight returning of the ECA~ playoffs. On offen~e defensemen roaming the blu~ line the Red Rruders look for captam for the Bears including junior Bruce Gardiner ( -8-17) and senior Patrick Tho~pson (1-S-6) and forwards Sam _Raffoul ( 7 - 12 - 19 ) senior Mark Shaughnessy (1-7- and Brent Wtlde_ (6-11-l 7 ) to 8). Inconsistent play on the form a strong sconng nucleus for defense could cause the Bears to the te~. In the net all thr~e of tumble a couple of spots in the Col~at~ s goaltenders return, l~d standings. If the Bears are lucky, by JUntor Jason Gates ~ 6 - 6 ~ ' however, this group could bring 3. 91 ), who won the startmg JOb the team back to the ECAC finals. in the middle of last year and guided the Red Raiders to the quarterfinals . Battling Colgate for home ice is perhaps one of the biggest surprises last year, the Dartmouth Big Green. Dartmouth exceeded all- expectations last season by placing eighth in the division after an 11th place finish the year before. In the 1993-94 season, Dartmouth should continue their rise as all the Big Green'sleading scorers return, including ECAC second team All-Star forward Scott Fraser ( 19-17 -36) and ECAC All-Rookie team forward Bill Kelleher (2-26-28). The biggest question for Dartmouth is their goaltending situation. Senior Mike Bracco (4-5-0, 5.10), the most seasoned of the starting candidates, will be competing for the job at the beginning of the season. Consistent goaltending and continued output from the offense should enable Dartmouth to continue to climb in the ECAC standings. Last year the St. Lawrence Saints lost four of its . top five scorers and finished the year 12- · 8-2 in sixth place. This year St. Lawrence again lost four out of five of its top scorers and hopes for the same success this season Another team in the rebuilding stage is the Yale Bulldogs. Yale this year loses its offensive nucleus that indu4ed Hobey Baker finalist and all time leading sco~er Mark Kaufmann. Hoping to fill Kaufmann's role will be senior captain Martin Leroux (2-19-39). Leroux, who led the ECAC in power play goals last year with 11 , will again quarterback the power play that last year led the league in efficiency (34.2%). The Bulldogs, however, need to get help from juniors Andy Weidenbach (8-9-17) and Jason Cipolla(l-9-10) in order to create the same offensive threat as the year before. In Goal, Yale is counting on junior Todd Sullivan (1 0-7-1, 3 .66) to take the brunt of the work between the pipes. The most radical transformation over the off season had to. be the Vermont Catamounts. In one summer the Catamounts .changed. fro~ a \predominantly defensive squad to a team th~t wiiL~epend on its potent offensive to win games. The major reason for the transfonnation is the departure to the professional ranJ<,:s of sophomore goaltender Christian Union College Defenseman· Dean Goulet .Soucy and the graduation of first team ECAC All-Star defenseman Aaron .Miller. The amount of success Vermont has in replacing Soucy will detennine the kind of season for the Catamounts. Varsity candidates '(om Vukota (0-1-0, 5.00) and Jon Miyamoto will vie flilr the starting job after receiving limited playing time last · yeat. Vennont' s strength this year lies in its offense. Both leading scorers junior Dominique Ducharme (11-18-29) and captain Nicolas Perrealt {17-14 ... 31) highlight the returning forwards. Along with ECAC All-Rookie team forward Matt Johnson (6- 1 0-16), they form a strong offensive attack. The last playoff spot could go to any of three teams, Union, Cornell, or Princeton. For the Cornell Big Red, the 1992-93 season was a disappointment, finishing llthwitha5-16-l mark, and failing to make the playoffs for the first time since 1987. Cornell's success this year depends on last year's rookies having successful year's rookies having succ.essful ·sophomore seasons and the stepped up play of this year's seniors. Heading the group of sophomores is senior Brad Chartrand (8-4-, 12), who, along with senior Geoff Bumstead (4-13-17) and Shuan Haimah (5-11-16), .will be looking to improve the teams 2.84 goals per game average. Where Cornell is strongest is on defense. Juniors Blair Ettles (3-4-7) and Christian Felli (0-4-4) are both coming off injury-plagued seasons and should be healthy.this year to lead the Big Red's group of young defensemen. A strong offensive showing and an injury free defense could give the Big Red a surprising rise in the standings. Two years ago the Union Dutchmen recruited two goaltend.ers. Last year the entire defense was in place. This year, Union's third as a Division I hockey program, the Dutchmen recruits mainly co'nsist of forwards. Out of 15 freshmen prospects this year, 11 are forwards, including .Troy Stevens, Chad Tho~pso~ 00 ~nd Jon · Sincinski. Returning to lead the young offense is leadiiig.scorer, junior Chris Albert (7~8-l~). and senior Jt:ff Jiampetti (4-.~·~7). With the combination offense of newcomers and veterans, Union hopes to turn the one and two goal games into Dutchmen victories. The .defense, led by ECAC All- Rookie Team member Reid Simonton ( 6-4-1 0), returns intact, as does the goaltending pairing of Luigi Villa (3-12-0, 4.90) and Mike Gallant (0-7-0, 4.74). An increased scoring output, coupled with the continuation of Union's solid defensive play, could lead the Dutchmen to run for a playoff spot. Another team that is rebuilding is the Princeton Tigers. The Tigers, who finished 1Oth last year at 6-13~3, hope this year to improve on their inconsistent goaltending and · sporadic offense. Princeton is hoping to build around a good young defensive nucleus. Leading the blueliners is senior captain Sean O'Brien (1-18-19). Six other defensemen return, including ECAC All-Rookie Team member jason Smith (4- 3 -7} giving the Tigers a solid defensive game. Up front, Princeton will need help from veterans J.P. O'Connor (5-5-1 0) and Ian Sharp (4-9-13) to energize their offense. Also, the Tigers 'must get consistent goaltending from James Konte (1-2 .. 2, 2.87), who WEJS impressive in part time duty last year, if Princeton wishes to return to the postseason.

e I [l f [l e ' ., !l e d ~. ,f n tl 1- d s g ~' ), g e d e ff s n d is If d is d ' ) . )f ). 1, e ~­ d t, n )) 0 te If te re if Le Oct~ber 14, 1993, page 17 Crew Begins Defense of National Title by Steve Mooar Contributing Writer This Saturday and Sunday, October 16th and 17th, the Union College Men's and Women's Crew Teams ·begin the fall row- ing season. The season is high- lighted by the Head of the Charles in Boston Massachusetts on Oc- tober 24. The fall season is just a wann up for the spring. However, the competition sho·uld be diffi- cult with many college's taking aim at Union Crew because they are defending a National Title. Saturday's race is. the head of the Mohawk Regatta at the Aq:- ueduct Rowing Club. This is the only home nJ,ce ofthe fall season and will be the first chance to see the novice team in action. Rac- ing begins at 9:30 a.m. The boat house is located approximately three miles from campus on Van Vranken Rd. Upon completion of the Head of the Mohawk, the varsity men's and wornen's teams travel to Rochester, New York for the Bausch and Lomb Invitational. Bausch and Lomb tends to be one of the most competitive races of the fall. Crews from Harvard, Yale, the University of Pennsyl- vania, and Syracuse make the trip to Rochester every year along with other top crews. Field Hockey Success. trouble for opposing teams. Re- continued fro'!' page 24 member that offense wins games, women who attack opponents but defense wins championships. goals, it has been the defense led With that in mind, Union Field by Wendy Miller and net minder Hockey just may win a national Jen Vernon that has. spelled championship. Stay tuned! Men's Soccer Loses continued from page 20 nated Union's post-season op- tions, but the rest of the season must be a string of strong victo- ries if the team hopes to make it SPORTS Next Week- OCT 21 Hockey Season Preview to California for the NCAA finals. This week there are two impor- tant games; as the Dutchmen play RlT at home on Wednesday and RPI away on Saturday. The RlT squad has a score to settle after a home defeat last year and the ri- valry between Union and RPI has . never been friendly. Both .games are guaranteed to be well-played and everyone is encouraged to come watch. \• . .. In D I Football. .. Florida State defeated Miami 28-1 0 to maintain their number 1 ranking. Miami dropped from third to ninth . With this, you can save for years. With these, you can save 1i t now. 1bat penny jar on your dresser Appls MacinSosh Color Gassir.• 4/EXJ, !Juj/1-in ]()\ Color Monilor and Apple Ke;WarrJ H. AppleMadnlosb LC m 4/80, Appls Basic Color Monilor and t.ppls Keyboard U. Apple POW61Boolt\' 1458 4/80, BuDs-in Keyboard & 111' Bar.ltlilSuper Twist MoTK!CimJrM Displa)l. Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh .. per- sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the Applt Computer Loan*- to make owning a Mac® even easier. 1b see just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the power more college students .. choose: The power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese W. FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE OR CALL CHARLES BOSWORTH (UNION.COLLEGE BOOK$TORE) COLLEGE CENTER - TEL. 388·6188 I \ ' ' I , I . l '

' \ . ~ . ',t ., ' .. , I j .... , ,, October 14, 1993, page 18 SPORTS A Decision He Will Regret Women's Tennis Receives Bid t~ States Greg Kalish Assodale Sports Editor Last Tuesday night, the Chicago White Sox opened the American League Championship Series against the Toronto Blue Jays in front of a full house at Comisky Park. It was the first post-seas<m came for the Sox since 1983. Be- cause of this, it is only logical to assume that, on this night, the White Sox would be the center of attention, the primary focus of the sports world, especially in Chi- cago. Nothing could have been fm1her from the truth. Overshad- owing the team, the series, and baseball was the man who threw out the ceremonial first pitch in the game and the news of his un- expected retirement. The man's name is Michael Jordan. It was not supposed to be re- vealed until Wednesday morning, but word leaked out during the course of the baseball game that the man considered to be the greatest player in the history of the game of basketball was retir- ing from the Chicago Bulls after nine seasons. At the Wednesday news conference, Jordan revealed his reasons, claiming that after winning three consecutive NBA titles and leading the league in scoring, there was-nothing more for him to accomplish. There was no reason to be playing. He did not cite the tragic murder of his father as a reason for retirement, claiming that he had deliberated the issue in his mind for months before the incident. He simply said he had had enough. While the public must accept and respect this shocking deci- sion, we do not all have to agree with it. I, for one, do not. The fact of the matter is that Michael Jor- dan has made a mistake. He has made a commitment to life with- out basketba:ll, at least for the time being, and that is something he will no doubt regret. Michael Jor- dan is wasting talent and precious youth. There are few people in the world who have displayed as competitive of an edge as Michael Jordan. This is evidenced by his play over the last twelve years, dating back to his college days at North Carolina. But one can find evidence of this in other arenas. This is a man who has admitted to having lost thousands of dol- lars betting on golf and who fre- . quents Atlantic City casinos while on road trips. He is accused of losing eveti more than he adtnits to. This is also a man who calls his need for competition a \dis- ease.\ Now, he claims that he will have no problem living without the daily competition the NBA schedule provides. I do not buy it. Secondly, I believe that there is always something left to ac- complish. While Michael Jordan has certainly accomplished a great deal, h.e has not accom- plished everything. He does not own lifetime scoring records and his team does not compare to past dynasties such as the Boston Celtic teams of the 1960's. But A Dutchntan of Summer Joe Saltzbart ( ·oncordiensis Staff Summer vacations! No papers, projects, tests, or homework, just those lazy hot months where ev- eryone wishes that time could stand still. However, many stu- dents spend the summer break earning money at a job for the upcoming school year. Some work in an office; others groom green lawns, and still others sign on for company internships for great work experience. Yet one recent Union graduate had this unique job over the summer months; one which required him to wear a uniform and star in many perfonnances. Thinking of an actor or a theatrical prodigy? Try again! The answer is base- ball. Michael Johnson '93 spent this past summer playing for the Kingsport Mets, a class Rookie- ball team in the New York Mets minor league system. Late in spring tenn oflast year, Mike leamed that he was selected by the New York Mets in the forty-fifth round of the major league baseball draft. He soon signed with the Mets and began his professional baseball career in Kingsport, Tennesse. This sea- son, Mike played second base for the team, batting .255 with only five errors in the field. One of his many highlights this season was a four for four game where Mike blasted the baseball for four singles to l1elp the Kingsport Mets win an important game in their race for the pennant. At Union, Mike was a standout for the Varsity Baseball Team where he was a two-time MVP and captain his senior year. He graduated with a Math major and minored in English. In talking with Johnson, he seemed happy with his first year as a profes- sional baseball player, but looked foward to spring training next year after training heavily in the off-season. Mike feels that he can raise his play to highly competi- tive level of the minor leagues after a lot of batting and fielding practice. Johnson credits Union with instilling in him a good work ethic that can only lead to success and hopefully, lots of hits. statistics are far from the issue. · When Michael Jordan plays bas~ · ketball, he makes people happy. . The Women's Tennis Team, Children lo·ok up to him and . currently 7-2, has been selected adults point to him as a model of to the New York State Cham pi- a respectable and successful per- . onships for the 3rd time ·in a row. son. There are people he isaban- • The championships wiU be held doning, people who thrive on , in Syracuse New York. After watching this man in action. As a . early season big wirts, Union has poster in one of my high school . continued to roll with a 5-4 win classrooms once read \The great- · over Hartwick. Third doubles est room in the world is the room · • team of Junior Rachel Goldfine for improvement.\ l say this to Michael Jordan: you canneverbe too good, you can never accom- plish too much. and sophomore Amy Kessinger pulled out the victory with a 6-2, · 3-6, 6~3 win. Union went 011 to beat Oneonta, RPI,. and Albany easily, recording 9·0 shutouts. Last Friday Union traveled to . Skidmore to try· and repeat last years win. Facing a tough Skidmore lineup Onion lost 3-6. The three wins were posted by fourth team singles Rachel Goldfine (6-1, 6-3) and fifth singles AmyKessinger(7-5, 7-5), and third dO'ubles team of Goldfine and Kessinger (6-2, 6- 4 ). Union finishes offthe regqlar season with a match Tuesday 12th against St. Rose and then are off to the New York State Champi~ onships. Senior Blaire Spritzer leads the Union team, and all are hoping to improve on their sev- enth place 1992 finish. Towards the end of the block- buster movie \A League of Their Own,\ Tom Hanks, who plays Jimmy Duggin, the manager of a girl's baseball team, tells one of his players of how he gave away five years of his career to alco- holism. He continues to say how he would do anything to have those five years back. There will come a time where Michael Jor- . dan will not possess the great abilities he has today. There will come a time when Michael · Jordan's body and age will not allow him to perform and achieve on the basketball court. One of these days, Michael Jordan is go- ing to severely miss the NBA. It may take weeks, it may take months, it may even take years. But when it happens, and it will happen, Michael Jordan, the greatest basketball player in the history of the world, will regret having given up even one day. He will look back on October 5, 1993 as the biggest mistake he has ever made. Volleyball : Do or Die itr Crossroads! The Union Col- lege Volleyball Team has com- pleted more than half their sea- son with a record of 6 wins and 8 defeats. Not good enough! Es- pecially for post-season play where the Lady Dutchmen hope to be when November rolls around. \Were simply going to have to raise our level of play if we want to compete in the State Championship!\ The general consensus of Junior Jen Ahrens and Sophomore Chrissy Taraborelli in a strategy session before the evening practice. They also agreed that \our blocking and passing need improvement along with the communication on the court. Coach Bogucki is cen~ tering our workouts around these aspects ofthe game.\ These high intensity practices this week will hopefully prepare the V -ball team for~he all important Vassar Tour~ ney on Saturday and for the Skidmore and Smith Tourna- ments soon to come. This past week, Union lost to Hamilton four sets to one. TI1e Lady Dutchmen walked away outplayed and frustrated from a match that they expected to win. And win they must. Only teams with a winning percentage of .500 get considered for the State Championship. The best sixteen teams in New York will duel it out for the honor of tops in the State. Union hopes to be one of them by putting a string of victo- ries together in the upcoming tourneys. It's make or break time for the Volleyball Lady Dutch- men and Union assures that they will be making the plays and breaking the backs of future op- ponents. GROUND ROUND MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL *Large Screen T.V.s *All You Can Eat Wings for $7.59 *Miller Lite Draft Special 23 oz. for o,nly $1.99 UNION COLLEGE Every Sunday and Wednesday From 8 p.m. to Close is College Night *$1.99 Tall Miller Lite Draft - Dinner Specials Dart League - Leagues forming at Mohawk Mall on Tuesday nights - ask at the bar Ground Round 1614 State Street Schenectady 382-8730 Ground Round Mohawk Mall Schenectady 374-0694

Athlete of the W·eek Susan Halliday by Mike Leding Concordiensis Stqff · This· past w~~k~nd the woinen:s field hockey team destroyed Vassar,. behind four goals scored by Susan Halliday. Susan is a junior out of Larchmont, N.Y. where· she at- tended Mamamneck High School. Susan's story is one of per- . sistence. As a freshman she played junior varsity, and only compiled one assist all sea.son. Last year as a sophomore she played her first year of varsity only scoring two goals. This year coming off a year in which she scored only two goals no- body expected her to be a real scoring 'threat. However, Su- san worked hard in the off sea- son and came back ready to play. This year she has 11Iready scored eleven goals leading the team to an eight and two record. The team is now ranked four- teertth in the nation, and fifth in the North Atlant·ic regional. The team is playing very well right now and plans on gaining further national acclaim,. on its way to conquering the rest of its competition. Congratulations Susan you really attest to the fact that hard work can make a person better in whatever field they are try- ing to achieve in. I' Kickball : Women's Soccer Struggles by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor Kickball or Soccer? Tough to decide. this past week as the Union College Women's Soccer Team lost to Hartwick and tied 8th ranked Plattsburgh. The team's record now stands at 6-3-1 and still retain their 9th ranking in the region. The level of play fell well short 9f what the Lady Dutc]).men . are capable of playing when most of the team consistently kicked the ball, forgetting about passing and looking to create good play. Earlier in the week, Union lost to Hartwick 2-1 in a poorly played game. Union trailed 1-0 for most of the game until Emily Retterer drove one past the goalie for the tie. Minutes later Hartwick scored to seal the game and gain the victory. This past Saturday, the Soccer Team tied Plattsburgh 1-1 on a goal from Heather Gauntt. Again, the Lady Dutch- men looked out of it, just kick- ing the ball at times when there was room to carry the ball and set up a play. The Union Women look to re- bo.und against Williams and Rensselaer in the week ahead to regain the momentum they once had at mid-season. It seems as if the Lady Dutchmen need to go back to the basics of passing, trapping, and dribbling and leave the game of kickball on the school playgrounds. AMERICAN SOCIETY OF HEATING, REFRIGERATING ·AND AIR-CONOmONING ENGINEERS, INC. GRANT -IN-AID FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS · A Gnnt-U..Aid is a gnat oC fund& to a tull\!imc ~ smdcnl il:llbc liul tMl yean oC Ulldcrtira<!lllte llUdy. It is awarded once each )':at for usc in the follqwing aca<~emic year. ne,seleaioll pr\\\\\ \\\\\during the ...Wet pro:c:c:!iag the rcar of rca:ipe of the grant. The Grant is iDicndcd to cucounge the student to prepare for =vice in the HV AC&R illdiiSIJ'Y, a.t1d to Jlimul!u hisjber inures!. in rcsea.rc:h. The rele\uco of the research PfOPOSCcl by the candidate iS a coa,Pdcrati04 foe awardil!g r.bc grant. Tbc Grant-in-Aid is made to !he UDiversuy solely for the •uppcrt o£ the student in Ill liDO IIIII. DO( to cueed US S2,SOO per c:alellcW :!\'I' per Sl1ldeul a.t1d is i1ot .rcncwable. 'Ibe Caculty ocMsor oi each srant rcclpicm will ~ SSOO for projea suppOrt 0t salaly l\l{lplemcoL The stUdeuls must haiiC I ClliDulalM a;.aciD paUu IYenge of 3.25/4.00, Ill' ~hove. CoaaiclcratiOD is gM:u to puticipalion of the :AU<icnt and !Us/her a<lvisor in ASHRAE awl an allempt will be made to disttiblllc tbe -at equitably among regiou, ~ llld fmeign c;>lllllries. Applia!ioos shall be lll.ldc·tothe :t.boagcr ofR=arch oa.the uudcot'a bcball'by the faculty advisor llld will be nMcwed by lbe R=-ch &lid T~ Committee at lbc ASHRAE WII!IQ' meeting. Applico.ticlas mast be .. RC:CiYed at ASHR.AE Headquancn by DECEMBER JJ to be ~ Applicana wlil be IIOCilied ol the results Of the competitive eoaluatioa by April L Funds wiil be available to the J!rUI( recipient£ shortly aftcc July L Tbc faeulty adviaor shall mbmil m applicati011 Corm COIIIainiDg !he followillg data: L Studclll Hiotory: Name, addn:u, schoWtic acbicYcmCilt (trllllc:ripliO be iDduded), rmk in clzss, mcmbenhip iA pcofeaiooW 50Cieties, preYiom work expericDcc, ..Ms<x's asc:umCIIl cl. studCIII.'s pcnaaal llld profea;ional qualificlliOtU ll!ld pk. %. Descripcioll ol Raeotch Prujed: SigJ!ifica<ICC ol.-eh. ootlioe c1. plan. appraiimace budget. iasliluiioa•a coarribuboa, plus for pubUcarioc oi rcseUch rcsul\\ 3. Justificltion ol Need Cor Aaistaacc: ASHRAE $Upport is to cma\ ltlldcal'a cxpc:aaes. Fringe beadils &lld projecl CCib, computer lime. etc. abould liQl be pat ol the request. ~OC'IIWlOI> COIIIlCt1lillg ~ from ather 10~ should be iadudcd. 4. Quali6cat.iona oC ~ and Faadty A.chlsor: Is the inslilutioll tl(lllf COillludiDg ASHRAE fulldcd rescardl? What ASHRAE projeco baw·bccll <OIIIdilc:ted. inlbc pud Hu tbc im:Dtutioa bid · oa.ASHRAE projcCis ot olbcni!se sought tbcm? Is the Faculty A<Msor 11!1 ASHRAE ~!'lllber, aDd if 10, !or bow loDg llld at whit gndc7 IDc.licale uanue oi activity in SociCty .aiin. Application !OC'III$ may be obtained from ud should be rcrurncd to: MANAGEROF~EARCH ASHRA£ 1791 Tullie Circle. NE Atlanti., GA 3m29-2:30S SPORTS October 14, 1993, page 19 Cross Country Teams Run at . Capital District Championships by William Rice Concordiensis Staff Saratoga State Park served as the colorful backdrop for the Capital District Championship Meet on Friday afternoon under perfect skies and mid-70 degree temperatures. The teams took out their spikes for another week of running on an excellent cOurse citing finish of Linda Seymour and Liza Morse that keeps a ri- valry going between the top three runners for the top spot on the team. The Men's team ran into some misfortune on the course versus their regional rivals which include Albany State(2nd ranked in the nation, Division III). Albany State claimed many of the top He was followed by Seth Rudin who bolted by ten runners in a fi- nal mile of 5:32 to finish 33rd in 30:08. Mark Sheridan(35th, 30: 17), Chris Colpoys(36th, 30:21), and Nick Conway(38th, 30:3 7) completed the men's scor• ing runners with a hard fought effort against a very fast field. This Friday, the Women's team will host local rival, Russell Sage Linda Seymour and Liza Morse Kick Pasi an opposing nmtier to finish -th and 8th at the Capital District Meet on Friday. (photo by Josh Haines!TC) that provided a great race for run- ners and spectators alike. TI1e Women's team took to the course with hopes of defeating their regional rivals and finished with a:n outstanding victory over RPI, Russell Sage, and Hudson Valley. Linda SeymourandLiza Morse ran gritty races with Linda taking the advantage at the line as they finished in 7th and 8th at 20: 17. Again the victory was the result of the entire team as Diana Spenello(12th, 20:46), Amelia Audette(! 6th, 21 :03), a:nd Sarah Teasdale( 19th, 21: 19) proved that the women's team can place runners in the front of a quality meet. A meet with the quality of runners that was present on Fri- day. The women continue to im- prove as was evident by the ex- Men's X-C at the start on Friday. (photo by Josh Haines!TC) spots in taking the championship, leaving the remaining teams to take the test ofthe finishing spots. Anthony Anderson led the men with a 21st place finish in 28:36. Water Polo Team Competes in MAC Tourney by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor Geoff Wolfe and Dave Lunlanski were the big scorers with seven goals each. Union then tied The Union College Water Polo Hartwick to end the regular sea- team ran~ed eighth in the nation, son with a record of 5-2-1, clinch- went into this r---~-----------, t'ng second place weekend's Mid- National Club in the Northern Atlantic Confer- R k• Divis.ion of the ence (MAC) an IDgS Mid-AtlanticCon- toumament with 1. u. of Michigan fer~nce. The a 4-0 record. 2.Williatns College MAC champion- They went up J.Cornell U. ships will be held against 3rd 4.Michigan St. atRPI on October ranked Cornell 5 U ·· r· M - I · d 30-31. So come .• ·o .· aryan twice and lost 6.PurdueU. onoutandsupp0rt both times, but 7.Amherst CoHege the nationally defeated Buffalo s. Union Coll~ge ranked water polo State 23-7. team. on the home course on the col- lege campus. Come see the team crush the Sage women in what should be an excellent race for all to enjoy. Meet the small, un-silent type. Presenting the EI:.ERT from Quorum. The portable motion detector that blasts 103dB (minimuni) v.'henever moved. It operates simply on batteries. ilndyoucan · from your ./ sklstoyoorper- . sonal computer. Only Quorum products give you that kind of technology Quonmr and security. Seclrilg Ute~ • Cor.kl&l )'IJUi-Quurum lndeperrdmt Di.rlrtbuk!r • • • Geoff Wolfe Ind .. Dt strl but or (518) 388-5649 ....

October 14, 1993 PAGE20 Dutchmen Struggle ~ < Past Great DaDes Union Defense Prevails in a Sloppy Game by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor· Entering Saturday's game, the Dutchmen had amassed a 4-0 record, and had recorded seven consecutive victories. The team was hoping to continue their win- ning ways against the Great Danes of Albany in this season's Homecoming game. Before Saturday's game, Union had a 5- 3 record against their capital Dis- trict opponents, and Albany had yet to claim a victory at Frank Bailey Field. fense and even the score at seven. As the first halfended, the score remained deadlocked at seven. On Union's second possession of the seccmd half, Frank Attah put on two consecutive superior running plays. The first was a tun up the left side of the field for a 2J,.yard gain. 'The second was an explosive 63-yard touchdown run, which regained the Dutch- menlead, and made the score 14- 7. The Dutchmen remained ahead till the start of the fourth quarter. The Dutchmen were able to score on their first possession as Frank Attah ran the ball in from two yards out, making the score 7-0. Neither team was able to score until five minutes into the second quarter. After punting the ball from the Union 41-yard line, the ball was fumbled on the Dutchmen 1 0-yard line, and re- covered by the Great Danes. Two plays later Albany was able to break through the Dutchmen de- The Dutchmen were on the of- fensive deep in their o-wn end, when living fumbled the ball, and it was recovered by the Great Danes in exceltent scoring posi- tion. On the next play Albany was able to get in the end zone and ev~n the score at 14. With the clock running down, the Dutchmen found themselves deadlocked before a Homecom- ing crowd of3,900. However the home crowd was able to see a vic- tory, as with five minutes left, Newton passed the ball to sopho- Outstanding defense helped the Dutchmen beat SUNY Albany last Saturday. Union~v defense stopped Albany several times inside the I 0-yard line (Photo by Josh Haines!TC) more Bob Emsing for a 20-14 lead. Harrison missed the PAT, but was given a second chance, as Albany was called for off sides. This time he put it between the uprights making the score 21-14, the score it ended at. The game was also highlighted with ,three interc.eption 's by junior free Men's Soccer Loses 1-0 to St. Lawrence by Pat Streck Concordiensis Staff l11e Union Colleg~Men's Soc- cer team split its games in the past week beating Utica and losing to St. Lawrence. The team's record now stands at 5-2-1 and before the St. Lawrence defeat, they were ranked 8th in the Northeast re- gion. The Tuesday match-up with Utica proved to be the victory that everyone expected. With a record of 1 and 7 the Utica squad had little to offer, in the way of com- petition. They did, h.owever, keep Union running and had several dangerous counterattacks, one of which led to their only goal. Vet- eran Union players Matt Stern and Jeremy Liebhoff combined for the first three Union goals. Liebhoff scored the first two, with Stern's help and then returned the favor as Matt tallied the third goal. Senior Casey Kurz put in Union's fourth goal and Liebhofffinished the scoring with his third put away of the game. The St. Lawrence game was a match with great post-season im- portance. Ranked 1Oth in the northeast region coming into the game, St. Lawrence was 6-3-2 and hoping for an upset to in- crease its chances of post-season play. Union needed the win to up in the NCAA and ECAC bid races. The momentum of the game was constantly passing back and forth between the two squads throughout the first half. Thanks to. great defensive plays by both teams, no goals were al- lowed after 45 min- utes of play. Then, midway through the second half, St. Lawrence got a free kick near the Union -penalty area and a perfectly executed kick later, the score was 1-0. Union stepped up the attack from there on out, even pulling a de- fender in the last ten minutes in favor of a third forward. The opportunities were created, but nothing .seemed to be going Uni6tt:;~ way as St. Lawrence escaped with a tight victory. The resulting out- come has not elimi- Matt Stem bringing the ball up field in a 1-0 loss to St. Lawrence photo by Josh Hai11es!TC continued on pg. 17 safety Kevin Weedmark. This game marked Ut1ion 's eighth con- secutive victory. The Dutchmen are traveling t0 RPI next week to face the Engineers. Union is looking to avenge last years Homecoming loss to the Engi- neers. Union is facing a tough Rensselaer team, who have won tl1Fee consecutive games since losing their first game of the sea- son. The Dutchmen are not only looking to take back the tradi- tional Shoes Trophy, but are also hoping to make the playoffs, something they missed last sea- son. Field Hockey Wins Again Ranked 14th in· Country by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor Quiet confidence. Two words that best describe the Union Col- lege Women's Field Hockey Team and their impressive sea- son. Lost in all the hoop-la over . football frenzy and the soccer at- tack, the Union Women are ranked 14th in the nation and 5th in the North Atlantic region with a record of 8 wins and 2 losses, After losing -to William Smith, ranked third in tlie-.11ation, and Middlebury, the Lady Dutchmen have won three in a row by domi- nating their opponents. Ranked 8th in:tlte !lation with a record of 5•1, Union dropped a heartbreaker to Middlebury in overtime a week ago. Missy Lombardoni assisted Molly Pearsall to put Union ahead 1-0. Unfortunately, Middlebury scored one goal in r.egulation and another in overtime to hand the hockey team their second loss of the year. Goalie Jen Vernon stopped 11 shots to keep Union in the game. This week, the Lady Dutchmen demolished their opponents be- hind an explosive offense and stubborn defense. Georgia Southworth had two goals while Tanya Caparello; Jennifer Batts, Christina Jabbour, and Keri Dunphy each had one as Union trounced Manhattanville 6-0. Later in the week, Union traveled to Saratoga to take on rival Skidmore. Sue Halliday scored both goals on assists from Michelle McCarte and Katie Richardson in a 2-0 victory . Vetnon played well to keep the shutout. Most recently, the Field Hockey team downed Vassar 7 .. J behind another strong perfor- mance from Sue Ha11iday. The consistent defense combined with Halliday's five goals left the op- posing team in a state of disbe- lief. Yet Union is the real thing and a tremendous force in the nation. It's hard not to look ahead to post-season play for the Field Hockey Team as they finish the remaining games on their sched- ule. Assuming that Union defeats Williams, St. Lawrence, RPI, and Rochester in the coming weeks, the Lady Dutchmen would be in good position to receive an invi- tation to NCAA Tournament. A battle royale for 16 teams picked from five regions across the na- tion. Although Union has re- ceived the needed offensive power from the many talented continued on page 17

. _. nnrnr t.ensts The Student NeJjJspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number VI Union's Security Cracks Down by Elizabeth Del(oven Concordiensis Staff Vandalism is an ongoing prob- lem at Union College. It occurs annually, although some years the severity of the damage has not been as pronounced as others. The vandalism occurs in the form ofbroken windows, broken light . fixtures and damage to cars. \A number of peopl~ say the vandals are from off campus, but the incidents that we are seeing indicate that the vandalism is caused by Union students,\ said Head of Security, Paul Mantica. \The patterns of vandalism fol- low the social scene at Union. I believe that vandalism is a social phenomenon caused by a small minority of students when they drink.\ Dean of Students, Fred Alford, fanned a committee, last year, . composed of admi-nistrative people and school leaders to dis- cuss the problem of vandalism on campus. The conclusion the com- mittee reached was that more consideration was needed on the part of the student body to solve the problem. In a recent article from Black Issues in Higher Education, Mary Christine Philip reported, ~'While there are no official national cost estimates ofthe dam'ages students inflict on campus property, col- lege administrators said if costs individual institutions thousands of dollars annually- in some cases, even hundreds of thou- sands- to deal with the wanton, reckless and prankish destruction of college property.\ l11eft is also a serious problem facing Union College. Mantica said that the thieves are probably from both on and off campus. \Thefts from dorm rooms tend to occur because doors have been kept unlocked.\ said Mantica . \The crimes are being committed because they are easy to commit.\ It is believed, by Security at Union College, that a significant number of bikes have been stolen and that several cars have been broken into by kids from off cam- pus. Two weeks ago, in a 24-hour- period, two local kids were ar- rested for on-campus thefts. A IS- year-old boy was spotted rifling cars by the administration offices _and was arrested in the Fox- Davidson lot. Also, a 12-year-old boy was caught in Library Lane with stolen ·equipment from the-- Science and Engineering Build- ing. As for date rape and stranger rape, in the past se':en years that Mantica has been at Union Col- lege, tliere have been no formal complaints of such assaults on campus. \Two students !rave ·come forth on behalf of other stu- dents,\ -said Manti ca. \Proper ad- vice was given to them, the vic- tims were urged to come forward, but no fonnal co1hplaint was ever filed.'' Off-campus assaults and rapes continued on page 2 Schenectady, New York October 21, 1993 Th~ Triangle Disricl is one c?f jour Historic Districts ;,1 Sc.henec.'lady. Among long-time residents, Unum Students, andadministrators, a comtmmity group has been formed The residellls heliet•e !hat students living off campus, in a neighborhood for the first time, have some new roles to /eam. 11 1 e ( ·~Jm!mmity Relation.~· ( 'otnmittee has discussed and resolved many c?fthe prohlems that had been causing fnctwn between residents and students. (Photo ~y Emily S'chrier/TC) Devastating Earthquake Strikes India: 40,000 Die by Bharat Navani Concordiensis Staff A powerful earthquake struck India's southwestern heartland l1mrsday, September 30, 1993, destroying houses and villages and leaving the people and nation of India paralyzed. According to the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo., the earthquake hit the western state of Maharasthra at 3:56 a.m. (6:26 p.m. EDT. Wednesday) with a force of 6.4 on the Richter scale. India's Seis- mological Office measured the quake at 6.0. year, 10,700 people were killed when an earthquake struck east- ern India. Seventh Annual AIDS Awareness· Week Begins l11e earthquake produced five powerful aftershocks. While the most violent tremors shook the southern portion ofMaharasthra, the rumbling was felt more than a 1 00 miles to the northwest of the epicenter in Bombay, India's commercial capital. Seven sur- rounding states, extending to Madras on India's southern tip, also experienced the quake's force. \The tremors lasted four to five minutes,\ one survivor told the Press Trust of India, a state- run news agency. \When we tried to escape, entire houses began to fall on us. It was like a night- mare.\ Thursday's earthquake struck in an erratic pattern, almost like a tornado - destroying some vil- lages and leaving others un- scathed. In some villages, casu- alties were higher in the more prosperous neighborhoods, where houses were constructed of stone, while some of the poorer parts of town, where houses were built of straws and thatch, suf- fered fewer casualties (Washing- ton Post, Moore). In the town ofKhilari near the epicenter, \not a single house is left standing;\ said an Indian journalist who arrived at the area late Thursday evening. Loca~ of- ficials estimated that 3,000 people were buried in the debris of Khilari, which had a popula- tion of about 15,000 people and was one of 49 villages reported to be ravaged by the earthquake. by Larry Paska Concordieiu•is Staff The seventh annual AIDS Awareness Week will be October 25 through October 30, and wili feature many panel discussions and lectures. \AIDS Awareness Week in the past has been a big success, due to the dedication of student vol- unteers,\ said Biology Professor Karen Williams. This year marks the first time the week is scheduled over Parent's Weekend. This overlap may mean some parents will help out with the program. \Education is the key to HIV pre- vention, and the purpose of these programs is to educate the Union community about all the aspects of AIDS,\ Williams said. A great deal of community involvement is evident in these programs as well. The AIDS Council of Northeastern New York, The Schenectady County AIDS Task Force and Schenectady Family Health Services are aH helping out with the week. This year will also be the first time that Schenectady County Community College will not be working with Union, as they are putting on an awareness week of their own. A schedule of events appears in this week's issue of The Concordiensis .. Students, faculty members and parents are all en- couraged to attend because the events will cover issues that ef- fect everyone. Though Maharasthra had expe- rienced mild tremors in the last several years, it was not consid- ered an earthquake-prone area. The region's most serious earth- quake occurred in 1967, when more than 100 people died in a quake be.lieved to have been caused by the operation of a mas- sive dam. Thursday's quake was the first major tremor in India since an estimated 1,600 people were killed in the Himalayan foot- hills in 1991; this same earth- quake was the deadliest to strike the country since 1935, when 50,000 people were killed in the Quetta area of what is now north central Pakistan. The previous Many oflndia's national news- papers have estimated the death toll to be as high as 30,000, al- though they were imprecise as to the source of their figures. An independent survey of demol- ished villages suggested that the death toll could nm as high as 50,000. The prime minister of India, P.V. Narasimha Rao, has ordered army relief to respond to the disaster and has authorized $3.3 million for relief and rescue operations. continued 011 page 3

October 21, 1993., page 2 NEWS Ozone Layer in Question: Environmentalists Warn ofFuture Trouble by Eric Habib Contributing Writer For several years now, scien- tists have been warning that the depletion of the Earth's ozone layer will bring catastrophe to our planet, in the twenty first century. TI1e ozone layer is a thin band of atmosphere that protects the planet from harmful levels of the sun's ultraviolet radiation. To- day, many people are beginning to question whether these predic- tions of doom are accurate or not. It is the environmentalists who are the ones predicting the fate of out planet if we do not make changes in the way we live, and it is the so-called eco-revisionists who are denouncing this move- - ment. Is this ozone problem real, and is it really going to affect our health or not. There is so much propaganda about the ozone is- sue that it makes one wonder if these predictions are scientifi- cally confillJled or just ideas that have been fallaciously implanted in our heads. · In 1985 1 scientists monitoring atmospheric chemistry recog- nized a thinning in the earth's ozone layer over Antarctica. From 1970 to 1985, the average quantity of ozone present, as measured in the month of Octo- ber each year, dropped by more than one-third. The phenomena was quickly named the \ozone hole.\ - No single explanation for the \hole\ has yet been developed. However, measurements showed unexpectedly high concentra- tions of reactive chlorine com- pounds in the air of that region, compounds that could have been derived from human-made chlo- rofluorocarbons (CFCs). The Antarctic \ozone hole\ appeared to be the first clear evidence of significant depletion of atmo- spheric ozone as a result of hu- man activities. Various studies strengthened the evidence that CFCs were the cause of the deple- tion. When CFCs were introduced, they seemed to be the perfect sub- stance. They were inert, nontoxic, nonflammable, nonexplosive, and non-carcinogenic. They were extremely useful and low in cost. Consequently, industries aU over the world began tC? use them as refridgerants, solvents, foam- blowing agents, aerosol propel- · lants, and for many other uses. Now, after more than half a cen- tury of use, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) have been found to con- tribute to ozone depletion. Many people probably recall an old article in Time magazine titled: \Vanishing Ozone: l'he Danger Moves Closer to Home.\ 'rhi·S article and a swann of other press coverage predicted that a hole in the Earth's ozone laye.r will ap- pear above North America, if not this year, then in the next two or three years. Such mass-media provoked The White House to an- nounce an immedia,te policy change regarding the United States industrial use ofCFCs. Use ofthose chemicals is to be phased out by 199 5. Chlorine released from CFC's into the upper atmo- sphere is the major chemical cul- prit of ozone destruction. The in- formation used to make this pre- diction comes from satellite data used to assess the Earth's ozone layer. According to this data, the chemicals needed to create an ozone hole are indeed present in the atmosphere above North America. A thinning ozone layer or an ozone hole would, in theory, allow more and potentially dan- gerous levels of ultraviolet radia- tion to reach the Earth's surface. Environmentalists, like Al Gore, are concerned about ultra- violet radiation (UV) . UV radia- tion at shorter wavelengths can have detrimental biological ef- fects. For humans those include sunburn, cataracts, and skin can- cer. According to a United Na- tions study, \for every 1 percent depletion of ozone, an extra I 00,00 people will go blind.\ Agriculturally, ultraviolet radia- tion from the sun might interfere with photosynthesis, resulting in lower crop yields. However, It is difficul tot know what to believe about some of this information. According to David Carrel, a chemist and director of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in Maryland, ''it could be that the data are right and the interpretations are wrong. h1 any case, newspaper and maga- zine articles have tried to make this simple when it isn't.\ He cautions against extreme reac- tions based on any efthe results, this information should be . \They do not warrant doomsday warnings, nor do they argue for inaction regarding the ozone layer.\ According to the. most recent issue of Garbage magazine, the so-called ceo-revisionists assert: \The real [ozone] crisis is.,. our gUllibility.\ One source in the ar- ticle said anyone who believes CFCs destroy the ozone layer is inaccurate and some kind ofvi·gi- , lartte environmentalist. Eco-revi- sion!sts say \CFCs the Pac .. Men qfozone, areheavierthan air ... so they could never waft 30 miles up Union is the Recipient of an American Red Cross Award by Melissa Ahrend Contributing Writer In recognition and support ofRed Cross programs, Union College has received a 1993 Partners in Service Award from the Heritage Valley Red Cross. Union earned this recognition due to its out- standing cooperation and assis- tance in the delivery of Red Cross services. The Blood Mobile, and the Emergency Extrication Work- shop, which was held last Janu- ary and involved 150 EMT's and ambulance corps members from the Capital District Region, were two examples of Union's com- mitment to the community. Not only has Union offered its facili- ties for these programs, but many members of the College commu- nity have volunteered their time to enhance Red Cross activities. The award was accepted by Su- san Bassett, aquatics director, on Union's behalf. COME SUPPORT A GOOD CAUSE Big Brothers/Big Sisters Day At Union's Football Game Against Rochester, At Home, On November 6th. Free Admission To All Littles to where ozone protects the planet from UV rays.· They argue: \Chlorine from volcanoes and seawater· entering the atmosphere dwarfs any ozone-eating chlorine from CFCs.\ They add: \even if the Antarctic ozone hole is caused by CFCs that doesn't mean anyone other than penguins has to worry.\ ·\The ozone hole is real and genuine,\ comments Fred Singer of the Science and Environmen- tal Policy Project, \but you can- not prove from existing data that global ozone depletion .[due to CFCs] has occurred\ anywhere outside of Antarctica. Further- more~· critics of the ozone crisis assert \there is no evidence that more UV-B is coming through and, even if it is, the extra expo- sure would hardly be off the charts.\ Garbage magazine also presents the environmentalists' views, but it is still not certain who to believe. It appears that n the editors of Garbage are also having a difficult time, as they are taking a new position in the middle ground. The controversy about the de- struction of out ozone layer is vel)'. complex. It is legitimate to be concerned about our future regarding fears about the ozone layer and the buildup ofCFCs. If the views of eco-revisionists are correct, then we have no problem on our hands. But ifenvironmen- talists are right, we might regret not taking the necessary precau- tions. Until a single, cleat picture of what is happening to our ozone layer emerges, we must continue to prevent or mitigate any poten- tial damage to the ozone layer. Security at Union conti11ued from page 1 have occurred to people affil;ated with the school. Two years ago, a Union College student was raped in an apartment off campus, during summer break. Also, a former student was robbed and beaten, when her car stalled on Union Street, during a past alumni weekend. \Contrary to the rumor that there are a lot of rapes being hid~ den by the college, I have never been asked to obscure my records,\ said Mantica. \That is the reason we print the ~ecurity reports in the paper. The more knowledge you have of an inci- dent, the safer you can be.\ Mantica also warned people not to be naive in thinking that people are not being victimized on cam- pus. \The problem is that the no- toriety the victim receives from the crime and the pain of having to relive the incident deters vic- tims from reporting assaults.\ \Although the gates of Union College create a city within a city, we can not let our gQards down,\ said Mantica. \Students must un- derstand that anything can hap- pen' anywhere, but if we follow good sound crime watch proce- dures, we limit the opportunity for vic,timization.\ Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Alliance- Contact Box 613

ll t1 ::> e e s ::> \' \ \' \ f 1 :t e e \' \ 1 1 \ v r NEWS October 21, 1993, page 3 Psycholo·gy Professor at RPI Studies the Effectiveness of Alcohol Education Journalist Juan Williams Speaks on Race Relations Courtesy o.fThe College Press Sen' ice In some of the women's restrooms at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, bright, highly visible posters can be found that tout the effects of alcohol on female sexual satisfaction, s.kin conditions, professional sucess, weight gain, self-esteem and pregnancy. The powerful graphics, which were created to target women; are part of the research project by Michael Kalsher, associate professor of psychology at Rensselaer, who studies the effects of alcohol on male and female college student;s. The posters, which also hang in sorority houses and dormitories, also note, for example, that daily glass ofwine can boost you weight 1 0 pounds a year, frequent heavy drinking by Alex Kreisler Associate News Editor can lead to bulimia, and that even On Thursday, October 28th at moderate drinking can increase 8 p.m., nationally syndicated the risk of breast cancer. journalist, Juan Williams will \Our reserch has shown that apeak at Union. His talk, which posters with infonnation that is is part of Union's Bicentennial optimally relevant to the needs • lecture series, will focus on race and interests of specific target relations in the 1990's. group are more likely to attract A graduate of Haverford Col- attention and increase lege,Williamsisthepoliticalana- knowledge,\ said Kalsher. \By ' lyst for the \Outlook Section\ of doing so, they can set the the Washington Post, and a writer occasion for making wiser for The Washington Post Maga- alcohal-related decisions.\ ' zine. The reserach team found that women exposed to the posters scored significantly higher on alcohol education tests than control groups that did not see the posters. The wom~::n rated the poster as \very helpful\ for maki11g choices about whether to drink or not. His experience in broadcast journalism is also extensive. He is a panelist on PBS' Washing- ton Week in Review and syndi- . cated television's Inside Wash- Thousands Die in India's Earthquake ington. not to mention his guest appearances onGood Morning America and 1he Oprah Winfrey Show. Williams' articles have appeared in Fortune Magazine, The London Independent. and Inside Sport.-.. The list of Will- iams' credentials continues to in- clude several prestigious awards. He was the recipient of the 1989 Emmy award for documentary writing, the 1986 National Jour- nalism Award and the 1990 Top Prize in Political Commentary from the American Association of University Women. He was also an avid supporter of speakers when Union hosted the National Conference of Under- graduate Research (NCUR) in April 1990. Williams will host NCUR again during the Bicenten- nial in 1995. Professor of Politi- cal Science, Byron Nichols ex- pressed that Williams' past adddress was \both emotional and stimulating so we had to bring him back for Union students, as soon as we could.\ Fortunately, his topic fit into the Bicentennial lecture series, titled \Portraying America.\ The Bicentennial committee sponsers two evening lectures per term. One deals with higher education specifically, which New York 1/mes architect critic, Paul Goldberger, fulfilled. The second will deal with percep- tive America. Williams' subject is important due to its centrality including race relations and cam- pus issues. The lecture will be in the College Center au- ditorium and the entire college community is encouraged to at- tend. continued from page I Offers of aid have begl.iil pour- ing in from outside India, includ- ing from Pakistan, its longtime enemy, and Russia, in the midst of its own political turmoil. The Pentagon has sent two Air Force transport planes to India with emergency shelter and medical supplies. Army troops and relieforgani- zations, having barricaded the vil- lages from looters; began rushing tents, drinking water and medical supplies to the quake-stricken re- gion, but relief efforts were slowed because heavy monsoon rains recently had washed out roads and bridges to some vil- lages. Local police reported that hospitals were jammed with ca- sualties and doctors were plead- ing for blood donations. Helicopters dropped food in isolated villages, and medical teants began a massive operation to inoculate survivors against cholera. Officials fear that the dis- ease may spread through water contaminated by the putrefying bodies of people and livestqck. The army barricades though, have brought on more hardships on victims driven from their homes by the earthquake. \I do not understand these men in uni- forms. They won't even let me into my own house,\ said· Jagannarth Kumb1e, a 65-year- old farmer who was stopped from entering his village (Assoclared Press, Joshi). Because of the progressing monsoon season in tndia, charac- terized by heavy wind and rain, people place stones on their roof as a means of stabilization. Sadly,, fhis means of protection resulted in thousands of inJuries and deaths: Dr. Harsh Gupta, director of the National Geophysical Re- search Institute in Hydenibad, about 120 miles from the epicen- ter, said that although the 6.4 reading on the Richter scale did not put the earthquake in the cat- egory of an extremely severe earthquake, the high death toll was the result of \people [having] built mud houses with stone roof- tops of very flimsy construction\ in a thickly populated region (Washington Post, Moore). Soldiers dig.ging through crushed stone houses in the vil- lage ofHoli have found survivors. The troops also have found many mangled bodies. When they could not pull them out of the wreckage, the soldiers simply covered the remains with wood and set them on fire en masse, instead of on individual pyres, which are caHed for by Hindu custom (Associaled Press). Un- fortunately ,Jhe heavy rains have also made it difficult to find dry wood.neededfor the cremation of bodies; thus, giving rise to towns with literal piles of human bod- ies waiting to receive the proper rites given to those who have passed on. The Union College student body has taken to the sad, tragic happenings in India. The South East Asian Association, SHAKTI, in conjunction with ALAS and SPECTRUM, have begun· a fund-raiser to support those individuals and families devastated by a blind, powerful earthquake. All help, whether it be time and effort, or the dona- tion .of money, will be appreci- ated. Donations will be sent to the Hindu Temple Society of the Capital District. The temple will be accepting donation and relay the money to relief agencies in India, including the Red Cross and the Mother Teresa Founda- tion. The. fund-raiser will nm through the end of October. · Clarence Thomas, despite the treatment he was getting from the media and women's groups. As a frequent lecturer on top- ics ranging from civil nghts to politics and journalism, Willian1s was one of the five keynote The Elie Wiesel Prize in Ethics 1994 Essay Contest Themes: Identify and respond to the most Critical Ethical Problem in Government, Professional or Social Life. Identify and Respond to the W~ys in Which Great Writers have Addressed Contemporary Ethical Dilemmas Eligibility: Senior Undergraduates Deadline: January 14, 1994 No more than three essays from the same college , university or campus will be considered in any one contest year. Essays must be submitted by a college or university on behalf of its students. First Prize: $5,000 Second Prize: $2,500 Third Prize: $1 ,500 Two Honorable Mentions: $500 each For entry forms and further information, please write to: Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity 1177 Avenue of the Americas 36th Floor New York, NY 10036 WRITE· FOR NEWS: ·Meeting on Wedpesday, October 27th at 3:00 P.M. Meet in W:~e Qionroroicnsis Office - College Center 303.

... . - October 21, 1993, page 4 NEWS BRIEFS World News . Middle East: The Arab boycott of Israel and foreign firms that trade with it will reportedly not be lifted, and Arab diplomats added that the sanctions will be .expanded. Somalia: General Mohammed Farah Aidid's loyal forces dis- mantled Mogadishu road blocks that had previously been set l!P to limit peace keeping forces mobility. Officials do not know how to view this gesture. Bosnia: A warning was issued to Serbian Nationalists in.the form of NATO warplanes with guns in position. The warning was intended to prevent Serbs from resuming the artillery at- tacks 011 Sarajevo. Turkey: The war between Turkish Generals and Kurdish Sepa- ratists that has supposedly been over for one year has grown increasingly more violent in the past week. Greece: Andres Papandreou, the Greek Socialist leader won last week's election with a solid majority. he kept his campaign promise to revoke the privatization program that his predeces- sor, Constantine Mitsotakis, instilled. He also made his wife director of his private political office and found jobs for his son and wife's cousin. U.S. News Relations with Israel: Trade armaments with China this week brought criticism from American ·officials who say they fear the trade will help Beijing develop better weapons. Los Angeles: The Century Freeway was opened last week in LA. It covers 17.3 miles, stretching through nine cities. It cost $2.2 billion to build and displaced 25,000 people. HMO: The Health Maintenance organization while largely sup- porting the Clinton Health Plan is expressing dissatisfaction with the large number of rules and patients. Sexual Harassment: Suzane J. Doucette continued her fight, pressing foiWard with complaints of sexual harassment in the Federal Bureau of Investigations. FBI officials will not discuss her case. Politics: Mayorial races across the country have been focusing on putting the end to violent crimes. This year holds the largest number ofbig-city mayor turnovers in more than three decades. Health: Grass roots immunizations that have been effective in both Nambia and El Salvador are now being used in New York City. Ironically, this type of immunization is designed for de- veloping nations. WORLD NEWS Haiti: Don't We Have Enough Problems? by Lara Greenberg World News Editior The United States has recently is little hope thatCedras will step · ment, something we all should be down on the agreed date of Oc- concerned with. Among other tober 30, the United States and things, it pushes Haitian refugees President Clinton decide to throw to the US . gotten involved in several intema- themselves into the situation. tional affairs including places such During Clinton's campaign, he as Bosnia and Somalia. The crisis criticized Bush for turning away of the week is now Haiti. The situ- the boat filled with Haitian refu- ation there has progressively wors- gees without hearing their plea, ened during the past three months, but during his own Administra- but in particular this week. tion, he continues the same A little background: President policy. Why is it that he suddenly Jean-Bertrand Aristide was over- decides that something must be whelmingly elected into office, done? only to be ousted seven months .Furthermore, I am still puzzled One of the problems with American intervention in the cri- sis in Haiti is that , in my opin- ion, the US is spreading itself quite thin. Twenty five thousand troops in Bosll:ia and thirty thou- sand in Somalia= 55,000 total US troops abroad (that we are aware of). The most important J:eason that I believe the United States should later by a military coup d'etat on by the reason why the ship the not become directly, militarily in- Se~temberl, 1991. Dur- ------------------ volved in the Haitian ingMay 1992, a boat car- \. • • 3 hUmanitarian rying Haitian refugees was ordered to return to cause is infinitly more situation, at this time, is that energies should be completely devoted to other causes. When I say other causes, I mean Somalia and Bosnia. I do not mean Haiti immediately by important tO p· · UfSU·e than former President Bush. Apparently, tens of thou- 00 e 0 f i.deology • • • '' sands of people tried to leave Haiti due to the political ten- sion that existed. OnJuly 3 ofthis year, Lieutenant General Raoul Cedras, the anny chief who led the coup, agreed to a plan that in- cluded the return ofF ather Ariside in exchange for amnesty for all of the people to participated in the coup. As a result of this act of co- operation, the sanctions imposed by the United Nations that had pre- viously been placed on Haiti, blocking oil importation, were lifted. Then, from the beginning of September until the present time, there has been a period of escalated violence in the form of riots., assassinations of Justice Minister Mulary, a leading Aristide supporter Antoine Izmony and five civilians. Most recently, the United States, ship the Harlan County, carrying two hundred US and Canadian troops to prepare for the return of Father Aristide, was prevented from land- ing in Port-au-Prince by a group of armed civilians and police of- ficers waiting on the dock. Now, as the situation worsens, sanctions are reinstated, and there Harlan County left Haitia1i wa- ters, after a band of just over a dozen armed civili,ans opposed it. Am I mistaken, or is the United States not the only superpower remaining? These two actions seem to negate each other, send- ing different signal's to the mili- tary leaders in Haiti, as well as the rest of the world. It is apparent enough why Clinton feels the need to get in- volved, but these reasons cannot convince me. First there is that minor detail that says the United States must defend democracy in the world. The U.S. is the only superpower left, and being so, has responsibilities. It needs to exert its influence globally to maintain its, (for the lack of a better word), reputation. Secondly, Haiti is, for all of you whose last map experience was a Hanson history class or the map of Union College to find the Burgomaster, really is not too far from the coast of Florida (about 650 miles). What goes on there directly effects th.e United States, especially in the security depart• to harp on this topic, but now that communism is not a major player in world politics, hum~nitarian concerns should take precedence. There is no 4oubt in my mind that a humanitarian cause is infinitely more important to ·pursue than one of ideology. This may seem like a self in- terested opinion, but the fact is, not only are there huge crisises going on internationally, but there are problems within the United States, as well. I cannot deny th¢ fact that skirting international responsibility would certainly hurt US moral, hut I do not think that delaying action in Haiti would be thwarting the problem. The argument for both sides are valid. It is difficult to accurately judge what the correct answer is, at this point, due to the very re- cent occurrences in Haiti and the rest .of the world. But as far as I am concerned, it is important to keep the big picture in perspec- tive, seeing human life as a more pressing problem than some of the other issues that the United States focuses on. Los Angeles A waits the Denny Verdict by Sarah R. Evans World News Staff Last year, during the racially charged riots in Los Angeles, truck driver Reginald Denny was beaten by two African Americans. The beating was recorded on tele- vision. A year after the incident occurred the two men have finally come to trial. During the trial many issues were raised, based upon race. TI1erewas also a question ·of guilt. The video tape that was recorded of the beating showed only the backs ofthe two men's heads. The city has been nervously awaiting the verdict of the trial. The National Guard and the Los Angeles Police Department have step.ped up their presence throughout the city, this week, in hopes of curbing any uprisings that might occur such as the ri- ots. The black churches in South Central Los Angeles are also mo- bilizing their peacekeeping forces. ·The two men on trial, Damian Monroe Williams and Henry Keith Watson, are being charged with the beating of Reginald Denny and seven other whites, Asians and Hispanics. The two men face a variety of charges, such as, attempted murder, ag- gravated mayhem , the use of a deadly weapon, robbery and as- sault. T11e lawyers for th~ two men are claiming victory for Will- iams and Watson, merely be- cause the jury has been deliber- ating for so long on the 15 counts against them. The lawyers, al- though uncertain of the outcome of the verdicts, claim tbat it ap- pears that they have not been con- victed on the most serious of the charges against them. The jury in the Denny trial has faced many problems. Two mem- bers of the jury were sent home during the first two and a half days of deliberation. There have also been reports of dissension between the members of the jury. The jury claims that they are deadlocked in I five out of the ten charges against Williams and one out of the five ch<t;rges against Watson .. The jury forewoman stated that she did not think that additional instructions about the law or more deliberatiort time would help the jury break its deadlock. There have been rumors circu- lating around the court house that the jury might announce verdicts on Monday. This plan has many in Los Angeles uneasy, because it might just make the situation tenser, until the verdicts on aU the counts are read. The media seems to have the Denny trial into a question of race, rather than what it really is; a question of whether these two men, regardless of color, commit- ted a crime. The trial should have focused on the accusation against these men and not their race. TI1e issue of race has made this trial into a media bazaar and has left . the Jury feeling more tension than they should have during the de- liberations. NOW OPEN! International Coffeehouse & Kiosk Specialty. Co :lies& Teas ·caffe· ,. IJ.olce· Cappuccino Espresso Lattes (518) 347-2334 142 Jay St. Opening 7 days a weel\: , Now Hiring · 10% off with a student ID

October 21, 1993, page 4 • ' • ' I • ~ F ' > . . . ~ . .. ·. ·. NEWS BRIEFS · . World News Middle East: The Arab boycott of Israel and foreign firms that trade with it will reportedly not be lifted, and Arab diplomats added that the sanctions will be expanded. Somalia: General Mohammed Farah Aidid's loyal forces dis- mantled Mogadishu road blocks that had previously been set up to limit peace keeping forces mobility. Officials do not know how to view this gesture. Bosnia: A warning was issued to Serbian Nationalists in the form of NATO warplanes with guns in position. The waming was intended to prevent Serbs from resuming the artillery at- tacks on Sarajevo. Turkey: The war between Turkish Generals and Kurdish Sepa- ratists that has supposedly been over for one year has grown increasingly more violent in the past week. Greece: Andres Papandreou, the Greek Socialist leader won last week's election with a solid majority. he kept his campaign promise to revoke the privatization program that his predeces- sor, Constantine Mitsotakis, instilled. He also made his wife director of his private political office and found jobs for his son and wife's cousin. U.S. News Relations with Israel: Trade armaments with China this week brought criticism from American officials who say they fear the trade will help Beijing develop better weapons. Los Angeles: The Century Freeway was opened last week in LA. It covers 17.3 miles, stretching through nine cities. It cost $2.2 billion to build and displaced 25,000 people. HMO: TI1e Health Maintenance organization while largely sup- porting the Clinton Health Plan is expressing dissatisfaction with the large number of rules and patients. Sexual Harassment: Suzane J. Doucette continued her fight, pressing forward with complaints of sexual harassment in the Federal Bureau of Investigations. FBI officials will not discuss her case. Politics: Mayorial races across the country have been focusing on putting the end to violent crimes. This year holds the largest number ofbig-city mayor turnovers in more than three decades. Health: Grass roots immunizations that have been effective in both Nambia and El Salvador are now being used in New York City. Ironically, this type of immunization is designed for de- veloping nations. WORLD NEWS Haiti : Don't We Have Enough Problems? by Lara Greenberg World News Editior is little hope that Cedras will step ment, something we aU shm!ld be down on the agreed date of Oc- concerned with. Among otl~er tober 30, the United States and things, it pushes Haitian refugees TI1e United States has recently President Clinton decide to throw to tl~e US. gotten involved in several intema- themselves into the situation. One of the problems with timi!al affairs including places such During Clinton's campaign, he American intervention in the cri- as Bosnia and Somalia. The crisis criticized Bush for turning away sis in Haiti is that , in my opin- ofthe week is now Haiti. TI1e situ- the boat filled with Haitian refu- ion, the US is spreading itself ation there has progressively wors- gees withmtt hearing their plea, quite thin. Twenty five thousand ened during the past three months, but during his own Administra- troops in Bosnia and thirty thou- but in particular this week. ti on, he continues the same sand in Somalia= 55,000 total US A little background: President policy. Why is it that he suddenly troops abroad (that we are aware Jean-Bertrand Aristide was over- decides that something must be of). whelmingly elected into office, done? TI1e most important reason that only to be ousted seven months Fttrthen:nore, I am still puzzled I believe the United States should later by a military coup d'etat on by the reason why the ship the not become directly, militarily in- September I, 1991. Our- ----------------- valved in the Haitian ing May 1992, a boat car- '' • • • a humanitarian sitHation, at this time, is rying Haitian refugees • • that energies should be was ordered to return to cause Is In fin it I y m 0 r e completely devoted to Haiti immediately by important fO pUrSUe than other causes. When I fanner President Bush. say other causes, I Apparently, tens of thou- one of ideology ... \ mean Somalia and sands of people tried to Bosnia. I do not mean leave Haiti due to the political ten- sion that existed. On July 3 of this year, Lieutenant General Raoul Cedras, the army chief who led the coup, agreed to a plan that in- cluded the return of Father Ariside in exchange for amnesty for all of the people to participated in the coup. As a result of this act of co- operation, the sanctions imposed by the United Nations that had pre- viously been placed on Haiti, blocking oil importation, were lifted. Then, from the beginning of September until the present time, there has been a period of escalated violence in the form of riots, assassinations of Justice Minister Mulary, a leading Aristide supporter Antoine Izmony and five civilians. Most recently, the United States, ship the Harlan County, carrying two hundred US and Canadian troops to prepare for the return of Father Aristide, was prevented from land- ing in Port-au-Prince by a group of anned civilians and police of- ficers waiting on the dock. Now, as the situation worsens, sanctions are reinstated, and there Harlan County left Haitian wa- ters, after a band of just over a dozen armed civilians opposed it. Am I mistaken, or is the United States not the only superpower remaining? These two actions seem to negate each other, send- ing different signals to the mili- tary leaders in Haiti, as well as the rest of the world. It is apparent enough why Clinton feels the need to get in- volved, but these reasons cannot convince me. First there is that minor detail that says the United States must defend democracy in the world. TI1e U.S. is the only superpower left, and being so, has responsibilities. It needs to exert its influence globally to maintain its, (for the lack of a better word), reputation. Secondly, Haiti is, for all of you whose last map experience was a Hanson history class or the map of Union College to find the Burgomaster, really is not too far from the coast of Florida (about 650 miles). What goes on there directly effects the United States, especially in the security depart- to harp on this topic, but now that communism is not a major player in world politics, humanitarian concerns should take precedence. There is no doubt in my mind that a humanitarian cause is infinitely more important to pursue than one of ideology. TI1is may seem like a self in- terested opinion, but the fact is, not only are there huge crisises going on internationally, but there are problems within the United States, as well. I cannot deny the fact that skirting international responsibility would certainly hurt US moral, but I do not think that delaying action in Haiti would be thwarting the problem. The argument for both sides are valid. It is difficult to accurately judge what the correct answer is, at this point, due to the very re- cent occurrences in Haiti and the rest of the world. But as far as I am concerned, it is important to keep the big picture in perspec- tive, seeing human life as a more pressing problem than some of the other issues that the United States focuses on. Los Angeles Awaits the Denny Verdict by Sarah R. Evans World News Staff Last year, during the racially charged riots in Los Angeles, truck driver Reginald Denny was beaten by two African Americans. l11e beating was recorded on tele- vision. A year after the incident occurred the two men have finally come to trial. During the trial many issues were raised, based upon race. l11ere was also a question of guilt. The video tape that was recorded of the beating showed only the backs of the two men's heads. The city has been nervously awaiting the verdict of the trial. l11e National Guard and the Los Angeles Police Department have stepped up their presence throughout the city, this week, in hopes of curbing any uprisings that might occur such as the ri- ots. The black churches in South Central Los Angeles are also mo- bilizing their peacekeeping forces. The two men on trial, Damian Monroe Williams and Henry Keith Watson, are being charged with the beating of Reginald Denny and seven other whites, Asians and Hispanics. The two men face a variety of charges, such as, attempted murder, ag- gravated mayhem , the use of a deadly weapon, robbery and as- sault. The lawyers for the two men are claiming victory for Will- iams and Watson, merely be- cause the jury has been deliber- ating for so long on the 15 counts against them. The lawyers, al- though uncertain of the outcome of the verdicts, claim that it ap- pears that they have not been con- victed on the most serious of the charges against them. The jury in the Denny trial has faced many problems. Two mem- bers of the jury were sent home during the first two and a half days of deliberation. There have also been reports of dissension between the members of the jury. The jury claims that they are deadlocked in five out of the ten charges against Williams and one out of the five charges against Watson. The jury forewoman stated that she did not think that additional instructions about the law or more deliberation time would help the jury break its deadlock. There have been rumors circu- lating around the court house that the jury might announce verdicts on Monday. TI1is plan has many in Los Angeles uneasy, because it might just make the situation tenser, until the verdicts on all the counts are read. The media seems to have the Denny trial into a question of race, rather than what it really is; a question of whether these two men, regardless of color, commit- ted a crime. The trial should have focused on the accusation against these men and not their race. TI1e issue of race has made this trial into a media bazaar and has left the jury feeling more tension than they should have during the de- liberations. NOW OPEN! International Coffeehouse & Kiosk Specialty Co flees&: Teas (518) 347-2334 Cappuccino Espresso Lattes 142 Jay St. Opening 7 days a week Now Hiring · I 0% off with a student ID

ther cri- pin- self that be I I ean is, the nly aiti are is, re- the I tto left de- SCIENCE & HEALTH October 21, 1993, Page 5 Now, We Can't Even Drink the Water: What you didn't know was lurking in your drinking water could hurt you by Bruno Benz~quen Concordiensis Staff One of the greatest <:hemjcal and technological triumphs of this century has been the development of means to actually eradicate epi- demics and life-threatening ill- nesses caused by water bom or- ganisms. Incidence of cholera, typhoid fever, dysentery and oth- ers are very rare, but up to 40,000 deaths a year can be attributed to these diseases in the so called \in- dustrialized\ nations of the first world. In addition, with the ad- vent of new and exciting technol- ogy and industrial processes came the introduction of new concerns that have to be addressed. While we enjoy eating fruits and vegetables year-round, the herbi- cides and pesticides that are used to maximize crops usually find their way to the local aquifer and · containinate water supplies. We also store toxic compounds in . poorly designed dump sites. We do not realize the impact ofthese mistakes. until somebody is di- rectly affected by it. The aroount of chemicals that we ingest in our drinking water is minimal and is usually filtered away by the awe- some filtering power of our kid- neys. Over a period of time fat soluble chemicals accumulate in our bodies and can reach toxic levels. Here is .a list of common chemi- . eals that· are usually. found in the water and that can in certain lev- els have pathological conse- quences: Aluminum: The main concern about this chemical element is of the hypo- thetical relationship of Aluminum and Alzeimer' s disease (although it has not been proven). Tap wa- ter contains Aluminum both natu- rally and man introduced, so do some antacid medications. At this point in time however, you may still use your cooking utensils!! Cadmium: In some studies done in Alberta, Canada, l-6ppm (parts-per-mil- lion) of Cadmium was related to a high tate of prostate cancer (only men have a prostate gland). In addition, Cadmium ingestion has also been traced to be the cause of \ouch-ouch\ disease, that usually causes severe and debilitating bone pain. Lead: By far the easiest element to get into a water source (by leaching from lead-gasoline, plumbing and industrial processes): ,Allowing the water to run for a while reduces dramatically the lead content, hewever. Lead-poi- sorting manifests itself in a vari- ety of ways, ranging from sore achy muscles to kidney problems to irreversible mental retardation Mercuty: Large amounts of this \heavy metal\ are used i9 the manufac- ture of chlorine gas, that eventu- ally show up in the environment. Mild roerj::ury poi~oning causes depression and irritability, while more severe effects include pa- ralysis and insanity. Manganese: This metal which is found in re- gions of heavy sedimentation is associated with a Parkinsons-like disease. The obvious first step to eliminate hazards assaciated with drinking water is to have a better control over industrial pollution. This, ~f course, cannot be enforced with- out better legislation. This pre- sents a potential social problem because the closing down of a large industry would mean a arise in the unemployment figures . Water contaminants cannot be eradicated although we hope for a better control over them. Be- cause we do not live in an ideal world it is important to be famil- iar with the potential risks posed by these pollutants. Better safe than sorry, if you are in an area where you suspect water contami- nation, don't drink it, or even bet- ter, DRINK PEPSI, BE YOUNG, HAVE FUN!·!! P R I 1\ C I P L E S of S 0 L' :'\ D RET I R E ,\\ E ;'\ T I :'\ \' EST I ::\ .G . . . IRONICALLY, THE. TIME TO START SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. C an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to go years or more. You 'II want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. By starting to save now, you can take advantage oftax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $100 each month beginning at age go and you can accumulate over $154,031* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $211 each month to reach the same goal. Even if you're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve- with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest- ment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75years. Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you have time. and TIAA-CREF working on your side. Stllrt plilnflifl!l your fomn. CRII our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it!M r ··• •A.rmming IJit inllml ntlt of 6.50% ereiJileiJ lo TIAA R~tiremtnl AnnuiliiJ, ThiJ rail iJ u.rtiJ.rokly lo sbow tht po•'<raniJ ef/trl of tompounding. Lilli• I- ur bigbrr rates 1Pt1u& proJuce Vl!ty Jif/trtnl rt.ru/tJ\. CREF ~~rti/U'alti aT)( Ji.rtributtiJ by TIM·CREF lnJivi),u,/anfJ !Mtilulwnal Strviru.

cri- self and US Hl- is be to I ' I ean in- IS, the nly are is, re- the I to ore rial left de- SCIENCE & HEALTH October 21, 1993, Page 5 Now, We Can't Even Drink the Water: What you didn't know was lurking in your drinki.ng water could hurt you by Bruno Benzaquen ('oncordiensis Staff One of the greatest chemical and techtwJ.ogical triumphs of this century has been the development ofmeans to actually eradicate epi- demics alild life-threatening iH- nesses ca1:1sed by water born or- ganisms. Incidence of cholera, typhoid fever, dysentery and oth- ers are very rare, but up to 40,000 deaths a year can be attributed to these diseases in the so ca!Ied \in- dustrialized\ nations of the first world. In addition, with the ad- vent of new and exciting technol- ogy and industrial processes came the introduction of new concerns that have to be addressed. While we enjoy eating fruits and vegetables year-round, the herbi- cides and pesticides that are used to maximize crops usually find their way to the local aquifer and contaminate water supplies. We also store toxic compounds in poorly designed dump sites. We do not realize the impact of these mistakes until somebody is di- rectly affected by it. The amount of chemicals that we ingest in our drinking water is minimal and is usually filtered away by the awe- some filtering power of our kid- neys. Over a period of time fat soluble chemicals accumulate in our bodies and can reach toxic levels. Here is a list of common chemi- cals that are usually found in the water and that can in certain lev- els have pathological conse- quences: Aluminum: The main concern about this chemical element is of the hypo- thetical relatioHship of Aluminum and Alzeimer's disease (although it has not been proven). Tap wa- ter contains Aluminum both natu- rally and man introduced, so do some antacid medications. At this point in time however, you may still use your cooking utensils!! Cadmimn: In some studies done in Alberta, Canada, I -6ppm (parts-per-mil- lion) of Cadmium was related to a high rate of prostate cancer (only men have a prostate gland). In addition, Cadmium ingestion has also been traced to be the cause of \ouch-ouch\ disease, that usually causes severe and debilitating bone pain. Lead: By far the easiest element to get into a water source (by leaching from lead-gasoline, plumbing and industrial processes). Allowing the water to nm for a while reduces dramatically the lead content, however. Lead-poi- soning manifests itself in a vari- ety of ways, ranging from sore achy muscles to kidney problems to irreversible mental retardation Mercury: Large amounts of this \heavy metal\ are used in the manufac- ture of chlorine gas, that eventu- ally show up in the environment. Mild mercury poisoning causes depression and irritability, while more severe effects include pa- Health and Nutrition by Judith Sheldon Smoking and AIDS: As if smoking weren't involved in enough negative effects on the body - everything from premature aging of the skin, through cardivascualr conditions, various cancers, and other problems - another health-negative factor associated with smokinghas been found. New research indicates that in people who are HIV positive, smiking acts as an added depressant of the immune system \m which accelerates the progress of the AIDS disease. h1 full blown AIDS, smokers were more likely to die sooner than those who did not smoke. As for those who may say, what's the difference anyway? Both smokers and non-smokers are doomed, there's a true story l'd like to repeat for them right now .. Some years ago, a teeage boy was about the pass into the final stage of a diabetic coma. At that time, the treatment was to restrict the intake of food to the point of near starvation. As the boy's life ebbed, his father regretted not allowing his son to enjoy ice cream and chocolate and other foods children love. Since he was doomed to die anyway, what would a few months, or even a year, matter ifhecoutd have had some happiness out of his short life? Just hours before the boy would have died, his doctor got his parents to agree to let him be injected with a new ••medication: developed in Canada by Drs. bating and Best. The 11 medication\ was insulin. The boy got his first inj.ee~ion that day~ andwent on to live to welcom three grandchildren into the world. So, where there's like, there's always a chance for a medical miracle~ Eat Garlic and. Live Longer:. The University of -Texas Lifetime Health Letter(Augll.st 1993), cites a study reported in The America11 jouriial of M~dic.ine whi~h confirmed that gaarlic can be het[fui inre~\(cing cholesterol levels, which would certainly be a plus-factor in p,oreventing heart disease. · . Although;mor~''f:~~~~thitl\'leds.tQUe'd9ne*;tlietel$alos evidence : that garlic may be eff~~ive ilt reducing tbe risk of c.ertain types ofcancer. · · · ·· · · ralysis and insanity. Manganese: TI1is metal which is found in re- gions of heavy sedimentation is associated with a Parkinsons-like disease. 111e obvious first step to eliminate hazards associated with drinking water is to have a better control over industrial pollution. This, of course, cannot be enforced with- out better legislation. Tilis pre- sents a potential social problem because the dosing down of a large ind~:~stry would mean a arise in the unemployment figures . Water contaminants cannot be eradicated although we hope for a better control over them. Be- cause we do not live in an ideal world it is important to be famil- iar with the potential risks posed by these pollutants. Better safe than sorry, ·if you are in an area where you suspect water contami- nation, don't drink it, or even bet- ter, DRINK PEPSI, BE YOUNG, HAVE FUN!!! ·.·.. P R iNC I P. L. E s· .o] S·O UN f:r R I~ \r I R E·-~.l K·N T. 1-r\1 \' E S ':[j N.G· ··: - ' ' ' • • ~ ' ' ' ' ' ' < ' .,_~-c) 1?.)\ /7--~·· , .act:;'·:.t' .. fl<- Jt:Jj.ft~\:f1;~~· J ! Ktf f) it!> .,IJ C) .. ~J\\O ~··~7r IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. C an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30 years or more. You 'II want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. By starting to save now, you can take advantage of tax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $10o each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $154,031* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $211 each month to reach the same goal. Even if you're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve- with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest- ment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you have time. and TIAA-CREF working on your side. Smrt pklnning yfmr future. Ctdl our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it~\ •A.uuming an intmst rutt of 6. 50% <rtdittJ to T!AA Rttmmmt AnnwtUJ. Thu raft u u.ttJ tolAy to sh\\' tbt f'<'\\' \\'1 tffttt 4 <•''\f'<'\\ f.,•ovr ,., b'!Jbt' \\'\ o'<'ukl pf'IJJuu \'ryJilfmnl ruul/1. CREF ctrli/u-a/u nr:t JutrihuitJ by T!AA·CREF lnJiVIJ1111l anJ lnlldulwnal Strvu-u

... ~- I \AIDS IT CAN HAPPEN TO YOU\ Seventh Annual AIDS Awareness Week Monday, October 25: 7:30 -9AM \Managing AIDS in the Workplace\ Panel Discussion- Or. Edward Doucet-Physician Richard Fredrick, COO, Empire- Blue Cross- Blue Shield Curtis Hopkins-VP, Golub Corp. Connie Mayer-AIDS Law Clinic, Albany Law School Moderator: Benita Zahn-Health Reporter, WNYT Kickoff Breakfast (Contintental) Hale House Dining Room cost: $6 Reservations required, seating limited call 386-2253- \The Baltimore Waltz\ - A Read- ing of a Play by Paula Vogel This play,winnerofthe 1992 Obie award for best play, has been called a \loving even lusty, valentine to a brother\ who died of AIDS. College Center Auditorium Thursday, October 28: 7-9PM \Let's Talk About the Sex\ Including a hands-on safe sex informa- tion Joyce Holly, Director of Education, Bob Lewis, Educator AIDS Council ofN ortheastem New York Seana Munson, Educator Contact Person: Marilyn Haliski Arranged by the Schenectady County Planned Parenthood Health Ser- AIDS Task Force vices 4:30-6 P.M. \ \The Safety Of The Blood Supply\ Presentation by Julie Hilland ofthe American Red Cross Humanities 115 Tuesday, October 26: 9 A.M.- 2 P.M. Student-Sponsered Blood Drive Field House 7:30- 9 P.M. \Putting The Pieces Together\ Kickoff of the Union College Bicentennial AIDS Quilt- a video presentation of the international NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt will be included Joyce Holly, Direction of Education, AIDS Council of Northeastern New York Judi Gordon, Career Development Center Eileen Barrett & Sarah Rudger, Stu- dents Strauss Lounge, 3rd Floor, College Center Old Chapel 4-6PM \Teenagers and AIDS : IT'S REAL'' Please come and listen to our youth role playing HIV /AIDS related issues and behaviors Teenagers and Union College students especially welcome! Participants: SCITT-Damien Center, Arbor Hill Com- munity Center, Centro Civico, Amsterdam-Liberty and Partnership Program (teen renaissance) Carver Co mil? unity Center, 700 Craig St., Schenectady Schenectady Family Health Services For Information, call Beth Justiniano (370-1441, ext. 161) PARENT'S WEEKEND SATURDAY, October 30: 9-9:30 AM Refreshments for parents, students, and guests Welcome to parents by President Roger Hull. Hale House Session 1: 9:30- 10:45 A.M. Wanted To Know About HIV · AIDS But Were Afraid To Ask'' • Introduction: -Willard Roth, Ph.D. Director, Undergraduate Health Profession Pro-. grams; Henry Pohl, M.D., Coordinator, AIDS Peer Education Training Program, Albany Medical College; Anne E. Dyson, M.D., Pediatriciam Hale House Dining Room \HIV/AIDS Teaching In The. Classroom\ Faculty Presentation A: James Lambrinos, Graduate Manage-· ment Institue Elizabeth Mazzola, English Randy Quaye, Sociology Carol Weisse, Psychology Social Sciences 1 03 . Session II: \ 11 A.M.- 12:15 P.M. \Union's Response To AIDS\ Panel Discussion Moderator: Fred Alford, Dean of Students Participants: twitty Styles & Karen Williams, Co-Chairs, Union College AIDS Com- mittee Don Spring, Counseling Center Janet Gray, Director of Dining Services Sandy Mosher, Director of Stude~t · Health Carol Weisse, Psychology Dept. Angel Caraballo, Kerry Evers- Students College Center Auditorium \HIV/AIDS Teaching In The. Classroom\ Faculty Presentations B: A.T. Miller, History; Rudy Nydegger, Graduate Manage- ment Institute; Psychology; Linda Patrik, Philosophy; Terry Weiner, Sociology Social Sciences 104 8P.M. \1969- The Year That Wednesday, October 27: 7PM \AIDS Update: Everything You Rocked The World\ ·Featu~ng Dave Binder- singer song writer Memorial Chapel

t Arts & Entertainment October 21, 1993, Page 7 SCHENECTADY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA to perform ADIRONDACK LIGHT . Narrator: WAMC's Robert J, Lurtsema Music: Hilary Tann Words: Jordan Smith . SUNDAY, OCTOBER 24th 3:00pm at Proctor's Theater in downtown Schenectady Program also includes Brahms Piano Concerto #1 with · ADALENA KRIVOSHEINA, Soloist STUDENT TICKETS HALF-PRICE: $7.oo PLUS YOU GET A FREE TICKET FOR A FRIEND Tickets Available at the Performing Arts Department Office ·chet~s Corner------- TONIGHT.!!!!! Don'tmiss Union's own stu- dent singing groups, the . DUTCH PIP:&RS & the GARNET MINSTRELS. The performance begins at 9pm with the Dutch Pipers and con- tinues at I Opm with the Garnet Minstre.ls. Come down to Chet's to support your friends or just to enjoy their talent. Do you want to know a great . way to start your weekend? T .G. I.F. 'at Chet's!!! As usual, Friday afternoon we will be having T.G.I.F. (known at ~ther establish- ments as Happy Hour). It will be from 4-9. T.G.I.F. offers Union faculty & students a chance to interact in a relaxed social setting. FREE FOOD will be provided. Cocktails,. beer (bottled & on tap), wine, and. soda will be available. Next week join us for Mon- day Night Footba11 beginning at 8 pm. Watch t·he game on Chet's brand new 50\ sreen T.V.! Ten cent wings will be available. Last Thursday, Chet' s had a packed house. On acoustic gui- tar, Mitch Frasier played a range of music from Niel Young to Billy Joel to James Taylor. Re- member that Chet's offers live entertainment every week. If your organization is inter- ested in renting out Chet's for an evening::. please contact Deb Murray at 346-3181 or Pete Sav- age at 347-1774. CHET'S FALL TERM SCHEDULE IS AS FOL- LOWS: MONDAY NIGHT FOOT- BALL 8PM-1AM THURSDAY LIVE ENTER- TAINMENT 8PM-IAM FRIDAY- T.G.I.F. (FREE FOOD) 4PM-9PM YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE 21. TO ENTER!.!! JOIN US THIS WEEK & EVERY WEEK AT CHET'S!! Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar ' ' . THURSDAY.OCTOBER2l AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM:. \TROUBLE BEHIND\: explores the origins of today's racism through the history of a seemingly typical small town, Corbin, Kentucky, home of Kentucky Fried Chicken. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 7:30pm, $5, 463-3378. ~ t' t' ·.~ t 'fo ~ \. 4.- ' •• , ( :l . - 'I • - : CAMINO REAL: by Teimessee Williams, Theatre Department, Arena 1l1eatre, PAC, SUNY, Albany; 8 pm, $6,442-3995. CYRANO DE BERGERAC: a 17th century comedy, Schenectady Civic Play- ers, 12S. Church St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $10, 38~-2081. LYNN REDGRA VE: in \Shakespeare For My Father,\ an eloquent and hilarious celebration of two lives in the limelight, hers ap.d Sir Michael Redgrave, Hart Theatre, Empi_re Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $20, 473-1845. TINA HOWE: playwright and Obie Award winner for distinguished play writ- ing, presents a seminar in play writing, NYS Writers Institute, HUM 354, SUNY, Albany; 4 pm, 442,..5620. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22 BENT: by Michael Sherman, an opportunist sells his heart and hu- manity to survive the Nazi Holocaust, Albany Civic Theatre, 235 Second Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $10,462-1297. CAMINO REAL: see Thursday, October 21. ~coLLEGE CENTER Al)D. FILM: ••Hot Shots: Part Deux\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. CYRANO DE BERGERAC: see Thursday, October 21. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: All The King's Men, a por .. trait of political corruption, Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany; 442-5620. I PACK OF LIES: Theatre Voices, City Arts Office, Chapel & Or- ange, Albany; 8 pm, free, 439-6404. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23 CAMINO REAL: see Thursday, October 21. .. CAPITAL CHAMBER ARTISTS: \The Musical Splendor of Sanssouci\ in· ~luding Bach Musical Offering, Fasch Flute Concerto and works by C.P.E. Bach, Frederick the Great, Doane Stuart Chapel, Albany; 8pm, $8,458-9231. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday; October22. DIXIELAND JAZZ CONCERT: Schenectady Museum & Planetarium, Nott Ter- race, Schenectady; 382-7890. PACK OF LIES: see Friday, October 22. ST CECILIA ORCHESTRA: Bach Brandenburg Concerto No. -1, Dehussv 1Janse.1· 5,'cree el Pn?fane, Sibelius Suite Mignonne, Vaughan Williams Fantasia on Gre~ns/ee1•es, Greig Holberg Suite, Chancellor's Hall, Albany~ 8 pm, 433-?513. \ SUNDAY,OCTOBER24 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, October 22. LOVERS OF NATURE'S WORK- THE POETRY OF THOMAS COLE: Albany Institute of History & A1t, 125 Washington Ave., Albany; 2-4 pm, free, 449-5380. PACK OF LIES: see Friday, October 22. SCHENECTADY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA- ADIRONDACK LIGHT: Com- posed by Union Professor, Hilary Tann, Proctor's, Schenectady; $15, 346-6204. ST. CECILIA ORCHESTRA: 7 pm, see Saturday, October 23. MONDAY, OCTOBER 25' COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, October 22. UNIVERSITY JAZZ ENSEMBLE & SYMPHONIC WIND EN- SEMBLE: Main Theatre, PAC, SUNY, Albany; 8 pm, free, 442-3995. THURSDAY,OCTOBER28 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- \MILES OF SMILES\: provides the most complete account on film of African American working life between the Civil War and World War II. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave, Albany, 7:30pm, $5, 463-4478. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29 JAMES COTTON BAND: Delta blues from \Mr. Superharp,\ the man whose played with everyone from Muddy Waters, Howlin' Wolfto Johnny Win- ter, Hart Theatre, Empire Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $15, 4 73-1845. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: Rhapsody In August, powerful reflection on war and nuclear holocaust (in Japanese w/ subtitles), Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Al!?any; 7:30pm, free, 442-5620. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff

... ) October 21, 1993, page 8 WE NEED AN HONOR CODE The Following has been reprinted from the .,anuary 14, 1993 issue of th~ Concord.iensis. The issue of academic honesty at Union, and the need for an honor code is stiU quite popular. Since the issue reached a dimax last winter, there has been very little movement towards finding out the student opinion on how the issue should be dealt with. It is hoped that by reprinting an editorial that is 9 months old, that people will realize that the issue needs to be dealt with. The editorial board of the Concordiensis would like to submit that an honor code should be implemented at Union. Such a code would be printed on every test, and might read something like this: \I have neither given nor received any unauthorized information on this test.\ This would be followed by the student's signature to ensure that his or her word of honor was at stake. While we're sure that this isn't legally binding, orte hopes that it would instill a sense of dignity, which might prevent students from cheating when their repu- · tation among their peers was at stake. This code will also require that if students wit- nessed others cheating, they would be morally obli- · gated to turn them in to the professor. This is the most difficult part of the code to adhere to. We know that this will not entirely solve the problem of cheating at Union, but it really can't do any harm either. Just knowing that there are moral rules that our student body as a whole is supposed to stick to might provide help to some. Zir4e <Uoncnr.hiensis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Si11ce 18 77 David Levine Edilor ... in-Chiq/ E;ecutive Editor . News Editors Features Editor Arts Editors .Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor Worl<l News Editors Business Editor . Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors Associate News Editor Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser Manager Photographers EditorialBQ'a:rd. . L¢virte · ··· · ·· · R;.ey~oTqs: Lemoi . Rllben•s~'ifi; .• ·• Deb ·Mcll1~t6E}y Matt Kadyn; Caroline. Pajne* · . Erin O'N'et1i* .· · llelind3. Crago, Niki ci6tdih ·. Talfey B-eisinger* ·.·.·. Dagan ~a.•CQfte LisaLetnGi, Buffy Rl;tb~tt$ty~tl.' Heather-'te,y~;wl(Js• ·. · Josh Haines · VeronicaR.ogers · Lara Greenberg, Craig Greenberg* Dylan Ratigan* Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Scott Steele Joe Salzbart Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish Alex Kreisler . David Fischer* Brett Saunders* Scott Scullion Rachel Kest Scott Druckemiller, Emily Schrier Staff: Melissa Affronti, Benzaquen, Thor Benander, Suzy Bloch, Elizabeth De Koven Michelle Ellis, Sarah Evans, Mike Leding · Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Katie Murray, BharatNavani, MikeNelson, Larry Paska, Craig Pike,. William Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michelle Rosenbaum, Shveta Srivastava, Rawson Thurber~ The ConccJrdietlsis meets every Monday ana Tuesday ofthe aca~ . • de1nic year. .· * in~icates that the edltor is· cum~ntly .studying ·ab~<;>ad .,. 'r ,,,_;,_;;<,.,~' '• v•• -:•·.: , •,, ,.·,'<\'·:•.-~;-\'.:. •,+,, :,.•'• :;• •::•\;·~·· .• ,\ .-·.,JI'·,, OP-ED Letters to the Editor Validine Love Letter pear Editor: This is to be taken as a direct and bnttal attack on whomever is responsible for the implementa- tion of the valadine system. Ire-- cently leamed that the $200.00 \declining balance\ (I'm so sick of that word) will cany over from semester to semester. TI1at is good news, so I figured that if you had $80.00 left on your meal card at the end of a semester, then you would add on another $120.00 which would bring it up to there- quired,$200.00----0f course not, that would be way to logical. In- stead, what you must do is add an additional $200.00 on top of the existing balance giving you even more, than more, than you needed in the first place. So at the end of the year, that person is left with $2&0.00 --or more appropriately dinning services is left with $280.00. I began to think, if I have a lot left over on my '.'DB\ (declining balance), then I'll just reduce my meal plan and that will force me to use my \DB\ more often. WelL apparently, the meal plan you chose at the beginning of the year is the meal plan you must stick witl1 for the entire year. You would think that dinning services would take into consideration that fact that this system is new, and allow for some changes as stu- dents grow accustomed to it... you'd think that. So after being rejected by din- ing services as to changing my meal plan, I strolled over to up- per class dining to get some lunch. I took one red apple (of moderate size), a glass of \vitality brand\ orange juice (approximately 4 monst-rous oz), and a tuna fish sandwich on soft rye with lettuce and tomato. I set my plate (I didn't have enough food for a tray) down next to the register ... \Would you like me to take the rest of this off of your declining balance?\ he said to me. Are you kidding me? A sandwich; an or- ange j\tice, and an apple is more than four dollars. Oh maybe I should have gone with the lunch special, or maybe it was the \vi- tal'itybrand\ orange juice that put me over-- that stuff has some kick! One more thing, start bringing your own cups to dutch because they charge for water .... WATER. Come on now! When I ques- tioned the $0.15 surcharge I was told that so many students are drinking water that they need to somehow pay for the cups. I fig- ured if they lowered the price on the beverages, people would stati to pur.chase _them instead of wa- ter . .Even ifthey don't lower the price on the beverages, they could buy cups ,with the $280.00 left over on uiy \DB! n'i . Credit my account 1867 cups of water please!!! Jeremy Govennan Send all Letters to the Editor to Box 2577. Letters should be less than 500 words, and must be signed . ' Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers .,. Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be sit,rned, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. , Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. . Box 2577, College Center, Uniop College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Te1ephone(518) 370-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street,. Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before·publiciltion ·at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect . dll.;ks. Otherwise aU s(Jbrnissionsare dHe Monday by 4 p.m: i~ th~drop box outs.!d~. of J'he Conc{)rdieiLfis .o~ce on th~ third floor of the Colleg~ Cenwi. · ·· · 1 · ·: . .jt~ · · · • ,,._ ·' ~ ' .. . .· . . '

... itS : lunch 1e \vi- hat put some inging ecause 1\TER. ques- ! I was 1ts are teed to . I fig- lice on .Id stmi ofwa- .ver the ycould 00 left :dit my water rennan ~rs to d iOO ..... ' n. the te that ting a ~need ion of icular. of the litorial . It is erved. ;. The r York ~rvice, ey are Jerfect rlien.~_;is OPINIONS October 21, 1993, page 9 . ''Death and Destruction'' To l11e Editor; · This letter is with regard t()the article, ''Death· and Destruction: India's Earthquake,\ by Doug Bartell, featured in the October 14th issue ofthe Ccmcordiensis. We do believe the inte11tions of - the mticle were good, but some of Mr. Bartell's statements rein- forced negative stereotypes of In- dia. Mr. Bartell seems to have obtain:edhis infdnnation about the emihq.tlake from newspapers, but he did 11ot give an accnrate por- trayal of the disaster. We would like to clarify some ofthese IRis- conceptions that were found in d1e mticle. l11e article implies that certain factors caused the high death toll. It says that \they (the people) had no chance to survive the quake ... because their malnour- ished and overcrowded bodies coul.d not muster up the capacity to fight the tragedy.\ This state- ment was in·elevant. Mal-nomish- ment has nothing to do with the chance of surviving in an earth- quake. If Union College were hit by an earthquake of the same magnitude (6-6.4 on the Richter scale, which is not exactly weak), even the typical well-nourished Union student would not have a better chance of surviving. Fur- , thennore, the article seems to im- ply that the major cause of the high death toll was due to the shabby mud homes. However, the emthquake in India not only hit the rural areas where people live in houses of«mttd and stone\ but also in more prosperous neighbor- hoods where Indian people actu- ally live in real cement and brick houses. People tend to associate India only with mud huts, starving people, and it's \ridiculous\ popu- lation density. This article should have been more factual and ex- planatory so as not to leave room for the misconceptions discussed above. Again, we support the in- tentions of the article, but we do not watn the readers to further build on already existing stereo- types about India. Sincerely, Manisha Tinani Lalita Shastry UpioD Students Tackle Mt. Fuji· . : .~': ........ ' • .f ' HAVING A YEN OF A TIME: Union College students Anna Love, Stu Sherman, Dawn Schwartz, Dylan Ratigan, Evan Hyman, Heather Podlich, Bart Weisenfluh, Erik Skulte, Daniella Pittocco stand at the summit ofthe extinct Japanese Volcano. To the Community : Tenurability Review A tenurability review for Professor Bonney MacDonald of the English Department in under way. Anyone wishing to submit a written statement concerning the tenurability of Professor MacDonald should send itto a member ofthe committee no later than Novem- ber 15, 1993. Committee members are Professors Frame (Math), Kellenter (Modem Languages), Sharlet (Political Science), Stevenson (English). Department Announcements ATTENTION bF ALL STUDENTS OF GERMAN, REGARDLESS OF MAJOR. Consider a Union Junior Year in Germany or Switzerland! If you are a sophomore now, and if you have already started to learn German at any level (even elementary), you are eligible to apply to be one of Union's exchange students to Germany or Switzerland. Each year, Union sends one or two students (regardless of their major) to a German University under the auspices of the Federation of German American Clubs, and one $tudent (limited in this case to a student of the sciences or engineering) to the Swiss Federal Technical Institute (The ETH). Applications must be made by November 12 in the Terms Abroad office. See Professor Warde for additional details. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT, and the BIOLOGY CLUB present GENETICS AND TECHNOLOGY : FACING THE CHALLENGE. Ellen T. Matloff *, M.S. Pediatric genetic Counselor. Department of Pediatrics, state University ofNew York Health Sci- ence Center, Syracuse, New York. Thursday, October 28, 1993, Social Sciences 103, 4:40p.m .. , Refreshments at 4:30. *EllenMatloffgraduated from Union in 1991 with a major in biology Anyone interested in talking with her is encouraged to pick up dinner in the upperclass dining hall or the Dutch Hollow and join us in CC 203 immediately following the seminar. For furtherin~ormation call: Karen Williams at 388-6062. (Ollfc Q!attrll'rltieusis Psi-U Lauded byACS Dear Editor, On behalf of the Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society, I would like to commend the Psi-Upsilon Fra- ternity .of Union College for all their hard work and volunteered time dedicated to helping out the ACS with its past two special events. The.fratemity generously vol- unteered its time to help out with our annual Steinmetz Triathlon and our annual \Making Strides Against Cancer\ event. The Steinmetz Triathlon was a 32- mile race held on September 26 in Schenectady County, which brought in over 200 athletes from around the country. \Makp ing Strides\ was a 5K \move- along-a-than\ held on October 2 in Washington Park in Albany which raised over $19,000 in the Capital District. The proceeds from both events will go to fund cancer research, patient services, and public education .. In both events, the fraternity aided the ACS in many tasks; running water stations, directing participants along the route, event clean-up, and general or- ganization, to name a few. ~ Without Psi-Upsilon, neither event would have ran as smoothly as they did. TI1e young men were courteous, polite, and extremely helpful at both events. We fee\ that Ps\-Upsi\on is ac: tively helping to create an ex- tremely positive image of Union College and its students in Schenectady County, and orga- nizations the caliber of Psi-Up- silon should be encouraged. We 'feel honored that they have chosen to help the Ameri- can Cancer Society, and we look forward to working with them in the future. Sincerely, Donna Frank Letters Due· Monday is interested in Writers, sales people,. and editors. ' ' < ' Editorial Positions in Features, Op/ED and Campus . . . ~ News are available. A subscription manager is also ' ' ' neede·d. For more information pleas,e attend ' ' tonig,ht's JP.eeting at 6.:30 p.m. in CC303 or contact l•• '• ' - .: ' ' -, ' - ' • • .. ··: -. ,I Davitl L,evine , at:.X61·55.;for m:ore info;rmation. ' ' • ' ~-r • ''

October 21, 1993, page 10 FEATURES Chapstick, Tweezers, Dental Floss, and the Meaning of it All by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Stqff It seems to me that there are a few things that we huma:ns re- quire in life. Now ,I'm l'lOt talk- ing about the big ones, like air, sunlight, and photosynthesis, or something; but more of the little things, little things that might go unnoticed, by the layman eye. Yet without these little things, our culture as a whole might've never made it past the .. bell-bottom\ seventies. you start, you don't leave 'til it's finished. If the Tweezer, on the first try, frees the splinter from your hand ~ it's like getting \G- 8\ caHed for the Bingo win, al- most orgasmic. this to avoid the mind numming- thing between your teeth feeling. Without Dental Floss, suicide rates probably would've sky rocketed. Because when you got something caught in your teeth, with no means of escape or pa- role, ;it can drive you to thoughts of self-termination. All these little things may not seem that irnportant at first glance. But, when, everything else around you .is not working, and you're hurtling pel-mel into the face offeces hill, just stop and take a look at all the little things in the universe that are. Any questions, comment.<;, or obscene pictures; send to: Rawson Thurber Box # 2018 Having chapped lips is one of the worst feelings to have, well I guess chapped anything is one of the worst feelings to have. And Chapstick thwarts the chapping bandits' attack, quickly and qui- etly. TI1ere is no relief quite the same as Chapstick; it's instant gratification. It's the American Dream. Chapstick was one of the simplest inventions of all time- yet without it people would've become irritable, and unsafe. TI1e homicide rate would surely have doubled. So, whoever made this discovery, I salute you. Now Dental floss is completely different from the other two. It's like the .letting of a damn. It re- leases the pressure. When you can feel the enamel of one tooth .smashing against the tartar cov- ered exterior of another, there's nothing else you can think of but, \Where the hell is the Dental Floss!\ . You don't even care if it's green, white, mint flavor, or cinnamon. You just needed it now! You try to pick it out with your nail, but there's no chance. Your other hand is franticaHy pulling open all the bathroom drawers, searching and searching. Finally you find it, yank out a piece ten times the length you re- quire, and snap it off. You slam it between your teeth. You rip it Cut, and the sweet nectarofrelieffills you, aaaaaaahhhhhh. Dental floss without argument is a divine ere- Sick as a Dog • • A void the Bug ation. Tweezers are a whole other story. The Tweezer relief is not the same as the Chaps~ick relief. TI1e Tweezers so~:netimes takes · three or four tries, and then some- times the splinter breaks off in- side, then you've got to burn a needle, and it just goes on and on. But tweezers are like Bingo, once \And on the evening of the sixth da,y God ct:eated dental floss, and it was good\. Genesis 8:4 Truly, without Dental Floss we, as a people, would've prob- ably asked to have all our teeth removed. We'djust gum ourfood to a messy pulp, and swallow. All The Philosophy Department is offering a twenty five.dollar prize for the best answers to the following puzzle. Please turn in your answer to the Department Secretary, Mrs. Marianne Snowden, by the Monday following the Thursday of publication. Answers and a new puzzle will be published next week ETIUCS Acrou,...-- 1 __ Imperative. Kant's supn:mc principle of morality. 11 c•limalcd timcohnivaHabr.) ll poinlS of lntm:'st 13 sick IS lite lluid 18 futuristk weapon 21 day before Wed. 22 America (abr.) 13 Pa's !pouiC 25 civil crime 26 belt (Spanish) 27 __ 109. J.F.K. 1unboat. 28 lllllllllluel . Author of Tlrt Cririq11t of Praairal RtDson llld Foundarioru of rh• Mttaph~sics of Morals. Famous dwntoloalll. · 30 old car Jl not off 32 employ •a•in l6 One of lhe well·known ver- Jions of Kont'a Cate,orical lmptra~ve slllcs that «me mould not tn:ll penons as a __ merely, bul nlher as cnds-in- thcmselvu. 38 lo&icaltheory. A moral theory which docs nol define the \right\ In tenns of producingaome non-morllgood. 40 moral theoiy Iiiii advoc•te• producing the lrelllCII )lll!piMIS f01 the gmt.at number of people (abr.) ~I Ucl11111tion 4llcave 43 endin1 for morn and even ~~ smos city (abr.) 46 Dad'1 companion 48 major work (Litln) 49 __ • lhclical imperative. A commllld in the form of \If yoa want x !ben do y\ 50 cxlsa 51 neckwear 53 minor leaaue below MA 3-4 l!Byplllllsun aud 56 ac:linJsolely wllh the lnteresCs of olhen Ill beNt 59 hitter's tool 60 __ pf Edtn. Steinbeck · novel. 62 brand of IICoCch 63 wooden box 6Silldy 66 rttsehood 63 Thomas _. Aulhor of Ltvlarlttlrt. R.eno\IJncd for ac:cepllna ptycbolol~·e&olsm. 69 lack at_. nic major criticism ofulllltaritlll•m In prae- tice. 70 nc4 0111 DoWII I Plato's dlaldaiiC In wllieh Socratei display• bil moral ftlfl• victlon as he debates the merits of stayin& in Athens to face his death. 2 ___ laaical morallhelll)'. A moral lheOI} which define& !he \risht\ in lelmS or promolin& some non·rnoralaood (c.~t., htppiness, poWer, wii!Ciom, etc.). 3 Spldbef!'s vl•itor 4 pelrol 3 Mldwealcm stale.(abr.) 6 Divine_ Theory. 1\ moi'altl*ory which defines \right\ II \that which God approm.\ -7ncK DC &_Almer 9 One who think• lhatthcre lte elteplioniCSIIIIOIII princlplea discoverable lhroup reuon. 10 \_Is kiiDwkllae.• ~­ ntu' saying which ltlustnleS hh belief that I person who know& the riglll Of zood will do h. 14 unconiAilled cklln 16 aelfodelcnnln~~tlon. The key (for Killl) 10 whatmakuapcn4111 dilferenl f!OI!I a thin:. 17 adlkndum lo a k:llcr 19 pn:poaillon 10 atulltrer's word 14 anlcle 27 sm111t peen vcl!ltable 21 t>om's nnal blow (abr.) 19 soWicn :10 cultvral _livir.m. The soclolotlc•l « alllhl'llJ)Oiollul theD<)'Ihll ••luu do dill..- rruon culture to culture. ll __ Jill. loin up, 34 mal11 olfiJiflni 35 _for_., sake. BasK: notion in Kant'alheory of lllOIIII motivlllon. 361. S. --· Famousldi'O- cate of 11tlllllrianlsm, 37 arnallstot'8 39 Ethical_. The rnon1 theory which claima IIIII one ought to ar:tln one's own lntereat. # __ happiness for the &I'Uied number. The lllilitlri.,. objccllve, -47 subpli\' reaions ror Kilns. Kant &ayalhll these, 1111her thlll conseqiiUacet, lhoukl be lhe focut ol moral !heoly. 4\i head c'!ttrina 52 an&f1 , 53chan,e 55 _-illlerat. Ep$m's • malaeoneem. ~ _ Spti~nic. llaliitl champaane. 57 1 &encnil moral principlo 51thua \\\ 6Jauto club 63 _IOijUCfiCel, UIIJIIRrlaniMIIlOIIb kllhel\e fur the evalUation nr the riJhlncuuf an ICI. 64 foiotb$\lamundsalncr c-.r.) 67 e~i11a 68 hello by Michelle Rosenbaum Concordiensis Staff Everyone knows what it's like to be sick, and we all hate it. Be- ing sick is definitely the worst feeling ever. Especially being on campus when yot,r feel like every- thing is coming down on you. This is the time of the year that probably more than half the cam- pus is sniffling, sneezing, cough- ing, sleeping,'t!tc. Unfortunately, the .majority of ·'\lS will be ~ick until we go home for Thanksgiv- ing, the way we take care of our- selves. It's so easy to blame being sick on the weather, especially now as it g.oes from seventy degrees down to thirty degrees in one day. One minute you are outside wear- ing shorts and sweating, and the next minute you are freezing with goose bumps all over you. Then there is the rain. Some times it feels like the rain will never go away and before we know it the rain will be snow! We can never win. Having rio heat in the dorms when it is thirty degrees at night, is no help to stay healthy either. I do not understood why it took so long for the heat to go on! It was colder inside the qorms than it was outside. It did not matter how many blankets you had on your bed, you still woke up shiv- ering. The worst part is getting out of the shower and walking into a cold hallway and then ·a cold room. The sneezing starts there, TI1en, the heat finally goes on and it is sixty degrees outside and ninety degrees inside. It is too hot to breathe. Is there a happy medium? Sleep is a necessity to keep one healthy, There you have it. All the students 01;1 campus combined probably dmft get fifty six hours of sleep a week! (The average hours of sleep is eight a night). The coffee will do the trick for a little while, but soon yoqr body will be yelling at you. We wear ourselves down. Everyone is con- stantly running.around during the day going to classes, working out, sports, talking to friends, volun- teering, clubs and everything else we do every day. Then, at night, we're up until at least one or two in the morning doing work or hanging ottt with our friends. There is definitely not enough time in one day for sleep! (Then wh~n we do finally fall asle~p, we're woken up by fire engines and police sirens, especially the poor people who live in Davidson South and Webster!) How could I forget the beautiful sound of the fire alarm at three in. the mo)11ipg,. aiid we have to stand outside for a half and hour in the freezing cold! So the clue to being healthy is hide yourself ina germ free, quiet, secluded; wann room until spring ' and sleep like a bear.. Hibernat- ing does sound like a good idea. No, this can never happen, so unfortunately, if you haven't got- ten the Union sickness yet, be pre- pared. I heard it's good to have a lot of vitamin C, but these days who knows what is good any- · mor~! · If you do get sick, like I did last week, best idea is to go home, if you don't live too fat, and get some tender. ·loyit_1.g _car£ .. ~le~p_: ing in your own bed and having mom take care of you is the best remedy. You could attempt re- la.Xing here at Union, but GOOD LUCK! Union College has a Sexual H~rassment Policy Do you? Spike Heels A play by Theresa Rebeck October 18 .. 30 November 4 - 6 9:00PM U.pperclass Dining Hall Tickets go on sGie Moaday, Oci:. ts. 1·1 AM -·1 PM. CCAtrium l ·I I I = J tin SOl Th ev, in sp an qtt co tu1 l( tit Sc or Sl ftl h• Sl s B L c tl s tc v s 1 11 11 •

I l ·I I I ! I I FEATURES Octo~er 21, ~993, Page 11 Volunte.er Tutoring at Union: Students Help Local Schools · By MichelJe Rosenbaum Concordiensis $'tqff \In these difficult. financial times, the country's greatest re- source, our children, is being hurt. The most important product of everyone's life is themselves and in times where not much can be spared, Union college students are giving tl~emselves.\ This is a qttote stated by Lori Blickers, the coordinator of Union's volunteer tutoring pr0gram. Lori and about · 100 other Union students take out time to help children in local Schenectady schools. The young children are always excited to see the face of a Union student. In the elementary schools, the tutors either help the teacher with projects, or they help children one on one. The first grade tutors, for example, take children who are behind into a separate room and help them catch up with their work. The tutors also help the children with counting money and telling time. Monica Webster, a sophomore at Union, just began tutoring this year for first grade at St. Anthony's. She says, \it's an uplifting activity. I love seeing the kids because you never see cute kids on Union's campus.\ She enjoys helping the children with their reading and math work. \They just always put a smile on my face,\ she says. This is Lori's first year as co- ordinator of the tutoring program. She has been extremely success- ful at getting volunteers. People have been assigned to schools such asSt. Anthony's Elementary School, Brown Pre-school, Brown School, St. Johns, Zion Lutheran Church Pre-school, Oneida Elementary School and the Boys and Girls Club for Schenectady. Most Union volun- teers go for at least one hour 'per week to help these schools, while some go for two to three hours. The majority of the volunteers help at the pre-schools since they need the most help. Union College student helps a groz~p i?fKindergarten pupils at St. John~\· Elemeniary School with their reading skills. (photo hy Heather Reynold'ifor 1he Concordiensi.\) All the tutors agree that tutor- ing not only makes the children happy, but they get the same en- joyment. It's a way to take a break from all the pressures on campus and help those in need. All the tutors seem to agree with the saying, \Everything you need to know you learned in Kinder- garten,\ after helping the young children improve on important tasks. This year, a new after school program at St. Anthony's has been developed. Three Union students help out with the pro- gram by helping the children with arts and crafts, homework, and simply playing with them. Twenty three children attend the program because their parents are not home when the school day is completed at 2:30p.m. The pro- gram would not have been suc- cessful without the Union stu- dents. They actually brought cr11yons and coloring books from home for the children to keep themselves busy. A Look at the Leaves of. Fall by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Stqff I received a phone call from a c1 ose friend of mine who has lived the majority of his life on the East coast. After the usual small talk that takes priority at the beginning of most conversations, his voice slightly lowered and he asked me, \What do you think about the trees?\ I was startled at first, because· for the previous three days I'd been noticing how beautiful the trees are on the East coast. It doesn't happen like this in Cali- fornia. The leaves there turn brown, or a weak attempt at yel- low and fall to the ground. I walked through Jackson gardens, and I couldn't believe the explo- sion of color. It was as if the trees turned their lights on. With the changing of the sea- sons, I began to think about change in general. Change is one of the most mysterious and im- portant events in human exist- ence. When it's happening you don't notice it. That's why we have pictures, to remind us of how we were and what we looked like in the past. It seems to me that spiritual change is the more important than physical change. It seems that everybody is looking for some- body or something to satisfy thejr spirit. TI1at is the purpose of hu- man life. Whether this is love, or something else, humans have an inbred desire for deeply centered satisfaction. That's why when people are in love they seem to be happy all the time, and the little things don't bother them. Their souls are happy. They aren't searching anymore. Their souls have found a place of utopian wannth. They have a defined cen- ter, so everything else is put in perspective. So, when I was walking Mountebanks' Dinner Theater presents THE· zoo STORY - --Sunday, October 31 --- Brunch/Performance beginning at NOON Tickets : $10.00 --- Monday, November 1 -- - Dinner/Performance beginning at 5:30 PM Tickets: $9.00 For Tickets and Reservations Contact the Office of Dining Services in CC 202, or Call388-6050 *Tickets may be purchased-with a meal card or deducted from a Vali-Dine balance through the gardens I thought that perhaps the trees and nature in general are trying to tell us that change is inevitable. Everything .goes in cycles. I guess I truly re- alized this when I received a let- ter from my mother (probably the best writer I know). She talked about the things in her life, but it was the last paragraph of her let- ter, that really hit home for me. \Marin and I miss you. It Is strange that life does go on. Sometimes I think it is impossible but things go on and change even when you are not here.\ So, I guess life goes on every where perpetually. And those brief times in life, when we find love or any form of spiritual sat- isfaction, should be cherished. As nature shows us four times a year, things change. Comments on mY last article: My last article entitled, \The Female Conundmm\ was for the most part warmly received. I spoke with many women who felt that it was humorous, and took no offense. I'm glad, none was in- tended. But I received one letter from a woman who was quite irate. She didn't care for the sec- tion about female menstruation. She was angry about how when men fight with women, or when a woman is angry, men blame it onPMS. Now, I never wrote any- thing about that, but it is my opin- ion that any man who uses PMS as a tool for arguing is a complete idiot, not to mention a jerk. At any rate, this woman was quite upset with me, about what I have no idea. I do enjoy honest criticism about my work, so keep it com- ing, cuz hate mail is better than no mail. Tutors serve different functions for each grade level. For the pre- school, they basically help the children learn things such as col- ors, numbers, socializing, sharing and arts and crafts. Lori states that \it's more like being a de- pendable friend to the children.\ MOUNTEBANKS ~ PRESENTS BALTIMORE WALTZ A DRAMATIC READING featuring Leslie silver bill callahan josh kane (in conjunction with Aids awareness week) Wednesday, October 27th 7:00PM, cc auditorium

I Fall Term Exam Schedule Announced This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Continu- ing Studies courses will be announced, and students in Section \51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the an- nouncement of the exam time for those courses. Con- flicts in examinat·ions should be reported to Mrs. J. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, No- vember 5th. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS - Arts Building NWSE -North Wing, S & E Center BAlL - Bailey Hall PVCH - Psychology Building BUTR- Butterfield HaU STZH - Steinmetz Hall HUMN - Humanities Building ALUM - Alumni Gym FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1993-8:30 AM- 10:30 AM A TH-O I 0-01 -Speech Communication- L. Bloom rosen -ARTS 313 BI0-046-0 I -Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 CER-160-0 I -Transportation Engineering- E. Jones- BUTR 300 CHM-0 14-0 I - Scientific Creativity- C. Scaife- NWSE 1 12 CHN-120\0 I - Basic Chinese I- L. Xi - HUMN 1 19 CHN-120-0 I - Inter,mediate Chinese I - L Xi - HUMN 1 19 EC0-0 12-03 - Introduction to Economics - S. Schmidt - SSCI 103 EGL-027-01 -Comedy- P Heinegg- HUMN 115 EGL-34c-O 1 -Studies in American Literature- N. Shour- HUMN 114 FRN-012-01- Basic French Ill- J. Boone -l-IUMN 019 GBR-120\01 -intermediate German 1- K. Hamm~Ehsani- HUMN 119 GRK-01 0-01 -Principles of Greek I- J Marincola- HUMN 116 JPN-120-0 I -Intermediate Japanese I - Y Khan - SSCI 105 MER-164-0 I -Solar Energy Analysis & Design- R. Wilk- NWSE 210 ... PHL-01 til\Ol \J>hi·Josophical Problems- C Womack- 13AIL 106 PHL-03-8'~0'1 -Eastern Philosophy- L. Patrik- HUMN 112 PHL-144-0 I - Polif!cal Philosophy- R. Baker- SSCI 112 PHY -056-01 - Intermediate Electromagnetism - K. Schick - NWSE 114 ) PSY-038-01- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 21J PSY-046-01 -Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 RUS-IJ.J-01 -the Russian Short Story- N. Jernakoff- HUMN I I J SPN-012-01 -Basic Spanish Ill- V. Martinez- BAIL 203 SPN-13 2-0 I - Spanish Peninsular Lit I- L. Martinez- BAIL 205 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 19. 1993 - 11 :30 AM- 1:30 PM ANT-072-0l -Psychological Anthropology- S. Leavitt- SSCI 105 BI0-011-01 -Topics in Contemporary Biology- R. Williams- BAIL 201 BI0-051-0 I -Ecology- C. George- NWSE 112 BI0-144-0 I -Cytology- G. Smith - NWSE 116 CLS-OJ0-0 I -Greek & Roman Tragedy in Translation- J. S Scul- lion - HUMN 110 EC0-0 12-04 - Introduction to Economics -H. Fried - SSCI 1 OJ EER-018-01- Intra to Digital Computers- C. Traver- NWSE 201 EGL-023-0 I - The American Short Story - L. Slade - HUMN 117 ESC-0 13-0 I - High Level Language Programming - D. Hemmendinger - NWSE 222 ESC-0 15-01 -Numerical Methods and C - L. Almstead - STZH 106 GE0-021-0 1 - Stratigraphy & Despositional Environments of Eastern NY -Garver - BUTR 20 I GRK-134-01- Homer: The Iliad- M. Toher- HUMN I 13 PHL-019-01 -Freshman Seminar in Philosophy- J. Ludwig- HUMN 213 EGL-019-0l - Major English Authors I - R. Stevenson - HUMN 116 EGL-056-01 - Shakespeare After 1600 - J. McCord - HUMN 112 FRN-01 0-0l- Basic French I - A. Leamon- HUMN 110 FRN-120-01 -Intermediate French I- L. Gates- SSCJ: 110 GER-01 0-0 l - Basic German I - S. Kellenter- SSCI OlO HST-029-01 -Afro-American History II- A. Miller- SSCI 104 HST-043-01 -Europe in the Early Modern Era- E. Hansen- SSCI 103 JPN-0 10-0 l - Basic Japanese I - Y. Khan - HUMN 014 JPN-0 10-02 - Basic Japanese I - Y. Khan - HUMN 014 MER-022-01 - Materials Science & Engineering - F. Milillo - NWSE210 MER-026-01 -Thermodynamics- R. Wilk- NWSE 222 PHY -016-01 - Physics of Life Sciences li - J. Newman - NWSE I 12 PHY -050~01 - Electronics Projects - C. Jones- NWSE 303 PSC-OTI-01 - Intro to American Politics- T. Marchant-Shapiro- SSCI 012 PSY-020-0'l - Statistical Methods in Psychology - D.J. Burns ~ PYCH213 SPN-010-'0l- Basic. Spanish I- W. Garcia- HUivfN 019 SPN-01 0-02- Basic Spanish I - L. Martinez- HUMN 019 SPN-012-02- Basic Spanish III- A. Noel-Gosh- HUMN 114 SPN-122-01 - Advanced Spanish - V. Martinez;- HUMN 117 MONDAY, NOVEMBER2.2, 1 9 9 3.-8:3 0.-10:3 0 AM ANT -010-01 - Intro to Cultural Anthropology - G. Gmelch- BAIL 100 BI0-024-01- Genetics & Evolution- J, Boyer- SSCI 016 BI0-180-01 -Biochemistry- J.L. Salvo- NWSE 116 CER-033-0 1 -Fluid Mechanics • T. Jewell - BUTR 106 CER-150-01 -Hydrology- P. Snow- BUTR JOO CLS-021-01 -History ofQreece- J. Marincola- HUMN 019 EC0-032-01 -Labor&' Industrial Relations- P. Prosper- SSCI 012 EER-060-01 -System Theory II- M.·Rudko- NWSE 222 ESC-010-01 -Mechanics I- R. -Bucinell- NWSE 210 FPR-0 ).0 - Perception & Persuasion - P. Meyers-- HUMN 110 HST-013-01- History of U.S. to Civil War- A. Miller- SSCI 103 1-tST -013-02 -History of U.S. to Civil War~ J. Sterngass- BAIL 207 HST -013·03- History of U.S. to Civil War- R.Wells- HUMN 114 HST -030-0 I - American Economic Development- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 104 HST -03 5-01 - History of Europe I - E. Hansen - SSCI 112 HST -03 5-02 ~ History of Europe I - S. Mal bin - HUMN 117 HST -121-0 I - American Constitutional & Legal History- M. Jonas - SSCI 014 · LAT-012-01- Latin Reading- J.S. Scullion- HUMN 014 MER-040-01 -Engineering Design I- R. Eggert- NWSE 201 MTH-0 I 8-0J -Intra to Logic and Set Theory- W. Zwicker- BAIL I 04 MTH-135-01 -Number Theory· J. Sauerberg- BAIL 205 PHL-064-0 1 - Issues in American Education~ J. Ludwig/T. Weiner -HUMN 115 PHY -044-01 -Introduction to Astronomy- A. Vanture- NWSE l 12 PHY -160-01- Advanced Topics in Physics- J. McWhirter- NWSE 114 PSY -024-0 I - Social Psychology- K. DeBono - PYCH 113 PSY -030-0 I - Personality - L. Halpern - PYCH 102 PSY-047-01- Intro to Health Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 213 SOC-024-01 -Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 SOC-052-01 -Issues in American Education -J. Ludwig/T. Weiner - HUMN 115 SOC-138-01 - Africa: Pol, Econ, & Soc Life-R. Quaye- STZH I 06 SPN~I40-0l -Cervantes: Don Quijote- P. Moyano- SSCI 213 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 11: 30 AM- 1:30PM PHY -017-01 -General Physics I- R. Khosropour- NWSE 114 PHY-017-02- General Physics I- G. Reich- NWSE 116 PHY -017-03 -General Physics I-S. Maleki- NWSE 112 PSY -0 I 0-01 -A First Course in Psychology- S. Greenberg- SSCI 016 PSY -010-03 -A First Course in Psychology- S. Greenberg- SSCI 016 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 22. 1993 - 2:30- 4:30 PM AAH-OJ1-0 1 - Italian Art & Architecture: Late Middle Ages - L. Matthew- ARTS 215 PHL-IJ6-0 1 - Phenomenology & Existentialism - L. Patrik - AMU-024-0 1 -Classicism and Romanticism- H.A. Wilson- ARTS HUMN 112 313 PSC-066-0 1 - Presidential Politics- C. Brown - SSCI 012 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 19. 1993-2:30- 4:30PM CHM-010-01 -Fundamental Chemistry I- J. Anderson- BAIL 201 CHM-010-02- Fundamental Chemistry I- D. Hayes- BAIL 205 CHM-010-03- Fundamental Chemistry I -C. Scaife- BAIL 207 CHM-010·04 - Fundamental Chemistry I - C. Weick - BUTR 300 CHM-142-01- Chemical Instrumentation- M. Carroll- NWSE 116 CSC-012-01 ~Programming for Natural Sciences- L. Alrristead- STZH 106 EC0-034-0 1 -Intra to Financial Analysis- J. Kenney- SSCI 112 EER-041-01- Electrical Circuits- Y. Chang- NWSE 201 EER-063-01 -Electronic Circuits:Analysis- Design~ E. Hassib -BUTR 109 ANT -0 I 0-02 - Intro to Cultural Anthropology - G. Gmelch - SSCI 1 I 0 CER-016-01 -Computer Applications fot CE- T. Jewell- BUTR 106 ECO-OJ1-0I- Microeconomics Analysis- S. Yaisawamg- SSCI 112 EGL-021-0 1 - Major English Authors HI - A. Frazier- HUMN 117 FRN-120-02- Intermediate French I- J. Boone -lillMN 112 HEB-010-01 -Basic Hebrew I -D. Heckelman- HUMN 010 & HUMN012 MTH-014-01 -Calculus III- B. Johnson- BAIL 201 MTH-014-02- Calculus III- B. Johnson- BAIL 201 PSC-013-01 - Intro to Political Thought- J. Board- SSCI 1 OJ PSY-010-02- A First Course in Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 PSY-OJ6-01 -Psychology of Learning- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 213 SOC-129-01 - Comparative Health Care Systems- R. Quaye - SSCl 104 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23. 1993- 8:30-10:30 AM AAH-0 11•0 I - Intro to Art History ~ Part I - L. Matthew - ARTS · 215 ANT•Ol4·0l- Language and Culture- K. Brison- SSCI 112 BI0-016-01- Introduction to Biology I- R. Olberg/L. Fleishman - SSCI ()16 BI0-032-0l - Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy- R. Willing - NWSE 116 BI0-053-01· Forests of the Northeast- P. Tobiessen- NWSE 222 CER-J:43-01 -Foundations and Construction- A. Ghaly- BUTR 106 CSC-011-0l- Programming for .Social Sciences. J. Castleberry- STZH106 EC0-012-0l - Introduction to Economics -E. Motahar- SSCI 104 EC0-145-01 -Managerial. Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 010 EER-124-01- Intro to Probabilistic Systems- I Spinelli- NWSE 20.1 EGL-022;..02 • Major American Authors - N. Sho1.1r - HUMN 117 EGL-40a·O'l ... World of the Bible- P. Heinegg- HUMN 1 IS. ESC-030-01 -Mechanics of Deformable Solids- W. Thabet- BUTR 109 FRN-131 ~01 - SUJ:vey of French Literature I - L. Gates - HUMN 119 GE0-0'10-01- Physical Geology- J. Hollocher- BUTR 201 GER-0 12-0l -Basic German III- K. Hamm-Ehsani - HUMN 116 · GER-1J9-0I -Special Topic in German Lit-. S. Kellenter- HUMN 116 GER-149-01 -Special Topic in German Lit- S. Kellenter- HUMN 116 HST -065-01 -East Asian Civilization- D. Thurston - SSCI 110 MER-030-()1 - Dynamics of Systems- M. Rivera- NWSE 210 MTH-040-01- Applied Linear Algebra- A. Seiken- BAIL 207 AAH-043-01 - American Art - R. Phelan - ARTS 215 AMU-032 ... 01- MusicCuttures ofthe Wotlti -.T:W. Ro~~ ~·ARTS'' 313 - BI0-036-0 1 - Invertebrate Zoology -.B. Boyer ... NW.SE 1 12 -CSC-03-7-01- Structured Programming- o: Hannay- NWSE 116 EC0-012-02- Introduction to Economics- B. Reynolds.- SSCI 104 EC0-042-0 1 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- H. Fried- SSCI 112 EGL-022-0 1 -Major American Authors -B. MacDonald - HUMN 117 ML T -024-01 - Latin American Cinema in Translation- W. Garcia \.SSCI 016 PSC-021-01 -Quantitative Sot;ial Research- A Marchant-Shapiro - SSCI 012 PSC-033-0 1 - 20th·Century American Political Thought- C. Brown -SSCIOl4 I' \} • ' • · IiI t · J' 1 1• 1 .•0 J, l' ,• ' ! ! l PSC-060-0 1 -Policy Making & American Society- P. Consolini - SSCI 010 PSY -010-04 -A First Course in Psychology ~A. Rubonis- PYCH 102 PSY -049-01 -the Psychology of Addiction ... T. Dowling- PYCH 113 SOC-060-01 -Quantitative Social Research- A. Marchant-Shapiro - SSCI012 SPN-134-01 :-Latin American Cinema-in Translation- W. Garcia - ·ssci o16 TUESDAY, NOVEMB13R23, 19 93- 2:3 0-4:30PM. ACC-010-01- Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis- SSCI 104 ACC-0 10-02 - Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis- SSCI 104 MTH-010-01- Calculus I- K. Zimmerman- BAIL 100 MTH-0 10-02 - Calculus I - J. Muckenfuss - HUMN 115 MTH-010-03- Calculus I-T. LaBerge- BAIL 201 MTH-010-04- Calculus I - K. Rosenthal- BAIL 207 MTH-010·05- Calculus I • T. LaBerge- BAIL 201 MTH-0 10-06 - Calculus I - K. Rosenthal- BAIL 207 MTH-013-01- AP Calculus~ A Taylor- BAIL 104 MTH-013-02- AP Calculus- M. Frame- SSCI 112 MTH-0 13-03 - AP Calculus- M_ Frame- SSCI 112 MTH-013-04- AP Calculus- T. Bick- SSCI 103 MTH-013-05- AP Calculus- T. Bick- SSCI 103 MTH-0 13-06 - AP Calculus - A Prindle- BAil.. I 06 MTii-030..,0 1 -Ordinary Differential Equations- A. Seiken- BAIL 203 MTH-030-02- Ordinary Differential Equations - J. Muckenfuss- HlJMN 115 MTH-127-0l- Numerical Analysis- W. Fairchild- NWSE 112 SPN-120-0 1 - Intermediate Spanish I - P. Moyano - HUMN 114 SPN-120-02 - Intermediate Spanish I - P. Moyano - HUMN 114 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1993- 8:30- 10:30 AM CHM-030•01 - Organic Chemistry I- K. DeJesus- BUTR 204 CHM-030-02- Organic Chemistry I- J. Sowa- BUTR 204 MTH-060-0 1 -Topics in Mathematical Political Science- A. Tay- lor - BAlL 207 MfH-060-02 -Topics in Mathematical Political Science- A. Tay- lor - BAIL 207 PSC-023-01 -·Topics in Mathematical Political Science- A. Tay- lor- BAIL 207 PSC-023-02- Topics in Mathematical Political Science ... A. Tay- lor - BAIL 207 The following day course will have an exam in the evening: MONDAY. NOVEMBER 22.1993., 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-136-01 & S 1 - Advanced Programming Techniques~ G. Wil- liams - NWSE 116 I , I

I • I Romance Purple, Zany, eccentric SM seeks Yellow Masupial SF to ahare Harsh, irridescent ideas and de- lusions of grandeur. Must like upside-down lamp shades and Aluminum men. If interested write to Box l383lB. Yellow, wacky, Marsupiall SF seeks fantasie s ofglowing great- ness in a violet, funky, mildly psychotic SM. Must like tin foil people and lamps in the Bl:lck. if interested write to Box 1383 B2. ToSml).llen: Doesyourmommy still rub your head to make all your · troulbes go away. JV & WM. To my Fred: I've missed you. Hope you don't let the vulture get to you too .. Love, Me. Bruno, why would I write an ob- noxious personal about you ... af- ter all the-kindness you've shown me ... Dear Hancock, l11anks for build- ing me a shelf. It works great. love Jenn. P.S .. Thanks for help- ing me when my boyfriend came up. It looked great. Slighlty overweight, SWM with bad ·haircut and bad roommate . . · . . To Kira full of love. seeks blonde female of any age. . '. . . . ANY ' h . 1 f .. · Congratualtionson yourmatunty . wo s . ares ove o wtre, ( . d) . . 1 . . 1 . 'l·k · d B 1 b d 1 . peno . · staym a tve staym a we. m1 ,an usc1 eer,an ... ·laS·L h C fi G·'.l . ove t · e · amp tre tr s. Sattirday mornmgs free for ' · WCAU - S. Contact Box 083 ·--~~ .......... ------ You few happy few, band ofBrit- B 1 · ish brothers and sist¢r what are Gay male at Union looking for wann sincere male for friendship and maybe more. box 1383 B4. Greeti~gs To my family at Ludlow House and Davidson 323N: thank you so much for all you've done for me these last couple of weeks. I don't know what I would have done without you . .I love you all! E.D. Gamma Upsilon Tau came from behind and passed Gamma Alpha Sigma to defeat Beta Upsilem Tau in· the chicken wing eating con- test. You really kicked Alpha Sigma Sigma out of the competi- tion. Congratulations. you going to be during the World Cup . .Perhaps playing cricket. Confederation Helvetia. WWM Are you really engaged or are you just pulling my leg? Snooty Michele, Jen, and Heather. Hey roommies, just wanted to say hi because I never see you all. Did you find any Union St signs yet. Love, Mitra · Inquiring minds ask this ques- tion. Is Matt Kelley on term abroad? AK - I know you! (gotcha) E.D. For sale one duck. Quacks of course, floats, like, well, a duck. If interested call L. Webster (518) 555-6832 Dear Hancock (Holbert• Albro ugh) you don '.t even exist in her mind except for the leash. To my boys, Life in S. Carolina Heather Gaunt: It was great see- ~ gre~t. 1 Wish you ~ere h~. ing you again. Hope we can C eer ~s c leap too. . ove, e respark the old flame. Love, . aptam. Chris ------------- To a bundle of fun, you're divine. Wendell, you light up my life. Love, Mark Cory Holbrough, I look forward to meeting you at the McGill game. Best ofluck with your sea- son. Cynthia Hess. Go Rangers! Manna- I know you are not sup- posed to let your opponents score on you,. but what about me? B. To all of the Fiji Brothers, in the spirit of Beavis and Butthead, uh., huh, uh, huh ... Cool party! Rock on, The gamma Phi Beta Sisters. Horvath - Nature is stronger thanmen. Don't fight with trees. They'll always win. Help to prevent child abuse. Sup- port Sigma Delta Tau at their 9th annual M&M a-than at the CC - 12:45 on Friday. Yeah 9, Yeah 12, Yeah 5, Yeash 25! Shake it field hockey! Mango ... Start smiling more! Love your little Froyo. Love, Julie. Would you rather be Divinely beautiful, Dazzlingly Clever or Angelically Good? Write to Box 1383 B5 with answers to this question. Andrea Z- What's up? I had a great weekend. Apparently you did too. Hey, Wesky. Brown University sucks, and Columbus has great looking girls. A2- When's your father coming up? Not soon enougl}, huh? Delta Delta Delta would like to congratulate its newest sister Matt Kelley. Welcome aboard sweetie. A.E.K. . B. Salt. The sisters ofNu Mu would like to thank the brothers of Upsilon Epsilon for a wonderful time at Pi Phi. Leo- you're fat and you know it. Laura at Friendly's. ' CLASSIFIEDS Here's to Bucky and WT. May they enjoy garbage day together. Drown me in the shallow water, Before I get too deep ... AMX Sexy, Liberal Female seeking non-conservative, punctual lunch dates. Republicans need not ap- ply. KW -You're a winner. POW POW! ABC ya later. Your se- cret Admirer Pack rats missing his cheese. Betsy is newest member of cam- · pus operations. To the boys of 4th floor south. Times are tough. Sweet, innocent Ohio girl seek- . ing someone to introduce her to the big city. Anyone interested come meet me for a rendezvous at the farm. Inquiring minds want to know. How did you learn to move that way? Number 5 (T2) ' Cindy - Thanks for the great weekend of snuggling. You're the best. Love always, Chris Troll sightings seen around cam- pus. Any whereabouts, please notify Bill Ranken West Virginian seeks close rela- tive for a meanigful relationship. Contact Billy Bob john - go easy! Remeber to be careful! Don't forget to put your socks on! S.:nd Personals to Bo.\ 1725 or 1383 b) Monday October 21, 1993, Page 13 Classijieds TELEMARKETER- $6.00 per hour: . Call Skip @372-4454 SPRING BREAK '94-Sell trips, Earn cash & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring cam- pus reps. Call @800-648-4849. WANTED-Campus Representative- SPRiNG BREAK DISCOUNTERS- (Vacation Packages). Earn cash and free trip(s). Cancun-Bahamas- S.Padre Island-Daytona. We handle bookkeeping-you handle sales. 1- 800-336-2260 Monday thru Friday (9AM-5PM). HELP WANTED-GREEKS AND CLUBS. Raise up to $1000 in just one week for your fraternity, soror- ity or club! Plus $1000 for yourself and a free t-short. nJST FOR CALL- rNG l-800-932-0528 ext.75. GRE£KS! CLUBS! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as much as you want m One Week! $100 ... $600 .. $1500! Market Appli- cations for Citibank, VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your free t-shirt and to qualify .for FREE TRIP TO MTV SPRING BREAK '94. Call 1-800-932-0528, ext.68. FLEXIBLE HOURS - Help Fellow students find scholarship money. Write to Jennings Associates. P.O. Box 9088. Schenectady, NY 12309. Earn $500 - $1 000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details· RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: Group Five 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901 Birthright, Inc. . Crisis Counseling, free and confi- dential pregnancy tests, referrals and a friend. Schenectady 370-1532. Al- bany 438-2978, B~llston 885-4117. HELP WANTED: CRUISE SHIP JOBS! Students needed! Earn $2000+ monthly. Summer/holidays/ full-time. World travel. Cmibbean, Hawaii Europe, Mexico. Tour Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deck hands, Casino Workers, etc. No ex- perience necessary. CALL 602-680- 4647 Ext. Cl47. TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK! SELL QUALITY VACATIONS! THE HOTTEST DESTINATIONS! Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, South Padre Island, Florida. Work for the \Professional\ Spring Break Com- pany. Easiest Way towards free trip. Best Commissi.ons. Sun Splash Tours I 800 426-77)0. Ski Free This XMAS Snowbird, Park City, etc. need temps this Xmas. Ski Pass included. For information and applications send $5.00 check with return address tn Wasatch Temp 2748 Brinker Ave. Ogden. Utah 84403 T-SHIRTS- SWEATSHIRTS- CAPS. Quality wholesale custom printing. Serving local colleges for 4 years. Adirondack Screen Graph· ics. 399- 7160 BABYSITTING: Babysitting- Nice home near college. Must like to play . with children. References please. 346-8282. Ask for Jan. ~-~ tnJDIN! G&OUPII Raise as Much •• You '. Want In On. Week! · . $1 oo . . . $eoo ... 11 soor Market Applications for the hottest credit card ewr- NEWGMMASTERCARD. Users eam BIC DISCOUNTS on CM CARS I Qualify for FREET. SHIRT & '94 c.:MC JIMMY. Call 1-800-950.:1039, ext. 75. 21 - 27 Oct 1993 ·' Oct 21 - Thursday Begin Week 7 3:30 PM HUM0'19: Film \Tokyo Story\ Oct 22 - Friday 3:30 PM Men's Soccer v. Clarkson 4:00 PM -9:00 Chet's T.G.I.F. (Happy Hour) Oct 23 - Saturday 2:00 PM Field Hockey v. Rochester 8:00PM & '1 0:00, CCAUD: \Hot Shots: Part Deux\ Oct 24 - Sunday. 1 :00 PM JV Football v. Marist 3:00 PM Proctor's: Sch'dy Symphony, H. Tann Oct 25 - Monday AIDS Awareness Week 4:30PM HUM115: \Safety of the Blood Supply\ Oct 26 - Tuesday 9:00 AM Fieldhouse: Bloodmobile Oct 27 - Wednesday Webster Ho,use Haunted House 6:30 PM Eating Disorders Discussion 3:30 PM Women's Soccer v. New Paltz 9:00 PM Chet's: Garnet Minstrelles 8:00PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Hot Shots: Part Deux\ 8:00 PM Memorial Chapel: New England Bach Fest. 9:00PM Fero Coffeehouse: Erotic Readings 8:00 PM & 1 O:OO,_CCAUD: \Hot Shots: Part Deux\ 8:00 PM & 1 0:00, CCAUD: \Hot Shots: Part Deux\ 9:00 PM Chet's: Monday Night Football 3:3D PM Men's Soccer v. Williams 7:30 PM CC3rd Fir: \Putting the Pieces Together\ 7:00PM CCAUD: Mountebanks- \Baltimore Waltz\ 7:00PM Volleyball v. St. Rose Current as ol1 0/15/93. To include your events call or memo College Center/Student Activities, CC408, x6379 or x6118. ' . ' '1\-L ' . .... 1 I I -· -

·october 21, 1993, page 14 SPORTS Men's Rugby Marches On Guide To Being a Division L Fan by Rob DuPoy Contributing Writer The rugby gods are smiling down on Union this season as they prepare for post season play. If you can believe it, the men's ruggers were forced to travel to R.P.I. on homecoming weekend. Union took to the field with Vinny, Port. Smurf, B.M., Aus- tin and Cheetah providing tacti- cal support and \Chicken Legs\ Aycox providing the shade. l11e game got off to a .slow start for Union, but that did not last for long. It was around midfield that Chris Bangs got the ball and one opening in R.P.l. 'sline was all he needed. With a burst of speed, which nobody knew he had, Bangs galloped in alone for Union's first try. This would not be the end of Bangs' day in the sun however, he would manage to score Union's second try as well, thus adding to the collection of serum scores this season. The third and fourth tries would come as a result of extraordinary play by Union's pack as well. The third try was set up by a beau- tiful play by Brian Davenport. R.P.I managed to won a serum down deep in their own territory and get the ball back to their fly half, but unbenounced to him Union's all-star flankers Daven- pm1 and co-captain Rob DuPuy did not plan on hirn going very far with it. Once he realized they were there he attempted to kick the ball to touch. As he did; Dav- enport leapt up nine feet and blocked the kick. The ball then bounced right in front of DuPuy, who scooped it up and dove in four meters for the try. The fourth was not neatly as spectacular, but it counted for five points, none the less, and came at the hands of · DuPuy, once again. Union's killer B's decimated a most nefarious ensemble of RPI hooligans. In a match reminis- cent of Napoleon's inane struggles in the frost-laden nether world of Russia, RPI's vapid crew vainly struggled against the inces- sant onslaught of Union's puis- sant company. Union alumni, present as prolific representatives of over 300assorted countries and commonwealths, sojourned to their campus in order to prolifer- ate, and surely quicken, the ram- pant destruction that transpired on a defiled battlefield littered with divots and forsaken bodies. When the dust cleared, a truly cowed group of RPI-ites, whose lowered heads and rueful anato- mies spoke of unprecedented an- guish, humbly proffered their en- feebled hands as a gesture of es- teem. With that out of the way, we can continue in the realm of real- ity. Union's next prey was Hamilton, who managed to feed Union their only loss in the spring, last weekend at home. The scoring began with an un- precedented penalty kick by Ian Spanier Union quickly went up 3- 0. Union's first five were scored through the combined efforts of Andy Frisbie and DuPuy on an eight man run out of a serum down. Deep in HamiHon's zone and after a perfect hook by Mike Valvo, Frisbie picked up the ball and took on the first defender be- fore passing the ball off to DuPuy, who rambled in for the score. Union's second was a unique oc- casion for the rugger's, the line managed to score one. It was a picturesque display of fifteen~ man rugby culminating in a score by rookie sensation Chris Delano. Union's B's, once again, walked . all over their opponent. This time it was a smorgasbord of players from Hamilton, R.P.I., and Union. It is now my pleasure to an- nounce that the Union men have . qualified for the playoffs and have been seeded fourth in the division. That means we will be playing at home, against an as of yet unknown opponent, this weekend, in the quarter finals of the tournament. Should we win, we will then go on to play in the semi-finals and then the finals in Syracuse on parent's weekend. As a result, our beloved president Hull has agreed to change parent's weekend if we win so that you, our thousands of fans, could join us in our quest for vic- tory. by Adam Schwartz Contributing Writer In less than two weeks, the Union College Hockey te~,tm will take the ice to begin their 1993- 94 season. The team is fired up, the coaches are fired up, and;. even their mascot is fired up. The ques- tion is, are you? The team is about to enter its third year in Division I play, how- ever, you, the fans, are still at the Divi- sion m level. So, through observing fans both at Union and other schools, I've come up with some guidelines for us to follow to make Achilles Rink our rink. First and most important-. pickup your tickets. Other schools charge their students $.80- $1 00 for season tickets; of which they miss games because of breaks. Ours are free! They don't cost you a penny! It is not a far walk to Achilles and I'm sure ev- eryone has at least five minutes to, on a Monday or Tuesday, go and get them. U, Let's Go U\ and \Let's Go Union (with the appropriate in- between beats)' should he heard constantly. Do an occasional \wave\ or \chop\ to get every- one going. In addition, in the event of an opposing teams goal, don't put your head down and shut your mouth. Get the team going again. The whole place should be chanting \Let's Go U\ as soon as it is obvious that the other team has scored. The players o;;;;;;;;. will not on 1 y appreciate it, but will be aware that you want to win as tnuch as they do. In the case of a bad call, get on the referee's back; however, be kind. You don't have to get per- sonal to let him know how you feeL When the referee makes a call for Uriion, wave good-bye to the player who is shamed. As soon as he steps in the box, point at him and yell, \See Ya!\. In other words it should go as this: \AAAAAAAAAAHHHlll:IH-. SEE Y~!!!\ . Don't say \See Ya!\ until he steps into the box. If everyone does it, it will sound more intimidating. Women's Rugby Continued Now that you have your ticket, you should attend the game. However, that doesn't mean leav- ing at seven for a 7 o'clock game. The place should be full before the players come out for their warm-up skate. Other teams come into our rink and laugh at the fact that Achilles doesn't get filled until the middle of the sec- ond period. Of course, in College Hockey, it is tradition to jump all over the opposing team's goalie. In keep- ing with tradition, you should too. Once again, where are they play- ing? Let him know who is the goalie and who is the sieve. Let him know how good of a goalie he really is ... NOT! There are other chants, but I don't think they are appropriate for printing pur- poses. However, I am more than willing to tell them to you in per- son. continued from page 16 Stacey Fellows was seen bran- dishing a switchblade, but was politely warned by the referee not to follow Stephenson's ex- biggest intercepti~n caine J~st week versus R'PI to.cset up th~ whming field goal. Late inJhe fourth quarter, the game was tied 16·.16. RPI was driving downfield when Weedmark in· tercepted the football and re,. turned l9 yards to R.PI's 4 L Following the interception, the Union offense completed a 22 yard pass, then ra11 two sh,ort gainers setting up the winning· field goal with 38 seconds left. Weedmark a junior from Troy, N.Y. was the ECAC De· fensiye Player of the Week in ample from the first game. The first half ended with Union lead- ing 5-0. TI1e second half was all Union, as the B's refused to let Oneonta come remotely near the goal line. Scrurnhalf Tiffany ;aJI: arourt4:opl~j~r::on.~t.aJ·· ·il'ea(lY dominate defense., 'I)is.Win im- proved the t~~uW''s record to 6 .. {) an4 they _are w~ll on thejr way to anotber great season. As long as they keep this kind of play up, more of the Fighting Dutch· men will start to get the honors t11at Weedmark has been receiv- ing lately. It is good to see the team doing so well, and it's nice to see the student body start to show a little enthusiasm~ Con- gratulations Kevin and good luck to the rest of the team. · Lussier broke away from a strong mck and scored Union's second try of the game, making the final score 10-0. In only its fourth· season of existence, the team has shown remarkable improvement. With past records of0-4 (Spring '92), 1-3 (Fall '92), and 1.-3 (Spring '93), the team made a commit- ment to excellence this fall and has kept it, as evidenced by their undefeated record. With this record, they have become the Divisional Champions of their Upstate Rugby Union League. The team has now qualified to compete in the State Champion- ship Tournament October 30-31 in Syracuse against other divi- sional champs Plattsburg State, Cornell, and Buffalo State. Considering that the rink should be filled to capacity, one should not be able to hear the other team's starting lineup. Bring newspapers, noise-makers, scream, stomp, do whatever it . takes to make the other team aware of where they are playing. Of course, when the Skating Dutchmen are announced, go into a frenzy. After all, they are your team. During the game itself. Chi Psi has been leadi11g the cheers for years, and they should be ap- . plauded. However, think of how much louder and scarier Achilles Rink could be if ALL the students yelled. Such cants as \Let's Go I don't think there is much more I can say. lfthere are things I've missed, feel free to tell your fellow students. Things look real good for the Dutchmen this year and l know you'd be upset if you weren't a part of it. With the first game approaching quicker than you know. get ready to support· your team. Come to the rink wearing Union colors and be pre- pared for the first of many Union victories this year. LETS GO U!!!! Intramural News • • MEN'S TENNIS DOUBLES CHAMPIONS : Adam Schwartz and Rich Scharf CO-REC FLAG FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS :The Heat SUNDAY, OCT. 24 ALUMNI GYM .. 3 on 3 Men's Basketball Playoffs Delta Phi vs. Theta Delta Chi; Bearers vs. Raymond North SUNDAY, OCT 24- 8 Man Flag Football Championship Sigma Chi vs. The Great Eight MONDAY, OCT. 18 .. Co-Ree Soccer Playoffs Fiji vs. Sigma Chi, 3 West vs. Sexual Chocolate

SPORTS October 21, 1993, page 15 Union College Skating Dutchmen Preview, 1993-1994 by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor On October 30th, the Sk~ting Dutchmen will open their third season in Division I competition. During the 1992-93 campaign the Dutchmen compiled a 3-22-0 . record, with a league rnark of3- 19.-0. Th~ .tlue¢ wins. came· against Vennont, Princeton, and Corilell. All tlu:ee victories came at home in Achilles. rink Union is hoping to sigt1ificantly better their record this season. Dutdnnen Hockey There are many new faces on this year's squad, joining the nu- merous retuming lettennen from last year. Union has a few sig- nificant loses. from the 92-93 team, including s'eniors Greg Steele and Kevin Darby. The mQst significant however, is the loss oflast year's freshmen lead- ing scorer Ryan Alaspa. Alaspa left Union for \personal\ reasons,· leaving the Dutchmen without their second leading point getter. Aside from the departure ofthose three players, the pte~ent Dutch- men squad is relatively intact, and has much added talent. Coach Bruce Delventhal is retuming as head coach, in this his sixth sea- son at Union. After losing the services of assistant coaches Jim Ward, a11d formt:r captain Guy Logan, Delventhal went shopping for two new assistants. Delventhal's search was to say the least, very successful. Join,.. ing the Dutchmen this year are fonner E.C.A.C. standouts Dave' Green and Kevin Sneddon. Delventhal had this,to say about his two new assistants, \ Dave and Kevin come from two of the most successful programs in the E.C.A.C .. They bring with them a winning tradition, and have made positive bounds in pre sea- SOli conditioning\. Dave Green arrived on the Clarkson Golden Knights as a freshmen walk~on, and preceded to play in all ofhis four years there. He was a mem- ber of the N.C.A.A. final four team in the 1990-91 campaign. Green's specialty is on offense, aud he will be working with the young offensemen. Sneddon was a four year lettennen at Harvard, and was a memberofthe National Champi- onship team in his freshman sea- son. Sneddon was the captain of the Crimson in his senior year, and was the M.V.P. of the Beanpot Toumament his senior year. Sneddon will complement Green, since he will be working with the defense. With the assis- tance of Green, and Sneddon the Dutchmen look to gain experi- ence from two people who have been through the E.C.A.C .. The captain of this years team is Jeff Jiampetti. Jiampetti is a four year lettermen, and brings much experience to a young Union team. Jiampetti played his first season in Division III, but was able to make the ctdjustment to the Division I level. Jiampetti had four goals and four assists ih twenty four games last season. Although Jiampetti's offensive the only junior. Holbrough scored three goals last season, and totaled nine points. In addition to his. offensive contributions, Cory is a major asset as a defen- defensemen are sophomores Scott Boyd and Shane Holunga. Boyd had a strong freshmen campaign, despite being hampered by a knee injury. Boyd should look to im- Delventhal, \look for one guy to grab the number one role, with the other assuming a secondary role, playing when the starter needs a rest\. The biggest plus ofthis season is the arrival of fifteen new fresh- men. Of the new recruits four are defeJJsemen, and eleven are for- wards. These players are going to be counted on to make an im- mediate contribution to the team. Delventhal understands that there will be much pressure on the freshmen to produce immedi- ately, but has tried to make their adjustments to college hockey easier, assuring them that all ·freshmen will make this year's squad. .Jelf.Jiampetti wi/1/ead the Dutchmen into their third Division/ seavon. (photo by Scotl Druckemi/ler!TC) The four defensemen are Greg Buchanan, Bill Moody, Seabrook Satterhmd, and Andrew Will. The four freshmen add much tal- ent to the already successful de- fensive core, and Delventhal feels that Will and Moody will make and instant impact on the team. The team also has eleven for- wards, all of which will need to contribute if the team is to have a chance at a playoff birth. numbers are not ovetwhelming, he is a leader both on and off the ice. Jiampetti is a quick skater, and an excellent faceoJf man, winning 58% of his attempts last season. Jiampetti will: serve as the team's sole senior. The two as- sistant captains are junior Chris Albert, and sophomore Reid Simonton. Albert is in his third season at Union, and was the teams lead- ing scorer last year. Albert tal- lied nine goals last year, five of which came on the power play. In addition, Albert added eleven assists, making his point total 'twenty. Albert is an aggressive hard worker and will be one of the people looked to when the Dutchmenn.eed clutch play. The other assistant captain is Reid Simonton. · Simonton made _a huge imp;:Jct on the Dutchmen, last year, in his ·rookie season. Reid was second· arrtongst·rdokie scorers, and first in defensive scoring. He totaled seven goals and five assists· for twelve points. Simonton has an excellent shot, and a natural abil: ity for rushing the puck up ice. One of the f~w highlights in last season's 8-3 home loss to R.P.I. was an impressive individual ef- fort by Simonton, in which he ·skated through the RPI defense, putting the puck passed a sprawl· ing RPI go~ltender. Reid was honored as a memb.er ~f the E.C.A.C. AU-Rookie team, last year. In order for the Dutchmen to become a force in the E.C.A.C., Simonton wi1l need to continue his improvement on both ends of the ice. In addition Simonton wiJI have to learn to take fewer penal- ties. Last year, he led the team with 78 minutes in penalties, a number which Simonton will hopefully Jeam to cut down in his second season. On the offensive side of the team, there are four returning for- wards (not including Jiampetti and Albert). Of the four return~ ing forwards Cory Holbrough is sive forward. The three r.emain~ ing veteran. forwards are aU sophomores. · Chris -Hancock is a strong physical player, who isn't afraid to drive opponents into the boards. Hancock will be an im- portant player in the comers as well as in front ofthe net. Chris Sears is an excellent skater with a natural scoring touch. Unfor- tunately for the Dutchmen Sears missed a total of eleven games prove greatly this season. Holunga too had a strong rookie year. ·Holunga is a strong defensemen on both sides of the ice. Holunga scored one goal and added eight assists, for a total of nine points. The four veteran defensemen should not only make contributions to the team indi- vidually, but will also assist the four rookie deferisemen in their development to collegiate hockey. due to a broken hand suffered For the past two years, Union's against Harvard, r---:-'--------!.-, The eleven forwards are Jamie Antoine, Ryan Donovan, Chris Ford, Russell Monteith, Craig Reckin, Jon Sincinski, Pat O'Fiaherty, Andrew Olynick, Jay Prentice, Troy Stevens, and Chad Tho\npson. Of the eleven for- wards three were league all-stars, three were either captains or as- sistants of their teams, and four were league or team M.V.P.'s. Delventhal expects all to make an impact on the team, but is confi- dent that Jon Sincinski, Chad Th- ompson, and Troy Stevens will be instant standouts. In the October 15th issue of The Hockey News , Troy Stevens is listed as one ofthe five top E.C.A.C. pros- pects. There is obviously a plethora of talent at both ends of the freshmen class. The question that remains is; How long will it take them to develop to the Divi- sion I level?, and to what degree of success each will enjoy. and a shoulder in- greatest asset has jury sustained late: been in the posi- in the season. •E,.A.·:c· .. tion of goaltender. Sears is hoping to WI Playing between regain the scoring ·HOCK• . . . . . ··EJ the pipes for the touch he had in . past two seasons juniors. A pto- are juniors Mike '------~---- . ....~Gallant and Luigi ductive Chris Sears would be a great plus for1he Dutchmen. The final sophomore forward is Brad Knkko. Kukko had five goals andtotaledtenpoints in his fresh- man Season. 'Brad's best perfor- mance of the season came against Princeton .. In that game, Kukko figured in on all three of the Dutchmen goals, scoring two, and assisting on the '\)ther. Kukko is a fierce competitor, and as wit- nessed by the Princeton perfor- mance, Can explode in any game. • These forwards wilJ; be looked to not only meet last seasons totals, but exceed them. The other retuming forward is junior Keith Darby. Darby is a Schenectady native, who played in 19 games last season, scoring l goal and five assists. Keith is presently on the teams injured re- serve, and may see action later in the season. The defensive side of Union's returning team is one of its stron- gest assets. In addition to Simonton, there are three other returning defensemen. The sole junior is Dean Goulet. Goulet is a smart defensemen who has two years of divison I experience. The two other returning Villa. These two goalies have been a consistent force in the Dutchmen nets. Gallant played in ten games last season and re- corded a save percentage of .872. Villa, in his rookie season re- corded three wins and was named to the E.C.A.C. All-Rookie Team. In his sophomore campaign, Luigi equaled his mark of three wins and had a save percentage of .86 7. for the past two seasons Gallant and Villa have shared the goal~ending role, and when one goalie was playing extremely. well, the other took on a back-up • role. This season according to The Dutchmen have combined for six victories in their past two seasons. This years squad is more talented than the two previ- ous teams The team, however, is a young one, with more than half the team having no collegiate experience. If these players are able to de- velop quickly, it will be no sur- prise to see the Dutchmen in post- season play this year and for many years to come. :·\ ••• , 0 \ ·MIN'S SOCCER ' , '' ~; , ' ~,;:,: ' , : .•· ·' ·' ' .L • : , .. ·.. , . , ;\:~·,:~·~:S\B9l(J,EST£R ~''' Wire .i •• t;,.ltli. . . . $,t)ct\-et~ . · ·rarrk~~vt\ntn in · thf!;;J~orth; •·;Jst~: .de£enteQ; the Uniiv:ersity tjf ftoohester r.·· tLrattke<it::t~'k ll-~iQnaJ.ty); 3,. t . .on .. lue.sday at ·ltoohester. ·,, ~U!l}h~sti~)~~l\'M~~~~·ltanked.seconil:it:t. tne. ·Nertheast. On ··· . f;;~id•;· :~nee: Dut~m:en · wUl play. Gt.arkson University. < (tatt1t~: 11$rill-tlit~:Northeast) at 3 :3t>~<>fi t.Jn!nn's home field. · .~tt scut~lll twice for the·· · . bmen, and Senior ··. st~n~.:; Pp.pp~j- · · ~.4 nine shots> and · 'ldok. .. ··;·c -, -

, ... )1\ October 21, 1993 PAGE 16 Union defeats RPI 19-16 on Ia te Field Goal to • regain Dutchmen's Shoes by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor Entering Saturday's games ver- sus RPI, the Dutchmen had a sea- sonal recm:d of 5-0, and had re- corded eight consecutive victo- ries. Their last loss came in Union's Homecoming match-up versus RPI. The Dutchmen were hoping to retum the favor of be- ing llomecoming spoilers. The Dutchmen scored in the Dutchmen Football first quar1cr on an .18-yard pass from Scott Newton to junior tight end Doug Redstone. The Dutchmen con- .- tinucd to play well, and scored again in the second quarter, on an excellent play by receiver Stephen Cusic. Newton threw a pass to Cusic, who caught it and ran the ball down the sideline for a touchdown. Unfortu- nately Greg Harrison's PAT was unsuccessful and the Dutchmen lead remained at 13-0. From then on the play of .the Dutchmen began to falter. First the Engi- neers scored a 25-yard field goal cutting Union's lead to 13-3. On their next possession, the Engineers had third and goal on Unions 9-yard line, and were poised for a touchdown. However, their scoring hopes were thwarted by the combined effort of defensive back Keith Bovardi and \linebacker Marco Lainez who stopped the RPI running back, and forced the Engi- neers to settle for their second consecutive field goal. The Dutchmen went into the locker room with a 13-6 lead. a lead that wouldn't last for long. On their second possession of the half the Engineers drove down the field, settling for yet another 20-yard field goal cutting the Dutchmen lead to 13-9. n1at lead wouldn't last long, as on the ensuing possession Newton's pass was picked off by an Engineer defender. RPI proceeded to move the ball through a beleaguered Dutchmen defense, and eventually scored their first touchdown of the afternoon, taking the lead 16-13. The Dutchmen offense recovered in the fourth quar- ter, and after an impressive possession Harrison at- tempted a 29-yard field goal. Harrison's attempt was unsuccessfi1I, and the Dutchmen's hopes started to di- minish. However, two possessions later, Harrison was able to connect from 24-yards out, evening the score at sixteen. With the clock running down, the Engineers were threatening to score with the ball on the Dutchmen 40- yard line. Luck was on Union's side as Engineer quarterback Brandon Grabowski's pass was picked off by junior free safety Kevin Weedmark, and returned nineteen yards to the RPI 41 yard line. The interception marked the fourth by Weedmark in his last two games. With the ball in the opposition's territory, and the clock running down, Newton connected with senior wideout Joe Ruggeri for a 22-yard gain. The Dutchmen had the ball on the 21-yard line with 38 sec- onds left in the game. Harrison was called upon to attempt a 38-yard field goal with the game on the line. Harrison came through this time, splitting the uprights and winning the game fer the Dutchmen 19-16. Harrsion spoke about the kick following the game. \ I was a little nervous. I missed an extra point and a field goal earlier and that sent me into another world. My range is about what you saw out there\. TI1e win upped the Dutchmen's record to 6-0 for the season. How- ever, since the Dutchmen struggled against a inferior team, their rankings dropped to fourth in the New York Upstate Poll. Union is the only undefeated team in the polls which has a team with a loss ranked higher than them (Mont Clair 3rd at 4-l). Next week the Dutch- men will travel to face the Cost Guard Academy. Union (6-0) vs. Coast Gu~rd. 89:.7 WRUC -1 p.m. SAT. e oes! Stephen 'usic, Union College wide receiver; .· · to fullest in the first quarter. Cusic's catch was followed hy an I H yard touchdown pass from quarterhack Scot/ Newton tojuniortight end Doug Redstone. Cusiclater caught an 80 yard touchdown pass in the second quarter. In all, Cusic had 1 I 0 receiving yards. Quarterback Scott Newton, who has had several suh-par peiformances, completed /6 of 31 passes for 275 yards, and two touchdowns. Newton is now 9-0 as a starter, and Union is 6-0 this season. 1he victory kept Union's {wpe for a national championship a/i1•e. RPI.fellto 3-2 despite 293 yard-. passing from senior quarterback Brandon Grabowski. (photo by Josh Haines) Women's Rugby Divisional Chantpions Undefeated and Bound for State Tournament by blocking a kick in Amy Klaucke charges up the field in Union's Win. Photo by Josh Haine.s/TC courtesy of Women's Rugby This past Saturday, the Rugby gods were not just smiling, they were grin .. , ning ear-to-ear, as the Union Women's Rugby Team held its first and only home match of the fall, hosting the Oneonta State Lady Rebels. Knowing that if Union could win this match that they would win their Upstate Division; Coach Andy McDonnell gave an in- spirational speech at the strategy ses- sion Friday night, offering his advice, moral support, and 1 00 bucks to any- one who could drop-kick a field goal. As the fog lifted Saturday morning, and after the referee strolled in at his leisure, the match was off to a quick start, with Union threatening to score from the onset. Gaeta Schweizer and Amy Klaucke each came close to the try zone, but the first half ended scoreless for both teams. Although · Union played an outstanding half, but it wasn't until the second half that the team really got their heads into the game. Union nearly had their first try minutes into the second half, when nearing the try zone and looking for help, serum half Barb McCuen made the pass to an open player. Unfortu- nately, it turned out to be the referee, who declined to catch the pass and score for Union. She redeemed this embarrassing error a few plays later, Oneonta's try zone, which speedy wing forward/captain Jessie Zirinsky dove upon for the score, The action then marched down to the other end of the pitch, where Union exhibited outstanding defen- . sive techniques. The most notable of such was fullback Wendy Stephenson's brilliant technique of sending Oneonta's hooker to Ellis with a life-threatening injury to an area around her ribs, which only Male Nurse/ Coach Andy McDonnell knew the name of. Stephenson prevented yet an- other Oneonta tty by .shoot- ing their wing with a sawed;. off shotgun. After the mess was cleaned up, Union ran the ball back down the field, where Kristeen Hoffman scored the - game-clinching try with three min- utes left. As usual, the serum played a great game. The unsung heroines were rookies Jane-The-Prop, ChelseaLazauskas, Emilia Teasdale, Nikki Goldin; and veterans Laura. Grund, Kat Walter, Jessie Zirinsky, and Kelly Cassidy. The B-side took on the Lady Rebels, next. Rookie second row Kim Sanabia left mouths open as she charged through the try zone, just minutes into the first half. Once again, the play moved dangerously close to Union's goal line, but yet another strong defensive effort kept Oneonta from scoring. Fullback continued on page 14 ,, :I I' l

'; .. ... ,.,. ·~ nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number VII Honorary Degrees Committee Begins to Make Decisions by Elizabeth DeKoven ConcordiensisSIJlff award was given at graduation. P~te Williams, one ofthe mainte- nance men at Union College, was given a certificate for his out- The Honorary Degree Commit- standing commitment to helping tee, the organization in .charge of Union College. '\flle school could compiling a list of possible recipi- not give him an Honorary Degree ents for honorary degrees, has because he had no high school begun to make their decisions. diploma,\ said Dr. Butterstein. The committee is responsible \But when he received his special for creating a p(>rtfolio and pre- certificate, the applause were so senting it to the President; how- loud. Union College students ever, the Honotary Degrees proved themselves to be human- Committee just gives recommen- istic, warm and sensitive.\ dations. The ultimate decision The process of choosing the concerning the chosen recipients honorary degree recipient is one is made by the President and the that is supposed to involve the Board ofTrustees. entire school cominunity. Sug- One of the committee's main gestions are solicited from the stu- tasks is to .suggest ,possible Hon- dent body, faculty and staff. All orary Chancellor recipients. Seniors are given a questionnaire Since the recipi'{ffit· speaks' at to complete. Last year, the com- graduation, the committee looks mittee was disappailite.4.iwith.tbe.. for someone who is an evocative mere 54 suggestions submitted by speaker and can bring a certain . the Seniors. · presence to the podium. The re- ~''The one problem we run into cipient has generally also re- with the suggestions we receive ceived recognition for achieve-. from the students is that most of ments in a given field. them want entertainers to get the \The committee is actively award and most entertainers looking for females and minori- won't come unless we pay them,\ ties to become the Honorary said Dr. Butterstein. \Recipients Chancellor,\ said Bruce ·must have a connection to the Downsbrough,DirectorofDevel- school. So, as for Barbara opment and a representative on Streisand and Robert Redford, the committee. \It is important who were both at Union when that in our choice for commence- they filmed The Way We Were, ment Speaker we convey the rues- the question remains whether they sage that everybody can do ev- . would return without being paid.\ erything,\ said Louisa Matthews, The committee is comprised of also a member of the committee. faculty representing the four dis- \I personally am interested in ciplines; arts, social sciences, en- achievements by women in areas gineering and science, repn;:sen- where men still dominate.\ tatives from the administration \I would like to see a person and representatives from the stu- who has led a really interesting dent body. life speak at the commencement,\ \This is my second year as chair saidDr.GeorgeButterstein,chair of the committee,\ said Dr. of the committee. \One of my Butterstein. \Although a faculty favorite speakers was Elizabeth member is normally only chair for Roth. She had beep a prisoner in . one year, President Hullasked me World War ll and had written a to· stay on through the Bicenten- book on death and dying~ Every- nial to create continuity.\ one was crying at graduation.\ The committee must cross Dr. Butterstein. conveyed that the match nominees for areas of ex- most important message the au- pertise, gender and race. TI1e list ·thor gave the graduating class was of nominees the committee com- that although the .graduates were piled last year ranged from the at a peak-in their life, in orderto founders of Ben & Jerry's Ice live, they had to reach their val- Cream to the Chief of the Chero- leys in order to understand sue- kee Nation. cess. \The committee must complete Last year, through the Honor- continued on page 3 ary Degree Committee, a special Schenectady, New York October 28/November 4, I 993 Faculty Receive Honors by Alex Kreisler Associate News Editor Four faculty members re- cently became holders of en- dowed chairs. Seth Greenberg, was installed as the Gilbert R. Livingston Professor ofPsychol- ogy, Sigrid Kellenter as the Tho- mas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modem Literature, Harry Marten as the Edward E. Hale Jr. Professor of English, and Alan Taylor as the Marie Loise Bailey Professor of Mathematics. The ceremony for the endowed pro- fessorships took place in the Col- lege Center auditorium, where each professor was dressed in tra- ditional cap and gown. Hope For Voting Right~ \' The Gilbert R. Livingston Chair in Psychology was estab- lished by a bequest from Gilbert R. Livingston of the C1ass of 1924. Mr. Livingston was along- time Fellow of the Casualty-rAc- tuarial society. The honored re- cipient, Professor Greenberg, re- ceived his bachelor's degree in psychology· from Queens Col- lege,· City University of New York, and his master's and doc- toral degrees in experimental psychology from The Ohio State University. He came to Union in 1979 after teaching at Ohio Uni- versity and was chair of the College's Psychology Depart- ment from I 984 to 1992. He spe- cializes in cognitive psychology, the psychology of reading, word recognition, and advertising psy- chology. by Heather Reyn~lds ':- Concordiellf.is Sta_lf, · Next week, Schenectady resi- dents will go out -to vote, but Union studetns will still not be amongst therri, butthere is hope. Recently, the National Voters Registration Act of 1993 was passed in Washington. It will go into effect in January of1994 and it will be mandatory in January of 1995. Although the County Board of Elections is not sure what this will mean for the rights of Union ~ollege students to vote, this does give Union students hope. Although students from 222 other schools in New York state have been given the right to vote in the community that their col- lege is a part of, Schenectady has not yet allowed its students this constitutional right to vote. As voter registration stands right now, Union students are not allowed to registered to vote in Schenectady because they cannot prove ties to the community. According to Bob Brown of contin11ed on page 4 The Thomas W. Lamont continued on page 4 Survey of Marijuana at Union Students : Have you ever smOked Marijuana at Union? NO 37 o/o YES 63% Questions Posed *Did you smoke marijuana prior to coming to Union? *Have you ever smoked marijuana at Union? *Do you.findmarijuana readily accessible? *How often do you smoke marijuana? *Did peer pressure play a role in your decision to smoke?

·· O·ctober ·2s, 1993, p:age 2 ····NEWS New Recycling Legislation: Victory for Environmentalists by Eric HabibCo11tributing Writer .Our country is faced with a waste management problem, and an even greater problem with apa- thy. Environmentalists warn that landfill space is l1:11111ing out and this threat is intensi.fied by the NIMBY (Not In.My BackYard) syndrome. On the other hand, incinerators have been shot down by environmentalists because though burning garbage takes it \out of sight and out of mind,\ they argue the sky is not meant to be a garbage dump. Recycling seems to be the most innocuous and effective solution to waste disposal. If we simply reuse the waste we have already created, then there is little need for land- fills or incinerators. However, waste prevefition and market de- velopment for recyclable have emerged as major challenges for paper manufacturers everywhere. Thecreation ofmarkets for recy- clable products depends upon the efficiency of collection p~ograms, the quality of the materials col- lected and on communicating the availability and benefits of recyclables to industry. \Unfortunately most paper manufacturers are comfortably locked into a pattern of purchas- ing virgin raw materials and are not equipped, either by habit or machinery, to use recyclable raw materials, even though they might well be cheaper, after ah admit- tedly difficult adjustment period. In addition, there are often pub- lic subsidies for the use of virgin materials but no comparable en- couragement for using the recy- clable substitutes. Many of the largest paper consumers and manufacturers have large invest- ments in forests and tree fanns, and they are therefore loath to use recycled paper instead of making additional profit by cutting the trees in which they have invested and for which they receive large tax subsidies.\ commented Vice President AI Gore. Paper and papetboarq is the largest single component of municipal solid waste, amounting to more than forty percent of the volume in landfills. If we wantto reduce the amount of garbage entering land- fills, recycling paper is the obvi- ous place to start. Many paper companies are gambHng hun- dt:eds of millions of dollars by investing in de-inking plant ma• chinery. This effort indicates that industry is willing to make use of recycled paper. In actuality, the demand forte- cycled paper is not a major prob- lem. The major barrier to in- creased use of recycled fiber in printing and writing J?apc;:r is, ironically enough, supply. Ac- cording to many mill managers, recycling consultants, and waste- paper brokers, \the growing de- mand for well-sorted, high qual- ity wastepaper may soon outstrip the available supply.\ Virginia Stefan, associate editor of the newsletter, Paper Recycler said, \In the '80s, we collected all this wastepaper, but there was no place to send it because of insuf- ficient demand. Now, demand is up, and the mills an~ worried about insufficient supply.\ The best way that this industry can recover more wastepaper is ·by boosting its de-inking capac- ity for printing and writing paper. From an article in Garbage maga- zine, \paper company executives note that government and private- sector customers are demanding recycled-content printing and writing paper, which pushes manufacturers to provide it so they can protect market share.\ Last week, the Clinton adminis- tration administered an executive order :requiring Federal .agencies and the military to buy paper madefrom atleasttwentypercent recycled fiber by the end of next year andthirty percent :by the end of 1998. The federal government is the largest.single buyer .of print- ing and writing paper, consum- ing two percent ofthe entire mar- ket. The Government Printing Office supposedly buys about forty thousand tons of paper, in a year. Because it uses so much paper, the purchasing guidelines and definitions the federal gov- ernment applies to itself often become de facto national stan- dards. This executive order was a vic- tory for environmentalists. The intended goal of President Clinton's order is to create are- cycled paper market that requires companies to provide recycled papet::ptoducts •.. By creating the need 1 bu.sinesses will respond and this will encourage mote .recy- cling, By setting. a Eeder;al stan- dard, tlte administration hop<:s to stimulate demand by paper manu- facturers for recycled fij>er .. The big paper companies, represented by the American Forest and Pa- per Association, fear that these more .stringent requirements will make recycled paper-making a prohibitively expensive struggle. Environmentalists say, \The WhiteHouse has shown real lead- ership in tapping the considerable purchasing power of the Federal Government to help strengthen markets for recycled-content pa- per.\ It is likely that the purchas- ing guidelines and definitions the federal government applied to it- self last week wi:ll be copied in New York City. A Department of .Sanitation spokesman said ·last week that \the department hopes · to introduce an amendmc::nt next week to the city's recycling law that would include content stan- dards at least as. stringent as the new Federal quota.\ The paper industry is now changing rapidly because of the government's push and consumer pressure. Many paper manufac- tur.ers are converting mills sa that they may process recycled pulp. Such developments have set ·Off a technolagy race that could help determine winners and losers in the paper industry, in the next decade. In the near future, the paper industty may move away from forests and tree farms where it is currently located to suburban areas around big cities, where it's major future resource, the waste paper of today, and its markets lie. gram:, ·'Skill Development f9r\ .· · •F. ·j uue1M $uccesg i~, a Multi®ltuttl1'En;;: · ·· · .· ·• ··. ·· · · . · · · · .. ·· · .. · · · · ·· · vitomnent,''.whichis designed. M(>OO(:!ofilpani~s ... ~···,.w;~f11i'rilt as. a.tong~term· strategy ·to:· en- these l1 pr6gramsw1If·f:lav:~· a· ~ancecmutlicultut~ unde'rs~<:f\ reai.andiJ,niJi~ditite ~ph'(lt~ ~d' · · ing among :students. · ·· ... ·. · · we ·.hope. they wi.t1 sette as: • ~Participants -are ·askect·'·to rnmlelS. f'Qr~ther. cctlJeges;;and~ examine the validitYofnegfl.,tive uriiverSiti¢s~arouiuf the· ~oun;r '· B . • :, ·,,... . ·•· ·. , Student Forum Needs A New Junior Representative Petitions Available Week of November :lst Petitions Du-e November 8th Pictures For m4r <rrnncnrotrnsis To Be Taken November 8th at 8:00p.m., CC 303 <!Inncnrbiensis Blurbs Due November 8th At, CC 303. It Is Required To Be On A High Density Disk Elections.- Friday, November 12th

.NEWS October 2'8, 1993, page 3 Anti - Abortion Ads Hit .Campus Newspapers --------~. --- ((irculation without dissenting student newspaper at the Univer- Texan,'' Justine Kalmin, an _ac- issue should have a chance to be Courtesy of opinions. Pro-choice students also sity of Texas-Austin. counting junior at the University heard. However, editors and ad The College Press Service have criticized some information The student newspapers at of Texas, told the newspaper. managers said they were bound Pro-life groups are targeting colleges with paid newspaper supplements that use first-person accounts and photographs of babies and developing fetuses to Urge women to consider alterna- tives to abortion. \We had hoped to put it in 100 campuses nationwide this year,\ said Bob Cheatham, a graduate student at the l!niver- sity of Southern California and past president of the California Collegians for Life. Students who oppose ·abortion want to print and distribute 1 million copies of the publication through campus newspapers. The campus newspapers at Stanford University at Palo Alto, Calif. 1 the University of Texas- Austin and the University of California-Los Angeles are among about three dozen univer- sities that have agreed to run the pre-printed 12-page advertise- ment, which runs as an insert. However, the supplement has raised objections from some students who believe it is an at- tempt to bypass the editorial pro- cess and get pro-life views into . ,··· . -~ -, in the publication as false or mis- North Carolina State University \There needs to be someone by First Amendment rights to leading and question whether First in Raleigh and the University of responsible for ads someone on print advertising regardless of Amendment issues are involved. Texas-Austin recently ran the in- the board to check figures,'' said whether they agreed with it. Students involved in getting serts, which angered pro-choice Dino Perez, an engineering se- \When considering the stu- the supplement into as many col- students. nior. \I really believe in freedom dents who are upset about the lege newspapers as possible be- The insert, prepared by the of the press, but it's the media's tabloid, you must keep in mind lieve the pro-choice groups are Human Life Alliance of Mione- responsibility to check facts.\ this question: How is it any dif- disgruntled because Collegians sota, features six photos of devel- Cheatham said he has re- ferent from making the tax dol- For Life have found an effective oping fetuses, and one picture viewed the information in the Iars of Christians go toward 'art,' communication tool. showing the feet of an aborted supplement and believes it to be via the National Endowment for '.'The vast majority of campus fetus and two of babies. It also correct. \I would challenge those the Arts ... Is this freedom of re- newspapers accept advertising includes first-person accounts of students to point out where the ligion, being forced to pay for art from the family-planning indus- anonymous women who said information is misleading,\ he that offends your religion?\ try, i.e., for abortions,\ Cheatham they had abortions and regretted said. wrote Colin Burch, editorial page .said. \I view it as equal access. the decision, statistics, names and The response was similar at editor of the Technician, in re- The advertising for abortions in telephone numbers of pro-life North Caroiina State University. sponse to the criticism. college newspapers is really a groups who offer pregnancy test- \I am outraged at the anti-choice James Barger, advertising marketing technique because ifs ing, .post-abortion counseling, propaganda so lavishly included manager for the Daily Texan, used to convince students to buy maternity housing and adoption in this Monday's Technician,\ said the political viewpoint of the a product. ... (The supplement) is services and information about Sean Korb, a junior in computer supplement was not the issue. not selling a product _ it's per- the stages offetal development. engineering, wrote in a letter to The newspaper's policy was de- suading a point of view.\ Local pro-life groups decide the North Carolina newspaper. \I signed to be open to advertise- . According to the pro-life whethertheywanttospansorthe realizethatsuchalargeadvertise- ments from people who hold sponsors, the supplement is in- supplement, which is customized menflikely paid a great many views contrary to the editorial eluded in newspapers for an av- so that local information can be bills, but the integrity of the pa- staff. erage charge of 15 cents pernews- iiicluded on certain pages before per.and our school have been vio- Cheatham said the low-key paper, including printing and dis- copies are printed. The cost of the lated. The opinion page of the pa- approach that the supplement tribution. Costs vary depending advertising generally is paid by per is the proper space for ex- takes is a key factor in decisions on the newspaper~' ad rates. The local pro-life groups, sometimes pressing opinions.\ to run the advertisement. \This Human tife Alliance of Minne- with help from the Hwnan Life Others said they were upset is a more respectable way ofpre- sota Inc. recently paid about Alliance, Cheatham said. that students' money was being senting some issues,\ he said. $1,000 to have the supplement . \'I think it's disgusting. I used to support the newspaper inserted into The Daily Texan, the \'can't believe they put it in the and that all sides in the abortion '· Student Forum Spotlight by Seth Brown Manhattan Exchange At this week's student forum meeting a few important decisions were made. First and foremost was the appointment of Freshmen President Rawson Thurber to represent the forum at the social com- mittee meetings. This is the first time in recent times that the stu- dent forum has appointed a member to this committee. By making this appointment~ the student forum is increasing their support of social alternatives. Another important topic discussed this week occurred at the Academic Affairs meeting. At this meeting the issue of academic warning came up. Ideas ranged from lowering the grade point average needed to go on academic warning to tak- ing it off of one's transcript altogether, leaving it is a warning, not a punishment. Renovations to the weight rooms are still be dis- cussed, but in the meantime 2 stair masters, 3 bicycles, and a new sound system have been purchased for Alumni Gym and will be available to everyone. 374~5930 605 Union St. • ~· - '·., ;~_;' ,.;;:-·::;. -.;::c, ' .~ ' ,' • ' ' $' • ~:lf~a· ·:::: <,:~:ie·':~·~~~~a·: · .::~,e( ··,.·~::··:;a····· :,.·····;;~t~~ ::':·s.,:\ : ., ' ? .... ,.,..· ·. ,, ••• ,.. . .. , •. :I\'' .. :;.. . ~ .• ;i'·, '/ ·'' ): ·.· ... ,. ,:• ... ;, '·:--' .-·- • • •..• v .. :_-, Lisandra Ramos, junior class Vice President, will be going on a tenn abroad this winter. This is something that was not foreseen, last year, when she ran for this position. Student Forum policy states that students who go abroad are not allowed to run for a position for that year. Therefore, Lisandra has agreed to step down as Vice President at the end of this term. Nate Coffin will assume the duties of Vice President; elections for Secretaryffreasurer of the junior class will be held to fill the vacancy. Petitions will be available starting November lst from Student Activities, and will be due November 8th. There will be a crosstalk on November 4th in Chet' s titled \Does the Greek system affect academic affairs?\ Everyone is strongly encouraged to attend. Most Student Forum meetings are open to the public. See a forum member or student activities for further details. In addition, class meetings/events are being formed. These . meetings are the best way to share your input. Honorary Degrees Committee Decides on Recipients Continued from page 1 their portfolios early on in the year because it takes a long time to contact the nominees and to get them to commit,\ said Dr. Butterstein. \It is an especially long process if the nominees de- cline and the college must con- tact another person.\ The committee openly requests suggestions for honorary degree recipient and commencement speaker. Matt Karlyn, class of'94 and member of the committee, believes, \It is extremely impor- tant that we get the entire college community involved in this pro- cess. By doing so, we hope to bring in Union people, who the faculty, administrators and stu~ dents feel are most deserving of Union's Honorary degrees.\

. ' October 28, 1993, page 4 Even·ts Committee by Farhana Khan Contributing Writer A new policy has been put into effect fuis year to resolve con- flicts concerning the scheduling of events. It was announced by Helen Madden, Associate Direc- tor of the Office of Special Events, Conferences and Execu- tive Development. The policy and· guidelines were established by the College's Scheduling Priorities Committee. The committees were formed in order to prevent misunderstand- ing between· organizations and events. According to Kelly Buttridge, the old system was operated by tradition. There was no written, prior organization of events. Now, everything is com- puterized and information is transferred to Lee Bloomrosen, who is the director of the student center. Events fall in three categories. Red events, those that draw a col- lege wide audience and have the highest priority. Only closed (green) events may be scheduled at the same time. Examples ofred events are Bicentennial Lectures, AIDS Conference, Steinmetz . Symposium, Commencement and ReUnion. Yellow events, those that draw a division-wide audience, have second priority. Concurrent yel- low events may be scheduled only by agreement between sponsors. (Student activities are considered \divisions\.) Division refer to specific areas of interest such as .. the arts, biology, etc . Green events, open only to closed membership$, may be scheduled at any time. Groups that address a specific audience generally fall in this category. Requests to designate yellow events will be granted if there are no-conflicts. All green events will be designated upon request. The Committee requires that a twenty- four hour notice be given in ad- vance, when booking a room. Members of the Scheduling Priorities Committees represent various organizations and inter- ests. The Committee is composed of Lee Bloomrosen, Kelly Buttridge, Bruce Downbrough, James Kenney, Deborah Ludke, Helen Madden, Byron Nichols, Dick Sakata, Hilary Tann and ·Patricia Tappa. NEWS Caffeine: The -:Euel That Keeps Us Going --------~~----------~ Courtesy of The College Pre$S Service TUCSON, Ariz. _ It is the fuel of all-nighters. The lifeblood Jhat courses through the veins of college stu- dents, pushing them on toward academic achievement. And sometimes, as a popular button proclaims, it is your only friend. It's caffeine, and students de- vour it in mass quantities. Maria Celes, a Union Square Cafe employee, said the Univer- sity of Arizona Student Union restaurant sells about 15 pounds of coffee and 2,400 ounces of cola each day. And that's just the beginning. Add to that a daily total of about 100 hot espressos, 15 gallons of cold espresso and six gallons of tea. Becky Snyder, another Union· Square employee, said a female this summer drank three 32- ounce cups of cafe au Iait each day. She said it was not unusual for a regular cafe customer to drink three or four cups. of some · kind of coffee per day. Some smdents said they use caffeine to replace eating and sleeping. . ''When you only get two hours ·Of sleep each night you re- ally need it,'' said Colleen Gra- ham~ an English. and French se- nior. She said caffeine. became a regimen in her life when she had ~arly. classes her freshman year. \It was Motintain Pew and M & Ms for breakfast that would keep me going,\ Graham sai;d. Jennifer Webb, an English and Gennan senior, said she re- centlyhad the. choice of using her last three q11arters for coffee or bus fare. \I walked home,\ she said, adding that the caffeine gave her enough energyto make the trek. Both said they have no plans to stop drinking ca:ffeinated bev- era8es, and <Jt:aham .added that slie gets headaches when she doesn't have coffee regularly. Gary Wenk, a University of Arizona'psychology professor,re- ' searched .caffeine as a professor at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. Wenk said caffeine acts as a general_$timulant to the central. nervous system, raising heart and blood pressare .rates. The sub- stance also drains sodium from ;~ ' the body, he said. \It ~eems to enchance men- tal function,.', Wen~ said. He added that caffeine is less apdicting .th~ nicotiJ.le. or other drugs and will positively affect only pe.ople who are physically or mentally fatigued. Those well- rested will only experience anx- iousness, he said. ' And Wenk.saidthe body does build up a tolerance to caffeine an event that could create ''nasty headaches'' for about three days if a regular drinker does not in- gest caffeine. Students sipping caffeinated beverages in the Student Union had their own reasons why caf- feine is part of their lives. Faculty Members Receive Endowments ''I drink tea because of its :fla- vor,'' said Sonya W odopianov. She said she drinks a beverage containing caffeine about four times per day. continuetl from page I Chair in ancient and Modem Lit- erature was established by a gift from Thomas W. Lamont, Jr., in honor of his father, the Rev!. Tho- mas.Lamont of the Class of 1856. The proud recipient, Sigrid Kellenter, received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of California at Davis and her Ph.D. from the State Uni- versity of New York at Albany. She joined the Union faculty in . 1978 as an assistant professor of Gennan and served as chair of the Department of Modern Lan- guages and Literature from 1988 to 1991. Her areas of special in- terest include nineteenth-and twentieth-century literature; po- etry of all ages; exile literature; literature and art; literature, poli- tics, and culture; and women writ- ers. The Edward E. Hale Jr., Chair in English was established by a bequest from Harold E. Blodgett of the Class of 1911. The gift honors Edward E. Hale Jr., a pro- . fessor of Mr. Blodgett's, \for his inspiration while I was a student and under his tutelage.\ Professor Martin expressed that he is \both surprised and pleased\ about his recent honor. Marten received his B.A. from Harpur College and his master's and doctoral degrees from the University of California at Santa CROSSTALK Does the Greek System Effect Academics at Union? Thursday, November 4th. 7:00- 9:00pm CHET'S Barbara. He came to Union in 1976 after teaching at Washing- ton University and served as chair of the English Department from 1980 to 1986. His teaching in- terests include modern and con- temporary English and American literature (poetry and fiction), nineteenth-century fiction, the rise of the novel, Victorian litera• ture, Romantic literature, and lit- erature and the visual arts. The Marie Louise Bailey Chair in Mathematics was established by gifts from Mr. and Mrs. Bailey. Mr. Bailey was a member of the Union's. Class of 1885 and trea- surer of the College for more than fifty years. This was awarded to Professor Taylor, who received his -bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Maine and a master's degree and a Ph.D. from Dartmouth College. He came to Union in 1975 as assis- tant professor of mathematics and was chair of the Mathematics Department from 198.5 to 1988. He is the current chair of the Sci- ence Division. His areas of spe- cial interest include set theory and the mathematical aspects of social choice and fair· division. On behalf of the entire college community, we would like to ex- press congratulations to Profes- sors Greenberg, Kellenter, Mar- ten, and Taylor. TELECOMMUNICATION'S TIPS Dialing Long I)istance Within the 518 Area Code Although New York Telephone announced that it is no longer necessary to input the \1\ bejore dialing a toll call within the 518 area code. It is still necessary to do so when dialing from any Union College telephone line. . . What is, and is not, a Local Call Local non-toll Calls: Galway, .Ballston Spa, Rouiut · Lake, JonesviUe; Mechanicsville, Valley Falls; Mariaville, Schenectady, Esperance, Delanson, Altamont, Berne, Westerlo, Clarksville, South Bethelehem, Albany, Castleton, Averill Park, Troy, Pittstown, Roitetdam Junction, Colonie, and VoorheesevUle Local Toll Calls : Schuylervill (695), Greenfield Center (893). Saratoga Springs (581, 583, 584, 587) Calling these areas will require the caller to dial a \J\ before the number when calling from a Union College telephone line. If you have any questions regarding the dia-ling instructions or other items relating to the college's Telecommunications System, please call ext 6411. Christopher Johnson, an En- glish literature senior, has a dif- ferent reason for drinking coffee. \It's something that's rela- tively cheap that might earn you a bachelor's degree,\ Johnson said, adding thatit helps him wake up in the morning and study for long periods of time. ''!just couldn't be doing col- lege if I didn't dnnk coffee,\ Johnson said. New Voter Registration Act of 1993 Passed continued from page 1 Schenectady County Board of Elections, \Students cannot claim to be residents of Schenectady if their driver's license says that they are from New York City and their parents are claiming them as independents there.\ President Hall and many other members of Union.'s administra- tion~ have enco·uniged members of out community to go beyond the college gates, and to develop good relationship with the other residents of Schenectady. Stu- dents have taken this challenge, and have become involved in pro- grams like We Care About U Schenectady, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, several volunteer pro- grams within the schools, as well · as spending millions of dollars in the local businesses. Dean Alford said \I think it's a shame not te encourage and en- able students to participate in their civic responsibilities. You take bright people; teach them about the world and how power is allo~ cated, and then don't allow them to use this knowledge.\

The History of the Gtibank Classic Visa. card and the Age of Credit Card Security. In the 67th year of the 20th Century A.D., Citibank introduced a credit card aptly titled the Citibank Classic Visa® card. Established on the premise that a credit card should offer...-.:24 hours a day-wa1111, personal service, the Citibank Classic Visa card marked the end of the Ice Age. And it ushered in a new era. ~l With the introduction of the first Photocard, the credit card bearing one's ·own ·photo and signature on the front, it soon became evident that Man was entering the Post Paleolithic Period. First, Man was no longer looking like a Neanderthal, as one often does on more primitive cards such as the Student ID. He or she could now r\i' whle1 t!iued lJ5/I 11~c .. wa• '\\ trnr choose his or her own photo. Second, by deterring other anthropoids known a!(LWlf'/' /~' flU/\ ;JilL;;\· .p/UJ(O Oil ·ll CTI.!dit curd-hut mil 11'ithrmt !fra~rbatks. Plmtoxraph,1· had not_\'<'/ been' inreniecl. It or·eildtl!d Ol'l!f 50 • U\Oill• usm' g the. ca.rd·, M·. ·a·n· Hlas helpm' g to p\e'ient !':raud. Sn\ely thl's pound;, ,.Jnd, it did tlrll lit easilr inlll a 11allet. ~·' vv. 1' v· 1; UJ.' was a sign of advanced intelligence. ~· The· subsequent rise of services was nothing less than an American Revolution. So as you might expect, Citibank would be there for you, even if your card was stolen, or perhaps lost. The Lost Walletsm Service could have a new card in your hands usually within 24 hours. (You can aLmost hear Paul Revere crying, ••The card is coming! The card- is canting!\) ~ When the Great Student Depression came along, Citibank introduced . New Deals-special student discounts and savings. Hence, today's student can enjoy a $20 Airfare Discount for domestic flights 1 (ushering in the Jet Age); savings on mail order pu:rch(lses, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest rate of 15.4% 2 ; and, . \ ~ J .i ' I• • w1 • • ··~·\ • ....... ~~. • .. f ·~ . .· • . ·- no annual fee. ~ Fina1ly, comes the day you enter the Classical Age (i.e. when you charge your purchases on the Citibank Classic card). You receive Citibank Price Protection to assure ·you of the best prices. Just see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150~ You receive Buyers Secul'ittm, to cover those purchases against accidental damage, fire or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase~ And Citibank Lifetime Warrantys\: to extend the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years 4 • Together they give you complete coverage; and with everything else ... the Age of Credit ~~~~~~;;~p~t:'.'!,. '\f: Card Security. ~ It's credit history in the making. With the help of Citibank's witlt 11.1 l,ost lliJ/Iet Sm·ice. lte u·ou!d not hm·t• heen com- ~~;~\~~1{;:;'~:;:'/J:.\t~·y~·:t;· services and savings, you earn some of the credentials needed later on to purchase a car or even a house. ~ So call to apply. Students don't need a job or a cosigner. Call, also, if you'd like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. The number is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-4226), extension 19. ~ If after reading this chapter describing the prosperous condi- tions set forth by a Citibank Classic Visa card, one feelsthat >,. he or she has left forever the Dark Ages and has entered upon a new age, the Age of Enlightenment, then· your time, as they say, has come. Destiny is calling. And so should you. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 'Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price ·is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. 'The Annual Pcrct;ntage R~~e for purchases is 15.4% as of8/93 and may vary, quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is imposed. the minimum is 50 cents. There 1s an additional finance charge for each cash adv-,mce transaction equal to 2% .of ihe amount of each cash advance transaction: however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater thall $10.00. 'Certain conditions alld exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Sl,!curity is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. 'Certain reslrictions and limitationsapply.Underwtitten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum.based, on retail industry data. Detailsofcoverage are available hfyourSumtnary.of Additional Program Information. Monarch® Notes are published by Monarch Press. a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are·issued by Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. <D 1993 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC. ' Monarch Notes® Version: With the Citibank Classic VISa card, you can build a credit history before you reach your middle ages. And, receive special student discounts. Call today 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-4226), extension 19.

October 28, 1993, page 6 WORLD NEWS NEWS BI{IEFS Crime and the Constitution World News Somalia: The dispute over how to proceed in SamaHa between the United States and the United Nations grew larger last week when the UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros- Ghali, went against warnings from Washington and made a surprise visit to Mogadishu. This visit caused street protests, exactly what the Clinton Administration was tcying to avoid. Russia: Last weekend, after agreeing with Japan not to dump nuclear waste in the Sea of Japan, a ship with low-level waste from Russia was dumped in the waters between the Russian far east and Japan's northern most island. This had .secretly been going on for years, but this time it was followed by Greenpeace. Greenpeace called the Japanese media and when the vessel dumped, it was on Japanese national TV. Bosnia: The plan to exchange 6,400 prisoners ofwarin the three , sided war between Croats, Serbs and Muslims has failed due to higher demands. Belfast: The Irish Republican Army detonated a bomb in a Prot- estant shopping area, killing nine people and wounding fifty, this week. Israel: This week Israel agreed to release 760 Palestinian prison- ers. Right wing protesters say that freeing them will only lead to more violence. Haiti: Haitian lawmakers say they doubt that the deadline will not be followed concerning the return to power of Father Aristide, who was ousted in a coup. National News Los Angeles: Damian Williams and Henry Watson were con- victed of beating Reginald Denny during the LA. riots. Williams was video t~pedthrowing a brick at Denny's head, while Watson was taped holding Denny's neck down with his foot while he beat him. Williams received 2-8 years in jail and Watson re- ceived a six month sentence. Drugs: President Clinton hinted that he was going to change policy on the War on Drugs from the Reagan•Bush one, which was spending seventy percent of funds on law enforcement. Since minimal results were seen, Clinton plans on concentrating on re- habilitation, prevention, and undermining drug smuggling. Es- sentially, he will try to beat drugs by getting people to give up the habit. Science: A researcher a George Washington University Medical School has cloned a human embryo. by Lara Greenbe.;g World News Editor Crime, crime, crime. Its all over the papers, magazines, movies, TV and it has been dominating elec- tions countcy-wide. Everyday we hear something new: The high- way killing of five of the Florida tourist, the Reginald Denny beat- ing case, the infamous Los Ange- les riots of course, the burning of a black tourist from New York, the roadside kill- ing of Michael Jordan's father, and .countless other violent crimes such as rape and murder that appear on the news daily. There is no doubt· that this is an ut- terly disgusting display of American life, but sad as it m~y be, it is very scary and very real. The question is, to what do we attribute these crimes to, or more importantly, how can this kind of behavior be stopped? What can be done to decrease the number of violent crimes, or elimi- nate them altogether? The news has been concentrat- ing on two issues that are directly related to both violent crime and every single person that lives in the United States: The number of guns that citizens own in the US., and the amount of violence on TV. To confuse the subject further, the Constitution has those two very famous amendments which we know as the right to bare arms and the right to freedom of speech. What I am about to say is going to seem hypocritical, but you must give me a chance to explain, so before you go burning this Issue of the Concordiensis, please read on. In my opinion, gun control is an absolute must, while violence U.S. Provides Russia with Technical Assistance In Upcoming Elections by Sarah. R. Evans World News Staff The United States has offered Russia technical s~pport for the upcoming parliamentary elec- tions in December and Presiden- tial elections in June, to insure that the elections are free and fair. All of the technical support is part of the U.S.'s efforts to bolster Rus- sian President Boris Yeltsin and his attempts to reform Russia. Secretary of State Warren Christopher stated that the US. technical support will focus on the basics, from voter education to poll-watching. The Clinton Ad- ministration expects that moni- toring of the Russian Parliamen- · tary elections and the Presiden- tial election will cost the US. ap- proximately $10 million. The Clinton Administration is pro-Y eltsin; and to avoid the im- pression that the US. is endors- ing him; all assistance will be like that which other countries who the US. supports the electoral process. The assistance in Rus- sia will be politically neutral. The US. electoral assistance will be in the means of four non- governmental departments, which will sponsor political training projects in cities around Russia. The United States will also train people to monitor the campaigning and the voting on the day of the elections. The US. will also teach news editors how to be less· bias in their reporting of the campaigns. The US. hopes that by provid- ing technical support for the Rus- sian elections, that the elections will be free and fair. The Clinton Administration is hoping the Y eltsin and his backers remain in power, but they are not using the technical support as a means to insure that they remain in power. Source: New York Times, Sunday October 24, 1993 on TV is a fact oflife and should not be government controlled. The National RifleAssociation urges everyone to own a gun for protection. It especially urges women to do this,.hecause as they see it, women are more suscep- tible to these violent crimes, an issue which I will not address in this article. It is a W(lll know fact that having a gun in your home will almost triple the chance of nated in the .past few weeks with c·ases such as the teen aged men who, while copying the scene from the movie \The' Program\ lied down on the yellow lines in the middle of the street , and were critically injured and killed. An- other occurrence in which a five year old boy, after watching \Beavis and Butthead\ imitated the .pyromaniac. character, Beavis, and · e, subse- .~~~te., que n t1 y someone getting shot there. TRIPLE! Now, I am no math whiz, but that means the odds are significantly higher, pushing me away from buying a gun for so- called protection. This brings us back to the amendment that gives every American the right to bare arms. The Constitution was writ- ten, as we all know,. when the British occupied America. At that point in history, the need for a standing army was essential. Not owning a gun at threat time was probably crazy and unheard of, but times have changed since then, to say the least. It is no longer necessary, for national se- curity, the original reason, (and in my opinion, the only Feason), to own a gun, thus giving the American people this right. It is obvious that gun control is a must. There are different laws in different states restricting the use of guns and for owning one. There are sporting activi- ties which require rifles, such as duck hunting and deer hunting. I am not proposing that the an- swer to the problem is to abolish these sports. I do think there should be extremely rigid laws concerning the ownership of guns. Whether they should be .. consistent in each states remains a question. The most important issue here is that guns should be controlled because they are fall- ing into the hands of groups such as school children and taking lives. The issue of violence on TV has been the center of discussion for sometime now. It has culmi- killing his sister. These incidents, . while lim- are very scary. There is obviously a direct correlation between the things that kids are watching, and the ac- tion that follow them, but the blame cannot be pinned solely on the TV shows and the movie. The question must be asked: What kind of people is our society bringing up in which kids mimic the ludicrous acts they see on TV and movies? It is apparent that we realize that the movies are not real life, but obviously some people do not know the differ- ence. This introduces the next problem, which is parental con- cern and control. It is the parents' duty to enforce some sort of law over their children, and to bring them up in a rnanner which will allow them to function in our so- ciety, the only one we know. The answer is not to restrict what goes on TV or the movies, as Attorney General Janet Reno suggest, or rather threatens. It is to take hold of reality in our soci- ety and enforce it. The right to freedom of speech, as opposed to the right to bare anns cannot be limited. If anything, free speech is completely oversimplified, since there has been so tnuch ad- vancement in the communica- tions field. This area has been developing since it first existed. To limit communications would not only be interfering with a per- sonal choice, but art as a form of expression, as well. Crime in the United States is a problem that will be with us for a long time in the future, for obvi- ous reasons. The answer to this dilemma lies in the way society functions as a whole rather than one particular movie or TV show. NOW OPEN! International Coffeehouse & Kiosk Specialty Co~ Teas (518) 347-2334 142 Jay· St. Opening 7 days a week Now I-Ii ring 10% offwith a student ID

'Olly.e- Grnn.c.orbi.eneis Science and Health October 28, 1993, page 7 Round Two: Tuberculosis Strikes Again by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff Patients ~ infected with new strain of multi-drug resistant TB Patients with Tuber- culosis with- ~utHIV'\1 ~ Patients with Tuberculosis who are HIV positive biotic treatment, another six months to a year are required for a patient to fully recover from TB. Because TB microbes grow so slowly, it may take a few months alone for enough TB culture to be grown in order to do antibiotic testing. And with the new multi- drug resistant forms, this process could easily become years. Doc- tors presently administer a vari- ety of drugs for short intervals in hopes that the right one will be found through treatment without going through the time-commm- ing process of finding the right antibiotic. Though it sounds like a good idea, this is probably one of the worst things to do. As the TB is exposed to the drugs, the weaker microbes that lack drug Once known as consumption, tuberculosis was one of the main causes of death in the middle 19th century. At that time the only cure was to rest, get plenty of fresh air and sunlight, and eat well. At the tum of the century, tuberculosis was still a major con- cem as it was responsible for one third of all deaths in the United States. In the 1940's doctors be- gan using antibiotic drugs to treat tuberculosis (TB) and this drasti- cally reduced the number of in .. fected patients. As a direct result of antibiotic treatment, the num:. ber of TB patients dropped 6% a year in developed com1tries from 1953 to 1985. And so, it appeared that another disease had been con- quered and science was trium- phant. ~. .. ~- ·.. . ~ {~ ' . TB by the Numbers /resistance are killed, while the remaining ones gain new resis- tance and multiply with new drug resistance capabilities. Eventu- ally, this highly resistant form of TB overwhelms the immune sys- tem. Science was wrong. In 1991 doctors reported an TBpatient increase ·of 18% in the United States, but this was. not the worst. Past treatment consisted of one or two antibiotics or a com .. bination that would kill off the infection; however, a new strain of TB had acquired resistance to many of these drugs. Tuberculosis is an airborne dis- ease that is spread by droplets containing the bacteria Mycobac- terium tuberculosis. When the bacteria enters the lungs, it mul- tiplies and forms a \focus.\ The body's immune system recog- nizes the focus and attacks it as a foreign substance. For 95% of the infe~ted TB population, this fo- cus will be identified and stopped in the lungs, leaving a white scar. The other 5% may have it spread to thelyruphnodes, or other parts of the body via the blood stream in what is known as military TB. .Military TB may be fatal. In some people, TB is dormant and may not flare up for years. Some esti- ' mates claim that up to one third of the world's population may actually carry TB in this dorni.ant fonn. That estimate translates into 15 million silent carriers of TB in the United States. Some of the major symptoms for TB include fever, shortness of breath, weight loss, night sweats, coughing, and spitting up blood. Though.there are a variety of ways to test for TB, preventative medi- cine and early treatment are per- haps the best methods. A BCG vaccine is suggested for anyone at A New Generation of Digital Sound Achieving the Perfect Sound by Andy Salama Co-Science and Healt/1 Editor In the early 1980's we saw the release of the compact disc. Since then millions of CD's and CD players have been sold, both of which account for a billion dollar a year industry. The success of the compact disc is largely due to its convenient size and incred;, ible ability to reduce high fre- quency noise (hiss and fuzz). Despite the dramatic increase in clarity provided by CD's, some audiophiles still stand by their LP's. Recent advances in record- ing technology have expanded on the digital concept of CO's. Digital sound is based on bi- nary numbers, series of 1 'sand O's arranged to form a code which can easily be stored and retrieved. In order for the digital code to be decoded a digital to analog con- verter is needed (D/A converter). This device allows your stereo amplifier to understand the digi- tal code. Oversampling is basi- cally the proofreading step of the digital play back. Oversampling rereads the same segment of bi- nary numbers several times, each time reducing extraneous bits .of information. Increasing the times of oversampling lessens high fre- quency noise. One bit process- ing is called different things (pulse processing, MASH pro.- cessing, etc .. ). This works by shortening the path in which bi- nary code is translated into ana- log. The less circuitry the infor- mation has to pass through, the less loss of information. The idea of single bit processing has be- come popular with some manu- factures of CD players. In the re- cent past the advent of fiber optic cables has allowed engineers to transmit digital codes through wires with virtually no loss of in- formation at all. Pulses of light can be sent through the fiber op- tic, this on/off action is actually the binary digital code. For in- stance when the signal light is on it could code for a 1, and when off it coula code for the 0. Since the release of the com- pact disc several other digital playback and recording methods have emerged. The compact disc works by shooting a laser beam on an aluminum or gold film with microscopic holes etched in it. When the beam passes through the holes it codes for either a 1 or 0, this creates the digital code. One important fac- tor that effects sound quality is the amount of information that can be read per unit time. Compact disc players usually spin at 300 rpm's, which results in a high bit/second ratio and eventually better sound. The problem of lost information due to continuous contact is eliminated in CD's, this ensures that CD's will deliver good sound for years and years. DA T or Digital Audio Tape emergea on the market shortly after CD's. DAT players work similarly to CD players in that . they read a binary code and con- vert it to analog via a D/ A con- verter. The advantage of the DAT is that it is recordable, and can make digital recordings. It has a relatively fast tape speed and can compete with CD in its sound quality. The only drawback is that there is contact between the tape head and the tape, which over time could result in a loss of in- formation. DAT basically bombed in the commercial mar- ket, but is still used extensively in the recording industry. DCC or Digital Compact Cas- sette came out last spring. The technical method is copyrighted and can only be used by a hand- ful of manufacturers (not includ- ing SONY). DCC can play nor- mal analog cassettes, and can also make digital recordings that sound some what close to CD. The sound quality of the DCC is however rather limited in com- parison to CD and DAT. Be- cause the tape spins at the normal tape speed of an analog cassette, the digital code had to be com- pressed, this results in drop outs in high and low frequency signals. Commercially the DCC has not done well mainly because of its excessive price, and somewhat because of its sound quality. Last summer Sony released its digital recording device. The continued on page 8 high risk. Sputum cultures are the most effective way to see if a person has TB bacterium. Tu- berculin skin tests are not a guar- anteed method to determine TB, they merely show the presence of antibodies to TB. The problem with treating the new drug resistant strain of TB lies in the nature of the infecting bacterium. It takes 24 hours for one bacterium to double and sev- eral thousands of bacterium are needed to do antibiotic testing. After finding the proper anti- The firefly enzyme luciferase is being studied as a new method to shorten the process to identify the proper antibiotic for each case of m. This procedure incorpo- rates the Iuciferase gene into the TB microbe's DNA. The usual drugs to treat TB are added to the TB culture andifthe TB microbes are weakened, the luciferase will continued on page 8 Health and Nutrition by Judith Sheldon Understanding Paln: Scientists are getting closer to find• · ing hGW pain mechanisms actually work, and they're using this · new knowledge to develop new therapeutic approaches for re- lieving pain. Reseltr(:)hers studying pain under a no-strings at- . tached grants program by Briston-Myers Squib Company, have , discovered !fle following interesting facts about patients, pain, and medication. Women and Pain; New evidence show important differences in the way pain kHfers w6rk in women and in men., suggesting that in body's natural response to inhibit pain may depend on the presence {)f the female -hormone~ estrogen. Looking ~·sick'' improves treatn:lent: Often, a patienfs pain is treated only according to how sick t~ey look. Also, if you are female~ Qlder, tmd a member of a minority .group~ .chances are, your pain is less ltkely to be treated. P~in As a ~iller: research shows, that denying patients appro- priate pain medication can actually weaken the immune system and speetl.:up tumor growth. Sni~king- and Sex: Ws ironic that the original advertising campai~s for ~igarettes back in the 1920's concentrated on mak .. in.g s~~king synonymous with sex appeal. (One major brand of cigarett~s Wtls sol~ With the advertising blurb, ·~so round, so firm, . so free and easy on the dra:w ... ~') . Today, we have a different persp@Ctive on the relationship be- . tween ~mo~ing ~d sexin~s, and Ws all negative. Smoking can - ~l~o ca\Usejtie }1ppet lip to' wrinkle Petmanently. • .. But~or~than that..smokipg doesn't just dampen someone's · sex appeal~ it can also actuaHy damage the performance as well, espedfi}ly of men. Paul Fan~ M.D.f ~ internal medicine specialist from Orand Rapids~ Michigan, says that many men are unaware that smoking contributes to itnpotence. If they were aware,\ says Dr. Farr, ••rm sure they would think twice befure lighting up.\ Dr. Fatt}s campaign to al~rt men to the dangers came out of a . 1991 '~Journal of Urology;; study by researchers a1t the Boston . University School of Medicine showing that men who smoke were • four times more likely to become impotent than a non-smoking . men .. The effect is apparently, due to the way smoking damages • the blood l,(t')Ssels inv~~ved in initiating and sustaining potency. l)r. MS;tXltos~nt leadtesearcher <>fthe Boston University study. noled;·th~t,f~fl1)t~·9:fY:Q\IUS:etPeoplet the tisk oflung can-cer seems : ~~~1~\ ;~~t.s~~,.j~,~~po#~t~~* ~lt~ i:'~~fi says. ·

October 28, 1993, page 8 Science and Health New Strain of Ba,cteria More Deadly Than Before Recordable CD in the Future continued from page 7 Mini-disc(MD). The MD is a miniature version of the CD kept in plastic housing similar to the .floppy 3.5 inch disc used in most· personal computers. In theory the MD works almost identical to the CD. Only Sony will be making ,the MD· players. Supposedly the sound quality is slightly less than that ofCD( I however can not tell the difference). Commercially the Mini-Disc is doing about as well as DCC. ing and playback devices on the market today may seem very small, however when trying to evaluate the options, the .compact disc always seems to be best choice. Rumor has it that the Japanese have come out with a recordable CD. So, if you're on the market for a digital recorder or player, I would suggest wait- ing a few years for new products and price reductions. In the mean time hold on to yourCD's and sell your vinyl to someone who thinks they sound as good Digital. continued from page 7 not release very much light. If the drug has no effect on the TB microbe, then the luciferase will release a bright light. This pro- cedure holds a great deal of prom- ise as it shortens the pre-treatment antibiotic testing from months to hours. Once the proper antibiotic is found, a patient can be treated immediately, and have a good chance of complete recovery. The immune system of a healthy person is generally ca- pable of fighting a TB insult; however, what if a person's im- mune system is already impaired? Over 90% of all multi-drug resis- tant TB cases are found in people who test positive for HIV, the vi- rus that causes AIDS. Many timesiDV+patients will have the original strain ofTB, and after re- covering, suffer another attack of the multi-resistant variety. This \superinfection\ is most often fatal. Ninety percent ofthose who have the HIV virus and the \su- perinfection\ ofTB will die. This number is extremely high com- pared to the remaining 1 0% who do not have the HIV virus and do have the multi-drug resistant TB, only40-50% ofthese individuals will die. With such startling statistics, the public sector is finally becom- ing aware of the threat this new strain ofTB poses. The National Institute of Health (NIH) re- quested $37 million for TB re- search in 1993. Under pressure from health officials and con- gressmen, NIH director Bernadine Healy trimmed $9.2 million from other NIH research areas to go to TB research as a part of the $37 million. Unfortu- nately, this money is only allot- ted for research in 1993, and is viewed by many as a nice gesture, but only a small amount for what is truly needed. Barry Bloom of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine declares~ \One hundred million or $1 billion is not going to turn this problem around, [TB researchers] need funding cqnti- nuity and not some political fix.\ It is suggested that everyone have a TB test at least annually. With TB on the rise and the new multi-drug resistant strain, no one is guaranteed to be at low-risk anymore. Anyone who thinks that they may have been ,exposed to someone with th.~ TB infection should be tested to remove all doubt. For more information about TB tests, contact the Schenectady Family Health Clinic at 370-1441 or 346-7171. AU information was taken from The Mayo Clinic Family Health Book, the American Medical As- sociation Encyclopedia, Science News (vol. 143) and Science (vol. 259, 260). The options for digital record;. The Biology Department and The Biol()gy Club Present: Genetics and Technology Facing the Challenge Ellen T. Matloff\' , M.S., Pediatric Genetic Counselor Department of Pediatrics, State University ,of New York Health Science Center, Syracuse, New York Tl1ursday, October 28, 1993 Social Sciences 103 4:40p.m. Refreshment$ 4:30p.m. ~Ellen Matloff graduated from Union in 1991 with a major in biology. Anyone interested in talking with her is encouraged to pick up dinner in upperclass dining hall or Dutch Hollow and join us in CC 203 immediately following the seminar. For further infor:mation call: Karen Williams .at x6062 New York State Department of Health Emergency Medical Service Program The American Cancer Society private funding for cancer by Kenny Lee research. Despite the availability Co-Science and Health Editor of funds, grants for cancer Statewide From it's humble beginnings research are competitive and difficult to obtain. · Basic life Support .. in 1913, the American Cancer Society(ACS) has turned into the largest voluntary heath organization in the United States with over two million people involved. The duties of these The A.C.S. also attempts to prevent cancer through public education. This is used as a form of preventive medicine, where volunteers are hired to inform people of preventive techniques, such as diet and not using tobacco products. These volunteers also instruct people to go for checkups and tests before it is too late. Adult & Pediatric . ,.. \ Patient Treatment participants include: research, education, patient service and rehabilitation. There are major chapters located in every state as well as Washington D.C. and Puerto RicQ. · Protocols V nion CQllege First Aid Club · All Welcome· The.major goal of the A.C.S. is to find the causes of cancer and to find ways to prevent and cure the disease. For this reason 25%, ( 89 million dollars), of the society's total endowment is spent on research. The society is presently the largest source of The American Cancer Society has had a major impact in trying to find the cure for cancer over the past eighty years. Although the ideal cure seems intangible, people are now more aware of cancer causing agents. The American Cancer Society is greatly responsible for this public Call Seth at x6963 or Brian at x6876 for more information Biology Club Meets by Kenny Lee Co-Science and Healt/1 Editor On October 4th, the Biology department held it's first informational meeting of the year. The purpose of the meeting was to provide potential biology majors with information about opportunities in the department and to introduce them to some of the professors. The chairman of the department, Twitty Styles, greeted all those present and proceeded to introduce different professors to talk about the various interests of the department. Among the issues discussed were: honors at Union, the senior writing requirement, the Biology club, the Pre-health society, research at Union and opportunities after Union. Professor Styles has also been conducting a survey on potential Biology majors about whether or not they were interested in the Biology club, Pre-health society, department activities and research. The results of the survey were overwhelming. 71% of those polled said they were interested in the Biology club, 68% of those polled said they were interested in the Pre-health society, 75% said they were interested in department activities and 87% said they were interested in research. These results were encouraging to the department. With so many people interested in research, a profile of a biology professor will be given each week so the students will be.come familiar wjth research at Union. With t~is information a biology major wil~ be a!Jle to choose a professor with which to work for, strictly based on interests. awareness. p The Environmental Studies· Program Presents The Seminar in Environmental Studies Winter term, Thur~days 1:30- 3.·20 This seminar brings together the knowledge and expertise of students and faculty to investigate contemporary envjronmental issues. The seminar will be taught by William Willig, a local lawyer who has been a keyplayer in local environmental litigation. The course will focus Qn a landmark case that resulted in protection of the aquifer that serves as water supply for the town s of Rotterdam and Schenectady. The case involved points of local, state, and federal law, evidence from a wide variety of fields, and interested parties including state and local government, private citizens, and industry. The course is open to senior and junior Environmental studies majors, and seniors from other departments. ftnd out how environ·mentallaw really works! For more information call Kurt Hollocher, Environmental Studies Program, 388-6518.

FEATURES October 28, 1993, page 9 Slut: A Definition who are Madonna-like, pure and virtuous , engaging in sexual ac- tivities only a.$ .a means to repro- duce• reproduction machines. Or, society sees women as \whores\, engaging in sex forpleasure, God forbid! Their perception is that sex dirties women and strips them of their virtue making them \whores.\ This attitude reveals the inability to see women apart nom their reproductiv:e roles and is denigrating to women who en- gage in the natural act of sex for pleasure. Now, this might seem to be too theoretical, but if you apply it in practical terms, you find the emergence of such words as \slut\ and. \whore\. Uncle Edna Triumpha~tly Retu·rns by DQnya Nagib & JenSweeney Contributing Writel's Uncle Edna is a Union College student who thinks that Morton Downy Jr. was the best thing to ever happen to television and that Klinger on MASH really did look good in that pink feather boa. Any questions for Uncle Edna? Send them to box 83 and I'll be happy to give them consideration. Edna's mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, Are humans the only animals to have sex for pleasure? lege Diet Plan\ that you are re- ferrin,g to. In an effort to keep the weight of Union students down, they make going back for seconds not an option and finish- ing firsts a struggle. West is com- ing out with an ad campaign next week headed by the slogan 'Eat everything you can palletand still drop the pounds'. Top Ten Rejected Na,mes for Beavis and Butt-head 10. Bush and Quayle 9. Charlie Brown and Linus on Student of the Week Melissa A.ffronte. After placing second in the Iditarod Oog sled race, Melissa barely lost the mayoral race in her hometown of Butte, Montana. Her next en- deavor will be the World Sumo- Wrestling Championships in Tokyo Japan. Good luck frum Uncle Edna. Yesterday, while sitting in the College'Center sipping coffee and people-watching, we overhead a gossip session at the next table and listened as a group ofwomen called several other women \sluts.\ The word \slut\ was used in an offhand way, almost like a \household word.\ We did not react immediately because we have used the word ourselves and because the term \slut \ is used so frequently . As a result,. we did not think that a group of women referring to several .of their fellow students as \sluts\ was unusual. After reflection, however, we began to wonder what the term ''slut\ really means. -1. crack History has shown that male dominated societies have a ten- dency to create methods of op- pressing women. One .ofthetools ofoppression in our culture is the creation of words and the manipu- lation of language. \Slut\ and \whore\ are ways of fulfilling the \Mother/ Whore\ complex by imposing a feeling of guilt and filth on women who express their sexuality. Under this ethic, women are forbidden from expe- riencing their sexual desires. If they ignore these sexual sanc- tions, however, they are victims of the wrath of society and are labeled \loose\ \over sexed \or . , ' \promiscuous.\ They might even Touchitte Dear Touch, I really hope not, at least I'd like to think that the sheep are get- ting something out of the ex- perience. Dear Uncle Edna, I live off-campus and decided to 'treat' myself to .a dinner at West last Saturday (Upperclass was closed). Making a long story short, I would have been more content eating $6.95 . worth of Peat Moss. What's up with the food? -mac and cheese Dear Mac, Actually its the new \West Col- 8. Kate and Allie 7. Rozencranz and Guidenstem 6. Starsky and Hutch 5. Beaver and Wally 4. Beat-it and Butt-floss 3. Villa and Gallant 2. Joanie and Chachie 1. Two guys who look and act like David Letterman but have adoles- cence as an excuse. Edna's dictionary Cardiology- What the people at Hallmark do. Paradox- two doctors (thanks Joe) Radiology- what disc jockeys are good at Promiscuity- when a girl doesn't promise, just does. Wanted: Uncle Edna Drunk or Sober. Your uncle is full of good advice, and will always laugh with you, and at you. Send to Box83 First of all, how does a woman become a \slut?\ Is it necessary for her to sleep with three or four men before she gets married or is she required to sleep with the whole city afHoboken? Can the rationale convicted rapists use when they say \She wanted it. She was wearing a tight skirt\ apply to the word \slut?\ If a woman wears \Daisy Duke\ shorts and a low-cut, tight shirt does that mean she wants to be labeled a \slut ? \ We believe that the term \slut\ is too relative to describe women. Don't you agree that this word is a part of a \double standard\ that prevails,in ' ol.U\ society_?, Wouldn't you agree be considered carriers of sexually transmitted diseases. We all, as women, recognize the unfairness in this and do not condone it, but . . . Please Join us for with the argumentthatwoinen are collectively opposed to the \double standard\ and do not wish to live according to this faulty ideal? why then, do we perpetuate it? It seems silly that we are strength- ening a traditian that we do not agree with. How can we ever re- ject inferiority if we live within the boundaries set by our \supe- riors?\ Therefore, we have to re- flect on our use ·of these words and put a halt to it. Thisis em im- tial step in the un,veiling of Olir collective strength. A female community does exist and if we can utilize it., we have .taken a huge\ reap forward. A Night of Shakespeare Words like \slut\ and \whore\ are created in an effort to control our sexuality. We ~e sure that you have heard this defense be- fore, but have you really? It is obvious that in our society, as in others, that a ''Mother/Whore\ complex exists in which society sees women as either mothers on Wednesday, November 3rd at 9 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium. Come and hear members of the campus community bring his words to life. Here's to U : A Confid·ential Group Who Discuss and Inform each other about alcohol. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1993 -COLLEGE CENTER 409 - 8 P.M. Who Should Come? People who: Want to learn more about alcohol and how it affects them, Are concerned about how much they drink; feel they the need to drink to have a good time, are worried about a friend or relative, feel· their romantic lives require them to drink to lower their inhibi~ions, \Fit in\ only when they drink, are in recovery, would like to meet others who like to socialize without alcohol, are merely curious about alcohol. What Can You Expect? Friendly, non-judgmental people who have more questions and answers; suppo-rtive, thoughtful conversation; and perhaps some snacks. $ Earn Holiday Money $ I ~ I :. ups United Parcel Service Part-time Positions Available Monday thru Friday Driver Helper- $6.50 from Dec. 1 thru Dec. 24 Flexible hours. Mornings to early evenings at all UPS locations in your city or state. Load/Unload- $8.00 till Nov. 30 $6.50 after Dec. 1 Late Evening : 11:00 p.m. to 3 a.m. Early morning : 4:30 a.m. to 8 a.m. For further information contact : United Parcel Service between the hours of 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Call: 786-4219 or4218 or 4204 for application appointment S EOEMIF s

October 28, 1993,. page 10 FEATURES Volunteer Tutoring at Union .·Students Help Local Schools By Michelle Rosenbaum Concordiensis Staff \In these difficult financial times, the country's greatest re- source, our children, are being hurt. The most important prod- uct of everyone's life is them- selves and in ti.mes where not much can be spared, Union col- lege students are giving them- selves.\ This is a quote stated by Lori Biickers, the coordinator of Union's volunteer tutoring pro- gram. Lori and about 100 other Union students take out time to help children in local Schenectady schools. This is Lori's first year as co• ordinator of the tutoring program. She has been extremely success- ful at getting volunteers. People have been assigned to schools such as St. Anthony's Elementary School, Brown Pre-school, Brown School, St. Johns, Zion Lutheran Church Pre-school, Oneida Elementary School and the Boys and Girls Club for Schenectady. Most Union volun- teers go for at least one hour per week to help these schools, while some go for two to three hours. The majority of the volunteers help at the pre-schools since they need the most help. . Union College student helps a group of Kindergarten pupils at St. John's Elementary School with their reading skills. (photo by Heather Reynolds for The Concordiensis) , This year, a new after school program at St. Anthony's has been developed. Three Union students help out with the pro- gram by helping the children with arts and crafts, homework, and simply playing with them. Twenty three children attend the program because their parents are not home when the school day is completed at 2:30p.m. The pro- gram would not have been suc- cessful without the Union stu- dents. They actually brought crayons and coloring books from home for the children to keep themselves busy. Tutors serve different functions for each grade level. For the pre- school, they basically help the children learn things such as col- ors, numbers, socializing, sharing and arts and crafts. Lori states that \it's more like being a de- pendable friend to the children.\ The young children are always excited to see the face of a Union student. In the elementary schools,. the tutors either help the teacher with projects, or they help children one on one. The-fJ.tst gradetutors,JGr example; take children who are behind into a sepamte room and help them catch up with their work. The tutors also help the children with counting money and telling time. Monica Webster, a sophomore at Union, just began tutoring this year for first grade at St. Anthony's. She says, \it's an uplifting activity. I love seeing the kids because you never see cute kids on Union's campus.\ She enjoys helping the children with their reading and math work. \They just always put a smile on my face,\ she says. All the tutors agree that tutor- ing not only makes the children happy, but they get the same en- joyment. If s a way to take a break from all the pressures on campus and help those in need. All the tutors seem to agree with the saying, \Everything you need to know you learned in Kinder- garten,\ after helping the young children improve on important tasks . Excha~ge Students: A Cultural Comparison of England and the U.S. by Cara Soifer Contributing Writer \I want to see London.\ Not a very uncommon wish for a stu- dent to express at Union. Yet this particular quote comes from a English student, Melanie Stych, who normally lives only two hours away from her country's capital, London, but has never been there. This fall she is in New Y ark, studying at Union, with 7 other classmates from St. John's University College in York, En- gland. In a recent interview the group enthusiastically shared their views about the campus, Schenectady, and the differences between our country and their own homeland. Union students seem extremely \studious and conscientious about school work.\ They decided this is probably because we pay for our schooling, and often go on to graduate school. However, the English, (and most other Euro- pean countries) receive free edu- cation through the government, and rarely go for further educa- tion, but right into jobs. Its also much more prestigious to go to college in the states. At St.John's they would be laughed at for even wearing a sweatshirt with the school's name on it! Comparing the type of students here and in England, the British are more down to earth, and less competitive about looks and dress. \Super pristine, dressed up all the time, showy\ are not what we'd expect to hear about Union's style. But in relation to the York campus' style, Union sounds ready for Wall Street. To them, the atmosphere here too is more regimented and uptight. Not used to the RA's and strict schedules we run by, they are more so \go and do what they please when they want to.\ Union students are \more disci- Mountebanks' Dinner Theater presents THE zoo STORY ---Sunday, October 31- .. - Brunch/Performance beginning at NOON Tickets : $9.00 - -- Monday, November 1 - -- Dinner/Performance beginning at 5:30 PM Tickets: $9.00 For Tickets and Reservations Contact the Office ofDining Services in CC 202, or Call 388-6050 *Tickets may be purchased with a meal card or deducted from a Vali -Dine balance plined, less self motivated.\ But putting academic differ- ences aside, the similarities be- tween cultures runs strong. One York student described the 'di- ets' of the two campuses, giving a good indication of similarities. The staple English student's diet is \beer sex, chips and gravy!\ And the American student's- \Beer beer, sex, and pasta!\ Drinking in Yorkiseasier, where they have \365 pubs to choose from, one for each day of the year.\ The fraternity parties here, though, \are smart, very excel· lent\ as they put it, but they all agreed more music and dancing would help. And they would love \invites to the parties please!\ After asking what will have a lasting impression on them, the men agreed on Cindy Crawford and Bevis and Butthead, three 'role models' that have struck the Union men just as strong. But the York students declared that the talk show hosts on our television repulse them, and commercials like AT&T are a joke. Another remark they made that holds much truth is that in the States, today's disaster becomes next week's TV series. . The York men also commented on the differences between women here and abroad. They are much less intimidated by Union females, who they de- scribed as \friendly and pretty\ as a whole. In fact, the York women admitted to being very \open and flirtatious'' compared to the Union women, who are \less sexually open.\ The female York students were very sur- prised at how the men on campus react when they socialize with them. They expressed how they wish the men would realize they \are just flirting, and not to take their friendly behavior so seri- ously!\ Their overall description of a typical Union male was \preppy short cut hair, shiny teeth, and very Beverly Hills.\ TheY ork students are taking in all that there is to see and do in the States, and have enjoyed al- most everything they have expe- rienced. Unfortunately though, we have not impressed them with Schenectady (surprise, surprise). Wendy Firth summed up the im- pression they have about Schenectady's particularly unique breed ofinhabitants, when she exclaimed that \Everyone has· a limp!\ And yes, they can even go back to England with the story of when one of the students was flashed by a resident near A-Plus, the convenient store. It is very unnatural for them to feel unsafe on a campus, because at St. John's, walking anywhere at night, alone, is relatively safe and common. But the York students learned quickly that in Schenectady, things are di·fferent! But besides differences in cit- ies, dress and study habits, the English students are adjusting to our school with ease, and will be sorry to leave at the term's end. They will travel in the states until Christmas, then return to St. John's and.their home towns. Melanie Stych, who lives near Shefflied in England, does indeed want to visit London, now that she has seenNewYorkcity. Wendy, from Leeds, dreams of marrying an American, settling in New En- gland and writing Sci-Fi novels. Andy Tomlin, from Leicster, en- joys U.S history, especially the civil war and Kennedy's assassi- nation period. He might like to write a book in the future, but his true dream is to travel and meet Cindy Crawford. Adrian Worsley, from Blackpool, admits he'd \like to be a hippie but his hair is too short.\ He would also consider being an Italian New Yorker, Robert DeNiro in particu- lar, so he \could say New York like them.\ Dave Fielding, from Birmingham, just wanted Union to know that he \loves where he lives, at Phi Sig.\ In fact, he has recently been named an honorary brother at the fraternity. Andy Still, from Manchester, sadly ad- mits he \has no ambitions at all,\ but would gladly record his own version of the timeless classic, 'I've Got a Brand New Combine Harvester.\' Ruth Tyler, missing at the interview, lives in Stafford- shire. Nicola King, from Lon- don, confidently announced that she \is looking for the ultimate ... \ Aren 1 t we all Nicola, aren',t we all!

FEATURES October 28, 1993, Page 11 Hilary Tann: An Accomplished Professor of the Week :by Alex Gualpa Ctmcordiensis Staff \She sets her students an ex~ ample that makes a strong case for treating music with respect.\ This was the heading of an article in The Chronicle of Higher Educa- tion in November, 1986, about Hilary ·Tann,. professor and com- poser. Besidesactivezy contribut• ing to the Union community through her teaching, she is a \house composer\ for the Oxford University Press and a member of the editorial board of the Music Journal's Perspectives of New Music. Hilary Tann was an under- graduate at the University of Wales at Cardiff where she re- ceived her B. Mus. She was the first woman to graduate from the University of Wales with a First Class Honors degree in music. She began her graduate work at the University of Southampton. In 1972 she came to the United States as a Visiting Fellow at Princeton University, where she became the third woman to re- ceive her Ph.D. in musical com- position. One of Professor Tann's great- est interest is women's music, which she actively promotes in many ways. From 1982 to 1988 she was the editor of the \Inter- national League of Women Com- posers\ and she now serves as a member ofthe executive commit- tee. She is very excited about going to Washington next montJl to attend a board meeting whic'h will attempt to unify all the women's composer groups in the United States. Professor Tann i~ very enthusiastic about being in.: valved in this opportunity to try to form \a truly international or .. ganization\ for women compos .. ers. Professor Tann has been teach- ing at Union College since 1980 . . Since the fall of 1992: she has been the chair ofthe Department of the Performing Arts~ which consists of music, theater? and dance. As chair of the Perform- ing Arts, she is excited about the amountofpracticahnusic andthe theater at Union. Apart from her teaching, Pro- fessor Tann conducts the Union College Chamber Orchestra, which she founded in 1985, and she organizes concerts on cam- pus. She sees a \strong .beyond classroom progran1\ which she hopes will continue to expand. One ofthe many pieces Hilary Tann has composed is The Open Field, which, in March, 1992, was perfonned by the Bay Area Women's Philharmonic Orches- tra in the Pacific Rim Concert. The piece· is subtitled n Memorium Tienemen Square due to the 1989 protest, which strongly affected her. Another piece, Winter Sun, Summer Rain for mixed quintet, was recorded on compact disc in September, 1992, by the Lontano Ensemble. In October of the same year, the Glens Falls Symphony Orchestra performed her Adirondack Light for the centennial of the Adirondack Park. That year w:as a very special year for Professor Tann- she was known as a Pacific Rim composer, a Welsh com- poser, and an upstate New York composer in the same year. - What Makes Life Fulfilling? Passion by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff l started playing football in fifth grade.' I remember a year before I started, an older friend of mine, who was already playing, came up to me after his game and said, \Some day your Dad's gonna want to see you out there.\ I guess that's why I started playing tackle football. I liked playing before that , but it became a part of my life, when I started in fifth grade. I played through high school, and one year here at Union. There's nothing like it in the world to me. Running around on the grass, getting dirty, hurt, sore, and tired. I was never the biggest, fastest or the best player out there, but I loved it. It was without question my favorite thing to do in the world. Football became more than just a game to me, as it does to millions of young American boys every year, foot- ball became my passion, A couple of weeks ago, in one of my classes, I asked this girl - who I knew was in a play- why she had decided to do it. She. re- plied- \ I don't know. There's just nothing like it in the world. When you're out there on the stage, the feel of the lights on your face, the audience out there in the dark .... there's just nothing like it in the world.\ And at that moment- at that split second- I knew what it was all about. This woman felt the exact same way about the theater, as I did about football. I had al- ways dismissed other activities as not being able to give the same thrill that football does, but when she said this, and her eyes in- stantly lit up like a 1,000 Watt bulb, I knew. I know that football for many people is just a game, and they received no special feeling from it, but to me it meant everything. Some people don't care for the theater, yet to this girl there was no thrill like it on earth. The purpose of life has been a philosophical question for eons. But maybe the only purpose in life is to do what you love; to do what ever makes your soui hum with joy. Whatever it may be, no matter how crazy or ridiculed. Maybe we're each just supposed to find our passion in life and en- joy it to the fullest. The test will just fall into place. Hillary Tann, accomplished musician, hugs her dog in front of the Aets Building. A memorable experience for Professor Tann was participation in the term abroad in Japan dur- ing the fall term in 1990. She taught \Encounters with the mu- sic ofJapan.\ At the time, she was playing a Japanese instrument call a shakuhachi. As a result of her experience in Japan, she was in- fluenced by the music she heard and wrote a piece entitled Of Earth and Air. Ever since Hilary Tann has been teaching at Union, she has \loved introducing a diverse body of students to music.\ Now with the change in the curriculum, she feels that it is \little short of a trag- edy for Union Students not to be exposed to the arts early in their careers by including the arts somewhere in the general educa- tion curriculum. \Learning these days is so tied up with words and numbers, but we learn through hearing and we METAPHYSICS AND ~P!ST~MOLQOY Acr-.~ I One who hui<IK thnl lhc uhl- mnte source of' knowlcll,(te i~ sc:n,.e·c~pcricnco (e.g., Locke, Berkeley. Humc), 9 Iitle of res~t I I view 12 bear (Spanish) 13 fun: and __ IS nuc uut 16 purkcr I H MelhncJnlnttl\!111 ......__, 0ei<Car1ca' rhlhlll<>phic tnclhnd. 19 walking device '22 M~dilallnn~ Dn __ Pl'lllo:s .. oph:y. ~ac:arteo-.• briel\' .. but rn.:•nu .. \'tntal • .....,ark. 2!1> d<M::IOr-a •••••t•n• :a.c. ~u ... <•br~) :Z.7 mildl7 llllmula•lng bcveri>~C 28 in the mot:ninl! hours 29_~>nd fro 30 .. _ est pcro:ipi.\ Dcrkc- ley's claim that \to be I& to be perceived.'' 32 month after Sept, 33 length; or bridge part 35 <:htld'a favorite word 38 a&c 01' cf>Qeh 39 ''T•&• you're . AO l..oeke's fanmuw phrooe dcwc:rlhii!S the ndnd At blr1h. 44 rudenla 45 shon for \Louise\ <46 two (pn::fix) 47 cut 491-rnywelr $0 ti.aht•n• up 52 • eornl1fte'rclal l•br.) S-4 Allcau.-, ~ 'lhe -· Pl.lo•a ••Dt\'Y .llh••watlna th• dlf\- fcrcnee• between lllr>pearanee and reality. S6 7 day period (abr.) 58 ~ad coverina 60 cry at the bullrina 61 Kilntlan phrase for \• thln.c as ir ~ally.ia•• prior to bci.na Ol'dcn:d by one's mind (\din1 an sich\ in German). o5 pop up ao the outfield (llbr.J 66 al!lo 67 Pil'• wire . 6ft SacrMea' famoua call to the conCemplativ• life: ''The ----=~ --. Ia itol wonb llvlna.\ learn thfough seeing, and these senses atrophy unless they're used.\ Professor Tann believes that study in the arts \is a neces- sary fonn of breathing. To enter the arts building is to enter a gal- lery- a different kind of space.\ She is \excited about the kind of space that Yulman Theatre will provide for students- a place for thinking before doing. It would be wonderful for Union to have a similar place for music making.\ Professor Tann 's students agree that she is an extraordinary teacher. Krishna Gaddipati stated that \she is a warm, caring, and creative individual. She sees be- hind the music, the images and ideas within; and in the same way, she sees the potential in her stu- dents.\ For Jenny Pyun, Hilary has been \one of the most sup- portive people for my musical studies her at Union. It has been a great pleasure to work with her Down I an enllly pcntulace4 by Dcll<:artclln !be ancmJYI to dnubl everythln1 thai 1ft h•Bicnlly I\'\\ aible to doubt. 2 ora P\KliUJer 3 ..cldcndum lo a lcuc .. 4 aamc as 39 across 5 knock on a door 6 • 6 -· erao ·~m .•• c:;aneal•n phras• aumrn8d&lna De.c:anea • rounda.t::tc::n .. ·of' kno....,J•cta•. 7 lilthtl vmB'b a ther.l\ore 9 abaoa.. int.o H\M::Jtlon1cw•no•• 10 one who hold111hat the ulllmate source of knowledae Is I'Cason (c.s. •• Desc:1111es, Leibni~. Spinoza). 13 HmC U 52 &c:IOIII J.o4 Pla!o'a \Rally real.\ Con· traated wllh Appeuanccs. 17 on the condition that ... 20 fuel 21 one who tblnkuhere 111 nothlna knowable. 23 Theory or . • Plato's Mltwer to Me no'• challcnac aboul leamlna. 2<4 c:olle,e cnlraJIC'e exam on my concerts for the upcoming concert this Parents' Weekend.\ Professor Tann would love to be able to play cello, learn about geology, bam dance; yet she has no time. Her music is her life; \music is about communication, about listening to each other.\ \The kind of thinking you do in the arts is centering ... that kind of centering helps you understand yourself better. Music is about making the heard and visible 'be- lievable'.\ Professor Tann is very excited about Adirondack Light, the con- cert which she will be perform- ing on Parents' Weekend. She is now working on The Cresset Stone and Cardiff Festival Over- lure, which will be performed in September of next year. There is a wonderful display in the Arts Building which focuses on Pro- fessor Tann's work and inspira- tion. 29 sticky substance 31 drunk 34 tiny veactablc 36 \llunc•t _\ Lln.:oln 37 elthcrl-:-- o4 I tnp cnrd 42 llhelle.....S r .... m lhe whtd 43 Ptato'a symbol for 1hc Form or \'lbo Oood\ 44 S0C:ra1e11 called hlmHlflhl8111 fll<pialnln• hlo orole In heiJ>fn• ott...-. 'lo ••••~ birth\• 'lo ..... lr ldcll••· .. 6 -- ~t•• 1!!1. T .. •a ftnMI Wnrda Ia Clertle. 411 •moa c:lt:ll (abr.) :so ••udcnll watch too much !II a \substance\ doubtod by Hume, but laken for pan!oodl b)' most 53 Oree.k letter '' .. _ • Brute?\ ec ....... d1'fnJ query, 57 aokl·fUied fort !I!J •aaln•t C\0 Yrllf'r\ Popul• dalt• dren's book. 62 dlalt 011 the root 63 111ppo;y sea· creature 64Ma'ah~ 67 )'0\1 arid- .

October 28, 1993, page 12 Substance Abuse : A Big Problent at Union \College is the time to experiment\. Although the . use of drugs and the excessive consumption of alcohol are frowned upon by society, College students seem to believe that this type ofbehavior is acceptable while .in .· the friendly confines of their schools. The College experience consists ofaca~~mic; social, and extracurricular pursuits. No admini$~tors, or pro .. fessors expect students to spend every waking minute studying. However, college administrators· and profes- ·. sors are concerned that certain activities do more to ·. · hinder the academic progress of students than consum- ing studying time. That is to say, some students budget their studying time according to the ti.me not spend . drinking or doing drugs, as opposed to allowing their academic workload to determine their social involve- ment. Many important skills are developed in college, and students who spend four years abusing substances. are not preparing themselves for the real world, and the . tough job market that they will encounter when they . leave Union. , Why do some students attend class with hangovers, and miss some classes because they are under the in- fluence of drugs or alcohol. The first step towards aca- demic accomplishment is attendance, and professor wil:l interpret inattendance as a lack of caring. Union's academic reputation has slid while its repu- tation for being a wild party school, with an abundance .. of alcohol and drugs, has enhanced. If students want to maintain their 'rites of passage' to experiment, they shouldn't abuse the accessibility of substances to the detriment of both their academic progress, and the school's academic reputation. If the abuse is as blatant as it has been, the school will surely crack down. '(f!q:e <nnue~~i~ Tl1e Student N~sp~per of U\#litn)(:iJJlege $iiu.!e 18'11 •' ' .. <•---,:\\ ',: •• .,: •• •o • ,. ' -,• ' David Levine Editor .. in\'Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts Editors Sports Editor · Layout :Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor , .· . News An~Iysis Editor world News Editors Science & Health Editors B1;1siness Editor · Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors Associate News Editor Associate Features Editor Associate Editor Computet Man~ger Faculty Adviser Manager · Photographers Jtditorial Board . · Levine . . Reynold$\ · L~tncti . Rubenstein · . . .·· Deb M~lllemey ~tt Kllflyn, Caroline Paine* .· ·· . . l~rin O'Neil* l:J¢linda Crago,. Niki Goldin ·· Talley Jlelsing~r~ .... · ..• .. . l)~gan ~ ¢(Jrte . · U$i\: t~llio~ .;autrY· :tlut?em~teia · · · , Heather lte¥4Qlds . · .· Josh liaities · · . · ·; ····.. . Verori.ica Roger$ · tara Gree~berg, Craig .Greenberg*-' · Andy Salam~, Kenney L~e · · · ·. . . · .. · Pylari &atigan*· ·$baton Smith~ Fran (jpld~teill · . Scott Steele Joe Sali;bart Lee S<lbachter, Greg KaJ:ish Alex. Kreisler Alexis Leist · David: Fischer* ·. Brett &aund¢rs* · . Scott Scullion .·· · .·· · · · · .. ·· RacltelK¢st · Scott Prilekemiller, Emily Schri'er · Michele R;oseman . Staff: Melissa.Mffonti, Jlrtlito BettZ~q~e~, Thor Serii~nder, Suzy · · Bloch · E~iza:beth De Koven Michetl6 Ellis~ Sarah Evans~ Mike · . j . . . . . . . • . . . • Leding.Ale~sLeist~;PmnLirh KatieM~#;BhatatNavani,Mike·· Nelson~~Paska. Craig)!ik~>,.Wiflt~ -'l¢e:,S~el~;obipi()fi\·· Mi~h¢lle Rosenbaum~. Sbveta Srivast~Y:a:~ ,Jlawso~ T:hur~e,r~ . .. .. ···,., ·,.: ;·,,·:. . The Concordiensistne¢ts ev~cy Moil~Y and \i'ue~d~y Pfthe aca~·· .. .. demicyear. _It is pubfished ~Y ~h~'$tud¢ttt$ <>f Utli<>n Cqlleg~:. · · OP-ED · Wlf.e C!lnntnrlli.ensis will not publish on Nov. 4. Our next issue, and the last is·sue of the term, will. b~· N:OV. 11 PARENTS: Subscribe to the Concordiensis Please Send me the Concordiensis D For one year (24 issues) · for $40. (Check enclosed) For three years (72 D issues) for $100. (Check enclosed) MAILING ADDRESS: The Concordiensis would like · to express its extreme dissatis- faction with the number ofLet- ters !\? . the Edit~t· w,e ~aye re- ceived this year. ·considering all of the controversial and ex- . citing events around this cam- pus and the city of Schenectady, the lack ofletters must reflect student apathy in expression of opinions. Please send all Lett~rs to the editor to box 2577. . The letters may be on a wide variety of subjects. CORRECTION'S BOX - In last week's issue, the front page photograph was credited to Emily Schrier when the photo was taken by Michele Roseman. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and sh9uld pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or ~diting a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the ~ewspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of · the editorial boar(}. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board; and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. . Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, ~11 rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 37'0-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street,. Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are sub~itted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-nos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis ·office on the third floor of the College Center. ·

PARENTS October 28, 1993, page 13 Parents' Weekend Schedule of Events October 2·9- October 31, 1993 FRIDAY 4:00 pm-6:00 pm Parents' Wee~ntl Registration-join us for refreshments .and pick up your weekend schedule. College Center 9:00 am-9:00 pm, Sl\ulptorll' Drawings and Wallwork$ I Art exhibition of drawings loosely defined to inc)ude.photo montage, photocopies, and works in .relief by sculptors work ing in the C~q>ital :Region. First in a series of exhibitions ex ailuning two dimensional works by sculptors. Arts Building 6:00pm Dean's List Dinner (by invitation only) Old Chapel Bale Bo~ Dining Roo~ 8:00 &10:00 pm DAVE, \DaveKovic was an ordinary guy who was asked to impersonate the President. When they gave him a chance to make the country better ..... he did \ CoDeg., Center Auditorium 9:00pm $piN H ~els, by Theresa Rebeck - PerfQrining Arts presents a play abQut sexual harassment in the workplace and gender re lations in the 90's, lJpperdass Dining Ball &4TURDAY 9:00am Reception for parents, students-and guests. Bale Bouse 9:15am Welcome by President Roger Hull. Bale Bouse AIDS A WARENEsSWEEKSEMINARS Concurrent Sessions _ . ,~:~o ·-~~tp:45 am , , . , , . . A!DS Updilte: Everyth.uzg You Wanted to Know About HIV • AIDS BUt WereAfraidtoAsk Introduction: W'dlard D. Roth, Ph.D., Director, Undergraduate Health Pfii,ession Programs Anne E. Dyson, M.D., Pediatrician Henry Pohl, M.D., Coordinator, AIDS Peer Educ'!,tion Train ing Program, Albany Medical College Hale·House 9:30 am-10:45 am HIVIAIDS Teacl1ing in the Classroom Topics to be discussed \' · - Investigation of the use of psychology to alter health-related behaviors -Support services for PW A's - Social impact of AIDS in Africa - Sexuality and friendship in literature - Organizational concerns for handling long-term care - Employees and the workplace Faculty Presentation A: SllSan Lel,man, GraduateManagement Institute Elizabetlz M auola, English Department Randy Quaye, Sociology Dep~ent Carol WeiSse, Psychology Department · Social Sciences 103 11:09 am-12:15 pm Union's Ruponse to AIDS Panel Discussion Moderator: Fred Alford, Dean of Students Participants: Ka,en fV'JIIianu, Co-Chair, Union College AIDS Committee. Don Spring, Director of Counseling Center. Janet Gray, Director ofDining Services. Sandy Mosher, Director of Health Services. Carol Weisse, Psychology Department Angel Caraballo '95, Biology. Kerry Evers '94, Psychology. College Center Auditorium · 11:00 am-12:15 pm HIVIAIDS Teacltingin lite Classroom Faculty Presentation :P: Topics to be discussed- - An existentialist.approach to AIDS - AIDS teaching controversies and public education - Social impact of AIDS in Africa A. T. Miller, History Department Linda Patrik, Philosophy Department Terry Weiner, Sociology Department Social Sciences 104 · 9:00am-9:00pm Sculptors' Drawings and Wallworks I An exhibition of drawings loosely defined to include photo montage, photocopies, and works in relief by sculptors work ing in the Capital Region. First in a series of exhibitions ex amining two dimensional works by sculptors. Arts Buildine 8:00pm Dave Binder, 1969: 111e Year tltat Roclu?dtlte World (free of charge) Memorial Chapel 9:00pm Spike Heels, by Theresa Rebeck- Performing Arts pre sents a play about sexual harassment in the workplace and gender relations in the 90's. Upperclass Dining Hall (Please relfU!mber to set your clocks back one l10ur to · niglzt) 9:00am-2:00pm Head of the Fjsh ~egatta , . . Crew ra:ce • Saratoga (map .available) • ~ - 10:00 am-1:00am Dutch Hollow will be open to serve a Ia carte meals on a cash basis. College Center ll :00 am-Noon Tetrehing Economics with Experiments and Cooperative Leluning, presented by Prof. Hal Fried, Prof. Slzelton Sclunidt, and Prof. Sutlzat/Jip YaisawtU\ng of the Economics Department. Social Sciences 112 ll:OOam Dance Ensemble Performance- a lecture and demonstration (sample class) Performing Arts Studio-Arts Building Noon-1:00pm Union College Orchestra and Choir Performance· The Union College Chamber Orchestra, conducted by Prof. Hilary Tann, with the Union College Choir, conducted by Prof. Huglt Wilson, will present a program of works by Beethoven and Haydn. A special highlight is a performance of the first movement of Schumann's A minor piano concerto by .sophomore, lenny Pyun. Memorial Chapel Noon Concession Stand will be open fO serve hot dogs, hamburgers, soda, and hot drinks. Frank Bailey Field 1:30pm Union v. Alfred Football Game (free to students and children under 1 0) Frank Bailey Field Immediately Following the Game President's Reception for Faculty and Families- please join President Hull and faculty for refreshments. Hale House Dining Room 5:00pm Bewitching Dinner Buffet (reservations required) West College 5:30pm Catholic Mass, Sunday Vigil- sponsored by the Newman Catholic Union, celebrated by the Rev. Kevin Daly. College Center Auditorium '7:00pm Union v. McGill Hoekey Game Achilles Rink 8:00 & 10:00 pm DAVE \Dave Kovic was an ordinary guy who was asked to impersonate the Presi dent. When they gave him a chance to make the country better ..... he did. \ CoUege Center Auditorium SUNDAY 9:00am-9:00pm Sculptors' Drawings and Wallworks I An exhibition of drawings loosely defined to include photo montage, photocopies, and works in relief by sculptors working in the Capital Region. First in a series of exhibi tionsexamining two dimensional works by sculptors. Arts Building lO:OOam Worship Service Memorial Chapel 10:00 am Autumn in NY Parents' Weekend Bnmch (reservations required) UpperclassDining Hall 10:30am A World in Revolution -a discussion/lecture with Prof. Stephen Berk of the History Department (refreshments will be served). CoUegeCenter Audito.rium No.on :· ,l,. Autumn in NY Parents' Weekend Bnmcb (reservations required) Upperclass Dining Hall Noon (brunch) Mountebanks Brunch/Theatre Pil,lce, The Zoo 2:00pm {theatre) Story by Edward Albee. Old Chapel 6:00 pm-10:00 pm Haunted House Webster House Local Events Bike Path- Entrance on the Comer of Seward and Nott Streets Focastle Farms Country Store, Burnt Hills· (Van Vranken Ave. to Rte.146 -left on Rte. 146) Restaurant, bakery, fresh-cider and doughnuts, homemade pies, breads and soups, Sunroom. Patio, and Country Store, Open Daily: 9:00am- 6:00 pm Lakeside Farm Cider Mill, Ballston Lake - (Van Vranken Ave. to Rte.146 -left on Rte. 146 past Focastle Farms - right at light on Lakehill Rd, right at light in Ballston Lake 1Rte.l46A], left on Schauber Rd. -look for sign for Lake Auto Parts) Restaurant, bakery, fresh cider and doughnuts, homemade pies, breads and soups (399-8359) Open Daily: 8:00 am - 6:00 pm Museums Albany: Albany Institute of History and Art (518/463-4478) New York State Capitol (518/474-1418) Tours at 10 am, 1 and 3 pm New York State Museum(518/474-5877) Tours daily from 10 am- 5 pm Saratoga: National Museum of Dance (518/584-2225) National Museum ofRacing (518/584-0400) The Canfield Casino, Congress Park (518/584-6920) Schenectady: Schenectady County Historical Society Museum (5181374-0263) . Schenectady Museum and Planetarium (518/382-7890) Open: Nolln • 5 pm Shoppina: Cohoes (Route 7 to Route 9 - Cohoes exit) Colonie Center (Route 5 towards Albany) Crossgates Mall (1-890 to 1-90 exit24 to Crossgates Mall Road) Jay Street (downtown Schenectady) Mohawk Mall (Nott Terrace and left on State Street) Rotterdam Mail (1-:890 West to Campbell Road exit) Stuyvesant Plaza (1-890 East to 1-90 to end, left on Route20) ..... ... ~··· - I

' ·' October 28, 1993, Page 14 Arts & Ente.rtainment Bent: Straight Talk on Homosexuals and the Holocaust by Nicole Goldin Arts Editor Bent was the tenn used by the Nazis to describe homosexuals and is also the name of the play now showing at the Albany Civic Theater (ACT) in Albany. The subject matter of the play is ho- mosexuality during the Holo- caust. To say that this play is powerful is an understatement. Knowing the subject matter ofthe play in advance, I thought I was ready to deal with this serious and inevitably heavy production. After seeing this play, I know now that nothing could have prepared me for this show. Bent begins in 1934 in Berlin, when Ernst Roehm ( a high rank- ing member of the Storm Troop- ers-SA) and others were mur- dered for allegedly planning to kill Hitler. The Nazi reaction was the Night of the Long Knives, when homosexuals, like Roehm, were primary targets for a ram- page of Nazi terror. The play ends in 1936 at Dachau concen- tration camp. Although the sub- ject matter does not lend itself to becoming a theme of a hit show, Bent has received rave reviews for the Broadway production, in 1979, which featured Richard Gere and later Michael York. The Central figure, Max, un- dergoes a metamorphosis of char- acter, as his life changes drasti- cally right before, his very eyes. In the beginning, he is anon-com- mittal, lackadaisiCal. man who drinks too much. Although he obviously cares for his lever! roommate, Rudy, he does not bel him as a Jew. It is ironic to think that it was actually lucky for him to be labeled as a Jew, and that what was in store for Max as a Jew was better than what would have been if h$3 was known as a homosexual. In the second half of the play, the friendship between Horst and press his affection and love. Both Curt Richardson (Max) and Lamay Jennings (Horst) bril- liantly depict the struggle to love, and to survive. The end of the · play is extremely poignant when ' the guards kill Horst because he is obviously ill and not working up to standards and force Max to watch. He is openly say that he is in love. Furthermore, ' when he and Rudy are ''It forced me to think about then forced to 'dispose: of the body. The monologue that follows, when Maxfmally con- fesses his love to captured by the Nazis .and are on the depm .. tation train to Dachau, to prove that he is not a homosexual Max deals the final fatal things that. are not easy or even appealing to consider - the possible inhumanity of man.\ Horst; is heart wrenching. I don't believe there was a dry eye in the house. Max's life tragically ends thereafter when he trades shirts with Horst and, bearingthe inverted pink tri- angle for the first time, proceeds to commit suicide, by throwing himself upon the barbed wire sur- rounding the camp. To say that I enjoyed the play is difficult. How can one enjoy watching a play of this nature? I can say that I am extremely glad I Saw this production. It forced me to think about things that are not easy or even appealing to con- sider- the possible inhumanity of man. I congratulate the director, Ward David Dales, for success- fully bringing Martin.Sherman's' controversial play to the stage. I encourage everyone who can to attend one. of the remaining per- farmances this Friday, Saturday or Sunday. ·Tickets cost $10, and students can get available seats 10 minutes before curtain for$5. For more information, call the ACT box office at 462-1297. If you do plan to attend, be reJ,Uinded of the subject matter and the explicit nature of the play. blows to Rudy, who has already been severely beaten by the Na- zis. Another prisoner on the train, Horst, who has already been la- beled as a homosexual, tells Max of the identification system: Red triangle for prisoners of war, yel- low star for Jews, and an inverted pink triangle for the homosexu- als. Horst advises Max that ho~ mosexuals are considered the lowest of the lows and that he should make every attempt to avoid being labeled as a homo- sexual. Once he satisfies the guards that he is not a homosexual by sealing Rudy's fate of death and having intercourse with a 12 year old girl on the train;, they la- M.ax develops into love,. although, as stated in the play, according to the Nazis, \queers are not meant to love\. Here the audience be- gins to witness the change in Max intoa co.Jllpassionate, loving man. Horst was the first to confess his love and M~ rejects him. How- ever as their bond develops through their hours of secret con- . versation during labor, Max too begins to realize that he can love and has ·lbved in the past. The mo!)t ironic aspect of the play is that the treatment 0f homosexu- als during the Holocaust was · meant to dehumanize them, how- ever, bec~use of Max's experi- ences he learns to care and ex- SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGE by Suzanne Robinson · · Arts Staff daughter. George finds himself visiting the Island of La Grande Jatte in the end, trying to under~ stand his great-grandfather. CONTINUING EXHIBITION IN THE ARTS ATRIUM \White a blank page or canvas, his favorite, so many possibili- ties.\ This is .the first and last line of the musical and the most memorable. It is first spoken by George Seurat of the 1800's, and at the end by George, Seurat' s great-grandson. James Lapine has previously written many well-known books, which include Falsettos, which he won the Tony Award for Best Book and Falsetto/and. He also had previously collaborated with Stephen Sondheim for the book of Into the Woods, for which he won the Tony for, before work- ing on Sunday in the Park. '\ . -,,\<ft.'> B '/ '\\;;:.:::::::. .. --·-·--····---:.~ ? ,... Sunday in the Park with George was written by James Lapine based on George Seurat's famous painting, \Un Dimanche Apres-Midi aL'lle de las Grande Jatte\ (A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grand Jatte.) When Seurat painted the fa- mous painting, the island of La Grande Jatte was a meeting place primarily for the working class, although fashionable society oc- casionally visited it. The musical portrays the sepa- rate lives of the characters in the painting at the Island of La Grande J atte, bringing them to- gether only in the end of Act I. The first act depicts George's per- ception ofthe world and his con- flicts. He sees things made from \flecks of light and dark\ which he then transfers onto canvas by thousands of dot-like brush strokes, later known as pointillism. . George is in constant turmoil within 1 he cannot show any emo- tion except through his paintings. This causes him to loose those he loves and be alone, alone in the park. Being alone in the park is repeated throughout the play, starting with George of the 1800's, and ending with George of the 1900's. During this time period, there are others alone in the park including, Dot, George's mistress~ and several of the otl1er characters of the painting. The second act is set in the 1980's at and American art mu .. seurtL George, Seurat's great- grandson is presenting a work of his own with the help of his grandmother, Marie, Seurat's Stephen Sondheim has written the music and lyrics for !1 multi- tude of shows including, Into the Woods, Merrily We Roll Along, Sweeney Todd, A Little Night Music, Follies, Company, and A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. He also wrote the lyrics for Dol Hear a Waltz?, Gypsy, West Side Story, and Candide. He composed the songs for the fdms Dick Tracy and Reds. He has received many awards for his works including five Tony Awards for Best Score for a Mu- sical. The musical opens with song \Sunday in ·the Park with George\ sung by Dot, Wendy Brown. This is typical of Sondheim's style of music, where it is sung rapidly. This is how- ever, the only song in this musi- cal typical of Sondheim. TI1e most notable and memo- rable song is \Sunday\, sung by the whole company. It is made up of long notes that crescendo. This style is very appropriate for the musical. All the characters of the painting are singing this piece while they get into the position of the painting. They are not hur .. ned, they are relaxed, strolling in the park on a Sunday afternoon. The music portrays. this relaxed state of indifference. '~Order, light, design, tension, composition, balance, harmony.\ These ideas are constantly re- peated throughout the play by continued on page 18

A;rts .& Entertainm-ent October 28, 1993, Page 15 Interview with Jazz Guitarist, Tisziji Munoz Spike Heels Preview by Jacob Lettrick SUNY Graduate Program JL: You're describing your music as vision- ary jazz. Could you describe what you mean by .this concept? Tisziji: By visionary jazz I mean two things: first, that the music and its spirit are in no way limited by or bound to the intellectual plane. Hence, perfonnance emphasis is less oil the.mental and more on the intuitive or creative faculties. My music is, for the most part, impnwisatienal in nature. My concep- tual compositions are doorways into the human and Heart Truth of each player. This music enables each of us to step into and through. the music. And when freedom per- mits, we can then step out of our 'selves.' allows for some subconscious content to enter into the process and have its occa- sional revelational say. By visionary, I mean transcendental and even selfless levels of Oonsciousness Awareness; hence, the pos- sibility of entering or opening to the super conscious or Total State of Consciousness Awareness, Such a State or Conditional- ready Is. One need not project or esca_pe to It. Such a Vision is the Heart's Way of See- ing Itself. From here, what is musically shared is directly related to the Realization efBeing;ness more so than from mere cling- on experience or cling-to lmowingness. Hence, true visionary music is ultimately not related to an experience of having mu• sical visions, but is the Realization of See- ing Beyond all relative appearances of light, sound, image, 'feeling, self, mind and world. JL: The musicians you will be playing with, Canadian pianist Bernie .Senensky, New YorkCity-basedbassist Don Pate and Bos,. ton-based drummer Bob Moses, are some oftheworld's best. Will they help to create a good forum for your playing? Tisziji:\ they will be coming into this area just to do these concerts. They are not a 'hit it.' When I do have 'my' band in the future, the music I play wiU be dra- matically different, yet no less 'hot.' · Nevertheless, the musicians chosen The Union College Department of Per- should provide me with excellent ere- forming Arts presents Spike Heels, a play by · ative interaction, sound, spirit and mu- Theresa Rebeck, directed by .Professor Lee sical support. These musicians have Bloomrosen and featuring Antony Sinanis, been hand-picked for their musical . Lindsay Coppleson, Fran DeAngelo and mastery and their ability to relate to my Stephanie Richter. It opens tonight and runs musical direction with a high degree of · Thursdays through Saturdays, Oct. 28 - 30 relevance and reality. This music is and Nov. 4- 6 at 9:00PM in the Upperc1ass both relevant and real to them. Thus, Dining Hall. Spike Heels is a play about their excellence, relative to my music, sexual harassment in the workplace and .gen- is .partly dependent upon their capac- der relations in the 90's. In her notes to the ity to play relevantly and intuitively. play the author states: \The incident of sexual These musicians have that special qual- harassment at the center ofthis play is part of . ity of Omniscient-Omnipresence, They a continuum; the battle of desire which the know exactly what's going on, every · · men wage over Georgie, and which she wages musical beat of the way, and are able with them, has many colors and incidents. to spontaneously shift and readapt to Even as the objects to what they do and say changing musical situations. n 1 ese mu- . to her, she participates: She gets angry, she sicians have already proven themselves makes jokes, she colludes, she feels self .. to be able to play at the highest levels loathing. Like many women, she needs the ofboth musical and creative standards. job, so she does not merely walk away. What They are masters of the jazz form, in Edward had done is harassment nonetheless. both hard and soft, as well as, cool and The fact that all the participants in this com- hot jazz is concerned, and they are edy eventually can see beyond that moment equally adept at time-structure and toward affectionate equality in the battle of the sexes is, I hope; redemptive rather than The .second point is that by 'visionary' I don't mean mere pipe dream or artificially induced visualizing, escapist vision or dreamlike experiences, as this method too often brings in a forced mechanical dimen- sion of imagination and inspiration which has little to do with my use of the tenn 'vi- sion~.' Ordinary visionary experience deals with positive or negative projections of or about the 'self' and, for the moment, 'regular band.' They will arrive and we will continued on page 16 foolhardy.'' Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY.OCTOBER28 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- \MILES OF SMILES\: provides the most com- . plete account on film of African American working life between the CiVil War and W odd War II. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave, Albany, 7:30pm, $5, 463-4478. SPIKE HEELS: a play by Theresa Rebeck, Upper-Class Dinning Hall, 9 pm, free, sic, short-stories, video and graphics, The Newmon Foundation Cultural and Chapel Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy, 8 pm, 276-4778. SPIKE HEELS: see Friday, October 29. FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 5 ·. 388-6379. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Finn\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Dave\, 8 & 10 pm, $2. JAMES COTTON BAND: Delta blues from \Mr. Superharp,'' the man whose PACK OF LIES: a play set in Cold War London by Hugh Whitemore, Albany City Arts Building, Chapel and Orange Streets, Albariy, 8 pm, 439-6404. SPIKE HEELS: see Friday, October 29. played with everyone from Muddy Waters, Howlin' Wolf to Johnny Winter, Hart SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 6 Theatre, Empire Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $15,473-1845. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: Rhapsody In August, powerful reflection on war and nuclear holocaust (in Japanese w/ subtitles), Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany; 7:30pm; free, 442-5620. SPIKE HEELS: $3-students, $5-adults, see Thursday, October 28 SATURDAY.OCTOBER30 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, October 29 SPIKE HEELS: see Friday, October 29. UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA: includes a Beethoven Over- . ture, A minor Piano Concerto, and Hayden's Te Deum conducted by Hugh Allen Wilson, Memorial chapel, 12 noon -.1 pm. SUNDAY.OCTOBER31 COLLEGE ~ENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, October 29 WEDNESDAY·, NOVEMBER 3 CAMELOT: Tony Award-wining star Robert Goulet as the legendary King Arthur, Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, 8 pm, 382-3884. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 · CAMELOT: see Wednesday, November 3. JAZZ SEPTET- WYNTON MARSALIS: contemporary jazz featuring Wynton · Marsalis. The Music Hall, corner of State and Second Streets in downtown Troy, 8 pm; 273-0038. IMTERME~IA ARTIST ERIC ZITTEL'S TALES: an evening of poetry, mu- COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, November 5 PACK OF LIES: see Friday, November 5 ROCKY HORROR SHOW: Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, 8 pm, 382-3884. SPIKE HEELS: se.e Friday, October 29. SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 7 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, November 5 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, November 5 E. M. BRONER: novelist and short story writer to read from her work, Education 335, University at Albany's uptown campus, Albany, 4 pm, 442-5620. TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 9 KUIJKEN TRIO: trio sonatas by Handel, Locatelli, Marin Marais, J. S. Bach, Me- morial Chapel, Union College, 8 pm, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Poetic Justice\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. HEARTS OF DARKNESS: documents the harrowing record of the production of Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 Apocalypse Now, Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., Uni- versity at Albany's downtown campus, 7:30 pm, free, 442-5620. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff _ ...

·' ., October 28, 1993, page 16 Arts and Entertainment The Joy Luck Clu/;J: a True Catharsis by Belinda Crago Co- Arts Editor Based on the novel by Amy Tan, The Joy Luck Club, produced by Oliver Stone, is a truly thought provoking and emotional film. It is a poweful film, too difficult to describe in terms of a single plot, climax and even theme. The Joy Luck Club proves to be personal experience, meaning something different to each viewer. With the emotions and tears that the film evokes, it becomes a true cathar- sis. To put it in the most simple terms, the Joy Luck Club is a story of mothers and daughters. The film focuses on three generations of four Chinese women; them- selves, their mothers in China and their daughters raised in America. The tales of these women expose the cruelness of Chinese marriage rituals and its oppression of women. Each woman reveals a shocking and tramatic marriage experience that she and her mother underwent in China. To put this hell behind her, each woman struggles to escape to the freedom of America. Each woman has a daughter of her own and vows that they shall never know the horrors of oppression. The women see their daughters as symbols of hope for the life they never had and for the freedom they desired but could never grasp as a woman. They yearned for their daughters to become indi- viduals, not just a wives whose bodies and souls belonged to men and society. However, in their struggle to inflict these views, they began to smother their own daughters. The mothers began to see freedom and daughters to succeed. Each individuality in terms of success woman revealed to her daughter and popularity. The daily a notion, thought or advice that achievements oftheir daughters, their mother's had given to them such as a piano recital and cham- in China, and passed it on to their pion chess title, come to represent American. daughters. This beau- their own happiness and success. tifully expressed the power ·Of In this way, their Chinese/ Ameri- communication from~one genera- can daughters were just as op- tian to another and how it gives pressed as they and their mothers way to true understanding. With were in China.' the advice and sup- The mothers \It was tragic and port of their moTh- subcoHsciously COMlC, ShOCking and ers, each daughter treated the rela- • · broke away from tionship with consobng, and their oppressive re- their daughters absolutely enjoyable''lationships to find similarly to the . . . happiness within male, female marriage relation- themselvesandin men who loved ship in China: in terms of reward them for their individuality. and punishment( a male child and This summary of the story re- subservience .brought praise,. lates only a fraction ofwhat The while a female child was Joy Luck Club is really about. It repremanded). It was not Ameri- is a personal experience that re- can culture that made their lives fleets our own hopes and dreams, difficult, but thier own mothers. trials and tribulations, relation- Because of the overwhelming ships and marriages. It was a pressures the mothers put on their hopeful film that delicatlely par- daughters, the Chinese/American trayed a story of culture, society, daughters grew up with insec::uri- womanhood, motherhood, rela- ties and constantly felt they must tionships and especially love. It please their mothers and espe- was tragic and comic, shocking cially their husbands. Three of the . and consoling and absolutely en- daughters married unhappily, and joyable. But don't just take my as soon as the mothers saw the advice, experience it for yourself! similarities between their struggles and failures between their own, the mothers decided and Conductor of the Simply present yourself and your student atthe Box Office within 1 hour,.before the con.certand get any seat at HALf-PRicE/starting as low as plus$1 Albany Symphony Orchestra . PROGRAM FOR THE UPCOMING CONCERT: BARTOK • COPLAND • KILAR ·SATURDAY· OCTOBER 30, 1993 • 8:00 PM . AT. THE PALACE THEATRE IN ALBANY Call the Albany Symphony Orcnestra at 465-4755 or the P.alace Box oif1ce at 465·46631or more ~n1orrnat•on. they must find a newapproach to help. Each mother related the truth about their lives in China. One mother was sold to marriage, another raped and robbed of her child, one drowned her own baby, and another committed suicide. For the first time, the daughters truly understood their mothers; their personalities, their actions and especially their desire for their LEGENDARY GUITARIST .IN RARE PERFORMANCES AT SUNY'S PAGE HALL - 135 Western Avenue between Robin & N. Lake a.t SUNY's downtown campus- Jazz Master Concert Series featuring TISZIJI MuNOZ ( Tisziji Munoz Continued continued/rom 15 open-space or 'free jazz' formats; These individuals are highly dis- ciplined and well trained. Some of my music will offer them the greatest levels of musical free- dom. Thus, I challenge them to play freely and deeply as the Heart Is. Such freedom will func- tion as a discipline. Such a free or liberated discipline can pro- duce infinite creative possibilities. The audience will witness, par- ticipate in and feel this freedom. The audience will feel the musi- cal flow and experience the ten- sion and the release of creative force which the musical sound will initiate, conduct and release. JL: In the world of jazz, what other artists might your music be compared to? Tisziji: Soundwise, some people may make safe analogies of my guitar sound to the guitar sound of the great Carlos Santana, whose music I am not familiar with, and those guitarists who work with a more powerful or intense guitar sound; where the guitar begins to sound like a voice or another instrument, altogether. Technically, Guiiar Player Magazine has compared some of my playing and compositional concepts to that of the extraordi- nary Mahavishnu John McLaughlin, another musician who I don't listen to, but whom I met almost twenty years ago at one ofhis concerts. Composition- ally, my music is very simple and totally non-academic, but intu- itively true and real to me. As much as I can use the cart, I love the horse, I love the process, I love to create, Now. Some have validly compared my music to that of the spirit of the later mu- sic of John Coltrane. As a result of my own progression, I have evolved out of or transcended material or physical musical time and linear or solid rhythms, and have moved more completely into astral and space 'time' which corresponds more to breathing and psychic resonance than a mere audible musical pulse or drum beat. In such a music, there is less emphasis on the strict or dictated mechanics of mind-con- trolling music, and more on the free expression of music as sound, feeling, creative liberation and Free Beingness. JL: Thank you for sharing your thoughts. I look forward to hear- ing your concerts at SUNY Albany's Page Hall on October 30 and 31, 1993. VISIONARY JAZZ -Music Beyond The Times- Bernie Senensky on piano, Don Pate on bass and Bob Moses on drums OCTOBER 30, 1993 SATURDAY EVENING AT 8:00 PM OCTOBER 31, 1993 SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 2:00 PM I TICKETS - $5.00 Presented by Anami Music, Inc. and Master Copies! . TICKETS AVAILABLE IN ALBANY AT: Master Copies • 211 Lark St. • 436-8992 and Spartan Copies • 31 James St. • 436-1801

Arts & Entertainment O·ctober 28, 1993, Page 17 The Nightmare Before Christmas: A Ticket to Tim Burton's Fantasy land by Char.les Agar Staff Writer . . Drawing on our ~bared experi- · ence .ofsuch stop action haliday classics as The Grinch Who Stole Christmas and numerous Rudolph, Santa Claus, and Happy the Baby New Year epics of the past thirty years, Tim Burton, in his latest effort, spins the fantastical story of Jack Skellington, Kjng ofPumpkins in Halloween:land, who tries to take. over Christmas. Widely criticized as a movie that supplants style for content, The Nightmare Before Christmas doesjust that, success- fully. With a weak plot centered · around the suppressed leve affair between Jack, the twig-iike, ex- pressive protagonist, and Sally, a stuffed doll creation of a mad sci- entist, the film tells no great story. Like its animated predecessors, TNBC merely revels in the wild details of escapist, holiday fantasy worlds. Burton crea,tes an ani- matedworld that's stylistic grace successfully evercome$ a prob~ lematic lack of content in a won- derfully warped look at an old tra .. dition: holiday specials. 'Though directed by Henry Selick, 1NBC certainly bears the mark of its creative originator and producer, Titn Burton. The film embodies all'ofthe positive quali- ties of his earlier works: an un- likely hero,, insane but appealing vplains, musical scoring by the talented Danny ElfrnaJl, ami a cameo by the ·estranged actpr Paul Reubens. Hollywood veteran of such huge successes asPee Wee 's Big Adventure, and Batman, Bur- ton is masterful in presenting such alternate realities. Working in the creatively un- limited, and completely con- trolled world of stop-action ani- mation, Burton is at liberty to communicate his bizarre imagi- nation onto the such effects can in fact ·stand on their own because they are ma- nipulated to such a degree, and substantiated by a penchant for the bizarre that makes the film visually stimulating and hilarious. Where· a film like Jurassic Park may fail in de-emphasizing con- tent, for special effects, TNBC succeeds in giving the film unique visual qualities that rightfully take mas. It is a clash of p~gan and Christian: a possible model of good versus a wry evil. The fail- ure ofthe upwardly mobile skel- eton to command a hostile take- over of Christmas is an assertion of the basic differences between the two American rituals. Jack is not purely evil, he just goes be- yond his boundaries, something that Sally warns him about, in ap- plying the tion of viewing a film as purees- cape. They find significance in any detail of the media and say that escapist fantasies carry ex- treme political weight. I certainly disagree and hope that people can see films like The Nightmare Be- fore Christmas as very detached screen without • the constraints· \He. is playing on our holiday loyalty, ideas of Hal- loween to Christmas. All is returned to order in the end and such themes, though worlds where we can forget the petty cares of being Union Col- lege students, data analysts, or whatever our cog-like roles in society may be, and dive into the warped fantasies of someone like Burton. This film is visually de- lightful and-endearing whether it supports the patriarchy, makes biting social commentary, or sub- verts modem notions of the po- litically correct. If you're look- ing for an escape, that's what Burton offers; if you're looking for substance, see a Spike Lee film. Burton is a master of the purely bizarre, and successfully produces a twisted, dream-like, alternate reality in The Night Be- fore Christmas. of live action • tb I h d filmmaking. exposing . e common y s are . What costs mil- experiences of these holidays in a lions in elabo- rate $taging in wonderfully comedic light. n Batman is ------------------------ merely a tli9k of the wrist for these artists and animators, and Burton ·utilizes the potential of stop-action animation to its ex- treme. The image of a skeleton driving a coffin-shaped sleigh pulled by skeletal reindeer, and led by a ghostly, canine Rudolph, . is one that could only happen in the imagination of someone like Burton, and can only fmd expres- sion in animation. Burton's world is twisted, a Halloweenland of profoundly grotesque characters brought to life through wonder- ful animation techniques that are a joy in themselves. This brings up a significant debate in Holly- wood over filmmakers like Stephen Spielberg who, in films like Jurassic Park, rely on amaz- ing special effects alone to give their work merit. For Burton, precedence over content. TNBC, like the holidays it portrays, is fanciful and superficial... pure fun. If The Night Before Christmas is a twisted take on the holiday special, it is at times rather dis- turbing. At one point, the crazed \Oogie Boogie Man\ of Halloweenland tortures a bound and tied Santa Claus in what seems like Christmas sacrilege. Lock, Stock and Barrel, the evil young trick-or-treaters who kid- nap Santa, sing a demented song of how they will tear his ')oily old soul\ to bits, Though such scenes are subdued by the comic, musi- cal tone that they are told in, Bur- ton still tries to shock us in com- paring the irreverent, disgusting ideology of Halloween with the lobotomized happiness ofChrist- present, are de-emphasized in Burton's purely visual portrayal of Halloween and Christmas. He is playing on our holiday loyalty, exposing the commonly shared experiences of these holidays in a wonderfully comic light. Modern Critics oppose the no- this weekend's movie \THINK SUMMER! THINK FUNNY! THINK HIT! THI\'K 'DAVE'!\ - PJ.T COI.UI'I~, WWOR-T\ \****FUNNY AND FIENDISHLY CLEVER. KEVI~ KLINE'S FINNIEST ROLE SINCE 'A FISH CALLED WANDA'.\ - BILL DIF.IIL, ABC R4n1U NEn'OAto;. \THRILLING FuNNY, WARM AND INCREDIBLY ENTERTAINING:' -Jfl1 8i!OWI\,WOR·RIIf1Ul \TiiE MOST ENJOYABLE MOVIE THIS YEAR:' -ltrfli.E'\ Lti'!N~. !\\'FAII. Pftf.\'IF'U• \YoU SIMPLY WON'T BELIEVE How WONDERFUL 'DAVE' Is; ENTERTAINING. UPLIITING. TIMELESS. SEE IT, SEE IT, SEE IT!\ -JUI !IVF,JO.I., tiNX RAPIO Two Thumbs Up For Cyrano \A WINNER! KEVIN KLINE PRODUCES A LANDSIJDE OF COMIC CHARISMA:' - Dml f.A11P8f.U., N&11llfll ~f' Nn~ SF.R\'IfF. \A BIG WINNER! A WONDERFUL, FuNNY, FEEL-GOOD MOVIE. 'DAVE' IS A RAVE,\ - N£11. flno;[!lt, 'WNCNIN\' 1 NF..-.. ,, by Eugene Kublanov Staff Writer 1 Last Wednesday I went to .see Cyrano de Bergerac by Edmond Rostand at the Schenectady Civic Players theater in t)le Stockade, and what a perfor- mance it was. Not only was this the first time I had made an ex- tended trip to the stockade, but it was also the first time I had seen something in Schenectady that bordered on extravagant. Despite the initial urge to credit William Shakespeare for Cyrano, Rostand really did the work. Now that that's out of the way let me tell you about the play. Well, first of all, if and when you go see the play, park in the church parlcing lot. They say they'll towyouifyou do, but they won't. Now, when you're walking to the theater, notice the large edifice on the comet. No, it's not a community welfare center, but an honest to God men's club, complete with big arm chairs, cigar smoke and a \Private Members Only\ sign. So that was pretty exciting for being in Schenectady. Anyhow, when you go to enter into the theater, watch out for the door, the lock mechanism is very com- plicated. Luckily my compan- ion had mote experience with that type of model than myself so we were able to enter with little difficulty. Once inside, I w~ pleasantly surprised by the decor of this church turned theater. The down- stairs had .a. comfortable lobby with a back room exhibiting vari- ous paintings. The upstairs was the tqeater part, se~ts, lighting equipment, carpet and obviously the stage. The stage which was fairly small was masterfully done by the very competent crew of the Civic Players. The set through- out the play was very ,elaborate yet versatile allowing for easy· transitions from scene to scene. The acting, coming from an ama- teur theater- goer, was fantastic. Duncan Morrison had the lead role of Cyrano, Sarah Baxter played the role of Roxanne and Larry Maranville played the role of Compte de Guiche. All of these actors, as well as the rest of the talented cast have appeared in other performances of the Civic Players, and Latty Maranville, I am convinced has also appeared on several episodes of CHiP's. He was either the guy driving the car or the one being chased in the episode where the two girls were hitchhiking. All of the actors did a tremendous job, especially Morrison, whose nose looked ab- solutely real. It wasn't just the nose though, he really put on a great performance. So, maybe I can't review a play very well, so what, I liked it, my companion liked it, so go see it. It is a per- fect alternative to a Union Col- lege drinking night! There are going to be several other performances by the Schenectady Civic Players this year so keep a look out in the Arts and Entertainment section of the Concordi or call 382-2081 for information. Tickets are only ten bucks, and if you don't believe me that the play was good then I ~ant nothing further to do with you! I thank you for your atten-. tion. Are you _ , and uninter ... ::~stea:~tn·. at 'J;Jnt(>nt ·. & you often feel as if there is nqthing to dq:Ql1 this campus? .- ,, -.- one dta~t:·s YOUnt · elf·willl too ;;rih ~abe to ~e.dy~tp,any - :stions, ·then PLACE FOR . , els't:.~ yQu,not 9Jlly .. · ·s~ ~YNIGFITFOOT- BALL on; a larg~ 50\ screen- batalso SmNJ!£LD o:n Thurs- day Nights? Where else on carnptls isth~te a place desig- lJ~d fot students and faculty to fnteract in a relaxed, social s~tti:ng? Where ~lse is there live entertainment evecy Thurs~ day'Night? Where else can &t over 21 catl drink? . . ·srlt · · ··· · · · ·- ... KEVIN KLINE I SIGOl'R:'lEY WEAVER DAVE An IVAN REIT!IAN Film Important faets to know about · ctref~s: ' ' * YOU,I!(I NOT H:AVE TO BE 21 1'0 ENTfiSR CFmrs *·CHET'S IS LOCATED IN \THE COLLEGE CENTER RIGHT J?A'$1'DUTCH Hot .. LOW (IN nm PIT) • CHErS IS OPEN MON- DAY & 'i'Ht1RSDA Y NTS. & FRIDAY . AFTER- NOONS *CHEf'S CAN BE RENTED OU1 BY ANY ORGANIZA .. TION ON CAMPUS CH:ET'S UPCOMING EYENI$: EVERY MONDAY (8-l)- MONDA Y NIGHT FOOT· BALL THURSDAYS (8-1) - OCTOBER SEINFELD& 28th: .. \SPIKE HEELS\ PRE & POST RECEPTIONS NOVEMBER 4th: DRA- MATIC READINGS EVERY FRIDAY (4-9) T.O.I.F. (FREE FOOD & A GREAT CHANCE FOR UNION;S FACUL TV AND STUDENTS TO INtERACT) . ~* FJU$E FOb.lliS SUPPLIED .:JOIN US TIDS AND EVERY EVERYF'm;bAY .A:rt.G.t.F. · WnEKATCHET'snt (4~9) . ' . '- . . . . . .... ~ -

,,, '' ,, .,. ' \ October 28, 1993, page 18 Abstract Painter Comes To Union by Walter Hatke Interim Arts Dept Cllair Internationally acclaimed ab- stract painter Larry Poons will give a talk at Union College on Wednesday, Npvember lOth at 7:00 pm in the College Center Auditorium, one of this year's Walter G. Baker Lectures. Al- though his talk is untitled, it will surely touch on issues of art and life. The work of Larry Poons has been shown since 1963 when the artist was in his twenties; he has held a prominent position in the art world ever since. From the beginning his work attracted and held public and critical attention. In recent years, Poons has boldly moved from the sedately under- stated, flat, 'Minimalist', work of the 1960's to densely textured and elaborately developed surfaces on a monumental scale, challenging viewers to reevaluate the artist's stance regarding the nature of painting. Poons is first and fore- most a painter, contesting in vivid contrast those artists who would advocate abandoning the act of painting in favor of conceptual contrivances. The painti~gs of Larry Poons are seen in major collections and museums throughout the world including: Hirschhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washing- Continued Sunday continued from page 14 George as the basis for his paint- ings. This is not only what George wants in his paintings but what he wants in his life. Another notable song is \Beau- tiful\ performed by George, Adam Karsten, and his mother, Jennie May Kraai. fu this song they talk about the ever changing world, and by putting various scenes on canvas, George keeps the image forever. ton, DC; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Museum of Modern Art, NYC; Philadelphia Museum of Art; Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, NYC; Stedelijk Mu- seum, The Netherlands; Whitney Museum of American Art, NYC; and the Tate Gallery, London, UK. His work has been shown extensively through exhibitions such as: Documenta, W. Ger- many; Bienal Sao Paulo, Brazil; Art Institute ofChicago; Albright- Knox Gallery, Buffalo, NY; the Art Galleries of Edmonton and Winnipeg, Canada; Museo de Bellas Artes, Caracas, Venezuela; Galleria Chisel, Milan, Italy; State Mu- seum of Art, Copenhagen, Den- mark; National Gallery of Victoria, Australia; Pasadena Art Museum, CA; Corcoran Gallery, Washington, DC; the American Embassy, Madrid, Spain. Ar- ticles on work have appeared in virtually every major art publica- tion and innumerable newspa- pers. The work of Larry Poons is currently represented through Salander-O'Reilly Galleries, NYC. Previously, his work was represented for various lengths of time through: Green, Leo Castelli, Lawrence Rubin, Knoedler Con- temporary, and Andre Emmerich art galleries, all in New York City. Arts and Entertainment ... ,.. . ..,.; ... • J:'·· Union College Performing Arts presents \Children and Art\ is another remarkable piece sung in the sec- ond act, by Marie, Wendy Brown, George of the 1900's grand- mother. It talks about the impor- tance of family and how they al- ways belong together. She says the \children and art, all that's left after ones death.\ A play by Theresa Rebeck After the musical we ran into several of the performers at a nearby cafe. They enjoyed the acoustics of the theater and the audience. The costumes where very historical and true to fact, the same as those worn in the paint- ing. The set I found simple and yet fulfilling. I enjoyed Sunday in the Park with George and found it unique. This is the only musical I've known based on a painting. Sev- eral days later I was looking at Seurat' s painting, and found that I knew everyone in the painting, their lives, their personalities, their hopes. Sondheim's style is unique and refreshing and Lapine's approach to the story was unexpected and remarkable. October 28 .. 30 Nov·ember 4 - 6 9:00PM Upperclass Dining Hall Tickets available: CCA.trium, 11-2 Daily (other times in cc408) Further Info: 388-6379 Is ... ·- \ ..... \\ .... . . ·.:.·s:~npport·:·· ~··.u.ni<l·ri'Aitsl)

Personals Yo! Peep this Tameeka and Lesley~ you are two Bumba- heads!! Motebeit!! See you, Bye Bye! Dear Jared, If it still hurts, let me \nurse\ it back to health this weekend. I'll show you what be- ing a doctor is really a:bout. Your Friday Night Lover KC, you will be missed by the Residence Life staffbuddy. Keep your head up and believe in your- self. your not the only victim of Residence Life, and won't be the last. From a fox named Rich- mond~ West of Davidson, and South ofFero House. To the Delectable SBM, Why don't you some and rap to me, gorgeous? I'd walk anywhere with you, anytime of the day or night. If you rhyme as good as you look I'd love to get to know you better. yours truly, Honey Bee. Number 21, you are so hot and when you sweat, I tear. I love you and I am an avid holbrough fan. Please keep me warm this hockey winter. Bevedy Rainkin To the Brothers of AD, Pumpkin are orange, Ghost are white, Tri Delt thanks you for a great night! The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta To the Brothers of Psi U, Cock- tails were fun, The music was great, We'll do it again- you pick the date! The Sisters of'.Delta Delta, Delta SAG( and CSL) ~It's Over!! love Jenni To my pasta-Be ware of the Cali- fornia sun. Remember sprinkles go on top. Love, pasta Liebhoff- Sorry about the rash I gave you. Hope it clears up soon. - One Twister to another To the Brothers of Delta Phi and Alpha Delta Phi, Thanks for a great Saturday Night. - the sis- ters of Sigma Delta Tau No, I am not a \fag\ and I won't kill myself, so I guess I can't make you all happy. Why don't you try someone else's answer- ing machine. Timmy - Thanks for guarding my undies. \Diesel fitter, diesels fit- ter ... \ -Lissa To Everyone Living in PAT - It's so great living with you. You're all so gaarrryyy! hugs and kisses To my oat sewer - When, where , and with whom, may I ask. I love you! Stephanie - I want you! Kenneth Jason Benedict - We couldn't help noticing your freshman record picture, and if you are single, let it be known. To the Brothers of Sigma Phi - The '80's party was \totally awe- some\ the drinks were fille~, and we took just a few spills, :'we danced like we never danced be- fore\ The Gamma Phi's Campus News Dear Bernie - Yulman is calling us. It's been awhile. I'll meet you in the back row with bread and a jar. See you soon. The lower lip To the hopeless romantic - Is spending a night in the 69 room all it's crakced up to he? -House managers Shaken Kate - Do real men eat fish? - the naive patrol nlanche - smoosh, smoosh! Where' s is dead baby? Can you make a mean spam and crackers dinner with lumber jack potatoes? We think you are a gC>od room- mate. love, Dorothy and Rose P.S. You smell like dip water Sean - trick or treat, you're really near, but you're back with that girl from mass, so grab your \sticks\ for nothings impossible to fix, and let's play \beat\ my_! - Jealous Again Dear Kev and Cory - Pop away! love, Uncle Ben. Nottmns are passe. Want to do itnn the U? I'll bring the pillows. Box 1383 Cl To Bill Rankin - I am officially resigning as your number 1 troll. Please stop having President Hancock calling for my presence. Do not contact this troll anymore. Ladies -Yes, the rumor is true. I will be donating a free \appoint- ment\ to one very lucky female blood donor. So, sign up now in the college center, and cross your fingers. Love, Jared 28 Oct - 3 Nov 1993 Oct 28 - Thursday Begin WeekS 3:30 PM Men's Soccer v. Skidmore 7:00 PM Old Chapel: \Let's Talk About Sex\ Oct· 29 - Friday Parents' Weekend 4:00 PM -9:00 Chet's T.G.I.F. (Happy Hour) 8:00PM & ~0:00, CCAUD: \Dave\ 9:00PM UCDH: PAD presents Spike Heels Oct 30 • Saturday Parents' Weekend 11:00 AM CCAud: \Union's Response to AIDS\ 12:00 PM MC: Orch. & Choir Concert 1 :30 PM Football v. Alfred Oct 31 ·- - Sunday Parents' Weekend 12:00 PM Old Chapel: Mountebanks· Zoo Story 5:00 PM Webster House Haunted House 8:00PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Dave\ 8:00PM CCAUD: Juan Williams (Eyes on the Prize) 8:00 PM Chet's 9:00PM UCDH: PADpresents Spike Heels 7:00 PM Hockey v. McGill 8:00PM & 10:00, CCAUD: \Dave\ 8:00PM MemoriaJChapel: Dave Binder 9:00PM Fero House Coffeehouse 9:00 PM UCDH: PAD presents Spike Heels Nov 1 - Monday 9:00 PM Chet's: Monday Night Football 5:30PM Old Chapel: Mountebanks- Zoo Story 8:00PM& 10:00, CCAUD: \Dave\ 8:00 PM Fe.ro: Dslta Psi Delta Game Night N~ov 2 - Tuesday Election Day 9:00 PM Chet's: Women's Union Nov 3 - Wednesday I current as of 10122/93. To include your events call or memo College Center/Student Activities, CC408, x6379 or x6118 October 28, 1993, Page 19 To the second floor of Chi Psi - We're up one. keep good faith, and follow the proper rules of sportsmanship. Love, the second floor of Tri Delts. To Holbert Albrough, Even though you don't exist in her mind, you exist in mind. I love you red goat. Jason B '97- Can you come over and play on Friday? I brought you a tooth brush. Your favorite leggy, brunette, 9? Rick- The sympathy walk doesn't work with us. Romance Elvis impersonator is looking for Marilyn Monroe look alike to share a hunk a hunk of burning love. SBF from Brownsville seeks cor- rectional officer., I like to dance and enjoy stroking rabbits. Sub- mit replies to box 1383 C2 Fun loving schizophrenic who loves Chinese food, is searching for soul mate. Must hate Chinese food. SWF, blonde, looking for a good, old-fashioned smooch. Contact box 1383 C3 SBF with hour glass figure and a penchant for doing the butterfly, seeks SM who enjoys Calypso, food from Barbados, and the soothing sounds of John Lennon. Contact box 1383 C4 SBF petite seeking strong, able bodies SBM to \endarken my thoughts\. One that can provide an aphrodisiac for my mind. Send responses to Box 1383 C5 Talented SBF in search of equally talented SM who is willing to help me create a world where only the two of us will exist (for each other). Large, yellow bird ISO large, furry elephant to share nest with. Must know ABC's and can count to ten. SBF l0oking for a rich, domineer- ing man to pamper me. To sat- isfy me emotionally, financially, and sexually. Must be well en- dowed. All raced accepted. Gha- naians neednotapply. box 1383 C6 Dearnice, and lonely guy- There are several of us who would like to be your friendly writing pals. If you would like to write us write to box 1383 C7 We're of various colors of hair and eyes. Our ma- jors are, three Bio Pre meds, one engineer, one psychology/jour- nalism, two clueless. We were touched by your add because it was simple and not sex oriented, which is a nice change. We are ~ looking for a friend too. We are the KLELCSS SBF with exquisite taste looking for a non-incarcerated, non-drug dealing, sophisticated male. To enjoy nights in a cozy room in the solitude of 4 walls and a big bed. I need a man with stamina and a big, big, big, personality. One that I can feel. Box 1383 C8 Classijieds Volunteer Opportunity: If you are interested in Theatre and/or Marketing/ Advertising, Proctor's Theatre is looking for a volunteer for group sales marketing. Volunteer would work 5-10 hours a week. Call the career Development Center for more information. x6176. Babysitter Needed: For 2 112 year old and 10 month old. Niskayuna area. Must have Own transportation (must be re- liable). Call me with your sched- ule. Very good Pay and excel- lent home and kids. Call Mary Jane at 786-3945 for more infor- mation about position. AAA m AALPA- ASUBA- Charles Drew Science Club- CSA- Fuerza latina- HSA- KSA- Latino Greek Council -Latinos Unidos - La Mensa - Native American Council - Pan Hellenic Council - Pca-SASA Presents United Jam at SUNY Albany Benefitting the \students for Community Scholarship Fund\ Saturday, October 30th CC Ballroom, 9 p.m. $5 in advance $7 at door ID Required ·- .. :'\' -I I I _ ... .-i'·

' i ' \ I , I Rubes® By Leigh Rubin Crealors Syndicate, Inc. 7-6 o 1993 Leigh Rubi~t The Spats- By.JeffPickering Hmt1lM ... IT SA'$,!m~ TIIAT 11J 1inii9A ~ .... ~MosrJ,.. A MAN IS A 5el51: OF HUffiDR. ( ~ Out on a Limb - By Gary Kopervas ! ~-------()._____ Rubes® By Leigh Rubin success \S t% \N~\II\1lQJ ANP crq1. ~~ilON.

FOOTBALL Lambert Poll l.Wash. & Jeff., Pa. (8) 2.Buffalo St. (3) 3.UNION 4.Wilkes, Pa. 5.Rowan, N.J. 6.Dickinson, Pa. 7.Frostberg St., Md. 8.Ailegheny, Pa. 9.Trinity, Conn. 1 O.Susquehann~ Pa. 7-0-0 105 7-0-0 99 7-0-0 85 7-0.-0 77 5~1-0 60 6-1-0 47 1-o~o 46 6-1-0 40 5-0-0 13 5-2..;0 11 NCAA Div. ID Poll !.Buffalo State., 2.Rowan, N.J., 3.UNION 4.Montclair St., N.J, 5.Brockport State, 6.Kean, N.J., 7-0 5-1 7-0 4-2 6-1 4~2 Oct.30 Smith Invitatio~al AWAY MEN''S FOOTBALL (7-0) UNION48 StLawrence 7 UNION44 W.P.I. 0 UNION26 Hobart 3 UNION23 Dickinson 17 UNION21 Albany 14 UNION 19 R.P.I. 16 UNION 52 Coast Guard 10 Oct. 30 Alfred HOME Nov.6 Rochester HOME Individual Statistics vs. Coast Guard Rushing Yards TD Long Irving 154 2 93 Attah ... 41 ... Jl. 12 Morton 38 1 ~ Passing Att Comp Yards TD Newton 9 6 93 2 Lombardo 4 2 20 0 Receiving Cusic 1 57 yards 1 Td P~ck 1 21yards Punts - Baker s- 166 Field Goals- Harrison 1-1 SPORTS October 28, 1993, Page 21 FIELD HOCKEY New York State· Final Standings 1. Cortland 2.William Smith 3.Ithaca 4.Union 5.0neonta 6 .Rochester . _. 7 .St. Lawrence 8.Rennselaer 11-7 15-h·l 15-2 10-3-1 8-2-2 5-7-1 8-3-0 Na.ID.t~a :M:.:i..ssy Lo:rnba:rclon.:i.. S-u.sa:n. HC!!L11.:Lclay Met11y l?E!t.e..:rs.e..::L:L M.:i.c·h.e.l..:L~~a McCa.rtca Tonya Cappa~~~a11~ Georg.:i.a So-u.th.-o~th Kat..:i..e R.:i..chardso:n. L<:>.:i:\Etn.E!t Kam.:i..:n.Bk.:i. ~e..:r.:L :ou:n.ph.y Ch:r.i.st..i...na Jabbcn:.a.:r \Jen:n. · Ba:t.t.s W\e:n.d.y- .M.i...:L.:La:r Au. t 1..1J.U:n Coh~~a:n. Ka.~ .:i..:n. A. V\EIIo:r .;L 1.1 M.;i..:n.d.y ~ess.l..eo~ Goa1.:Le Jen ve:r~o:n. E::L.ana Go::Lcibe.:rg G1s .Asst. a Pta 5 14 1.9 12 0 12 4 5 9 1 4 s 4 0 4 3 1 4 0 4 4 ::L i. 2 :L 1 2 2 0 2 1 1 2 ::L 0 :L :L 0 1 1. 0 1 0 1 1 SV\S G.l..a A.1.l. Sh.O 113 10 4.5 9 :L :L.S Women's Soccer (8-6-1) New York State Final Standings 1. Ithaca 13-0-3 5.0swego 12-S-1 2. St. Lawrencel0-3-1 6.UNION 8-6-1 3. Plattsburgh 12-4-1 7. Oneonta 9-8-2 .4. J(ueka 11·5-1 8. Fredonia 10-6-1 Women's Tennis (7-2) 1st place RPI Itwit. - UNIONS Hamilton 4 UNION7 Russell Sage 2 Williams 8 UNION 1 UNIONS Vassar4 UNIONS Hartwick 4 UNION9 Oneonta 0 UNION9 R.P.I. 0 UNION9 AlbanyO Skidmore 6 UNION3 State Meet 6TII PLACE Volleyball(12-13) Vassar Invitational Win vs. Russell Sage 15-6 15-6 Loss vs. Oneonta 11-5 16-=18 Skidmore Invitational 2nd place Oct. 27 St. Rose HOME Heather Rock Kim Fanning Nicole Solomos Emily Retterer Heather Gauntt Sm;anne Weldon JenManna 7 5 5 3 4 2 Goals 23 Cross- Country Men's Cross Country (2-1) UNiON22 Oneonta 39 UNION25 NewPaltz 35 Hamilton 17 UNION44 Williams Invit. llthofl5 Lemoyne Invit. lOth of 13 Capital Districts 5th of5 Albany Jnvit. 22ndof44 Nov 6. State Meet@ Binghamton Women's Cross Country (4-0) UNION 18 Oneonta42 UNION 15 New Paltz 45 UNION 27 Hamilton 28 Williams htvit. 6th of 12 LeMoyne Invit. 5th of 12 Capital Districts 3rd of6 AIJ:>any Invit. 14th of 32 Oct. 30 State Meet @ Oswego Shots 6 14 11 10 9 8 6 Saves 180 Men's Soccer Men's Soccer (State) pts. l.Clarkson 57 2.Cortland 57 3 .Plattsburgh 45 4.UNION 39.5 5 .Rochester 6.Ithaca 7.Geneseo 8.St. Lawrence 9.0swego lO.Albany Scoring (1 0/22/93) Player Goals Assists Points Doran 4 0 8 Liebhoff 8 7 23 Oleson 3 2 8 Savage 4 2 10 Stem 6 10 22 Mela 4 4 12 Wilmont 2 2 6 Fisk 1 0 2 Bullen 0 I 1 Kurz 2 0 4 McHugh 0 1 1 Polk 0 1 1 ' Goals Saves Popper 10 96 Men's Schedule- (8-3-2) UNION 3 Cortland4 UNION 1 UNION2 UNION7 UNION6 UNIONS St. Lawrence 1 UNION 2 UNION 2 UNION3 UNION 1 Williams 3 0 2 (201} Hamilton UNION Albany Middlebury Westfield St. Anna Marie Utica UNION RIT RPI Rochester Clarkson UNION 1(01) 0 0 0 l 0 1 0 1 l(OT) 2 UPCOMING GAMES Oct. 28: Skidmore Home Oct. 29 Vassar Away --,.. .·:,:...,

•,_r -\- '. Octobe·r 28, 1992, Page 22 SPORTS So What Do You Want to Talk About? Crew Team Proves Itself at the Charles by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor It seems like everyone wants to be like Mike. Even those closest to his unparalleled basketball abilities. This past week, the man who many consider to be Michael Jordan's successor as the NBA' s best and most exciting player an- nounced that he was 99.9% sure that this season would be his fi- nal season as a professional bas- ketball player. Citing basically the same reasons as Michael, \Sir Charles\ said that he is tired of the attention, the continuous scru- tiny from fans and the media, and the wear and tear of the NBA schedule. Despite his definitive tone regarding his decision, few are quick to believe him just yet. Among those doubting the valid- ity of Charles' comments is his head coach Paul Westphal who pointed out that Charles has said a great deal of things during the course of his career with the Phoenix Suns and the Philadel- phia 76ers, most of which turned out to be untrue. Furthennore, if Charles was to come as close to the NBA championship this year as he did last year (the Suns lost to Bulls in the Finals) it is doubt- ful he would pass up another op- portunity to try and claim a ring in I 994-95. But if Charles is to stay true to his word and call it quits after thfs season, it would just be another in a series of be- low-the-belt blows administered to the NBA. In just two years, the league has already lost such stars as Reggie Lewis, Drazen Petrovic, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, and Michael Jordan. Apologies to Mr. Walter Bzdell who correctly pointed out that the Nlll, preview of two weeks ago failed to include the defending Stanley Cup champions the Montreal Canadiens. The fact of the matter is, what is there to write about the team every hockey fan loves to hate. What can you say about a team whose'fans firebomb the coach's house after losing two playoff games to Hartford in 1991-1992 (Pat Bums was the lucky coach during those first round losses). They were not the best team in hockey last year nor will they be this year. The only reason they won it all was because Patrick Roy got hot and God had the Islanders in a Patrick Division pool. Sorry Wally, there will be no violent celebrations resulting in millions of dollars of damage in the streets of Montreal this sea- son. Did anybody think that the Gi- ants would be 5-l and sitting alone atop the NFC East come October? Not even the Swami (Chris Bennan) could have pre- dicted this one. With this week's victory over the Philadelphia and last week's thrashing of the Washington Redskins in the nation's capital, have the Giants emerged as one of the league's powerhouses? It is very possible. Even though Washington is not the team it once was and Philly was playing without Randall Cunningham, there is serious cause for excitement in East by .Josh Kaplan Contributing Writer Rutherford. But amidst all the hoopla, cautious optimism must remain. The injury bug has hit key players su.ch as Lawrence Taylor, Rodney Hampton, and most re- cently Mike Sherrard who is lost for three months. Furthermore, if This past weekend irt Boston at .anything happens to Phil Simms, the 29th annual Head of the the season could be over faster . Charles Regatta, the Union Crew than you can say \Bring back Ray Team once again proved itself as Handley!\ Well, maybe.not that a force to be reckene.d with. Beth f1 t the men's and women's teams as. Finally, kudos to the Philadel- . had a boat entered in the race, and phi a Phillies for finally doing both finished in spectacular posi- away with the Atlanta Braves. tions in their respective fields .. the constant attention surround- On the women's side, an open ing the Braves remarkable late four was entered in the club clivi- season run to catch the San Fran- sion. This four, with Kristina cisco Giants began to get most . Frenyea, Cece Buchanan, annoying. How many statistics Courtney Digges, Dana Long and did CBS flash during the NLCS coxswain Becca Perchick, were regarding the greatness of the seeded thirty-first going into the comeback. We were all aware of race, hut were determined to sur- their success, no need to belabor prise some of their overconfident the point. Apparently,the Braves competition. The four women themselves were still wrapped up rowed the three mile course with in their accomplishments, so tremendous poise and drive, and much so that they forgot they had ended up with a very solid eigh- to play a very good Phillies team. teenth place finish out of the field While the Braves have nothing to of thirty-three. This being the be embarrassed about, it is their first women's boat that Union fault that the season which will College has rac.ed in the Head of be looked back upon as the one the Charles, the outcome was vezy containing the last great pennant satisfying and rewarding, not only race is now all for naught. But the for the women's team, but also for Phils are definitely a fun team to the crew team as a whole, root for. How many other cham- The success of the morning was pionship teams have players who carried on through the afternoon haven't seen their feet since high as the men's team juiced it up in school? But none of this is impor- the championship eights division. tant. What is important is that As a result ofthe lightweight four baseball is America's game and victory at nationals last spring, it is time to bring the World Se- this crew of men was required to ries trophy back to the USA. race in the championship division Therefore, let's go Philsl rather than the club division where most of our perennial op- United States', Canadian, and British national squads. But the Dutchmen heavyweight eight which included. Steve Mooar, Rob Cressman, John Poor,. Doug Robertson, Kurt Venator, Matt Forster, Matt Kirk, Kevin Puppe and coxswain J .J. \Chubby\ Weiner, would not be intimidated. Right out of the start they began chasing down their opponents. After a tremendous first half of the race where they sliced through the water like a knife through soft butter, the conditions began to have an effect on all the racers. The wind, which had been signifi- cant in the morning, started to kick up even more. This made the curvy course tougher on both coxswains and rowers alike. But the Union men remained tough through this adversity and fin- ished the race with some excel- lent power. Among the teams that they left in their wake were strong powers such as Coast Guard, Holy Cross, UMass, Bucknell, Tufts, and Jacksonville. However, the most significant boat that Union fin- ished ahead of was Columbia. This marks the first time that a Union boat has ever beaten a Di~ vision l rowing school. Some further encouraging signs were that Yale and MIT, two of the nations premier rowing power- houses, finished only five and eight boats, respectively, ahead of Union in the field of forty two. Men's Rugby Rolls in Playoffs ponents remained. Among the competition they faced in this more competitive division were boats from all the powerhouse rowing schools such as Harvard, Cornell, Penn and last years sprint champion Brown, as well as the . Things went very well for the Union Crew Team this weekend in Boston, and we intend to keep the ball rolling, never looking back. Our next race is the Head of the Fish this coming Saturday on the Fish Creek in Saratoga~. Come out and support us as we by Rob DuPuy Contributing Writer The rugby gods are not just smiling down on Union, they are stripping down and running na- ked through the woods in tribute to the Union ruggers. I don't re- member the exact order of the scores, I just know that there were many. For those that woke up with too great of a headache, from intense celebration on Friday night, to venture out to the field, you missed a truly great game. The men's rugby team hosted Colgate in the first round of the division playoffs and those in at- tendance were witness to one of the most amazing feats ever. The co-captain and fly half supreme, Kirk \Hair Dubbs\ Andreae, had the day of his life. He got the ball about mid-field and quickly real- ized he had nobody to pass it to. Being the heads up player he is, he kicked it and it actually went forward, but it does not stop there. Not only was it a well placed kick, but he also pursued it (like he is supposed to), which is new for the Union men, but we are still not done. By some act of God, the ball bounced off the goal post and into the hands of Andreae who then ran it in for five points. This was just one of many Union scores on Saturday, but by far the most spectacular, simply because Kirk finally scored. Chris \I don't know when prac- tice starts?\ Bangs enjoyed two tries from the eight man position (welcome back Chris, I liked eight man, but you can have it.). Co-captain Rob \Puppy\ DuPuy tacked on another for Union and then decided to display his humble side for the fans by taunt .. ing the Colgate ruggers in a most horrible and nasty way. The fi- nal score was provided by Chris \Stone Hands\ Delano who scampered in after taking out some Colgate defenders with a samurai sword he had tucked in his shorts. That more or less sums up the game, sorry it is so short, hut my last article was butchered because it was too long, At this time I would liKe to in- fonn you all that with this win the Union ruggers have qualified for the semi:.final round. The men will all fly over to London in the Concord and stay at the finest hotels in town. We will, of course, eat in the best restaurants and it will all be on President Hull. Either that or we wilt be in Syra• cuse at the Motel Si:x: eating a Whopper and fries, we haven't decided. . continue to prove that we are a team to be reckoned with. Skating Dutchmen vs. McGill Saturday Night Achilles Rt.·n. k . . . Support Hockey Sweet Tooth Cafe 1624 Union Street* 393- 5·592 Breakfast & Lunch Daily, and NOW SERVING DINNERS TUESDAY thru Saturday Call For Reservations for PARENT'S WEEKEND Cappaccino and Espresso Served

·.-SPORTS Cross Country Runs ·at Albany Invitational by William Rice Concordiensis Staff Spenello(20:49, ·64th), and Liza Morse(20:56, 69th} staying in frontofthe leadHamilton runners. Teams from through out the H(lwever, the Hamilton women Northeast traveled to the State · were able to squeeze in five run- University of Albanycampusthis ners between the Union top three Saturday to compete in the AI· and Sarah Teasdale(21:43, l04th), bany Invitational. Forty teams Ameila Audette(21;53, 107th), raced for the men's title, while and Sarah ~orse(22:04 113th). Anderson(28:48, I 36th) ran to- gether throughout the race with Nick overtaking a dozen runners in the final mile. Marc Sheridan(29:08, l43rd), and Seth Rudin(29:t'l, 144th) worked to- gether to run their fastest times of the season, and Chris Colpoys(29:50, I 70th) and Adam Diana Spinello arid Liza Morse at Albany Invitational. (pfioto by Josh Haines!TC) - thit,fy-two teams raced in the .... 'Iheresultwasinquestion Until the women's race. The course pro- ' official spores were released be- vided a challenge for both teams··, to overcome the large n'tllnbers of, runners in the field. . With so many teams in the field, the women's team couldhavefo .. cusl;!d on many gol:Us in the field, instead Coach Hick focused the girls_ on defeating the rival Hamilton squad. \When you run by, I will call out a number from one to seven telling you 1\.uw many runners are ahead of you, your job is to stay out in front of them!'; The women nearly suc- ceeded in this task, with Linda Seymour(20:28, 48th), Diana cause·of Amelia's glit~y finish in which she overtook six runners in the final two hundred yards of the ra~e. Hamilton wan this n;tatch, but the girls continuedt}Jeirmarch toward.thepost-season with a 14th place finish overall. The men's team was not given any particular instructions about beating any team, but to beat any team on the course. The 8K course was particularlY fast and many of the men ran their best races of the season. Nick Conway(28;15, 114th), John Metz(28:21, 121st) and Anthony Rnssell(30:0l, 172nd) assisted the : team in its best overall showing of the year. The men finished 22nd of 40 teams with 232 runners finishing the race. This was an outstand- ing achievement the men will try and carry over in the state meet in Binghamton on November 6th. The women will race 'this Satur- day in Oswego to demonstrate how powerful their squad has be- come, with a chance to defeat the best runners of New York State. Wish them the best of luck. October 28,-1993, pa~ge 23 Women's Rugby Defeats Hamilton ciously offered to sit out the sec- Courtesy of Women's Rugby ond half, and wing-forward Eileen Colkin was sent in to re- OnSaturday,October23rd, the place her in the serum. Calkin Women's Rugby traveled to contributed an impressive three Hamilton College to play in a penalties on her own, starting non-league match. Although . with Hands In the Ruck (a stupid Union had technically ·defeated play), then high-tackled Hamilton by forfeit October 9th, Hamilton's fly-half(a dangerous they wanted to prove that they play), and finally went on to were the hue league champions. single-handedly collapse the ruck The morning started off slow (an extremely dangerous play). as Captains Gaeta \check out my Union managed to keep a strong cool black eye\ Schweizer and defensive stance, which pre- Jessie \where the hell are you vented Hamilton from scoring guys?\ Zirinsky scrambled to once. Good tackles were made rouse blissfully slumbering senior by Pam Lynch (a body slam into drivers Eileen c'I thought I was .the sidelines), Beth Decker (a slesPing through a German test\ crushing tackle followed by a vic- and Barb \I just make the rules, I tory dance on the wing's face), don't have to fo II ow them\ and a unique team effort by Pam · McCuen. Unsuccessful attempts Kurtz and Deena Alter as they were made to contact several held on for thirty meters, and rookies as they were mysteriously eventually brought down a 6' 9\ not home that morning. The cara- , scrummer from Hamilton. With van headed off to picturesque less than two minutes to play in Clinton, NY to face the Lady the game, and with a scrumdown Continentals of Hamilton. to Union on Hamilton's five Captain Gaela charitably of- meter line, Gaela Schweizer fered to sit out the first half and snuck into the try zone and scored cheer from the sidelines with the only points of the game, mak- touch-judge Dave Messler. Both ing the final score 5-0. teams had problems moving the It wasn't a pretty win, but ball during the first half, many Union maintained its undefeated players had problems just mov- record. They will spend this week ing. Fullback Wendy Stephenson gearing up for the State Touma- was seen brandishing her sawed- ment, to be held October 30-31 off shotgun before the close of the in Syracuse. Tell your parents first half, but was unable to pump you transferred to SU, and come out a round before the half was out to support both women's and over. men's rugby as they compete for Captain Jessie Zirinsky gra- the championship. Women's .soccer Wraps Up by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor Aggressive, young, and tal- ented. Praises that many gave to the Women's Varsity Soccer Team early in the season. Months later, Union ended its quest for.a State Championship, losing to the Cardinals of SUNY Plattsburgh 7-3 in the first round oftournamentplay. Although the Lady Dutchmen finished with a mediocre record of 8-7-1; they remain a highly regarded and re- spected team in the soccer com- munity. After starting the year out vety strong, the Union Women lost their momentum, dropping four out of their last six games to end the season. What Wl!nt wrong is uncertain. Analyzing the team at season's end, the Lady Dutchmen possess the same tal- ent, skill, and detennination of most championship caliber teams. The Women's Soccer Team was never outmatched by any of their opponents and at times of bril- liance, totally dominated highly competitive teams. Unfortu- nately, the Lady Dutchmen could not put it together down the stretch and demonstrate their out- standing attributes which lead to a 6-2 record midway through the season. The Union Women's Soccer Team looks forward to taking advantage oflost opportu- nities this season and combining their youth, persistence, and abil- ity to compete for next year's soc- cer crown. ' . ; -'->

.. , .. \ '. ' ' '• October 28, 1993 PAGE24 Win, Lose and Draw : Men's Soccer Plays Three Top-10 Teams Pollsters.: Football Romps over Coast Guard, 52--10 by Pat Streck Concordiensis Staff The Union College Men's soc- cer team had a roller-coaster week since the last article appeared in the Concordiensis. Last Tuesday there was the away game at the University of Rochester, a team ranked 1Oth nationally and 3rd in the Northeast Region. Playing on U of R's home Astroturf, the Dutchmen hammered the home team in a 3 -1 victory. Matt Stem had two goals and Jeremy Liebhoff tallied the third as Union shocked Rochester with quick controlled play and characteristi- cally strong play from the No Goal Patrol. The lone score for Rochester was the result of a·· questionable hand ball called on the edge of the Union penalty area. The team returned home to face Clarkson, the # 1 squad in the Northeast and ranked 5th nation- ally. Last year the Dutchmen suf- fered a poorly officiated loss at Clarkson and there was a score to be settled. Jeremy Liebhoff, who is having a fantastic season, scored Union's only regulation goal. Clarkson unfortunately matched it and the game went to overtime. Five minutes into the first overtime period, Liebhoff scored again on a Matt Stern throw-in that was flicked across the box by captain Jeff Mela. Somehow, the linesman deter- mined that a Union player was offsides on the play and the goal was called back. Even after much deliberation with both the referee and the linesman, neither of Union's coaches, Aldo Nardiello and Vlado Sergovich, could get an acceptable or complete expla- nation of the call. However, re- versals are few and far between and reversals of reversals are un- by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor The Union Dutchmen have had a successful season thus far, win- ning all of their first six games, · .. upping their winning streak from last season to nine. The Dutch- • men were hoping to continue their winning ways against the Bears ofCoastGuard Academy, . this past Saturday. Coast Guard had a record of 3-2 · before facing the Dutchmen, and had recorded victories in all of their last three games. Union players were in-volved in a physico/match with the Clarkson Golden Knight . .. (photo by Emily Schrier/TC) Although the Dutchmen beat RPI last week and re- mained undefeated, heard of, leaving the home team to accept the call and finish the game out. The end result was a 1-1 tie that did not help or hurt the Dutchmen. The win would have greatly increased Union's chances of secUiing an NCAA bid, but a draw with a team like Clarkson, and essentially beating them, will still receive favorable notice as the bids are \determined. The must win game of the three came this past Tuesday against Williams. Number 2 in the na- tion and the best team in New England, the Williams squad came into the game with a I 0-0 record and having given up only four goals. Within the first fif~ teen minutes of the game, Will- iams had let their season total for goals allowed rise to six as Matt Stern and Kevin Wilmot both headed shots in off corners. Wil- liams managed only one score in the first halfleaving Union ahead 2-1 at the break. The second half saw both teams have excellent scoring opportunities, but only the visitingteam capitalized. The two second half goals scored by Williams proved too much as Union lost 3-2 in one of the best games played on Garis field in recent years. The Williams loss kills all but the slimmest hopes for NCAA play, but Union is sure to get an ECAC bid. Many may find that to be little consolation after com- ing so close, but it is still a cham- pionship that can be won .by this squad. This Thursday the team is at home against Skidmore, who shocked the Dutchmen 3~2 last year, and they are away at Vassar <?n Friday. After the Tuesday loss the players are out to prove that they belong among the best in the country, so expect them to play their hardest in these two games if for nothing other than their pride. they dropped in the polls, so a big win over Coast Guard was ne.eded to improve Union's rankings. The Dutchmen dominated Coast Guard from the beginning. On th.eir first possession the Dutchmen took a 7-0 lead on a17- yard run by junior running back ·Chris. Irving. Titey scored again on their next series, this time quarterback Scott Newton con- nected with senior receiver Stephen Cusic on a 56-yard pass, making the score 14-0, atthe end of the first quarter. The Bears got on the board early in the second quarter, on a 22-yard field goal. The Dutch- men however, did not allow Coast Guard to get back into the game, as they extended their lead to 21-3ona.n amazing 93-yardrun by hving, his second touchdown of the game. Five minutes later Newton connected with sopho- more tight end Robert Emsing on thC' Coast Guard 5-yard line, up- ping the Union lead to 28-3. The Dutchmen .scored another touch- down late in the quarter on·~ 8- yard pass frotn Newton to senior receiver Chad LaBonte. At the end ofthe first half the score was 35-3 in favor -of the Dutchmen; and the of- fensive onslaught con- tinued throughout the second half. · Kicker Greg Harrison continued where he left off from the RPI victo:ry, boot- .ing an early third quar• ter 31 :.yard field .goal, making the ·Dutchmen lead 38-3. Later in the quarter junior linebacker Mike White returned a blocked punt 27- yards for a touchdown, .and a Dutchmen 45-3 lead. The Dutchmen added one more touchdown early in the fourth quarter on a 5-yard run by fresh- man running back Shuron Jlvt;orton. Coast Guard was finally able to score a touchdown late in the fourth quarter, making the fi- nal score 52-10 in favor ofUnion. This big win for Union places them third in the RC.A.C. polls behind Buffalo State, and Rowen University. Their record now stands at 7-0 forthe season, with a 10-0 record with Scott Newton in the starting quarterback role. Women's Field Hockey Seeded Fourth.in State Tournament by Joe Saltzbart Ass. Sports Editor The Women's Field Hockey Team has flirted with excellence this season, holding a national ranking for the better part of this exciting season. Now, with the regular season finished, the Union Women go into the State Championship Tournament ranked fourth out eight talented teams. Yet co-captain, Missy Lombardoni feels that this seed- ing is just a spot in which they will begin their quest for the State Title. \We're going to kill 0 n e o n t a ! '' , r e m a r k e d Lombardoni, the team point scor- ing.leader with five goals and fourteen assists. \This game is just a stop on our way to Hamilton this Saturday to play in the fmal four.\ With this kind of confi- dence, the Lady Dutchmenjust might leave Hamilton victorious and become a serious threat in the NCAA Sweet 16 Tournament. The Field Hockey Team ended regular season play with a 0-0 deadlock at home against Roch- ester. Earlier in the week, Union defeated St. Lawrence in over- time 2-1 and overmatched Rensselaer 3·0. The 10-3-1 ~ u Dutchwomen are ranked 13th in t:- the country in the latest NCAA ~ Division III poll. The game ~ \\\ against Oneonta is a rematch of ~ the September 23rd contest in ~ which Union won in overtime 3- ~ 2 on a goal from Susan Halliday.~ Goalie Jenn Vernon stopped 17 ~ shots in a hard-fought victory. \[ . I

