Founded at Union College 1877 Volume 122, Number 9 ACADEMIC HONESTY- AT UNION? 1>:-y David Levine Associate News Editor Cheati~tg may have always existed at Union College, but the events of fall tenn have left students wondering what course of acti()n the school should follow in its attempt to eradicate the problem. Last term, the school was buzzing with rumors after a student.allegedly cheated on an Organic Cllemistry exam. The student, a sophomore, was accused CJf not handing in an exam ancl then attempting to leave the corrected paper in the exam room two days later. The sopllomore claimed that the profes.sor must have lost it The Cltemistry Department, under the -direction of Professor S~aife,. ha:s a pelicr that. makes thts form of ebeating virtually impossible. Professors are instructe<i to cormt the Iuimber of studemts taking the test prior to the distribution of the exam. This number is then matched witll the !lumber of students who retll1n the exam to the professor at the end of the period. not get misplaced in the room. He did not find the exam anywhere. That Friday, two days after the exam, the student's paper was found underneath the lecture bench by professor Hull. Professor Sowa, who had lectured in this room just , prior to Professor Hull's class '· had not noticed the exam during his lecture. It is alleged that sometime between the end of Sowa's class and the beginning of Hull's Friday lecture the exam was placed in Butterfield 204. According to the Student Handbook, when a professor suspects a student of academic dishonesty. the student is notified, and a meeting between the professor, the student,. and the Associate, Dean of U ndergradmite Programs is arranged. the Handbook states that \At this meeting, the student shall receive a written copy of the allegations and wiU have an initial opportunity to res:J)Ond.\ Schenectady, NY . Union Students Help • In By Lara Chamberlain News Editor Seventy-seven Union students took part in a week of volunteer efforts to help victims living in the aftermath lf Hurricane Andrew. The Union volunteers flew to Miami from AI bally. Bosk>n,. :Buffalo,. and New Yolk to work from December 7 to 15. The group~ commuted from Miami Beach to Homestead, . Florida daily to participate in relief efforts. Saint Ann's Missioll, the largest on-going relief center in the area, was the center for the group's efforts. Catholic Charities, the on- site sponsoring organization, needed approximately half of the participating students to conduct surveys and half to do various jobs at the mission. Since students provided the manpower to conduct the study FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency). Catholic Charities, and county social workers were able to come together to do the first needs assessment program since the hurricane struck in August. Students covered over 250 square miles and physically January 14, 1993 Ho1nestead located over 5,000 family unit members who were housel'ess. The people without homes, 40% of whom were children, \had fallen through the cracl<s\ and were in great need of help, according to Dave Mulho!la'!ld, QLI President. The students' efforts attr~ted government attention to the situation. FEMA had the <lata to justify reopening a government tent city at the end of January, The volunteers were also instrumental in the granting of one half a billion in aid to Southern Florida. continued on pg. 2 Professor Hull, after proctorillg an exam dwing the ninth ·week of the term, counted olle fewer paper than he expect«l. Hull immediately notified Professor Scaife, as well as th·e student who did not turn in an. exam. According to Dean Schadler, close to ninety percent of the charges of academic dishonesty are settled during this meeting. In these cases, the student admits the academic fraud, and the professor decides what the punishment will be. In the case discussed earlier. no settlement was reached during the meeting. Ciner Bequeathes $800,000 to College CAUSE (the Chester Author not clear how many. \Some Scaife entertained the possibilit~ that the student did not hand .the exam in because he/she was more willing to accept a failing grade on the exarn titan to have the professor gntde it The Handbook further stipulates that \If the matter is not resolved at this meeting, the student will be requested tO respond to the charges before the Subcouncil on the Academic Standing of Students.\ t.y Caroline Paine . Undergraduate Suppo~t of · students will need more aid Concordiensis Staff Excellence) was establ~shed than others,\ says Alice However, the student claimed that the Jlaper had been returned at the end of the period according to the departmental guidelines. Professor Scaife searched Butterfield 204, where the exam took place, in order to make sue that the exam did The Subcouncil, which consists of four faculty members, three administrators, and three students, weighs the evidence presented by the professor supporting the Rece11tly ~ Union received a beq11est for $800, 000 from the estate of Dr. LeGnard Ciner, a member of the class of 1928. The sum is to be put into an endowment, from ':Vhich the interest will be used to help fund s1udent loans. The college has decided to use the beqllest to increase the CAUSE fund. cont. on pg. 3 NEWS: Ex-V.P. Maranville pl~aded guilty to third degree grand larceny on December 7 for embezzling $60,000 from the coDege. He will likely be spending 60 days in jail and is required to return the full amount of stolen money. See page 2. ANALYSIS: This week's survey Says asks stl!dents, \Do you approve of the U.S. 'helpireg' Somalia before we sufficiently feedolll' own hungry?\ Seepage4. ARTS: A new College Center is slowly emerging. Find out about the free video rentalservice and more. See page 5. ARTS: If you didn't get to see many movies over Winter IJreak and you now only have time to view one or two, check out the movie reveiw page to give you assistence. See page 7. FEATURES: 'fhis week's Features Section displays its best articles from the · past year. From Unde Edna to Andy Rosen, find your favorites here. See page$10-14. SPORTS: Union Hockey scored a huge victory over Princeton this weekend defeating them 3 to 1. See page 20. two years ago by President Hull. Its goal is to help the middle class students to afford a college education. The fund enables graduates in the pro gram to be forgiven 20 percent of their loans for each year they work in a field of public service. Participants in the CAUSE program do not pay interest on their loans while attending school or during their five year public service period. Yet, if the student decides to pursue a non-pubic service occupation after graduation, they can pay the loan back monetarily. If students pursue careers in certain .areas of public service they can have their loans cancelled. These professions include teaching in a public school, working in the Peace Corps., and working with environmental or at-risk groups. Currently there are six freshmen and five sophomores · participating.Jn the CAUSE '· pmgram. Ciner's bequest will help more students to be able to .participate in CAUSE but it is Morocco, the Planned Givi11g Administrator for Unio11. \because of this, the number of students helped each year will very.\ As for Ciner himself.little is known. He entered Union a~ a member of the class of 1928~ but transferred to Harvard to receive his undergraduate degree. He then received llis medical degree from Y~le University in 1932. Upon obtaining this degree Ci~er opened a practice specializing in obstetrics and gynecology. During his lifetime. C i\er was not active with the college. After his death in February {)f 1991' the doctor willed that rus estate be divided equally between six organizations; Union College, Harvard. 'Yale University, The New York Academy of Medicine. The Hebrew Free Loan Society of New York and the Fresh Air Fund. \Perhaps Dr. Ciner had an experience at Union tllat affected his life significa:ntlyr,\ cont. on pg. 3

January 14, 1993, Page 2 Maranville Enters Plea by Christoph Rimgwald Concot:diensis Staff Jack Maranville, a former Union College vice president, admitted in court this winter that he embezzled approximately $60,000 from the school over the past seven years. Maran ville, 55, pleaded guilty in County Court on Dec. 7 to third-degree grand larceny, a felony. A plea bargain, which will likely send him to jail for 60 days, reduced his charge from second-degree grand larceny. Under the terms of the agreement, Maranville will have to pay back all of the money that he stole from the school when he is sentenced March 8. In addition, a judge must a3ree with the tenns and may alter them. According to a Dec. 8 article in the Daily Gazette, \Maranville set up a phony corporation about seven years ago and began to bill the . college for services performed by employees of this company. The company had no employees and performed no work,\ Chief Assistant District Att():mey Alfred D. Chapleau said. Wben asked whether or not this type of illegal activity · coutd be prevented in the future., President Roger Hull said tllat \there is no business way'\ of assuring that it won't. S o.urces say that part of the mo11ey that . 'he embezzled inclu.ded business expenses that he cllarged to the college for his p-ersonal use. \J am still amazed that this llapiJened, and it is unfair for his family,\ stated Hull. Maranville and his family no long~r reside in their college- owlled house at 1360 Lenox Roa<l. ID addition, two .of Maranville's children that atte11d: the college no longer J receive free tuition. Tile maximum sentence for! third-degree larceny is seven· years in prison. Maranville was arrested on Sept_ 18 and has since been: freed after posting $20,000: bail. Maranville, a Schenectady nati,ve, was appointed vice president of the school in Febru1lfY 1987. He had served the scllool since 1975. News Concordiensis The CDC Helps Students ~=--P=-r----=-eL_pare for the Future by V.uonica R~gers ro.b:iessen said ·that . often of job openings. Opening.s are Assoc1ate News Edztor thei1~ are inte?Iships availa~le also iisted in publications that for tile !<>ng wmterbreak: whtch students can refer to. Selliors The job hunt is on. Although many began their search, Fall Term, numertilus seniors have yet to begin. As one senior stated \I was in Gennany for junior year, and then when I came back, I just said 'forget it,'· I didn't want to think about it.\ Now is the time to make the decisio.ns about what seniors are goin.g to do after they gra().uate from Union. This is, where the CDC (Career Development Center) tries to lend a hand. The COC ..._ holds. a wealth of information along with a: dedicated staff to lead students through the post- grad options. Yet don't be deceived. The CDC does not only deal witlt seniors. Every student is encouraged to -visit as often as they w:ant. Joanne Tobiessen.of the CDC stated that the office holds many resources for seniors and non-seniors. These resources include information concerning ,graduate schools, jobs, internsllips, or summer jobs. The information is available for consultation at all times. ~o u nftlled. She .stre.~sed the send in .resumes by a deadline lmJDO!~ce .. of havm~ relevant to the different companies they eX<J)el'ten~e m th.e fteld tha~ a want. Employers decide who student ts most mterested In·. they want to· interview. Very Stu.de11t~ . must ~eek ?ut often em,ployers are OP;~;nruttes that ~ill pr~vtde enthusiastic about meeting tht~ .relevant ~xpenenc.e. The prospects, but it is CD.C has the 1~format10n t~at inconvenient ·for many to stude:n1s !l~d m order to ftnd interview on campus, opptOnhimttes that are ~seful. considering the size of Uruion. \ rhiC C~ has a service called . The resume referral program D~of In. Each ~y t~ere are IS designed to lessen the des•g;nated hours m .whtch any disadvantage of being a :!mall stude:?t may come m and ask .school. rt provides que:sttons o~. any ty~~·. The opp<?rtunities to pursue pur;)l!Dse o_f Drop In. ~~ so openmgs that could have been stude;nts w1ll feel more mclined impossible to arrange by to c:o•me in and ask a question oneself. The CDC tries to as Jl~in;g as they don't have to make connectio~s for the bass le with making an students by giving them a full apiJOnlltrnent, especially if their rang.e of job seeking options. que:sltiall is a quick one. Tob1essen states that students 'f'hte CDC stresses that in have to \use all avenues\ in ordt()E for the students to be seeking employment. clellf about what their post-grad The most useful resource in optiotns are, they have to start terms of alumni and out~ider early and establish a base in support is a system called whicll to grow on. Students Networking·. As a CDC IDl:\)1 :register their names with prepared handout states, the CDC and they will receive \Networking is the plarmed mailin.gs about fairs~ aod process by which one becomes colllv•elltions that might be known, through in:.person usefiBI to them. meetings in business and social Th·e CDC tries to help settings, to people who can seni()lrs feel comfortable with provide infonnation about job the often scary prospect of openings, leads, personal entering the working world. contacts and companies who Andrew Victims Receive Aid cont. from pg. 1 The survey crew brought persons into the help network through St. Ann's. · Students working at St. Ann's took part in food and clothing distribution at the mission site and in various tent cities, putting the mission two weeks ahead of schedule for these services. Mission staff were able to be out in the field when stuclents handled various on-site programs. Students painted and did minor repair on St. Ann's mission so that the community could have a dignified worship on Christmas. Volunteers sorted through Christmas toys for distribution to needy children. The group directly assisted St. Ann's in establishing a tent city which grew in six days from 2 to 117 shelters. Students seemed pleased with positive results such as these, yet had some reservations about the organization of the efforts. \I think the social workers needed us to do the surveys,\ stated Cara Soifer. a sophomore who went on the trip. \However she said, \it was frustrating to see the potential ... the resources (volunteer workers) that they could have utilized more.\ \Yes it was frustrating,\ stated Juli Murphy a senior volunteer, \but everything is on a need by need basis and we had to go through specific routes before just running out to help. Only a few people could instruct us what to do.\ Hallie Heller, a sophomore, felt that flit's not exactly what we expected but nevertheless we were able to talk to these people about the hurricane. Union Student Meets Homestead Child Tbe whole thing made us realize what we take for grante<t.:\ Charles Casey, the Public Relations Director at Union, is pleased with the publicity that tile trip has brought to Uni~JJ. He cites coverage from vario-us newspapers includinf! the Tampa Tribune, the Sun- Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale. Fl... and The Columbus DisiJatch in Columbus, Ohio. Qtwlity of Life International (QLf)~ a noo-profit group created by Dave Mulholland, orgat1ized the trip. Mark McKinney, Paul Mallick, David Fields, and Linda Wicks~ students in graduate studies at Union, helpe.d in the bip organization. Students raised appr()ximately $10,800 to pay for the trip. Corporate sponsorship, incl11ding discounts, services in kind, and cash donations totalled over $50,000. Liberty Travel made arrangements for corporate sponsorship and also made a monetaTy contribution. Corporate S]lonsors included USAir, Choice Hotels, Alamo Car Rentals. Local Sponsors inclt~de, Allied Automotive -Bendix Friction Materials, Th Limited, and Conrail, as wen as numerous small businesses. QLI is organizing another trip for Uni()n Students over Spring Break. The trip will be open to at least twenty students. Patticipants will be required to pay $7 50 dollars to cover living expenses duriilg the week. Anyone i11terested sho11ld sign up at the Student Activities Office by February 1 with a $250 non-refundable deposit. The: CDC accomplishes this by have the power to hire.\ This prcrvid:i11g them with different system , provides close outle4s in which to pursue a interaction with people in caree:r. Tobiessen stated that specific fields that students are rec11lliti11g is changing as interested in. The CDC h>olds tormpanies are down-sizing. the information pertaining to There is not as much recruiting the Networking program. goim~ on especially on camJlus Another important resource recl'lliting, where compa11y the CDC holds is the Almmni rep•r.ese:ntatives perform Career Network. Alumni mave inte:l'Jiews on campus. volunteered to help students i()l>iessen spoke about other throug~ different aspects of recruiitin.g opportunities that go searchmg for a career. The on lwiillout much publicity. alumni connection can be a Therre are recruitin.g very useful source of advice and conentions in different cities perspectives. Tobiessen that bring together small stresse~ that alumni give their libemal arts colleges in an help wtth the assumption dlat atte:rmpt to bring recruiters they won't . be put in an toget11er to see a larger sample awkward position by students of tile next generation of asking for a job. The CDC has worbers. It is a convenient way . a reference section where all for th<: recruiters to get in alumni listings are kept. to11CII with as many schools as Many people know how pos:Sil>le. useful the CDC can be, but it's n compensate for the shift up to them t() seek out the in j~b recruitment the CDC he!P· Whether. a student is has. l>oeen expanding its resume gomg on to graduate school, or refe:rrraliJrogram. The program : trying to find a job, each is O<ne ~f the most useful tools person can use all the help they that ;e11iors can use to find the can while preparing for the job tthey want. Alumni aod next step. emJJIOyers give the CDC lists EDITING & WORD PROCESSING Dissertations .- Theses - Term Papers Desktop Publishing Resumes & Curricula Vitae --Laser Printing-- --Plain Paper FAX Service-- --Personal Secretarial Services-- TUTORING Spanish Language & Literature Latin Language & Literature Linguistics Close to Union College Fast &. Efficient Service 374-8850 .i l

Concqrdiensis News January 14, 1993,_Page 3 Union's Policies Academic Challenged Ciner Donation cont. from pg. 1 speculated MoFocco as to why the non-graduated left one sixth of his estate to the college, \I just feel badly that no one had the chance to know him or say thank you.\ cont. from pg. I charges against the studellt with the evidence that tbe student is entitled tc provide that contradicts the allegations. If the evidence that tile .student was not academically b_onest is substantiated, according to t:h:e Handbook, \the student will be allowed to request a reconsideration -of the decision.\ The Subcouncil may decide on various ways to punis~ the student. These include lowering the grade by a f11U letter, failure, suspension for one l)r two terms, or e:xpulsLon. The student described earlier was suspended for two terms. Dean S-chadler statted that on average only one stmdent in a year is suspended or ·expelled. According to Schadler, most ()( the students who are charged with academic dishonesty are not guilty of overtly d1eating. Many cases brouglht to tbe Dean's office invQilve non- intended plagiarism.- \ Some students h<ave a lack of understanding· ]n citing resources,\ Schadler state<i. These infractions co111Id easily be avoided, Schadler argued~ if students wo11ld con suit their professors or ask for ;assistance at the writing center. Schadler believes that \Most students don't cheat.\ The procedures that th-e s~hool uses 1in a)rder to detennine whether a s:tudent has violated school policy are \intended to be as fair to the students and the faculty as they possibly can.\ Scha4ler said. The guidelines written in the Student Handbomk were recommended by a national student affairs group. The main deterrent t>O cheating is the .lfear th~t students have that they will have a 'pennanent scmr' on their record. In fact, tran:scripts d>O not contain any ind'ormatio.n pertaining to a student's violation of academic honesty rules, althoug-h every student has a file iii the Dean's office that contains a description of any wrongdoings. After obtaining a court injunction, the student who had been suspended was allowed to return to school until the appeal of the Subcouncil's decision has been ruled on. In addition, a $5 million lawsuit has been filed against_ Union College. Our sources indicate that the student's family is suing to collect future wages that could be lost by the student as a result of the Subcouncil's decision. Higher level members of the administration believe that the lawsuit was filed ostensibly to intimidate tile school into agreeing on a less harsh punish·ment~ which would enable the s1udent to pursue career goals without the stigma of being convicted of academic dishonesty. · However, our sources indicate that the school will not have its decisions regarding the student influenced by the 'lawsuit, largely because the precedents set by the courts would indicate that academic rulings of private institutions are generally not overturned. One member of the administration stated, \Courts traditionally -have not taken it on themselves to decide who should and should not be students at private institutions.\ This incident has peaked student concern over whether the school has done enough to deter unethical behavior at the College. Although many students might know individuals who have violated the rules specified in the \Academic Conduct and Regulations\' section of the Student Handbook. relatively Security Incident Report REPORHE C.l\MPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT ~nday, uough Sunday, January 10, 1993 PATE REPORTED: LOCATION: INCIDENi: 1/5/93 Pili Sjgma Kappa Theft-.Televjsion 1/5/93 p;a vjdson Life Safety Violation discharged fire extinguisher 1(5/93 Smuth Terrace La. Harassment-student . by v s or 115193 O:av!dson Fire/Trouble alarm Vandalism t() smoke detector 1/619 3 S.& E Equipment problem-door \116/93 Haskins lab Safety Hazard 1/6/93 O:av!dson Vandalism-door glass 1/6/93 Fnl i Vandalism-broken window j 17 { 9 3 AP~xa nder La. Theft-Stop sign 1/7(93 Doavid.son Prank w!tn i.V. remote j/7/93 Achilles Rink Theft-goaf indicator light 1/7/93 fClX Marijuana use-conduct. chgs. 1/7193 Du1ch Hollow Vandalism-heat detector j/8/93 Pot1e r House Annoyance t;!hone call 119/93 W.e st . Co lfe ge Marijuana odor reported j /9/93 f.! ~ld'hous~ Vandalism-window 1110/93 Qa,yidson Abuse of fire exjt/Pr. door 111 Of 9 3 Achilles Flink Theft-fire extinguisher 1110/93 Hale House Possible Theft-$100.00 staff metnber j/10/93 l!J c h mood House Annoyance !?hone call few students are alleged for having cheated, and even fewer have been the brunt of disciplinary action. The school will only consider · disciplinary action against a student if a professor brings the charges of academic dishonesty. At some other institutions a Student Honor Code exists, whereby students sign an agr~ment not to cheat and to inform the professors if they know of any students wllo have engaged in academic dishonesty. Union College has considered implementing an honor code, but has, ·in tile past, not believed that one was necessary. Dean Schadler believes that \If students want an honor code there wouldn't be any resistance from th-e faculty.\ She also stressed that an honor code could only be implemented \if virtually one- hundred percent of the student body wanted one.\ Schadler believes that students are an integral part of shaping the school's rules on academic honesty. The students who serve on the Subcouncil vote on tile academic standing of the students brought before them. Those students interviewed generally support the notion that llarsh punishments need to be levied on those students convicted of academic dishonesty. Carl Bernstein CliET 1 S & l'vlou:'.nEbA:--. ks pRESE 'IT Jan. J}]E {;.01YJFD.\Y H\iJ PH CJ Y (G.A}V] F S Fl'D 'tV AT CHET 1 S TWO SHOWS: 8:00 AND 10:30 PM FOOD SPECIAlS REDUCED RATE SOFT DHI~KS MIXED ORIN KS Yoc do;-..'r H,,u ro br 21 ro E\,jO\. dn E:'>.Trl\r.l.h:\lf\1 -\1 Cln1'..,~ If you're taking one of these tests, take . Kaplan first. We teach you exactly what the test covers and show you the ·test taking strategies you'll need to score your best. No one teaches you to think like the test make:rs better than Kaplan .. For more information can 489-0077 KAPLAN The answer to the test question. 25

January 14, 1993, Page 4 Analysis Concordiensis • R . . IDging ·In the New Year by Ji,m Polites . and reinvigorating a sagging News Analysis Editor . economy. In selecting Tennessee Senator Al Gore as his running mate, the Well we all know that this President-elect teamed himself time of year lends .itself to · with one of the nation's leading reflection. Proverbs abound ' environmental activists- a true abop,t how people must . si~n that t~s parti~ular issue remember and heed past events Will . receive widespread as they look towards the future- attention .. 1992 certainly was one that had The Presidential election its share of controversy and · it~elf. was unique in .that it intrigue, uplifting moments htghltgh~e~ three very different and sad images. personalities- a facet that made First and foremost in the for some great theater, United States~ January 20- the speeches. and sound bites. inaugmation of Bill Clinton- There was ~eorge Bush- tou~h will mark the official end of a and expenenced, yet his 12-year Republican stronghold · camp~gn strategy dictated !hat on the Presidency. The . he watt far too lo~g to .begm a Arkansas governor battled full-~ale reelection ~Ld .. By ferociously for months and the time Bush made h1s fWious emerged victorious when few run,lle h~d f~en sofarbehind believed he could even win his that election mght was reduced party's nomination. to a ~ormality. Clinton's campaign was one Chnton on the. other. hand that appealed to middle ran on a g~nerat10nal tic~e!­ America as it focused on one that relied on the pubbc s putting .people back to work general dislike for government Do you approve of the U.S. ··helping·· Somalia before we sufficiently feed our own hungry? No 36% Yes 64% survey taken from a random sampling of 150 Union students and Washington, D.C. Here we had two young, eloquent.\ · Southern politicians willing to take on the unenviable task of cleaning up a city tllat had for too long been controlled by the · elite. It was an effective 1 platfonn indeed. Finally who can forget Ross Pent's contribution to politics , · this year in the United States? ~F'h<lugb be is mentioned little these days. I can't llelp but to . think that the grassroots s11pport be received was • nothing short of remarkable. · For a successful businessman · to enter the Presidential race, lead it for a while, drop out, come back, and then receive . almost 20% of the Popular vote is amazing. Mt. Perot struck a chord with America- I d.onit think we've heard the last of llim or his message. There wefe of course other eve11ts on a wider scale that m:.naged to garner plenty of media attention. We continue -,,,-._ <, to hear of the bloodshed in what was once the unified nation of Yugoslavia- it is as if the natives have been left · alone to battle it out for . themselves. One wonders if there is a solution in the immediate future, for there is probably few things more volatile and passionate than a civil war. Also. we in this country · were and still are being exposed to the horrors and widespread famine in Somalia as, leadership in the nation is in question. The Somalia issue has also forced many to look within at our own inner cities, which appear more like Third World nation instead of entities of the world's most powelful nation. An ethical question arises- while we hope tO\ maintain our leading gldbal status, are we ignoring the same serious problem at home? If anything, it is refreshing to see that we can use our military for means other than fighting- the American soldiers in ·somaliia are on a humanitarian mission to restore hope. They deserve much credit. Finally I'd Hke to mention that that 1992 was a year :higMighted by fantastic · international sports competition- particularly the : Winter Garnes in France and Summer Games in Spain. My , :two lasting images? In · Albertville, H was bow a , young,. :scrappy U.S. hockey ; team stirred memories of '~ .twelve years ago before finally running out of steam and .finishing fourth. And in · Barcelona, who could forget the Feturn to dominance of U.S. · ·basketball- while the team's .gold medal was indeed anticlimactic, their play was inspiring nonetheless. If we're going to prqject strong image to the world, this wasn't a bad display at all. byJeffGreen~ .. ~ .· '} . . ~ . . . ' ', •, ::, ;::-~: .. : ~ ·. \l · tbin!tc ·:the 'u.s ... · has :aci~esti,c tespotisi~iij.ije,s · .. befc>te .. itCtates .. on .efforts .abtoad~:'.·Tne·• Btti~~(f· ... .... :>; :~ , .... ___ - ·:., . .- .· .. _ _. .. , __ -.-· .. -,_. · .... - --~ ··; .. .-·_. ·:_.- :~-'?.t ·. , , ~fat¢~· ·ts npt tlie · worl~\s ·policemen,;~· : W~ntte . :. · •. · :patr :Qf tltc( United Nations and,: .a~ ,~~ch\1 :.~~ver.Y:. country ht the lJ /N~ sltould . put f()tth ... ~u{~~ .. a:t , . · effott. ·itt ·:$on:talia.\ . · ·· . · . AUi ·. Wa{p:~er:,. ··· .sn.t!l9t.. : :· ·· . . . ' .~ . \WIJal I like . about the effort . is 'that· we't~ using 9ur military .fo:r · som.~tljirig · other ·th.an:' ....... · · · · figl:lting.'', ... · ~Jim ·Polite$,· .. s~nil,r. · · · :·· .. ·. ·.· ·••rr the. U.s .. ··. does not feed .· Somalfa .. then it :&hould . not .meddte in- other foreign p:toblems· h~i.P:r~.: -it·· solY~S our problem~\ Jacque$ EtiieJill~, senior . . . • 11 My proplem is why are we just in- Som~llia? · Wbat · about the situation in Bosnia? •r all[()'n; j;unf.or . ui feel tb.at the ·problems at hotl1~ . .oug&t. to be · · . . acted UJlon before- we take other . ootlntri~s' · prob- _ lems.· mto out own hands~''· . Mare . 'Bieastf)ck, . senior - - ·: ·.· . '· ·' l The responses to this survey were quite inter~sting. Some students were for llelping Somalia ftrst because there is a fine line between hunger and starvatio:a. Others were completely against the mission because it seems evident that our humanitarian efforts. · abroad will find another calling in Bosnia before long. As a member of the U ttited Nations I believe the U.S. tnade the right decision. However, foreign causes should be attacked equally by all. Hopefully President Clinton will put the hungry ofAmerica·on top of his agenda, but if that is not enough, maybe the U.N. will combine their· efforts and help us out.

Concordiensis Arts and Entertainment _ ALL OF YOUR NEEDS, NOW MET IN THE COl ,I ,£GE CEN'IER ,by. Jennifer Unterberg Arts Writer The moment I sat down at the computer, the phone rang. A friend was calling from the college center, completely ex<:ited, to teH her roommate that they they would have to rent \Home Alone\ this week. Wily the excitement? Union C()llege has just instituted a VIDEO RENTAL .SERVICE at the information booth of the C()llege Center. FREE VIDEOS with a Uni0n College I.D!•! Absolutely amazing! And . as one Union student phrased . •• I th tt, · · • · ought Block Buster Vi<leo was great, this is convenient and it's. free!\ If you think about it, it's perfect that this service is placed in the college center. For example, you just failed an exam. So, what do you do? You rent a comedy. Another scenario: it's sixth week winter term, and you're so bored you could blow up the college center in order to have something new and exciting to talk about at dinner. What do you do? You rent ·an Action,Adventure/Thriller~ you s:Iy devils, there is a late fee of $3.00 per night and $60.00, for a lost video. And for th0se who want to view a movie o;n the Big Screen, Union College is now showing movies in the auditorium on Fridays, Sundays, and Mo·ndays {for $2 .00) as well as free movies on Wednesday !lights!! This weekend's movie is \Mighty D11cks\ showing at 8:oo and 10:00, and Wedr1~day's movie is \Slapshot\. Although, I have not seen either~ I'in sure they are worth seeing! January 14, 1993, Page 5 \There's probably a maximum ·Of ten video's ra11~ing from 'Ghandi' to the Pi:ppi Long Stocking Series (don't knock the red hair).\ .you might be sar-ing to yourself. Do J: hear a note of skepticism? The: new video service has 300 movies. No, not 300 copies of the same movie, but · 300 different ones, organized in categories of Horror, Action Adventure/Thriller, Drama, and Comedy. Categories perfect for any mood. Perfect. How about on the day that you open your mailbox and the first letter you have received in two years that is not addressed to the entire campus, is a letter from your boyfriend telling you it's over? You rent \Platoon\ and realize it could be worse. people could be shooting at you! And lastly, you have forgotteu how ridiculously fake :horror movies are. So what do you do? You rent one. Easy and Free! The college center is slowly but surely becorni11g a self sufficient building. T'here is a pub, a restaurant, a mailroom, a radio station, a. boo.k store, a movie theater, a ·llew bakery, and now. a video store. All it needs ~ow is an airport, ski slopes, a Gap, a b~ch, and a bitt food secticn (just for kicks)~ and the Co-llege Center would be the Tri •slar area, all in one . buildittg. How exciting! So, grab a video, grab some popcorn aild elljoy your free video. What Cllu.ld be more perfect on a cold \drater's day (besides a nice warm beach)? Nothing comes to mind. John at to Perform Kelly Proctors Too The system works with efficiency and takes little to no effort ~y the student (a huge bonus). All one has to. do is show a Union College I.D, chose a category and a movie, and promise to return it the next day. No fingers crcssing, Arts Calendar THURSDAY JANUARY 14TH 8:00 PM Capital Repertory Concordieizsis SUBSCRIPTIONS Company \Gang on the Roof' $40/yr. $100/3 yr. by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Performance artist. John Kelly. will be a:t Proctors Too on January 15th and 16th. John Kelly has been performing with dance companies and on his own for over ten years. He has performed all over the country and around the world. throughout the presentation. He also impersonates many people during his show. His self mocking perfonnance was described by the Village Voice, \(John Kelly) evokes a wide reaching. almost unbearable sadness, finding and touching tender places left in our hearts.\ This show illcludes music by: Francesco Cil.ea, Rogers . and Hammerstein, Brecht and Weill. and Hemy Purcell. 8:00PM Theater Voices \The Royal Family\ Alumni-Keep Up To date on Events at Union! At Proctors Too. he will be presenting his most recent work, \Music While Waging Victory (Divine Promiscue).\ This show is a depiction of a lonely artist's dispair and inability to find love. He uses song, dance, pantomime, film, and occasional speaking John Kelly will be at Proctors Too at the Not t Theater on the 15th and 16th at 8:02PM. Tickets are $12.50 (Union students will receive discounts). For ticket information .call the Proctors Box. Office at 346-6204. FRIDAY JANUARY 15TH 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof' 8:00 PM Proctors \The Best of Forbidden Broadway /lOth Anniversary Edition\ 8:00PM Empire Center at the Egg Lar Lubovitch Dance Company ~:02 !'M Pr?ctors Too John Kelly, '·Music Whtle Waging Victory\ SATURDAY JANUARY 16TH 3:30PM and 8:00PM Theater Voices \A Royal Family\ 4:30PM and 8:30PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof\ -4 · 8:OOPM Proctors Bobby Short and Susannah McCorkle 8:02PM Proctors Too John Kelly \Music While Waging Victory\ SUNDAY JANUARY 17TH 2:30PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof' 3:00PM Theater Voices ''A Royal Family\ MONDAY JANUARY 18TH 7~30 PM Auditions for Octavo Singers St. George's Church, Schenectady. TUESDAY JANUARY 19TH 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roor• WEDNESDAY JANUARY 20TH Chets Corner It is obvious to anyone who is ever been to Chet's th:at it has yet to reach it~ full potential as an on-cilmpus social alternative. However, the winter break has allowed time for many of the problems that face Union's campus pu!) to() be addressed. Changes have been made not only in fumisltings and entertainment, but als() in some of Chet's previous policies. It cannot be sti'e.ssed enough that Chet's is mean.t for the entire student body, regardless of age, and therefore one must now only s.llow identification in order to drink. You do not need a studeB.t ID j to get into Chefs. Als(), in I order to further appeal to people under the age of 21, Chet's will soon be scelling reduced rate non-alcollolic drinks at the bar. The Happy Medium, which starts at 4:00 pm on Fridays, will also feature free food for all. Last friday Happy Medium was· a huge success. More than eighty members of the facultv. staff and students attended. We are hoping this will c<>ntinue to flourish. Chet's does have a full liquor license, so those who are 21 will now be able to try a variety of drinks at upcoming special events. Chefs furnishings are also improving. Temporary petitions have been placed in Chet's in order to separate it from the rest of the College Center. Cushions will be added to the present wooden furniture, and new fumiture is similar to the present \bar\ furniture. Track lighting has been added, as has a dart board and a projection screen. To go along with the projection screen, Chet's has purcilased a new stereo equipment and a VCR. Music will now be able to be played by request from behind the bar. Chet's will continue to book performers and is more than willing to work with school clubs, class events, or any other group who wishe~ to do anything in Chet's. The new Chet's information board, placed in the middle of the first . floor, will detail all upcoming events. The Chet's committee would gladly welcome anyone who wants to help with the . improvement of Chet's. We would all like to see Chefs reach its potential and would appreciate all help and suggestions. Anyone who is interested please contact Lee Popper at box 1728. This week at Cbet's: · Friday· 1/15 : Happy Medium 4-8pm (free food, music by Chuck Rodman) Hockey Victory Party (after Harvard game) Saturday 1/16: TBA open at 8pm Monday 1/18: Student Group Night 8pm Wednesday 1/20: BAND NIGHT featuring Tbs: Crow HiU B <LD d (8pm)

January 14, 1993, Page 6 Arts and .Entertainment Concordiensis by Jen.nifer Unterberg Arts Writer There is a more important debate in today's society than where Chelsea Clinton attends school, who cuts her hair, or what she wears. The re31 issue is whether or not Demi (accent on the 'i') Moore can act? This matter should not be taken lightly. After an extensive poll of eight people, involving rigorous question and answering consisting of one simple question. the results are ambiguous. Of course. further laboratory studies should be perfol1lled (as we all know, only a lab experiment can determine causation). However, for this period of time, the results should be interpreted and taken seriously. Four out of the eight people use Crest (sorry. wrong experiment). Four out of the eight people strongly said \no she can not act!\ Two people had not thought about it (typical) and two had argued in her defense by pleading \well she was good in St.Elmo's Fire.\ This argument, without a doubt. deserving Cheryl Bonica's \whatever\ comment. In \A Few Good Men\ • directed by Rob Reiner. Demi Moore acts alongside actors such as Jack Nicholson (in every good movie you've ever seen), Tom Cruise(for anyone who doesn't recognize the name, he was in the movie \Risky Business\ with his friend 'booger'), and Kevin Bacon (\Footloose\, the movie that you saw in eighth grade and thought it was the coolest thing ever). It is important to add that no, Billy Crystal is not in this movie, and I will admit that I spent the entire movie in anticipation for his appearance. A Few Good Men is an excellent movie filled with intense drama. underlying themes of morality and issues of obedience. When the death of a soldier occurs during a Code Red administered by two members of bis unit, a young lawyer, played by Tom Cruise, is called on to defend them. An officer of higher rank, played by Demi Moore urges the young lawyer to investigate the possibility of a Code Red and foul play by the unit's leaders. The movie is well made and the intensity of the movie is felt by the entire audience. The only item the movie lacked was the funds to distribute a copy of the script to the audience. How much fun it would have been to have been able to \read along with Demi\(accent on the 'i', please). Demi Moore should be praised for her ability to memorize lines (which would . be a tough thing to do), and her reading abilities. but that's- about it. The fact that I can not· remember her character's name in any of her m()vies, leads me to believe that her ability to 'become her cbaracter' just doesn't exist. Demi remains Demi, in all of her movies. Credit should be given to Rob Reiner for not having her cry in this movie (like she does in all of her other movies) or allowing her to \hook up\ with Tom Cruise (I hear that she is currently suing Mr. Reiner for this). Another bonus is that she does not sing (as in \No Small Mfair\ a11d \One Crazy Summer\) or sa:y dumb lines such as when she turns on the light in \About Last Night\ and states, \I thillk we've been in the dark lon,g enough.\ No Academy Award for that one, De mi. So, Demi gets cast with some of the best and brightest actors, as seen in \A Few Good Men\. This does not, however, mean that she should regarded as possessing their acting abilities. She can read as well as the next gut, but her believability in portraying characters in movies falls short of her co-stars. Despite Demi Moore, \A Few Good Men\ is a must see. I give it two thumbs up and o11e toe. TOP TEN INEXPENSIVE WEEKEND ACTIVITIES IN NYC by Cindy Hills try to assemble your own cow. ~-~CIIiiOo~n~t~ri~bu:=ti;t:;'n~g~~~ri.:,:;te~r._!!!PII!_s. Try on a p.air of pants at (courtesy of Dave Letterman TV) Macy's, then walk around store asking everybody you see. \How 10. Claim you really believed do they look?\ the \D\ in D Train stood for 4. Throw roclcs at Chrysler Dancing. Building and wait for Old Man 9. Buy fake ID in Times Square 1 Chrysler to come out and chase and strip search self. :you away. 8. Ruptured-pipe steam baths in 3. Using birdseed, get middle of street. Columbus Circle pigeons to 1. Take Bible out of hotel room spell out nasty words. drawer. Look out window. Circle 2. Lie down in chalk body the Commandments as you see outlines to see if 1hey fit. them being broken. 1. Watch \America's Most 6. Rummage through meat Wanted.\ then go fugitive plant dumpsters off 14th street; ;spotting at Port Authority. Write for Arts Call Carrie or Cort at 370-6155 ART EXHIBIT LOCATOR# 2 Lithograph chine cone by Sandy Wim·er CHINESE PAPER CUT· from the collection of Hu Peng by Sandy Wimer ~~~~ by Carrie Sherman Arts Editor Sandy Wimer, artist and professor of printmaking at Union, will be displaying her wmk January 11- February 12 at Union. Her artwork, which consists of lithographs will be on display in the arts atrium. Wimer received a BFA in pril)tmaking. at the University of Oklahoma. She then went on to receive her MFA at the State University at Albany in 1990. Wimer's works are mysterious and inventive landscapes. They are black and white with an occasional tint of color. Her more recent works contain \locators\, these are geometric shapes printed on top of the images. A:lso on display in the arts atritJm are works from Hu Peng~s collection of paper cuts by various Chinese artists. Peng is a lecture on painting in Nanjing, China. He is a visiting fellow at Union this year who is learning about how art is taught in this country. He is at Union as part of the college's International exchange program. Peng's collection includes paper cuts of the Southern style. They are delicate flowers and ;landscapes and are done by masters from the cities of Y anghou and Nantung. This show is sponsored by the department of visual arts at Union. Everyone is encouraged to stop by and view the sho\w. Stratton has a lower price for anyone pursuing a higher education. $24 midweek. $29 weekends. $34 holidi~ys. So yoti can save $10 every day but holidays (when you'll still save $5), and you 'H also get up to 92 exciting trails. a 12-passenger gondola, plus all the extracurricular fun you can handle. Now. how's th.Jt for financial aid.? Current and •dent1t1nblv oAIH1 t:ollege pl1oto 10 reauorecl at tune of purchase. If your college 10 llas no photo. please provode oiher photo ID. Sorl)'~no po1, no llx.

Concordiensis Arts and Entertainment January 14, 1993, Page 7 BEST OF WINTER MOVIES by Thor Benander Concordiensis Staff A Few Good Men Starring Tom Cruise and Demi Moore. Directed by Rob Reiner. Rob Reiner has never made a bad movie. From This is Spinal Tap, to The Princess B:tide to Misery, they've all been huge. But this one is his biggest yet. A Few Good Men will win him a long deserved Academy Award for best D:irector. Nicholson will grab one for Best Supporting Actor. C1uise will probably be nominated, and who knows, he might get lucky as wen. Moore does well with a difficult role. Kevin Pollack as C mise's aide was an tmmecessary part. Undoubtedly tllough, Nicholson as Colonel Jessup is a fireball. Vintaf!e Nicholson. Vintage Cruise. Vintage Reiner. The best movie of the season. A·· Home Alone 2, Lost in New York- starring Macaulay Culkin and Joe Pesci This was an entertaining movie if only for the fact that tlrlere was a sadistic little kid sitting up front who would llowl with glee every time the ])ad guys got slammed. Of course, it's unbelievable. How many ten year olds stroll !lfound through Central Park at midnight? Whatever! Hulk Hogan doesn't stroll around Central Park at midnight. Tim Curry (Clue) added a witty ec:lge. The Culkster made ten million for this one. Hmmm. T'en years old, ten million d.ollars. It has a nice ring to it. Wait for this one on video. C. Hoffa Starring Jack Nicholson. Directed by Danny De Vito Hoffa is the story of union man Jimmy Hoffa, president of the teamsters and all around dirty SOB. Devito tries to show a man who did what he had to do. Anyone who has studied Hoffa knows that that's a comple:te falsehood. Regardless, let's say it doesn't matter. 'the movie was still terrible. Nicholson was off, it dragged, and De Vito's directing only proved that he should Stick to acting. D. Cons,enting Adults Starring Kevin Kline This was a tenible movie. I called tile whole thing about ten minutes into it. Nostradamus couldn't have predicted it better. I was con,u.sed as to why a woman whose husband had loved her for ten years in a seemingly perfect marriage would turn her back on him when he was accused of a crime that he claims he didn't commit. The foundation of this tale wasn't plausible. Then he takes her back only after she puts him through a veritable emotional purgatory. You gotta be kidding me. D. Alladin Starring Robin Williams Disney has it's next hit of the year with this blockbuster. Williams is absolutely hysterical, the music is gorgeous, and the animation is phenomenal. The only negatives I could point out are that the guy's voice isn't as good as the girl's voice, and Gilbert Gottfried (Beverly Hills Cop), could have had better lines. Other than that, it's another Disney masterpiece. B+. Macaulay Culkin in· HOME ALONE 2: LOST IN N.Y. .E~!]JJhioiaM~c Jack Nicholson and Danny Devito in HOFFA. Toys Starring Robin Williams ln his characteristic style, Robin Williams (Dead Poet's Society) rambles and smirks and ad-libs his way through his- latest movie, Toys. The script, however, is pretty pathetic, and we are forced to watch one of the better modern actors embarrass himself. Joan Cusack (Working Girl) tries her best, but her part is at least as bad, if not worse than Williams'. The highligllt of the movie is the emergence of beautiful Robin Wrigllt (State of Grace), who takes on her first happy character since The Princess Bride, and throws in a flawless southern accent to boot. Unfortunately, it's not enough to pull Toys out of the cellar. I laughed really hard at one joke, and didn't even smirk for the rest of the movie. The fact that the arch villian is played by an unknown actor doesn't aid the movie at all. I'tl skip it. c .. Forever Young Starring Mel Gibson and Jamie Lee Curtis Forever Young is only the next movie in a rather annoying Hollywood trend of late, where major stars undergo hours of tedious make-up to turn into old men, (Billy Crystal in Mr. Saturday Night, Robert Downey Jr. in Chaplin). What's worse is that Mel Gibson looks better at 7 5 than most of us do at 20. Despite the newfound agelust, a predictable plot, and a strict fonnula movie, Forever Young still manages to be entertaining. Young Elijah Wood helps the story considerably with some precious facial expressions. However, for Gibson this one doesn't really count as he has done better, and worse in the past. He still can't seem to completely mask his Australian accent. This is a show where you'll find yourself suprisingly interested. Not a masterpiece, but not .a dog. B-. MalcolmX Starring Denzel Washington Directed by Spike Lee I read somewhere that a critic was afraid to review Malcolm X because of the uproar it might cause if he didn't give it a favorable commentary. Well, I'll try to be impartial to the \was it accurate\ and the \is that what really happened\ and give a strict opinion. Spike Lee (Do the Right Thing), one of the most controversial directors of our time, produces his first biography, that of African- American leader Malcolm X. The movie was long, and unfortunately, it was noticeable at times. The last movie to go this long, JFK, had it's own problems with losing viewer's interests as well. Both topics, though, are huge- so huge that it is almost impossible to do them justice in four hours. I felt that this was what Lee was fighting against. However, the story is well told and at times, very exciting. Whether it is historically accurate is up to you to decide, as ironic as that is to say. It did make me think, though, and that's what Spike Lee's· movies are all about. B. Bram Stoker's Dracula Starring Gary Oldman, Winona Ryder, and Anthony Hopkins Directed by Francis Ford Coppolla What a disappointment. Coppolla at the helm, Oldman, Ryder, Hopkins, Reeves, Carey Elwes- it all spelled hit. This is a good way to see how a movie can fail, even with quality people. • . The best part abOut th1s movie was the special effects, some · 'were absolutely breathtaking. Seeing an old man crawling down a hundred ·foot castle wall, or watching an actor being squeezed to death by a shadow is about as good as it gets. The only thing that was m1ssmg was a clue. Allow me to oblige: Clue :#1: DON'T CAST KEANU REEVES IN A LEADING ROLE THAT INVOLVES EVEN A MODICUM OF ACTING ABILITY. I mean, really, what has he ever done well? This guy is an incredibly good looking doorknob, and as we all know, doorknobs can't do accents. That's okay, because neither can Keanu Reeves. I found myself embarrassed for him duri11g this movie. He might as well have walked around with a sign that said \I can't act my way out of a breadbox\. Keep Keanu Reeves in cheesy parts like Johnny Utah in Point Break. Clue #2: IF YOU'RE GOING TO SPEND THE ENTIRE MOVIE HUNTING THE BAD GUY, AT LEAST HAVE A GOOD FIGHT SCENE BETWEEN THE GOOD GUY AND THE BAD GUY AT THE END. Anthony Hopkins catches up to Dracula, and within twenty seconds or so, it's over. That was a total letdown. Clue #3: CAST CAREY EL WES IN LEADING ROLES. It worked in The Princess Bride. All in all, it wasn't too bad, but it left a whole lot to be desired. B. The Bodyguard Starring Whitney Houston and Kevin Costner I was surprised by this one, I have to admit. When I saw Costner's geeky bowl-cut hairdo in the preview, I chalked this one up as a miss. I mean, how often do movies with musicians as stars succeed? Look at Madonna in Shanghai Surprise. However, it wasn't .so awful. Costner was solid, Houston was dynamic. She leaves you saying wow. Women will love her voice. Men will love the cottage scene when she puts her hair back and spmts a thick J Crew sweater. It wasn't even as predictable as I thought it would be. Formula from the start, but director Mick Jackson (L.A. Story) pulls it off okay· B. ' .

(!Ionotrbitnsis Founded at Union College 1877 Editor-in-Chief Ned 'Valley Executive Editor Pam Leinson News Editors Lara Chamberlain, Jim Polites Commentaries Editor Lea Lewis Features Editors Dug Bartell, Dass Seaman Arts Editors Carrie Sherman, Cort Boulanger Sports Editors Rich Morgan, Hal Poret Financial Edit<>r Shields Day Science Editor Eileen Collin Advertising Editors Lauren Bycoff, Rachel Tuck,Jen Shulkin Campus Page Editors Niki Goldin Survey Editor Jeff Green Photography Editors David Cho, Brianna Patnode January 14, 1993, Page 8 WE NEE'D,AN HONOR CODE The incid~nt concerning cheating that occurred last fall has prompted many to wonder.-what can be done to prevent such things from happening again. The editorial board of the Concordiensis would like to submit that an honor code should be implemented at Union. . S~J,ch a code would be printed on every test, and tn1g~t read something like this: \I have neither given nor received any unauthorized information on this test.\ This would be followed by the student's signature to ensure that his or her word of honor was at stake. While ~e're sure that this isn't legally binding, one h~pes that It would instill a sense of dignity, which m1ght prevent students from cheating when their reputation among their peers was at stake. I This code would aJso require that if students 1 wit~essed others cheating, they would be morally I obligated to tum them :in to the professor. This is . perhaps the most difficult part of an honor code for I students to adhere to. However, at many schools that ha~e an ~onor code, this j}art is not strictly adhered to ~s It req?~res everyone to be able to define \right\ from wro?g. m unan~mous agreement, and act upon these convictiOns, wh1ch some people are not confident enough to do. We kn()w that this will not entirely solve the problem of cheating at Union, but it really can't do any harm either. Just knowing that there are moral rules that our student body as a whole is supposed to stick to . might provide help to some. Faculty Advisor Manager Scott Scullion Assosciate News Editors Deb Mcinerney David Levine, Veronica Rogers, Caroline Paine Dagan La Corte Matt Grabowski Tad Lee, Talley Belsinger, Lisa Lemoi, David Fischer, Buffy Rubenstein Stacy Melvin, Fran Goldstein, Rachel Assosciate Spoots Editors Subscription Manager Layout Staff Advertising Staff Asche, Christine Gagliano STAFF WRITERS: Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Ron Birnbaum, Gary Chase, Amy Cypres, Alissa Gass, Craig Greenberg, Cindy Hills, Tasha La Bare, Erin O'Neil, Craig Pike, Christopher Ringwald~ Mirriam Seddiq. Alii Wapner. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions to Concordiensis are due the Tuesday before publication by 4PM if they are submitted on Macintosh Micr.osoft WordTM Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Mo11day by 4PM in the drop box outside of the Concordiensis: office on the third floor of the College Center. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; ~blications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscripoti.ons to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370- 6155, Advertising Telephone (S 18) 370-6494. OPINIONS TO RUSH, OR NOT TO RUSH by Mirriam Secidiq Concordiensis StiJfj As the New Year commences, we embark on a fresh journey., We make our resolutions, with every intent of keeping them. You.}rnow the feeling. You thimk things like: This year will be different. This year there wi.ll bring a new Me. I will wear colors. I will quit smoking. I will get a 4.0. I will get a life. Well, this year I said none of the • above because 1 know myself. I lie. I realize that the biggest New Year's resolution is to lose weight. You have noticed the influx of Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers' commercials. I hate the new WW commercials, a group of women watching some stupid get-thin video. N2n.e. of them look like they belong there. And besides that, there are no men in any of the commercials. I am wondering if this is a byproduct of lobbying on the part of the Men's Movement. Anyway. I should probably get to the point of this week's article: RUSH. No, not Eric Clap ton's album. You all know what RUSH is.' Anyone who has the least bit of respect for social conventions will be donning the gear and friendly facade associated with sorority rush. I can very much understand the philosophical implications in the idea that to rush or not to rush is a woman's personal decision. But, for some reason I get the feeling that illstead of promoting a sense of individuality, or even a sense of bonding among women, sorority rush destroys any hope of f~male camaraderie. I think :the tenninology we use sums up my view of Greek life, male or female. If yo11 are not an independent, then what are you? My answer would be that you are then a dependent. Greeks, , however, lik.e to euphemize: \I'm in a 'house'.\ Now. I know many of you will not take kindly to my views. And I also know that those of you who know me, know that I stand my ground very firmly on this issue. However, for fear- or rather, out of a perverse sort of respect of offending those whom I admire for various reasons - I will tone down my argument against the practice of rush. It is true that I have never rushed, so I will 'never know' what it's like. But I could never commit myself to allowing people to judge the worthiness of my entrance into a supposedly close-knit society without some sort of in-depth understanding of my being. What if, on a particular night, I appear to be more or less of a bitch than I really am? And how do I know if I am going to like you. If I were a fresh person, I could only go by reputation I hearsay. Four nights of parties. Four nights to decide if you like me or not. Four nights to talk about me and my gaffes behind the closed doors of your papered up house. I laugh and I smile. I prove my intelligence. I make such wonderful cock tail conversation, my mother would be proud. The practice of rush is almost barbaric, like some sort of ancient initiation rite. Y otJng girls being distraught because people make judgments on the basis of a superfiCial knowledge. 1t seems so important, especially here at Union. Everyone is doing it, And yes, it really does feel like everyone is doing it. I remember girls who said that they were mshing just for the experience, who said it didn'tmatter. ,·These were,the girls who.,did not get bids ,at any house, or not at the house of their choice, and wound up in tears. Yes, rejection is a part of life, but getting into a house is not the same as getting into Princeton. And being rejected from a house feels like a very personal - - no - - is a very personal rejection. It's not rejection based on my transcript or lack of extracurriculars. It's because you decided, on the basis Of perhaps an hour or two (and, from what I hear, that's stretching it) of casual conversation that I was not on your preferred person list During my three years and some months I have occasionally felt excluded from any sort of social enterprise because I chose not to rush. However, I would not change my lifestyle for anything. My friends and I have been through more hell weeks than anyone would care to imagine. And what I think is important is that we did it out of respect and a sincere love for one another. We ,make no oath to Sycrecy. and they do not wake me up at 4 A. M. to do aerobics. We do not have to wear white shirts and white shorts and march around campus singing jingles about how · wonderful we are. We love each other; we care about each other. That's enough for us. I hope that there will be many more women who choose this option, whe do not believe the sorority myth. At Union, this takes strength. courage. and, oh yeah, independence.

Concordiensis Letters Any·one Remember College Is For? What To the Editor: I write with heavy heart to address the recent change in social policy instituted by the administration this past fall. Having spent the teFill in Japan for the fall, I heard of the policy change through the mail. I would like to say that I was surprised to hear of the latest in what has been a series ,of disappoinunents during my stay at Union. but after nearly three and a half years at Union, all I could do was laugh. . Does anyone on this whole damn campus think about academics? I know and realize that it's a more challenging than pondering beer or the sales in the J. Crew catalogue, but isn't that what a college is supposed to exist for? That the vast majority of the student body doesn't seem ~to .spend much time thinki~g about academia, beyond the math involved in figuring out how many ounces ofbeer one drank over the weekend. has been apparent to me since about tile first. week I stepped on this campus, but I hadn't, until last fall, considered the administration to belong to tile same lot. When I read tluough a smattering of leuers on the new social policies written to this publication, I became even more disappointed. Not that anyone's opinion moved me, but rather ,that no one seems ro be either aware of or willing to address what this issue should truly focus on: academics. l concur with the man::;r before who have said that •\' school should not try to a(!~ninister directly the social lives of its students. But the <fact that Union's administration feels the need to should sit ill with a few people. For the implication is that even this school's administrati()tl cannot but concentrate on social Iife on campus. There are real dangers to the administration's poliCies,, even if we don't want t() ~consider academics as an integra!! part of Union College (a notion too ludicrous to even consider except for here, in our hypothetical paragraJlh). First of all, beer is no-t a very delicate tool for dealing with such academics-venus\social- life issues. I mean,. granted. right now there poobabt;y is a mild excess of b~er consumption on campus. and · so, no matter how .rnisgtri.ded in . principle; ~e admiRistmti9n's policies are bound todD some good - save .a .few. livers. maybe? But careful!! Dry up those beer taps just ll'litde too mucb and a. few :pre:vionsly mar-gin~l drinkers migllt: sober up just enough to :realize that this school's academic nature is getf;ing ·a little closer to non- existent with every weekend, and there may even coiiJe a day when they demand ,that you give them an edtHation. Granted, this isn't Hlcely - I always thought if amything Union students would rally for their beer. but ... Well forget that, t:his is the hypothetical paragrapll, what if they did - then what? Well - there's always :bringing the beer back. Union has got to get over its preoccupation with beer and start to deal with the academic nature of this institution. If the object is to improve academics, and it should be, then deal with academiC!s. If students are spending too much time drinking beer and partying, it is because ,they can afford to spend to much time drinking beer and partying. If this is judged to be bad, then give them more work to do to occupy some more of that free time. Make classes more challenging so that the students will work to improve their intellectual . .skills rather than will ·work .to impr.ove their intellect11al skills rather than their adeptness at beer pong. And mosl relevanUy ~ spend ad~i{listerial ener.gy ()n improving academic facilities and corrieula. rather than on social ellgineering projects using beer as the tool. In short. either make a .sincere attempt to make tllis an .institution for higner learning. or don't fuck(mess) with its social life - it will be the only thing Union has got going for it. Sincerely, Jordan Dmitri Mmudairn Cl3$S of 1993 Thanks F·or Well Done To the Editor: to regular duties. January 14, 1993, Page 9 The Job You'll Toughest Ever Love (RA Selection) To the Editor: It is once agru11 time: for Residence Life to start loolcing for new candidates for the Resident Assistant positioll. If you are looking ~or a challenging and rewardingjob. one in which you wiH meet new people, leam more about yourself through dealing with others, this job may be for yon. Some of the responsibilities that you will have to face if you are accepted for the RA position, are to educate the residents of the colltege policies, create a healthy and enjoyable environment on the floor and residents hall, be able to refer residents to the different resources on and off campus, organize social and educational floor functions, promote communication of concerns between students, faculty • .and administrators~ to enf()rce college policies, but most of all to be a friend and confidant to the residents of your floor. Along with the personal benefits you will gain from t!Je RA position, there are also ' mo11etary benefits. You will receive one hundred dollars off the meal plan, 83% off your single room, a free refrigerator, free local phone service, and if you receive loans through the Financial Aid Office, a $1 ,000 loan deferential. Through the RA experience, you will develop increased organizational and leadership skiUs, gain a stronger relationship with the administration, become more sensitive to the needs of others, and be a vital player in the strong RA support network. Information sessions will be held on January 21, from 11:30-12:30, and January 24, from. 6:30-7:30. See the posters and the banner in the College Center for their loc3!tion. The members of the Residence Life staff are looking forward to meeting with all tho!;e interested in the position and taking part in 'The To11ghest Job You'll Ever Love!' Sincerely, Bill Wolff illJ sui.Jmissi~ to CotJcqrditmsis are tlue the 'l'ucsday b~fore publication by SPM if Ua~y are submitted uu Microsoft Word Madntosl1 Disiks. Otherwise, all submissions are ... ue Monday by SI,M in the drop box outside of the· Concordie.nsis orfi~:e, em the third fluor of the College Center. PSI UPSILON RUSH FUNCTIONS Wednesday, January 20 Semi-formal dinner 6:30 Sunday, January 31 Superbowl Party Wings and Chips On behalf of all those helped in South Florida by Union students, we wish to express deepest thanks. The articles on the trip published today give many details, but cannot convey the personal care results: the hope given, human dignity preserved and self-worth restored. college students to make a difference, and faculty a:nd staff. from President Hull~s office to student activities. fr()m the Dean of Students' ~ffice to Management to GMI. We especially appreciate fellow graduate students, induding Bob Bucieri, Linda Wicks, Dave Fields, Paul Mallick, who gave countle.ss hours freely to make the trip work, and a special word of t.llanks i,s due to Lorraine Marra in Student activities wile worked so hard on the trip in addition · Collectively, a group from a small col1ege in a small city has had tremendous impact by doing simple things selflessly. We breathed new Hfe into a community of forgotten people! Imagine what good we can accomplish in our own communities, even r----------------------- Many people deserve thanks for their efforts- the students who went, those that did not but supported the trip, sponsors who trusted about 8() Schenectady. Keep up the good work, Union! Sincerely, David W. Mulholl Mark McKinney Quality of Life Int., Inc. TO 'ALL FRESHMEN: COME T-0 THE A~ HANGOVER HELPER / ' A.li\JII ' / / . /\l)\ ' ... _ - - -: - fill t-1'( ~ · nr.~!L'' \' ... I ............ ;. ·, : I -~ .. ALL FRESHMEN ARE INVITED TO THE DRY RUSH FUNCTION ON SATURDAY JAN. 18 AT 12 NOON, AT DELTA PHI. BRUNCH, HOT BEVERAGES ANDGOOD COMPANY Now Showing At A Theater Near You • i ' '' ... ,

January 14, 1993, Page 10 Features Concordiensis BEST OF UNCLE EDNA A LESSON OF LIFE Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers real questions from real people. Edna wishes to thank Joe. Dave, Chris, Roy, Erin and especially Cara for being regular question senders. Confused? Unsure? Republican? Androgenous? Phi'lanthropic? Write Uncle Edna- Box 83. Enjoy the best of '92. Dear Uncle Edna, With the holiday season approaching, I find myself strangly attracted to Santa Claus. What can I do to shake this silly infatuation. -CS DearCS, Go to the north pole. Hang mistletoe over his shower. Observe how many elves run in to give him a smooch. That should do it. Dear Uncle Edna, I was out Saturday night to a few of the Halloween parties and found myself extremely attracted to the girls with rubber masks. What does this? -brocktoon Dear Brocktoon. I would have to say that being attracted to rubber masked woman means that you probably still have some emotional attachment to the rubber blow up doll you lost your virginity with. Give it time. Dear Uncle Edna. My boyfriend seems so far above all the other guys here at Union. This makes me nervous. What do you think? -JD DearJD, A wise man once said to beware of a man among sheep, especially if be isn't wearing pants. Dear Uncle Edna, If I can blow certain things really well, does this mean I'd be a good harmonica player? • female harpist in waiting Dear harpist, Not necessarily, good harmonica players not only blow well but also are quite skilled with their tongue. Practice hard. Better yet, call me, we'll practice together. Dear Uncle Edna, Why are they called Q-tips? -A loyal fan Dear loyal fan, Actually, Q-tips were invented in the late 16th century by renowned English inventor Lord Cotton Swab. Being a romantic, however, he nam.ed the product after his lovely wife, Lady Quedeline Tip. Hence Q~tips. Good question. Hours of research. Dear Uncle Edna, If convenient stores are open 24 hours than why are there locks on the doors?- phiio Dear philo, I don't know, in case the little foreign attendent has to go potty. Great questrion, really original. Must bave pondered that for hours. Dear Uncle Edna, P~opl~ are constantly commg mto our room and stealing water from our water cooler. We've tryed chaTging for cups. but now they hring their own. So far we've gone through 897,425,127 jugs. We need help!- Parched Dear Parched, Before you install your llext jug, poison it. Problem solved. DearUncle Edna, I have pet chamelions (their names T can't reveal). Lcately I've had dreams where my pets and I are running for our lilies in the drai11age system under Richmond. They also talk to me. Help. -Bucket Dear Bucket, First off, I think it :Says somewhere in the student handbook that \no man shall bring bring his 'liz:ard' anywhere near an. all girls dorm\. That means that security is probably chasing you. That fact that you llave several of these 'chameliams' is probabl-y just a figment of your falic imagination. Don't we all wish tbat we had more than one 'pet'. And Ohl If they could taJk! Dream on. Dear Uncle Edna, Yesterday in a fit of depression I shot my father, slept with my sister and microwaved my dog. I was wondering if you've ever done anything like that when you've been depressed. - dusty Dear dusty, No I usually just sulk for a while, have a drink and go to bed. Call me boring. Dear Uncle Edna, My parents exput a lot from. me here at Unio11. I was wondering if you ctJuld give me a hint on how tlJ get better grades.jj. DearJ.J. Community College. - Dear Uncle Edna, Our common r.oom has white, hospital-U.ke walls which are desperately in need of decoration. Have any low motivation, low cost suggestions? - ER DearER, If your room looks so much like a hospital, then why don't you pretend that you are a hospital. Prescribe drugs to ill neighbors, wllere a stethoscope, have fun! Lay a:roond your room in open backed shirts. Better yet, when people pass out in your room, perform some minor surgery on them. Wllat · fun! Personally, playing doctor is my favorite game .and it can be yours too. Enjoy. Dear Uncle Edna, What would you do if you walked by a tree and it exclaimed, \Don't anthropoTMrphize me!\. What do you think Pat Buchanan would do? -Ned, TedandJed Dear N, T and J: HI heard a tree say .anything, I would probably have my heaa examined. However,. I would be extremely impressed with any creature using an SAT word like \anthropomorphize\. For the average reader, anthropomorphize means ascribing human chamctoristics to inanimate objects. Therefor, Ned, Ted and Jed, b;y saying that a tree might say something you are in fact going against it's. wishes and yourself anthropom<lrphizing it. I think pat Buchanon would react differently depending on the race and gender of the tree. An African American !()f Jewish tree would be ign-ored by Buchanan while a heterosexual white tree would be Thstened to with great intent. I will advise my readers this: whatever a tree says, don't listen to it. Their \'bark\ is usually worse than their bite. Thank you for such a challenging question. Dear Uncle Edna. Every day after math class l leave with terrible. headaches. I recen:tly have gotten glasses but tliley don't seem to help. What do you suggest? -U.K. Dear U.K. Stop going to math Craig T. Pike Features Writer IMAGINE, that you are a scierntist whose ~oal is to create a stable living eavironment for microorganisms. You plan to emlMe microbes to live for an indefinite period of time just on the resources available in a petli. disll. Alter many years of research and planning you have come · up with all acceptable experiment. Y<Ju spend much of :your time .securing the dish • fr.()m llllWallted · outside iniEI:uenc,e.s and fixing · insirumellts to tile petri dish. 1hese in.struments will give ·I you the capability to affect the I fut1J£e environment of the petri disll to a limited degree. Now !YOU have to obtain some ! spec:imens to insert into your !surrogate \world~'. 1 Von have decided to gcenetically alter some ordinary germs and microorganisms to cre:ate some unique creatures th11t contain tile specific char:acteristics that would be h:el]>ful in 1he experiment. At las:t you feel tllat you have fo!lllld the correct genetic maleup fer your .,.wol'ld\. You insert your various .. microbes into the petJ!: dish and bear .Uncle Edna, i Jravt! 11een o.New York Jets {a1'1for the lmt fifteen years and ha-v~ expe-rienc~d nothing but hett~l'tbreak anrJ frustration. W11y C'OII't they just have a few go«! seQS(Ins? -liivnayed .IDea£ dismayed~ You are conect in saying that the Jets have a long streak of failure, in fact they haven't do11e anything good since 195~~ I think the fact that you are ll still a fan reflects directly upo!l your sex life. You, like the Jets, just can't seem to get anytfling done after a good '69. -·Dear Uncle :&Ina, What has been the biggest thrill of your life? -lk IDear lk, I was 16. My couch. Cheerleader. Clothes off. Deep brea1hing. Nuffsaid. 1J~ar Uncle Edraa, 1 am a female and caP~~t geJ along with any of the guy.s l1n .my floor. Any suggestions? -P.S. DearP.S. Midol MEET 1'-IE AT TI-lE RAMADA Sat ... Feb .. 20th. get prepared to make some careful adjustments to the ,;landscape\ of the dish. Now you must wait and observe. Some days later yon can clearly· see a positive ecological pattern. Success!. The different .components of the dish seem to balance and compliment each other out perfectly. What one germ excretes as waste uses as food. A feeling of euphoria spreads through your body on'ly to freeze somewhere in your lower gut. A distortion in the ecosystem is taking place. One strain of microorganisms seem to be disrupting the careful balance that you strove to keep. All you can do is watch as the organisms systematically move in on other microbes and destroy them. You must do something. All your time and energy is being consumed by greedy microscopic beings. You must get rid of them. Carefully you set out to eliminate the things. using chemicals, excessive heat, and absence of light to kill off the scourge. Now you must start the long process of rebuilding ·the environment in the petri dish. That is what you would want and have to do. NOW IMAGINE. the you are God ..• Dear Uncle Edna, Sometimes in class when I'm wearing sweatpants I daydream about my girlfriend and get an embarrassing blood flow. The situation is made even worse when I'm asked .to go to the board. What should. I cb? -PU DearPU, To alleviate your \little\ problem, i~agine George Bush standing in his boxer shorts. That should quench any horny instincL Dear Uncle Edna, With the institution of locks on the bedroom doors of Fox, my roommate and I have begun runni11g into problems as she continually hooks up, locking me out. I'm sick of sleeping on the beanbag in the common room. What should I do? -homefess Dear homeless, Have you consi-dered suggesting Menage-a-.trois? If not, then find out who your roommate is hooking up with and sleep with their roommate. Either way you win. details· to follovv - - .. - Bit come stude somt: week our t have have com frate allov partie: with parti elimi week knOVi say- it's 01 the '\ offer Wha· Thes cons Then Anni {aero I c time~ (that' now thou Soon for c you admi1 weekJ were appre PackagE through.

Concordiensis ·Features January 14, 1993, Page 11 THE SOCIAL ALTERNATIVE Attention Food Shoppers ·Erin M. O'Neil Features Writer Bing()~ That's what it's come to my fellow Union students. If you're looking for something to do on a weeknight, Bingo has become our best option. In case you haven't heard, and if you haven't you must he completely oblivious, fraternities are no l0nger allowed to host alcoholic parties during the week. Along with the elimination of such parties bas come the elimination of any sort of weeknight social activity. I know what you're going to say- Chet's. Well, yeah,. but it's only open one night during the week. What is there to offer tile other four nights? What are our alternatives? These are questions \I was constantly asking myself. Then I !liscovered Bingo at the Annie Schaffer senior Center (across from A-plus). 1 can't tell you how many times I've driven by Annie's (that's what I like to call it now that I'm a regular), and thought, \Hmm Bingo. Sounds like fun, but it's just for old people.\ Well thank you Union College administration, for abolishing weeknight parties, because if it weren't for that much appreciated new policy I would WEARING SHORTS Is ENcouRAGED. A bathing suit and sun block wouldn:t be a bad idea either. Just be prepared for a week of fun. It's a multiple choice spring break. Garnes, parties. contests, free party cruise. free food !llld entertainment. T ermis and golf, too. Or go sightseeing on a moped. :\nd don't forget our beautiful pink beaches and turquoise waters .. '\Jlless than two hours away. So do whatcha like. Just don't let it go to your head. For more infonnation, call Stockare Travel, Inc. 1421 Erie Boulevard, Schenectady, NY 12305 518-377-6409 have gone 1ight on thinkmg that way. I am now proud to say I ~a B itlgo addict. I .even got one of those bumper stickers for my car that says. \This vehide brakes for all Bingo games!\. by Dass Seaman Concordiensis Staff When you don't have a car to go to Price Ohopper, or a friend who can tend you a car, or a friend that wouldn't lend you her car, but doesn't have It all started about a week ago. It was a Monday night, · my work was done, and damn time to drive you there, and you've gotten used to walking, Trading Port is a very familiar · it, I was going out! It was early, so once I accepted the fact that thelie was absolutely nothing to do on campus, and despite .my determination I would be staying in, t headed for A-plus to get some snacks to eat while I watched \Rescue 911\ (Holy ron-on .sentence!). Leaving A-IJlus with a bag of ; Nacho Chee5ier Doritos in my · hand, something caught my eye. It was like a beacon in the night, beckoning to me, \BINGO TONnE 7:30P.M.!\ \This is it!\ I realized excitedly, \I am going out! \ I 1 · ran home as fast as my little · legs would ea:ry me, burst into my room and told my roommates the news. \Guys we're going to Bingo tonight!\ Needless to say, they did not share my entllusiasm. I didn't care, and \Vith spirits only · slightly dampened. I went anyway. I entered the Annie Center (another niclname) wi~ a bit con't i)B pg.14 supermarket (or is it Trading Post?). After compiling a list of necessary items that over the past few months I've muttered \ ' I really wish I had_\ or \I really need __ ,\ and had almost forgotten what they were, I left my room with my wallet safe in my inside coat pocket. I left the campus world and entered ( duh-duh dun!) Schenectady. As I approached Trading Port, r sensed a different aura around it's brick entity. I grabbed a shopping cart that was at the end of a neatly connected chain of carts. Instead of tugging and pulling and kicking apart the carts. one ( not two stuck together) slid out with buttery ease. I drove my vehicle forward, and it went FORWARD! It didn't veer off the right or left with crocked wheels, but this baby cruised. I thought how convenient it was that they installed el~trical. opening doors on the . · way in. In the past it always . . BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS Mr\RCH 8-APRIL 8 Packages based on Trnve! Turf pncong from New York and Phrladelphia. i\dd·ons apply fmlll other points oldr•pnnurc Pnrrs ba><'•l on ruund rnr purchn;r .we ken~ .urliw·, lor trnwl3·b ~3 through 4110/93. Pnces slightl1lower for weekday trawL Pnces ate based on four per room, rnmrmum propertv cate~orv Pm·r•s varv hv wholmler anrl may be •ubre<'t ro.changc and avrulab;hrv perplexed and annoyed me that I had to push open a heavy door. Imagille how difficult it would have been if I was carrying a ten laying wedding cake. But all was fixed now. I entered a wondrously bright and clean atmosphere. A young energetic girl smiled widely and chirped \Hi! Welcome to Trading Port!\ and she shook my hand. I looked behind her and noticed piles of super sales coupon books. Theil she put one in my hand. \Take it. it's free.\ And then she winked at me. \Thank-yoo I said, a little bewildered. I looked around and what sho11ld my wondering eyes should appear--but a Mega Market. I strolled down Isle number one -Sauce.s, Soups, Condiments, and Pasta. I walked by three boys and three girls singing to the tune of \in the Merry Old land of Oz.\ Three boys: Stack Stack Stack (and they were stacking!) Three girls: Price Price Price (they knew bow to price!) Ensemble: In this store I love That's how I J)lay my day away Trading Port, I love my job! My heart touched and I wiped a small tear from my eye. I picked up a can of .stewed mushrooms and thcught \This · is beautiful.\ I noticed toat I was hungry (why is it that I always go food shopping ~hen. I'm hungry?) . and everything on tbe shelves' looked so delicious. I was even tempted to buy Oscar Meyer:'s head cheese. Luckily, I rounded the corner of Isle number two: Cereals, baking goods, candy.· and pickles. Tllere was a jolly huggable grandmother type character named Gladys staiiding in front of a table laden \Vith goodies. Above her there was a sign (from God) FREE SAMPLES. \Take Take. Eat, Eat, Sample. Sample,\ she cooed in her grandmother-like way. This was an honest way of satisfying hunger pangs in a supermarket. rather than snea~!_~ hallds raiding bin food. I sampled legally a~ hungrily. I was amazed at how Trading Port treated its customers. This cute old man with a \Hello! My name is Ernie\ tag came up to me with a four pack of toilet paper. \Squeeze the charmin.\ he urged. \It's OK, 'you c11n do it here at Trading Port.\ I took hold of the toilet paJJer and the old man went \oooo--oooo\ like the Pilsbury Dot:Igh Boy does when you press his tummy. I squeezed and it was good. Gay and lively music played overhead. \You've got to shop at Trading Port, 000, those super specials, yeah!\ Three metl with aprons and brooms came dancing and leaping down the frozen food isle, singing along to the little ditty on the foud speaker. One of them took my hand and took me for a spirt. l giggled shy I y. I hadn't danced in years. Back in the old days, I used to be quite good and soon the three men had me dancing the Trading Port jazz step triple supennarkeUwist and a coupon hop. It was great fun. I waved goodbye and continued with my shopping adventures. In the fruits and vegetables I~le, I took a single orange from the bottom on a ten foot higl1 pile and nothing fell. Puzzle<l over the ripeness of a cantalompe melon, a smart looking clerk with a melon in his hand showed me how I can smell this o11e spot to see if it was ripe. Of course it was perfectly ltascious. \What melons,\ I Sllid. \Thank you,\ he replied ch(!erfully Overjoyed with my shopping experience, I skipped down the isles, crossimg item after item off my list Can you believe that Trading Port actually carries peanut butter cover pine cones, a delicacy from a small shop located half-way up Mount Everest.? [ had been craving them ever since I fell half way down that mountain three years !lgo. Boy howdy, what a store! 1 didn't have that \always picking the longest-shortest line problem (Hey Frank! I need a key to the register. I have an over-ring!).\ There were at least three vacant registers calling me with their \OPEN\ signs. The register people and l>aggers were trying to smile the hardest to win over my affection. With the use of my super saving coupons, I must have saved seven dollars (that's. handy for college students) and I only had · to pay three dollars for ten dollars worth of groceries. My suggestion is to check this place out Concordiensis SUBSCRIPTIONS • $40/yr. $100/3 yr.

January 14,1993, Page 12 Features Concordiensis STOP MATING, START DATING BLIND DATE . . . Erin M. O'Neil Associate Features Editor Why can't I get a date? Just a date. Is there really any such thing as a date? Not here. Our generation doesn't date. You know what I mean by dating don't you? Like in the fifties when a guy asked a girl out, they ride in his convertable to the drive in , he puts his arm around her, then afterwards they go to the malt shop. split a milk shake, and he takes her home. No sex, no commitment, just a date. All be it that example is a little bit cheesy, but seriously, does anyone date anymore? ·Do you· J·ust .•~t,e· off? SJ;.o.,·, 1 d by Dass Seaman \Great. I'm a math ma.,ior.\ uu.: 11 w. this menu. lie looked up and \ you leave a note? Do you feel Features Editor noticed I wasn't looking. \Numbers .... \he guilty? Do yo11 care? I jt1st \Are you going to look at your ~contem,plated. Then he don't see the pleasure of shame Have you ever been on a menu?\ confessed, ;;I'm a,math moron.\ walking from the random's Blind date? I've heard and \I've memorized it already,\ \[bet you're not that stupid,\ . stories about how these things I ·\'\'d sm.tl· 1 ·ng. knowi'n· g .fua· t I I assured. He looked at me residence at ten o'clock on a \'\ end up. but I never imagined in had nothing better to do while 1 with surprise. I e~plained,\ I Sunday morning, smelling of · a million years what would · · ·mean, .Yo ... •re no_ t stupid. It.'s was watting. He knew it too .. smoke and stale beer. Maybe · happen on mine. You would and smiled apologetically. just ·that math isn':t so bad.\ I'm missing something. not believe what happened, but The waiter came over and The more I spoke, the softer I College is a lot more than its :the truth. asked if he could take our order. ·got. academics, as we all know. It We were supposed to meet at I began to say \Yes-\ but at It was silent. I looked is a place to learn about this little place called the same time he said, \A around the table at the forks, yourself, find yourself if you \Christopher's\ at one o'clock couple more minutes.\ the knives, our cups filled with will. It is also a place to meet for lunch. I waited for about water, the hang 11ail on my ._ d th I was completely starving, th b y I 1 1.ed · d new people, try new things, an uour an was on e verge . urn • . ep. . OOA . up an f · \S y ,.. h thi · but I said sweetly to the waiter, · d 't· · and in turn learn from those o saymg ee a. w ·en s notice our wa1 er C()mmg · sweaty panting guy stumbled \A couple more minutes.\ towards us with what might experiences. I don't think you into the cafe. Finally. about ten minutes hopefully~ oh please, be our learn much about a peraon I \Oh God,\ I tho·ugbt. later the waiter came back. I food. from a random hook up, except· \Could this be it?\ In his ordered a salad He ordered· the \I thinlc our food is coming,\ maybe the color of their sheets. · baggy khakis and untncked triple layer 'iLumberjack's I said exCitedly. _ or the secret place where they white tee-shirt, he began Manwich\. and a beer. We \Fast service,\ he said with have a birthmar.k. No, hook- 1 scanning the place for someone both watched the waiter relief. · · ups serve no .purpose other 1 who fit my description. I disappear into the kitchen. The waiter set our food down \S\\? ... I said. - than to relieve the sexually buried my head in the ·menu, ;; 50 .. he said and we were both extremely frustrated. Not much life' but before I knew it. I heard .... · • content, with our food that is. experience can be drawtl from heavy breathing and a voice There was a painful pause. 1 I coul<ht\t wait until th•s that ...... \ .. AA, nv-~n?... _ smiled. He smiled. · . bl. th' · · Eat them. It's J·ust somehinc that , ~¥ ... \\\ NUc mt.sera 1e mg IS over. · c \Ah eah? 0 .. Alan y \Well I'm -so glad fve d •· t · we crazy college .kids do. • Y • · 11 • . • 1 ou an ·run n my roo to.- must be AJan. Hin - finally bad the chance to meet It's not as if anythmg 1 say' . ;'Hi! be said, completely out you,\ 1 said. Alan looked • his incredibly will prevent random hook-ups of breath. .. I'm so sori'y I'm He said enthu.siastically. huge sandwich. It had a six from .happening. I should stop late. I mean, nice to meet you. \Yea your voice sounds incb pile of meat.. cheese, belittling them. Who knows. I'm sorry but my bike got different on the phonet\ lettuce, ·,tomato, and several someday I might cave in • and stolen because I forgot to lock \Yea... So, what are you unknowns. He looked at me it could .happen to me too. I it up wben I went in to tile studying at schO()l?\ and waited for me to take my :._,_ b · • \I .don't reall. y study.\ And ·· · th ht don't want to thiJIPo. so, ut 1ts 1 store to buy-- 'long story. first bite. Polite, I oug • possible. Maybe banning the Anyway, I'm sorry... he laughed to. himsel_f for a nen be took tbe biggest bite random hook-up is a little \Its' OK. Want to look at while. Private joke, I thought. I'deverseen. the menu?\ I offered. \No. really,\ he said. \I'm a The closest bing to a date at Union is the random book-up. Such hook-ups usually occur on a Friday or Saturday night. You stand in the barroom of said fraternity, making small talk with some fellow ~tudents until fina1ly your goggles come slightly into focus on that not-so-special someone. You approach, tell them you like their .shirt. The someone says, \Oh really? I have a bunch more upstairs in m bedroom closet Wanna see?\ You agree, one thing leads to mother, and the random hoolc- 1lp ensues. The only similarity between this scenario and eating is that most of the time there is no further commitment In fact, one may spend the rest of their Union College career trying to avoid that not-so-special someone. This does not appear to be fun. [am new on the singles scene so I have a difficult time comprehending the whole situation, which appears rather grim. harsh. Okay then, lets Wlte. Con't on pg.12 and if we. want, randomly hook rr==\Y=ea~!~\=H::=e=be==g=an=s::::ca::::nn=in=g==wn~·~ter=·~\=======~===========~~ up. Sounds fair. We could go Hi ! 1 But I understand why it happens, I guess. We're young, we're free, and we're drunk sometimes. Okay, maybe a lot of the time. Random hook-ups seem to be tbe thing to do. Everyone does it. There are, however, plenty of ()!her things to do when you are drunk. You could eat english muffins, dance~ socialize, make an ass out of yourself what have you. It's time to ban the random hook- up and return to the glory days of dating. I want to be like Joannie and Chachie, Archie a11d Veronica, the Bradies. You've seen how happy they are. It's because they're <iating! Well I want to date too. Maybe I'm being too ()pinionated. If you can ltonestly say that you enjoy tandom hook-ups, great! More )lOWer to you. I'm just kind of curious. What is going tltrough your mind when you wake up in the randoms bed, smely and hung-over? Do you remember what you did or what )'OU said? Do you remember tlleir name? Do you wake tllem up just before you leave? to the malt shop~ on say, a BARNARD COLLEGE •• COLGATE UNJVERSITY .. CORNELL UNIVERSiTY Tuesday night. Split a milk HAMILTON COLLEGE •• MANHATIAN COLLEGE .. ST. LAWRENCE UNJVERSITY •• UNION COLLEGE shake, talk, laugh, be cute. then go home. Maybe we'll like each other, maybe not. 1t was just a date, not a wedding. Then if we saw each other in a barroom, and started to talk, and I went up to your room to look at your shirts, it wouldn't be as random a hook·llp. Please keep in mind that this situation is entirely hypothetical. Doesn't that sound nice? It's time we all got to know each other personally~ rather than sexually. Let's bond. Let's date. Enough of this free love crap! I won't make this into a safe sex article, but you get my point. I would like to propose a challenge to the single members of the Union C(}llege community. Ask that special someone that you've been eyeing for a while on a date. I'm giving you a reason. Go to Stewarts or to the new table service at Burger King. Go! Have a good time. You don't llave to kiss them if you don't want to. You don't have to do anything, just have fun. Date! Be kids! Theres not much time left! Do it today, and save the random hook-ups for someone ' else. 1f ~J ~ fP le~ [p [f{ «d)CG I!~ M ON QJ ~fiDlE~<GfRJ.\fD)QJJA 11'~ ~ <COI]~CCCE [E [D)CVJct#\ '?u(Q)~ Summer 1993 Student R-esearch Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and universities at one of the following institutions: o BarnardCollege • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College _ 8-10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE:Tet.tl..y s, UJei flfY .)(~2 3 3 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 BARNARO COLLEGE..COLGATE UNIVERSIT'Y .. CORNEll UNIVERSITY HAMILTON COLLEGE .. MANHATTAN COLLEGE .. ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSIJY .. UNION COLLEGE I ! - - e ,e ~ n a c 0 rr .it m Ci CJ s~ Ia re M Pl dr de Oil OJ thl wJ wl dri ca: ~ Cril m~ int. all, tht fr· ph gu: Cai th; Pil w;; yo fin yo co w' dr• ho so an: yo wi r~ of YOI the QUI yo1 is Jal sh ga cl~ se~ ev en kn air - F E l' E F

Concordiensis Features January 14, 1993, Page 13 YONE-FOR POCKET POOL? By Andrew R. :R~sen Concordiensis SJ(ljf I went 'home for tile week- e~d. As I drove ·111y now eight-month-old car along Route 90 West, across the m.ajestic farmland of Central and Western New 'Y()rk, I casually noticed my odometer progress to 9,994 miles. Don't forget to· watch it hit 1 0,000! I re111inded myself. The rain pelted my car like late night cr:acker crt~mbs upon my :shirt. Some idiot in a Ford c:hanged lanes withcut signa1img, the reject in front of me with Minnesota plates still.:ludn't put her lights on despite the dtipping darkness .. .! ]()oked down hoping to revel Ill the only co111fort of the tn()rnent. O~e can imagine the shock, the . sadness, the utter rage - wllisping through mr :veins w~en I peered down imt() the driver-friendly. designed.111leter case to find 10,002 miles ~v.elled to date. I almost crieri . ,A.s I .sit at my keyboard, my, inner sanctuary tk-<>wn into cosmic shambles, I allow my mind to wmder thr9ugh many of lifeS,oth~r fnistrations and philosophies. This is a guideless tour, so please carry all bags with yow ... ·-very revnhings artrworse than stubbing your toe. Picture the following: you wake up from a great steep; you dreamt that he or she finally kissed you and tmore, you signed the Iuc1~tive contract you've always wanted, your professor drowned in a p<lol of horseradish or maybe something bizarre ... anything to put a smile on your face. You wake up without the aid of an alarm, ready to start your day. Out of bed, onto the floor, i11to your robe or towel aRd off to the shower. On yoUJr vray out the door. the big toe on your left foot (if the sh()wer is to the left of your Foom) Jams into the netal sheathing like a hbe's garden food spike in10' S<Jlid, clay-laden soil. For three seconds you contemplate every possible actiom you may have taken to avoid this enjambment, belchimg all known obscenities inJto; the air. The pain arrives and you bop to the shower on one foot, swearing to yourself, warding off appropriate tears. If your hall mates only knew. When is it intemationaHy ,pmper to change your shower soap? I personally keep scrubbing. brushing and cleansing (I'm a rather furry creature, blessed with the gift of a bodily forrest) until the soap breaks. That's the signal that one more shower remains on the soap: one half for the upper body, the other half plus a good deal of .:1 new bar for the lower half. Joshua Kaplan and Jason Habinsky, honorary co- founders o.f Union's American Gladiator fan club, fundamentally disagree with each other. \I use it until ther's nothing left,\ Josh comments. \One minu.te ther's soap, the·.next; I'm just rubbing myself with my hand.\ Jason is quick to argue, \That won't happen to me, mart I let it [the soap] go until it almost melts into my fist, taking the shape of a grip.\ Soft Soap is another story. Why is it that my shoelace always rips when I'm in a hurry? Just imagine that you have ten minutes to undress, excrete, shower, dry, dress ·and- ieave. in eight minutes, you have done what you swore could not be done and prepare to tie the laces to your Kay-Swiss white ones, you're a good minute and a half ahead of schedule. Shoe number one laces and ties with ease- one minute left and on to the next shoel The first tier is tightened- fifty seconds left- the second tier is tightened- forty-five seconds left- you tighten the third tier and SNAP! all your nocturnal dreams are shattered. What was once a successful record-setting prep has gone the way of the dodo. Cara Fleischner, vocal guru and president of Delta Delta Delta summed up a similar incident, clamorously yelping, \Damn.\ A SNAP! worth a thousand words. How does security and safety appropriately determine when it's o.k. to park in the College Center loop or when to give a ticket? The brain trust giveth, and it taketh away ... 'H1e \Door Close\ button in the College Center elevator never works. Period. Can anyone use the satellite dish atop Science and Engineering? Don't you hate it when you sneeze in the middle of class and you MUST get up to .go the bathroom with your face buried in your hand like an ostrich in the sand? The point is moot for autofl,ickers (see a previous article). If .Beverly Hills, 90210 had any more cheese in it. would have to come with a Sur:-geon General's warning. Why are there so many different .types of toilet bowl cleaners? Is there an expert somew.liere who can explain to me why Vanish green is more effective than clear 2000 Flushes? why use either of these when you can get on your knees and scrub with. Lysol toilet cleaner.? It may or may not be a question . of nbsolute aesthetics, but it is my astute opinion that this market is flooded, to coin a phrase. · W:ttat's the difference between Wonder.\King\ and \Sandwich\ size. bread? While on·. grains, I don't believe that propaga11da concerning the origin of Thomas's English Muffins for a second. It's probable the invention of Stu Weillk:al. Columbus, Ohio. Who came up with the name for the \Virgin Islands'\'] Innappropriate, to say tile least. Given that Secret is strong enough for a man but made for a woman, what criteria were used to determine :tllis and why, then, don't all women use it? Can anybody OR this. or any other planet make a s.birt that doesn't leave lint in my belly boutton? When, in any relationship, is it appropriate to fart in front ()[ your boyfriend or girlfriend? Th_ere was a kid on my floor freshman year who ignited his face after doing a flaming shot of Bicardi 151. Free Video Rental at the Info Booth New Titles, New Releases Bring an I.D. For info call xt. ' ' • • 6369 You'd be surprised what a little bit of blue cheese will do to a slice of pizza! U it weren't for Easter and Passover ocurring on the same week-end, the administration may Mve had a legitimate security problem. Since half the campus went home or to stay with friends and family for the week -end. however, certain mass chaos was averted. Classes outside are overrated. Cancelled classes are underrated. Dutch Hollow pizza sucks. What would the Indigo Girls have called themselves if scientists had .successfully Blind Date con't' from pg. 12 All of a sudden~ the huge layered insides ()fthe sandwich came bursting out of the other side. There was nothing left in between the bread. He took the bread apart and tried to reassemble the samlwich. He tried picking up the gooey insicles, but because of all the mayo, it slipped out of his fingers and back onto the plate. I giggled 'and he looked up. really embarrassed. r looked back down at my salad. He was struggling with that mess by using his hands. He got so frustrated, he stabbed the mess with his fork. He smiled triumphantly, as he put the sandwich back together. He took another bite, carefully this time. He covered all the sides of the sandwich with a finger to prevent the sandwich from bursting again. He smiled at me as if for a approval. I smiled back. I couldn't help but notice the glob of mayo and the string of lettuce hanging from the comer of his mouth. I pretended not to notice. As though he felt an itch, he wiped it off with the back of his hand. The lettuce and mayo was now on the back of his hand, an.d he· saw it there, realizing it was on his face. He made a face like,\Oh great.\ and nonchalantly wiped it on his lap. \So are you going to write a novel or do you like poetry?\ I said, trying to make conversation. \I write mostly short stories . and poetry,\ he said. He began talking about his work. but I could hardly concentrate on his words bec~mse he had a poppy seed right in the center of his teeth. I was trying so hard not to stare. but that poppy seed was staring right back at me. I just kept on saying \Yea ... Uh, · huh ... Great,\ trying to sound interested. He cleared his tluoat and seemed to prepare to say something important. \Karen he said seriously. \I'm really glad I've had the chance to meet you. Michelle agreed to eliminate the color indigo from the visible spectrum? This campus should hire a full time masseuse. I'm drinking on Fitzhugh Ludlow day. There's not much that can't be told or analyzed in this world. I'm just too tired from doing nothing to contemplate anything about something that affects someone. Thank you for choosing our airline. find your own luggage and don't stare at the pilot unless there's some sort of attraction. Don't, however, misconstrue idle conversation for a legitimate attempt to woo. I'd rather watch flies fu ... never mind. talks about you· all the time. I'm sorry for being so strange and quiet in the beginning. l'hat's how I get when I'm nervous ... \ and just as he said that he reached for his beer. He must have still been rather nervous because he totally spazed and spilled it all over me. \Oh!\ I said in despair. \Oh!\ be said in even more despair. \ I'm so sorry!\ He leapt up ·with a napkin in hand t<l come to my rescue. He wasn't looking and he went head on CRASH into a waiter canying a huge tray of desserts. There was a tremendous clatter. Then the whole cafe was silent. I saw it happen in slow motion. Up went ice cream parfait, apple pie. chocolate mousse. Down went the ice cream parfait, the apple pie. the chocolate mousse-· all over Alan, who presently had been knocked to the ground. Alan was totally Ala mode. I burst out laughing. He started to laugh too, but he held it back and said, ··rrs not funny.\ I shook my head \No\ and kept laughing. \It's not funny,\ he said smiling and threw a piece of pie at my face. It splatted on my face and we laughed even harder. I threw what was oR my face back at him and we got into a dessert fight. We got kicked out of the cafe and walked home, sampling our free dessert off each other. It was true love. If you don't believe me, ask Alan. No, better not. He'll tell you we met on \The Love Boat.\ WRITE FOR FEATURES CALL DUG X4040

January 14, 1993, Page 14 Features Concordiensis A TOUCH OF BRUTAL HONESTY by Betsy Rothstein Concordiensis Staff Imagine you are walking through the college center during nish hour, let's say around 11 :07 on a Monday. You feel yourself 'begin to twitch and then you have the uncontrollable urge to bang your head against the wall. People look at you as though you are on drugs; others envy you, and want to know where you acquired these drugs. You proceed to leap onto one of the tables and start jumping up and down. You are mortified as you know you're behavior is ridiculous but you have no control over what you are doing. You go up to random people and start sniffing them as if you are a dog. You may even start barking. You join a circle of people and ruin the deep and profound/in-depth conversation by clearing your throat and repeating everything that is said. You walk up to another group of people discussing how much work they have and you begin to sneer at them, grimace, shrug your shoulders and hiss. You begin to whistle and people give you strange looks and tum their backs on you. You proceed to make a complete spectacle of yourself when you go into the Dutch Hollow to get food when you begin to spit on the guy on line in front of you. Then when you go up to place your order you begin to shriek. You may think this scene is slightly ridiculous and perhaps you would even laugh at such a person in his/her tirade through the college center. What this individual is experiencing is a rare neurological disorder The Social con't from pg.ll of trepidation. Ahead of me was a large, smoke-filled room will rows of tables filled with people. At the front was a giant, round wire basket that was spinning. When it stopped, an elderly, stocky, bald man with glasses pulled out a ball and read the letter and number printed on it to the group of anxiously awaiting seniors. Just then, a petite purple-haired elderly woman jumped up and yelled \BINGO!\. I realized I was excited for her. ran over to the table where the cards were sold, bought two at a dollar a piece, and joined in the action. I had Bingo fever. I stayed until the bitter end (wen, ten-thirty). I never won, but I saw pictures of Mrs. Englebert's grandchildren, listened to Ethel and Margaret's hints on how to make your dentures stick, drank free coffee, and ate free donuts. All that excitement for only two dollars. How can you go wrong? Maybe I still haven't convinced all of you how great known as Gilles de Ia Tourette's syndrome. As I began to research this syndrome for a term paper, I wondered how a Tourette's sufferer might act here at Union College and how people would react to a person with this condition. I definitely chose to ,portray the ,extreme example of the disease rather than a low scale versi()n which is what in fact most people with the disease experience. In actuality, a person can be diagnosed with Tourette' s syndrome and their symptoms can go virtually undetected by everyone around them. These scenarios that I have created are by no means an indication of what the majority of Tourette's sufferers experience. It would be interesting though, to see what it would be like if a Union College student acquired this disease, in its extreme fonn. Suddenly you hear yourself involuntarily making obscene comments to everyone you pass. You notice that girl that you heard was a little promiscuous and you blurt out \SLUT\ right to her face. You pass a guy who you think is obnoxious and you hear yourself call him an \ASS .... \. On your way to your mailbox you experience involuntary muscle spasms as you smack everyone in the face and tell the mass of people \GET OUT OF MY WAY!\ You notice an overweight girl at the mailbox adjacent to yours and \FAT\ slips off your tongue before you can think straight. FACT:In 60% of the cases of Tourette's Syndrome noises become transformed into swear words; the most common of which are f... and sh .. , a condition known as Coprolalia. Alternative ' Bingo is. I realize this may never happen, so for those stubborn few I h~ve come up with a list of alternative means of weeknight entertainment: Complete the restoration of the Nott. Crazy glue your fingers, and the fingers of your friends. See who can get unstuck first. Ride the elevator in the College Center. Enter a stranger's room and snuggle them. Do all homework for the remainder of the tenn. Floss. Give a friend a sponge bath. Take a whole box of Ex-Lax (just for fun). Get a piggy-back ride from the Chester Arthur statue. Breed cats in your dorm room. Discover the wonderflll world of needlepoint. Hand wash all of your underwear. Well that's all I can come up with. Maybe the rest of you are distraught about this whole party thing, but not me. Now I don't feel like I'm missing a thing while I'm over at Annie's playing Bingo. Give it a try. I promise you'll never miss those fraternity parties again. Could you imagine if every sick thought you ever had was to be revealed to everyone around you? You would have no control over what you say; your secret thoughts would be revealed. Everyone would know what you thought of them. You cannot believe yoH · are saying these things; your private thoughts are no longer private and are out in the open for everyone to bear and to scrutinize. FACT: Mu!Hple tics and to a squirrel and you call out \DOID\ just as you are opening the doors of the buiiding. FACT:_ The majority of Tourette's Syndrome patients describe feeling a constant inner tension. You enter your classroom. This is not your favorite class by any means; in fact you dread this incredibly long hour and five minute class every Monday, Wednesday and involuntary swearing cause Friday. The mere thought of distress, isolation and having to sit through another psychological harm. one of Professor \Ilove On your way to class you thesoundofrnyownvoice's\ pass by a female professor who lectures makes you completely once gave you a D on a paper sick. During yet another and \BITCH\ pops out of your incredibly stimulating and eye- mouth. You feel really bad opening lecture you taise your insulting people like this, so hand to ask a question. Excuse blatantly and so brutally, as me professor F. . .ing Bitch I you know this are mean, cruel just wanted 'to ask you a and hurtful. However, isn't it question. You begin to sneer strange to think that these at that brown-nosing classmate thoughts rage through of yours located in the front everyone's mind everyday, only and center spot of the room. according to societal rules we You are obviously causing a know better than to divulge ruckus. You are bored out of them? Luckily most of us your mind from the lecture and have enough sense and control notice there is only fiv~ notto reveal what exactly is on minutes left of class. ourminds. \EORING WASTE OF FACT: Today, Tourette's TIME, TIME TO GO!' you Syndrome affects 100,000 to hear yourself remark to the 330,000 :people in the United class. States alone. FACTS: The cause of Right before you enter Tourette's Syndrome is Humanities to go to your u~<>wn; 'it is thought to be a class, you notice a local disease of th~ central nervous resident of Schenectady talking system, While the symptoms of the disease are treatable, Tourette's Syndrome is in fact a life-long disease with slim chances of remission. It can be dangerous in the sense that some sufferers. of the disease are impelled toward:s danger such as holding their hands close to open flames or spinning objects such as fans. The concept of the disease is amazing. Expressing your true beliefs could be horrifying to those around you, but atleast it would be honest. The disease can be viewed in a humorous way as it has been depicted on various talk shows as well as L.A. Law. Howevei', to the people that suffer with the condition, e~pecially in it's extreme form, it is not funny at all. Rather, it is a lifelong syndrome with little chance of remission. The next iime you walk through the ·colleg·e center, or go to a clas:s, think about the facts that your private thoughts are private and that you have control of your actions because for some people with Gilles de Ia Tourettes Syndrome this is not the case. Co!J,cordiellsis SUBSCRIPTIONS $40/yr. $100/3 yr. Alumni-Keep Lip T() clute on Events at Unio11~ **•·'******************************** \V\HAT'S iN A NMY!E? SOlVIETHING S\VEET! • COOKIES o CHEESE CAKES 6) COFFEE CAKES ~ SCRUMPTIOUS FLAVORED COFFEES NOW AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT (LOCATED IN THE OLD INFORMATION BOOTH) HOURS 1:00 Pwi - 1:00 A~I HELP US CHOOSE A NAME FOR THE NEW BAKE SHOP The winner will receive a platter of fresh baked Otis Spunkrneyer Cookies! ***************************************** - WI yo mi flli LC Ph gre col pet C()J No Rae Hoj are To R:O( Ff 12 hi! 7-! Cb 7·' R c rvh St 2p ket 2p ~W; R<l Mi. SI.J 7p 7.' 3 shti 7-3 Ne' 8& Mil MC 8a. ture 1'· ver! 5-9, . 6:31 · fon 8& Mig 1UJ Sa, ture 10' Mat 11:: Fac1 Noo Wei Noo sboJ lH con, ]?·' , Sma Sch( Lah< Busi 5-9: .. ... '.1

Concordiensis Campus News January 14, 1993., Page 15 P.ER·!iOI\IA.L!i Wendy and Rachel-I'm so glad you two are finally back-I missed you so much. Now the fun can begin-Pam LOST-Prof. Ralph Alpher- Physics faculty 8 1/2 by 11 grey fabric notebook with a collection of reprints of personal value only. Please contact if found Sci/Eng, North room 330 x6345 Rachel get ready for egg night. Hope you remember what you are doing. Love W &P To the three muskateers-you Rock My World Love, Me . :pants down to your ankles? It wasfun ._ : Love J enild cPS is the wetness still there) To all Women:welcome back to school. Vacation is now done, prepare yourself for Rush-get ready to have some fun.- The sisters of Gamma Phi Beta INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR A POSITION ON THE ORIENTATION COMMJTTEE?? Stay tuned to next week's Concordy for more. iaformation. The committee is looking for dedicated and hardworking individuals, as well as those who know how to have FUN! ! Get Psyched. U • N • I · 0 · N • 'S WEEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 15 12'}.1-1:30 p.m. College Center. Rllsstan and Japanese conversation tables. 7- 9· p.m College Center 409. lntl!var\ty Chrislidn fellowship. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey \'-Harvard. R & 10 pm College Center aud Film· \The tv'hghry Due h.\ ' SATURDAY, JANUARY 16 2 p.m. Memonal Field House. Women's bas- ketball vs. North Adams. 2 p.m. Alumni Gym. Men's and women's IWllllming vs. Hartwick. 8 & 10 p.m College Center aud. 'film: \The Mighty Ducks.\ SUNDAY, JANUARY 17 7 p.m Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. Dartmouth. 7·30-ft:JO p.nt Old Ch\peL Protestant wor- sh tp servtce. 7·3(} p.m St. John the Evangelist Ch.urch. Newman Clull Catholic mass. S & 10 pclll College Center aud. Film: \The Mighty Ducks.\ MONDAY, JANUARY 18 <'l a.rn.-6 p.m. College Center 308. Senior pic- tures. 12:15-1:30 p.nt College Center. French con- versation table. 5-9:30 p.m. Hale House. Student phonathon. . 6:30-7:30 p.nt College Center409. Student · forum meeting. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film· \The Mighty Ducks.'' TUESDAY, JANUARY19 8 a.111.-6 p.m. College Center 308. Secnior ptc- tures. 10 a.m -2 p.11L College Center atrium. Manne Corps recruiting. 11:30a.m-1 p.m. HaleHou~ediningroom. Faculty soup and beverage club. Noon-1 p.rn Hale House lower lounge. Wellncss Program ~elf care workshop. Noon-/ p.m. College Center 204. Diet work- snap. 12: 15-I p.m College Center. Chinese conversation table. 12:30 p.m Bailey, 312. Kenneth B. Sharpe Small Business Seminar: Niko Gjaje, Schenectady Materials & Processing Lahoratory, Inc .. speaking on \Doii1g Business with Big Companies.\ 5-9:30 p.m. Hale Hou~e. Student phonathon. Snorkin 6:30-9: 3(} p.1n College Center aud. English Departmc11t film: \'La Strada.\ 7 p.n~ Memorial Field House. Women's basketball vs. Russell Sage. 8 p.m. Memorial ChapeL 1bc Mllscum- College Concert series presents I Solisti llaliam wtth Gary Schocker on the flute. WEVNESOA Y, JANUARY 20 8 a.IIL-6 p.nL College Center 30R. Senior pictures. 10 a.m-2 p.IIL College Ct:!ller atrium. Marine Corps r~cruiting. 12:15-1:15 p.m. College Center 203. German C'lllb. 12:15-1:30 p.n• College Center. German and Spamsh conversation tables. 5-9:30 p.m. Hale House. Studeut phonathon. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film \Fletch.\ THURSDAY, JANUARY 21 4 p. nl Butterfield 20 I. Geology Department Seminar: Visiting Professor of Geology Nikolai Sobolev. speaking on \Synthetic Diamonds and Gemstones.\ 6 p.1n Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Albany. 8 p.m Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Albany. FRIDAY, JANUARY22 12:15-I.· 30 p.m. College Center. Russ1an and Japanese conversation tables. 7-9 p.rn College Center 409. lntcrvar>ity Christian Fellowship. 8 & 10 p.n~ College Center aud. Film: \Single White Female.\ SA Tl.IRDA Y, JANUARY 23 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: ''Single White Female.\ SUNVA Y, JANUARY 24 9 a.m. Memorial Field Hoube. Men· s and women's track. tlnion InvitationaL 7:30p.m. S.t John the Evanglist Church. Newman Clut. Catholic mass. 7:30p.m. Old ChapeL Protestant wonh1p service. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film· \Single White Female.\ Wendy-Will drunk club live on same ~ime next week. Love · your drinkjng buddy Calling Blaine, Calling Blaine: Phone home or return to Planet Chill-Operation British has been accomplished. the Mothership · Everyone psyched for Rush? NOT Single White female .... seekin~ attractive date RAMADA .... Sat Feb 20 .... Watch For Details ... .MILLER- HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Love your \apartmate\ ACROSS 1. Odor 6. Paper currency 11. Slept noisily 12. Coordinated 14. Traveled 15. Firermm's need 16. Paid notices 17. Gene or Grace 19. Author Levin 20. Shift 22. Sandra or Frances 11 14 16 20 24 31 .32 Manju~ Beth and Denise-I'd like to take this chance to welcome you girls, to your new apartment. Keep it clean and be wary of strangers in- tile noght. Plan on seeing me often. C;Rossi - l:LA!i§IFIED!i Earn $500. $1 000 weekly stuffing en.velopes. For details·Rush $1.00 with SASE to Group Five 57 Ore entree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 1~901 Wanted- Campus rep for Bermuda Dept. of Trip. call Barbara Jordan 800-223-6106 x230 2 3 xxx<; 28 X~ 4 5 5 29 3() 34 SPRINGBREAKERS-Promote our florida Spring Break packages. Earn Money and Free tQps. Organize Small or Large groups. Campus Marketing. 800-42~ 5264 7 27 8 9 @ 19 ~ 23 10 13 36 37 38 23. Ensnare 24. German city 26. Repeat 39 43 ~...: ~ 40 41 ~42 28. Persian, for one 30.- Paulo 31. Landed properties 35. Type of pole 39. Graduated one 40. Resinous substance 42. Fir 43. Weight 44. Man's name _46. Dancer's cymbals 47. Salad vegetable 49. Municipal department 51. Farm tool 52. Type of ester 53. Clothing 54. Highest points ~ ~ 47 48 51 53 DOWN 1. Battery terminals 2. Awakens 3. Hockey star 4. Heirs to the earth? 5. Summed up 6. Helmets 7. Sculptor's medium 8. Free Df 9. ~frs. Gandhi~ to friend 10. Examine 44 11. Barrel part 13. Curtain 18. Hawaiian neckwear 21. Retread 23- ·Boy Scout unit 25. King Cole: 27. Consume 29. Bank employees 31. Kefauver 45 32. Drunk (slang) 33. Sore 34. Gal of sonz 36. Italian 50 painter 37. Decrees 38. Affray 41. Oven bird 44. The birds 45. -contendere 48. Chemical suffix 50. Sign of the zodiac

January 14, 1993, Page 16 Campus Bulletin Board Concordiensis TERM IN KOREA ! If you would like to study next fall term at Yonsei University in Seoul as a Union ·exchange student, please co:nta·ct either Professor Thurston in SS 213 (x6220) or Professor Thom.ts in Humanities 2110 (x6002) for information about the program. J.: ~ rH,E DEPA·RTMENT ..-' WHATEVER THE REASON ;Qf VISUAL ARTS W/-iA TEVER Tf1E SEASON Presents: \•\'WORKS BY CHINESE ARTISTS: : . ~ 'lr. . • II~ .... '~ .•.. ~ .· ..... -=,, ·~·-. _ -~\ ~··-U C:l:!JNESE PAPER CUTS\ From the Collection of VOLUNTEER TUTORING POSITIONS AVAILABLE'! HO PENG Visiting Fellow from China -&- 1:.: 'GET WELL 'HAPPY SOON' BIRTHDAY' TELECOt>wlMIJNICATIClNS G 1FT CERTIFICATES ARE TliiE PERFECT Volunt~er Tutoring is a non-profit, volunteer group of Union students who tutor in different areas in the Schene:tady comaunity. There are three possible areas to tutor: elementary s.:::hools, nursery s:hools, and Boys and Girls Clubs. For all options, all that is needed is a minimum of one hour a week. Also, a car is not necessary. 15 U\TiiOGRAPHIC PRINTS\ GIFT Al.TERNATIVE by SANDY WIMER Visual Arts Faculty There are three Catholi.::: elel:lentary S:hools -- St. John's, St. Anthony's, and St. Helen's, that are looking for tutors for e.1r!y :hildhoorl to grade 6. The tutoring positions would in.:::lude either individual help or a general tea.:::hers' aide. '; ·\ ',1. Jan~,ary 11, 1993-'February 12, 1993 RECEPIION: Tuesday, January 12, 1993 4:00PM-5:30PM UNION COlLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT . CERTIFIC.ATESARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE . The nursery s:hools are looking for tutors to help as a general teachers' aide, llRl:S ATRI<IM, ARTS BCliLDINq TELECOf.IIMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. The Boys and Girls Clubs are ~ommunity centers for Steinmetz and Yates Villages. We have developed an afterschool program ~alled \Making the Grade\. This program is designed to help students with their homework, and help them increaae thei~ math and verbal skills. :Department ~f Visua! Arts UNION COLLEGE Scher~ectady, NY 12308 (518) 370-6201 OR CALL :37Q..6411 FOR MORE INFORMATION. LECTURE/SLIDE SHOW BY UNION CREW lf you are interested in tutoring, please send your: INTORMATIONAL MEETING PAINTER name, box, phone, hours interested, available times and indicate whether you have access to a car, to Barbara Cash, Box 279. For more details, please contact me at 372-8452 as soon as possihle. THURSDAY JAN. 14TH COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORTIJM 7:30 PM TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1993-11:00 a. Room 215 Anyone Int.erested in rowing is welcome. ARTS BUILDING SPECIAL THANKS TO ALL THOSE WHO CONTRIBUTED TO 1st Annual Win1er Ping Fong Tournan.ent! THE TRICK OR TREAT FOR UNICEF TABLE IN THE COLLEGE CENTER. TOTAL RAISED WAS $75 WHICH WILL Registration: At the lnforma,tiom B()c:Jth, College Center. Anyone on camp..us; may enter (students, faculty, staff, even adlllllillistrators}. GO TO THE UNITED STATES COMMITTEE ON UNICEF. Registration closes Tuesday i9 Jan. . ~~ Union Colle~e Dining Services invites all !I Alumni and Friends to join us for a Pre Hockey Game Dinner Buffet January 8, 9, 15, 17, 29, February 5, 26, 27 a.t the Hale House Dining Room Featuring a ddightful selection of Hot and Cold Items such as: Sliced Cold Breast of Turkey. Roast Beef. Baked Ham and assorted cheeses with an assortment of rolls and breads. Tossed Garden Salad A sampling of Dinner Items: Breast of ChiCken Marsala Orange Roughy Filets Al.ma.ndme Shnmp and Fettucine with Peas W1d ArtiChoke Heans w«h Pesta Sauce Sauteed Beef Tips with Mushrooms F'ru.it Filled Park Tenderloins with Sauce .11adif'ra ISpecifiL' sef.ectiOns wilt vary with each dinner) Fresh Vegetable du Jour Brown Rice Pilaf. ov~n roasted potatoes, cous co us pilaf An assortment of fre>h bakrd delights for the s~f'rt tooth Solt dnnks and coffee are included Price $10.95 plus taz reservations are required Play begins: Wednesday, Jan. 20. rournament is double elimination (you must losE twice to be out of the tournament}. Matches rn;ayr b& ;played nywhere except for the final which w-ill! ~e in CC 30 . I 11 Grand Prize: $10 (wheWJ!i' <Jnion Coilege Department of Performing a'irt~ Performing Arts Studio WINTER CONCERT SERJES: I M<JS!C, POETRY AND> THEATER OF ASIA Friday. January 29 CLASSIC '-I. FLUTE :.\USIC OF SOUTHII'!DIA T C....Jr •dfdl'\l '\\r l•' ...... ·n··· A, .),,.. _,rot }\I o;.r -.3- • r Friday. February 12 FLUTE .'1USIC AND POETRY OF JA,P·\:• -1~\ ...., r •f J r,• dt \~I< • .. ' ' I ..,. '·.' tj~.'t~,, ')o-'!.,. \\' I• -' Friday. February 26 'l•\.-.1E...A\~ 0~CHESTR..; ~i'1L $Ho\Cr>l'l THEJ\TER OF J-\H ,, To mak<> rrservauons or to get specific menu lnformatJon. please call us at Dining Sen1ces - 370-6050 Pleas<' make resen·ations at least 24 hours In advance. RPsen·atJOiis for Suncfuy garnPs must be in by Friday. .... ,.. \>' '.Jnr'! .rdtJ!'; ~· i :'\J''~···· I '•' \..-jl oiO~ 'Tll.,o~ < if : 0 t• ,_' -rl. ·-·. Starting time 1s 1-1/2 hours before the start of the game Money Mil be collertrd. at Hale House UNION COLLEGE GEOLOGY DEPARTMENT SPECIAL SEMINAR SERIES NIKOLAI V. SOBOLEV D1recrm of lnst•tute of M1nera!ogy and Petrograohy Russ1an Academy ot Soences. S•benan Branch Novos1b1rsk. Russ1a and V•s•l•ng Professor of Geology Un•on College Geology Depanmenl SynthetiC Dtamonds and Gemstones. Jan z· • oo PM Burw•e•o '\'•' z:· A u n1que Diamond Occurrence 1n Metamorphic Rocks - Jan 27 4 00 ~M But1erf•e•d 1-13;1 2C • Gemstones of Russia - s,g~a X. ,eclure •co 4 4 30 PM Soc Sc• I 6 G1ant Meteor Craters- <eo,, •ooo-. Buo£1•e•dHrurzo• Ba1kal Lake A Umque Freshwater Reservoir- Feo zs •\\v Buner1-e•d 2C • Some Aspects of Sc1ence 1n S1bena · \'•' , • • 45 •M sc\e\ec1od·, .. o•ar, Geology of Russra. An Introduction- Mar • 3 oo \\' au•en•e•o '\''\ zo· All seminars a! Butlerlield Hall Will be preceded by refreshments prov1ded by the Geology Club i :I II :I :I ., ! ,, !I h 'I !I 'I ~ i ' - . '· ~. ~pcn5cred by Nembers of Ule Baha'i faJLh of 0chenectady and U!e CapliaJ Dislr-ic t. 1-<? Birthday Party for Dr. rv!artin Luther King,. Jr., celebrating Unity in Diversity Fr~CJ.y, ._:!.r.1.12!ry ~ C, ·~€5·3 F;cr:: g; :.o ·:c 4 ~:f)) ;:~.m. * * =!: Sc::ar.erc~cy \'W'C)I ,. * fA 'N:.3Si~~r.<£;tcn Ave:r.1.1a * iu; ·~:-:a ~~cc!t:.ce AI\ <'la * \' * \ * * • * Ill * .* * *\ * ¢-J ------,-- .. ___ _ PRESENliED AND SPONSORED BY DEPAR'TMENT OF VISUAL ARTS UNION COLLEGE IF YOU DO NOT WISH 1'0 BE ON THE MEALPLAN YOU ARE CURRENTLY EN- ROLLED IN, FOR SPRING TERM, PLEASE FILL OUT A NEW CONTRAcr CHANGING OR DROPPING YOUR PRESENT MEAL PLAN BY JANUARY 18 TO AVOID INAPPROPRJ- ATE SFRING TERM BILLING_ THIS MAY BE DONE AT'THE CHECKER'S DESK IN EITHER WEST DINING OR UPPERCLASS DINING, OR IN THE DINING SERVICES OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER ROOM202. The Adirondack Mountain Club (AbKl Is now accepting applications . tor summer emp lo ym ent. The dead! ine is Fe'br1.1ary 1 Stll. ADK is a lien-prof it organizati<>n of over 18,000 members dedicated to the preservation and enjoyment of New YorK.'s wildlands. This year the club w111 hire forty seasonal employees to maintain trai·ls, provide backcountry information and operate two mountain lodges In the Adirondack. High Peals. part of the largest \VII derness m the East. All of these positions require a strong outdoor or·ientation and good pul>lic service skills. The demanding yet satisfying nature of the work typically attracts outgoing, highly motivated individu'!ls. Benefits include room and board, a modest salary, and a gn~at setting 1n wh1ch to spend the summer. Most positions begin early June and end on labor Day. Trai I crew :~tarts and end:~ ea~rller . To apply, se!lld a self addressed stampe-~ envelope to: ADIRONDACK MOUIIIIAIN CLUB Box 867, .Applic:ations Lake Placid, NY 1 2946 HERE'S TO U A Confidential Group Who DiAcuss and Inform Each Other About P.Qcohal TUESDAY.,. JANUARY COLLEGE CENTER 8:00 PM Who Should Come? People who: 12, 1993 409 Want to lea.rn more about alcohol and how it affects them Are concer::lred about how much the:t :::l.rirlk Feel they n-eed to d.rirlk to have a good t.i..rre, are •.1orried about a frlend or relat~ve Feel the:.r romantic lives require t.hem to drink to lower their .i:nh:J:i:::o:1s \Fit in\ o~ly when they drink Are in rec~·..;er:r· Would like ~o ~eet others whc liKe to =ocia:~ze wit.hct.:t a~::Jnc:!. Nhat Can You Expect.? Frie:<dly, ncn- jud::;:nental people ~~ho have more quescions than answers; su~rc:ve, though~~Jl conversation; ancf, }':erhaps, some snacks l ( v Tt cc II Rc 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 l 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 .J ~ 4 4 4 PE vi (f te sc RA ev co Ba fo

Conco·rdiensis Polo Has a Successful Season by Lee Schachter . Conc()rdiensis Staff tf you IOCall, the water polo team had.a fine season this past fall with many excellent all around perfollllances by several of the players. The team's total work ethic~ .instilled by coach Mark Walsh, combined with the team's heart and desire to make for a very successful season. Over lhe course of the season, the team was able to come togetller and learn each other's .strengths and weaknesses and what to expect from each Gther- to \mesh\. Part of this was developing the many rookies, but the most important part was learning to play together effectively. Mter all was said and done, Union ended the regular season.at 5-1- 1, tied with Cornell for second in the Northern Division of the Mid-Atlantic Conference behind Hartwick. The fine season propelled Union into the Mid-Atlantic Conference Championships, where Union had to play Georgetown University in the fHst round, and lost. Th.e team went on to lose to Colgate but then beat Kutztown State to finish the tournament with their heads held high in sixth place. · That's a lot to show for one season. But Union Water Polo wasn't done yet. Just recently, league awards came out, and three Union })layers made it to All-Conference teams. Sophomore Scott Bowden was placed on the All- Conference First Team, while senior Sven Zabka and freshman Dave Lunianslci each made it to the All-Conference Second Team .. Those aJ:e som.e great achievements! And for the icing on the cake, Coach Mark Walsh was named: Coach of the Year for .the Mid- Atlantic Conference. It was definitely well-deserved, and it was a credit to both the coach and to the team. So thanlcs and congratulations to coach Mark Walsh, and congratulati()ns to the other award recipie11ts as well as to the entire team on a great season. Continued good luck during the swim season! Sports I aseball•s player payrolls Elllajor League Baseball management often blames free agency and salary arbitration for s~>aring player salaries, but competition b~tween teams seeking to hire the best players also increases salary levels. 1!1!11 income and plarer <payrell· estimates Te;ams ranked in order of annual income· '· l!1diusll\)' estimates in millions of dollars: ' · ToiJ fhre Income Player Player payroll In 'Payroll . percent of Income 1. tl. Y. Yankees 2. ~.Y. Mets $91.44 \ 91.41 78.72 77.99 69.70 $32.0 35.0% 32.5 35.6 3. 10ronto '4. Los Angeles :5. 8osto11 ChlcagG .. .. 15. White Sox .' J. Cubs · ~ttom ,five 31.3 35.6 36.8 18.1 27.1 2:.!. San Francisco 48.05 33.2 · '., ·2a. · Milwaukee 42.89 24.5 24. Houston 42.15 12;5 · . · · :25, Cleveland 40.04 13.4 •. :28; Mt>ntreal 39.17 20.8 ., · SOl.t.ROE: ·Chicago Tribulie, baSeball ifldustry sourtas, Houlihan Lolta.:y Howard & ;i!:ukin, news rEports 39.8 45.6 52.8 28.5 43.9 69.1 57.1 29.7 33.5 53.1 January 14, 1993, Page 17 Tte draft Baseball hires new players through a draft system in which teams take turns choosing one player at a time: • About 50 rounds. 8 More than 1,000players. • Includes high schoGI and college . • New players move up through millOr·league system. •lhey also can hire free agents outside the draft. Fiee ,agency . ~ams that lose the SeNices of a player whose contract has expired . aft~r she ~asons an~ entitled to · compensation from the team that has hired the free agent. The best players are S!Jbject to bidding wars between teams. Arllitrati!JO. If a player whose contract has expired after three seasons can't come to an agr~ment with his team over salary, then an outside arbiter sets his salary forttle next season. Swimming and Diving Start Strong by the U.C. Swimming & Diving Staff building. and a variety in the overall swimming and diving program. On behalf of the Union for Ap .. · • 0: ·rt~· ;~~~~l:~:i~e~:::~~: ;J!Q} · back for a new exciting seasoii of sports at Union. This ------------------------------------1, article is the flfSt of a series of Write In mid October, our athletes enter the second and most intensive phase of training. This phase involves the water workouts, which include a combination of stroke work, The College Hockey Computer Rating compiled by Keith Instone articles we have written to Includes games on 1/10/93. Last week's ranking includes games on 1/3/93. introduce the college community to the exhilirating sport of swimming and diving. Our hope is that once yo11 become familiar with the dynamics of the sport, you will be more likely to attend a swim meet and enjoy watching our athletes compete. overdistance training~ speed work, and specialty training. A major emphasis of this phase is placed on proper stroke technique. To accomplish this, our athletes spend many hours in the classroom learning about stroke mechanics and in the pool being videotaped underwater. Last Rank Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 1 3 5 2 6 7 8 10 9 4 13 12 19 14 11 18 15 20 26 22 17 21 16 25 23 27 31 35 34 24 28 36 29 30 33 37 38 39 32 40 42 41 43 Team Maine B.arvard Boston University Michigan Miami bake Superior Western Michigan Yale Minnesota-Duluth Alaska-Fairbanks Ferris State Michigan State Wisconsin St Lawrence R.Pl tJMass-Lowell Providence new Hampshire St Cloud Minnesota northeastern Brown Bowling Green J)enver !Cent elarkson Michigan Tech B;oston College J)artmouth Merrimack A.laska-Anchorage ~orthern Michigan Princeton Vermont N:orth Dakota C\ornell Illinois-Chicago N\otre Dame Ohio State U\nion Co:Lga.te Colorado College A.ir Force Division I Record 19 0 1 12 1 1 11 4 2 13 4 2 13 6 3 10 5 4 11 7 1 8 4 2 14 5 1 7 6 0 8 7 3 9 7 1 12 7 1 9 5 2 7 5 3 12 8 ·0 9 9 2 10 7 2 10 7 1 9 6 5 7 9 1 5 7 2 10 13 0 9 9 1 6 9 3 6 7 3 9 11 2 4 9 4 5 7 0 5 10 2 5 7 1 8 11 3 4 8 1 5 9 2 8 13 1 3 7 1 5 12 1 5 13 1 4 13 1 2 8 0 1 9 2 4 15 0 1 8 1 Perf.ormance 95.00 78.57 41.18 47_37 31.82 26.32 21.05 28.5-7 45.00 7.69 5.56 11.76 25.00 25.00 13.33 20.00 0.00 15.79 16.67 15.00 -11.76 -14.29 -13.04 0.00 -16.67 -6.25 -9.09 -29.41 -16.67 -29.41 -15.38 -13.64 -30.77 -25.00 -22.73 -36.36 -3a.a9 -42.11 -50.00 60,00 66.67 -57.89 -70.00 1 2 5 3 6 B 11 7 4 18 19 17 9 9 16 12 20 14 13 15 24 27 25 20 29 22 23 33 29 33 26 26 35 32 31 36 37 38 39 41 42 40 43 Schedule 10_29 -ll..29 12.30 5_22 12.24 8.59 ·B-23 0.34 -16.38 19_.80 13.96 7.10 -7.08 -9_35 2. ()2 -10. 14 8.84 -9.19 -12.44 -13.()3 8.B8 11.30 'i. B -10 .. B2 5.24 -6.96 -7.54 9.05 -3.72 B. 16 -6.28 -8.52 ?'.83 -1.76 -lCl .. 30 -2.15 -Gl. 11 01.21 1.60 45.39 5.00 -~. 11 -101.08 6 40 3 17 4 10 11 22 43 1 2 15 29 35 21 37 9 34 41 42 8 5 14 39 16 28 30 7 26 12 27 32 13 31 38 25 24 23 20 19 18 33 36 Rating 105.29 67.28 53.48 52.58 44.06 34.91 29.28 28.91 28.62 27.49 19.52 18.86 17.92 15.65 15.35 9.86 8.84 6.60 4.23 1.97 -2.88 -2.99 -5.61 -10.82 -11.43 -13.21 -16.63 -20.36 -20.39 -21.25 -21.66 -22.16 -22.94 -32.76 -33.03 -38.51 -39.00 -41.90 -46.40 -55.61 -61.66 I -67.01 -80.08 PERFORMANCE is based on won-lost record only; g-ame sites and. margin of victory are not considered, for example. Performance ranges: from. +100 (for an undefeated and untied team) to -100 (fGr a winless and untied team), with a . 500 winning percentage getting a zero perfonn.ance. SCHEDULE is the averag.e rating of a team's oppGnents. RATING is the sum of performance and schedule and represents an evaluation of how each team has done so far with respect to the rest of college hoc]cey. Based on 369 .Division I games. Only games between the 43 teams ,eligible for the Division I tournament are considered. . . If you have ever stopped by 1 the Alumni Gym during our :practices, it is likely you may have seen brave young athletes doing incredible acrobatics off the one or three meter boards or swimming strokes you may not even have a name for. These Union athletes did not reach this stage of the game overnight. Their performances are a culmination of many long hours spent training in and out of the water. j The swim season begins : right in September for our athletes with an intensive d.ryland training program. The emphasis of this phase is achieved using free weights with the focus on building speed and power. Dryland ' training also includes a specialty circuit, which . involves biokinetic equipment, surgical tubing, and 1 comprehensive flexibility routines. On top of this, many i of our athletes play waterpolo ! in the fall and spring, which further helps to provide · c:u:diovascular and strength conditioning. Several purposes During the month of December, the team travels south for 10 days in order to train in an outdoor, Olympic- sized facility. This year the team went to Fort Lauderdale to train in the International Swimming Hall of Fame pool, alongside Olympic diver Mary Ellen Clark. Although swimming over 90,000 yards, the athletes still managed to have some fun basking in the sun: playing beach volleyball, and body surfing. Each year the winter training trip culminates with a competitive meet and provides a great boost to both the athletes physical conditioning and to the team unity. This wraps up our first article on Union College swimming and diving. We hope this article has been informational to you and may even intrigue you to come watch our athletes compete in their upcoming meet against Hartwick this Saturday, January 16th, 1993 at 2 P.M! .., . I I I l t l I t j I I I I

<!rnltlllrbirttsis Skating Dutchmen Defeat Prince·ton by Dagan La Corte Assoc. Sports Editor This past weekend the skating Dutchmen of Union faced off against division rivals Yale and Princeton. Entering these home match-ups, Union's record was 1-5-0 in division games and a 1-8-0 mark overall; with the sole victory coming against E.C.A.C. nemesis Vermont. The first game was Friday versus Yale. guys worked hard II. Delventhal was especially satisfied with the penalty killing of the Dutchmen, who allowed on1y one goal on six opportunities against Yale's power play, which is ranked number one in the E.C.A.C January 14, 1993, Exactly one minute into the first period, center Jeff Jiampetti beat Yale goalie Todd Sullivan just inside the post to give Union a 1-0 lead. After killing off a roughing penalty to Dutchman Shane Holunga, Yale received to penalty calls within 46 seconds of each other. With the two man advantage, Union's power play went to work. Four seconds after the first penalty expired, freshmen defensemen Reid Simonton let loose a· blistering slapshot, which beat the Yale goalie, and gave Union a 2-0 lead. Assists on the play went to Shane Holunga and winger Chris Albert. The Dutchmen were able to build on the positives nf Friday night, and act on them Saturday against Princeton. Union struck the scoreboard first Saturday. With just over seven minutes remaining in the first period winger Keith Darl>y passed the puck to Brad Kukko, who put it past Princeton's goalie and gave Union a 1-0 lead. Corey Tbe men's novice eight celebrates victory with the tr-aditional co'Xswain toss. Union's Novice Crew Team Final Race Holbrough also assisted on the goal Union held the lead untif late in the second period, when Princeton center Ian Sharp put the puck past Dutchmen goalie Luigi Villa to tie the score. Union refused to let this game slip through their fingers. Dotninates Unfortunately for Union the lead didn't last long, and with 30 seconds remaining in the first period, Yale rallied back, and cut Union's lead to one goal. Yale carried the momemm'l into the second period, and with five minutes remaining, they tied the game on a goal by Steve Lombardi. Yale continued to pressure the Dutchmen defense. and with less than one minute remaining in the period took the lead 3-2 on a goal by Mark Kaufman. The Dutchmen were unable to rebound from the one goal deficit in the l.hird period. Yale added another goal in the third period to make the final :;core 4-2. Despite the final score the team played well against Yale, wbose record enrering Friday's game was 5- 1-2 within the E.C.A.C. Coach Bruce Deiventhal had this to say concerning Friday night 1 S · performance, II I was pleased with the effort, I thought the Just 51 seconds into the third period defensemen Dean Goulet fired a shot from the point; freshmen winger Chris Sears (playing in only his second game since returning from a broken wrist suffered against Harvard) then took the rebound and put it past Princeton goalie Craig Fiander for a 2-l lead. For the rest of the period the Dutchmen controlled the game. The Dutchmen's hard work continued to pay off. Freshman winger Chris Hancock dug into the offensive end and was able to beat the Princeton defensemen and dish the puck off to Corey Holbrough. Holbrough then slid a perfect pass to Brad Kukko, who shot it passed the Yale goalie for his second goal of the game. Union played excellent defense for the remainder of the game. After killing off a late penalty, the Dutchmen celebrated their second victory of the season. Coach Bruce Delventhal summed up the performance when he said, \ We felt good about our work ethic .•. we were able to score more goals and maintain a lead\. Union faces off this weekend in a homestand against Harvard and Dartmouth. By Steve Mooar Concordiensis Staff The Union College Crew Team concluded ilts Fall head. race season with races in Saratoga and on the Mowhawk. The entire Crew Team took part in the Head of tile Fish Regatta ]n Saratoga SJ)rings. The following weekend the novice team dominated the Capital District Novice Regatta. While the novice team was Q!n the water. the varsity rowers conducted a 4K road race around the college grounds. On October 3ht, the Crew Team ventured up to Saratoga for the Head of the Fish Regatta. Union went with nine boats consisting of nearly fifty rowers. This years field was expanded by the addition of many schools participating in the regatta for the first time .. First time crews. included Hobart, Syracuse, and Williams to add to regular participants such as Colgate, Fordham, Hamiltoa, Skidmore, and The University of Vermont. Union placed fellr boats in the open eight races. The best firlish was turned in by the novice men's eiJlhJ. They finished third out of fifteen· boats falling sh()rt of onlv · 'Middlebury and Williams. The novice women's el,ght also did well finishing sixth in a strong field. The varsit)' men's and varsity women's s:hells were Aup·port ?ittlll~ on· the other two Un]on eights. \;;2J \lll Their races consisted of eighteen boats, with the ~portn women finishing a respectable ;;21 . ]J eighth and the men finishing -------~~-~.:-.-.~.;:.;;:..;~-.:..:...-.::;·•:....· ...:;;·-;;...;· -;;...;·.;.:;'\·.:;...· .::..· ..:..:.··..::~· .... -ninth. · · · Union also put four fours and a double on the water. The best fmish for the fours was br the women's varsity open fow. They finished third out of fifteen boats. The other fours included the women's varsity lightweights, women's novice, and men's novice.. Ther stunningly dressed men 1 S double consisting of Matt \Samsonite 11 Green and Pete \Touristor\ Schwab rowed a very strong race finishing second in a highly competitive field. On Sunday, November 8tll .. the Third Annual Capital District Novice Regatta was sponsored by the Unio11 College Rowing Association. Tbe participants included crews from Union, SUNY Albany, R.P .I., and our neig~bors to the north, Skidmore. Otht-.c than a few snow flunies the races went off without a hitch. The crews competed in three different events; men's eight, wome11's eight, and men 1 s four. Union had an outstanding day, winning all three races. 'rhe most impressive being a thirty second victory by the novice women. Tbhl was the fnst time U nio11 has swept an the races in a regatta. However, Sunday ,was not over fQr the Crew Team. They sponsored a 4IC road race aroun,d the college grounds. Although race turnout was dampened by the cold weather, two dozen spirite<l souls challenged the race course. Racers collected gift certificates from Geppet0 1 S, finisiled fourth, seventh. and seventh respectively. The Garcia's, Carmella's, The Treasure Ho11se~ and Visage. This concluded the 1992 Fall Crew Season. However, 1993 is a new year for Union Rowers. They must now prepa1e for a very competitive Sprin8 racing season. If you are interested in joining the winning tradition of Union Crew there ·will be an infoTmation meeting TONIGHT (Thursday, January 14th) at 7:30 in the College Center Auditorium. We thank all those who have come out to support us and hope to see you during the Spring racing season. S'ENIORS! The Senior Class Gift Drive or the \Get President Hull Challenge\ Kicks Off Tomorrow Friday, Jan. 15t11 If there is 100% partidpation by the senior class, President Hull will match funds, dollar for dollar, · out Of his own pocket.

Founded at Union College 1877 - -- -- --------- --~-- -- Volume 122, Number 10 Schenectady, NY January 21, 1993 TOWN MEETING FOCUSES ON BUDGET PLANS Bernstein, Author, to Speak at Union FOR'l'HE ' OM I ' Matt Karlyn Contrib!Jting Writer President Hull held a meeting Monday to discuss plans for the new budget. The meeting was open to the entire college commu11ity. President Hull made it cleu that we \have to be aware that this is a difficult time (fiscally} for colleges and will be throughout the decade.\ In discussing plans for tile future, Hull firmly stated \This institution will not lay off anyone for financial reasons~\ He said, however, that he would like to put a 6 month freeze on hiring to see if consolidation can occur. Hull said that he would like to see this implemented unless it is unreasonable in a given situation. He further stated that as positions open, or as there is need to fill positions, the college will try to shift people from one area to another. The President said that be wanted to avoid the type of layoffs that occurred at Rensselaer and Skidmore. Hull also said that despite economic hardslrip, .the college will continue to meet the financial needs of all Union students. The President stated that colleges across the country are backing <lff of student financial support because they can't afford to meet the fmll needs of their students. He believes that backing off fr<Jm meeting student needs would be a mistake. In discussing plans for the budget, the President mentioned various options tlkat the college has. He did make it clear that \no decisions have been made.\ The President said that he did oat want to raise student fees any more than is necessary. He stated that increasing tuition by more than six percent a year wo11ld ·be unreasonable. Hull also discussed budget possibilities that could affect Health Services and the Graduate alld Continuing Studies program. Another idea was charging all students $200.00 per term for a. meal card. This would be similar to the credit systems used at some schools. With this meal card, students wollld be able to spend $200.00 at any campus eating facility. Adam Perlow, '94, said that if this is implemented the \President is dictating where students can aiid cannot spend. their money on food, particularly when the food establishments on this campus are not that great\ The President responded by saying that not only does he believe the food here is good, \[This policy] is the most equitable way of dealing with things.\ He said that at Middiebury all the students pay the same price, regardless of where they live or what year they are at college. He stated that this approach is \based on equity and fairness.\ The school is also considering a policy that will not allow students to pay for their tuition on credit cards. The President told the community allowing credit card payments costs the college some $75.000. The President also addressed the terms abroad policy. He stated that the number of students who go on non-Union terms has decreased and will continue to decrease next year. He said that next year there will be 15 open spots for students who want to go on a term abroad through other schools. He said that this will end up saving the college $325,000. Adam Perlow, who recently returned from London on a Boston University term, took issue with this. He stated continued on pg •. 3 'If? . \bm \\'\\~ <,#\ Union Rebuilds for Bicentennial by Craig Greenberg Concordie_~sis Staff With the college's Bicentennial year celebration rapidly approaching, the Administration is moving ahead with plans to build the new Yulman theater and repair both the Nott memorial and the library. The priority project is the theater, whose construction will begin this spring. The college is within $500,000 of having the total $4 ;6 million needed for the construction. Architects have already designed plans for the theater's placement at the edge of Jackson's Gardens and North College. Its main room will be a director's lab (45-50 feet high at its peak) containing a stage level, a gallery aroung three sides, a catwalk, and a tension· wire grid. Seating will accommodate 80-240 people. A second studio/teaching room could be used for performances. The theater's lobby, situated between the two rooms, also could be used for teaching and JJelformances. In addition, there will be classroom, office, ~d support (set construction) sp~ce. The building will have about 20,000 square feet, gross. The second priority is the Nott Memorial, which requires a sum of $10 million to renovate. C~urently, $6 million is accounted for. . Between July and December the school collected $107,000. In the mean time, architepts are working on plans for the restoration, including flexible seating which could accommodate 400 people. Also of interest, are plans to restore a tile floor which is currently under the theatrical materials and flooring. The top level of the Nott will be made into a .balcony where art work may be displayed. In placing the Nott Memorial as second priority among the three construction projects, the Administration showed that its commitment to providing an adequate location for theatrical perfollilances was its first concern. by Veronica Rogers Associate News Editor Oo Monday January 25 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Union will host the author and journalist Carl Bernstein, who will offer the audience a look at journalism today. His program called \The American Press and the Slow Death of Truth: Media Madness In the Age of Oprah, Geraldo, Desert .Storm and The Star,\ will be a compilation of his perceptions and experiences as a jownalist. the Watergate scandal in 1972. Bernstein and Bob Woodward wrote the book All the President's Men. which became a best seller and the basis of a movie on the Watergate incident. The library reconstruction, which is the costliest project, will require $14-15 million in funds. Between July and December $73-74,000 were collected without any serious fund raising efforts. The entire rear portion of the library, cont. on pg. l · Bernstein began his career early in journalism as a copy ooy. Eventually ile was hired by the Washington Post. He is most famous for his Bernstein's most recent activities have been as a correspondent for Time Magazine during the Gulf War. Before the war he worked as the Washington Bureau Chief for ABC news and also developed · investigative reports for ABC news shows including 20/20 and Nightline. All are encouraged to come hear Mr. Bernstein give some insight into the progression of the media and journalism throughout the years. I I IN THIS ISSUE: larger amount of information to be 1 NEWS ... National and International News Briefs feature the highlights of recent events from Somalia to Bay Shore, NY. See page 2. NEWS - New social events are springing up campus-wide. With the free video store, to Fero House, to everything the Chet's Committee has planned, the number of alternatives is beginning to make a difference. See page 3. ANALYSIS - What does the changing of the guard in Washington mean for the nation? As the new government takes office, find out what's in store for its dtizens. See page 4. BUSINESS - 150 years after Samuel Morse stunned the world by sending the first telegraph message, the telecommunications world is bracing itself for another breakthrough. A TM machines, onc!e~ implemented, will allow a much ·transmitted via ordinary telephone W:JreS. See page 5. ARTS- The American Music Awards are coming January 25. Carrie Sherman features many nominees in her article profiling the A wards. See page 6. ARTS- Thomas Noz kowski offers Food For Centaurs in his upcoming visit to Union. His lecture and slide show will be January 28 at three-thirty. See page 7. LETTERS - A potpourri of opinions on last week's women's rush article have added new dimensions to the argument dealing with its validity. See page 9. FEATURES - A profile in courage features Terry Rathwell's story since July 26, 1988 as he prepares to graduate this June. Seepage10 . SPORTS - The skating Dutchmen almost kept pace with Harvard, but couldn't quite surmount their impressive starting lead. The game ended with Union losing 3-2. See page 16.

January 21, 1993, page 2 INTERNATIONAL NE\\'S \VKEK compiled by Veronita Rogers Associate News Editor Iraq- In a continued cat and mouse game Iraq agreed to let U.N. inspectors enter only if the United States would keep it's planes out of the \no fly zone.\ The United Nations did not agree to this request. Designated targets have been hit to prove to Iraq that the U.S and the U.N. will not back down. Hussein stated that in observance of the recent presidential inauguration there will be a cease-fire. No reports on how long it will last. Afghanistan- The splitting of the country into three territories is almost complete. The three regions are split ethnically. To the north in Mazar-I-Sharif a large population of Afghan militia reside. South and east Afghanistan contain half the country's population, the mOie politically dominant Pathans. This region includes the capital of Kabul. In the west live Afghans who are ethnically close to Iranians and are open to Iranian influence. Somalia- In an exchange of gunfire with American troops six Somalis <lied. Recently, the U.S. has been discouraged with revelations of the rising cost of keeping troops in Somalia. When the previously thought withdrawal deadline after six weeks was passed, the cost of military support went up and is now estimated to be up to $583 million. Bosnia- After a ten month siege Serbian forces stated that they would like the fighting to end. The Serbian nationalists now occupy two-thirds of Bosnia and Herzegovina. An estimate of Muslim losses is up to 150,000 dead or missing since the fighting began. Estonia- A tanker stuck on rocks in the Gulf of Finland h~s been leaking thousands of gallons of oil Recent high winds have hindered attempts to get out and remove the tanker. Estonian officials. fear that the rough water might cause the tanker to completely break apart and spill more oil. Moscow- Russia has admitted they are a bit nervous about the renewed attacks on their fonner ally Iraq. The Foreign Ministry stated that they felt the U.N. needed to take action against Iraq, but would not fully support such actions because of former ties to the country. They agree with support of International Law for the security of the east and all international bodies. SECURITY REPORT DATE LOCATION: INCIDENT: New.s NATIONAL NE\VS GRIEF compiled by Chris Ringwald Concordiensis Staff Washington, D.C. - led coalitioll forces have recently renewed their bombill.g raids against Iraq as Baghdad continues to challen~e the U.N. resolutions of a no-fly zone tn northern and southern Iraq. Through Monday, there were three air strikes in six days. On Monday, Allied warplanes hit missile and communications. There were also re:pc>rts that an Iraqi MiG-25 was downed. The J>entagon also admitted Monday ~hat a Tomahawk cruise missile that was aimed for a nuclear parts plant crashed Sunday into the Rashid Hotel in Baghdad. Baghdad declared on Tuesday that the death toll was at 24. Russian officials Monday warned the U.S. against future attacks without U.N. authority. Gary, Ind. m Seven people were killed and 69 were injured when two commuter trains beading in opposite directions sideswiped each other near a single-lane bridge Monday. Among the dead was a 10-year-old boy. Authorities have not identified the others, some of wh()m were decapitated. It is not certain how the accident occurred. Los Angeles, Ca. - A series of disastrous storms pounded southern California for the past 14 days, dumping 11 inches of rain and leaving 35 people missing or dead. The most recent storm struck Saturday. spawning tornadoes and floods. Floods have already damaged over 850 houses. Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley declared a state of emergency in the city. Bay Shore, N. ¥. - On Monday, police uncovered the soundproof chamber containing a coffin-like box that imprisoned W-year-old Katie Beers for two horrifying weeks. Beers was discovered unharmed last week. The chamber was located seven feet beneath the carport at the home of John Esposito, 43, who is charged with kidnapping her. Authorities say that he enslaved her because she resisted his . sexual advances. Beers was confined t<> a box 7 feet long, 2 feet wide, and 3 feet high. Denver, Co.- On Monday. Arizona and New Hampshire became the the last states to observe the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. Martin Lllther King's birthday has been a federal holiday for 8 years. In Denver, clashes broke out after a Ku Klux Klan rally protesting the observance of the holiday. ~ree pee>ple were injured. 1111!93 Becker circle Ill ega I parking-towed GIVE TO THE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE vehicles 1/11193 Davidson Safety hazard-elec. short 1/12193 Pres. House Suspicious vehicle peri miter visitor OWI-SPD reponded 1/12!93 Delta Gamma Noise complaint 1/12/93 Edwards House Vandalism-door <llnnrorll ttn.sis Russian Geology Expert to Give Lectures by Matt Karly11 Contributing Writer This year the Geelogy Department welcomes Nikolai V. Sobolev as a 'Visiting professor. Professor Sobolev Wa£ born in Leningrad, USSR in 1935 and now resides in Novosibirsk (Siberia), Russia. He is the director of Mineralogy and Petrography at the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of the Sciences. Sobolev became involved with Geelogy when he was very young. His father was a Professor of Geology and in 1974 became the President of the International Mineralogical Association, of which Professor Sobolev is now the Vice-President. Professor Sobolev was also a student of his fathers. Sobolev has traveled extensively around the United States visiting various states and attending a multitude of confeiences and conventions. When asked what one of the most exciting things be has ever done in the United States was, Sobolev mentioned his second trip to this colin try, more than twenty years ago, when he took a rubber raft down the San Juan River, a tributary of the Colorado River. He said that tllis was very \unusual.\ Throughout his career, Sobolev has won many awards for his work. These have included the Lenin Prize, in 1976 for his treatise on metamorphic facies a11d the USSR State Prize, in 1991, for the development of methods of diamond deposits prospecting. In 1981 he became a corresponding member of the USSR Academy of Sciences and in 1990 a full member of the academy (now the Russian Academy of Sciences). Most recently h.e stopped of in Germany to be awarded the Werner Medal from the German Mineralogical Society. Aside from being the Vice- President of the International Mineralogical Association, ·SObolev is also the Vice- President of the Mineralogical Society of the Soviet Union (now Russian Mineralogical Society), and wasO:>·chairman in 1989 of the 28th International Geological Congress in Washington D.C. He was also involved with both the 27th and the 29th International Geological Conferences in Moscow and Kyoto, Japan respectively. Throughout his long career, Professor Sobolev has published a wide variety of books and articles. This illcludes articles published in the Journal of Petrology and Soviet Geology and Geophysics. George Shaw, head of the Geology Department, invited Solev to Union. Sobolev said that after thinking about the offer he decided to accept because \ .. .it is important in our conditions to develo.p wider .scientific contacts between American and Russian scientists.\ He said that it we must start contact in scientific ways. On February 4, 1993, Sobolev will be· addressing the Union College community as part of the Geology Department Special Seminar Series. The topic of his presentation will be Gemstones in Russia. The focus of the lecture will be on unique gemstones of historical and present day Russia. He stated that Russia has very unique deposits of diamonds which were discovered in 1954, 15 years after his father made the scientific prediction that the diamonds were there. Russia, he said, also has unique deposits of emeralds and other gemstones which can be found in the Ural Mountains. Sponsored by the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, the lecture will be held in the Social Sciences Building, room 016 at 4:30pm. Refreshments will be served at 4:15pm and all Union College students, faculty, and administrators are encouraged to attend. :1113(93 Whieple Bridge M.V. accident-no injury BICENTENNIAL CONSTRUCTION PLANS 1/13193 Oayidson Hollse Alleged possession of pistol 1113193 Fox House Harassment of student by another student :111 4 r 9 3 Davidson House Violation of Residence Life Policies-possession of l.LlAf 9 3 Nott field 1/15/93 College Center l/15193 Davidson House 1115193 Off Campus 1/16/93 Whipple Bridge 1/16/.gJ Fox lot j{16/93 Greenhouse 1116/93 I Richmond Road 1 11 7/9 3 Fox House 1/17/93 Hickok lot 1111/93 Webster ------- pellet gun Unattended dog Snow/Ice hazard Possible ab~se il!e'gat · substance M.y. accident-Escort van- no injuries Student harassment Vandal.ism-student vehicle Unauthorized entry-conduct charges fjled Student barassment-conduct charges fj led Possible abuse of illegal substance Student harassment Stolen propertv recovered eonduct charges filed cont. from pg.1 - •. j. • - ~ ~,_~ s·. , 0 ;.:-~,;· , l ; • I including portions ef the basement, must be demolished and rebuilt with additional room extending toward Alumni gym. The renovation is necessary because of sllUctural problems due to the unexpected increase in weight from additional book storage. ·~ '- Fund, $87 million fo~ ~he Although an exact sclledule endowment, and $38 mllhoo of progress is hard to predict, for construction projects. As the college hopes to have raised each project is completed, the a total of abollt $1 SO million focus of fund raising will shift by sometime in 1995. This to the next prioritized sum would be comp<>sed of construction undertaking. $25 million for the Annual

News January 21, 1993, page 3 Union Takes Steps to Provide Social Alternatives Student Forum Spotlight iby Alexander E. Sldavos Student Forum President by Alexandra Kreisler Concordiensis Staff Union College has added a little variation to it's social scene with a number of social alternatives offered in the upcuming weeks. will soon be arriving at Chet' s. Students can bring in their own tapes and CDs. Bands, such as Walk the Dog and The Crow Hill Band, will also be new additions to Chet's entertainment schedule. Finally, everyone is invited to take out their dancing shoes for \A Winter Affair\ on Saturday, February 20 from 9:00pm-1:00am .at the Ramada Inn. Union offers its first formal dance, featuring a DJ, free soft drinks, and a cash bar to those who are of legal drinking age. Union has arranged for transporatation with buses, which will be available to ferry people back and forth from campus to the Ramada. Tickets will be $7 per couple and $5 per individual and will go on sale from February 1- 5. Tickets are limited to 400 people only, so don't wait until the last minute to make your formal plans. Here is a perfect opportunity to take your \Studs\ date out for a night on the town. Highlights: The Academic Affairs Committee (A.A.C.) addresses honesty ~t Union. President Hull presents the new budget. Chet's recei,ves new equipment. An all campus ball on February 20. The A.A. C. had t.1Jeir first meeting of the winter term this past week. One major topic that came up was what to do about honesty at Union. Besides cheating on exams, the \recycling\ of papers from year tt> year greatly concerns the A.A.C. Is an Honor Code the S():lution? The committee would like to sec a Crosstalk on the s11bject. The topic will be presented to the Cross talk committee soon. The A.A.C. also discussed Rush and pledging and how they affect students. Many professors arc concerned about how these events affect their students and their classrooms. Specifically, professors don't like to sec these eveRts disturb their class. Both topics will be further discussed. F<Jr movie buffs, Union has purchased $1 ,500 worth of video tapes, and has opened its first venue at the information booth in the College Center. The Union College Video Store offers new releases such as \Thelma and Louise\ as well as classics like \Grease 2,\ free of charge. All videos must be returned by 7:00 the foll<Jwing evening or the $3 (per day) late fee for every day the video is overdue will go into effect. Union Budget Possibilities On Monday Janllary 1& President Hull addressed the campus community, and .presented the agenda for next year. First on the long list is a balanced budget. President Hull feels that a quick fix of borrowing money to cover any debts will only hurt· the college in the long run. There are four new policies that will affect students. These policies are not definite. 1) A six percent increase in tuition Jtnd fees. 2) Financial aid packages will be reviewed to make Sllre tllat the people who really need the money are getting it. 3} The number of non-Union terms abroad will be limited to fifteen ~with possible exceptions). This year the number was in the twenties. Eventually President Hull would like to see all terms abroad programs go through Union. 4) A Vali-dine card will he issued to each student. This is aiJ account that a student will J)ut money into ahead of time and usc to purchase food at all dining halls on campus. The specifics of the V ali-dine system are not definite as of yet. U Ilion also announces the opening of Fero House (old Beta House, located across from Jepetto's) on February 1. The first floor will entertain students with cabarets and coffee houses, while the second floor will house student offices. Offices will accomadate student organizations involved with volunteer work for the community, including We Care Abollt U Schenectady and Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Schenectady. The Chet's Committee has also arranged an array of social events for gregarious Union students. For all Freshman, a class party is in the works to take place in the beginning of February. cont. from pg. 1 Chet's has undergone a few changes. Lights are up, a dartboard is in, there's a new soda fountain, mixed drinks are available, and a stereo is coming this week. In case you haven't noticed there is now a division up during business hours that really helps the atmosphere. Chet 1 s would also like to see more student performances. If )IOu're interested ,get in touch with the Chet's committee through tile Student Activities Office (C.C. 408). On February 20, there will be an all campus ball held at the Ramada. This is for all students, Frosch through Senior, greek and non-greek. Tllerc will be a D.J., cash bar, and hors d'oeuvres. Buses v.rill deliver you to and from tlle event This will be the one time a year that we can all get together at one event. See you there! Mountebanks brings weekly performances to the stage. featuring cabarets, and Comedy Improv nights. Not to mention, their rendition of the groovy hit television show \Studs\ to spice up the dating scene on Union College campus. The first round of contestants will share dating stories on Febraury 13. Interview will also humor us witll a Comedy Improv night on January 30. Roger Hull explaining how the Union College budget may change in the future. Notes: The Next Student Forum meeting will be on Monday January 25 at 4 o~clock in room 409 of the College Center. President Hull will be in attendance. Planning and Priorities Committee has a vacant seat. A junior is needed. Everyone can unwind after a long week of classes at Chet's Hap]Jy Hour every Friday at 4:00 pm, where there will be free food until it runs out. New furniture and stereo equipment that if Union proceeds with this policy than they should create more terms abroad tllat include internships. Hull said that this was true and the college is developing more terms abroad. Recently Brazil and Korea terms have been created and the school is hoping a Hungary term will soon be ready. President Hull sai<l., \We do not have a crisis at Uilion. The reasons we are addressing these things now is so we do not have a crisis.\ He further Capital punishment in the U.S. Sime the U.S. Supreme Court reir 3tated the death penalty in 1976 there have been 182 executions in t.he United States but more tha~ 2,500 inmates await their fate on d~·ath row across the country. C~pital. punishment laws 36 states have capital punishment · laws . Those that do not are: B Alaska M Minnesota B Hawaii • New York • Iowa • North Dakota • Kansas • Rhode Island • Maine • Vermont B Mass. • West Virginia • Michigan • Wisconsin 0 States with death penalty q, States without -Death row population . · Nationally, the population of death row is 2,636. Here are the top 1 0 death row populations by state, as of Nov. 5: State Papulation 1. Texas 363 2. California 341 3. Florida 319 4. Illinois 144 5. Pennsylvania 143 6. Oklahoma 120 7. Ohio 120 a. Alabama 114 9. Georgia 110 10. Tennessee 104 SOURCE: Chicago Tribune, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc. stated, \We want to avoid a crisis so there need not be any cuts of programs or people.\ No official decisions concerning the policies discussed have been made. Write For New·s Orientation •ga Positions Available for the Orientation Committee Applicati'ons at the Dean of Students Office [CC 309) or College C.enter Information. Booth

January 21, 1993, page 4 ANALYSIS Changing of the Guard by Jim Polites News Analysis Editor Just after noontime yesterday- when the official inauguration/swearing in ceremony of Bill Clinton took place- marked both the beginning and end of an era. For George Bush, it was the culmination of 12 years of service as Vice President and · President- I'm sure his . · emotions were bittersweet as I he passed on the torch to his : (comparably) young successor. : For all of the prestige and power that goes along with being Commander-in-Chief of the world's leader in almost everything imaginable, there must be a sense of relief as well. No more will Mr. Bush be hounded with the constant barrage of inquiries: why Dan Quayle? why a pro-life stance? why pay so little attention to domestic affairs? why can't · you fix the economy? He has quite candidly said that his phasing-out process as President started just after Thanksgiving, and when asked about future plans Bush simply to that 011e. Was George Bush responded he'd like to rest, the central reason we won the relax, and spend time with his Cold Wilr, or did he just family. happen t~ he in the right place Debate will rage Qn for years , . in the rigllt time? Again there just how effective a leader will be ~legitimate arguments · George Herbert Bush really both ways_ was. As Vice-President under In my opinion- amidst all of Ronald Reagan, Bush assumed the bars 11 press scrutiny the position as the perfect 'yes surrounding his failed man'- performing admirably reelection campaign- George what was asked of him as an Bush was a tired man, which ambassador yet never stealing left George Bush the candidate the spotlight from his boss. He vulnerable. It is a tribute that learned the trade well and ran his long and exhaustive service an effective 1988 campaign in to the United States caused defeating Democrat Mike this, and now retwement from Dukakis. Bush's downfall, of public service is his next course, was that his campaign calling- be deserves the rest. promises- like continuing on On: the other hand, Bill the course of peace and Clinton's toughest job has just prosperity- coulcm•t have been begun. While Clinton worked more off base. diligently :l() build a better state It only took the aggression of l of Arkansas for years, he was a leader in the volatile Middle helped by the fact that his East and this country's having constittJenc Y was an to face payment of all the identifia])Ie group with certain 1980's 'credit prosperity' to need.s and demands. Now .the place Bush in peril. He will ! Prest~~n:,,mdus~ ~ak~ hea;~ly~ leave some interesting scrutm~V<J . ecJsJons at~ ec questions and legacies. Was ~e entrre. co?n~. No smgle his failure at home attributable plece o~ legislation, veto, or to stale ideas or a hostile order will carry full pop.ular Congress? Unfortunately we'll support- f~r the great~st vrrt~e . b bly never find the answer of the United States IS that 1t pro a fosters dl~erse interests and - objectives. Couple this with the fact that , he must devote time to foreign policy- a realm he admittedly has little experience in- and to fixing our s;luggish economic state and you have a pretty difficult ro~d ahead. Here are some of the major topics. Clinton will have to address immediately: be an enormous amount of pressure from bodies like the European Community and United Nations asking the US to continue to intervene in these areas of strife. President Clinton will have a difficult time :in satisfying all of those requesting support- he WO!lld do well to utilize tl1e advice of \ past Presidents- like Bush and Iraq- it js most ironic that Saddam arrives back on the international scene just as we're · Richard Nixon- who left legacies -of success abroad. s•hifting Presidential power. _ Domestic/Econmny- this is Hussein's ~dvancement for a . why Bill Clinton was elected second time into Kuwait has \ • President of .the United States. fmced Mr. ~~sh to be vo~al, j · People here were sick of active, and vlSlble for the fmal . hearing of wonderful days of his; term- something · • achievements overseas while I'm swe he- wished was not the unemployment rose, urban case. Saddam will no doubt be decay spread, and tension used ~s a measuring stick in between races,. colors, and assessing Clinton's first actions beliefs grew. The former as Chief Executive- people · Arkansas Governor made some remember how we defeated incredible promises abo11t Iraq two years ago in the Gulf · correcting much of the War yet s<>mehow the dictator inequality we see today- if half kept his office. More and more of them are carried out he will are perceiving Bush's efforts as be successful. No one leader- not getting the full job done: . regardless of how charismatic- Amerkans want a distinct end 1 can cure all of our nation's to this eo.nflict before social ills. Now though, at casualties are suffered. The least Bill Clinton has tile entire tone. of Clinton's next opportunity to change America four years in office is at stake.. his way. Som alia/Bosnia- there will r-----------------------------------------------------------------, I in ~l'iU4J :1 hi; 1~1 t.1 I nutrients into the starving is a top priority, butt process must be gradual so as not to·overwhelm the severely malnourished. D In the first few days without food, the body loses water and salt; weight drops quickly. -----~ ~----,_.~,. B With no intake of energy- producing calories, the body doesn't generate heat; victim feels cold. EJ Fluid -· accumulation fn tissue, called edema, occurs in ankles, legs and stomach, causing excessive swelling. I Early starvation WID Prolonged starvation II ~n~1nn'~~ cause dizziness, loss in volume of blood and dehydration. Under- nourishment lowers resistance; infections occur in the skin, lung or intestines. Diarrhea is common, from either infection or the intes1ine's inability to digest food. occurs. Bones become prominent. -~ Even if a child suwives, prolonged starvation can do irreparable danage. Starvation may leave a child frail for the rest of his or her life and the following may occur: •Growth retardation • Blindness fro111 vitamin A deficiency • Heart failure • Chronic infection or tuberculosis BDelayed menstruation in females B,Mental impairment To keep from oveMhelming the body, a starving person needs co11trolled intake of calories and protein and must be fed in stages. FeedinQ centers in Somalia serve rice, beans and 011 once or twice a da)'. The most malnourished will be fed small servillgs as many as eight times a day until their bodies adjust. Here's a look at a typical refeeding tegimen: D High-energy f3 A porridge of biscuits, made beans, wheat and mostly of sugar, are cooking oil is fed to served to provid~ provide nutrition. ·· · immediate stren(J1h. /_.r··-··· /\ ... i-\ f.:C,: Sixty days without food will cause death from infection or heart failure. Here's how statrvattiotrtPironre$se!rfil a 154-pound healthy male: , . . , . _ . 1541bs. Victim . Fat r---'· --· -- -----....,. f~els cold, Skin dries, muscles dtzzy hair thins wasting away On January 17, 1706, Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston, Mass . .. . January 12, 1737, John Hancock was born in Braintree (Quincy), Mass .... January 17, 1781, at the Battle of Cowpens, the 3rd Mary land Regiment carried a flag of 13 red and white stripes, with a blue canton con- taining 12 stars in a circle around one star, an early version of today's flag, into battle ... January 14, 1784, Congress ratified the peace treaty be- tween the U.S. and Great Britain, ending the Revolutionary War ... January 11, 1861, Alabama voted to secede from the Union and join the Confederacy by a margin of 61-39 ... January 16, 1883, the Pendleton Act was passed, reforming federal civil service ... January 16, 1919, Nevada became the 36th state to ratify the 18th (Prohibition) Amend- ment ... January 12,1939, President Franklin Roosevelt asked for another hike in the defense budget ... January 14, 1950, the U.S. recalled all consular officials from China after the latter seized the American consulate general in Peking ... January 17, 1.950, masked bandits robbed Brink\s Inc.'s Boston express office of $2.8 million, of which $1.2 million was in cash ... January 11 and 15, 1973, five of seven defen- dants in the Watergate break-in trial pleaded guilty ... January 17, 1977, convicted murderer, Gary Gilmore, was executed by a Utah firing squad in the first exercise of capital punish- ment anywhere in the U.S. since 1967; Gilmore had opposed all at- tempts to delay the execution.

B·USINESS January 21, 1993, page 5 AT&T GET.S READY TO ALTER TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUS'TRY DOLLARS & SENSE by Shields Day Business Editor Roughly 150 years ago, in 1844. Samuel P. Morse stunned the world by senmng a message via a piece of copper wire and a telegraph. Today this archaic means of communication is practically forgotten. The telegraph has quickly been overshadowe~ by the telephone, fax maclune, fiber-optic wires, and the picture telephone. Today 'hage documents of information can be sent anywhere in the world in a matter of seconds - instead of letter by letter. It probably will not be too much longer until fax machines become a household item. As technology continues to grow at an exponential r~te, ideas of tomorrow are raptdly becoming a reality today. This past week American Telephone and Tel<:(graph {AT&T) joined forces with two lesser known companies in order to incre!I.Se their technology department. AT&T is hoping to get one step closer to the fut01e with their recent alliance with Cisco Systems and StrataCom. Th.eir hope is to excel the production of the AsynchrQonous Transfer Mode or ATM. ATM switches will allow a much larger amount of information to transmit via ordinary telephone wives. With this increase in the amount of information abLe to be transferred, a whole new sector of communication will be available to residential consumers - multimedia. Multimedia will allow a much broader and clearer amount of information pass through a household phone jack. Two ~f. its. most appealing quabttes ts . the ATM's ability to create btgh· quality picture phones and allow CD quality music to come into homes through ordinary phone wires.. B-ut most importantly it will be a!Jle to increase the speed at which, information can be transmitted. MCI and Nynex h&ve already purchased ATMs from. Fujitsu, a Japanese fmn. J.ICI now has a great chance to see their market share increase: if they are able to successfully promote their lead in the i\rM market. Last week the product lii.ne manager of AT & T\ s lo n~ distance branch claime<l: tb!lt they would Sllccessfully set up A TM transmission bef~»re 1994. Although this se~lice will not be available to aU their clients, it will be offered to their biggest clients whC> ne;ed its advanced capabilities and increased speed as soGB as possible. One of the major trends \lYe will continue to see this decaode is the increase in higll,te~th services brought into the b(}llle. ATMs will allow :pi<:tu:re phones and CD quality m11sic to enter the household from existing phone wires. In addition to the advances nade by telephone companies, caMe companies are also on the verge of a major breaktbr~~g.h. Cable stations are not far ~w!ly from setting up a system whereby the home viewer V~ilf have access to over 80() channels from around the world. These two advmces will give homeowners ac::cess: to an unbelievable amo11nt of 'nformation at the toucil of a few buttons. For businesses, these increases in technology wLll allow them to compete mol'e effectively with other finn~ around the world. They V~ili now be able to send hu-ger amounts of information in less time to branch offices anywhere throughout the world. For the homeowner, lif~ willl not change as drastically, but EDITING & WORD PROCESSING Dissertations - Theses - Term Papers Desktop Publishing Resumes & Curricula Vitae --Laser Printing-- --Plain Paper FAX Service-- --Personal Secretarial Services-- TUTORING Spanish Language & Literature Latin Language & Literature Linguistics Close to Union College Fast & Efficient Service 374-8850 Write .for Busi11ess_· alltl Fi1la1zce with the new ATMs there may be a change in radio broadcasts. M11 sic can be digitally brought into the. home in CD like qualit:y. Th1s has. the l>@tential to hut local r~dio stations. If large corporations can offer a bigger variety of channels to homeowners, local radio stations may loose their markei share to only car radios. Investors ma:y find an increase in communications technology compaii.ies that can manufacture these ATMs. By investing now, one can div,.ersify r,elatively inexpensively. By buying .up shares in many compames now, while there price is still low, there is a good chance in coming out ahead when one or two companies force the weaker companies out of business and .control the , market. A second option for investors may be to look at companies like the Fox ·Network and NBC (owned by GE). rt is possible that thes.e companies will use their economies of scale to create national radio stations that use ATMs. rather than radio waves, for broadcastin~. They can sell ads to compames who are interested in targeting a certain consumer (depending on their -musical tastes) nationally, rather than locally i.e. Pepsi to rock Listeners and Geratol to opera fa.IIs. However, technology progression will never cease. What looks like the new wave of the future may quickly be out of date in a yea1. by Byron Elson Contributing Writer Casualty losses are those that result from sudden, unexpect~ or unusual ~vents, such as tornados. hurncanes, and even sever storms. The key word is \sudden\. Damage to your property .resulting from progressive deterioration does not qualify as a casualty loss. Other nondeductible property losses include tennite damage, damages from rust or corrosion of the understructure of your house, or those that result form new construction near your property. Not all qualified casualty • osses are limited to acts of nature. In certain situations, damage to your ·car in an accident may be considered a deductible loss. As with other casualty losses, a deduction is allowed only for uninsured losses. If you are covered by insurance, your eligibility for a casualty loss deduction is contingent upon your first making a timely insurance claim. Additional rules apply, so check with a CPA. If you deposited your money in a bank, credit union or another financial .institution that Jater failed, you may elect to claim .a casualty loss, rather than a -nonbusiness bad debt, provided no part of your deposit is federally insured. • The situation is different for 'thGse who invested in the stock m.arket and experienced substantial losses. Regardless of how suddenly the drop iH ~the value of securitities, these losses are not deductible as casualty losses. Y:o11 may claim a theft loss of it resulted from an illegal action~ such as a robbery, and the loss is not covered by insurance. The IRS requires you tc prove the theft. So, for example, if ;you discover a valuable piece of jewelry missing after having a new cleaning service in your home, but cannot prove that the jewelry was stolen, it is unlikely that you can deduct the loss as a casualty . Before making a casualty loss claim, you must make an insurance claim, even if you do not expect reimbursement. The amount of the loss is ·reduced by the money you receive from your insurance company. The deduction for each loss is then limited to the amount in excess of $100 per loss occurrence, not per item. Be aware that the $100 limitation for each loss also applies to a hnsband and wife filing a joint return. even if each of the them sustain~ a loss from the same casualty. If you're taking one of these tests, take Kaplan first. We teach you exactly what th.e test covers and show you the test taking s-trategies you'll need to sc~ your best. No one teaches you to think like the test makers better than Kaplan. For more infonnation call 4 8 9-0 0 77 KAPLAN The an~~er to the test question.

January 21, 1993, page 6 Art.s an~d Entertainment <llonrJlrbttttllis Local Artists American Music Display. Works Awards on Televison In Albany J . . . . . . 2 St.·h ------~--- reception for the show on anuary '' by Carrie Sherman Friday, January 15th from Arts Editor 5:30- 8:00PM. On February Albany Center Gal'leries will be displaying a show featuring several artists from Jant1ary 15 - February 26th. The following artists' works will be featured in the show; Robin Arnold, Stephen L Caruana, Marion C. Honors CSJ, Marta Jaremko, Naomi Lewis, Alex Martin, Barbara Mungall, Harry Orlyk and Peggy Sherwood Reid. These artists have been selected from the 1992 Mohawk- Hudson exhibition. There will be a 7th from llAM through IPM by Carrie Sherman there will be a Sunday Erunch Arts Editor featuring talks by the artists. · ---F-or-m-us.;.;ic..,l-.o;;;;;ve•r•s .... of-. al-1-ki-.n-d-s Brunch is $6.00 and reservations are necessary (518- - a show that you W()nt want to 462-4775). miss will be playing on In addition to the Mowhawk Monday night. Where? Right - Hudson exhibit, the Albany on your good old TV. set. The Ce'nter Galleries will be twentieth annual American displaying an exhibit of works Music Awards will be on ABC by Caroline Hooke. The on Monday January 25th from Hooke exhibit also runs from 8 -llPM. This show will be January 15 _ February 26 . hosted by Bobby Brown, This exhibit features a Gloria Estefan and Wynonna collection of her paintings and Judd. There are six categories collages. for awards on the show: pop/rock, country! sotll/rhythm LECTURE/SLIDE SHOW BY and blues, rap/hip llop, heavy metal/hard rock, and adult contemporary. THOMAS NOZKOWSKI PAINTER \ABSTRACT PAINTINGS'' ~ many other musical stars will be featured presenting awards. American Music Awards winners are selected by the pubiic. A random poll was sent out to 20,000 people in the United States which compiles the nominees and winners. Some nominees for this years show aFe as foHows: Favorite Artist(Rock): Mariah Carey Amy Grant Bonnie Rait Vanessa Williams Favorite Artist(Rock): Bryan Adams Michael Bolton Eric Clapton -Michael Jackson Favorite Band, Group(Rock): Genis is Kris Kross U2 Female Male Duo or THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1993- 3:30p.m. In addition to tile regular awards a special \award of metit\ will be presented to Bill Grahm. Theaward ispresented to Mr. Grahm for his outstanding ·contributions to the field of musical entertainment over a long period of time. Dan Akroyd, John Fogerty, Jerry Garcia, and Fa v 0 rite M a I e Huey Lewis will be among Artist(Soui/Rbytltm Mariah Carey Patti LaBelle Vanessa Williams Favorite Band, 0110 or Grou.p(Soui/Rhy.tbm .Blues): Bqyz II Men En Vogue Jodeci Favorite Artist(U:eavy Metal) DefLeppard Metallica Red Hot Chilli Peppers Favorite Femalt! Artist(Country): Reba McEntire Lorrie Morgan Tanya Tucker Wynnona Favorite Artist( Country): Garth Brooks Billy Ray Cirus Vince Gill Alan Jackson Male Favorite Artist(A.dult Contemporary): Michael Bolton Myriah Carey those participating in the Bi 0 es): tribute. · · Bobby Brown Genesis Performers for the American Tevin Campbell Favorite Room 215 ARTS BUILDING Music Awards include, Michael Michael Jackson Artist(Rap/Hip Jackson, Michael Bolton, Bon Gerald Levert Kriss Kross Jovi, Metallica, Boyz II Men Favorite Female Sir Mix-A-Lot · 1\ Artist(Soui/Rhythm TLC ~1f;4~~.r~Jf;4,~~·~fi?it-an-dm_o_re._In_a_~_·tio-n-to-fue-se--BI-ue-s):--------------------~ ...-:: .. '...-:: .. '...-:: ~ersand award recipients Mary J. Bilge WANT TO ADD EXCI'I'EMENT TO SOMEONE'S LIFE? SEND THEM A PERSONAL!~ (FORMS CAN BE OBT-AINED AT THE INFORMATION BOOTH) VISAGE HAIR STUDIO 557 Nott Street WJINTJEJR §JI»JECCITAIL Perms $45 Reg. $60 Reg. $70 haircuts Highlighting $50 *above include Stain(Celaphanes) $ 20 With Cut $35 SPECIALS THROUGH THE END OF FEBRUARY Call for appointment. 374- 0351 Ask for Melissa, Hope or Victor. top 10 Singles 1. Madonna \Deeper And Deeper,\ (MavcrickjSire/Wattler) Last Week: No.2 ~1:EET :r\'E 2. Boyz II Men ~In The Still Of The Nile,\ (Motown) No. I 3. Shanice \Saving Forever For You,\ (Giant) No.4 AT TI-IE RAMADA Sat- J.:i\ eb - 20th. deta.i.ls to follovv .. - - 4. Restless Heart \When She Cries,\ (RCA) No.7 · 5. Spin Doctors \Little Miss Can't Be Wrong,\ (Epic Associated) No.6 6. Go West \Faithful (EMJ/ERG) No. 10 7. Mad Cobra \Flex (Columbia) No.9 8. Prince And The New Po·wer Generation \7 (Pa.isley Park/Warner) No. 16 9. Genesis \Never A Time,\ (At- lantic) No. 14 10. Porlrait \Here We Go Again!\ (Capitol) Nu. 20 - a t t t a i t c r II 11 t i c v y v s tl a v tl (J d a s s il a I~ tl e 1 r a a a () il a

Arts and Entertainment January 21, 1993, page 7 Food For Centaurs Pacino, O'Donnell Powerful in Scent of a Woman Courtesy of Marjorie Welish While many painte:rs profess a return to content, few realize :. this project as anytlling more than a return to subject matter, . the dreary recapitulation of by Thor Benander Arts Writer appearances through which, it AI Pacino brings his is alleged, an image c<>mes into • considerable presence back to being. An image is not an · the screen in his latest object, however: tb.e image is challenge, Scent of a Woman. rather more like Pound's , Pacino is retired Lieutenant \mental event tltrow11 upon the • Colonel Frank Slade, a blind, mind.\ bitter man who has just about An Uproarious e:xception to • given up on life. The this literal construal of the blindness- the result of an image may b found in the accident during a training oeuvre of Thomas Nozkowski, . exercise- is the vehicle for his who has, for the last fifteen emotional demise, one which years, unleashed upon the has rotted out the very heart of world his mania for the vexed · what must have been a very silhouette. Usually )Jinned in .· driven soldier. Chris thecenterofthecanvasboardis O'Donnell is Chris, a a flat shape the artist has scholarship student at local worked arduously and \taken to , Baird Academy wilo needs work the mat.\ Through a process for the Thanksgiving vacation. of revision often long and . He takes the job of caring for deliberately tortu<>us, an '--------------, Lt. Cnl. Slade, and winds up in adventure that often includes rnight well protest, given that Thomas Nozkowski Untitled coherence of this stance that a whirlwind adventure that superimposing inc()mpatible the source of his art is neither prevails des:piteapparent visual changes the course of his life. silhouette over the first one or ideational not indefinite, but Thanks to his deep skepticism differences from W()Fk to work. The previews for Scent of a inscribing it with spatial torque found,· for instance, in the toward generalization and his The earlier W()rk:: may be Woman are misleading. They and wresting cohesi:veness~or at specific visual response to allergic reaction to theoretical intuited, the latter work a portray Slade as kind of a blind leastdetente-fromthestruggle, architectural drawiags, or text and agenda, Nozkowski rationalized version ofinstinct, womanizer, and they the image emerges,,abstract and having been provoked to puts as much distance as he can yet altogether~ stylistic concentrate on tile humorous eluding known categories. c~unter the notion that ideal between his art collection and coherence manifests itself parts of the movie. While 1his is so despite No:zkowski's geometry is a kind of truth. intellection. through the extremes of fixity there were several comic resistance to tile term Epbemerical experience Eccentricity in this work and freedom botll1dtogether. moments, Scent of a Woman abstraction being ap:plied to his then,locates Nozkowski's then, is symptomatic of an Thomas Nozkowslci will be is not a comedy. The art-\because as he says, \my penchant for the geomorphic ongoing sty 1 is t i c appearing in the U11io11 College moments of hilarity are simple art is about things seen, read, cUTiosities that comprise the rebelliousness and cultural Arts Building on Thursday, . points of comic relief to or done that exist ia some way S()rt of world most real to him. oreriness. yet as the ten year January 28 at 3: 3(). Please somewhat lighten the overall in tile real world.~' Thus 13eyond this justification is the survey of his work at Beaver Join u.s fot a lecture and slide drama of a man who has lost abstraction is resisted,. the artist artist's sense pf reality. College prove, it's the show. the will to live. B. ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT CALENDAR THURSDAY JANUARY 21ST 8:00 PM Capital Rtpertory Company \Gang en the Roof' 8:OOPM Proctors \The Music Man\ FRIDAY JANUARY 22ND 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof' SATURDAY JANUARY 23RD 4:30PM and 8:30PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof'' · 8:00PM Proctors Krasnayarsk Siberian Dance Co. 8:00PM Empire Center at the Egg John Kelly \Liz Story\ SUNDAY JANUARY 24TH 2:30PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof' TUESDAY JANUARY 26TH 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company t'Gang on the Roof' WEDNESDAY JANUARY 27TH 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company 19 Gang on the Roof' Community Service Fair- Wednesday, January 21, ll:OOam- 1:00pm. Representatives from non-profit organizations will be available in tile College Center Atrium to discuss volunteer p~sitions. Many employers view volu11teer work experience the same as paid work expenence. Come and explore opportunities to become more involved in the Schenectady community. Participants will include: Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Mohawk Path\Yay's Girl Scout Council, the American Red Cross, Wildwood Recreation, Ellis Hospttal, Girls Incorporated of Schenectady, Carver Community Center. GIVE A LITTLE, LEARN A LOT, VOLUNTEER TODAY. T~is WEEk AT The Crow .Hill Band Wednesday, January 20 at 9:00P.M. Heavy Breathing Jazz Friday, January 22 at 8:00 P.M. Wok The Dog Saturday, Jan~ary 23 at 9:00 P.M.

'I <!tJlltfllrbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 Schenectady, New York January 21, 1993, page 8 Editor-in-Chief Ned Walley Executive Editor Pam Leinson News Editors Lara Chamberlain, Jim Polites Commentaries Editor Lea Lewis Features Editors Dug Bartell, Dass Seaman Arts Editors Carrie Sherman, Cort Boulanger Sports Editors Rich Morgan, Hal Poret Financial Editor Shields Day Science Editor Eileen Calkin Advertising Editors Lauren Bycoff, Rachel Tuck,Jen Shulkin Campus Page Editors Niki Goldin Survey Editor Jeff Green Photography Editors David Cho, Brianna Patnode GNE UP ON APATHY Every time I hear a fellow student using the word apathetic, I immediately le~e interest in what he or she has to say. This adjective must certainly be the most overused descriptive term on campus. First, and most obvious among the reasons not to indulge in such talk is the fact this type of statement is a form of future occupational suicide. If one is convinced that apathetic is the best d~cription for the student body, among which he or she is a member, then as a result, this word also sums up the user. There is no question that students on this campus have transformed the word apathy into a cliche. And cliches, by their nature, do not promote one's intellect or vocabulary, but only produce an aura of simplemindedness. The more an individual uses the term apathy, the more he or she is prone to become the epitome of their abomination. In other words, if a person replaces action with such non-action, there can be no positive results. A prime example rebutting this whimsical expression lies in the fact that over one half of Union's student population is involved with at least one of over seventy on~campus clubs. This. figure does not include those who find activities to pursue in off- campus organizations. Imagine that, you apathy hounds! However, to fully understand this problem one must look at what is actually being implied by the term apathy. It appears that the majority of u~ges for occur when a person is disgusted by the lack of involvement in an activity he or she defines as important. However, this presumes as a given fact that everyone's interests lie in identical areas. Not True. Each individual on this campus is driven by a different force, with a different long term goal in mind. One cannot presuppose that everyone shares the same raison d'etre. I wish to state that a person can be apathetic towards something I place importance on, but this is not a direct reflection of the essence of the person, it only shows that we have different vallles. I choose to agree with Mr. Webster when he describes apatlletic as spiritless, or impassive. What's your definition? Faculty Advisor Manager Scott Scullion Assosciate News Editors Deb Mcinerney David Levine, Veronica Rogers, Caroline Paine Dagan LaCorte Matt Grabowski Tad Lee, Talley Belsinger, LisaLemoi, David Fischer, Buffy Rubenstein Stacy Melvin, Fran Goldstein, Rachel Assosciate Sports Editors Subscription Manager Layout Staff Advertising Staff Asche, Christine Gagliano STAFF WRITERS: Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Ron Birnbaum, Gary Chase, Amy Cypres, Alissa Gass, Craig Greenberg, Cindy- Hills, Tasha La Bare, Erin O'Neil, Craig Pike, Christopher Ringwald, Mirriam Seddiq, Alii Wapner. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions to Concordiensis are due the Tuesday before publication by 4PM if they are submitted on Macintosh Microsoft WordTM Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4PM in the drop box outside of the Cota.cordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. CONCORDIENSJS is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Conconliensis office, College Center, Union College .. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370- 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 370-6494. LETTERS Professor Genest Shouldn't Go To the Editor: I <liD writing because I am. greatly disappointed in a recent Union College decision. preceptorial class-· the only class that all first years must take-- to cover these philosophers, demonstrates that the school places a high value on knowing this work. My nmne is Andy Lipman. I am a Senior Philosophy/ English major. The decision of which I speak is that of not rehiring a philosophy Professor: Professor Paul Ge11est. Let me cite a few counter arguments ,to my position. First, some might argue that the School has finally begun to recognize the value in pursuing Pr()fessor Genest teaches Aris1otle. Socrates, Plato, Helenis tic Philosophy, Enviionmental Ethics, and Sex and Society. Professor Genest was hired two years ago on a contract 'that: lias· now expired~ Under the b11dget that will be installed for t11e '93-'94 academic year, Professor Genest's position was eli~Lnated. I mentioned earlier that I am disa}}pointed with the decision not 1o rehire him. What I find most alarming is not the particular dismissal of Prof~sor Genest (though I am sorry that Union will lose such a committed teacher), as much as the elimination of an expert in tile field of ancient philosophy. No one else in the PhilosoJ>hy department will be able to pick up his classes beca11se of a lack of expertise and otner taxes on the department. SOCJates, Plato, and Aristotle are the eminent figures and foundation of Western Philo~o:phy and Western Civili.zation. Union prides itself on requiring first years to have some contact with these figure~ through the forum of the Preceptorial class. The facJ _ that tile school requires each non-eurocentric curriculums. For example, Afro-centrism has emerged as very real and necessary to a holistic education. But, I argue, the recognition of these. needs to broaden our didactic base, does not eliminate the need to study the euro-centric canon. The importance of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and other ancient studies ought be heeded; Thus, the dismissal of a faculty member hired specifically to teach these subjects in depth, challenges the School's own position that, noting the sylubus of the Preceptorial, values Western education. One last counter argument is the premise that Philosophy, as a discipline, is less meritorious because it is less marketable. And, since the passing of a budget incorporates that which is financially feasible for the school, philosophy must not fit \\ the bill. Please know that there are over thirty full and I.D. majors at Union. These majors will be out of luck when they try to enroll in an ancient philosophy class. What about the incoming first years, potential philosophy majors/minors, who will elect the \ancient track\ as there history sequence. Tllere will be no philosophy classes that will directly correspond with their history sequence choice. What the decision means, is that a sixth position in Philosophy-- a position that focuses .specifically on Plato, Aristotle, Socrates~ e1e.-- is not cost effective. · Let me ask what the ratio of. Physics majors are to tbe: Physics Professors; certainly the sheer quantity of philosqp.hy majors legitimizes a sixth position. I believe that Union College offers students the o:pportunity to attain a solid, liberal arts education. But, I must state that 1 believe the decision not to rehire 'Professor Genest, and thus eliminate the ancient philosophy track, is a grave mistake-- one that in its very essence, undercuts the basis for the grounds on which this school was established: the notion that a euro-centric education is worth pursuing. Any school that professes the merit of ancient philosophy as evinced by the preceptorial class, as well as the incorporation of both a Classics department, and a Philosophy department, and yet has no professor who specializes in the philosophy of Aristotle. Socrates, and Plato, is fooling itself when it believes that it is a first-rate school. Sadly, Union has rnade a fundamental mistake. The only analogy that I can offer is to consider a math department that does not teach calculus. Respectfully submitted, Andrew J. Lip-man '93 SENIORS: Our Gift Drive Has Begun! A Fellow Senior Will Contact You Soon, So Get Ready to Donate Something Special To Union! i i ( r t t j 1 ( I t I ( ( r ( ) t ( I

. <llnnrllrb.frttsis LETTERS January 21, 1993, page 9 There's More Tio Rush Support A Different Opinion To The Editor: I am writing in response to a letter written last week entitled \To Rush Or Not To Rush\. Let me first start by saying that I happen to agree with some of the issues that you addressed about rush. The system is certainly far from being perfect and you have every right to express these concerns. The problem with your argument, is that you are completely unaware of what Panhellenic and the Greeks on campus llave been trying to do t~ improve this system. Frrstly, we hosted a crosstalk last year regarding the fairness of the sorority msh system. It was very successful and there were many suggestions made by both Greeks and independents on how we could improve the system. We then took these suggestions and brought a written proposal to the National Panhellenic Convention. The two main issues we suggested were more infonnal events in the fall for prospective rushees and some sort of interaction between the rushees an<! independent women during sorority rush. We did institute both of our ideas this year. We bad an all women's brunch, an all women's study break and we hosted an informal meeting with the freshman women this fall. You state that \instead of promoting a sense of individuality ... sorority rush destroys any hope of female camaraderie\ when in fact, we have tried to promote individuality this year. One of our goals has been to stress independence as an option. We accomplished this by having an independent woman come and speak at the rush informational. If you were so concerned with our system, maybe you would have taken the time to notice what we have been trying to do to improve it before you decided to make public judgements without any ground to stand on. Secondly, You're argument becomes unjustified when you begin to base it on rumors about sororities that you openly state are \from what [you] hear\. If you opened your eyes and your mind, and took a good look around this campus, you would see a lot more than \women singing jingles\. You would see women promoting philanthropic causes and doing community service activities as a result of their sorority membership. It is unfortunate that you chose the week before rush to malign a system that does have many strong qualities. All Panhellenic meetings are open for anyone and their suggestions. Why don't you stop by the next time you want to take a stand on this issue? Perhaps then you could get all the facts straight. Sincerely, Julie Schlang President Panhellenic Council To the Editor: I would like to take just a few moments to congratulate Mirriam Seddiq on her article, ''To Rush Or Not To Rush\ in the January 14th issue of Concordiensis. Ms. Seddiq' s article is perhaps the finest piece of writing I· have come across in our newspaper this year. Furthermore, speaking as . an independent, I am g17ateful to ·her for giving a voice to certain issues and ideas that are rarely aired in a public .forum on this · campus. l realize that some greek women objected to the timing of the article because it coincided directly with rush. I feel , however, that the timing ·could not have been more , perfec~: Perhaps an undecided freshman, surrounded constantly by the social implications of the greek system, will realize there is a viable alternative. Respectfully, Michelle Jarney '93 To the Editor: Although we aU appreciated the painstaking steps you took to \tone down\ your criticisms of the rush process at Union (and I am sure it was quite difficult for you), I must take exception to a few of the statements you made and one in particular. certainly no one has any misconceptions that the pmcess of rush at Union is without its faults. Indeed ' much like you, I have never gone through sorority rush so I don't know exactly what it is like. Indeed, I believe that too little time is given for every . sister of a sorority to get to know every perspective student (notice that I do not refer to them as fresh people). Your claim, however, that \sorority rush destroys any hope of female camaraderie\ is completely unfounded and, by yonr own admission, you really have no way of knowing. Most of rn y female Greek friend's best friends are their sisters. Moreover, your comment about the number of hell weeks you have been thr<~ugh, and the reasons for them, seems to exclude the possibilities of that happening in a sorority. This is simply preposterous. Who are you to sit ~there and teH these people whom they sincerely love and respect. . It was in your statement regarding both sororities and fraiemities that I found myself most angered. Yes, I am in a \house\ and no, that does not mean that I am automatically a \dependent\ person. It is certainly true that the bmthers of my fraternity enjoy each others company and, as a result, we spend great amounts of time together. We love and respect each other just as you and your friends do. The major difference is that we chose to unite under the common bonds of a society that has an impressive, and certainly admirable historical and social history. The fact that you and your friends chose not to have a title is fine. When you say, however, that we are dependent because of that, you are being jmst as judgmental as you claim us to be. Finally, I would like to say that the timing of your article was completely inappropriate and .downr.ight devious. By pu ttmg this article in last weeks issue, you left the members of the Greek organizations no time to fo~ron~ny respond to your en Uctsms. Aside from the gree~s, you arc quite possibly Ieavmg a bad taste in the mouth of a student who had originally planned on rushing. Needless to say, your problems ~ith rush had not just popped mto your head, and it certainly would have been more appropriate to do this at the end of the term. You said that you never went through.rush and that was your choice. But you must understand that makes you completely unqualified to talk about it and even less qualified to make judgements on the men and women who decided that their experience at Uni<Jn would be enhanced by such an experience. Steve Bass '94 Bills Headed for the Bowl Orientation Advisors Sought To the Editor: As an avid football fan, I must say that Rich Morgan left Out an important 'element in his article \The .. 'Real' Superbowl\ in the last issue of the Concordiensis. How can he honestly believe that this Sunday's N.F.C. Championship will decide the · nex:t Superbowl Champion when the Buffalo Bills are still in contention? dommating the A.F.C. I have also stood on my feet in Tampa Stadium watching Scott Norwood's kick go wide right. Most r~ently, I h<we seen·. a team with 01.1tstanding character come back from 32 points and beat Houston and also dominate Pitt. the following week, both with several of their starters on the bench. During all of this, what did people say? \They got lucky. II \They. played weaker teams. II \They wouldn't stand a chance against a N.F.C. team.\ In Sure, He can use the arguments that the N.F.C. has dominated the majority of the A.F.C. the past several years. He might also say that the Bills have choked in the Bowl case Mr. Morgan doesn't know the past two years. But, this the Bills are 10-2 against th~ year is different. This season, N.F.C. in the past three regular the Bills went 4-0 against the seasons. The two losses N.F.C. happened at the end of the The Bills are playing better season when the BillS\ had than any team in the N.F.L. at homefield advantage locked up. this point, they have outscored This year, they went 4-0. Two their opponents 56-6 in the of those teams were poor past five quarters and thirteen teams. The other two were in minutes. That was without the top of the N.F.C. - New Jim Kelly for the entire time, Orleans and, you guessed it, and without Smith, Bennent, the 49ers. and Thomas a significant I have no doubt in my mind portion of the games. ~at the Bills will be playing Now as a die-hard Bills fan m the Bowl. And, I am for th~ past 15 years, I am willing to bet .you~ pizza that offended by his article. I the Buffalo :Bills wtll beat the remember sitting in Rich N.F.C. Champion by 31/2 Stadium in freezing points. temperatures watching the Bills struggle through 2-14 seasons. I have also seen the past years when the Bills have been Co nco rdi ens is and get a Grasp on the Campus Sincerely, Mike Valva To the Editor: We challenge and encourage all Union College Students to . become involved in Orientation ' 199.3; a l)ew beginning .. With · · the ,m,ti~ipated ·lcu:ge freShman .. class expected to . enter v nion next year, Orientation will prove to be exciting and rewarding for those who participate in the \Superbowl\ of Union College events. Positions are available on the Orientation Committee to people who want to make a difference at this institution. Enthusiasm, hard work, dedication, and creativity are the only prerequisites for this important task. This committee constructs and presents all the activities and events that greatly influence the class of 1997 at the start of their \Union Experience\. In ·addition, the committee is given a generous budget to attract fantastic entertainment and purchase e:xotic cuisine that provides Union with the best show on Earth. Furthermore, the committee promotes the faculty and adm inistratio11 to express academic and administrative concerns to the freshman community. Finally, the Orientation Committee has the .pleasure .of teaching the Orie11tation Advisors tfleir methods in which to communicate with five hundred new faces and personalities. Applications for this prestigious position can be found at the Dean of Students ·Office [CC 306] or at the College Center Information Booth. All applications must be submitted to the Dean of Students Office by Wednesday January 27th. This is not an application for the job of Orientation Advisor. More · information about the position of Orientation Advisor will be made available in the coming months, so stay tuned!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! Sincerely, Joe Saltzbar Arnie Lanzendorf Orientation Co-chairs LOOK AflER YOUR FRIENDS DESIGNATE PARTY SMART, BEER D!llt.n<f:RS (f EDUCAIKJI PllOJECY.IOOJ 4412337

January 21, 1993, page 10 Features A Profile In Courage .B -s Car., line Paine Conco~die-nsis Staff On July 26,1988, Union Student, Terr~ RathweH, was playing baseball with his family. It was the last inning and the score 3-3. A Texas Lee Pop fly was . hit over Rathwell 's hea~L ~ he went to make the tie breaking catch, the left fielder's knee collided with Rathwell's right temple. The batter was out but Rathwell has 110 recollection of the game, the JJUP fly or falling to the ground unconscious. Seventeen days later Rathwell began to wake from a comatose ~'tate~ As he woke~ up, he had to start live over again from scrntch. Because Rathwell's brai11 collided with his skull during the fall, damage had been done to his frontal lobe. R.a.thweU had to re learn to s~ and walk. He also had to regain co£Jtrol of his left side, that was paralyzed. Rathwell's friends were shocked with ll'.'hat they found when tlley carne to visit him at a hospital near his home in Canada. They could not believe that bis was the same Terry Rathvell that had finished fifth 1n the New Your State Dhdsion III Championship~ for the javelin throw. It did not seem positive that Union's staY hockey goalie, who could sl~te better then anyone else, now hardly could walk. therapy 11ntil he gained control of his left side again. When his speech and balance improved., Rathwell went back to his high school to sit in on classes. He learned how to take notes and worked on transfen:i.ng information from his sbort term to his long term memory. me out in areas of speech and color match.ing,\ Rathwell smiled. Yet despite all the love and support, Rath well would not have made llis recovery without his amazing positive attitude and faith in God. \It is great to believe in God.\ Rathwell proclaimed. \It is like believing in yourself. I believe God is a part of everyone.\ It,is this duel belief that has pulled Rathwell through the ro11gh times. Even though there have been some very rough times~ Rathwell would not wish them gone. He believes himself to be a better person after the <ttonrnr b irn.si.s Sex, Drugs, and U Alexis· Leist Features Writer Ok, so everybody is totally sick of hearing about AIDS. right? Sure, I'll be the first one to admit it. I'm sick of hearing about it! Would you like. to know ~hy? Because it scares me. Just the thought of it totally freaks me out. This is a serious disease, because it kills. I know, I know I sound like I'm going to start lecturing to you about the symptoms of the disease, or .people who are at risk. But even I know that the only people who are at risk are the people who put themselves at risk. Come on, wake up America! Everyene says they know how to protect themselves from this disease. Yeah, then why are over a million Americans infected with the mv virus? I'll tell you why! America can't talk about it. Sex and all the good and bad things that go along witb it are considered taboo! It is embarrassing to talk about it and so people choose to simply ignore it. And what comes out of this: · ignorance and more cases of HIV everyday! Sex (making love) is a natural and beautiful ~hing (oh, really!) · so why should sexually active peopl(i have to take all these embarrassing precautions? Because it can save lives! Of course, I would feel· like an idiot aski~g my partner \Do you have AIDS or a sexually transmitted disease?\ but that is what it has come down to. Come on, numbers don't lie! As a matter of fact,in some cities of the U.S. AIDS is already the leading killer of young, ileterosexual women. That is tight. they are women arid they are heterosexual! Everyone is susceptible, everyone is at risk. So big deal,. how does this affect the students at Union7 H shouldn't, because every~ne :k!nows all the stude11ts here are pur:e and virgjrul, right? Yeah, right! No seriously, it does affect Union students. One night stands do occur and if alcohol is involved judgment can be impaired. Precautions are thrown to the wind. Bam! a life is ruined. On a more positive note, more and more students have been taking advantage of tl:te free condoms at Silliman Hall. With the fear of AIDS more students think twice about having sex. One night ()f fun just isn't worth it anymore. So the students are horny,. but sex. isn't the only way to have fun! Moreover, how can it be fun when we are consta11tly worrying about AIDS md other SID's! I started out saying this wouldn't turn i11to a lecture. I lied. If studellts are sexually active they should take thy following precautions: l) have a mutually faithful (monogamous) relatio11ship 2) explore sexual activities other than intercourse (\dry\ activities that don't excha11ge body fluids) 3) be completely honest with your partner 4) always use a latex cond~m (even with other methods of contraception) The only way to completely elimin;!te the · risk of HIV transmission is to not have sex. I\m pretty confident this trend won~t become too popular anytilll e soon, so please BE RESPONSIBLE l!!!! Rathwell wcts far from the athletic, fast paced relaJ(ed 3.3 student he had been l>efore. But this did uot mean he was going to give up. Rathwell put all of his energies into recovery. .. At 20 years old are you going to accept defeat or live?\ Rathvv ell questioned, when asked why he was so motivated in a situation were so many wou.ld have wallowed The summer .after tht accident., Rathwell played baseball with his family again. This was so he would not lose his nerve:. One year after the accident he returned to Union to fi11ish his degree in civil engineeril!g. Now five years later Rathwell has completed his degre:e and is scheduled to 6 Walk in commencement this June. accident. '\It forces you to geL t----------------------- to know who you really are,\ in self-pity. \ I was going to live and live f1eely. Tile best thing was I a111 110w able too.'' The doctors at Pembroke General Hospital in Canada told Rathwell tllat brain injured people couJd recover most rapidly in the first two years after their ac:ci{j_ent. After this time recovery becomes much slower. Upo11 learning this 'Rathwell set a schedule for himself. First he completed three months of ph:ysical RathVIell made tllis amazing recovery with a very positive out look on life and help from his frien(Js. He found support nqt only from his family at home but also from his brothers at Chi Psi at Union. \The 'brothers were very supportive,\ remembers Rathwell. \A va11 full of brothers took a trip to Canada to visit me in the hospital. _ Anotl1er big influence in Rathwell's recovery is his girlfriend, Stacie Jordan. \Stacie is. my best friend in the way of a girlfriend. She helps IFOR JfiBIJE ILA~T TliJMlE: I • says Rathwell. \Before the accident I just enjoyed being the nice flirtatious guy I still am. But I am better now. I'm better beca:use I've graduated and I have a BS in civil engineering, as in a few other things,\ Rathwell said, squeezing in a last bit of humor. As for future goals Rathwell would like to get a job related to water and waste water, assist people in their own recoveries, spend a lot of time with Jordan, but first and foremost Terry Rathwell would like to \live happy.\ ~({))PI rc ({))Jlt[f}) JJJEN § U § WIHLJL ONJL Y ACCCIEIPJf J?JRJE~ TYJPJEJD) AIQ)VJEJRJfJrSEMJENJfS~ (WE WILL NOT ACCEPT ANYTHING HAND WRITTEN) Poetry Sometimes there is no n·ext tbne by Dass Seaman A blood condom ·Drugs educate friends gay heterosexual Infection john doe kill lies mortal needles obituary play queer random Sex test unprotected virus waste x marks the spot you, yes youth zombie Now I know my AIDS Next time don't come play with me Next time <Jon'tdo drugs with me Next time don't bave sex with me

<asncorbftnsia -Features January 21, 1993, page 11 Uncle Edna Friends \4-eva\? Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers real questions from real people. Edna will be fired soon unless he gets more questions, however. Ambidextrous? Amphibious? Anxious? Antidisestablishmentarianistic? Write Uncle Edna, box 83. Dear Uncle Edna: Sock Hops- can nudist colonies have them? -JC Dear JC: Yes, and they even wear socks. just not on their feet. Dear Uncle Edna: Recently I've been having terrible chest pains, and it hurts when I breath and when I laugh. Help! -Herm DearHenn: Experts I have contacted seem to think that it is a stress related complex but 1 think that it also might have something to do with those clothespins and that hot wax, Dear Uncle Edna: Why do people just walk by you and stare and not say anything? -DP DearDP: Lest we not forget, my son, that some people are mutes. Others, less fortunate. are asses. Dear Uncle Edna: Why is there one kid in every class who finds it his Would duty to answer every stupid rhetorical question that the professor asks? ·DK DearDK: I'm not sure what causes this phenomenon, but it could be corrected 'by installing a few small electro<les under his/her seat. The next time that he/she raises their hand to say \yes professor~ I agree\. fry them. What fun! Dear Uncle Edna: What's with all the huge green diagonal strips that run across campu&? Just curious. -Norton Dear Norton: I believe th~At those are sewer lines. The enormity of them goes to show just how full of s--- the average Union student is. Dear Uncle Edna: It has been rumored that you are going to jump over to CBS in a move similar to Dave Letterman's. Is this true? If so, how much will you be making? and does this mean , you are going to finally reveal · your face to the public? -Leno DearLeno: Sorry but no, I am not going · to leave Concordiensis. My , $15 million dollar contract with the features section doesn't expire until 1995. If . you are interested in finding • out who I am~ then I will print · a photo and personal profile next week. Erin M. O'Neil Associate Features Editor \Luv ya.!\ \Best friends 4- eva! \. \Neva 4-get yal\ \Keep in touch!'•. \Who are these people?\. I wondered to myself as I flipped through the pages of my ye~trbook. Oh, it's my best buddies from the Winchester High School class o' '95. W~ts I ever this cheesy? Did I know how cheesy these people were? Or was I just blinded by the glow of popularity that surrounded them?. Yeah. that must bave been it. It's funny the way things cha11ge. After reading a few more of those ever- profound aDd moving messages scribbled ()n the inside cover, I started thinking about my friends from home and comparing them to my friends here at Union. I can't really decide if friendships here are based on the same things that they are ill high school. Let's investigate., shall we? I went to a fairly small, suburban J>Ublic high sciloQl. You know the type. There were the cool kids, the dorks, the druggies, the football players- very 90210ish, except in Massachusetts. I guess I was \coolN. I had seventeen \best friends\. When we were sophomores the older \c<Jol\ kids called us the Horde because we travelled from place to place in an enormous pack. Yep, those were my friends. My \best friends\ who would get mad at me for forgetting to call them back, the ones who would talk ~bout me the second I left the l'Oorn. The ones I fought abo11t boys with, traded clothes with, drank my first beer with, aid generally spent the formative years of my :life with. I never really knew those people. ¥ eah. I knew who the were \ oin out with\ at 0 you be more promiSCUOUS if AIDS did not exist? MALE FEMALE YES YES 38% NO 30% UNSURE UNSURE 9% 11% the time, 1 knew their phone numbers; bu·t with the excep-tion of three or four, I had no idea who these people were. They were the ones I went to parties with, wbo my name was ~sociated with. But were they really my friends? I mean, were they all m y friends? No. Now I keep in touch with three of them, the same three I always <talked to, and I wonder what I was doing for those four years. Why did it take me so long to figure out who my real friends were? Why -did popularity mean so much'] Because it was high school, that's why! I was a self-absorbed adolescent. God, I'm getting really deep on myself here. So what's the difference at Union? Oh, there are so many. I think making friends here is the result of several phases. For example: 1) First week/term of Freshman year buddies- These are the people who live in your room, on your floor, or in your dorm. You're new at Union, and so is everyone else. You're kind cf scared to be alone. Who better to cling to than those .around you? I've found that the majority of these friendships do not last beyond fall term- not all- but most. After that, you pretty much want t() kill these people from seeing them so much. 2) Academic buddies- Oh, I have J>lenty of these. You share the same major with these people, say Mechanical Engineering. You walk to and from class together. you're lab partners, you study together. You say \let's go out sometime!\ and never do. It's just once of those things. 3) Fraternity I Sorori.ty brothers/sisters- Being an independent, I can't say much about tllis category. Suffice it to say yeu live in the same bouse, and do the familial bondage thing (sounds kind of kinky, doesn't it?). 4) Drunken buddies- Most of us have a lot of these. After a while, the majority of students (I hate to generalize, but ... ) find a few fraternities at which they enjoy spending their evenings. After many a beer, suddenly Joe Schmo standing next to you knows your life story. You're always glad to see each other when you\re out at night, but in the light of day you don't have much to say to each other- besides how wasted you were the night before. Kind of like \Cheers\. 5) Roommates- With the exception of freshman year. your roommates are the people you choose to spend the majority of your time with. You meet these people through a combination of the above mentioned categories. I would have to assume that your roommate/mates are your best friend(s). Of course, if you haven't lived together before, you might not be compatible. and end up wanting to kill each other (see category #1). Regardless of these cate~ories, I do find a few distwbing similarities between friendships here. and frie11dships in high school. The ones that bother me the most are some people's quest for popularity, and the distinct cliques which people separate themselves into. At a party, even though we're all \drunken buddies\ there are still those ever-present circles, or \hordes\, if you will. travelling around together. I guess that's just tJnavoidable. It's not as bad as high school, but almost. It's just interesting to see it from an outsider's point of view. You know what I mean? -.by J e ffG r e en r;.1 \Alth.ough AIDS is certainly a factor that may • deter other people from engaging in promiscuous behavior, I've always bee11 raised the old-fashioned wa.w··l partaer. In addition, I think a lot of other peop.le are ti)O ignorant to rec-ognize the repercussic)Ds unprotected sex with multiple partners could produc.e. Too many people adopt tl_!e attitude of \it can't happen to me\ which is a lot like the way wo111en can alienate themselves frCJm the persistent threat of beillg raped in to day's s&ciety.\ Taylor S. Troischt, '9:3 ••1 think tll,at any socially conscious indi·vidual WilUld be cautious in this day and ~ge. To experience physical ple~sure, in light of the long run daagers ••. is (Ompletely ignorant. It is dan:.gerous not only to ycJUrself but to the ones you love and are intimate with as well.\ anonymous female

January 21, 1993, page 12 Features Did You Ever Wonder? by Jennifer Unterberg Arts Writer l)Why there are nude pictures in \PlayBoy\ Magazine when people just read the articles? 2)Why every time the driver unlocks the door, the passenger lifts up the door knob at the exact, :same time and counteracts the action? 3)Why every time the door says \push\, we \pull\? 4)Why, when we were in high school and taking five classes, we dreamed about taking three, and now that we're taking three, it seems like \three too many.,? 5)Why the \Donnie and Marie Osmond show never came back on reruns? 6)Why they didn't shoot Gilligan the first time he messed up and why could the Professor make a phone out of a coconut, but could never get them off the island? 7) Why it took so long for us to realize that ~ \Three's Company\ was a miscommunication? 8)Why we always ask \what's going on tonight on camp11s?\ when we do the same thing every night? 9)Why when you an inebriated, you assume everyone is just as drunk as you are? lO)Why we wete so impressed because Michael Jackson could stand on his toes? ll)Why we stick our finger in every Brach chocolate in order to find the caramel ones, and why they can't just make a box full of chocolate caramels (who eats the orange cream?) 12)Why we knew so many riddles when we were a kid? 13)Why people bring their babies with them to movies, and why there are always those people sitting next to you push their straw up and down their drink, digging through the ice for more coke? 14)Why we have to sing the alphabet song every time we're looking up a word in the dictionary. And why isn't 'L:M.NOP' one letter, anyway? 15)Why Tony Danza is always so happy? 16) Why in movies such as \Parent Trap\ and ''Mary Poppins\ the kids have British accents and the parents are American? 17) Why stewardesses keep telling us how to put our seat belts on -like wehaven~t been told before? 18)Why we have to go out and have \the best time ever\ on New Years Eve\! 19)Why every ;person in Schenectady has a limp? 20) Why no one has been arrested yet for s:tealing bin food at Price Chopper? 2l)Why Mr. Rogers had a \Magic Kingdom\ in his home, and we never questioned his sanity or drug usage? 22)Why we watch the commercials instead of the T.V show? 23)Why it takes five seconds before the first car moves when the light turns: green? 24)Why it startles 11s so much when our arm is resting on the window and tile driver starts to roll it up? 25)Why, when we were first learning how to water ski, they forgot to tell u.s to let go of the rope when we fall (so, instead, when we fell, we went around and around the lake underwater, llolding on the rope for dear life)? 26)Why we used t() freak out when we were kids and we'd see our first grade teacher in a store (as if they don~t go out)? 27)Why security doesn't realize that if we ever had a real fire, we'd think it was just a drill? 28) Why the Engel's, in \Little House on tlke Prairie\ hung out with that snotty family, \The Olsens\ anyway? 29) Why Dental Hygienists ask you in depth questions while they are cleaning your teeth arid shoving gauze in your math? 30) Why when we ask someone for the time, they respond with \five after\ ... After what? 31) Why there are two types of people, cat lovers and cat haters and no in betweens? 32)Why we have tc pay for things we charge?. 33)Why, when you slam your finger in the car door, you become so angry you could hit someone? 34) Why, if they can make a car that goes from 35MPH to 70MPH in less than a second, can't they make a (ar that goes from 70MPH back to i 35MPH in less than a second ·: (maybe, we wouldn't get so ! m~y tickets, than)?. 35} Why, when someone says 1· \don't look, now\ we.!. immediately look? 36)Why when you finish.: dialing someone's phone , number you forget who you : are calling? · · 37)Why people forget that if ; you put a cold popsicle to : your lips, it wiil stick t<J ! them? 38) Why the kids in the Aim· . ~ commercials never brush their' :' ~k~th? . 39)Why we think that when:, we are in a foreign country, if : '-· we speak English with a ·; foreign accent, we will be · understood? 40) Why people look at their .' kleenex after they blow their nose? 4l)Why, when we were a little kids, and we would not be able to fmd our parents for less than a minute, we honestly thought that if they couldn't find us, they would simply give up and go home, and that would be that? 42) Why does \I'll neveJ drink, again\ ,last until we wr feel better? 43)Why is nothing funnier than seeing someone wipe out? 44)We do we laugh when we hear terrible bad news? 45) Why do some jokes never grow old? 46) Why is the 'express line' limit 11 items, and does a dozen eggs count as 12 or 1 (who draws the line)? 47)Why do we say \did you · here, that fraternity is having 5 kegs tonight\ when all we need are 5 or 6 beers? 48) Why do people always have to announce when they have to use the bathroom? 49) Why can't they make the sticky stuff on the envelopes taste better? 50) Why does the Publisher's Clearance House say on the envelope that you have won, when you haven't? 51) Why do we twitch right before we go to sleep, and why is it so embarrassing? 52)Why we're expected to know what we want to do once we've graduated?!! <llvnrorb irn.sis A Different .View But It Shouldn't Be by C~aig T. Pike Features Writer It was drurk: wllen they came. It did not mat.ter. for they were too small tao be detected. But then, I am o11ly talking of mankind's senses. \Report i\zur! \ barked a being that ~Dne might mistake for an iridescent l>ubble, if not for the f=.~ct that it was microscopLc and somehow emulated tlte ,characteristics of a drill sergemt. \A flaw bas been found, Tau! This i~ their evolutionary downfall, llleir tragic flaw! This species, wllich we had thoug,ht to possess uncontrolllab le ingrown adaptability, can be easily defeated!\ sputtered the underling. 'Incredibler We can finally be freed f:t:om this menace which wouilcl have destroyed our new wml.<J. On this planet we can thriv-e and recapture our lost glory. Tell me, Azur, what is this flawr' \It is wb!lt destroys their .reason. Thi;S flaw makes them forget their sense of self preservati()Ji. They take unnecessary risks, ignore their fellow being;, and act without thought. Tfuey even refuse to deal with th.e flaw, denying its existence. r t is kept in the dark, makin!l it easier for their younglings to be ensnared. Instead of the formidable enemies ~e know, they become me1e reactive, blind savages. Tbi~ sentient race is reduced to =.~ negligible thing that can. be easily controlled by · manipulation of its base emotions reLating to that flaw. It is the spe:cies actions when entering in wllat they call sex.\ \Have we discovered how c .0 ::J cr: ..c 0> Q) -' ~ OJ @ en Cl) ..Q :J a: we can best exploit this flaw? We need to exterminate this species so that we can be sure that our new home may be secure from its destructive influence.\ \Yes we have already designed a disease which maximizes the uncommunicative and re.ckless behavior that Mankind exemplifies when in the thrall of its weakness. We will soon end Mankind's reign on our future land.\ Time passes. \AIDS: A look at the people trying to come up with a cure to this deadly virus. News at eleven.\ While Mankind finds itself self-destructing in the wake of this horrible virus, deep within the earth wakes an ancient entity. Energy, love, magic and life flow out from this being, encircling first the forests, then the mountains, then the seas. It ebbs out of the ground, seeping into the Streets of cities. Soon after. a cure for AIDS is miraculously found in a plant previously unknown, growing . in one of the first forests that the being touched and caressed with its magic. A blazing forest-fire caused by human greed is quenched nearby, ensuring the plant's survival._ The tiny aliens are absorbed into the magic drenched ground. Mankind lives on. A nice story. Yeah, well, there is no alien invasion fomenting and encouraging the AIDS virus. As for Mankind's flaw, just look around. And yes, there is Magic, and he is feeling the touch of the AIDS virus too. AIDS is no story. Get informed. Stop our tragic flaw from destroying Mankind's potential. - r--1 I N .,£) The sexual harassment suit that sent shock waves through the dairy industry. Write For Features And Get A Better Job I ' I ! ·I I I. I I .J ,. I J t ( I I ) I ( I 8 s n f1 1\ I! 11 0 c

! I ·' I } @ttnrnrb irttsis i :: - .Single White Female ... Seeking charming Union student who knows how to dance... to MEET ME AT THE RAMADA ... Sat. Fedb. 20th ... Details (and a phone #) to follow ... Young enthusiastic male looking for new liver. If interested, please feel free to caH Nish Nadaraja atX4310 Athletic, ;handsome male who occassionallt enjoys a gin and toncic looking for a lady-friend to enjoy \_ntim.ate evenings rowing, chilling, viewirng walruses, and just having a good time. Contact K. \Row my boat\ Puppe. Matt- Next time, let someone erse pick the movie! . To the Brothers of ZBT: Black and White was really great- same time next year~ let's make it fate. The Sisters of Gamma Pili Beta. Ha,ppy 21st Birthday Deb. We Love You!! The Gang. Do you like pina coladas? Getting caught in the rain? Then I'm the lady you look for:' write to me and explain. (Box 2577) A loving man (a school teacher) prof. - devoted Dad yearn to share our lives with newborn. Family picnics, homebaked cookies, but most immportantly a warm and loving family. Await your infant. Expenses paid. Call Joan & Bob collect so we can talk. 212-772-9254 .JDB!i CANCUN BAHAMAS JAM'AI'CA & MORE. HEATWAVE VACATIONS SPRING BREAK 1993. ABSOLUTELY THE LOWEST PRICES GUARAN1EED. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 1- 800-395-W AVE. Sitter needed for 2 children in nice home nearby. Tuesdays & some Thursdays. Hours are flexible. 346-8281. · CR.U.iSE. JOBS Students Needed! llam$2,000+ /monUt wor~g forcruise ships or tour companies. Holiday, Suntmer, and Full- Time employment available. For your '92/'93 employment program call: Cruise IImplayment Se111i~es (206) 634-0468 Ext. c 5188 : •INTERNATIONAL ErviPL~YMENT ~.- Make: money teaching English abroad. Ja- pan and Taiwan. Make$2,000-$4,000+ p~r montll. Many provide room and board + other bene.fitsl No prior training ()f teaching certificate r~quiredl For pr<Jgram call: · Intcrnatilanal Employnlent Group ~......_.;..(2~6) 632-1146 Ext. J5188 Campus News January 21, 1993, page 13 SPRING BREAKERS-Promote our florida Spring Break packages. Earn Money and Free trips. Organize Small or Large groups. Campus Marketing. 800-423--5264 UNI'ON COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT. and THE BIOLOGY CLUB Wanted- Campus rep v· for Bermuda Dept. of Trip. call Barbara Jorda11 800-223-6106 x230 Present Wandering Through the Embryo: Cell Migration in Early Embryos ·D:r, ::Rmll!'l] :Ftnh Department of Biological Sciences Mount Holyoke College South Hadley, Massachusetts A woman's ring was found near Fiji. Call X6635 to give description. Thursday, January 21, 1993 4:40 p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m. Social Sciences 104 A Tenurability review is being conductedfor PROF. SEYFOLLAII MALEK;!: Department €lf Physics Faculty, srudents, .administrators and staff may contribute relevant infonnation concerning teaching, scholarship, and college Service to: Prof. Martha Huggins Professor of Sociology Social Science Bldg. UNION COLLEGE . \t.ARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE b.¥OLOGY DEPARTMEN' and THE BIOLOGY CLUB Present Wandering Through the Embryo: Cell Migration in Early Embryos ·IJ)):r\ ffi:nce[h:ail lF~llil:k Department of Biological Sciences Mount Holyoke College So11til Hadley, Massacilusetts Thursday, January 21, 1993 4:40 p.m. Rerreshmeuts 4 ;30 p.m. Social Sciences 104 The aging of EuJope By the year 2020, more than one-quarter.of the European Community's population wiiii!Je overage60. Percent of EC population c::::;:, 20 to 59 years old - Under19 '·\\\\'\\ Over 60 30%~ .......... 20% ;:..: .... 10% ·6o ·ao 2000 · .. · .Kin{fCrossworcil · · :·,. · · · . • • l • ACROSS l. Appears 6. A tlouflder 9. Acct. .1~. Serf J.3. Beverage · with fish ·• 1111d chips 14. Center 15. Obliterate 16. Driver's · bane 18. Arid land 20. Scoltish Gaelic 2L Mr. Sprat's aversion 23. Joey, for one 24. Winter forecast 25. Egyptian goddess 27. Harass 29. Metal 31. Arranged beforehand 35. Adult insect 11 12 3 14 15 .6 p 112 1:: 115 IB 121 22 m23 _m 125 126 129 1 ~135 !44 47 152 I 55 54. H.eg1ster 55. Half an African fly m !27 128 30 ;;~JI m 141 B 145 148 153 156 8. Gambler\s downfall 9. Task IB 19 po 111 114 7 -~LU 124 I' i32 33 134 1§!37 142' 43 149 50 I 51 b4 57 36. Bright- yellow 38. Herring 37. Hwy. divisions 56. Ballpoint 57. Cowboy's need DOWN 10. Heartbeat II. Red as- 39. Inslnnnents 38. A reserve 41. \-on a Grecian Urn\ 43. Not aDem. 44. Mail 45. Type of hammer 47·. Like some nuts 49. Poppy and caraway 52. High school subj. 53. Miner's quarry 1. Haggard novel 2. Poetic contraclion 3. Flexible 4. Superlative word 5. Like a mountain 6. Cover wilh spols ?. Lily's cousin 17. Defore ske her 19. !'aula (Sp.) 21. Fish feature 22. \-Lay Dying'\ 24. Indian weight 26. Mini aud maxi 28. A fine porcelain 30. Dulch uncle 32. l\lain and side 33. Shoe wiclll1 34. Recipe abbr. 40. Siouan language 42. One of the Fords 45. Dry 46. Actress Rowlands 48. Apex 50. - Moines 51. 11aeatcr sign . GERMAN L!NIVERSI1Y EXCHANGE: spe-nd your junior year m Berlin, Hetdelberg, Wuerzburg--or mote than a dozen other possible universities--as Union's official exchange student! Regardless of your major, if you are a sophomore at this point, and have a~ le?st a beginne~'s kn?wledge of German, you may be eligible for Umon s German umverstty exchange, under the auspices of the Federation of Gennan-American Clubs. For more·information see Prof. Warde i11 tl1e Department of Modern Languages (I-IU 211) within the next two wejlks. U · N .. I • 0 · N • 'S WEEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 22 I~ 15-!·30pln- C<>llcgcCmt<~Ru .. ,t~tt JnJ Japllnl\~e converc..J.ttnn tahlc-. 7-4 p m \nl!t•ge rcnlt:r HN ·In I~T\.tr•qt~ ChrhUJn Fellow,htp 8 & 10 p /It Cnllcgc Ccntn ~u.! h:1t1 ··swgk Whttc FcmJk .. SATURDAY. JANUARY 23 8 & 10 p m. Colkg.: Ccrllcr .tuJ: Ft!trt \Sm~lc Whtte Female·· SUNDAY, JANUARY 24 9 a.m MemuriJ! Fidd lJPU>t: Men·\ Jnd women· s tra<:k Unton lnntJl!ut:lJl. 7 30 p.tn St J0hn the banglt>l Chureh !'iewmJn Cluh Catholtc mass 7 30 p.m. Old Chapel. ProtestJnl wnr,lttp service. 8& !Op.11t Coll~geCentcrJuJ Ft!m \'Single White F~mdlc \ MONDAY, JANUARY 25 12·15-1:30 p.m. College Ccntcr.Frcnchnm· versation table. 6:30-7:30 p.IIL College Ccnler40<J Student Forum meftmg 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. SpCJkr· s l:'nrum presents C .ul Bernstem of tht! .IVashmgfr>n Posr spe.tking on \The !J:ot ru! ture.\ 8 & 10 p.nc College Center JuJ. Film \Smgle White Female.\ TUESDAY, JANUARY 26 11·30 a.m.-l.p.m Hale llomc lower lounge Dtet workshop. 11:30 0.111.·1 p.111. Hale Hou;t: dinmg room. Faculty soup and beverag~ dub ll 30 a./11.·1.30 p.1n Art' ~triurn Humi.ln Rdations open hou,o. 12: 15-l p.nc College Center. Cbine'\ con- vcrsatton tahlc. 6-8:30 p.m College Centcr40o Ncwm\n Cluh. 6·30-9· 30 p nt College Center £U<i Englhh Department presents \L~ Dol<:c Vita ... WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27 II a.1n -1 p.11t College Center Jlnum~ CDC sponsors the Community Servtce F~tr l~·/5-1:15 p.m. Cnllegc Center 2().~ <Jerman Club. 12.·15-!:30 p m. Cnlkgc \cnler. Gcrm~n .. md Sp.1nhh ... \,flV~.r-.Jth'n tJI\\'J~o·, J p 111 Buncrt'tdJ ~Ol lie •. •;1 ll.; .:·.· ... c.:nun .. u \'i·'l!tmg Pr\,~~...,.,.1 ~~r. .J. '-~···· ~pl·..lklll.t! •'II :\ {'JllqJl fl:._~J:; ..• ;( ,, __ !: ... 111 ~1~..-t.;n,,rphl ... Rll~,f... ... ..J {' m .·\(UIIIJH tijlll ~k-1:-. .1!.. \ : ... : '\.'UllJnlll~ v., ~1IJJlt:bur. ... p \' CnUt.'~L' ( \·ntl'I 4111· 'tf.!rt: r: t ·. film 'Tunt' f\ 1 f f{c\ ~:n_::t' S \-( !0 p m .. Cllllt:g.L' C.:nh:r H ... ,! 1 •·: \1\nunJ! H''\'\ .. THURSDAY, JANUARY 28 11 w.nt 5 p nt O!J Ch\pc: BI.···Jn \''' C 15-L30ptn Cdieg~ (\::llcr ell' lnw,tmcnt Cluh 3·30p.11t Art> But!Jw~ l.c-rua· Jl.:.l ,J,,k show by Pamtcr Thom..t-. ~. ,, j..., ·\\ ,J.... 'II 'Abstr~ct P..unung' 6pm :vkmondl hdJ l!.·u\ I\''·•· ·\·'· bd,kell>Jll \' ltumlt''\ 7-30 p 1n College Cent~r lOr, t ianun :lit: ··Ang~t c~:-.en ScdL' Jut;t:\lt l .. .J,r I .J~ ... th ... Soul.\ FRIDAY, JANUARY 29 12 !5-1·30 p.llt (\>lle~c (\:nlc'r !(\\'·'\ !ltd JJ.pJ.n~.:~e conv~..:r~JlJLln tJhk ... 7 p rn Pc:rformmg Art-. -.tuJ~~ l D~.·r.u tlll<..t:t ·: Pcrf<.lrmmg Arh \Vmtcr c\1fh .:rt 'H.TII.'' pre;cnt> \CI\'\\Jl l'lutc ~~\''' .·! \>• •uth lnJt.t .. 7- CJ p.1n College Center .+(.)•J llllcT\ Jr' 11' Chn 'U.Jn Fdlo> whtp 7 30 p.tTL Acbtllc; Rmk 1!,,,!.,,~ \ Rl'l 8 & 10 puc College Center Jud I drn \!lc1ncymoon m VcgJ' .. SATURDAY, JANUARY 30 5 p.nt l'vlcm<>nJ! Ftc!J HLlu\ Ja1 ',·,- mc·n ' ha,kelhdll v,. Elmtra 7 p.1n Mcmon~l held Men ' l>a,l..cthail \ Umua I! p flt Mcmwta! ( \hapcl \t ( ·,, tltJ Charnl>cr Orche,tra 8 & }() p m. Clllkgc Center Jllcl l1::n \Hnnt.:ymnon Jil Vc.=~J:-. · SUNDAY, JANUARY 31 7 30 p /It St. 141hll the h an;:dt•: I '!tut. :: Nevcm..1n C!uh C.Jth<>lt<: lllJ\ I! & 10 I'm. C.>lkgc Cc·ntc-r JUd I d:n \lloncymonn lll VcgJ.., ·· By Leigh Rubin \I can't tell you w~at a ple~sure and a privilege it is to teach such a bnght lool<:ng group of individuals.\ ROSES ARE RED AND VIOL TS ARE BLUE ... BUT... A TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATE IS THE PERFECT PRESENT FROM YOU UNION ·COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERT:IFICATES AVailable for .purchase and Valentine's day delivery from the TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE . CollegeCenter-103 CALL 370-S411.FOR MORE INFORMATION ..

J a.nuary 21, 1993, page 14 SPORTS 'Single-gam·e scoring reco,rds Paints scored by individual against NCAA basketball Division I opponent: Track and Field Team Shows Promise Points Year :KEvin Bradshaw, 72 1991~ U.S. lnt'l. vs. Loyola (CalifJ ___ _ Pe1e Maravich, LS U vs. Alabama 69 19 70 ca-ivi·n···M-lirptt·v·;· .. ····· ......................................................... .. Niagara vs .. Syracuse 1968 SOURCE: National Collegiate Athletic Association Lacrosse and Baseball Super Raffle Results J>rizcs 1 Cash 2. VCR 3 Cash 4- Cash 5 1V G Cash 7 Cash 8 SEGA 9 Cash l() Camcorder Value $100 $250 $100 $100 $250 $100 $100 $150 $200 $600 Tllailks for y:our support! Winner Fred Pmnic Ryan James Jim T.G. Troy Casey Bernlmrd Brian Harris Alison Lent Rc NoCo Co. Sal Fcrramli P.J. Starnes Rick Clifford 211d Annual Super Raffle coming this spring term! WEARING SHORTS [s ENcouRAGED. Pl. bathing suit and sun block wouldn't be a bad idea either. Just be prepared for a week of fun. It ·s a multiple choice spring break. Games. parties, contests, free party c-ruise. free food <~.n• lc'ntcrtiunment Tennis and g-<H. too. Or go sn.(htsl'l'Jng ,-)n .1 moped :\nd don· 1 tor[!et rJcr heautiiul pmk h,'achcs a11d turquoiS<' watl'rs. :\I! less than two hours away. .So do whatcha like. Just don't let 1t go to your head. For more information, call Stockare Travel. Inc. 1421 Erie Boulevard. Schenectady, NY 12305 518-377-6409 By th~ Union Track and Field Team The Union College Track and Field team has begun a promising new season. The coming of the new season has also brought many new faces to the team. The rookies and veterans of the team have come together to fonn a solid group with the potential to place Union Track and Field on top. The season began on Sunday , January 10 when a small group of men 1raveled to the Dartmouth Relays in which many Division I teams competed. Though the team was small, they made an impact on the meet when junior Rich Pulver won the shot put with a throw of 49'. The other members of the team put forth a great effort as well. All who made the trip should be pleased, however there is room for improvem~nt in everyone. The next weekend the team · · Sports Quiz Answers · l. New York Rangers5()..25-5 (lOS points); 2. San Jose Sharks 17-58-5 (39 points); 3. Three (Minnesota, ·Buffalo, Hartford); 4. Mark Messier of New York; 5. Pavel Bure of Van- couver, 6. Patrick Roy of Montreal; 7. Boston Bruins (1977 and 1978} BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS MARCH 8-APRIL 8 Packa<J\· oos<d on '!'ravel Turf pncmg from~'\' York and Phlladelphia. Add-ons apply from nther pornts of deparrurr Pnces based on roun<.hop purchaoe weekend a.rfares, for travelJ/6/93 rhrough ~IW/91 Pnces sh~htly lower for weekd\ trawl Pnces are based on four per room. mrmmtJm ptopmy ratr~orv Pncr' vary hv \'holmler and may he sub1ect to rhan~e and avarlab 1 1ity traveled to Hamilton fora meet against NYU and Hamilton. Again the team did quite weU. The runners held their own on the track with freshmen Seth Rudin and Mitch Weisenberg placing third and fiftll with times of 4:28.1 and 4:40 respectively. In the 400m, freshman Jon Simon placed second with a time Of .53.71. Next up· were freshmall Russ Stram and sophomore Marc Sheridan in the 800m. Both did well with Russ placing third in 2:08.9 and Marc finishing fourth in 2:14.5. The sprinters were next in the 200m withJon Simon placing second in 24.25 and Mike Leding placing Fifth in 24.74. There could be. a little rivalry growing between these two athletes considering the relatively short time separating their finishes. Once again the distance runners went t<> work with freshmen John Metz and Adam Russell running in the 3000m. John used a strong kick to place second in 9:59.23 while Adam came across in 10:40.4. Then the relays came around with the men doing well in both the 4x400m and 4x800m relays finishing second and third respectively. Rounding out the day were the field events. Junior Rich Pulver won the shot put with a substandard throw of 13.80m. Freshman Jon Minehardt placed fourth in the long jump,. 5.13m and then placed second in the triple jump with a leap of 11.2lm. All in aU, the men should not be disappointed. The team is progressing well and everyone is working hard to reach their goals. The season is young and anything can happen. If you have any interest in joining the outdoor track team you should talk to coach Dave Herrington as soon as possible. Be one of those who challenge the limits of human performance; join tbe Union College Field and Track team. SUPPORT UNI-ON ATHLETICS Top 10. Movies 1. Hoffa starring Jack Nicholson 2. Scent or a Woman AI Pacino 3. A Few Good Men Tom Cruise 4. Used People Jessica Tandy 5. Forever Young Mel Gibson 6. Aladdin voices by Robin Wil- liams 7. Home Alone 2: Lost in New York Macaulay Culkin 8. Toys Robin Williams 9. Leap or Faith Steve Mllrtin 10. The Distinguished Gentleman Eddie Murphy Lemieux continued from pg. 15 paralyzed. Then there was the death of Carl Barger, Florida Marlins owner, during the 1992 baseball winter meetings. Hopefully, the shocking news that eminated from Pittsburgh last week will be the end of such tragedy. But for now, we can only pray for Mario Lemieux. · · . · .Na1asha's Stars· · · . · · · : ARIES (March 21-Apnl 19) Now hat you're finally reaping the harvest of your efforts at. work. it's ti~ to consider a much-needed vacation. Even a weekend getaway would go a long way toward recharging those creative batteries. TAtJlUJS (April 20-May 20) You may fmd it difficult this weekto figure out what's motivating certain people's actions. Don't let this get you down. All will be clear very soon. In the meantime, try to have a relaxing, do- nothing weekend. GEMINI (May 21-JUJte 20) Romance is in the stars for you this week. whether single or attachf:d. Take full advantage of this. Let your im- agination go, and indulge all those naughty fantasies. Your partner will be more than willing. CANCER (June 21-July 22) It's time to move out of the play mooe and get back to reality. Take care of all that unfinished business waiting f<>r you at work. If you don't, you'll find yourself working into the weekend. LEO (July 23-August 22) This is a good week for you to take stock of your physical needs. A bit more exercise wouldn't hurt, and it would be wise to pay attention to your diet. You've been a bit negligent in that area since the holidays. VIRGO (August 23-Septem.ber 22) While it's .. back to the drawin~ board\ time for you, you will find yourself feeling invigorated by the challenge. As a result, you'll be burning that mid· night oil. A loved one may disapprove, but all your work will pay off. LmRA (September 23-0ct<>ber 22) Family and friends will be impressed with how well you handle some minor disappointments. By the end of the week. everything will be loolcing UIJ once again, leaving you refreshed anll relieved for the weekend's socializin~. Accept invitations out, and enjoy. SCORPIO (October 23-Novembe:r 21) Last week, it seemed you couldn\t do anything wrong if yol! tried. This week, events don't flow quite s10 smoothly. However, you're up to th.e challenge and find creative ways 0of handling it. Rest up this weekend. SAGliTARIUS (November 22 · December 21) The time for lying lo\OIJ is over. Others will look to you thLs week for the answers, and you '11 hoe able to provide that much-needecl leadership with your innovative apt· proach. Higher-ups take notice and :a financial bonus could very weii be !11. your future.· CAPRICORN (December 22 . January 19) The beginning of the weel will find you somewhat lethargic. ancl a bit down. However, toward midl· week. things will once again be look· ing up. Even better, by the weeken<l, you will be positively beaming. Go otii and party this weekend. You deserv.e it. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) You're going to have to resist thte temptation to fly off in a million dif· ferent directions this week A problem at hand will require all your energy and concentration. Let that brillia11t Aquarian mind do its best stuff. PISCF:S (February 19-March 20} You are not aware of it, but a loved onte is not pleased with your tendenc;y toward picky criticisms. Think careful- ly about this, and you will find some of your critiques are unjustified and blown out of proportion. Spend the weekend making up hurt feelings. ~1993 by King Features Synd.

<lLtutrJlrbirttsia SP.ORTs· ' . skiers (left to right}SllSha Mason, Liz Landa, Brianna Patnode, Nicole Zamans:ky, Cindy Mayne. Ski Team Starts Strong at Hunter IJy Liz Land.:a Contributing Writer This past weekerud, the Union Colllege ski te;trrn got its season underway witll a race at Hunter Mountain. Among the other teams to participate were the hosts from the Uaited States Military Academy, Paul Smiths College, RPI, Clarkson, Adirondack CommUIIity College, .Allbany State, Skidmore, and Y ermont Tech.. Five men and 'WiQmen represented Union at this race. Saturday was the slalom race. The ;s.now conditi()ns left a little t-o be desired, ltS large ruts developed very q 11ickly. On the women's team, Cindy Mayne, a freshman from Rutland, Vermont, liad an excellent college debJUt and finished first. Other :fi11Lshers for Union were B r.iianna Patnode in sixth, Sasha Mason in tentll, and Liz La11da in twentieth after fallin~ in her second run~ Betsy Mitche:ll got caught in those large 111ts in her second run and was ullable to finish. These resul~ were good enough to beat out rival team Clarlcson to finish .first in the slalom. The men's team. was successful as well. Brooks Glahn was the top finisher for . the men's team in a remarkable second place. Other finishers included Sean Livingston in third, Mike Singer (Skippy) in thirteenth, and Josh Goldberg in sixteenth. Josh Kane had similar problems to Betsy and was unable to finish. The men's team finished first in the slalom by beating out an excellent team from Paul Smiths. · In the giant slalom on Sunday, the conditions had improved tremendously. Once again, freshman Cindy Mayne had an impressive- showing finishing . first. Other---Union - finishers were Liz Landa in third, Nicoie Zamansky in ninth, Briana Patnode in eleventh, and freshman Sasha Mason in sixteenth. The women's team again scored an impressive victory over Clarkson. On the men's side, they ran into a bit more trounble. Brooks Glahn led the way once again by finishing an impressive sixth. Other racers had more difficulty making it down the slope. The second run claimed Sean Livingston and Josh Goldberg. After falling, they rotll managed to hike and finisrn the race. By this time, they \Were both pretty far back in the standings. Mike Singer and Josh Kane were both disqu:3lified in the second run. These results pushed the men's team llack to sixth place for the evenL Overall for the weekend, the women·s team finished first, taking ll~me the top honors for the weekend. This was their first md definitely not their last victory ()f the season. Cindy Mayne clinched the overall combined award with her top finislles.. The men's team finishced in fourth after some tough I:Jreaks in the giant slalom. Hopefully they will matcb tlleir slalom perlorrnance in the giant slalom event in upcolll ing weekends. Indiviodually. Brooks Glahn took :~econd in the overall combi11e<i for the weekend with some very impressive skiing. Next weekend, the ski team will travel to Lake Placid to a bittel' cold Whiteface Mou~tain. The next three weekend~ we will be at nearby West Mountain. We would love te see your support on the hill! Lemieux Battles Hodgkin's Disease ___ B_'j_G __ r_e_g_K_a_li .... srll___ later diagnosed as Hodgkin's. Corcordiensis Stajf Fortunately, Hodgkin's Disease is the most curable form of cancer. More than 90% The continuing trend of tragedy in the world of sperts continued. last week as lt was announced that Pitt:sburgh Peng11in superstar Mario Lemieux: had the form efZeancer ~ow11 as Hodgkin's Disease. Lemieux. arguably til~ best hockey player in the world today, was leading theNEL in points with 104 and lu-<1 his Penguin team in first ifJlace overa:ll at the time -of the announcement. Lemieux had missed the two games prior t·o the announcement with back trouble, an ailment tllat has hindered him since llis e!lbmice into the league. The cance.:r was found in a lymph tiiat was removed from Lemieux•s neck during an examinatio11 to determine the cause: of Lemieux's back pain. lt was of those diagnosed with Hodgkin's survive with few or no side effects. Furthermore, the type of Hodgkin's contracted by Lemieux is the \best\ type, or the most curable. Even better news, however, is that the disease was caught early, preventing any possible spreading to other parts of the body. It is safe to say that the odds of beating the disease are currently in Mario's favor. While paling in comparison to the possibility of death, the future of Lemieux's hockey career is in doubt. The Penguins say that their superstar wiil be able to return to the ice in 4-6 weeks. However, Lemieux faces chemotheraphy and radiation treatment, the two methods of killing the cancer which greatly debili1a1es and weakens the body. Karl Nelson, former offen~i\'e. lineman for the New York Giants, was diagnosed with H()dgkin's after the 1987 season atld was never able to make it back to the football field. If Lemieux is able to return .to the grind of the NHL schedule in a month and a half, it would be incredible if not miraculous. Iflle is unable to return, the hockey world and fans world'\\i<le will be dealt a blow of m~gna11imous proportion. These last two years have been tragic for the world of sport~, There was Magic John;Son's stunning annoumc:ment in November of 1991 1b~t he had contraced HIV, tile virus that causes AIDS. Tllere have been two major football injuries to Detroit Lions offensive linemaJt Mike Utley and New York Jetsdefensive end Dennis Byrd leaving both men C<Jldinued on pg. 14 January 21, 1993, page 15 l ' chach alk by John Schachnovsky 'Concordiensis Staff Sports heroes come and go like the seasons. The world is never at a loss for a sports figure that young children can look at and dream of emulating. However, as fast as the heros come into the world. they are rushed out of the spotlight with the speed of a Roger Clemens fastball. It is very odd to see a hero of the past making the news for events that are of the present- day. This week was an exception to this ongoing rule. Hall of Fame pitcher Ferguson Jenkins made the news for things other than baseball as he came out of seclusion following the murder/suicide of his girlfriend and three year old daugbtar. Jenkins suffered two years ago when his wife, at the time, died in a fatal automobile accident. Jenkins' story is one of personal pride and conviction. Without going in to the details of the deaths, the tragedy suffered by Jenkins is all too painful to recount. Instead of belaboring the point regarding the nature of the deaths of his relctivcs, Jenkins came out this week to praise the support he has felt from the entire baseball community. He recieved numerous phone calls of support from men like Gaylord Perry, Nolan Ryan, and Ernie Banks. This support is just an inkling of the power and bond of professional team sports. We hear every day of the massive contract disputes and of the hassles involved in player conduct, it is truly refreshing to hear stories of retired athletes who can keep control of their lives even in the face of real human suffering. As the term roles on, and problems start to accumlatc on our desks, we should all look at the tremendous effort to continue living life displayed by Ferguson Jenkins. .. ---~ •' .·. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • a • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••• Concordiensis SUBSCRIPTIONS • $40/yr . $100/3 yr. • DON'T YOUR PARENTS WANT TO KNOW ABOUT UNION? ••••• ~upport Wnion ~port!) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • \ ~-

<!Inttnlrbirnsi.s January 21, 1993, EARLY SUCCESS FOR) SWIMMING AND DIVING By Lee Schachter Concordiensis Staff Who said a woman can't coach a men's team? Well, believe it or not, the RPI swim coach said it, referring to Union's Susan Bassett of the men's and women's swim teams. But Union's men's team pummeled RPI, 146-88. For those of you out there who know anything about S{X)rts, that really is not a close score. Just to sum up quickly, I won't go into much detail about the women's meet because all of the women swam pretty well, and they didn't really need to worry- they won 134-68, but could have won by more. They swam much of the meet as exhibition so as not to make the score too lopsided. The divers took first, second, and third in both the one-meter and three-meter events. The men's team, however, needed to swim well in order to beat the RPI team. Apparently they did. They took first plact in over half of the events, including both relays. Sven Zabka, Dave Robison~ and Seth Sealfon each came in first twice. Union's divers, Dave Robison and Matt Baumgartner, outscored RPI' s divers 22-3 over the course of the meet. Union's top three sprinters, Chip Quarrier. Martin Logan. and James Ernst, took first, second, and third in the 50 yard freestyle to propel the Dutchmen way ahead of RPI to stay. again destroy their opponent. In fact, for the second time this week, they were able to swim much of the meet as exhibition, and the final score was still 151-85. The highlight of the meet was when Julie Benker qualified for the National Division III Championships with a time of 59.4 for the 100 backstroke when she needed a 59.5 to qualify. The men had a more difficult meet however. Early in the meet, they were losing by as much as 37-18. But Martin Logan, James Ernst, and Chip Quarrier took first, second, and third, respectively, in the 50 yard freestyle. Scott Bowden then took first in the 200 yard individual medley, and Dave Robison and Matt Baumgartner took first and second in three-meter diving to send Union ahead by the score of 57-55. Dave Robison had a spectacular performance and qualified for the men's National Division III Championship meet. But Hartwick took first_ in three out of the next four events, including first, second, and third in the 500 free. Union combatted that by taking first. second, and third in the 100 free with B{}wden, Logan, and Sealfon,. Dutchmen Falter by Dagan La Corte Associate Sports Editor After an impressive win versus Princeton one week ago, the Union Hockey team hoped to carry the momentum into their games against Harvard and Dartmouth this past weekend. Entering tbis week Harvard was ranked first in the E.C.A.C., and second overall in the nation. Starti11g goalie Mike Gallant was up to the task stopping 35 of 38 Crimson shots • Harvard scored twice in the first period, m&unting thirteen shots on goal as compared to only six by Union. After the f'Jrst Sports Quiz - _ . - by Larrypuncan NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 1. What team had the best overall record in the N.H.L. last year? 2. What team had the worst overall record in the N.H.L. last year? 3. How many teams made the N.H.L. playoffs last year with a losing record? 4. Who was the Most Valuable Play Harvard Tough; Against Dartmouth intermission, Union picked up its play to the level of Harvard. Six minutes into the second period, freshman center Ryan Alaspa tallied his third goal of the seaso11 to pull Union within one goal. Chris Sears and sophomore Chris Albert assisted on the goal. Union continued to play well, but with tell minutes remaining in the period, Harvard's Chris Baird put one past Mike Gallant to •e the score 3-l. In the period the Dutchmen outshot the Crimson 9-8. During the third period Harvard's offense exploded for seventeen shots, but goalie Mike Gallant refused to falter . Harvard out played Union in the period, but the only goal was by Dutchman Chris Hancock. With forty seconds left in the game, Reid Simonton unleashed a slapshot, that was tipped in by Hancock to make the final score 3-2. win against Dartmguth would have put Un!on in playoff contention. · · Maybe they were tired from the game against Harvard, or maybe they were not used to a Sl!nday night game; but the fact is Union put on .a weak performance against Dartmouth. Both teams looked lackluster throughout the game. It seemed more like a day at the ballpark ;tflan a hockey game. Union wok .the lead, when defemsemen Scott Boyd skated the puck into the offensive zone, and shot it past the Dartmouth goalie for a 1-0 lead. Dartmouth tied the game one minute later .on a goal by Patrick Turcotte.. The .game stayed tied until midway through the secol)d period when Dartmouth took the lead on a goal by MattCollins. The Dutchmen were unable to rally back. Union goalie Luigi. Villa made 29 saves but was unable to prevent Dartmouth from handing Union its eleventh loss ()f the The big meet of the week was still to come though. Both the women and the men had a tough meet against Hartwick, considering the fact that the Hartwick men's team was last year's state champions. The women did not have it as difficuJt. but they came through as a team to respectively. The divers came through in the clutch again by taking first and second for the second time in the meet. But Hartwick clinched it by taking first and third in the 200 breaststroke, and even Union's first and third ,place fmishes in the last relay were unable to overcome the deficit. By the narrowest m.argin in years, Union lost by only six points, 124.5 to 118.5. This week will be a training week for Union without any meets, but you'll be able to catch the Swimming Dutchmen in action the following week against Middlebury and Player last year in the N.H.L.? ---------------------A~~ S. Who was Rookie of theY ear Jast Union was able to keep the second rated team in the nation to a one goal victory, but their luck ran out when they faced Dartmouth Sunday night. A season. This Week In: Hamilton. See you there! year in th.e N.H.L. 'l 6. Who was awarded the Vezina frophy last year in the N.H.L. for outstanding goaltender? 7. Name the last N.H.L. team to lose back-to-back Stanley Cun answers on 14- Friday, January 22nd Union at Cornell aturday, January 23rd:_.'- HOCKEY Union at Colgate Fast-breaking to a billion Gross retail sales of NBA merchandise have zoomed .to more than $1 billion a year. and the league's gross revenues (ticket sales and broadcast lees) nearly have reached that level. A comparison through the years: In millions $1500.---------------------------, I J. 1,200 ! \ ( (· ·.; ! i\ j JJ..l~~i .! \ ; il :f ' f.~ ! ' ,. fl I

I I '· ,. ' ~ ': ! ~ 1 ~. ,. i I fl Founded at Union Colleg~e 1877 Volume 122, Number 11 Campus Events to Celebrate Black History Month by Matt Karlyn Staff Writer This February marks Black History Month around the nation. At Union, the African American and Latino Alliamce of Students (ALAS), and other groups, have planned a series of events throughout the momth to commemorate this occasion. room 308 at 7:OOpm. The festi~ities continue on the 26th at the Culinary Expose. Students, faculty, and administrators can sample traditional West Indian Cuisine, relax, listen to a Calypso Band, and watch the beautiful dancing of an African American Child.Jen's Dance Group from the Hamilton Arts Center in Schenectady. Schenectady, NY •• f? January 28, 1993 Purpose of ALAS effort According to Lissandta Ramos, the programs organized for Black History Month are set up in order to \ ... educate and expand the minds of students on campus regru-dless of what your ethnic background may be.\ Lissandra, together with Angela Rudolf, are the coordinators of this program. Black History Month culminates on the 27th. Kathy Russel and Midge Wilson, authors of the book, The Color Complex: The Politics .of Skin Color Among African Americans (with Ronald Hall), will be speaking about the relationship between blacks of varying colors. This will be held in the College Center Auditorium at 5:00pm. PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The first major snowstorm of'93 blankets Union. photo by Brianna. Patnode Carl Bernstein Speaks on the Deteriorating Media Standards The events of the montl1 The first event will take place on February 1 at 7:00pm in the Career Development Center, where Union College .Peer Facilitators will hold a diversity workshop. Lissandra believes that this is an important event which she hopes will \bring more unity among the people on campus.\ On February 18, Dr. Lenworth Gunther, Ph.D., will be speaking about blacks a:nd whites on college campuses. His talk will focus on blacks on white campuses and relations between blacks and whites at college. Tilis discussion will be held in the College Center Auditorium at 7:00pm. On February 24 Deborah Mohamad will come to Union. Her discussion will focus rOn the relations between Latinos and Blacks. The lecture will be held in the College Center Long-tenn goa1s ALAS has been successful at Union for many years in educating and stressing tbe importance of intercultural communication. Faculty advisors ·include Professor Smith of the Biology Department and Professor Martinez of the Modern Language Department. Torin Alexander, the Pastor at Union, has also been an active participant in the group. Working with groups such as tbe Peer Facilitators and the Inter Fraternity Council, ALAS has set out to inform tbe community about the importance of African American and Latino issues at Union and around the nation. ALAS is hoping that there will be large. unprecedented turnouts at the events so that racial and cultural unity at Union and around the country will increase. by Veronica Rogers Associate News Editor Carl Bernstein, a prominent figure in the world of journalism and literature, spoke on Jan. 25 about the decay O>f journalism and reportjng ir~ society today. Bernstein said that his biggest gripe about the media today is their \pretension of omniscience\ Tile media is an immense structure of influence and power. The press needs to realize that they too make mistakes, that they are only human. Bernstein, co-author of AIJ the President's Men , a New York Times best seller about the investigation into Watergate, brought up the press' involvement with the Watergate incident. He stated that after the scandal the press enga.~ed i~ an \or~y .of self congratulatiOns,\ thmkmg that they had done a wonderful job IN THIS ISSUE: NEWS: With ove7 one thousand dollars raised during the first week, The Senior Gift Drive is well under way. Details concerning the gift, a wrought iron fence from the Van Vranken Street entrance, past the so<:cer field, to the Lenox Road corner, aroe given in the co- chairs' article. See page 3. BUSINESS: For the first time in its history BMW has outsold Mercedes- Benz. This is due primarily to paying dose attention to consumers' demands as the spending frenzy <Jf the 1980's has drawn to a close. SeepageS. 0 PIN I 0 N S: In her article, comic Randy Levin poses the question, \How Come N<Jthing's Happening Around Here?\ She offers many ideas on how to reverse this perception, and stresses the use of student activities. See page 7. FINALS: The Final Exam Schedule for Winter Term is featured in this weeks issue to allow members of th.e college community to make spring vacation plans in advance. See pages 8 and 9. S P 0 R T S: This past weekend the Skating Dutchmen of Union went on th€ road for games against Cornell and Colgate. They were hoping for some luck after faltering twice the previous week, but were unable to claim victory in either endeavors. See page 16. investigating the story. Bernstein believes that tile press' attitude was unjustified. He challenges their arrogance by questioning whether all reporters are tru Iy investigatory, a characteristic which he thinks is the key to a good story. Bernstein's own career flourished during tbe Watergate incident as a Washi11gton Post reporter. He and Bob Woodward, co-author of Ali the President's Men, discovered the necessary information leading to the breakthrough in the Watergate Case. Bernstein and Woodward used unconventional means of investigati()n, such as late-night and out-of-office interviewing to substantiate the allegations. The people in the Watergate spotlight· attacked the press, but they never denied any of the accusations or information. Bernstein stated that since the Nixon administration, contempt for the press has always been apparent. Criticism of the press is inevitable, but Ber11stein said that the press helped foster this contempt by allowing its reporting to deteriorate. Its self- image of doing a good job is fiction, and acc<Jr<l.ing to Bernstein, a majority of reporters today are 11 in danger &f disgracing themselves.\ In today's society the problem is that real journalism is being replaced by trash. T.V. programs, newspapers, and magazines are reporting oEl insignificant news. BernsteiEl termed this other type of \news\ as \the monster that ate the press\ or \porm journalism.\ Money is being made by people who feed off Qlf society's taste for tile \weird and stupid.\ Real reporting, as Bernstein sees it. is \the best obtainable version of the truth.\ He believes that it is getting harder to find signs of real reporting as the abundance of \appalling journalism\ is clouding the media. There is a phenomena growing which Bernstein states is the \triumph of the idiot culture,\ the supersession of an inferior type of reporting that misinforms society. Society is being filled with junk, according to Bernstein. T.V. news has progressively gotten worse with the inception of programs like Hard Copy, A Current Affair, and talk shows like Donahue, or Geraldo. The breakdown of good T.V. news reporting slaTted with shows like Today, and Good Morning America. Bernstein states that the lines between the standards of good reporting and trash reporting arc getting closer as more prestigious media organizations are falling into the pattern of inferior reporting. This, in turn, will cause complete deterioration of the media. There will no longer be \real reporting\ and society will have no desire or initiative to look further than the junk that they are immersed in. There is still good reporting in the media, believes Bernstein. He stated that journalists \need to listen to Clinton's call to take responsibility.\ Reporting needs to go back to the basics. Journalists are destroying themselves. The media needs to take time to be introspective and to restore itself to a functional medium. As Bernstein said \media is the most powerful of all institutions.\

Jan_uary 28, 1993, page 2 <11Dnrvrb frn.sis THE GREAT JOB RACE Student Forum Spotlight 1993 college graduates face a mixed employment market in spite of a rebounding economy C~urtesy of College Press Service Despite an . improving economy~ college graduates fat::e a mixed job market this spJiD!l- More job OpJlOrrunl'ties may be possible, but expectations for salaries are loYJJer, according to a leading employ,me11t report. ,.Tiiere is a widespread anticipation that the new adminif;tration and Congress will put JMOgrams into place to stimulate tbe economy,\ said Victor Litldquist. associate dean and! director of placement at N()Fthwestern University in Evoosoom,. UI. He is the author of the 1993 Northwestern U njversity Lindquist~ Endicott Re(JOit. Dhe 47th annual survey of business and industrial firms nalionwide found that co:t:pOrate America is \relatively optimistic.,\ but that the outlook for 1993 graduates is only sliglltly better than 1992, the W(}1St market for graduates in the p!RSt 20 years. Most ()( the 258 businesses sw-veyed are cutting back on re~rui t:rnent on college catllpuses and are reducing hi1i11g in ~everal disciplines, inc:luding most non- en~ineetin~ graduates. \Students will have to ma1ket themselves more effecti-vely and have more flexibility,\ Lindquist said. \Tiley -IDIISt realize that their 'dre:am job' may be in another locatio11 or at a level less than desired\ S ()me otiler findings of the Ie)JOrt mclude: -Students with degrees in computer science will find an 18 percent increase in job opj)OrtllB.ities. ·Demand for students with master• s d~grees in accounting will fall11earl y 66 percent. ~At the the bachelor's level, 4 7 percent of the fmns will need more personnel, but 42 percent will need, fewer new employees. For students witil master's degrees, 42 percellt <>f the firms will hire more graduates, but 34 percent will hire fewer students. -A majority of the firms conduct drug tests and many check employment references. Many firms are now using psychological testing. -Students with degrees in engineering can expect salaries .2 percent higher than 1992 graduates; liberal arts,. 1.3 percent higher; and mathematics or statistics, 1 percent lligher. Students with degrees in computer science will find an 18 percent increase in job opportunities .. Patrick Scheetz, director of the Collegiate Employment Research Institute at Michigan State University in East Lansing, found in a national survey that employers are projecting a decrease in. the hiring of college graduates for the fourth straight year. The results were reported in Michigan State's 22nd annual national survey, which said the most serious problem facing campus recruiters is the limited number of minority and female job-seekers, and the need for more applicants with work experience. Graduate students also have unrealistic expectations, the report said. Among the major findings: -Employers are becoming more selective about their new hires, and some finns won't - consider applicants with a grnde point average less than 3.0. -Job availability, while competitive nation-wile. is better in the Soutltea~t .and North Central, a~d. lllore competitive · in the S()tathwest, South Central, Northe:ast and Nor11lwest. -The qualHic ations employers are looki11g f()r in :·· college students ·in~lude -flexibility, teamwork s~lls and by Seth M. Br-own Freshmen Class President Highlights: The Student Forum met this week with President Hull to discuss the budget and plans for the future. The issue of an honor code is under consideration. Chet's has improved its equipment There is an all campus ball on February 20th. Presidents Hull's new agenda was discussed at the Forum meeting. The main issue is the new Vall-dine system which is to be enacted next year. The idea of requiring every student to purchase $600 a year on the system was brought up by Hull. This would encourage students to eat on campus rather then spending their money elsewhere. Hull feels that this will be a : • important source of income for the school. This is necessary in Som·e firms. \W'I)Il 't 1 order to avoid lay-offs and cutting programs. Hull again stressed the point that we are not in a financial crisis, we are just taking consider appl;iieants i the necessary precautions so we will nofbe in one. witll a grad~ J)<»lnt · The Forum representatives reacted in many different ways but average less Utmtl 3.0.. all agreed that changes would bave to occur if we would be i. expected to spend $600 on food a year. Hull remarked that the first floor of the College Center will undergo renovation over the summer to improve conditions. Suggestions included: the opening of upperclassman dining throughout the day, a delivery system, and a mini market where students would be able to purchase food items. Hull mentioned that the students would be able to use the new ·card at any food service establishment on campus including vending machines. Eventually, this system might expand to include such places as ·the bookstore. the ability to provide CIJStomer , · satisfaction. .C <JI1lp1Jter knowledge is co11si.dered mandatory, the report ;S!lid -Tile estimated boe!JiJJning salaries for 1993 college graduates range frolll .$4-0.,173 for chemical engineel's to $19,U4 for journalism najo:rs. For students with ·lll~ster's degrees. the average is $35.289. and for Pll.D.'s, $37.755. College graduates a.re also competing for jobs wi til people , who have job experie11ce but have been laid off or are switching companies or careers. During the ]las1 five years, 240 of tile 540 businessmen surveyed by Michigan State have J.()st an estimated 24,454 sal ar:ied positions. \Another factor affecting new graduates is the clla11ge in corporate hiring pra.ctice,\ Lind(juist said. \Stud~nts face more competitio11 :from experienced person11el' ·irn the . job market.\ Lindquist estimate:s that firms in 1992 hired 55 (Je!l'Cent of new employees fr~m people with previous job expe-rience, and 46 percent of tb~ firms now use contract pers:<Jilrlel to fill professional positio11s. At the meeting Hull also address the issue of non-Union programs abroad. Although Hull hopes that every student will go abroad during his or her Union career, he encourages this to be on a Union program. He mentioned that there are four,new programs abroad next year. He wishes that students will take advantage of these in the near future. The issue of honor code at Union is still being address at the Forum. Discussions will continue over the next couple of weeks. Chet's new equipment is now assembled and ready for use. Please come see the new and improved Chet's every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday after 9:00. Chet's is also seeking student performances. If you are interested contact the Chet's committee through the Student Activities Office (C. C. 408). Tickets will go on sale for the aU campus ball on February 1st. All students, greeks as well as independents are encouraged to attend. Tickets are $7 a couple and $5 a person. Rides will be provided. Notes: Planning and Priorities Committee has a vacant seat. A junior is needed. The next Student Forum meeting will be on Monday, February 1st at 6:30 in room 409 of the College Center. [f you have any questi<>ns or concerns please feel free to contact one of the Forum members. A list of names and positions is below. AJexanderSkiavos President Evans Legros V .P. Administration Diane Palmer · V.P. Finance Karen HI11Witz Junior Representatives Peter Savage · President William Nook Vice President Damon Keller Treasurer Applications Up; Acceptence fo Drop V .P. Academics Julie Jamieson Senior Trustee Lee Popper SQphomore Representatives Hallie Heller :By Craig Greenberg Conconliensis Staff Witb ()nly a few weeks remaining until the deadline for receipt of applications, the college Admissions office is smiling. Some of Union's competitors are showing de(;reasi ng applications. H&wever, Unio'n expects to be releasi11~ final numbers in a fe\V weeks that will silow a sig.nificant increase in applications to the college for the 93-94 academic year. One re.ason given for the exJ)ecte<l boost in applications is a new pre-application comtai11in g only personal informati<rn and a check due on the 15th of January. The remainin~ bulk of the ap})'lica.timn is not due until Fe!)ruary lst. In previous years, tbere was more inf()rmati<rn to include by the first dead~ine, and the final deadline for the complete application was not until February 15th. One might ask why Union is experiencing this sudden recognition. Admissions officers believe that the answer to this question lies in the cooperation of the members of the college community. Students have been contributing their time to talk with prospective students in their home towns through the Ambassador program. The college's vast alumni network and faculty have also played a major role in assisting tile admissions process. In addition, Admissions has increased its publications and travel to various regions of the country. First-contact information on Union was mailed to 45,000 high school students nationwide witlt a response requesting more information about the college from approximately 1.5,.p•ercent of those contacted. Admissions acknowledges that the recent move to division I ice-hockey ·Ius probaJ>.ly also contrib-uted to . the rise in the applicatio!l ~te~ The college hopes: tfj make Union more selectiv-e by lowering the acceptance nte to below 50 percent in 19!)3 a11d continue to decrease g£ad:Jally the rate each year thereafler- Proctor's Junior Trustee Julie Schlang President-Panhellenic Marc Weintraub President-IFC' Senior Representatives Lara Chamberlain President Roxanne Schneider Vice President Edward Walley Treasurer President Jonathan Miller Vice President Michael Quinn T~ Freshmen Reyresentatives Seth Brown President Richard Fuerst Vice President Michael Rand Treasurer Theater Presents: the Roof Fiddler on Cats Breaking Legs 2/6/93 2/10/93 4/7/9 3 Tickets on Activities sale in Office the Student cc 408

NEWS BRIEFS International News Week by Veronica .Rogers Associate News Editor Serbia- The United States has accused Serbia of rnaintai[Jing detention camps. Hve months ago, Serbi:an officials agreed :to close the camps. The U.S says there migllt be up to 135 camps remaining. Officials in Washington say that up to 70.000 prisoners may be in the camps, which :are run by Muslims, Croats, and by Serbs. Angola- Althot1gh in 1991 a peace settlement to end 16 y()ars of war with U11ita rebels was established, there has been bitter unrest since elections in September. On Jan. 23, sixty-l~o Zaireans were brutally slain by Angolans. The Zaireans w~re accused of supporting the rebels. Many of the victims we:re Angolans.who were re~uming from Zaire after leaving Ang01l'a· durit1'g the civil war .. Geneva- Negotiations to end the Balkan war have continued between top leaders of the warring factions. The leaders h3:ve been working to .accept a peace settlement written by Cyrus R. Vance, of the United Nations who is servi11g as a mediator, and the European Community Envoy, Lord Owen. The settlemeilt proposes that a new Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina witll ethnically mixed provinces be created. These provinces would be self governing. The leaders admit tllough that the three groups, Se1bs, Croats, and Muslims are !;till split over where each province's b<lundary should be. Beijing- It is the New Year for all Chinese speaking regions of the world. This is the year of the Rooster, year 4691. Celebrations with firecrackers, family reunions and traditio11al foods were being held throughout Chinese communities. 'Db:e year started out on a shaky note as the wealc senior leader Den.g Xiaoping made a short television appearance to wish everyolle well. Fears of instability accompany tile new year of tile Rooster because people associate an unstable lifestyle wi81 Roosters. Many hope the year will surprise them and brin1J good luck. National News Week by Christoph Ringwald Concordiensis Staff Washington D.C.- In an attempt to halt a decade-long decline in retail sales, Sears Roebuck & Company announced Monday that it plans to discontinue its money-losing \big book'• catalogues and sbut down 113 stores. Estimates are that 50,000 jobs will be lost.Sears reported that while tne catalog business had $3.3 billion in sales last year, it losE as much as $20() million. Sears plans to have the changes <;ompleted by neJi.t year, and hopes to increase its net income by $300 million 11 year. Small- to medium-sized stores in 33 states ami Washington, D.C. will be closed, while mostly jobs involving clerical and management positions will be eliminated. McLean, Va.- A man armed with a rifle went on a shooting barrage during rush hour near the entrance of the Centr2L Intelligence Age11cy, killing two and iajuring three. Thee gunman, described as a white male in his twenties, got out of his car and unleashed a dozen shots on two lines of cars th2t. were waiting to enter the grounds of the agency. Witnesses say that the man then got into his brown station wagon and sped off. Police are without a suspect but believe that the gunman may have been a discontented fonner employee. Dead are agency employees Frank Darling, 28, and Lansing Bennett, 66. Washing~on D.C.- Thurgood Marshall, the first black Juctice of the Supreme Court and former N.A.A~C.P. lawyer, died Monday at the age of 84. Marshall was a consequential figure in helping bring an end to segregation. Marshall died of heart failure at Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Maryland at 2 P.M. Marshall retired from the High Court in 19~1 after serving for 24 years. The ex-Justice had been scheduled to administer the oath of Vice President AI Gore yesterday. Washington D.C.- A United States Marine was shot and killed while on patrol Monday in Mogadishu, SO<malia. It was the third U.S. casualty in the region since the U.S. started relief efforts last fall. The Pentagon reported that the marine waJl struck by gunfire while patrolling near a ~occer stadium in northern Mogadishu. He was delivered to a Swedish hospital i11 Som3lia, where he later died of injuries. The i11dividual's identity is being withheld until his family is notified. Washington D.C.- President Clinton Monday appointed his wife, Hillary, to llead a committee that will ()Verhaul the health care system. It is t:he most powerful position for which a First Lady may be selected. The six-member task force that Mrs. Clinton heads must submit a plan to Congress in 100 days. Mrs. Clinton will not be paid because of a law that prohibits the president from appointing his spouse to a government-paid position. NEWS January 28, 1993, page 3 NO CARS FOR FRESHMEN by Caroline Paine Associate News Editor Parking at Union has always been a problem, especially behind the Fox/Davidson and Chi Psi/Smith House areas. The lots are constantly over crowded and no longer meet the needs of a growing campus, such as Union's. Recently, the parking situation has been called to the attention of the Student Mfairs Council (S.A.C.) in hopes that a solution could be developed. The S.A.C., comprised of five students, two faculty members and two administrators helps govern the campus and make sure the administration is working in the best interest for the student body. When the · situation was presented to the S.A.C. in early November, they adopted a policy to deny freshman the right to have a car on campus in the years to come. This would significantly reduce the numbe.r of cars in the Fox/Davidson, West, Richmand, and South areas. In mid-November this policy failed to pass a Student Forum vote and was sent back to the S.A.C. The S.A.C. then re- voted on the policy, which is now scheduled to be reviewed by President Hllll. If President Hull approves the policy it will become effective as of September, 1993. \It is not intended to punish freshmen,\ explained Joseph Mamrnola, Dean of · Students. Dean Mammola said that there is also a concern that freshmen having cars on c;lmuus might be interfering with their academics. The new policy would encourage first-year students to stay closer to campus and be less distracted from their ~tudies; as well as create more parking for upperclassmen. When asked what would happen if a freshmen had a real need for a car on campus, the dean replied, \Under the right circumstances we can make an exception.\ But for the most part the rule will be followed carefully. If passed by President Hull, next year freshmen will not be allowed to have cars on campus, as the case with many other campuses. Yet, Dean Mammola is confident this will not greatly hinder the freshmen mobility, saying, \Students are very resourceful, they will find a way.\ SENIOR GIFT DRIVE TAKES OFF by Ned Walley and Julie Jam~son The class of 1993 has kicked off a fund-raising drive to pennanently leave its mark on Union College. Not only is the class striving to get the largest percentage of participation by seniors, but it plans to raise enough money to make a Sllbstantial donation to the colle8e. The Steering Committee has decided that the most feasible and beneficial gift would be the completion of the wrought iron fence from the Van Vranken Street entrance, past the soccer field, to the corner of Lenox Road. However, the actual length of the fence depends upon the amount raised. If enough money is received, then a gate similar to the one on Union Ave. leading to Gillespie St. will be constructed. In addition, a plaque, stating that the fence is a gift from the class of 1993, would be mounted on the gate. One week after the campaign was launched, donations totaling more than one thousand dollars have been raised for the fence. Compared to last year's $1,400 total Get your hands Concordiensis and get a Grasp on the Campus senior gift, the class of '93 should accomplish its goal Those on the Steering Committee are confident that this will be a .reflection of what is to come during the remainder of the campaign. As an added incentive to seniors, President Hull has posed a challenge to the class of 1993. This e!ltails reaching a 100% percent participation rate, at which time he will match donatio111s dollar-for- dollar out of his own pocket. Matching donations from various members of the college/alu~ni community have the potential to multiply the grand total by five. Every dollar donated to our cause will actually be equal to five dollars in the end. The class of 1993 can leave its mark in a very positive way with its gift. Not only will the completion of the fence provide better security for the on- campus community, but the overall beauty of the campus will be enhanced as well. People who believe that they have donated enough, are encouraged to reconsider on the basis of what the college has provided for them during the past follr years. Those m charge of the drive would like potential donators to consider the quality of the education lhar they have been provided with. the lasting friendships they have forged, and the overall value that their alma mater will have to them. SECURITY REPORT DATE 1/18/93 1/18/93 1/18/93 1/18/93 1/18/93 1/18/93 1/18/93 LOCATION: Campus lawns A ell i!les Lot Soc-ial Sciences College Center FoJCIDavidson Davidson FIJI 1/19/93 Alumni Gym 1119/93 Da>ridson INCIDENT: Reckless driving Staff vehicle damage Theft-baby bib Found dog Safety Hazardljce-snow Theft-hiking boots Confro.nJaHon-student to student Theft-swim trunks Life Salety Violation 1/20/93 Off Campus Assisted SPD-runaway youths 1/2 0 I 9 3 Campus residence Harassment of student by \1 I 2 0/9 3 1/20/93 1/21/93 1/21/93 j/22193 1/22193 1/22/93 1122/93 1122h93 1/ 2 3'1 9 3 1123/93 1123193 1/23/93 1/24/93 _1124193 Soda! Scjence Edwards House Richmond Raymond Steinmetz Psi Upsilon .Not! Seward South College West College Alumni Gym Greenhouse Aleltander Lane Alexander lane Phi Sigma Kappa Campus 1124/9;3 Psi Upsilon 1/24/93 West College 1 I 2419 3 . West College student Safety Hazard-open wires Vandalism Unauthorized entry-student Found refrigerator Safety Hazard Vandalism-doors. walls and wjndows M.V. accident-no IDJUnes Annoyance phone calls Vehicle cfan'!age-falfing ice Theft-light globes Possible unauthorjz,:d entn M.V. accident-no Injuries Safety Hazard Yanda I ism-wind ow Alleged raee-non student-

January 28, 1993, page 4 ANALYSIS illnnrvrbirttsis Promises, Promises, Promises by Jim Polites News Analysis Editor The art of campaigning for public office in the United States- especially for that of President- forces even the most honorable and well- intentioned to change stances and turn promises into goals. For BiB Clinton, a honeymoo!l amidst the glamour and splendor of Was hi n g ton D . C . ' s Inauguration Week was tarnished a bit when his first actions as Chief Executive came under scl1!tiny. Thinking back to 1988, George Bush made a spirited cry to the masses with his •no new taxes' pledge- many claim that such a simple and direct appeal had much to do with his rousing victory. Of course now~ it's common knowledge that Bush broke his word and was forced to explain himself at length to a population that was tired of hearing excuses. In the Presidential debates, Bush was on the defensive while Clinton and Ross Perot were afforded a prime time opportunity to present their agendas for a better America. President Bush's tax pledge was certainly not the only reason he lost in November, but there is a lesson to be learned here for Clinton: when mistakes are made come right out and accept them, or the better yet don't make them at all. Now you must admit that George Bush was more than candid about his broken tax promise. The problem was, in the middle of a recession families are not searching for their representatives to apologize\ they want quick answers to why weekly incomes aren't buying as much as they used to. The second point about Presidential blunders is that making mistakes is part of the job- it would be ludicrous to think that someone could come into office and be perfect. Mr. Bush was not necessarily a bad person or President for this one decision, it's indisputable he made significant contributions to our society and the world. The advantage Bill Clinton has is that he's coming into office riding a relative wave of optimism, despite only cursory signs that our nation's economic woes are over. Bush took office smack in the middle of American peace and prosperity, then had few answers when his Administration presided over a recession. If anything, Clinton's clean slate on a national scope will help him when he stumbles- the important thing is to not fatl down completely. As unfair as it may seem, the Clinton/Gore team will be afforded some leeway early in their leadership- the challenge is keeping widespread failures to a minimum. Patience is not something that will fuel the Democratic appeal forever. Of course, President ·clinton today does have some detonating issues in front of him that could prove costly from the outset. In nominating Zoe Baird for the position of U.S. Attorney Write ffor Qtonrorbiensis \VEARING SHORTS Is EN,COCR\GED. r\ ba[hing ;uit and st.:n bicd wou!Jn: be: aha<! 1dL'J <tth.::r Just he pr..:par..:d tor a week oi t\un It s a rr:ubpk choice sprir.g br2a.k Games. par::..:~. conrcsrs tr.:.:- party (r.:ise. tr~e toad . md <'r:tertalr:mc-nt. T..:nrm Jr.d g0lf too Or ?0 ;i~l;rsce:ng on d :11or~<i _\r.,J Jon·: :c.r?•:: our !J.:lu:ll·a: plf~r: b..:~L·!:,·$ a;:,~ :;.rt.Jt.ObC ·.vat.:~, :\.llil'ss than :~vo huurs J\\ J\ So do I.VhJtcha liKe. Just Jon't k It go :o your head. For more information, call Stock;rre Travel. [nc. 1-t:: I Erie Boul<!vard. S.:hm:cl.:lJy, :--iY 1::os 518-377-6409 BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS :-.r -\ R C H 8 - :\ P R I L 8 Pac~I!S o.a.:sed on Travel T urt~pnc:tn~ fmm ~t\W Yorl: and Phdadcl~llla. :\dd-or\3 applv from llther pomrs ul .l~r.utur.· Pnt ,.,. n.t.'>• d , 11 ~· .un.t ·nn rurrtla.s.l' J.Pt-J' ··nn .tJmm. :or rra\.1:1 3 \ 13 ~.hrout!tl 1 101')3 Pnces sh~hUv lower lor wr:ekdav rravrl Pnce5 are~ .on (our per room. muumum prof'h-'rtV ~..ont·~tm· PnL .... , 1r, :l\ J. n. ,j, •. , 1 Ja-r .JJlll mJv .. ,.... IJCrt>·.~ ~..:. .r. • ..nQt• mu J\.ul.lmllt\. General, Clinton learned immediately that not everyone was willing to follow his lead at the drop of a hat. In the same theater that hosted the Clarence Thomas-Anita HiU hea.rin.g, it was exposed by the !lenate Judiciary Committee that Baird had employed undocumented work(lts to care for her childl'en. Unfortunately, the President had to accept the· fact rthat the individual whom he cllose as the country's top law enforcement official had lost the trust -of too many w be nominated. After three days in front of Chair.man Orrin Hatch, Baird's battle had been lost Admittedly, the Clinton Administration underestimated p ubl.ic reaction to Baird• s past actions, thinking people would simply dismiss anything as an hcmest mistake. The bottom line, though, is that to as~ume such exalted status i11 this nation, very few people care to settle for those with skeletons- nor should they JCC Camp SS Kingswood ., .. , .. have to. Washington, D.C. has been dogged with scandals and improprieties for much too long- which is why Clinton's campaign stance as an outsider from Arkansas was paramount to his appeal. Bill Clinton the Democratic Presidentiral candidate did much to bring about a change in America's perception of what govemmentcan do- which is wh.y Zoe Baird is an inauspicious start indeed. Time Magazine interestingly perceived it as a Clinton opportunity saying,\the outcry {over Baird) was a noisy reminder of how deeply voters wanted to believe his promises about a new way of doing business in the capital.\ While this might strike many as partisan journalism, Clinton nevertheless must step up and try again. It is when that c_limb becomes harder to make- thanks to accumulated mistakes- that our President will have legitimate cause for concern. Summer In Maine An Ovemight Camp of the Jewish Community Cmter of Grt?illt'r Boston JCC Camp Kingswood, a co-ed overnight camp in Bridgton, Maine is looking for talented, creative and enthusiastic staff . Administrative and counselor positions are available including drama, boating, sailing, swimming, photography, computers, athletics, arts & crafts, tennis, archery, camping, music, and Israeli dance. Also available, kitchen, office and grounds crew positions. The Director will be available on campus interviews on Thursday February 4th. Please sign up at the Career Development Center or call (617) 244-5124 for more information. EDITING & WOR.O PROCESSING Dissertations - Theses - Term Papers De~ktop Publishing Resumes & Curricrlla Vitae --L~:~,ser Printing-- --Plain Paper FAX Service-- --Personal Secretarial Services-- TUTORING Spanish L~nguage & Literature Latin La11guage & Literature Linguistics Close •to Union College Fast & Efficient Service 374-8850 .. i ' ·\

. i ' @nnrorv irttsis BUSINESS BMW vs. Mercedes Benz by Shield~ Day Business Editor For the first time in its history BMW has finally outsold Mercedes Benz. The longtime rivalry :between the two illustrious luxury car manufacturers has never sided in favor of BMW - until now. Economic recessionary factGrs have certainly put an end to the 1980's buying spree. It was BMW, no~ Mercedes who paid closer attentio~ to consumer demands. BMW\ s stricter attention to consumer demand sold them 60,000 more cars than Mercedes Benz this past year. Although both cpmpanies deny their ri vatry, there is no question that each one closely monitors the other's actions. Their monopolization of the luxury car market quickly went down hill five yeru;s ago when Japanese firms introduced their own brand of corporate automobiles. Namely the Lex us and Infinity 'have produced the greatest headaches for the two German super producers. Mercedes Benz is to Germany the way IBM is to America; which does not say much for either country's economies. Germans are worried at the 'thought of BMW taking over the first place position Mercedes has dominated foi: so long. Ironically, Americans are facing similar problems as IBM is continuing to flounder in the U.S. stock market. Both companies have always been the solid perlormers when the rest of Ule economy has done poorly. However, IBM will probably see improvements in their bottom line before Mercedes Benz. BMW is contributing a large part of their success to the introduction of their new 3 series cars. This entry level car sells for around $25,000, while the Mercedes entry level car sells for about $68,000. BMW has been building their cars to appear a little more understated than they have in the past. They feel that consumers no longer want the huge chariots that once roamed the highways. Instead, they are more interested in a compact, .energy conserving and environmentally friendly car. Mercedes, on the other band, continues to build the same large and overstated cars they have always produced, feeling that style supercedes the environment. PURSUE 'I'HE CAREER YOU WANT by Barbara Cash CDC Writer overpower the risks. One simple approach is to ask yourself: \What is the worst January 28, 1993, page 5 • • A New Winner S;ales in the United States is a 111Bj()f C()ncern for the two Ge•nnan manufacturers, and B~ may now be closing in on ru :potentially devastating blow to their competitor's sales~ BMW will be opening a U.S. plant for the first time ever in South Carolina. This stat.e ()f the art factory will be able to build 400 cars a day witl! 2,000 employees. At their German headquarters. Met:c:edes can only produce 360 cars a day with 5,500 THIS: WEEK AT THE CDC Mo11dlaJ' (2/1) •And!ei'S<Jn Info Session 7 pm Tueslla.y (2/2) •Nav~ Underwater Interviews • Anders o n Cons u It in g Inte:rviews ** Rest~me Crisis Clinic 7-9 pm Wed111Jsda:y (2/3) •Crea~ Your Own IntemsiJip 3:45, 7:30pm **Resu:me Crisis Clinic 7-9 prn Tbu.r:sday (2/4) •JCC Camp Interviews, • MPR Associrutes Interviews Friday (2/5) emp!oyees. Recent reports said that they are going to reduce their work f~rce by about 560 employees. BMW feels confident that they will be able to ouisell Mercedes Benz again this year. But it is not likely that their opposition will stay down for long. A change in the cmTent economic slump will certainly help Mercedes more than it will BMW, mainly because Mercedes is tllought of by many as the standard by which all other car companies must com pare themselves. But with this lead in total car sales, BMW may be able to project themselves as the new leaders in the industry, rather than the alternative to consumers who cannot afford a Mercedes Benz. notes to whoever assists :you in your job search. Also,if in your cover letter, you say you will call someone -- call U1em. 2. 8e Persistent Diligently keep at the job hunt,but, be sincere. Preprinted cover letters, quick and unimaginative calls, and short non-responsive resumes save time for the candidate, but tum off employers. l.Have a strong resume The resume is a quick screening device by most employers. If it doesn't strike them as outstanding, :your chances of an interview will be nill. Watchfor next week's Top Ten Resume Mistakes ... For the conege senior,. somewhere inside each of you there may be an idea of what would be a good job for you. It would be the \ideal\ job if only you could make yourself believe it really existed. You may be able to picture it in your mind , You may see y~urself in a strange country, With nothing but a bag of seeds and a shovel, but you don't know where. Or you may see your~lf with a giant chefs hat, holdmg a wooden spoon and stirring a huge pot of that could happen should I pursue this career?\ If you can tolerate the worst-case-scenario (which often turns out not to be as bad as you had originally expected), then you can begin to move ahead. miserably. But then what? You get back up again. We tend to exaggerate our fears when we are under stress. What is important to learn is that under every failure, there are long-range, rewards. You may learn about your strengths and weaknesses; you may meet some new people who may · • ICF Klliser Interviews spaghetti, but you're not exactly sure why. Unfortunately., beyond the realm of your mind, these mental images seem to be nothing more than that -- just images. Surely there couldn't be a real job resembling your fantasy job. Surely it is impossible to pursue these fantasies ... or is it? There may be a million reasons preventing you from pursing your fantasies. Anything rang~g from conflict with family and friends, to financial concerns,. to fear of failme may stand in your way. These are all real and significant obstacles. Yet. you want to give yourself permission to ex,plore. How can you deal with tllese cautions when they seem to make so much sense? · First of all. you must .tmderstand that every action has some degree of risk associated with it. It is up to you to clecide how much :risk you are willing to tolerate, and whether tlte rewards are great enough to Let's examine the obstacle parents or friends may present. What is the worst that could happen if they do not support your decision? Your parents could kick you out of the house. Or they could disown you. Or they could refuse to pay for anything -- car, graduate school, clothes, trips out west ... Or, in the best case, your persistence in your path may show your parents how mature you really are. What about financial concerns? What is the worst that might happen if you pursue your fantasy job? Well, you may not make enough the flfSt year get that BMW you've always wanted. Yon may not even earn enough for any car at all. What is important to remember is that work satisfaction and money are not always on the opposite ends of a scale. In fact, often the more you like your work, the better you will do financially in the end. If you don't have money now, you may consider putting your \dream\job on hold and build up an amount for a later attempt at your desired career. When you are motivated and involved, the money will eventually follow ... some day. A fmal major obstacle is the fear of failure. What is the worst that could happen? You could fail. You could even fail provide future work opportunities. What about the best-case-scenario? You could succeed. You could succeed with flying colors. .And if you don't try, you Will never know what might happen. Career choices come alive when you explore an original idea, name it yourself, and send it out in to the world. Remember, a career choice is what you want, not what your parents, or friends or professors want for you as the \good fields to go into.\ So. if you want to plant trees in Kenya, or open a restaurant in Seattle, go for it ! Nothing can stand in your way. Nothing, of course, unless you let it. (Acknowledgements go out to Howard E. Figler. CPC Annual.) Answers to King Crossword TIPS }'OR SUCCESS 10. ~D()W Yourself Self-Assessment will help Y?U be more focused and help give }l()IL a strong foundation for yoi.IL job search. 9. M;~r~et Yourself Determine what makes you better a.t tile job you are after than otller people,then market. 8. Pwt your best foot forwmrm Canmd2tes who demonstrate 3elf-res.pect by creating a positive image -- both physical and thromglt resumes and phone :alls •· a:re well respected. 7. Re!!earc.:b Company Rese11r<:h your potential emplo~er -· find out all you can abQut the business -- show an interest. 6. Ke.ep Options Open Inve:stigate many different organizadions or businesses for job oweni11gs. Don't limit yourself to one type of organiza:ti()n, 5. Nltltwork It's tile \hidden job market\ don't •Cl\Verlook it. Friends, acquain~nces, and people they know s,l\lluld 1>e sought out and their illf«Jrmation and contacts used in <ieveloping job leads. 4. Di>m 1 t 'be arrogant Don't JI'Ult all y()ur \eggs in one b~ket\ -· sucll as relying only on relaltiolls or just sending out resume:; to get you a job. 3. FCJII~w-tbrough Be SIO'e to write thank you WHAT'S \NEWS\ INTERNSHIP NEWS Creamer Dickson Basford, NYC • Public relations firm • Paid; full time •Need: strong writing, communication, research, and organizational skills • Deadline: March 12 Boston Globe, Boston, MA •For Sophomores & Juniors interested in communications or business •Three areas of placement are: Accour:tting, Advertising, and Circulation •No deadline given * (ASAP) SUMMER JOB NEWS The Fresb Air Club •Providing free summer vacations to inner city New York children • Hiring more than 30 college students for a variety of ,)Ositions •Contact: Sean Bolster, 1040 1\ve. of the Americas, New York, NY, 10018, (212) 221-0900 Disney World •Looking to fill positions through their Disney W Qrld College program in: musicians, attractions ho~t/hostess, culinary assistant, custodian ... •Contact: Bob Radock, Walt Disney World Co.,P.O. Box 10,000, Lake B\uena Vista. FL. 32830

<!tv1tfllrbitnsis ·Founded at Union College 1877 Sc:hcnecla.dy, New \'ork January 28, 1993, page 6 Editor-in-Chief Ned Walley Executive Editor Pam Leinson News Editors Lara Chamberlain, Jim Polites Commentaries Editor Lea Lewis Features Editors Dug Bartell, Dass Seaman Layout Editors Lisa Lemoi, B uffy Rubenstein Arts Editors Carrie Shennan, Cort Boulanger SJIDrts Editors Rich Morgan, Hal Poret Financial Editor Shields Day Science EditOr Eileen Colkin Advertising Editors Lauren Bycoff, Rachel Tuck) en ShuJkin Campus Page Editors Nili Goldin, Scott Asher ,Jen Poldmetz Survey Editor Jeff Green Photography Editors David Cho, Brianna Patnode DO PROFESSORS HAVE TOO MUCH POWER? ·. A grade is only a grade. It is a lot easier for a professor to make that statement than it is for a student to accept it. As most students and professors know, your academic performance in college and graduate school is used as a yardstick for people to judge how and where you should fit in to a complex society. That being said, there should definitely be standards that professors should abide by in evaluating a student's knowledge and effort in their courses. In other words, a grade should be a reflection of what a student earns, not even partially a reflection of how important a professor believes grades to be in the context of a student's life. . Most professors at Union College distribute course fom1at sheets at the beginning of the tenn. These sheets usually contain a breakdown of how important various papers, exams, etc. are in the instructors final evaluation of their students. A professor who does not inform the students of the importance of . various criteria in determining grades is doing the students grave injustice. A' student has the right to know 'where they stand' in a class at any point during the term. Professors who change the criteria, or take them too lightly, are equally condemnable. Whenever a student encounters such a problem, they are encouraged to talk to their professor, and if they are unsatisfied with the response, they .should be lauded for lodging a complaint to the Dean of Faculty. In a society where students are judged almost solely on their academic achievements. it is irresponsible and unfair to tell students that you \will look at the whole picture when determining grades\ without explaining what each part of the 'pie' is worth. Using such a policy enables professors to have far too much power in determining the quality of a student. Educators will frequently elucidate that a grade is indicative of what a student earned, not what the instructor values their work to be. To not enforce such a policy is to undermine the principle that hard work and determination will pay off in the long run. We have enough of a dilemma motivating students in the United States, instructors are not expected to exacerbate the problems. Facw.ty Advisor Manager Associate News Editors Scott Scullion Deb Mcinerney David Levine. Veronica Rogers. Caroline Paine Associate Sports Editors Dagan La Corte Associate Features Editor Erin UM O'Neil Subscription Manager Matt Grabowski Layout Staff Tad Lee, Talley Belsinger, David Fischer, Advertising Staff Kate Cartland, Belinda Crago Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein, Christine Gagliano STAFF WRITERS: Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Ron Birnbaum, Gary Chase, Amy Cypres, Alissa Gass. Craig Greenberg, Cindy Hills. Greg Kalish, Matt Karlyn, Tasha La Bare, Craig Pike, Christopher Ringwald, Mirriam Seddiq. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions to Concordiensis are due the Tuesday before publication by 4PM if they are submitted on Macintosh Microsoft WordTM Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4PM in the drop box outside of the Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. CONCORDJENSIS is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications,. Inc., BoK 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Sui>scription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370- 6155, Advertisins Telephone (518) 370..6494. OPINIONS Rush, Part II: A Little Introspection -~--N_ever Hurt Anyone by Mirriam Seddiq Concordiensis Staff The first tiling I have t() say this week is: I no longer believe that all students of Union College are apathei.c. I have recently become aware of the fact that when Union students care deeply about something, tltey are more than willing to pllt themselves on the line to defend it. Take, for example, the case of sorority rusll. I awaited the responses to my article with baited breath~ I was exited to see what comments would be directed at my argument. It was inspiring, enticing. Yet, all in all, it was very disappointing. This may very wen seem like beating a dead horse, (Or is it 'kicking a dead dog?') lrot I feel I need to respond . to the Letters to the Editor written by ~s. Julie Schlang and Mr. Steve Bass. I would fust like to state that it was disenheartening to see that neither one of tllem grasped the essence of my argument. I think it is important to note, Ms. Schlang, that my argument does not become 'unjustified' if I have based it on first hand reports of women who have go11e tlu:ough the rush process. It is obvious that neither you nor Mr. Bass llas an opinio11as to whether cr not war is wrong; for I assume that neither of you has helcl a military post cr position, 11or have either of you engaged in armed conflict. What I did by asking otlier women who did not kn()W abou.t sorority rush was called reporting. I may not do it as wen as Dan R11ther and Con11ie Ch11ng; but then, writing for the: Concordiensis does not have the fringe benefits fo11nd in professional journalism. I feel the need to explicate my own work. Do you not see that what I W!lS doing was opening others' minds to the possibility of being an independent person on this campus? I have not denied that there may be positive aspects to sororities; ·mow ever, I do believe that people can choose not to be devalued on the basis of a superficial system. I don't care how many wonderful things sororities may or may not do. Ms. Schlang, what I do care about is what y<>u, yourself, and many others wllo have approached me have t<>ld me about the rush system. It is hurtful, elitist, and will involve the loss of self-esteem of many young women who have not received your stamp (ribbon) of approval this week. If you can tell me that the ends justify the means, then I will unders.tand your philosophical standpoint. How can you feel self-righteous and accuse me of having no ground to stand on when the facts are there? Ms. Schlang, I understand your point. Yet, it must be told that being Greek is like being in love. Mr. Bass, however, is completely overqualified in judging my article. I very much appreciated his comments. He did, in fact, support my argument in many of his statements. Perhaps he did not realize this, since it was obvious he wrote straight from the heart. Let me offer a word of advice to the students of Union College. Of course none of you are under an obligation to heed it. However, I do believe that I am writing in your own interest. At Union, we offer a course called introduction to Logic taught by an excellent professor by the name of Brad Petrie. In this class we learn of something called the 'ad hominem' fallacy. This type of fallacy not only makes an argument unsound, but also invalidates it. Mr. Bass, I recommend you take this class at some point in your next year at Union. Yet. I must thank Mr. Bass for not being politically correct in his letter. I do find PC speech to be a dreadful bore. However, I, as a female, have a problem with the term 'freshman.' At one time the term held true, but since women were admitted to college, new terminology must be created. Mr. Bass. we all do the best we can. I still must question whether one is a 'perspective student' if one is already enrolled in· this fine institution. If Mr. Bass had ever spoken to me about the Greek system, he would then have to acknowledge that my article was tact itself. I must say that your statement that \[most] of my female Greek friends' best friends are their sisters\ was beautiful. It is my point exactly. Female comradery in the Union College community has been destroyed by the formation of exclusive, elitist cliques. Yes, I grant you that most friendships are exclusive to an extent. But how many people do you know outside of those 'in a house' that have applied ·ror the friendship of others? Why, may I ask, is it that most of their best friend's (an awful term anyway) are the women in their house? How do freshwomen (yes, PC again) come to form such close ties with people before they are in the house? It seems fairly implausible, doesn't it? I will make no comment as to your house's 'impressive, and certainly admirable historical and social history.' But, I believe that most of us would beg to differ. I also maintain that many people who are involved in the Greek system are very much dependent on it. If this were not the case, how can one explain that an article dedicated to the lack .of intellectual vigor on campus was not responded to; yet there was a great stir about one on the possible negative aspects of Greek affiliation? I personally am more dependent on an active intellectual climate than on a social system whose very initiation rites are directed at ensuring dependence. How do you explain the fact that during 'hell week' one may not speak to anyone who is not a member of their particular house? The word around town is that the timing of my article was 'rude'. I am surprised at the number of intelligent people who have made this remark. I, however, have never seen a successful attempt of persuasion occur after the particular event had already taken place. Would you really expect ·that someone who was, not in favor of rush should wait until your propaganda had done its damage? How is it that it was fair for you to be touting rush during the week of rush, but it was 'devious' (come on, Mr.Bass). of me to plan an attack with appropriate timing? If women honestly felt that their lives would be 'enhanced by such an experience' then they are free to make that decision. I however, felt that since no one else was going to say it, I had to. You don't have to rush, you don't have to pledge. You just don't. Your life can be enhanced by what we are really here for: self-discovery, self-exploration and intellectual refinement. A little introspection never hurt anyone.

. OPINIONS HOW COME NO'I'HING'S HAPPENING AROUND HERE? by Randy Levin Contibuting Writer Whether your campus has a modest population of 5,000 or a \Small· City\ of 24;000, every school has .a common problem--apathy and lack of attendance for student activities. Perhaps your college newspaper has even carried editorials written by a frustrated activities chairperson trying to fight the apathy. AUow me to .present a totally different perspective on activities. Did you know that the college circuit is the second highest paying venue in show business? Generally speaking, many solo performers that appear on your campus- from musicians to comedians to jugglers- are making anywhere from $40,000 to $100,000+ per year. No one makes that kind of living unless he is good. These performers aren't just starting out. In fact, many are a step away from major commercial success. Billy Joel, Simon and Garfunkel and Robin Williams are just a few of the man:y performers that went from the college circuit to stardom. Imagine seeing them before they were well known. You might have been in an audience of a dozen people sitting a foot away from them while they performed. Just think about the next time you see a poster advertising an act that you never heard of. Even if that act doesn't become the next Billy Joel or Robin Williams, at least you'll see a great show. And you can't beat the price. During break or over the summer, you and your friends may travel half an hour to a club. Pay a cover charge, possibly with a two drink minimum, roy munchies and before you know it, you've dropped $50.00 to see the same performer you could have seen for free on your campus. Here is another point for your consideration. The students on the activities committees do not merely pick up the phone, call an agent, and book a performer. They volunteer their time to go through a very long and sometimes tedious procedure. First there is the paperwork. The budgeting, selecting. negotiating and contracting a performer follows. Then there is all the leg work of promoting, advertising and fulfilling many requests of the performers' contract. Let's not forget travel arrangements, hotel reservations, and any miscellaneous needs of the performer. In the outside world, this job description would bring an excellent living and the title of producer. On your campus, it is one of your peers spending countless hours to try and bring entertainment to you. What thanks do they get? Hardly anyone showing up to events and everyone saying \how come nothing is ever going on here?\ We are all in agreement that college is more than just academia. Social learning is equally as important as is any course of study. But to fall into the same routine of parities, beer blasts and bar hopping is unfair to yourself, the activities committee desperately trying to bring you a show, and the performer who traveled 2,000 miles to play to six people. Give activities a chance. They are designed and selected for you. Five years down the road, wouldn't it be fun to turn on the TV and say to a friend, \See that guy? I saw him at my school before he made it big.\ Breakfast. Menu Served Sa(.urday 6 Sunday Noon ttl 3 Pl1 Two EQQs arad Toast $1.00 'blit.i') bacon or sausas;!e $1.50 Cheese Omelet. $2.00 additional items 25 cent.s each Homely Fries $.50 French Toast $1.50 Mick-Sand\t'ich $1.50 Corn f1al<es $ t.OO Pancakes $1.50 Irish Breakfast $3.50 (includes most. of above items) Juice or Corfee $.50 Kell~'s Pub LETTERS January 28, 1993, page 7 1993: A Turning Point I'm probably forgotten at Union (sympathy plea), but I don~t regret coming her~. I've learned a second a11d third language here. I've met interesting people and learned to drink Russian vodka. \Ya know. they like, don't like, know how to, like, converse in, like, English.\ When did this happen? H(,}w did the word like come to be punctuation among the college students of today? I seem to spend a great deal of time in class counting the number of times my fellow students say like . My alarm may seem exaggerated and petty, but I think there is room for co11cern To tlle Editor: Over the past dozen years we have rented apartments to over 300 Union Students. .As a. student at Union (Class of ''80} and as a more objectil'e observer since that time. o11e could imagine that we han seen many sides of student life at Union. Few things have disgusted us more than a passage from a student journal left behind Ie1s! Summer as lrash. All names and events that would directly incriminate the author ba ve been deleted. but we think ·it would be enlightening to quote an entry dated February 6, 19!lr2 as a .social commentary: \ .. .I smoke (marijuana) with over 20 different people yesterday.... me and two friends, broke into another kids room and stole a $350 receiver, $200 CD player, $500 speaker, a VCR, half ounce of pot, shirts and about 25 CDs and a pair of varnet sunglasses. I feel no remorse unlike my counterparts. Do you think: that I'll pay for it in a later life or in this life. This is nf> responsibility in my life rigllt now, nothing more than self:. satisfaction. and I'm good ~t it ... \ In our view, the 1980's were a decade in which individuals, as well as society as a whole; were greedy, sought self satisfaction at the expense of others and failed to accept responsibility. Hopefully, 1993 will mark the turnin1J point and we can start to pa:y for our excesses in tlris life. Andrew E. Wisoff From Russia With Love To the Editor; While the average lot of Union students settle into their winter term, I'll still be here. While this average student decides to vacation in Florid!! for break, I'll still be here. Where's here'? In the heart of the former Soviet Union: Moscow. But, there's more te it. By being outside America, I've learned several things. 1) The world isn't so big. 2~ People are relatively the same everywhere. 3) America is the most powerful and best country, or at least Russians think so. 4) Don't eat; yellow snow. beneath the exterior. I remember the dark, distant days of high school when Reagan was in his first term. My classmates and I ridiculed tile Vallev Girls that had become Unfortunately, Union's Russian Dept. is too small. But take a Russian class anyway. It's a fun choice I'm glad I made, and ,it put me here. Freshman, think about what I 'm doing; it's an op:p<Jrtunity that you will never be able to do again. As for all those people who still complain about Union. I've learned you never know a good thing until you lose it. I miss Union. I miss the Nott. I miss Union hockey. But, life goes on. By the way, I hear Chet's isn't doing too well. That's a shame. The kid who worked so hard to create that might be disappointed! Anywa:y enjoy your first few months of Union. I'll be thete for Disorientation. Don't worry, I11 bring the vodka! Matt Tucker '93 Like, Ya Know To the Editor: For years now I have wandered this campus in a general state of apathy. My role as a night student left me with a feeling of being transient. I have never attended a campus social function nor been involved with any extracurricular activity. I paid my money, attended my classes, and went about my business. By now you must wonder what I am getting at. It took an utter sense of revulsion to rouse me into writing this. I felt that I had little time to spare on an article to a school paper I had never read. I have a full time job, and a part time job, and a thesis to write. Suddenly, I realized that this was my last term. I would never get a chance to share this if I did not do it now. Having taken several classes during the day, I was forced to notice the differences between myself and my current classmates. They are younger, to be sure. That was not what struck me as the key to our separation. They simply do not speak tile same language. I understand what they are getting at but find myself distracted by their pattern of speech, rather than its content. popular at the time. It is har<i to imagine anyone wanting to sound that absurd. I have since laboriously- pondered the cause for thi~ lapse in the education of our youth. The phenomenon i~ not unique to Union. It emerges in a group j.ust slightly younger than those I graduated with. Being a member of the Marine Corps infantry, I often notice a similar use of another word by my jarhead brethren. One does not need to be a genius t<J guess what four letter word I am referring to. Grunts seem to use it as a way of pausing t<J take a breath. The syndrome is persuasive and I have caught myself indulging on occasion. It requires constant self- monitoring to prevent this. The spark that brought me to life was the return to the area of one of my former classmates. He too, is taking day classes here. I noticed while talking to him what 1 had failed to perceive bef<Jre. Night classes are populated by older students. They do not seem to have developed this speech pattern. My friend did not show signs of acquiring it either. We must have learned something in our earlier education that was left out afterward. My sister, now a college senior, was among those affected. Under the guidance of my occasionally harsh tongue. she managed to learn English as I had. Today she lives close to California but show no trace of the Valley Girl syndrome. This does not make me a hero- by any stretch of the imagination. It docs prove a point. The affliction can be cured. English is a rich and colorful language. It is alive and evolving. This does not mean that we should throw away our heritage and allow it to fall into misuse. Like means \similar to something\. Think about what you are saying and ~et your message across clearly. My legacy may be a student populace that thinks me an aloof snob. Hopefully, they will speak well when they speak ill of me. Scott Brown Why did I (along with another brave Union student} decide to study a year in Moscow/ I still don't know. I guess I was afraid of sun, fun. good weather, nice people, a social life, fashion. architecture.... the list goes on. But enough of my cynicism. Life in Russia after the coup is interesting. It is very difficult, but interesting. Now that the \Iron Curtain\ is gone, the west is able to see what a third world country this is. There are food lines (and the only food that readily exists is ·r-----------:==-------;;=-----;;;;-- ------, ~~~~=:~ :ddpo~t:~· h~f~: CRNCUN Nassau, Paradise Island grandmothers. But, at the Z ~:~ ~~~ ~r:~:; ~~h~!~h ' ·r; .··. .~...... ::. salad doesn't exist) and even i ,.,-,.: U 50f Hattie Street, 372-6794 captain crunch! BMW's, ! ~ .· Z Mercedes and Jeeps are the car ,.,.. de choice. Russia is trying to C: / C become western. but with great p d• I I d AAHAMAS U difficulty. rm boring you. ara · lSI S an •• sorry.

MONDAY. MARCH 15-9:00-11:00 AM CER-022-01- Civil Engineering Materials- G. Gifford- BUTR 109 CHM-014-01- Scientific Creativity- C. Scaife- NWSE116 CHM-032-01- Organic Chemistry II- J. Sowa- BUTR 204 CHM-032-02- Organic Chemistry II- K. DeJesus- BUTR 204 EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- S. Yaisawarng- SSCI 104 EC0-031-02- Microeconomic Analysis -B. Reynolds- SSCI 104 MQNDAY .. !v1ARCH 15- .1 :Q0-3:00 PM AAH-043-01 -American Art- R. Phelan- ARTS 215 AAC-010-02- Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis- BAIL 201 EC0-042-01- Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- H. Fried- BAIL 106 EC0-056-01- Economy of Japan- B. Reynolds- SSCI 105 EC0-138-01- Quantitative Methods in Econ- E. Motahar- SSCI 112 EER-041-01- Electrical Circuits- Y. Chang- BUTR 109 EER-041-02- Electrical Circuits·· Y Chang- BUTR 109 MER-062-01- Thermal Energy Conversion- F. Wicks- NWSE 112 PHL-182-0 1 - Seminar: History of Philosophy - P. C. Genest - HUMN 113 PSC-051-01- American Foreign Policy- C. Gati- SSCI 104 PSC-066-01- Presidential Politics- C. Brown- SSCI 010 PSY-050-01- Educational Psychology- J. Campito- PYCH 213 SOC-010-03- Introduction to Sociology- R_ Quaye- SSCI 014 TUESDAY; M6B,CH 16- 9;00-11;00 AM AAH-011-01- Intro to Art History~ Part I- L. Matthew- ARTS 21S AMS-177-01- American Studies Seminar - T. Marchant-Shapim- SSCI 110 ANT-010-01- Intro to Cultural Anthropology- S. Gmelch- SSCI 103 BI0-018-01- Introduction to Biology I- K. Williams- SSCI 016 BI0-026-01 -Cell Biology- G. Smith/J. Salvo- BAIL 207 BI0-160-01- Histology & Organology- W. Roth- BAIL 106 CER131-0 1 - Structural Steel Design - P. Weiss - B UTR 109 CER-151-01- Hydraulics- T. Jewell- BUTR 300 CHM-012-01- Fundamental Chemistry I- D. Hayes- BUTR 204 CHM-162-01 -Polymer Chemistry I- J. Anderson- NWSE 222 CSC-011-01- Programming for Soc Sciences- J. Castleberry- STZH 106 CSC-012-01- Programming for Natrl Sciences- L. Almstead • STZH 108 EC0-012-02- Introduction to Economics- S. Yaisawamg- SSCI 010 EER-048-01 - Semiconductor Devices & Circuits - E. Hassib - NWSE 210 EGL-020-02 - Major English Authors IT - P. Heinegg - HUMN 11 FRN-147-01- Twentieth Century French Novel- P. Bailey - SSCI 105 GE0-011-01- The Earth & Life through Time- J. Garver- BU1R 201 HST-042-01- Renaissance Europe- S. Sargent- SSCI 112 HST-057 ... 01- Modem Jewish History- S. Berk- SSCI 104 LAT-010-01 -Principles of Latin I- J. Marincola- HUMN 116 MTH-018-01- Intra to Logic & Set Theory- W. Zwicker- ALUM MTH-148-01- Differential Geometry- K. Zimmermann- BAIL 312 PHL-012-01- History of Western Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN'112 PHL-012-02- History of Western Philosophy- J. Ludwig- HUMN 112 PHY-013-02- Introduction to Physics II- G. Reich- NWSE 114 PHY-049-01 -Laser Technology & Modem Optics- NWSE 116 PHY-120~01- Astronomy & Astrophysics- K. Mead- NWSE 303 13SC-169-01- Seminar: American Politics- S. T. Mar9hant-Shapiro- SSCI 110 l>SY-010-01- A First Cmuse in Psychology- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 102 . PSY -020-02 - Statistical Methods in Psychology - S. Greenberg - PYCH 204 PSY-038-01- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 r.. ...... -..T r'1o.-.1\\11. r\t. .. T\'!lo • ~ • 'I T A. .... T \1 r-\'1 'I TTTT\''i I,._Tr\.1£\'11. This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Continuing Stu~ies courses will be announced; and students in Section \51 or 52\ courses should be .. alert for the announcement of the exam time for those ·courses. Conflicts in examinations shou.ld be reported to M_rs. Peck in the Office of the . Registrar no later than Friday, ¥arch 5th. ·· P·· ·13 n·A: N :. ,· ~F\. . ·-y~o-u·R· SR .. Rl N·· 0· l \\--:: -' ~ •s . • . nnr .!'1/ HST-121-01- American Constitutional & Legal Hist- M. Jonas- NWSE 112 JPN-121-01- Intennediate Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- SSCI 213 MER~041-01- Engineering Design- R. Eggett- NWSE 222 MTH-018-02- Intro to Logic & Set Theory- J. Barbane1- HUMN 014 MTH-028-01 -Probability- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 MTH-100-01 -Orthogonal Functions- T. Bick- BAIL 207 MTH-136-01 -Real Variable Theory I-S. Perera- BAIL 205 MTH-140-01- Linear Algebra- A. Taylor- BAIL 106 PHL-065-01- Philosophy of Mind- B. Petrie- HUMN 112 PSC~088-01- Politics of the Middle East~ S. Nairn- NWSE 114 PSY-020-01- ~t.a~s~ical Methods in Psych- H. Foley- PYCH 213 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 17- 1:00-3:00 PM AAH-022-01- Medieval Art & Arch of North Eur- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 ANT-034-01- Race & Ethnic Relations- S. Gmelch- BAIL 106 CHN-011-01 -Basic Chinese ll- X. Wu- SSCI 105 CSC-040-01- Machine & Assembly Language- F. Federighi- NWSE 116 EGL-022-0 1 - Major American Authors - N. Shour - HUMN 117 FRN-132-01 - Survey of French Literature II- C. Laparra- HUMN 113 GER133-01 ~German Drama: 1750 to Present- A. Warde ... HUMN 213 GER-143-01 - Oeutsches Drama: 1750 Bis Heute- A. Warde- BUMN 213 PHL-14~01- Political Philoaophy ~ R. Baker- HUMN 110 PSC~013=02 ~ Intro to Political Thought- P. Meyers 7- SSCI 104 PSC-064-01- Congressional Politics- C. Tidmarch- SSCI 103 PSC-084-01- Political Sociology- A. Matchant-Shapiro- SSCI 012 SOC-124-01- Political Sociology- A. Marchant-Shapiro- SSCI 012 SPN--120-02- Intermediate Spanish I- P. Moyano- SSCI 010 SPN-121-01- Intermediate Spanish IT- M. Tometore- HUMN 115 THURSDAY. MARCH 18~ 9:00-11:00 AM BI0-016.-01 ~Introduction to Biology I- P. Tobiessen!W. Roth,. SSCI 016 CER-152-01- Enviro.tunerttal Enginering I- P. Snow~ BUTR 300 CHM-010-·01- Fundamental Chemistry I. C. Weick- BUTR 204 CHM-010··02- Fundamental Chemistry I C. Scaife- BUTR 204 CHM·040-01- Quantitative Chemistry~ R. Schaefer- BAIL 205 CHM-150~01- Physical Chemistry!- D. Hayes~ BAIL 203 CSC-014-01- Information Processing- L. Almstead- S1ZH 106 EC0-012-01- Introduction to Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 112 EGL-020-01- Major English Authors II- A. Frazier- HUMN 117 FRN-011-01- Basic French II- P. Bailey- HUMN 110 FRN-120-0 1 - Intermediate French I - C. Laparra,. HUMN 114 GER~Oll-01- Basic Ge1man II- A. Warde\' HUMN 116 GER-011-02- Basic German II- K. Ham-Ehsani- HUMN 113 HST -045-01 - The Second World War Era - E. Hansen - SSCI 103 JPN-011-01- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 119 MER -022-·0 1 - Materials Science & Engineering - F. Milillo ,. NWSE 210 MER-033~01- Fluid Mechanics- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 PHY-013-01 -Introduction to Physics II- C. Jones- NWSE 114 PHY-054-01 -Statistical Thermodynamics- R. Khosropour- NWSE 116 PSC-013-01 -Intra to Political Thought- J. Board- SSCI 104 PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 SOC-024·01 • Social Psychology .. V. Dawson • PYCH 113 SPN-011-01 -Basic Spanish II~ W. Garcia- HUMN 019 <:;PN-011-02- Basic Spanish II- L. Martinez- HUMN 019 THURSDAY. MARCH 18- l:00-3:00PM

j. - PHY-049-01 -Laser Technology-& Modem Optics- NWSE 116 PHY-120-01- Astronomy & Astrophysics- K. Mead- NWSE 303 FSC-169-01 ~Seminar: American Politics- S. T. Mar9hant-Shapiro- SSCI 110 PSY-010-01- A First Cmuse in Psychology- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 102 . PSY-020-02- Statistical Methods in Psychology - S. Greenberg- PYCH 204 PSY-038-01- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYC:H 213 SPN-010-01- Basic Spanish I- A. Noel-Gosh- HUMN 019 SPN-120-01- Intermediate Spanish I- W. Garcia- PYCH 113 SPN-149a01- Special Topics-Peninsular Lit- L. Martinez- HUMN 014 TUESDAY. MARCH 16- 1:00-3:00 PM AMS-176-01- American Studies Seminar- A. Miller- SSCI 105 ANT-035-01- Psychology of Language- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 213 CHN-121-01- Intermediate Chinese II- X. Wu- HUMN 213 EC0-039-01 ·Public Finance· T. McCarty· SSCI 103 ~qL~Ql~LQl - ~i\j\/r BnsH~~ AYth\/r~ I~ :Q. J¥nkin~- ~UMN 11_7__ _ . EGL-043-01- HutnM\iti~~! Mid AgiM & Reruu~~- P. Heinegg- HUMN 114- EGL-072-01- Literature of the New Nation- N. Shour -HUMN 115 FRN-010-01- Basic French I- J. Boone- HUMN 014 FRN-121-0 1 - Intermediate French II - E. Kirk - SSCI 104 GRK.-011-01- Principles of Greek II- C. Sorum- HUMN 116 HST-196-01- History Seminar- A. Miller- SSCI 105 JPN-011-02- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 019 MER-011-01- Engineering Graphiucs I- M. Rivera- NWSE 222 HST-196-01- History Seminar- A. Miller- SSCI 105 JPN-011-02- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 019 MER-011-01- Engineering Graphics I- M. Rivera- NWSE 222 MER-011-02- Engineering Graphics I- M. Rivera -NWSE 222 MER-026-01- Thermodynamics- R. Wilk- NWSE 210 MTH-010-01 -Calculus I- W. Zwicker- BAIL 207 MTH-030-01- Ordin Differential Equations- A. Seiken- BAIL 104 MTH-101-01- Advanced Calculus for Engrs- B. Johnson- BAIL 203 PHL-121-01- Symbolic Logic- B. Petrie- HUMN 110 PHY-013-03- Introduction to Physics II- D. McKenna- NWSE 114 SARIN .. 0' '; •I' • '! -,1~ .: 1> BREA'I( EA:,R.·l Y! ExaminatiQns will be held in the ilLt~i~nod::rooms. Listed below is me code of the buildings ·to be used. ARTS - Arts building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR -Butterfield Bldg. HUMN -_ OHumanitics NWSE - North ;Wing. S/E Center PYCH - Psychology Bldg. STZH - Steinmetz Hall ALUM - ~unmi Gym PHY-042-01 -Great Ideas of Modem Physics- G. Reich/J. McWhirter- NWSE 116 · PHY-132-01- Electromagnetism II- K. Schick- NWSE 303 PSY -010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 113 PSY-034-01- The Psychology of Language- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 213 SPN-121-02- Intermediate Spanish II- M. Tometore- SSCI 014 SPN-131-01- Survey of Latin-American Lit- V. Martinez- SSCI 110 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 17-9:00-11:00 AM BI0-134-01 -Population Biology- J. Boyer- BAIL 104 BI0-154-01- Developmental Biology- B. Boyer- BAIL 201 CER-015-01- Civil Eng Computer Programming- T. Jewell- BUTR 109 CLS-021-0 1 - History of Greece - J. Marin cola - HUMN 115 EC0-140-0 1 - Labor Economics - P. Prosper- HUMN 117 EER-143-01- Electromagnetic Engineering I- Y. Chang- NWSE 201 EGL-076-01- Modem American Novel- B. MacDonald- HUMN 116 ESC-030-01- Mechanics of Deformable Solids- M. Rivera· NWSE 210 GE0-031-01- Mineralogy- G. Shaw- BUTR 201 HST-013-01- History of U.S. to Civil War- A. Miller- SSCI 012 HST-014-01 - Hist of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Peffer- SSCI 112 HST-022-01- Civil War & Reconstruction- F. Dudden- SSCI 010 HST-035-01 - Hi::itory of Europe I- E. Hansen .. SSCI 014 HST-035-02 - History of Europe I - D. Baum - HUMN l 14 HST-036-01 -History of Europe II- S. Berk- SSCI 104 HST-036-02- History of Europe II- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 103 HST-069-01 -Modern Chinese History- D. Thurston- NWSE 116 t PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 SOC-024-01- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 SPN-011-01- Basic Spanish II~ W. Garcia- HUMN 019 c;PN-011-02- Basic Spanish II- L. Martinez- HUMN 019 THURSDAY. MARCH 18- l:00-3:00PM . GER-010-01- Basic German I-S. Kellenter ... HUMN 115 GER-120-01- Interediate German I~ S. Kellenter- HUMN 115 MTH-012-01 - Calculus TI - A. Prindle BAIL 100 MTH-012-03- Calculus II- J. Muckenfuss BAIL207 MTH-012-04 - Calculus ll -A. Taylor- BAIL 106 MTH-012-05 -Calculus II- J. Muckenfuss ~BAIL 207 MTH-014··01 -Calculus ill- T. Bick- BAIL 102 MTH-014-03- Calculus III\\ B. Johnson- BAIL 104 MTH-040-01- Applied Linear Algebra- A. Seiken- BAIL 205 MTH-040-02- Applied Linear Algebra- W. Fairchild- BAIL 203 RUS-011~01- Basic Russian ll- M. Rudko- HUMN 110 RUS-121-01 -Intermediate Rusgiun ll ~ N, J~rtulk6ff ~ IIUMN 110 RUS=131=01 .. Survey of Russian Literature I --N.Jema.l<:off- HtJMN 110 FRIDAY. MARCH 19- 9:00-1;00 AM AAH-033-01 - Europen Art & Architecture - R. Phelan a ARTS 215 ACC-010-01- Survey of Accounting~ D. Arnold- NWSE 116 CLS-030-01 - Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans- C. Sorum - HUMN 114 EC0-055-01- US Japanese Economic Relations- H. Fried- SSCI 103 EC0-141-01- Monetary Economics- E. Motahar- SSCI 112 EER-144-01 ~Communication Systems I- E. Hassib- NWSE 112 ESC-015-01- Numerical Methods and C- N. Mazur- STZH 106 GE0-130-01- Geochemistry- J. Tepper -BUTR 201 PHL-017-01- Sex & Society- P.Genest- HUMN 115 PHL-017-02- Sex & Society- R. Baker- HU:MN 115 PHL-133-01- Modem Philosophy: Leibniz-Kant- J. Ludwig\' HUMN 113 PSY-031-01 -Abnormal Psychology~ R. Nydegger- PYCH 102 FRIDAY. MARCH 19 -Y:Q0-11:00 AM PSY-039-01- Psychology of Sex Roles- M. Paludi- PYCH 213 SOC-010-01- Introduction to Sociology- R. Quaye- BAIL 100 STA-110-01- Intra to Statistical Methods I- J. Lambrinos- BAIL 312 WST-015-01 -Sex & Society- P. Genest- HUMN 115 WST-015-02- Sex & Society -R. Baker- HUMN 115 WST-030-01- Psychology of Sex Roles- M. Paludi- PYCH 213 FRIDAY. MARCH 19- 1:00~3:00 PM MTH-058-01- Appl of Math to Eco & Mgmt- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 104 MTH-058-03 - Appl of Math to Eco & Mgmt- W. Fairchild- BAIL 106 PHY -011-01 - Introduction to Physics I - M. CzeiWinski - BAIL 207 PHY-011-02- Introduction to Physics I ~J. McWhirter- NWSE 112 PHY -011-03 - Introduction to Physics I - M. Cze1winski - BAIL 207 The followig day courses will have. exams in the evening: Monday, March 15, 1993 - 6:30-8:30 PM CER-165-01- Systems Analysis & Design- T. Jewell- BUTR 300 Monday, March IS, 1993- 4!30-6!30 PM CSC-135-01- Operating Systems- G. Williams- BAIL 100 CSC-135-51- Operating Systems- G. Williams- BAIL 100 Tuesday, March 16, 1993- 5:30-7:30 PM CER-128-01- Structural Analysis 0 J. Bendana- BUTR 109

January 28, 1993, page 10 ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT ainnrnritirnsis Oh Brave New World by Anna Love Contributing Writer This term the Arts Department will. be presenting a modified version of Shakespeare's \The Tempest\. Director and Professor Barry Smith has brought some new, modem-day ideas into his interpretatioll. For now the production is being called \Project Tempest\ so as not to mislead the audience into thinking that they win be watching a traditional interpretatiol! of Shakespeare's play. In Shakespeare's version, Prospero, the rightful Duke af Milan, is usurped by his brother Antonio. Prospero is ensconced ()n an undefiled, uncorrupted, magical island with his daughter, Miranda, his slave, Caliban, and an airy spirit, ArieL Prospera rules this isolated island with his power radiating from a magical source. A mystical tempest, brought on by Prospero, sends Antonio's ship crashing onto the shores ofProspero's island. As the plot to regain his proper Dukedom unfolds, Prospero eventually realizes that violence is not the answer. Atypical to most of Shakespeare's plays, \The Tempest\ results with a happy ending for all. Professm Smith has directed \The Tempest\ before, but he has always felt that something had been missing. Over the break he spent some time witl:t Vietnam veterans, who, by relating their experiences~ ignited these new ideas and he decided to try the play again. This time he olans to put a \reality check\ on the traditional interpretation. Professor Smith concludes that tltere are not any isolated, untainted islands in today's world. The sense of the \Global Village\ is a pievalent image in today's society. He. sees Union College, a dorm room. or planet Earth as an island where there exists an interdependency between everyone. The island that . Professor Smith has created for \Project Tempest\ has been immersed in technology of the day - television, ~omputers, Nintendo, etc. The island no longer represents a romantic notion of purity. The ideas of cross culturalism and multi-lingyal societies become a major part of this production. The characters may converse in other languages or various accents in order to develop this idea more. Communication and ethnicity depict strong currents running through today's SQCiety. In accordance with modern- day politics, Professor Smith . has demystified Prospero. His new source of power comes from a plethora of technology. right at his fingertips. He becomes a much darker character who craves power and is overcome with vengeance. He finds joy in creating pain in his enemies and wishes them dead. In the end, however, Prespero will learn, like aU other Prosperos of the world, that forgiveness, and not violence, is the answer. \Project Tempest\ will be performed at the end of February. Anyone is welcome to get involved to help with set construction, costumes, props, publicity, etc. If you are interested contact Rebecca Parlakian, stage manager, at the Nott Memorial. ADS THAT DESERVE TO BE BANNED By Ci11dy Hills Concordiensis Staff CHIA PET- As long as I can remember, this comme:rcial has haunted my holidays. I find myself wandering my house singing that really awful but really, really memorable tune. I bet you a II k:now it and I apologize if reading this puts it in your head md ruins your day like it ruins mine. \Ch-ch-ch- CHIA! Ch-ch-ch- CHIA!\ I can't be alone in this. ~ SALAD SHOOTER- An equally stupid product with an equally annoying (well, maybe not quite as annoying) jingle. I can't figure out how to type it in tune but~ if you know the ad, you probably know the song. I wonder if that thing really sells. It may be a really low- budget ad but what they saved in models and spokespeople they hdd to spend in air time. KEN GOEWY- \Ken Goewy ... WHAT A GUY! ! \ This ad is local so those of you who live a life Deli outside o{ Albany broadcasting and don't ever tum on the 'F.V. in college may have be~n spared this horrible man. He ts a car salesman who thinks he'll lure us in to but ilis cars by putting his friends on television. No matter how many times they tell me, I just won't believe it. Ken Goewy would never be my friend. THE CLAPPER· \Clap on, Clap off ... The Clapper (clap,clap)\ Old, ugly (and lazy) woman lying in bed, Next time turn off the lights before you get 1n'to bed. Nice green nightgown. Is the new name for the old information booth in the Dutch Hollow Restaurant! We Feature: - Gourmet Coffees - Fresh Baked Otis Spunkmeyer Cookies Assorted Mouth Watering Dutch Delights We are open 9:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M Monday thru Friday We will do Birthday Cakes and Cookie Platters for your next party. Stop by and pick up a treat for your sweet! Valetines Day Feb. 14 Class of '96 IJy Carrie Sherman Arts Editor In the last few years the Fox. television network (channel23 for those of us residing .in the capital district) has gone from a fledgling station showin~ re- runs and bad late mght movies, to one of the major netwerks. Well, I don't know ifit's exactly a major network, but it does have. some great new shows. Some of the network's big hits so far. have been; In Living Color. Beverly Hills 90210, and Melrose Place. Last Tuesday, Fox premiered two new shows, \Class of '96\ and \Key West\. \'Key. West looked kind of st11pid so I didn't bother to watch, but \Class of '96\ bas some potential. I admit to . religiously watching 90210 a11d Melrose, so I was excited wlten I began to see ccmmercials for the new show. \Class of '96\ has tile same type of theme, a group of friends experiencing life and friendship together. This group happens to be a bunch of college freshman. Tb.e college is a typical eastern c®llege where presidents supposedly once attended. Last Tuesday I sat down to· watch the show, after having such high hopes for my Tuesday nights for the rest of. the term, I must say 1 was: disappointed. I thought the show was quite unrealistic. When the three main female characters first met, they realized. they were mommates. Upon this realization; these three ttotal strangers began ju 111 pim8 up and down and screaming with excitement. I don't know about you but this was n~t the scene when I met my freshman roommates. I think ve just kind of walked in, said: hi and kept unpack.ffig. timidl)'. The show contained ty:pica1: \college\ scenes of students hanging out on the quad playing Frisbee •. guy. and girl meeting for the fll'st time, signing up for classes etc. Maybe after four years of college I have realized that these \typical college scenes\ aren't -so typical. Anyways, I got a pilone call in the middle of the ~how and decided it was boring enough to leave. . So maybe I'm not even qualified to review the show. Howev~r. although it may sound 11s though I'm bashing this sh()W, I'm not. I think it has hope. I think in the first episode it was necessary to introduce the characters and set the stage. I have hope that once the plot starts to build this show will improve, maybe even to the ranks of 90210 and Melrose. I suggest that if you like this kind of show gi\ve it a try. What else have y(}u got to do at 8:00 on a Tue&(fay night. If it's bad, do what I did and tum it off. Arts and En tertainm,en t Calendar THURSDAY .JANUARY 28TH 8:00 PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the R()of' FRIDAY JANUARY 29TH 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang en the Ro()f\ 8:00PM Skidmort College's Surrey Inn A Celebration of Moz~rt's Birthday, by the Saratoga Chamber Players. SATURDAY JANUARY 3()TH 4:30PM and 8:30PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof\ SUNDAY JANUARY 31ST 2 :JOPM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof'' 2:30PM Empire Center at tkt Egg Julliard Pianist, Akira Egu()hi. TUESDAY FEBRUARY 2ND 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof\ 8:00 PM Proctors \The Secret Garden\ WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 3RD 8:00PM Capital Repertory Company \Gang on the Roof\ 8:00PM Pr-octors \The Secret Garden\

ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT The Year of the Rooster by Elaine L. Lee Contributing Writer . Chinese New Year is a day of celebration for both the young and the old. It is not celebrated as New Year's Day in America but follows traditions that have shaped ASian cultures for centuries. ln traditional China, houses are cleaned and repairs are made before the New Year. No speck of dust should be missed because it is said to be old dust and is believed to be blinding. Things are not much different today. All household members help prepar-e the bouse for the new year. Women .cook food to last for 3-4 days. In Cbina stores close for several days after the new year. Traditionally it is a time for rest because the new year symbolizes the start of the planting season. Women prepare dumplin.gs. cakes, and other festive foods. Much food is also prepared for ancestoral worship, visiting guests, and gifts. Food is _placed before alters to thank ancestors and Gods for protection against any demons and bad spirits. It is also placed to appease them. Candles and incense are burned. This ritual can take place all day or before a big feast. The Gods and ancestors are members of the family. Once all the cooking and cleaning is done, couplets are placed on every front entrance of the 'homes and businesses. The ,couplets are placed to wish an those who entered well for the coming year. This tradition has existed since the Five Dynasties but the first Ming Emperor is credited for it. He ordered everyone to write spring verses to create a peaceful atmosphere. The verses were originally written on peachwood boards unitl printing came about in China. During this holiday, many families visit friends and other relatives to wish them a happy new year. Guests bring gifts of fruit, candy, cooked foods and red packets of lucky money for children. It is also generally given to those who aren't married. The adults enjoy good conversation and food. Families gather to go see the Chinese New Year varade that many Asian communities organize. It is co-sponsered by various businesses and organizations in the community. Fire crackers are heard through out the day and cloud the community with smoke. The ftre crackers ward off all evil spirits. Through the haze, a dragon dances through the. streets. The dragon is a favored animal in Chinese mytllology because he also ·wards <Jff any dangerous S])irits and c01ses. The dragon dances thro11,gh the streets gathering luclcy money from the audience m1d the balconies and doorways. At the ,end of the patade, the dragon climbs to reach a vezy long string of lucky money. It can also be connected t() strings of fire crackers to protect him. Once he eats the fillal string of lucky money the new year is ushered in. Come join the Asian Student Union in our Chinese New Year celbration. It will take place Febrmuy 2- 6. We are planning to hue many cultural activities. Mon<lay (2·1·93) Cake sale by Shakti in the College Center \Ra the Red Latern., 8pm in the Soc. Sci. Au d. Tuesday (2-2-93) ASU's Bake and Shirt Sale in College Centre 6:30 Prof. Ernest Siew from SUNY Albany in CC. AUD Wednesday {2-3-93) ASU's Bake and Shirt Sale Thursday (2-4-93) Pan Asian Repertory will perform skits from such works a s \Eat a Bowl of Tea\. It will be in the CC Aud. Time to be announced. Friday There will be a culinary expose in the Upperclass dining. Sign up early. There will be a fashion January 28 .. 1993, page 11 show, fan dance, Japanese Tea Ceremony, Prof. Hu Peng will be displaying his works, and the fire cracker dragon dance. A tea reception will follow at Chester Authur House ( across from Fox). Everyone is welcomed. Saturday (2-6-93) Dance Party at Old Chapel 9pm to 2am. Admission is $3.00. COME JOIN US AND CELEBRATE CHINESE NEW YEAR THE YEAR OF THE ROOSTER South Indian Flute Concert India's most noted and respected musicians. · Also, he recently received the National Endowment for the Arts· prestigious Heritage award. In America he has recorded on World Pacific and Nonesuch. Sankaran is among Soath India's top drummers~ and likewise has received international recognition. FAIR PLAY Courtesy of the Department of Perjormi11g Arts· Tanjore Viswanthan, master flutist of South In<lia is giving a concert at 7:00PM on Friday, January 29, 1993 at Union College Performing Arts Studio, the fnst in a three part Winter Concert Series. He will be accompanied by Trichy Sandaran, the mrdangam or bwrel drum virtuoso, and by violinist A. Ananthakrishan. l'he concert is free of charge aild open to the pablic. Viswanatha11 comes from o11e of the most illustrious m11sic and dance families of South India and is one of Indian music is based on raga and tala, melody and rhythm. Each raga has a distinct mood that the musician explores and illuminates. Rhythm is based on repeated cycles of beats kept with the hand, over which one weaves intricate patterns, often of breathtaking virtuosity. The audience is able to follow these excursions, and may cry out encouragement as one does at a jazz concert. This excitement plays off an often elaborate composition, a fragment of which may be used as a point of return for the improvising. VISAGE HAIR STUDIO 557 Nott Street W]NTJEIR SIP>JECClAJL $45 Reg. $60 Highlighting $50 Reg,. $70 *above include haircuts Stain(Celapbanes) $20 With Cut $35 Perms SPECIALS THROQGH TilE END OF FEBRUARY Call for appointment. 374-0351 As:k for Melissa, Hope or Victor By Cimdy Hills Concordiensis Staff Ever been to a small town carnival? If yo11 haven't, and you~ve got any sense of adventare, y()u should. The rides may shake and the smell overwllelm~ b11.t the local color (particularly i11 Vermont, my home state) is really outstanding. As th<l summer draws to a close, my hometown buddies and I ritualistically head to boomi11g downtown Rutland, Vermont for a quick dip into our nearest Twilight Zone, ''The Rutland Fair\. Probably, were you t() ask a Greenwich, Scarsdale or Marblehead resident to describe a fair, my guess is that their answers would vary widely from mine. Given .•. rides, C()tton candy, a Rotor, a Ferris wheel, haunted houses. Rutland,. on the other hand, goes bey()nd conventional fair-stuff. We Yennonters treat ourselves to C()W showings, rooster raffles artd tractor rides. The line for grat~dstand seats at the Dernolitio11 <lerby stretches out past other w.11lk-up, walk-on rides for over 200 yards. It's quite a beer-guzzling, dip- spiting, hootin ~ hollerin' kind of scene. Yoa can f)icture it. Anyway~ as tliey say, when in Rome do as tile Romans do. Well, when in E.11tland, blend. So, here we are. Ten to fifteen generally respectable college stude11ts. Well, Ok. ten to fifteen kids. about three of us are act11ally in college. And usually, those who may have been classified as \respectable\ pre-fair time tend to drift after the beer-ftlled forty-fiv.e minute car ride. Why we do that (drink, I mean) on the way to a fair always makes me wonder why we're ever the slightest bit mrprised when someone inevitably gets sick on rides. But, there's no way around it. It's ritual and who would dare break tradition. (Ever wonderoo ,why we always feel the need to scream \STOP THE RIDE!\ on the really scary rides every time we whirl pass the little man who runs it? Do we really ever think he actually will? Sorry~ random interjection.) So, here we are, piling out of our carefully selected Road Trip cars. As a rule, our usual road trip cars are always different from our Rutland road trip cars. As I said, we need to fit in as best we can. Any display of spare pocket ~ash is out. No Jetta, no Saab, or any of the other cars we usually pick for comfortable journeys. Finally, those of us with cheap cars (yeah, Hyundai). or beat up pick-ups have our time in the sun. (MORAL PROMO---DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE) So anyway, piling out of cars filling our pants with beer. Any of you who attend concerts probably know the feeling. It's cold and miserable but damn are you proud as you awkwardly baby- step through the gates. (Those ~ate people must just laugh at us, too. I think they let us through as a reward for the suffering we go through when we first stick that freezing wet beer down our pants.) Safely in tile fairgrounds, the fun begins. Usually about two or three hours of ridiculously childish playing. I've learned there are two classes of fair-gqers. There are those that go for rides and those that go for the games. 3oth (at least in my crew) are equally fanatical. I'll tell you now, since my bias will show up later, that I'm a ride-goer. the whole idea of putting down a dollar to throw balls, throw fjarts or squirt water just doesn't grab me. And I don't think any one would argue that the lure is 'those stiff blue bears or. dogs with plastic ears they give you if you win. And those are the ·big winner gifts! Fair time is one of the nights I thank god I'm a female. Who lrnows where the romance is that causes so many usually sensible women to beg their \guy\ to win her a prize. Who the hell really wants a stiff blue bear with plastic eyes? No thanks. For the ten dollars you had to put down to play so many times, I'd just as soon get twenty rides in the teacups. Anyway. I just wanted to pass on word of advice to any of you who think Vermont's biggest attractions are its outlets or ski al'eas. No way. Rooster raffles and demolition derby can't be beat for an inexpensive taste of the real Vermont life.

January 2s, 1993, page 12 FEATURES THE WINTER TERM MOTIVATIONAL BLUES Erin M. 0 'Neil Associate Features Editor I know it's time to worry when my once oh-so-studious roommate, who never left her desk last year, is .now sleeping through classes like the rest of us. And she doesn't even care. It's winter term, and Union College students are amongst the laziest, most unmotivated creatures on earth. Not that I'm one to talk. I almost took a nap instead of writing this article, but I knew I just couldn't disappoint my faithful readers. What is going on here? What has happened to us? Since when does getting up and walking the fifty paces required to get something to eat seem the equivalent of the Boston Marathon? Why does waking up at ten-thirty to make an eleven-fifteen class seem like the crack of dawn? Why does writing this article feel like I'm trying to rewrite the Bible? A popular theory is the cold weather. \Last term I used to do all my work in the library, but now it's just too cold to walk there.\ This comes from another of my roommates, the one who got a\ 3.7 last term. A 3. 7 turned 1.7 if she gets caught up in the inevitable downward spiral, better known as winter tenn at Union. The truth is, if she were really as motivated as she appeared to be last term, she would suck it up and brave the cold to achieve the 4.0 she's been striving for. Granted Schenectady is not the Bahamas, but to me the weather is just a convenient excuse. Notice that it is never too cold to go out to a party. Many do so scantily clad. Frankly roommate o' mine, I don~t believe you. If you knew the ,cold was going to have such a negative impact on your studies. you should have gone to scllool in Florida. So there. This lack of motivation does not o11ly apply to schoolwork, it affects every aspect of our everyday lives. I have spent many an hour lying on my couch, attempting to change the channels telepathically due to a lack of remote control. My roommate and I watched \Star Trek- the Next Generation\ (which we despise). the other night, simply because neither of us had the motivation to reach out and change the station. Sad, very s.td. Take-out food places must be raking in the bucks this time of year, if others share in my philosophy \Why go get it when they can bring it to you?\ . The trek up and down three flights of stairs seems a bit much at times. But when you compare it to walking down the stairs, plus walking to your car, plus walking from car in to said food emporium, walking back to car, back to residecnce, and back up the stairs- it's a piece of cake. I don't know where those delive:ry people get their spunk, living in Schenectady and all. I'm going to let you in on another little unmotivated secret of mine. I don't do my laundry until I'm down to my last pair of underwear. I realize that tltis is not uncommon, but I don't think you understand how bad this last pair of underwear really is. I affectionately caU them the \wedgie\ pair. I've had them since the sixth grade, and I can't remember when they last had an elastic. You'll know it's laundry day if you see me walking rather uncomfortably across campus, tugging at my backside. I wear the same outfit day after day because it takes too much effol't to pick out a different one. hl fact, the whole personal hygiene thing has pretty much been shot to pieces as a result of this motivation dilemma. I mean, do you really thinl I'm going to get out of bed a whole hour ahead of time so I can shower before class? Hal Not when I can just throw on a baseball hat, and cover up my smelly, greasy, unshowered head. Don't thin.k I don't notice my fellow greasebaHs in class either, I know what you're hiding! The secret is out. I've been known to wear the baseball hat up to three days in a row. Eeeuuw! That's motivation for you. I see that I have not come up with any real solid reason for the laziness which has a death grip on our fair college this winter. So. I failed. But I only failed because- gosh darn it, I just don't have the motivation to come up with one. This doesn't really bother me because I'd like to know how many of yo11 even had enough motivation to go to the College Center to pick up the Concordiensis, let alone tum all the pages necessary to get to my article, and for the very few of you motivated folks who actually read tllis through to the end- bravo! You're on the path to recovery. As for me, I'm going back to bed. Uncle Edna is sick and therefore did not write a column this week. Send questions and get well donations (cash please) to Uncle Edna- Box 83 @nnr.tlrb irtt.sis Poetry Are You Literal? By Dass Seama,n I'm a book. feeling empty, bl~ with only some loose leafs. I think I'm going to go to town to the Poetry Patch. the local bar, and pick me a passionate poem to splash her words all over .my pages. Our love wiU be a story book. How wtll I get her to notice me? Inspiration... How to compliment a poem? You are so deep ... Shall I compare thee to a Shakespeare sonnet? We'd make a great couplet. When you sneeze,I'd say \haiku!\ Sit beside me my sweet sweet illiteration. You and I, we're so simile. When I see you in that fonn, I think, \Wow! what a figurative!\ I'm iambic. What's your meter? Let's be free verses and get naked. Is this your first rhyme? You are so accentual. Have we metaphor? I went to the bar and tried my lines. She said I was being syllabic. Then she called me an oxymoron and said that I was trying to Iead into her too much. She closed my cover in my face and that's all she 'wrote. Acid Snow Douglas W. Bartell Angelic snowflakes, floating down. A cozy blanket coats the ground. Angelic snowflakes, timid things. How they burn! How they sting! Angelic snowflakes, endless harms! Mutant snowmen-three snow arms! Snowballs chewing off kids hands! Plantlife gone in Arctic bands. Santa's Reincleer dead are found A toxic gag now chokes the ground! Killer snowflakes! Squalling! Storming! Wbat to save us- Global Warming? Dreaded snowflake! Dreadful woe! Acid rain- now acid snow! By Leigh Rubin Sleep and DSPS Tired of the little pests invading his air space, Frank established a \no-fly\ zone. Alexis Leist Features Writer How often do Uni<m students get to sleep before eleven on weeknights? How often do they get to sleep before two (AM) on weekends? Researchers have concluded that these sleeping patterns constitute a mild form of Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome (DSPS). This syndrome occurs when internal biological r:bythms are delayed from normal. Body temperature rises when a person wakes up and declines when a person falls asleep. Thus, if someone 's body temperature begins to decrease later at night and starts to rise late in the morning it would be pretty difficult to fall asleep before two A.M. and arise before 10 A.M. People who follow this cycle have difficulty falling asleep at night; but sleep undisturbed once they are asleep. The typical sleep cycle of a college student follows a similar pattern. A student will go to sleep late on weeknights and have to wake up early for class the next day. This student will experience some sleep loss; and possibly depression and anxiety the next day. Typically a student will \sleep-in\ on weekend mornings to \catch-up\ on their sleep need. But, tbis only perpetuates the problem for the following week. The sleep loss experienced during the week will result in deficits of perfonnance and motivation. This factor, combined with depression, anxiety, drowsiness and irritability make up DSPS. An experiment cond11cted on a random group of students attending a university in Australia- found that the most reported sleeping difficulty was falling asleep. The reason for this difficulty is the delay in sleep and wake times on the weekend as compared to the week. Every time sleep is delayed, at least several nights of consistent bedtimes and waketimes will be necessary to reset the internal clock. Drowsiness and irritability during the day result from a student's inability to get sufficient sleep by the time they had to wake up on a weekday morning. The academic perfonnance of this group was significantly lower than a control group. The best way to deal with DSPS would be to regulate the sleeping/ waking patterns of students. It is unknown whether or not successful treatment of DSPS would result in improved academic performance; but it's worth a try.

Olttnrvrb i·rnsis CAMPUS NEWS January 28, 1993, page 13 PER!iDI\IAL!i Blaine, Please come back to England- We have a very special kind of SALAD waiting for you!! Love, Helen and Penny. To the pledges of Delta Delta Delta, Congratulations!! ! Love the sisters of Delta Delta Delta Congratulations to the new pledges of Sigma Delta Tau, Gamma Phi Beta, and Delta Gamma. Love, the sisters of Delta Delta Delta. To Joyce, my favorite pig! l love you. Cindy. Lowell: 7:00 Be there! You supply the wiue. To: the three muskateers. I'm still waitting for our little dinner. When will you ever be available. Suzanne: Sorry about the emotional trauma I put you through last week on the taconic. S.A.G.: Hanging up on me will not make me go away. I know where you live, I know your jogging route, and I know what you wear to bed at night. Signed, your #1 fan. C'mon ladeez, it's Blaine and I'm just chilling. I need someone who's more than willing. If you're lonely and not feeling right, how about coming to my pad tonite! All right? Ron: History challenge, anywhere, anytime! The Count de Monet. SCUBA Jump on the power train. Hey, did you see the President's balls on CNN. They were much bigger than I thought. Becca- Happy 20th Birthday!! With love, your roommate. Late night 16ver at Delta Phi, I think I love you! Love, your freshman friend 1/15/93 Deeply depressed and sick man in search of another man who wil:l comfort and give companionship while I . convalence. Needs to be supportive and willing to succumb to all my desires. Must respond when called a \puff' and like \fruit\ salad. Conblct N. Nadaraja if interested. Looking for strong, able bodied lifting partner who would allow me to escort his girlfriend to social functions and not hold personal grudges. If interested call The Sloth. ADDPTIDI\1 A loving man (a school teacher) prof. - devoted Dad yearn to share our lives with newborn. Family picnics, homebaked cookies, but most immportantly a warm and loving family. Await your infant. Expenses paid. Call Joan & Bob collect so we can talk. 212-772-9254 .JDB!i Sitter needed for 2 children in nice horne nearby. Tuesdays & some Thursdays. Hours are flexible. 346-8281. · CRlJ1SE. JOBS · · Students Needed! Eam$2.()0()+/mcmth worl:inglorc:iweshipsor tour <:ompanles. HoUday, Summer, and Full- 1'inle emplo)'mmt available. For your '92/'93 employment program call: Crulst EmpiDyment SrrvU:~s (206) 634-0468 Ext. c 5188 M~k:e money teaching English abroad. Ja-· pan and Taiwan. Make$2.0()0-$4,000+ per m«Jiltfl. Many provide room and board+ othcx benefits! No prior training or teaching certificate required! For program call: • ]lllern~W!nal Employment Group (Z06) 632-1146 Ext. J5188 Part Time Telemarketer Wanted: We have an immediate position available for a telemarketer. This is a perfect opportunity for a student with morning classes to earn money and get business experience. 3:00 to 9:00 three da:ys a week in Niskayuna. The duties of the position include contacting customers by phone as well as some filing and typing. Exp. not necessary. Call372-6584. Ask for Stu or Brenda. CANCUN JAMAICA BAHAMAS . & MORE. HEATWAVE VACATIONS SPRING BREAK 1993. ABSOLUTELY THE LOWEST PRiCES GUARANTEED. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL I· 800-395-WAVE. SPRU~GBREAKERS-Promote our florida Spring · Brea:k pacbges.-~ Money and Free trips. Organize Sman or Large grot1ps. Campus Marketing. 800-423-·5264 GREEKS· & CLUBS . $1,000 AN HOUR! E<Jch member of your frat. s<Jr0rity. team. club. etc. pitches in just one hour and :your group can ra1se $1.000 in just a few days I Plus a chance to earn $1,000 for yourself! No cost No obl1gal1on 1-800·932-0528, ext. 65 CLA!i!iiFIED!i Valentine's Day is coming! Send someone an \all occasion cake\ and support the women's softball team. For Information call Slle \the coach\ at X6191 or Jill at X4214 for details. Fun idea for birthday's or any occasion. DMNG Mountebanks • IS 0 NUGR A. E P S H E c z X u A s Q N L D J K G RA E C Z X v B T~ I N S)E OMR p N L J H E y T K CRT U y A E YWV T R B s p UAANLKV I R G E B A T s L R C B ZXLWI u EMS S U TA R A p p A R p p OMEGOOL E v L A v K T J I R ERE D N I L Y C J G E p R A D B A y u xwu T S D 0 p B N 0 s s E RPMO C ED Find the listed words in the diagram. They run in all directions-forward, backward, up, down and diag()nally. Abyss Apparatus Barotrauma Cylinder Decompression K valve Ebb tide Mask Fins Pressure J valve Regul~ior F!lp tide 11unout Yoke WRITE FOR CONCORDIENSIS x6155 ·------------------~------------~ looking for a guitarist for various events. Interested? Call Cindy. 346-2786 A profile of U.S. smokers In sp1te ol the health hazards, aboul50 million Americans smoke; lour mrllron of them are 18 or yourJger.Aiook al US. smokers: Adult smoking rate Total adult rn; populalionl~ Smokers 1965 1990 Smoking can be deadlv Smoking-related deaths e Increasing; total timated deaths: ' 985 390,000 . 988 434,000 Who smokes More !han 80% of smokers start by age 21. Each year, more than 1 million teenagers become regular smokers. 11!1! Most adult smokers are 25 to 44 yeaJS old Percent of smokers by age, 1988 18-24 years 25.9%/ 25·44 32.9%/ 45·64 29.4%1 65-74 18.8%1 75+ 18.8% • Mme African-Americans than whites are smokers Percent of smokers by race. 1988 Whites 27.8°foj African-Amerrcans 31.7%1 Hispanrcs 23.5%/ • Most smok~rs have Jess than high school education Percent of smokers by edueallon level. 1988 Less than high school 34%1 ~h school diploma 32%1 Some college 25.4%1 College degree [15.9% ' ~ACE Centers lor Disease Control. Research by PAT CARR U · N · I · 0 • N · 'S WEEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 29 12.·/5.1 30 pIll Coll~g\ Centa Ru,sun mJ Japanese conversatwn tahlc:< 7 p.1n Performing Am studio. Departrnc!ll ,,f Pe.rformmg Ans Wtntcr C ..:.nccrt Senes presents \C!a\ll'Jl Flute Music ,,f Suuth India.\ 7-9 p.1n College Center ~09 !nle-rv&<ily ChristJan Fellowshtp. 7:30p.m. Achilles Rmk. Hockey,., RPI 8 & 10 p.m College Center ouJ. Ftlrn \Honeymoon in Vegas·· SATURDAY, JANUARY 30 5 p.m. Memorial Field House JJyvee men·, basketball vs. Elmrra. 7 p.11~ Memorial Field. Men's basketball vs. Elmira. 8 p.m. Memorial ChapeL St. Cecilia Chamber Orchestra 8 & 10 p.m College Center oud. Film \Honeymoon in Vt!gas.\ SUNDAY, JANUARY 31 4 p.m Performing Arts Studio. \Makiug Dances: New Work by Independent Chomog- raphers.\ An informal showing of six·dauce premiers by six choreographers. 7:30 p.1n St.John the Evangelist Church. Newman Club Catholic mass. 8 & 10 p.m College Center aud. Film \H oncymoon in Vegas.\ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1 12:15-J:JO p.m College Center. French con- versation table. College Center 205. International Rdalions Club. 5-9:30 P·'\- Hale House. Student phoJJathon. 6:30-7:30 p.m. College Center409. Student Forum meetmg. 8 & IO p.m. College Center aud. Film; ··Honeymoon in Vegas.\ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2 11:30a.ln-1 p.m. Old ChapeL l'Jculty .oup and beverage club. 11:30a.ln-1 p.m. HJle !louse. Dtet work shop. 12:15-1 p.m College Center. Chmese conversation table. 6-8:30 p.m College Center 40(\. Ncwm•n Cluh. 7·.?0.<; ~0 p.m C\1lkgc Ccnta tO>< ''\'\'!' dt~lHlkrs mt·t:unc ,'/J) p fJI. ('.,lk~e -,,nl<:r cO; Drrk >IUJ\ WEDNESDAY, FEBF;UARY 3 12 JS. I 15 p m l.>lle~c ( enter ~~~' l icrnwr Cluh - 12·15- LW p m c,,lJc~e Cc•ntcr Gam\\ JllJ SpJnbh con,cr,Jtmn t~hk• 7 p m. Alumni Gym. ~1cn ·., ~nJ V.tlmt:n ·.., swtmmmg vs. Alhany. 8 & 10 p.m Colkge Center Frlm Brll s.:. Ted's Excellent AJventurc\ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4 12 ·i 5-1·30 p m. C.>!lege Ccnlcr 2tl.1 lnvestmmt Clull 1· 30-5 p.rn College C cntcr JUJ ·\,JJn Repertory Theater. 4:30p.m SS016 Geology Deparuncnt Serrunar. Nikolat Sobolev spe.lk.mg ''\ \Gemstones of Russia:· 8 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men , basketball vs. LeMoyne. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5 12:15-J:30p.1n College Center l{u\r•n JnJ Japanese conwrsation tabk1. 5-9 p.tn Upper Class dinmg hJI!. Cultn.rrv Expose: Chmese New Year Cclc~rJtron. · 7-9 p.IIL College Center .tOlJ lntcrv.rr>lly Chrtsuan Fellowship. 7:30p.m. Achrlics Rmk. Hm·kcy n Bnmn. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center JUJ. F1lm ··school Ties.\ SATURDAY, FF:BRUARY 6 7 p.1n Mernonal Field House. Wnmcn·, basketball vs. Oneonta. limon InvliJtl<lnol 8 & Z 0 p.1n C olkge Center JUJ. F rim. \School Ttcs.\ SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7 1 p.1n Memonal Ftcld I l\u'c. Wo>rnm ·, basketbalL Unrnn lnvnatrcm•L 3 p.nL Mcmon:~l Chapel The Mu,cum/ (\,liege Concert Sene> pre,cnt' 'The Calonrdo S tnng Qu.met. ·· 7:30 p.11~ St. John the Ev•ngcll\t l\hurc h NcV}man C!uh C otholtc m•\ 7:30-8:30 p.lll Old ChJpcl Prolc,IJlll wnn~up o,;erv11.:c 8 & 10 p. Ill C <'liege Center •ud him \School Tic;.·· Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details -RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901 ~ · · ·. . ,·~ King Crossword . . . -.· ... ·... - : ACROSS L Type of roast 5 .. Sibling to SIS 8. Lack 1:2. Suffix. to kitchen 13. Cover 14. Olive genus 15. Presently 16. Summer refresher 17. Radar image ! ~.Obtained tram tan- bark 20. Rises up 22. B.P.O.E. member 23. Globe-trotter Nellie 24. Roman 2150 27. Pet 32. Shoe width 33. Chemical suffix 34. Past 35. Related to bee's knees 38. Degree 39. Actor's signal -lO. A Gershwin 42. Endures 45. Most up-to-date 49. Contained 50. Pea's home 52. Rattling sound 53. Earthenware jar 54. Ass, in /12 lB 49 56 Rennes 55. Continent 56. Nosegay 57. Neither's partner 58. Slrokes DOWN l. Overcome 2. Sight in Sicily 3. Type of collar 4. Seed for seasoning 5. Invitation request 6. Free of 7. River to the 19 12Q 'I 50 51 57 Baltic 8. Unsteadv 9. Social d;nce 10. Astronaut Armstrong II. Bugle call 19. Seighbor of Ind. 21. Type of tide 24. Raincoat. in G.B. 25. Bleating sound 26. Sounds of disapproval 28. Fuss 29. Stun 30. Ripen B 19 10 • 14 31. Acme 36. Day of rtst 37. Type of grad. student 38. Peltv tvranl 41. Egyptian Still god ·D Far· comb fonn Marriage, divorce have changed radically The last decades saw these wide shifts In U.S. marriage patterns: Percent of women age 20 to 24 who have married once 1975 1990 SOURCE; Cens•s Bureau ·Mou:tdillo_rces. Estimllted percent of women .In age group who Will divorce 40\/o 380/o om 45 to 30 to Under 54 44 30 · Si!lgle par~nts · • Percent of families w~h only one parent 13% D 1970 28% D 1990 ·~-

January 28, 1993, page 14 CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD 'I il ' •' •' ANNOUNCING UNION COLLEGE SUMMER I{ESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS Approximately 30 Union students will 'be awarded research fdlowships this summei:. to work with faculty mentors. You must hav-e a faculty member sponsor your project to apply. Stipends will be $2000 plus free room for the summer. Applications are due March 3rd. Applications and guidelines can be found in the Deans' office, Sci. Ctr SlOO. For information, call Prof. Tobiessen (6028). The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily: Mon.-Thurs. 8:30am-11:30pm Friday 8:30am-6:00pm Weekends: Sahuday Sunday 12:00pm -4:00pm 11:30am-11:30pm At thes.e times, Macintosh & IBM computers are available for student use. Laser copies are 15 cents per page. *Saturday specia1- $5 per person for unlimited laser printing. A Tenurability review is being conducted for PROF. SEYFOLLAH 1\IALEXJ Department of Physics Faculty, smdents, administrators and ~taff may contribute rel.:;·am infonnarion concerning teaching, scholarship, CJJ!d college service w;· Prof Manha Huggins Professor of Sociology Social Science Bldg. A committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurability of Linda Stanbope, Assistant Professor of Psychology. Committee members are James McCord (English)~ George Smith (Biol()gy), Suzanne Benack (Psychology) and William Zwicker (mathematics)~ Chair. Those who wish to offer their views regarding Professor Stanhope's teaching, research, or ·college service are invited to write to any members of the Committee, or to contact Eill Zwicker (ext. 6160) to arrange an interview~ You me cordially invited to A WINTER AFFAIR Saturday, February 20, 1993 9:00pm - 1:00am Ramcula Inn: Nott St. Formal Attire Required Tickets ~n sale in College Center FEbruary 1-5. 1993 $7 per c~uple. $5 per person I ~L-~ Union College Dining Services invites all Alumni and Friends to join us for a Pre Hockey Game Dinner Bu:ffet January 29 at the Hale House Dining Rl)«lm Fea!turtng a delightful selection of Hot at1d C<Jid Items such as· Sliced Cold Breast of Turkey. Roast Beef, Baked Ham and assorted cheeses with an assortment or rolls and breads. Tossed Garden Salad Dinner Items: Breast of Chicken Marsala Orange Roughy F'iLets Almandine Fresh Vegetable du Joul' Brawn Rice Pilaf A.n assortment of fresh baked delights br the sweet tooth Soft diinks and coffee are included Price $10.95 plus tax A coi!'Tiplimenu.try Glass of Wine or Bortle ojBeerwUl be included reservations are required To make reservations. please call us at Dining Services . 370-6050. Please make reseiVations by-2:00PM. Frtday January 29. 1993. MAKING DANCES: NEW WORK BY INDEPENDENT CHOREOGRAPHERS PREVIEW: SIX WORKS IN PROGRESS Clroroogmpflar.s: Oeom F9!nBndaz. LaUl'Je Freedman Dawn Lana, OeDra NCJbiEJ. .Jamie swrer. JufiV Tropln ' Sunday, January :11 1 1993. 'i:OO pm Performing Arts Studio Union College U~icn Coilege Departmer.t of Pe:formins .\::.:.; Performing Arts Studio NTER CONCERT SERIES MUSIC, POETRY AND THEATER OF ASIA Friday, Januaty 29 CLASSICAL FL!IltMUSIC OF SOOTH INDIA T. Viswanathan. nute T. S•nkaran. mrdangam barrel·drurn A. ,\-nantaknshnan. violin Friday. FebruaJY 12 FLUTE <\'USIC AND POETRY OF JAPAN ClarK Strand. origmat haoku Ronnie :'iyog~.su Seld1n. shaKuhacr' Friday. FebruaJY 26 QAI'\ELAN ORCHESTRA AND SHADOW THE:HER OF JAVA Sumdrsom da!ang pu~:pe 1 et!r I. \.1 Han to mus1C11I director \Vesle~an Un1vers1t\. Q~mr;:lan F•e .. .\.Jrro ~'S•!Jr1 •o (Or'IC~, loll .-·:rll:e\1S ~ l)lj D fT' 'nt-:rrra•·'1\ 5! ,, rr} J32~ i/ Starung time is 6:00 PM ;1 Money Will be. coflected at Hale House (: ,., .- ....... 0, •• .,..;- • .,.,. ·!-, n- ,,!.,•;• :.•-• ,,... '\ •. ::\\,.. :·- ... .l.-~ ...... ;' !\\\ • .... ~_,,.. ...... ·t - .... . 1, ·r ..... - ..... ,.~ .. , ~,. ..,,.,,; , ... :: ••• wrl..- st I,, .... . :I Support Group For Cancer Patients/Survi-vors and Their Families We are currently trying to locate memoers of the Un1on College communny lntere.<>tP.d •n fnrmmg a sup!JOrt group for cancer patlentSI'>IJrVIvor~ ;Jnd the1r , famd1es. If you or one of your lamlly members is a cancer patient/survivor and you WISh to talk to people in a snuanon sim1liar to yours. please contact e1thar Joe !Box 2261, 386-41311 or Wally 18ox0331, 386-41341. Union College Chapter of Sigma Xi 1993 Winter Lecture NIKOLAI V. SOBOLEV Director of Institute of Mineralogy and Petrography Russian Academy of Sciences and Visiting Professor of Geology Union College GEMSTONES OF RUSSIA THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1993 4:30 P.M. -Social Science 016 Union College Refreshments at 4:00 Al\ffiiTIOUS? 2f you're like most college students, on a quest for FAME! FORTU:NE! SUCCESS! in a job ~at's both rewarding and personally fulfilling, here is a good start on your . PAm TO GLORY. ,A:w.·R.T~ • . ·' . , . . • ~.,..._fa-.iT...,_ . . is hosting a EROWN.BAG LUN~ON tor all students-interested in . . ., ~. ~.. . -·. ,• ,_ \'\' ,. . \' ' Medl:.a_,, Rad~.o, ~~ · Marketing, et:c. ~. • J0 't I ··~ SPACES ARE LIMITED! **It you rese~e a seat, please make every effort to attend.** LANGUAGE I.All I JOUR~ 0,~; Munday-Fl'iday S:J0-4:30 Evenin~~ Monday-Thursday 7:00-liJ:OU W ~Ce k_end!S; Sm1day l:llll-4:00 Sund.1y 7:01HO:OO SIGN UP FOR STUDS COLLEGE CEN1ER THURSDAY

ill.rntr:Or~ irttsis SPORTS January 28, 1993, pa;g e 15 SUPER BOWL XXVII ... FROM A GIANT-. PERSPECTIVE chach they've been Cowboy fans, just watch as a football fan. anyway'? (Oh! A low blow!) No, thafs boring. Maybe I Okay so I can't root fer the won't watch at all. After all, · Dallas crew (although I sure how many exciting Super Another Super Bowl Sun<lay am glad that their cheerleaders Bowls IJave there been over the is upon us and for the twenty• will be making the trip) ~o I'll last ten years. Except for that fifth time in the twenty-seven root for the Buffalo Bills. Wait one in 1991 when.:. wen. you by Greg Kalish . Concordiensis SJaff alk years of the Bowl~s a minute ... who was that team know. Fortunately, I have e~stence,the New York Giants the Giants played in the Super not exhausted all my options. will not be partaking in the Bowl two years ago? You There i£ always \Murder ..• She by John Schachnol'sky Concordiensis Staff festivities. This is due to a know, the one where tltat Wrote\ on CBS. Love to see dismal 7-9 record that has left kicker ... · what's his Angela in action. Maybe I Nothing brings the world of them without a head coach m.d name ••. .Norwich? .•.. Norway?.. could just tune in for the· sports closer than a trageedy. without much of a futwe. ..NORWOOD! That's it!! Michael Jackson \Halftime A very sad and blunt thing to Hcwever. at this time of tile Norwood! When Scott Spectacular.\ How could I miss open an article with, but true year, more problems lopm for Norwood missed that incredibly that a.fter his emotionally just the same. The entire Giant fans like myself than for simple field goal which c()st stirring performance at the Union College athletic the Giants themselves. The the Bills the championsllip? American Music Awards department is not immune to tr()ubling question is: Are these the same Bllffalo Mondaynight. the possibility of having a Cowboys versus Bill and wit~ Bills? Yup. The entire week Or maybe I'll just sit home . major accident or event to to root for? before that 1991 Super Bowl and .pop the tape into the VCR bring it into mourning. Why J'll start with the Cowooys. was a training session in llow that says \Do Not Erase, · this topic now? a very good Absolutely out of the question! to hate the Bills. Many of Ev\ER\ and watch repiay after :question. indeed. The reason I Tile day I root for Dallas is the those lessons have stuck with replay of that Norwood kick :bring this topic up now is day the New York Islanders sell me. Besides, how can I watch a sailing wide right. Ah, wllat a I because it is exactly one year 011t the Nassau Coliseum for football game and root f()r tile soothin~ thought. What a I aso this week that the Notre one of their hockey games. A same team as my roommate? beautiful memory. Call it 'Dame swim team sufferred in divisional .foe for many yews, Impossible! living in 1he past, call it anti- the way I was eluding to with Giants are taught to hate the So what to do? What t<>do? social, and you're probably the above ideas. On January Cowboys like a child is taugllt l?erhaps I'll just watch and right. But I've seen enough \I 24, 1992, a few minutes past to ride a bike. After you do it hope that both teams beat tile Love You Troy\ banners in . midnight, and only drree miles on.ce;it becomes second natwe. hell out ofeach other, so much football stadiums around the from the Notre Dame campus, Besides, how could I side so that careers are in jeo})a-dy country to last me a lifetime. a bus carrying the women's myself with all of those and playing next season is out And as for the Bills, well. I swim team back from a meet misplaced and misguided of the question. No, that w~uld hate to see anyone strike out in Evanston. Ill. While they Cowboy fans living in New not be humane. Maybe I can on three straight pitches. had lost to Northwestern York. I wonder how loDg University, the problems did ---------~:::..__----------------------~ not begin until they reached the Indiana Toll Road. The weather went from bad to the worse as the team bus reached the home stretch of t11e journey. In an instan things 'began to go wrong. According , to one eyewitness, the rear of the b11s began to fishtail to the left. and then began fishtailing back to the right. Next, the bus made a 180-degree turn, with the front of the bus now facing the oncoming traffic. While in the 180-degree position, it began sliding to the right...off the road ... down what appeared to be a ravine, it then flipped over once and came to its final resting place ... upside doWll. Dutchmen Down Danes; Sink Mariners By Jason Graves Concordiensis Staff playing solid defense as they Point timeout, they foughl to ran out the clock and held ()n to claw the.ir way back into the win. game, but the Dutchmen held The Union men's basketball The win over Alb~ny tough. Union proceeded to team improved its record to 6-7 improved the Dutchmen to j-7. shoot 16 for 20 from the free this week by winning two in a. Other Union players in double throw line as King's Point row for the first time this figures were Steve Evans, wbo fouled eleven times in an season. After alternating wins lrad IS points to go with !Jis attempt to stop the clock and ancl losses for six games nine assists. and sophomore get the ball back. Seven straight, ending in a Sam Poulis who scored 11 different Union players went to heartbreaking double overtime points. Freshman Reinis the line in this stretch. The loss to Utica, the Dutchmen. Kanders pulled down 9 Mariners .strategy failed them beat Albany 69-61 at home la.st rebounds to lead Union in tllat as they coulcl only score eleven TIJursday and then defeated category. more poi11ts and Union went Ki11g's Point on the road 011 On Saturday, Union made home with the victory 85-65. Saturday, 85-65. the long trip to King's Point to Union's h.igh scorers were Last Thursday, tile play the 2-9 Mariners. The Poulis with 15. Quirolo and D11t:chmen found themselves at Dutchmen got off to a ~low senior Brendan Chudy with 11, home where they had won four start as King's Point used a and Haver and sophomore Da.ve out of five this year. The Great five minute 11-0 run to take a Dagostino with 10 points each. D~nes of Albany came in witlt 13-2 lead over Union. A:t the Chudy and Kanders led the an 8-5 record. The first half twelve minute mark. Union team with 8 rebounds each. was virtually even, as Union began to put it together and ran The season scoring leaders clung to a 36-35 advantage at off 14 straight points to go up to this point are Ken Evans the break. The second half was 16-13. Junior Greg Quirolo with 14.8 points per game and much of the same, as Union and freshman Jamie Haver hit Sam Poulis with 14.2 .points and Albany traded baskets and crucial back-to-hack tluee per game. Reinis Kanders neither team could build more pointers during the run to s.1eal leads the team with a 6 rebound than a three point lead. This the momentum from the average, and Ken Evans is right changed with 7:09 remaini11g Mariners. Both teams played behind him with 5.8 boards per in tile game when junior guard evenly for the remainder of the game. Steve Evans leads with Steve Evans hit a 9-foot half and King's. Point too:k a. 6.1 assists and Greg Quirolo JUmper to start off a l 0-0 37-34 advantage mto the locker leads with 2.8 steals per game. Union run that lasted until room at half-time. The next game for the The purpose of the article is not to give the gorey details. The facts are ... two women died at the scene of the accident, many more were badly hurt. The most serious of the injuries was that of freshman Haley Scott. She was told she would never walk again due to the injury to her back, she would later prove the skeptics wrong. The tragedy of the crash drew the entire Notre Dame community to the brink of mental torture and if it were not for tile support of the national swimllling community. the Notre l:lame swim team might not IJ.ave survived. This comrm11nity includes tile Union College swim team. Led by -:oach Susan Bassett, the U11io11 Men's and Women's teans sent letters ·Of support to the Niotre Dame team, and held a rnwrnent of siience for the tfaJle11 swimmers during a toeam meeting. I talked to Coach Bas~ett this week and asked her the ·effect the Notre Dame crash h~d 011 the Union team, and ;tfuout precautions the Unio11 t.eam makes prior to trips oJ the same nature. She told me llow the incident at Notre Dame opens many eyes, and rel1llinds us how vulnerable we re.ally are. She remarked how Uoion senior Cliff Shaw has a llrolther on the Irish team and ho'M that brought the whole inciden t ii.nto true perspective fo-r the Dutchmen team. Bats:Sett remarked on the dosene ss of swimming communily nation wide by say-i,llg, \Swimming is a sport t ha.t does not get enonnous amounts of attentio11, so closeness becomes a bo11d for swimmers. I think ever:!Yone involved in the sport has it's best interests at heart.\ Whe:n 1 asked Coach Bassett to !«ilk about the precautions U11iion takes before a trip,. s:hc explained them with the precision of an army genceral. Needless to say, as a fam of Union College sports 11s a whole, I would say our S'W im ieam is in great hands \1,\liith coach Bassett. As the anniverary of the crash comes and goes I fe<ell it is only appropriate fo-r the sports world to stop and reflect with the swimming WOlrlld. While they feel alone for rmost of the ye~r, I want the swimmers to know that t he rest of the sports world Ie:.anty does care and observes 1 he anniversary of this tragedy \WBth you. 3:39. This run gave Union a The two teams played it Dutchmen is on Saturday. 64·54 advantage. Six of tile close for the first six minutes January 30 against Elmira at 1 9 9 3- 1 9 9 4 ten points came from junior of the second halfbutat 14~33, 7:00pm here at home. Come 7 .BEDROOM HOUSE forward Ken Evans wllo Union began a 19-4 run that all out for the game and support finished the game with 21 but buried the Mariners with a the team, Large bedrooms, 2 Modern bathrooms~ ~r·-~-~_._u_n_i_on_~_e_p_t_th_e_k_a_d_b_Y~_6_1--47~d-ef_k_h_._A_f_~_r_a_K_l_·n_g'_s~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~odern ~itchen, All appliances include~, Large deck, Closets galore!! Psi-U Rush Function Superbowl & Wings 6:00 PM Sunday \A 21 year student tradition\ 370-5498 leave message 3 +4 bedroom apartments also availa~le)

<llDttntrbirnsht January 28, 1993, page 16 performs on the Women Runners Off -To a Strong Start By Nadine Filosi Contributing Writer Despite the small numbers that have turned out for this years winter team, the women's team looks very strong. Returning .runners include! senior,Christina Monfasani and sophomore Nadine Filosi. This year's rookies include sophomore Liza Morse, Jen Evans and Nancy Mooar. For the past two weekends, the women have been very busy showing what they can accomplish through hard work and dedication. Competing against home-team Hamilton, and NYU, the women had a tough workout and carne out the better for it. All of the runners competed in multiple events to round out the field. The meet started out with Nancy Mooar scoring in the shot put with a hefty throw of 7.21 meters, placing fourth overall. Our other two rookies, Morse and Evans, competed together in the 1500 meter race to place second and third respectively. Senior Christina Monfasani took to the 400 meters alone and cleared the field easily beating out the rest of tlhe competition. Monfasa:ni returned with Filosi in the 55 · meter dash , placing third and l st respectively. Filosi also placed first in the 55 meter hurdles, which warmed her mp for the 200 meter dash. After finishing second in the 2(JO meters, Filosi prepared wil.!:h the other Union runners for tile 4 x 400 meters. The fourso01e consisting of Filosi, Morse. Monfasani, and Evans ran very well, placing second in the first meet of the season. Last weekend, the Unin:n College Women's track tearm competed in their second meet of the seasoll, also their onl:y' home meet. A very higlh quality of competitors stwwoo up for the Union Colleg•e Dutchmen Games. Opening for the wome11, Mooar set a })ersonal record ill the shot put with a 'put' O<f 7.29 meters. Filosi competeirl around the entire field this pas:t weekend. She began with the high jump, in which she placed fourth overall. Moving to the dash, she ran a time of 7.t:4 seconds, placing second in the heat to advance into the finals:, where she eventually placed fifth. Filosi also ran the 50 Team meter hurdles. setting a personal rec<lrd running with a time of 8.6 seconds, placing fourth and qualifying her for states. Her final event was the 300 meters, ill which she ran a time of 49.2 and placed third overall. Morse started off in the 400 meters where she knocked three seconds off l!er time since last weekend. Next she competed in the 800 meters where she ran a 2:50.1. Her swift time was fast enollgh to secure her with a fifth place finish. Monfasani ran two strong races this past weekend before her muscles told her \enough\. She ran the SO meter dash with a time of R3, and the 400 meters in 76.2 seconds. Evans, .suffering with tendoniti~ of the knee, was not able to compete with the team this past weekend. We all wish her a speedy recovery. We'd like to congratulate Liza Morse a11d Nadine Filosi, co-captains of this year's indoor track team. We'd also like to thank all tltat came out this past weeken<l to cheer on the men and v;omen. runners. Come cheer on the team this weekend at tile Capital District Meet in Albany. Lcuyue w L T Pts GF DUTCHMEN OFFENSE PROVES NO MATCH FOR COLGATE. CORNELL by Dagm L.a Corte associate SpoTts Editor This past weekend the Skating Dutchmen of Union went on the road for games against Cornell and Colgate. The Dutchmen were hOj)ing for some Inck on the road, after faltering against Dartmouth and Harvard the previous week. Unfortunately, th.ey were unable to claim victory in either endeavors. Friday night Union played Cornell. The Dutchmen were able to score tile first goal. Exactly one minute into the fmt period. defensemen Reid Simonton let o:ff a slapshot which hit the in.side post and went in. Jeff Jiarnpetti assisted on the goal. Cornell struck back three minutes later on the power play to even the score at one. They continued to pressure Union's defense, and withl:14 remaining in the first stanza. Cornell took the lead on a goal by Brad Chartrand. Cornell played exceptionally well during the second period mounting nine shots on goal while only allowing three shots against. During the period Cornell continued to take advantage of Union's penalties. With sill minutes remaining in the period Cornell scored another power play goal to take a 3-llead. Union's woes continued in the third period. :Just 1:56 into the final period Cornell's Chartrand scored his second goal, to give them a 4-l lead. Union scored their only power play goal two mmutes later on a shot from defensemen Scott Boyd. Ryan Alaspa and Chris · Albert assisted cQD the goal. Cornell tallied once again on the power play to make the fmal score 5-2. Union's defense which has Overall GA w L T been their strong point tilis season faltered against Cornell~ allowing three power play goals, on eig.ht Cornell chances. The Dutchmen hoped their luck would change against Colgate the following night. A win against Colgate would prevent the Dutchmen from taking sole position of last place in tlie E.C.A.C. Unfortunately Union was unable to beat Colgate, as they slipped deeper into the E.C.A.C. dungeon. Colgate took the lead ten minutes i11to the fust period on a goal by Brent Wilde. Union's defensive woes continued; four minutes later. Colgate scored a shorthanded goal to take a 2-0 lead. After the shock of a short handed goal, Union decided to pick up its play. From the second period on Union played well defensively. Goalie Mike Gallant turned away every Colgate shot. Unfortunately Colgate's goalie Shawn Murray was also having a great night stopping all but one of Uni<m's 27 !;hots. Tile sole Union goal came during the second period, wbile the Dutchmen were on the power play. Defensemen Alex MacLellan made a beautiful pass to Jeff Jiampetti. who put it j)ast the Colgate goalie for Union's only goal Colgate held on to win the game by a score of 2-1. Despite Union's loss. the defense was able to reboulld from the game against Comell, stopping Colgate on each of their five power play opportunities. Union faces off against Capital District rival RPI Friday at the Achilles Rink. Pts GF GA Hockey ----------~------------------------------------------------------------- Harvard 12 0 1 25 64 33 13 1 1 27 72 39 standings Yale 7 1 2 16 48 30 10 5 2 22 77 58 RPI 7 3 1 15 42 30 10 5 4 24 73 56 Brown 5 5 2 12 50 47 6 8 2 14 67 75 of St. Lawrence 5 5 1 11 37 37 10 7 2 22 77 68 as Vermont 5 5 0 10 32 31 7 9 2 16 55 62 Clarkson 3 5 3 9 45 35 '7 8 4 18 82 56 1/25/93: Cornell 4 6 1 9 32 39 5 9 1 11 46 59 Dartmouth 4 6 0 8 29 39 6 8 0 12 42 60 Princeton 3 6 1 7 33 46 5 8 1 11 48 57 Colgate 3 8 0 6 36 56 5 11 3 13 76 86 Union 2 10 0 4 23 48 2 13 0 4 32 61

