ABBREVIATED BULLETIN BOARD September 23, 1993, page 15 JSU Update f9r Holidays I Friday 24 - Rides available Friday night. Be at Kosher Kitchen at 6:00 - conservative temple, at 7:30, reformed temple. Call Josh Kaplan to confirm. Extension 5650 Saturday 25- Be at Kosher Kitchen at 10:15 a.m. Call Josh Kaplan to confirm. Extension 5650 Wednesday 29- Open house .for aU students. Dinne:r Free. 6,:00 in Sukka outside of Kosher Kitchen . \ ' UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND THE BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT STUDYING BIOLOGY IN THE NEW WORLD TROPICS LEO FLEISHMAN, ASS. PROFESSOR, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, UNION COLLEGE SEPTEMBER 23, 1993 SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 4:40 P.M. REFRESHMENTS 4:30 ·Webster House Bash- October 1- Fero House Music, dancing, non-alcoholic drinks for all. Call Jay McNeal for more details. ZOLLER ELEMENTARY SCHOOL- UNION COLLEGE APPLICATION FORM FOR · COMPASS PROGRAM 1993c94 UNION COLlEGE STUDENTS MENTOR NAME: _______ ~~------ CAM- PUS PHONE:·---~- BOXNO:. _________ ~-------- HOME PHONE:. __ ~-- (OR OFF-CAMPUS ADORESS) REFERENCE: RETURNING MENTOR, OR NEW THIS YEAR? ____ _ (A UNION PROF. YOU KNOW WELL) IF RETURNir;.JG, DO YOU WANT TO WORK WITH SAME TEACHER ? _. SAME STUDENT?_ · MAJOR: OTHER SUBJECTS YOU'D LIKE TO ·------ MENTOR IN:~----- WHY DO YOU WISH TO BE A MENTOR ? PLEASE NOTE ANY SPECIAL SKILLS,. FOREIGN LANGUAGES, EXPERI- ENCE, OR ENTHUSIASMS (DRAMA? MUSIC ?)THAT MIGHT BE REL- EVANT: . ._. ~-------- INTERESTED IN BOTH ENRICHMENT AND REMEDIAL MENTORING, OR STRONG PREFERENCE FOR ONE OF THESE ? ANY INTEREST IN WORKING WITH A 'DE:MONSTRATION TEAM\ (TRAV- ELS TO DIFFERENT CLASSES, PRESENTING BlO LAB, OR POETRY READING, OR ... YOU SAY!)·~-------- ANY STRONG PREFERENCES FOR WORKING 1-0N-1 ,, OR WITH SMALL GROUPS?--:------ ANY STRONG PREFERENCE FOR GRADE LEVEL (GRADES 2 - 5)? WILL YOU BE ON CAMPUS FOR WINTt;:R TERM ? TERM? __ DO YOU HAVE ACCESS TO A CAR? __ CAN YOU MAKE THE ORIENTATION (OCT. 21, 3 P.M.) ? (STRONGLY RECOMMENDED) ADDITIONAL COMMENTS: SPRING BY VOLUNTEERING, YOU ARE AGREEING TO ATTEND A TRAINING SESSION, AND TO MENTOR POR ONE HOUR PER WEEK f=OR THE TERMS YOU PARTICIPATE IN DO IT! WATCH A CHILD'S FACE LIGHT UP BECAUSE OF YOUR EFFORTS ... IT'S ADDICTIVE, AND LEGAL. DUE OCT 14- DROP OFF OR CAMPUS MAIL TOW ZWICKER, MATH DEPT, BAILEY HALL YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! The kids at Zoller Elementary School, a few blocks from campus, need an hour or so of your time, each week. Union has \adopted\ Zoller under the Compass program, run by the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce. We provide mentors for enrichment and/or remediation in all sub- jects. The children thrive on your enthusiasm for your subject. Would you like to present a chem- istry experiment that gets kids excited about science ? Work one-on-one with a student who is fluent in Spanish or Vietnamese or . . . (as you are) but is first learning English? Or \'lith a student who has a gift for poetry that you can help develop ? The possibilities are endless ! Fill out the application in today 's Concordien- sis, and return it by Oct 14. Required orientation Thurs- day afternoon, Oct 21. TEACHING ... IT'S ADDIC- . TIVE,. AND LEGAL.

RUBES® OUT ON A ·LIMB by GARY KOPERV AS . \- Gooo \DEA-· ••Just as I feared--- \Nesre being replaced by modern technology.•• . . ~~- ----~--~ .. · . fiAAt~ .. U.'S.~ ~~A W~ 1oW\~ 'IJARL.Ol(V A\V\V our or ~~t71~0fc;t~ lol;c.ti .... P .. \'t.c~ ~\d<

I I ! l I - I September 23, 1993, page 17 SPORTS WOmen's Field Hockey Wins Fifth in a Row Men's X-C Beaten JQe SJ1ltz ba.l't Concordiensis Staff Five games; fi.ve victories. l11e Union College Women's Field Hockey Team has combined youth and experience to become an impressive force in the Upstate New York Division HI Collegiate League. Designed by head coach, Charlyn Roberts, the team .pos- sesses a talented defense which has only allowed three goals in five games. This strong defense ignites the attack; an offense that had trouble scoring a year ago. Captains Wetidy Miller, Mindy Kessler, Missy Lombardoni, Molly Pearsall, and Sue Halliday all have been key players on a young team which hopes to battle for the State Championship at the end ofthe season. Against the women of Oswego, the Lady Dutchmen won 2-0 pe- hind a strong defense and the grea.t shooti'ng of Missy Lombardoni, who scored the fiFst two goals of the season for the Hockey Team. Later that week, Union travelled to Hamilton on a hot and humid day. It was not until the second oveqime when Senior Wendy Miller drove a shot from 25 feet to win the game. Again, Union enjoyed a strong defense and the great goaltending of Junior Jen Vernon, a three year starter. Next Union found itself in a war against the State Cham- pion of two years ago, Hartwick College. Fortunately for the Lady Dutchme11, they played a solid defense and mustered up enough offense to get the win, 2-1. Michelle McCart scored on a beautiful slwt, whHe Missy Lombardoni knocked one passed the goalie on a penalty stroke. Most recently, the Union College Field Hockey Team defeated Wells College and Oswego who had previously been undefeated. It looked as if Union would suf- fer its first loss with four minutes left to play, but Molly Pearsall slapped one home on a corner to tie the score 2-2 going into over- time. Finally, Sue Halliday, in the second overtime received a great cross and drilled a shot passed the goaltender to win the game and be credited with her second goal on the day. Much of the credit to Union's early success has to go to the vet- eran defense of Miller, Jen Brown, Mindy Kessler, Molly Pearsall, and goalkeeper Jen Vernon. This unit has played tough for the Lady Dutchmen al- lowing only three goals and few clean clear shots from the oppo- nents. l11e Lady Dutchmen play Thursday at William Smith where the defense pledges yet another tough, agressive outing and hop~­ fully another win to add to their perfection. by William Rice ( 'oncordiensis Stqff prised Coach Bick by taking 9th in 28:46. Nick joined the team earlier in the week after being cut from the men's soccer team and proved that he does belong on a varsity team at Union. Chris Colpoys( 1 I thin 29:00) and Marc Sheridan( 12th in 29:3 7) closed out the top five after falling vic- tim victim to the briskearly pace. Support Union Sports The Men's team was not as for- tunate as the Women's team in their match with Hamilton. l11e flat, open, first mile produced opening splits that could not be held by the inexperienced squad. Hamilton's strong front core held on to lopsided win as they were able to .sustain this pace through- out. John Metz broke the strong- hold by taking 4th in 27:31 with Anthony Anderson 8th in 28:16. Freshman Nick Conway sur- Both the Men's and Women's teams will continue their seasons in No. Adams Mass. on Saturday at the Willi'ams Invitational. TI1is steep hilly course will again test the character of both teams. Football Wins and the Photo of the Week (by Josh Haines) contilluedfrompage 20 defense, running through them, aftemoon was slightly marred as 17-yards for a 37-0 lead. The back Shuron Morton. In tl~e end like they didn't even exist. New- Harrison was unable to success- Dutch met} scored once in the the Dutchmen came up wtth an slaught. After receiving the open- ing kickoff, the Dutchmen once ag~in toyed with the Engineers ton connected with wide receiver fully kick the extra point. Later fourth quarter on a 75-yard punt impressive 44-0 victory. This win Chad Labonte on a 48-yard pass in the third quarter the Dutchmen retum by running back Jim Man- increases their season record to 2- and another Union touchdown. scored again, this time running ning, made possible by the excel- 0, and ups their winning streak to However the Dutchmen's perfect back Frank Attah ran the ball in lent blocking of freshmen running five games.

'- September 23, 1993, page 18 SPORTS ' Women's Soccer Has Men's Soccer Has Tou,gh We:ek Mixed Res-ults by Joe Saltzbar.t Concordiensis ,)'tqff fense or an defensive shell, it is simply not working. Once .again the Soc,cer club dominated Albany State, a team ranked. high in the region, hut came away with only a ti.e. Kevin Wilmot gave Union its only score before Aldo Nardiello's team found itselfheartbrok.en after AI~ bany put one past Popper late in the game. After talking with play- ers, Grandwettet, Stem, Savage and team manager, Pat Streck, all agree that the same pattern of dis., appointments oflast season have reappeared in th,eir latter two games. They feel that a change in strategy must occur for any success at all. continuedfrompage 20 sure off the defense and tender Jen Manna. The attack ~hat yielded 35 shots against Albany was almost non-existent in their game against Binghamton. The midfield has to create more op- portunities for the strikers and they must take advantage of these opportunities or the Women's Soccer team may find itself in a repeat of last year's disappoint- ing season. Finally! - Som,efhing for all shapes and sizes - all kinks and clowns - Tbe Spectacular Ballroom Dancing Club -For more info, call Jennifer @ 388-6818. So far in this short season, the Men's Soccer Team is showing the same kinds of growing pains it did a year ago. After a thrash- ing of Hamilton in the season opener, Union has losttoCortland State and tied Albany State even though the Dutchmen dominated throughout both contests. The problem seems to lie, not in their talent, but in their mental ap- proach and strategy once they taK'e a lead. Call it a prevent de- After taking a 2~ 1 advantage ft01n goals by stopper Jeff Meta and striker Mark Oelson {assisted by Matt Stem), Union fell apart. Cortland preceded to score three straight goals, one in regulation aFid two in overtime to defeat Union 4-2 ·in an important re- gional match up. l11e sudden col\. lapse .of th.e offensive unit put too much pressure on goaltender Lee Popper .and the Dutchmen de- fense which made for a long bus ride home. Water Polo Update This years water polo club has very high expectations going into our first home toumiment. Our strong points lie with 3 All East- em Water Polo Conference play- ers among a powerful retuming team. Last years 3 rd place achievement is not a good enough record forth is young and talented team. They arc sure to put on an excellent show of what a pow- erhouse water polo squad is all about. So come and root on the home team. And remember, WE DON'T USE NO STINKIN HORSES! FRI.DAY : 7:30 R.P.I SATURDAY: 9:00 Columbia 4:30 Hartwick SUNDAY: 12:00 Colgate GROUND ROUND PRESENTS MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL *LARGE SCREEN T.V.s *ALL YOU CAN EAT WINGS FOR $7.59 OR $.15 WINGS *MILLER LITE DRAFT SPECIAL 23 oz. FOR· ONLY $1.99 ~ GROUND ROUND 1614 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY 382-8730 GROUND ROUND MOHAWK MALL SCHENECTADY 374-0694 FOUR WINDS-SARATOGA announces a new outpatient service for i.ndividuals with eating disorders. • intensive outpatient program available daily • flexible afternoon and evening schedules • individual, family and group lreatment services • nutrition and dietary services Re.ferrals now being accepted for September start. Program located at Four Winds satellite office in Guilderland, N.Y. ~w~­ M Call 584-3600, ext 31 0 for information or reservations.

SPORTS NOw, They Have to Win Itt by Greg K;~lish· Associate Sports Editor If.anyone interprets the absur- dity that occurred at Yankee Sta- dium this past weekend as some sort of spiritual omen from the baseballg()dsaboveth~t the Yan- kees will win th'~ American League East· this s~asi::m, ~uess again. TI1e Yankee4~3 win over the Boston Red S~l', which should have been .a 3-l loss, was simply a microcosm of how strange andridiculous this base- ball season has been, especially for the BrmJx Bombers. Here's how the events unfolded Saturday afternoon. With two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning ru1d the Yankees trailing 3-1, Red Sox relief pitcher Greg Harris hit Mike GaUego with a pitch, giving him a free pass to first base and bringing up pinch hitter Mike Stanley as the potential tying run. Stanley lifted an easy fly ball to left which was caught to apparently end the game. Wrong! As Harris was in his pitching motion, two of New York's finest and most well be- haved fans jumped over the fence along the third base line and ran onto the field. Third base umpire Tim Welke indicated that he had called time-out before Harris threw his pitch, resulting in a .. dead play.'' Red Sox manager Butch Hopson put up a rather half-hearted argument perhaps realizing that Welke was correct in his call. Stanley was brought hack to the plate and allowed to continue his at-bat. Guess what happened next? Stanley roped a singl~ to left field on .the first pitch following his. apparent fly .. out. Then, Wade Boggs followed with ap. infield single that scored Gallego mak- ing it 3-2. Harris. noticeably agi- tated by the Cl()ntinuation of the game he thought he !iad already saved, walked Dion James, bring- ing up Don Mattingly. The cap- tain promptly stroked a single to right scoring Gerald Williams who pinch-ran for Stanley and Andy Stankewiecz who pinciHan for Boggs to win the game. Mattingly's teammates mobbed him in celebration while the real heroes sat in a. New York City precinct having their rights read to them and making their one phone call. CBS analyst Greg Gumbel probably put it best when he said \I've never seen a losing team so happy!\ l11is is no doubt that, for the Yankees, this year has been (he year of the fan. This is'the second time in a ma•ith that a fan has helped them win a game. In the ninth inning of a scoreless battle against the Orioles back in Au- gust, Don Matting'ly hit a fly ball to left which, some camera angles indicate, would have either been caught by left-fielder Mike McLemore or would have bounced off the top of the wall for a double or possible triple. However, a teenager from Con- necticut, wj1o has since gained fame and no.toriety, was posi- · tioned petfectly behind the wall. He reached over and caught the baH about a foot above McLemore's ot.~treached glove. l11e umpires mled it a homenm and that is how the game ended, 1-0. But even with the help of these fanatics, the Yankees still find themselves four games behind the first place Toronto Blue Jays with just two weeks remaining in this bizarre season. At first look, sec- ond place might have been ac- ceptable for the Yanks consider- ing where how far out of first place they were this time last year. Furthermore, no one expected them to be this close this far into this season. But now, only first place will suffice given the unbe- lievable luck they have been the beneficiaries of this past month. One would be hard-pressed to fiild a team in the history of base- ball who had received more breaks and good will than the 1993 New York Yankees. Be- cause of this, anything less than first place would a waste. Peace Corps on Campus Information Session Tuesday, September 28, 12:30 p.m. (Call career office for room and interview sign up) R.eal Experience T'?'o-year assignment opportunities with degrees or experience in: * Math/Science * E<;lucation *Business * Agriculture * Environment * Health/Nutrition ... and more Real Adventure Real Benefits * Deferment of most student loans * Full living stipend * Gntd School opportunities *Complete medical care * International work experience * Language study Today 6,000 Peace Corps Volunteers are helping some of the world's nee9iest people help themselves in 90 countries from Armenia to Zimbabwe. What in the world are you waiting for? For more infonnation. call (800)972-0970 (Graduating seniors should apply now) September 23, 1993, page 19 Athletes of the Week Women•s·x-c Team by Mike Leding (.'cmcordiensis Slqfl This past we-ekend, the Women's Cross Country Team improved their record to 3-0 for the season. They ran past Hamilton 28-27 for their first vic- tory over this rival since J 988. These women have made great strides sine~ last season under the tutelage of their new coach Ted Bick. Bick has taken over for . Dave Herrington last years main man in charge of Cross Country and Track and Field. The run.ners seem to have called upon a new found will to run. an inner force driving them to the finish line. something these teams lacked last year. The top fimshers from this past - .. weekends women's meet were sophomore Linda Seymour, who was Union's top placer overall finishing second with a time of 19:44 on this 5K course. Junior Diana Spenello finished third with a time of20: 13, followed by fellow junior Liza Morse finish- ing fourth in 20:24. These ath- letes were followed by Amelia Audette who took eighth and Sa- rah Teasdale finishing tenth. They rail times of 20:51 and 21:20 respectively. TI1is a great improvement for a program that was on the verge of being cut last year because of ath- letic monetary cutbacks. This was an outstanding meet for the Lady Dutchmen and I wish them continued success. Great job la- dies and keep up the good work. Rugby Team Wins continued from page 20 only be seen fiddling with his socks. Serum captain and -wing for- ward Rob DuPuy utilized his own serum and pushed his way past the pathetic wall of beef to tack on another five. Fullback Ian Spanier added two extra point at- tempts and gave Union a convinc- ing 29-0 victory. Throughout the match, freshman Steve Carling fought off the alluring aroma of the celebrated Monster Mac_ and filled in admirably at prop. The Killer B Team also thrashed SLU t 7-7. Brain Dav- enport picked up an errant pass and ran -untouched- some sixty tneters for a quick five. ''Wild .. Bill Ackerbauer followed with yet another well thought out flash of brilliance. Jogging across the pitch he lofted what seemed to be a pass to llO one into the air. Streaking up to make the !:,'Tab was center Jason Sanabia who burst through eight SLU defenders. car- rying one one his back for a while. to scamper seventy meters for another Union score. Unfortunately for those in at- tendance, Saturday was marked by two tragic events. Mike Hanna had scored in 48 consecutive games yet was unable to capital- ize this day. He was unavailable for comment and was last seen exhausting his Validine _ at the Dutch Hollow. The final scare came when hooker Mike Valvo pranced down the Union sideline and had his pants yanked to his aukles by an SLU rugger causing oite spectator to choke on a com dog. \

s~pkmb~r 23. 1993 Dutchmen Run Over WPI, 44-0 Beat Old Foes For Eigtb Straight Time by Dagan La Corte ,)'ports Editor Entering this past weekend, Union quarterback Scott Newton had a career starting record of 4- 0. He was hoping to improve his personal record as the Dutchmen opened their home season against Worcester Polytech. Before a home crowd of2,700, the Dutch- men christened the new Frank Bailey Field with a crushing 44- 0victory against the Engineers. Union dominated the Engineers from the get go. field goal, and a Dutchmen 3-0 lead. On their next possession the Engineers fumbled the ball and it was recovered by Dutchmen _cornerback Paul Haydock. With excellent field position running back Chris Irving ran the ball seven yards for a touchdown, and a Union I 0-0 lead. The Dutch- men continued to play an excel-~ lent defensive game, not allow- ~ \' ing the Engineers to get within ~ PAGE 20 The Dutchmen won the coin toss, but decided to defer it to the second half. On the Engineers first possession, they were unable to move the ball outside their own 30-yard line. The Dutchmen re- covered the punt, and moved the ball up to the WPI 28-yard line. With fourth down and five yards to go, coach Audino decided to Jet senior kicker Greg Ji~rrison go for the field goal. Harrison booted the ball 46-yards for a forty-yards of Union's end zone. ~ The Dutchmen regained the ball : with 2:17 remaining in the open-~ ing quarter, and proceeded to i_ march down the field. After four consecutive running gains by nm- ning backs Chris Irving and Mike Rauseo, Newton connected with wide receiver Stephen Cusic on a seven-yard touchdown pass mak- ing the score 17-0. The Engineers woes continued, as on their next possession Matthew Schmitter recovered a fumbled ball, andre- turned it for a Union seventeen- yard gain. Frank Allah hreakilig tackles, while heading toward<; the end zone in the Dutchmen~'i win The Dutchmen now had the ball at their own 34-yard line. Chris Irving ran the ball for two consecutive gains of 8-yards. Then Newton connected with re- ceiver Joe Ruggeri for an·eighteen yard gain, setting up Newton's touchdown pass to7sophomore tight end Bob Em sing on the next play. AfterJ:Iarrison successfully Rugby Beats St. Lawrence by Rob Malfetano Contributing Writer As an uncommon chill swept across the pitch last Saturday, Union R.F.C. president Peder Maarbjerg surveyed his stalwart bunch and somehow knew they could not lose; Saint Lawrence University was on the menu this day and the Rugby gods were smiling. After months of prepa- ration, a few days of practice, and one spiritual Friday strategy ses- sion, they were ready. Despite losing some key per-~ sonnel who opted to forgo their 1: remaining eligibility and tum pro,~ some seasoned veterans turned in~ \' exceptional performances. From :::S the opening kick Union displayed '2 its mastery of the game with 'pre-~. -c cision passing and juggernaut 2 serum downs. B.J. Marcmillier{ first got Union on the board with a fantastic jaunt through the usu- ally parsimonious SLU defense and galloped some sixty meters for five points. Following soon after, winger Bill Bahrs took a pass down the line and when con- fronted with some six menacing defenders, contrived yet another brilliant maneuver and leapt some ten meters (in the air) to slam dunk the ball in the SLU try zone for another five. Unfortunately, Rugby guru Skip Aycox myste- riously missed yet another Union score as he tried to pull his socks up. Despite a reientless attack, the valiant group could only muster a I 0-0 lead at the half. Line captain Kirk Andrae's emotional half-time speech brought tears to many a rugger's eyes and he demanded the Herculean task of four more scores. Winger Dom Romeo was left aghast as he remembered that this same team had trounced RPI 48-0 only a, week before. Center Charlie King shrugged off the task as he was too busy upending any SLU goon in his path. None- theless, Andrae's line would have to come through. Speaking in tongues, Peder 'Morebeer; once again inspired his troops and said something really nice, however I forgot what it was. He's very elo- quent though. Eight-man Christopher C.S. Bangs lt;d the charge in the sec- ond half displaying his masterful kicking ability and added another five as he fought off spme SLU thugs to bull his way into the try zone. Not to be outdone, serum half Andrew Frisbie overlooked the geyser of blood flowing from his nose blinding his vision the entire way, and relying on pure. instinct scampered some twenty meters through the SLU defense for another five. Looking toward the sideline it appeared that Coach Aycox was crying but he could co11tinued on page 19 kicked the extra point, the score was a lepsided 24-0. On the ensuing kickoff the Engineers moved the ball through Union's defe1ise, setting up a 30- yard field goal attempt. As the Union fans contemplated the loss of their shutout. Paul Haydock jumped in front of the WPI kicker, blocking the kick, and keeping the Engineers scoreless. At the end of the first half, the Dutchmen had more than tripled the Engineers total yardage, and kept them to only 42-yards rush- ing.· In the second half, the Dutch- men continued the offe11sive on- colltillued on page I 7 Women's Soccer Has Two Close Contests by Joe Saltzbart ( 'oncordiensi.v Stqff Three goals to two. The result of both of the Lady Dutchmen's · first two games of the season. Yet, unfortunately for Union, one ended as a disappointing Joss to SUNY Binhamton, ranked 7th in , the country. The other, an excit- ing victory in front of a huge home opening crowd against long-time rival Alba11y State. Field conditions were damp and cold as the Union Women's Soccer Team marched confi- dently on the field of nationally ranked Binghamton this past weekend. That confidence was soon diminished by the explod- ing offense of their opponent. Union found itself down 3-0 less than halfway into the second half, outplayed and in trouble. Then the Lady Dutchmen finally woke- up by scoring on two of eleven shots on goal. With 8:52 left to. play, HeatherGaunt drilled a shot . high into the left con1er of the net· to cut the lead to two goals. Min- utes later, Heather Rock headed in the second goal for Union on a cross form Suzanne Weldon. It looked as if Union might have a chance to take. this game into overtime as they put the pressure on Binghamton late in the game. Yet, Union fell short on a valian_t effort. Goalie Jen Manna was bombarded by 28 shots, saving ., twenty, while Union's offense could only muster up eleven shots on goal. Earlier in the week, Union trailed Albany at the half. Tite opponents were beating the soc- cer club to the ball and taking advantage of the fast pace of the turf. Yet it was a different story in the secondhalfas Union came out aggressive and physicaL Af~ ter a penaity kick from Emily Retterer to tie the game at two, Kim Fanning headed in the game winning goal on a cross from Retterer. After the game Coach Pedone was definitely happy with the victory, but was coi1cerned with her offensive unit. Pedone felt the game should not have been close, recalling many in- stances where Union had great opportunities in front of the Al- bany net. After a 1-1 start, the Lady Dutchmen need their offensive unit to step up and.take the pres- ·. co11ti11ued on page 18 ~.n.c.c.e:r~ ' '.; Wra.ck anh mnr.e

onror t~nsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII,. Number III Schenectady, New York September 30, 1993 Professor GanJer Conducts Research in Russia Convenience Store Opens at Union by Alex Kreisler Associate News li\dilor . On July 20, 1993, Geology Professor, John Garver coura- geously embarked on a trip to Russia with his wife, Jacquie Smith, also a geologist, and his colleague Mark Brandon from Yale University, where the North- ern Kamchatka Peninsula awaited the arrival of some of the first Western visitors. A geologist in- terested in how the Pacific Ocean evolved, Garver hopes to conduct onland geology, where he. will study rocks and see how they were fanned. Other regions of the Northern Pacific have been studied, but the Northern Kamchatka piece seems to be one of the least know of the Pacific Ocean puzzle. Before Garver and colleagues can conduct research, living conditions and logistics of the field work site have to be tested. The logitical aspects of doing field studies in the Russian arctic are very complicated and it is not certain if a project like this can be launched. Evidence from this past summer's trial trip will aid him in his proposal for a grant from the· National Science Foundation(NSF), so that he and other scientists may go back to Russia and continue their studies. An exchange program with Former Soviet Union (FSU) sci- entists, established by a Union College alumni, was the basis of Garver's initial motive to do his Russian project. This alumnus, who wishes to remain anony- mous, donated money in order to facilitate the contacts between Russian and United States scien- tists. As a solution to the feared ''brain drain\ where Russian sci- entists leave Russia, never to re- turn, the alumni organized this exchange program between Union professors and FSU scien- tists. For the program to work, it is imperative that the FSU scien- tists return to their homeland af- ter their stay in the U.S. The trade-off is extremely beneficial to the field of geology on the whole as well as to FSU scien- tists. Not only are the facilities, for the most part, better here, but their stay at Union also allows them ·~to interact with US scien- tists and understand their ap- proach,\ not tom ention that \En- glish is the scientific language, and their stay helps them learn more English,\ Garver reveals. As for the benefits for American geologists, Garver states, \in my mind, it is very important to in- teract with Russian geologists on Russian soil.\ In fact, very few geoscientists actually work with Russians in Russia. In the Fall of 1992, Nikolai Sobolev, director of the Institute of Mineralogy and Petrology in N0vosibirsk, Russia, came to Union as a visiting Professor of Geology. He returned to Russia, in the beginning of September. During his year-long stay, Sobolev facilitated many US- Russian contacts, including this project that Garver hopes to launch. Garver, Smith and Brandon landed in Moscow on July 20, to disct1ss .logistics and ptans for thei r-e~t~nded t_rip. Garver states \rny biggest fear was the language barrier.\ They were assigned to a Senior geologist, named Vadim Chekhovich, to accompany them in the field. He spoke no English, but was fluent in French, which was helpful since Smith and Garver both speak French and Smith speaks a little Russian. The trip to their next destina- tion, Petropavlosk-Kamchatsky (on the Southern Kamchatka pen- insula) was delayed because the airport had been out of fuel and because plane schedules were ir- regufar. One day later, they flew out of Moscow to Petropavlosk, and then to a small arctic village of Korf, (on the Northern Kamchatka peninsula), the same afternoon. Their trip came to a continued on page 2 by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Union College's first conve- nience store opened September 16 on the first floor of the Co11ege Center. According to George Ferrow, the convenience store manager, the purpose ofthe store is to pro- vide another option for students, allowing them to purchase items not sold by the bookstore or by dining services. The best-selling items in the store, which is operated by dining services, are beverages (with Snapple topping the list) and vari- ous snacks including both cook- ies and chips. Both the college store and the convenience store sell candy' health and beauty aides, but, according to Ferrow, \We will stop selling those items soon to avoid competition with the _college _store.\ . The most noticeable items miss• ing from shelves are cigarettes. \We didn't see a need to have them,\ Ferrow said,\ but if the stu- dents show enough desire to have them, we might get them in.\ Janet Gray, director of dining services, said, \I took it upon myself to remove cigarette vend- ing machines from dining halls by student request years ago. Be- sides, the majority of students do not want space taken up in the store normally reserved for food and food products.\ Another problem raised by cigarette sales is the Validine card. Currently, Validine may be used at the store, but not on taxable items such as candy. Since ciga- rettes are taxable items, students would be unable to use the card to purchase them. \We could not ~ell them on the cards, since the Validine system is tax-free spe- cifically for food,\ Gray com- mented. Tobacco is the most requested item in convenience stores at col- leges around the capital region, totaling 26.5 percent of annual sales. On a local level, Don Arnold, supervisor of the conve- nience store, said that cigarette sales at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's convenience store \make up 15 to 20 percent of all their store's sales.\ Items in the store expected to be removed within a few weeks are cleaning products, Jell-0, and some cookies, in addition to any other products which do not sell. A list is posted in the store, al- lowing students the chance to propose new items to sell. Ciga- rettes topped the list, consider- ably ahead of other requested items, such as Peach Snapple, dairy products, and condoms. _ However, while some items will be removed, others will be added. Gray expects a line of biscotti from a family recipe of a California-based company to ar- rive soon. \They sent us samples of the product, and we loved them,\ Gray said. Also, a line of instant decaffeinated cappucino is planned, as well as submarine dressing, breads and rolls. Items that do not sell well may be re- moved and a deli case may be added. Ferrow said, \we will add an international section, offering a sampling of foods to ca:ter to in- ternational needs. We will put in the section whatever students want; a list will be posted for stu- dents.\ Ferrow added, \We want stu- dents to feel its 'their' store, and continued on page 3 President Receives Award by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordien.'lis Staff In recognition of fostering ties between Union College and Schenectady, President Roger Hull was recently awarded the Louis Gregory Visions of Unity A ward by the Balui' i of the Capi- tal Region. President Hull's strong com- mitment to helping the commu- nity was made evident in his speech at the convocation cer- emony on September 8. He said, \While some might question how involvement beyond the College's historic fence can ben- efit Union, l believe that there is an intricate connection, if not a seamless web, between college and community ... While we are clearly a magnificent oasis, the entire Schenectady community mustbJoom if we as an institution are to continue to thrive.\ A recent survey taken ofUnion Co11ege students showed that 75% of the students that responded were involved in some kind of volunteer work. Another survey showed that over 500 students volunteered in the Schenectady area last year. Students were in- volved in rebuilding homes in the Hamilton Hill neighborhood, tu- toring students in the Schenectady schools, ~elping children and adults learn to read; and helping to clean up the City's parks and recreation areas. \It was a lovely award and I accept it on behalf of the stu- dents,\ said President Hull. \I feel by encouraging community ser- vice all I was doing was my job and what I believe in.\ President Hull is an active par- ticipant in the Schenectady 2000, an effort to improve the fac!r of Schenectady. Union College's own Nott Memorial was pin- pointed as one of the Schenectady 2000's first targets. \The Nott reflects on the com- munity,\ said Associate Profes- sor Hatke, a member of the Baha'i organization. \It is seen co1Jtinued on page 3

·September 30, 1993, page 2 Career Development Plans Career Festival Courtesy of CDC The Career Development Cen- ter is sponsoring the College's annual Career Festival on Wednesday, October 6, from 12 - 4 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. For fifteen years, employers and graduate school representatives have been coming to campus to discuss career opportunities with students from all class years. The informal setting wiU lend a relaxed atmosphere. With over 30 companies, 25 graduate schools, and 9 community ser- vice organizations, the Festival gives students an opportunity to look at many options. Last year's attendance by students was close to 400. Companies are \right-sizing\ these days, which results in re- cruiting budgets being cut. They are coming to interview on col- lege campuses less and less. Company representatives enjoy coming to a festival setting be- cause they can see a lot of stu- dents at one time. Th.e Festival also offers Union students a way to introduce themselves to a va- riety of prospective employers. Students from all classes are expected to participate. In the past, internships and summer jobs have been obtained through Ca- reer Festival contacts~ (Employ- ers and graduate schools look very favorably upon these types of ex- periences.) \It's an opportunity that shouldn't he missed.\ stated Kathryn Bradley; Assistant Direc- tor of the CDC. \Career decisions are never easy and the Festival is a great way to collect information to make good choices,\ Bradley added. To prepare students for the Fes- tival, the CDC's Career Assistants are presenting a workshop appro- priately titled, \How To Get The Most Out of the Career Festival\. This will take place Monday, Oc- tober4,, at 7:00p.m. and Tuesday, October 6, at 3:30 in the CDC. CA 's will give tips on the do's and don'ts of talking to representa- tives. The National .Society of Black Engineers and The Society ofHis- panic Professional Engineers will be sponsoring a reception the night before in Old Chapel at 7:30p.m. Students of all majors are invited to come and speak to recruiters in an informal setting. With all of the events going on, the opportunities are there for the taking. \With this job market, it is important to stay flexible,\ says Joanne Tobiessen, Director of the CDC. She encourages all students to take advantage ofthe Festival to stretch their thinking about fu- ture options. NEWS Student Forum Spotlight by Mia Caetano Student Fonim Prf!sident The Student Forum met this past week to discuss a variety of issues. An area of concern this week is the recent change in the convenience store Validine policy. The Forum is looking into this change and will meet with Dining Services this week to work en a solution. Another issue is the new parking policy which does not allow Freshnum to have cars on campus. Some student have expressed their belief that freshman are still bringing their cars onto campus because there is still a problem with finding a parking space. Vice President Mamrnola was noti- fied and the Parking Appeals Committee will be looking into the situation. Due to the blackout, the Finance Committee will now meet with all club treasurers this Thursday at 4:00. Contact Pat Haskell or your financ;e rep to confirn1. ·n1e members of the Forum had an infonnal dinner at West on Wednesday in an attempt to reach out to the Freshman by hearing their concerns and ail.swering questions they may have had. The Student Forum meetings are held. every Monday in CC409 at 7:00 for all who wish to .attend. To become even more accessible, the Forum has just finished moving into thei~ new office in CC41 0. Our office hours are Monday and Thursday 11 :00'-l :00. Feel free to stop by to voice your opinion or to find out about recent issues and how they may affect you. ELECTIONS are OCTOBER 8---Don't Fotget about your Petitions to run for office are due TOMORROW in Student Activities Office by 5:00. Committee Applications me also due at that time. Profes.sor Garver Travels to Russia continued/rom page 1 halt once again due to poor weather and Garver, and com- pany were stranded in this little arctic village with little food for . five days. After living on pea- nut butt~r, tuna fish, and bread, the weather broke and their trav- els continued. Garver finally made it to the coast of the Olyutorsky Penin- sula, along the Bering Sea, where . his field work began. This re- gion is prime for field work be- sian and continue his studies of cause there are no trees- it's sim~ these rocks. If he is given the ply tundra and the rocks are vet)- · grant, Garver hopes to take some wen exposed, Garver explajns Union· geology students back to that \the purpose to this rese.arch. Russia over the smnmer, where was to determine the nature of a· they ·may do research for senior collision zone where two tectonic theses as part pf th~ .. Russ •. an plates have been forcedtogether.\ project. At this time, however, .it The collision ofthe island arc was is unclear what changes, if any, young, about ten tofifteenmillion Yeltsin's recent move to dis- years old,· so it will be easy to solved Parliament will have on study. In the end, hopefully., these Garver's. planrt ' : ·· · \ .... Phi Sigma Kappa Alumni Have Small Reunion studies will help us understand the A trip to Romania to study evolution of the Bering Sea and rocks with Union students is also the Aleutian Islands. · ' · · hdpeful'forthe swnmer'of1994. By the end of his trip, Garver A:t present, there is a mineralogist found that living in close quarters, from Romania, Marian Lupuescu, eating peanut butter and fish, and who isalsopartofthe Union-FSU comtpunicating in broken En- exchangeprograrn. Marianhopes glish, French, and Russian are that he and the Geology Depart- certainly livable. He plans to ment can run a field trip to.the write a proposal for a NSF grant Carpathian Mountains, in Roma- to go return to this part of Rus- rtia, next summer. Courtesy of Glen Davidson '80 Where do you go to avoid the hottest day of the year and meet with your roommates from Union College? Five brothers from Phi Sigma Kappa chose July 9th to hike 7.4 miles through the woods of New Hampshire to reach the top of Mt. Liberty at over 4,000 feet of elevation. Ben Dibble '79, Bruce Reichlen '79, Dave Robinson '79, Glen Davidson '80 and Tim Landreth '79 kept a face CORRECTIONS BOX : pace while catching up on fam- ily, friends, work and politics. After eating lunch at the summit and enjoying the breathtaking view it started to rain so the trip down was a cooler and faster trip than the trip up. I .In last weeks issue, the press release detailing the achievements of students receiv- ing Phi Beta Kappa awards omi,tted some pertinent information : \Hillary A. Snow, a 1996 biology major~ received an honorable mention for the Phi Beta Kappa award presented in honor of outstanding achievement in General Education. Snow, a resi- dent of Scotia, is a graduate of Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School.\ 2. Prof. Berk suggested that the agreement with Israel will enhance the PLO's posi- tion in terms of its competition with a radical Islamic group in Gaza in the West Bank, know as Hamus. 3. We regret any blatant spelling errors in last week's paper. C.oming in October International Coffeehouse & Kiosk Speciality Coffees& Teas · Caffe Dolce· Cuppucino Espresso Lattes (518) 347-2334 Open 7 days a week 142 State St. Now Hiring Faculty and Staff Why drive wheri you can walk? Union Avenue, opposite campus Victorian Charmer 4 Bedroo.ms, 2 Baths, Sun Porch, I · Living Room, Fire Place, Dining Room, Eat-in Kitchen, 2 car garage, security system Reduced Sl44,868 to $124,000 Call Joe Milano@ 374-9297 Shown by appoi~tment- Veronica W. Lynch

-- Two· New Professors Join the College Receives Donation from F.ormer Dean - - ~ POlitiCal Scietice' Dep~rtment tor at New York University, the University of the State of New York, and the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. by Elizabeth· DeKoven Concordiensis Staff Ham~ Cotleg¢. ''Witl~ams is very similar to- Union without the sci- ence and engineering compo- The political science depart- nents,\ said Consolini. ment welcomes two new profes- Pr-ofessor Consolini chose sors this term; Professor Paula Union forinany reasons. ''For Consolini and Professor Ali one- the exposure I had with the Abootalevi. Both are new to the students ana faculty during my Schenectady area and are both interview. I found the students very excited te be on campus. were impressive and smart with \I went to Lafayette College; a strong commitment to the col- which gives off the same. feeling lege.\ as Union,\ said Professor Professor Abootalevi came Consolini. \When I first got onto from the University ofArizonato campus I got a feeling of deja-vu. Union College-after being a pro- 1 felt like I was going back to col- fessor there for eight years. \I lege.\ have never taught at a four year \Having come fFom Arizona; I college before,\ said Professor am new to the area, people, and Aboota1evi. \It is very different culture,\ said Professor from the community colleges and Abootalevi. \I like the campus; m1iversities that I taught at before. but I thought the City was much I like the fact that the students are smaller than it is.\ serious.\ Professor Consolini came -to Professer ,Consolini's favorite ·Union after having taught at-Wil- aspect of school. so far has been the enthusiasm she has felt from the students. \The students I have talked with are interested in what can be done and how to improve things,\ said Professor Consolini. \'It is exciting to work with people with that kind of a focus.\ Additionally, Professor Consolini was \impressed by the liveliness of the students on the first day ofclasses.\ Professor Abootahlevi's only apprehension about Union is the weather. \Arizona does not get quite as cold as what I hear about here,\ sai·d Professor Abootahlevi. \But I'll deal with it.\ Like m~my new professor's at Union this year, both Professor Consolini and Professor Abootalevi look forward to working at Union and becoming a part of our community. Courtesy of Public Relations The College has received a gift of $10@,00@ from Lawrence J. Hollander, dean of engineering emeritus, for the establishment ef the Lawrence J. Hollander En- dowed Scholarship. Preference is for students studying engineering. Hollander, of Albany, retired ear- lier this year. ·Previously, he served as faculty and administra- The College also has re- ceived a bequest of $10,000 from the estate of Arthur Silver, an ad- dition to the memorial fund for Joseph E. Silver '76, a scholar- ship established in 1991 with preference for political science majors. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Reach Out Center from 6:00-9:00 PM. Volunteers Program(ROC) sponsored by Big are needed to supervise gym, arts Brothers/Big Sisters reopens on and crafts, game room activities Tuesday, October 5-, 1993, at Cen- and to offer friendship and tutor- tral Park Middle School. ROC pro- ing to boys and girls ages 7-15. vides Schenectady youth with a Please call 374-4523 if you can recreation and counseling pro- volunteer one evening per week. grarri, three evenings per week President Receives Award On Snapple Sells at Union's Convenience Store . ,,.... .: .. . . . George Ferro, manager . .. Behalf·· of Union College Students Courtesy of public relations The store also is doing a brisk business in cereals and chips, he said. continued fiompage 1 everywhere you go in Schenectady, it is an important architectural statement.\ Professor Hatke explained that' although this is the first time the Louis Gregory Visions of Unity Award was .given in the Albany area, similar awards have been given to National Association for · the Advancement of Colored Convenience Store Opens In College Center continued from page 1 everyone should feel free to re- quest whatever they want. So far, the response to the store has been positive.\ Gray said, \I am really grate- ful for the positive comments I have received from students and staff concerning the store.\ She also added a reminder that the convenience store is great for picking up quick items during lunch hour, instead of getting things on the way home. People (NAACP) leaders,. may- ors, and other political leaders. Louis Gregory ~was a promoter of the unity of the ra-ces in America and was one of.the crigi- nal members of the First National Spiritual Assembly. After his death he was proclaimed the \Hand ef the Cause of God,\ a position honoring his selfless dedication to the protection ofthe Baha'i religion. The inscription on President Hull's plaque reads, \In recog- nition of e~emplary efforts and laudable service for fostering the ties of community and forging a more unified future- both on the campus oiUnionC<illleg«?'ahd in~: Hit suttounoing ·community.: by .. caring words and constructive deeds.\ Snapple drinks are the biggest sellers at the newly-opened con- venience store on the first floor of the Co1lege Center, according to Store hours are daily from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Vali-Dine cards are accepted. ~.aminate a Jlrnfessnr nf · ~- - ·· .. Jqr· .. ~eek:\:; -~.n~··z5-·77 FOUR WINDS-SARATOG·A announces a new outpatient service for i-ndividuals with eating disorders.· • intensive outpatient program available daily • flexible afternoon and evening schedules • individual~ family and group treatment services • ·nutrition and dietary services Referrals now being accepted for September start. Program located at Four Winds satellite office in Guilderland, N.Y. Call584~3600, ext. 310 for information or reservations.

September 30, 1993, page 4 NEWS UNION COLLEGE DISCOVERY '93 - CAREER FESTIVAL PARTICIPANTS COMPANIES Aetna Life & Casualty/Property Casualty & Field Operations Aetna Life. & Casualty/Claims SCHOOLS Albany Law School American Graduate School of lnt'l Management College of St. Rose Graduate School American Management Systems Andersen Consulting Central Hudson Gas & Electric Chubb Group of Insurance Companies Clough, Harbour & Associates Comdoc Office Systems Inc. Coopers & Lybrand/Aibany Coopers and Lybrand ~ IT AS/Boston ·Delmar Publishing General Electric General Electric Research and Development Hewitt Associates IDS Financial Services Martin. Marie~PL Mitre Corporation Naval Undersea Warfare. Center Net Daemons Associates Northwestern Mutual Life - Poughkeepsie NYS Department of Transportation NYS Department of Labor NYS Division .of the Budget NYS Electric & Gas Corporation Raymond Karsan Associates Residential Opportunities Tams Consultants Teach for America Trustee Bank US Army US Marine Corps US Navy Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories Boston College .Law School Emer$0n College . Monterey Institute of lnt'l Studies New School of Ccmtemporary Radio New York Chiropractic College Northeastern University - Graduate School of Business Pace University Pace Uniyersiey Law Schoo.l Roger Williams University School of Law RPI - School of Management Sage Graduate School St. John Fisher. College Graduate School of Management Suffolk University Law School SUNY at Albany School of Business SUNY at Albany School of Public Health · SUNY at Binghamton SUNY College of Optometry The Penn State University, College of Engineering Union College - Graduate Management Institute University of the Pacific - Graduate School of Business Western New England School of Law Widener University School of .Law COMMUNITY SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS American Cancer Society Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Schenectady & Saratoga Community Health Plan Home Furnishings Program Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council Schenectady A$SOclation for Retarded Citizens Sch-enectady County Office for the Aging Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority Wildwood Programs Field House THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE ROOM ACCESSORIES SALE 25% OFF FULL SIZE CRATES - MINII SIZE CRATES MODUCRATES WITH HANDLE - SHOWER CRATES INDIAN TAPESTRIES FLIP FLOPS LAUNDRY BASKETS SERVING BOWLS CEREAL BOWLS 6 & 12 OZ. TUMBLERS WASTE BASKETS AND MUCH MORE ........ . HOURS MONDAY- FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 SATURDAY 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE: 518-388-6188

NEWS BRIEFS. World News ----------------- South Africa: Nelson M~dela asked his allies ih the West to remove re- maining sanctions against trade and investment after F. W. de Klerk called Parliament to create a law that will give up some of the white Govemment's power to a multiparty council, unHI the elections next April. The appeal to the West was answered by states from New York to Califor• nia and countries around the world. Israel: John Demjanjuk after seven years of trials in Israel was sent to go back to the United States. Although the 1988 decision condemned him of being Nazi war criminal \Ivan the Terrible\ the Supreme Court overturned the verdict after raising a reason- able doubt about his identity. Israelis were happy to see him leave, giving the responsibility to Federal courts in Cincinnati, Ohio. Australia: Sydney narrowly beat Beijing in a vote of who is to be the host of the 2000 Olympics. The vote was 45-43 in Sydney's favor. Some thought that holding the Games in China would open it up more politically and some sponsors saw it as a way to get into China's consumer market. The other possible sites were Istanbul, Berlin and Manchester, England. Jordan: King Hussein discussed the changes in the Middle East brought about by the new Peace Accord and announced that Par- liamentary elections would probably be delayed. Bosnia: The Bosnian Army continued to attack the Croatian sphere of influence. Conditions for using American troops to enforce peace treaty in Bosnia were set by Senator Sam Nunn. Conditions also included the United States would contribute only if allies agreed to arm the Bosnian Muslims the plan fails. U.S. News Women Refugees: Immigration laws that ignore rights of refu- gee women conceming treating rape and battery as private acts and interpreting violations of social custom as private choice rather than a political statement are being criticized. Female Health Concerns: Re-examination of Pap smears con- ducted at a Newport, Rhode Island hospital since 1988 are being performed after finding that a woman tested negative four times over a period of eight years died of cervical cancer last year. . Health Plan: In addition to the number of chang(fs, the new Health Plan will bring about, elderly who are now paying for expensive prescription drugs will offer some benefits. NAFT A: This week the majority leader Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, announced that he would oppose the . pact. President Clinton will rely on largely on Republicans to win Congressional approval. Losing Health Insurance Length of ti~l:«r::=:l.;i; uninsu coverage, academic a recent More than 2 --~-years 13 to 24 months m SOURCE.: Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association s WORLD NEWS September 30, 1993, page 5 Yeltsin's Move: Is.it Kosher? by Lara Greenberg World News Editor In, out, in, out. To me it sounds like the Russian government, -oth- ers mayhear a different tune. This past we~k, the Russian govern- ment went through yet another coup d'tat. The routine is getting p~etty old, but the action never fails to cease in the Common Wealth of Independent States. On Tuesday, September 21, Russian President Boris N. Y eltsin disbanded the Congress of People's Deputies, an act which is unconstitutional according to Russian Law. The Supreme So- viet, the small groupthat virtually controls Russia, immediateiy voted to dispose of Y eltsin and ordered 'security not to obey him. The deputies then swore in Vice President Mr. Rutskoi to serve as Acting President. The two men who had previously been allies, are now enemies of the greatest scale, and each according to their side, is President. The following day, Yeltsin re- ceived support from the Russian Military and police force. This, although the majority of the gov· emment stands on the side ofthe Deputies, was a crucial move and major victory on the part of Mr. Yeltsin. The White House, (the Russian Parliamentary building), has been under pressure from die· hard Communists, who back the deputies. Civil war is at hand, and Yeltsin was the man who started the rocking. The question re- mains, was it Boris Yeltsin's right and duty to disband the parliament and cause major disruption in an already shaky situation, or should he have waited until elections came around to change the state of Russia? Is Y eltsin power hun- gry, or is he doing this out of genuine concern for the Russian people? The Russian Constitution, ere~ ated in 1991, after the putsch, is now an anti.quated document. Two years in Russia today, is like an entire era. 1l1e Soviet Supreme and the Parliament blocked any reform that Yeltsin tried to pass. His attempts to completely de- mocratize Russia failed, due to the fact that the Parliament held so much power. To me it is obvious that Yeltsin'sintentionswere good. It was, in fact, his moral obligation to take the actions he did to se- cure a prosperous future for his countt:Y. If the only popularly elected government official since the 1991 demise of the Soviet Union, it his moral duty to use. his power to benefit the country in any way he sees best. To Yeltsin, this means going against the Con· stitution. The consequences of this monumental action are equally drastic. The two rivaling sides could cause a civil war and it is obvious that the Russian people are extremely confused about who to back, but for the sake of stabil- ity, who to see as their president. All talks of compromise have been devoted to the question of when to hold re.e!ections. The Parliament wants simultaneous elections for president and par- liament to take place in March; while Y eltsin holds fast to an op- posing date. He wants the presi- dential election to be held in De- cember, while the Parliamentary votes to eccur six months later. He also refused to deal with the what he calls the \former depu- ties\ in any way. Yeltsin's re- fusal to negotiate is a political strategy. He is waiting for the Deputies to be in complete shambles before he budges at all. This move is wise, considering \Civil war is at hand, and Yeltsin was the man who started the rocking.\ that Yeltsin in having the mili- tary, police and press under his control, holds almost all of the cards. Since President Clinton and the West immediately ran to Yeltsin's side, world opinion is obviously in his favor, giving him a major boost ofboth confidence and power. . . hy S~rah R. Evans · , >:·. ' :,\ , .Gt>t!a~rt/iem,is-Btqff. -:·· -~;:,r~.--.-.-~.:. _{ :-:,- <·'-'--. ·'··\; .. · .. Maybe the most important questien has yet to be addressed. The people, what about the people? I don't think that there could be a more confusing situa- tion for the people of Russia. Not only do they view their capital city as a joke, the bottom line is, they don't know who their presi- dent is. The people need stability. Some say stability lies in uphold- ing the Constitution, while others say there must be chaos before there can be peace. Yeltsin sup- porters say that this confrontation has been put off for too long al- ready and that the Constitution is like \a dirty old floor mop ... no- body follows it except when it suits them.\ I agree. I, like President Clinton, am in full support of Yeltsin and his actions. I firmly believe that if given the chance, Yeltsin, in time, can make Russia a true demo- cratic state. Right now, things are unstable and may get worse. What has been done by Yeltsin is, in my opinion, only a tremor compared to what might have happened if he did nothing. Mexico for assembly into cars to be sold in the U.S. Investment restrictions in fi- , .- ·=·- _:- .·.:::·.:{: •... :- • . . ~ :,_: · •. ,. ·:' ~- ., - ·: : ./-- 0 'N~FTA; the NO.rth Am~:n... · n!ance and telecommunications can Free Trade Agreenieflt: if' Wilt also' be phased out. The passed by the U.S. Congress current bans on foreign owner- wtn go into effectJanuary 1, ship on insurance and broker- 1-9~4. 11te purpose of'NAFTA age firms witl be eliminated .. ·· ,i~J_9-~liminat~;tatff:£:$;anl} Qtlier· ,overa6'year period. In tbetele- ,,; ·•· · • , mQ;vem~nt of <rottillilunica.tions industry U.S. . .. s and investment·· · c6fi\lp~ies witt be permitted to '·1tet\¥1i!fc~ada~ UnitedSt~tes; , , compete for contracts from the · . ttnd.Mexico: rtlepa.ct will link Mex~~o .·public telephone sys- · fhethreenatitins economically. tern and investment restrictions Tlins,. it .. would . ~reate.· tlle .· will be eliminated by July 1995. '~djld;-s lafgestdnd richesttta.d- ; · The te;Cti1e industry in Canada and the u.s. will be hit hard by th~;N~TA agreement~ because ·· 'they ire protected by high du .. hurt· · ti~s. Under NAFT A. Mexico will be able to escape the cur· tently nigh duties on shipments . to the u.s. and Canada, if the otothmgitanale from yams and fabrics that are produced in North A.nierica. One of the biggest concerns of the opponents of NAFT A is ·· the env1ronmentaJ issue. To ad- dress this issue~ there is a. side agre~ttlent .: that · creates a trlnational commission to over- . see' ~rt~r(}l\fih~ntal laws. The commission wUl be able to · · plac~ $allctions, either pttnitive em :itri11nedii-· · ·· ttade 'tariffs, in the case of the U.S .. fihd Mexico or firtes in the . ease• of Canada, for a country :fi:tiUng to enforce its own envi • ·. · <'roumentallaws. At the present time, it is ttn~ plear ... ~fHtureofNAFTA .· '\'~•I\M·&i<·'fl¥riJi!>''r<f!fi·i·:isi~·~ ·· .··· ls, ·· ttlfihtonsupports it, u¢:e,a\Jlii Ntlrffi.·Att\-en:c~· t~·f iV· • .. •· •. as:dtieS,'ltl~'Sf ofthe Republican · .·/fatty l~ad.ership. the Derno·· orat{e PartY is divided on the is- . $\i~. ·• Cl'inton realizes that it is tJoing to be a close call in the House of Representatives and · >1las been lobbying hard for NAFr A. Presently the future tlf · · NAFTAis unoortain.

HOMEC<JMING FRIDAY OCTOBER 8TH 7:00p.m. Field Hockey· Union vs. Vassar Frank Bailey Field 7:30p.m. Philosophy Debate Memorial Chapel Sponsored by the Philosophy Department 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium SATURDAY OCTOBER 9TH 10:30 a.me • Noon Academic Presentations/Receptions I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. II. I • ~ :• I t ! III. Classics, English, Modem Languages, Philosophy, Arts. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management Institute, Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. I ... !\; ; • .,.~:,e • , • c• .-. ~ . ~ ~ ' I . - . ' ' . . . i\ ( Faculty of the Sciences. Biological S~ierices; Chemistry, Geology, Matheinati~, Phy~ics, . . ' ., ' . ' Psychology. Math Lounge (2nd Floor), Bailey. Hall. , IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering/Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering. Room N 116, Science and Engineering Building. 11:00 a.m. Men's Soccer- Union vs. St. Lawrence Garis Field 11:30 a.m. Union Crew's lOth Anniversary Reception Come meet rowers and coaches at the future site of the new boat house in the Stockade. Call Coach Crick at 518-388-6483 for more information. 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. Homecoming Picnic Under the Big Tent on Alexander Field. Organized by Union's Men's and Women's Lacrosse· & Women's Softball Teams. 1-. . · .• ' t SATURDAY OCTOBER 9TH (CONTD) 11:30 a.m. Music by Union's Dutch Pipers and Garnet ·MinstreUes Lamont House Porch Noon Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70 Memorial Chapel 1:30 p.m. Football- Union vs. Albany Frank Bailey Field HALFfiME President Roger H. Hull presents the Stephen· P. Brown Memorial Trop1hy - 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. President's Reception Everyone is invited to th~s reception held in the College Center Atrium 4:00p.m. Women's Soccer· Union vs. Plattsburgh ' . ! 8:00p.m. Concert or Music for Voice, Brass and Organ , · .. · .. , ' I •\' , featuring Keith. E. Kibler '73 and Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson Memorial Chapel 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium 9:00p.m. Coffee House. Ferro House SUNDAY OCI'OBER 10m 1:00 p.m. JV Football • Union vs. Albany Frank Bailey Field 8:00/10:00 p.m. Movie: Cliff Hanger College Center Auditorium Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Offi~. Sponsored by the StUdent Film Committee.

FEATURES Blue Collar V olunteerism An Insightful Look Into We Care About U Schenectady by Bahart Navani Concordiensis Stqff \Rewarding.\ \Pusty.\ \Edu- cationaL\ \Productive destruc- tion!\ .Fun!!~' A polyglot of words, that in the end, refer to the same program. In particular, they comprise the thoughts on the We Care About U Scheneclady So- ciety, as felt by the members themselves .... John Arzberger, President of the We Care About U Schenectady union, talks animat- edly about the program and its natural benefits. He comments, \We are a volunteer group, in conjunction with Better Neigh- borhoods Inc., a non-profit orga- nization, that helps in the rebuild- ing of run-down, condemned houses. In doing our share of the allotted reconstruction, we keep the cost of the targeted house down, thus, allowing low-income families to afford housing.\ John continues, exemplifying the content and workings of the program, \There are two phases to our job .. l11e first part consists of tearing out the ceilings, walls, and doors - Demolition. The sec- ond phase involves Construc- tion. In repairing the house, we install new windows, re-roof the garage, and even put Up shingles when needed. The plumbing and · the electrical work is handled by the 1 State.\ can get; we rely on our members in spreading our·name. No con- struction knowledge is .needed. TI1e best way to join is to show up at the Callege Center on any given SaQ.Irday morning at nine andjust say, 'Hi, I'm new and I'd like to join.' Bring a sibling. Bring a friend ... and get ready to work [your heart ami hands].\ AFTERTHOUGHT The date: Saturday, September 25th, 1993 The time: 9:00am. The place: Outside of the College Center. The people: Union college stu- dents dressed in their dirtiest, smelliest, \grungiest oldest - ·you get the picture don't you - clothes, getting ready to put in a hard days work as construction workers ... volunteers ... caring human beings. Having been bestowed the ap- portunity to involve myself within this society of tool-wielding, hard.;hat wearing, giving men ·~d women, I showered, had some HOT oatmeal, and joined the ranks of these blue-collar volun- teers. Transportation, having been procured via the Union College van and individual cars.andjeeps, we proceeded to the Hamilton Hill residential area and the des- ignated house (#933) located on Delamont Street. was wicked! I learned more about construction, rather demolition, in those 5 hours than I ever had be- fore. At about 2:30, with a sense of accomplishment and pride, we all looked like hell!! But, we also felt, simply put, GOOD. In vol- unteering our time, back, and hands, we made a difference in our community. The effort put forth by the individuals present that day was powerful and self- rewarding. We worked as a team from beginning, ta end, always looking to help another in sweep- ing, breaking plaster ... in every- thing. For those interested in learning something new and/or for those wanting to impress upon our town, come and use a power-drill. Tim Allen would be proud (Grunt, grunt). So would your friends, family, and more impor- tantly, you, yourself would be proud. To become a member: Contact either President John Arzberger or Vice President Paul Ketchum. . Both officers can be reached at 388-5701. This weekend's agenda (Satur- day, October 2nd, 1993): Finish demolishing and begin construc- tion on the targeted house on Delamont Street. September 30, 1993, page 7 Uncle Edna 27 Articles and Still Going Strong Uncle Edna is a Union College student who will always go out on a limb to prol'e he :Y not bark- .· ing up the wrong tree. Why ask that crabby old Anne Landers or Dear Abbey (who I hear has VD) when you can ask your own Uncle Edna. Box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, I was posed a question in phi- losophy class that I think you ·.would enjoy. Ifyou walked up to a money machine and asked it for $20 and it spit out $200 but the receipt was only for $20, would you A) keep the money and run or B) inform the bank . of the mistake? -Plato Dear Play~do, I think I speak for all thinking people when I say that I would pr~bably ask the machine for another $20. Dear Uncle Edna, What was up with the black-out last Tuesday? - blinded Dear Blinded That is a very good.question, so .· good that I devoted an entire top-ten to it. Here Goes. Top Ten reasons that the power went out on Tuesday. 1 0. The gang of campus squir- rels.gnawed through the power lines in an attempt to once and for all overthrow Union Col- lege. 9. Hey- $25,000 can't cover everything. 8. Money which was supposed to pay power bill went to sub- sidize faculty gambling debts. 7. The guy in charge of power just had an argument with his wife. 6. Fill in your own Dan Quayle Joke here. 5. The secret nuclear generator under the physics department melted down. 4. Old guy who peddles the generator had a heart attack. 3. It was national hook up with an ugly person day and main- tenance was doing their part to ease the embarrassment. 2. Hull forgot to pay the bill. 1. They actually tried to toast a bagel at Dutclt Hollow and blew a huge fuse. On Campus Campus operations has placed a roadblock going into Fox and Davidson. This is obviously an attempt to prevent late night pizza deliveries to the freshman flfteeners. The pizza men have obviously found alternate route. Student of the Week Rawson Thurber. His article last week included a comment about Captain Kirk and his ten- dency to hook-up with blue women. It reminded me of my childhood and of my love af- fair with another blue woman ... Smurfette. Thank you Rawson. We Care Ahoutll Schenectady is a community oriented \club.\ John stresses its personal gratifi- cation for all those'involved who involve themselves, \We are flex- ible. There is no obligation to come every weekend. But the more people we have, the more we accomplish, and thus, more low-income families benefit.\ John continues, \l11e gained ex- perience allows you to learn skills which you can employ the rest of your life. And more irnportantly, you feel good knowing that it was because of your efforts that a fam- ily could afford their OWN home.\ Upon arrival, we entered the house to a waiting bin of hard- hats, gloves, goggles, hammers, shovels, and brooms. All was set. For what? I didn't have a clue ... yet. But all that soon changed as I was engulfed into the main- stream of the project in breaking the plaster on the walls, remov- ing shafts and nails, and tearing down the doors and ceilings. It Marriage and Relationships in the 90s John ends the interview show- ing his commitment to the pro- gram, \We need all the hands we RUBES® 8-5 By Leigh Rubin .. Before we begin our lesson on the Importance of tolerance, I want you . to take off that stupid· looking hatf\ by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff Things have changed. The days of poodle skirts and penny loaf- ers are long gone, and the gen- eration of the '90's faces some radically different ways of look- ing at relationships and so called \family values\. I come from what others call a \broken\ home, except that to me it doesn't seem that broken. My parents divorced when I was about seven years old. My mother has since remarried and been re- cently divorced. My father is now with his third, and looks like fi- nal, wife. So for one to say that I have an extended family would be quite and understatement. Be- cause of my experiences with so called \failed\ relationships since as far back as I can remember, I have been forced to take a seri- ous look at what is considered a failure. In my opinion I have, in fact, been blessed by the events that have occurred in my family. So, as divorce becomes the norm rather than the aberration, the MTV generation needs to start taking a different look at what is considered a successful relation- ship. Maybe a successful relation- ship cannot be judged by the length. Maybe a relationship shouldn't be judged at all. But if one cannot quantify the success of a relationship, than what is the point of it all? I think the best answer I ever received was given to me by my mother at the last \family meeting\ we had before my step-father moved out. My step-brother asked what the point of marriage is if it can't work out. My mother replied: \Marriage is like climbing the biggest scariest mountain in the world. You hold on with very tips of your fingers. You've got the other person's rope and.he trusts that you've got his. When you make it to the top its the greatest thrill of your life.\ \If that is what marriage is, then why does anyone get divorced?\ \Because some paths you need to walk alone.\ It was at that point that I real- ized that relationships were about the love between two people, not about the duration of that love. So maybe marriage vows shouldn't say \ 'till death do us part\. Maybe it should just be \until we reach the end of the path to- gether\. This realization hit me like a swift kick in the teeth, and it made sense. I deeply believe in true love. Not the Jason Priestly, 90210, Hollywood love; and not the stuff on those pink Hallmark cards, but honest love for what- ever the extent. Maybe that should be how a relationship is judged. So, If you do find true love, it is a success- wether it is for a week, a year, or a lifetime. Any questions or comments. Rawson Thurber Box #2018 ~njn~ J\n J\etihc Ifiifcst~lc - ~rite for Jtf£atur.es

Editorial/Opinions PAGES September 30, 1993 This Promises to be an Exciting Year It is only the beginning of the year, but so many things have already happened on the Union campus, and so many exciting activities are in store, that there will be an overabundance of news. On the bicentennial front, expect many announcements con- cerning the planning of very important events, such as Opening Convocation and, Founder's Day. The college has set lofty goals, in terms of attracting well-known speaker guests. It should be interesting to find out where the school is looking, in terms of types of personalities, to find these important guests. It would have been hard to walk around campus the past few weeks and not noticed all of the construction projects that the school is engulfed in. The Yulman Theater is scheduled for completion before the end of this academic year, the Nott Me- morial will undergo major structural changes soon, Frank Bailey Field has b.een resurfaced, parking lots are being repaved, amongst many other projects. There have been many changes in administrative personnel. While it may be too early right now to determine how the new ideas of these administrators will impact students, expect many heated debates to arise over the implementation of new policies. The student body has been very active so far in voicing their opinions about the campus environment. Most upperclassmen have not gone a day without talking to their friends about the benefits and weaknesses of the ever changing Validine system. The administration has already made rule (and price) changes because of student complaints, and the new policies of the Con- venience store will probably have students up in anTis. Athletically, the year is off to a good start. The Fighting Dutch- men are ranked second in the New York poll going into this week's battle with Dickinson College. T11e Women's Soccer team, the Field Hockey team, Women's Cross Country team, and the Water Polo Team are just a few of the teams off to fast starts. T11e Skating Dutchmen will enter their third year at the Division I level, and there are high expectations for improvement. AcademicaiJy, the school appears to be rebounding, despite the downward national trend. The campus is filled with many innovative learning techniques. From our standpoint, this will be a most newsworthy year. .m~t~ dtnutnr!liett.~i~ Tlte GtiJdent ·tv· ewAiiJaiJttrl'if:f3rnio'itO&lleJU! $iltce· David Levine .··· Edito:r .. itl~Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Business Editors Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editors Associate Spotts Editors Associate News Editor Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser . Manager ·· · , · ·· ' Prirtte<l by·· . · 'f.Jre<'Iieadcu<Fliu'lflil DebMelnemdy ·. · MattKatly,n. Caroline Paine* Do~<g Batlt~ll~ Etin OtNeil*' Belinda Crago,:. NikkQnldin TalJf;yBeisinger* IJ~g~n La Corte Lisa Lemoi, Buf.fY Rubenstein Heather :Reyn<1lds Brianna Patnode Vetanica Rogers Lara Greenberg~ Craig Greenberg* . Dylan Ratigan* Sharon Srnith, Fran Goldstehr JQdi.e Adams Josh Haines, St;:ott Steele. Lee Schachter, Greg ~Ush . ' ' Alex Kreisler David Fischer* Brett Saunders* Scott Scullion .RaehelKest Staff: Melissa Affrot:tti, 11wr Senander, Bruno Benzaqpen, Suzy Bloch. Elizabeth De.Koven Michelle Ellis~ Satan Evans~ A1exis Leist, Pam Lin. Heather Manley. Katie Murray, BbarafNav:ani~ Mike Nelson, Larry Paska 1 Craig Pike, llilt Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michetle Rosenbaum, Joe Saltzbatt, Shveta Srivastava The Concardieti.\'is meets every Monday and Tuesday of th~ aca~ demic year. · .~ ·· * indicates that the editor is CtJtttel\tly st!Udyirtg a\)road l't'& ~ A WAAa .. . tt'& t¥St A lA\ ... . rr~ $li A lt\\~<a~.,, . \\' Letters to the Editor Alarmed at Alarms To the editor: There have been 8 fire-alann in- cidents within the last two weeks,most of which resulted from the over-sensitive or non functioning alarm system. The system seems to defect other things (hot shower steam?) be- sides fire/smoke causing unnec- essary inconveniences for the resi- dents. Perhaps, if fire safety is of your concern, you might be interested to know that the kitchenette on the fourth floor of north College is currently without a fire extin- guisher. If a fire should occur, how could we stop it? The Secu- : rity and Safety Department of the college should provide the stu- dents with accurate notice/infor- mation about fire safety in the dor- mitories. ifthe alarm system is not working properly, fix it; if it can not be fixed, it should be replaced. We expect fire drills to ensure the system is working properly; however, eight incidents in two weeks is excessive. We request that the Office of Security and Safety take appropriate action on this matter. After all. the dormi- tories should be a place for stu- dents to learn and grow, not a tire- drills training ground. We would appreciate it if you would let us know of your re- sponse. Sincerely, Bac X. Nguyen Comedian Not Funny To the editor: I would like to commend the Orientation Committee on its out- standing job done at the begin- ning of the school year to wel- come the Class of 1997 and to help incoming students adjust to college life. As an OA for inter- national students, l had the oppor- tunity to attend many of the events sponsored by the OC. One such event was the comedian, John D. Crosta. He. was very funny, and I really enjoyed his act-up to a point. He took a turn beyond the realm of \political in- correctness\ and into thoughtless insensitivity. It would seem that professional comedians (with the exception of Andrew Dice Clay) could come up with good mate- rial without having to pick an easy target for a guaranteed. laugh. But Crosta did, ridiculing homosexu- als by exaggerating stereotypes of shallow, effeminite men engaging in beastiality. This part ofhis act was the longest. As I lost interest and began to look around, some statistics came to mind. If ten percent of Ameticans are gay, and there were around 300 people in the audience, then theoretically there were 30 homosexuals present being subjected to this brand of humor. What if you were a gay freshman and one of your first impressions of Union College was of your OA 's and classmates laughing at an unfair stereotype .of your lifestyle? I do not intend to suggest that the Orientation Committee was deliberately insensitive in its choice of entertainment, nor that it would ever be so. However, being a freshman is nerve-wrack- ing enough, and the purpose of Orientation is to ease the transi- tion into college life. On all other counts, I believe that Orientation successfully did so. But it would take an exceptionally thick- . skinned person to not feel. ali~n­ ated and ridiculed if placed in a situation where his or her lifestyle was presented in such a manner as Crosta's. Th.e intent of this Jetter is not merely to complain on behalf of others, nor is it to criticize the ef- forts of those involved in Orien- tation. Rather, it is written in the hopes that a closer look will be taken at future entertainers brought to campus, before they perform. College is.to b>TOW and expand; we have all modified or changed opinions as a result of our expe- riences both in an!! out of the classroom. It would be unfortu- nate if this year ninety percent of the freshmen came out of Orien- tation with the opinion that it was acceptable to stereotype and ridi- cule different lifestyles. It would be tragic if ten percent of the freshmen started off their college years ashamed of themselves. Sincerely, Barbara McCuen '94 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear fn the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Le.tters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The ( ~oncardiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Tlmrsdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP}, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions ate due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m .. in the drop box outside of 1he Ccmcc>rdiensis office on the third floor of the College Center.

A&E Flute Ma-ster Class a.nd Concert CourtesyPeiforming Ai'fs Department Arts Build-ing Room 215 Master Class 4:30-5:30 Concert 7:00-8:00 ·october lst, 1993 Flutist. Lisa Hansen and pianist Max Li.fchitz will present a North/ south Consonance Duo concert in Union College's Arts Buildings (Room 215)Friday, October 1st,. 7:00-8:00pm. l11e concert is free and open to the public. A special feature ofthe performance is that it will be preceded by a flute mas- ter class. The piece to be dis- cussed is the first movement of F. Poulenc'.s Flute Sonatina. The master Class is designed to be of interest to flute students at all lev- els. Tbe evening concert features music from Europe and the Americas. Lisa Hansen was prin- cipal flutist for the Mexico City Philhannonlc four years until she resumed her solo career in New York in 1987. Shehaswon criti- cal acclaim for her EMI/Angel recording of Rodrigo's Concierto Pq_.,·Joral with the London Royal Philhannonic Orchestra. Max Lifchitz is a widely recorded pia- nist and composer. In 1982 he was awarded the 1982 United Nations Peace Medal for his work on behalf of living composers. For more information about this concert, contact Dawn Parisiat the Performing Arts De- partment, (3 88-620 I). True Romance: A True Winner by Thor Benander Contributing Wriler For those of you who enjoyed \Qtieritin Tarim.tino'!r debtit film, Resen'oir Dogs, brace yourself for Tr11e Romance. Set in the Motor City of Detroit, it is a vio- lent, apocalyptic jmirney from Michigan to HoJiywood, taking casualties all along the way and leaving you breathless with de- light. Picture this- Top Gun's Tony Scott directs some of the most bad ass actors in the biz: Christian Slater as the lead, and Christopher Walken, Dennis Hopper, Brad Pitt, Gary Oldman, Val Kilmer, and Samuel L. Jackson. Throw in a sexy. coy-to-the point-of-addiction, Patricia Arquette. toss them in a purple Caddy and send them across country with a suitcase full of coke ai1d a carnivorous mafia bloodsucker in pursuit. For no reason whatsoever, add a guard- ian angel in the fonn of a post- mortem Elvis, and you have got the most fast paced, exciting ride ofthe fall. Clarence Worley (Slater), a comic book salesman, gets picked tip in a kung fu movie house by the irresistible Alabama and falls quickly in love. The fact that she's been a call girl for four days is somehow unimportant, and Clarence weds his casually allur- ing new sqtieeze. To free her of her less-than-de- sirable indenture, Worley heads downtown to ice her pimp, Drexl, who is played to perfection by Oldtnan. In the chaos that ensues, Worley makes off with Drexl's stash of coke, half a mil worth, and goes west, young man. From then on, the two fleeing sweethearts are pursued by a flo- tilla of disconcerting individuals who generally have no respect for human life. · Scott's direction is brilliant, and he lets Taranitno's script do the work for him. Slater and Arquette, despite their environ- ment, are somehow strangely wholesome and magnetic. TI1e movie does not push for any kind of annoying \chick flick\ senti- mentality and instead becomes fluid through the 90's romance of the characters. Hopper and Walken square off in a quirky verbal duel and Bronson Pinchot lends a hand as the brown-nosing go-between. Val Kilmer, as Elvis, is an unlikely choice, but in the final product, a touch of genius. As in Resen•oir Dogs, though, it is Tarantino's script that steals the show. His steadfast ridicule of modem America's pathetic complacency is a welcome real- ity smack, and his ultra-violent climactic showdown is visuallv J breathtaking. There isn't enough I can say about this movie- my heart was beating when I left, I was feeling like a wanna-be-menace, and I kissed my girlfriend in the park- ing lot with more raw desire than humanly possible without the aid of random sensory perception heightening hallucinogenics. I did 90 all the way home and went to sleep with a huge, sinister smile on my face. A. WEEKEND MOVIE INDECENT PROPOSAL September 30, 1993, page 9 Oils, Illusions, and More by Nicole Goldin Arts Editor When I was entering the Schenectady Museum and Plan- etarium, I had no idea what I would find there. To my pleas- ant surprise, there were numerous different and interesting exhibits. The prominent featured artist is a mannatnedSteve Weis. His con- temporary paintings ate predomi- nantly done in oils on canvas, al- though there is a series of smaller works of mixed media on paper. The paintings display bright col- ors \splashed\ on in circular, curvy and spiral strokes. The art- ist says of his own work, \My work is the process of the removal of veils induced by society; thus allowing the penetration of the essence and origins of the work itself. The paintings begin with no preconceived image or idea, only a profound and persistent emotion, which is the actual be- ginning. These images and emo- tions develop and unite to form a synthesis which brings to con- sciousness that which I was in touch with and which needed to be understood.\ Another main exhibit is a sec- tion entitled Sense and Percep- tion .. This \hands on\ area is a collection of optical illusions, in- cluding an infamous M.C. Escher poster. One display l found es- pecially interesting had three large posters. The two end ones were a picture of a brightly col- ored bird with a black dot in the middle. The center picture fea- tured an empty bird cage also con- taining a black dot in the middle. The visitor is asked to stare at the dot in the bird for one minute and then look at the dot in the cage . Because the eyes will get tired from staring, when one looks at the dot in the cage, the will see birds there, though its really only an illusion. Several of these 'op- tical games and experiments' are there to try out and test your own perception. There is even a section that demonstrates several laws of physics. For geology lovers there is a collection of rocks and min- erals from the Adirondack mol,ln- tains. A history buff will get ex- cited over the exhibition Mynderse Family, 1690-1990, which traces this famous Schenectady family through their dresses, furniture, china, photos and paintings. There is also a family tree tracing the lineage all the way back to Helen Livingston Mynderse. Despite all that the museum has to offer, (and there is more I have not mentioned), the building houses a planetarium as well. Unfortunately, I was unable to at- tend a showing because they are only on weekends. However for those interested, at 2:30 Celestial Nights plays, and at 3:30 they show Voyager Encounters. The entry fee is $3 for just the museum or one can purchase a museum and planetarium combination ticket for $5. If all that is not enough, the museum offers classes as well. There are classes available in Chinese Brush painting, Water- colors, Sogetsu (Japanese Flower Arranging), Jazz Workshop, Jew- elry Design, Pastel Drawing and Painting, Amateur Radio and Drawing. For more information on schedules and fees, call the museum Education Department at 382-7890 ext.25. The museum is conveniently located just a short walk (I 0 min- utes) from Union. Simply go to- wards the Holiday Inn on Nott Terrace and take a left at the Lo- . comotive Car, the museum is just at the top of the hill. It is open Tuesday through Friday from 10:00-4:30 and weekends from noon to 5:00. The next time you find yourself with some free time, be adventurous! :, .Cilet•s Corner-~-- Last week Chet' s Grand· Opening for the 1993~94 school year went extremely well. There was a great tum .. out for the football game. Karaoke proved to be one laugh after ·another. Also T.G.I.F. was a great atmosphere for mingling. Titis week's schedule seems to . be. even mot:e appealing! ' ·On Monday night, Chet's ' new' so;· screen. t.v. was the ' cent~ of attraction with Mon .. · ' day Ni:ght Football. Wings were ·· only 10 tents and pitchers were • · available. Monday hours are from 8pm-lam. Tonight {Th\trsday, Septem- . ber 30tb)there will be a Broad· ' · way Cabaret. Come out to sup- . port your friends or just to see · some of the talents that Union students have to offer! Chet's opens at 8pm and Cabaret will begin promptly at 9pm. Once Friday rolls around, it will once again be time for T.G.I.F.!!l Friday aftenl()ons are the timeto rela:x and Cbet's Is a great way to start the week- end. 11tis week Chuck Rodman will be playing the. piano for your listening enjoyment. Mingle with friends, fellow stu- dents, and faculty and also re- ceive free food. What more could anyone ask for? How about our variety of mixed drinks, bottled beer, beer on tap, wine, and soda! This is a Union College experience that is .not to be missed. Remember all are welcome. V ou do NOT have to be 21 to enter-only to drink. Take advantage of Chet's new policy of being rented out. AU campus organizations are invitedtosponsorspeciat events at Chefs. For more infortna- tion please contact Pete Savage at 347 .. 1774 or Deb Murray at. 346~3181 . Join us this we'ek at the new Chet's1! ! ·-

September 30, 1993, pagelO A&E Film Festival Comes to Albanv b Ch 1 A · · Earth's Cafe, with its subdued mentary,Coo/ Waterisaboutthe blocksoficealsotellsthe.sadtale. The last film seemed m!e' an y ares gar · . . . . lighting and background jazz art of ice sculptUFe, but, more of the couple, who fall in love exercise in audience tolerance. Contributing Writer Though an unlikely movie the- ater, Mother Earth's cafe on the comer ofWestem Ave. and Quail St. in Albany played host to Full House, a short independent film festival, this past Sunday. The makeshift festival, screened on a white sheet hung over a window, was presented by filmmaker Michael Ellembogen, through his company Jack of Hearts Produc- tions. Starting at Limbo, a cafe in Greenwich Village, the festi- val will travel to Saratoga and Binghamton, after its presentation in Albany. Once a month, Ellembogen puts together his traveling show, choosing from films submitted by NYU and Co- lumbia graduate schools. Mother music, was a great setting for this importantly, shows the touching over Led Zeppelin and, in the end, Head siart # 1, by Timothy Cahill,. entertaining, diverse collection of relationship of a young couple are forced to move to Florida be-. was the· experimental element of ~hort films. struggling to make ends meet as cause of financial problems. The the festival, but failed to be even The first film, entitled Cool sculptors. The short.;lived nature of ice sculpture visually interesting. The film- Water, was made by Columbia graduate Kahane Com. A docu- work that chronicles a chain-saw hacking out beautiful forms from provides poignant comparison to maker bombarded the audience the relationship between these with very vague. blurry images two people. that were said to comprise \frag- The next film, Two Boneheads, ments of a narrative\ but.only ere- directed by Matthew Harrison, ated confusion. had its funny moments telling the The films· were put up to audi- story ·of a down-and-out me- ence scrutiny in a short discussion chanic who meets a friend at the at the end of the screening, and airport during a layover that be- ballots were collected for the comes a weekend of soul search- · \Golden Cappuccino Award\. ing. Though the quirky antics of All in all it was a colorful event the mechanic in his beat-up tow that will return to Mother Earth's truck named \the Wanderer\ on October 15 with a new group were attimes funny, the film was of films. This is a must-see for fuH of amateurish moments of those interested in movies and forced self-reflection, weak sym- bolism, and bad acting. looking for something different in the area. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 3 CONCERT PREVIEW: David Alan Miller, conductor of the Albany Symphony, COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. with guest soloists and composers, Vanguard, Albany Public Library, Washington Avenue; noon, free, 465-4755. DANCE FOR LIFE: see Saturday 2. · .... ROMEO & JULl~T: National Shakespeare Company, 40th anniversary event, Maureeen Stapleton Theatre, HVCC, Troy; 8 pm, 270-HVCC. ' - . . . \''' ' ~ . LOVER.SOFNATURE'SWORK:THEPOtTRYOFTHOMASCOLE:eight regional poets read from their work and that of Hudson River painter, Thomas <;:ole, to m,ark the J(!:~f of ~~fflfl;~ Sol~HN~~Y1§f~~-9~Rtad~.Jr~~g~R; 9/; 1~· ~J~~fiY. , ,' 1 Institute of History &.Aft, .125 Waslj.l.{l,gtqn.'J;\ve., Albany; 2-4.pm, rfee; 4tf9-S3S() • • ' . '· 'i • I' ,} ' ' - • - ' ' FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1 ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: Daugherty world .pre~iere, Superman, The Symphony, Britten Passacaqliafrom Peter Grime.~, Beethoven Symphony No. 5, Pal- ace Theater, Albany; 8 pm, $12-32, 465-4755. BANNED BOOK READINGS: readings from books which have been banned, burned, removed, challenged or censored in honor of Banned Books Week (9/25-10/ 2), Hudson Valley Writer's Guild, NYS Library & NYS Museum at the Museum, Albany; 12:30-2 pm, free, 474-5877. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: Johanna D'Arc of Mongolia, Ulrike Ottinger's epic adventure (in Gennan w/ sub- titles), Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany.; 7:30pm, free, 442-5620. SAMPLES: Opening for Ziggy Marley, Skidmore College Gym, Saratoga Springs, NY; 8 pm, $15 {students), $20 (general), 584- 7594. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2 BANNED BOOK READINGS: see Friday 1 . COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. COLUMBUS PARADE & ITALIAN FESTIVAL: Italian bands, dancers & food, Mayor's Office of Special Events, Eagle Street near City Hall, Albany; noon-7 pm (1 pm parade down Washington Avenue to City Hall), 434-2032. DANCE FOR LIFE: guest artists from American Ballet Theatre and New York City MAN OF LaMANCHA: see Saturday i. I' .l ' MONDAY, OCTOBER 4 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. GREIG FESTIVAL QUARTET: Norwegian Chamber Music Summit Concert celebrating the 150th anniversary of Edvard Grieg's birth, Schenectady Museum/Union College, Union College Memorial Chapel; 8 pm, $12, $6 students, 382-7890. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5 TWICE TUESDAY CONCERT: with Findlay Cockrell, Recital Hall, PAC, SUNY, Albany; noon & 4:15pm, free, 442-3995. WILLIAM STYRON: novelist, memoirist, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for The Confessions of Nat Turner and· the American Book Award for Sophie's Choice, reads from his work, NYS Writers Institute, Page Hall, SUNY downtown, 135 Western Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $5, 442-5620. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- ''SATURDAY NIGHT; SUNDAY MORN- ING\: this award-winning documentary reveals the common roots of blues and gospel. Discussion following films led by Dr. A.J. Williams-Myers, Albany Insti- tute of History &Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 7:30pm, $5,463-4478. Ballet join Capital Ballet Company in a joint benefit for Support Ministries, Empire FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8 Center at the Egg, Albany; 7:30pm (gala reception follows), $25, 473-1845. LARRY CHERNICOFF: jazz, 40th anniversary event, Cultural Center, HVCC, Troy; 8 pm, 270-HVCC. ALMADA NEGREIROS CENTENARY CELEBRATION: a series of lectures celeqrating the work of the most prominent and influential Portuguese artists of this · · century, NYS Writers lnstitute, HUM 354, SUNY, Albany; 2 pm, 442-5620. MAN OF LaMANCHA: Based on the famed novel Don Quixote by Miquel de KISS OF DEATH: (1947).Page Hall. 135 Western Avenue. SUNY, downtown;· Cervantes y Saavedra, Proctor's Theater. 8pm, 382-6204. · 0 7:30pm, 442·5620. \ · ----~----~----------------~~--------------------~~--~----------~-- NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: see Friday 1. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff r , ~

September 30, 1993, page 10 A&E F!c!~ ~£~.!~~~d~!nt&y~w2.!!! ~~fire!2e~~~!l~!! r lighting and background jazz art of ice sculpture, but, more of the couple, who fall in love exercise in audience tolerance. Contributing Writer · t tt' c th' t'·m. portantly, shows the touch·t'.n·g d h'll mustc, was a grea se mg ror ts over Led Zeppelin and, in the end, He a Start # 1, by Timothy Ca 1 •. , Though an unlikely movie the- ater, Mother Earth's cafe on the comerofWestem Ave. and Quail St. in Albany played host to Fwll House, a short independent film festival, this past Sunday. The makeshift festival, screened on a white sheet hung over a window, was presented by filmtnaker Michael Ellembogen, through his company Jack of Hearts Produc- tions. Starting at Limbo, a cafe in Greenwich Village, the festi- val will travel to Saratoga and Binghamton, after its presentation in Albany. Once a month, entertaining, diverse collection of relationship of a young couple are forced to move to Florida be- was the experimeNtal element of short films. struggling to make ends meet as cause of financial problems. The the festival, but fai.Jedto be even The first film, entitled Cool sculptors. The short-lived nature of ice sculpture visually interesting. The film- provides poignant comparison to maker bombarded the audience the relationship betwee:n these with very vague, blurry images two people. that were said to comprise \frag- The next film, Two Bonehead-., ments of a narrative\ but only ere- directed by Matthew Harrison, ated confusion. had its funny moments telling the The films were put up to audi- story of a down-and-out me- ence scrutiny in a short discussion chanic who meets a friend at the at the end of the screening, and airport during a layover that be- ballots were collected for the comes a weekend of soul search- \Golden Cappuccino Award\. ing. Though the quirky antics of All in aU it was a colorful event the mechanic in his beat-up tow that will return to Mother Earth's truck named \the Wanderer\ on October 15 with a new group were at times funny, the film was of films. TI1is is a must-see for full of amateurish moments of those interested in movies and Ellcmbogen puts together his traveling show, choosing from films submitted by NYU and Co- lumbia graduate schools. Mother Water, was made by Columbia work that chronicles a chain-saw forced self-reflection, weak sym- looking for something different in graduate Kahane Com. A docu- hacking out beautiful forms from holism, and bad acting. the area. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 3 CONCERT PREVIEW: David Alan Miller, conductor of the Albany Symphony, COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. with guest soloists and composers, Vanguard, Albany Public Library, Washington Avenue; noon, free, 465-4755. DANCE FOR LIFE: see Saturday 2. ROMEO & JULlET: National Shakespeare Company, 40th anniversary event, Maureeen Stapleton Theatre, HVCC, Troy; 8 pm, 270-HVCC. FRIDAY, OCTOBER I ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: Daugherty world premiere, Supennan, The Symphony, Britten Passacaq/iajrom Peter Grime.~;, Beethoven Symphony No. 5, Pal- ace Theater, Albany; 8 pm, $12-32, 465-4755. BANNED BOOK READINGS: readings from books which have been banned, burned, removed, challenged or censored in honor ofBanned Books Week (9/25-10/ 2), Hudson Valley Writer's Guild, NYS Library & NYS Museum at the Museum, Albany; 12:30-2 pm, free, 474-5877. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. NYS WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: Johanna D'Arc of Mongolia, Ulrike Ottinger's epic adventure (in Gennan w/ sub- titles), Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., SUNY Downtown, Albany; 7:30pm, free, 442-5620. SA:\1PLES: Opening for Ziggy Marley, Skidmore College Gym, Saratoga Springs. NY; 8 pm, $15 (students), $20 (general), 584- 7594. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2 BANNED BOOK READINGS: see Friday 1. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. COLUMBUS PARADE & ITALIAN FESTIVAL: Italian bands, dancers & food, Mayor's Office of Special Events, Eagle Street near City Hall, Albany; noon-7 pm (1 pm parade down Washington Avenue to City Hall), 434-2032. DANCE FOR LIFE: guest artists from American Ballet Theatre and New York City LOVERS OF NATURE'S WORK: THE POETRY OF THOMAS COLE: eight regional poets read from their work and that of Hudson River painter, Thomas Cole, to mark the Year of Thomas Cole, Albany .. Schenectady Leagu~ of Arts, Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany; 2-4 pm, free, 449-5380. MAN OF LaMANCHA: see Saturday 2. MONDAY, OCTOBER 4 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: Indecent Proposal. GREIG FESTIVAL QUARTET: Norwegian Chamber Music Summit Concert celebrating the I 50th anniversary of Edvard Grieg's birth, Schenectady Museum/Union College, Union College Memorial Chapel; 8 pm, $12, $6 students, 382-7890. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5 TWICE TUESDAY CONCERT: with Findlay Cockrell, Recital HalL PAC, SUNY, Albany; noon & 4:15 prn, free, 442-3995. WILLIAM STYRON: novelist, memoirist, winn€r of the Pulitzer Prize for 1he Confessions l?[ Nat Tumer and the American Book Award for Sophie's Choice, reads from his work, NYS Writers Institute, Page Hall, SUNY downtown, 135 Western Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $5, 442-5620. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7 AFRICAN AMERICAN FILM- \SATURDAY NIGHT, SUNDAY MORN- ING\: this award-winning documentary reveals the common roots of blues and gospel. Discussion following films led by Dr. A.J. Williams\Myers Albany Insti- tute of History &Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 7:30pm, $5,463-4478. Ballet join Capital Ballet Company in a joint benefit for Support Ministries, Empire FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8 Center at the Egg, Albany; 7:30pm (gala reception follows), $25, 473-1845. ALMADA NEGREIROS CENTENARY CELEBRATION: a series of lectures LARRY CHERNICOFF: jazz, 40th anniversary event, Cultural Center, HVCC, Troy; celebrating the work of the most prominent and influential Portuguese artists of this 8 pm, 270-HVCC. century, NYS Writers Institute, HUM 354, SUNY, Albany; 2 pm, 442-5620. MAN OF LaMANCHA: Based on the famed novel Don Quixote by Miquel de KISS OF DEATH: (1947) Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue, SUNY, downtown; Cervantes y Saavedra, Proctor's Theater, Spm, 382-6204. 7:30pm, 442-5620. · '\1\'S WRITERS INSTITUTE FILMS: see Friday I. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff

A·&E NY Times Architecture Critic to Speak at Union ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• :: ~LBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA ::. ~~·· ' OPENING WEEKEND e~ :, CLASSICALCONCERTOiiiE ) .. tory of art from Yale University~ then rejoined the magazine in 1972. He moved to the daily pa- per the following year. He has served as visiting lec- turer at the Yale School of Archi- tecture. He has received a num- ber of awards for 'bringing an un- derstanding of architecture to the broad public.. In 19&1, he re- ceived the American Institute of Architects medal. In 1984, he received the president's medal of the Municipal Art Society of New York, which honored him in par- ticular for his efforts to save the Lever House, a New York City modernist landmark. In 1991, the Landmarks Foundation of New York pr.esented him with its lnedal ofhonor, only the second one ever given, for his analyses of architecture. He is the author of several books. Besides On the Rise, they are The City Observed - New York: Architectural Guide to Manhatlan; The Skyscraper; Houses .of the Hamptons; and Above New York. The College Center is located on the north side of the Union College campus. Free parking is available on campus (comer of :::. SUPERMAN .::: i THE SYMPHONY i e DAVID ALAN MILLER 0 : MUSIC DIRECTOR/CONDUCTOR : ::•: FRIDAY OCTOBER 1 & SATURDAY OCTOBER 2, 1993 :•:: eooe ALBANY PALAGE THEATRE - 8:00 PM eee• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Due to renovation delays at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Friday's performance will be held in Albany. Featuring Beethoven's Heroic No.5 World's Most Popular, Seldom Played Work Attend this Unforgettable \Live\ Performance Friday Evening at Special Discount Prices * * * * THRill TO THE MOST SUPERHEROIC SYMPHONY nf all time~ Beetho\'en's Symph0ny No. 5! From che ncltl' famous drr.HIIiHic oJit'rtirt~ noccs tn che criumphanc conc/t{lion, ic i.1 a firring tt.mdem en /1.1irh<K'I Dnugherty's ~ 1ctrppolis Symphony! A ttr)l'/d frremu.>rc performaru:l' Jcdrcated to the ltfc and heroics of that greac superhero, S\fX'lman! Don't mi.o;s it!!! Tickets available at Palace Theatre Box Office: 465·4663 or all Ticketmaster 77 \\'~~,iifr€~. locations: 476·1000 Cc~ur1~.vy of Public Relalions on hundreds of buildings, cities, Nott Street and Seward Place) and people and designs: the Vietnam on nearby streets. S~henecta~y, N.Y. (Sept. 20, Memor;ial (\4~ uncyer!)tated, y_et ~9r~ore information, cal1388- I~~~:~H~~~~~~~r~~~~.-~.·.P~~~~~1i:~~,~~-.~:.~~~~~~~.~:.~,--------------------------~ whQ:se oad review can close· a···· Ehtpire Stat'e P1aza C'so fo\61ish · , .... · · .. ,. --· ' · Bro~dway show in a matter of so siHy, so jmpFactical as to be. days, the architecture critic has no indefensible oi1 serious· architec-· dirett or dramatic power. tural 'grounds\) San Francisco \ifl raise objections to a build- (\this city knows its beauty and ing, \ said Paul Goldberger, ar- tends to be self-conscious about chitecture critic of The New York it\) Frank Lloyd Wright ('~a per- 1/m\!!s \it remains ... in alllikeli- plexing, compelling, nearly su- hood for the rest of my lifetime.\ perhuman presence to architects Goldberger will speak on and students alike- part deity, \Does Architecture Matter?\ on part eccentric old man, part bril- Wednesday, October 6, at 8 liant and innovative designer\) p.m. in the College Center au- and the Fig Newton (\not a revo- ditorium at Union College. The lutionary object, but an intelligent talk, part of the College's Bicen- one\). tenniallecture series, is free to the Senior architecture critic for the public. Times since 1973, Goldberger \It is not difficult to fantasize was appointed cultural news edi- about how different my life, and tor in 1990, responsible for direct- that ofthe city, would be if build- ingthe paper's coverage in all the ings were torn down after bad arts. He oversees a staff of more notices,\ Goldberger wrote in On that! 50 critics, editors, and report- the Rise, a collection of his criti- ers,who produce the Sunday Arts cisms. \But such fantasies will and Leisure section, the Weekend not become real, and it is just as section published on Fridays, and well, for the analogy on which the daily arts and entertainment they are based -that architec-· pages. ture is more or less like the the- He received the Pulitzer Prize, ateror fihn or television or a well- journalism's highest award, in intentioned restaurant-. is false. 1984 in recognition of his archi- The built environment is differ- tecture criticism in the Times. ent altogether from an entertain- His career at the Times began ment, a diversion, or even a work in 1968, when his writing first of art. It is part ofthe public realm appeared in The New York Times in a way that none ofthese other Sunday Magazine. Just graduat- things are, and thus it operates ingfrom high school; he was one according to a very different set of the youngest writers ever to ofrules.\ appear. in the magazine.· He Goldberger has written reviews eamed his bachelor's in the his- WRJTE FOR ARTS CALL NfCOLE (SS/2) OJZ . EELtNDA (3lf6-SJ42) 0 P e n f O r .. lf-~. _b_u_s_i_n_._e_s_s___.l It's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we cha Benge it with a stimulating variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance- ment. And support it with the resources of 22,000 professionals operatit'lg across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. © 1',1<,1:\ AmiOI'S\'11 Con~111lin~ Andc•rsc•n Ccm~ultill)\ is .m F<Jlloli Opporlunit\' i'mpi<W<'I' !'lease Join Us For Our Information Session Thursday, October 7 7:00p.m. in the Old Chapel- Career Dev' t Center All Interested Students Are Welcome! ____ ~~~~~_?lX:S.~~~ is an Equal Opportunity Employer ANDERSEN CONSULTING ART! lUll ANDf:RS!lN & <:0.. S.C

A&E September 30, 1993, page 11 NY Times Architecture Critic to Speak at Union ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• :: ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA ::. r o 8 00 '' OPENING WEEKEND ·~ : CLASSICAL CONCERT ONE \f ~ Courtesy of Public Relations Schenectady, N.Y. (Sept. 20, 199~)- Unlike.the theater ctjtic· whose bad ~eview can close a Broadway show in a matter of days, the architecture critic has no direct or dramatic power. \lfl raise objections to a build- ing, \ said Paul Goldberger, ar- chitecture critic of 1he New York Times, \it remains ... in all likeli- hood for the rest of my lifetime.\ Goldberger will speak on \Does Architecture Matter?\ on Wednesday, October 6, at 8 p.m. in the College Center au- ditorium at Union College. The talk, part of the College's Bicen- tennial lecture series, is free to the public. \It is not difficult to fantasize about how different my life, and that of the city, would be ifbuild- ings were torn down after bad notices,\ Goldberger wrote in On I he Rise, a collection of his criti- cisms. \But such fantasies will not become real, and it is just as well, for the analogy on which they are based - that architec- ture is more or less like the the- ater or film or television or a well- intentioned restaurant- is false. l11e built environment is differ- ent altogether from an entertain- ment, a diversion, or even a work of art. It is part of the public realm in a way that none of these other things are, and thus it operates according to a very different set of rules.\ on hundreds of buildings, cities, people and designs: the Vietnam Memorial (\an understated, yet powerful, presence\) .Albany'~ Empire State Plaza (\so foolish, so silly, so impractical as to be indefensible on serious architec- tural ·grounds\) San Francisco (\this city knows its beauty and tends to be self-conscious about it\) Frank Lloyd Wright (\a per- plexing, compelling, nearly su- perhuman presence to architects and students alike - part deity, part eccentric old man, part bril- liant and innovative designer\) and the Fig Newton (\not a revo- lutionary object, but an intelligent one\). Senior architecture critic for the Times since 1973, Goldberger was appointed cultural news edi- tor in 1990, responsible for direct- ing the paper's coverage in all the arts. He oversees a staff of more than 50 critics, editors, and report- ers, who produce the Sunday Arts and Leisure section, the Weekend section published on Fridays, and the daily arts and entertainment pages. He received the Pulitzer Prize, journalism's highest award, in 1984 in recognition of his archi- tecture criticism in the Times. His career at the Times began in 1968, when his writing first appeared in 1he New York 1Ymes Sunday Magazine. Just graduat- ing from high school, he was one of the youngest writers ever to appear in the magazine. He earned his bachelor's in the his- tory of art from Yale University, then rejoined th.e magazine in 1972. He moved to the daily pa- per tme :following year. He has served as visiting lec- turer at the Yale School of Archi- tectme. He has received a nmn- ber of awards for bringing an un- derstanding of architecture to the broad public. In 1981, he re- ceived the American Institute of Architects medal. In 1984, he received the president's medal of the Municipal Art Society of New York, wl~ich honored him in par- ticular for his efforts to save the Lever House, a New York City modernist landmark. In 1991, the Landmarks Foundation of New York presented him with its medal of honor, only the second one ever given, for his analyses of architecture. He is the author of several books. Besides On the Rise, they are 1he City Observed New York: Architectural Guide to Manhalfan; The Skyscraper; Houses of the Hamptom·; and Above New York. l11e College Center is located on the north side of the Union College campus. Free parking is available on campus (corner of Nott Street and Seward Place) and on nearby streets. For more infonnation, call 3 88- :::. SUPERMAN .::: • • ! THE SYMPHONY i 0 DAVID ALAN MILLER 0 : MUSIC DIRECTOR/CONDUCTOR : eeoe FRIDAY OCTOBER 1 & SATURDAY OCTOBER 2, 1993 oeee •• • • •• oeoe ALBANY PALACE lHEATRE - 8:00 PM 0 eoe •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Due to renovation delays at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Friday's performance will be held in Albany. Featuring Beethoven's Heroic No. 5 World's Most Popular, Seldom Played Work Attend this Unforgettable \Live\ Performance Friday Evening at Special Discount Prices * * * * THRILL TO THE MOST SUPERHEROIC SYMPHONY nfal/ time< lkerhnven\ Symrhnnv Nn. )1 Frrm1 rlu· n<>U: farrunt< dr,m~ltlc P/~'71111~ nntc< rn rhr tnHmJ>hanr nmdt~<Hm, ir l' a fmmg uiilllem tn 1\ lu h.1d Daughc-rtv ·, 1\ 1l'tr(lpolis Syml'honv 1 A tt m~l frtl'Tntl'7l' t)(:rf<rmll!lli..t' ,/nilwr,·d ro tlv.· hfe und kroiCS rr/ thur I.,'TCat st<{>erlu.'To, S11J>c,1nnn 1 Don't mtiS It 111 Tickets available at Palace Theatre Box Office. 465·4663 or .,~~~~~~~~~~-al~l T~icketmaster r'\\'<=l'~..o~...-. locations: 476-1000 660~·~·~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------, '----O_P __ e_n __ f_o_r--11 b u s i n e s s Irs your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we challenge it with a stimulating variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance- ment. And support it with the resources of 22,000 professionals operating across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. <D 1441 1\.ndt'l\>t'n <... tlll\llllm~ Andl'r...,Pn Con~ulltnPt 1 ..... 111 i qu.llllppl1f(llllll\ l mphnl'l Please Join Us For Our Information Session Thursday, October 7 7:00p.m. in the Old Chapel- Career Dev't Center All Interested Students Are Welcome! Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer ' . - ANDERSEN CONSULTINC Allllll'n 1\~IJI H~l N & l.. 0, '-.(.

·September 30, 1993, page 12 CAMPUS NEWS Classijieds Student Survival Guide Coming to a Field House near you .... CAREERFESTIVAL '93, Wednesday, October 6, l2-4pm. TELEMARKETER- $6:00 per hour. Call Skip @372-4454 Don't miss out! Attend the Career Festival. Over 30 companies and 25 graduate schools. Wednesday, Oct. 6, 12-4, Field House. SPRlNG BREAK '94-Sell trips, Earn cash & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps. Call @800-648- 4849. Discovery '93- CAREER FESTI- VAL- Wednesday, October 6th, 12-4 Field House. WANTED-Campus Representa- tive-SPRING BREAK DIS- COUNTERS-(Vacation Pack- ages). Earn cash and free trip(s). Cancun-Bahamas-S.Padre Island- Daytona. We handle bookkeep- ing-you handle sales. 1-800-336- 2260 Monday thru Friday {9AM- 5PM). \How To Get The Most Out Of The Career Festival\ Workshops, Monday, October 4, 7:00pm and Tuesday, October 5, 3:30. In the CDC. Conducted by Career As- sistants. HELP WANTED-GREEKS AND CLUBS. Raise up to $100 in just one week for your frater- nity, sorority or club! Plus $1000 for yourself and a free t-short. JUST FOR CALLING 1-800- 932-0528 ext.75. Learn to use your time wisely. Attend a \How to Get The Most Out Of The Career Festival\ Workshops. Monday Oct.4, 7:00pm and Tuesday, October 5, • ·3:30. In the CDC. Conducted by Career Assistants. GREEKS! CLUBS! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as much as you want · in One Week! $100 ... $600 .. $1500! Market Ap- plications for Citibank, VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your free t-shirt and to qualify for FREE TRIP TO MTV SPRING BREAK '94. Call 1- 800-932-0528, ext.68. HELP WANTED: CRUISE SHIP JOBS·! Students needed! Earn $2000+ m,onthly. Summer/holi- days/full-time. Worldtravel. Car- . ibbean, Hawaii Europe, Mexico. Tour Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deckhands, Casino Workers, etc. No experience necessary. CALL 602-680-4647 Ext. C147. nATStiiOial'llla STUDENT CIOUPSt Raise as Mut:h as You Want 11; Otu Week! $100 ••• $600 .•• $15001 Market Application& for the hottest credit card ever- NEWGMMASTERCARD. Users eam BIC DISCOUNTS on GM CARS! Qualify for FREET .. SHIRT It '94 CMC JIMMY. Caii1-800-9S0-1039, ext. 75. T-SHIRTS - SWEATSHIRTS - CAPS. Quality wholesale custom printing. Serving local colleges for 4 years. Adirondack Screen Graphics. 399-7160 Weekof9/30 10/6 Sep 30 - Thursday Begin Week4 Bloodmobile Oct 1 • Friday Arts Atrium: Capital Artists thru Dec. · 4:00PM Chet's: TGIF w/ Chuck Rodman Piano Oct 2 • Saturday 9:00AM -4:00 Stockade Sidewalk Sale 9:00 PM. Cliet's: Mountebanks Cabaret 8:00PM & 1'0:00, CCAUD: \Indecent Proposal'\ · 8:00PM Old Chapel: Phi Iota Alpha Party 9:00 PM Fero House: Webster House Bash! 1 :30 ·PM Football. v. ·Dickinson 8:00PM & tO:OO, CCAUD: 11 :00 AM Men's Soccer v. St. Lawrence \Indecent Proposal .. 1 t:oo AM Women's Soccer v. St. Lawrence 9:00 PM Fero Coffeehouse: · · · African Dance., T. Best Oct 3 • Sunday 8:00PM & 10:00, CCAOD: 10:00 AM Volleyball V. \Indecent Pro:posal .. Hartwick Oct 4 • Monday 7:00 PM Women's Soccer v. Russell Sage 8:00 PM & 10:00, SS016~ \Indecent Proposal\ Oct 5 - Tuesday 7:00 PM Volleyball v. Hamilton Oct 6 - Wednesday 12:00 PM-4:00PM Field House: Career Festival 8:00 PM Memorial Chapel:. Grieg ·. Festival Quartet 9:00 PM' Chet's: Monday Night Football 3:30PM Women's Tennis v. Hartwick Current as of 9/28/93. To include your events attend Programming Board Meetings: Mondays@ 4:30 PM in CC41 0. Campus Security Report FRIDAY 9/2,/93-CONTINUED: QAIEI~ LQCATION MONDAY 9/20/93: 12:02AM North College 11:3SAM Grounds 3:40AM Hickok TUESDAY 9/21/93: 11: 37AM Campus wide 3:37PM 4.:00PM 6:00PM 8:49PM 8:14PM 11: SOPM Fox/Dav. Lot Fox/Cav. Lot Campus Grounds Fox House Fox Hol.lse Grounds near Fox Wednesday 9/2.2./93: 1 : 1 'AM fox House 12: 22AM Davidson House ':54PM Administration Lot 5.: 24PM Campus Grounds THURSDAY 9/Z3/93: 1•2•AH College Center 1:33AM 3:25AM 8: 55PH 9:15PM FRIDAY: 2.:2-tAH 3:57AM S1SOAH 5:06AM 12.:45PM 8:45PM tamont Lot Potter House West College Alwnni Gym 9/21/93: f'·OX North Administration Lot Adm~nlstration Lot North College Parking Lot Dav ldson House INC! DENT Fire Alarm: 4th floor Bronner stairway-cause undetermined-possible smoke detector pr•Jbl=m- Work order submitted. Damage: Light post neat' Silliman Hall. damag~·j­ believed to be accidenta~. Secu:ri ty Hazard: En trance door not work :nq properly-work order slibm~tted. Fire/Power Failure: Loss of electrica·i seroJlce to approximate-ly 1/2 of campus-Restored 9122./93. Vandalil!lll\: Student's car wiper damaged. VandaliSIII: Student' S· car wipers damaged. Uruautborized Solicitors: Leaf:Let:s distributed en cars on campus. Drug Abuse·: Possession of drug paraphernalia- Conduct Charges filed, . Fire Al.arm: False fire a;Larm caused by student smoking in hallway. Fire: Minor grass fire caused by sparks from emer.qency generator in use durinq power failure. Fire Alarm: False alat'lll due to low battery power caused .by electrical failure. Nor:k order filed. Safety Hazard: Student had gasoline and qasoline lantern in room-Removed. Theft: Staff Member's ear entered and items stolen. Sexual Harassment: ~ale suspect exposed himself to several teenage female visitor!!, SPD notified. Fire Alarm: False alarm caused by cooking when vent fans shut down. Work order filed, Van.dali:sm: Student's car wiper.s damaqed. Security Hazard: Window stops removed pos·si.ble unauthorized entry. Work order filed. Fire: Hinor fire (arson)-Persons· unknown intentionally set papers on fire in two stairways. Vandilli11111: Wall by basketball court damaged. Vandali.:sm: Window broken, Vandalihl: Unregistered car-wipers damaged. Vandalism: Staff Member's car mirror damaged. Fire AlariD: Bronner 4th floor sta·ir11ay-reset -;:hen reactivated at 6:17AM. Urgent liiork r~-:ta'lnl't; ':·o electrical dept. for repair. Detector replac-!<:!. Harassment: Staff mer.iber harassed by studen:ts. Drug Abuse: Suspected use of mariJUana. 11:OPM A~umnl Gym SATURDAY 9/aS/93: 12: 34AM College Center 6:09AM Campus Grounds 9: 1 SAM Lamont House 12: OlPM Fox House 9:52PM Davidson South SUNDAY 9/26/93: 12:11AM Chi Psi 3:10AM Silliman Hall 3:,3AM Davidson North 10 • 2.0AH Becker Hall 2:20PM Fox North 11:10PM CampusGrounds Fire Alarm: False fire alarm-be~ieved to have !:>een caused by smok1ng. Vandalism: Plu,mbinq problem/flooding .:au sed by stopped up urinal-Intentlonal. VandaliSIIlr Contractor's truck: damaged. Vandali!llll: HandraU.s pulled off of exterior · steps. Damaqe s Liqnt fixture damaged-cause unk·ncwn. Theft/Vandalism: Greel<: letters remove-d from house. fire Alarm:. _False alarm caused by intentl anal abuse of pull box. Life Safety V:iolat ion f lled. Vandalism: Door glass broken. Vandalism/Noise complaint: Telephone & wal.l jack damaged, Vandalinu Window Broken, Trespass/Attempted Thert: Visitor attempting to remove cans from rear of building. Caught, identified and warned off campl.l!!. SPO notified. Trespass: Visitors in drainage culvert-Identified and warned qff campu:s. ' APPLY FOR THE POSITI.ON ~ . ~ - OF CAMPUS NEWS EDITOR - OPEN TO ANY STUDENT - CALLX6155 - .. PAGEMAKER,EXPERIENCE IS A 'pt tJS'. .,.

e ' .,. .. ) BULLETIN BOARD September 30, 1993, page 13 UNION GAY, LESBIAN AND BISEXUAL ALL.IANCE FOR MORE --INFORMATION CONTACT BOX 613 An Ad Hoc committee, has been established to consider the tenurability of Professor Carol Weisse(PSYCHOLOGY). Anyone wishing to provide information relating to Professor Weisse's teaching, research, or college service for this review should contact· one of the committee members (Seth Greenberg(Psy~ch), Linda Patrik(Phil), 1\:lichael ~udko(EE/CS), Karl Zimmerman (Math),chair), by October 22. An Ad Hoc committee of the Faculty Review Board has been formed to . investigate and report on the tenurability of Prof. Jeff Lippitt, Graduate Managen,ent Institute. Any member of the Union College Committe who wishes to provide information relating to Prof. Lippitt's teaching, scholarly activity, or college service for this review may submit written testimony by October 23, 1993 to any member of the Ad Hoc committee:Professors Hal Fried, Economics; Bob Baker, Philosophy; Marty Strosberg, Graduate Management Institute; and Jay Newman, Physics. Interviews may be arranged by contacting Prof. Fried, the committee chair at ext.6368. Economics Club Meeting Today, 3:30 Social Sciences, Room 103 -Division of Junior Achievement, AT & T Challenge UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES Student ~esearch projects by Charles Doering- DNA Repair, NYU Glenn Brottman- Lyme Disease, NYSDOH Seth-. Leventhal- Treatment of Eye Disease, Yale Cathy Mars·hall - Lizard Vision, Union September 30, 1993 Social Sciences 103 Refreshments at 4:30, Seminar at 4:40 MORE AD HOC A committee bas been formed to evaluate ·the tenurability of Cherrice Traver, Assistant Professo·r of electrical engineering and computer science. The committee members are Suzanne Benack(Psychology), Ekram Hassib (Electrical Engineering), Thomas Jewell (Civil Engineering), and Josef Schmee (GMI). Written comments on Profeesor Traver's teaching, scholarship or service should be sent to any member of here committee by October 22, 1993. Interviews m,ay be 'arranged by calling Prof.· Schmee at ext. 6237. Fellowships for Graduate Research in Egypt (1994. 1995) . THE AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN EGYPT ANNOUNCES lhc mUabUUy o£ feUowshlps for resorth in Egypt in the Oelds or economics, development studlts, ltalth, education, urban and rural planning, housilla. women's studies or a combination thereof for the academic (year 1994 • !15. The awards will be gi-ven to doctoral dissertation pmposals tllat have dlrttt relewnce on the economic and social development of Egypt or that prompt thinking on current poUcy issues relating to dt.'l'dopnteat. EUGIBilllY FJigible ue graduate students who haw: completed aU requirementS for the dKtoral de11~e cxceprlhe dissutation; who an cUJTC:nlly enrolled in a graduate program o( 111 American or Canadian univeJSiry. and who lurve f1 or Jl student visas. ALLOWANCES In addition to inttmadonal airfare, a living stipend and an aUowance for resnrch expenHS. APPLICATION DEADUNE (November l, 1993. for the receipt of complctc4 fellowship applications, and letters of m:ommendation. fOR: THE APPLICAnON AND fURTHER INFORMADON: mE AMERICAN RESf.ARCH CEN1U IN EGm New York U•ivmity '0 Wuhiiii'H Squae Soutla \ New York, NY 10011 (111) 991-8190 FaJc(111)995-41+4

.S.eptemper 3:0~ 1~~93, p.~g~ .. ltl:.~ '. ._· .; ; .• • .. J:! .. ' • . ~ :: ~ ' '· ~ ' ijtq~- .. ~~~fq.{~~~}},.£1i~~~A.:f\ ... • •• ·~ .... ~ • ~ ... ~ • • - \' • ....,_ •'t • . . ' ~· ' Women's Tennis Beats Vassar, Russell Sage by Blaire Spritzer Contributing Writer This year the Women's Tennis Team has started off strong. The season began at the RPI Tourna• ment. With the encouragement of first year tennis coach Joanne Union was able to defeat them by a close score of 5-4. The second matcfi. was against Russell Sage in which Union had no problem with a win of7-2. However, the tough matches were soon to fol- low. Although Union lost to Wil- liams 8-1, junior Julie Anderson, playing in the number one posi- tion wasabletowinhermatch by the score of 6-7(5-7), 7-5, 6-3. This ·is the first point that Union has ~been able to score against Williams since 1987. This .past Sunday Union trav- elled to Vassar to face a team that we had not defeated sinc.e 197 5. ·The team played well, and with key victories from Goldfi.ne, Kessinger, and-8pritzer in singles, and Anderson-Spritzer and Goldfine-Kessinger in doubles, Union was able to defeat Vassar 'by a score of 5-4. Union has also shown ~eat depth with a 15-21 record in its exhibition matches. Union still has six matches left to play, but the future looks very .bright. Union's next match is this Saturday at 11 :OOAM (before the football game) against Oneonta. Hope to see you there! GROUND ROUND PRESENTS Little, the team finished firts out o feight teams. Le dby juniors playing in the number one, two, and four positions respectively, Julie Anderson, Chantal Von Saber, and Rachel Goldfine, Union captured three out of to the four singles titles. Anderson combined with senior Bl'aire Spritzer to capture the number one doubles final. Union has gained new talent this season with the addition of Freshmen Allison Mohr, Emily Schreier, and Grishrna Rei. Sophomore Amy Kessinger has had an outstanding start this season in the number five singles position. She along with fellow sophomores Liza Burnett, Joanna Freedman, and Emily Lombardo have all contrib- uted to the team's success. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL *LARGE SCREEN T.V.s *ALL YOU CAN EAT WINGS FOR $7.59 OR $.15 WINGS *MILLER LITE DRAFT SPECIAL 23 oz. FOR ONLY $1.~9 The first official match of the season was away at Hamilton. Interactive programs on CD-ROM cover every subject from politics to physiology. GROUND ROUND 1614 STAlE STREET SCHENECTADY . 382-8730 And they incorporate sound, animation, music ---~--­ and video clips. So ordinary topics become more exciting, involving and relevant. Because a single CD-ROM disc stores more information than 500 floppy disks, you'll be able t~ instantly access encyclopedias, dictionaries and extensive databases-all with the click of a mouse. CD-ROM technohgy brings vast new capabilities to the desktop. Which is why, soon, more and more computers will include a CD-ROM drive. Buy one, and you're making an investment that will last you well into the future. GROUN;D ROUND MOHAWK MALL SCHENECTADY 374-0694 Bring your papers, projects and presentations to ~ life by incorporating photos, clip art and a huge variety ~ of type fonts- all available on CD~ ROM. · Plug in a pair of self-powered / speakers and the CD-ROM driveplays.audio CDs too -so you tan work away, . while listening to your favorite· music. We'll even help you siart your oum CD-ROM library, Buy the Macintosh Centris 610 now, and you'll also receive the CD-ROM gift pack: two discs that include an electronic encyclopedia, a dictionary, interactive rock videos, music for your audio CD player and more (wol'th $327t). Apple Macintosh Centris Til 610 8}230 witb CD-ROM. Macintosh Color Display and Apple Extended Keybo_ardll. CD-ROM teclmology puts libraries of information at your finger- tips, and enables you to work with sound, video and animation. Buy the Macintosh Centris\' 610 with CD-ROM drive, and you 1 1l also receive our CD gift pack. Vtsit your Apple Campus Reseller today. While you're there, ask about financing with the Apple® Computer Loan~ And •. ~ discover the power of Macintosh~ The power to be your best~ ® FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE OR CALL CIIARLES BOSWORTH ( tJNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE) COLLEGE CENTER - TEL. 388-6188

SPORTS. September 30, 1993, page 15 NHL Hockey Forecast for 1993-1994 Season Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor In just one week, the. National Hockey League, with its fancy commissioner Gary Be~an, will commence its 77th season in ma- jor American and Canadian cft- ies. Looking at the league sched~ ule however, may confuse you as to exactly what league this is. After all, this is a schedule that now includes the names of cities such as Dallas and Anaheim, with two more teams located in Florida! You can thank expansion and the disinterested fans ofMin· nesota who now find themselves bereft of a. hockey team for the inconveniences. The new season brings many changes as Mr. Bettman assumes command for his first full season. The NBA castoff has certainly made strives in television con- tracts (ESPN and ABC) and ac- quiring national notoriety for a sport that has long been consid- ered to be anly a stage for thugs and ex-cons on skates. He has re- aligned the divisions and changed their names. Once called ~mythe, Patrick, Norris, and Adams, it would have surprised few if cer- tain players did not 'even know what division they were playing in. Therefore, taking a cue from his fonner workplace, Bettman renamed the divisions Atlantic, Central, Midwest, and Pacific, a move which he feels will make the NHL more recognizable and . easier to follow. There are still problems to be solved, however. To the chagrin of this reporter but to the delight of many, fighting has yet to be eradicated from a sport which ~uffers a bad reputation as ·are- sult. While increasingly stringent rules have been employed to curb the rough stuff;· fighting still oc- curs during games with little cas- tigation. A second problem deals with the advent-of five new teams in the past three years~. which has caused a Severe talent shortage. Last season, two teams battled to avoid shattering the record for futility. With two more expansion teams this season, there 'will be many more one-sided, and possi- bly boring games. One of the strangest and possi- bly weakest division, especially as a result of realignment, is the Atlantic Division. While it often seems like any team will finish in first place, only one. will. Here's a preview ofthis disheveled divi- sion which includes three teams from that play within an hour's bus ride of each other and two others from America's vacation land. 1. ISLANDERS ... Pierre Turgeon is paid and smiling. Af- ter winning the Lady Byng tro- ,phy with his 132 point season, the Islanders have moved boldly to shun their reputation .of not pay- ing their stars by giving Pierre$11 million over four years. Coming off last year's unbelievable oust~ ing of Pittsburgh in the playoffs, the Islanders should win the At- lantic. Their defens~ is strong, even though Darius Kasparitis reported to camp fifteen pounds overweight, and they have scor- HOURS: ing depth with Ray Ferraro, Steve Thomas, and Derek King. An off- season deal has brought former Vezina Trophy winner Ron Hextall over from the Nordiques. They are still looking for a backup goaltender to replace the departed Glenn Healy who now dons a New Y ark Ranger sweater but, in any event, the future is bright on Long Island.' 2. RANGERS ... After last year's catastrophic cQllapse in which they won just three oftheir last thirteen games, the Bluesbirts look to rebound under new coach Mike Keenan. Mark Messier and Brian Leetch are fully recovered and Mike Richter seems to be the .goaltender of old. But this team has a plethora ofproblems. They lost J,ohn Vanbeisbrotick in a trade to Vancouver and their de- fense is ancient. Kevin Lowe, James Patrick, Jay Wells, and newly acquired Doug Lidster are all over thirty and probably past their primes. This is an aging team looking for one last chance at the cup before they rebuild. If anyone will get them there, it is Keenan, but even that is unlikely. 3. FLYERS ... After starting out flat, The Broadstreet Bullies made a run that almost landed them in the playoffs last year. Rookie phenoin Eric Lindros showed flashes of brilliance in is oft-injured debut. Along with standouts Mark Recchi and Rob Brind'Amour, the foundation is set for a strong Flyer season. Goaltenders Tommy Soderstrom and Dominic Roussel are a solid tandem if they stay healthy. They Monday- Sunday llAM - 11 Pl\r1 ~ EAT IN /TAKE OUT- FREE DELIVERY . . . ' COUPON • COUPON • COUPON • COUPON CLIP & SAVE • . CLIP & SAVE • CLIP & SAVE • CUP & SAV~ . ~- - . . . I 8 1 : CUT I I CHEESE: : PIZZA I I I I $599 I I I I +TAX I . I ! with ?oupon 1 LARGE ANTIPASTO + GARLIC BREAD + LITER of SO.DA $699 +TAX with coupon I ITALIAN I Bucket of Ziti 1 I I Spaghetti 1 I MIXED I or Linguine 1 I SUB I · Meatballs 1 I I or Sausage 1 I BUY ONE. I Garlic+Bread : : GET ONE. : Liter of Soda I I 1/2 PRICE. 1 $799 : I I I with coupon I + TAX I _ wittgQ.ypon • ~till lack scori~g depth and solid defense and that should prevent Philly from moving into the NHL' s elite for a few more years. 4. DEVILS ... The Jeckyll and Hyde New Jersey Devils have a new coaching staff dealing with the same problems. Jacques Lemaire, the Devils seventh coach in the last eight years is trying to _appease the underachiever Claude Lemieux in an attempt to bring out the best in his potential star scorer. Always regarded as one of the leagues top talents, Lemieux has had difficulty coexisting with pre- vious coaches, many times land- ing him in the proverbial \dog- house.\ IfLemair~, who plans to use his experiences as a player as opposed to blackboards ande vid- eotape while coaching this team, can get through to Lemieux and others like him, the Devils can have a good year. Bernie Nicholls is back for his first full year and former Ranger Cory Millen should fill some holes at center. Chris Terreri is a solid but occa- sionally erratic goalie. Overall, the negatives simply outweigh the positives. The Devils lack consis- tency, depth, and a true leader. 5. CAPITALS ... The Capitals enter this season on the heels of a heart-wrenching playoff loss to the Islanders in which they lost three games in overtime, two in double OT. The have the best scoring defense men in the league with Kevin Hatcher, AI Iafrate, and Sylvain Cote. Don Beaupre will be the starting goaltender as a result of an injury to Rick TabaracCi, the goalie acquired from Winnepeg last season who played terrifically during the later stages of the year. Their offense is abysmal, however, and the Dale Hatcher suspension for his barba- rous check on Pierre Turgeon in last years playoffs has been a dis- traction. It should be an off year for the Caps. 6. or7. LIGHTENING&PAN- THERS ... Tampa Bay and Florida will fight it out for last place. While the Lightening have more scoring with Kris Kontos and Brian Bradley, the Panthers have former Ranger standout John Vanbeisbrouck, and that alone should give them some semblance of respectability. Look for these two teams to engage in a heated Florida rivalry in the wake of the many disparaging remarks made by Lightening GM Phil Esposito towards the Panthers and the fact that they will be so far out ofcon- tention by November that they will have nothing else to do but get excited to play each other. We may just forget they are in the league. Around the rest of the league, teams worth noting include the Scotty Bowman-led Detroit Red Wings, the rising Winnepeg Jets, the high-scoring Buffalo Sabres, the still-improving Vancouver Canucks, and the team Wayne Gretzky can practically own as a result of his new $25.5 dollar con- tract. Look for the Nordiques to conquer to Central, the Red Wings to capture the Midwest, and the Canucks to reign over the Pacific. Among teams on their way down are the Boston Bruins. With an unhappy Ray Bourque, an unhealthy Cam Neely, and an uncertain goalie situation, look for Boston to take a step back in their amazingly talented division. The Toronto Maple Leafs, despite being a Campbell Conference semi-finalist last season, have too many players, namely Doug Gilmour and Dave Andreychuck, who had career seasons last year. They will not match their 100 point output of 92-93. Finally, the Pittsburgh Penguins will in no way resemble the regular season powerhouse they were last sea- son. Mario~s-stiU got a bad back and the Pens are simply not as good without him. Furthennore, goalie Tom Barrasso had a career year, one that probably will not be repeated. As far as the San Jose Sharks and the Ottawa Senators are con- cerned, neither of them has sub- stantially improved and it appears that it will take some time for those teams to gain respectabil- ity in this league. The Senator hi- erarchy has spent more time an- swering Commissioner Bettman' s questions regarding a game late last year they allegedly lost on purpose so they could re- ceive the first round pick in the 1993 draft than they.have trying to improve. As for, the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, well, they have cool uniforms. Football Undefeated continuedfrompage 16 Union a 14-0 advantage. Pessalano then celebrated the joy of his first career varsity touch- down by making the next three special team tackles, including the one on the ensuing kickoff. Sophomore defensive back Charrod Riley set up an IS-yard field goal by Harrison when here- covered a fumble on Hobart's 33. Eight plays later Harrison split the uprights. Four plays following the kickoff, senior defensive back Jim McCloskey returned an intercep- tion 11 yards to the Hobart 26. Six plays later Harrison again con- nected, this time from· 26 yards out. Hobart was able to muster a field goal, and in the end the fi- nal was a Union 26-3 victory. This weekend the Dutchmen will be looking to avenge last years 27-3 loss to the Red Dev- ils. As was the case last season. both teams came into this yeat game undefeated. Dickinson's victory a year ago started Union on a three-game losing streak which kept them out of playoff consideration for the first time since 1988.

September 30, 1993 PAGE 16 mly£ Qlnurorl\i£nsis Dutchmen lmprov~ to 3-0 Record Bruise Hobart 26-3; Defense Strong Again Courtesy of sports information Senior linebackers, co-captains Marco Laizez and Craig Mosia, were each in on ll total tackles to lead a Dutchmen defense that c;msed five turnovers and limited Hobart to just 124 yards on 57 plays, as Union out defended the Statesmen, 26-3, Saturday. The win improved Union's record to 3-0 and sets up this week's clash with Dickinson, which is also 3- 0. This win was the 12th in a row by the Dutchmen over the States- men. By limiting Hobart to a field goal, which came with 1 :53 left to play, the Dutchmen Defenders have not given up a touchdown in their last 10 quarters. Chalk one up for the defense. After opening the season with back-to-back 400-plus yard per- formances that produced two 40 point-plus games, the Dutchmen defenders flexed their collective muscles to spark the win over Hobart. Not only did they force five turnovers (which set up three of the four offensive scores), the defense contributed its own touchdown when junior line- backer Mike White ·tetumed a fumble 60 yards with 4:10 show- ing. White's scoring jaunt which File Photo/TC was set up by junior defensive end Brad Julicher who forced the turnover by hitting the Hobart quarterback while he was at- tempting to pass. Senior defensive back Keith Bovardi helped the Dutchmen break a 0-0 deadlock when he recovered a fumble at the Hobart 26 with 57 seconds remaining. After missing on a first down pass, junior quarterback Scott Newton hit senior wideout Joe Ruggeri with an 11-yard pass. On the next play, junior tight end Doug Redstone caught his first career touchdown, a 15-yarder over the middle, with 3 8 ticks left. Senior place-kicker Greg Harrison booted the PAT for the 7-0 halftime lead. The Dutchmen's lone offensive drive followed a 35-yard punt and started on the Union 35 with 4:44 left in the third quarter. On third and goal from the Hobart seven, Newton connected with sopho- more running back Kevin Pessalano with 18 seconds left to cap the 11-play drive that gav,e Continued on page 15 Slippery When Wet! Women's Soccer Wins 3rd in a K.ow by Joe Saltz bart Concordiensis Staff After defeating Albany and los-. . ing to SUNY Binghamton, the Union College Women's Soccer Team has won three games in row to improve their record to 4•1 . Wins over Oneonta, Vassar, and Utica in wet and cold weather have given the Lady Dutchmen tremend'ous momentum to take into their four game home stand in the first week of October. Cap- tains Megan Howell and Chris Weske feel extremely confident and proud of the team's perfor- mance thus far this season, espe- cially when the weather is not fair. Women's Soccer confronted Uti~a and Vassar this past week winning both games convinc- ingly behind strong performances by goalie Jen Manna and strikers Kim Fanning and Heather Rock. Union dominated Vassar winning 2-0 by goals from Rock and Fan- ning. The entire team directly contributed to the victory with · much help from the bench. The same was the case when the Soc- cer Team defeated Utica 5-2 on scores from Rock, Fanning, Heather Gaunt, So lomas, and Liz Landa. Assists came from Weske, Retterer, and Solomas. The overall team· performance shined through on this wet day when Union proved to be the bet- ter team. Two weeks ago, Union de- feated Oneonta 1-0 where ·heavy rains contributed to sloppy field. conditions, but plenty of excite- ment. With just six minutes left to play in regulation time, Kim Fanning scored on a cross from Megan Howell to seal the game for Union. Once again keeper Jen Manna and the defensive unit consisting of Danielle Shelov, Sarah Dingledy, Lauren Pappa, and Megan Fehr shined brightly on this gloomy day. Manna made twelve saves to keep the Lady Dutchmen in the game. The Women's Soccer team looks ahead to a tough four game home stand against St. Lawrence, Russel Sage, Hartwick, and Plattsburgh. Coach Pedone feels confident about the upcoming home stand, but stresses taking one game at a time to her talented athletes. A continuation of last week's triumphs would p.ut the team in great position at the mid- point ofthe season. Cross Country Tackles Tough Course at Williams by William Rice Concordiensis Staff The beautiful hills of eastern Massachusetts provided the set- ting on Saturday, with clear skies and a gentle breeze that would leave a favorable impression of the Mount Hope Farm upon any spectator. But to the runners of seventeen area colleges, this was the most challenging course for anyone hoping to survive the hills of William's Invitational. That's right, hills! Five miles of hills that will add two minutes on to a run- ners average five mile racing times. But, this race was not about improving times, it was about gaining respect against some of the best cross-country programs in the area. The men's race began at noon at the lowest point on the course and continued through five miles ofvertica1 hell. Following Coach Bick's pre-race advice, the team started a strong ascent to the front of the field. The results were mixed for the men's team as the course took the best of them. John Metz led the team with a 31 rd place finish, barely missing an individual medal by being passed by a pack of six RPI run- The women's team, coming off a spectacular one-point victory over arch-rival Hamilton in their previous outing, were determined to improve upon their achieve- ment. And they certaintly lived up to their advance billing. Linda Seymour and Diana Spinello flew through the field to finish in 21st and 24th and take home indi- vidual medals. Diana started out in the middle of the pack and breezed by the over-ambitious runners who fell victim to the course. Liza Morse finished 31st, Amelia Audette( 44th), Sarah Teasdale(73rd), and Sara Morse(85th), followed to give the women in an amazing sixth place finish overall among the seven- teen team field. This included a five point victory over Hamilton that proved just. how far this team has improved over last year, and how capable they are of achiev- ing in any given race! Both teams will answer an early wake-up call to run in the LeMoyne lnvitational this Satur- day. The women will undoubt- edly show the remaining teams in New York State just how strong the team is, and the men will con- tinue to show improving results from the workouts which Coach Bick has geared to ready both teams for promising results as the season progresses. Polo Team Remains Undefeated by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor The Union water polo team jumped back into action this weekend with a tremendous showing in the Mid-Atlantic Con- ference (MAC) tournament which was hosted by Union. They went 4-0 as they downed ~ RPI, Columbia, Hartwick, and 0::. ~ Colgate. A total team effort .a: :- helped lead Union to their tri- :::: ~>.. umph. ners late in the race. Anthony The first game was against Anderson finished 48th followed RPI. Dave Lunianski led the way by Nick Conway(63rd)and Chris with seven goals. as Union de- Colpoys(7 3rd). Adam feated RPI 18-12. Scott Bowden Russell(Sl st), Bill Rice(83rd), had five goals, Geoff Wolfe had and Paul Schweiger(85th) fin- three, and Ben Fox, Chris Riley, ished together in a tight battle for and Chris Yousey each put one the remaining varsity positions. in the ne.t. The men finished 12th overall Next came Columbia. among the seventeen teams in Lunianski scored an incredible 12 which they finished with amajor goals, followed by Bowden with improvement over last years five. Fox, Riley, CeCe Buchanan, William's results. Seth Sealfon, and Nathaniel Stunts each scored one in an easy 21-13 victory. With a 2-0 record so far, Union geared up to play their two tougher matches of the weekend. Long-time rival Hartwick was next on the list. Hartwick is a perennial power that always seems to pl'ay tough and physicaL After all the bruises were given otit and when time expired, Union was on top 14-13. Wolfe had six , Lunianski had five, Fox had two, and Riley had one. In an exclu- sive interview after the game, Hartwick player Ken Forde said, \I hate losing to these guys!\ Wolfe later responded, \It always feels great to put Hartwick in its place.\ It was a great win indeed. Finally, Union went up against Colgate, who had defeated Union at the MAC championships last year. But Union took care of Colgate by the score of 1)-8, with Luni.an.sls;i scQr_ing fiv~. and Bowden and Wolfe each scoring four. This brought Union's record to 4-0 for the weekend. The big goal scorers were Lunianski with 29, Bowden with 14, and,Wolfe with 13. Dmitri Konan had a fantastic weekend in goal, showing that he has suc- cessfully filled the shoes of his predecessor, Tim \The Wall\ Lynch. It was a great weekend for the Dutchmen. The weekend of October 8-10 is the remainder ofthe tournantent at Hartwick, so make a road trip and come on out and support the team! NHL Hockey Preview Inside f .. . '· 'I 'I

1 Volume CXXIII,\Number I Union Welcom·es Class of 199'7 · by Alex Kreisler Concordiensis Staff Orientation week began with a bang on Monday; September 6th, as cars unloaded suitcases, stereos and incoming freshmen full of anxiety and excitement. Orientation advisors(OA 's) were diSpersed .throughout West, Fox, l)avidson, Richmond. South and other donnitories in order to greet the newest additions to Union College. · OnMopday aftemc:>on. the tra- ditional play-fair; provided the ftesbmen with introductions -and skits perfonned by the OA;s, not to mention a surprise perfor- mance by Freshman Azul, who was reportedly quite a hit, Tuesday's events began with a c.ampu~·wide scavenger hunt, where the clues tested Freshmen knowledge on Union history and little known facts. Congratula- tions to the winners on Team ~'Biittafucco.\ A 1997 class pic- ture was next on the agenda, fol- lowed by a semi-formal dinner. After dinner the class of '97 ser- enaded President Hull with Unioo 's Alma Mater and then hit the dance floor at \Club U,\ which was much like Dance. Party USA, only Union-style, as re- vealed by OA's. A new diversity workshop, called \Mat1y Faces, One Union\ was introduced on Wednesday by# the peer facilitators, wllere Fresh- men had the chance to openly dis- cuss their views on several differ- ent issues ranging from sexism to age discrimination. Finally. on Wednesday everting, folk singer Wayne Tanny played an array of songs, including classics by Neil Young, James Taylor, and Don McClean. OA's, Leslie Silver and_ Jocelyn Weaver, described the orientation period as \a fun-filled packed week, where the Fresh- men were busy every minute.\ Thanks to the dedication and en- thusiasm of the orientation advi- sors and the orientation commit- tee, Union's newest class had a great kick-off. ... .. nn.cnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York Septe~ber 16, 1993 .One More Year! G ~ -------------- ~~-.,:·.-~~~t:-v J Bicentennial . -- , ... i Approaches . ~ --------------------------------------------- ~--__:,:;:~~~~:J.:::~~:.t..:.. ......... ~.:.-.;~rr.:::..:~~::.:Z:::;J ~ by David Levine Watch your step! Coils/ruction on the Yulman Theater hega11 during the lllllllller momhs. The projecl is Editor-in-chief part of the on-going effort to strengthen perjonning arts at Union. The theater .4ihould be junctional by fall of 1994. Opening Convocation pro- vided the opportunity for tbe school to welcome the new stu- dents, honor outstanding aca- demic achievment, and look at the changes Union has undergone in its 199 year-old ·history. President Announces Plans to Reb.uild Nott Memorial ·, September 16 also provided an opportunity for President Hul1 to discuss where Union is headed for its third century. and what Union's role will be within the Schenectady community. Courtesy of Public Relaf:ions The restoration of Union College's historic Nott Memorial, the 16-sided centerpiece of the college's campus, will start this fall, according to President Roger Hull. \As a result .of intense fund- raising during the past year, we have raised the requisite funds to renovate the Nott Memorial,\ he stated. The estimated cost for the res- toration project is $9.5 million. Hull said the College will con- tinue its fund-raising efforts to raise an additional $1.5million to establish an endowment to oper- ate and maintain the building. Hull said the restoration project is important both to the college and to the community. \Obviously we are very pleased that we can transfonn the historic symbol of the college from a crumbling facility, to a dynamic and spectacular center- piece for museum space and spe- cial functions. ''The Nott Memorial also is one of the key attchors in Schenectady 2000, the city's revitalization plan,\ he continued. \With the funding in hand to move forward, the first step toward building the requisite momentum for -:.. Schenectady 2000 is also in place.\ Hull is a member of the Schenectady 2000 steering com- mittee. The College plans to rededi- cate the restored Nott Memorial by February, 1995, the College's 200th birthday. The center ofthe building will be opened from the main floor to the ceiling (about seven sto- teet for the restoration project is Finegold Alexander and Associ- ates of Boston. Begun in 1858 by Union Presi- dent Eliphalet Nott and architect Edward Tuckerman Potter, the Nott is regarded as the preeminent example of \High Victorian Gothic\ architecture. The build- ing, which is registered as a Na- tional Historic Landmark, was Educational Goals Professor James Kenney, chair of the Faculty Executive Commit- tee, welcomed new students to Union and thanked the current students for \enriching our class- rooms and laboratories.\ James Underwood, Dean of Faculty, congratulated Dean's List students. Underwood under- scored Union's commitment to a high level of education. \A college that doesn't do ev- erything they can to encourage academic achievement is defi- cient\ said Underwood. Community Goals ~ Union College President Roger .~ Hull reiterated his Schenectady ~ 2000 Plan, a plan which involves ~ Union in improving living con- ~ ditions in the community. Addi- ~ tionally, Hull believes that. ·~ \Schenectady must bloom for 1 Union to thrive.\ Hull com- used as~ library untill96l, when mended those Union students Union's Schaffer Library opened. who are actively involved in pub- For the past 30 years, the-Nott has lie service. been used as a theater. Construe- The Bicentennial and Beyond tion began' this summer on the Hull pointed to the full enroll- College''s new Morton and Helen ment Union has, and the school's Yulman Theater. endowment and high level of do- ~~;;:~::::~,,~;~:~:,:~;~;:ic,;::~~:;,~::~;::::::,:::;~•:)::cfl!flf!;:,,~~.::::..:~!!'J,;:;;::!i::;;~~:~:.:~~::~::~::~~:;::,:~; ries). Tl1e main floor will be- come a meeting hall with flex- ible. seating for more than 400 people. Around the perimeter of the gallery level will be an en- closed, climate-controlled space for exhibiting College treasures and works of art. The perimeter of the third floor will become a study area and gathering space, designed so that it can also offer still more room for exhibits. The Nott is essentially a stone nations as examples of the cylinder 89 feet in diameter sup- strengths of the school. porting a cast iron drum and dome. Recent on-campus improve- The walls are a colored cut stone ments, and planned construction with alternating courses of varied on the Nott Memorial are indica- color stone in the arches. Win- tive of the momentum Union is [~~ffu~:~~~~<~~@:::;~-~::r::~~::~::g;r:~i:-~sAf-,A~~~.:::r.~~~~~:y,:~~~LA~t~,~:}:~.~?~·:i:q-.:Ai:}f'::~-W:;r:;~:~~~~~~tFr{%::H:~~~,L~:):·~::w:,;~;~:g~k~;yF~·:t:·J::;~X:%:Y~-\+;·::·;fi:::~;J~i:~.:i;r:,~~~::~\~:=·; ldu\\t&¥ij;:ilt~~:t~~;:~:t~:~~~!<t1~~~~~t?i~i:;:~~:·::··:·:~~J~:~s:~;i'{tt:~'~'l::~ittlrittl~t;~~:~ti~~i;l~t~.~~~~~~~J;;~18?~::{t; il.,im'·u~r-1J:lrel1t§~t·:;:fl\1ifr:;:,~!hi';-·xr''~fc!Pf!';~':':)~::~i:;';~'!:~~:.::~·?lf{flq?~c:+''' . e;:~· :-· ::·-:::::::·~:;.f}~s:::::~-::~·:;r:;::.}':.::::~·.::{~?~;=;::-t.-)::~.:~--~.;;\(:~ Visitors will be able to look from the main floor to the ceiling, which has 280 purple, red, and green star shaped pieces of glass set into slate. The archi- dows vary in size on three levels, lighting the interior space. Each continued on page 3 building heading into the 1994- 1995 school year, according to Hull.

Septemb~r 16, 1993, Pa.ge 2 · K~nyon Named Dean of Engineering Courtesy of Public Relations Richard A. Kenyon, professor of mechanical engineering and former dean of engineering at Rochester Institute of Technol- ogy, has been named dean of en- gineering at Union College. Kenyon, who also served as president of Tri-Sta~e University in Angola, Ind., Sllcceeds Lawrence Hollander, who retired this year. \Dick Kenyon has long been respected as one of the most in- novative engineering educators in the country,\ Hull said. \His ar- rival at Union is timely. When Union celebrates its Bicentennial in 1995, we'll also celebrate 150 years since becoming the nation's first liberal arts college to offer engineering.\ Kenyon holds a bachelor's de- gree in mechanical engineering from Clarkson University, a mas- ters in thermal engineering from Cornell University, and a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from Syracuse University. He also did additional studies in thermody- namics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and in fluid me- chanics at Colorado State Univer- sity. He is a licensed professional engineer in New York State. He has served as a consultant for a number or organizations includ- ing General Electric, the St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corp., Xerox, California State University, the National Science Foundation, the Cooper Union, and Syracuse University. Board memberships has in- cluded PRISM, a Rochester-area program to promote science and math; Rlf Research Corporation; the board of trustees of Paul Smith's College; board of direc- . tors of Associated Colleges of Indiana, and Independent Col- leges and Universities of Indiana; advisory board of Society Bank of Angola, Ind.; director of the Steuben County (Ind.) Commu- nity Foundation; director of Northeast Indiana Business Assis- tance Corp.; director of Manufac- turing Technology Services of Indiana; and member of the tech- nical council of the NSF Engi- neering Education SUCCEED Coal:ition at North Carolina State University. B:is honors and awards include election as a fellow in both the · American Society ofEngineering Education and the American So- ciety of Mechanical Engineers; election as Engineer of the Year by the Rochester Engineering Society; appointment as NSF Sci- ence Faculty Fellow at Syracuse University; and the Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award at Clarkson. His memberships include the American Society for Engineer- ing Education, the Accreditation Board for Engineering And Tech- nology (where he serves as chair of the Engineering Accreditation · Commission), the American So- ciety of Mechanical Engineers, the Rochester Engineering Soci- ety, and the New York State Board of Engineering and Land Surveying. He has held a ·num- ber of leader ship positions in those societies. h1 addition to being the author of three books he has written a number of papers, reports and ar- ticles on topics ranging from en- gineering education issues to solid waste management. Soviet Physicists to Teach at Union Two physicists from the former Soviet Union, Armen Kocharian and Eugeny Moskovets, have joined the faculty at Union Col- lege through a College-sponsored program to bring former Soviet scientists to Union for teaching and research. Kocharian has been teaching and conducting research at the Yerevan (Annenia) Physics Insti- tute, Yerevan State University, and PoJytechnical University in Yerevan. He holds a bachelor's in physics from Moscow State University, and a Ph.D. and a doc- tor of science degree. He special- izes in the theory of many body physics in systems with strong election interactions. Moskovets has been a re- · searcher at the institute of .Spec- troscopy in the Academy ofSci- ences at Troitzk in the Moscow region of Russia. He holds a bachelors, masters and Ph.D. de- grees from Moscow i>l,ysical- Technical Institute. He special- izes in laser spectroscopy. He has published 17 papers, and has at- tended a number of intemational · conferences on optics. · In 1992, Union became the first liberal arts college to initiate such a program when a geologist and physicist visited the College. The program has been supported by an anonymous donor from Texas Nominate a Professor of the Week : Contact Matt Karlyn at . X6155 NEWS,. Professor of the Week Hugh Jenkins·· hitchhiked across the country. When Jenkins finally decided .~~~------~~~~- by Alexandra Gualpa Contributing Writer This is Hugh Jenkins' second to \do something with [his] life\ year teaching in the English de- he went to graduate school. There partment at Union College. Now he helped organize a labor union assisitant professor of English, he -· with other graduate students, . had no idea that teaching would United Auto Workers. Jen~ins be his profession and passion. got his Ph d at Cornell Univer- Jenkins went to Carleton Col- sity, where he taught as a teach- lege in Minnesota, where hem~- ing assistant for six years. jored in 17th century Renaissance When asked about his experi- Iiterature. He really had no inter- ences here at Union, Jen:kins was est in academics whatsoever. at a loss of words. He admitted · Unsure of what he wanted to do that aJl his experiences have been with his life, he took on a series good, although he hasn't had a of different jobs. He worked for permanent·of'fice yet. He recalls a newspaper in Nebraska, for the one time when he gave a cross- government in.Minneappolis, and talk 01.1 why there is no commu- at one point as a janitor. He also nity at Union: He played a tape and started dancing_, but w~s a:mazed to .see that noone in the audience got up to dance. One striking thing about Union which Jenkins noticed' when he came last year is that it is \so conserva- tive\. Jenkins beHeves that when you seem to dislike something, in the end you pursue it. He did just that with academics.- he strongoly be- lieves that you cannot separate academics from the \real world\. even in English literature. He says literature con cet.ns itself with the most basic parts of life, and he emphasizes that \if you can't read a poem in a bar, the poem shouldn't be read\. . Dean Underwood to Resign by Larry Paska . · · Colllributing Writer Dean of Faculty, James Underwood, has recently an- nounced his plans to resign his post and retum to teaching at the end of the academic year. Underwood has been a mem- ber of the college faculty since 1963, serving as professor of po- litical science and the department's chainnan. He was appointed to dean of faculty in 19.88. \I came into this job with the expectation of cleing it foF a few years and then going back to teaching,\ Underwood said. Underwood expressed positive views about holding his position. \With a faculty as large as ours, there are many faculty mem- bers I never knew well. Being the dean, I have gotten to know them very well.\ Underwood cited various hap- penings at Union over the past five years that also made his job rewarding. \The General Educa- tion program was launched suc- cessfully, and has become well- established at the college. Many new pro~:,rrams have also devel- oped, such as the Writing Across the Curriculum program, new ma- jors, more offerings for study abroad, and more development in undergraduate research.\ The Academic Development Plan, also started within the' past fnur years, has enabled faculty to c'on- Dean will pursue teaching after he hu.·uo .. end of the academic year. (pholo courtesy t?f Public Relalion.~) sider what is important to make easier decisions on individual questions. Underwood commented, \the faculty continues to get better. The college has recruited excel- lent young faculty, and there is now a higher percentage of women faculty members.\ Also important, according to Underwood, are the special ef- forts made to honor students for outstanding achievements. This year marked the third year Dean's List students were honored at the opening convocation. \This is a nice way to reco~:,rnize student achievement, and this year saw the greatest attendance for the past three years at convocation.\ This year, many Dean's List stu- dents joined in the academic pro- cession. Underwood said of his job, \it's been exhilarating.\ Underwood has only taught at Union College, and is a graduate of Franklin and Marshall College, and received both an M.P.A. and Ph.D. from Syracuse University. BE Worldly L----~----·-\------------------'-----...:--'---'--. - ele1 scu i cro and stai ery ore, tior trar the I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I •

• UNION200 THE .BICENTENNIAL CAM;PAIGN The Nott Memorial Nott to be Restored cor1tillued from page 1 element of piers, windows, and sculpture is repeated 16 times. A segmented shed roof is crowned.by.a glass coffer drum, and each face of the drum triple stained glass windows with trac- ery. The dome has patterned col- ored slate tiles, with an inscrip- tion from the Talmud in Hebrew, translated as, 'The work is great, the day is short,. the master presses the workman.\ Edward Tuckerman Potter was one of the most important practi- tioners ofHigh ViC(torian Gothic; Eliphalet Nott,. for whom the building is named, is widely re- garded as one of the most inno- vative and important educators of the 19th ceiitury, serving as presi- dent of Union for 62 years, the longest term of any American college president. NEWS September 16, 1993, page 3 Validine Meal System Implemented at Union by Nicole Goldin Arts Editor The introduction of the Validine system to Union's Din- ing Services fulfills the students' need for quick service, conve- nience and choice. However, misunderstandings and unan- swered questions ha:veled to a lot of confusion regarding Validine and related meal plan policies. The following information should clear up some of this confusion. Validine is the trade name for Griffin Technology's computer- ized access card. Validine is the access card system used by the majority (63%) of the Colleges and Universities surveyed by the National Association of College and University Food Services. TI1is single convenient identifica- tion card is a \cashless\ method for making food an.d beverage purchases. When used in a cash or ending location, a retail data terminal {ROT) automatically deducts the amount of purchase from the card owner's account. Account balances are all recorded on a central computer. If suffi- cient funds are not available, the RDT alerts the cashier of the low balance. Every student gets a card en- coded with their identification number, which·wheft' read by the computer, deducts a meal from the total meal plan, or the pur- chase amount from the declining balance. The cards are issued by Union College Dining Services whose office is located in the College Center, Room 202. Stu- dents whose photos were taken last spring should have received their new 10 by now. If you were not here last spring, us,e the \tem- porary\ card found in your mail- box. Ten days after you have your photo taken you will be able to exchange your temporary card for a permanent one. The perma- nent cards will also be available in the Dining Services office. Policies conceming meal plans have also been altered. TI1e nine- teen meal plan has been replaced by a fifteen meal plan. Attention Upperclassmen! It's not just for Freshmen. This plan entitles you to any 15 \all you can eat\ meals during a seve{\ day period (Sat- urday through Friday). This plan is recommended for anyone who has a hearty appetite or enjoys a large variety of salad bar, veg- etable and deli offerings as well as to their hot entrees, soups and grilled to,otder items. The most ·Confusion regarding Validine is where it cah be used. Fear no more! TI1e card is usable at Upperclass Dining Hall be- tween 11 am and4 pin, when you can use one of your meal \punches\ or buy lunch a Ia carte off your declining balance. The amount of money you are cred- ited for each a Ia carte punch is based on your meals per week. Fifteen meals allows a $4.00 credit, 10 meals allows $5.00 and 7 meals allows $7.00. Additional punches and the declining bal- ance can also be used to supple- ment the credited amount. Be- tween 4 and 8 pm, one meal will be deducted from your meal plan and an unlimited buffet style ser- vice is offered. All-you-can-eat buffet service is available at all meals at West Dining Hall. A meal credit is simply deducted upon,entrance to the dining hall. At the Rathskellar the total pur- chase will be deducted from your $200 declining balance. Dutch Ho-llow allows students to use their declining balance to buy food and drinks. You can also use your card at any Union College Dining Services vending services and the purchase is deducted from your declining balance. Also, when the convenience store is opened, the $200 declining bal- ance can be used there as well. Students can also use their declin- ing balance to buy meals for friends, so be generous. If your declining balance should run low, you are welcome to deposit money in $25 incre- ments by sending a check to Din- ing Services or the Cashier's Of- fice. You can also request to have the deposit billed to your student acceunt. If you lose your card report the loss as soon as possible to a cashier, checker or to Mrs. Karen Dagostino in the Dining Services office (ext.6424). Your cardwill be invalidated and there- fore denied if presented for use. Ifthe original card is not found, a new picture will be taken and a temporary card will be issued until the new one is processed. Fee for the new card is $10. Dining Services is certainly in- terested in your suggestions and they do make a difference. Your input wiU help to make a differ- ence in the choice of foods avail- able. Special dietary require- ments will be met. To offer a sug- gestion contact any Dining Ser- vice facility manager, assistant manager, supervisor, member of the UCDS Menu Committee (which reviews special food pref- erences), Callie Stacey (Assistant Director of Dining Services), or Janet R. Gray (Director of Din.- ing Services). If you have any further ques- tions concerning Validine and the meal plan policies call 1-800- 388-6050. Seniors Watson Fellowship applications are due October 4. Please submit a 4 to 5 page application explaining your idea., two letters of recommendation, and an unofficial transcript to Prof. Klein, Economics Dept. r--------------'1 : LUNCH : Welco111e Back Students! r-------------- .. : TWO : I I 1 For Two 1 I I I .. _ · I : $6.99 1 : Pre~ent t!lls coupon ~t Boston Chicken : 1 Rottssene and recetve One Quarter- 1 1 Chicken White (Breast & Wing) and One 1 1 Quarter-ChickenDark(Leg & Thigh) for I I only$6.99. Each Quarter-Plate includes I I Two Side Items and Com Bread. Offer I I valid only at 1720 Union St., I I Schenectady, NY. Please present this I : coupon before ordering. Not valid with : I any oth.er coupon or special offer. I I Expires October 16, 1993 1 ·----·------------ .. ' . . ' ' ' ' 1720 Union Street, Schenectady, New York Call 346-2391 Tlze Freslzest Tl~i11g Goi1tg I I 1 Half-Chicken • I I : DINNERS : I I ! $9.99 ! I Present this coupon at Boston Chicken I I Rotisserie and receive Two Half-Chicken I I Dinners for only $9.99. Each dinner in-1 : eludes a Half Chicken, Two Side Items : I and Com Bread. Offer valid only at 1720 I I Union St., Schenectady, NY. Please I 1 present coupon before Qrdering. Not valid 1 1 with any other coupon er special offer. 1 1 Expires Odober 14, 1993 I ... ---------·-.----· ,.

September 16, 1993, Page 4 CAMPUS TRENDS Troubled Students Seek Counseling Many students are ~arrying the weight of their past with them into a new life at college, counselors say by Karen Neustadt College Press Sen•ice The nation's college counsel- ing services are straining under the burden of a burgeoning client load as insurance companies cut funds for private therapy, forcing students to seek support at cam- pus mental health centers. A report issued by the Inter- national Association ofCounsel- ing Services Inc., which provides data from the directors of 298 college counseling centers nation- wide, shows that 87 percent ofthe directors said they saw more cli- ents in 1992 than in 1991. this figure is up 13 percent since 1990 and up 31 percent since 1988. To meet the demand, some ' counseling centers have resorted to short-term counseling, cutting the standard 50 minutes to a half hour, referring students needing additional help to outside sources. The practice of \brief therapy,\ which consists of see- ing students in a limited number of intense sessions, has become popular. The shortened therapy, which has created a controversy among health professionals, con- sists of as few as three meetings or as many as 26 sessions. \The way the number 26 was arrived at was the fact that 7 5 per- cent of clients have resolved many problems in 26 sessions,\ said Jane Williams, director pfthe counseling center 'at Albright College in Reading, Pa. \But many students need many more months, even years, of therapy. \TI1e nonnal development of college students is a lot more trau- matic these days. Many hav_e ex- perienced alcoholism in their families, the loss of a friend in high school, and the level of do- mestic violence has grown.\ Williams noted that there has been a 40 percent increase in the use of the Albright counseling center in the past two years. \More students are coming from homes where incest and sub- stance abuse are all too common. College is the first time many stu- dents are able to get out of these dysfunctional situations, but they carry a lot of problems with them,\ Williams said But unhappy families are not the only reason students are seek- ing out counseling, say experts. Counseling has received a social acceptance unheard of a genera- tion ago, and many of the chil- dren of parents who shudder at the idea of talking over problems with a professional don't hesitate to try therapy. In addition, today's students are more sophisticated about the use of antidepressants, and are quicker to recognize depression in themselves than the ge1ierntion before them, said Linda Jo Pym of the University of Washington student mental health clinic. TI1e clinic always has a wait- ing list, she said, with many stu- dents referring other students to their favorite counselor. \Students are under incredible pressure. They are worried about Due to budget cuts, the Rollins their economic future, their rela- counseling center eliminated a tionship future. They've been position from its staff, leaving brought up, like all of us, to think two counselors to work with stu- a relationship is going to make us dents this· fall. Provost said tlmt h~ppy,\ Pym said. as of thi-s year the center has not The clinic limits counseling had to trim the time spent in sessions to I2 pet academic year; therapy. however., students who ate on \We just do psychological medication receive unlimitedses- counseling. We are separatefrom sions. academic and career counseling, To handle the greater caseload at Depauw University's counsel- ing center in Greencastle, Ind., the two counselors have resorted to short-term sessions, and refer the student to outside help if they need more exteasive treatment. \This is the first generation 6f students I've seen that are con- cerned about whether they wiU be able to find the jobs that will pro- vide a living standard they are used to,\ said Patsy Donn, direc- tor of counseling and psychologi- cal services at Ball State Univer- sity at Muncie, Ind. At Kalamazoo College in Kalamazoo, Mich., Pat Ponto, di- rector of counseling, says that they have had to increase the counseling staff since 1986 to better serve students. \We're trying to be more proactive by doing programming that fits the issues that students are bringing to us . .. sexual abuse, eating disorders and acquaintance rape.\ Students can access listening tapes at Ohio Northern University in Ada by dialing a number at certain telephone locations on the campus. The tapes provide coun- seling infonnation, inspirational messages and atte{llpt to boost students' spirits. The school also provides students with a guidance program that includes stress man- agement and tips for emotional adjustment. Judith Provost, director of the counseling center at Roilins Col- lege in Winter Park, Fla., said she has seen progressive growth in the number of students request- iiJg counseling support in her 18 years at the college. \It's a reflection of what's go- ing on in society. Families are more chaotic. There are problems with violence. We see it all re- flected in counseling,\ Provost said. so that helps with the load,'' she said. \The average student makes three and a half therapy visits, and we do a lot of brief therapy, yet :there are some students who come in every weekfor tfie w'hole nine- month calendar,\ Provost said. At a meeting of directors of Florida college counseling .cen- ters last year, it was observed that there has been an increase in se- rious psychopathology such as manic depression or obsessive disorders among college students, Provost said. \Sometimes students need the expertise of a psychiatrist as well as a counselor. It is a challenge to find services that the students can afford,\ she said. Williams, at Albright College, said the same is true throughout the country. \We used to see common ad- justment problems among anum- ber of students, but now it's far more serious than that,\ Williams said. Driven by low self-esteem, isolation, substance abuse and withdrawal, about eight in 100,000 college students take their lives, according to a report by the Journal of Coli ege Student Psychotherapy, which studied the issues at 200 campuses last year. Since mental health services are usually highly accessible to college students, there is an op- portunity to prevent suicide that their non-college peers do not have, say health experts. College students who suffer unmanageable depression, ruud- ety or develop serious substance abuse problems may leave school and lose their student status, of- ten making them ineligible for insurance that would cover treat- ment. ill 111 tll a w 81 ill c tb cc th w re P' bl 0( fa ar w Y: HI all B1 8< in, Cl I , co Sc at M M

September 16, 1993, Page 4 CAMPUS TRENDS by Karen Neustadt College Press Sen 1 ice The nation's college counsel- ing services are straining under the burden ofa burgeoning client load as insurance companies cut funds forprivatetherapy, forcing students to seek support at cam- pus mental health centers. A report issued by the Inter- national Association of Counsel- ing Services Inc., which provides data from the directors of 298 college counseling centers nation- wide, shows that 87 percent of the directors said they saw more cli- ents in 1992 than in 1991. This figure is up 13 percent since 1990 and up 31 percent since 1988. To meet the demand, some counseling centers have resorted to short-term counseling, cutting the standard 50 minutes to a half hour, referring students needing additional help to outside sources. The practice of \brief therapy,\ which consists of see- ing students in a limited number of intense sessions, has become popular. The shortened therapy, which has created a controversy among health professionals, con- sists of as few as three meetings or as many as 26 sessions. \The way the number 26 was arrived at was the fact that 7 5 per- cent of clients have resolved many problems in 26 sessions,\ saidJaneWilliams, director9fthe counseling center at Albright College in Reading, Pa. \But many students need many more months, even years, of therapy. \TI1e nonnal development of college students is a lot more trau- matic these days. Many hav..e ex- perienced alcoholism in their families, the loss of a friend in high school, and the level of do.:. mestic violence has grown.\ Williams noted that there has been a 40 percent increase in the use of the Albright counseling center in the past two years. \More students are coming from homes where incest and sub- stance abuse are all too common. College is the first time many stu- dents are able to get out of these dysfunctional situations, but they carry a lot of problems with them,\ Williams said But unhappy families ate not the only reason students are seek- ing out counseling, say experts. Counseling has received a social acceptance unheard of a genera- tion ago, and many of the chil- dren of parents who shudder atthe idea of talking over problems with a professional don't hesitate to try therapy. In addition, today's students are more sophisticated about the use of antidepressants, and are quicker to recognize depression in themselves than the generation before them, said Linda Jo Pym of the University of Washington student mental health clinic. The clinic always has a wait- ing list, she said, with many stu- dents referring other students to their favorite counselor. \Students are under incredible pressure. They are worried about their economic future, their rela- tionship future. They've been brought up, like all of us, to think a relationship is going to make us happy,\ Pym said. The clinic limits counseling sessions to 12 per academic year; however, students who are on medication receive unlimited ses• sions. To handle the greater caseload at Depauw University's counsel- ing center in Greencastle, Ind., the two counselors have resorted to short-tenn sessions, and refer the student to outside. help if they need more extensive treatment. \This is the first generation 'of students I've seen that are con- cerned about whether they wiU be able to find the jobs that will pro- vide a living standard they are used to,\ said Patsy Donn, direc- tor of counseling and psychologi- cal services at Ball State Univer- sity at Muncie, Ind. At Kalamazoo College in Kalamazoo, Mich., Pat Ponto, di- rector of counseling, says that they have had to increase the counseling staff since 1986 to better serve students. \We're trying to be more proactive by doing programming that fits the issues that students are bringing to us ... sexual abuse, eating disorders and acquaintance rape.\ Students can access listening tapes at Ohio North em University in Ada by dialing a number at certain telephone locations on the campus. The tapes provide coun- seling info~ation, inspirational messages and attempt to boost students' spirits. The school also provides students with a guidance program that includes stress man- agement and tips for emotional adjustment. Judith Provost, director of the counseling center at Rollins Col- lege in Winter Park, Fla., said she has seen progressive growth in the number of students request- ing counseling support in her 18 years at the college. \It's a reflection of what's go- ing on in society. Families are more chaotic. There are problems with violence. We see it all re- flected in counseling,\ Provost said. so that helps with the load;'' she said. \The average student makes three and a half therapy visits, and we do a lot of brief therapy, yet there are some students who come in every weekfor tlie w'hole nine- month calendar,\ Provost said. At a meeting of directors of Florida college counseling cen- ters last year, it was observed that there has been an increase in se- rious psychopathology such as manic depression or obsessive disorders among college students, Provost said. \Sometimes students need the expertise of a psychiatrist as well as a counselor. It is a challenge to find services that the students can afford,\ she said. Williams, at Albri.ght College, said the same is true throughout the country. \We used to see common ad- justment problems among anum- ber of students, but now it's far more serious than that,\ Williams said. Driven by low self-esteem, isolation, substance abuse and withdrawal, about eight in 100,000 college students take their lives, according to a report by the Journal of College Student Psychotherapy, which studied the issues at 200 campuses last year. Since mental health services are usually highly accessible to college students, there is an op- portunity to prevent suicide that their non-college peers do not have, say health experts. College students who suffer unmanageable depressiotl, anxi- ety or develop serious substance abuse problems may leave school and lose their student status, of- ten making them ineligible for insurance that would cover treat- ment. . I ( tl c tl v ·r, p II ( I C< s

NEWS ANALYSIS September 1~, 1993, page 5 Summer· Revisited : Same Old Sports, A Changing World · by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Welcome back to all the return- ing Union students, and welcome new freshmen. The beginning of the school year marks the end of a long summer. A summer in which Boston fans saw the Red Sox fall once again, and the fall- ing of the ·celebrated Boston Celtic Reggie Lewis. To the New Yorkers out there these might seem like insignifi- cant events, especially now since the Yankees are at the top. From where 1 come from these sports related events had quite an im- pact. As I sat in Fen way Park a week before coming here, I became nostalgic while talking with my father about how the Red Sox aren'tthe same as they used tobe. What happened to the days of Yaz, Jerry Remy, Jim Rice, Bruce Hurst, Fred Lynn, Carlton Fisk, and Dwight Evans? Once Wade Boggs left, my interest in the Red Sox deteriorated to almost noth- ing. Not even the Rocket Roger Clemens holds my attention, but I will always stay loyal when it comes to rooting for the Red Sox. Sony Yankees Fans. When Reggie Lewis collapsed at Brandeis College in Waltham, MA. Boston fans were stunned. Mr. Lewis was so young, and yet a heatt condition that was not properly cared for took away his life. Now we are left with the thoughts of his passing and the retiring of the other seemingly ageless Celtics. The departure of Larry Bird, Kevin McHale, and soon Robert Parrish leaves us wondering if the next generation of Celtic players can uphold the Celtic winning tra- dition. Maybe the next few years will be rebuilding years, but haven't we been saying that for some time now? Aside from the sports developments,this summer and early September brought two major events to the nation and the world. The world was changed both physically and politically. First by the Great Flood of '93, and second by the pact recently signed by Israel artd the P.L.O. to allow Palestinian freedom within Israel. It was sad to hear during July about the growing problems that the Midwest was having with the flood waters. The flooded areas grew so quickly that all the resi- dents could do was to hope that their property wouldn't be com- pletely destroyed. Meanwhile in the Northeast we were having one of the best summers, weather wise, that we have seen in a long time. I heard on the news a statistic COMICS that stated that the a part of the Mississippi River which had ori.ginally been 3/4 of a mile wide had grown to 22 miles wide!. That is more of a lake than a river. St. Louis Missouri was spared a lot of damage, but other small towns in the midwestern states were completely inundated with water. Townspeople got together to try and save their towns by sand- bagging, but much of the flood was too quick and powerful for the citizens to control. As hope diminished so did the prospect of saving the many houses, acres of land, and developments through- out those states. I read opinions oil why people think the Midwest was struck so hard. Some foreign opposition leaders such as certain Iraqi offi- cials stated that they believe the United States was being punished by Allah in retaliation for our par- ticipation in the Gulf War. I'd say Allah has a slow reaction time. I think it was nature's way of changing the landscape. Just be- cause humans occupy the land in certain areas doesn't mean nature is going to work around what people have built up. Although the flood was a bit more drastic than the moving of the plates ( as in the pi ate tectonic theory), or the melting of huge glaciers, I see the floods as nature's evolution in which humans got in the way. The weirdest part of the flood. was to see it up in the sky, some 28,000 feet above the earth. I got the chance to fly over it this sum- mer and it was an amazing sight. At one point I could see where the Mississippi was supposed to curve around to eventually meet the Ohio River. Instead -of the smooth curves of the Mississippi though, there was a lake-like area that covered more land than I could measure. This pact being worked on al- most completely in secret (by American standards at least be- cause we live in a land where we know everything before almost everyone else does) came as a surprise and a big relief to all of the people who felt the tension in that land since the Palestinians lost their nationhood years ago. In a story that has caused mo- mentous changes for the future of the middle east, it joins in the evo- lution of politics that include the dismantling of the former Soviet Union and the violent disruptions in Bosnia, all which have oc- curred within this year. The pact between Israel and the I needed one of those scale keys that one sees on maps before I would really be able to tell how oversized the water was in this area. I felt sadness for the people who were overtaken by nature. P.L.O. is the first major develop- Innocent ,...--------------.ment of the victims of \ ••• the evolution of politics fall. Now it will s. u d d e n that includes the dismantling be interesting change to see where · of the former Soviet Union and Speaking our world's po- of sudden the violent disruptions in Iitical course change, Is- Bosnia, all of which have will take it's rael and the occurred within this year.\ next turn. P.L.O. just Hopefully the recently came up with an agree- ment that gave partial autonomy to the Palestinians within their places of residence in Israel (in theGaza Strip, including Jericho). In tum the P.L.O agreed to end violent aggression towards Israel in an effort to recognize Israel's right to exist. terror in Bosnia will end, the U.N. will finally figure out it's mission in Somalia, Hussein will be re- moved from power, Clinton will create an excellent health care proposal, and the New England Patriots will surprise the nation and win the Super Bowl. Maybe that's pushing it though. STUDENT ACTIVITIES \ EXPOSITION 1993 JOIN US ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 TO DISCOVER MORE ABOUT STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND HOW YOU CAN JOIN GET INVOLVED MAKE YOUR COLLEGE A \MORE PERFECT UNION\ PLACE:THE COLLEGE CENTER FRONT ENTRANCE TIME : 1:00-4:00 PM FREE FOOD SURVIVAL IS MORE THAN.ACADEMICS (RAIN DATE SEPTEMBER 23)

NEWS ANALYSIS September 1(}, 1993, page 5 Summer Revisited : Same Old Sports, A Changing World ~ .. by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Welcome back to all theretum- ing Union students, and welcome new freshmen. The beginning of the school year marks the end of a long summer. A summer in which Boston fans saw the Red Sox fall once again, and the fall- ing of the ·celebrated Boston Celtic Reggie Lewis. To the New Yorkers out there these might seem like insignifi- cant events, especially now since the Yankees are at the top .. From where I come from these sports related events had quite an im- pact. As I satin Fenway Parka week before coming here, 1 became nostalgic while talking with my father about how the Red Sox aren 'tthe same as they used to be. What happened to the days of Y az, Jerry Remy, Jim Rice, Bruce Hurst, Fred Lynn, Carlton Fisk, and Dwight Evans? Once Wade Boggs left, my interest in the Red Sox deteriorated to almost noth- ing. Not even the Rocket Roger Clemens holds my attention~ but I will always stay loyal when it comes torootingfortheRed Sox. Sorry Yankees Fans. When Reggie Lewis collapsed at Brandeis College in Waltham, MA. Boston fans were stunned. Mr. Lewis was so young, and yet a heart condition that was not properly cared for took ~way his life. Now we are left with the thoughts of his passing and the retiring of the other seemingly ageless Celtics. The departure of Larry Bird, Kevin McHale, and.soon Robert Parrish leavesus wonderingifthe next generation of Celtic players can uphoidthe Celtic winning tra- dition. Maybe the next few years will be rebuilding years, but haven't we been saying that for some time now? Aside from the sports developments,this summer and early September brought two major events to the nation and the werld. The world was changed both physically and politically. First by the Great Flood of '93, and second by the pact recently signed by Israel and the P.L.O. to allow Palestinian freedom within Israel. It was sad to hear during July about the growing problems that the Midwest was hav:ing with the flood waters. The flooded areas grew so quickly that all the resi- dents could do was to hope that their property wouldn't be com- pletely destroyed. Meanwhile in the Northeast we were having one of the best summers, weather wise, that we have seen in a long time. I heard on the news a statistic COMICS ~-·-\~ twb s!i ~~~-· ~-~~ fi~~J~.U.'i~ ~A VJ!HOtlR\'/E VI/IRL~P A191P oUrOI'~AV.~U~\.x'!t ~·,c,ti..t P.'lc:L \o(\ch that stated that the a part of the Mississippi River which had originally been 3/4 of a mile wide had grown to 22 miles wide!. That is more of a lake than a river. St. Louis Missouri was spared a lot of damage, but other small towns in the midwestern states were completely im,mdated with water. Townspeople got together to try and save their towns by sand- bagging, but much of the flood was too quick and powerful for the citizens to control. As hope diminished so did the prospect of saving the many houses, acres of land,. and developments through- out those states. I read opinions on why people think the Midwest was struck so hard. Some foreign opposition leaders such as certain Iraqi offi- cials stated that they believe the United States was being punished by Allah in retaliation for our par- ticipation in the Gulf War. I'd say Allah has a slow reaction time. I think it was nature's way of changing the landscape. Just be- cause humans occupy the land in certain areas doesn't mean nature is going to work around what people have built up. Although the flood was a bit more drastic than the moving ofthe plates ( as in the plate tectonic theory), or the melting of huge glaciers, I see the floods as nature's evolution in which humans got in the way. The weirdest part of the flootl was to see it up in the sky, some 28,000 feet above the earth. I got the chance to fly over it this sum- mer and it was an amazing sight. At one point I could see where the Mississippi was supposed to curve around to eventually meet the Ohio River. Instead of the smooth curves of the Mississippi though, there was a lake-like area that covered more land than I could measure. l11is pact being worked on al- most completely in secret (by American standards at least be- cause we live in a land where we know everything before almost everyone else does) came as a surprise and a big relief to all of the people who felt the tension in that land since the Palestinians lost their nationhood years ago. In a story that has caused mo- mentous changesfor the future of the middle east, it joins in the evo- lution of politics that include the dismantling of the fanner Soviet Union and the violent disruptions in Bosnia, all which have oc- curred within this year. The pact between Israel and the I needed one of those scale keys that one .sees on maps before I would really be able to tell how oversized the water was in this area. I felt sadness for the people who were overtaken by nature. P .L.O. is the first major develop- Innocent ment of the victims of \ ••• the evolution of politics fall. Now it will s. u d d e n that includes the dismantling . be interesting change to see where · of the former Soviet Union and Speaking our world's po- of sudden the violent disruptions in litical course change, Is- Bosnia, all of which have will take it's rael and the occurred within this year.\ next turn. P.L.O. just Hopefully the recently came up with an agree- ment that gave partial autonomy to the Palestinians within their places of residence in Israel (in the Gaza Strip, including Jericho). In tum the P.L.O agreed to end violent aggression towards Israel in an effort to recognize Israel's right to exist. terror in Bosnia will end, the U.N. will finally figure out it's mission in Somalia, Hussein will be re- moved from power, Clinton will create an excellent health care proposal, and the New England Patriots will surprise the nation and win the Super Bowl. Maybe that's pushing it though. STUDENT ACTIVITIES \ EXPOSITION 1993 JOIN US ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 TO DISCOVER MORE ABOUT STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND HOW YOU CAN JOIN GET INVOLVED MAKE YOUR COLLEGE A \MORE PERFECT UNION\ PLACE:THE COLLEGE CENTER FRONT ENTRANCE TIME: 1:00-4:00 PM FREE FOOD SURVIVAL IS MORE THAN.ACADEMICS (RAIN DATE SEPTEMBER 23)

r Congratulations from '{i[lfe <ltnnrorUiensis Class ofl993 Daniel J. Milsky Michelle L. Dietrich Christine L. Warren Randheer Shailani JuliA. Murphy Charles J. Doering CarrieD. Watson Je$sica L. Shair Jon B. Adler JamesP.Nau James L. Donigan Margl:!let L. Weber · Cl\l'llH. Sqifer Anthony J. Albanese RobertS. Newton Ann M. Driscoll ErikD;Wert AngelaSoo William R. Allen JedM. Nosal Lauren J. Entes Scott A.. Wertheim Sandra Soohoo t e: Michael J. Alter Jonathan S. O'Neil Allison J. Epstein Maurisa L. WintefS WeiYuanSu Eric Andrews Meredith K. Olney Jacques P. Etienne Michaeli... Wolf Anne Marie Sullivan JenniferL. Aronson AmyR. Ouida Kerry E. Evers RebeccaL. Wolf Danuta Trzebinska m ScottS. Asher Jessica L. Page Michael L. Ezra Williaml. Wolff Tsutomu P. Wakino Donna M. Ashton Jennifer S. Parisi James R. Fink Elizabeth R Wood Dana C. Wasserman m S. Balasubramaniam David Passaretti Laura B. Fink Victoria L. Wulfsohn Dara R. Webster Jennifer R. Bennett Regi M. Pathrose Patricia A. Fintak Jody L. Yetzer Carrie L. Wheeler Ronald A. Birnbaum Joseph A Pecora David M. Fischer ChristopherD. Yousey Evan J·. Wilkes Cheryl A. Bonica Amy C. Pfaffenbach Peter R. Fischer Natasha M. Zahka Andrea B. Wilson to James M. Bothwell Beth Pincus Beth R. Freeiing Joseph E. Zimmerman AnnaM.Bou Alicia Pohorille Kristina N.Frenyea Adam S. Zinkin Class ofl996 Andrea L. Bracci ante HaiL.Poret EvaJ. Garen IS Elizabeth J. Brackis AnnaL. Pugliese Stephen J. Gillis Class .ofl995 .OmarF. AI-Khalidi Craig J. Bronder Caryn A. Quinn Lisa M. Godfrey Jennifer L. Allaire Andrea L. Bruhn Craig D. Randall Renu Goel Christopher P. Albert Deena S. Alter Jason D. Buchwald Tiffany S. Ratner Nicole R. Goldin Julie K Anderson Rebecca L. Alvord Celin E. Buonerba John G. Rizzo Stephen A. Gollance Douglas W. Bartell Kristen L. Angiolini Brian E. Byrne Amanda Robins Matthew L. Grabowski Gary P. Ben•Ezra Amelia A. Audette McKeough E. Carlin Maya J. Rosenblum Kathryn J. Grady Eric T. Bennett Rebecca t. Barry Lesley Carmichael Katherine M. Ross LaraF. Greenberg Bruno Benzaquen Nicole A. Beland Gregory Cavanagh. Christopher Ryan David J. Hill Rollin S. Block Carianne H. Bishop Lara J. Chamberlain Robyn A. Sachs Aaron B. Hoffinan ErickaJ. Bloomfield J. Scott Boyd Zainab A. Chaudhry Joseph Savoie David W. Hopson ScOtt W. Bowden SethM. Brown Stacy C. Cocorikis Jennifer M Schimmel Heidi D. Howarth Brian R. Brett Sara M. Carrel Peter A. Cocozza Julie L. Schlang Tara L. Illiano EricJ. Bulson Eric J. Catalano Rebecca L. Co it Peter B. Schwab Dale R Johnson Olvin Caba Marie Cavuoto Michael L. Collins T. Jeffrey Scott Shawn Jorgensen Jason D. Cardone Alison S. Chapin Jennifer A. Crowell Michele A. Scrime Andrew Kanter Sandra G. Chouchani Amina A. Chaudhry Anne L. Dantz Jennifer H. Seaman Matthew A. Karlyn Nathan K. Coffin Michael J. Chisick Lowell I. Dashefsky Mirriam Z. Seddiq Megan Kenney Bethany J. Cooper Elizabeth C. Cleland Peter E. de Boer Lauren B. Seideman Rachel P. Kest Soume B. Daulat Shannon M. Comley Kathleen M. DiCola Richard J. Sgueglia Terry Kim DeAnne C, DeFuccio Erin M. Counihan Eli G. Doane Carolyn W. Sherman ToniaK. Kim Deanne M. Dixon Erica M. De Carl() Shane P. Dormady Beth Ann McKay Smith Charles R. King James E. Dlubac Corinne F. DeVoe Kristine A. Drew TonyaSmith Matthew R. Kirk Jennifer L. Dorninelli Ignacio Delgaqo Thomas J. Duckett Rebecca L. Stein Daniel W. Kull TamaraL. Du Ron Elfenbein Peter J. Elkan Jason G. Suss Anthony LaGigl ia Jason. W. Epstein Michael J. Elmendorf JoshuaS.H. Fausty LisaK. Tesarik Blaine J. Langberg Elizabeth J. Feldinger Anthony J. Fantauzzi Karen G. Fine Laura Thatcher Adena N. Leder Paul E. Foshee Jason C. Fishbein Alexander S. Finger Kurt A. Thorington Alexander T. Leventhal Ramakrishna V. Gaddipati Scott C. Fitzgerald Pamela A. Finger Elisabeth E. Tripp Wendy T. Liebeck Christine A Gagliano DanaL. Gerstenhaber .. TaylorS. Troischt LindaL. Lin Elizabeth A. Gilman Sara E. Finnerty Anita R. Gambhir Adam Fischer Rachel E. Tuck Michele C. Lynch Geoffrey C. G:p-dner Peter L. Gregory CaraJ. Fleischner Larae M. Tumidajewicz u Adam R. Mailde~ · · Rebecca M. Gergely .. Jonathan S. Hom' ',·ff : i Jared J. Galazin Jennifer L. Turri Elizabeth Maranville Lisa S. Gerhan Kevin Huang AlisaR. Gass Brian S. Unger Nicole P. Marshall Agatha M. Gogol._ Rein is Kanders Theodore H. Geilen Marc A. Unger Leslie A. Mason Allison H. Goldberg Ja.Son D. KatZ Bret D. Gelder Jennifer B. Unterberg Holly J. McCall Fran L. Goldstein RachelS. Katz Noah D. Gene! Heather VanDewalker . Jennifer B. McDermott Dawn M. G.rande ,· Jonathan D. King Matthew J. Green HopeD. Vanno JohnMcGraw Craig E. Greenberg Usa A. Klimkewicz Julie E. Greenberg Timothy D. Vaughan Keith R. Meier Dayna L. Greenberg JuliaL. Lee Timothy M. Griffin Suzanne L. Vialardi BenMeyrat JoshuaW. Haines A!ex:is L. Leist Timothy J. Hadden Stacy C. Vogel Mark W. Michalisin Karen R. Hamilton DavidW. Long Ian A. Hammel Joel L. Volterra Subhasree Misra Teresa Hanlon Jon F. Lucas Eric D. Handelman SheaZ. Wallon Dionne D. Morgan Robert H. Haslinger Tiffany A. Lussier Dawn M. Harrington Allison L. Wapner Robert E. Murray David J. Hollander Kyle A. Luther Christyn L. Hills Ann Welch Nishan I. Nadaraja Elysa J. Honig Matthew L. Macinnis Lucinda R. Hills GretaL. Wilson Bac X. Nguyen Jennifer L. Horner Anita Magoon Sheri L. Haggins Christina M. Wright Gregory M. Oswitt Charles B. Howarth Cindy Mantas Karina R. Hojraj Sven P. Zabka Rebecca Parlakian Jennifer Huang John C. Metz Wendy E. Holender Brad Perriello Walter G. Jamouneau MelissaJ. Morris H. Michael Iannotti Class of 1994 Aaron M. Plotnik Jennifer A. Johnson Brian D. Nemiroff c d li p v s u Tobias M. Jackson Jennifer A. Poldmets MatthewM. Keeney Neeraj Patel JulieS. Jamieson Rosalinda Affinito Gregory Quirolo Sarah Kipnes Karen M. Peppiatt Michelle D. Jamey MelissaL. Affronti Dylan J. Ratigan Naomi B. Krupa Craig T. Pike Michael P. Johnson Melissa F. Ahrend Dana R. Rausch Heather E. Lech Dennis M. Popeo Christine E. Johnston Jess G. Alcid Carlos A. Rivera Kenneth Lee Brandon T. Press Stacie M. Jordan Christine A. Alexander Kerry M. Roberts Myongrae Lee Jennifer Pyun Lori J. Kaiden Katherine E. Ambrosio Betsy A. Robinson Seth A. Leventhal Karen L. Rando Neil E. Kanterman Michael R Andelrnan Emily R. Rosenberg David F. Levine AnandRao Elissa D. Katz NayanaAnne Julie M. Rosenberg Esther A Levy Melanie A Rinaldi ChristaM. Kelleher Kenneth E. Baker Cindy E. Rothschild Beth M. Lifson Douglas A. Robertson Michael A. Kimber Steven G. Battiston Karen L. Rubin Pamela Y. Lin Michelle L. Rosenbaum Allison R. King Randall S. Beach Mahra B. Rubinstein Monique E. Lions Merc;dith L. Roser Thomas S. Kingsley Timothy M. Beadnell Sarah B. Rudgers Keith M. Lombardo Seth A. Rudin Steven W. Kinne Talley W. Belsinger Biju V. Salgunan Heather C. Manley Rachel L. Schaffer David B. Kitchen JayS. Berger Matthew C. Schmitter Peter M. McCarthy Sharon A. Schneider Alison L. Kocsis Kelly W. Bevan Pamela J. Schutzer Craig M. Mochson Brian M. Scholl Mitchell T. Kolker Kristen M. Bigos Paul J. Schweiger Gretchen G. Mock Linda C. Seymour ToddM. Kosterman Suzanne S. Bloch Jared G. Seiter KapiiMoz~ Eric M. Sharfstein Deborah Kroll Daniel J. Bullen Andrew C. Siegel Tricia L. Nelson Lalita G. Shastry Rachel E. Kulick R. Taylor Burke Leslie S. Silver Lisa J. Nicpon Namita Singh Natasha A. LaB are Lauren M. Bycoff Eric L. Slocum Rachel J. Nurick Matthew t. Smullen Elizabeth A. Lambert Wally B. Bzdell Nathan K. Smith Patrick M. O'Mealy Hillary A. Snow Mathias Lanni Mia A. Caetano Roger G. Smith Andrea T. Pagnozzi Daimee I. Stadler Craig M. Lapinski Starra Cahan Parrish C. Smolcha Shannon L. Patti Wendy J. Stephenson Gregg R. Lavine Kristin L. Campbell Pamela K. Snyder Sandramarie M. Pembum Matthew J. Stern Lisa A. Levinger Angela M. Carini Jeffrey L. Spees RebeccaN. Perch-ick Jessica L. Stone Suzanne G. Lieberman Laura Carini Marie Stahl James W. Polichak Heather Symons Joy K. Lieberthal Alexander G. Chiu Jennifer M. Sweeney Stacey R. Rainey Christina L. Taraborelli Andrew J. Lipman David H. Chodosch BrianK. tan Lisandra M. Ramos KarenaA. Theis Erik W. Lukas Andria V. Coletta Sarah Teasdale BrianD. Reh Narongsak Thongpapanl Kristin A. Lupoli Christine M. Cot¢ Melissa Ellen Tolan Sheara A Reich Manisha Tinani \ Jordan D. Matsudaira JeremyD, Countryman Erin S. Torpey Kristen J. Reidt Abigail V. Treu Emily E. Maute BelrndaH. Crago Danielle P. Triola Brett H. Rubin Jeffrey R. Weinstein Rozlyn J. McCall Claudia David DonaldTsay Erica L. Saltz Nathaniel W. Woodruff Glen D. Meixell Andrew C. Davis Karl T. Velde Lee R. Schachter Mark A. Zames Meredith G. Melzer Christian R. Diemand Kurt R. Venator Rachel E. Seely David L. Zucker I s l I

e Psychology behind the Citibank Classic Visa card, and the emotional security of the Photocard. The Citibank Classic Vis~ instills in students feelings of safety, security, and general wellness not unlike those experienced in the womb. Therefore, it is the mother of all credit cards. <j{ Some experts attribute these feelings to the Citibank Photocard, the only credit card with your photo on it. A voice inside says, \This is me, really me.\ (As oppose,d to, \Who the heck is that?\-· a common response to the photo Subject suffering from Credit Card Theft Nervosa. Subject after receiving Citibank Oassic '(i.sa Photocard. on one's driver's license.) It's an immediate form of ID, a boost to your self-image. <[ Of course if your card is ever lost or stolen and a stranger is prevented from using it, • you'll feel exceptionally good (showing no signs of Credit Card Theft Nervosa). <[ Other experts point to specific . services, such as The Lost Wallet'm Service that can replace .. your card usually within 24 hours. Or the 24-Hour Cus- tomer Service line; your hotline, if you will, for any card- related anxiety whatsoever, 1 Further analysis reveals three services that protect the purchases you make on the Citibank Classic Visa card, at no addition~! cost. 1. Buyers Security'm can cover them against accidental damage, .fire or t~eft, for 90 days from the date of purchase' (preventingf of course, Insecurity). 2. Citibank Lifetime Warranty'\' allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years? 3. And Citibank Price Protection assures you of the best price. You need only see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank w~ll refund the difference up to $150' (hence no Post Purchase Depression). <j[ Special student savings are particularly therapeutic. There's the free Citibank Calling Service'mfrom MCI to save up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&'P (You're encouraged to call Mom anp Dad regu- larly preventing Parenta Non-Supportus.) And a $20 Airfare Discount 4 on any domestic flight. (Case studies indicate that a Fear of Flying is overcome when Sprin~ Break in sunny Florida is a possibility.) Not to mention the low variable interest rate of 15.4% 5 and no annual fee for college students. <j{ Suffice it to say, you'll have a credit card you can depend on while building a credit history. So call 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19, to apply over the phone (students don't need a job or a cosigner) or to have your photo added to your Citibank Classic Visa card. <J[ If we say that a sense of Identity is the first component of the Citibank Classic Visa card, a sense of Security the second, and a sense of Autonomous Will from your newfound financial independence the third. don't be crazy ... Call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 'Certain col)ditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. 'Certain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service iife expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. 'Savings claim is based on a 10-minute night/weekend call in the 1,91 I to 3.000 mileage band using MCI's Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T's standard calling card rates, effective 4/93. Citibank Calling Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain benefits under any other MCI partner program or offer. including travel award programs. 'Offer expires 6/30194. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issl)ed by ISE Flights only. 'The Annual Percentage Rate for pttrchases is 15.4% as of 8193 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is impo:,ed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional fi riance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance transaction; however. it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $)0.00. Monarch\' Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Complmy. Used by permission of the publisher, Citibatik credit cards are issued by Citibank (Smith Dakota), N.A. ©1993 Citibank (South. Dakoia), N.A. Member FD'IC. The Monarch® Notes Version: The Citibank Classic card gives students peace of mind, protection against Freud-or rather fraud-a low rate and no fee. Apply today. Call 1-800-CI'I'IBANK, ext. 19

V ali dine : Union Dieter's Delight I t is not uncommon for private schools to have high tuition costs. It is also not uncommon for colleges to charge stu dents exorbitant sums of money for housing and dining. The implementation of new dining systems, such as Validine, is usu- ally associated with higher costs. Students were aware that the Validine system would be used for the first time at Union this year. Students were also aware that the school would be paying for the implementation of V ali dine by requiring all students to be on the meal plan, and by control- ling the expensive costs of providing an all-you-can-eat service. What students weren't cognizant of, was the fact that the school would use the excuse of implementing a new system to tum Din- ing Services into a potential gold mine. Anyone who ate lunch at Upperclass Dining Hall on Thurs- day, September 9 must have felt as though the school had de- cided to de-gravitate their money. Students receiving 15 meals per week found out that their meal cards would only buy them $4.00 worth of food. Compounding the problem were the prices. Students were left to believe that either the school was stabbing them in the back, or that the inflation rate in the United States had caught up to the inflation rate in Russia. Excuse me, did you say 'Your four ounce cup of milk costs ninety cents, your four ouncejuice costs one dollar.' For some students, half oftheir money is spent on drinks. Let's not forget about the twenty~five cents they charge to have a thin slice of tomato on your sandwich. Instead of providing a new service with added flexibility, the school has closed the options that students have. Did the school think that students would spend three dollars on twelve ounces of juice? Looking at lunch trays, it appears as though most stu- dents have reverted to eating bread and water. Soon they may drink nothing.ifthe school starts charging for water. What's even worse is that nobody seems to understand just how the system works. Union students may well start their own ad campaign, 'I'm not going to pay a Jot for this lunch!' Say it with heart. The admin- istration has grossly underestimated the student opposition to the Validine system, or maybe they thought that we were too apa- thetic to care about getting ripped off. TELL THEM TilEY ARE WRONG. LET THE STUDENTS OF THE SCHOOL UNITE. .. ~- 'Mire mnnror.bi.ensis. l11e Student Newspaper of Union College Since 187i David Levine Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editor Business Editor Campus News Editor Science Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editors Associate Sports Editors Associate Editor Manager Subscription Manager Computer Manager Published by TI1e Leader Herald Deb Mcinerney Matt Karlyn Caroline Paine Doug Bartell Erin O'Neil Belinda Crago Talley Belsinger Niki Goldin Dagan La Corte Lisa Lemoi Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Brianna Patnode Veronica Rogers Craig Greenberg Dylan Ratigan Kate Cartland Eileen Calkin Sharon Smith Fran Goldstein Jodie Adams Josh Haittes Scott Steele Lee Schachter Greg Kalish David Fischer Rachel Kest Matt Grabowski Brett Saunders StaffWriters: Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Michelle Ellis, Alex Kreisler, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Heather Manley, Michelle Rosenbaum. The Concordiensis meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. Let's Hear It For Teamwork by David Levine Editor-in-Chief This s, New York traffic, and col- amongst things. As a ournalist, a New \Unf01•tunately because it is h_.man nat .. reto Jlssume that one is always more .right tha·n someone else in assessing demands, people do not realize the benefits ofworking towards a common goal ... In less than one academic term, The Concordiensis has returned from being the cheap-shot punching bag ofUnion College to being a q.ua.lity product which is representadve of the prestige ofthe 199 year-old institution.\ York City native, and a Union Quite obviously, it is the stu· lations), who always makes sure. College student, I am all too fa- dents of Union College, in par• that the editors are well informed miliar with this word of a million ticular the dedicated members of of campus events, and who was meanings. I have heard trite dis- The Concordiensis staff, that are helpful in the finding of a new cussions about the lack of team- most responsible for the resurrec- publisher, which can handle the work between Republicans and tion of the newspaper. HOW- new technological demands of the Democrats, I have sat in traffic for EVER, without the support and editors. The Concordiensis has four hours trying to go across assistance of many administrators been helped by the computer ex- town on a business day, and I hav~ and college employees, the trans- pertise of Charlie Boswarth, witnessed th\e\\Semrtngly endless - formation may never have come- · Union College bookstore;~who -- battles between students who to fruition. has had an answer for all of the think that they have a God-given I remember a day when I was technological problems that we· right to receive anything they de- not so· sure that the school would have encountered. The Cencor- mand, and the administrators who allow The Concordiensis to pur.. diensis has be.en encouraged by are all so politely willing to tell chase some of the ·computer Student Activities (Lee students, to get lost. equipment that would have been Bloomrosen, Lorraine Marra, and Unfortunately, because it ishu- a necessity, if the newspaper was Lee Clark), which has been able man nature to assume that one is to even exist for much longer. I to handle all of the changes that always 'more right' than someone also remember a day when the The Concordiensis had und~r­ else in assessing demands, people former Dean of Students, Joe gone. The Student Forum, which do not realize the benefits of Mammola,toldmethat The Con- deserves a lot of credit for ap- working towards a common goal. cordiensis had every right to pur- proving the purchase. of new Let this twelve ounce bundle of chase the new technology. This equipment, and the Dean's Office, paper that you are holding be a decision renewed my faith that which has been extremely en• lesson to you. In less than one the administration does (at least couraging. The Concordiensis academic tenn, The Concordien- in some instances) respect the has built on the strong founda- sis has returned from being the right of students to make educated tion layed by former editors. cheap-shot punching bag of decisions about what is needed to I have written this entire article Union College to being a quality help improve their organizations. while sitting in my car in, of all product which is representative of The Concordiensis has ben- things, a traffic jam on Broadway. the prestige of the 199 year-old efited from the support and wis- That's the only type of Gridlock institution. dom of Charlie Casey{public re- that there is an excuse for. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing·in The Concordieti~·is do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. 111e Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Ctmcordiensis, copyright 1993, aU rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordien.sij· is published by The Leader Herald, 8•1 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis offic¢ on the · third floor of the College Center. m< Me all wll of ca1 SUJ Un se~ nee Fn SCI SOl all: Wi a\ wll we fl€ ha m' Rt w: to M ca w at wl stt gr I to Ci1 an

S~ptember 16, 1993, page 9 OBITUARY Union College Mourns the Death of Mohammad Omar by David Levine Editot.-in-chiej in 1989, titled 'The Right Deci- sion?', he described how the small class size, beautiful campus, and generous financial support that Union offers had swayed him to come to the col'lege. In an es- say that Mohammad wrote for the Academic Opportunity Program, Mohammad described that 'I arn studying to be someone valuable to my cou_ntry in the future'. his love for machines, especially cars. work hard to accomplish a g~od future which is my family's and my dream.\ color of skin they may have, what religion they follow, or what lan- guage they speak. Everyone is treated equally.\ Nonetheless, Mohammad describes leaving his friends in Afghanistan without ever being able to say good-bye as being a traumatic experience. TI1e Union College community mourns the death of senior Mohammad.Omar. Mohammad, a Mechanical Engineering major who was just a few credits short of graduating,. passed away in a canoeing accident during the summer. Omar was staying at Union fgr the summer to do re- · search in the Mechanical Engi- neering department for Profess0r Frank Wicks. Mohammad is de- scribed by Prof. Wicks as \a good. soul, who was friends with virtu• ally everyone.\ Academically, Wicks discussed how Omar was a \continually improving student, who had done outstanding project work;'. Moha111mad not only studied to become il Mechanical Engineer, but he strove to provide for his family, which came to the United States with very little money. Mohammad's father was retired, and his mother was a housewife. \My parents always look up to toe and hope that someday I'll be a Mohammad's college experi- ence was filled with learning and friendship, and Mohammad was grateful for what the College and the United States offered him. \Life in America has been very good to me. Now I've made a lot of friends and most important of Despite the fact that the early part ofhis life had been turbulent, Mohammad had no problem making friends at Union. \[My classmates] help me if I have any problem in any of my classes, or talk to me when they see me de- pressed.\ Mohammad was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha, Inc. Joe Kotright, a brother of Al- pha Phi Alpha, described Mohammad as, \A man of incred- ible spiritual strength and pen- etrating moral conviction.\ \Mohammad Ashraf Omar gave everything and asked for nothing. I viewed my brother Mohammad as an intellectual Mohammad and his family fled Afghanistan in 1984 after having wimessed the senseless murders ofhis countrymen in the Russo-Afghan war. Mohammad· was .sixteen at the time. Moving to the United States required Mohammad to adjust academi- cally, and he graduated from Walton High School in the Bronx at the age. of 21. Mohammad, who is described by faculty and students alike as being ambitious, graduated lith in a class of337, In 1989, Mohammad decided to attend Union College over the City College of New York. For an essay that Mohammad wrote Mohammad Omar, an outdoors emhusiast is shown at a recent camping trip. Mohammad's life was tragically cui short in a canoeing accident. \\o beacon for the understanding of what it means to be human. I am eternally strengthened in n'ly pur- suit of a better world for all peoples, having explored and tackled the true definition of brotherhood with Mohammad. I am confident that his memory shall shine bright and be the cata- lyst for numerous transfonnations of human spirituality in all those who knew him. Perhaps by emu- lating the beauty of his soul, I can tell him that I love him just one more time.\ Mohammad was studying Me- college graduate with a decent life chanical Engineering because of and a professional job. I will all, there are many opportunities here for everyone, no matter what ... ' Computer Semin.ars . ' Office of Computer Services Attention: Faculty, Students, and Staff These are the seminars OCS is offering to the Academic community at Union CoUege during the Fall '93- '94. Make a note of a particular seminar you are interested in so you don't miss out! Registratiqn is done at the OCS office, or by calling 388-6293. Instructor for the Macintosh and PC seminars is Brien Mueller. FOR THE MACINTOSH ••• All Macintosh seminars are held bz the Macintosh Lab, Steinmetz Hall, room 100. Intro _to Microsoft Word vS.O - September 22, 2:30 p.m •• 4:30 p.m. Installation/setup overview, copyright issues, manipulating text (selection, insertion, deletion, modification), pagination, new page vs new section, tabs vs tables, col~s/column le!l~s. f~nts, character: and paragraph formats, inserting gr~phics, m~g menus, Just!ficatton, and spelling check, document storage, and pnnting options. _ Prereq~site: Must have working knowledge of the Macintosh, attended System 7 .0.1 & Mac Bas1cs, OR gone through the Mac Basics tour on a Mac Classic IT in the Macintosh Lab. . Intro to Excel v3.0 .. September 30, 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Focuses on creating a basic spreadsheet.. entering text and values, using basic commands and functions, building and copying fonnulas, creating headings, and saving ·and retrieving files~ If time pennits, selecting certain cells for password access only. lntro to FileMaker Pro v2.0 ·Demonstration Only October 5, 10:30 a.m. • 12:30 p.m. Data~se considerations: setting up Fields- (text, numbers, calculations, summary, etc.), crea~mg Layouts, Browse & Find features, changing/selecting fields, records- new, next, prevtous. Also, building fonnulas, buttons, etc. if time pennits. Intro to HyperCard v2.0- October 13, 2:30 p.m •• 4:30 p.m. Basic HYJ>erCard terms and concepts - cards, stacks, buttons, navigation, tools, HyperTalk. Building a basic HyperCard stack. Printing stacks and repons. Intro to SuperPaint v3.0 • October 20, 2:30 p.m •• 4:30 p.m. Find out the difference in using Paint vs Draw, rulers, grids. manipulating text, placement on page, zoo~ in/zoom out, rotating text, etc.; saving and rettieving, placing in scrapbook for future use m word documents. FOR THE PC SIDE ... All PC Seminars OT~ held in rhe IBM Lab, Steinmttr: Hall, room I 10. lntro to WordPerfect v!.l- September 11, 10:30 a.m. • U:.30 p.m. Create. save. and retrieve a file; le3111 basic editing, setting margins. line spacmg, fontS, know where your cursor is • use reveal codes. format text - rable vs tabs. move text from one pan of the document to another. create columns. use Speller and Thesaurus. know how !0 print p~iew and pnnt the document. If time. !e3111 now to cre-.lte :md m.uupu io~:e foomotes. create a Title Page. Introduction ~~ Lotus 1-2-3 v2.2 • September 29. 2:.30 p.m .• 4:.30 p.m. Covers creaung bas1c worksheetS. entenng te:\t and values. Building fonnulas . .:opym~ formulas. saving and remcvmg files. - T~ following senunaTS will b~ held in Sreinmet: Hall - The e.TOct Joe anon will be annnunced depending on th•Huunber ofp~nons enrolled.lnsrrucrors wz/1 be Union College staff Introduction to the V AXcluster • October 6, 2:.30 p.m. • 4:30 p.m. learn how to use Kermit to log on 10 your ilccount on dte V AXe luster, use EVE (a rext editor, to creaiC files), list • purge. and delete files in your account. create directones and subdirectOries. Prerequisite: VAX account. Basics on VMS E-inaii/Electronic Library Access • October 14, 10:30 a.m. • 11:30 p.m. Crcatin~ ~sending mail on.the VAXcluster, reading and replying to messages. custonuzmg your account. fllmg and deleung messages. Learn how to access the :O.tinerva On-line Catalog • look up authors, tillcs and much men: without having to go to the libnuy. Prerequisite: VAX account. Introduction to UNIX • October 19, 10:30 a.m .• 12:30 p.m. Learn how .to sign on. logout. use elm. and newsreadcr in this session. Prerequisite: UNIX account. Th4 ~nttrMt SemiNJr will btl given by David V. Cossey, Eucunv~ Director, Office ofCumputer Services. Ioternet Seminar • College Center 409 • October 7, 3:30p.m •• 5:30 p.m. You will learn what Internet can do. how-to access it, how to send mail and reply 10 lntemet addresses. what SiteS an: available for conununication, how to connect to and use lllteracnvely a remorc o:omputc:r. how 10 transfer tiles between thelf local machine and a remote machine. Prer .. quislte: Basic knowledge of VMS E-mail.

·~ -·~ September 16, 1993, page 10 A&E Rising Sun • • A Controversial P-icture Natasha's Stars by William Vittitow Contributing Writer .-----.-~ Rising Sun has -~~~ been this sum- mers most con- troversial film releases due to what some critics claim is a story with no other in- tent than to \Japan-bash';. The movie opened July 30th to pro- tests staged in several cities. Rising Sun is a story of two li- aison detectives, John Connor (Sean Connery), and Web Smith (Wesley Snipes), who are sent to investigate the death of a young woman who is found in the Los Angeles headquarters of a large Japanese corporation. The film is set against the backdrop of US- Japanese business relationships- tense as they are today - invari- ably making the White guys the good guys, and the Asians the bad guys. I don't think that the average movie goer will he concerned with the political aspect of this movie, but will rather be looking for an intense thriller that will leave them with a quickened heart rate after the movie is over. This is what this Sean Connery/ Wesley Snipes film delivers. That is, however, if you can get yourself to forget all of the loose ends that were not tied up when the movie was done. The biggest problem with this action-packed thriller is that the story line Jacked closure. I won- dered how Connery, as anaccom- plished actor, could ac.cept 'his part in this film. He must have read the book and not his script because all throughout the movie they open up gigantic questions that need to be resolved, and the way they leave these questions unanswered is more like they for .. got to include them than it is an AUDITIONS for Theresa Rebeck's Spike Heels Thursday & Friday, Sept. 16 & 17 at 7:00PM in the·Nott Memorial Theater (if religious observance precludes your attendance, by all means contact the director at 388-6379 to arrange an alternate time) to be presented by The Performing Arts De- partment October 28 - 30 & November 2 - 6, 1993 (during Parents' Weekend and the following week) Directed by Prof. Lee Bloomrosen intentional cliffhanger. My biggest disappointment in the film was how they chose to resolve the murder. At the start ofthe film they gave you enough clues by supposed \experts\, all based on .official physical evi- dence left behind by the murder, (Snipes). In the beginning of the film, he is being interrogated. Scenes of this interrogation are · used throughout the film and are ARIES (March 21 to April 19) understood to be flashbacks of · You may be slow getting started what had already\ occurred prior . this week, but once you get go- to yowr stepping into this fantasy ing, you will he a dynamo in ac- when the lights .inihe theater . tion .. Pressures are behindyou dimmed. However the producer now wher~ jab in.tetests are con- ·Of this film never stwck with this . cerned. Progress IS assured. particu~arfonnat. As he go1''~1mr:~ ;(· ........ s (A ,. 12 . . • . 20 ) self gomg, he bounced ar(!)unp::a,,:,! :, TAURU . . PFI .. 0 to rv:ay . few times through the.se ,~·ei.. :; i Th?ugh y~u are stt:ll mu.Hmg~~e~ quences, and placed them 111 ,parts . a ?tsappomtmen.t m fnend~ p of the film for continuity pur~ .. this week P.r?mtses to be hvely poses, however, as a viewer lwas. , .. an.d e~t~rtammg .. A pleasant sur- left wo~dering exactly whether . : pnse ISm store for you .. Rom~ce ·. . . .. . · and travel are hap· ptly high- these penods were past, 1present;. · . . · orfut\lre. They didn't make.muG.h · · hghted. sense, and took away fram the quality of the film. · GEMINI (May 21 to June 20) But being a mystery lover, l r~;:- ·Problems from the past concern member how 1 sat it'! the movie . you in business. It is full speed · · ahead where donnestic plans are the~ter watching this film and . concerned.Whcther it is new enjoying it, Sure, I felt cheated which in itself does not point ·di-· by the plot; and you might too. rectly to the murderer, i:mt do~s ·But there was na doubtthat it was elin1inate suspects. But in the fun while it was happening: So . end; it is exactly one of these sus- . rm going ta suggest that you .. pectstheypulloutofthebluefor check it out anyway .. Who CANCER{June21 toJuly22) being the guilty party! In my knows~ maybe you won't be as . What a partner has to say may apartment or decorating your . home. Roamnce takes priority ov-er socializing this weekend. take you by surprise. It is a good opinion this is aHollywaod cheat. technical as 1 was in reviewing . n1eotherpoorpointofthisfilm thi:s· film. At the very least, it week for getting your thoughts · ' across to others. You willaccom- dealt with the role of ,Web Smith would be a fun movie rental. Schenectady for Free · plish many errands. Singles meet with rmnantic introductions. and couples wi'll be sharing happy times together. by Seth Friedman Arts Writer With only $5 and my bicy¢le l • , - ~~.- j;. • ._j.\ •• - • It,.:; _ .. ~ went out into Schenectady 1ook- ing to enter,tain myself for the weekend. Sounds improbable? Not so. On Saturday, the ./2nd Annual Villagers Outdoors Art Show filled the streets of the Stockade. Local artists displayed their paintings, phOtographs, and sculpture along the beautiful tree- lined byways. While many of the works were done by weekend art- ists who painted pretty bridges and farms, some of the artists were truly talented. TI1e photos of Jude Gega and Sylvia Aronson were quite good. Also, the Japa- nese inspired works of Joan Mullen and Lucy Suhr caught my attention. The winners were dis- played, by Lawrence the Indian and Arthur's Market the winners were displayed. First Place went to an ink drawing of an owl that was a fine technical work. The most enjoyable aspect of the show was the backdrop. TI1e Stockade is truly one of the most beautiful areas in all of New York State. For those of you who do not know where it is, all you do is go out the main gate and walk down Union Street. Big old trees dominate the sidewalks. Most of the homes are fully maintained and have retained their charm. The only expense I had was the $2 I spent on a 1/2 peck of fresh lacal apples .from a farmer. Granted, art shows are not for everyone, but Sunday I found a gem of a party. Takin' it to the Streets IV, was an all day music festival sponsored by the city of. Schenectady and private busi- nesses which helped raise money for Big Brothers and Big Sisters. Three stages and over a dozen bands filled Central Park with sounds ranging from country to LEO (July 23 to August 22) You blues. Also, local merchants could be penny-wise and pound- . ha'Nked the.ir gooqs while carni- .. foolish this week., Guard. against . val rides like the Moon walk were · spending on impulse. Behind-the- only 50 cents. scenes moves are best for you. My friends and I were able to Strive for improved concentra- catch the last two· bands on the tion. Innovative moves bring fi.- main stage. TI1e first group was nancial gains in business. called The Joan Oshome Band. Led by a bell bottom clad woman VIRGO (August 23 to September with a great raspy voice. The 22) New starts are favored this group peiformed a mix of soul week,but guard against a ten- and blues covers and originals. dency to be argumentative. You Definitely inspired by early sev- shine at group activities. Those enties rock, Miss Osborne sang . who travel now meet with ro- with all the soul of Janis Joplin, mance. while the drummer pumped a solid beat. The headline band, who closed the festival was called The Heavy Metals Roms, The Boston based band recently received rave re- views for their performance dur- ing the Newport Jazz Festival, this summer. A nine piece band that was both heavy and horny, The Heavy Metal Horns were great. Their sounds were reminiscent of Tower of Power and the Brecker Brothers fat funk of the seventies. The horns were loud and good. · TI1e set consisted of originals that were played with fine showman- ship. The highlight of the set for me was when the Alto Sax player traded licks with the guitarist to see who was funkier. I gave it to continued on page 11 OC'IVO SINGERS Sept. 13th & 20tla • 7 P.M. at St. &IDIJI'S 30 N. Feny St, Schenectady Iii= s · Ntf. 11Meb.11fls Reqjitn ! fa · Dec. lllrHnlel's •Messiall\ B (.1 · Apli 23nl PIKAnc, V'Mlldi, \Gloria; fO~ fURJHfR INf~ C~ll·l~1·~444 LffiRA (September 23 to Octo- ber 22) Repercussions from last week may still buther you, but you will be much too busy now to dwell on the past. An unfin- ished project is brought to completion. You will opt for some time for just the two of you. SCORPIO (October 23 to No- vember 41) You will be hearing .from a fre\iend who was one of those quarrelsome types. In love, you may feel disappointed or mis- understood. This weekend, you and your mate will be playing host. Others will be saying what a wonderful couple you make. SAGITTARIUS (November 22 toDecember 21) There may be a delay with a home repair. A take- charge attitude serves you wellin business.A void confrontations. Unconventional maves are not favored. You are personality plus in your dealings with others now. CAPRICORN (December 22 to January 19) You are on the same wave leng~h as a partner this week. You could become upset with an ad-viser.

A&E September 16, 1993, page 11 A Place for Jazz . Presenting Doo Wop more including \Under the cQurtesy of Proctor's Theatre Boardwalk\ and their very first The Best in Jazz, in the Best Place to Listen This Side of New York City! The best known and most be- release 1 \There Goes My Baby.\ loved groups ofthe 50's and 60's The Italian doo wop foursome, bring hip-hop te Proctor's The- The Duprees, will take the audi- . atre in Dick Fox's Poo Wop Ex- ence down memory lane as they travaganza on Saturday, October sing \You Belong to Me\ and 9, 1993 at 8 pm. \My Own True Love.\ Fred Friday September 17, 8pm James Williams and his soulful band ICU with Billy Pierce, John Lockwood, Tony Reed us, Miles Griffiths and Roger Holland The evening will commence Parris and The Five Satins will with Buddy Holly's Original perform their greatest hits includ- Crickets perfonningsuch memo• ing. \In The Still Of The Night.\ rable oldies as \Peggy Sue'' and \The punkiest girl group .of the \That'll Be The Day.\ They are sixties\ The Shangri-Las, will remembered as the first rock and perform such memorable oldies roll group ever to be completely as ~'The LeaderofThePack\ and contained-writing, playing, pro,. \Give }Jim a Great Big-Kiss.\ ducing and recording their own Finally, special guests, The To- material. As Bruce Springsteen kens,. will close the evening with once said, \I listen to Buddy their timeless classic, \TI1e Lion Holly (and the Crickets) records Sleeps Tonight,\ which now en- every night before I go on; it joys a permanent place in Rock keeps me honest.\ The unforget-.- 'n' Roll's Hall of Fame. at the Whisperdome, 1221 Wendell Ave, Right next to the campus! table Jimmy 13~aumont & the Tickets for Dick Fox's Doo Skyliners will take the stage sing- Wop Extravaganza at Proctor's ing such unfortgettable songs as Theatre on Saturday, October9 \Since I Don't Have You\ and are $28.50, $25.50, and $22.50. \When I Fall In Love.\ The Tickets are available at Proctor's Washington Post calls Jimmy Box Office (518) 346-6204 and Beaumont & the Sky liners \the all TicketMaster locations. Group greatest tight vocal harmony of20 or more people may arrange group of all time.\ for discounted tickets through the Just walk up hill to Wendell Ave. on Union St. or Nott St. And there it is, smack in the middle of Wendell, next to the river:the Whisperdome ! (with the fountains in front) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e••••••••••••••• Tickets: $12.50 Available at Records n' Such Stuyvesant Plaza and at the Door Bring This Ad to the Concert and Your Student ID .and be admitted at Half Price! Continuing the Extravaganza, Group Sales Office at (518) 382- The Drifters, known for their fa- 5.392. Dick Fox's Doo Wop mous patented choreob>raphy, will Extavaganza is sponsored by Old- perform their greatest hits and ies 99.5. Call 374-6912 for Directions and Other Information A Place for Jazz is a Cultural Program of the First Unitarian Society of Schenectady Campus Paperback Bestsellers Chet's Corner t. The Fii'Tli, by John Grisham. (.Island/Dell, $5.99.) Young lawyer confronts the hidden workings of his finn. 2. Jurassic Park, by Mich'aei'Crichton. (Ballantine. $6.99.) ·A theme partfs doried dinds'aurs ar~ creati~ a wortd crisis .. . . ' ,- 3. The P~l~n en.,f; by John Grisham. {Dell, $6.99.) Law student finds herself on the run from killers of two Supreme Court justices. 4. Rising Sun, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $6.99.) Fierce industrial intrigue between American and Japanese rivals. 5. A Time to KJII, by John Grisham. (lslancVDetl, $5.99;) Racial tension runs hi9h dUring a trial. 6. Ute's UtUe Instruction Baok, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutfedge.Hill, $5.95.)Advice for attaining a tun life 7. The Making of Jurassic Parle, by Don Shay and Jody Duncan. (Ballantine. $18.00.) Behind the scenes of the movie. 8. Waiting to Exhale, by Terry McMillan. (Pocket Star, $5.99.) Four young black women in search of love. 9. Congo, by Michael Cridlton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) Investigation of an ill-fated archeological expedition. 10. AU the Pretty Horses, by Cormac McCarthy. (Vintage, $12.00.) Young man's coming of age in the Mexico of 1950. ' . New & Recommended The Journals of John Cheever, by John Cheever. (BaJianbne, $14.00.) Provocative introduction to the mind and craft of an important American author. The entries depict a man who loved life and loved examining it txJt more than often felt trapped. - . . Alex Haley: The Pfayboy Interviews, by Murray Fisher, Ed .. (Ballantine, $12.00.) An extrao~inarily candid conection of celebrity ;nterviews and personal reminiscences. Growing up Female, by Susan Cahill, Ed .. (Mentor, $5.99.) 23 voicns Chronicle the feminine voyage from adolescence to adulthood. ASSOCIA l10N Of= AMERtcAN P\JBUSHERSJNA nONAL. ASSOCIA'nON OF COLUGE STORES Chet's will have it's grand opening on Monday, September 20th at 8:00 pm. Chet's will have thier famous 10¢ wings while you come and enjoy Monday Night Football. This Fall will in- troduce many exciting changes. Chet's now includes a brand new 50'' screen TV in addition to our projection ·TV. We now offer soda, mixed drinks, a variety of bottled beer, and now pitch- ers! Soon we will be adding some video games for further entertainment. Chet's fall schedule will be Monday and Thurs- day nights from 8pm-lam. We will show Monday Night Football and on Thursdays will provide other entertain- rnent. We will also continue our Friday Happy Mediums from 4pm-9pm. Friday offers free food and an important opportunity for all students and faculty to interact. For all students who are unaware ofChet's policies, all are welcome no matter what your age. To purchase alcohol you must be 21 years of age but there is no age re- quirement to enter and enjoy the many other attributes Chet's offers. We encourage · all campus groups or organi- zations to book a night at Chet's. If you would like to sponsor a party at Chet's or would like to perform please contact Peter Savage at 34 7- 1774 or Deb Murray at 346- 3181. Chet's enters a new and exciting year and we hope all will come and enjoy the NewChet's! Schenectady For Free Ccmlinuedjrom page 10 the sax on a split decision. TI1e park was filled with fami- lies picnicking and people danc- ing. It all had the flavor of a Town Fair. The only expense for me this day was $3 I spent on hand squeezed lemonade and fresh French fries (with vinegar). Ev- eryone who went enjoyed them- selves and for those who did not know about it may I make a sug .. gestion: just pick up the local pa- per and give a quick read, you would be surprised on what go- ing on. I·

September 16, 1993, page 12 BULLETIN BOARD ALL CLUB OFFICERS SHOULD REPORT TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE ·408 CC ASAP!! -MRS. MARRA THERE WILL BE AN INFORMAL MEETING FOR THE· STUDENTS INTERESTED IN ORGANIZING A GAY ND~ LESBIAN STUDENT UNION NEXT WEDNESDAY SEPT. 22 AT 6 PM AT LIZ MAZZOLA'S HOUSE. CALL HER AT 393-657 4 FOR DIRECTIONS, INFORMATION, AND ANY QUESTIONS. UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND THE BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT NOOKS FOR ROOS: RADIATION OF · MARSUPIALS TO FILL ECOLOGICAL NICHES OF THE SUBCONTINENT OF AUSTRALIA AND TASMANIA. MARGARET SCHADLElt, ASSOC. DEAN, UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS, UNION COLLEGE SEPTEMBER 16, 1993 SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 4:40 P~M. REFRESHMENTS 4:30 SHOW DATE · Man of La Mancha Sun., Oct. 3 Harry Blackstone Sat., Oct. 30 Camelot Wed., Nov. 3 Rocky Horror Show Sat., Nov. 3 (Live Performance) Brigadoon Sat., Nov. 6 Tito Puente Sat., Nov. 13 Latin Jazz Ali~Stars Sandra Bernhard Fri., April 1 (Mature Audiences Only) Proctor's Theatre Group Sales Reserva,tions For Union Students and Faculty TIME Gp. RATE #Tickets 7:00PM $27.45 20 8:00PM $22.80 50 8:00PM $30.15 20 8:00PM $20.40 50 2:00PM $20.25 20 8:00PM $22.95 20 8:00PM $22.80 ·so EVERYTHING WILL BE HELD · Alvin Ailey Am. Sun., April 10 7:00PM $22.95 20 STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL. FREE E-mail and MINERVA Training The Office of Computer Services and Schaffer Library are holding computer orientation sessions at the College Center. These sessions will be at the terminal by the Information Booth. You will need a VAX account to access this terminal. We will be here the following days and times, so make a note to stop by and learn how to SEND/RECEIVE e-mail and how to access the Minerva On-line Catalog without going to Schaffer Library. October 5 · October 8 October 11 October 14 Tuesday Friday Monday Thursday 11:30 A.M.-Noon 10:00 A.M.-10:30 A.M. 10:00 A.M.- 10:30 A.M. 11:30 A.M. - Noon Note: If you don't get to sign up for an account before these sessions, AFCA forms will be available and a temporary account will be set up for practice logons. Physics Colloquium \Physics and the Sup~_rconducting Supercollider\ Elizabeth Simmons Physics Department Boston University DATE :Friday, September 17, 1993 PLACE : NWSE 114, S&E Building TIME: 2:45p.m. Refreshments served at 2:30p.m. Dance TI1eater Will Rogers Follies Fri., May 20 8:00PM $30.15 20 . Sisters Rosensweig Wed., June 1 8:00PM $25.65 20 MINIMUM NUMBER OF GROUP RESERVATIONS MUST BE PURCHASED IN ORDER RECEIVE GROUP RATES THROUGH THE UNION COLLEGE STU- DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. Physics Colloquim Speaker : Lorinda Opsahd Of : GE Research and Development Title : The Biophysics of Mechanical Signalling in Cells Date : Friday, 9/24 Time: 2:30 Location : NW 114 S&E All advertisements for campus bulletin must be turned in ON DISC by 4:()0_ pm Monday. Note: Campus Bulletin. is only provided for those organiz_ations without an

Personals S~ If you like pina-colada's, Gettin' caught in the rain, If you're not into yoga, If you have half a brain, If you like making love at midnight, in the dunes ·em the Cape, l'm the love that you've looked for; Write to· me and es,. cape!! .,J Bass'- Happy'Birthday~!!! Love SDT&PSIU Seth- Welcome to Union! Have a great Fall term and-write to .me!!!! I'll miss you! Love, Big Sis · Lydia & Dog It's the truth and only truth show incognito- Lydia Classifieds SPRING BREAK '94- SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH& GO FREE!!!Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps. Call@800-648-4849 Students ! Need some extra money? Why not put your concious to work. The Environ- mental Planning Lobby is look- ing for motivated people to work on our campaign to protect New York's children from lead poison- ing. Work hours 5:30-9:3pp.m. · weeknights. Flexible schedule, relaxed atmosphere. Great Pay! Call462-5526. .• Classifieds Telemarketer- $6/hour Call Skip @372-4454 HELP WANTED: GREEKS AND CLUBS RAISE UP TO $1000 IN JUST ONE WEEK for your fraternity, sorority or club, plus $1 000 for yourself, plus a free .t-shirt, JUST FOR CALL- ING 1-800-932-0528 MARKETING: work indepen- dently with our scholarship assis- tance services. Pay based on com- missions only. Send letter of in- quiryto: Jennings Associates P.O Box 9088, Schenectady, NY 12309 WANTED: Campus Representa- tive- SPRING BREAK DIS- COUNTERS-(Vacation Pack- f,lges). Earn cash& free trips.- Cancun-Bahamas-S. Padre Is- land-Daytona. We handle book- keeping- you handle sales. 1·800- 336-2260 Monday tluu Friday (9AM-5PM). nATa SOilounat ITUDINT ClOVPSl RaiSe as Much as You Want In Dill W-*1 $1oo .•. $600; •• $1soor · Mari<et Appiicatlons for lhe hottest credit card ever- . NEWCMMAsTERCARD. Users earn BIG DISCOUNTS on CM CARS! Qualify tar FilE£ J. • SHIRT & '94 CMC JIMMY. Call 1-800-950-1 03!1, ext. 75. CAMPUS NEWS September 16, 1993, page 13 I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects and .\educationally innovative projects\ is October 28, 1993. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building} on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office {S l 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I. E. F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton. Administrative Assistant to the Associate Dean. When preparing budgets, please remember that per- diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ************************************************ FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Oftice (S-100, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October 28, 1993. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. · When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also retlect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects R~search Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee. • f ~ HELP WANTED :::: Annual Fund Affiliates $5.00 per hour, $8 with bonus, night time hours, NO weekends~ great resume builders, interviews starting Sept. 20 - 23, job is Oct. 11 - Nov. 4th. Interested? For interview call Ext.6175 USE THE CLASSIFIEDS-THEY WORK

' . September 16, 1993, Page 14 SPORTS Women's Soccer Preseason Report by Joe Saltzbart Concordiensis Staff The car alarm that.has~'t keptquiet about Its success. Aggressive, young, and talg ented. These are the praises that many have given to the Union Women Varsity Soccer Team, at first glance in their pre season workouts and scrimmages. The squad hopes to find a winning combination of a physical ~rand of soccer with added speec;l and skill. The team is focused on tumg ing around their disappointing season of a year ago, in which they finished the season with as many wins as loses. TI1e team is coached by Susan Pedone, who is in her fourth recruiting season. The team captains, Chris THE Crossword ACROSS 1 Louver 5 Adds liquor to 10 Doorway part 14 Matenal for flooring 15 Likeness 16 S-shaped molding 17 Mr. Sharif 18 Burn a little 19 Stnnged instrument 20 Licenses 22 Most uninteresting 24 Makes indignant 25 Mernment 26 Mount- (Washington·s home) 29 Unsullied 33 Pertaining to birdS 34 Lean 35 Uncle- 36Gioomy Weske (Senior), Megan Howell (Senior), and Jen Manna(Junior) speak confidently about the make-up of the team and all feel that post season play will be in their future. Coach Pedone plans on using a couple of different for- mations depending on the situa- .fion·ofthe game. The attack will be led by a trio of sophomores Nicole Solomos, Kim Fanning, and Heather Rock. The mid field- ers have to dominate the field for Union to have any kind of suc- cess this year. Led by Chris Weske at center mid fielder, with Sophomore Emily Retterer and Senior Megan Howell at the two outside positions, Pedone hopes covering C1993 Tnbune Meclla Sorvoces. Inc. 37 Nasal speech 38 \'I cannot tell---\ 39 Work in verse 40 Holy one 41 Kitchen item 42 Be like 44 Heavy beer 45 Move on wheels 46SOd 47 Safe place 50 Recites musically 54 Surmounting 55 Defile 58 After-bath garment 59 Young horse 60 Kind of orange 61 Duck-like bird 62 Remnants 63 Longeo 64 River in Austria DOWN 1 Standstill 2 Rickey flavormg 3 Winglike All RIQIIIs R......,l<l 4 Station 5 Lend an ear 6Wrongly 7 Tinplate vessel 8 Kind of timer 9 Young plant 1 0 City in IllinOIS 11 Fever 12 New York team 13 Borscht ingredient 21 An element ·23 Take a break 25 Concede 26 Steam 27 Get away from 28 Makes angry 29 Tool for smoothing 30 Ait 31 Artless 32 As1an ruler 34 Drmk greedily 37 Place mat's place 38 Service branch 40 Air pollutant 41 Classify 43 ExplOdes 44 Kicked a pigskin 46 Hint of color 47 Track event 48 School ::m the Thames 49 Pleat 51 Time for lunch 52 Black 53 Hardens 56 \Do-:: say, not ... 57 Wnter Flemmg . . . THE BARKING DOG · BY' DARRYL KLUSKOWSKI . . :t 1 .., s ~ ii : ~ 6 .,.,._ . that they will give the attacking strikers the spark th~y need to jump-start a slumping offense. Defensively, Union looks to be solid, with Sophomore Megan Fehr playing sweeper. At stop- per, Danielle Shelov will continue her ,physical style of soccer from last season aided by Senior-Sarah Dingledy, with either Freshmen Danielle Spitz or Amy Powell.fill- ing in the wing fullback positions. JeQ Manna has played excellent in goal throughout the pre season and looks to have another great year. Off the bench, Coach Pedone has many talented players to choose from. Heather Gaunt, · Annika Michaels, Liz Landa, and Amy Ambrosini cau all be ·dan- gerous at the striker position. While Liz Romeg, Erin Spalding, and Chris Nytranski will be used at the mid-field positions. Lauren Pappa and Allison. Foster wil:l fill in at the fullback positions. The Dutchwomen begin the season at home against Albany State on the turf, where Captain Weske prefers to play. ''With the fast surface of the new turf, the team should be able to handle Albany with our speed and skill. We have developed a sense of trust for one another on and off the field, which I think can help us to a winning season.\ Police sa1' the best crimede~~;r.rent is usualll' a k:JUd noJ.Se. ~M90 \ehidcAiamNS the IS. Plugged into you( lig!lter. it will blast ·!03dB (Ifiinimum) .if anyone tries tobreakih. The secret iS its abili~· to detkctsubsonic \:aves. OnlyQ~orum .n, 0 ,,.,m ... gtvesyou.thatkindof t(U 1 ruJ. tecln1~ogyand secuntl Securing Ute· • • • O:\'lc.r:J ltJUr·•lw.Jnmt ~~t-rlth.<tnhumr • · · Geoff Wolfe .Ind. Dt st rr but or (5 18) 388-'3649 Write for Concordy Sports Call Dagan at X5665 , ·p R I:\ C I P L E S o/ S 0 l' :\ I) R E TIRE.\\ E :\ T I:\\' EST I:\\ G IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT. T hink about supporting yourself for twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. Time for your money to grow. But starting early is key. Consider this: if you begin saving just $100 a month at age thirty, you can accumulate $172,109* by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside $219 a month to reach the same goal. At TIAA-CREF, we not only under- stand the value of starting early, we can _help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans. a diverse portfolio of investment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. . Over a million people in education and research ate already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them .. Call today and learn how simple h is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TlAA-CREF on your side. Sta.rt planni\ll your future. CfiU our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it:a' l.j •A.r.rwmit</ <Ill i11lat.r/ rrrlt 4 i.t}(l% rrditt~lt,, 1¥AA Rrtirmrenl Amwilit.r. Tbir rrrlt it wtJ.ro!tly 111 tb••ll•ibt pow'l!r trll<) dl~rl •tf•·•mrpt>umlirr,q. Lt~o'tr ,,. bQJh<'r mlt.r •111tltl · pr ... ltut o•tcy ,Ji(ftrml rt.rul/,t. CREF ttrli/ttlll'-< .,,., ,}i,rtrillllttJ by TIAA-CREF /uJio•iJ111d •rml ltr.rillulimllll Sm•iu,r, r s a t t a

SPORTS September 16, 1993, page 15 Athlete of the Week Ojeda : Triumph Over Tragedy by Mike Leding Contributing Wriier The first athlete of the week for the 1993-1994 school year is Julie Anderson of the women's tennis team. Julie .plays. number one singles for the women's team at Union. ·At this past weekends Renseleer Polytech (RPI) Invita- tional, she led the to an ·it~'pressive 16-n victory over second place Hartwick. Julie, a· junior, has been play- ing women's singtes for the last two years. As a freshmen Julie compiled a record of 6-5. She improved on that record her sophomore year; finishing at 7-4. This year marks the secend con- · · by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor --------~--~---------- ·secutive year that Julie has fin- ished first in women's number one singles at this particular ipvi~ ·tational. Julie breezed through her first round-c0mpetition winning 6-1, 6-1 . In the second round she · struggled a little, but managed to No matter what happens in the final four months of this year, the · 1993 sports year will no doubt be looked back upon as a year of tragedy and mayhem. It has al- ready been a year filled with negativity, from the untimely deaths of five prominent athletes, to the felony charges pressed against two more sports celebri- ties. We live in a time where so . ·much is focused on the negative, \ perhaps too much. It is a world get back on ttack and win 6-2, 7- 5. Then in the finals she humili- ated StephanieSeal~n ofCiarkson 6-3,6-2. Ju:liealsowent on to win the number, one doubles compe- tition, teaming up with Blaire Spritzer to take the championship. · . fuU ofharsh and often cruel criti- cism that no athlete, no person,. can escape. However, last month . a good story finally emerged from the sweHs of negativity surround- ing 1993. A story that probably did not get the saltle attention as the death of Cehic star Reggie . Lewis or the arrest of explosive- wielding Vince Coleman, but de- served that much and more. It is the story of Cleveland Indian pitcher Bob Ojeda. As many know, Ojeda was the third man in the boating tragedy . which occurred on Little Lake · Nellie in Florida last Spring. His Indian teammates Steve Olin and Tim Crews were killed in the ac- cident while Ojeda survived de- spite sustaining serious liead in- juries. Now, nearly six months after that fateful day, the physi- cal injuries have healed. The psy- chological scars remain. For months following his physical recovery, Bobby was still unable to join the Indians. His desire to pitch seemed to have dis- appeared and there was much speculation that he would never make it back to the mound. After countless leave ofabsences from his team in order to put his life back together, Ojeda finally de- cided that he had to pitch, if not for him, then for his fallen team- mates. In early August;·Ojeda pitched for the first time in a Cleveland Indians uniform. He made a re- liefappearance in Camden Yards, home of the Baltimore Orioles. As he walked to the mound, he received a standing ovation from the capacity crowd who had :(iled in to watch their team attempt to stay in the American League East pennant race. For Ojeda, the out- ing was. respectable but it failed to fulfill his main goal; that is to return as starting pitcher in the Indians rotation. Two weeks later, with his wife and Patti Olin (widow of Steve) in the crowd, Bob Ojeda com- pleted his comeback by starting a game in Cleveland. There too, he received an emotional standing ovation. He tipped his hat to the crowd and, with his first pitch, began his life again. Bobby pitched five innings that night giving up three runs with very little support from his of- fense. The Indians went on to lose the game to the Toronto Blue Jays. Ojeda took the loss. After the game, the media attention was naturally centered around Ojeda. While answering the plethora of questions thrown at him from the throng of reporters gathered in front of his locker, Ojeda men- tioned that·he was glad to be back but would have liked to have won the game (a feat which he accom- plished two weeks later against the Yankees), However, winning and losing have become the sec- ondary issue in 1993. The fact is, Bob Ojeda is back, and that alone makes him the biggest win- ner this year. Men's Soccer Routs Hamilton WHAT'S THE HOTTEST CLUB ON CAMPUS? by_Joe Saltzbart Ccmcordiensis Staff . ' ' - .. _ Before,·the ·ki-ckoff;- I ~talked with a relaxed yet excited Aldo Nardiello, head coach of the Dutchmen Soccer Team. Assis- tant coach Vlado Sergovich also discussed with me some new strategies that he hoped would make the team more consistent in the upcomming season. But, not one of us could predict or imag- ine the explosive play that the home crowd would enjoy as Union Soccer dominated Hamilton College. Both coaches hope to improve there preseason ranking of tenth in the state by defeating many nationally ranked teams in their hard schedule. The teatn com- bines great speed and skill up front on the offense and midfield positions, while also having good size and physical play to add to a strong defense. Yet the Men's soccer team had these same at- tributes last season where they finished with a disappointing .8- 6~1 record and shut out of postseason play. Assistant coach Sergovich feels that with a strong freshman class and a greater competive level on the team, a NCAA or ECAA hid will not be out of reach this year. Captained by Seniors Jeff Mel a and Dave Chodosch, the Dutch- men began the 1993-94 season with a strong 3-0 victory. The starting eleven has the speed of Senior Jeremy Liebhoff and Se- nior Mark Olson at the attack po- sitions. Sophomore Matt Stem and JLillior Stu Savage control the game at the center midfield posi- tions with Junior Kevin Wilmot and Freshman Ted Doran filling in as the wing midfielders. A I strong defense is and10red by Junior Stu Polk at sweeper and in .front ofhim, Senior-stopper Jeff Mela adds to the attack. The two marking backs are Senior Dave Chodosch and Sophomore Vinny Obermeier. Union also enjoys the strong play of four year starter Lee Popper in goal. Early on, Union dominated play, having their share of scor- ing chances. It was not until 15:51 remaining in the first half when Mela crossed the ball from the left comer towards the goal, where Ted Doran headed the ball just past the keeper's reach to gain a 1-0 lead going into halftime. The other two scores came in the second half when Olson fed J er- e my Liebhoff t<:hscore his· first goal of the season on a well ex- ecuted pivot play. Later in the half, Stu Savage belted the ball into the right corner after a deflec- tion from a hard shot off the foot of Stem. Union had great help off the bench from Eric Chu, Robert Mchugh, Dave Grandwetter, Ja- son Fisher, Mike Bullen, and John Pearlman. All should see plenty of action this season adding to a strong and healthy team that should make plenty of headlines in the weeks to come. THE UNION COLLEGE. KARATE CLUB!!! Come see what we are about Thursday, September 16 at 7:30 P.M. In College Center 409 No experience necessary!! First class Sept. 17 at 7:00 P.M. in the multipurpose room in the gym .. GROUND ROUND PRESENTS MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL *LARGE SCREEN T.·V.s *ALL YOU CAN EAT WINGS FOR $7.59 OR $.15WINGS ~*MILLER LITE DRAFT SPECIAL 23 oz. FOR ONLY$1.99 GROUND ROUND 1614 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY 382-8730 GROUND ROUND MOHAWK MALL SCHENECTADY 374-0694 t·j

\'[ September 16, 1993 PAGE 16 Wlf£ <!Ion.corll-i£nsis Cross Country Has Successful Opener by John Metz and Bill Rice c:ontributing Writers On Saurday, September 11, the Men's and Women's Cross Country teams opened their sea- sons with both a new head coach and a new focus on winning races. Assisted by Kathy Turco, Profes- sor Ted Bick assumed the head coaching position for the season and gave focus to a team that has not performed well in recent years. The mostly cloudy 60-de- gree weather provided almost perfect racing conditions for both teams. The women's team ran their 5-kilometer race first, and promptly destroyed both Oneonta State and New Paltz by taking six of the top seven positions in the race. Linda Seymour cruised across the line first in an impres- sive 19:13. Liza Morse was close behind in 19:20. Diana Spinello finished behind an Oneonta run- ner in fourth, with Sara Theasdale, Amelia Audette and Sarah Morse closing out the top seven places in the race. The women beat Oneonta 1 8-41, and shut out New Paltz 15-45. The men's team followed in their 4.3 mile race over roughly the same course. The results were equally as pleasing for the team. After a quick opening mile led by Adam Russell wore out the op- posing teams, Union grabbed six of the top ten places. Freshman Anthony Anderson led the men with a 3rd place in 22:51, John Metz was 5th in 23:00, and Seth Rudin, Marc Sheridan, Chris Colpoys, and Adam Russell ~oak 7th through 1Oth places to claim victory over both teams, 22-39 over Oneonta State and 25-35 over New Paltz. This Saturday, before the football game, both teams will race against rival Hamilton on a new course that winds through the campus and provides excellent viewing areas for spectators; Help encourage the team to con- tinue winning races, in their only home appearance of the season. Men's and Women's Soccer Previews -Pages 14 & 15· was given a new suiface. (Photo by Josh Haines/TC) · Fighting Dutchmen Of/to a Fast Start by Dagan La Corte ~porl.r; Editor Last year the Dutchmen expe- rienced what can only be de- scribed as an up and down sea- son. After winning their first three games, the Dutcbmen pro- ceeded to drop three consecutive games, including a homecoming loss to Renseleer Polytech (RPI). This losing streak compeiJed the coaching staff to remove veteran quarterback Brian Harris from the starting role in favor of then- sophomore Scott Newton. With Newton in the starting position~~ the Dtitchmen rebounded, record- ing victories in each oftheir final three games. With Newton re- turning as the starting quatetback this season, along with running . back Chris Irving, linebacker Marco Lainez, and wide receiver Chad LaBonte tonaineafew, the Dutchmen were hoping to pick up Saturday where last season left off. The football squad traveled north this past Saturday to face St. Lawrence. The Dutchlhen pounced on St. Lawrence right from the start. After stopping St. Lawrence on their first posses• sian, the Dutchmen marched down the field. After complet- ing a series of passes, Newton connected with senior Stephen Cusic on a twenty-yard pass for a 6-0 Union lead. Senior Greg Harrison recorded his first of six extra-point kicks on the day to make the score 7-0. St. Lawrence fumbled on their next possession and Union defensive end Mark Mulholland recovered on the opposition's 4 7-yard line. The Dutchmen would take advantage of St. Lawrence's turnover as eight plays later they scored an- other touchdown, on a twenty yard run by Junior running back Chris Irving:.. .This extended Union;s .. leadto 14-o at the end of the first quarter. On SLU's next possession, they s.cored what would be their only touchdown of the afternoon, cutting the Dutchmen's lead to 14-7. Two possession's later, the Dutchmen put on anexhibitjon of their superior running abilities. After three consecutive running gains, sophomore Frank Attah ran the ball 15-yards for Union's third score, raising the tal1y to 21-7. The Dutchmen refused to show mercy, and scored again on their next drive. This time Newton connected with senior Chad LaBonte on a 17 -yard pass, to make the score 28-7 at halftime. Senior Joe Ruggeri returned the second half kickoff 78-yards before being tackled on the St. Lawrence 2-yard line. On the next play, Irving ran in his sec- ond touchdown of the game, mak- ingita35-7 Dutchmen.lead. Four minutes later, Chris Irvifig scored again. This time he did it alone bursting through the line for an 80·yard run, through SLU's in- effective defense. Irving's third touchdown of the day made it a 41-7 Dutchmen lead. Union scored once again early in the fourth quarter on a 5-yard run by freshman Shuron Morton. That . made the score a lopsided 48-7 and that is how it would end .. Newton completed 9 of 14 passing, totaling 128 yards for the day. The win extending his ca- reer starting record to an impres- sive 4-0. Chris Irving rushed for a total of 153 yards, in addition to his three touchdowns. With the season opening win, the Dutchmen moved from fifth to third in the Upstate New York Football Poll. Next week the Dutchmen will open their horne season on the remodled Frank Bailey field against the Engineers of Worcester Polytech, a team Union has defeated eight con- secutive times. ' ! ~ . i i ' i . :1 ! l I !

i! ' 'I It H I! 1i ' !i 1 l I' II I ' ) 'j . i i . ! '~ ! ! I l . I I .I onror tensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number II Mammola -Accepts New Challenges by Larry Paska Staff Writer Fonner Dean of Students, Jo- seph Mammola was promoted last spring to the newly-created position of Vice-President of Campus Life, while Associate Dean of Students Frederick Alford took Mammola' s previous position. In addition to oversight re- sponsibilities for student services, Mammola will oversee three major capital projects: the construction of the YulmanTI1e- ...._ _ __...~~ ....... ater, to he completed in the Sum- mer of 1994: the renovation of the Nott Memorial. e:xpected to be undctway November I and coln- pletedby Febmary, 1995: and the renovation of Schaffer Library, begitming in early 1995. Mammola said, \this is a posi- tion whose responsibilities differ I from the Dean of Students. TI1is job still permits me to have con- tact with the students, something which to me is very important. I expect it to be challenging and rewarding as we undertake these major improvements over the next three years.\ Mammola held the position of Dean of Students for eleven years, and during thattime he developed a program for building the Col- lege Center, and participated in the planning and building of the structure. Prior to that. Mammola served as the Associate Dean of Students at Bucknell University, for·eight years. Alford, who saw his job as making sure the student point of view was represented, was pleased with his new position. ·. \It's a terrific opportunity, and I am pleased to do it here. I like the people and the college, and since I have spent six years here ,I feel a sense of connection to Union.\ Alford will handle activities, health care, residence life, dining services, and career planning. lle also said his job was to erase the line between what goes on in and out of the classroom. Alford is a btraduate student of Harvard University, and prior to working here he served as the Dean of Students at Hawthome College. Mammola enjoys his work and looks forward to continuing. \Change is a valuable part of anyone's career experience, and it will have a positive effect on my time here at Union.\ Schenectady, Ne-w York September 23, 1993 Union College and Schenectady The Controversey Surrounding Union's Perception of the City by David Levine Hditor-in-ch;ef . There may have al\Ways been friction between Union College st•.1dents and res·i dents of Schenectady, but rei ations be- tween the college and I ocals have unexpectedly gotten worse after the unveiling of the Schenectady 2000 Plan. Union Col.lege :President, Roger Hull, is one of the eleven members of the Schenectady 2000 Steering Committee. The Committee, consisting primarily of leaders of large area busi- . nesses, has out-lined the general . goals for .lhe plan. According to the cornm ittee, the goals of . Schenectady 2000 are \to create by the 21st century an environ- . ment in Schenectady that will · give all Schenectadians pride in the community, uniqllely high- light its assets, and attract new ·business and new residents [to the area).\ TI1e plan was necessitated be- . cause \The City of Schenectady has experienced a decline in eco- nomic vitality and population over the last twenty years.'~ The Downtown Schenectady are-a was cited as being one of the areas that has been hardest hit by the eco- nomic downtum experienced by the city. As the initial observa- tions ofthe committeenotes, \As a result of the problems in the Downtown Business District, the area is left with inadequate qual- ity of life services and amenities The .S'tockade area is one of the as.'iet.r; of Schencetady that architect Phil Lewis hope.v to lie together to make Schenectady more attractil•e to visitor.<; and Thnmay drivers. (photo by Brianna Pamode!TC) required to either sustain new the Downtown Neighborhood.\ commercial development or bring residential development back into continued on page 3 The Sun Goes Down and the Lights Go Out Campus Unexpectedly Loses Power For a Full Day because of an Electrical Fire by David Levine Hditor-in-chief Freak accidents and natural di- sasters have a certain way ofhum- bling people and making them realize how different their lives would be if they were penna- nentlywithout some ofthe things that they take for granted. On Tuesday, Union College lost most of its power when their was an electrical fire in one of the Physical Plant's generators. At about half past twelve, electricity to most of the college was either knowcked out or shut off. Social Science, Humanities, the College Center. Schaffer Library, North College, South College, ~ox and Concordy Special PoWerless Issue When the College Center lost power yesterday. most everyone · on campus assumed that the editors of Concotdy would throw ilJ the. towel for this week's. issue. 111 an effort to continually infonn the students ofUniot1 College, · we decided that through rain, sleet, hail, snow. or loss of power, the newspaper would he printed. ·: .. We moved all of.our cmnputer equip111e1.1t to Webster House, where the residents of the basement were nice enough to give ns space, al1d began layout over there. Well, here's your paper. Davidson residence hal Is would all ultimately have their power cut off. Prior campus power outages had led most students to believe that it would only be a matter of a few hours before the electricity would be restored. Hewever, as the estimated times for the resto- ration of power were being con- tinually pushed back, most stu- dents came to the realization that they would face the evening hours in complete dark11ess. The problem was compounded by the lack of emergency power sup- plies on several parts of the cam- pus. The hallways in North Col~ lege were pitch black, and not even the emergency exit signs were lit. The power outage also elimi- nclted the use of hot water, pte- vented most students from being able to study, and rendered alann clocks useless. A Union Co·IIege jLlilior put the situation in per- spective. \It's hard enough to wake up when my alarm clock is working, but now it's going to be ~Imost impossible.\ Most aftemoon classes held in the buildings without power were relocated to the Science and En- gineering Center and other up- campus facilities where power was unaffected by the fire. Classes for Wednesday went on as scheduled, despite the fact that many students were depending on wake-up calls from some of their friends so that they could be on time for their classes. Engineering crews from Niagra Mohawk worked through Tues• day night to try and eradicate the problem. By Wednesday morning, at about 9 a.m., full power had been restored to all of the campus. According to Paul Mantica, of Campus Safety, the fire was caused when water got into trunk lines and began to effect the insu- lation of the wires. An electrical short occurred, and friction caused the wires to start melting. The Schenectady Fire Depart- ment assisted the school in solv- ing the problem, and provided the emergency generators used in Fox, Davidson, and on Richmond lawtl. Campus Safety distributed 250 flashlights to students accross the campus to help them cope with the outage Inside News .................... 2-3 Analysis .................. .4 .Busi·ness .......... e •••••••• 5 World News ............. 6 A&E ......................... 9 Features ............. ll-13 Sports ................ l7-20

September 23, 1993, page 2 Phi Beta Kappa Awarded at Opening Convocation Courtesy t?f Public Relations Amelia Audette, a Union Col- lege Class of] 996 English major received the Alpha ofNew York, Phi Beta Kappa award , presented to the freshman in honor of out- standing achievement in General Education. This award was pre- sented at the Opening Convoca- tion ceremony on September 8th, at the College. Audette is a resident of9 Gretel Terrace, Ballston Lake, NY, and a 1992 graduate of Schenendehowa High School. Also receiving honorable men- tion at the ceremony were Melanie Renaldi, a Class of 1996 psychology/mathematics major of Mansfield, MA, a 1992 gradu- ate .of Mansfield High School. Danuta Trzebinska, a Class of 1995 biology major at Union was awarded the Alpha ofNew York. Phi Beta Kappa prize for encour- agement of study abroad and will spend her jt,n;tior year studying at the Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule (ETH of Swiss Fed- eral Institute of Technolot,ry) in Zurich, Switzerland. She is a resi- dent of Oneonta, NY, and a graduate of Oneonta High School. Union's Phi Beta Kappa chap- ter, Alpha ofNew York, was es- tablished in 1817 and is the fifth oldest in the country. Election to membership is one of the highest distinctions to be gained by aca- demic achievement. Union, an independent, coedu- cational college with about 1,900 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineer- ing.' Founded in Schenectady, NY, in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the New York State Board of Regents. and is among the oldest non-denomi- national colleges in the country. Jane Zacek Named Associate Dean ( 'ourtc.\y of l'uhlic: of Relations Jane S. Zacek of Albany has been named associate dean of graduate and continuing studies at Union College. This was an- nounced recently by Roger Hull, President of Union College. She will be responsible for a number of programs including continuing education, confer- ences and executive education, summer school, and outreach and pre-college programs. Zacek, who has held professor- ships in political science and na- tional security affairs at Union College, the University at Albany, the National War College and Manhattanville College, most re- cently has been a research and organizational consultant. She was senior project director at the Rockefeller Institute of Govem- ment: director of the Management~ Resources Project of' the state Govemor's Office of Employee Relations and the Rockefeller In- stitute: and earlier worked in vari- ous capacities for the Govemor' s Office of Employee Relations. She eamed her bachelor's de- gree in govemmentfrom Comell University, graduating with hon- o~s as a member of Phi\ Beta Kappa; her certificate from the Russian h1stitute of Columbia University: her Master's and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia; and her diploma in national se- curity studies fron1 the National War College. She edited and contributed to two volumes on recent Soviet af- fairs, 11w Gorhachev Genera- tion: /,\·sues in Soviet Foreign !'olic)', and '111e Gorhachel' Gen- eration: /s.wes in Soviet Domes- tic !'oliL:v has been co-editor of a number of other books includ- ing J:'stah/ishinx /)emm:ratic Rule: The Reemergence of Lo- cal Governments in Post-Au- thoritarian Systems (forthcom- ing). Reform and Tran.~'(orma­ tum in ( 'mnmwust .~:vstems, Po/i- lles and Participalion ( 11/(ler ( ·m,mwust Rule; and From ('old War to I Jet ell/e. She has also published a number of articles on Soviet and Comparative Com- munist Affairs. ~ ~606 f£JISCOo/E!RY 93 NEWS Environmental Update ., by Eric Habib Congratulations students, faculty, and staff, and welcome back to Union! The 1992- '93 year at Union was a tremendous success for our .campus as it successfully fornied an Environmental Society. . TI1is past year Leslie Cannichael, class of 1993, took initiative by drafting a successful constitution for · this \green team\ which opened up a door for the power of Union's students and 'faculty tc:l act as stewards in defense of the environment. Currently, the Environmental Socie.ty is being directed by Jen Papazian, President; Juliet Clos, Secretary; and Eric Habib, Activities Direetor; Professor Paul Genest has volunteered as the Environ\Q1ental Society's new Advisor. :me Environmental Society hopes to promote awareness of environmental' concerns and to encourage'all students iiiterested'to ;take part, · Last spring term, volunteering fraternities and sororities got involved by taking part in Reyno.ld's Great Balls of Foil \Foil-a-Thon saving close to thirty pounds of used aluminum foil frotn their kitchens rather than disposing of it otherwise. This foil was donated to Schenectady's Draper Middle School which was a participant in this contest between middle schools across the nation. The middle school that raised the most volume of foil, and was most creative with its shape and fonn, could win one thousand dollars in prize money from Reynolds company. TI1is contest was conducted to raise environmental awareness in young students in hopes of shaping them to be ftJture stewards of the environment. Although the Draper students came in at a close second place, this was a clear example of how students are becoming involved in the environmental movement at Union. In addition, Earth Day was extremely successful at our campus increasing environmental awareness on campus, and selling t-shirts to raise money for the Rain Forest Action Network (RAN). Located in Boulder, Colorado, RAN is a non-profit organization working to preserve our planet's remaining tropical rain forests and to protect the natives whose cultures ai1d homes depend upon these areas. Union students are also busy at work right here in Schenectady. By helping to fund the planting of trees in Schenectady, Union students can help to beautify the community's surroundings and help . purify the air that we breathe. In order to pursue these and other projects the Environmental Society needs more students to participate. Fortunately, Professor Genest h11s offered to contribute in this respect as Advisor. Professor Genest taught Environmental Ethics last spring tenn for the first time at Union. The Environmental Society has already begun planning for the year by seeking guest speakers for lectures, looking into possible projects with organizations like Sjerra Club, and a new environmen- tal newsletter is being considered by the twenty or so members. currently affiliated with the Environ- mental Society. . Most importantly, the Envirmimental Society needs new members to make these ideas become realities. Freshmen are strongly encouraged to learn more about these issues and to join! For more infonnation please contact either Jen Papazian, Juliet Clos or Eric Habib at 372-0140. Berk Lectures on Middle East by Michelle Ellis ( .'oncordicnsis ,S'Iq[f Professor Berk, chair of the history department, delivered a captivating lecture on Saturday the eighteenth at Temple Agudat Achim In honor of the Jewish New Year, Berk discussed the moment.ous peace proposal agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. Berk began his speech by sum- marizing the recent events of the past week aJ1d then proceeded to evaluate four major long term factors that he believes sparked this agreement and in tum, the handshake between Rabin and Arafat. Berk stated that the Soviet Union's fall was an important step in shaping the recent events because this crisis demoralized the Arabs' plight, and once Russia collapsed, the Arabs no longer had anyone to champion thier cause. Secondly, Berk referred to the growth of Islamic Fundametital- ism as an influential factor in the agreement. He suggested that the agreement with Israel will en- hance Arafat's position with a radical Islamic woup in Gaza and the West Bank known as Hamus, from which Arafat needs support. Berk also referred to the desper-. ate financial situation of the PLO as another component of this agreement. Lastly, Berk stated that the ten- sions created by the Intafada (\The war of stones\ and conse- quentially guns ... ) for the Israelis, was a motivating factor for Israel to make peace with the PLO. actual stipulations of the concor- dant and noted that a final agree· ment is only implied. Berk concluded his lecture by suggesting a couple oflong range results which may or may not be played out as a result of this ne- gotiation. Berk briefly discussed the potential aftereffects of cre- atii1g a Palestinian State, He em- phatically claimed that if a state is created, it will most certainly create problems for Israel and Jordan, although these dilemmas can probably be solved with ne· gotiation. He suggested that a n0wly fenned Palestinian State may try to conquer Israel on the grounds that it is unredeemed land. Another possibility may be that a new Palestine might attempt to acquire Jordan on the same premise as the Israeli claim. In addition to that idea, it is also plausible to suggest that since so many Palestinians i11habit Jordan, the new state may believe that it is entitled to consider those lands as part of theirs. C!A!R._'E'E9(:fr:ES'I11Jf2LL WecCnestfay, October Gtli 12pm- 4pm, :fie{c{ :J{ouse Over 30 companies and 25 graduate schools will be on hand to discuss career opportunities. Students from all classes are encouraged to attend. Don't miss out! After Berk evaluated the rea- sons and factors that led to this proposal, he then addressed the necessity for people to recognize the future problems that will re- sult from this entente. The first things that Berk considered were the short tenn predicaments. He posed several questions and com- mented on the difficulties in re- solving these issues, due to the high risks at stake for both peoples. How will boundaries be defined, and by whom? What ef- forts need to be taken and can be taken to contain violence from ex- tremist factions in both parties? How are each sides' different as- pirations to be met aJtd resolved? Lastly. will the Palestinians finally achieve theit goal of statehood? The tone of Berk' s address was, in his own wotds, \soberly and cautiously optimistic.\ He be- lieves that the Israelis and the Palestinian·s have finally had enough and that they both truly want to initiate a lasting peace. Berk believes that the eamest de· sire of both parti'esfor peace may see them though to a golden fu- ture. Ending his Speech hy re ... phrasing the Marxist quote, \Re· ality determines consciousness,\ Professor Berk eloquently re- phrased the quote, \When people finally confront reality, they re· ally knowwhattheyhave to do ... '' Sponsorul 6y tfie Career 'Devefopment Center After posing these crucial con- siderations, Berk referred to the

-Grant Awarded to . . Biology Department by Shveta Srivastava Contributing Writer Union Callege has recenfly r~­ ceived a grallt.of$500~000 from the Howard Hugbes Medical Iti- stitute to support various pro- grams at the College. By continu- ing the various programs, the College hopes to attract minori- ties, researchers, and professors in the sciences. Many colleges were asked to apply to theinsti- tnte for the grant, based on the academic success and overall per- fonnance of the college. Of the nearly 200 colleges that applied for the gr<tnt, Union was one of the 4 7 colleges and universities nationwide to receive grants to- taling $28.5 milli.on from HHMI. U11ion College received a grant of $900,000 in 1988 which makes this College one of the few that has received the grant at least twice. \We're quite proud of the fact that the Howard Hughes Medical histitute has recognized our pro- gram by awarding a second grant,\ said Peter Tobiessen. pro- fessor of biology and administra- tor of . the grant at l1 ni o i1 . \ R e c e i vi n g · a second award is a tremendous endorse- ment of our program.\ Some of the ways the money will be spent \Viii include build- ing a new biology laboratory. renovating the other labs, and continuing some of th~ programs that a:re already in effect ( sum- mer research progr.ams ). The col- lege is also, developing tutorial programs in the sciences to help stuO.~nts. One of the prQbl'fam.sth.,t the college is involved in is bring- ing rising s<;>phomores from urban areas through the Gateways to Higher Education in New York City and to perfonn research and take science courses. One of the goals ofthe program is to get stu- dents involved and more inter- ested in career.s in science and beyond. \We '.ve all heard how little American students know about science and how few women and minorities are pursuing scientific careers,\ said Paul W. Choppin, M.D., president of the Institute.\ Instead of wringing their hands about the problem. these colleges and universities are showing real leadership in getting students excited about science.\ HHMI has awarded over $204 million to strengthen undergradu- ate education in the life sciences at 197 public and private colleges and Hniversities since 1987. The Howard Hughes Medical Institute is o'ne ofthe largest private phil- anthropic institututions in the .united States. Through its grants program. HHMI supports science education in the Unit>:!d States and a select group of researchers abroad. NEWS September 16, 1993, page 3 Student Forum Spotlight by Mia Caetano Student Forum President TI1e Student Forum would like to welcome everyone to campus. The members of the Forum met · this week and discussed a variety of issues. The main topics were the honor code., possibilities for a Winterfest Carnival, Validine, Chet's, and the pending elections. The Academic Affairs Committee has successfully completed a freshman honor program where upperclassmen attended each class and .gave a presentation on honesty. The Committee is also work- ing on creating an extensive booklet on honorl sponsoring speakers on honesty, and creating a fonnal honor code. The Forum is working with the Social Committee in planning a Winter Fest Carnival in accordance with the Winter Affair fonnal in January. Outdoor events such as a snow sculpting contest and mile race are being considered. Chet's has reopened this week after much preparation by the Chet's Committee. They are hard at work trying to book bands and other events for this tenn. The Student Forum will be sponsoring . Karaoke this Thursday night in Chet's, then Friday afternoon's happy medium will feature a jazz band. Don't forget-Chet's is open to everyone, for its focus is entertainment and not alcohol. The Finance Committee will be meeting with all of the club treasurers this week to .go over the new procedures of accessing budgets. The Committee on Committees will also be requiring all clubs to submit constitutions on a disk in order update these with greater ease in the future .. To increase our accessibility this year, the Student Fonnn now has an office in CC41 0. Our office hours are Monday a11d Thursday from 11 :00-1 :00. We need more student input on issue such as Validine, . or any other concern you may have. Our weekly meeting is MONDAY at 6:45 in CC409, and is open for all to attend. ELECTIONS are coming up for three freshmen and one senior rep. Petitions are available in Stu- dent Activities Office, and are due on October I -Elections are on October 8. . Significant Changes in Parking Policies by Liza DeKoven Contrihutinx_ Writer The Campus Safety Department has made significant changes in the Campus Vehicle and Parking Regulations, in an attempt to cre- ate a more efficient parking sys- tem,and to control the traffic flow through the campus , and to in- crease pedestrian safety. Freshmen living in residence halls at Union College will not be permitted to have cars on campus. To prevent Freshmen from hav- ing Upperdassmen register their cars for them, registration cards must be presented. Union College and Schenectady \It would be a big mistake to for a freshmen to have a car on cam- pus,\ stated Vice President Mammola. \It would be a viola- tion of college policy that would jeopardize their own privilege of ever having a car on campus, and it would defeat the purpose of the policy.\ istered within 48 hours. The sec- ond time an unregistered vehicle is found the owner will be fined $25. A\\ unregistered vehicles found in violation of registration code for a third time will be towed and the owner will be fined $50. The towing charge and the owner will lose parking privileges for a full year. The car will remain booted until the fines are paid. Ali other fines for reckless driv- ing, speedi11g, and parking in un- authorized spots have increased from between $2 and $ 1 5 to be tween $25 and $50. colltillued from page I The report notes that JTiany ef- forts have been made to enhance some of the more attractive areas of the city, such as Proctor\s The- ater, the Stockade, and Union College. The thrust of the com- Ill ittee is to present a co11c~ptual plan to \unify the existing ·assets and new projects for the entire downtown.\ , Not long after the Schen'ectady 2000 plan has been ini;tJated, President Roger Hull dedicated his President's Page colunm, ap- pearing in the July 1993 Alumni Magazine. to explaining theplan, and Union's involvement in it$ fruition. The President discussed his involvement in the plan, and how he had invo.Jved architect Phil Lewis in the goal of tying the assets of Schenectady together. In discussing ~hil Ley.'is' plan to bcat1tify the 'approaches to Schenectady'. Hull stirred a con- tl'ovcrsy. Hull describes the en- trance areas to Schenectady as \. . , . approaches that. are presently ~o depressing that the College has a defined route for aH visitors to Union, and General Electric tries to bring visitors into S~henectady .at night. : . \ What ensued IJlUst have come as a shock to the Presi- dent, wiH) ,opened l~is coltimn by writing, \One of the questions that always goes through my mind is whether anyone takes the time to read this column.\ Not long after the Alumni magazine was released. Times Union staff writer Karen Nelis authored an article titled, \Chart- itig new course : Union College shuns Schenectady\. Nelis writes, \Utiion College has been located in. the Electric City for 198 years, but President Roger Hull seems to hope prospective students see only selected parts of the city.\ Mayor Frank Duci, when questioned by the reporter, expressed his disappointment with Hull's remarks, \I'm terri- bly disappointed that that sho~ild come from some of our· leaders .. . You need to talk positively about your city.\ Just how different is the route that Union College encourages its perspectives to use in visiting the campus from the quickest way into the city'? According to the map, visitors should drive off the New York State Thruway at exit 25. entering the 1-890. Visitors would take Route 7, actually go- ing away from Schenectady, be- . fore tu111ing around on Halltown Road .in Niskayuna and heading down Union SlreeL The quick- ~st route, would have visitors ex- iting the 890 on Michigan Av- enue, and coming down State ~treet. before turning onto Nott Terrace. The drive down State Street wonld require visitors to pass an industrial part of town, housing many lower income families and individuals. Hull. in a telephone interview with the Times Union, justified his decision to not only send these maps to visitors, but to also change the highway signs lead- ing people to campus to induce these individuals to take the more 'scenic route.' \It's the most attractive route in,\ Hull said. \Downtown can use a little work.\ Hull also said that he meant the column to be positive, and that l1e believes that . he is one of the biggest cheerlead- ers for the Schenectady commu- nity. Hull believes that as a busi- nessman, it is his responsibility to show off the more attractive ar- easofthecity. , Hull insisted that the repercus- sions of the article, and the ensu- ing controversy, were \nor a flea on the back of an elephant.\ The President did acknowledge that he should 1iot have spoken for Gen- . era! Electric, metnbers of whom categorically deny that they seek to bring visitors into the city at night. Hull dedicated the better part of his convocation address on ' September 8 to the Schenectady There is now a $I 5 registration fee per vehicle for all students, faculty and staff registering cars. Vice President Mammola, said that, \T11e $15 registration fee will go into the general operating fund of Union. The money will then go towards new signs, some con- struction, the repaving of several parking lots, increased lighting and more personnel.\ The first time an ow11er is noti- fied that their vehicle is unregis- tered they will be let off with a waming that their car must be reg- 2000 plan, and the need for stu- dents to become more actively involved in the community. Ac- cording to Hull, \Schenectady · must bloom for Union to thrive. ·• The volatile situation \vas somewhat improved by the rec- ognition of Dr. Hull by .the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahais of Albany, who honored the Union President for his \long record of service to Union Col- lege\ and for his off-campus A Parking Appeals Committee will now meet to discuss com- plaints about fines. \The point of these new regula- tions is not to create a monstrous bureaucracy,\ said Vice President Mammola. \The changes are to help us all comply with regula- tions.'' Several inlets through campus will also be blocked off in an at- tempt to promote safety and to further grasp the concept of a \walking campus,\ said Vice President Mammola. work. The President was given the award for aiding in the Res- toration of the Nott Memorial, bt;ing actively involved in the Schenectady community, and helping to organize the student effort to build housing for low- income families. Hull believes that as a college president, he can use his position to be a \pulpit bully\ to try and get students ac- tively involved in the Schenectady 2000 project. Wrlte for News

· September 23, 1993, page 4 NEWS ANALYSIS Nature Vs. Nurture: Who Has the Rights? by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Every debate topic that surfaces nowadays seems to centralize around the underlying issue of one of the following- who's rights should be focused.on; who's right's are being violated; who's rights depending on sex, age, and occupation are important; who's rights under certain psychologi- cal conditions should be consid- ered; who's rights under certain jurisdiction, pertaining to law 35, section 2, clause I A*, [*=depend- ing on the year] are valid accord- ing to the Petty Complaints Manual for Today's Society. All of these confusing ques- tions lead me to believe that many of today' s \fight for your rights\ issues are becoming less mean- ingful. I am all for making your- self heard, but let's be a little re- alistic. TI1ere are so many people in the world, and everybody can't \ .• many of today's \fight for your rights\ issues are becoming less meaningful\ always be 'right'. People who. fight in wars, or even people who try to live ev- eryday 1 ives are always, in a sense, fighting for their rights. The problem surfaces when a person's sense of their rights be- comes completely self-centered. Rifts are created between either countries. or communities. busi- nesses or families because of the clashing between personal ideolo- gies. The question of human rights is always an issue. With so many conditions, or qualifica- tions, how can we ever decide who is right? Society should look at the per- sonal aspects of why there is a controversy going on in the first place. I am referring to two par- ticular cases that happened this past summer. The Jessica DeBoer case and the Kimberly Mays case are two examples of the question of who has the rights- biological parents or \adopted\ guardians, or the children. In these two cases it shouldn't have been simply who has the right, but more so, a nature vs. nurture question in re- gards to the children. The verdicts from the two cases somewhat contradicted them- selves. The case ofthe DeBoers' was decided on a nature basis. The decision to retum Jessica was based on the assumption that Jes- sica, being so young, was not emotionally attached to her adop- tive parents. I believe the environ- ment in which the child, no mat- ter what age they are, should be considered-over the rights of the biological vs. the adoptive par- ents. The psychological ramifica- tions of being placed in a home where you are forced to go be- cause the courts say the natural parents have the \right\ ought to be considered. Jessica is young, her childhood memories of leavin g the DeBoers might disappear. What ifthey don't though? What if her memory is scarred forever by vague flashes of being torn away from the only parents she knew. How thoughtless of our soci- ety; it seems that the stable, lov- ing DeBoers' had to give up Jes- sica to a mother who changed her mind after the baby's birth and fought the system by manying the baby's father (once she finally figured out who the true father was). Which household seems more conducive to a proper up- bringing? Conversely, in the Kimberly Mays case, she was accidentally switched at birth. Switched she was raised by a man whom she knows as her father. Her biologi- cal parents discovered the mistake after their original \daughter\ died of a heart defect. They tried for months to win Kimberly's love. but she shunned her \par- ents\. Her psychological being was completely with her father. She fought the system so her par- ents would not be allowed to force force themselves into her life. Her claim was that her parents efforts to be with her were psychologi- cally damaging. The courts un- derstood her perspective and voted for nurture over nature by cutting any legal ties that the bio- logical parents could have to Kimberly. Now I want to know what dis- tinction was made between the Mays' case and the DeBoer's case that allowed for such different verdicts. An easy aJ;Iswer may be that Jessica is two and Kimberly is fourteen. There is obviously a large psychological gap between the two, but is it large enough to justify the difference between the two decisions? Looking closer at the underly- it1g scenarios, however, there is not such a big difference between the kids. One had to leave the only home she knew, a home that was enriching and loving. l11e other child got to stay where she felt most comfortable;a home where she knew she would be always be loved. She is now able to legally exclude her biological parents from her life. The similarities lie in the basic fact that [good] nurturing is most important in raising a child. Why then wasn't this considered for Jessica before they took her from her loving household? According to the courts it was the biological parent's right to have their daugh- ter back. I don't feel as though the courts thought this one out thor- oughly enough. I am sure there is a lot more than the media let us know. How- ever, I saw blatant disregard for Jessica DeBoer's well being. \ Maybe the c~urt's hands were tied, but I still think more could have been done.' Maybe the courts hands were tied, but I still think more could have been done. All I can hope is that her \parents\ raise her as well as she deserves, and that her memory will be left without a scar. So much for the rights of the individual who counts most. The Accidental Fauvist Searching For Duman Voices in a World of Bad News by Douglas W. Bartell Features Editor My six year old cousin was doodling in his Temiinator 2 col- oring book a month or so ago when I observed that he was us- ing a rainbow of misdirecting col- ors to decorate its pages. The roadway was orange, the 18 wheeler was greenish and the guns- some black and some pink. It was a scene more familiar to the Lorax than to anything I'd ever seen from his Arn0ld~ness, Mr. Schwartzenegger. \Dan I inquired, \What are you doing? Those things are all the wrong colors, it looks ridicu- lous.\ \But Ui1cle Doug,\ Dan re- plied, (He calls me Uncle Doug) \I like them better this way. Be- sides, they really aren't so great the way they're supposed to be anywise.\ I gave Dan an encouraging pat on the shoulder and walked away amazed at the sense my philo- .sophicallittle cousin, the acciden- tal fauvist, had made. Things weren't so great the way they were, and Dan, probably unaware of the depth ofhis statement, was doing his best to change them. A week earlier, James Jordan was found dead, routinely mur- dered by two young men most likely victimized themselves by 18 ye~rs of neglect and mis-inter- preted Tenninatot movies. Simultaneously, a 13 year old ministers daughter, named Sarah Anne Wood, was abducted on a roadside in a tiny little village west of Utica. All police found at the scene was her bike and an ironic box of crayons. She still has not been found. lllere is a good chance that Dan knows nothing of these incidents in particular nor of the Bosnian affair, nor of Harvey Weinstein, the millionaire who was buried for a week in a Silence of the Lambs style well. What Dan does know about are the events of his own young life. Dan's parents are divorced. It was more than two years ago that his father had a much talked about affair with the woman he has since married and had a child with. Dan lives with his mother, whohas aboyfriend, andhissis- ter - who is the real tragedy in this whole story. Melissa is 15, she likes ballet, and boys and alcohol and mari- juana. Melissa confides in me and tells me what she does when .her mom thinks she is 'watching a movie'. Melissa gets stoned twice a week, lost her virginity at '14, hates her family, and to my shock and horror- recently triedcocaine at a party. I ask her of her ambitions in life, and she says that she wants to g~t out, to nowhere in particu- lar,just out. She carries the ban,.. ner for her generation of lost souls, the living, breathing char- acterization ef Pearl Jam's Jer- emy. It's true that every genera- tion calls itselflost, but Melissa, and the other members of the broken families, overwhelmed by drugs , legions of youths who . stand cryiiig for attention might never be found. You- the reader, have managed for the most part to escape the web into which Melissa fell. We, together, have the intelligence and the ability to show Melissa and those with whom she screams that the world is a place worth ti.ving in and living with. It is up to us to let our younger brothers and sisters see that the fates of James Jordan and Sarah Anne Wood and my cousin Me- lissa don't have to be accepted as the norm. and that we don't have to be the passive majority. Yesterday, I joined Big Broth- ers/ Big Sisters in Schenectady. TI1is was the obvious first step for me to help out away from home. When I am home, I shall devote my time to showing Dan, the ac- cidental fauvist, that he can change those things that \really aren't so great.\ Things really aren't so great in the news these days, a six year old can see that. It should be our principle task to see to it that the six year old fauvist and the fifteen year old lost soul hear our human voices, challenging the world's somber way, offering them a way out. r--------------\1 I I I I I LUNCH Welco111e Back Students! r------------. ......... I I I I I I I I I I I TWO I For Two : $6.99 : Present this coupon ~t Boston Chicken I Rotisserie and receive One Quarter- 1 Chicken White (Breast & Wing) and One 1 Quarter-Chicken Dark (Leg & Thigh) for I only $6.99. Each Quarter-Plate includes I Two Side Items and Com Bread. Offer I valid only at 1720 Union St.. I Schenectady, NY. Please present this : : coupon bctore ordering. Not valid with I I any other coupon or special offer. I I EX(Jires October 16, 1993 1 .. ______________ .. 1720 Union Street. Schenectady, New York Call 346-239.1 Half-Chicken DINNERS $9.99 I I I I I I I I I I I Present this coupon at Boston Chicken I I Rotisserie and receive Two Half-Chicken I I Dinners for only $9.99. Each dinner in~ I I eludes a Half Chicken, Two Side Items : : and Com Bread. Offer valid only at 1720 I I Union St., Schenectady, NY. Please I 1 present coupon before ordering. Not valid 1 1 with any other coupon or special offer. 1 1. Expires October 16, 1993 I •--..----------- ....... l

I: BUSINESS September 23, 1993, page 5 Clinton's Health Care Reform: Can We Pay For It? by Matt Sabatini !J.usiness Egj(or On Wednesday, September 22, President Clinton presented his new health-care reform package to the nation. The plan, devel- oped under the leadership of Hillary Rodnam Clinton, is an enonnous attempt to overhaul the existing heaJth..,eare system in the United States. While many cor- porations and smail businesses have been awaiting this change, many at:e now worried about the extremely optimistic assumptions and estimates made by the Clinton Administration. · The main goal of Clinton's health-care plan is to guarantee basic medical coverage to. each and every American citizen. This wilt be accomplished by requir- ingall employers to supply medi- cal insurance to their employees, and by supplying certain people with government subsidies for prescription drugs. It seems that the American government has fi- nally taken the example of coun- tries like Canada and Germany, where health insurance is consid- ered a right, not just a privilege for the wealthy. Unfortunately, the Clinton administration be- lieves that everyone can be in- sured, while also achieving its second major goal, stopping the spiraling growth of the $912 bil- liotl health-care industry. As. if this is not doubtful in itself, the administration believes it can do so without implementing any major new taxes. While the plan may not be able to pay for itself, there will be nu- Chet's . ' Student FOrum Sponsors Karaoke ·Thursday, September 23 8 p.m. - 1 a.m. T.G.I.F.- Friday, September 24 ·4 p.m.- 9 p.m. FREE FOOD All students & Faculty Welcome If you're an achiever, you can go a long way FAST at Northwestern Mutual Life In tact. Wtlh our college · mternshtp program. you can get a h13'ild start on your ·\\\'\ro whde}ou're stillm school. You'l/.have the freedom to set your own hours {lnd your own pace,and get patd for your producttvtty At tt1e same ttme. · you'll recetve extensiVe • and gam valuable expertence 111 help you after you graduate. Call soon to gel your career to the best start posstble. WILLIAM J. NEWMAN, CLU ·951 1\lb.om.y '\haker Rd. l.athani. NV 11110 om~!): (5161 78~·1141 ·h·:· (5181785-1353 Northwes.t.em Mutual Lite· nw QUiP! Cninp.'lny • merous attempts to curb the ris- ing costs of the industry. In- or- der to enable employers to pur.: chase insurance for their workers, the government will establish \While these cuts are important and. by no means are they negligible, many healthcare ex.perts believe that there will be a large gap between th,e costs and revenues of the new plan.'' state-run health alliances, which through size alone, will lower in- surance premiums; The govem- meilt is expecting to save ap- proximately $230 billion from cuts in Medicare and Medicaid over the next six years. l11ey are also considering implementing new \sin\ taxes on cigarettes and hard alcohol, The administration also believe~'·that through com- petition, and if necessary price- ceilings, the industry's costs will be contained. While these cuts are important, and by no means are they negligible, many health- care experts believe that their win be a large gap between the costs and revenues of the new plan. This gap is the reason much of the business com- munity is worried. If such a gap exists, it will be corporations and small businesses who will be pay- ing the difference. ·The cost for small businesses to insure all of its employees ( they will now be required to insure those already covered on a spouse's plan) could double. Larger corporations, whose past efforts to control health-care costs will be negated, as they will be required to join the regulated alliances, will end up paying more. There is also a fear of government regulation limiting competition in the industry, thus eliminating innovative methods of insuring employees. Clinton's reform package is a much-needed change to the health-care industry. The plan declares that every American has a right to basic health coverage. The problem arises when exam- ining the figures presented by the Clinton administration. While Clinton claims the plan will pay for itself, most experts are wary. If the plan forces employers to cover their workers, and does not cover the costs, the business com- munity will be ailing. P R I.:\ C J P L E S of S 0 U i\' L) _ R E T I R E .\l E :\ T I :-\ \' EST I 0: G IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS Lllffi YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. C an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. ·By starting to save now, you can take advantage of t~x-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $10o each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $172,109* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $219 each month to reach the same goal. Even if you're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve- with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest- ment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75years. Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you have time and TIAA-CREF working on your side. Start planning yot1r future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 180() 842-2888. 75 years. of ensuring the future for those who shape it:M • Atiuming an inttruf raf( of 7. 00% trttlt/ttl to T!AA Rttirt11Unl Annmiii.r. Tbu rat• lJ u.t<Jsolrly to .rboo• lh' powtr anih/fm of rnmpouniJing. L01w:r or bigber flllu O'Ou/J produce vtryili/lmn/ rMult.r. CREF ttrtifu:atu ar< iJi.rtribultd by TIAA-CREF Individual aniJ ln.rtitutiomd&rvicu.

·september 23, 1993, page 6 NEWS BRIEFS World News Israel-John Demajanuk was recently cleared by the Israeli Supreme Court of Nazi war crimes liked to \Ivan the Tenible\. The U.S. has agreed to let him return. It will be a few days, ac- cording to his lawyer, until his family will be able to bring him back to the U.S. Federal courts in Ohio are inves- tigating his participation as a concen- tration camp guard. Bosnia-Despite a cease fire that was to begin on Saturday, fight- ing be~ween Muslims and Croats continues, lessening hopes that U.N. peace talks will be accepted, in Sarajevo. · Poland-The fonner Communist party in Poland took a lead in recent parliamentary elections, which indicates discontent with the present market reforms. Russia-The Intemational Monetary Fund delayed a $1.5 billion loan to Russia, because of Moscow's failure to carry out refonns · and to slow inflation. l11e U.S. and the fund did say that they . were encouraged by signs of renewed commitment to refonn. lsraci-Palctinians in the occupied territories arc ecstatic about the peace accord. Meamvhilc. there is a realization that creating a govemment and economy from the present state, will be more difficult than originally exected. S}Tia-President Mubarak of Egypt reported that Syria's leader, llafacz ai-Assad told him that Syria want to create peace with Israel. Mubarak then met with Yitzak Rabin and said that Arab countries would be willing to change their attitude toward Israel. Georgia-As Abkahazian separtists fired artillery shells into Sukhumni, Shevardnadze made an appeal for intemational help to stop the offensive. U .. S. News Communication-The government is going to allow for the ex- pansion of wireless communications. The hopes of the expan- sion is to bring more competition into the market and to lower the prices for services. Boston-The mayoral race in Boston is open. There are eight can- didates on the ballot for a nonpartisan preliminary election this week. World News Will it Work in the Middle Easl? by Lara Greenberg World News Editor Well, it happened, the treaty was signed,, the hands were shaken and the Palestinian flags were waved, but can true, full peace in the Middle East really exist? Judging from the grin on PLO leader Vassar Arafat',s face on September 13, he is sure it can, but I am a bit skeptical. In theory, this peace treaty can change life for millions drastically for the better,butthequestionis, can this work? \We saw it\ you will say. I saw Yitzak Rabin and Vassar Arafat shake hands on the White House lawn too, but this monu- mental action, no matter how sig- nificant or what it represents, does not convince me. A handshake, while it tneans much to many, may mean little to others. \So\, you ask,, \What could possibly botch up this perfect plan for Palestinian self-rule in Jericho and Gaza, a stepping stone for a Palestinian state?\ Some things come to mind. It is important not to over estimate the role that the PLO plays in the Arab world. True, it is extremely powerful, but has no control over Islamic fun- damentalist groups such as Ham as. The two groups are en- emies whose goals remain very different. l11ere has been contin- ued violence in the occupied ter- ritories against Israelis and even Palestinians, who collaborate with the PLO. This type of orga- nization is very powerful and driven, and will stop at almost nothing. The United States will most likely be the target of many ter- rorist attacks coming from Ham as type groups, considering the role it played in the peace process. l11e tJ .S. had no direct associa- tion with the most recent, secre- tive meetings that led to the treaty, but in the past has been a central figure. The White House also hosted the treaty signing cer- emony. Last winter's World Trade Center bombing was linked directly to this type of group, and who knows how many more \Holland Tunnel\ plans there are brewing out there. Peace in the Middle East, in the past, was reliant on Syria taking part in the treaty. Now, Syria has been left out of the most recent peace talks and the treaty. lt is being put off by Israel be.cause, understandably, Israel needs to digest the huge steps it has taken in the past twQ weeks. Syrian president Assad is angry at the PLOandArafat for stealing what was once his spotlight. l11e danger in it all comes from Dam- asctJS, which harbors many fun- damentalist and Marxist !,i'toups, which oppose the treaty and peace with Israel. Assad is letting these groups voice their opinions freely and could step up terrorist activi- ties if desired. While the PLO and Arafat have peace, Syria is still thought of as a terrorist nation. This type of situation, while un- avoidable, can at best slow down the peace process, and at worst bring it to a halt. When Arafa.t talks about the Palestinian flag fly.ing over Jerusalem, is he kidding? Israel is being very fair, and in my opin- ion generous, with thenewtreaty. So, Arafat's attitude seems a bit forward. This is the type of com- ment that leads me to believe that he will not be satisfied with the two places he has been offered, which if handled properly will lead to more. In the past, several similar offers have been made to the Palestinians, only to be re- fused because they wanted all or nothing. I find it difficult to be· lieve that the PLO; the organiza- tion that has been fighting for years to form a home. state, will settle with anything less than what they had originally intended, a Palestinian state that stretches from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean (all of Israel). The philosophical questions still remains.. Does this conces- sion bring the end of the ancient idea of Zionism? To give up part of the Holy Land, the land that, the Jews believe G-dhad intended theiri to live, means to give up true Zionism .. According to the poles, Israelis are in favor of the treaty 3 to 2. This is obviously the ma- jority,but ita.lso means forty per- cent of the country lacks faith in it,oropposes it completely, which leads to another obstacle. The Jewish settlers in the West Bank are strictly opposed to any sort of concession or negotiations with the Palestinians. They are conservative, religious Zionists who are powerful in the govern- ment. They hold pivotal seats in the Knesset and are not shy about voicing their opinions. This vo- cal f:,'t'OUp can create great prob- lems for the new peace treaty. The Likud party, led by hawk- ish Binyamin Netanyahu is also opposed to the concessions. His party stated that if elected to of- fice after the Labor party, is not required to recognize the peace. This means, if they choose, they can make the treaty void of mean- ing. The points I have brought up are, when combined, very pow- erful oppositions to the treaty, both within Israel and the Mid East, and outside of it. Lest my point not be miscon- strued, it is important to recognize that nothing would be better for the people ofthe Middle East than peace. It is what they want and what the world should hope for. Rabin, the leader of the Israeli Defense Forces, in 1 96 7, took the hand of his invader, on Septem- ber 13, but tension was high, and Mr. Rabin seemed a bit specula- tive, and rightly so. I am worried that the success of !his treaty re- lies heavily on all ofthese factors which can end it. At the same time I am enthusiastically hope- ful. We can only hope that when President Clinton nudged Mr. Rabin towards Mr. Arafat, he was pushing in the right direction. r----------rJr.~7r----------~~~ ....

Watervliet Louden ville

September 23, 1993, page 8 Campus News·Briefs·from Around the Country/CPS· CoHe~e Enrollment Expected to Reach New High WASHINGTON, D.C. - TI1e number of college students en- rolled in public and private institutions is expected to reach a new high of 15 million this fall, Secretary of Education Richard Riley said in the annual \Back-to-School\ forecast. The number of eamed degrees that wil:l be awarded this aca- demic year is also expected to set records. According to the De- partment of Education estimates, 504,000 associate degrees will be awarded; 1.1 million bachelor's degrees; 3 78,000 master's degrees; 4 I ,000 doctorates;. and 7 5,000 professional degrees in medicine, theology and law. It is estimated that colleges and universities will spend about $198.1 billion in 1993-94, up 3 percent since 1992. In the past 10 years, higher education spending has climbed 53 percent. Average spending per full-time equivalent college student is forecast to reach $15,900, up 23 percent since 1983-1984. Pub- lic college spending averages $13,400 per student; for private colleges, spending averages $24,000. Women Dancing With Women ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.- A country and westem dance class instructor created a brouhaha by telling a University of New Mexico student that the school had a policy that women can't dance with other women in the class. The class, which attracted a many women, was offered by the physical education departm.ent for one credit with the intent to teach students how to dance in social situations, according to the Daily Lobo, the school newspaper. The instructor, Jim Calvert, made the comment to graduate student Jill Come!!. He later ~aid he did not intend to discrimi- nate, but wanted to keep the ratio of men and women even so traditional roles CO'uld be practiced in the classroom. ''I have no problem with ladies dancing with ladies,\ Calvert told the newspaper. \But to avoid confusion. I'd rather have a leader stay a leader through the whole class. Leading is a job and following is ajob. It gets confusing to switch back and forth.\ Mandela Offered Honorary Doctorate Mandela Receives Doctoral Honorary Degree GAINESVILLE. Fla. - African National Congress founder Nelson Mandcla may be ofTe:ed an h0110rary doctoral degree by the University of Florida, for his work in human ri~hts in South Afi·ica. ~ There arc some behind-the-scenes discussion on the matter, said Peter Schmidt, director of the Center for African Studies at UF. ''It's in delicate negotiations right now. We haven't heard yet.\ Schmidt said. A fonnal invitation will be sent to Mandela if he is interested in accepting. Mandela was nominated bv Schmidt and Distinguished Service Professor Carlton Davis ~ year ago. and negotiations began shortly thereafter. Mandela spent 27 years in a South African prison before be- ing fi·ced. Tips For Freshman Adjustment ATLANTA-OK. ti·eshmen. clip this article and send it home so your parents can ask you some questions about how you're adjusting to college. Susan Frost, director of institutional research at Emory Uni- versity, urges parents to encourage their children to be actively involved on campus in the first six weeks of school She called this period the \toughest\ pat1 of the transition from high school to college. \Freshmen need to become part of the college environment, build meaningful relationships with advisers and get to know faculty,\ Frost said. \Freshmen need to know how to study. man- age their time, and use the risources offheir scl10ol :\ \ She offers these suggestions for parents to ask their children: -I lave you met your academic adviser? Did you talk about what you want to do with your life and what you want out of college'? - How are you and your roommate getting along? Do you feel at home? - Have you gone to programs on date rape or AIDS awareness? The Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service. CAMPUS TRENDS Hazing ij:otline a N ationalModel . -· . by Karen Neustadt College Pres.\· Sen> ice Ron Binder is about the last persen a party-hearty University of Georgia fraternity brother wants to see standing on the front steps of the fraternity house at three in the momii1g. Nightmare City. For bleary:.eyed fraternity men, the appearance of the hast- ily-dressed Binder can only mean one thing: Somebody called the Hazing Hotline. Binder, the university's ad- viser to fratemities, has to be one of the most respected, yet most feared, officials among the 2,000 fratelility brothers on campus. An anonymous phone call to his 24-hout lwtline, which played a key role in cracking two major hazing incidents this past spring, can make or break a fratemity. Sigma Phi Epsilon received a five-year suspension from .the ·campus when an underage pledge almost died from guzzling nearly a fifth of whiskey. Kappa Alpha Psi was also suspended after an investigator from it's national headquarters discovered that a pledge needed .surgery from se- verely inflamed buttocks-result- ing from a paddling incident. The hotline, which is nothing more than a phoneline to Binder at his Greek Life office and to his home in the evenings, has caught the attention of other university officials throughout the country who want use it as a model. \I know Aubum has one, and Florida, Florida State and Indiana University are seriously thinking about it,\ Binder said. Binder doesn't mind being roused from a sound sleep by worried brothers, parents and girl- friends, he said. His wife is not thrill~d about the phone calls. he says, but for hin;J, it's all part of the job. If he can interrupt a haz- ing iacident. or any other kind of misconduct, he doesn't mind the laek of sleep. The success of the Hazing Hotline _ he's received as many as 1 0 calls in one pledge period. is because Binder promises an;. nymity to callers, he said. He in- vestigates as many as six inci- dents a month. \We tell them we don't need names. We ask, 'what is the be- havior? and give us·the chapter name.' We try to make it as easy as possible,\ Binder said, noting that unless information is cor- roborated, it can be a struggle for the university to take measures to intervene. \I really got the idea from my mother,\ said Binder. \She had a friend whose son was joining a fratemity elsewhere in the coun- try. and he called my mom about some things he was worried about. She advised him to call the. dean's ·office at his scliool. But they told him that he had to iden- tify himself.\ Binder said that very few of the hot line calls are bogus; however, some callers don't take the time to stay on the phone and give h.im enough infonnation to follow up with the fratemity. The calls that Binder receives usuaHy come in after an incident. However, Binder has received calls about incidents about to hap- pen, and that's when he makes an ·appearance a.t the frate.rnity house. \We try to make certain the complaint is credible. Then we document the phone call before we say anything to the fraternity,\ he said. .. Mark Scobee, president of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, called ·Binder's hotline a \double-edged sword,\ and though most frater- nity tnen on the campus support it, it can leave fratemities vulner- able to false charges. \It has really helped to stop hazing at the university, but you 9a11 get phony calls;\ Scobee said. \They don't ask your name, you know. B~tt I think Ron has a good feel for what he should believe and wh~t he shouldn't.\ Scobee s;;tid fratemity presi- dents at the university are strongly opposed to hazing, and \it has been heading that way for a while.\ The Hazing Hotline telephone mtmber is widely published throughout the university. It is sent to residential assistants, fac- ulty, and is even distributed to residential homes and businesses that are situated within a block of a University of Ge~rgia fratemity house: Infonnation is also sent to parents. . \It lets people know there Is a policy,\ Binder said. Binder noted that there has been an .evolution in people's thinking about hazing, and that only a few years ago what was considered tolerable behavior, including cruel or destructive act~, is nowknown as hazing and has become increasingly lessac- ceptable among fraternity mem- bers. .\Now doing all this stuff does not guarantee that we will get rid of hazing. It. does increase the odds, however,. of reducing the number of incidents and the se- verity of incidents,\ Binder said. A h¥-ing hotline only works as a suppleme11t to a strong edu- cational pFOgtam, he said, and a very dear hazing poHcy, He cited the university'spolicy ofbanning 14 specific behaviors that are spelled out to \take the guesswork out ofhazing.\ Fraternity members on the Georgia campus must attend al- cohol abuse, date rape and liabil- ity seminars every year and fra- ternity presidents have to sign hazing contracts that hold the or- ganization accountable for almost all misconduct within the frater- nity house. \There are two kinds of haz- ing: It's either on the organiza- tional level where a chapter has a traditional activity that's against the policy, and then there are in- dividuals,\ Binder .said. \These are the ones who try to mold the pledges. \I tell presidents: 'Make a list of the top 1 0 that don't pay their dues, don't show up for fonnal events, dmi 't go to rush, don't keep up their grades. These are the 1 0 who probably are hazing, and the chapters can do without these people.\ Binder said the lwtline could have legal rami- fications if it is not handled very carefully. Individuals could hold the university re- sponsible if they prove they re- ported behavior that resulted in injury or harm to someone and nothing was done about it. \Some people are hiding be- hind their fraternity, ai1d unfor- tunately, the officers hay~Uo be accountable for these jerks. The presidents are great. They take a stand and.say,.'.Look; we will not put up wit.h any ·ofthis c·rap,' and these .guys say, 'I'll do it ~nyway. I just wpn '.t tell ~llyone,\' Binder said, ·• tlrlye Q!nucor~iensts Stop by any time for info to j.oili CC.303

Arts & Entertainment September 23, t 993, page 9 · ..... Rain or Shiite, the Larl~ Will Play Cbet's Corner by Eugene Kublanov Contributing Writer This past Saturday I found a pearl in a very unlikely oyster. TI1e Larkfest in Albany, the aU- America city turned out to be a lovely surprise on an overcast day, providing a day's worth of entertainment for my companion and me. By the way, l :have rea- son to suspect that the ~'All­ America City'' .nickname was given to Albany by it~elf, much like a person who goes around persuading people to call him \killer'' or \'Wedge\. Anyhow... both ends .of Lark street were blocked off by stages where hands played everything from Reggae to Soul to Jazz. T11e occasional rain seemed only to deter those who actually lived on the street, leaving them in their apartments to gaze down on the thousan·ds of people strolling down the street and occasionally sipping from what I suspect were alcoholic beverages ... but may i1ot have been. After a fairly uncomplicated parking procedure my companion and I brushed by two nicely groomed Officers of the Law and began our walk down Lark Street towards Washington Park. On each side ofthe street we encoun- tered booths of all kinds. l11ere were booths serving exotic foods. not only from ihc upstate New York region but also from around the world. Among the most in- triguing were the pickleq eggs from New Cratsburg, NY and the delicious roasted chive and mush- room Bunyans, which an elderly lady of Kenyan descent otTered us for the very appealing price of $2.50 for an orderofsix Bunyans. Along the street we also encoun- tered your usual tie-dyed places seUing hats, tighty-tie-dyes and anything else you could want for Christmas. there were several booths, however, that were far from usual. well ... some farther than others. One couple was selling what seemed like the booty from a loot- ing raid on their grandmother's house. There were ancient candlesticks, broken glasses, half- tom Cliffnotes for 0 'Henry sto- ries, single shoes and thennom- eter-:barometer sets still showing the readings from 1907. Another particularly interesting booth dis- played carv~d faces of Old Man andthe Sea type geezers. I ques- tioned the saleswoman and she explained to me the process be- hind these art works. Apparently, a gentleman in California goes into the woods and searches for knots of pine, which he then caf\.·es into the shapes of bearded old men using. the natural ridges of the knots as head and beard hair. He then creates molds of these carvings and fills them with the material I was seeing on thatvery table. The art work was truly uncanny. After admiring these old men of wood, we proceeded to the other end of Lark Street, where we discovered a band made up of four women singing heartfelt bal- lads about living in Schenectady. Understandably, we could only bear these howlings for a short time before we were drawn to a local tavem to sample some of the region's best brew. Woody Strikes Back by Charles Agar ( 'olllrihulin~ WritC!r Woody Alien is back in all of his neurotic, one-liner glory with his latest film Manhalfall Murder MliS/ery. rn tl1iS. subtle parody of Hollywood convention. Allen tells the tale of a strangely famil- iar Manhattan couple, himself and Dian.e Keaton. who stumble onto a bizarre murder committed by an aging neighbor. Allan's charac- ter, a publisher, is at first skepti- cal about the treachery of the old man, whose wife dies of pre- sumed cardiac arrest. Meanwhile. Diane Keaton's character pursues the seemingly mundane details of the story with an cagemess fueled by middle-aged boredom and New York paranoia. With the help of a writer friend, played by Alan Aida, Keaton uncovers the ·unmistakable evidence of murder, and cOt'IViJtCes Alleh of the seri- ousness of the situation, sparking a hilarious, mile-a-minute pursuit of the would-be murderer. lltis film embodies all of the elements that make a Woody Allen film so appealing and which, in my opinion, have been lacking in his niore recent work, such as Husband.'> and Wil•es. After a very trying year for the eccentric director, his filmmaking endeavors taking a back-seat to courtroom appearances and me- dia hype. it is a delight to see Allen triumphantly retum to the off-beat, intellectual comedy that made him famous. Diane Keaton plays a great \straight man\ to Allen's relentless. neurotic humor as he responds with such lines as. \It's nothing that can't be cured with a polo mallet and some prozac.\ There is also a st.rong theoreti- cal quality to Aianhallan Murder A~vstery as Allen explores the conventions ofthe mystery genre. Like many of l1is previous films, this is a film about filmmaking that explores film's relation to reality. Afanlw11w1 is Allen's up- dated version of J)mihle lndem- ni~v. a film that he uses as a back- drop to his movie in order to ex- plore the relationship between art and reality. At a cmcial moment in the film, as Allen's character wrestles with the murderer in cli- che mystery style, he prpclain'ls, \I'll never say that life doesn't ·imitate art again.\ Such dialogue proves that Allen is taking a stab at tlie conventions of the Holly- wood murder mystery in a way that is sophisticated and comical. A.fanhallan is a welcome retum to the type of provocative, outra- geous moviemaking of Mr. Aliens earlier days, a must-see for Woody Allen fans. After several pints of the sauce, we were inadvertently drawn into conversation with a couple of the local women who were actually quite entertaining ... until their · husbands arrived. My compan- ion and I were slightly set back, but we weren't dead yet. One of the husbands actually turned out to be very intriguing. He was a writer. He began telling me of his latest book about three legged bi- sexual brooms. It was time to go. It was getting late; so we set out to find our car. Sitting here now, reminiscing about last Saturday, I can safely say there are two things that stand out most about my day at Larkfest. The first is seeing a gathering of owners and dogs jLtst .standing aroLin( chatting(the owners that is, not the dogs), while the dogs were in- volved in an orgy of sniffing and licking, That's when I thought, \if I were a dog, I would yearn for Larkfest like a blind man for Alka-Seltzer.\ When else can you be free to sniff and lick and have a choice of styles and sizes to sniff and lick? My other memorable moment was the crowd flowing up and down the street. If you stepped off to check out a bearded wooden man or a broke,n candle- stick, in order to get across or to get back in the flow you had to pretend like you were in a game of Frogger. The one where you're a frog and you have to get across the street... Don't get hit by the truck! Then when you're past the street , you gottajump on the logs .and everything's moving and the Grand Opening This Week Chet's Grand Opening was Monday, September 20th at 8:00pm. Football fans and oth- ers showed up to watch MON- DAY NIGHT FOOTBALL. The Broncos and the Chiefs battled it out, as everyone watched on Chet's brand new 50\ screen TV. In addition, this past Monday night, Chet's also featured their famous 1 0 cent wings ..... a tradition that will continue throughout the term. Tonight (Thursday, Septem- ber 23rd) the Student Fonun will be sponsoring KARAOKE!!! Everyone is invited and your en- thusiasm is greatly encouraged. To purchase alcohol you must be 21 years of age, but there is no age requirement to enter and enjoy Chefs festivities. In ad- dition to the usual selection of bottled beer, mixed drinks, and soda, pitchers are now available at Chet's! Karaoke wil'l begin at 8:00pm and will last until closing. Come to Chet's and join your friends in an evening full of laughter, smiles, and fun! This fall you and your friends can join us at Chefs on Man- goddamn alligators on the logs and all you want to do is just go get some Bunyans. It was kind oflike being at a crazy frat party, when you just can't get out. Arrrhg! Whoa, Sorry! Well, aH in all, the Larkfest was a pleasure. For all those who were fortunate enough to be there I offer my con- gratulations, for those who day and thursday evenings from 8:00pm until 1:OOam. At the beginning of the week, Chet's will sponsor MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL. Thurs- day evenings will be a potpourri of events including Karaoke, comedians,live bands, and cabarets. Video games have been added to further enhance Chet's atmosphere. Friday af- temoons is T.G.I.F (TI1ank God Its Free}! From 4pm until9pm T.G.I.F. offers free food, free entertainment,and an opportu- nity for students and faculty to interact in a relaxed environ- ment. l11is weeks T.G.I.F. fea- tures \Heavy Breathi.ng Jazz\. This is a great way to start off the weekend- so please come andjoin us! Take advantage of the new opport'unity to sponsor special events at Chefs. All campus or- ganizations are now able to rent out Chet's any day of the week. For more information, please contact Peter Savage at 347- 1774 or Deb Murray at 346- 3181. Come and join us at the NEWCHET'S. weren't, it will be here again next year. TI1ank you for your atten- tion. Wardrobe for the show was fi.tr- nished by Andrei Gullapi of NewY ork City and t\1e t\1e por- table toilets were provided by Schodack, \We're number I in the number 2 business!\. COFFEHOUSE RETURNS! THIS AND EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT 9:00 PM - 12:00 AM @ FERO HOUSE LIVE ENTERTAINMENT GOURMET COFFEES THIS SATURDAY, 9/25: OPEN MlC (BRING YOUR TALENT & A FRIEND) COMING SOON ... JAMS READINGS POETRY SLAMS AND MORE

What Should Schenectady Residents Expect From Union Students? There has been a lot of talk lately that Union students are un- caring when it comes to the condition of Schenectady. It is not uncommon to hear locals downplay the importance of Union College to the city. Far too often it is said that Union students do nothing to improve a community that they should be grateful to. Here's an explanation as to why Union students aren't as involved in the community as Schenectady residents would like them to be. Students, and people in general, tend to become more involved in communities or groups which give them a.significant amount of power to change their stmctures. TI1is gives individuals the incentive to become involved. There are some people that are followers and do not want to have decision-making power., .and there is nothing wrong with this. However, most people will only make significant contributions to a community if they feel that they will have an opportunity to take some kind of a leader- ship role. That is the case for many college students, because leadership skills and the abHity to work with other people are supposed to be developed and fostered during the college years. Many students come to Union with unbiased opinions about the city of Schenectady, a city that they will essentially live in for four years. l11e fact is, many students will become involved in volunteer tutoring programs, the Big brother/Big sister program, and We Care About U Schenectady (an organization that builds and fixes houses for low-income families), amongst many other things. However, as many local residents are quick to point out, many students ridicule Schenectady, and some of the students involved in these programs have ulterior motives, like being able to put their volunteer work onto resumes. Schenectady residents could at least partially answer the ques- tion as to why students don't become great leaders withii1 the community. The Schenectady govemment has sent a cleartnes~ sage to Union students that they are not residents,of Schenectady. Last November. Union students were once again not given the right to vote in the city. The govemment hid behind a rule that requires residents to have official mailing addresses, and not post boxes, if they are to be granted the right to vote. Not only did this decision create hardship for many students who had to ob- tain absentee ballots to vote in the Presidential election, but Schenectady essentially told the students that they were content to give students no. say over who would have political power in the city. In absence of feeling at home in the community, and as though being involved in the community wi\\ give them leadership op- portunities, students have to a certain extent shunned the city. l11e local media has been of no help re.::ently. l11e Times Union should be condemned for running a headline, 'Union Shuns Schenectady\ which was assessed blame to the entire college community for a few of President Hull's written remarks in an Alumni Magazine. '(illy£ Olonror!tiensis 17w ,\'tude/11 Newspaper of l Inion College Since /!~-- David Levine J~'ditor-in-( \hief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Business Editors Campus News Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editors Associate Sports Editors Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser PriJlted by The Leader Herald Deb Mclnemey Matt Karlyn, Caroline Paine* Doug BartelL Erin O'Neil* Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin Talley Heisinger* Dagan La Corte Lisa Lernoi. Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Brianna Patnode Veronica Rogers Lara Greenberg.Craig Greenberg* Dylan Ratigan*. Matt Sabatini Kate Cartland Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Jodie Adams Josh Haines, Scott Steele Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish David Fischer* Brett Saunders* Scott Scullion Staff: Melissa Affronti, Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Suzy Bloch. Michelle Ellis, Sarah Evans, Alex Kreisler, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Heather Manley, Katie Murray~ 'Bharat Navani, Mike Nelson, Larry Paska, Craig Pike, Bill Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michelle Rosenbaum, Joe Saltzbart, Shveta Srivastava Ure ( ~om:ordien.\·is meets every Monday a•1d Tuesday of the aca- demic year. * indicates that the editor is currrently studying abroad Please excuse the absence of some submissions. The power outage had a large impact on our layout process. -·Editors Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concems the Union College cotnmunity. Final Decisions conceming printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need -nat appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The ( 'o11cordien.o;js is published Eight llmrsdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. 111e Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Cmtcordiensi~\· is .published by llte Leader Herald, 8-l 0 East Fulton Street, GloversviHe, New York 12078. The Cortcordiensis subscribes to the llltercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates; SUBMISSIONS: All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. ifthey are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS .. Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise . all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of 111e Concordieli.\'is office on the third floor of the College Center. ·

FEATURES September 23, 1993, page 11 I Getting to Know U: A Series About Our Community This W~ek : An Interview, With the New Dean of Students, Frederick Alford by Mike Nelson Features Writer Frederick Alford assumed the Dean of Students offi.ce :last spring, bringing forth an agenda intended to confront problems in Union and to set the school in a new direction. With the advent ofthe 200th anniversary of Union and the Schenectady 2000 plan set forth by President Hull, Dean Alford seesthis as an ovetwhelm- ing opportunity to improve life here at Union. Born and raised in New Haven, Connecticut, Dean Alford en- tered Hawthorne Collt~ge in New Hampshire. He graduated in 1975 and proceeded to go to Antioch College where he re- ceived his Master's Degree. Fol- lowing, he then left or Harvard to work on his Doctorate from· where he was selected to become the Dean of Students at Hawthorne, his Alma Mater of 500 students, for his obvious fa- miliarity with the school and its faculty. He saidthat_this was defi- nitely a learning experience. Al- though it had its times, what he learned there taught him, greatly about the office of the Dean of Students and where it fits in the framework of a working college. In July of 1987, Alford ac- cepted the Assistant Dean of Stu- dents job at Union College. In 1989, he became the Associate Dean moved on to the Head Dean's office last year. While in of- fi'ce, Dean Alford plans to improve the stu- dent body, their activities, and those problems which are thought to counter the in.- tegrity of the school. Among these issues are an honor code, the role of frater- nities, and hope- ful improve- ments to the stu- dent body as a whole. For one, Dean Alford has been impressed by the student body in their interest in a Union Honor Code. He sights a debate that took place in Chet's last year as an event where he realized just how important the Honor Code issue was to Union students. Dean Alford believes that an honor code would be advantageous to the student body only if it was followed and not ignored. He says that it is up to the student body to decide if it is accepted or not. \I think an honor code; if generated by the students, defined by them, and made central to the place, while getting them [the stu- dents] to believe it in their hearts - I think it would be a very posi- tive thing for Union,\ he said. But he underlines that it would have to be student supported in order for the student body to follow it afid respect its integrity. \I think that it would be a tragedy to put [an honor code] one in that is a joke.\ Dean Alford would like to see three things oc- cur at Union Col- lege and with the student body it- self. One ofthem is to see an in- crease in finan- cial stahility. \Money is what makes the world go around,\ he said understating the importance of economic stabil- ity in the college arena. In addi- tion, Dean Alford stated that an in- crease in student curiosity would be very wel- come. \I think that the ideal quality in students is curiosity.'' As well, he feels the student body would benefit greatly by a more diverse group of students. adding to the curiosity already instilled in the students. He said, \I would like a campus not where students are tolerant, but one where students want to learn more about each other and where they are genuinely interested to know about that student.\ Dean Alford sees this time as an exciting time with the anniver- sary coming and the start of Schenectady 2000. He views President Hull's ideas for the col- lege as energetic and challenging and looks forward to the possi- bilities ahead for the local com- munity. \The quality of our lives is very much interlocked with Schenectady and I hope many stu- dents will get involved in [Schenectady 2000] those projects,\ he said. \l11e better the students are to Schenectady, the better Schenectady will be in re- turn.\ Overall, Dean Alford thinks the future of the school lies in the hand of the students. l11e events which will be coming in the next years present an enonnous oppor- tunity- one th!'lt Alford hopes the student body will not let pass by. Their self-governing in student forum, fraternities, sororities and other student-run organizations has proved the maturity of the stu- dent body and their ability to make correct decisions. \By and large, if you watch the way Union students do things, they generally get it right.\ Right now, you can get a great price on an Apple\ printer for your Macintosh~ So you'll be able to print sharp, professional-looking papers right there in your room- without having to wait around at the com- puter lab. You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer Loan: See your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the '- power more college students prefet The power to be your bese .\ The Union College Bookstore 2nd floor College Center ~--------------------------~-------------------------·J

September 23, 1993, page 12 FEATURES ' Universal Questions Uncle.Edna Rides Again General Ques-tions about the Universe by Rawston Thurber Features Writer There ate many questions that keep me lying awake at night. I have possible answers for some, others still rattle around in my head with no matching explana- tion. I was in McDonald's the other day, standing behind two rather obese women. I was just about to let my soul be enveloped by the smell of heatlamps and grease, when I heardthebolderofthetwo in front of me say to the acne swallowed face of the thirteen year old manning the counter, \I'll have an extrajumbo large tidal wave super splash size diet coke.\ Hello? McFiy? l11at's like or- dering a heaping portion of low calorie lard. What would happen if all in- animate objects in the universe were made of Skippy peanut but- ter? Of course the buildings would have to be made with chunky style 'cause you can't build a skyscraper with only creamy smooth, how are you gonna hold up the building with- out delicious chunks of peanuts? Would one still order\a PB and J sandwich, or would the PB be understood? What about cloth- ing? Do we just rub peanut butter all over us, and then we're off? How would this work? You may think this is pointless, but the bible says that peanut butter is God's food. At least Ithink it does some where in the back; What if Jerry Seinfeld had a si- lent K in his last name. Jerry Seinkfeld. You're not so funny now are you Mr. Smarty Pants? Why, no matter how many times l pronounce it for my par- ents, they insist on calling it Intendo. There's anN before the I, alright? Jeeze. New Kids on the Block sold millions and millions of albums yet I have never met anyone who said that they used to like them. Come on, who are you trying to kid? Someone had to buy their albums, and it wasn't me. Once, while walkin·g with a friend, I saw a really hot girl, and I said, \Wow! Check her out!\. l11en she turned around, and it was a guy. Does that mean I'm gay? Has the word Lick-proof ever been used in a headline? Why when Bo and Luke Duke left the Dukes of Hazard for a year, there cousins looked exactly like them and had the same names? Is this a hidden jab at incesticide running rampit in the south or just poor writting? I want a scientific explanation for morning erections. Why does this happen? Why is my penis up (no pun intended) before I am? I need to know. Why are Bra-snaps so difficult to undo? Wouldn't it be easier if some genius invented a velcro closing Bra? How cool would that be? Or even better, a clap-on clap-off Bra. Of course, .that mi'ght be trouble at audience fiUed events. Why Did Captain Kirk go after Blue women? I mean, come on; show a little intellegence there, James T. You don't know where a blue girl's been. · Is MTV's \l11e Grind\ an ex- ploitation of women; with its \crotch cam\ and cleavage angles; or is it quality family pro- \' graming? · This isn't a question, bt!t ifi see another co ... .£0 naked anything .shirt, I'm gonna vomit Yeah! CO-ED naked frisbee! l11at's so cool. Which one'stheMac-Dad,and which one'~ the Daddy-Mac? Uncle Edna. is a Union College studem who recieves far too lillie financial aid .fo.r the amount of work he does. Edna will gladly answer any question or re.o;pmzd to any comment. Don't ask Ahhey .or Anne when you can a.\·k your own Uncle Edna. Box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna: I have always been a big Michael Jackson .fan but the recent accusations involving . yaung beys scare me. What can I do to help prevent Michael Is a scratch'and sniffRossane Barr sticker a marketable item? · .from preying on more little boys? What the hell are those big bhick sunglasses that you see old people wearing? Are t.liey the . , kind' that allow you to look back- wards?· Bell bottoms are back? Wha.t!? l11ey sucked in the seventies, and they suck now. End of story. Does suck count as a swear word? If you put a cat in a brown pa- per bag, and drop it from the fourth floor of a building, would it land on its feet or would it just go \splat\? Do Fruit Roll-ups count as food? If you buy the Sunday paper on Saturday. does it still count as the Sunday paper? 1l1ese questions, and many oth- ers must be answered, if we are to go forward as a people. -Billy Jean Dear Billy, I have started a nationwide ad campaign that you are more than welcome to join. Our slo- gan: \Hey Michael! Leave the kids alone, just Beat It! Dear Uncle Edna: Don't you find it amusing that Leno vs. Lettennan got as much hype as Bush vs. Clinton vs. Perot? -NP Dear NP Yes. especially in light of the fact that Ross, George and Bill were all bigger jokes. 3. Nirvana II 2. The Vali-Diners 1 • Eddie Vedder and the Better · Cheddars On Campus Why is it that Union can afford to put m1rrors on the cieling of . DlJtch Hollow but still refuse to install them on the cielings of donn room? A Dissertation Don't get me wrong, I am a fan · of the VaHdine card and its many uses. Perhaps no plac¢' betterdemo11strates the versatil- ity ofValidine than Upperclass dining, most particularly during . ;lunch. More people will gain · more from the dining hall than e¥er before. For example: Math majors will love to compute the price of a salad or plate of pasta in the pay per ounce fonnula; Rttssian exchange students will feel very much at home in the .. long quees that form waiting to pay; cleptomaniacs will love the thrill of smuggling food past the unsuspecting cashiers and cl1emistry majors will soon be able to mix their own water ( 12 cents per part hydrogen and 18 cents per part oxygen). A Sophomore Looks Behind Top Ten Top Ten Rejected Names for the group />ear/Jam. The one dissapomtment 1 found was that \Hello- Thank you\ Steve is rendered voiceless. Maybe the folks at Upperclass can find a way to let Steve speak. Student of the Week by Alexis Leist Features Writer A new school year has begun, and we welcome the class of 1997. Every female on this cam- pus can thank God that Nikki Taylor is not attending our school. I have finally become an \upper- classman\ well sort of. A sopho- more is too old and \wise\ (which is what the word stems from, ha ha right?) to be a freshman but yet still too \unwise\ to be clas- sified in the same category as jun- iors and seniors (I sometimes tend to classify them as one). I guess I'm stuck right in the middle, which is where? Absolutely no- where. All kidding aside, I find watching the freshman class fas- cinating and at the same time con- soling (because I am not one of them). I'm experiencing the best of both worlds; I'm young enough to relate to freshmen and will probably have more of a chance to get to know them than juniors or seniors, who may be on terms abroad or involved with requirements for graduate school. The first thing I did when I ar- rived at school (after I unpacked and looked through the new face book) was go to my old dorm, West. It felt really weird to see other girls living in my room and my friends' rooms. I wondered ifthey would make the same kind offriends and encounter the same situations (some better than oth- ers) I did. Somehow, I always believed West was a major rea- son why I had such close friends and good times my freshman year. During orientation every freshman is extremely friendly, (yeah, that lasts for all of three days) and people were saying hello left and right, as my friends and I walked down the hall. Meanwhile I was thinking \Why are you saying hello to us, we're not freshman, what are you think- ing, do we look like freshmen?\ I was shocked, believing fool- ishly that I conveyed some sort of signal or message that made it obvious I was a sophomore. With all their ori~ntation activities, they. became all but invisible for the next three days. Then came the first day of classes. What a riot! Lost fresh- men everywhere.. As one of my friends said it is easy to spot a freshman, just look for any book required by Precept. There were a few laughs had by all, when freshmen walked into wrong classrooms or asked for directions or couldn't get their mailboxes open (which, by the way, I still have problems with). Will they ever learn? TI1e scary thing is that I was in their position last year and some pitiless girl and her friends were sayh1g exactly the same thing I am and laughed their heads off when I could not find my Biology classroom. But Ire- member how tough it was and all the energy one had to expend to build close relati<;.mships with people never seen before, from different places, with different opinions. lifestyles, and values. It's reassuring to retum this year knowing who I was living with and who my close friends were; there was no doubt as to whom I could trust and depend on and whom I would have to be there for, no matter how extreme the situation. With many freshmen guys having become brothers in fraternities; it is also a relief to enter a house knowing that l will know at least one person. l11e fear of walking into a party and seeing not one familiar face has disappeared. Nothing is knew; as an ltppetclassman I can handle myself better; I understand how to balance my time between work and play. From what I have seen, the freshmen seem really excited about Union. TI1ey seem fun-lov ... ing, but also serious about classes and probably have a firm grip on . this Validine system (more than I can say for myself), having known nothing eise. I have no- ticed some trends which I think must arise naturally as a fresh- man. The freshmen go out ex- I 0. Pearl Bailey 9. Toe Jam 8. l11e Dutchmen 7. Oriental Pearl Cream 6. The Seattle Supersonics 5. Five non-blonds 4. Pearl Washington Chris Irving. After starting at tailback for Uriion in wins over St. Lawrence and WPI. Chris showed his diverse talent by hopping on the Concord last Sunday and starring as the lead in the London Opera's opening ofCannen. Good job, Chris! Nominate a Professor of the Week tremely early (9:00 PM? They must be crazy!), and they tend to move in packs, just as we did last year. One did not go out just with good frien~s. but with the entire floor of the donn. It will be fun to watch the new students grow as a class. and I wish them an· good luck! As for myself, I can say I'm happy to have graduated freshmanhood in one piece, blit I still remember the excitement of a world which s\eems years away from life at home ..

FEATURES September 23, 1993., __ page 13 Big Brothers, Big Sisters Seeks to Help Barat Navari Features Writer Big Brothers & Big Sisters of 'schenectady and Saratoga ia a charitable, carjng, and influential program worked and created on the love and time of volunteers. The focus of this unique program compliments its origin. The Schenect~dy and Saratoga chap- ter, founded twenty· years ago, came about because of the need ·for giving rol.e models for chil- dren of single-parent families. TI1e Union College student body, for several years now, has an- swered this need by participating within this \program of giving.\ An informative interview with Ms. Karen McGann, a case- worker supervisor within the Big Brothers/Sisters organization, · provides me the opportunity to · share with you the valuable, beau- tiful aspects and workings ofthis society: T~1e Big Brothers/Sisters Soci- ety is divided into two classes: the Community Program and the Pre- vention Prqgram. The Commu- nity Prograin serves as guidance to the \Iittles as Ms. McGann affectionately calls children from the ages of seven to fourteen. The Prevention PrO!:,'Tam focuses more on children from the ages of seven to seventeen. The society's gc:>al, by providing a source for support, is to prevent the place- ment of children in ftllster homes, thus, prevent family break-ups. The young boys and girls in- volved in the pro!,'Tam are referred to the Society through agencies such as Youth Services, the Boys & Girls Club, and local schools. The amazing fact is how spe- cial the individuals are who in- volve themselves in this union, 1l1ey offer their hearts and time in becoming big brothers and sis- ters to those waiting to hold someone's hand. Ms. McGann adds, \You alone are responsible for the child having a powerful life. The child's skills improve. His confidence increases.\ Ms. McGann stops, smiles, and con- tinues, \The child feels that he is special to someone.\ 1l1e provinces in being a Big Brotl\er or Sister are simple and FUN! The siblings, after having been matched, do a host of activi- ties together; all that is required is four to six hours a week. From riding bikes, taking walksin the park, flying kites, to having a pic- nic, the new friendship develops a bond of trust. (Note: For those potential Big Sibs without any Qualities We Need Wanted: Patient, car- ing, non-judgmental person who is willing to share compassion with someone who has lead a life devoid of understanding. by Craig Pike FeaflJres Writer environments as a child? Think of your friends, think of the people that you grew up with. Do you know anyone that has gone to jail? Tried to commit suicide? been raped? Stayed in a relation- ship that only served to hurt them? Did they ever find their way out of the mental chaos that threatened to swallow them up? If they did, how? Was it a non- IN a world and land where judgmental teacher? a caring and child abuse, terrorism, war, ab- listening parent? a thoughtful and ductions, rapists, murders, thiev- observant friend? Could you be ery, and politics seem out ofhand that person? Will you be that per- and personal control. it can some- son? It takes patience. God times appear that no one person knows. it takes patience, and un- can do much that will affect any- derstanding, and a non-judgmen- thing of importance, but our ac- tal connection. It takes empathy, tions may dictate more than we but the rewards are an immense know. We lose sight of what we scape that keeps expanding. It can do. Teens who join gangs, can be so powerful, if one person women who are afraid to leave an lives a happier life, that person abusive man, runaway children, · will make others happier, which corrupt people in positions of au~ branches outward. Just quiet thority; all these situations seem down your mind; and really look out of anyone's reach, but think at who you know, what they need, of how these people could have not what you may want from managed with a better upbring- them or out of them. They are ing. How few teens would tum sure to need something, whether to gangs for support, if that sup- it be a friend to listen to a prob- port had alread~r come from the !em or someone who can help that home or from non-violent person do something essential for f;riends.\ H.ow. tn~tiy; Ghildren . their lives. And when a situation would mil away'\iftJ1ey had son1e~ . • COihes Up when y~ttr services as one that they could alway;5 de-.. a lnp{lan being are needed by an- pend on? How many more nieti' otl1~r humart being, forget soci- would leam to respect women and ety, forget petty goals, forget control ~hemselves, so that rape money, forget time, and remein- and beatings would not occur if ber the fragile powerful potential they had better role models and that everyone possesses. means of transportation, do not fear, for Union College provides a car for all Big Brothers and Sis- ters). 1l1en there are those of us that just don't have the time. \An ex- tra four to six hours a week; where's that going to come from?\ we ask ottrselves. Ms. McGann answers, \You don't · have to create the extra time. Just incorporate. If you have to go to the library, take your new friend, your brother with you. While you study, he can read. If you go to the gym, take your little brother/ sister with you. Make him a part of your life as you become a part of his.\ Ms. McGann continues. \Once they start [the program], people find that it enhances their I ives.\ In becoming a Big Brother/Sis- ter, one grows emotionally. Ms. McGann stresses, \Students go to college tu team, to mature. Once in college, students stop watch- ing T.V. (news), and thus sepa- rate themselves from the commu- nity. In being a big brother/sister one has a chance to stay in touch with the community and become a part .of it.\ For those Union College mem- bers who did not have the oppor- tunity to visit the Big Brothers & Big Sisters booth during the Student's Expo Fair, on Wednes- day, September 22nd, and are still interested in partic.ipating in this unique, caring Society; you can call the organization at 374-4523, Monday thru Friday, during regu- lar business hours. The procedure in becoming a brother or sister is quite simple: First, the applicant takes part in two interviews that bring out his/ her interests and family back- ground. Secor'tdly, the applicant undergoes a four hour training seminar, encompassing commu- nication skills and child care tech- niques. If desired, a big brother/ sister can ask for and receive ad- ditional training right here on campus. Ms. McGann explores the im- portance of the Union College community, \Presently Union College members are involved in our Big Brother & Big Sister ef- forts. Other ways in which stu- dents, fratemities and sororities can take part in our program is through our fund raising activi- ties.\ She continues, \Without Union College we Would be se- verely restricted.\ Ms. McGann smiles in expressing her t.rratitude, \The college is an important part of our core.\ HOURS: When asked if she could change one thing about the pro- gram, and what change that would be, Ms. McGann replied, \The number of male volunteers. We have over 200 little brothers waiting for potential, respective Big Brothers. But there just aren't that many big brothers. Perhaps because men are less comfortable in nurturing children than women are, but there is no basis in real- ity, for men are every bit as good [in giving love].\ And when asked for one word in describing the wonderful work and commitment of the Big Brothers & Big Sisters union, Ms. McGann thought, then replied, \I have been a teacher, an advocate, and a social worker ... but noth- ing has felt as good as being a part ofthis big family; I will cont·inue to do what I do for the rest of my life. One word, you ask, ... MIRACLE.\ Dear members of Union Col- lege, here's your chance to share your hearts with our community. Get involved. Make an impact! I close this article with Ms. McGann's open welcome to all: In no otherjoh can y;m see a change in children Reach out your hand and hecome afrwnd ,\'o simple. yet so fJOWo:ful l I Monday- Sunday I lAM - 11 Pl\1 EAT IN I TAKE OUT- FREE DELIVERY 8 LARGE I ANTIPASTO CUT I . . I CHEESE 1 PIZZA I +TAX with coupon I I I I I I + GARLIC BREAD + I.JTER of SODA $699 +TAX wUh coupon I I I I ITALIAN I MIXED : SUB 1 I I I BUY ONE I I GE.T ONE I I I I 1/2 PRICE. 1 I I 1 with coupon I Bucket of Ziti Spaghetti or Linguine Meatballs or Sausage Garlic Bread + Liter of Soda $799 I I I I I I I I I I +TAX I with co_upon • Offers Expire 9-29-93

September 23, 1993, page 14 Classijieds WANTED-Motivated individuals for bartending at Chet's. Should have previous experience. T.I.P.S. Training a plus. Pleasefill out applications at Per- sonnel Office, Silliman Hall. MARKETING- Work indepen- dently with our scholarshipo assisstant services. Pay based on commissions only. Send letter of inquiry to: Jennings Associates P.O. Box 9088 Schenectady, NY 12309 TELEMARKETER- $6:00/hr. Call Skip @372-4454 WANTED-Campus Representa- tive-SPRING BREAK DIS- COUNTERS-(Vacation Pack- ages). Earn cash and free trip(s). Cancun-Bahamas-S .Padre Island- Daytona. We handle bookkeep- ing- you handle sales. 1-800-336- 2260 Monday thru Friday (9 AM- 5 PM). SPRING BREAK '94-Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps. Call @ 800-648- 4849. HELP WANTED-GREEKS & CLUBS Raise up to $1000 in just one week! For your fraternity, soror- ity or club. Plus $1000 for your- self and a free t-shirt. JUSTFOR CALLING 1-800~932-0528 ext. 75. GREEKS! CLUBS! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as much as you want in One Week! $100 ... $600 ... $1500! Market Applications for Citibank, VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your free t-shirt and to quality for FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING BREAK '94. Call 1.:800-932-'0528, ext. 68. nATSISOR~ ITODINT GBOUPSI Raise as Much as You want In 0111 w~ .$100. o .$600. I .$1500, Market Applications for the hottest credit card ever- NEW GMMASTERCARD. Users eam BIG DISCOUNTS on GM CARS! Qualify for FREET- SHIRT & '94 CiMC JIMMY. Call 1 .S00-950- 1039, ext. 75. Student Forum Positions Available Those of you who would like to be heard and vote on issues concerning life at Union, should be aware of the positions cur- rently available on the Student Forum, Unions student run gov- ernment. There are three positions avail- able for freshmen and one posi- tion for a current senior. If you are interested in making a differ- ence and desire to represent your class pick up nomination fonns at the student activities office on the fourth floor ofthe college cen- ter, beginning September 23. Fonns must be returned with a written statement as to why you would make a good representa- tive, by October 1, to the student activities office. Your statement must be handed in on a Macin- tosh disc, and you must contact Concordiensis to arrange for a picture. Applications are now available for the following positions in the Student Activities Office in CC 408 • MAJOR COMMITTEES Academic Affairs Council - I student General Education Board - I freshman Honorary Degree Committee -I sophomore Standing of Students- 4 students MINORCOMMIITEES Social Committee - 3 students Speakers Forum- I student Campus Operations Committee- 2 students Liaison Committee for Library- 2 students Liaison Committee for Campus Facilities- 2 students Research & Grant Sub council - I student Academic Computing Sub council Residence Life Committee Writing Board-The Sub council of Writing- I student Human Subjects Research Committee- I student **STUDENTS MAY SERVE ON MORE THAN TWO COMMIITEES PROVIDING THAT THE STUDENf IS APPOINTED TO ONE \MAJOR\ AND ONE \MINOR\ COMMIITEE. OR TWO \MINOR\ COMMITIEES A descriptive list of the major and minor committees will be in Student Activities Room. Please feel free to contact Mrs. Marra at# 6118 or Rachel Schaffer at #5693. Applications are due on Friday October 1, 1993 in the Student Activities Room, C.C. 408@ 4:00PM. By being involved, YOlJ have the power to influence and work with the admims- tration, professors, and other students Sincerely, Rachel Schaffer '96 Committee Chair CAMPUS NEWS The Benefits of Involvement In Student Forum The Union College Student Forum is an active and powerful organization that is dependant upon support from the entire cam- pus. It is essential, that adminis- trators, faculty members, and the student body join efforts in order to accomplish the goals of the Stu- 'dent Forum, there by assisting in its progression. Therefore, we encourage anyone with concerns, problems, or suggestions to get involved by contacting a class represenative or attending our weekly meetings. However, all of these efforts will be ineffective unless our ideas and decisions are accepted and acted upon by the adminis- tration. In the debate last Spring oyer the location of Union's re- cently opened convenient store, this indeed was the case. The original plans called for the store to be constructed on the first floor of the College Center in the area where the phone booths are cur- rently located. This idea met strong opposition from the Stu- dent Forum. Arguing that this space was already over cenjested between classes, a request was made to build the store in a better location. The relocation of the Convenient store was a positive step towards the colaboration of the student body and the adinin~ istration. Unfortunately, there is an on going issue that has not been entirely addressed. This is- sue concerns the refurbishing of the athletic equipment located in the Alumni Gym. Last spring stu- dents put forth their efforts in ac- cordance with the director of ath- letics and other administrators for a plan to improve our current gym equipment. TI1e Student Fonurt has put forth their continual ef- forts for improvement on the cur- rent facilities, without seeing any progress to date. We look foward to the contin- ued support of the student body along with the help ofthe Faculty and Administration in hopes of accomplishing the Student Forum's desired goals. The stu- dent body has been promised bet- ter facilities whi(!h could only enhance campus life and add so- cial alternatives, howevet', we have been misled with respect to when tfiese changes will take place. In the future, members of the Student Forum look foward to the cooperation and support from both administrators and faculty members in order to develop a governing body aimed toward success. At the same time, it is necessary for everyone to actively voice their opinions and sugges- tions to help us represent the cam- pus as a whole. With support from the administration as well as active participation from the Union community, the Student · Forum will be responsible for many beneficial cl1anges and ad- ditions which will improve Union for everyone. Campus Security Report (Time/Date/Description) MONDAY 9/13/93: 7:1SAM Admin. Lot 11l:30AM 10:4\iAM !1:01AM 2:04PM h:05PM St,..inrnet z Arts Bldg. McKPan HousP Campus Grounds Union Av€'. Gate TUESDAY 9/1~/93: 1 .> : 1 6 AM · S t e i nme t z 11:02AM MrK~An House 11: 40AM Psi lJpsi lon 2:09AM South Terrace 3: 1 'i f'M i';w'~'''-: •;rounds 7:40PM IJavid:-:nn q: 2RPM West Col leqe> 10:54PM North Colleqe Wednesday 9/15/93: 1:OOAM llavidr:on Lot 8: lOAM lO:S9AM s:JnrM 9:14PM Mrf<PAn lif)tlS~ Brown«~ll Gates CollE'fiP. C~nter fox House THURSDAY 9/16/93: 1 2: 1 F. PM 3:00PM 3:56PM 3:15PM W»bster North Lane BaiJ<:>y llall Off Campus fR([>AY: q/1'1/93: fl.: 14l\t1 2 : 1 'i f'M l o : J 1 Pl-1 rJnr t 11 (\. JlP•fP AI I;'XAII•lr>t L<Hl€' SATURDAY 9/18/93: 1 : 1 Onm South LnnP. 3: 111AM f'am(:'\13 l;r nunds 12:2.-!f'M Uf f Campus 2; 14 PM f'•)X North SUNDAY 9/19/93: 2:08AM CoL 1 f'q\' Cen tf'!r 4: 2Bl\M C.'lmpu!=! Grounds s: t\Ol\M LAm0nt. r.ot \>:141\M RAymon('l South 9: 141\M Nor I h Colleqe 4:J~PM fox:P~v. Lot 7:44PM l>avirl!Jon Fox/Dav. Lot 1 1 : 0 9PM C'o lleqe Center. Sto).en Vehicle: St.aff Member's car stolen. Attempted Forced Entry: Locked file in officP.. Theft: Faculty Member's ve~n seat stolen from t.hf\ rear of the Arts Bldg. Fire Alarm: Caused by shower steam. Animal Problem: Two clogs running loose harassing passersby. · · Motor Vehicle Accident: Property !Jamaqe to St<~ff Member's car-Hit and Run. - Vandalism: Water Damage from sinks being stoppPd up. Fire Alarm: Caused by show€'r steam. Burglary/Theft: Fraternity items stol.en C)V€'r summer brenk. . - · Safety Hazard: Rope barz·icade> placed <~eros:-: walkway. Fire: Minor (lump;.tpr fire,..no damaqe>. Possession of Weapon: StudPnt possessinq i'l· huntinq knife. Conduct rharqP.s Filed. Sexual Harassment: M<~le suspect exposed himsPlt to female students. Fire Alarm: Caused hy co...,kinq in kitchen. Alarm re-activated at 8:47PM by co.oking. Fire Alarm: Cause undetermined. - Theft: Casette TC!res and CD'S sl.olP.n from s tu<iE>n t 's r.c:~r . Fire Alarm: Stearn frnm sht>wPr. f>PtE>ctor repln<'P·l. Harassment: Deliv~ry person reports hara!Jsment by pickets at 9atP. Theft: Staff M~mh~r·s jacket stolen from UCDU. Vandalism: Wint1ow damaged by BB pellet. Theft: Stlldr;>nt's W<'lll mirror. Motor Vehicle Accident: Property damage tn studeont's car. The·ft: Staff Member· s purse, r:as'h F. crerH t card~ stolen froin un.-lockPd/un<tt tended desk. Forged Instrwnent: Attempt by student to purrhasP a icoholic beverage with false ID. Conduct C'harqE>\ filed. SPD Involved. Fire Alarm: c·:HJ\: hy r-'lrF.> 1 p::;~ uo,p cd ~= t \V\. Traffic Violation: Staff m~'>mbf'r drove .-nnomd r•·-1d bnr r i er. Lif€' Safety Violation: :~mokP DPtr•·tor d.'lmnqe<l by student. Attempted Theft: Suspect c:~ttf>mpt Pd to :-:h\<tJ \' t tatf'!rnity i tf'm thwartPri by ntudf'nl' passAJ hy. Assault: Two campllt:; visitor;, rf>p0rto,1 bPinq assaulted on cam~·us by two othf'r camp•tfl vi o.i i:0rn. SPD Investiqatinq. Minor injuries rPported. Harassment/Threat: F·em<lle student rid i nq on hi k P trai 1 neAr CIF: Co. thrP.at.ened by three persons wi t·h guns. SPD InvP.nti!Jat.inq. Vandalism.: Window broken. Vandalism: Wa 1.1 damaqf'd. Vandalism: Tree supports datnaqf!>d. Damage: Student's cart ires. flat. Cause unknown. Vandalism: Window hrokPn, Fire Alarm: Cause undetPrminf'>d. Vandalism: StudP.nt · s ci'lr ante.nna dnmnqPd. Life Safety V.iolatlon: Tamperinq with Smoke Detector. Vandalism: Student • s t'l'lr mirror and wiper atm damAg:ed. Fire Alarm: c.au,se Cooking in butch Hollow-VP.nt fans were not coyc'ling.

