! • • \' • '' .. ~ •• I • • ' ~ • . ... onror t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume C:XXIII, Number XVI Schenectady, New Y otk March 3, 1994 Nott Under Restorittion by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff The Nott Memorial is slowly beginning to resemble the 16 sided building that was completed in 1878. It originally was con- structed as a memorial to the fomler president of Union Cola lege, Eliphalet Nott. It then . changed its function several times before, most recently, housing a theater for the Montebanks The- atrical Association. The original floor of the Nott Memorial, which has been cov- ered by a wooden stage, is being restored. \The encaustic tiles on the floor are being brought back to their original form,\ said Paul Pathier, the project superinten- dent for A.J. Martini Construe- _ tion. \The tiles come fro91 En.,. gland and it will take a~f.mt 24. different molds to rebuild thel:n; A large portion of the tiles need to be replaced and they are V;ery .. expensive.\ The marble fixtu.res on the walls of the Nott Mci~orial and the stain-glass windows are also being refurbished. \The wind0ws that are being fixed-up are not the original windows of the Nott,\ said Pathier. \The originals were very elaborate andexpensive, and they were replaced years and years ago.\ The restoration of the original ironwork, which serve as the rail- ings on the upper levels of the building, has begun. \The same ironwork that could not be in- stalled until after the Civil War is being put back in,\ said Pathier. \In 1909, pieces of the railing were removed and a platfonn was put in its place for a change in function and to save heat.\ Construction workers are cur~ A bird's eye view of tlte renovations taking place inside tile Nott Memorial _(Photo by Jpslma Wills Haines/TC) tently undergoing a process called 'middle beaming' in the Nott Memorial. \We are extend- ing the columns of the building to create handicap facilities,\ said Pathier. An elevator is also be- ing installed to create handi- capped acc~ss. The elevator will go to four levels- the basement, the first floor, the gallery and the second floor. The basement will be used as mechanical rooms for the new heating system, air conditioning · system and elevator. \1 do not think that there will be any func- tion rooms in the basement,\ said Pathier. \The basement will be continued on page 4 Union Begins 200th Year on Founders Day by Alexandra Gualpa Concordiensis Staff Union College celebrated its Founder:s Day on Friday, Feb- mary 25.. It marked the begin- ning ofUnion's 200th year, and a series of bicentennial celebra- tions. The celebration consisted of special meals in the dining halls, a procession to Memorial Chapel, and a speech by Paul Kennedy, a professor at Yale University. The meals at West and Upperclass Dining Halls, on Fri- day evening were a big success. Tricia Nelson, a representative from the bicentennial commit- tee, met with Jan Gray of dining services to set up the special meals. Nelson and Rawson Thurber; the Freshmen class president, spoke at West. ·n1ey thanked everyone for attending the dinner, and encouraging \school spirit\ among those in attendance. Titere was a large tum-out, at all the dining areas. · The Dutch Pipers sang at Upperclass Dining Hall as well. The faculty were given a special dinner at 'Hale House. · '. At 7:pm~ students taking part · in the procession separated and organized themselves by class at their specific locations. Each class then proceeded to march to Memorial Chapel with their class banners. The senior class in front, followed by the juniors, sophomores and freshmen. Nelson was very happy with the tum-out, and thought that the procession \Vas a good way to get everyone's attention, and was a \great kickoff to the fu- ture events of the bicentennial celebrations\. Professor Nichols was in charge of counting the number of students who participated in the procession, and he declared. the Class of '94 the winner, by a wide margin. Nichols de- clared the seniors' victors in the contest by adding all the stu- dents who marched with the members of the Choir and the ushers, and divided that num- ber by all the students enrolled in each of the classes, minus those away on terms abroad. The Class of '94 will receive $500 for its fund, in reward of its \school spirit\. Rachel Schaffer, vice-presi- dent of administration, spoke on behalf of the student body: \OLtr I 99th marks 199 years of academic excellence, of a fac- ulty committed to its college, and of a student body eager to leam.\ After Schaffer spoke, The Gideon Ha \\ h.!y T cachcr Rewgnition A\\ard rc..:ipicnt \vas announced. Sheri Williams of Brandywine High School of Niles, Michigan was presenled the award by Jason Lietz, '94 and James Underwood, Dean of Faculty. At 7:30PM, every- one gathered at Memorial Chapel to hear Paul Kennedy speak about \Global Change and the Responsibilities of Higher Education\. Professor Jan Ludwig introduced Paul Kennedy, who has taught at Yale since 1983 and has writ- ten many books Oti global and economic issues, including l7n· colltinued 011 page 4 De Carlo is First Woman Officer Elected to the IFC by Alexandra Kreisler Associate News Editor On Monday, February 21, the Interfraternity Council held their elections and voted in their first woman cabinet member, Erica De Carlo. De Carlo will serve as trea- surer on the IFC board, for the year of 1994. This promotes the diverse campaign that so many students on campus support. De Carlo explained that there have been women representatives on the IFC in the past, but this is the first time that a woman has been elected to an officer posi- tion. In response to her new cabi- net position, De Carlo states, \It means a lot to me and I'm very honored. It is a tremendous opo portunity and credit to all of you [students) because it is something that everyone has acconiplished.\ As the current president of her fraternity, Delta Psi Delta, De Carlo was sent to sit in on the IFC meetings. Eric Weinberger, the past IFC President, reveals, \I worked closely with Erica on a number of projects, last year, most nota- bly Rush Convocation for the freshman.\ Weinberger set forth to diversify the IFC, when he took office in February of 1993. Working closely with Dean Alford, Weinberger changed the format of the Rush Coiwocation, in order to add more diversity to the fraternity population. While in the past, older mem- bers of different fraternities spoke about their Greek life experi- ences, this year, a woman and an African American member joined Weinberger in speaking about diversity in fratemitics to the freshman audience. De Culo represented Delta Psi Delta ami Jacques Etienne spoke as the president of Alpha Phi Alpha. W cinbcrger states, \my goal as president, over the last year, was to give fratemities and the IFC a new image. Although the IFC has a long way to go, hopefully Erica and other fraternity leaders will build on what I started:· Chuck Rodman, the newly elected president of IFC alludes to Erica's election as \a remark- able achievement, as far as diver- sity goes within the system.\ It is hopeful that this diversity will be maintained and built upon within the years to come.

March 3, 1994, page 2 Committees. Being Formed A Professional Review Committee has been fonned to evaluate the petfonnance of Maribeth Krupszak, Collection Development · Librarian. Members of the review committee are Donna Burton, Mary Marten, Mary Cahill and Barbara Jones. Any member of the Union College community who wishes to provide written p:om~ ments about Maripeth Krupczakts professional perfonnanee;pro- fessional development and scholarship, or college sen.iiqe should contact one ofthecommitteemembersno laterthauAprjlli'l·994. Interviews may be arranged by contacting Donna Burton,.theernn· m ittee chair. at ext. 6()35 or §28.l• . · Reappointment'Review Being Conducted for Prof. Theresa Marehant.,Shapiro Tite Political· Scien~'\Deptiuentil'si'dtiiitently conduefijig·,jl}ij.;.\ . . ,;, .... ' .... AudiJt<Hls,fo.r·,sp~akwr~· ,.aJ: 11 .. d l· s ingt~rs \:vUtrbe:Jl~td!N\1l}Il\W~1~~;(j AprifJ.i.:an\'·Thttts~y Apdl28 at 6·~ 30·P'rvt· ir.t Rfil up for • an audttiot1 titn.e·wllen yQtt. submit v.omr 'ilrlitft Mrs, Marra's office, . .. . ..... . If you would Hke more infonnation about this, contactJucly·:~b~~jg atx60l0. · ··· · . -. ... . , ... Esstty (;Qp;t~$t$. AuJJuuo£:ed , .. NEWS The Concordiensiis Would Like to thank all of our .·senior editors for their outstanding contributions to the newspaper. You have been largely responsible for the improvement of the campus paper. . It is no coincidence that .as you leave your posts -The· Concordiensis Circqlates ·Over 2000 copies on ·campus each week, close to a 100°/o readership rate. · -The Concordiensis is ranked the second best college tabloid in the U.S. for ''general excellence.\ . . Special Thanks to Deb Mcinerney, Matt Karlyn, Belinda Crago; Niki Goldin, Talley Belsinger, Lara Greenberg, Dylan Ratigan, Sharon Smith, Joe Saltzbart, Alex Kreisler, David Fischer, and all of I the seniors who have contributed to the newspaper. lnsranr ·1111 ChaRJie. Save $3 on a full-service oil change* just by showing your Union College I.D. at Valvoline® Instant Oil Change.® Call 1-800-FAST-CHANGE For more information on the location nearest you. M-F Sam -7 pm Sat a am-5 pm Sun 11 am- 4pm (most locations) *Discount applies to reg~tar priee ohly. N'ot valid with any same service offer. 1019 © Vatvoline Instant OiiChange~.tnc., 1994 '

NEWS March 3, 1994, page 3 Yutaka Speaks On Challenges Faced Jointly by Japan and U.S. WRUC Expected. by David Levine Editor ... in-clrief On Monday, February 28, Y oshizawa Yutaka, Deputy Con- sul General of Japan, delivered a speech titled \Japan and the United States Facing Challenges Together,\ before a near capac- ity crowd in Memorial Chapel. The partnership of the United States and Japan will continue to face interesting challenges in the post cold-war period, according toYutaka. According to Yutaka \There are variousmisperceptions of the Japanese-American security ar- rangements.\ The amount of American assistance to maintain- ing peace in Asia has decreased since the end of the Cold War. However, \The security relation- ship [between the U.S. and Japan] is as important as ever because Japan still relies on the U.S. Se- curity Treaty for its defense.\ 011e misperception many Alneri- cans have, according to Y~1taka, is that \l11e Japanese are enjoy- ing a free ride.\ On the contrary, the Japanese are spending over $4 Billion to maintain the American military presence, which breaks down to over $85,000 for every American soldier stationed in Ja- pan. Additionally, the Americans benefit from their military pres- ence because they have been able to work in conjunction with the Japanese, to eli19inate North Korea's capacity to manufacture Nuclear weapons. The joint economic programs of the .United States and Japan includ~ encouraging economic refonn in the Soviet Union, and helping Cambodia in its transition to democracy. Additionally, Ja- pan ·and the U.S. are conducting agricultural research in Bangladesh, Jamaica, Thailand, and have joint efforts in Indone- sia and the Philippines. The joint responsibilities of the Americans and the Japanese stem from the fact that the two countries account for more than forty percynt of the world's gross output. As Economic superpowers, Ja- pan and the U.S. have lead world action against environmental abuses, the overpopulation prob- lem, and the spread of AIDS. In the past 7 years, the countries have given over $12 Billion to the developing countries to helpthem address these issues. According to Yutaka, \Without the coopera- tion of all nations, we stand no chance in an-esting the damage being done to the environment.\ The collaboration of the Japa- nese and Americans in address- ing these issues is \too important to be damaged by any trade prob- ll;!1tls,.'' said Yutaka. The Consul believes that the relationship be- tween the U.S. and Japan is still strong. He cites the results of a U.S.A. Today Poll of American citizens to further this point. Fifty-four percent of Ameri.cans believe that the U.S. has a stron- ger relationship with Japan than with any other Asian country. Similarly, .seventy percent of Americans like Japan. In addressing the trade war be- tween the U.S. and Japan, which has resulted from the massive trade deficit faced by the Ameri- cans, Yutaka points out that Ja- pan purchases over $50 Billion of American products each year. The only country which con- sumes more American products is Canada. Additionally, the Con- sul states that \Japan is not just buying raw materials, rather, more than half of the American exports are manufacturing prod- ucts.\ Despite the Japanese consump- tion of American products, Yutaka admits, \Japan may not be an easy country wi,th which to do business.\ This is not because of traditional baniers, such as tariffs, according to the Consul. The re- cession in Japan has hindered the country's ability to import goods, whereas the United States is a large exporter because its economy is e~panding. The Japanese Prime Minister is attempting to stimulate the economy by passing a series of deregulatory measures which would lower the prices Japanese consumers will pay for goods. In addition to a $135 Billion stimu- lation package, the deregulation of business is expected to tum the Japanese economy around, lead- ing to the importation of more American goods. Japanese and American politi- cians met last summer to discuss INTERNATIONAL COFF 142 Jay Street Downtown Schenecta 518.347.2334 Yoslzizawa Yutaka speaks ill the College Center Auditorium Plwtograplz by Jeremy Smith for tile Cmrcordiensis haps, the Japanese should leam to spend a little bit more, and Ameri- can~ should l.eam to spend a little bit less.\ This change in saving and spending habits may benefit both countries. Back Today by Caroline Paine News Editor ,. The campus radio station, WRUC, stopped broadcasting at 7pm on Monday, Febntary · 28; The technical manager, David Ovedovitz noticed that · the statio11 was not transmit- . ting to its complete capability. • on Sunday evening. The · transmitter was only using 70 of its 1 00 watt capacity. \With the dramatic weather . changes and ice on the Col- legeCenter roof. water seeped · into the c011ductor of the trans- thitter,\ Ovedovitz said. The signal was bei11g reflected hack into the transmitter. The radio station had to tclilporall) stop broadcasting to pFevent damage to the transmitter. Ovedovitz said, that the station's technical advisor was called in to coiTect the prob~ lem. Broadcasting should re- . sume, as ·normal, later this evening. WRUC win be op- erational this weekend for the broadcast of both hockey games. The radio station plans to cover an the play off games. the possibility of setting muneri- cal targets for American exports to Japan. According to Yu~aka, no agreement was reached be\ cause the Japanese govemment cannot force citizens to purchase American products. l11e Japa- nese leaders stressed that they \would address difficulties to cre- ate an environment for increased sales.\ A \Quarter/Thousand Dollar Mile\ Phi Delta Theta Raises Money for Battered Women Although Yutaka admits that the U.S. and Japan have had dif- ficulties hammering out trade ac- cords, \Tough talk makes good headlines, but it is not a solution to problems.\ Yutaka be.Jieves that even more favorable relationships between Japanese and Americans can be fostered by people from both countries learning more about each other's cultures. Yutaka believes \People to people\ ex- change will facilitate better un- derstanding. Yutakajoked, ••rer- by Michelle Rosenbaum Concordie11sis Staff Many clubs and groups on cam- pus are successful in raising money for various philanthropies. Last Saturday, February 26, the Phi Delta Theta Fratemity took pmt in a fund-raiser, which raised over one thousand dollars for the Equi- nox Domestic Violence Shelter. The activity took place at Crossgates Mall and was called \The Quarter Mile.\ Adam Russel, Jon Lucas and Brad Brennan fanned a commit- tee to organize the activity. They came up with the idea during a National leadership confere11ce. Phi Delta Theta usually does a Softball marafhon, in the spring, to raise money for the American Can- cer Society. Charles King, the president of the chapter said, \We wanted to do something local to make more of an impact in the lo- caJ area.\ As a result they picked the Equinox Domestic Violence Shelter. The shelter has a variety of pro- grams including one for battered women, drug and alcohol abusers and youth counseling. It is an ex- tremely well-known organization in the area; Denny Shandling, the head of the shelter, planned on re- ceiving about two hundred dollars from the event and was sutprised, but extremely happy, to received a much higher amount. The brothers arrived at Crossgates Mall at about eight thirty in the morning to set up the event. They put double sided tape around a portion of the walk way in the. mall. They asked ev- erybody who passed by to donate one dollar. For every dollar do- nated, a ticket was placed on the tape. l11e purpose was to co\cr all the tape on the floor. By re- ceiving donations ranging from twenty cents to ten dollars. the tape was filled, by eight o'clock PM They made approximately one hundred dollars every hour. Fifty Phi Delta Theta brothers and pledges attended the event. working in shifts of fifteen. l11ey enjoyed spending the time to- gether, knowing they were con- tributing to a good cause. Jon Lucas commented, \It didn't seem like we were there for ten hours since it was so much fun.\ Unfortunately, the snow on Saturday morning kept many people away form the mall. However, enough people came. to donate one thousand dollars to the event. \Next year. if the weather is better, we could make close to fifteen hundred dollars,\ believes Lucas. The brothers hope to make this fund-raising event a tradition and hopes to set their goals higher each year. Needless to say, the shelter was extremely pleased with Phi Delta Theta's contribution.

March 3, 1994, page 4 NEWS Three Professors A warded Endowed Chairs· by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Three pro(~ssqrs were ap- pointed the endowed chairs in an investiture ceremony today. George M. Butterstein of the Biology Depmtment was named the Florence B. Sherwood Profes- sor of Life Sciences: Kenneth G. DeBono of the Psychology De- pmtment was named the Gilbert R. Livingston Professor of Be- havioral Sciences: and 11wmas C. Wemer ofthe Chemistry Depart- ment was named the Florence B. Sherwood Professor of Physical Sciences. The ceremony, which will oc- cur in the College Center Audi- torium today at ll :30 a.m., will be followed by a receptiott in the Old Chapel. Funds used in the endowment which are not restricted for any specific use. Werner said, .\an increase in the number of en- dowed chairs it1 the sciences was desired.\ The endowment does not change in the professor's posi- tions. as they will continue. to do research with undergraduates and teach cot~rses as before. Wemer felt honored to be ap- pointed, and was pleased for the Chemistry Department. \Ours is one of the stronger departments Reappointment Review Being Conducted for Prof. Theresa Marchant-Shapiro The Political Science Department is currently conducting a reappointment review of Prof. Theresa Marchant- Shapiro. All members of the Col- lege community with first-hand knowledge of Prof. Marchant- Shapiro 's teaching, research, and/ or College service are invited to provide relevant comments to the Department Committee. Letters or notes should be sent to Prof. Byron Nichols, De- partment Chair. Clockwise from above·(PrQjessor Werner, Professor Butterstein, Professor Debono) Pflotos by Jeremy Smitll for tlr.e Concordiensis: . on campus, a11d the appointment is good for its program.\ Wemer also commented on the appointment of Butterstein. \He and I starte.d here at the same time, and were promoted to associate and full professor at the same time, so this appointment ties in with that very well.\ DeBono ~aid, ''l-am very hon- ored at being named an endow- ment chair.\ Nott Gutted for Restoration Colltinuedjrompage 1 sound proof so no one will be able to hear any of the machines.\ \Drawings show that the stain- glass windows on the roof of the Nott Memorial will be visible from the first floor\ said Pathier. AU the light should focus on one spot on the center of the floor· like it did wi1e11 the building was first erected. However, there will be no statue of fanner Union Presi- dent Nott in the center of the light as there was when the Nott Me- morial was first built. Instead specific audio equipment and a podium are going to be installed so that the Nott Memorial will be equipped for speakers. Wl1en it is completed, the Nott Memorial wili contain glass dis- play cases, The content of these displays are unknown at the present time due to problems with the exhibit space. The proposed date for the completion of the Nott Memorial is February of 1995, but Pathier is hoping that the building will be completed by November of 1994. Union Celebrates 199th Birthday Contilmed from page 1 Rise and Fall of the Great Po·w- ers: Economic Change and Mili- tary Cot?flict from 1500 to 2000 (1988) 1l1e celebration concluded with the Union College choir singing, \Ode to Old Union.\ Most people were vety pleased with Kennedy's talk on the im- portance of higher education. He spoke about the importance of focusing on more global issues, like the environment, and inte- grating these issues with the classes students take. Many stu- dents stayed after Kennedy con- cluded to ask questions. Profes- sor Nichols stated that the content of Kennedy's speech was \very provocative,\ and that its function was to \challenge Union College to redefine·itselffor the 21st cen- tury\. UNION COLLEGE 1795-1995

NEWS March 3, 1994, page 5 Eliphalet Nott: A Look Back on the Original by Caroli~e Paine News Editor The ;Nott Memorial, the only . sixte·en sided building in the · North East, has been at the center of Union College for the past 119 years. The recent restoration projects had been delayed due to insufficient funding aad time. This is nothing new for the his- torical building. Originally in 1813, the French engineer, M. Jacques Ramee, planned to pl'ace a circular chapel where the Nott now stand_s. The chapel plans re- mahied on paper because of a shortage of funds. The NoH, as it now appears, was . designed by Edward Tuckerman Potter. 'rhe founda- tion was layed in 1858 but con- struction was suspended when the walls reached the first story level. The student body, at the time, ridiculed the trustees for their funding bungle in an article, \The Burial of the Trustees.\ Shortly after this complaint construction was able to begin again with the help of a $50,000 gift from two brothers ofEliphalet Nott Potter. ln 1875, the dome was con- structed and finished with tile .purchased from Caven Dunhill and Co., Jackfield, England. The original 'intent of the Nott was to honor Dr. Eliphalet Nott,. who, during his 62 years as presi- dent, made Union one of the four best-known colleges in the coun- try. Originally, a statue of Dr. Nott stood in the center of the Nott Memorial. The stained glass 'stars' in the roof were position to focus on and spotlight the im- age of this great man. An 1851 book on American CoUege life printed vignettes of buildings at Harvard, Yale, Union and Princeton that were \representing a party of prestige.'' One of which, described the building.that would honor the CoUege's es- teemed president, Dr. Eliphalet Nott. In 1903, the function of the Nott Memorial changed. Andrew Carnegie donated a generous gift of $40,000 to convert the monu- ment into a library. Circular desks were leased from Colum- bia University for 999 years and placed inside the Nott for student Ask About our SUPER SAVER RATES to SOUTH PADRE, TEXAS Starting at $399! use. The dedication of the Nott Memorial Library took place in 1904. By 1954, the Nott had become too small for Union's growing li- brary and plans to build Shaffer Library began. The College then had to detennine what to do with the Nott Memorial. In the late 1950's and early 1960's, there was talk of using the Memorial as an administration building or an art center. l11e art center was deemed to be the use best suited for the Nott. In 1961, the Montebanks Theatrical Associa- tion replaced the library staff. The main. reading room on the first floor was converted into a theater. Library offices became the green room and dressing rooms. The two upper levels were used for theatrical lighting and storage purposes. l11e first level contained the College book store and later housed practice rooms for the Garnet Minstrels and the Dutch Pipers. The Nott remained home to the theater group, until the spring of 1993. The Mountebanks gave their final perfonnapce of a mod- em version .of Shakespeare's Tempest, last spring. The Nott was then closed for renovations. When the monument is finished late this year, it will house alec- ture hal·l, study areas and rare ar- tifacts that have been previously stored in the College's ar- chives .. After 119 years, the Nott Memorial continues to be at the center of Union's past, present and future. '94! (The Nation's #1 Spring Break Destination) l . '[ ,·1 ''li'!. ' '• .; I 1 • 1 .LL:...· I~ 725 Boylaton Street Fifth Floor ::n,MA02116 C:aJJ·:· Phone 617 424-8222 Fax 617 424-0704 -~ .. Round .. flghl • Round\' liportllsolll trwlen • ., niQMI hctll IOOOftlnMJdltlona .. FRee ••aame~ * FREE Pldl•. ·cantt.ll. 1nd 1Ctiviti11 It •• of 1hl td111t1PrlnGnlk holefe Mdt.ra * ProfM1ioMI rt10rt Iliff at 1ecation • AH•IMot chlrgM, SJIItUti•l hott1 - tuat and ....... All flights to Cancun, Nassau, and South Padre are Public Charter. The charter operator Is ASR International, Inc (d/b/a Take A Break Student Tl'avel). The direct air £arriers for these flights are Exp1·ess One and Capitol Air Express. An Ope1:ator Participant agreement is required.

,. ,,. f\' •• , March 3, 1994, page 6 Founders Day.Fiasco: 199 Years Deserves More than 60 Minutes The celebration beginning Union College's 200th year came and went, and hardly anyone, students or the local press, would have known the difference. This event was hyped and advertised, but the Union College community did not come even close to filling Memorial Chapel this February 25th. Although the members of the Bicentennial Steering Committee went to great lengths to make last Friday's con- vocation a well-attended event, something must have gotten . lost in the translation to the Union community. One extraordinarily disturbing aspect of the convocation was that President Roger Hull limited its length to one hour. Needless to say, the whole event appeared to be a race against the clock, as each speaker had no problems sparing words in an effort to keep the event as Short as possible. Paul · Kennedy's Founders Day Address lasted for approximately . 22 minutes, probably the shortest Founders Day speech ever . given. Last Year, Benoit Mandlebrot spoke for more than twice this amount oftime. Obviously, length is not impor- tant, but the appearance that this day was somehow less im- portant to the school than previous Founders' Days is ap- palling considering the college will celebrate its 200th birth- . day in one year. Where was everybody last Friday night? Can Union stu- dents not put down their beer for a long enough period of time to attend a one-hour convocation? Can the local press bother to even mention the festivities surrounding Union College's l99th Birthday the day after they occur? Where were the members of the Board of Trustees? For all practi- cal purposes, where was Union College's President? Yes, physically he was present at the event, but imp6sing a one- hour time limit certainly gives the impression that he be- lieved that celebrating the college's 199th birthday was an onerous task. Obviously, the college will spare no money or effort in celebrating Union's 200th birthday, but it will all seem supemcial in the absence of a continuous celebra- tion of the college's history. OP-ED ~ - • ! . ' .•.• tWJ> •.•. Letters to the Editor: The Difficulty of Fulfilling Gen Ed Continues To the Editor: card, and again I went to see the I am writing to bring into light chairman. This time the story was some serious problems with the a little different. Apparently not course s6lection .process. For the enough civil engineering majors third term, in a row, I have been signed up so the class had.· been unable obtain a card for introduc- canceled last term. As a result all tory geology courses. The first the civil engineers were given time I did not get a card, I simply preference for spring term. Why accepted it as something that hap- then, didn't I get a card last term pens to everyone once in a while. if there were so few people signed · The second time, I went and spoke up that the class had to canceled? to the department chainnan who · Shouldn't I get some preference infonned me that I did not recieve over these people who didn't even a card because civil engineers bother to sign up last term? It were given preference since the seemed to me that the geology class was required for their rna- department had some major prob- jor. He did tell me that I most terns to work out in their card se- likely would get a space in a ge- lection process, so I called the ology class this spring tenn. Then Associate Dean's Office. I was came pre-registration for this toldthaticouldn'tspeaktoadean spring term; again I signed up for until I had tried to get a card in Geology, again I did not get a every other science class available to me, because ''you can't always get the scienc~ you want\. As it happens l did get into a science class that I'm not at all interested in and my problem (and the prob- lem of many other students in my position) will never be solved because I have a science course and therefore, in the eyes of the Geology Department and the Deans above them, I do not have a problem. I do have a problem with all of the inefficiency and unfairness I have encountered in my attempt to obtain a card for a introductory geology cia~~. and, the problem must be corrected. Sincerely, Jonathan G. Wintsch Class of 1995 The Concordiensis is interested in findin·g students who will enjoy .being a part of an award-winning newspaper during Union's Bicentennial - Please Call X6155, for more information or stop by CC303, anytime. Weekly meetings are held on Wednesday at 7:30p.m. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a . submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need . not appear in the newspape!, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers~ and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial ·Board. The Concordiensis ·is published Eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is fimded in part by the Student Activities Fee. the Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights' reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (5l8) l?0-6155. The · Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. · SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are . submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS·Dos Microsoft Word oF Wordperfect disks. Othe,rwj.se all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside ·of The Concofdiensis office on the third floor of th~ College Center. · · ' · · · · . • ... . . . .. ... - -.c. ................. ~ ·- -~.,.. ...... ,Jo. ... ~ --- ~-- .... ,.... .......... .-~.-..-~:---...:....~---~~--~

Wit~ :Q!nncnr.hiens.fs · . . - . . . LETTERS March-3, 1994, page 7 A. F~;;a,f;;Tb;;k\T~u\ To '(ke (:ollegeCommunity From Professor George ' ' •1 - • •• • • De~~;rFtiends of Union: .·. · . forms prior to admission dis- Yes,. \I've made a r.ih~-of-pas~ . solved,) I had my engagement sage, ~ heart attack Thursday · with morphine, nitroglycerine, evening, Febn.mry 17th. I had, EKG electrodes, .atropine and a:lotig with ·many others, been TPA- to last mentioned·a new fighting a ria~ging bronchitis and good \clot buster\ - an enzyme so on the Wednesday before I able to break down the clot in checked with my physician com- one of my coronary arteries. Tite plaining of my cough and chest verdict was in solidly proclaim- pressure. His eyebrows raised ing I had a ItA. How could this' and an immediate visit to Ellis be? I'm aqtive, I don't smoke; I Hospital for an EJ{G was pre.. regularly avoid caffeine; I eat scribed; this was done with noth• l'ittle red meat; rve had no ear .. ing found. So, on Thursday I was lierproblems. Regardless, I was convinced that the chest pains. on the list, I am on the list (Note were a consequence of careles$ this subtle denial characteristic eating and anxiety. I drove home, of our Cardiac Care Group). took several antacid pills and Thursday night is indelibly waited for relief. It didn't come. etched on my mind as a ,glowing Gail finally convinced me we green sierra - the trace -of my have a probiem and. slie drove us heart monitor as itwriggles away through the night -several red the hours until dawn .. when I fi- lights included - to the hospital nally went to sleep. If the TPA and a 30-second passage though wa·s effective in its dot busting the Emergency Room . (My vi- the oxygen-deprived par.t of my sion of completing long printed heart would again start beating A Response to L·ast Week's Letter From The Editor To The Editor: ,I, and many other readers I have spoken to, found your reply to Mr. Hopson's letter extremely disturbing. I believe that,. as the \supposed campus voice,\ you do indeed have to justify each and every word published to the campus you serve. Let's not forget where the funding for The Concordiensis comes from: student's money. No matter how many \prestigious awards\ you may receive from outside sources, your first and foremost duty is to the Union College community. It is they who must be satisfied with their newspaper. The Concordiensis is not above criticism, and deserves it if even one student i.s dissatisfied. Moreover, you should look to such criticism as a Wt~-Y of gauging whether you are meeting the needs of the campus and as a way of finding the flaws you may have otherwise missed. You should be glad there are students out there who care enough to point out problems, giving you the opportunity to become an even better publication. No one should rest their laurels; the award was only second place'. Most disturbing was you threat, \it is not a wise political maneuver to threaten editors of the most widel)' read campus publication.\ What did you mean by this, editor? Have you decided that The Concordiensis is an autonomous publication, printing only what suits the editors' particular tastes. That you are not the \supposed campus voice,\ but rather the dictator of the media of Union College. That you, in a highly defensive posture, have no wish to fulfill you duty to print all views on a subject, not just your own? As likely as this seems, the \campus voice\ is not one homogeneous voice, but is composed of many voices. It is certainly not merely your own being echoed back at you. Surely such a prestigious publication as The Concordiensis can whether a few minor attacks by people like Mr. Hopson, who you have deemed unworthy of joining your \extremely well qualified staff.\ Signed, James Pulichak Concordy Editor Accused ' ~ Of Being An \Egomaniac\ To the Editor: I'll ignore. the fac.t that the editotial response to David Hopson's letter in last week's issue was vindictive and unprofessional. But I can't ignore the ravings of an egomaniac. You wrote \ ... it is not wise a wise political maneuver to threaten editors of the most widely read campus.publication.\ What is that supposed to mean? That David Hopson might wake up with a horse's ~ead in hi~ bed? Whatever your delusions may be; Mr. Levine, The Cmu.:tmlielisi.'> is not the New York Times or the Washington Post; as its editor, you don't have the power to ruin I ives or to make or break careers. Someone who dares to criticize the paper shouldn't have to be subjected to a half.•page editorial lashing. If you c~n't take criticism without suppressing the urge to make empty threats, you're in the wrong business. Sincerely, Betsy Robinson but ·confusedly~and so a· goed sign would be great .irregularity in the pattern. Such was the case; the green trace did everything but loops. And I wondered, is it good for me to be watching,myselfthis way? Is this healthy? But the al- ternative ofmy mind climbing ev~ ery other strange thought of those wolfhours seemed less therapeu- tic to watch! Next came the lidocaine, an an- esthetic to quiet my arhythtnic heart,, and sleep, followed by the echo cardiogram. The procedures were now extending into days. I was to be at Ellis Hospital for a week, atleast, I was told. Horrors. Now came the depression. \I'm defective, I'm a new \old person\ with all the burdens and con- straints. I'm no longer able,\ quite a series of slitny, sudden, scream- ers, but also came the friends. A riot of friends, so many in fact that the nurses had to set limits. Such a glorious, generous, supportive parade of light and happiness. How can I have so many friends who care so much as to plod the ice and wind blowing snow to come? The flowers came -mostly sunny yellows, exploding on the shelves and windowsills, thou- sands of joyful positive tlwughts. And. the answer came. I am blessedtobean academic, arnem- ber of a college community. I'm a brother of the Union College Family. There is no maudlin hy- perbole here. Damn, I am a mem- ber of a loving, caring, commu- nity and I had to have a HA to learn this. And so dear brothers and sisters I tearfully thank you for wrapping me itt such a finely and diversity crafted, and comforting blanket of support and love. It was needed - so needed to help Gail and me through the hardest time ever. Thursday, one week from ar- rival, I took my treadmill stress test to learn that the ventricular damage is not so serio.us and that I could go home and so here I sit under house arrest among my flowers and cards. Assuming that I can keep control and resist the snow shoveling that has been typical of this winter at my dis- content I will be back on line for the spring term. We are blessed to have Ellis Hospital at our door. The care I received vvas an unbelievable blend of love and the technical; angels without wings and the therapies of Star Wars. We are blessed to have Union College; join with you in celebrating our existence. With Great Appreciation, Carl George Biology Union College A Call for Revolution at Union To the Editor: On Friday, February 25, there was a revolution in the Humani- ties building. Students of the En- glish 19 class were scheduled to take a quiz on the works and their authors that the students had been reading prior to this date. During the previous class students com- plained to the professor that they did not want to take the qui:z,. The professor responded, \The only way for you not to take the quiz would be for all of you to revolt and walk out. But then, none of you have the balls to do that.\ After this statement was made, a brief discus- sion ensued on how the majority of the works read in the class were about revolting against convention and bringing about social change. TI1e day of the quiz arrived, and a majority of the class proved to \have the balls\ and walked out FRANCE AUSTRALIA while a minority stayed behind and took the quiz. On Monday, February 28, a make up quiz was offered to the students who .. had proven their point,\ as a good will gesture by the professor. The students were then faced with the question of whether or not they really had proven their point if they took a quiz on Monday.ls there a differ- ence between walking back in the class roo111 on Friday and taking it or taking the Monday make up? Either way, ifthe quiz was refused for more than a lack of prepara- tiOI\, then the revolution would be pointless if the quiz was taken. I can not speak for all of my classmates who walked out en this quiz and their reasoning behind it. But the fact that we did walk out sparked so much controversy among ourselves and those who RUS&_IA ENGLAND Global Internship and Language Programs INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS BOSTON UNIVERSITY For program dtltllls complete lhe coupoil below ond mal{ it to: Boston University International Programs e 232 Bay Slate Road. Box Q, Boston, MA02215 • 6171353·9888 (n ~~~aa~zMza~~~~~z~~Ma~a·x·~~~ao~~~z 1 w~na~au=AAz®ED~~aa~~~ FRANCE AUSTRALIA RUSSIA ENGLAND Plea~ rank as.l.2, and 3 the programs in which you ate most interested. You will receive information on all of om international programs Internship Programs Language and Liberal Arts Programs [J LondOil, England [J Paris, France [J Belize [J Niamey, Niger 0 Madrid, Spain 0 Sydney, Austrillia [J Grenoble. Frart~e 0 Oltford, England [J Moscow, Russia [JWashington, D.C. D Haifa, Israel D Padova,ilaly • D Madrid, Spain [J Quito. Ecutldor I om illlue.sttd In ot'Mr progNlliiSit:eiUitrlts: ---------------- I would like to receive infonnation .about your semester/summer programs (circle one). N~------------------------------------------------------------- S~reet ------------- City _______ _ . State ____ ... Zip ------- Phone...__,_ ________ _ lmve heard the campus rumors, that I fell I must at least explain why I refused (and still refuse) to take the quiz. During the course of the past eight weeks. the English 19 class has read such authors as Jonson, Donne, Shakespeare, Sidney. Hobbes. and Milton. Each author wrote against the social, sexuaL or political conventions of the day. The original purpose of their works was to excite their readers, create contreversy, and promote change. After assigning these works, the English 19 pro- fessor explained the fonnat of the quiz that would be given. It would have a list of quotes that the students would have to use to identify the title and the au- thor. This method of testing would only detennme if the stu- dents had read the works. It would not detennine if they 1111- derstood them or could get any practical use out of reading them. The professor. with one quiz, took most of the meaning and fire away from these author's works. This is my protest; I'm frus- trated to be attending apathetic classes, in an apathetic school. to prepare for life in an apathetic world. I realize that 'apathy' is an over used tenn for this cam- pus hut I took the time to look it up and see what it really meant. To be 'apathetic' is \to show little or no emotion or feeling; to be spiritless.\ All of the works that I have ever read in the Hu- manities were a result of spirit. No matter what discipline a per- son studies, they will find that all the of the great discoveries and break throughs were made by those who went against conven- tion and pushed for change. It is time the students of these great people also had some spirit and became excited in their work. Milton wrote in his Areopagilic:a • .. God then raises to his own work men of rare abilities and more than common COlftilllll!l# Olf pagt! 8

March 3, 1994, page 8 LETTERS Introduction to Reality: A Bubble Bursting About the Greatness of The Concordiensis To the Editor; I write you for one purpose: I want to burst your bubble about the C'om:ordiensis' greatness and to introduce you to the reality of your paper's mediocrity. I will not, however, leave my letter in- complete without a word or two of advice, because I do think that your paper may be worth saving, and it can be, with the right ap- proach. But first, let me point out that the manner in which David Hopson's letter of complaint was handled lacked any semblance of professionalism. A newspaper which necessarily advertises cam- pus events should not make the director of a play seem an ingrate for complaining about a grossly inaccurate press release, and should, if necessary, humbly ad- mit to any mistakes made therein. Finger pointing is childish; in the end. the newspaper itself is re- sponsible for what it prints, and if its material is not correct and suitable, then only the newspaper can be held accountable. this could an be dismissed ifthe press release for Dealh and I he Maiden were one botched example, but alas, it is only typical ofthe bun- gling mediocrity of your newspa- per: many articles are so deficient in English grammar and usage that to finish reading many of them is truly a wearying and un- rewarding task. I do not know where this fault lies, but I would guess that it is not with the writ- ers, as I myself have submitted artides which had no grammati- cal flaws upon submission, but abounded in flaws in the final copy. Regardless of culpability, it is ultimately the responsibility of the editorial board to fix what needs fixing, and, if it proves nec- essary to make cuts in lengthy articles, to inake those cuts with an eye toward preserving both the rules of grammar and the author's intent. This is where the problem lies, and it is in this that the absurdity of the Concordiensis' national award, the ludicrous subject of empty boasts, is evident. The award was, if I was informed cor- rectly, for layout, for how good the paper looks frorn a distance, for how good a job the comput- ers do arranging the text The award was not for accuracy of infonnafion, fot scarcity of spell- ing and grammatical errors, for excellence in writing and style. If the award was for these things, then my faith in Arnerica's edu- cational system has gutteFed, fo~ the paper fails on these three counts, and should not, by its flaws, represent the summit of this country's undergraduate weekly publications. This status, however, can be achieved simply by instit\lting a higher degree of editorial thor- oughness and by rigidly maintain- ing a hi.gher standard of submis· sions. This leads me to my ad- vice: cut back the size of your paper until you can handle the proofreading, and make the ar- ticles good articles. While color photos are snappy, the substance ofthe paperisnot enough to make a sHitable doormat, and so seems· at present a lamentable waste of time and energy. What the paper needs, if excellence is its aim- and about this I may be mistaken; mediocrity may very well have become an acceptable standard in your office - is to be cut back un- til only good articles are enough to go· to print with, until there is a large enough editorial board to ensure that fhe p\aper is thor- oughly proofread, until there 'are such writers as will not mutihite their native language. Tlwre is, in yol!r paper, the potential for excellence, but it cannot come of a system which admits and ac- cepts the considerable errors which result from the shoestring natttre· of the paper's production. Nor can it come of a chauvinistic system which fails to see its own shortcomings, and thus alienates the critics who might become writers and editors if the standards of the paper could be raised, but rightfully refuse to be involved in abject mediocrity. l will not, I should let you know, admit any validity to your popular rejoinder in light of such letters as these: \if you -don't like it then do something about it.\ This is only a shabby excuse for the m.ediocrity _you apparently ·do not mir;.d maintaining, and shows clearly your unwillingness to make the monumental effort it . • ~ - ' ' • ' - • I would take to put .out a small, t}lOroughiy .edited, excellently written, w~e~);' !)ewspaper. ~ fi·rtd it only a shame that you have not yet found the desire to make this effort, and that your ~tand;trds have, in the meantime, sunk so low. Sincerely, Daniel J. Bullen ~94 Bicentennial Event A Success! . The Brazil Term Abroad To the Editor: I am writing to thank a number of students who helped make Founders Day a success last Fri- day and to infonn the campus of which class won the $500 prize for the greatest participation rate in the convocation. As Union begins its 200t11 year. we expect to build on this display of student involvement and spirit. TI1e three student members of the Bicentennial Steering Com- mittee deserve special commen- dation for their time and energy: Peter Ivanyi (\94) Tricia Nelson ('95) and Kristin Reidt ('95). In addition several members of the Student Bicentennial Committee merit recognition. including Caroline Paine. Brett Rubin, and Maris Weiner. TI1anks also go to the four class presidents for their efforts to make banners and re- cruit pa1iicipants. to the Dutch Pipers for singing during dinner and to the College Choir for sing- ing at the convocation, and to all the student marshals and ushers. Bless you all. The Steering Committee also wants to recognize several frater- nities and sororities which orga- nized and carried out special din- ners or programs on Friday night in celebration of Founders Day. Those houses that infonned us of their plans include Delta Psi Delta. Kappa Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Iota Alpha. Psi Upsi- lon, and Theta Delta Chi. ll1eir contribution to the larger Union community deserves commenda- tion. If other houses also had din- ners but are not mentiOned here, it is only because they did not in- fonn us of their plans. As to the matter of winning the Prize. we were very careful in cal- culating the winning percentage. In the numerator, we added the students in each class who were Revolution Continued .. To Quiz Or Not To Quiz colltillued from page 7 industl)'. not only to look back and revise what hath heen taught theretofore. but to gain further and go on some new enlightened steps in the discovel)' oftruth.\ I challenge the students of the Union Community to study closely their disciplines. become cxcieted by what they are leam- ing and protest any professor \\(ho makes the learnig process (whether consiously or not) a spiritless experience. I am not calling the whole campus to walk out on every quiz that is given, but let your professors know if you have new ideas and differing points of view. We are the future. as we have been told so many times before. Sooner or later, they will have to listen to what we have to say. Why not make it sooner and take the first \steps in the dis- covel)' oftruth.\ Caroline Paine Hey, Seniors .... There Are 8 Days Left Until Your Theses Are Due!! singing in the College Choir or acting as ushers to the number of their fellow classmates who marched in the procession. In the denominator, we subtracted from all members of the class regis- tered this term those who are studying abroad this Winter and could not be expected to attend. And the winner is ..... The Class of 1994! Their winning participa- tion rate was more than 50% higher than that of any other class, a convincing triumph. We are pleased to contribute $500 to the Class Gift Fund of the Class of 1994. and we hope this gives them additional impetus to reach the goal of I 00% participation in their own contributions to the Class Gift. On to 200! Sincerely, Byron A. Nichols, Co-Chair Bicentennial Steering Committee Letters to the Editor must be turned in by noon on Tuesday and they must be on a disk. There are no exceptions. -Send to Box 2577 or put in the drop box at CC303 To the Editor- One month ago, Martha Huggins informed me of President Hull's and .Professor llwmas' decision to postpone the Brazil Term Abroad and rotate the developing country programs. Needless to say, I was disappointed and angry. I was a privileged member of the first group to go to Brazil in fall of 1989. I believe, as President Hull emphasized in his campaign speech, that students at U~ion need to be exposed to more cultures and language; this should be done by expanding terms in developing countries. In this increasingly multi- cultural society and interdependent global relationships, it is important for students to leam about countries not traditionally taught in a liberal arts education. Knowledge of, appreciation for, and understanding of other cpltures in vitally imperative. As Europe unites economically, the U.S. becomes more interdependent on our southem neighbors for raw materials, labor force, and trade market. An understanding of the society, politics, and economics of a country like Brazil is a great asset to those majoring in economics. political science, environmental science, health science and sociology. Union students are some of the brightest in the country. If they would be encouraged to experienc.e. a developing country they would have even more advantage over graduates from colleges who still emphasize the Eurocentric cultures. Any serious research student would find an exciting experiettce in Brazil which has the poorest and richest people in the world. They are experimenting with urban economic development programs, struggling with a national health care system, combating drug violence, restmcturing industry and labor to fit in the new world order, trying to save an already decayed publi.c education system and neglected children. Sound familiar? Yes, the USA could learn a lot from developing countries. Imagine what Union students could learn. Are you going to deny them the opportunity, the choice? It is exciting for me to think of what Union students could accomplish with all they could learn and apply it to which ever career they choose. I came back from Brazil with · not only a greater appreciation for the country and its people but a greater appreciation for the United States. I learned to respect my freedom and appreciate my education, because I have seen what happens when· those are denied. How many students returned from Europe with that feeling? I know groups of students who went to England and if were not required to stay with families; there were groups in Italy who could not communicate with their hosts. Perhaps these were oversights. I do not mean to tar-nish one program in effort to save another; but to cycle developing countries in the name of funds with blatant bias and obvious inconsideration for the education of union students in inexcusable .. Why not cycle the terms to Europe? Do they finish the term with a research paper accomplished with interviews and readings in the native language? By the time we left Sao Paulo to tour the Northeast region, we were aU comfortable with the language and the culture we were not afraid to ask questions and explore. Usi·ng English was not an option, I will admit, this is not a term abroad for students who want to party in Rio de Janeiro. It is a rigorous research term for the serious student. Larissa Lucas and Teresita Camacho Class of 1991

t SCIENCE AND HEALTH March 3, 1994, page 9 . . Helicobacteria Pylori Present New Signijicance Vitamins: Reduction in Skin Cancer Risk . . by Isca Beswick. Contributing Writer . The ''heretical . view;' that stomach ulcers were caused by a microbe - Helic~bacteria pylori· - and were therefore curable by antimicrobial drugs, has become · more widely accepted after de- cades of debate. There has also been an attempt to forge a link between the microbe and the de- . velopment ofstomach cancer. Even. though the microbe was · disc~vereq in the ~tomach ofpa- . tients wi'th inflammations of the · stoniach by Dr, Barry J. Marshall, and Dr. J. ·Robin Warren~ their findings were initially received wifh,scom. Astudyinthe 1950's,· that tried to relate fl: pylori to di- gestive diseases·, had failed. to conclusivefy' find the microbe among a large number of pa- tients. Nonetheless; Marshall and Wcn-ren's findings seemed to be of ··some verity, when Dr. tual eradication of ulcers,\ Dr. Marshall swallowed the microbe., David Y. Graham, a gastroenter- and developed an inflammation - ologist and H. pylori expert, be- but not an ulcer. The main ques- lieves that the antimicrobhds will tions were· whether or not the mi- lead to the development of a strain crobe was present in a gastrointes- of resistant H. pylori. The con- tinal tract which harbored an ul- sequences would hinder all efforts cer, and what role it played in fos- in the elimination of the microbe tering an environment favorable and ulcers. to the growth of stomach cancer. Although the microbe is related The first of these questions was to ulcers in patients, it is of ern- answered as the result-ofthe sta- ciat importance to examine its tistics gained from t11e study of the tole in the development of stom- influence of antimicrobial drugs ach cancer. In addition to three on the iilcers. It was startling to studies which indicated a greater observe the recurrence rate in pa• risk for stomach .cancer for those . tierits who took the aiitiiliicrobial . with the H. pylori infection, Dr. . tJrugs,. and those who only .took Giah~ reported a c(isapp~arance the usual acid blocking drugs. ofMALT- a type of stC?mach can- ·11te ulcer ~patients wlro' iOOk' the.: . ·eel' ._ after ·the aoministraticm of drugs,. and elimin;tted ·the· H. py- the antimicrobial drugs. Never- tori infection: only expeiienc~d a . ' theiess, there .is cmifusion regard- 5% recurrence rate, compared to ing the time during whjch anti~i­ the 15% rate' experienced by those crobial drugs would b'e effective whousedtheacidblocking.drugs. considering the long time in Though promising in the\ even- which stomach cancer takes to Farhana H. Khan Concordiensis Staff Sun overexposure affects mil- lions of people every year. New research indicates that nutrients E and A may someday offer an ex- tra layer of protection against most common fonns of skin can- cer such as basal ceH carcinoma . When scientists surveyed the vitam.in~taking habits of 131 people with this type of cancer and 200 similar people without, they found that vitamin supple- mentation of any type .~as asso- ciated with a 60 .percent reduction in skin cancer risk. More speeifi~ cally, getting more than lOO in- ternational units (I.U.) of vi tam in E, a day was linked to a 70 per- cent drop in risk. such significant drop in risk . Sun overexposure excites mol- ecules called free radicals, these are the bad guys that may do tu- mor-promoting damage to DNA. Vitamins can't repair damage that's already been done, accord- ing to Qingyi Wei, M.D., Ph.D. who is assistant professor of epi- demiology at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. He does, however, theo- rize that vitamins can prevent fur- ther damage. \Their antioxidant mechanism is well known-they reduce the amount of free radi- cals in the body, so those elements may have less of a chance to dam- age,\ he says. Dr. Wei stresses that although the vitamins prevent future dam- age, it is very important that one wear sunscreen and stay in the shade as much as possible. The Bacteria Crisis develop. Even though the percentages of stomach cancer due to H. pylori are not known, and the direct in- fluence the microbe has on the fonnation of ulcers is certain: -the treatment of ulcers, and stomach cancers will be greatly facilitated with the link made between H. pylori and these ailments. More than 5,000 l.U. of vita• tnin A in a day was linked to a 90 percent red~ction. lltese statis- tics were reported in a study pre- sented at the Americmt Society of Preventive Oncology. TI1e amount of vitamin A rec- ommended by the daily allow- ance is 5,000 I.U. and 100 I.U. of vitamin E. A moderate supple- mentation is necessary and one must always consult a physician when taking up more, cautions Dr. Wei. by Jen Horner Contributing Writer Since the first antibiotic, peni- cillin, became widely avail~ble in 1940, most bact(;!rial infections have been easily remedied. How- ever; common bacteria that causes children's ear infections, pneumonia, and many other dis- eases are now advancing into untreatableforms. Known medi- cations, including penicillin, can not be used to treat these· ad- vanced forms of bacterial infec.,. tions; and researchers are antici- pating \nothing short of a medi- cal disaster\ if a tre11tment for these diseases is not found. Although certain strains of pneumococcus (bacteria) can be treated with an antibiotic called vancomycin, researchers are afraid that this bacteria will be- come resistant to treatment. Pneumococcus bacteria causes hundreds of thousands of cases of pneumonia and ear infections in children each year in the United States. If treatment fails, it is likely that these people will become terminally ill. Enterococcus is a bacteria that causes wound and blood infec- tions, and has also been treated with vancomycin. However, cer- tain strains of this bacteria have become resistant to antibiotics. This leads researchers to believe that certain strains of pneumonia could also develop resistance to antibiotics. According to Alexander Tomasz of Rockefeller Univer• sity in New York City, the sim- plest forms of infections may ad- vance into fatal illnesses if no new cure is found. Tomasz is a lead- ing authority on bacteria that are resistantto present treatments. At the annual meeting ofthe Ameri- can Association for the Advance- ment of Science, Tomasz blew the whistle. He believes that there is going to be a bacterial crisis if no alternative is found for these ad- vanced forms of bacterial infec- ticms. Dr. Mitchell Cohen of the Fed- eral Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, be- lieves that any new drugs to treat these deadly infections are at least five to seven years away from development. Pharmaceutical companies are not pursuing the development of these drugs ag- gressively because of the lack of public knowledge about the deadly bacterial infections. Cohen said, \A number of phar- maceutical companies had fo- cused their research in the non- infectious area, because their marketing were telling them there were enough antibiotics out there.'s Since the early eighties there has been an increase in bacterial strains resistant to antibodies, and the numbers continue io increase not only in the United States, but worldwide. According to To111asz, \If you get the infection, you are in the Almighty's hand.\ Source: The Sunday Gazette Feb.20, 1994. \Bacterial threats bTfowing,\ by Paul Raeburn The Ass(Jciated Pre.o;s The college store is about to launch a program to give away a free postage stamp with the purchase of any greeting card from the college store (quantities are unlimited). Beginning in March, the college store will place a poster outside the college store advertising the free stamp promotion. The promotiouwill occur four times every fJIOnth. Look for our free stamp sign outside the college center on the day of the promotion. Also, for your convenience, the college center has a new stamp vending machine, next to the A TM machine; located outside the college store. The stamp vending machine takes correct change only. This is not the first time a study has been reported to link vitamins in the prevention process of many diseases. However, it is the first time that average amounts of these supplements have produced ,..,....... 'x:..Chromosome Syndrome by Ken_, Lee· fied through successive genera~ to no effect. The major dif- Science & Health CfP.editot tions. For example, if a female ference in males and females has,{)Q. CG6 repetititms.,. slte is that females exl1ibit severe · would be, lilo~nal, l?ut her,: child emotional problems. 11t•.SQt~\l~~· ''W9tdd t!iell'have more: then lOO · Another ~urious aspect of the . . . . Ef~ ~0titions an~ exhibit tlu: disorder{)Ccurs on the tnolecu- . • .\disorder. lar level. · Jt bas been observed : ,.Jtrttgile X syndrome was· first t~t ifJhe.£GOoecurence ex- l?f.1~t9\f£\,¥l·~' .. ·~ .• ,: pl\araQterized as the Mattin.,B:ell ·ceeds 23{)· then tlte gene that · , from early studi~s Qf · ·~odes f:Ortlle· fragile X mental ;·~mer:~~~~ttltl~~~ J~~~.c~aijti~w':·'i:,tJJ,~c.~:~~~i~l~':'re·tar:(lafio;p. · Since ·retardation protein, ·.is sup- eszltH\>Vebl~en -~8,~1~:\(>:'····-~!m: 1l~}~fo0 1 Ve~· : techniques: have pressed. This is considered the •n<~l'lhru many ·.·· further ehar&lcterizatiQn origin of the features one ob- ·'disotdetis'lla¥.•been •··. ·. _·_·.···· .. · ..... ·~t.~th~dise:ase~~but itstiUrenuiins ... ·· serves in these pauenis. :. ~ue~'it}()j'e;·:~ork needs·tO··bi: . adi$~u.ltdis<Jtdet~~di~~~J'OSe in Fragile X syndrome is the d&~~'1i~- .. .O.rti~r .t:o -~n~~de the· · nvwlxlmssincethesyltiptolflSare mostcommotleause.afmental . wb;l~ . ,. , ·eo~~' .... · . . notre~~!~~ APP!l~nt.. ~~E~Yfl1P\ ·retardatiQJtftorn a. single gene J~!r;.,' \Ait\1~1114~~~1)~!11~~- :.·:.::d!~,~ oeti9 (l;isorders nar,~w fac' al 61 ng w·ltll ·ewl~rg~d heads. l son males and one .·~~~$~4-~;y.a_tr~N .· I'OI)Ji~enee~tltlfe·iawatlden•la~ed, in 2500 females. It . ::~=~t!::.;·~~::~·: ... ·~i~a;i~ ~lso~ ~esultsottlte ai~orbr. n . ~~s!~i;~:;::~:n~~ Jl'1~ms·'t~et¢•~··four . groups are at equal nWGli!:Qfl~.f;l~l$·~ : . toms slowly accumulate with age risk for tbis disorder in their .. anitthey differ in inales and fe.. . g.en~i>ool. Wltile there is no e . •·•'1~aies; . . e:ff~ct1ve therapy, doctors are ~~·~t'WJ~Rtl[e\·,''~ 1'f\_ ••.••.. _• ... ·:~·Jit.tnale 'fl3ti~utse.xhibit-.a U$.i})gJll't1.tieW hlf<lrmation to ~:<~,.;.,;l~~~qd\nafi'i:lw face along with· ll~tnoS¢·th'e disease earlier us-- . · . · ·· . ·· . . '~o•ninen'C~ <».f., tl'!;g:. 'tnfid~~wtar t-echniques. ~~-il¢1\laJ~.altowsaf ... • ! : t ' 1

The Nott Memorial Under Renovation. Photos by Josh Haines/TC

: .. ;:uJcnt ( 'arolint: Paint:, da\.\ of 'Y5, •rith Projed Superintendent Paul Pathia orr lhl' Jth Flt~or ADMISSIONS OFFICE EXHIBITION CALLER' of 3 support Pillar.v itt·b.asem'i!nt. ',r.,~\\ · ......... ,;.v,t ':· 1 1,~~'· ''·\ ~), f ··~~\~ Inside the Renovated .\'ott.\lemm:icalc , \. , . : I I

J ' ,. .... , ' I March 3, 1994, Page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Death and the Maiden: The ReView by Edw~rd W. Abbott III and Leena Mankad Concordiensis Staff with its sold out performances. For those of you that missed it, the play is set in present day Chile, or any countiy that has just step from behind the veil of die .. tatorship. The story concerns the problems inherent in the healing of a broken nation. Gerardo suffers a flat tire, and is without a spare., He is eventu- ally \resc by Dr. Roberto Miranda. After being, invited home for a drink, Dr. Miranda, portrayed by the irrepressible Walter Soule, is realized, by Paulina, to be her rapist. In a Dr. Roberto Miranda, Paluina'·s torturer so many years ago~ \PAULINA: Why is it always people like me who have to sacrifice, who have to concede w~en conces- Paulina. ~--~--...-----___....----~----- m~ The performances them- selves, :which were held in the. Performing Arts. Studio, were flawless. Each cast member's talent carne through their tes~c­ tive characters~ creating a good deal of suspense.and fine drama. The characters the cast created !)verall, this play was intense and moving. It made one sit back and think about what just occurred on stage. With superior perfor- mances from the actors, and a su- perlative effort put forth by the director and the prop wench; Emilia Teasdale. Death and the Maiden is sute to go down as one of the finest work:s of theater to ev.er go off in th~ two hundred yeat history of Union College. sions are needed, biting so won- \Overall this play was intensse mytongue,why? Well, not d-erfully and moving. It made one sit this time. If only to do jus- :ortraye~ back and think about what has tiee ·in one case, just one. Rebecca • d \ Whatdowelose? What do . Parlakian, JUSt occurr~ .. on stage •. realistic scene, were dynamic and int~ns.e.~ Gerardo while the.play itselfprobedinto m u s t many in-depth issues. con- vin ce ' . ' we lose by killing one· of is a --~--------------------------~ Rooorto If you are. interestetJ. ~n .Q.ttending yc-u? What do we lose?\. woman who, fifteen years ago,. This was part ofthe chilli~g end to this past weekend's Mountebank's production of Death and the Maiden,, a p1ay by Ariel Dorfman. If you missed this one, feel free to gjve yourself a kick. Death and the Maiden, di· rected by David Hopson, enrap- tured audiences this past weekend was brutally raped and tortured by the cronies of the ditatorsbip and one of its doctors. Her hus .. band, Gerardo, skillfuJly charac ... terized by the eclectic Douglas Bartell, is an attorney who has been recently named to a President's commission to inves- tigate human rights abuses under to confess to his crimes, in order to save his own life. Paulina asks not for .punishment, only for the satisfaction ofhearing a confession from the mouth ofher assailant. concerts, going to a.Ft .exhibits, · · reviewing books you've read or· · movies you've seen or bringing a little more culture into the lives of Union students, contact Suzanne at x6l55, and write for Arts. the. past regime. However, one wonders if this Dr. Miranda, is 'the doctor' that perfonned all those terrible deeds to Paulina. His innocence, is in question throughout the play, and leaves audiences wondering, was Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25 ·COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Nightmare Before Christmas\ 8 & I 0 p.m., $2. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26 . COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 25. UNION COLLEGE CHOIR CONCERT: 4 p.m., Memorial Chapel, Union Col- lege, Schenectady. 388-6201. SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 27 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 25. MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO: Works by Mozart, Mahler, Beethoven, and Brahms. $12, $6/students. 3 pm Union College Memorial Chapel, Schenectady. 382- 7890. SCHENECTADY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: Works by three Russian composers, Porkofiev, Glaztmov, Shostakovich. $15/Adults, $7/Students. 3 p.m. Proctor's 1l1eatre, Schenectady. 346-6204. SAINT ROSE JAZZ ENSEMBLE/EMPIRE STATE JAZZ EN .. SEMBLE SPRING CONCERT: $5, $2/students. 3 p.m. Saint Jo- seph Hall Auditorium, College of Saint Rose, Albany. 454-5195. THEATRE UNDER THE GROUND: Innc,,1ative regional theatre begins with four one-act pieces. $7. 7 p.m. Eig'nth Step, Albany. 434- 1703. MONDAY. FEBRUARY 28 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, Febmary 25 TUESDAY. MARCH I DAVID COPPERFIELD: One of the greatest magicians of our time. 5:30 & 8:30 p.m. $29.50- $24.50. Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. 346 ... 6204. THURSDAY. MARCH 3 MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA: The empress ofthe African song . . $22. 8 p.m. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Troy. 273-0038. FRIDAY, MARCH 4 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Three Musketeers\ 8 & I 0 p.m .• $2. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 ENGAGED CULTURES: TEN LATIN AMERICAN ARTISTS: Paint-.· ings, drawings, prints, mixed media and sculpture by contemporary visual of His- . panic heritage, Picotte Hall, College of Saint Rose, Albany. 485-3902. JANUARY 20- FEBRUARY 27 PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHINA: Four Chinese photographers. Union CoJ ... lege, Arts Building, 2nd .floor photo gallery. 388-6201. THROUGH MARCH 4 ROBERTO BOCCI: Photographs and digital paintings. Upstairs Gallery, Albany Center Galleries, Albany. 462-4775. · · DAWN CLEMENTS: Paintings and drawings/ Leslie Urbach Gallery, Al- bany Center Galleries, Albany. 462 ... 4775. FEBRUARY 14 ... MARCH 10 POLISH DRAWINGS NOW: Works on paper by ten contemporary-pol- ish artists, Arts Atrium, Arts Building, Union College, Schenectady. 388-6201. THROUGH MARCH 13, 1~94 . ALONE IN A CROWD: Prints ofthe 1930's ... 40's by Afri- . can American Artists from the collection of Reba and Dave, Williams, New York State Museum. 474 ... 5877. FEBRUARY 27- MARCH 29 GEORGE WEINHEIMER & ILONA MCCONNELEE: . Oakroom Artists' Gallery, Schenectady.'895-8909. FEBRUARY 18- MARCH FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Includes 19th cen- • tury signage, horse power, washing machines, Harley Davidson Mo .. torcycle with side car, 19th century architectural woodwork, restored , portraits and paintings. New York State Museum. 474-S871. FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculp- · tures, lithographs and more hy.SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 21- MAY 29 . THE GURLEY SMARTCOLLECTION: Historic surveying Instruments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 22- JUL V 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany In· stitute of History & Art, Albany. 464-44 78. Compiled by Suzanne Robinsdn!Concordiensis Staff

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT March 3, 1993, Page 13 Sunday Conc.ert Featur·es Wilson, Maranville and Gado Courtesy of tlte Performing Arts Department n1e Union College Orchestra will perfonn an ambitious pro- gram Sunday afternoon; .March 6th from 3:00 - 4:30 pm. The free ·concertis titled \Two Fifths on the Sixth';; J. S. Bacl1's Fifth Brandenlmrg Concerto and L. van Beethoven's monumental Fifth ·symphony. Soloists for the Bach concerto wiH be Carin Gado '96, .flute, and Elizabeth Maranville '94, vioHri. Profe.s- sor Hugh Allen Wilson will con- . duct the concerto ensemble from· th~ 11af:psicl~ord. The cdJJCert begins with Mendelssohn's stir- . ring ltuJ; Bias Overture.· Following her graduation from . high school, Carin Gado at-~ tended a music school ilt Swe• den, the Kapelsbergs Musikskoia in Harnosand, under the direc- tion of lngeborg Axner-Franzen. She returned to the United States, and to Union College in 1992. She has been principal flute with the Union College Orchestra sinc.e Fall 1993, and studies with Floyd Hebert of the Albany Symphony Orchestra. Last Oc- tober, Carin Gado performedi in a flute master class with New York based flutist, Lisa Hansen. Professor Hugll Allen Wils01r, olle of tile musicians wlro will perform in Sunday's Concert, \Two Fiftlts oftlte Sixth,\ at tlte lzarpsiclwrd Elizabeth Maranville has stud- ied violin with Margaret Pardee at the Meadowland School of 'J ~ . Music and at the Juilliard School, with Kathleen Winkler at .Oberlin College, and with Michael Emery at Union Col- lege. Elizabeth has been concertmistress of the Union College Orchestra for the past two years. In Winter 1993, sh~ perfonned the Sa.int-Saens Vio- lin Concerto with the orchestra, and in Spring 199Jshe performed the first movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in H minor. Elizabeth has also per- fanned with several area orches- tras, including the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra and the St. Cecelia Chamber Orchestra. Last summer she was awarded a schol- arship to play in the Chautauqua Institution's Music School Festi- val Orchestra. Chet's Comer Wlline & Booze Anxiously Awaited! Who is cooler - Brandon or. Dylan? What does Michael Jackson wear around the house? Why can't we Vali-booze at Chet's? Why do cows wear cowbells? Why don't you ever see baby pigeons? ... These are just a few of the questions that people can attempt to answer this Thursday night at Chet's first WHINE & BOOZE ... One might ask what is Whine & Booze? - there will be an open mlc up at Chet's -this is an opportunity for everyone and anyone to come out and speak their mind or show their talents. - anything can be discussed ... your feelings on life, . what we can do to improve life at Union, studentJfa·culty relationships, which is better 90210 or Melrose? - come to Chet's to speak your mind, say your peace, or · just whine & booze!!! This week at Chet's ... Wed. March 2- Mitch Frazier (acoustic guitarist) 10:00 PM Thurs. March 3 - Whine & Booze 10:00 PM Professor Hugh Allen Wilson is a distinguished choinnaster and virtuoso soloist at the organ and harpsichord. A t,rraduate of Yale University, Wilson's mentor was the eminent musicologist Leo Shrade. His principal keyboard teachers were Dupre and Leonhardt. He is director of the choral program at Union College and conductor of the Glens Falls Symphony Orchestra. Tite Union College Orchestra is in its tenth year under the di- rection of Professor Hilary Tann. Most of the perfonners are stu- dents, with some alumni, some Schenectady County Community College students, and some guests. The orchestra gives three concerts a year-Parents' Week- end (with the Union College Choir), Winter Term (orchestra alone), and Steinmetz Sympo- sium/Prize Day Weekend (with the Union College Choir). TI1e repertoire features student soloists, occasional student con- ductors, and premieres of student compositions. The Steinmetz concert this Spring will feature Kevin Huang '96 in Mendelsohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and the premiere of Nightscape by graduating seven- year medical student, Krishna Gaddipati '95. Andrea Marcovicci · Queen of Cabaret by Leena Mankad Co!lcordiellsis Staff All right gentlemen. Have you ever heard a singing voice so sen- sumas you were in love the first moment you heard it? Has the sound of a woman's voice so en- raptured you that you've become practically lost in her tune? Well, let me tell you gentlemen. of the voice that could take you away. Her name is Andrea Marcovicci and she's the new queen of the cabaret scene. TI1e essence of cabaret is held in the combination of being able to sing, act. and interact with your audience; to create a rapport like no other to provide entertainment. An actress and a singer, Marcovicci manages to intertwine both talents to create this essence. A cabaret act usually consists of singing and a monologue of some sort that all tie in with a common them~. Marcovicci's shows all have themes and usually take about two years for her to prepare. Her themes are typically of a ro- mantic nature such as: \Love Songs of World· War II\ ''Home for the Holidays\ and other such themes from the 40's and 30's. But gentlemen beware-her voice has a power like no other. No other cabaret performer has the ability to become your very own sophisticated temptress right before your eyes. Marcovicci will make love to you through her song and you will be lured into an enchanting trance. Her tones are delicious and her words pro- vide for a wonderful barrage of conversation. On stage, she has a rare talent to make you believe in her seduction and powerful emo- tion. Some people call Andrea Marcovicci a \hopeless roman- tic,\ with her acts portraying the life of a young girl following her broken dreams of finding Prince Charming, but she goes much deeper than this. Andrea Marcovicci is very much the epitome of strength, detennina- tion , sophistication and wit. She embodies these ideals and incor- porates them into her act. The results of her talents alld charac- teristics provides for an intensity never before seen on the cabaret scene. She sings popular Ameri- can songs connecting nostalgia with modern themes, seducing her audience with memories of the past. TI1e beauty of her art is not as clear as it would seem though. The memories she speaks of will spark your own memories of a first love or past emotion. l11is is the point where you will become lost in your own thoughts and emotion. TI1e added beauty of Marcovicci in concert, is how she manages to portray her act as one long im- provisation. She comes off ca- sual, contemporary and romantic. Marcovicci has numerous al- bums out, her current one entitled, \What is Love?\ also filled with her sensuous tones. She appears regularly at The Gardenia in Hol- lywood , TI1e Plush Room in San Francisco, and TI1e Oak Room of The Algonquin Hotel in New York. Her spirit comes out dur- ing these cabarets ... sitting cross- legged atop a black velvet grand piano, and wearing an elegant evening gown to bring out the at- mosphere. Guys, if your ready to become entranced or if you're hungry for love, get a hold of some Marcovicci. She 'II be perform- ing a gala concert at the Egg on Monday, March 21 , at the Albany Inst#ute of History & Art.

' : ~ t' I ' ~' ~' .. , ------- ----· March 3, 1994, page 14 FEATURES :!. : '• .... ' • :- :-;._ < ~~ Definition of a Library: A Pick-Up JOint by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor Definition; Library: n. A place with many books where people go to fart and giggle. E:x.ample: Schaffer Library. Yes, I know it sounds crass, but believe me, I was just as appalled as all of you at the actual goings on in Schaffer Library. I guess it comes as no surprise to most people that the library is the place to be every weeknight. ~; not be- ing a frequent user, was unaware of this. What a fool I was, think- ing I could actually get something accomplished there. Instead, I made some interesting observa- tions. -Schaffer library is a pick-up joint. If you're looking for some late night Iovin', this is the place to be. Take this scenario for ex- ample: Susie: Oh Phil, I have so much work this term, I don't know what to do. I'm so tense. Phil: Hey Susie, why don't you come back to my place and I'll give you one of my famous back mbs. Susie: Oh Phil! Phil: Oh Susie! You get the picture. -Schaffer Library is a health spa. During my stay at the I ibrary, I watched rme young man make five full laps around the library. Why, that is as much exercise as a full hour of aerobics. Nobody actually sits down to do their work. The only reason anyone sits, is to rest up for their next lap. I mean how many times can one physically use the bathroom in an hour? ~Schaffer Library is a showcase used in a bowling alley in which patrons are not allowed to enter ~until they exchange their own shoes for a pair of slippers. This would ensure both the comfort of the visitor themselves, as wellas provide a distraction-free envi- ronment for other patrons. I won- der if I could market this idea? .,Schaffer Library is a place of gaseous odors. Going back to of fash- --'-~--~-~--.,......._....._ __ ___,_my origi- ion. I \Sh r~ L\b . h I h nal state- a .~er · 1. rary IS a · ea t · s.pa. sure feh ment, I silly in During my stay at the library, I beg an my pa- watched .one young mllD make question- j a m a five fullla·ps around the library. ing. the pants and Why that is as much exericise as intellec- sweater tual qual- a full hour of areobics.\ when I ity of an saw what i n st i tu- all the other girls were wearing at Schaffer on a Sunday night. Women strutted by me with their tight jeans, meticulously curled hair and full make up. Actually, clomped may be a better word. Please explain to me why one would choose to wear their loud, obnoxious cowboy boots to the library-land of peace. I just hate it when my intense concentration is broken by the clackity-clack of some girls boots on the uncarpeted floor. I think Schaffer library should install a system similar to that tion whose library patrons stiH find it humorous when they ex- pel gas in an audible fashion. \PFFFF ARRTTTT!!! Heh heh, heh heh!\ Is this funny? Who are these people? Maybe President Hull is right about rais- ing the standards for admissions. And so I continue on my quest for a distraction-free environment in which to carry out my studies. I feel disappointed. Let down. Abandoned. But wait a minute, I've also found a great excuse for not doing my work. There's just no place left to tum. Oh well ... THE UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE CABIN FEVER SALE VENTURE OUT TO THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE FOR A 20%-50% SAVINGS ON SELECTED APPAREL & GIFT ITEMS FRIDAY MARCH 4TH, 1994 HOURS MON-FRI 8:45-4.:30 SAT 11:00-3:00 388-6188

FEATURES March 3, 1994, page 15 The Winter Olympics: A Personal Perspective . . . Dave Wants to J:i.ght the torch is into the Olympic ev~nt that h~s . reo, or soni~thln~ else, it mus.t be. tary wo~ld go s~~ething like this: by Rawson Thurber fine with rrte; and in addition, the tremendous possibilities. It goes done. Just the aerodynamic prin- \Well Bob, this scrappy young . ConcortliensisStafl . · US should rec~ive an automatic without saying thatthe last OlymM ciples of a hemp leaf decal alone German team has been practicing. I've been watching the Olym- gold medal for his effoits. pian walking is declared the win- should push the Jamaicans over for three years. Gunter has been pies for the·past couple of weeks, ' Next: A Few Rule Changes net. the top. wearing wool sweaters knitted by I watched the US h0ckey team TI1e first sport that has to un- Another event that needs to be New Events: his blind mother for months. perfon·n less than spectacularly, I der go some serious alterations is changed is speed skating. With The first event that must be What a Cinderella story it would watched Tanya Harding cry her the Luge competition. All contes- these athletes reaching speeds of added to the Summer Olympics be should they upset the heavily eyes out in extremely tight, un- tants must now luge head.-first in up to 65 mph on a slick surface, is a Swimsuit competition. Now, favored Russian team .... \ flatteripg ~Jmbes, and I watched onlytheirtightywhities; no boxer how much more fun would it be I'm not talking about the Miss The final event that must he the nightly updates with Dave's shorts will be allowed. Is that all if the were skating at each other America Pageant, where each added is the essence of all athletic Mom. But.thete just seems to be you ask? No, ofcotirse not. Any- head on? Are you kidding me? It women gives a talk about how she prowess; a Street Fighter II com- som¢diing rnissing in this event one can go head~first in tighty would be great! \Speed Skating wants t0 save the environment and petition. This would be a simple of epic,·proportions known as the whitie.s. The real excitement Chicken\ would be its new title. become a senator, as well as an \tournament style\ competition, Olyntpics. So I've c;ompiled a·f~w s~ems from the fact that the op- The first one to tum away loses. actress. We don't need any of that. and like Top Gun, there .are no changes that should be made for posing teams are allowed to What happens if they crash, you I'm ta11<:ing about sheer physical points for second place. the '96Sununer Olympics and the throw large handfuls of mayon~ say? Well, the first one to get up beauty. We send the best looking In my opinion if only one of '98 Winter Olympics. naise at the Luger in progress. and make it to the his opponents woman we have in a bikini. End these changes was implemented First Things First: Now if that's not excitement, I starting line is the winner. of story. 111ere of course would for the up c.oming games, global Tlie first change that must be don't know what is!· The next event that needs a be a male competition also, I'm unity would be unavoidable. Not mad~ is the abolishment of the The next sport that needs to be slight adjustment is Ping Pong. all for equal rights. to mention the mammoth surge in tacky \Halftime Show Extrava• changed is the Biathlon. Nowyou The new ntles for Olympic Ping 'the second event that will be television ratings. gan~a\ known as the opening cer- might ask, \Skiing and fireanns, Pong have only one change. T11e on the addendum for the Summer A Reactionist Note: emony. I don't want to see seven how can you top that?\ Just add Chinese team must be blind games of '96 is the Naval Cavity Ifthere are any individuals out hundred people clad· in pink a bottle of Jack Daniels and watCh folded. Lint-off. This event entails a team there who take a literal interpre~ spandex with white feather boas the fun! In the new Biathlon, con- The last event that needs to be of two athletes. The first being the tation to this article, I'm sorry. doingadancetoa\charttopping\ testantsmustchugaliterofJack slightly transformed is the onewl1o supplies the naval cav~ Very sorry. I'd like to give spe- Wynona Judd hit. I just don't Daniel's, and hunt each .other Bobsleding race. Nb, I'm not go- ity, and the latter being the desig- cia! thanks to some friends of want to see it. I get ill just think~ down. Now you might think that ing to say that all participants be nated \forager.\ Each team is mine who helped with the ideas ing about it. this could be a little dangerous, named Bob. But rather that each g,iven a two minute period to ex~ for this article: Paul Haydock, Jim We'd be much better off if the but players are encouraged to aim sled needs to be customized. Each tract as much lint as possible from McCloskey, and Sam Taylor. lighting of the torch in the open- low. I inea11,, we don't want to country must \trick\ mit their the navaL The lint is measured by ing cerernuny was handled by ruin anyone's career here, we're Bobsled. Whether this is done weight, with points also awarded Super Dave Osborne. However just lookirig to put a little spunk with hydraulics, a booming steM for color and smell. Tl1e commen- fJ!iouglits of Love· Hola from The Seville 6g qjiffy Sfw(ws Concoraiensis Staff It's a 6risk._.and starlit evening 5ls I gaze into tlie sky 51 cfii£{ has just gone through me 5ls if you just wa{/(g,tf 6y I am waiting here; with thoughts of fove I hope to see you soon I cfose my eyes ancf aream of you 51 star atop tfie moon My dearest fove 1 fww many times ~u{Isayyournanre iJor if I do not fove_you so I tru[y am insane :r or a[{ the men wfw rove you so I give them a[{ despise :For if I was to see ypu now I' a never cfose my eyes cyiJur gent~ kiss, a gfare perhaps %e sensing of your toucli ![ eefings in a £overs fieart 11iougftts of foving you so mucft. by Shelby Denenberg, Megan Fehr and Heather Rock Contibutbzg Writers Hola de Espana! As we are sitting here by the river Guadalquiuir soaking up the sun, our thoughts have wandered to all of you back at Union, suffering in the frigid Schenectady weather. So we have decided to send to you a poem of our stories and exploits here, from the great city of Seville. W,e hope that for just a few minutes your frostbitten lives will be able to share some of our fun and sun, on our winter tenn abroad: After four days in Madrid Orientation was through T11e bus left for Seville You'd think it a zoo. With noises of horses (Thanks AI for the show) When we got to Seville to our new families we'd go 'Til the next all alone Speaking spanish alright We thought ofeachother Would Will be alright? From roommates who snore To others that steal Some l1ave had to move out And there's that Watergate deal. Our classes did start Much harder than U's? And with Friday's all off To travel we choose So off to the mountains and islands we go But who got more tan? Those in the sand or the snow? When l1ere iri Seville So close we have grown There's even free beer A \U\ of our own! We've tried chocolate And more Spanish treats We laugh, play \the game\ And fi11d tapas to eat. We must mention Dona Vicki Luis, you'd be so proud She parties a veces A long with the crowd. Different foods every meal All kinds of meat Like ox tail and pig McDonald's a treat! Whether out to Karaoke Or dance the \Saturday Night\ Big Ben's is our place Diss our flag and we'll fight With a trip left to Portugal Gibraltar and more We'll dress up, we'll sight see To finish our tour. From the Torro de Oro To all the Spanish we speak Will retum so cultured A real bunch of geeks. So get ready \U\ We'll be back for the spring But some secrets we'll leave here Can't know everything It's our time to sigh off We now have to go We love you and miss you Keep shovelin' that snow! LOSE WEIGHT NOW! NEVER DIET AGAIN! Stop Starving Y pur Body You know.that diets don't work. You starve your body and take it out on your family. Then you gain it all back + C:l few pounds more. It's a roller coaster ride and you can't get off. Finally, a new, all natural herbal combination. Increase energy and promotes weight loss. -No shakes- No fasting -No Pain -Doctor Tested! -Guaranteed Results! , . Or4er yours Today! Don't Delay! ;To ph1ce·-ar{ order or receive info. call: Bill@ 370-4573

March 3, 1994, page 16 . ' . . NEWS. BRIEFS .· World News: International News: Moscow: Two of Boris Yeltsin's most bitter enemies were released from a maximum security prison,. Sunday, under an amnesty granted by the new Parliament to hard liners, who tried to overthrow his govem- ment, in October. Israel: Baruch Goldstein, an American born immigrant, opened fire, last Friday at a congregation of Palestinians. At least 40 were killed. Goldstein was killed, soon after, by a mob of Pales- tinians, as he fled the mosque. Goldstein was an extreme anti- Arab. Since his massacre on Friday, violence has empted through- out Israel's occupied territories. North Korea: North Korea has avoided a trade embargo at the last hour by permitting United Nation's inspectors to inspect some of its nuclear installations. North Korea is believed to develop- ing atomic weapons. National News: Texas: Eleven Branch Davidians were acquitted of all murder and conspiracy charges, after a trial in which most ofthe defen- dants argued thatthey had acted in self-defense, when their group killed 4 Federal agents who raided their compound near Waco last year. Five of the 11 were convicted on lesser charges of voluntary manslaughter and 2 on illegal weapon charges. Washington, D.C.: Aldrich H. Ames a11d his wife Rosario were arrested for espionage. Ames has been accused of selling Ameri- can secrets to the Russians. He and his wife reportedly sold 1.5 million dollars worth of information about at least 20 different operations. This latest case of espionage has Congress asking· how he could have done so much damage, since both the FBI and the CIA suspected that he might be a double agent. WORLD NEWS Tonya Harding: A Raw Deal by Lara Greenberg World News Editor There have recently been mas- sive eruptions of violence, death and demise all over the world. This includes a mass murder of Palestinians in the town ofHebron in the West Bank, by a crazed Ameri.can born Israeli, events in Sarajevo have become heated and things in the good old United States have been less than stable. Bat who cares? Who really cares about all that when we have Nancy and Tonya? Honestly, I have seen just about enough of Nancy Kerrigan and TonyaHarding. The long-awaited woman's figure skating competi- tion carne and went. Everybody's all-American, apple pie, vision of perfection, Nancy Kerrigan, came out of it with a Disney contract, a Revlon contract, a hot Reebok commercial and a fairly cute Campbell Soup advertisemet\t. She is also probably going to be the highest paid athlete, of all time, and she. got the silver medal to boot. But wait! Nancy Kerrigan did not think that she deserved the silver medal. She wanted the gold and she was pissed when Oksana Bayul stole it from right under her. There is a controversy over whether Oksana Bayul should have truly received the gold medal - she did bobble her routine a bit, right in the middle ofthe program. Nancy Kerrigan's anger was ap- parent, when the live microphone at the medal ceremony picked up her voice saying something to the effect of: 'This is ridiculous, she's just going to cry again.' She was a young girl, when she didn't r.eferring to the delay in 'Oksana' s have the funds and she fought to appearance at the ceremony. I ska,te at the winter Olympics at could be totally out of line here,· Lilleharnrnar. That in itself is ad~ but is Nancy being a brat? How . :rpir.able. could she not be completely Nancy l(errigan, on the ot.her thrilled over winning a silver hand, has lived a sheltered life; medal. I mean, the gold would had everything she ever needed, be great, but honestly, get over including money and su-pport, yourself, Nancy. Oksana was a from every angle. I am not in- more graceful, more poetic sim.iating that this is something skater, in my opinion. that is bad, but it is extremely easy Well, who am I to say who should have won the gold medal, in the most intensely followed sport in the winter Olympics. I have an untrained eye for triple axles and quadruple lutzes, but I mn not blind to the lunacy that has be.en going on between Tonya and Nancy. Let me pref- ace this next point by saying that I always root for the underdog. It's in my nature. I think that the world was a little unfair to Tony a Harding. No one knows if she was· aware of the knee-clubing incident or not, but the the press and the people took it upon them~ selves to be judge and jury for Tonya Harding's case. She i-s easy to pick on: Slu: is from a poor background, a dysfunctional family, raised in trailer parks, worked in a supennarket to buy ... skating time, has asthma and to top it off, was in an abusive rela- tionship with a man named Gillooly. How could someone like Tonya be a skater? She doesn't even look like a skater. She looks more like a contestant on American (:J/adialors, than part of that elite skating clan. But she fought; she fought to skate as to be a Kerrigan fan. Not only does she have all that, but she has what is perhaps the most impor- tant assets in our society. She is beautiful. Beauty is, underhand- edly, something that most skaters have. They have long, slender bodies with fabulous neckliiles and long hair that can usually be swept up into a f:.>r<lceful, dancer's bun, TonyaHarding has none of this .. She is n.ot long and thin, nor does she have long-flowey hair. She also wear.s gaudy outfits, that are sometimes almost hard to look at. Nancy, Tonya, Oksana, blah, blah, blah. It's all over now .. The winter Olympics in LiUehammar, Norway wiH saon be ptished somewhere in that place in the back of our minds, conjured up only upon seeing a Kerrigan com- mercial or Ice Capades. But, .as for now, we can resume our more mundane lives and regain per- spective on some more pressing issues. The world can get back to worrying about the real prob- lems, that are in dire need of fix- ing, rather than who will win what piece of precious medal. H was a nice break from reality, but, to be honest, we need to come back. A New Cold War And Maybe A Lot Worse by Craig Greenberg World News Editor While the world has been watching Nancy and Tonya, Rus~ sia has become a more danger- ous place. I am amazed at how the news media has almost en- tirely ignored the growing threat that Russia poses. First, Yeltsin's control and power is slipping. Last week, the parliment voted to pardon the leaders oflast year's revolt. Not only is the majority of parliment forced to make concessions to the economy, there is a period oftime opposed to Yeltsin, but the largest hardliners. The problem centers which elapses until adjttstment share is led by a madman that has around the economic dismay begins and the economy starts to promised the end of Gennany and which has persisted in Russia grow. The average Russian the return of Alaska to Russia since the breakdown of the So- doesn't realize this and is sick of whenhetakespower. As Yeltsin's viet Union.. When a nation waiting for the promises of both opposition grows, he will be changes to a free-market Gorbachev and Yeltsin. lam not ____ .. ·-------·-- ----. concerned about concessions that Yeltsin might have to make to hardliners, but I am very con- cerned about the possibility that one of these 'madmen' might suc- ceed in a coup. Afterall, these communists have a lot more to offer the Russian military than Yeltsiil, they offer the military the pride and respect it has lost, not to mention a much higher mili- tary budget. =WANTED t= Annual Fund Affiliates $5.00 per hour, NEW bonus system, NEW night time hours, NO weekends, great resume builders. Interviews starting March 7- 10, job is April11 .. 28. ·Interested? For interview call Ext.6175 In Bosnia, Russia is walking a tightrope between NATO friend- ship and historic Russo-Serb re- lations and alliances. Last week's discovery of a Russian spy cer- tainly didn't help relations. I would like to mention that I don't understand why such a big deal is being made about the spy, ev- eryone knows that Russia spies on us and we spy on Russia. We are blowing the whole spy thing out of propm1ion at ~ time when we can ill afford to worsen relations with Moscow. In other words, it is a real possi- bility that a new cold war could exist ifYeltsin loses power, and the potential.exists for a lot worse.

PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS March 3, 1994, Page 17 Personals awesome weekend, and if not, we will go to Cornell together. Class.ifieds ., Davidson 211 L<wes Potter 207 ., To AU The Figi Brothers, Thanks for a great time at \Purple Haze\. Let's be sure to do it again! We're looking for a energitic student or student organization that would like to make $500- $1500, for a one week market- ing project right on campus. Must be mganized and hard working. Call (800)592-2121 ext. 312 To My Knight in.Shining Armor- -Love, the Sisters and Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta . I adore you. Thanks for the green roses- Melissa- -The K.11ight-n~gale Congratulations on yottr last social event. It was great! to the.!). '¥L1 pledges- Love, the Sisters and Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta ALASKA SUMMER JOBS Fisheries- Many earn $2000+/ mo. in canneries or $3000- $6000+/mo. on :tishing vessels. Many employers provide room & board & transportation. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For information call: (206) 545- 4155 ext. A5188. +603 points for taping this to the inside backcover. Dear 1 030'ers -Keg Mark- Maybe not sunshines, but definitely personals! Can you believe it has been almost 6 weeks? Let's no1ake it 6 more; then celebrate again on the floor. nove you. Roses are red Violets are blue Life is busy As were the three of you! Just for Juniors: Summer Opportunities from the CDC- Anderson Consulting has paid internships in the Metro New York Office. Deadline for resume and personal data sheet- March 11 by 5pm (this is an extended deadline.) More Oil Please. D, F.J, and J- Get back in the car! ·- Love the other lunatic. Bri - Good luck. I hope you don't need it I hope this is an Wanted: Someone to teach women how to slow dance to slow music. Mike yeah! Ifyou only had a brain. -Me P R r I'\ C I P L E S . of S 0 UN D · R I~ T I R E M E l\\ T I l\' V E S T I N G .. UNFORTUNATE~ TIDS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people make a money you don't send to Washington . . huge mistake on their taxes. They works even harder for you. Down the don't take advantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic difference wind up sending Uncle Sam money they in your quality of life. could be saving for retirement. What else makes SRAs so special? Fortunately, that's a mistake you can A range of allocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREr SRAs. guaranteed security of TlAA to the SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversified investment accounts of bite, th\ey offer a remarkably easy way CREF's variable annuity-all backed to build retirement income-especially by the nation's number one retirement for the \extras'' that your regular pension system. and Social Security benefits may not · Why write off the chance for a more cover. Because your. contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how TIAA-CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy m1;rny your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. ~· - Benefit now from ttue defen•al. Call our SRA. hotline 1 800-842-27~3, ~. 8016. Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M CREF ctrti/<Caluart JistrihutcJ by TIAA-CREF /nJiviJualanJ lnslilutional &~vicu. For mtJrtcomplttt in/orin<!/ ion, i;uluJin,vcbarguanh~ptn.ru, . raii/800-842-27JJ, txt. 8016/or aprosptCIIlJ· ReaJtbt proJpttlu.tcart/ully be/ort you inveJ/ or.reitd tnti>tty. . To All Students Interested In Law: Mary Ann Dunham PS '88 attended BC law school and is now working for a large international law finn in St. Paul, MN, as a corporate · lawyer. She will be talking informally with students and faculty about law school and her life as a lawyer. Bring your own lunch, and plan to attend: Lunch with a Lawyer, Thursday March lOth, l2:30pm, CC 203 Summer Intem Program- The New York State Senate offers opportunities for students who have completed their junior year. This comprehensive program is open to all majors. It will provide experience in legislative research and policy analysis. Interns will receive a $3000 stipend for a ten-week period. Deadline March 15. (Extensive application process so don't delay.) Details available at the CDC. Company literature and position description available at the Career Development Center Library, Third Floor, Old Chapel. A/C Rochester, a General Motors Company has summer internships for students with majors in ME and EE. Deadline for resume and transcript, Friday 1 March II by 5pm. Summer Camp: Center for the Disabled, Albany, offering a variety of positions for camp staff. See the CDC for further details. Summer Program: NY Hospital Cornell Medical Center Westchester Division, White Plains, is offering volunteer position in mental health program. See the CDC for details Summer Program: Institute for Intemational Cooperation and Development, me., offering volunteer programs for coun- tries in Africa and Latin America. See the CDC for details. Attention Graduate Students: IDS Financial Services Inc., (An American Express Company), would like to interview t:,rraduat- ing students for a Personal Financial Planner position. Resume deadline is Friday, March II at 5pm. Interviews will be held spring term. Clough, Harbor & Associates has positions available forCE majors. Resume and transcript deadline is March 11 at 5pm. WANTED: Anyone on this campus who does not have an attitude problem! Please Reply ASAP! . Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Alliance For more information contact Box 613 or come to our meet- ings on Mondays at 1 0 PM CC203 ;. ......................... ,. ........ \\' - ............ .P ........ ,. ......... ~- ..... - ... , .., ...... ·~ ............. ..,. ... - - ........ - ~- -' .... - •••• - -- - ....... ~ • ... • •.0: • '\ \ .................... ~ .............. - ..

RUBES® By Leigh Rubin · It would be the t1rst and last time the other woodland creatures would bring up the subject of grandchildren In the presence of Mrs. O'Hare. R.F.D. Mike Marlyn R.F.D .. Mike Marlyn \ --- ' ' ' .I ' f !-

. . ' I , r 1- CCfllr~ <!inn.cnrbiett$iS . . ' From mice to men, from meek to massive, from beaten to vic-· . tor. It is perhaps the most dra- matic midseason turnaround in college $ports this year. It is a pleasant shock to all who follow the sport and the league. And it · is now beginning to, get its due attention from the media and the fans. It is the 1993-1994 Union Colleg~ Hockey Team of wbich I write, and their incredi.bletum- around which had seen them go fr()m the ECAC basement to.tHe playoffs. This is a ~eam t4at won just one of their first nine conference games, losing seven and tying once. They lost on nights they played well and on nights they played poorly. They lost leads late in games, in front of a goaltender who has brought his best stuff into the crease game after game. They played with . inexperience, nervousness, and The ''K'' Korner by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor they were frustrated. D~cember 4 against Brown, a one-goal lead until there Were 19 seconds re- maining. Shot...score! Tie game. O.verthne, two minutes in, shot...game over, Brown wins. December 11 against Princeton at Achilles, two-goal lead with eight minutes to go. Final score: 4-4. How long ago that all .seems. The Union College Hockey team is currently experiencing their greatest string of success in their ~rief Division I history. On Feb- ruary 5, the Skating Dutchmen defealed St. Lawrence 3-2, TI1ey have not lost sinc;:e. Their seven game unbeaten streak includes ties against two of the most , highly-touted: in the country, an overtime win, .and four road vic- tories. Perhaps the best example of just how far Coach Delventhal's bunch has come can be found in this past weekend's performance. The trip included a stirring 3-2 victory at Brown and a tie at SPORTS Harvard, a team ranked third in the nation. Who would have thought it possible? Believe it or not, the Dutch- men have actually only been out .of one game this season. That was the 8-2 loss to RPI in January. The very next njght, you may recall', they played the Engineers against and lost on a late goal, 5-3. Maybe it is that weekend which optimizes the spirit of this team. After getting shellacked on home ice Friday, they played their hearts out on Saturday. The same can be said for the season. After a dismal start, this Union team did not \pack it in'; as many teams might. Instead they continued to work and push for the suc- cess they now enjoy. Their re- silience and persistence has , earned them the respect oft heir peers and the support of many, not to mention a playoff berth. March 3, 1994, page 19 Athlete of the Week lt;fike Humphreys by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff Yes fans once again Thursday has rolled around and it is time for The Athlete of the Week. For the second week in a row a swimmer has won this eminent accolade. Tilat is ri.ght this week's victor is Mike Humphreys a Fres11men from New Hartford, New York. He is one of the many blazing young bevy of freshmen sensa- tions that landed themselves a berth at Nationals with their per- fonnance at last weekend's State ' Meet. Mike wontbe State Cham- pionship in three individual events, destroying all sorts of records on his way to inconceiv- able times. Inconceivable to the rest of us unlearned swimming fa~s, but to a man of Mike's stat- ure, who has been swimming for nine years he knew he was des- tined for times and accomplish- ments such as these. In the 50 freestyle Mike swam a time of :21.09s placing first. breaking a school record, and making the B cut for Nationals. 1l1is was the first event he became State Champion in. He then pre- ceded to win the 1 00 backstroke in a time of :51.43s setting yet another school record, then go- ing beyond that and setting the Championship record, and even accomplishing an even better ex- ploit by setting an Association record. An Association record means that no one in the State of New York has ever swam a faster time than Mike before in the I 00 backstroke. This is an amazing feat, he also made the A cut for Nationals in this event. In his third event the 200 backstroke he ag.ain became the State Cham- pion, this man is a machine. His time of I :52.5 is about 1.5 sec- onds than anyone has ever swam. This too was a school record, Championship record, and an Association record, he also made the A cut to Nationals with this time. This record in the 200 back- stroke was the oldest standing recmd in New York, it had been standing since 1980, and Mike shattered it. In the backstroke events Mike beat last years state champion and All-American from Hartwick. Men's Basketball Seeded Sixth Mike also swam in four relays all of which set school records, three of the four relays placed first, those being the 400 Medley Relay, 200 Free Relay, and 400 Free Relay. All of these three also set Championship records. 1l1e 400 Medley and 400 Free Relays qualified for the A cut to Nation- als, and the 200 Free Relay made the B cut. His fourth relay was the 200 Medley Relay in which his team placed third and made the B cut for Nationals. Looks like Mike will be swimming a lot at Nationals. Lee Shachter had this to say of Mike,\Mike has a lot of talent, and he has shown us that through out the year. Th-is weekend he showed that he has a lot of guts to go along with it as he perfonned incredibly under presstue.\ by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor Your own Union College Bas- ketball Dutchmen are seeded sixth and traveled to third-seeded · Hamilton College in the first round of the ECAC Upstate New York Tournament yesterday evening to try to knock off the Continentals. The Union Men, finishing their season at 16-9, blew a 22-point lead at Clarkson Saturday and lost a chance at hosting a first round tournament game. Much contro- versy continues to surround the seeding process as Union de- feated (16-8) Hamilton earlier in the season 83-73 on February 12. Although confident about their chances against Hamilton, Senior Co-Captains Steve and Kenny Evans realize that their team is only a mediocre 4-4 on the road this year. Both agreed that \the team needs to play tough defense and score from in close over the smaller Hamilton players.\ The Dutchmen top two scorers Ken Evans (14.2 ppg) and Sam Poulis (14.1 ppg) need to con- tinue their consistent scoring and Steve Evans, the Union College Single Season Assist Leader ( 185}, must move the ball around for the team to be successful. Assuming a Union victory yes- terday, the Dutchmen will go on to play the winner of the (2 )Bingham ton -(7 )Skidmore game. Union will host this game tomorrow evening if Skidmore prevails. The ECAC Champion- Swimming Finishes Third Continued From Page 20 swimming well. These team members were: James Ernst, John Fitzgerald, Ken Hackett, Adam Horst, Tsuyoshi Kobayashi, Eric Menard, Luke Payne, Drew Pirich, Dave Saad, Eric Smith, Geoff Wolfe, Matt Woodrow, and Chris Yousey. There were many great perfor- mances during the meet and the team looked very good overall. 1l1ere were many great perfor- mances and many accomplish- ments this past weekend. As Coach Susan Bassett said, \Ev- ery swimmer had either a season best or career best time. Our upfront strength swam unbeliev- ably, and we have at least five and possibly as many as eight swim- mers going to Nationals. We won twelve out of the twenty events, and we broke eight State Cham- pionship records. We've never done anything like that before. I think we have a shot at placing in the Top Twenty at Nationals too.\ It truly was a great meet. Good luck to all of the swimmers who will be going to the National Championships at Williams, and congratulations to the whole team . ship will be played on Sunday at 3 p-.m., al.so at the site of .the higher remaining seed. This past Friday, Union de- feated St. Lawrence 1_09-91 as Sam Poulis scored 34 points and Steve Evans had 15 points and broke the Single Season Assist Record. Sophomore Reinis Kanders added 18 points and nine boards for the Dutchmen. Jamie Haver and Marcello Tellez also scored in double figures as the Union Men shot 62 percent from the field. · On Saturday, Clarkson upset the Dutchmen in their regular sea- son finale 83-81 . Union squan- dered a 51-35 half-time lead and finished the game shooting 58 percent from the floor. Poulis led all Dutchmen scorers with 22 points and Mark Stodden added 14 points while Haver. Steve Evans (eight assists), and Kenny Evans each scored 11 points. Hockey Clinches Playoffs Continued from page 20 score at one, less than one minute later. 1l1e Dutchmen regained the lead midway through the period, when Jon Sicinski redirected a Pat O'Fiaherty shot by Aaron Israel for his second goal of the game. Sicinski has been on a recent hot streak, recording four goals in his last three games. The Dutchmen lead wouldn't last long, as the Crimson tied the game two min- utes later. At the end of one pe- riod the score was tied 2-2. The scoring in the second period mir- rored the first period. The Dutchmen regained the lead for a third time, one minute into the second period. Troy Stevens received a pass from Chris Ford, skated into the Harvard zone on a 2 on l with Ford, faked the pass and shot it by Israel. Once again Harvard tied the game, this time at 3-3. Neither team was able to score for the remainder of the game; due to the clutch goaltending of Luigi Villa and Scott Boyd, who to- gether. tumed away a barrage of Harvard shots in the final minutes of the third period. The game ended in a 3-3 tie, giving Union its first ever point versus Harvard. The three point performance this past weekend, moved Union within three points of fifth place. The Dutchmen presently are tied with Cornell, with both teams having nineteen points. The Dutchmen clinched a home play- off game in the P.reliminary rounds of the playoffs, and de- pending upon their perfonnance this weekend, they have a shot at a bye in the first round of the play- offs. TI1is weekend the Dutchmen play host to Colgate and Comell, in the final two games of the regu- lar season. ....

'i '' March 3, 1994 Union Traps Bears; Crimson Gets the Point Hockey Unbeaten Streak at Seven With Victory at #14 Brown and Tie at #3 Harvard; Dutchmen Garner Playoff Spot by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor Before this weekend the Skat- ing Dutchmen of Union had col- lected 0 points versus Harvard and Brown, in ten previous meet- ings with the two teams. That was about to change as the Skating Dutchmen took their five game · unbeaten streak on the road. Behind the excellent . goaltending of Mike Gallant and Luigi Vill-a, the Dutchmen were able to take three points from the top two teams in the E.C.A.C. Two of the three points caine in a 3-2 win, over the Bears of Brown on Friday night. Earlier this sea- son the Dutchmen lost to Brown 5-4 in overtime, so they were looking for revenge. l11e Dutchmen were dominated in the first period, being outshot 20-6. Thanks to the excellent goaltending of Mike Gallant. the Dutchmen got out of the period ~ down by only one goal. Union ~ tumed things around in the sec- '\' ond period. applying pressure on ~ the Brown goalie. Their efforts ~ paid off six minutes into the pe- riod. when Jon Sicinski tipped in a Scott Boyd shot, evening the score at 1-l. Jay Prentice received the other assist. TI1e Dutchmen continued to keep the pressure on. and took the lead eleven minutes into the period. While skating with a two-man advantage. Jeff Jiampetti put the Dutchmen ahead s·coring his eighth league goal of the season. with assists going to Reid Simonton and Jay Prentice. The Dutchmen went into the locker room with a 2- I lead, after 1'-:;,-,_: Jeff Jiampetti tries to set up a scoring opportunity for tlze Dutchmen behind the Harvard Goal in Saturday's 3-3 tie against tlze Crimson. outshooting Brown 17-16 in the second period. Forthe first eight minutes of the third period the Dutchmen were able to hold on to their one goal lead. However the Bears kept on pressuring, and tied the game with twelve minutes left in the period. l11e Bears kept the pressure on the Dutchmen, and would've taken the lead. if not for the goaltending of Mike Gallant. who tumed away all but one ofBrown's seventeen shots. Despite being outplayed in the third period, the Dutchmen were able to get the only goal of the period. With less than two minutes remaining in the game, the Dutchmen were applying pressure deep in the Brown end. l11ere was a scramble in front of the net, Chris Albert took the loose puck and jammed it home, for the game winner. TI1e Bear's put up a protest, claiming that the whistle had blown before the puck went into the net, but the referee let the goal stand. Jeff Jiampetti and Shane Holunga as- sisted on Albert's. game winning goal. Mike Gallant recorded 52 saves in the game, raising his save percentage to .903. The next night Luigi Villa was in net,, as the Dutchmen faced off against the league leading Harvard Crim- son. On Friday night the Crimson crushed Neil Little and RPI, by the score of 7-5, so the Dutchmen were facing a hot Harvard team. The Dutchmen got on the board first, when Jon Sicinski beat goalie Aaron Israel, with a decep• tive shot just inside the Harvard blueline. Harvard evened the Continued on Page 19 Men's Swimmers Set Records While Finishing Third in State by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor The Union Men's Swim Team took third place at the State Championships this past weekend as they won twelve of the twenty events. and will have between five and eight swimmers going to the National Championships at Williams ill a couple of weeks. They broke eight State Champi- onship records and nine pool records- an amazing feat. The team's performance wasjust un- believable. At the end of the meet Union trailed Hamilton and Hartwick, respectively, but had acccmi~ plished much more than just tak- ing third in the state. Scott Bowden, Mike Humphreys, Kevin Makarowski, Bill Humphreys, and Chris Riley had all qualified for \A\ cuts for the National Championship meet, which means that they are defi- nitely going to Nationals. Than Stuntz, Chip Quarrier, and Robbie Johnson each qualified for the \B\ cuts for Nationals, which means that they need to wait to find out if they will be going to Nationals, but they have a good chance. Last year. only two members of the team went to Nationals, so the team's upfront strength has shown incredible improvement. Four out of five of the team's relays won their event, and all five qualified for either \A\ cuts or \B\ cuts· an incred- ible stat. Bowden and Mike Humphreys were the only two swimmers in the entire meet to win all three of their individual events, and they led the meet with 99 individual points each. Makarowski was tied for the ~ec­ ond highest individual point total with 95. Bowden was given Swimmer of the Meet honors. The personal achievements of all of the swimmers were amaz- ing. Bowden won the 200 yard individual medley, the 200 freestyle, and the IOOfreestyle and qualified for the A cuts for the first two and for B cuts with the third. Mike Humphreys won the 1 00 backstroke and 200 back- stroke, qualifYing for A cuts with both, and the 50 freestyle, quali- fying for B cuts; Makarowski won the 500 free and the 400 in- dividual medley and qualified for B cuts in both. Other swimmers scoring in the top eight in indi· vidual events were Stuntz, Quarrier, Riley, Johnson, and Bill Humphreys. Every swimmer on the team swam either season best or career best times and showed great im- provement. Many helped the team by scoring points and plac- ing in the top twenty-four, win- ning their respective heats, or by spurring the rest of the team on by giving gutsy performances and Co11tinued on Page 19 i l

