' i :t \j lj .I l' .I \! i --------- · ..•.•••.. 'i SeuieSte~ s~St~ID ':at ~nion? '-, See ,;}?age 8 : ..• ' • ' • • ' ' • ' • > •• ' • \ • • ' • • • ' •• \ '• Volume CXXIV, Number II UCan Vote Now! Recent Federal Law Requires Schenectady to Grant Students Voting Rights By 1995 by Elizabeth DeKoven Associate News Editor As of January 1, 1995, Union College students will have the right to vote in Schenectady lo- cal elections if they choose due to the ''National Voter Registra- tion Act\ Union College's president, Roger Hull, first began lobbying for students to get the right to vote two years ago when he wrote a letter to the Schenectady Gazette stating that he felt it was ludicrous that someone be denied the right to vote. \If students residing on the Union campus cannot vote be- cause they arc deemed to be sim- ply passing through the commu- nity, then why is it that students are rebuilding homes on Hamilton Hill, why are they rais- ing money for local charities .... why are they making programs like Big Brothers/ Big Sisters such a success, and why are they spending millions of dollars an- nually in Schenectady?,\ asked Hull in his letter to Gazette edi- tor, Jack Hume Jr .. \Schenectady would be a far poorer place with- out the investment of time and effort on the part of these young men and women.\ One of the reasons that the stu- dents on Union's campus have been denied the right to vote in the past is because they do not have a permanent address on campus, they only have a post office box number that follows them through their four years at Union. \By the way, ifUnion stu- dents cannot vote, does that mean that I too will be denied the right Continued on page 4 Celebrating Our .Bicentennial Schenectady, New York October 6, 1994 Campus Construction Near Conclusion The Nott Memorial is expected to be completed by December. The renovation is Olle of the many construction projects going on around campus. (photo by Laurel Rumafor The Concordiensis) h~ ( ·,tl·oline f'ailll' .\\t'w'· Ftlitor Wrth l}nion's birl·ntcnnial apprnachin~. th.: c.unpu~ lu~ been und..:rgurnl:! a dra~trr Ltn: I itt. . I The most ob\ ious sight of 1 restoration is the Nott l\lemo- rial. The sixh:en sided build- ing was originally built in I R7R. Since rts constructiOn. I the Nntt has bccom..: an id..:n- 1 tifying symbol fix the college.!' In preparation li.lr the bicen- tennial c~::rcnHmics in F~::bru- 1 ary, the Noll has been under 1 construdion since last year. Recently the scaffolding has begun to be taken down from the top of the demc. Steve Lamp, in charge of coordinat- ing the construction on the Union campus, expressed that \ .. .the remainder of the scaf- folding should be down by the end of October.\ The Nott it- self should be completed by the end of December this year. The campus is also up grad- ing its steam heating system \ for the l:t)llcg~.; center anJ act- Jemil· building:-.. This h~:nctir i IS a result of the restoration of the Nott Memorial. The his- torical building needed heat- ing, electricity and plumbingand because of this the needs previously men- tioned for the rest of campus has been up graded. The steam pipe line instal- lation and replacement went smoothly until there was a dis- Continued on page 4 CDC Releases Survey of the Class of 1993 by Christoph Ringwald Concordiensis Staff The Career Development Cen- ter (CDC) recently released a comprehensive survey of the Class of 1993. The number of respondents totaled 421, or 90 percent of all graduates, up one percent fi·om last year's survey of the Class of 1992. \I am very pleased with the strong, steady response rate,\ stated Mrs. Joanne Tobiessen, Director of the CDC. Of those who responded, 60 percent reported that they were . employed, 33 percent indicated that they went on to further study and five percent said that they were unemployed. \1993 was a tight job market, and Union students held their own,\ noted Mrs. Tobiessen, re- ferring to the increase of percent unemployment of the class of 1993 by one Once again, of those graduates who are employed, finance/bank- ing is by far the largest field of employment at 10.9 percent, al- though down one percent from last year. It is followed by educa- tion/student personnel at 8.2 per- cent and civil engineering at 7.4 percent, up a surprising 3.2 per- cent. Mrs. Tobiessen believes that this noteworthy increase is par- tially attributed to growing con- cerns for the environment. Of those attending graduate or professional school, 25.3 percent are pursuing a degree in medi- cine, up 5. 7 percent from last year; 20.4 percent are striving forth a degree in law, down one- half of a percent. It was the four straight year in which the per- centage of graduates going on to Continued o1i page 4 In This Issue: Teasha Nicholson Still in Need of Lung Transplant through the help of AOP, ALAS, West dining hall, individual con- tributions from faculty, students & staff, and several fraternities & sororities. Teasha has no medi- cal insurance, but her parents have not asked for any financial sup- port. Organizations at Union sent the donation as a silent gesture. small, so finding a donor will be more difficult.\ News ·······()··············· l-4 ~ SPORTS: by Stephanie Berliner Contributing Writer Teasha Nicholson, the Union College student who was diag- nosed with Pulmonary alveolar Proteinosis last spring, was unable to return to school this year. Teasha is attached to an oxygen tank and will not be able to be taken off of it until she has a lung transplant. Last year over $1,000 was raised for Teasha's lung transplant at Union College \The transplant is going to be a rather long, expensive endeavor,\ said Theresa Williams, the assis- tant director of the AOP office at Union College. \Teasha is very Last spring, Teasha had a levage, a cleansing of the lungs, to try and help her condition, but doctors have seen little improve- ment. They are going to try the lev age again and are hopeful that it will be more successful this time. \Teasha wanted to come back to Union,\ said Williams, \But right now that is not really pos- sible.\

October 6, 1994, page 2 NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994 THROUGH SUNDAY. OCTOBER 2. 1994 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26. 1994: 4:19AM Yulman Theater l :05 PM Fox House 5:05PM Campus Grounds 3:30PM Raymond Area TUESDAY.SEPTEMBER27. 1994: 10:00 AM Raymond North ,6:42 PM McKean House 7:35 PM North Lane WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1994: 12:56 AM Potter House 3:10AM Campus Safety 2:40PM Campus Grounds 4:30PM Raymond/Potter Lot 6:08PM College Center THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29. 1994: 7:40 AM Sigma Phi FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 30, 1994: 2:25 AM Richmond Lot 1:15 PM Nott!Seward Lot 4:45PM College Center Lot SATURDAY. OCTOBER 1. 1994: 2:08 AM West College 3:34AM West College · SUNDAY.OCTOBER 2. 1994: 1 :09 AM Fox House 5:00AM Davidson 10:45 AM Davidson 1:30PM Achilles Rink INCIDENT VANDALISM: Graffiti .spray painted on wall HARl\SSMENT: Obscene telephone calls. PARKiNG VIOLATION: Fraudulent registration of student vehicle-Conduct Charges filed. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT/INJURY: Student worker injured by debris thrown from residence hall window. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked by debris. FIRE ALARM: Caused by steam from cooking. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Campus vehicle struck by visitor's vehicle-property damage, no injury. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: \Peeping Tom\ reported. Area searched could not locate. HARASSMENT: False incident report filed. Conduct Charges filed. TRESPASS: Visitor posting unauthorized signs. Iden tified and warned. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's vehicle damagedwhile parked-Hit and Run. Occurred between 9/23 & 9/27. THEFr: Student's. backpack stolen from hall outside UCDH. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire panel disconnected and emergency exit/entrance blocked. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle window broken. THEFT: Vehicle license plates stolen from contractor's employee. May not have occurred on campus. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Staff member's car damaged while parked-Hit and Run. Occuned 9/27 between 3PM-11PM. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box on li-th floor north intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Disagreement between students. TRESPASS/SEX OFFENSE: Visitor trespassing in building soliciting sexual favors. Identified and warned off campus. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box on 3rd floor north intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire Evacuation very slow- residents did not respond quickly to S:OOAMfire alann. THEFT: Staff Member's wallet stolen. Never claim to have CLASS Only claim to have TASTE Four Seasons Chinese Restaurant 183 NottTerrace, Schenectady, NY 12308 (518) 393-5440 10°/o student discount with· student ID

October 6, 1994, page 2 An Ad Hoe Committee has been formed to reyiew the tenurability of Assistant Professor Mark Walker (;If tU6>Bi$.totY· Department. Any member of the CoHege COIUffiUtlity who wished to offer a statement regarding his scholarsl}lp, teaeihiltg ot.coll~ge service· should contact any member of the e~mtiiitt~ef Professor Mad< Toher~ Chair (Classics Dept, x6589); GeerS'e Omelch {Anthro~ pology Dept); William Faircltild (Math . .Dept)or Erik Hansen (His:.:. to:ry Dept). ·.-.' ... ·· An Ad Hoc Committee has been f\¢rmed to investi'gl!lte the tenurability of Professor Rudy Eggert oftlte MeohanicalEtitflileet• ing Department. 11te committee consists·.t>r'Ptofe§s0ts·~s~nth.at · (Mathematics, Committee Chair}, LatmrindsttCT.tiltl\late\inatbtge .. ment Institute}, Hassib · c-banic.al Engineering). Any petsdt1 · ~yarding the teaching. sel1totc:wst'~fl>'lotl)o Eggert should do so in wrirting ititFtllte+Glii~ftllfi!!lfilV\Ifft~!ittt~fither'\'l members of tile c-ommittee. optnent and sc!to.Jatshi:p1 df,eolligi~,·i$1~Wf' the committee member no later t11a'fl, Octob~r 31. be arranged by contacthtg Batbara.Jones .. colnmi:tt~~tl'tlmi¥'iltx~j63:Q\' t or 6277. A committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurabitity of Professnr David Hemmendinger. Electrical Engineering and ComM puter Science. Members of the campus cotntntmityare invited to submit to committee members written comments on ltis teaching, scholarship. and college service. Interviews may he arranged with the committee chair. Members ofthe co1nmittee are CatolWeisse;y Psychology; David Hannay, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steven Sargent~ History~ and TI10mas Jewell, Civil.Engi· · neeriug (chair}. · Ad4ioc Committe-e on· tenurability hils b~n ·.rstablisbed' · for Prof. Leo Fleishman of the Biology Department Members of the college community are invited to comment 011 Prof. Flei$hman 1 S teaching, research or College service. Comments may be sent to any member of tile cotttmittee: Prof. Vuk Fatic (EE!CS) Prof. Sigrid KeHenter (Modem Languages), Prof. Robert Olberg (Bio) or Prof. Theodore Bick (Math), chair, Annual Competition for Fulbright and other Grants to close soon: 'fbe 1995 ... 96 competition for grants for graduate stu:dy abroad offered under tbe Fulbright Program a11d by foreign governments, universities, and private donors win close on October 31. Ottly a few more weeks remain in which qualified graduating seniors and grad~ate ll.tud~nts.' may apply for one of th~ apptt'i~utately SO,f)t awatd$;l0':~Ver JOG COUlttties; .. . • .. M~st:;~fitegrauts of£'etedptovide round~td_p;~, ition an.;d m1Un:t{!nance for onl~ac~adi~lrltlc u~roJt.t.f&~(¢~~~~Q\i~~g~~t11t~f\' • nati<lnal travel·onty, ora stipend i·r ttetlded fils ~·P~~~aii,SJ:r~1tf:iU;;,aj(~., Applioartt&':.lnust be U.s. citizens at tlie tifiii¢/o:f.iill~lll!·tliJ:~!t'>rt~,, \i.Jlliil must generally hold a bachelor's degree. o rJt;S'e1Utf1~Pt(~nt-~b#l1~re'l the begiMing date of.tbe,grauf 1 and inn .. a·c tst·.ea:sesj Stiit).ttldl'lef)ifow ficient i.n the language ofthe]lost Ci>Utltey, J. a:·~ :c¢})tt~~t):eief, eitle awards; candidates tnaynothotdaPlt. n~. a-\ ttlieitilfte, ·catron. Cteative and performing artists are not··fi 'cruure!d·1i6\lila1•tt fJacllelerls degree; but must llave f'dur years < ·.• t~r equtvateithexperl¢nce] Orutdbtatea • · 1\~J·D.,,:t.Ut:~:qtti·v a~·e·n ;f,~e;;,g·.~ · A.~ · · ·: · ·.;J}f ~.J.il:.t\-, \\'. ,· '\\' \''~11:0. NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 26, 1994 THROUGH SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1994 DA TEffiME LOCATION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994: 4:19AM Yulman Theater I :05 PM Fox Hot1se 5:05PM Campus Grounds 3:30PM Raymond Area TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 27, 1994: 10:00 AM Raymond North 6:42 PM McKean House 7:35 PM North Lane WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 28, 1994: 12:56 AM Potter House 3:10AM Campus Safety 2:40PM Campus Grounds 4:30PM Raymond/Potter Lot 6:08PM College Center THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1994: 7:40AM Sigma Phi FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 30, 1994: 2:25AM Richmond Lot 1 : 15 PM Nott/Seward Lot 4:45PM College Center Lot SATURDAY, OCTOBER I. 1994: 2:08AM West College 3:34AM West College SUNDA Y.OCTOBER 2. 1994: I :09 AM Fox House 5:00AM Davidson 10:45 AM Davidson 1:30PM Achilles Rink INCIDENT VANDALISM: Graffiti spray painted Oil wall. HARASSMENT: Obscene telephone calls. PARKING VIOLATION: Fraudulent registration of student vehicle-Conduct Charges filed. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT/INJURY: Student worker injured by debris thrown from residence hall window. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked by debris. FIRE ALARM: Caused by steam from cooking. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Campus vehicle struck by visitor's vehicle-property damage, no injury. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: \Peeping Tom\ reported. Area searched could not locate. HARASSMENT: False incident report filed. Conduct Charges filed. TRESPASS: Visitor posting unauthorized signs. Iden tified and warned. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's vehicle damaged while parked-Hit and Run. Occurred between 9/23 & 9/27. THEFT: Student's backpack stolen from hall outside UCDH. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire panel disconnected and emergency exit/entrance blocked. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle window broken. THEFT: Vehicle license plates stolen from contractor's employee. May not have occurred on campus. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Staffmember'scar damaged while parked-Hit and Run. Occurred 9/27 between 3PM-11 PM. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box on 4th floor north intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Disagreement between students. TRESPASS/SEX OFFENSE: Visitor trespassing in building soliciting sexual favors. Identified and warned off campus. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box on 3rd floor north intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire Evacuation very slow- residents did not respond quickly to 5:OOAM fire alann. THEFT: Staff Member's wallet stolen. Never claim to have CLASS Only claim to have TASTE Four Seasons Chinese Restaurant 183 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, NY 12308 (518) 393-5440 10% student discount with student ID

NEWS October 6, 1994, page 3 ProfessOr Shanebrook Improves the Artificial Heart by Farhana Khan Concordiensis Staff Dick Shanebrook, a professor in the Engineering Department, and John DeMarco,. a recent graduate with a degree in me- chanical engineering, have devel- oped a working model of an arti- ficial blood pump called the Vor- tex Blood Pump which could al- leviate the risk of blood clots. The objective of this pusher- plate blood pump is to prevent the formation of blood clots through· out the cardiovascular surfaces. The human heart successfully keeps its walls dean through the sweeping motion of blood as it enters through tl1e natural mitnd valve. l11e sarheideawas applied in the fonnation of the Vortex blood pump. Tbete are two functions of this pump: one is to attach the pump to the Ventricular Assist Device in which the patient retains his/ her real heart. The Ventricular Assist Device can be implanted under the left side heart of the where the pump serves to dean the system in a sweeping motion. l11e second function is associated with the Total Artificial Heart, in which a simulated heart replaces the damaged heart and uses the vortex blood pump to cleanse the blood. The Total Artificial Heart is i1ot an effective method for re- ducing the risk of blood stagna- tion or other cardiovascular dis- eases. The purpose ofthe Vortex pump is to improve the blood clotting problem, however, it is not intended to replace open heart surgery. The problem with conventional blood pumps is that they have ar- eas of stagnation in the blood flow where blood platelets gather to form clots. These clots are then dislodged along in the blood thereby increasing the risk of strokes or other cardiovascular diseases for the patient. The cre- ation of this pump dislodges the buildup and sweeps it out of the heart area. During the initial stages of de- velopment, the vortex pump was designed to replicate the real mi- tral valve, however, the vortex motion of the blood was not an intended feature. Consequently, it is this vortex property which clearly .amplifies and enhances the pump to its ideal function. ProjessorSilanebrook with !tis Vortex model. (plzoto by Joslrua Wills Haines for The Concordiensis) For purposes of testing, their model was created out of clear Plexiglass and they used a clear liquid with white tracers to show the motion of the \blood\ in the chamber. Although the pump provides a major breakthrough for cardiovascular patients, there is still room for improvement. · The vortex motion of strength and persistence within the pump chamber requires additional im- provement. Throughout testing, the region between inlet and out- let ports accumulated tracer par- ticles which resulted in the stag- nation of the clear liquid. On November 4th, Shanebrook and his associates will present their Vmtex Blood Pump at the Inter- national Bioengineering Confer- ence in Baltimore, MD. Most developments are designed of convenience with not a Jot of ra- tional thought, he comments. However, he feels that the medi- cal field will be very receptive towards their presentation. G-eology Students Use the World As Classroom by Nalini Gupta Contributing Writer In an endeavor to step out and explore realms beyond their own, seven Union College Geology students made a trip to Rmnania last summer. TI1is expedition was part of an economic geology course taught in the spring. Dur- ing the three-week trip, the stu- dents were able to gain many valuable experiences, not only in the field of geological studies, but also in the context of a broader cultllral understanding, The gr0up that travelled to Ro- mania was comprised of seven students including Jeff Nebolini, Adam Goodman, Jeff Pattridge, Eric Seplowitz, Gaela Schweizer, Kevin Allison and Craig Prunier along with Assistant Professor of Geology, John Garver, visiting researcher Marian Lupulescu, the professor of the course and visit- ing professor, Jeff Tepper. The group spent most of the time in the capital city of Bucharest though we found the condition of Romanian geology to be .some- what at a standstill, we were im- pressed at the huge department Nebolini. The expedition also extended to the port city of Constanza in the coastal areas of the Black Sea 1 some of the oldest rocks in Ro- mania and to tour the ruins of sev- eral temples and courtyards. As a third part of the trip, the group where they visited the University Union Geology students a11d professors wllile in Romania last summer (photo provided by Kevin Allison) ofBucharest and other Romanian mineralogical institutes and mu- . seums like the Museum of Geol- ogy and Paleontology.· \Al- which serves the entire country and has some of the most fasci- nating specimens\ said Jeff and across the Danube river to the Dobrogea area. In these locations the students were able to study travelled through the Carpathian Mountains, touring the village of Sinaia, Transylvania and the Baia Uni()n College Mourns Loss of Three Colleagues by S~rah Ruth Evans Concor.diensis Staff Three members of the Union Community recently passed away. Harold W. Blodgett, fonner chair of the English De- partment; Diana Dworkin, a fund accountant for Schaffer Library, and Gardner Ketchum, professor emet{tus ofn1ed1aniciil engii1eer-' mg. Blodgett, 93, died, after a short illness, on Thursday, September 29 in his home. He earned his bachelor's, master's and doctor- ate from Cornell University. Blodgett was a professor of En- glish and department chair from 1936~ 1965 and was named pro- fessor emeritus in 1965. Profes- sor Blodgett was a Fullbright lee- turer at the University of Lei den, University of Tehran, and the University of Bombay. He was also a Guggenheim Fellow from 1955 to 1956. Dworkin, 42, died Monday, September 26 at home in Schenectady, after a prolonged illness. She· worked for the col- lege for five years. ·Ketchum, 14, died Sunday, September 25 at Ellis Hospital. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctorate from Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology. He taught mechanical engineering at Union from 1952-1985 and served as head oftl1e department for over ten years. Ketchum was also a trustee of the college. ' Mare area nea,r the Ukrainian border. Here they were able to see the restored castle of Count Dracula, gold and precious metal deposits, poor villages and col- orful towns and to study the rocks of the Matalliferous Mtns. Besides being amazed by the extraordinary relief features, stu- dents found themselves discov- ering and joining in the various traditions and lifestyles of the Romanian people. They bar- gained in meat markets, camped in private back yards, visited pic- turesque graveyards lodged in student donns and witnessed the rural methods of agriculture. In the spirit of adventure, the group also ventured into prohibited ar- eas surrounded by anned guards and witnessed signs of the revo- lution including bullet holes, damaged buildings and active protests. Despite the many practical challenges of finding transporta- tion, meals, accommodation, currency and fuel, the students were eager to learn about the many traditions such as the popular Sunday walks and sac- rificial slaughtering of lambs . According to Professor John Garver, who is up for tenure for his active organization of the excursion, the trip was a tremen- dous success. \There is no doubt that the trip held a twofold sig- nificance for all of us. First, we saw the rocks and second, we saw Romania.\ Several of the students admit, that even in the midst of filthy, unsanitary con- ditions, language problems and the hardship of travel itself, they found astonishing beauty of both q~tljure ~.nd terrain.

.I NEWS October 6, 1994, page 3 Professor Shanebrook Improves the Artificial Heart by Farhana Khan Concordiensis Staff Dick Shanebrook, a professor in the Engineering Department, and John DeMarco, a recent graduate with a degree in rne- chanical engineering, have devel- oped a working model of an arti- ficial blood pump called the Vor- tex Blood PHmp which could al- leviate the risk of blood clots. The objective of this pusher- plate blood pump is to prevent the formation of blood clots through- out the cardiovascular surfaces. The human heart successfully keeps its walls clean through the sweeping motion of blood as it enters through the natural mitral valve. The same idea was applied in the formation of the Vortex blood pump. There are two functions of this pump: one is to attach the pump to the Ventricylar Assist Device in which the patient retains his/ her real heart. The Ventricular Assist Device can be implanted under the left side heart of the where the pump serves to dea1~ the system in a sweeping motion. The second function is associated with the Total Artificial Heat1, iH which a simulated heart replaces the damaged heart and uses the vortex blood pump to cleanse the blood. The Total Artificial Heart is not aH effective method for re- ducing the risk of blood stagna- tion or other cardiovascular dis- eases. The purpose of the Vortex pump is to improve the blood clotting problem, however, it is not intended to replace open heart surgery. The problem with conventional blood pumps is that they have ar- eas of stagnation in the blood flow where blood platelets gather to fonn clots. These clots are then dislodged along in the blood thereby increasing the risk of strokes or other cardiovascular diseases for the patient. The cre- ation of this pump dislodges the buildup and sweeps it out of the heat1 area. During the initial stages of d~!­ velopment, the vortex pump was designed to replicate the real mi- tral valve, however, the vortex motion of the blood was not an intended feature. Consequently, it is this vortex property which clearly amplifies and enhances the pump to its ideal function. Professor Shanebrook with /lis Vortex model. (photo by Joshua Wills Haines for The Concordiensis) For purposes of testing, their model was created out of clear Plexiglass and they used a clear liquid with white tracers to show the motion ofthe \blood\ in the chamber. Although the pump provides a major breakthrough for cardiovascular patients, there is still room for improvement. The vortex motion of strength and persistence within the pump chamber requires additional im- provement. Throughout testing, the region between inlet and out- let ports accumulated tracer par- ticles which resulted in the stag- nation of the clear liquid. On November 4th, Shanebrook and his associates will present their Vortex Blood Pump at the Inter- national Bioengineering Confer- ence in Baltimore, MD. Most developments are designed of convenience with not a lot of ra- tional thought, he comments. However, he kels that the medi- cal field will be vety receptive tmvards their presentation. Geology Students Use the World As Classroom by Nalini Gupta Contributing Writer In an endeavor to step out and explore realms beyond their own, seven Union College Geology students made a trip to Romania last summer. l11is expedition was part of an economic geology course taught in the spring. Dur- ing the three-week trip, the stu- dents were able to gain many valuable experiences, not only in the field of geological studies, but also in the context of a broader cultural understanding. though we found the condition of Romanian geology to be some- what at a standstill, we were im- pressed at the huge department Nebolini. TI1e expedition also extended to the port city of Constanza in the coastal areas of the Black Sea ,some of the oldest rocks in Ro- mania and to tour the mins of sev- eral temples and courtyards. As a third part of the trip, the group The group that travelled to Ro- mania was comprised of seven students including Jeff Nebolini, Adam Goodman, Jeff Pattridge, Etic Seplowitz, Gael a Schweizer, Kevin Allison and Craig Prunier along with Assistant Professor of Geology, John Garver, visiting researcher Marian Lupulescu, the professor of the course and visit- ing professor, Jeff Tepper. The group spent most of the time in the capital city of Bucharest \.,·here they visited the University Union Geology students and professors while in Romania last summer (plwto provided by Kevin Allison) of Bucharest and other Romanian mineralogical institutes and mu- seums like the Museum of Geol- ogy and Paleontology. \AI- which serves the entire country and has some of the most fasci- nating specimens\ said Jeff and across the Danube river to the Dobrogea area. In these locations the students were able to study travelled through the Carpathian Mountains, touring the village of Sinaia, Transylvania and the Baia Union College Mourns Loss of Three Colleagues by Sarah Ruth Evans Concordiensis Staff Three members of the Union Community recently passed away. Harold W. Blodgett, fanner chair of the English De- pat1ment; Diana Dworkin, a fund accountant for Schaffer Library, and Gardner Ketchum, professor emeritus of mechanical engineer- mg. Blodgett, 93, died, after a short illness, on Thursday, September 29 in his home. He eamed his bachelor's, master's and doctor- ate from Cornell University. Blodgett was a professor of En- glish and department chair from 1936-1965 and was named pro- fessor emeritus in 1965. Profes- sor Blodgett was a Fullbright lee- turer at the University ofLeiden, University of Tehran, and the University of Bombay. He was also a Guggenheim Fellow from 1955 to 1956. Dworkin, 42, died Monday, September 26 at home in Schenectady, after a prolonged illness. She worked for the col- lege for five years. Ketchum, 74, died Sunday, September 25 at Ellis Hospital. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctorate from Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology. lie taught mechanical engineering at Union from 1952-1985 and served as head of the department for over ten years. Ketchum was also a trustee of the college. Mare area near the Ukrainian border. I kre they were able to see the restored castle of Count Dracula, gold and precious metal deposits, poor villag.es and col- ,,rful !lm 11~ and to ~tud~ th~: rocb of the l\1atallif~:tous l\ltJl:, lksides being atll<l.led b~ th~: extraordinary rd id. features. stu- dents fuund them~eh es disco\- ering and .JOilling in tht: \ ariuus traditions and likst) ks llf the Romaman people. The) bar- gained in meat markets, c.:ampeJ tn pnvate back yards, visited pic- turesque graveyards lodged in student donns and \vitnessed the rural methods of agriculture. In the spirit of adventun::, the g.roup also ventured into prohibited ar- eas sunounded by anncd guard~ and witnessed signs of the rc\o- lution including bullet holes. damaged buildings and acti\e protests. Despite the many practical challenges of finding transp~lrta­ tion, meals, accnmnwdatwn, currency and fuel, the stmknts were eager tn learn abllllt the many traditions such as the popular Sunday walks and sac- rificial slaughtering of lambs. According to Professor John Garver, who is up for tenure fpr his active organization of the excursion, the trip was a tremen- dous success. \There is no doubt that the trip held a twofold sig- nificance for all of us. First. we saw the rocks and second. \H saw Romania.\ Several of the students admit. that even in the midst of filthy, unsanitary con- ditions, language problems and the hardship of travel itself, they found astonishing beauty of both culture and tenain.

October 6, 1994, page 4 NEWS New Professors Welcomed to College Community by Adrian MacLean Contributing Writer Union added tweHty new mem- bers to its top rate faculty for the bicentennial year. Professor Donald Rodbell be- came an addition to the Geology Department this fall. He is no foreigner to Schenectady because he grew up in Bumt Hills, New York. Rodbell is excited to be at Union after moving from St. Lawrence University to the Uni- versity of Colorado and then to the Ohio State University. \The nature of Union is a small liberal arts school with a high cali- ber and dynamic Geology Depart- ment. The level of activity i·n this department is very impressive,\ Rodbell said. Rodbell spent most oflastyear working on his post doctoral at the Byrd Polar Research Center at Ohio State, which includes three months of field work in the Andes of Peru and Ecuador. He studied a vmiety of topics such as glacial deposits from the ice age, the rising global temperature and periods of abrupt climate change. The Andes are unique because they haven't been researched by Geologists. Through dating of deposits. records can be made of the changes in global climate. Sediment cores covering the last fifteen thousand years were gath- ered to help identify periods of global climate change and local CLOCKWISE FROM TOP (Professor Hilles, Professor Rodbell, Professor Scllmidt) -Photos by Joshua W. Haines/FC) volcanic eruptions. Professor Carroll Hills came to Union after receiving a Ph.D. from Duke University. Her pri- mary interest is teaching and studying medieval literature. HilJs teaches the pre-romantic era and aims to bring out the expres- sions and emotions from the lit- erature. Hill's goals for this year is to heighten the enthusiasm for me- dieval literature. The study oflit· erary theory is Hill's focus, and she likes the \way literattue brings out the culture.'' Adding to the list of outstand- ing faculty, Professor Stephen Schmidt joined the Economics Department this year. Afte~ nine years of schooling at Stanford University, SCinn~dt decided to move out to Schenectady. In applying for the job at Union, Schmidt had several flight delays; the Economics Depart- ment and the dean rearranged for interviews. \Tiu~- professors and the dean came in: on a Saturday. I found this extremely impres- sive,\ Schmidt said. Schmidt is working on his dis- sertation that deals with transport markets, btJS systems and rail- roads. He dealt primarily on this facet of economics for his Ph.D.· studies, and anticipates his the- sis published this year. Many Construction Proje~ts are Nearing Completion· Co11tinued from page 1 crepancy between the blue prints and the actual pipe line in front of Memorial Chapel. \There was a cross over in the pipes in fmnt of the Chapel,\ reported an em- ployeeoftheJohn V. Warren Co., the company working on the pipes. \Nothing would have hap- pened if we had not caught this problem, there just would not have been heat.\ TI1e heating pipe incident was the only major problem that oc- cun:ed recently concerning the construction on campus. The pipe work is scheduled to be com- peted by the end of this week. Hopefully by the end of this year. all construction wlll -be complete and the c~mpus will retum to a more nonnal state. Students to Vote in 1995 Local Elections CDC Survey Released For Class of 1993 Conti11ued from page 1 to vote?,\ Hull asked in the con- clusion of his letter. \After all , I also live on the Union campus.\ Hull's goal was to compile a group of students that would start a law suit in the county demand- ing the right to vote. \I knew I couldn't do this on my own,\ said Hull. \I wanted students to try to register and be denied so that we could bring a suit against the county.\ Union students did not have to bring a law suit against the county to get the right to vote, because the Senate Assembly of the Sate of New York amended the elec- tion law in regards to voter regis- tration and the impleme.ntation of the \National Voter Registra- tion.\ \The Congress finds that the right of citizens is a fundamental right; it is the duty of the Federal State, and local govemments to promote the exercise of that right; and discriminatory and unfair registration laws and procedures can have a direct and damaging effect on voter. participation,\ states NVRA. \The right to vote travels with the individual and residence no longer plays such a big role in voter qualifications,\ said Robert A. Brehm, Election Commis- sioner from the county of Schenectady, in a letter to an ad- ministrator at Union College. \Residence will still play a role in detennining the polling site and the district the board of elections instructs a voter to go to.\ The County Board of Elections is planning to develop a voter reg- istration action plan for the cam- pus. A student will not be able to · register from their post office box address alone, he/she will have to include their residence halls. Hull plans to encourage stu- dents as much as he can to vote. \I will try to infonn students on positive and negative issues fac- ing the campus,\ said Hull. \I want students always to be aware.\ Conti11ued from page 1 law school has decreased. Prof. Byrpn Nichols, Chair of the Political ScieiJce Depattm.ent, cited three likely reasoi1s for this trend: \It has become iticreas- ingly common for stodents to take time off after college, stttdents are becoming more conscious of the surplus oflawyers, atid other pos- sible career areas have opened.\ CHETS lst Prize- $75 2nd prize - ~50 3rd .place - ~25 On Wendsday, Oct. 12 at 9:30P.M. I Chets will hold a chicken wing eating contest that will ma·tch up 15 of the biggest mouths on Campus. Last year's Champion: Stacy Andersoh Other results of the survey show: Of the females who responded, 65 percent are employed and 31 percent are attending graduate or professional school. For inales, the percentages are 57 and 36, respectively. Of the respondents who are studying medicine, 75 percent are male. Of the· respondents who are studying law, 69 percent are male. Of the respondents who are studying in the field of education, 67 percent are female. Of the respondents who are working in the field of education/ student personnel, 80 percent are female: Of the respondents who are working in the field of civil engi- neering, 79 percent are male. Of the respondents who are working in the field of finance/ banking, 54 percent are female. The data for this survey were compiled by Kathryn Bradley, Assistant Director of th~ CDC. Sleepless in Schenectady

< t r--------------------------------------, I I I HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .16. (WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE.) Separate \needs\ fro.m \wants.'' Hint: A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone is a want Split the bill but only pay your share. Why put in for someone else's swordfish if all you got was soup? /0 Set aside money for emergencies. Unless you'd rather call your parents for it instead. il:JJ Keep your eye on your walleto Have a Citibank Classic card in case you ' lose it. The Lost Wallet 5 M Service can get you emergency cash:·· a new card usually within 24 hours and help replacing vital documents. ·Based on available cash line. ,,j .. _. .; . I I • !

Octo~er 6, 1994, page 6 Endowment Must Improve for Union's Ranking to Soar Why is a college of Union's caliber not located on li.S. News & World l?e[Jr>rl ·.,·list of Top 25liberal a1ts colleges? In the past, Union has been on this list. Thirty or F01ty years ago Union was consid- ered by many expetts to be one of the best liberal arts colleges in the country. For educational purposes many people rightfully still con- sider Union to be one of the best 'teaching' colleges in the country . . The faculty is first-rate, and Union is one of the few liberal arts col- leges that offers an engineering program. Though a few years ago Union's admission .statistics were less than spectacular, they have improved dramatically. These numbers indicate that Union is more selective than Vassar, Hamilton, Bucknell, Skidmore, and Brandeis to name a few. Yet, these schools are often more well known than Union. Union's reputation has suffered for several reasons, but probably the most prominent reason is Union-'s relatively low endowment. Though Union is one of the few schools that can boast having an alumni pa1ticipation rate (financial) of over 50 percent annually, the school's endowment of $140 million is abysmal when compared to the $500 million endowments which are commonplace at some of the schools with comparable enrollments. The lack of funds hurts Union for a couple of reasons. 1) The administration has less to spend on improving the school physically, and educationally, with less money for departments, financial aid, and improving facilities. 2) It gives the appearance that the average Union alumnus cares less about their alma mater than alums from other schools. Since U.S. News and World Report uses endowment as a means for ranking schools, Union is ranked lower than many schools that are not more competitive, and do not provide a better education. In order to facilitate a significant change in the school's endow- ment several things must happen. Union has determined that the problem lies with recent alumni. A lower percentage of them are donating, and the donations tend to be relatively low. Clearly, the school needs to do a better job of catering to students while they are at Union. Administrators who stipulate that they do not understand why alumni aren't giving up to 'par' are turning their backs to the real problem - student sentiment towards the school during their four years here. Secondly, there-is no reason why students who weren't enthralled with their Union experiences shouldn't give to the school. One of the few ways to initiate changes at Union is through monetary dona- tions. The school also needs to stress in its fundraising campaign that it is incumbent upon graduates to make sure that highly quali- fied students can come to Union regardless of their financial back- grounds. Financial aid can only increase with a larger endowment. Lastly; ftustrated students should realize that despite some of their ill-feelings towards the school, the value of their diploma depends on Union's prestige. A school as old as Union should clearly have a significantly higher endowment. Then, and only then, will Union's national reputation improve. mty£ <!Innrnriliett~is Tile Stu4e!JtlJ'IJ:W$JJaper ,of Y:'ftiim Culleg.'e SttJC.lf 1/IZ1, ... ·'--.~ .. Assistant NewimtkJ:r Sports Staff · · ,· ... · ... Staff ; Michelf¢ Rilis.~ Alexandra Gualpa, :Sharat Na~ard~ Lariy · •· Paska, Karen Pepia:tt~ Wi1ltam Rice, Cliristoplt'Ringvvald; Mtch.erte ·; Rosenbaum, Billy Shakos, Sbveta Srivastava, Scott Ste¢1e, . Rawson nmrbet!'Carrie Wl1eeler, The Conc\tdi¢n.vi.~ meets every Monday aud·Tuesday o£the ac}l.: ) demic year. It is published by the students of Union College and, ' · in no way reflects the opinionsof'UnionCotlege. OP-ED - . IP\ty OPINIONS The New Food Service: Not Necessarily an Improvement Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor Last spring there was much talk about privatizing food services, but when I left for summer break I was under the impression that it was mostly talk and that food ser- vices would not be privatized for at least another year. I was greatly surprised when I returned to school. My first experience with the new food service was not a pleas- ant one. l11e first day of classes I went to breakfast in West, this was not an unusual activity for me, as I did it everyday last year. First of all Tish was gone from her usual position. Don't worry I asked the food service manager, and I was informed that she will be returning. The most serious complaint that I had with my breakfast that morning was that everything was empty. The juice machines were empty and so were all the chaffers. Also there was no one behind. the counter to ask what was what. Little basic things were missing. For instance, there was no jelly to put on my toast; (thf?re is now jelly but only grape flavored). I finally found a type of cereal I liked only to find out that there was no skim milk.. I thought that maybe these prob- lems would be fixed over time as adjustments were made, but for the most part they have not been made. To top of my morning breakfast off, on the way out the door a kitchen worker told me that I can no longer cany my backpack into West. Last year, I left my backpack outside and someone NEAR EXIT 2W ON NORTHWAY - dropped their bag on top of my and my glasses were broken; I do not want that to happen again. She also told me that I could not eat my banana as I was leaving. All I have to say to her Fequest is do not worry the food is so bad that I would not want to steal it. Last spring, in a Concordiesis article about privatization, the major argument against it was the loss of service and not the qual- ity of the food. From my experi- ence thus far with food services, I would have to agree with this assessment. I cannot say that the food is any better or worse this year than last, although l do miss make your own Belgian waffles at brunch and eggs to order. The overall quality of service has dras- tically decreased since privatization. It is obvious that Marriot is trying to increase its profits by serving the food buffet style instead of kitchen employ- ees serving the students. In Upperclass Dinning chaffers are often empty because there are not enoug~ employees. to watch all areas properly making sure that they are clean and fulL Now, on to Dutch Hollow. Things are missing, that were staples last year. I can no longer order frozen yogurt. nor can I buy a small bottle of juice; I can only buy large sizes of juice. I thought that the Dinning Services com- mittee decided to make the rec- ommendation that there be two people working the registers dur- ing the rushes in between classes. Last week, a second person did not come out and Jtelp until the rush was almost over. Another Try Us For An Alternative SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR QUALIFIED ~ DRIVERS JW INSURANCE 1533 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, N.Y. 12205 CALL (518) 452-9243 contplaint I have about Dutch is the prices. A bottle of juice cost $1.50 with tax in Dutch, yet I can walk ten yards to the Conve- nience Store and get the same bottle for $1.06 with tax .. lfi want to go for a little drive I can go to Price Cliopper and by juice for 79¢. Dutch Hollow is making a 100% profit over retail on juice and I thought Union was a not for profit institution. Besides the price of juice in Dutch Hollow there is the problem of water. I thought we had gotten over charg- ing 1 0¢ for a cup of water. You would think they could take the profits from overcharging us for juice and let us have cups of wa- ter for free. Not all of the food services on the first floor of the college cen- ter are that bad. TITe Convenience Store has improved greatly with the implementation of being able to Vali-dine everything in the store. I am glad to see that the college has worked out the tax problems that plagued the store .last year limiting the Vali-dine se- lection. To bad they could not work out the new tax problem. I was informed by a kitchen em- ployee that I can no longer double swipe my meal card so that a friend can eat. He told me that it was against New York state tax laws to pay for someone else, does that mean that if I take a friend out to dinner at a restau- rant that I cannot pay for him or her. I have already paid for my meals, so why should it matter how I use it. Most of the problems associ- ated with food services this year have to do with service. As I sit here drinking my stale coffee, which I just bought a Dutch Hoi- · low, I realize how much I miss the quality of service I received last year. I do not blame the food service employees for the lack of service. TI1ey are working just as hard as last year, but there are fewer of them to do the job and as a result the level of service is not up to par.

October 6, 1994~ page 6 Endowment Must Improve for Union's Ranking to Soar \\'hy ts a college of Union's caliber not located on l f. S Ne11•s & ll'urld N.l'porl \list of Top 251ibcral at1S colleges'} In the past. Union has been on this list. Thitiv or F011y years ago Union was consid- ered by many experts to be one of the best liberal arts colleges in the country. For educational putposes many people rightfully still con- , sider lin ion to be one of the hest \teaching' colleges in the country. The faculty is first-rate, and Union is one of the few liberal arts col- leges that offers an engineering program. Though a few years ago L:nion · s admission .statistics were less than spectacular, they have improved dramatically. These numbers indicate that Union is more selective than Vassar, Hamilton. Bucknell. Skidmore, and Brandeis to name a few. Yet, these schools are often more well known thaH Union. Union's reputation has suffered for several reasons, but probably the most prominent reason is Union's relatively low endowment. Though Union is one of the few schools that can boast having an alumni patticipation rate (financial) of over 50 percent annually, the school's endowment of $140 million is abysmal when compared to the $500 million endowments which are commonplace at some of the schools with comparable enrollments. The lack of funds hurts Union for a couple of reasons. I) The administration has less to spend on improving the school physically, and educationally, with less money for departments, financial aid, and improving faciiities. 2) It gives the appearance that the average Union alumnus cares less about their alma mater than alums from other schools. Since U.S. News and World Report uses endowment as a means for ranking schools, Union is ranked lower than many schools that are not more competitive, and do not provide a better education. In order to facilitate a significant change in the school's endow- ment several things must happen. Union has determined that the problem lies with recent alumni. A lower percentage of them are donating, and the donations tend to be relatively low. Clearly, the school needs to do a better job of catering to students while they are at Union Administrators who stipulate that they do not understand why alumni aren't giving up to 'par' are turning their backs to the real problem -student senttrnent towards the school during their four years here. Secondly, there\is no reason why students who weren't enthralled with their Union experiences shouldn't give to the school. One of the few ways to initiate changes at Union is through monetary dona- tions. The school also needs to stress in its fundraising campaign that it is incumbent upon graduates to make sure that highly quali- fied students can come to Union regardless of their financial back- grounds. Financial aid can only increase with a larger endowment. Lastly, frustrated students should realize that despite some of their ill-feelings towards the school, the value of their diploma depends on Union's prestige. A school as old as Union should clearly have a significantly higher endowment. Then, and only then, will Union's national reputation improve. Wire Qlontnrbi.ensis Tile Studellt Newspaper of Vnion College Since 1877 David Levine Editor-in-Chiif Executive Editor News Editor Features Editors . Arts Editors Sports Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor World News Editor Opinions Editor Scie11ce & Health Editors Business Editor · · Computer Manager Photographers Assistant News Editor Sports Staff Heather Reynolds Editor-in·.Chief LisaLemoi Caroline Paine Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Suzanne Robinson, Leena Mankad Dagan La Corte Diana Sedita Joslt Haines ·Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenny Lee Alex Shapiro Brett Saunders Scott Druckemiller, Emily Schrier Jeremy Smith, Michele Roseman, Jen Aher:ens, Laurel Ruma Elizabeth DeKoven Ken Bennan, Jason Starr Staff: Michelle Ellis, Alexandra Gualpa, Bharat Navani, Larry Paska, Karen Pepiatt, William Rice, Christoph Ringwald, Michelle Rosenbaum, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, Scott Steele, Rawson Thurber, Carrie W11eeler. The Cmu.:ordiensis meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. It is published by the students of Union College and in no way reflects the opinions of Union College. OP-ED Wq.e OI.oncorb-iensis OPINIONS The New Food Service: Not Necessarily an Improvement Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor Last spring there was much talk about privatizing food services, but when I left for summer break I was under the impression that it was mostly talk and that food ser- vices would not be privatized for at least another year. I was greatly surprised when I returned to school. My first experience with the new food service was not a pleas- ant one. Tl1e first day of classes I went to breakfast in West, this was not an unusual activity for me, as I did it everyday last year. First of all Tish was gone from her usual position. Don't worry I asked the food service manager, and I was informed that she will be returning. The most serious complaint that I had with my breakfast that morning was that everything was empty. The juice machines were empty and so were all the chaffers. Also there was no one behind.the counter to ask what was what. Little basic things were missing. For instance, there was no jelly to put on my toast; (there is now jelly but only grape flavored). I finally found a type of cereal I liked only to find out that there was no skim milk. I thought that maybe these prob- lems would be fixed over time as adjustments were made, but for the most part they have not been made. To top of my morning breakfast off, on the way out the door a kitchen worker told me that I can no longercany my backpack into West. Last year, I left my backpack outside and someone NE:AR E.XIT 21/v ON NORTHWAY - dropped their bag on top of my and my glasses were broken; I do not want that to happen again. She also told me that I could not eat my banana as I was leaving. Alii have to say to her request is do not worry the food is so bad that I would not want to steal it. Last spnng, in a Concordiesis article about privatization, the major argument against it was the loss of service and not the qual- ity of the food. From my experi- ence thus far with food services, I would have to agree with this assessment. I cannot say that the food is any better or worse this year than last, although I do miss make your own Belgian waffles at brunch and eggs to order. The overall quality of service has dras- tically decreased since privatization. It is obvious that Marriot is trying to increase its profits by serving the food buffet style instead of kitchen employ- ees serving the students. In Upperclass Dinning chaffers are often empty because there are not enough employees to watch all areas properly making sure that they are clean and fulL Now, on to Dutch Hollow. Things are missing, that were staples last year. I can no longer order frozen yogurt, nor can I buy a small bottle of juice; I can only buy large sizes of juice. I thought that the Dinning Services com- mittee decided to make the rec- ommendation that there be two people working the registers dur- ing the rushes in between classes. Last week, a second person did not come out and help until the rush was almost over. Another Try Us For An Alternative SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR QUALIFIED RISK POOl DRIVERS JW INSURANCE 1533 CENTRAL AYE. ALBANY. N.Y. 12205 CALL (518) 452-9243 complaint I have about Dutch is the prices. A bottle ofjuice cost $1.50 with tax in Dutch, yet I can walk ten yards to the Conve- nience Store and get the same bottle for $1.06 with tax .. Ifl want to go for a little drive I can go to Price Chopper and by juice for 79¢. Dutch Hollow is making a I 00% profit over retail on juice and I thought Union was a not for profit institution. Besides the price of juice in Dutch Hollow there is the problem of water. I thought we had gotten over charg- ing 10¢ for a cup of water. You would think they could take the profits from overcharging us for juice and let us have cups of wa- ter for free. Not all of the food services on the first floor of the college cen- ter are that bad. The Convenience Store has improved greatly with the implementation of being able to Vali-dine everything in the store. I am glad to see that the college has worked out the tax problems that plagued the store last year limiting the Vali-dine se- lection. To bad they could not work out the new tax problem. I was infonned by a kitchen em- ployee that I can no longer double swipe my meal card so that a friend can eat. He told me that it was against New York state tax laws to pay for someone else, does that mean that if I take a friend out to dinner at a restau- rant that I cannot pay for him or her. I have already paid for my meals, so why should it matter how I use it. Most of the problems associ- ated with food services this year have to do with service. As I sit here drinking my stale coffee, which I just bought a Dutch Hol- low, I realize how much I miss the quality of service I received last year. I do not blame the food service employees for the lack of service. Tl1ey are working just as hard as last year, but there are fewer of them to do the job and as a result the level of service is not up to par.

by Alexis Leist Feat11res Editor \She asked fot it.\ Such is the response which many rapists use to justify their ,inhumane act of violence - and yes, rape is vio- lence. Rape is net about sex but power, who can dominate who .. It is an attempt for insecure (not to mention sick) men to put women in their place in a way which they know wi'll hurt women the most- by carrying out the tra- ditional role play of women sub- mitting and ni.en ordering. For rapists, beating i·s not enough. only through sex can they feel the ultimate control! Rapista have a distorted and extreme take on their own fears that perhaps one day women will dominate- a fate that they would loath. Sexist? Yes. of course it is. The act is not about sex, however, sex is just the way in which rapists feel they can destroy a woman the most. If it were ripping women's hair out, for example, then they would do that. Sex is not the cause rape- if it was, then wouldn't all men be rapists? Now I don't mean to say that all men want sex. but I guess I wouldn't know. What I do know is that men who rape, need some setious help. They are extremely insecure and in fear of women? Funny what a woman's freedom cando to men, isn't it? Well, let'-s just consider what a man's fear does to us. Rape is probably the worst act of violence a woman could ever experience because it is a violation of the most private and personal aspect of their lives - their sexuality. When a rapist penetrates his victim he not only leaves a physical mark but an emotional one as well. In es- sence, he rips a victims soul out and shatters her life. A victim will never be the same and every re- lationship from then on becomes a struggle. Don't t,hink rapists don't know this. They know that with that one act they can destroy what it has taken a lifetime for any woman to develop- self-confi- dence, trust, self-esteem, and most importantly the destruction of the simple belief in love and relationships. So if men like that intend to display their superior- ity through rape- it works, the vic- tims are broken: physically, emo- tionally, and spiritually- never to be the same again. Some guys might say \Oh come on she'll get over it.\ But think about it. Think about how ten-ifying the Lorena Bobbitt case seemed to you- just look at J11e ( 'oncordiensis articles that were written about it. Remember how you shivered when the facts were _,Editorials, Letters & Disclaiiners Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of 'the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion cQlumns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Ad:vertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily .reflect the opinion of the Editorial • Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union Colle.ge. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telepl,lon~. J~l~),}88-6\5$ .. The Co!'lcordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis. subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. OPINIONS October 6, 1994, page 7 recounted on the news and how ' your masculinity felt threatened at the idea that it could have hap- pened to you. Now multiply that emotion by a thousand and maybe you can lmderstand how women feet Rape affects not only a woman's sexuality that has been destroyed bttt their self-· worth. Women are nothing more than mete tools on which men feed. Men hurt women because they fear them ... like Lorena feared her husband. She feared his beatings and rapes and tried to hann him in a manner which she thought would hurt him the most. Unfortunately, he seems to be do- ing pretty well- he's even starring in a pomo- just to show the world \that it still works.\ At all inse- cure, John? Perhaps he can restore his mas- culinity in a physical manner- but for the thousands of women in this country who are victims of rape it will take much more than that. They must develop their self- worth all over again and the com- plete retrieval of self-esteem is rare, once destroyed so thoroughly by the horror of rape. Not Playing The Game By Tony LaVeecchia Contributing Writer Before I even stmt to write this article let's get one thing out of the way. For those who may get the wrong idea about my opin- ions on rape, let me just say that if I were to write what I thought the penalty for rape should be, I probably wouldn't be allowed to write any more columns, nor would the rapist's rape any more (if I got my way). With that bit of self servant quibbling mit .of the way, I have to admit that when I approached the date and acquaintance rape seminar (\playing the game\) during orientation, it was with a bit of skepticist:n. I think that date rape is a prob- lem that needs to be discussed, but I was concemed with the way the prbblem may be presented. As it hlms out my gut feeling was con-ect. Although t11e movie and discussion both shed light on the fact that date rape is a prob- lem, I feel tl1at the overall mes- sage wasn't as beneficial as it could have been. The movie and my !,Tfoup's dis- cussion seemed to focus on date rape in which male honnones and alcohol were solely at fault. I think it lacked the focus on how women could stay out ofwhat I would call high risk situations. In my group, the advisor and several other students seemed to think tl1at a girl who had drunk 1 0 beers in the solitary company of an inebriated young male, who she did not wish to become intimately involved with, should feel just as safe as a group of sober girls in the company of a group of sober guys. My point here isn't that if a girl goes back to a guy's room she is obligated to have sex with him, nor does she \deserve\ to be raped as a few of my groups misguided members suggested. The girl should, however, be aware tlmt \.she is putting herself ar a higher than nonnal risk to be date raped, especially if one or both parties had been drinking. I know if I were a young girl, I would try to minimize my risk by avoiding the above mentioned circumstances. If I did find my- self alone with an iHtoxicated young man I was not interested in having sex with, 1 would be very sure I trusted him. My opinion was virtually ig- nored in my group. The advisor pointed out that the girl has ev- ery right to be alone safely with any one. Maybe in Ia-Ia land where everybody loved each other, shared and was happy, this would be a practical idea. Unfor- tunately in the real world it is not. Perhaps my groups focus was an anomaly, and I hope it was. This column isn't, nor should it be, a generalization about all the groups. This was just mine and the general feeling I got from the seminar. My main reason for writing this. article was not just to bicker and complain about something but, also, to stress that iftbe sexes are to get along both men and women will need to modify their behavior towards each other. business Open for It's your br.1in. Incredibly mallcnbfc. lnfinitt•ly wrsntilt•. ~.wosonwly inwnt;,., •. \At Andt•rsen Consulting, we want io keep it thnt way. Sow~ dl,111t•ngt• it with n ~timulating variety nf ,,~signnwnts. Dc1•clop it with an m•t•mge nr m·er 170 huurs of ad\'etnccd training per Yl'iU. Rcwart1 it with advanct•mt<nl. And support it with the resources l~f 22,000 prufession.1ls operating ,,cross -t7 countrit•s. At 1\nderst•n Consulting, we always kct•p .'1\11 in mind. ANDERSEN CONSULTING JIKIIU.:f( .&.NUI.RSI•N <k t\\,. ~i Please Join Us For Our Pre-Information Session, Thursday, October 13th, 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. All Interested Students Are Welcome! Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Correction: In last week's newspaper, an article was remissed in not mentioning that the fireworks display for Union's convocation was donated by Steve Ente '75.

OPINIONS October 6, 1994, page 7 Rape: A Question of Power by Alexis Leist Features Editor \She asked for it.\ Such is the response which many rapists ttse to justify tbeir inhumane act of violence - and yes, rape is vio- lence. Rape is not abmtt sex but power, who can dominate who. It is an attempt for insecure (not to mention sick) men to pHt women in their place in a way v,hich they know will hurt women the most- by carrying out the tra- di,tiOJwl role play of women sub- mitting and men ordering. For rapists, beating is not enough, OHiy through sex can they feel the uhimate control! Rapista have a distorted and extreme take on their own fears that perhaps one day women will dominate- a fate that they would loath. Sexist? Yes, of course it is. The act is not about sex, however, sex is just the way in which rapists feel they can destroy a woman the most. If it were ripping women's hair out, for example, then they would do that. Sex is not the cause rape- if it was, then wouldn't all men be . ., raptsts. Now I don't mean to say that all men want sex, but I guess I wouldn't know. What I do know is that men who rape. need some setious help. They are extremely insecure and in fear of women? Funny what a woman's freedom can do to men, isn't it? Well, let's just consider what a man's fear does to t~s. Rape is probably the worst act of violence a woman could ever experience because it is a violation of the most private and personal aspect of their lives - thei:r sexuality. Wl~en a rapist penetrates his victim he not only leaves a physical mark but an emotional one as well. In es- sence, he rips a victims soul out and shatters her life. A victim will never be the same and every re- lationship from then on becomes a struggle. Don't think rapists don't know this. They know that with that one act they can destroy what it has taken a lifetime for any woman to develop- self-confi- dence, trust, self-esteem, and most importantly the destruction of the simple belief in love and relationships. So if men like that int,end to display their superior- ity through rape- it works, the vic- tims are broken: physically, emo- tionally, and spiritually- never to be the same again. Some guys might say \Oh. come on she'll get over it.\ But think about it. Think about how tenifying the Lorena Bobbitt case seemed to you- just look at l11e ( 'oncordiensis articles that were written about it. Remember how you shivered when the facts were Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. recmmted on the news and how your masculinity felt threatened at the idea that it could have hap- pened to you. Now multiply that emotion by a thousand and maybe you can understand how women feel. Rape affects not only a woman's sexuality that has been destroyed but their self- worth. Women are nothing more than mere tools on which tnen feed. Men hurt women because they fear them ... like Lorena feared her husband. She feared his beatings and rapes and tried to han:n him in a manner which she thmtght would hurt him the most. Unfortunately, he seems to be do- ing pretty well- he's even staning in a pomo- just to show the world \that it still works.\ At all inse- cure, John? Perhaps he can restore his mas- culinity in a physical manner- but for the thousands of women in this country who are victims of rape it will take much more than that. They must develop their self- worth all over agait~ and the com- plete retrieval of self-esteem is rare, once destroyed so thoroughly by the horror of rape. Not Playing The Game By Tony LaVeecchia Cotltributing Writer Before I even stat1 to write this at1icle let's get one thing out of the way. For those who may get the wrong idea about my opin- ions on rape. let me just say that if I were to write what I thought the penalty for rape should be, I probably wouldn't be allowed to write any more columns, nor would the rapist's rape any more (if I got my way). With that bit of self servant quibbling out of the way, I have to admit that when I approached the date and acquaintance rape seminar (\playing the game\) during orientation, it was with a bit of skepticism. I think that date rape is a prob- lem that needs to be discussed, but I was concemed with the way the problem may be presented. As it tums out my gut feeling was conect. Although the movie and discussion both shed light on the fact that date rape is a prob- lem, I feel that the overall mes- sage wasn't as beneficial as it could have been. The movie and my group's dis- cussion seemed to focus on date rape in which male honnones and alcohol were solely at fault. I think it Jacked the focus on how women could stay out of what I would call high risk situations. In my group, the advisor and several other students seemed to think that a girl who had drunk 1 0 beers iH the solitary company of an inebriated young male, who she did not wish to become intimately involved with, should feeljust as safe as a group of sober girls in the company of a group of sober guys. My point here isn't that if a girl goes back to a guy's room she is obligated to have sex with him, nor does she \deserve\ to be raped as a few of my groups misguided members suggested. The girl should, however, be aware that ·she is putting herself at a higher than nonnal risk to be date raped, especially if one or both parties had been drinking. I know if I were a young girl, I would try to minimize my risk by avoiding the above mentioned circumstances. If I did find my- self alone with an intoxicated young man I was not interested in having sex with, I would be very sure I trusted him. My opinion was virtually ig- nored in my group. The advisor pointed out that the girl has ev- ery right to be alone safely with any one. Maybe in Ia-la land where everybody loved each other, shared and was happy, this would be a practical idea. Unfor- tunately in the real world it is not. Perhaps my groups focus was an anomaly, and I hope it was. 1l1is column isn't, nor should it be, a generalization about all the groups. This was just mine and the general feeling I got from the seminar. My main reason for writing this article was not just to bicker and complain about something but, also, to stress that if the sexes are to get along both men and women will need to modify their behavior towards each other. Open for1 businesS] lr .. your br,1in lnac•dibly m.1lk•,1hk lnfimt<•lv n•r,,1tol<· Awc..·~rtnwly in\ l'lltl\ l' At Andt'r~t..·n CtH'l~ultlllA, we w,1nt tn kc•c•p it that w.1y. So'\\ ch,111c·n~<' 1t with ,l stimul,lting \'ilnl'ty (\f cl~ ... lgntlll'llh 0l'\'l'lop it W Jth t111 cl\\Pfilgt' of llH.'I' 17() hourh of c'ld\'clll<.\l'd tr,11111t1g pc..·r yc..•,u Rl'Wc'lrd il with cld\'c111(l'I1H'l1t And support it with thl' rc•snurn'' of 22,1lll(l prnt\'\'\n.1b opcratrn~ (1cro~~ 47 countne'> At Andt·r~t,n Consulting, Wt' (11Wcly~ kl't'p .1/!lft Ill n'llnd ANDERSEN CONSULTING Please Join Us For Our Pre-Information Session, Thursday, October 13th, 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. All Interested Students Are Welcome! Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Correction: In last week's newspaper, an article was rernissed in not mentioning that the fireworks display for Union's convocation was donated by Steve Ente '75.

October 6, 1994, page 8 LETTERS A Working Paper on Changing Union College's Calendar This is the first in a series of opinions on the issue of changing the current trimester system to a semester system. The Concordiensis welcomes opinions from everyone on this issue. During the Spring term 1994, a number of college faculty members met informally on a few occasions to discuss the feasibility of changing from. the current three term system to a two semester system. Those of us who met were in loose agreement that the current system has serious flaws, and we discussed alternatives to it, including a system of 13 to 15 weeks and a split Winter term. Since most of us favored a system we decided over the summer to investigate the issue further and to put into writing our preliminary conclusions. To the Editor: This \working paper\ is by no means a definitive statement on the pluses and minuses of Union's calendar, nor does it propose a single altemative. It is, however, based on serious investigation into the issue, research into past alternatives, conversations with different sectors of the campus community, and some short dis- cussions with colleagues from schools similar to Union College. It bears mentioning we were sur- prised to find that dissatisfaction with some aspects of the cmTent calendar cuts across the campus: faculty, staff, and students. Therefore, we present our conclu- sions as ideas in need of fmther consideration by the entire col- lege community. THE FINANCIAL PICTURE TI1e current calendar of three ten-week terms is more costly than a two semester system. Dis- cussions with heads of the library, finance, bookstore, physical plant and others, documented how costly the current calendar is. Administrative costs: Three times a year, as opposed to twice, Union College registers students, sends out !:,Tfades to botl1 students and paretits, wamings, tenn bills, financial aid changes, fines; changes class schedules, refur- bishes classrooms, rearranges stu- dent work schedules, hires and tenninates adjunct faculty, makes pay- mands of the ILL were not so great. More importantly, projects such as entering peri- odicals into the on-line catalog have been held up because staff is expended in re-she.Jviug books, setting up and taking down the reserve collection·, sending out notices on overdue books, etc., three titnes instead of twice. Bookstore: The college book- store manager reports that labor, general freight, administrative, and paper work costs would be reduced significantly if the school moved to a semester sys- tem. Rather than order, stock, sell and buy back books three times, the store would do it twice a year. Moreover, the store would be open in December and able to stock and sell wares for the holidays, which would also increase revenues. Other expenses include athlet- ics. Union houses athletes on campus and transports them to games in compliance with the semester schedules of compet- ing schools. Additional costs include not only utilities and maintenance of donns when the restofthe students have gone or have not yet arrived, but also the cost of staffing kitchens and feeding a very small number of people. There are obviously other inconveniences associated with having teams play against schools r o 1 I a d - just- ments, closes down a n d \Those administrators with whom we spoke all concurred that trimesters are more costly than semesters simply because everything · is done three times instead of twice.\ t h a t are on the se- mester s y s - t em , i n - starts up donns, moves some fac- ulty offices (phones, name plates, computers, etc.). Time spent pre- paring, typing and duplicating syllabi, mid-tenn and final exams, etc .. and some costs for videos, movies. audio visual aids and laboratory installations are in- curred three times instead of twice. Uhrary: The librarian reports that costs are higher because the short I 0 week tenn means that in- ter library loan requests must be met promptly. Union pays as much as $I 5 for a single book on ILL when it cannot be obtained soon enough fmm the schools in our consortium. On a semester system the student can walt longer for a book and the library would have more sources to check. Staffing on the trimester system is costly because student help is need to re-shelve books three times, not twice, and the shortness of the tenn means that the reference desk must be staffed at all times. Reference librarians would be able to help students on papers and projects if the de- eluding issues of morale of the teams. Those administrators with whom we spoke all concurred that trimesters are more costly than semester-S simply because everything is done three times instead of twice. This is essen- tially why research shows that nationally there has been a steady trend toward the early se- mester system calendar. A few places that have had the tenn system are abandoning it, mostly because of the financial cost and because colleges want to be on the same system with neighboring schools so as to more efficiently share courses, speakers, and resources. Summer session cannot begin until late June/early July-- later than any in the capital district--which may be a reason it has not enrolled enough stu- dents to hold many classes. Summer session is not only costly, it loses money, because considerable staff time and col- lege resources go into setting up courses, printing catalogs, or- dering books, and hiring faculty, sive amounts of material with no a student misses class for reasons only to close many courses because time for review. TI1e research pa- of illness, family problems, reli- they do not make sufficient enroll- per has fallen by the wayside at gious holidays, games at other ment. Other schools in the capital Union. Not only is there not schools or whatever. he/she falls district enroll students during June, enough time for students to ad- behind. Freshmen have a par- when there is more demand for equately select topics for research, ticularly hard time adjusting to smmner session than there is .in Jt..ly but the library holdings are insuf- the pace. Moreover, the Fall tenn and August. tl.;;ient on most subjects and the moves quickly, but as soon as Because Union does not require students have to utilize inter li- students are acclimated to the students to take designated credits brary loan. for which there is little school, we break for six weeks during the summer session (like time. and then start on the forced Dartmouth, for example), and be- All aspects of professor-student march from January through cause the summer sessions have interaction are affected by the mid-June with only a one week enrolled so few stu- ~~---~------------------------- break. \The pace of the surveys means that one never dents, the college's physical plant is not utilized efficiently during the summer. The Winter break has never been used for additional courses (such as the comes close to covering adequately the material in the textbooks, which are written for semester-long courses, and students are expected to absorb massive amounts of material with no time for review. The research paper has fallen by the Although Union is a mem- ber of the consor- timn .of schools in t h e Hudson-Mohawk Association and with New York \January term\ some schools run during long in- tercessions), thus Union's use of its physical plant is probably the most inefficient possible. PEDAGOGY If the pedagogical advantages of trimesters were obvious and over- powering, one might make an ar- gument for retaining the system despite its financial cost. TI1e pic- ture seems, however, to be the op- posite. In fact, as faculty members our initial concem with the tenn system derived not from cost (of which we were unaware}, but from the frustrations we feel in trymg to teach meaningful content in a short ten weeks and with teaching dur- ing the Iattet half of the Spring term. General Education: Nearly all colleges teach history surveys over two semesters, we do it over two tenns. The same is true of litera- ture and civilization courses re- quired under the GenEd curricu- hun. The pace of the surveys means that one never comes close to covering adequately the material · in the textbooks, which are written for semester-long courses, and stu- dents are expected to absorb mas- wayside at Union.\ pace of the ten week tenn. In se- mesters there is proportionately mme out of class time for students to prepare for classes and work on assignments, just as there is pro- portionately more time for faculty to prepare, grade and evaluate class work. Under trimesters there is Jess time for review, for exten- sive discussion, for many of the \cooperative leaming\ techniques now popular in college classes, for re-writing papers and re-doing problems and experiments. TI1e students tend to get comfortable with the professor and their class- mates late in the tenn, begin to .in- teract better in class discussion, but then the course is over. Be- cause the students have little chance to make up for bad quiz- zes or tests, or to compensate for a poor start, !,trade anxiety is ex- acerbated. The absence of a read- ing period before final exams is a major drawback of the current Union calendar. Stndents who have transferred to Union from the semester sys- tem report that the pace is far more stressful, even though they are taking fewer courses at a time. If University, it is difficult for students and faculty to participate. If Union's calen- dar matched SUNY's, RPI's or others in the area, sH1dents could take courses in Swahili, Arabic, advanced courses in Italian, Por- tuguese, or Chinese, more spe- cialized science and engineering courses, and others which either are not offered here or it is m1- feasible and too expensive for Union to offer on a regular ba- sis. Moreover, courses at Union for students from other cam- puses, and faculty exchanges would be more feasible. Finally, another financial and pedagogical issue concems our difficulty with sharing speakers, workshops and projects conve- niently with others in the capital district. Various national speak- ers, who are very costly, come through t.he campuses of the area but often we cannot book them at the same time (so as to save money on transportation costs) because of conflicts with vaca- tion, mid-term and finals sched- ules here. To be continue,d ill next week's issue of Tile Concordiensis Now is the time to invest in yourself What's in a smile? * A Great Impression Personally & Professionally * Self Confidence *A Powerful Tool for Communication Don't settle for teeth that are chipped, crooked or discolored from coffee or tobacco stains. Your teeth can look more natural & healthy! BACK TO SCHOOL WHITE SALE A Beautiful Smile Is Always .j--------------1 In New Patient Examination X-Ray's & Style I Dental Cleaning $60.00 (over SJ20.00 value) with valid student ID Call for ail appointment today, you'll be glad you did! Evening Appointments. Available Judd L. Lesser, D.D.S. Complete Dental Cm·e 2147 Eastern Pkwy., Sch'dy 374-0385

October 6, 1994, page 8 LETTERS A W orl{ing Paper on Changing Union College's Calendar This is the first in a series of opinions on the issue of changing the current trimester system to a semester system. The Concordiensis welcomes opinions from everyone on this issue. During the Spring term 1994, a number of college faculty members met informally on a few occasions to discuss the feasibility of changing from the current three term system to a two semester system. Those of us who met were in loose agreement that the current system has serious flaws, and we discussed alternatives to it, including a system of 13 to 15 weeks and a split Winter term. Since most of us favored a system we decided over the summer to investigate the issue further and to put into writing our preliminary conclusions. To the Editor: This \working paper\ is by no means a definitive statement on the pluses and minuses of Union's calendar, nor does it propose a single altemative. It is, however, based on serious investigation into the issue, research into past alternatives, conversations with different sectors of the campus community, and some short dis- cussions with colleagues from schools similar to Union College. It bears mentioning we were sur- prised to find that dissatisfaction with some aspects of the current calendar cuts across the campus: faculty, staff, and students. Therefore, we present our conclu- sions as ideas in need of fm1her consideration by the entire col- lege community. THE FINANCIAL PICTURE The current calendar of three ten-week terms is more costly than a two semester system. Dis- cussions with heads of the library, finance, bookstore, physical plant and others, documented how costly the current calendar is. Administrative costs: Three times a year, as opposed to twice, Union College registers students, sends out grades to both students and parents, wamings, tenn bills, fi nan cia! aid changes, fines: changes class schedules, refur- bishes classrooms, rearranges stu- dent work schedules, hires and tenninates adjunct faculty, makes pay- mands of the ILL were not so great. More importantly, projects such as entering peri- odicals into the on-line catalog have been held up because staff is expended in re-shelving books, setting up and taking down the reserve coli ecti on·, sending out notices on overd~Ie books, etc., three times instead of twice. Bookstore: The college book- store manager reports that labor, general freight, administrative, and paper work costs would be reduced significantly if the school moved to a semester sys- tem. Rather than order, stock, sell and buy back books three times, the store would do it twice a year. Moreover, the store would be open in December and able to stock and sell wares for the holidays, which would also increase revenues. Other expenses include athlet- ics. Union houses athletes on campus and transports them to games in compliance with the semester schedules of compet- ing schools. Additional costs include not only tttilities and maintenance of donns when the rest of the students have gone or have not yet anived, but also the cost of staffing kitchens and feeding a very small number of people. There are obviously other inconveniences associated with having teams play against schools r o I 1 a d - just- ments. closes down a n d \Those administrators with whom we spoke all concurred that trimesters are more costly than semesters simply because everything is done three times instead of twice.\ t h a t are on the se- mester s y s - t em, 1 n - ~ta11s up dorms. lllll\'CS some fac- ulty oftices (phones. name plates. computers. etc.). Time spent pre- paring. typing and duplicating syllabi, mid-tenn and final exams, etc .. and some costs for videos, movies. audio visual aids and lahor<~tory installations arc in- ctincd three tnnes instead of t\~ ICC. ljhrary. The librarian reports that costs are higher because the short 1 0 week tenn means that in- ter library loan requests must be met promptly. Union pays as much as $15 for a single book on II. I. \\hen it cannot be obtained soon enough from the schools in our consm1i um. On a semester system the student can wait longer for a hook and the library \votrld have more sources to check. Staffing on the trimester system 1s costly because student help is need to re-shelve books three times, not twice, and the shortness of the tenn means that the reference desk must be staffed at all times. Reference librarians would he able to help students on papers and projects if the de- eluding issues of morale of the teams. Those administrators with whom we spoke all concurred that trimesters are more costly than semesters simply because everything is done three times instead of twice. This is essen- tially why research shows that nationally there has been a steady trend toward the early se- mester system calendar. A few places that have had the tenn system are abandoning it, mostly because of the financial cost and because colleges want to be on the same system with neighboring schools so as to more efficiently share courses, speakers, and resources. Summer session cannot begin until late June/early July-- later than any in the capital district--which may be a reason it has not enrolled enough stu- dents to hold many classes. Summer session is not only costly, it loses 111oney, because considerable staff time and col- lege resources go into setting up courses, printing catalogs, or- dering books, and hiring faculty, sive ammmts of material with no a student misses class for reasons only to close many courses because time for review. The research pa- of i:llness, family problems, reli- they do not make sufficient enroll- per has faHen by the wayside at gious holidays, games at other ment. Other sclwols in the capital Union. Not only is there not schoois or whatever, he/she falls district enroll students during Jtme, enough time for students to ad- behind. Freshmen have a par- when there is more demand for equately select topics for research. ticularly hard time adjusti>ng to summer session than there is in July but the library holdings are insuf- the pace. Moreover, the Fall tenn and August. ficient on n10st s~tbjects and the moves quickly, but as soon as Because Union does not require students have to Ntilize inter li- students are acclimated to the students to take designated credits brary loan. forwhich there is little schooL we break for six weeks during the summer session (like time. and then start on the forced Dartmouth, for example). and be- All aspects ofprofessor-student march from January through cause the summer sessions have interaction are affected by the mid-June with only a one week enrolled so few stu- ------------------------ break. ''The pace oftbe surveys 1t1eans that one never dents, the college's physical plant is not utilized efficiently during the summer. The Winter break has never been used for additional courses (such as the comes close to covering adequately the material in the textbooks, which are written for semester-long courses, and students are expected to absorb massive amounts of material with no time for review. The research paper has fal'len by the Although Union is a Iililetn- ber of the consor- tium of schools in t h e Hudson-Mohawk Association and with New York \January term\ some schools run during long in- tercessions), thus Union's use of its physical plant is probably the most inefficient possible. PEDAGOGY If the pedagogical advantages of trimesters were obvious and over- powering, one might make an ar- gument for retaining the system despite its financial cost. The pic- ture seems, however, to be the op- posite. In fact, as faculty members our initial concem with the tenn system derived not from cost (of which we were unaware), but from the frustrations we feel in trymg to teach meaningful content in a short ten weeks and with teaching dur- ing the latter half of the Spring term. General Education: Nearly all colleges teach history surveys over two semesters, we do it over two tenns. The same is true of litera- ture and civilization comses re- quired under the GenEd curricu- lum The pace of the surveys means that one never comes close to covering adequately the material in the textbooks, which are written for semester-long courses, and stu- dents are expected to absorb mas- wayside at l1 nion.\ pace of the ten week tenn. In se- mesters there is proportionately more out of class time for students to prepare for classes and work on assignments, just as there is pro- portionately more time for faculty to prepare, grade and evaluate class work. Under trimesters there is less time for review, for exten- sive discussion, for many of the \cooperative leaming\ techniques now popular in college classes, for re-writing papers and re-doing problems and experiments. The students tend to get comfortable with the professor and their class- mates late in thetenn, begin to in- teract better in class discussion. but then the course is over. Be- cause the students have little chance to make up for bad quiz- zes or tests. or to compensate for a poor start, grade anxiety is ex- acerbated. The absence of a read- ing period before final exams is a major drawback of the current Union calendar. Students who have transfened to Union from the semester sys- tem report that the pace is far more stressfuL even though they are taking fewer courses at a time. If University, it is difficult for students and faculty to participate. If Union's calen- dar matched SUNY's, RPI's or others in the area, students could take courses in Swahili, Arabic, advanced courses in Italian, Por- tuguese, or Chinese, more spe- cialized science and engineering courses, and others which either are not offered here or it is un- feasible and too expensive for Union to offer on a regular ba- sis. Moreover, courses at Union for students from other cam- puses, and faculty exchanges would be more feasible. Finally, another financial and pedagogical issue concems our difficulty with sharing speakers, workshops and projects conve- niently with others in the capital district. Various national speak- ers, who are very costly, come through the campuses of the area but often we cannot book them at the same time (so as to save money on transportation costs) because of conflicts with vaca- tion, mid-tenn and finals sched- ules here. To he continued in next week's issue of The Concordiensis . . Now is the time to invest in yourself · ' • • ' I ' • ~ ' ~ • • • • • ' • What's in a smile? * A Great Impression Personal I y & Professionally * Self Confidence * A Powerful Tool for Communication Don't settle for teeth that are chipped, crooked or discolored from coffee or tobacco stains. Your teeth can look more natural & healthy! BACK TO SCHOOL WHITE SALE New Patient Examination X-Ray's & Dental Cleaning $60.00 (ol'er S/20. ()() value) with validstudent ff) Call for an appointment today, you'll be glad you did! Evening Appointments Available A Beautiful Smile Is Always In Style! Judd L. Lesser, D.D.S. Complete Dental Care 2147 Eastern Pkwy., Sch'dy 374-0385

LETTERS October 6, 1994, page 9 UniOn Needs to Examine Its Traditions To the Editor, Massive fireworks started off Union's bicentennial year with a bang. Everyone watched the spectacles excited to continue two hundred years of history. In the next year there will be much emphasis on the tradition that has held tl1h> institution for two centuries. Tradition is important because it keeps Ius together and gives aUofus something common in which we can identify. However, the odds are against me as usual, because in this bicentennial year of celebrating traditio11 and history, I am asking everyone to consider part of the Union tradition that needs to change. Union's cornerstone is an admir'able and noteworthy tradition of academic dedication and excellence that has.lasted two hundred years .. The campus cttstom of well maintained buildings and landscapes keeps the atmosphere, however different from I 795, just as beautiful. Union has seenlts changes, with new academic departments, new buildings and the admittance of women in early '70s. So, just as Union has past of upholding tradition, there has always been room for necessary adjustments. Which brings ~ne to the aspect of Union history, that in this bicentennial year, deserveds consideration. recognition. In this bicentennial year we need to stop tearing down poster we may not agree with and start speaking our minds. We need to bring gay and lesbian issues out of the closet where Union has traditionally kept them. We need to confront this unease and make comfort, for an sexual orientations, part of the Union tradition in whjeh we take pride. When Eliphet Nott envisioned the Nott Memorial, he,envisioned it as a meeting place dedicated to peace. He conceived the Nott Memorial, he envisioned it as a meeting place dedicated to peace. He conceived a building where a great young minds could discuss and devise paths towards human harmony. Now we have come to a point in Union history where we nee<! to assess the culture we have created and discuss customs that prevent the peace and harmony that Eliphet Nott foresaw. Sincerely, Meredith R. Miller This institution needs to abandon · the tradition of heterosexism that pervades the campus from the classroom the College Center. While celebrating a past of which we are proud we cannot neglect reviewing the aspects of campus life that are ready for change. In appreciating· our past we. must remember not to get stuck in it because then we avoid confronting the issues ·of the present. Heterosexism is as much ·of a customary component of the history of this institution as TI1e Nott. Presently, the Nott is under restoration due to it's antiquity and our desire to update it. When construction ceases, and the scaffolding is removed, the Nott will be mOFe beautiful than ever before. Similarly, we need to give the campus a social face lift and restore our ideas to catch up with the times. We need to accept and celebrate difference and take on a project dedicated to changing traditions that have no place or business here at Union. Car Policy Needs Reexamination As a community it is time together an support !,'TOups like the Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Advocates adn Defenders. It is time to change attituded and increase sensitivity on gay issues. Since the Very first gay alliance existed at Union it has had problems gaining respect and Jon Buscaglia Co11tributing Writer Several students of this year's sophomore class arrived to Union this fall and immediately registered their automobiles so they would be able to park on the campus grounds. A few days later many of these people re- ceived notices that they were eventually going to be brought up on conduct charges for hav- ing a vehicle on campus their freshman year. It turns out that security realized that some of the cars registered under certain sophomores this year are the same cars as those registered last year. What actually hap- pened, if you have not already guessed, is that some upper- classmen simply registered cars ·for freshmen, last year. Personally, my philosophy on this entire issue is \bigdeal!\ The Dean, however, would like to have the actions of offenders, both the sophomores and the upper- classmen, reviewed in front of this year's Conduct Committee. TI1e offense that these people are be- ing charged with is tbe violation of a school rule. That is, they ig- nored the law which says that freshmen are not permitted to have an automobile on campus. Consequently, both the freshmen and the upperclassmen who reg- istered cars for them, will most likely have to pay some outra- geous fine. But the question I am trying to present is this- aid they really break a school rule? TI1e answer to this question is \no.\ Technically no campus rule has been violated. Previously mentioned, the rule says that freshmen are not allowed to have even eas1er to p1ck up. theircarsregistered. Well, they didn't! You see, there is a gi- ant loophole in the rule. It says nothing ofthe fact that an up- perclassman without his or her own automobile cannot regis- tered a car for a freshman. It is just as if that particular upper- classman now has a car on campus; although he or she is not really driving it- a fresh- man is. So what is the big deal! I think the school should for- get about last year's business and get on with this year's. If they would like to prevent this from happening again, then change the policy on car reg- istration. It is the school's own fault for not being specific enough. The Dean should not blame the students for its own mistake. (Buy one now, and we'll throw in all this softwareto help you power through college) - When you weigh the options, its quite possibly the best deal available for college students. For a limited time, buy a select Apple' PowerBook· at a special student price and get a unique new student software set available only from Apple. Its all the software you're likely to need to breeze through college. You'll get software that takes you through every aspect of writing papers, the only personal organizer/calendar created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-nne research resources. Plus ClarisWorks, an integrated package with a word processor, database, spreadsheet and more. All with the portable com- puter you can use anytime, anywhere you happen to be. Apple PowerBook. And now, with an Apple Computer Loan, you can own one for less than a dollar a day: Ap l Its the power no student should be without. The power to be your bese p1e ~ . Contact-charles Bosworth Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 O.ffer ~~:¢/res Octfiber .' 7, 1994; available on(y while supplies las!. © 1994 Apple Computer, fnc. All righls.i'eserml. App/e, lbe A/JP[e liJgo, Power/JoiJk and \11Je /JOU'I!I' /o be )YJUr besl\ are regislered trademarlls of ~pte Computer, fnc. Cfarii'Worh Is a regiJ/ered lrademarll of Clarls Corpofira/101!, :An es/lmale based on an Apple Computer Loan of $1,322.75 for the PotverBoolt 150 shown a bot~. Pn'all and foatz amounts are subjecJ /o change tullbiJutno/lce. See your i!pple Cam/! tiS Reseller or Tf'/Jreselllalive for current system prices A 5 5% loan origination eeWI/1 ~added to the WfJUa!ted loan fl?llounl. 'i1Je I~II!T'!'I rat~ Is mrlnb/e, based Olllbe Cl!tn'}lerciaf Jxljler rate pf11.15J5%. For the month o[Augus/ 1994, the intertsl rale was 10.10%, rciJb an APR of J/J6%. B·year loau term Wllb 110 p 'liJIIPmtal·. 11Je monthb paymml shot.n assumes no defermtlll of pnntipal or mterest. Studl!lt/J lllaJ' defer pnncipal paymm!J up to 4 ;mrs, or until grar/uallo/1. ~Jderme~lltvi/1 chazzge )'OUr molllhly pa;Wtl!lt/s, 'llle ;,pplo Computer loan is sub jed lo cred=twl. IY

LETTERS October 6, 1994, page 9 Union Needs to Examine Its Traditions To the Editor, Massive fireworks started off Union's bicentennial year with a bang. Everyone watched the spectacles excited to continue two hundred years of history. In the next year there will be much emphasis on the tradition that has held this iitstitution for two centuries. Tradition is important because it keeps Ius together and gives all of us something common in which we can identify. However, tile odds are against me as usual, because in this bicentennia,J year of celebrating tradition and history, I am asking everyone to consider part of the Union tradition that Ileeds to change. Union's cornerstone is an admirable and noteworthy tradition of academic dedication and excellence that has lasted two hundred years. The campus custom of well maintained buildings and landscapes keeps the atmosphere, however different from 1795, just as beautiful. Union has seei1-its changes, with new academic departments, new buildings and the admittance of women in early '70s. So, just as Union has past of upholding tradition, there has always been room for necessary adjustmeuts. Which brings me to the aspect of Union history, that in this bicentennial year, deserveds consideration. This institution needs to abandon the tradition of heterosexism that pervades the campus from the classroom the College Center. While celebrating a past of which we are proud we cannot neglect reviewing the aspects of campus life that are ready for change. In appreciating our past we must remember not to get stuck in it because then we avoid confronting the issues of the present. Heterosexis1n is as much of a ctastomary component of the history of this institution as The Nott. Presently. the Nott is tander restoration due to it's antiquity and our desire to update it. When construction ceases, and the scaffolding is removed, the Nott will be more beautiful than ever before. Similarly, we need to give the campus a social face lift and restore our ideas to catch up with the times. We need to accept and celebrate difference and take on a project dedicated to changing traditions that have no place or business here at Union. As a community it is time together an support groups like the Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Advocates adn Defenders. It is time to change attituded and increase sensitivity on gay issues. Since the very first gay alliance existed at Union it has had problems gaining respect and recognition. In this bicentennial year we need to stop tearing down poster we may not agree with and start speaking our minds. We need to briNg gay and lesbian issues out of the closet where Union has traditionally kept them. We need to confront this unease and make comfort, for all sexu.al orientations, part of the Union tradition in which we take pride. When Eliphet Nott envisioned the Nott Menwrial, he envisioned it as a meeting place dedicated to peace. He conceived the Nott Memolial, he envisioned it as a meeting place derlicated to peace. He conceived a buiilding where a great young minds could discuss aRd devise paths towards human harmony. Now we have come to a point in Union history where we need to assess the culture we have created and discuss customs that prevent the peace and harmony that Eliphet Nott foresaw. Sincerely, Meredith R. Miller Car Policy Needs Reexamination Jon Buscaglia Contributing Writer Several shtdents of this year's sophomore class arrived to Uniofl this fall and immediately registered their automobiles so they would be able to park on the campus ~:,rrmmds. A few days later many of these people re- ceived notices that they were eventually going to be brought up on conduct charges for hav- ing a vehicle on campus their fresht'nan year. It hams out that security realized that some of the cars registered under certain sophomores this year are the same cars as those registered last year. What actually hap- pened, if you have not already guessed, is that some upper- classmen simply registered cars for freshmen, last year. Personally, my philosophy on this entire issae is \big deal!\ The Dean, however, would like to have the actions of offenders, both the sophomores and the upper- classmen, reviewed in front of this year's Conduct Committee. TI1e offense that these people are be- ing charged with is the violation of a school rule. That is, they ig- nored the law which says that freshmen are not permitted to have an automobile on campus. Consequently, both the freshmen and the upperclassmen who reg- istered cars fClr them, will most likely have to pay some outra- geous fine. But the question I am trying to present is this - did they really break a school mle? The answer to this question is \no.\ Technically no campus mle has been violated. Previously mentioned, the rule says that freshmen are not allowed to have their cars registered. Well, they eidn 't! You see, there is a gi- ant loophole in the rule. It says nothing of the fact that an up- perclassman without his or her own aHtomobile cannot regis- tered a car for a freshman. It is just as if that particular upper- classman now has a car on campus; although he or she is not really driving it- a fresh- man is. So what is the big deal! I think the school should for- get about last year's business and get on with this year's. If they would like to prevent this from happening again, then change the policy on car reg- istration. It is the school's own fault for not being specific enough. The Dean should not blame the students for its own mistake. even easier to pick up. (Buy one now, and we'll throw in all this software to help you power through college) When you weigh the options, it's quite possibly the best deal available for college students. For a limited time, buy a select Apple· PowerBook· at a special student price and get a unique new student software set available only from Apple. Its all the software you're likely to need to breeze through college. You'll get software that takes you through every aspect of writing papers, the only personal organizer/calendar created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Apple PowerBook 150 41120. Only $1,250.00. Or about $20 a montb.t Companion to help you tap into on-line research resources. Plus ClarisWorks, an integrated package with a word processor, database, spreadsheet and more. All with the portable com- puter you can use anytime, anywhere you happen to be. Apple PowerBook. And now, with an Apple Computer Loan, you can own one for less than a dollar a day.' Ap 1 Its the power no student should be without. The power to be your best: p1e ~ Contact Charles Bosworth Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 Offer. expires Oc~ober p. 19?4; at'flilable only u-bile supplies last. © 1994 APPle Computer. l11c. All rights reserred. APPle. /he APPle logo, PotmBook and \'Tbe pott•er lo be your best\' are registered trademarkJ of APPle Computer. htc. CfarniVarks is a regtstmd trademark of Cia\! CO!fX!ralton. Att estrmale based an an APPle Compuler !.arm of $1.322. 75 ~r the Poll'erBook 150 sboun_ abot•e. Prices and loa11 amounts are st1bject to change tuilbout notice. See your APPle CampiiS Reseller or represen/alive for curmtl S)~tem prices. A 55% loan arlgmalton fee uif/1 be added to the requested loa11 amount. 7be f~lerl!lil rate IS mnable, bared on the commerctal paper rate plus 5-35%. For the montb of Augus/1994. the illlerest rale was 10 10%. td!b an APR of 11.36%. 8-J't'llr loanlerm u·ilb 110 prepaymat/ zaltr 7be monthly paymml shou'll assumes 110 deferment of pnnc;pal or rnleres/. Studmts may defer prltzclpal paymmts up to 4 ytitlrs, or tmlil graduation. Defernuml tt'i/1 change your monthly paymelt/s. 71Je 1 !pple Compuier l.tian is subject 10 credit appromr ·

Above: The new director ofYulman Theater, Bill Finley. (Photo by Laurel Rumafor The Concortliensis) Below: Yulman Theater under construction in late spring of last year. (photo by Barry Smith/Visual Arts Department) Suzanne Robin.wm & leena MankaJ Arts & Entertainment Editor.~ We\ e all been \\Ondering when the Yulman theater \\iH open. ifit c\·cr will Well. it\s coming down the home stretch. and it\\ as'' ell wot1h the wail. It was back in May of 199] that'' e had the ground breaking ceremon~ '' hich honored l\1r and l\1rs Yulman · s donation of 1 million dolilars There has been much speculation regarding the opening of this new building. Recently. we decided to tour the theater. find some facts. and give you the io:w-down on what has really been happening behind the scenes. The administration held a competition for the architectural designs and Hardy-Holzman and Pfeiffer Association received the contract. The firm specializes in theater design and their most recent project was completed at Middlebury College in Vermont. The technical as- pects of the theater including lighting were done by System Designs Assosiates, inc. These were the hands that first began to build the new theater. We found in our touring and haggeling that there are a number of unique aspects of the new theater, especially the various theater spaces. Not only is there a main theater, but there is an actors studio, design studio, costume shop, and scene shop complete with sound proof doors and moveable pannel systems as well. All of these spaces are a much needed relief to the theater communi!:}· here at Union. Last year. Mountebanks and other groups had productions running cn:ry- where from the ballet studio to up· per class dining hall These were all c'trcmh confining for C\ en one l11c dc.,ipn nftht: th~o;rk·r i-. tlr,~;HII [rl\1C 11-::\t.lh!c· 1 1111 \r.\111 f! ldiflilll.il theater It 1~ tlllHjtlc 11111.., ->L1gc -.cl· ting and gi\ es a director the free· dom to design his O\\ n \\ orkspace This creates much' ersatilit~ and The stage is made up of rno\ cable tiers \hich can be poslioncd in \ arious fonnat~ 10 accomrnod:ltc an~ thing frofll ~hal\c~-pcarcan pia~ s to rock concerts There is a me· chanica I I rap door located under the stage. wich can be positioned in sixteen different places. With all these aspects of the stage more types of plays can be performed. BELOW- Plan diagram ()[the completed Yulman Theater The main .\tage, ... howing the trap door mechanism!; (p and theater groups \\Oll.t be as limited as the~ once \\ere. During our special tour of the theater gh en to us by SteYe Lamb. we found a number of hidden delights. In the basement there \\ere scpar..ttC met as \\Cil as a special gues a gi\en nigh room forM

loor m£'chunisms (photo by Laurel Rumu/T() d as scpar . .nc mens and\\ omens dressing rooms as \\ell as a pri\ate dressing room for any .I\ en special guests that might be performing on :::r of a giYen night. Alongside a spacious green \ere room for Mountebanks. there are a set of • showers for any actor needing to cool <;!own. If you want to get some fresh airdming intermission. you c;1n take a \\·alk outside on the patio that overlooks the gorgeous Jackson· s gardens. The uniqueness of this patio is its angular system. Too technical? Trust us. it's really cool. ~o get e\ell more technical. the theater consists of six separate electric systems \\hich include lighting and soundS) stems. There is 108 thousand dollars worth of elaborate lights \\hich usc approxi- mately four to fhe miles of wire. The theater's walls all ha\ e an acous- tical treatment with ample speakers. There arc a separate sound and light control booths looking down on the stage located next to the director's booth. allowing for more profesional handling of technical aspects. According to Steve Lamp, project construction manager for the the- ater. there were a number of unex1Jected bumps along the way. For instance. the harsh winter caught them off guard and slowed down productivity. Also. there was difficulty in attaining correct shipments of various materials including tile, brick and roofing. A month ago, they experienced an incident of vandalism and, unfortunately, the spe- cially formed tile absorbed a lot of the .spray paint. Hopefully. all the kinks will be worked out relatively soon. The theater employed 20 subcontractors creating employement for numerous construction workers. This was extremely beneficial for many workers. giving them a steady project to work on. Another piece of trivia is that the theater might be up for a masonary award for its in- teresting constmction. including t\\O kinds ofbnck :\u .. ordtng to JL\C \lanuuuh dc;ut ·<'I ,filckl' .i!!.!il' 11!tc1 I'- .lrtill.'L,J '' itlt the building of the Ill:\\ the- ater. it \1 ill be finished December I. I 99~ Ho\\ e\ cr. the~ ''ill take ap- pro:-;imatcl~ a month to .. shake dO\\ n·· the building. making sure e\ cr) thing \\orks Student usc\\ ill commertcc \\inter tcnn In \Ia\. Mountebanks'' ill handle the open- ing performance. and the dedication ceremon;. ''ill take place then In our opinion. the theater holds manj wonderful delights and opportunites. This theater will be a new pia~ ground for all ', '1 ~I . ,, ' ' !t' i , . .. · Above: The patio outside of the main lobby, looking Ollt over Jackson's Gardens. (photo by Laurel Ruma/TC) Below: Construction ofYulman Theater late last ratL (photo by Barry Smith/Visual Arts Department)

• ' . October 6, 1994, Page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT McGovern '.s Living with AIDS Exhibit Visits Union Courtesy of Visual Arts and Tom McGovern Photographer Tom McGovern will be exhibiting his series of photographs tided, Living with AIDS, at the Arts Atrium Gallery in the Arts Building of Union College from October 10 to No- vember ll, 1994. Tom will be present at a reception for the art- ist in the gallery on November 8 from 4 to 6 pm. He will discuss and show slides of his photogra- phy in a lecture that ,is open to the public also on November 8 at 7 pm. All is free and open to the public. The gallery hours are from 9 am to 6 pm, Monday through Saturday. the disease, it also serves to in- fonn us all of our own unlimited ability to transfonn tragedy into strength. Tom McGovern began this project in 1987 intending to dem- onstrate the scope of the disease in humanistic terms with its im- pact beyond social, sexual, and ethnic ·differences. Since then he has become deeply involved in documenting the crisis and has photographed and interviewed men and women of diverse social and cultural origins in the New York metropolitan area. f\ivingwilhA1DSis a documen- tation of various aspects of the AIDS crisis in New York with an emphasis on the effect the disease has on individuals through their personal experiences. The project covers many areas of the crisis fi·om individual stories, treatment, activism and extended portrai- ture. It is a cross-sectional group pmirait of people with AIDS and a documentation of the changes in treatment of both disease and patient. While it focuses on the experiences of people living with The project's many functions include education about the dis- ease in tenns of transmission, pre- vention and treatment, and serv- ing as a metaphor for the limita- tions of our health care system. Tom McGovern made the project available to museums, galleries, non-profit organizations and community centers for educa- tional exhibits on the AIDS cri- SIS. AIDS patient after receiving Hickman catheter, NYC 1991. This plloto is part of Tom McGt;JVern's exhibit Living with AIDS,. which will run from October 10- November 11 (Photo by Tom McGovern) The complexities of the disease are reflected in the myriad photo projects and their various ap- proaches ~hat have occurred over the past few years, and while ev- ery magazine and newspaper has reported extensively on the crisis, there has been little interest in following the disease for more than a year. Therefore, the u1ti· mate goal of Living with AIDS is to be an historical testament to the people who have struggled and fought the illness and its social stigma. When the Aids crisis is over these photographs will be a visual and oral record that the dis- ease was more than just death and dying. l11e exhibit is sponsored by l11e Department of Visual Arts, De- partment ofBiological Sciences, Office of the Dean of Students, Student Activities and AIDS Awareness Committee. Iffurther infonnation is needed about the events please call (5'18) 388- 6201. THE REEL PICTURE - Review of\Quiz Show.'~: Robert Redford Creates a Thought-Provoking Masterpiece by Larry Paska Co11cordiellsis Staff \QUIZ SHOW.;, Starring John Turturro, Rob Morrow, Ralph Fiennes. Directed by Robert Redford. Rated PG-13, Hollywood Pic- tures. Rating: ***1/2 (out of four) lets us read their emotions and judge them for ourselves. The story centers around the hit game show, Twenty-One, which a small-time Queens native named Herbert Stempel (Tmturro, in a captivating perfor- mance) was the biggest rage on in 1959. Stempel, however, was not a genius. (Contestants were given a category and needed to answer enough questions cor- rectly to reach 21 points.) He was fed the correct answers and told As television grew in popular- to memorize them; in retum, he ity during the 1950's, so did the made a lot of money, and his conceptofthegameshow, where Forrest Gump-ish personality average American contestants made him the likable geeknation- tried to earn the most points, and wide. Since game shows were win the most money, to return sponsored by sole companies ter week and gains national fame, he no longer cares about cheat- ing, but merely indulges in ~is fame. Morrow, as congressional law- yer Richard Goodwin, enters the scene as the investigator of the scandal, prompted by statements made by Stempel in court regard- ing his removal from tlle show. David Paymer, in a supporting role as one ofthe producers, man- ages to show Stempel up to be a fool, only interested in making money and discrediting the sta- tion. Goodwin, however, be- lieves Stempel and tries to accu- mulate evidence. Van Doren, still hot on the show, refuses to coop- erate .. again and win some more. The (Twenty-One's sponsor was But even this summary is too American public bought into ---------------- weak to convey every de- this concept, and even today \Quiz Show, a study and reprimand tail of such a rich and millions of TV sets are tuned of the entertainment industry's need emotionally-deep film. in to popular game shows. all to p.rovide a winner and a loser, no There are no ultimate he- centered amund the concept matter the cost.\ roes qr villains: Stempel is of making money in retum tragically desperate, Van for a display of quick thinking and personality. However, what went into the making of such a hot franchise was not as easy as answering cor- rectly and winning a thousand dollars. That is the premise be- hind Redford's fourth directorial feature, Quiz Show. a study and reprimand of the entertainment industry's need to provide a win- ner and a loser, no matter the cost. Like his previous films (A Ril'er Runs Through It, The Milagro Bemifie ld War, and most notably, OrdinarJtPeop/e), Redford does not thrust his story into a vat of symbolism and confusion; he lets his characters .tell the stories, and Geritol), and the show's profits were slipping, producers forced Stempel off the show by making him give a wrong answer. His successor: Charles Van Doren (Fiennes). relative to the wealthy Van Doren family, and son of Columbia University-professor Mark Van Doren (portrayed won- derfully by Paul Scofieid). Charles also taught at Columbia, but needed extra money. He then decided to try his hand at a game show. Answering a series of trivia questions correctly, Van Doren is persuaded to go on Twenty-One, even though he re- fuses to be fed the answers at first. Eventually, as he wins we~k af- Doren gets caught in the middle between principle and power, and Goodwin cannot gather enough evidence to convince the courts. What makes this possibly the best film this year to date is not the accurate period detail, the ex- ceptional acting, nor the first-rate direction, although these an add to the quality. Rather, Quiz ShQW is a. simple fihn tackling a com- plicated issue and succeeding in both portraying entertainment as powerful (for those who are the entertainers).and deceiving (for those who are entertained.) The film's flaws are subtle. Stempel's wife says she will be happy if he does not give in to studio pressure; yet when he does, we get no reaction· from her. However, considering Quiz Show packs the events of a few weeks into two bouts, one can only see that Redford leaves few details unnoticed. Stick with this film through to the end-credit sequence-an ee- rie reminder of what America expects from its entertainment, not realizing its expectations are at the expense of a few people. CD Review of the Week by Ryan S. Marcus Contributing Writer R.E.M., the Athens, Geor- gia based quartet so well known by the world population for its ability to combine social con- sciousness with melodic origi- nality, is back with Monster, which features a very grungy, guitar driven sound. Simply put, Monster is R.E.M. as · you've never heard them be- fore. The sound here almost seems to be a revolt against the mellow, acoustic elements found on earlier works, such as Out of Time. The album's first single, \What's the Frequency, Kermeth?\ is a good indicator of the new sound, which con- tinues where the single \Drive'' from the last record, Automatic For The P~ople feft off. Standout tracks include \Crush With Eyeliner,\ featuring stu- dio guest Thurston Moore (Sonic Youth), \Strange Cur- rencies,\ and \Let Me ln,\ a whitewash of distorted guitar riffs 9et to a simple tambourine march. Other good tunes in- clude \Tongue a slow num- ber showcasing Mike Mills'·pi- ano talent and the high end of Michael Stipe's voice, and the grungefest \Star69.\ My only complaint with this production is that through the rough, bit- ing layers of guitarist Peter Buck's genius, it is difficult to discern, let alone hear Stipe's vocals at times. Yet Monster represents a critical transition and new direction for R. E. M. and I would highly recommend acquiring it. When you do finally get to the store, be sure to stop at the \R\ section, so you don't stray into \S\ and accidently pur- chase the new Samples release Autopilot. This disc seems very overproduced (meaning that the quality of technology employed exceeded the qual- ity of the music written), and it appears the Samples have forgotten the element .of fun so essential to their early career, instead relying too heavily on topics like the environment and war. Don't get me wrong, there were great songs about these issues recorded on ear- lier albums. Yet the exuber- ance that permeated hits like \Waited Up,\ \My Town,\ ''Taking Us Home,,; and oth- ers has seemingly disappeared.

LIVING October 6, 1994, page 13 Tales of Ordinary Madness in New Mexico by Alex Shapiro Cottcordiensis Staff Yo-Ho-Ho and a Bottle of Brass Monkey under hypnosis, the phenomena is undeniably rea( Small semi- nars led by mixed-breed physi- cists, psychics, and therapists have been reporting unheard of success rates in what people are calling the best thing to happen to time travel since Einstein's theory of relativity. The process is highly technical and those 'time•space.facilitators' the Doctor was able to interview were carefully guarded in their responses, but After ten minutes the groupgot together to discuss there experi- ences. Names are falsified to·pro- tect the reputations ofthe partici- pants. Sweet Pea: It worked! I was in the future and there was nothing there ... Doctor: I saw Elvis. J- Bone: I knew it. Fac.: Now I'll explain what we just experienced in terms every- one can understand. The only spiration, call it the midway zone, call it 'it', call it nothing, but know that it exists, and I will be happy to take you there again with an ap- pointment. Feeling a bit flighty, and more than a bit taken, Doc moved on to the 8:15 showing of \Jimi at Monterey\ at the Broken Arrow Moonbeam Cafe. The lasers edge computer technology was devel- oped at Disney studios in Califor- nia, but because of slow and com- plicated copyright · the real thrill of the the thing is that it's something they've always wanted to do. \We get all kinds of people in here searching for some lost memory. One group came in and said that they were at Monterey when Jimi played, and this seemed more real than the real thing! Tite worlds a funny I \ pace ... BillCiintonhasbeen there. Bill Gates has beenthere. Bill the Cat has been there. It wasn't until the now grand-papa of gonzo, Hunter S. Thompson, went there and word made it through the grape- vine that he ltad checked into a new kind of strangeness in New Mexico .. Top man E.P. Collins rushed'to the scene under his most recent nom de guerre, The Doc- tor. It see1ns there are two raging hot new fads in the state of the purple baze: time travel med.ita~ tion seminars and full length ho- logram concerts. from his memory (which was par- tially erased by an errant 'facilitator') and the informa- tion salvaged fwm a hidden micro- \Ancient culture considered the dream world to be the ultimate reality, the physical world merely illusory actions and hollow maintenance work like eating formalities it leaked out and flourished in the Big Apple. New York City's Hologram Museum was quick on the ball and took advan- When asked if the place at- tracted a disproportionately large celebrity clientele because of its somewhat secretive location and forbiddingly exclusive guest lists, (only members are allowed in the club, luckily the Doctor is a mem- ber ofthe aforementioned under- bTfound Union fraternity and knew the biannual secret password) the couple smiled and shrugged their shoulders. 1l1e cryptic quote they agreed to put on the record was, \We work in the field of illusion. When you see and hear, even smell something that you know is only a computer generated im- age it tends to bend your percep- tion in ways that we have found both exhilarating and frightening. \It really makes yolt wonder when you look up at the stars at night, you think, what's so real about me, just because I walk and talk and am accepted as real doesn't mean I am.\ I watch Star Trek every day, and there are some things out there that no-one can explain. Seasons change when it comes their time, my brain is roaming and I don't know where it's going, chessboard, woiL. (deep breaths) Celebrity is not something we notice in a per- son, it's all about getting a point across isn't it?'' The problem of conceptualiz- ing time and its dynamics is one that has plagued minds from Nostradamus to the Rolling Stones. Tite prospect of travel- ling through time has been the subject of many an off-beat cin- ema sparkler, most notably the Tenninator films, but also cult classics like Bill and Ted's Ex- cellent Adventure. Time trav,el (formally a privilege reserved for ex-Presidents, the members of a now underground Union frater- nity, and really big movie stars) has gone public, and though it hasn't reached the widespread popularity of speaking with the dead, it is attracting a lot of atten- tion from the scientific commu- nity. The official word ·from. Sightings, a syndicated Sunday television show specializing pri- marily on matters of the super- natural, is that while there are no existing tools of measurement or verification in this field of \scientology when faced with the vast bulk of first-hand reports and information retrieved while phone that got sus- piciously scrambled by a freak electrical storm, it goes something like this: · Facilitator: Are you comfortable? Doctor: Very, what kind of in- cense are you burning there? Fac.: Nothing, relax, think about deep sleep, that's it, feel your body relax from your head to your toes, think about something soothing, gooood ... Doc.: (to himself) This is ridicu- lous? What am I doing here? These things never work for me. I'm so tired. I wonder how long this is going to last...? Fac.: Breath deep, inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale. Now, feel time racing in front of you, good, just relax ... Do-c.: Villains of necessity, fools· by heavenly compulsion, treachers by spherical obedience of planetary influence. An admi- rable evasion of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish disposi- tion on the charge of a star. Elvis? What are you doing here ... ? Fac.; (Bangs a gong) O.K., good, WakeUp! INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD B U T L E R UNIVERSITY UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AUSTRALIA IRELAND NEW ZEALAND Fully integrated study at British, Irish, New Zealand and Australian universities FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER • FULL YEAR INSTEP • SUMMER PROGRAM • INTERNSHIPS Study Abroad Information Session Representative: Date: Location: Tom Roberts Fri. Oct. 7 2:00- 4:00 Humanities Faculty Lounge Fl'T funht'r infi,rnl.ltit~n pk'<t>l' ,,,nt.tct· )(•ur Sttld\' ,.;h\\d Cltttcl' ,,n ,,unru> orthe In~titutt' t()r Study Aht>.td. Butler L!niwr:city. -fntltl Sun~et A\'t'liUt'. lnditmapolis, 1:-\ -fn2t )fl. Tt'l: 3 II 128 ).lJ3JA nr 1/HI It )cHSH-t12 2lJ d d . k' \ an . ran. mg. . way we as humans, animals have different ways, can erystalize present, past, .and future, and drift amongst the three is in our dreams. When you think about it, it makes a lot of sense. \Ancient cultures considered the dream world to be the ultimate reality, the physical world merely illusory actions and hollow main- tenance work like eating and drinking.\ These cultures had rich traditions of living in their dreams, where actions had mean- ing that found resonance in their minds. I am drawing from that tradition in this seminar, bllt be- cause the future is something that will exist both independent of your experience and in yoar minds, what I enable you to do is operate on a plane of mixed con- sciousness, where the dream and physical worlds can run together. It is this exact plane that the an- cients describe when they saw ghosts that told them things from the past as well as the future~ and it is this plane from which the great artists say they find their in- tage of some agree- ment at the patent office to claim particular historical, and not so historical, events that they found important to secure for future gen- erations. The Hologram Museum sold the rights to presenting lim- ited runnings of particular events in history to unnamed investors. For instance, \Jimi at Mmiterey\ is a go at the Broken Arrow; but \Streisand at Central Park,\ and \Einstein's Most Famous Class\ presentations at the Institute are exclusive property of the mu- seum. The Broken Arrow is owned and run by an entrepreneurial couple of newly-wed Ak-Chin Indians whose relatives are cur- rently feasting off a cash-cow Casino in Connecticut backed by Caesar's World. The couple claims that the cafe brings in a modest flow of revenue, but that Fall Special For Visage! Call us at 374-0351 Women's Haircuts •.............. $13 Men'S •••••••••••••••••o••••••·············· $9 Perms ·············e••··················· Stains ................................... . . - with cuts .................... . Highlights ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• $40 $25 $35 $45 Manicures .............................. $12 These special rates only apply with Penny, Angela, Melissa, and Beth Effective through November 1, 1994

October 6, 1994, page 14 SCIENCE AND HEALTH The Hunt for the Cause of Hereditary Melanoma by Shveta Shrivastava Concordie11sis Staff A newly discovered gene for the protein known as p 16 has baffled many researchers. The repott suggests that p 16 may be responsible for some cases of hereditmy melanoma, a skin can- cer which can be deadly if not diagnosed in it's early stages. Furthennore. this report also im- plies that the gene may be a sig- nificant tumor suppressor for many other types ofcancers other than melanoma. These findings came mainly from tumor cells which were in lab cultm'e. This information from ptimmy tumor samples pro- posed that p 16 (also known as CDKN2 gene) is not a general tumor suppressor. Family stud- ies also indicated that p16's sta- tus as aninhetited melanoma sus- ceptibility was still shady. New reseat'ch reports in September's issue of Nature Ge- netic.,· have identified mutations in the p 16 gene that are associ- ated with melanoma in few of the families that were being studied. These results suggested that p 16 was indeed participating in the development of hereditary skin cancers. \It '.s going to be an im- portant gene for cancer suscepti- bility in those families,\ says can- cer gene expert Stephen Friend of Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. The certainty as to whether p 16 is a more gelleral +/118 +I+ +/liS +I+ +I+ approximately two years ago by a team lead by Lisa Cannon- Albright ofthe University of Utah School of Me<;licine in Salt Lake City and Mark Skolnick. Their findings indicated that s~gment p21 ofchromosome 9 contains a melanoma susceptibility gene. As a follow up on this infonnation, +/118 +I+ the gene is deleted or mutated, not just in melanoma cells, but in other tumors found in the breast. lung, and bladde~. These findings were quickly called into question by other researchers who were looking at the primary cells in tu.,. mors rather than the cultured cell lines. They found few p 16m uta- +/118 +I+ +I+ +I+ +/118 +/118 +/118 ers of the mela,noma suseeptibile ity ·go on. to get cancer. In addi~ tion Dracopoli says: \The asso- ciation is really very clear. I think p 16 dearly is the tn elartoma gene.\ When put together, both groups' work suggest that \p l6 is a melanoma susceptibility gene,\ Skolnick says. Further- more, he acknowledges,\ it isalso clear that a number of families linked to the {9p21} region have not been explained.\ A possible explanation for this may be that both gmups have only looked at the protein-coding regions of the pl6 gene and in those families the mutations may lie outsidethep 16 region that regulates the gene;s activities·. Melauomafamily. 111efami~v tree shows how a p/6 mutation in codon 118 occurs in all qffected members. One a.\'-yet-wu?[fected individual (lower left) also carries the muttllion, which presumah(v wmefrom the deceased.first-xeneralionmale '(+ i'ndicates normal gene). In addition to this possibility, there may be another, yet uniden- tified, tumor suppressor gene on 9p21 that may be involved in the hereditary melanomas. Many re- searchers feel that this is true. Their reasoning is that a deletion suggestive of a tumor suppressor has been found at 9p21 in several types of cancers other than mela- noma. David Sidransky of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore favors this idea. \Ithink thatthe {pl6} gene is a tumor suppressor and it's in- volved in some cancers, such as melanoma,\ he says, \but it's not 'the biggie' everyone is looking. for on 9p21.\ Kamb, however, still believes his theory. I've never doubted that this gene was a major player in cancers ofmany kinds,\ he says. tumor suppressor remains to be seen. although new evidence links it .to both pancreatic and esoph- ageal cancers. Evidence that linked p16 to melanoma was first discovered Skolnick along with Alexander Kamb of Myriad, began scouring 9p2l in cultured melanoma cell lines, searching for f\ region that was consistently deleted, wl1ich would suggest that it contains a gene thatnonnally suppresses tu- mor fonnation. The team fitially found it, then cloned it and se- quenced it and thus thep16 gene was discovered. However, the gene had been found 6 months earlier by David Beach's b'l'Oup in Cold Spring Harbor Labora- tory on Long Island ( Science, 15 . April, pp. 344 and 436 ). Studies on cultured cells .. sup- ported the idea that p 16 was an important tumor suppressor, be- cause the Kamb group found that tions thus raising the possibility that the findings from cultured cells. were artifacts (Science,24 June, p.l846 and 15 July, p 415). Researchers need to prove that mutations in the gene are found in melanoma patients and not in the unaffected members of fami- lies with hereditary melanoma. Six new p 16 mutations that track with melanoma have been found by Nicolas Dracopoli of the Na- tional Center for Human Genome Research. In their study, 9 out of the 15 families showed a possible linkage to 9p21. In those fami- ·lies, 33 of the 36 people who have melanoma carry the p 16 mutation, says Dracopoli. Previous experi- ence has shown that not all C!lhi- . Source: Science, September 2, 199-1 -· Pneumonic Plague Strikes India by Bhavani Meduri. Contributing Writer Not since the tum of the cen- tury had anyone seen anything quite like it. Before it could even be detect~d hunQ.reds of people had already died. When the gov'- emment finally released the name of the deadly agei1t, mass hyste- ria ensued. It was the pheumonic plague. An epidemic ofthe high- est order than began in the densely populatea port city of disease when they left Surat and how badly their flight will esca- late the epidemic. This particular form of the plague is alarmingly easy to Gatch because it travels through the air. It can be transmitted from person to person through something as in- consequential as a cough or a sneeze. And ari infected person can be in contact with other people for hours before the debilitating symptoms of the plague begin fo appear.' can cause death if not treated quickly and effectively. In today' s world this can be easily accomplished with courses of an· tibiotics. However,. this is not the case in some of the undeveloped regions in India. The fact that the disease can spread so rapidly through these densely populated regions make it a top priority of the world. This epidemic has brought up many questions about theworld's current disease surveillance sys- Surat in western India. --....--.------------------ tem. An overcon- fidence from tri- umphing over past diseases has led to. careless tracking of out- breaks of such The Indian govern- ment was quick to dei1y that the bacterial infection spread be- . yond the Sur at area, however, there have been many reports that ·~'This ;particular form of the plague is .ahumingly easy to catch because it travels through the air. It can be transmitted from person to person through sonlething as · inconsequential as a cough or a srieeze.\ . in!iic~t~the,plague h?s spr.eadto Bombay and New Delhi, two major metropolitan cities. In fact, doctor.s in New Delhi said that truck drivers who bad come di- rectly from Surat have reported symptoms that are akin to those of the plague. The mass hysteria that has taken over the people of Surat has led to the evacuation of many wl10 have fled to different cities ~n India. It has yet to lre de- termined how many of the evacu- ees were already infected with the .. Pn.eumonic plague is caused by the same bacterium, Yersi.nia pestis, that causes bubonic plague, the latter which is also known as the Black Death, an infection that wiped out over a quarter of Europe's population during the Middle Ages. TI1e Y. pestis bacte~ rium has been detected in animals in India and is believed to have entered the human population through the bites of infected fleas. Pneumonic plague generally af- fects the respiratory system and epidemics as tu- berculosis :and the· plagUe. Con- sequently, many people die before government agencies realize that an epidemic has started and take measures to control it.. This was the case in the Surat epidemic. Fortunately, it has taught the United States and other countries to exercise more caution inwatch- ing for epidemics that were once thought vanquished-forever. Source: The New York Times, September 27, 1994

PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS October 6, 1994, page 15 Personals Well, my insane med students, how does it feel· to be done with one test and on the way to an- other? Hope things are going well there. I miss yoi.1 terribly. Love, Hepsaba To the boys of Wells- Put the toi- let seat down. - Frmn the women Summer is over, winter is near, Now a sophomore, but I still can't hear, Where 0 where is my handome dear??? Mike - If you think tbat you can save that .pile of off-road trash from a deserved t,'Tave, you bet- ter get serious ... soon. -The scapegoat Mom and Dad, have a wonderful Anniversaiy. Wish I was there, but instead you can have this great issue. Love ., your favorite daughter,S Mom - Thank you so much for listening to me these past few weeks. Many times, I have won- dered what I would do without you,and I guess this is just another to add to my list. Love - the yellow rose Fruit - 'I'm very proud of you for going for help. Keep up the good .work. I love you so much. -the tiny one Sethy, Yet another personal from your adoring sister to declare my eter- nal affectiuns for you! Have a great week! Love, Sis Tothe Brothers of FIJI, The 80's seemed even more fun than we remembered! Thanks for a great Saturday night! -The Sisters ofDelta Gamma AGHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!! - a crazed editor Dave - I just wanted to tell you in the most caring way that I could that I quit. I am l~anding in my resignation as of this personal, and you will no longer have company at 7:00 AM, Tuesday moming. - a former co-editor-in-chief Brett - You amaze me with all of the computer garbage you keep in that head of yours almost everday. I just wanted to say thank you on behalf of Dave, who will probably forget, and the rest of the Concordy staffforall of the jams you have gotten us out of. -Heather Maine- Congrats on the photo. It looked awesome. Who ever would havektwwn that we would be doing this garbage freshman year. You are quite a talented man. -co-nut Aghhhhhhhhhhh!!!!- another one Bri- Are you getting these .things anyway. I thought I remembered that you guys got copies, but maybe I was mistaken. If you are, hnn-y and come back. I miss you. - your forever roommate Desperately seeking sanity - If you read this please meet us in CC303, Thursday at 7:00PM Neil -I know I haven't called yet. I've just been really busy, and every night when I open my date book I see your name sitting there, but it is way past the ac- ceptable hour. Please forgive me. I will call you soon. -Heather Somethings weren't meant to be, others are worth working on. I guess we all have to decide which ones are which. S&R- TI1at is alphabetical by sex. I just wanted to say thanks to both of you for talking to me for end- less number of hours. I hope re- ality checks back in soon. -guess Classifieds :v SPRING BREAK '95 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus represen- tatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call l-800-648- .4849. WANTED!!! American's fastest growing spring break company is now seeking individuals to pro- mote our super spring break trips. Jamaica, Cancun. Bahamas, Florida, South Padre, Barbados. Fantastic free travel and commis- sions. Call Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710. FUND RAISING -Choose from 3 different fundraisers lasting ei- ther 3 or 7 days. No investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for your- self. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 . Sofa and Chair- Call during the day 372-2949, after 6 PM 377- 6578. Ask for Mrs. Dicarlo. Schaffer Library Book Sales 1994: Fall Tenn. Tuesday, Oc- tober II th and Tuesday, Novem- ber 15th. The sale will be held from 12:00-4:00 PM on the first floor. The Garnet Yearbook needs staff members. If you arc inter- ested in becoming a part of this great publication contact, Rachel Goldfine, Box 665. Gra\duate Students - Resume Deadline for On-Campus Recmit- ing: Friday, October 4, by 5 PM, Career Development Center, Third Floor, Old Chapel. A list of pat1icipating companies inter- viewing on-campus is available in the Career Center Library. Scott Cartland will present in- fonnation about the oppm1unities with Teach for America. the na- tional teacher corps, Thursday, October 13th, CC302, 6PM. For further information about this program or Teach for America, stop by the CDC. Prepare }'Our Resume .. .for the Career Festival or for recruiting. on and off campus. Special Drop- in hours: All Day on Wednesday. October 12 and Friday, October 14th for final critiques on your resume. CDC x6176 Plan to Attend Ex lore '94 - Career Festival EMPLOYERS: A. C. Delco Systems- a Division of General Motors American Management Systems, Inc. Anderson Consulting Anixter Chubb Group oflnsurance Companies Combined Life Insurance Co. Connecticut Mutual Financial Group Coopers & Lybrand Delmar Publisher, Inc. Federal Bureau oflnvestigation Garden Way Incorporated . General Dynamics, Electric Boat Division General Electric, Corporate Benefits Delivery General Electric, Industrail Power Systems Hewitt Associates Hybridon, Inc. IDS Financial Services, Inc. J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc. Kaplan Educational Center NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation Naval Undersea Warfare Center Net Daemons Associates, Inc. New York Life New York State Electric and Gas Corp. Northwestern Mutual Life/Baird Securities NYS Department of Labor NYS Department ofTransportation Pfizer Inc. State Farm Insurance Teach for America Trustco bank United Parcel-Service United States Air Force United States Army Recruiting Station United States Marine Corps Officer Selection United States Navy, Officer Programs Office Veritas Credit Corporation, Inc. Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories All students are encouraged to attend this once a year event. In addition to full-time positions, freshmen, sophomores and juniors will want to take advantage of the internship, part- time and summer positions that are available. GRADUATE SCHOOLS: Albany Law School Alfred University American Graduate School oflnt'l Mgt. American Univ./Washington College of Law Boston College Law School Brooklyn Law School Clarkson University Emerson College Harvard Kennedy School of Government Mt. Sinai Graduate School ofBio. Sciences New York College of Pediatric Medicine Northeastern University Pace University, Off. ofGrad. Admissions Pace University School of Law Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Roger Williams University School of Law Simmons College St. John Fisher College Suffold Un·iversity Law School SUNY at Albany, School ofBusiness SUNY at Albany, School of Public Health Syracuse University The College of Saint Rose The Hartford Graduate Center The New England College of Optometry The Sage Colleges Union College, Educational Studies Union College, GMI University of Buffalo, Management School University of Connecticut School of Law Washington & Lee University School of Law Western New England College Widener University School of Law City University ofNew York, Grad. School Union College, Grad. & Continui Studies

Campus Calendar Oct. 6 - 12 CAMPUS EVENTS Thursday, 10/06 11 :OOa- 2:00p HOCKEY SEASON TICKETS SALE,CC ATRIUM 12:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR, SPEAKER: JOE PERRELLA, SCIENCE &.ENG. NW 116 Friday, I 0/07 11 :OOa- 2:00p · HOCKEY SEASON TICKETS SALE,CC ATRIUM Monday , 10/10 8:00a- 4:00p ADMISSIONS PROSPECTIVE , STUDENTSOPENHOUSE I O:OOa- 2:00p MERRIAM INSURANCE PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION, CC 203 Tuesday, 10/11 IO:OOa- 2:00p MERRIAM INSURANCE PROORAM INFORMATION SESSION, CC 203 Wednesday, 10/12 _ I O:OOa- 2:00p MERRIAM INSURANCE PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION, CC203 7:30p N .S.B.E. SHPERECEPTION, HH OLD CHAPEL STUDENT ACTIVITIES Saturday, 10/08 1 O:OOp SHPE PARTY WITH BAND, HH OLD CHAPEL Monday, 10/10 9:00p MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL, CHET'S Monday, 10/17 9:00p MONDAY NIGI-IT FOOTBALL, CHET'S MOVIES Show times are 8 & 10:30 pm · Admission $2.00 Thursday, I 0/06 \THREESOME\, CC AUDITORIUM Friday, 10/07 \SPEED\,CCAUDITORJUM Saturday, 10/08 \SPEED\,CCAUDITORIUM Sunday, 10/09 \SPEED\,CCAUDITORRJM Monday, 10/10 \SPEED\,CCAUDITORIUM Tuesday, 10/11 \CITY SLICKERS II'', CC AUDITORIUM Wednesday, 10/12 \CITY SLICKERS ll'', SS 01'6 11mrsday, 10/B \CITYSLICKERSll'' Friday, 10/14 \WOLF\, CC AUDITO~ Saturday, 1 0/15 \WOLF\, CC AUDITORIUM Sunday, 10/16 \WOLF\,CCAUDITORIUM SPORTS Saturday, 10/08 11 :OOa WOMEN'S TENNISVS. SKIDMORE, ALUMNI GYM TENNIS COURTS Tuesday, 10/11 3:30p WOMEN'S SOCCERVS. WilLIAMS,. GARIS FIELD 4:00p WOMEN'S FIELD HOCKEY VS. WILLIAMS, ASTR01URF (BAILEY FIELD) . Saturday, 10/15 12:00p WOMEN'S SOCCER VS. VASSAR, GARIS FIELD 2: 15p UNION FOOTBALL VS. RPI, (BAILEY FIELD) 3:30p MEN'S SOCCER VS. RPJ, GARIS FIELD Sunday, 10/16 1 :OOp WOMEN'S FIELD HOCKEYVS. RPL (BAlLEYFIEill) Campus Meetings Thursday, 10/06 I 1 :30a DIVISION IV MEETING, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 222 12:00p SPANISHLANGUAGETABLE,CC205 12:30p CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT HAZCOM TRAINING, BUTTERFIELD 204 (ALPS) 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 12:30p HELPSESSIONFORCALCULUS, BAILEY201 1 :30p PHYSICS COLLOQUlliM SPEAKER: PROF. GERARDO RODRIGUEZ, SCIENCE& ENG. NW 114 4:00p RELIGIOUS PROGRAM, CC 203 4:30p MEXICO TERM ABROAD MEETING, HUMANITIES 112 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR MEETING, SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 410 6:00p CHARLES II REHEARSALS, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:30p ASIAN STUDENT UNION MEETING, CC 203 7:30p FRENCHCLUBMOVIE,CCMOBlL(406) 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 8:00p UNION COLLEGE DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS, SS 103 Friday, 1 0/07 2:00p STEP PROGRAM, CC 203, CC 204, & CC 409 7:00p INTERVARSilY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHJP MEETING, CC406 7:00p PHILOMA 11-IEAN SOCIETY, HH MILANO LOUNGE. 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\, RAlliSKELLAR Saturday, 10/08 8:00a- 5:00p GRADUATERECORDEXAM,HU 114,&HU 115 1 0:30a ADMISSIONS GROUP INFORMATION SESSION, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p STEP PROGRAM, CC 203, CC 204, & CC 409 l2:00p-1 :OOp DOUBLEPISCOVERYDAYFORGUIDANCE COUNSELORSANDSTIJDENTS.HHDININGROOM 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\, RA TI-ISKELLAR Sunday, 10/09 2:00p-4:00p ATHLETICDEPARtMENTOPENHOUSEFOR PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS, HH OLD CHAPEL 4:00p PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS MINORITY DlNNER, HH DINING ROOM & OLD CHAPEL Monday, 10/10 4:30p BIOLOGY STUDENTS MEETING, SOCIALSC~CES 016 5:00p MODERN LANGUAGES MEDITATION GROUP, CC 302 5:00p AFFILIATES PHONE-A- THON, HH DINING ROOM 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE HRA MEETING, CC 205 6:00p CHARLES TI REHEARSALS, 1-lli OLD CHAPEL 7 :OOp WRUC STAFF MEETING, CC 205 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 Tuesday, 10/11 7:45a COMMUNITY & VALVES DISCUSSION GROUP, CC406 ll:OOa RESIDENCE LIFE MEETING, CC 205 11 :30a- 2:00p FACULTY SOUP & BEVERAGE, HHDINING ROOM 12:00p JAPANESE LANGUAGE TABLE, CC204 4:30p CHEMISTRY SAFETY MEETING, BUITERFIElD204 {ALPS) 5:30p DELTAPSIDELTAMEETING,CC205 6:00p GARNEt l'vDNSTRELS MEETING, CC41 0 6:00p CHARLES II REHEARSALS, HH OLD CHAPEL 6:30p CATHOLIC NEWMAN CLUB MEETING, CCMOBII..(406) 6:30p PROTEST ANTMINISTRYRELIGIOUS SERVICES, CC305 7:00p HALLGOVERNMENTMEETING, BUTIERFIELD204(ALPS) 7:00p BIG SIBS ORIENTATION MEETING, CC302 7:00p UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA REHEARSAL, CHAPEL 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 ~:OOp \COFFEEHOUSE\, RA TI-ISKELLAR Wednesday, 10/12 9:30a U-CALLOPERA PROGRAM, CC AUDITORIUM 5 :OOp STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING, CC205 6:00p RESIDENCELIFEGIRLSCOUTMEETING,CCMOBIL(406) 7:00p SESSIONS WTIHR.A.'S MEETING, HUMANITIES 112 7 :OOp G.L.B..A. MEETING, CC 203 7 :30p SPANISH CLUB MEETING, CC 302 1 O:OOp CHARLES II REHEARSALS, HH OLD CHAPEL Thursday, 10/13 12:00p ANDERSON CONSULTING LUNCHEON, CC205 12:00p SP ANISHLANGUAGE TABLE, CC 302 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC203 12:30p HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS, BAILEY20l 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR MEETING, SOCIAL SCJENCES 104 6:00p CAREERDEVELOPMENTINFORMATIONALMEETING, CC 302 6:00p GARNETMINSTRELSMEETING,CC410 6:30p COLLEGEOFPODIA 1R1C MEDICINE INFORMATION SESSION,BAILEY 100 6:30p HST 013 VIEW FILMS, HUMANITIES 019 7:00p CHARLES II REHEARSALS, CC 302 7:30p GERMANFILMSERIES: \ALOVEINGERMANY\,CC406 All Night Study Rooms: SS 105 & 112, every day from lt:OOp to 8:00a. Calculus Crisis Center: Bailey 203, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, & Thursdays from 7:30p to 10:00p

October 6, 1994, page 17 SPORTS Women's V olleyb.all Off to a Great Start by KeUy Nadeau Colltributbzg Writer a strong-side hitter, Heather \H\ Skidmore twice, but lost to SUNY Kanser, a weak:-sidehitter, Kelly Binghamton and Williams. The Nadeau, asetter, CaraRothfuss,a next game, against SUNY New This year's team is trying to middle-back defensive specialist, Paltz ended in defeat, and Uuion pick up where they left off last and Gretchet1 Voegle.r, a middle dropped to 4-3. The next totJma- year-a developing team tl~at just hitter. The two juniors are Penny ment at Hamilton was a better missed States-into an experienced F ederblish, a def~$ive speciali~, · showing for Union, as they went team that is on track for State&.,, 8!1!JQhrissx\Ti}J.f1 1 '.Jif1n)borelH,an. on to b:eat Clarkson and The team of twelve mad,e i( : o_utside h~tier. ;fll~{three }~n,ior: Lel\1oyne,: but dropped a match through the three rigorous w~eks ve,~erans :wlio _pr~vUi¢ the. leader~: ·to the host Hamilton. Most re• ofpre-seas~n that.Cqacl~ ;Bqgucki . · ~shJ:p_ar~ Jt;!;~i ~~Fep~ 1 th~· set,ter~·. cently, Union beat Williams and and Coach Hilda pu_t them iffiP. ~o-captains Marisa Silveri, SUJ'N Albany. The Union team, through, and have piled up a win- defensive special,i~t, and ·Ni.cok with their new \all-fired-up'' atti~ ning recordof9-4, thus far. . Silyestri, outside hitter. . . ' tude, beat H;utwick to improve TIH~majqrityoftheteamarere- . Due to the .stt,ange school theirrecordto9'-4. tumees, with the exception of two sc~wdule, the fitst dVee g·ames of' · The next and final home ,game freshmen, Iii1Sy Andrews_, a the season ~ere pl~yed witiHittl'e is qct. 1 S at 7:00 PM in the middle hitter, and Dai1ielle student support. . Uni~n b~;t Fieldhouse against SUNY LaCrosse, a weak-,side hitter. TI1e Ru~sell Sage in their l{ome-opener, Oneonta. So come cheer on the sophomores, with a yeaJ under and then came in third in their Dutchwomen! their belt:Consist ofKatie Barnett, Union Invitational, beating rival \' •· • • Write for Sports - Call 6155 or stop by CC 303 anytime .\\:'\i'\OUl'\Cil'\G TWO XEW CRl~F. ACCOUNTS. YOU'RE LOOIUNG AT TWO CO;MPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equit;y Index Account. W hether you want a fund that selects specific stocks or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our new CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock mar- ket, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation~ The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that are poised for si.tpetlor.g.rowth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more diversification, with a portfolio encom- passing almost the entire range of U.S. stock investments. It will invest in stocks Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM in the Russel-13000®,** a broad index of U.S. stocks. Like our CREF. Stock Account, which <::ombine.s active, indexed, and foreign investing, a!ld our Global Equities Account,. which actively seeks opportuni- ties worldwide, the new funds are managed by experienced investment professionals. They're the sa,rne experts who have helped make TIAA:CREF the largest pension system in the US., managing over $130 billiQn in as!;¢.ts. To find out more about our new stock funds •. and b~ilding your portfolio with TIAA-CREF. just call I 800-842-2776. And take y~ur pick. . •Thl;' l'!eW rundt: are :wai!ableo lvr Rtollrl'rn~nt AnnOJIIt'S sUbll'l:l to th~· terms ur.vaur inlltli1II10R 's plnn- The.\ arc U\Ailuhk· lur all ~uppll'ml'ntal Retirement Annuities. ·~The Russell 3000 i& a registered trademark df the Frank Ru!Hlt\IJ Company. Ru!!sell is_ not a .sponsor of ihe CIUW Cquily lnJex At·count and is noi all\liate!d with it in·any way. For more complete mFormat1on, mdudmg rhargcs and Cltpl'nses l·all 1 Ro0-842-2i33. e!d. 5509 for\ CREI~ prospcl'IUS Reml thl\ prOspeLius c.nfchilly bel\ore .vou mvest or send money. Cl{fo:F r.:l!ttil',~-atcs are tlistnbutt!d by TJAA·CRlW lndividu<tl ttriJ ftlslltutinnal Ser\'kes, lrtt. . X-C Runs Well Despite • Torrential Rains by Nadine Filosi Contributi11g Writer This past weekend, the Men's , and Women's cross country teams tried to keep the fires lit, but the rain somewhat dmpp- ened the efforts. The clouds al- ways seem to open up and make running for the cross country · team a little more difficult .. S;:tt- urday was no exception. Rain throughout the day made the course slippery, dangerotJS, and fun to watch. l11e men's varsity race had the toughest time, com- peting last on the course. The men, running the tums at full speed subsequently slid, fol- lowing the tangent straight into the bushes. It was a regular cir- cus with somersaults and fron- . tal dives. Every team was con- tributing to the pile-up. Seri- . • ously though, the men fared well placing eleventh out of fifteen teams. Nick Conway had a strong race placing 40th with a time of28:49. Dave Kunselman, John Metz, Pete Sorensen and Adain Russell rounded out the top five male runners with times of29: 16, 29:39, 30: 12, and 30:35, respectively. The women had a tough time this past weekend with three of their top five female numers out for various reaspns, including the obscure chicken pox. Know- ing the predicament, the women showed thei~tme fighting spirit, and did what was necessary to have a great race. Everyone im- proved their times since the last meet at Williams, with the great- est improvement by sophomore rookie Alison Spring with a time over two minutes faster. Kelly Jamieson, the rookie who really knows the meaning of cross country having trained in Ger- many, had the best finish again for the women, placing 37th out of 100 runners. Sarah Morse, Nadine Filosi, Jen Schwartz, and Louisa Busalachi completed the five top finishers for the women nmning 22:.12,22:48,23:09, and 25: 1 0 respectively. This Friday afternoon, the two teams will compete in Capi- tal Districts at Saratoga State Park. So, grab a picnic and join us for a beautiful fall aftemoon. Athlete of the Week: Wo~nen's Tennis Teant ,• . byMike Leding Concordiellsis Staff It is my honor to present this issues \Athlete of the Week\ award to a group that defines what great athletes really are. In this era of overpaid, childlike, pro- fessionals, it is refreshing to see people that show what the basis Seniors Chantal Von Saher and Rachel Goldfine have also per- fonned admirably. Special kudos go out this week to Amy Kessinger, who gave an example we can allleam from. After split- ting the first two sets, 6-4,4-6, she found herself down 4-2 in the third. A lesser player would have packed it in and headed to of athletics really are. Adjectives such as grace under pressure, athleticism, sportsman- ship,. and a never-say- die attitude regular1y come to mind when one thinks of the Women's Tennis team, this weeks win- ner. The Amy oneoftlzemanystarson Upperclass for dinner. Amy? Not a chance. She proceeded to roar back, winning the last four games to fin- ish off the third set 6-4, and take the victory. l11e day, how- ever, was not yet done. Play- ing in her second match of the d a y tl1e Women's Team(Jos/1 Haines!TC) team, which currently boasts Union's best team record has played magnificently this season. This week they played possibly their best meet of the season. Play- ing in a Monday matinee on their home courts, they performed a 9- 0 donut job over RPI, wrapping up a week in which they also de- feated Oneonta and Hartwick Senior Julie Anderson has led the way all season. Coming into this week, she had a record of 5-1, and did not slow down at all. Kessinger found herself down 6- 4, this tim~ ,in a doubles match. Remembering her heroics from earlier that very day, Amy pulled out yet another dramatic victory, with the help of her partner Rachel Goldfine. They finished offtheir opponents in this match, 10-8, completing their day. 'Tilis victory left the team with a record of 7-2. Good luck to the team in all their future matches, and we hope they can continue their success.

' w:q~ OioncorUi~nsis SPORTS :October 6, 1994, page 18 Dickinson Dunks Dutchmen, 13-0 Red Devils Snap Union's 15-game Regular Season Streak; Firs,t Shutout Loss in 13 Years by Ken Berman Concortliem\i~i Sports l Inion this w~:ek traYCicd to Carlisle. PA to take on a tough Di~.:k in son College squad. and it found a team good enough to take advantage of the Dutchmen's mistakes. and hand Union it's first loss ofthe season. Union. which had lam hasted it's three previous oppcnents hy scores of .17-6. 20- 1 0. and 42-14. was shut out. 13-0, by the Red De,·i1s. This was the first time they had been held score- less since NO\ ember 7. 1981. end- ing a streak of 128 games. Five tumm ers and three critical pen- alties opened the way for the Dickinson victory. which also ended the Dutchmen's 15 game regular season winning streak. The story of this game \\as one of Union missing key chances to score. Despite the score that might suggest otherwise. this was not a case of one dominant team in a one-sided affair. Although t Inion's offense did struggle, it's defense and special teams played just well enough to give them a couple golden chances to put points on the board. Down 7-0 . senior co-capt a in Kevin Weedmark recoYereda fumble on Dickinson's ) I yard line. Two plays later an interception ended this drive. Later on, with I :15 to go in the first half and the score still at 7-0. senior linebacker Ja- son Richitelli blocked a punt, giv- ing Union the ball once again on the Red Devil 30 yard line. Dickinson once agam came up with a huge interception. this one only 3 plays later. In an another Men's Soccer: A Tough Season Continues by .Jason Starr Coucordiensis Sports playing for pride at such an early point in the season. but that is more than likely the case. How- ever. with eight games left to play. the Dutchmen still have a chance to come out of this season with a winning record and to regain some of the pride that they may have lost during these past few weeks. telling statistic, Dutchmen quar- terback Keith Lombardo was in- tercepted six times. only to have the play called back because of a penalty, or lose the ball altogether because of a fumble. All six of these plays occured within the Dickinson 35, ittcluding two within the 20. Players like Dickinson senior tailback Chris Hughes. who rushed for 182 yards on ~S canies, including one touch- down, capitalized on these errors. Last week, Union was able tore- cover from mistakes like this, but simply could not come•up with their scoring punch. Third year coach John Audino summed up the game by saying, \You can't make turnovers and penaltie~ against a good team and expect to win.\ Despite this loss, Union still has plenty ofreC~son 's to hold it's head high. The loss drops them to 3-1. but any knowledgable fan will reco1:,'11ize that this team is still a force to be reckoned with. They fell only one place in the Upstate New York Poll. down from num- ber one to two, and only two places in the national poll, from 13to I 5. 1l1ey will travel next week to the University of Albany next week. to try to repeat last years 21-14 victOI)'. They are no longer undefeated, but they are not to be taken lightly. tile photo- Kojo A ttah v. Hobart 1 1 ninn \s men's soccer team has ju~t ;1hout reached the middle of its season and it 1 s safe to say that they are not in the position that they hoped th~y would be in. With only one win under their belt. the Dutchmen ha\c sunk to the bot- tom of their division and at this point. hope is all hut lost for a bid at post-season play. Coach Nardiello and his staff arc now bced not only with the task of figuring out how to coach this team to some victories. but also with the potential loss of confi- dence and deteriorating attitude ofhis players that so often accom- panies a 1-5-1 record. Oftentimes the latter is the more difficult of tile two problems. Water Polo Season Starts Slowly The team's past two games were both disappointments al- though the outcomes were differ- ent. On September 28, the Dutch- men played Middlebury College. This was one that Union would rather soon forget. They were outplayed and outscored by a Middlebury team that was simply a stronger group of players. The final score was 4-0 which left little to ~.:heer about on the Union side. Next on the schedule was the Massachussetts Institute of Technology. Union's men were bussed into Boston this past Sat- urday for this matchup against a team that tumed out to be very evenly matched with our Dutch- men. These two teams fought to a 1-1 tie whicl: is satisfying to nei- ther team. However, this tie can be seen as a step in the right di- rection for Union as it was com- ing off a four game losing streak. Union's lone goal was scored by senior Jeremy Licbhoff. Now this team needs only one thing, and that is a win. It is un- fortunate that Union may only be by Lee R. Schachter & GeoffWolfe Contributi11g Writers Recently, the Union Water Polo team kicked off the 1994 East em Water Polo Association season at Come II with the first part of a two- part tournament. The team played four games- against RPI, Colum- bia. Colgate, and Anny. Tl1e team was short-handed, with only eleven players present. They were l-3 for the weekend. l11e weekend started off well withawinagainstRPI, 17-15. Trail- ing by the score of 5-2 at the end of one quarter and 8-7 at the half, they came roaring back by explod- ing for eight goals in the third quarter to take a 15-10 lead. l11ey iEACH FOR AMERICA held on in the fourth quarter with some tough defense. Seniors Scott Bowden and Geoffrey Ephraim Wolfe led the team in scoring with six goals each, Chris Riley had two, and Robbie Johnson, Tsuyoshi \Kobi\ Kobayashi, and Adam Levithan each scored one goal. The next game was a nailbiter right down to the wire, with Union losing to Columbia by the score of 20-18. Again Bowden and Wolfe led the scoring with seven goals each, as Riley picked up three and Johnson had one. It was a disappointing loss for Union, as they lost a 13-6 half-time lead. Colgate and Army then pro- ceeded to trounce the once pow- erful Union team. Last year, Union was ranked eighth in the nation in club water polo, and qualified for the EWP A water polo champion- ship. \This year is a rebuilding year after losing several players to graduation and term abroad,\ stated Bowden after being asked about the weekend. This weekend the team travels to Colgate to take on Cornell, Buf- falo State, and Hamilton. So take a road trip and come on out and support the Dutchmen and Union Water Polo. You'll be glad you did!!! Write For Sports Call x6155

FEATURES Schenectady, NY- Social Capital of the World by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor After having spent an exhila- rating weekend surrounded by the breathtaking Green Mountains of Vennont, it comes as no surprise that I retum to Schenectady even more pessimistic thati usual. On the final leg of my journey \home I cru.t 't say I was entirely shocked at the sight of enonnous magenta clouds which loom.ed over our fair city. One may speculate as to the origin of these clouds. I myself chalked them up to either the G.E. plant, or the apocalypse. Anyway, in an attempt to pull myself from this 'latest funk, I decided to take an inventory of the redeeming qualities Qf both Union College, and Schenectady itself, as transferring is not an option at this point in my college career. You 1llight be surprised at what I ~rune up with. 1) No matter what happens, you can always find beer. Whetheritbe Miesterbrau, Busch or Golden Anniversary, you can always pick up a cold frosty. nlere's nothing like hanging out in a muddy bar-room, making small talk, and .drinking this nec- tar ofthe gods from a used plas- tic cup which you saw l)rother X pick up off the ground before he filled it for you. 2) You wru.tf fast food? You got it! Schenectady offers a wide range of international cuisine. Be it Taco Bell or Golden House, the possibilities are endless. You wanna burger? Sure! We got Wendy's, McDonald's, and BurgerKin·g. Pi:zza- no problem. With Domino's and ·Pizza Hut you're Iiever without that authen- tic Italian favorite. Hey, I don't know about you, but l don't miss Mom's home cooking one bit. 3) Shopping, shopping, shop- phlg. For fine shops, as well as .great people-watching, head on down to Jay Street. I only got harassed two or three times on the way down there and flashed on the way home. I spent hours browsing in the eclectic shops, and found myself having a hard time deciding which \tobacco smoking\ apparatus I wanted the most. If you want you buy crack, you're in luck- they got that too! Thi!t' s what I call one-stop shop- ping! 4) TI1e night life. With seven~ teen fraternities to choose from, there's no need to ever have the sru.ne night twice. And what with the recent inclusion of sororities in the party scene, BAM!- four more options yet to be explored. Of course, if you're more of the \bar type,\ we have Chet' s, which I hear is now open from 8-l 0 P.M. two nights a week. Of course, there are.also the bars beyond our iron gates. Brimming wiJh warm hospitality, and local color, a night in any of these establish-. ments will surely be one to re- member. 5) there's always someone new to meet. Two thousand stu- . dents may not sound like a lot, but it is amazing how many new faces I see each day. l can't walk through the CollegeCenterwith~ out being accosted by eager Union students introducing them- selves and shaking tny hand. It is as if I was afloat i11 a sea of smiling faces- so comforting, so tranquiL That was all I hadtime·to look into, but certainly s~1ch options are more than ample. i don't know what 1 was saying earlier about wanting to leave this place. Silly me. It must ofbeen aH that fresh air I was breathing in V er- mont. Union Entrepreneur Cleans Students' Dorm Rooms C01rtiriued from page 10 clothes, arranging drawers, dust- ing, and making beds. Ruthie smartly adds, \Who knows, maybe I'll even expand someday and have a crew [of cleaners]. And yes, I do accept tips!\ When asked if she would advise other students to try this, Ruthie re- marked,. \Sure if they have the time and they like to clean ... then by all means. But tell them to stay out of We.st. TI1at's my turf!\ Hats off to businesswoman Ruthie Strosberg for coming up with a creative inspiration that allows her to work at her conve- nience, lllake money, and be her own boss. TrueLove and it was as if my heart began to smile- it felt as though someone had slowly released their crush- ing grasp from Illy center. by Rawson Thurber Co1lcordie11sis Staff Lately I've been talking with lots of people about romance, love, and relationships. l11e dis- cussion usually boils down to frustration spun from the lack of success in the realm of the heart. Most of the men and women had the same desires when it came to relationships. Often, men and women want the same thing, but settle for far less; and once you cut through all the physical quali- ties one might desire, the bottom line seems to be love. Given this, the question arises, \is there such a thing as true love?\ I come from a family that has gone through three divorces and four marriages, and I'm not sure if I believe in true love- in the fairy tale sense. But I do believe that it is possible. I was talking with my mother about that issue late one night af;.. ter we'd come back from the city. We sat around the kitchen table drinking wann milk and talking. I brought up the questions about love that had been mulling around in my head for a few weeks. I explained that the word \love\ for me was probably the most pow- erful in language. It can be used towards family, close friends, and one's sweetheart. But I've always felt a tad jaded when the term \true love\ comes up. So I asked my mother what her feelings about true love were. She an- swered without hesitation, \It doesn't have to last forever for it to be true love.\ l11is hit me like a thunderbolt. I'd always equated true love with \forevemess.\ Yet for my mother unending love wasn't a prerequi- site to true love. I sat there at the table silent for a few moments, So maybe true love happens at different times throughout one's life. Maybe you don't need to rescue the damsel in distress, or be swept off your feet to experi- ence it. Maybe the love is just as real, ru.td just as important even if it's not forever. That might be the problem that men and women seem to encoun- ter in their collective love lives. We've been told in fairy tales throughout our whole lives that perpetual love is the equivalent of \true love\ where this is not the case at all. Love is still love even if it's not forever. U.B. GLAD Union Bisexual, Gay & Lesbian Advocates and Defenders meets on Wednesday at 7:00PM in CC 203. For more information call voice mail box 3868 October 6, 1994, page 19

. ·• October 6, 1994 PAGE 20 CI~t ([nntnrbitnais Student Forum Retreat : Walking the Tight Rope For U .. . . . by David Levine Editor-in-chief This Saturday eight stalwart members oftheStwient Govern- ing Association braved near freezing temperatures and un- timely precipitation to cnmplete a trust-building, fear-facing ex- ercise at Camp Chingachgook in Lake George, New York. The group included five seniors - Nate Coffin, Dawn Schwartz, Jon Miller, Thor' Air' Benander. O:n·id IcY inc- two ,;oplwmon:s - R:Jw<>on Thnrhcr :1nd Roccn Giovani-Giovani - and junior Ken Chase. The day hcgan with a fc\\ games of tag. during \Vhich ccr- tainJncmhcr- ofthc group \\ere ahk to dcmtlllStratc.: thc.:ir agility anu \\ illingncss to sacrifice their bodies forthe name of sport. Jon Miller completed all.sorts of ac- robatic flips and Ken Chase was able to capitalize on his athletic background. David Levine was injured early, cracking his knee- cap on a rock as he attempted to roll away from the tag of Nate Coffin, who demonstrated from the very beginning just how flexible he can be. Later the group unsuccess- fully attempted to untie a Human Knot. Lack of effort was not the problem. Thor Benander's low center of gravity was an asset to the group, but the I Oparticipants (including two instructors) were unable to untangle the mess. Later, the groups engaged in trust walks, during which a blindfolded student was led through obstacles by a seeing student. In a slight mishap, Jon Miller led Rawson Thurber into a trap. Miller miscommunicated with Thurber, and Rawson lowered his head into wooden stick wedged ·in a doorway. Otherwise, the lead- ers flawlessly navigated their blindfolded friends. Many smaller group assign- ments were completed before lunch. All ofthese events utilized the individual skills of each group member. Without the assistance of each participant, the tasks could have never been adequately com- pleted. Concluding the morning acti\ ities, Nate.: Coffin was carried inttl the dining mom by other fo- rum members. In the afternoon, the group en- gaged in several activities, the most memorable of which was the rope cuur:-,e. The high ropes course is a tc.:st of physical strength, agility, patience.:, and the ability lo over- come fear. Dawn Schwartz per- formed extremely well on the ropes. All eight of the partici- pants performed admirably. Two students, Thor Benander and Jon Miller, attempted to jump off a wooden pole some fifty feet in the air to a trapeze. Both nearly com- pleted the jump. Miller attempted the jump blindfolded. He was for- tunate to not get injured because his arm got caught behind one of the security cables. At the end of the day all partici- pants agreed that the activities had been worthwhile. In the final dis- cussion forum members agreed that they felt more comfortable with each other, that they felt as though it would be very easy to work together this year. All par- ticipants agreed that they knew one another better after having the op- portunity to spend time away from Union together. Dawn Schwartz, Tho1· Benander, Rocco Giovani-Giovani, Nathan Coffin, Kenton Chase, and Jon Miller are among the Forum members who participated in the weekend retreat. (David Levine!TC) SCOPES - coming October 20 to The Concordiensis - special topics include Date Rape and a dollar-by-dollar analysis of wher~ your tuition money goes. Starting Your Own Business: Learn From a Freshman by Bharat N avani , Concordiensis Staff Capitalism has shadowed the United States from the time of its birth. And the one aspect of the U.S. economy that has-prospered via this puppeteer we call capi- talism has been small business. The grounds ofUnion College are no different than the rest of the nation, for Capitalism is running rampant here and those with a strong mind and absolute energy have found a way to maximize their economic situations because of it. Take for example, Ruthic ~ Strosberg. Ruthie is a first year student who has found a way to earn some extra pocket money while she goes about perf01ming her daily routines as a student, athlete, and social butterfly. Ruthie has started her own small business: she cleans dorm rooms for a modest fee of three dollars. In chatting With Ruthie; I learned of how she got the idea for Ruthie 's Cleaning Service: \One night a couple of guys came home from a party; their room was a mess and I helped them clean it - I vacuumed~ A couple of days later, because of what they had seen, people started asking me to vacuum their rooms ... probably as a joke. But then I thought to myself, 'Ruthie, you're spending too much money as it is; now is your chance to make some money.' And so the 'cleaning idea' was born.\ Ruthie expounded, \I feel good when I know where things are; I enjoy cleaning and seeing things organized ... and now I'm getting paid for it.\ Ruthie remembers how at first she thought that no- body would take her seriously and that people would think of her advertising as a prank. But that wasn't the case; Ruthie remarks, \People have genuinely expressed an interest and my signs in West [College] have already landed me a few jobs. And because I don't have work study, this is really a good way for me to earn some spending money.\ Fot those interested, Ruthie 's Cleaning Service includes the following: vacuuming, folding Continued on page 19 : ·' ,, ) \· : ~

' ; ~ •T. \ i' I, : ·' >' l ·· .. · Holtlecolll.ing Weettertd Sctiedtlle .,.·page 12 · ~ ' ' • • ' ' ' • w ' '' ' • ' • • ' .. ... ....... nnror ttnsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIV, Number HI Schenectady, New York Students prepare for food drive. Front Row: Deb Montano, Jodi Kadish, Eetll Lowes, Meg Furman, Dina Stonberg, Meredith Roser, Karyn Brownstein, Back Row: Stacey Fellows, Alice Grabowski, Melissa lnjurna, Amy Hitz (photo by Laurel Ruma) Union Students Help Rescue Damien Center by Stefanie L. Bediner Concordiensis Writer The students of Union College have often been accused of being apathetic and unconcerned with the community outside of the campus gate. A group of students lead by Dina Stenberg and Meg Funnan are proving this accusa- tion wrong. The Damien Center, a living room for people with the HIV virus and AIDS has the funding the Towtl of Schenectady provides for it. It is due to this lack of funding, that the center may have to close down. Hopefully with the help ofUnion students,.it will be able to remain open. In order to provide help for the Damien Center, Stonberg and Furman are organizing a food drive at Union to help get food for the guests at the center. It is their hope to collect enough non-parishable items to keep ··the centet'spafitryopen ·uhtil morefund- · ing is available. They are calling upon the good will of the students and faculty to accomplish this goal. The Damien Center was started in De- cember C1f 1992 and houses 112 guests a month. It provides a home like \living room\ atmosphere for those infected with HIV and AIDS. A living room is a place where people can just \come and hang out,\ Stenberg explained. TI1e center also · serves as a source of ~piritual guidance. Councilors are available to members to answer spiritual and health related ques- tions~ There is a great need for the center be- cause Schenectady has the 2nd highest number of AIDS cases in New York State. It is only behind New York City, which has the highest number of cases. Each month at the Damien Center, a different organization sponsors a dinner for the members. These organizations in- clude public offices, major companies and Uriion College. In the past there were three AIDS liv- ing rooms in the area. People had the benefit of these facilities in Troy, Al- bany, and Schenectady. The center in Troy lost its funding and was forced to close down. If the Damien Center in Schenectady is unable to raise funds and gain help through grants, it will also have to close down. Stonberg and Furman both hope that the food drive at Union wm be a suc- cess. Boxes to collect the food have been placed in fraternities, sororities, resident halls, and department offices currently. Stenberg says, \If every per- son gave one item of food, that would be incredible for the center.\ In addi- tion to the food drive, donations will also be accepted. For more informa- tion about the Damien Center or donat- ing contact Dina Stonberg at x5837. Celebrating Our Bicentennial October 13, 1994 How Safe Are You? Students Encouraged to Take More Precautions by Adrian MacLean Co11eordiemis Writer With the threat of crime in today's soci- ety, Union is making an attempt to educate the campus on the importance of crime safety. On October fourth and fifth. two infor- mation sessions on crime awareness were held in the College Center. Of these two ses- sions, a total of eight administrative secre- taries and two students attended. With the incident on Lenox Road just be- hind us. it is amazing that more people are not concerned with their safety. One won- ders why the two people assaulted didn't show. Many people had the desire to attend the meeting hut couldn't find anyone to go with them. \I was planning to go to the safety work- shop, but nobody wanted to go. There was nobody for me to walk with,\ freshman Katie Ott said. Due to the lack of enthusiasm to leam about safety hands on, the Union commu- nity will remain ignorant to the dangers that exist on this campus. \Safety is something we all must do to- gether, \ Campus Security Officer Paul Mantica said. One element that makes many Union stu- dents more vulnerable for attack is the usc of alcohol on our campus. Many times stu- dents walk home late at night from a party or fraternity after they have been drinking. After alcohol consumption, most people are impaired and their reaction time is slower. It is even harder to defend yourself in this state of mind. The two types of crime that Union faces most often are property crim~::s and injury crimes. Most criminals are opportunistic criminals. TI1ey want to find the easiest way to get what they want. Each year, a big share of property is taken from Union's campus, and in most cases it Continued Oil page 6 Trimesterv. Semester: The Campus Responses by Christoph Ringwald Concordiensis Writer \Unless you find that they truly are broken,\ insisted President Roger Hull, \you don't switch things that are not broken.\ This is one of the many initial responses to the recently released faculty proposal to reexamine the current trimester system. In \A Working Paper Oil Changing Union College's Calendar,\ Professors Teresa Meade, Faye Dudden, George Gmelch, Sharon Gmelch, Seth Greet1berg, John Marincola and Eshragh Motaharpoint out, what they think are, \serious flaws\ with the current calendar and suggest alternatives to it, including a system of 13 to 15 weeks and a split Winter term. One of the principal flaws that the advocates cite concerns the financial picture. \Those administrators with whom we spoke all concurred that trimesters are more costly than semesters simply because everything is done three times instead oftwice.\ R.ight now, Hull is not convinced of this. \At this point, I see nothing but assertions. And I would like to see the data to see what the financial implications are. If those assertions are accurate, then clearly there are things that need to be addressed within the tenn system.\ Meanwhile, Hull has appointed Vice President of Academic Affairs Linda Cool to look into this issue further. Cool remarked: \At this point, we are in the process of collecting figt1res from the Office of Finance, the library, the physical plant, the Registrar and the bookstore.\ After having spoken with Diane Blake, Vice President for Finance, The Concordiensis learned that data on the costliness of the semester system will not be available until the end of the fiscal year. A second chief flaw with the trimester system that the advocates point out concerns the pedagot,'Y. \As faculty members our initial concern with the tenn system derived from the frustrations we feel in trying to teach meaningful content in a short ten weeks.\ Moreover: \The pace of the surveys means that one never comes close to covering adequately the material in the textbooks, which are written for semester-long courses, and students are expected to absorb massive amounts of material with no time for review.\ On the other hand, several adversaries of the semester system proposal criticize that students would be required to take fewer courses in order to fulfill a major, thus they would be less prepared. In addition, Professor of Biology, Peter Tobiessen pointed out: \Under thecun·ent system, students have more flexibility. For example, several oftl1e biology courses are offered twice a year.\ An exclusive Concordiemis Questionnaire revealed the following initial student responses to the calendar issue: Co11ti11ued 011 page 3

October 13, 199.4, page 2 S<thafter Bnow.S,?l~$19~4: .J;aH .renn WJ1:L~¢lrt!~~~a.Y~·~9~~tnl1¢r· 15th. the saitewi1£'be l1eld frotri12:00 ~ 4:0\€LPM m1Lt11eflrst·fle6r; S&tono. stt~kes to the':\$¢~;~ .j,l!avels wilthR;og~r: ·(.J:~Q}~ · sHdes and photos of,tlu;f!¢aif 'fiiip from Sch¢hootady toi.N'ew ··· City tak¢t1 thi>s. fat!. b~ e:i.twb:tJn~ .·. ,..... ion Cqf1~s~·~rnlo¢i$.t~~:~l9te. . Or11clter '95. GaeliaSck\\.1¢1. · ·· >:racy :Bush 1 96~ JemtEvans~~~;; John Krohol '97~ John Rocttw¢'11 1 {)9, Roger Hu'U, ... and :P~ter Tobiess.en, Bear about $h~ adviint'Uli~ a£tlte$¢'V{)yage.ur~over:l~() . + hart·owh1g tniles as the encountered locks, Hgbthouses.aud an abandon{ild,castle. Wednesdqy, October 19tlt in theCollege.CJen .. , ter Auditorium ar4:30 PM. · NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994 THROUGH SUNDAY. OCTOBER 9,1994 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994: 9: 16 AM College Center 10:'15 AM Ahnnni Gym 9:00PM Writing .center TlJESDA \'. OCTOBER 4, 1994.: 3:10PM Raymond North WEDNESDAY •. OCTOBER 5, 199~: 2: 15 AM College Ceriter 12:30 PM Campus Operations Lot ·5:45PM Becker Hall Area THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1994: 2:28 AM Fieldhouse 2:40 AM Humanities Building 2:40 AM Humanities Building 3:47AM 2:15PM 2:30PM 7:50PM Raymond North Delta Phi College Center Webster House FRIDAY. OCTOBER 7, 1994: 10: ll PM Lenox Road Area II :30 PM Smith House SATURDAY,OCTOBER 8, 1994: 3:35 AM Bailey Field 4:52 AM Richmond Road 10:00 AM 10:47 AM 6:15PM 11:15 PM 11:46 PM Webster House Raymond North Achilles Rink Lamont Area North College SUNDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1994: I 2:09 AM Delta Phi I:OO AM Davidson Lot 1:30AM College Center 3:00PM College Center !0:15PM Davidson Courtyard 10:40 PM Achilles Rink Area INCIDENT FIRE ALARM: Caused by cooking, exhaust fans not on. FIRE ALARM: Caused by contractor working on system. FIRE ALARM: Caused by bumf popcom. SAFETY HAZARD: Non-college locks installed. SAFETY HAZARD: Buming odor reported. Oven left on with food still cookillg unattended. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property damage auto accid·ent between two campus vehicles. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Vendor driving vehicle over sidewalks to make delivery. Warned, subject to revocation of campus privilege. SECURITY HAZARD: Area not properly secured. SECURITY HAZARD: Key lock box not secured. HARASSMENT: Misunderstanding between employees. VANDALISM: Broken window. VANDALISM: Broken window. FIRE/EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Minor oven fire occurred 10/5/94. No damage. Fire transmission lines at College Center in trouble status~ local alarm on.ly, Fire Watch established. Repairs made. TRESPASS: Intoxicated male visitor gained unau thorized access to the buildiftg. A resident escorted _him out. Campus Safety Officers checked area subject gone. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: A vehicle resembling the one involved in recent armed robbery was reported. Associated subjects located and identified. Visitors from another campus. Information provided to SPD. SAFETY HAZARD: Wanner oven left on. VANDALISM: Goal post damaged. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Vehicle struck light pole. Property Damage/Injury. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Aggravated harassment by tele phone. VANDALISM: Window broken. THEFT: Visitor's wallet containing cash & personal papers stolen from unsecured area. Suspects reported to be young juveniles. ID and other items located the following day. Possible suspects reported 10/9/94. Located and identified. Warned off campus. VANDALISM: Mail box tipped over. Base needs to be reset. FIRE ALARM: Caused by burned food in kitchen- ette area. FIRE ALARM/SAFETY HAZA~D: Fire alann caused by a pull box being intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. Safety Hazard involves evacuation and lack of adequately lighted exit signs. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's car damaged by another vehicle that left the scene without reporting the accident. VANDALISM: Wall tile and plaster damaged in rest- room. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire egress in stairwells blocked. NOISE COMPLAINT: Report of recurring yelling from windows at all hours of the day and night. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students reported incident that occurred 3:30AM 10/8/94. Suspect visitor solicited students for drugs an_9 begged money from t.hem. Suspect description provided to Campus Safety Officers.

NEWS October 13, 1994, page 3 Campus Perimeter Still in the Dark by Heather 1\lanley · Assistallt 1\'ews Editor Campus safety once again emerged as a primary concem for the lJninn College community folltming the assault on Lenox Road carl:- this tcnn. Since that incident. Campus Security has taken more crime prevention mcasurl!s including sd f,JI!fcnse workshops and extra security pa- trols. .. The Ctllkgc takcs man~ tlther quests and recommendations from faculty and students, as welL A few times during the year, Campus Security invites a cross- section of the college community, including students, faculty and administtation to participate in the lightin.g walk-mounds. The President's Committee on Cam- pus Security. consisting of two faculty members, t\vo staff mem- bers and two students, will also t,c im·olwd in this process. steps to ensure the saf~ty of thc stndcnts. ti1cnlty and staff. An important .safety aspect is light- ing on campus. All main paths and walkways on campus arc well fit. Recent im.prowments include new lights along the West College path and i.n the parking lot by· Raymond and Potter I louse. Ac~ cording to Paul Mantica. Direc- tor of Campus Security. membG;rs of the security statfmake weekly night tours mound the campus lookin] for power outages and other necessary repairs. At this time they also determine addi- tional lighting needs. Whik the arca \\ ithin the <:aJn- pus gates .is wdl lit. Lenox Road and Union A\enuc. two streets used often by Union students. are not as luminous. The section be- tween Union A venue and Phi Delta Theta is particularly poorly lit.. The street lamps on Lenox Road are few and far between and only found on the campus side of the street. Although this area is freqtiently used by Union College students. the lighting along Lenox Road falls under the jilrisdiction of the City of Schenectady. Lights brighten campus walk ways, maki11g it safer for evening travel (Joshua Haines/TC) Securitv considers li~htin~ re- .. - ... ._ In 1988, the college wrote a letter to Karen Johnson, then mayor of Schenectady. request- ing additional lighti:J'g along Lenox Road, Union A venue and Gillespie Street. At the time, bud- get constraints prevented the city from installing more lighting in these areas. Union College, how- ever. can take responsibility for the lighting along Lenox Road with the city's pennission. That would also include assuming the financial responsibility as well, which Union cannot afford. The result is that areas outside Union College property, although frequently used by students, will remain poorly I it for the time being. Escort Service provides transportation to all of these ar- eas, however, and the promotion of safety awareness will help to prevent potential dangers in these areas. Helpful Hints: How to be Prepared for Career Festival by l\larc Foster Concordiennsis Writer In an increasingly competitive job market. oppm1tmities for em- ployment are on the decline. With players will be represented at the festival. up from 32. and 35 graduate schools. twelve more than last year. It promises to be the best chance yet for Union's student body to get an edge in the market-from in- temships to summer and full-time jobs. UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center To maximize your chances of suc- cess, Denham says preparation is the key. If you've pre- pared a resume. take it with you. TI1is is your chance to put your name before 75 America's half- hearted economic re- covery expected to go into a tailspin by the end of the year. the class of 1995 faces stiffer job prospects than usual. But there are ways to beat the odds. Thomas Denham. of the Career Development Center, says his best advice is -------- employers and to get stm1ed early. Translation: Attend Career Festival '94. It will be held in the Fieldhouse on Thursday, October 13 from noon until4pm. The Sixteenth Annual Career Festival will tally some impres- sive statistics. Notably, 40 em- graduate schools all in the span of four hours; a resume will help · you make the most of it. Dress professionally, you may be meet- ing your next boss, and it's always a good idea to make a positive first impression. Finally, prepare a few good questions. You 'II be able to find out from the repre- sentatives' perspective what they're seeking in an employee or graduate candidate and how to best prepare for the application process. Union's engineering students have an additional opportunity to meet employers and representa- tives at a joint reception of the National Society of Black Engi- neers and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers on Wednesday, October 12. There- Two Terms Or Three? Contilluedfrompage 1 76.4 percent of the respondents said that they would not like to see the introduction of the semester system. Asked whether they would consider transferring if the semester system were to be adopted, 85.3 percent answered no. As the principal advantage of the trimester system, 88.6 percent of the students surveyed stated \the concentration on only three courses.\ Conversely, 72.4 percent indicated \tl}e late finish of the academic year\ as the chief disadvantage. Other results of the questionnaire show: · 28.5 percent of the respondents said that \the long winter break\ is an advantage of the trimester system. 26.1 percent of the respondents indicated \the fast pace\ as a \disadvantage. 33.3 percent of the respondents stated \the short reading period before final exa.m s\ as a disadvantage. The first formal discussion of Union's calendar will take place at a teaching workshop on Oct. 18. According to Concordiensis' Attention Alumni!! Subscribe to The Concordiensis for the remainder of the Bicentennial Year. Enclose a $35 check to The Concordiensis (Box 2577, Union College)- include your address - you will receive 21 m~re issues including our special Founders Day issue. ception will begin at 7:30pm in the Old Chapel. For more infonnation about the Career Festival, visit the CDC at Old Chapel, third floor, or call ext. 6176. sources, only the pedagogy of both systems will be discussed. Sometime during the course of this term, Cool hopes, ihe Academic Affairs Council (AAC) is going to create a sub- council that look into this issue further. However, until then, Cool is \trying to keep people as open about the issue as possible before they begin to polarize.\ \I am going to insist that this be an unemotional and objective analysis. And if there are compelling reasons for making a change, then I presume that we would have the courage and ability to do so,\ Hull added. \However were we to conclude that it is desirable to make a change, it presumably would take several years to affect that change. It is not something you decide today and put in place tomorrow.\ Union's calendar was last discussed in 1983 under President Morris. At that time, a proposal to adopt the semester system was rejected. Give to the Senior Gift

9ctober 13, 1994, page 4 NEWS Melanie Rinaldi Wins Prestigious Teach· Scholarship by Carrie Wheeler Concordiensis Writer In addition .to her scholarship, Melanie received a fFee one year membership to the AMTNYS and teach. ''TtJtoring is rewarding,\ commented Melanie. \1 enjoyed motivating people-showing This past summer, Melanie Rinaldi, a junior math major at Union, was one of three students awarded the $1,000 Association of Mathematics Teachers ofNew York State Scholarship. Melanie was selected from a competitive pool of twenty-five college stu- dents all training to teach at the elementary or secondary school levels. \Melanie was one of three students awarded: the $1,000 Associaton of Mathematics Teachers of New York State Scholarship. Melanie was selected from a competitive pool of twenty-five college students aU training to teach._ .• \ will also be recognized during a conference later this fall. them that they can do anything if they have the desire. I thinkthafs the main reason I want to teach. to help people help themselves.'' \I was flattered to have been se- lected,\ remarked Melanie. \I want to make a difference and teaching is one of the best ways to make a mark on tomorrow's generation.'' Interestingly, Melanie came to Union as a Psychology major, but after volunteering at Union's Cal- culus Crisis Center and Currently, Melanie is enrolled in Union'$ 5 year MA program in Teaching and hopes to teach High School Math. Schenectadv Communitv \ \ Coll.ege 's Tutoring program. Melanie discovered sh.e loved to Come on, everyone wants to do it! Write for Concordy News. ;\· ?\ ?\ 0 L' ?\ C I :'\ G T \\. 0 ?\ E \\' C R E F ;\ C C 0 L' ::\ T S . YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account. \'{\' Thether you want a fund that V V selects specific stocks or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our new CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock mar- ket, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation!l' The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more diversification, with a portfolio encom- passing almost the entire range of U.S. stock investments. It will invest in stocks Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM in the Russell 3000®,** a broad index of U.S. stocks. Like our CREF Stock Account, which combines active, indexed, and foreign investing, and our Global Equities Account, which actively seeks opportuni- ties worldwide, the new funds are managed by experienced investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the U.S., managing over $130 billion in assets. To find out more about our new stock funds, and building your portfolio with TIAA-CREF, just call 1 800-842-2776. And take your pick. *The new fund~ arc a .. ·nilableo lOr Rt!tireml!'nl Annunies iUbtc,·t to thr ttorms or ·~'111r in~luudon's plan 1:h!!y ~r~ ~~~ rtlhthll' lOr nil Supplem.cnll•l Rc~i.rement .An~~iri~s. ••The Russell 3000 is a registered trademark of chc Frank Rus~ell Company. Rtuisclltil not a. ~Sponsor. of the CillO:\• ~utty In de\ r\n•ount and ts not atltltat~d wtth tl 1n any way. Far more complete infomiation, including chargu and upc:mes, call I BOO·S42-2i3J, e/Ct. 5509 lor a CIU~f prospcc~us .. Rctul tlte ~ruspcl'tus c.1rerully berore_you mvest or send money. CREI-' certiflcale!l ai'e Ji,trilluted by TIAA-CRHI-' Individual and lnslttulmnal Srrv1ceJ, Inc. Steinmetz Started World's First Flying Club 100 Years Ago by Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer While celebrating the 200th year of Union College and 150 th year of engineering, we should note this is also the 1 OOth anni- versary .of the founding of the world's first flying club by Charles Steinmetz in Schenectady. While his world fame as an en- gineering wizard, founding of electrical engineering at Uni9n, and community efforts for better schools and parks are well re- membered, his pioneering activi- ties toward human flight are also important. The new General Electric Company had hired the twenty- seven year old Steinmetz for his ability to do calculations on elec- tric power equipment and brought him to Schenectady in December 1993. It was soon realized that this mathematician, physicist and engineer was also a gifted teacher, motivator and organizer who was ·interested in many things. Inspired by the soaring birds and the successful glider flights of Otto Lilienthal in Germany, Steinmetz in the spring of 1894 founded the \Mohawk Aerial Navigation Company.\ The charter was to study air currents at high elevations. Stock holders included anyone inter- ested in flight who was willing to pay the $2 membership fee. The club built three gliders which flew over the Glenville hills in 1894 as described in \A Dream of Wings\ by aviation historian Tom Crouch of the Smithsonian Air and Space Mu- seum. The first glider had a 30 foot span, and was to be flown as a human carrying kite. Club mem- ber A.H. Armstrong was selected \Lord High Victim in Chief.\ He rose a few feet into the wind and crashed to earth. Membership was enlarged and a true glider with a 24 foot span and 8 foot chord was built, and made some short flights. The third glider was constructed of steel tubing joined by aluminum castings and guyed with steel wire. Similar to a modern hang glider, the operator was su,s- pended by leather straps. It flew, 'but was uncontrollable, and it crashed to earth fracturing sev- eral of the pilot's ribs. While the \wizard of Schenectady\ passed from the aeronautical scene without achieving a successful tlight; his ongoing fascination with flight and photography is demonstrated bY the \flight over the Glenville hills\ picture he produced by su- perimposing two negatives. However, his club's activities may have an even larger and on- going importance.·While a glider itself may not have a purpose, they have been a vital link toward developing practical machines, as demonstrated by the Wright brothers at Kitty Hawk and to- day by Dr. Paul MacCready. The Wright brothers first suc- cessful powered flight in 1903 was the direct result of much ex- perimentation and hundreds of flights with gliders, from which they were able to improve the wings, invent a method of con- trol by twisting the wings rather than shifting weight, and calcu- late power requirements, along with developing their vital pilot- ing skills. A modern streamlined glider is Co11tinued on page 6

_•..: ., , ' \ t I '! • r ~------ -·------------- .... --------------- -,:g:~ I I I I I I I j HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH. (WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE.) Separate \needs\ from \wants.\ H1nt: A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone is a want I I' I 1. I I I I \· ....... · \ .. : ... · :: , .. in~~ .Sp.lit-the .. bill but only 'pay· your share. I 1 Why put in for someone else's swordfish I 1 if all you gpt was soup? ~ Set asid~ money for, ~mergencies. · \ ·unless yot/d rather call your parents for it instead. fl:n Keep your eye on your wallet. Have a Citibank Classic card in case you lose it. The Lost Wallet 5 M Service can get you emergency cash:·· a new card usually within 24 hours and help replacing vital documents. 'Based on ava1lable cash line. f I I I 1 I I I ~-~------------------------------------~

October 13, 1994, page 6 NEWS \Think Safety First'' Contilmed from page 1 is stolen from students, not the college. Last year, due to un- locked doors in Fox and Davidson. there were fifteen re- ported thefts. According to Mantica, it takes about twenty seconds to walk into a room and find some one's wallet in the top desk drav.,er. Many times a person will be waiting at the door of a donnitory without a key. when somebody comes along they let them inside. There was a recent incident in which a female Union student was helped with her groceries by a seemingly nice man. He brought the groceries to her room and \.,ithin a week he had been given her room key. It didn't take much time after that for a vast amount of her propcr1y to be stolen. \Goods are replaceable, your body and pm1s are not,\ Officer Mantica said. Another example of a manipu- lating criminal was a man in hos- pital clothes outside of Hickok I louse. He pleaded the residents to help him because he had just run away from the hospital. The man had stated that there was an argument between he and his wife. The sympathetic residents of Hickok House opened up their door to this man aBd fed him, bathed him and everJ loaned him money. After the man left, it was discovered that he was wanted for robbery and rape. He also was an AIDS can·ier. Officer Mantica wants to en- courage the use of campus secu- rity. In the case of the hospital man, they could have called se- curity to help. Union has anum- ber of programs to help student be safe. There is an escort service, emergency telephones and the whistles for safety awareness pro- gram. \Think safety first!\ Officer Mantica said. There are many examples o( crime that exist on Union's cam- pus. Stories can be used as a tac- tic to make people more aware. Maybe what Union needs is a real scare since only two students at- tend a awareness meeting. Most people would be intimi- dated by the involvement of a gun in the last incident on campus. It is still unclear if the bullets were real or blanks, but there are no volunteers to find out. Previous to this gun incident, there were two crimes that in- volved a gun. One was a robbery of a cab driver, and the criminal used the campus as an oasis to hide. The second incident in- volved two children riding their bikes across campus. A pick up truck was chasing the children and shooting bullets from the back of the tmck. Rape is a serious crime on cam- pus, but in the last five years there has only been one reported rape. According to Officer Mantica women often are dramatized and want to forget the incident. He encourages students to report all c1ime activity. Union security is on duty 24 hours a day. Students should not be intimidated to call and ask for help. If anyone is a victim of a crime, they should try to remem- ber vivid details. Relate the crimi- nal to someone you know in size or expression so it will be easier to describe them. Campus secu- rity is here to keep Union a safe place to live. Hunger ~ction Network Sponors Local Walk 3 mile walk to provide food for many The Hunger Action Network of New York State will raise money to help end Imager in the Capital District with a Walk Against Hunger on World Food Day, Sunday. October 16. The walk-a-thon will include visits to 7 area food pantries and homeless shelters. The three mile walk will begin at the State Capitol at I PM on the east steps with ni.usic, speakers, and infonnational tables. HANNYS is a coalition of emergency food programs, advocates and other individuals whose goal is to end hunger in New York State. The state's 2200 emergency food programs provide food to more than 2 million low-income New Yorkers annually. HANNYS provides technical assistance to EFPs; grows fooo to distribute at local pantrieis; · an·d advocates on economic justice issues such as welfare reform, job creation, universal health care, and a higher minimum wage. For pledge packets and information, call the Hunger Action Network at 434-73 71. $ Earn Holiday Money $ UNITED PARCEL SERVICE Part-Time Positions Available Monday thru Friday Drivers Helper- $6.50/hour from Nov. 7th ... Dec. 24th Flexible hours morning to early evening at all UPS Centers in you city or State. ' ' . • • ' ~ ; • ~ ' ' I , For Further Information Contact: United Parcel Service Call: 786-4219 or 4218 for application appointment EOEM/F This Week's Movie CC Auditorium Notice : All Club Treasurers - Mandatory M'eeting 4:30 Today CC409 Steinmetz Flying Club Continued from page 4 a highly energy efficient ma- chine. With a lift to drag ratio of 40 to 1 at 60 mph, it requires only about 4 hp for level flight, which it captures from the solar driven vertical wind. ·u driven by a small engine, it would at- tain about 120 mpg.. Dr. MacCready ·has been a recognized innovator for more than fifty years. He has been an atmospheric scientist, engineer and also a world champion soar- ing pilot. Since 1980 he has built the human powered airplane that flew from France to England and has improved wind turbines for electricity. He has designed high speed bicycles, solar dri~en cars and airplanes and the battery driven General Motors Impact car. Dr. MacCready says his early experience with gliders was the vital catalyst for developing what he calls these highly efficient \more with less\ machines, which he now. t.Jses to show we could consume less fuel and cause less pollut~on .. While his solar and electric air- planes and cars may not be prac- tical, they effeptively demonstrate that only 4 or 5 hp is needed to travel 50 mph. Thus, while Steinmetz himself achieved no tangible aeronauti- cal success, such activities were well conceived. Gliders were a crucial step toward powered flight and modern aviation. Glid- ers have also helped show that a 100 mpg gasoline engine driven car is possibl~,

WORLD NEWS October 13, 1994, page 7 . NEWS BRIEFS Clinton's Operation \Why?\ Iraq: Sad dam Hussein has positioned more than 80 thou- sand troops on the border with Kuwait. Some speculate that it is a desperate attempt to pre- serve his di-ctatorship as mounting discontent is evident from four years of interna• tional economic sanctions. Washington: A bill passed by Congress will prevent vita- min and dietmy st1pplement companies from stating claims on their labels that indicate their product may play a part in curing or preventing diseases. Only those claims which the FDA be- lieves have \significant scientific agreement\ will be allowed. Bodega Bay, CaliforniaSeven year-old Nicholas Green was reember.ed by family and friends after being killed by highway robbers while on vacation with his family in Italy. Nicholas' or~ gans were donated in Italy to save the lives of five Italians. Space: Endeavour's crew Sui1day replaced a faulty data recorder and steered the shuttle to within 100 yards of its Saturday orbital path. The crew is trying to replicate its path so that the powerful radar can map sensitive environmental areas from the same place in space at the same time of day. The result should be 3-D topo- graphical maps showing changes in terrain as small as half an inch. by Matt Sandler Contributing Writer Anytime U.S . .troops are com- mitted abroad, there is a respon- sibiHty on the part of elected of- ficials to make sure the mission has a clearly defined purpose, and an exit point, as defined by Former President Bush and Chair- man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Colin Powell the Bush Doctrine. Up until President Clinton, addressed the nation on Thursday night, September 15, 1994, defining his objectives for the invasion of Haiti, Americans were confused over Haiti's sig- nificance to the United States. The President's approval rating increased in the polls to 56%, sup- porting the Presidtmt's action, af- ter his address to the nation. Still with 20,000 U.S. troops taking part in the Haiti operation, we must ask ourselves what will hap- pen when we try to extricate our- selves from Haiti? Gettit1g into Haiti is easy. and the Haitian military can not be considered a viable threat, but what is the role American troops are playing as peacekeepers in the beginings of a Haitian civil war? The tough job for soldiers, mostly elite troops trained to kilL is to protect and act as gl.obal police in a chaotic poverty, class conflict and tenor that is Haiti. The American invasion plan resembled the Panama invasion in that it was rehearsed in exer- cises prior to actual launch. Be- fore Operation Just Cause, the U.S. military practiced \Sand Flea\ exercises which were ac- tually battle plans for the inva- sion right in front of the Pana- manians; prior to our landing in Haiti the Pentagon, using twenty thousand troops, including elite units like Green Berets and Navy SEALs, participated in an exer- cise called \Agile Provider\ the blueprint for the Haiti invasion. That blueprint was not used as we went in unopposed, due to the help of fanner President Jimmy The Meaning of Gaijin in Japan by Kazuha Sugiyama Colltributillg Writer It has been repeatedly said by the mass media that Japan has be- come an internationalized society. Is Japan, however, really \inter- nationalized''? · .. In terms of the number of people from overseas in contem- porary Japan, this conntry might be called intemationalized. In fact, there are the figures as of June 1993, which say that over 1.37 million foreigners reside in Japan. Non-Japanese residents fonn I% of the population nowa- days. Yet, with reference to the flexibility of the Japanese people to new circumstances, a cosmo- politan society has not yet been established in Japan. In order to judge the scale of the adaptabil- ity that the Jl').panese people have, 1 would like to focus on what the Japanese word for foreigner \gaijin mearis. Nihonjinron often deals with the insularity of Japan so as to dis- tinguish its culture from others. I agree with this idea that it is in- evitable to inquire into what is for- eign, in order to recognize the po- sition of Japan on this earth. According to the survey that I gave to twenty-eight people, (seven foreign students, fifteen Gaidai University students, an<l six non-Gaidai University stu- dents) seventeen people replied that those who look different are gaijin. Since Gaidai students have a reputation for being more '\vest- ernized\ and less prejud1ced against foreigners, this answer was quite shocking to me. More surprisingly, some Japanese re- spo11dents even cited that gaijin means caucasian. Foreign coun- terparts found the word very in- sulting, since gaijin indicates any- one who is not 100% ••pure\ Japa- nese. What does this \pure\ here mean? Since almost all of the Japanese respondents agree with the preceeding answer that those who look different are gaijin. they must not have thought about the very important fact tlmt half of the non-Japanese resiqents are Korealls. Obvi- ously, the Japanese and Koreans look the same, because the Japa- nese are of racialy the same ori- gin as Koreans. Nevertl1eless, few Japanese respondents m.en- tioned Koreans as gaijin. Per- sonally, I consider this result as an invisible segregation which appears only when it comes to a among people? The media is partly to blame because it has propagated an exaggerated image of the \beautiful west.\ This might be a legacy of World War II. Before 1945, a large number of stories that somehow ridicule the looks of westerners often ap- peared in books. For example, a very famous short story, \Tabacco and Devil\ by Akutagawa Ryunosuke shows that Japanese people in the Edo period called the Dutch red hair, \Koumou.\ At that time, people also used the word \Namban\ to describe people from Spain and \As long as Japan believes it is separated and better than otber nations of Asia, it will be nothing but a conceited nation that would never notice that it could be gaijin in a real internationalized world.\ dirty side of the Japanese soci- ety, such as fundamental civil rights of foreigners. Therefor~, the word \pure\ (mentioned by a British student) probably ex- cludes Korean residents in Japan. In my view, Japanese people have .an ·inferiority complex re- garding white people. In support of this statement, twelve of the Japanese respondents wish to change the color of their hair and (or) eyes, compared to none of the foreign respondents. In ad- dition, nineteen Japanese an- swered that Americans ate more attractive than Japanese people. I was expecting to get a variety of answers to this question since the definition of American is dif- ficult to describe, and since it should not be possible to judge attractiveness by appearances alone. Why do Japanese people de- velop such a method of ranking Portugal, which literally means \barbarian from the South.\ Not- withstanding his remarkable origi- nality, Akutagawa characterized the Dutch as a naughty devil. Also, a typical Japanese sense of beauty consisted of an eyelid with no folds as in Kannons and Bodhisattvas. What changed this one thousand year old sense of b.eauty was the defeat in the Sec~ ond World War that Japan experi- enced. The conclusion of the war pro- duced a tidal wave of adorning information from the United States, but at the same time, this infonnation implanted W ASP-oti- ented ideas in the Japanese heart, that made Japan continue creating a superiority complex toward the rest of Asia and Africa. In my opinion, I think that the civil rights movements that occurred in the 1960's are partly responsible for why Japanese people tend to look down on black people. However. Japanese people have admired faimess of complexion for a very long time. This passed into some proverbs, such as \It is no use polishing Mukuroshu to make it white\ and \A fair complexion makes up for many a defect.\ In a response to the questionaire, almost half of the Japanese respondents named spe- cific countries that they felt to be inferior to Japan. Interestingly, all the respondents in junior high school addressed Africa as an undifferentiated whole. Also, no one mentioned any eastern Eu- ropean country, which I think means that they did not even think about places where white people live. Thirteen Japanese respondents said that they wanted to be rebom as non-Japanese 11ational (mostly westem nationals) in contradic- tion to their answers that they would like to live in Japan again. The reason why they want to live in Japan, they say, is just because they simply love Japan. Then why do they wish to be a westemer? This again leads to the inferiority complex toward white people born in conse- quence of the Second World War. Of course, the result of this war may be the reason why Japa- nese people pointed mit the safety of Japan. Nevertheless, the Japa- nese have a very complicated mixed feeling of insular self- pride and adoration of the \west\. As long as Japan believes that it is separated and better than other nations of Asia, it will be nothing but a conceited nation that would never notice that it could be gaijin in a real intema- tionalized world. The day the word disappears as something of the past, might be the time when Japanese people realize the im- portance of being who they are, not of where they belong. Carter. Haiti could easily become Somalia, aperrect exampleofright intentions, gone wrong that culmi- nated in the failed October 3rd raid of 1993. The U.S. troops are expanding their role in Haiti and are even dis- anning people and searching for weapon caches like we did in So- malia. If American troops fail to prevent looting, killing and riot- ing, which has already gone on, then the prospects for no Ameri- can casualities are limited. When Aristide supporters marched by the stronghold for the party that General Raoul Cedras represents. there was rioting and Haitians criti- cized the U.S. militaty for not be- ing there to prevent the riot. The potential of having the I Iaitians tum against U.S. troops is real, and although! they are nut anned like Somalia warlords. they can still be destructive in a series of urban guerril Ia terrorism. The U.S. is giving Cedras until Octo- ber I 5. 1994 to leave peacefully and affect the retum of Aristide, or troops will hunt him down. Let us look at why the coup originally took place. The mili- tary represents the elite of Hai- tian society and Jean Bertrand Aristide, with his leftist policies. was a threat to the ruling elite. We say we are there to retum democ- racy, but has Haiti ever really had a functional or real democracy'? Let us examine what mistakes President Clinton made and why we are really in Haiti. President Clinton's first mistake was to re- verse his campail:,'ll pledge after the election, continuing to block the Haitian coast and refiigees. He thereby, forced Haiti onto his agenda and could not remove it until he resolved the problem his campaign pledge brought 011 him- self. His second mistake was on October ll, 1993 with the rever- sal of the U.S.S. Harlan County that was blocked by the Haitian thugs. That change of direction by the Harlan County, sank the Govemor's Island Accords signed by Cedras and Aristide for the re- tum of power. That action of blocking the har- bor is reminiscent of the Barbary Pirates back in the early 1800's; today the United States as a world power should never be told where it can and can not dock. Clinton's reversal on refugee policy, pro- cessing the Haitian boat people at sea due to Randall Robinson's hunger strike is not the way to con- duct the foreign policy of the United states. It would be tragic if Robinson died because of alum- ger strike, but it would be his own choice if it did happen and. why risk the lives of American troops because someone will not eat. The only strategic interest to the United States is preventing the massive tidal wave of refugees from coming to the U.S. Clinton realized this with his reversal of his campaign pledge. He also needs the support of the Congres- sional Black Caucus to pass his legislative initiatives, who support the retum of Aristide. Is the Haiti policy, whose purpose is for so few, represent the real will of the American people?

October 13, 1994, page 8 SCIENCE AND HEALTH You'd Like Your Hamburger Rare? Food Related Illness on the Rise in the U.S. high levels of contatninatimi, while even low levels can make people sick. · by Bhavani l\1eduri Co11tributing Writer The next time you decide to order your hamburger 'pink' on the inside you had better rethink your decision. Undcn.:ookcd hamburgers have resulted in over 500 cases of food poisoning. 4 or'thesc cases leading to death (three nf these being children). orders have emerged as a result of a change in America's food production methods. One of these methods is to re- duce the doses of antibiotics in animals in order to make them larger. This pract,ice has led to the development of an antibiotic-resistant strain of bacteria. Other health groups have suggested the use of irradia- tion to eliminate microbial contamination. However, these plans have not gone into effect because of the heavy con- troversy Stlrrounding food irradiation. Until the improved safety standards ar~ finally decided upon and utilized it is in1portant for the consumer to exer- cise his or her own precautions. To prevent microbial growth, raw poultry and ground meat should be frozen as soon as possible after purchase. One such bacterium. knowH as f:'.w:herichia c:ol i: 0157: Americans have been shaken by the recent outbreaks in food rdated illness throughout a country that has long been considered one of the safest food suppliers in the \\ orld. llealth c-.perts attribute this onslaught of sickness tn outdated mdhods used for food inspection and the 0mcrgcncc of a new. \'indent strain of bacteria. In past decades. food poisoning almost had a comical clement associated with it. Relatively hannless symptoms such as dianhca. nausea. and vomiting. occUlTed over a shot1 period of time. However. there is nothing humor- ous about the recent outbreaks offood-rclated i1lness. The disorders caused by these contaminated foods are often life threatening. In thl! case of the three children who died allr.::r eating undercooked hamburgers. it was a fatal kid- ney disorder known as hcmolytic-memic syndrome. H7. is a relatively new agent implicated in food poison- ing. It was the strain that caused the kidney failure in the three children and is now considered one of the leading causes of food related illness. It is usually found .in raw poultry and ground meat. This toxin producing bacterium is most frightening because of the ease with which it can transfer to other foods such as fresh produce. It also has the ability to contaminate drinking water and unchlorinated swimming pools. Salmonella poisoning can be eliminated by buying uncracked eggs and keeping them for no more than five weeks. Fruits and vegetables must be thoroughly cleansed, especially .if they are to be eaten raw. The Salmonella bac- terium has been known to contaminate the outer skins of such fruits as tomato and cantaloupe. America· s present standards of examining animals for the marker are close to a century old. The inspections in- clude superficial methods that rely on the senses rather than in-depth testing for microbial contamination. When dining out, it is extremely important to ask for all ground meats·to be thoroughly cooked. Avoid entrees that include any type of raw fish, eggs, or meat. Foods such as sushi can only be considered safe if they were first frozen at minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit for more than three days. The bach!ria responsible for producing these deadly dis- .However. the Department of Agriculture has vowed to improve these present standards of inspection. Last month they agreed to use a rapid test to check ground meat and poultry for bacterial contamination. Unfm1unately, this test isn't completely infallible. It can only detect relatively If these precautions seem to take the adventure out of eating don't despair. It has been proven that moldy cheese is completely safe to eat. The Great Dioxin Debate by Kenny Lee Co-editor Science & Ilea/tit Over the past ten years the en- vironmental protecrion agency (EPA) and independent scientists have been studying the possibil- ity that dioxin is a· human car- cinogen. Dioxin is generally known as the byproduct of many industrial processes including paper bleach- ing and incineration. It is there- fore present in substantial quan- tities in the environment. The EPA has been hesitant in catego- rizing dioxin as a known human carcinogen. Instead it has elected to keep it at its current status of probable human carcinogen. Since the most recent study in 1991 the EPA has still not re- solved this issue which is mainly concerned with one dioxin in par- ticular, 2,3, 7,8 TCDD. This dioxin exerts its effects by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor on the cell surface. This process is similar to the process that PCBs in that they also bind the same receptor. 1l1erefore this is the main reason that dioxjn is being considered as a possible carcinogen. The recent report, although not conclusive, does raise some ques- tions as to the true effects of di- oxins. In one aspect of the study minute quantities of dioxin and noncancer effects in humans were linked. Problems such as reduced sperm count in men and endometriosis in women have been associated to dioxin present in normal concentration in the food supply. Many however, feel that this data is being over ana- lyzed. Some scientists say that these assumptions by the EPA are un- warranted and the accusations are not backed with scientific docu- mentation. Another opinion con- curring with this is that humans have not been exposed to high enough concentrations of dioxin to effect the body and especially not the immune system. Addi- tionally, in linking it with PCBs this is been said to be a generali- zation since the chemical mecha- nism of action is not known. In other words, the aryl carbon re- ceptor may be competed for by both dioxins and PCBs or may be it is producing a synergistic effect. The key to resolving this prob- lem is to follow through with the study and to take into account the opinions ,of outside scientists and not only those in EPA. Even though there definitely is not 100% agreement in the EPA, other scientists from the outside may see another resolution to the issue. It is important to know the true effects of dioxin .• since it is present in the food supply and everyday environment. The study turns its focus to the public health and away from theory so that the true effects may be seen. As Lynn Goldman stated, \I think we need to say we might be seeing these effects in the gen- eral population.\ A statement like that may motivate scientists in the EPA to find an answer be- fore someone becomes ill from overexposure to dioxin. It's worth to travel the extra mile for good food. We're just a mile down, the road. FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT 183 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, NY 12308 (518) 393-5440 1 0°/o student discount with Union ID Revival of 30 Year-old Boron Treatment Sparks Ethics Questions by Andy Salama Co-Science and Healtll Editor For the first time in 30 years, researchers have used a human subject to test advances in Boron Neutron Capture Therapy (BNCT). A Boron compound was pumped into the blood of a patient with an incurable brain tumor. l11e patient was then ex- posed to neutrons rays from a nuclear reactor. Ideally, boron compounds will concentrate at the tumor site, and concentrate the destructive neutron rays, while leaving the surrounding tissue unscathed. Researchers at the Brookhaven National Laboratory are hopeful, and anxious about results of the trial. TI1e last time BNCT was tried it did not irradiate the tumors, but quickened the death of some al- readytenninal patients. So far the patient has not experienced any serious side effects, however ex- perts warn that some complica- tions do not arise for some weeks. l11e researchers are also facing uncertainties, as they bowed to of- ficial pressures to go ahead with tl~e treatment months before they had planned to. Last summer the researchers were publicly voicing fears that premature trials could lead to catastrophic mishaps, and kill the whole field of research(Science, July22}. Darrel Joel, head of the medical department at' Brookhaven National laboratory admits that they decided to change their schedule as a result of pressure from the patient, and the Department of Energy. How- ever, he maintains that the te.ch- nique was ready for clinical tri- als. l11e problems in the past were due to leakage of the boron com- pound in the brain. Optimally, the boron compound must concen- trate selectively in the tumor, where the Boron nuclei are sup- posed to collide with neutrons. TI1e result is similar to fission, and releases energy intended to kill the caReer cells. Boron linger- ing in brain blood vessels 30 yeat:s ago resulted in hemorrhaging and death. Since then, the compounds have been made more specific for cancer tissue, and have been tested on rat tumors with very pleasing results. Medical ethicist Arthur Caplan of the University of Pennsylva- nia thinks the early decision for c.linical trials raises significant questions. A terminal condition doesn't necessarily justify sub- jecting a patient to a potentially harmful medical experiment. Brookhaven scientist responded by saying they were careful in their calibration of the instnunent and in the dosage of the com- pound. Ifthe treatment proves to beef- fective, swanns of desperate ter- minally ill patients will undoubt- edly mn to Brookhaven. How- ever if the trial proves to be inef- ·fective, or eve11 destructive, this area of research will be damaged indefinitely. Source: Science 1994 Th.e AIDS Committee of Union College is looking for more student participants. If interested, contact Lisa at x5837 or voicemailbox 4245.

Renovation of Schaffer Library Must Take Priority . Alum-s : Please Give to a Very Worthy Cause The campus has undergone a major face lift over the past two years, with such projects as the construction of Yulman Theater and the renovation of the Nott Memorial. The cost of these two pr~jects alone is close to $20 million. While the arts will be more visible and Union~ s landmark will no longer be crumbling, Union's academic buildings appear to have been lost in the school's high budget construction schemes. To Union students, Schaffer library is useless as a primary infonnation source. Many students drive to SUNY Albany to collect sources which should be avail- able at any mediocre library. The administration has recognized the problem and they have come up with a $17 Million proposal to upgrade and reconstruct the library. President Hull will not allow construction on . the library to begin until the full amount is raised. Currently, the fundraising effort stands at $3 Million, and the donations are only slowly\ accumulating. The school has been left with two options. They can either reduce the cost ofthe project or they can wait a long time for an additional $14 Million to be raised. Neither option will lead to the desired goal ofbuilding a modem library in the near future. There is only one solution to the problem. Alumni must recognize that current and future students are in dire need of money. It is surp~ising that many alumni have shunned the Schaffer Library fundraising efforts. While Union will never have a library that can rival those of~arge state schools, the future of the college is being mortgaged '·for ea8h adCiiHolnard.ay that studerits mu.st cope with a·· ;highschool' library. OP-ED October 13, 1994, page 9 SIGI-l. OPINIONS Keep The Trimester System With A Few Minor Adjustments by Sarah Ruth Evans OpilliOJIS Editor W11en I first looked at Union f\:vo and a healf years ago. the main aspect that attracted me was the trimester system. Tile concept of only studying three courses at a time seemed great because then I could more closely focus on my studies. In high school I always hated the fact that if I spent a lot of time studyi11g one or two sub- jects then my other five classes s-nff~tetl. 'WitlY :the trllmester sys- telti'I figured I couJdlstHdy all of my subjects just as intensely with- out I1aVh1g to cothf>rmnise one class· for' another. To a large extent my percep- tions about the trimester system. as a hi'gh school senior, were cor- rect. On the whole. since arriving at Union I have not let one sub- ject slip for the sake of another. If Union were to convert to a semes- ter system I am sure that one or even two of my five courses would fall by the wayside. When I tried explaining my reasons for choosing a trimester school to my mother, she tried pointing out the cons, such as having to take mid- tenns arid finals three times a year instead of two. l11e thought of tak- ing exams three times a year did not daunt me because I figured I would only be studying for three instead of five courses and who cares if it is three times a year. Sure there is room for improve- ment in the current trimester sys- tem. l11e language programs are at a disadvantage because of the present system; Most semester·· schools hold introductory lan- guage classes four times a week, while Union has foreign language classes three times a week. I wish that my Greek 1 0 classes met four times a week so the new skills that I am acquiring can be reinforced more often. Another improve- ment would be to expand the course offerings on Tuesdays and Thursdays. ll1is would cut down on the number of reveling stu- dents on Monday and Wednesday nights and give the school a more academic tone. On the whole the academic benefits of the trimes- ter system outweigh the benefits ofthe semester. I do not think that changing from a trimester system to a se- mester system holds many advan- tages. Things could be changed in \the current system. but the things I would change are minor in comparison. The professors who wrote this and last week's opinions about converting to a se- mester system extensively dis- cussed the financial aspect. espe- cially the benefits of the semes- ter system. One financial aspect that they did not mention was teaching expenses. At most se- mester colleges professors only teach five courses a year. while with the trimesters at Union most professors teach six courses a year. While one course a year may not seem like a lot, when you add up the number of faculty at Union, just one more course per professors adds up to a !,'Teater se- lection of courses and more sec- tions. In order to keep the current course offerings the college would have to hire more profes- sors which would be more expen- sive than the current costs to run the registrar's office, the library and other campus operations three times a year versus two. Some of the problems that the professors discuss. unrelated to the financial aspect. could easily be changed by fixing the school calendar. Other trimester schools arrange their calendars so that the professors get long summer va- cations to do research. There arc two options to create longer sum- mers. One is to have an a cad em ic calendar similar to the one we havE: this year. The second option and the one that I think would he more practical is to start winter term right after Thanksgiving. One could argue that Christmas break in the middle of a term \vould disrupt a class. but most semester schools hold spring break in the middle of the semes- ter and that does not seem to dis- rupt the academics. By starting winter tenn after Thanksgiving, the academic year would end in the middle of May instead of the middle of June. Ending the school year earlier would allow students to find jobs alld intemships with greater ease. as well as placing Union graduates on the same playing field as other graduates, instead of the current disadvan- tage they have. Changing the calendar slightly would allow students a longer summer break to eam money and faculty more time to concentrate on research over the summer. Starting winter term in December is much more feasible than con- verting to a semester system and most of the desirous aspects of a semester system, i.e., longer breaks, could be implemented. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Advertisements in rhe Concordien.vi.1· do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8- t 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (JP), National Student News Service, College Press Service, King Syndicates.

October 13, 1994, page 10 LETTERS A Working Paper on Changing Union College's :Calendar Part II This is the second in a series of op·inions on the issue of changing the current trimester system to a semeste~ system. The Concordiensis welcomes opinions from everyone on this issue. During the Spring term 1994, a number,of college faculty members met informally on a few occasions to discuss the feasibility of changing fro.m the current three term system to a two semester system. Those of us who met were in loose argeement that the current system has serious flaws, and we dis- cussed alternatives to it, including a system of 13 to 1,5 weeks and split Winter term. Since most of us. favor a system we decided over the summer to investigate the issue further and to put into writing our priliminary conclusions. This \working paper\ is by no means a definitive statement on the pluses and minuses of Union's calendar, nor does it propose a single alternative. It is, however, Insect on serious investigation into the issue, research into past alternatives, conversations with different sectors of the campus community, and some short dis- cussions with colleagues from schools similar to Union College. It bears mentioning we were sur- prised to find that dissatisfaction with some aspects of the current calendar cuts across the campus: faculty, staff, and students. Therefore, we present our con- clusions as ideas in need of fur- ther consideration by the entire college community. TERMS ABROAD Interestingly, the prevailing wisdom at Union is that we have trimesters because of the Terms Abroad program. The Director ofTem1s Abroad notes that there is no essential reason why our foreign study programs must be linked to 10 week terms, and there are actually advantages to be gained converting to a semes- ter system. It is, in his view, certainly a subject open to dis- cussion. Most college programs here and abroad are designed for the semester system and many schools comparable to Union, such as Colgate and Sl. Lawrence, run large scale foreign study programs. If we had a semester system Union would no longer have to run so many pro- grams in the Fall in order to mesh with the host institution's semes- ter system (our students go early to Japan and Israel), and would he able to offer Spring semesters abroad which would benefit those who are in athletic programs in the Fall and currently cannot go abroad. Some host institutions, as in Greece and Spain, must make special adjustments to ac- commodate Union students on the quarter system. The Director stated that the change to semes- ters would \strengthen\ the pro- gram in Greece and would also provide some improvements in other areas. A semester-long program would be better for all language-based programs, since many students report that they just begin to get a handle on the language, to understand basic aspects of the culture, and it's time to go home. On the other hand, an additional 3 to 4 weeks would enhance all the programs. In fact, a few (those on semes- ters in host institutions and Bar- bados) go early in order to add extra time to the term. . If the students were abroad for a semester they would take an- other course. This could be ar- ranged with llost institutions, or Union might want to institute something innovative and edu- cationally valuable, such as community service. Students could do an independent project, community outreach, or intern,. . ship in the host country. In Mexico, for example, the Uni- versity of Utah is establishing a semester-long program of work with Habitat for Humanity (building houses), or working in orphanages and in re-cycling projects, for their students. Other schools (Colby, Iowa, Arizona, SUNY -Brockport) are linking students into this net- work, but it has been difficult for Union to participate because we are not in Mexico for a se- mester as are the others. The engineering program has received a General Electric grant to internationalize its cur- riculum. One goal is to have all engineering students have an international.experience--which is in keeping with the global nature of the engineering disci- pline today. The change to the semester system may actually help them achieve their goals. With a ·longer summer ses- sion, Union could institute other, more varied summer terms abroad (currently there is only National Health Systems). Summer terms abroad would fit the needs of students on athletic teams who participate in Fall and Winter sports or those whose work and study sched- ules have simply not allowed the time for them to go abroad dur- ing the academic year. Finally, the financial savings that will be generated by a switch to the semester systeQ1 should free up money to pro- vide more scholarships for stu- dents to go aboard. and cover the additional costs of semester-length international terms. 1 EFFECT ON THE STUDENTS The Dean of Admissions re- ports that the trimester system is definitely not a \plus\ on the tive point rating scale students fill out after admission (rang- ing from \strong plus\ to \strong minus\). A significant number cite the trimester sys- tem as either \neutral\ or a \minus\, with more of them citing it as \strong minus\ than a simple \plus.\ Although when his staff could explain the trimester system in face-to-face discussions, students responded positively, initially the term sys- tem confuses and tunis .themoff. More importantly, staffhave to devote time to promoting the term system which detracts from their time to showcase other attractive qualities of the college. Theprimary question here is whether, in a limited pool of potential applicants, UnionCollege has not limited its pool yet further because of the term system? Students report that Union's cal- endar makes it difficult to get sum- mer jobs and internships, and, more importantly, to accept job offers after graduation, because they enter the market at least a month after :vir~ually all their com- petitors. Union's students are im- mediately cut out of the lucrative resort jobs which begin on Memo- rial Day, and these are some of the most available jobs during any summer. Some students state that unless they have a friend or family member reserving a job for them, it is nearly impossible to get one in mid to late June. Again the Dean of Admissions states that not in- significant to their recruiting efforts is the tale that many students tell of not being able to secure sum- mer employment because of the late closing date. Although the majority of U~ion students probably seek summer employment, it is of particular importance to those who come from the most financially strapped backgrounds', In a conversation in a college class here virtually ev- eryone reported that the fact that Union's Spring term ended so late made it difficult for them to obtain summer jobs. A few even stated that they would not recommend the school to prospective students who were not offered a very generous financial aid package, because the chance of earning money over the summer was not good. Although students often work over the Win- ter break, most report that jobs then do not make up for the short earning periodover the summer, nor for the loss of valuable sum- mer internships. In addition, Union students are at a disadvantage in applying for post-graduate fellowships such as the Watson. Deadlines for these fellowships are often a week m: two after Union begins class in the Fall, but a month or more af- ter most of the schools with whom we compete. In general seniors spenc;l much of the Fall term in a mad dash to filL out various ap- plications, compile job files, and take entrance exams before the Thanksgiving break. They start later in the fall than those in other schools and break sooner before the holidays, which affects their ability to perform well in national competitions. The expense of the trimester system is as well relevant to stu- dents. Although students may be accustomed to the term system , they, and their parents, also are concerned about the costlint1SS of Union's education (and the not unreal prospect of ever-increas- ing tuition). Add to that their own personal disadvantages in compet- ing for internships, summer jobs and post-graduation positions, and many students might well find se- mesters a more attractive option. We have outlined here a num- ber of reasons why Union should re-evaluate the current trimester system. In conducting our short investigation we came across no staff member or administrator who thought that trimesters were more economical than semesters. Moreover, can Union College af- ford not to reevaluate its current trimester system? There are a sizable number of faculty and administrative staff who want the issue discussed or who are dis- content with the term system; there are fears of what will ha,p- pen to research funds, salaries and staffing in the future with- out serious examination of our current operating costs; there are concerns about the effect of tu- ition increases on enrollments; there are indications that the term system limits our pool of poten- tial applicants. It bears mention- ing that any change-over costs (from trimester to semester) are one-time costs and are likely to be well outweighed by continu- ing savings from the semester system; just as, for example, it is costly to install storm windows on a house in upstate New York, but the savings accrue year after year, and the house is more com- fortable. · Faculty for a Semester System (This document was prepared by Teresa Meade, Faye Dudden,. Eshi Motahar, Seth Greenberg, Sharon Gmelch, 1 ohn Marincola and George Gmelch. It has been endorsed by over 60 faculty members since the start of the term.) Pornography and Rape by Kojo Attah Co11tributing Writer One in four women will be raped in her lifetime. While most of us consider such an act abhorrent, each day we engage in activities that perpetuate such a statistic. Why are so many women bmtalized in a society that is supposedly based on the protection of rights? TI1e answer to this is difficult to decipher, but looking at how women are pre- sented to us it becomes more clear. Everywhere we look we are shown images of women whose -sole purpose is sexual. Objectified images of women bombard us ev- erywhere we tum, whether it be in the pages of Playbqy and Vogue, or the images on MTV. Everyday activities that most of consider hannless entertainment might ac- tually have ramifications far be- yond our consideration. Most of us rationalize it this way: Sure, I look at smut (and I define pornography as any objectified image of a person, male or female), but I'm not a rapist. This is what we say. And for most, it is the truth- for most men with healthy ideas about women pornography is not dangerous. But I ask you, how many people have healthy ideas of members of the opposite sex? And further, the fact that we tol- erate the objectification ofhuman beings- that we deem this behav- ior acceptable and NORMAL- is enough to create an environ- ment where acting on such atti- tudes is also accepted. In other words, we are creating a society that is tolerant of rape. Look through the pages ofMa- demoiselle or watch MTV for an hour. Women are presented as tor- sos and legs- as tits and ass. Many of their faces are expres• sionless and passive, or longing for sexual attention. Why do we present women like this? One reason could go back to adolescent male fantasies of women as passive objects, or of nymphbmaniacs. Another popu- lar image is that of woman as dominatrix. Whichever medium of representation is used, the com- mon theme is that in all these-rep- resentations, women have one purpose- to serve the fantastical sexual needs of men. But these images go far beyond the realm of fantasy. These 'fantastical im- ages of women are translated into real attitudes and actions towards women. We've determined it is acceptable to view women this way for etltertainment, why shouldn't we treat women that way in reality? Now, obviously we are not all rapists. Most of us lead what is considered to be an ethical and upstanding life, even if we do oc- casionally indulge in fantasy for pleasure. But unfortunately, for some people, the line between fantasy and reality has become blurred. The fantasy of women as objects is being fulfilled at the cost of our mothers, our sisters, our wives, and our girlfriends in the form of sexual assault. Now even though each of us isn't personally responsible for the victimization of women, we must reexamine our own lives and see how they affect the rest of society. Are we acting ways that may cause another man to brutally attack our girlfriend? Are we contributing to a society that would rape our mother? Is the benefit of such entertain- ment worth the cost of our ~isters and daughters?

LETTERS October 13, 1994, page 11 Faults Fourid With Last Week's Rape Opinions To the Editor, · To begin with, l would like to applaud bot!~ Ms. Leist and Mr. La Veechia for adqressingsuch an important and controversial issue as rape. Their information and opinions, however, are something I find fault with, and would like to take this time to make what I believe to be the necessary correc- frequency of women); Given these statistics, is it practical to tell women to ptotect themselves by not being in wh.at Mr. La . Veechia refers to as risky situa- tions? All situations arerisky,.ac- cording to these statistics- be- ing in an office with a professor is a potentially risky situation- ate we to tell women not to meet tions. with male faculty alm1e in order To start with the article \Not to protect themselves? TI1is is as Playing the Game,'' I would like ludicrous a suggestion as telling to say that it is true that in reality women not to socialize with men. it is not safe f0r a woman to be Men and women interact, and it alone with a man she does not one is not solely the responsibility of hundred percent trust. But the women to take precautionary practicality.ofim:plementingsuch steps to protect themselves. For a strategy to protect ourselves is once, let us take our eyes off the farfetched. 70% of rapes are pre- victim in trying to detennine what meditated . .In 50% of rapes re- could have been done ported·, the ~ictii~ ·knew her assail- preventatively. Mr. La Veechia, ant (I am generalizing to address as opposed to addressing women female victims of rape; it should about this issue, why not address be noted th~!_tn~n,~r~ 1 als.o the vic- your brothers if you are so con- tiihs of rape, thoitgh not with the ' cerned? Instead of waming us 'not to get raped', why don't you wan1 yo\tr brothers not to rape US? Novel idea, isn't it? Next, to address the mticle \Rape: a Question of Power.\ Ms. Leist is correct in implying that rape is influenced by the so- cietally imposed categories of mascu.line/ feminine and the roles associated with these ,categories (i.e.- dominant/submissive. ag- gressive/passive). These catego- ries are, with except-ions. itltemal- ized by all members of our soci·· ety and shape the way we view ourselves and others. Ifthis is the case, men who exhibit these at- tributes are considered \to be the 'most nonnal'. Men who exhibit the characteristics of masculinity are the culmination of our soci- etal 110tms. Therefore, the men who rape (albeit \sick\) are not the extreme, not the exception. They are \nonnal\ men. Accord- ing to a study done by the Insti- tute For Sex Research \there were no ominous signs in the rapists history; indeed their heterosexual adjustment is quaJ1titatively above average.\ Men who rape are nor- mal men: doctors, professors, stu- dents. the boys next door. I think Ms. Leist did not make this clear in her article and clarification was necessary. Rape can be seen as the crystal- lization of our society\s attitudes towards women. This hrings me to my next point. Ms. Leist points out, accurately, that rape is an act of aggression and violence. Men do rape in order to assert power and domination over another hu- man being. But what Ms. Leist fails to bring out is that women, to men who rape them, are not human beings. In the eyes of men who rape, and in many cases in the eyes of the law, rape is not even a crime. Rape is a man tak- ing what he rightly deserves from a woman (most apparently exem- plified in the cases of acquain- tance and marital rape). This is what I see as the problem. If ma- licious intent was taken sc1iously, why are only 50% of the I O\'o of rapes that are repo11cd taken to court? Why, in Califomia, IS 11 still legal for a man to rape his wife'? Rape still is not seen as a crime (in fact_ there arc those that claim that there is no such thing as rape at all- an obvious fal- lacy). Until people sta11 to view rape as Ms. Leist presents it as an act of violent, malicious ag- gression, it will continue. In conclusion, I would once again like to thank Mr. La Veechia and Ms. Leist for con- fronting this issue. I hope people have begun toretlect on their own lifestyles and opinions as a result. Sincerely, BeM\ Lifson, ·95 There Is More To Unio·n And Leist ''Belittles the • ' • i '' • • Schenectady Than Meets The Eye Victims of Rape\ To the Editor- I've been leading prospective students around Union's cattlpus for almost two years now, and every tour without fail, I am asked two questions: \What Is Union's social life like and what is Schenectady like?\\ As for the social life I explain the Greek sys- tem and its pros and cons, but unlike Erin O'Neil's article \Schenectady NY- Social Capital ofthe World,\ I don't eliminate the other options. Many of you. probably agree with the article in that all wehave on cam- pus is beer pong and stale bar rooms. To you all I shout \WAKE UP!\ If you looked past this you would see there are other options. How many of you llave been to the new Coffee House in the Rathskellar? It's great! The atmosphere is just right and the entertainment has bee11 fabulmis. What about Chet's? Yes, I agree that it is in the wrong place but at least it is there. We also have movies every night, there are in- tramural sports to get ii1Volved with, Philomathean society events (debate), speakers, tl1eater events, etc. Yes, we are not an extremely ctiltural campus, but whose fault is that? We have settled into a pattem called the \campus crawl\ and are too lazy to pursue any- thing but this. If people are so dissatisfied with campus social life, why don't they try to create new social options? Similarly, I felt the attack on Schenectady was just as sarcastic and narrow-minded. TI1ere are things to do outside the gates be- sides Kelly's and Gepetto\s. Has anyone ever visited the Schenectady Planetarium and Museum? Picnicked in the Stock- ade area along the Mohawk River? Gone to a musical or movie at Proctor's Theater? Hung out at Cafe Dolce? Those of you who agreed with the .ar- All Students Attend Explore '94 Career Festival TODAY 12-4 Fieldhouse ticle probably have not. My point in writing this article is to urge those that feel we are living in a cultural wasteland to open your eyes and adventure outslde'your usu,~t re~h~. Union prides itself 011' being a small school that fosters student initia- tive in creating clubs and activi- ties,' so if you don't like things, change t11em! Create new social alternatives, the kind that you would attend if given the chance. As for Schenectady. take another look. It's an incredibly eclectic city and therefore. has all differ- ent sides to it. I have talked with many residents and they are not . exactly proud of the shape the city is in either. If you agree with them then join Schenectady 2000, . be a Big Brother or Sister, or a tutor for school children, at least do anything but sit there and com- plain. Sincerely, Beth Decker '96 To the ~ditor, Alexis Leist's article which ap- peared in last week's ( 'oncordien- sis, ''Rape: A Question of Power,\ greatly oversimplifies the com- plex crime of rape and its causes. To begin with, not all rapists are men and not all rape victims are men! To asssume this is ridicu- lous. Quite a few rapists would be let out of jail if Leist's definition were the legal one. Second, not all rapists rape for tl1e same reason, even if you only look at men who have raped women or have attempted rape. There are many good reasons for seperating the crime of date rape from other forms of rape. The crimes take place in different situ- ation and for different reasons. Neither is acceptable but they are not the same. Third, to assume that all rape victims {even if we only look at women raped by men) will react to that crime in the same way is also wrong. Leist assumes that rape is the worse thing that could ever happen to a woman. This mrght be true for some women but I seriously doubt it is true for all. In addition, this belieL coupled with the little hope which Leist gives rape victims for re- covery, encourages a labelling of women who have been raped as nothing but rape victims. This gives society an excuse for ignor- ing rape victims and the victims an excuse for not trying to rebuild their lives. In short, Leist greatly underes- timates the scope of rape. To understand rape, and aid in its prevention and the rehabilitaion of both the victims and rapists, one needs to understand that not all rapes are done for the same reason, not all rapists belong to the same class of people, and that not all victims will react andre- cover from rape in the same way. To accept Leist's beliefs would be to ignor'? numerous rapes and belittle the victims of rape. Sincerely, James Polichak WELCOME BACK ALUMNI The Appian Way Returns! Enjoy Authentic \Home-made\ Regional Italian Cuisine and Specialties xxx 3 1/2 stars Times Union CHOSEN TOP TEN In Capital District twice ... Open Daily at 5:00 PM (Closed Tuesday) reservations Accepted (518)382-3286 1839 VanVranken Ave., Schenectady, NY 5 Blocks from campus Private Party Space Available Visa and Mastercard accepted

. / October 13, 1994, page 12 HOMECOMING During Union College's Bicentennial Celebration Saturday, October 15, 1994 9:00 am .. 4:00 pm Welcome reception and registration. The Alumni Office and the Alumni Council of Union College w,elcome alumni and friends at Lam<;>nt House Porch. 10:00 am Panel Discussion on \The NCAA: It's Pur- poses, Promise, and Performance\. Panel- ists include Clayton Chapman, commissioner of the Eastern College Athletic Conference; Mary Barrett, assistant athletic director at the University of Massachusetts-Boston; Robert Koonce '84, administrator of the University of Michigan's Student Athlete Support Program; and Rocco Carzo, athletic direc- tor at Tufts University and former Division Ill represen- tative to the NCAA. Pro- fessor Theodore Sick '58 will mod- erate. Memo- rial Chapel. 11:00 am Academic recep- tion for alumni and faculty. Refresh- ments. Arts Atrium. 12:00 noon Music by Union's Dutch Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles. Lamont House Porch. 12:00 noon Women's Soccer vs. Vassar. Garis Field. 12:30 pm Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial Chapel. 1:00pm Address.by Cedrick.Dempsey, executive director of the_NCAA; ___ '~.The .Fut.ure_of the NCAA\. Memorial Chapel. 1:30pm Enjoy lunch and support Union athletics. Concession stand, sponsored by Men's and Women's Lacrosse teams. Alexander Field. 2:15pm Varsity Football vs. R.P.I. Frank Bailey Field. Football - Halftime President Roger H. Hull presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy. 3:30pm Men's Soc- cer vs. R.P.I. Garis Field. 4:45pm .President's [_eceplion, Hot and cold hor d'oeuvres, cash bar. Veranda of the Alumni Gymnasium. 7:00pm . 82nd Annual Fund Appreciation Dinner. 8:00/10:00 pm Campus movie Wolf. College Center Audito- rium. (Tickets may be purchased at the Stu- dent Activites Box Office. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee.)

October 13, 1994, page 12 HOMECOMING During Union College's Bicentennial Celebration Saturday, October 15, 1994 9:00 am .. 4:00 pm Welcome reception and registration. The Alumni Office and the Alumni Council of Union College welcome alumni and friends at Lamont House Porch. 10:00 am Panel Discussion on \The NCAA: It's Pur- poses, Promise, and Performance\. Panel- ists include Clayton Chapman, commissioner of the Eastern College Athletic Conference; Mary Barrett, assistant athletic director at the University of Massachusetts-Boston; Robert Koonce '84, administrator of the University of Michigan'~ Student Athlete Support Program; and Rocco Carzo, athletic direc- tor at Tufts University and former Division Ill represen- tative to the NCAA. Pro- fessor Theodore Bick '58 will mod- erate. Memo- rial Chapel. 11:00 am Academic recep- tion for alumni and faculty. Refresh- ments. Arts Atrium. 12:00 noon Music by Union's Dutch Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles. Lamont House Porch. 12:00 noon Women's Soccer vs. Vassar. Garis Field. 12:30 pm Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial Chapel. 1:00pm Address by Cedrick Dempsey, executive director of the_NCAA: __ \The Future. of the NCAA\. Memorial Chapel. 1:30pm Enjoy lunch and support Union athletics. Concession stand, sponsored by Men's and Women's Lacrosse teams. Alexander Field. 2:15pm Varsity Football vs. R.P.I. Frank Bailey Field. Football - Halftime President Roger H. Hull presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy. 3:30pm Men's Soc- cer vs. R.P.I. Garis Field. 4:45pm President'.s reception. Hot and cold hor d'oeuvres, cash bar. Veranda of the Alumni Gymnasium. 7:00pm 82rutAnnuaiEunclA.ppre_ciation Dinner. 8:00/10:00 pm Campus movie Wolf. College Center Audito- rium. (Tickets may be purchased at the Stu- dent Activites Box Office. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee.)

! .· \ . . . Union College presents A Bicentennial event THE NCAA ITS PURP.OSE, PERFORMANCE AND PROMISE In c·elebration of Union's athletic accomplishments and its founding role in the creation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Saturday, October 15, 1994 Horn~coming Weekend Cedric Dempsey served as athletic director at the University of Arizona, the University of Houston, and San Diego State University before becoming NCAA executive director last year. Throughout his career, he has been active in NCAA activities including the Division I Championship Committee, The Division I Men's and Women's Basketball Committees, and the ,.. 'NCAA Executive Committee. SCHEDULE 10:00 AM Panel Discussion Gend_er Equity Issues in the NCAA Mary R. Barrett, associate director of athletics, University of Massachusetts, Boston .. - The Role of Conferences in the NCAA Clayton Chapman, commissioner, Eastern College Athletic Conference The NCAA and Student-Athletes Robert Koonce '86, director of student athletic support program, University of Michigan Division Ill: The Role Model or the Younger Brother/Sister of the NCAA? Rocco J. Carzo, director of athletes, Tufts University 1:00PM Keynote Address The Evolving NCAA Cedric W. Dempsey, executive director, NCAA Sessions will be held in Memorial Chapel, near the center of the Union College campus. -

Union College presents A Bicentennial event TIHIE NCLt%\A II1r§ IFUIRPO§E9 PERFORMANCE ANID PROM-TI§JE In celebration of Union's athletic accomplishments and its founding role in the creation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Saturday, October !5, 1994 Homecoming Weekend Cedric Dempsey served as athletic director at the University of Arizona, the University of Houston, and San Diego State University before becoming NCAA executive director last year. Throughout his career, he has been active in NCAA activities including the Division I Championship Committee, The Division I Men's and Women's Basketball Committees, and the NCAA Executive Committee. SCHEDULE 10:00 AM Panel Discussion Gender Equi(v Issues in the NCAA Mary R. Barrett, associate director of athletics, University of Massachusetts~ Boston .. The Role of Conferences in the NCAA Clayton Chapman, commissioner, Eastern College Athletic Conference The NCAA and Student-Athletes Robert Koonce '86, director of student athletic support program, University of Michigan Division III: The Role Model or the Younger Brother/Sister of the NCAA? Rocco J. Carzo, director of athletes, Tufts University 1:00PM Keynote Address The Evolving NC/14 Cedric W. Dempsey, executive director, NCAA Sessions will be held in Memorial Chapel, near the center of the Union College campus.

October 13, 1994, Pagel4 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Pianist Pola Baytelman to Perform Iberia at Union Courtesy of the Perjormi11g Arts Departnrellt Pianist Pola Baytelman will !}i\ c a complete perfonnance of baac Albeniz's iberia at Union Cc,ilege Memorial Chapel at 7:00 p111 o11 Sunday, October 16. prior to her performance at Camegie Hall's. Weill Recital Hall. lnerw. by the Spanish com- poser Isaac Albeniz is one of the pinnacles of piano literature. The subtitle. \Twelve New Impres- sions in Four Books,\ gives a hint of the composition's meaning:: 12 pieces based on the rhythms of Spanish dances that are musical impressions of Spai~1. !he ria. the work of a mature composer at the height of his artistic power. was written between 1906 and 1909, while Albeniz was living in France. In Iberia. the gypsy dances, the lively voice of the Fla- menco guitars. and the Andalusian landscape are all painted with dazzling vitality and luminous colors. Baytelman says '\above all the music is deeply human. expressing the infinite spectrum of human emotions: from the most intimate, innennost feelings to the most provocative and exhilarating ones.\ It is mu- sic that dazzles the ear and the mind and goes directly to the heart.\ Pianist Pol a Baytelma11 pictured Ms. Baytelmall will give a co11cert at U11ion 011 Su11day, October 16 at 7:00 P.H, in Memorial Cliapel. (Photo by Phil Haggerty/ provided by tile performing arts departmellt) Pola Baytelman has perfonned extensively as a recitalist cham- ',.ber music perfonner and soloist with orchestras in Chile and throughout the United States, in·- cluding recitals in Boston, Chi- cago. and San Francisco. She has long been associated with the music of Isaac Albeniz. having Panic Ensues With New Release: Live Concert at Proctor's by Ryan Marcus Co11tributing Writer Those already familiar with Widespread Panic can attest to this band's ability to combine blues tradition with a very state- of-the art sound, which allows for a level of improvisation most bands would be thrilled just to approach. Ain 't.J.tfe Grand, the group's latest release for Capri- com Records, the label that was guitar soars on songs like \Little Kin,\ \Junior and \Fishwater and his blazing solos drive nearly every tune. Houser also makes a rare singing appearance on the third track \Airplane which showcases his quieter side and thematically mimics songs like \Porch Song\ from Panic's debut. \Airplane\ is probably the best song on the album. TI1e title track is excellent as well, as it displays the band's ability to mesh blaz .. created out of demand for the band, is ar- guably their best a I bum \The title track is excellent as well, as it displays the band's ability to mesh blazing guitar choruses with dazzling blues- ing guitar choruses with daz- zling blues- shuffle s t y I e verses. shuffle style verses.\ since 1988's .\'pace Wrangler, which was released indepen- dently. One of the reasons this disc sounds better than earlier releases concems the switch back to Ath- ens, Georgia producer John Keane, who also produced Space Wrangler. Keane also lends his talents on pedal steel guitar, and other guest musicians, mostly from the Athens area, supply ex- actly what the band needs. Panic's song writing on this work is somewhat a continuation of where Everyday, the 1993 re- lease, left off. Michael Houser's The band also included the clas- sic \Jack which is now over five years old and has probably not been !ward by most fans. Widespread Panic will perfonn at Proctor's Theatre on Wednes- day, October 19, with special guests- The Freddy Jones Band. Tickets are still available at Proctor's Box Office. Since the album was just released, expect many of the new titles to appear in the live repertoire, along with classics like \Space Wrangler,\ \Travelin' Light,\ \Driving Song,\ and others. performed many of his works. Her recently cqmpleteq book 011 Albeniz's piano music was pub- lished by Hannonie Park Press in the fall of 1993. She is currently preparing a critical edition of Albeni£s Iberia. Well known to the Capital District. Ms. Baytelman taught piano at Union for a number of years before be- coming Artist-in-Residence at Skidmore College. The perfonnance at Union Col- lege is free. and the public is in- vited. 1 business Open f'or _ L---------------~ Irs your brain. · lncn.>dibly malleal:il~. h1~nitely wrsatili!. Aw<.'somely hwentiw. At Andersen C<lnsulting, we want to kL't.'p it that· way. So we challenge it with a stimulating variety of assignment-.. Develop it with an average uf over 170 hours of advanced training pcrycar. Reward it with advancement. And support it with the rL'SOurct.>s df 22,1)(}(1 prufl>ssionals oparating acros..o; 47 countrit.'S. At And<.'~il Consulting, we always kt.>cp !fdll in mind. ANDERSEN CONSULTING 11101CUK 1\NtlaiSEN. <:ll. S.(;. Please Join Us for Our Pre-Information Session. Thursday, October 13th, 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. All Interested Students Are Welcome! Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

October 13, 1994, Page 14 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Pianist Pola Baytelman to Perform Iberia at Union Courtesy oftlte Performin~ .·trts Departmem : ''·\''..;t Pc>la Ha\'telman \\ill ·\ : ',·,•cnpkte perfPllll<llll't' nf \ \ih<'ll!/.< 1/Jt'YI!T '11 f'll!Pil '·\'L' \ k'lllc ''' al ('!lapel at -·no '\ \und;J\. ( ktobcr I (1. pnor :. ..:r l'crfornlance ,ll Cameg1e i!. , \· \\.'eill Rec.:Italllall 1 ',·rtcl. b' th~: Spanish c.:nm- !'•'•<.:r Isaac Alhcni7 is one llfthe f111Jllac.:ks of piano literature. The -;ui,tnle. \T Ne\\ lmpres- -;ions in Four Books:· gives a hint ,,fthe composition's meaning: 12 pieces based on the rhythms of Spanish dances that are musical impressions of Spain. !heria. the work of a mature composer at the height of his artistic power. was written between 1906 and 1909, \\hile Albeniz was living in France. In !heria. the gypsy dances. the li\'ely \'Oice of the Fla- menco guitars. and the Andalusian landscape are all painted \\ith dazzling vitality and luminous colors. Baytelman says ··abow all the music is deeply human. expressing the infinite spectrum of human emotions: ti·nm the most intimate. innennost feelings to the most provocative and exhilarating ones ... It is mu- sic that dazzles the ear and the mind and goes directly to the heart.\ Pianist Pola Baytelman pictured . . Us. Baytelmafl will give a concert at C:nion 011 Sullday, October I 6 at 7:00 P.U, ill Jfemoria/ Chapel. (Photo by Phil Haggerty/ provided by the performing arts department) Pol a Baytehnan has perfonned extensively as a recitalist. cham- ··ber music perfonner and soloist with orchestras in Chile and throughout the United States, in- cluding recitals in Boston. Chi- cago. and San Francisco. She has long been associated with the music of Isaac Albeniz, having Panic Ensues With New Release: Live Concert at Proctor's by Ryan Marcus Contributing Writer Those already familiar with Widespread Panic can attest to this band's ability to combine blues tradition with a very state- of-the art sound. \vhich allows for a level of improvisation most bands \\Ottld be thrilled just to approach. Ain 't.fjfe <irand. the group's latest release for Capri- com Records. the label that was guitar soars on songs like \Little Kin,\ \Junior and \Fishwater and his blazing solos drive nearly every tune. Houser also makes a rare singing appearance on the third track \Airplane which showcases his quieter side and thematically mimics songs like \'Porch Song\ from Panic's debut. \'Airplane\ is probably the best song on the album. 1l1e title track is excellent as welL as it displays the band's ability to mesh blaz- created out of demand for the band. is ar- guably their best a I b u m \The title track is excellent as well, as it displays the band's ability to mesh blazing guitar choruses with dazzling blues- ing guitar choruses with daz- zling blues- shuffle s t y I e verses. shuffle style verses.\ since 1988's .'•i'pac:e Wrangler, which was released indepen- dently. One of the reasons this disc sounds better than earlier releases concems the switch back to Ath- ens, Georgia producer John Keane, who also produced Space Wrangler. Keane also lends his talents on pedal steel guitar, and other guest musicians, mostly from the Athens area, supply ex- actly what the band needs. Panic's song writing on this work is somewhat a continuation of where /:'l'eryday, the 1993 re- lease, left off. Michael Houser's The band also included the clas- sic \Jack which is now over five years old and has probably not been heard by most fans. Widespread Panic will perfonn at Proctor's 1l1eatre on Wednes- day, October 19, with special guests- The Freddy Jones Band. Tickets are still available at Proctor's Box Office. Since the album was just released, expect many of the new titles to appear in the live repertoire, along with classics like \Space Wrangler,\ \Travelin' Light,\ \Driving Song,\ and others. performed many of his works. Her recently completed book on Albeniz's piano music was pub- lished by Hannonie Park Press in the fall of 1993. She is currently preparing a critical edition of Albeniz's fheria. Well known to the Capital District. Ms. Baytelman taught piano at Union for a number of years before be- coming Artist-in-Residence at Skidmore College. The perfonnance at Union Col- lege is free. and the public is in- vited. Open ~or l business Irs your brain. Jncrt>dibly malleable. Jnflnitdy versatik•. Awc.•somdy irwenti\•e. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it tha!·way. So we challcngt.• it with a stimulating variety of as$ignments. Dcvclup it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per yt.•ar. Reward it with advancement. And supJ'(lrt it with the n.'SOurccs of 22,(KJO professionals operating across 47 countries. At AnderSI.•n Consulting, we always kt.'(.'p !fOil in mind. ANDERSEN CONSULTING AKlltUN ANlJf~ 41. t.'U. S.(.. Please Join Us For Our Pre-Information Session, Thursday, October 13th. 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. All Interested Students Are Welcome! Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT October 13, 1993, Page 15 THE REEL PICTURE - Review of ''Ed Wood'' Til!l Burton Creates Another Innovative Delight by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff \Ed Wood,\ Starring Johnny Depp, Sarah Jessica Parker, Patricia Arquette, Martin Landau, and Bill Murray. Directed by Tim Burton. Rated R, Touchstone PichiFes. Rating: ***(out of four) Tim Burrton. You either ap- preciate his warped vision or loathe. his style. His earlier films like Edward Scissorhml'ds brought together downright weir.d stories with commercial success. Batman Returns made everyone question if his artisticgenius was, in fact, just plain nonsense. Last year's The Nightmare Before Christmas reestablished Burton as a well-received filmmaker, and with the opening of his newest' film, Ed Wood,' it looks like his position as a daring storyteller can only grow stronger. Leave it to Burton to create a biography of arguably the worst octopus used as a monster is was to star, but died shortly after director of all time-. and make it placed in a makeshift lake. Un- filming began. A double played interesting and enlightening. fortunately, the crew forgot to his role, covering his face with a While film critic Michael Medved steal the motor, and the actor had cape and not speaking. awarded Edward D. Wood, Jr. tomovethemonsterbyhand .. But George \The Animal\ Steele this title in the early-1980's, Bur- these are the. qualities Wood loved plays Swedish wrestler Tor toll disagrees with this view, be- to place into his films; the villain Johnson, the man-of-stee·J who ing fascinated with Wood's love running into a door panel \adds a could not act and did not need of filmmaking despite -----------~~----~--~-- make-up to look llavingnotalentwhat- ''Leave it to Burton to create a scary. Wood, soever. ' throughout the three Shot in glorious biography of arguably the worst films, recruits TV- black-and-white, serv- director of all time --- and make it horror hostess ing the story added inte'resting and enlightening.\ Vampira (Lisa . justice, the film opens Marie) and the psy- on a young Wood per- chic Criswell (won- suading a B-movie producer to touch of realism\ to his stories (so derfully portrayed by Jones). But tum a script over to him to direct. he says), and we can sympathize it is Murray, as wise-guy trans- The. result: 1953's Glen or with him. sexual Bunny Breckinridge, who Glenda, a homage to Wood's Landau gives an exceptional steals the show with Landau. His weakness for angora. His live-in performance as fading-horror star hilarious role is an extension of girlfriend (Parker) cannot stand Bela Lugosi, now a morphine his own cynicism. thebumiliationofactingwithhim addict and forgotten by audi- Arquette, as his new lover, in tl1is film, but leaves him after ences. Once the proud star of proves she can act among talent Wood gives her role in another J)racula, Lugosi 's spirit is raised such as these, portraying a hope- film to an actress he thinks can byWood, whomakesLugosirec- less dreamer like Wood who finance the movie. ognized again through his films. loves him despite his weaknesses Wood could n·ever afford to Ed Wood follows the making (again, angora). make his movies, often filming on of Wood's three most famous As film biographies go, this one stages not rented out and stealing films: Glenda, Bride l?{ the Mon- manages to work well by not at- props from the studio at night. ster, and Plan 9 From Ouler tempting to cover his entire life Perhaps the most hilarious scene Space (considered the worst film in two hours, but instead concen- occurs when a stolen mechanical ever made). In Plan 9, Lugosi trating on tl1e movies that made him-and broke him. While he never gained any praise for his works, Wood was a man dedi- cated to his visions and making films true to his beliefs-more than you can say about many filmmakers today. He's a 6-year- old making a film about his in- fantile play-fantasies, with roughly the same imaginary equipment. Creating flying sau- cers out of tin plates, stock foot- age appearing from out of no- where, and dialogue no actor could pronounce, Wood wanted his audiences to suspend their dis- beliefs; but adult audiences could only stare in horror at a horror film made by a grown-up kid. Forty years later, Wood and his pseudo-actors are reminders of an age when everyone had a dream to realize. l:'d Wood is a good movie about good-intentioned movie-makers. Fortunately for us, Burton has a better sense of how to stage a scene realistically than Wood ever dreamed of. L.A.'s New Band Downset · Great New Talent or Rehash ofRage Against the Machine by James Polichak Contributillg Writer Before even listening to Downset I could tell what they were - a group of multi -ethnic musicians from the bad parts of L.A. (the promo material says the \hood\), singing songs called \Anger!\ and \Prostitutionalized.\ The cover ofthe disc booklet shows a draw- ing of a head blinded by lies with the mouth bound by an American flag. Reminds you of: A) Vince Gill, 'B) AMn & the Chipmunk\-, or C) Rage Again. .. ! the Machine. Yes, Downset is the second coming of Rage, and as with nearly all sequels, Downset is not quite as good. Downset has the same rap-like lyrics and heavy metal guitars as Rage, and the screamed choruses are the same (\anger from \Anger! sounds exactly like \wake up, \' ftom Rage's \Wake Up\). The main difference in sound is that Downset's vocalist is not quite as practiced as Rage's and Downsei brie·fly hi:is another~rapper do some stuff. Other than that, the sound is pretty much identical. To give Downset some credit though, their lyrics seem more focused than Rage Against The Machine 's. Rage 's songs are pissed off in a kind of vague way, you know they hate white middle- class America, but you're not sure they'll do anything about it but yell and play loud guitars. Downset 's songs have topics, like rape and human rights violations, etc. Dl)wn.vel wants us all to be multiculturalist, feminist, socialist vegetarians and they want it now. The f)ownsel fanzine pro- duced by band mem- bers, is full of inter- esting tidbits of infor- mation about the health benefits of not eating meat and bla- tantly racist remarks made by Abraham Lincoln. These should have been in- cluded in the CD booklet along with the lyrics. Tile new bad Downset: left to rigltt Rogelio Lozano, Ares, Cllris Lee; Rey oropeza, and James Morris. (plroto by Melodie McDaniel) If you like Rage Against The Ma- chine, you 'II prob- ably like Downset. If you love Rage, you'll probably hate Downset for sound- ing just a bit inferior to them. All in all, I give Downset an \F\ in originality and an \A\ in agenda. \A spectacul;u epic! Kevin Costner is riveting. Dennis Quaid is dynamite.\ -Susan Grangtr. CR.~ aDd .4.MERIC AN 1\fOVI[ CLASSICS \A stunning, rich super-epic. A triumph for Kasdan, Costner, Quaid and the company.\ 'oiKhUI Wilmlnrtol. rHJC AGO TRJBl \'ll \**** A sprawling epic of the old west.\ Bob Frttner. \RJZO\WA REPl BLIC \A magnificent achievement ... stirring in its scope and beauty.\ \udtuAnr. LOS ANGELES DAILY '[WS \Triumphant ... Kevin Costner's Wyatt Earp is a classic American performance. It ranks with John Wayne in 'The Searchers' and Henry Fonda in 'The Grapes of Wrath.' It is great.\ · Bob ( ompb<ll, ~EWllOlSE \<EWSPAPERS KEVIN DENNIS GENE COSTNER QUAID HACKMAN A LAWRENCE KASDAN FILM CJ1faa0~2_ WARNER BROS. PRESEms A TIG PRODUQlONS/KASDAN PI01JRES PRoournoN A LAWRENCE KASDAN FILM KEVIN COSlNER DENNIS QUAID GENE HACKMAN 'WYATI EARP\ JEFF FAHEY MARK HARMON MICHAEL MADSEN CA1HERINE O'HARA· BIU PULLMAN ISABELLA ROSSEUINl TOM SIZEMORE JoBETH Wll.LIAMS · MARE WINNINGHAM •c~\ JAt'llli NEWTON HOWARD '\~:CAROL umEToN A.c.E '~~~~~:IDA RANDOM \rJ~~ OWEN ROIZMAN A.s c I~W~nTIJON SLAN DAN GORDON CHARLES OKUN MICHAEL GRilLO \ 11 11JWAN GORDON AND LAWRENCE KASDAN PiODUC~ JIM WILSON. KEVIN COSINER LAWRENCE KASDAN •. l::2l1!7-\-.':.-::L \\'~1LAWRENCEKASDAN ····--:::.:::...;.::.=-:~ NEAR EXIT 2W ON NORTHWAY - Try Us For An Alternative SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR QUALIFIED RISK POOL DRIVERS JW INSURANCE 1533 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, N.Y. 12205 CALL (518) 452-9243 -

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT October 13., 1993, Page 15 THE REEL PICTURE - Review of \Ed Wood\ TiJ!l Burton C'1reates Another Innovative Delight by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff \Ed Wood.\ Starring Johnny Depp, Sarah Jes.sica Parker, Patricia ArqMette, Martin Landau, and Bill Murray. Directedby Tim Burton. Rated R, To1:1chstone Pictttres. Rating: ***(outoffour) Tim Burrton. You either ap- preciate his warped vision or loathe his style. His earlier films like Edward Scissorhand . .,· brought togeth.er downright weird stories with commercial success. Batman Returns made everyone question if his aJltistic genius was, in fact, just plain nonsense. Last year's The Nightmare Before ChristnJal' reestablished Burton as a well-received filmmaker, and with the opening of l1is newest film, Ed Wood, it looks like his position as a daring storyteller can only grow stronger. Leave it to Burton to create a biography of arguably the worst octopus used as a monster is was to star, but died shortly after director of all time-and make it placed in a 111akeshift lake. Un- filming began. A double played interesting and enlightening. fortunately, the crew forgot to his role, coveri.ng his face with a Whi;J'e film critic Michael Medved steal the motor, and the actor had cape and 1wt speaking. awarded Edward D. Wood, Jr. tomovethemonsterbyhand. But George \The Animal\ Steele tbist·itleintheearly-l980's,Bur- thesearethequalitiesWoodloved plays Swedish \Hestlcr Tor ton disagrees with this view, be- to place into his fihns; the villain Johnson, the man-of-steel \\ ho i.ng fascinated with Wood's love running into a door panel \adds a could not act and did not need of filmmaking desp1ite -------------------- make-up to I oak havingnotalentwhat- \Leave it to Burton to create a scary. Wood, soever. throughout the three Shot in glorious biography of arguably the worst films, recruits TV- black-and-white, serv- director of all time --- and make it horror hostess in.g the story added interesting and enlightening.\ Vampira (Lisa justice, the film opens Marie) and the psy- on a young Woodper- chic Criswell (won- suading a B-movie producer to touch of realism\ to his stories (so derfi.IIly portrayed by Jones). But tum a script over to him to direct. he says), and we can sympathize it is Murray, as wise-guy trans- The result: 1953's Glen or with him. sexual Bunny Breckinridge, who Glenda, a homage to Wood's Landau gives an exceptional steals the show with Landau. His weakness for angora. His live-in perfonnance as fading-horror star hilarious role is an extension of girlfriend (Parker) cannot stand Bela Lugosi, now a morphine his own cynicism. the humiliationofactingwithhim addict and forgotten by audi- Arquette, as his new lover, in this film, but leaves him after ences. Once the proud star of proves she can act among talent Wood gives her role in another /)racu/a, Lugosi's spirit is raised such as these, portraying a hope- film to an actress he thinks can by Wood, who makes Lugosi rec- less dreamer like Wood who finance the movie. ognized again through his films. loves him despite his weaknesses Wood could never afford to Ed Wood follows the making (again, angora). make his movies, often filming on of Wood's three most famous As film biographies go, this one stages not rented out and stealing films: Glenda, Hride of the Mon- manages to work well by not at- props from the studio at night. ,\·fer, and Plan 9 From Outer tempting to cover his entire life Perhaps the most hilarious scene Space (considered the worst film in two hours. but instead concen- occurs when a stolen mechanical ever made). In Plan 9, Lugosi trating on the movies that made hirn- and broke him. While he never gained any praise for his works. Wood was a man dedi- cated to his visions and making films true to his beli·efs more ti<Jall you can say about many filmmakers today. I k 'sa 6-ye;u- old making a film about his in- fantile play-fantasies, with roughly the same imaginary equipment. Creating flying sau- cers out of tin plates, stock foot- age appearing from out of no- where, and dialogue no actor could pronounce, Wood wanted his audiences to suspend their dis- beliefs; but adult audiences could only stare in horror at a horror fihn made by a grown-up kid. Forty years later, Wood and his pseudo-actors are renunders of an age when everyone had a dream to realize. Ftl Wood is a good movie about good-intentioned movie-makers. Fortunately for us, Bu11on has a better sense of how to stage a scene realistically than Wood ever dreamed of L.A.'s New Band Downset Great New Talent or Rehash of Rage Against the Machine by Janes Polichak Colltri!Juting Writer Before even listening to Downsel I could tell what they were - a group of multi-ethnic musicians from the bad parts of L.A. (the pr01no material says the \hood\), singing songs called \Anger!\ and \Prostitutionalized.\ The cover of the disc booklet shows a draw- ing of a head blinded by lies with the mouth bound by an American flag. Reminds you of: A} Vince Gill, B) Alvin & the Chipmunks, or C) Rage Agah1M the Machine. Yes, Downset is the second coming of Rage, and as with nearly all sequels, Downsel is not quite as good. Downset has the same rap-like lyrics and heavy metal guitars as Rage, and the screamed choruses are the same (\anger from \Anger! sounds exactly like \wake up, \ from Rage's \Wake Up\). The main difference in sound is that Do wnset's vocalist is not quite as practiced as Rage's and Downset briefly has another rapper do some stuff. Other than that. the sound is pretty much identical. To give Downsel some credit though, their lyrics seem more focused than Rage Against The Machine's. Rage's songs are pissed off in a kind of vague way, you know they hate white middle- class America, but you're not sure they'll do anything about it but yell and play loud guitars. Downset's songs have topics, like rape and human rights violations, etc. /)ownsel wants us all to be multiculturalist, feminist, socialist vegetarians and they want it now. The J)ownset fanzine pro- duced by band mem- bers, is full of inter- esting tidbits of infor- mation about the health benefits of not eating meat and bla- tantly racist remarks made by Abraham Lincoln. These should have been in- cluded in the CD booklet along with the lyrics. The new bad Downset: left to right Rogelio Lozano, Ares, Chris Lee, Rey oropeza, and James Morris. (plwto by Melodie McDaniel) If you like Rage Agah1s1 The Ma- chine, you' II prob- ably like nownset. If you love Rage, you 'II probably hate /)ownsel for sound- ing just a bit inferior to them. All in all, I give Down.vet an \F\ in originality and an \A\ in agenda. \A spectacular epic! Kevin Costner is riveting. Dennis Quaid is dynamite.\ ·Susan Gran~r. fR\ Jnd A.~ERJC.\'1' '10\fE Cl.\~fO \A stunning, rich super-epic. A triumph for Kasdan, Costner, Quaid and the compan}'.\ \f1chltl 'Wilmla(!on. ( HH ~{,0 TRJBI 'I! \**** A sprawling epic of the old west.\ 8Gb h~!lt~ .\RJ/0~-' RfPlBllt \A magnificent achievement ... sdrring in its scope and beauty.\ 'un:ltu~ru lO\A.'IGHf~DAIL't \!\\~ \Triumphant ... Kevin Costner's Wyatt Earp is a classic American performance. It ranks with John Wa\ne in 'The Searchers' and Henry Fonda in 'The Grapes of Wrath.' It is great.\ Bob l1mp~ll \'~'\HOI..,E \fWSP<\PfRio KEVIN DENNIS GENE COSTNER QUAID HACKMAN A LAWRENCE KASDAN FILM Cfl:jaaG~.L WARNER BROS. PRESE~TS ~ TIG PRooumoNS!t~so,ti mms rRonLLllo~ ~ LA~'RE\CE t~SDAN fiLM ml\ com~R DENNIS QLAID Gm HACKMA,~ 'WYAIT EARP\ JEFF FAHEY \WK HARMOS ~CHAEL MADSE' CATHERINE O'HARA Blli Plll~A. \ ISABELLA ROSSELLI~! TOM SIZEMORE JoBETH 1\llLL .\MS MARE W!NN!~GHAIA \ ::JAMES ~WTON HOWARD '''1: CAROllfffiETO~ 1 ( l ''i.;~,',~l: IDA RANDOM ,~:!'; ~;· .. ~ OW1N ROIZMA. ~ \ s c ;,•·, ~; JO\ SLi.~ DAN GORDON CHARLES OKL\ MICHAEl GRilLO ''-::DAN GORDON -1110 LAWRENCE KA~DA.~ ' ;, nM l~lLSON KEvlN COITNER L~WRE\CE l~SOA\ fltM rro ·•~.,_,,_,_ \'1e L.\.WRENCE KASD.t\ ....... _ .. _._ .. _:.:':\\ .... ~~. ~ nHI\mdlN11on\'. ,...,~ .. ~--..-...r'\' ~ __ ~ I I i i '---------·-------------------- --- -----' NEAR EXIT 2W ON NORTHWAY Try Us For An .4/ternatil'£' SPECIAL OlSCCIUNTS ~l,$4 \)UALIFIEO RISK POOL ~ 1 ~tVfR~ JW INSURANCE 1533 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY. N.Y. 12205 CALL (518) ..t52-9243

. I I October 13, 1994, page 16 FEATURES How 'Equally Accessible' is Union College? by Bharat Navani Concordiensis Staff He takes Freslunan Precepto- rial, Chemistry l 0, and Calculus 12; he enjoys participating in sports, and, as an athlete, excels at Lacrosse and lee Hockey (goalie). He is Harry Block, a first year pre-med at Union. The unique thing about this·student and sportsman, Harry, is that he was born with a birth defect known as Spina Bifida: a case in which the spine isn't completely formed. Because of this, he has been confined to a wheel-chair for almost all his life. Harry, like most of us here, re- lates well to his studies and al- ways looks fmward to the end of the school week, which signals the anival of yet another ljust in time] weekend! Hence, for all practical purposes, Harry consti- tutes .. Joe Union.\ But I suppose if one were to h)' and locate Harry in a group of people, it really wouldn't be too much of a bother. You see, Harry has an outgoing personality that envelopes your attention and makes you sit up and take notice. A couple of days ago, I had a chance to sit down and talk to this newest, very-ap- proachable member of the Union College community about his ex- periences prior to enrollment at Union, i.e., about his-senior year in high school and his escapades of \college-hunting and now . -- that he is here, his life at \wheel- chair-accessible\ Union College. In relating his senior year of high school, Harry remembers that he applied to 9 colleges, 5 of. which were wheelchair acces- sible. (At that time, Union Col- lege wasn't one of the 5]. ''I re- ally took to Union when I came to visit last FaU,\ he smiles. \The campus was beautiful. But be- cause it wasn't wheelchair acces- sible, my parents tried to push me away from it. I remember them saying, 'It's a good school ... but are you sure this is what you want to do.' I was sure. In the end, I picked Union over Skidmore.\ [At that time, Skidmore, unlike Union, was wheelchair acces- sible]. Harry then went on to talk about his experiences with the Union College administration board: \I was told that any classes I take would be moved, if neces- sary, to buildings that are acces- sible to wheelchairs. I was also told that at the end of my four years here, the campus would be almost entirely wheelchair acces- sible.\ Harry paused fora bit, and then replied, \Different people have used different words ... but it's all the same [talk]. It's just frustrating.\ Most frustrating to Harry is the fact that he can't visit friends who reside in donns that aren't acces- sible to wheelchairs, nor can he go visit professors in their offices Harry Block, a pioneering Union studellt,infront oframp.atFox House (Debora/' Proper/TC) (e.g. Humanities, second floor). The notion that he won't be· able to live in dorms other than North (1st floor) or South (lst floor; present domicile) is also hard for Hany. When asked what grade l1e would give Union College in tenns of how accessible it is to those in wheelchairs, Harry re- plied, \Somewhere about a C.\ He expanded, \Since my visit last Fall, the school has put in a ramp [near Fox]. But one ramp doesn't mean anything when you ·can't get to [the place] where you have to. I can ~t even go to the library because, even though they have a ramp in the back, the door in the back triggers an alann if used. · I'm supposed to get a key that si- lences the alann for a few seconds while Iusethe door ... but no key yet. On the flip side, though, the administration's outlook hasbeen pretty good; they have promised to work at it: within the next four years ... that's what they say. Don't get me wrong, I'm happy I chose Union; I'm having a good time, but things coul!i be made better .... \ . Note: The Americans With Dis- ability Act of 1992, the first inde- pendent act that deals with co- equal accessibility since the Civil Rights Act (1 960), proposes all public institutions to have equal accessibility. Equal accessibility in colleges and universities is in- cluded (in a different context) within the bill. Contributing idea: Andrew Slovak No Double Density Disks!!. As of today, The Concordiensis will only - >: accept High Density Disks (make sure the disks you submit have the HD logo on them or they will not be accepted) - additionally all apple documents must be saved on MS Word 5.0 or lower We cannot accept submissions saved on MS Word for Windows 6.0 THERE WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONS

Whoa is Me by Erin 1\l. O'Neil Features Editor It docsn 't seem so long ago whenlused to write these articles of mine and cause s01i1e so11 of stir amongst the Union CoHege com- munity. Back in my heyday I ha'd people angry O\'er things 1 had written. Others were inspired and some were annoyed. Regardless of that, what pleased me the most was the fact that l was receiving feedback on tny pieces. People were reading them, and goddammit- at one poi·nt I even caused a mini-sensation on cam- pus! My point in saying this is not to pat myselfon the back, or to beg students to sing my undeserved praises. It is merely to reiterate \\hat I have been feeling for the past year or ~o. about my writing. It just isn't excitit1g anymore. Looking to the root of my prob- lem, I see that I am lacking in the material depm1111ent. Back to the subject of the campus-wide sen- sation. I realize that my·popular- ity was at its peak back when I was talking about dating. Sadly, the majority of students inhabit- ing this campus now were not doing so when I was \Vriting ·these miicles. So f0r those of you who fit that group, I will briefly ex- plain. Basically I was saying that it is ridiculous that people at Union go out at night go out, get drunk, hook up, and then never speak to their respective ·~part­ ners\ again. I issued a challenge to the student body to find some- one you like (preferably when sober), and ask them on a date- a real date. People liked the idea. I Icy, l even got a few dates out of it myself. ·'FEATURES Now the purpose of this is not It) <\Hempt to resurrect old, dead materiaL but merely to illustrate a point. It is incredibly difficult to excite the typical Union Col- 'lege student, Of course.! am in- cluditig myself in this generali- zation. I mean, how canl excite you when I can't even excite myself? Going back to my remi- niscence, I see that what does capture the attention of a lot of people is sex. While dating doesn't necessarily involve sex, that is the premise upon which the concept was based. That's why people liked that particular m1icle. People like sex. Scratch that- Union College students LOVE sex (ooh, maybe I could get myself into some trouble here- sorry Mom and Dad). This thesis may be supported by a number of examples~ but I'm going to stick with the most ob- vious- those being Ht!ver~v Hills 90]/0, and of course, He/rose October 13, 1994 , Page 17 Place. \Where' s the connec- tion?,\ you ask. ''Where isn't the connection?,\ I reply. We're talk- . ing about the interests of the \typical (and I hate to use that word) Union Student. I'm will- ing to bet a large sum of money that if one were to patrol the cam- pus, mtd off-campus residences between 8 and 9 P.M. on a Mon- day or Wednesday night, they ·would find the vast majority of televisions surrounded by huddled groups of students glued to the screen, watching Amanda aud Allison go at it. A friend told 1ne he was walking down Univer- sity Place on the night that Brandon's running-mate got hit by the Mack tmck, 11nd he heard screams coming from almost ev- ery house on the street. I was screami.ng too. It was so point- less and sad. But I digress. What I'm trying to say is that I feel I am stuck in some kind of a rut here. I am not Bev Hills or Melrose. I don't have new and exciting sexual scandals brewing in my head to entertain you with evety week. I wish I did. But I don't. So aside from writing a weekly recap of what happened on said shows, I can't think of a thing that is go- ing to make you people like me as much as you used to. I don't take it personally- don't wo1ry. I liked me better then too. I JUST NEED MORE SUBJECT MAT- TER! Won't you people please do something to inspire me?! Hey, I'll write about sex if you want me to, but what about it? Do I have to run my fingers through your hair, and whisper sweet nothings into your ear(s)? I can't do it alone anymore. I need your help. If you have any ideas- see me. Now I've got to go. Melrose is on tonight. Answers to the Unanswerable I see that new studies show that this causes cancer, and that causes cancer, and it's driving me insru1e. What can I do? by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff Questions. Questions, ques- tions, questions. Life is full of questions. but all too often- like in musical chairs- the music stops and there aren't enough answers to go around. So without futiher ado. here are some answers to the unanswerable. Q: Why is it that more times than not, I see a rather unattrac- tin~ man walking dewn the street with a bombshell on his arm? Please explain the cosmic mechan- ics that justify such a situation. A: Well I hate to tell you this. but this one has a very simple an- swer; m-o-n-e-y. Wmnen seem to value money and its bastard son power over looks. Where as men seem to prefer vivacious curves to good study habits. But don't worry, becaus~ these relation- ships are ultimately self-destruc- tive. So next time you see Stanley walking am1 in ann with a loin stiffing female, smile because he's in for lots and lots of therapy. Q: Please, please explain to me how fecis laden shows such as \Full House\ and \Family Mat- ters .. can be on the air. A: There are a multitude of mental institutions with cable TV. · · Q: Do you think that Hewrly Hills. 901 J(J\I;ill be the same now that Shannen Dogherty is no longer a cast member? A: .The question is not so much will the show be the same but rather, Can 90210 get any better than it already is? And the answer to that is a resounding, \No way Jose.\This show is abso-smurfly gripping. The scripts are flaw- lessly real, and the acting of Shakespearian caliber: programs with Thesbianism such as this, and hair styles. as impressive, come along once in a blue moon. Q: If Erkel challenged Rick Flare to a two out of three steel cage match, would it go to a third encounter? A: No. Next issue. Q: Is there anything worse than a dog fart? A: Yes. Any Michael Bolton album every released. Q: Sometimes I lose my faith in mankind. Is there anything that is redeeming about our spe- cies? A: Yes. Three things: Cindy Crawford, Bay Watch, and ,'-,'aved hy the Bell. Q: I constantly feel guilty Comics when I think about the way in which this country has treated the Native American people. What can I do to cleanse my impure soul? A: Send me $19.95 plus ship- ping and handling, and I'll send you my instructional video (with workbook) on: How to Torture Yourse~f 0l'er Something You Had Nothing to do With. This in- cludes a twelve-step program that will allow you to wallow in ancestoral guilt without really making any difference. Q: If you see someone wear- ing a t-shirt that reads,\ Sexy Grandpa\ should you run? A: Well that depends, ifhe's in a walker then you can stroll away at your own pace, if he is able bodied running is your best bet. Q: Every time I turn on the TV A: Buy three cases of unfiltered cigarettes and fly to the Bahamas. Once there, lub up with oil and lie out in the sun while chain smoking. Then after your whole body becomes a tumor you can try and sell your story to the tabliods. Q: If you lick a flyswater will it kill you? A: No, but it'll give you a . ~:,marly buzz. Q: With all the inhumanity in this world, I find it hard to believe in God. Is there anything that proves his exsistense? A: Serendipity is evidence of God's presense in the world. Well I hoped that cleared some- things up for you. If you have any questions of your own please send them to: Box #2018 The Language of Jou1·nalis1n 1In·ou~l1inle ... Reminder • • \The thrill ride of the summer!\ All submissions to _ Bill ClllliTO'l L7; 'I~ ' The Concordiensis are due by Monday at 4 p.m. on a High Density disk --------------------------------------~ .... -

. ; Campus Calendar October Thursday, 10/13/94 9:30a U-CALL, CC 409 11 :30a BICENTENNIAL COMMENCEMENT COMMITTEE MEETING. cc 203 12:00p SPANISH LANGUAGE TABLE. CC 302 12:00p ANDERSON CONSULTING LUNCHEON, CC 205 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 12:30p HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS. BAILEY 201 12:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: STUDENT SUMMER RESEARCH, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 6:00p CAREER DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION MEETING. CC 302 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 410 6:30p COLLEGE OF PODIATRIC MEDICINE INFORMATION MEET ING, BAILEY 100 7:00p CHARLES II REHEARSALS. CC 302 7:30p GERMAN FILM SERIES: \A LOVE IN GERMANY\ CC 406 8:30p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL PER- FORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) · Friday, 10/14/94 9:00a PAULA BAYTELMAN REHEARSAL FOR CONCERT. MEMO- RIAL CHAPEL 12:30p ASSISTANT DEAN OF STUDENTS SEARCH CO:MMITTEE MEETING, CC 204 6:45p RAMEE CIRCLE EVENT, SPEAKER: PROF. SCAIFE,S&E NW 116 7:00p INTERV ARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING, CC406 7:00p PHILOMATHEAN SOCIETY, HUMANITIES 114 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\, RA THSKELLAR Saturday 10/15/94 10:30a ADMISSIONS OFFICE GROUP INFORMATION SESSION. HUMANITIES 116 11 :30a ATI-ll.,ETIC DEPARTMENT LUNCHEON -CEDRICK DEMPSEY. CC UPPER CLASS DININGHALL 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR Sunday, 10/16/94 9:30a BICENTENNIAL MODERN DANCE REHEARSAL, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p PHI IOTA ALPHA MEETING, CC 409 Monday, 10/f7/94 · 11 :30a FRENCH LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 204 2:00p CAMPUS PROTESTANT MINISTRY MEETING, CC 205 5:00p MEDITATION GROUP, CC 409 ·.. 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE HRA MEETING, CC 205 6:00p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL, PER FORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL,SS016 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/10/94 - 11/11194 Special Visual Arts Exhibit 9:00a- 6:00p EXHIBITION: LIVING WITH AIDS PHOTO- GRAPHS BY TOM McGOVERN, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM Thursday, 10/13/94 TRUSTEES WEEKEND BEGINS 12:00p - 4:00p CAREE.R FESTIVAL, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE I :30p PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM. SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR SPEAKER: DONALD CORCORA, SS104 Friday, 10/14/94 HOMECOMING WEEKEND BEGINS 4 :OOp PHILOSOPHY COLLOQUIUM SPEAKER: LOGI GUNNARSSON, HUMANITIES 213 9:00p MEN'S SOCCER ALUMNI RECEPTION, CC305 Saturday, 10/15/94 12:00p DUTCH PIPERS/GARNET MINSTRELS, LAMONT HOUSE 12:30p CHIMES CONCERT, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 1 :30p- 5:00p CONCESSION STAND, ALEXANDER FIELD 4:45p PRESIDENT~S RECEPTION, ALUMNI GYM PORCH Sunday, 1 0/16/94 II :OOa WOMEN'S TENNIS RECEPTION; CC406 & CC305 3:30p WOMEN'S SOCCER ALUMNI RECEPTION, HH DINING 7:00p POLA BAYTELMAN PIANO RECITAL, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Tuesday, 10/18/94 l2:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR SPEAKER: DR. JOSEPH COUS INS, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 Wednesday, 10/19/94 4:30p PRESIDENT'S CANOE TRIP SLIDE SHOW, CC AUD 7:00p WRUC STAFF MEETING. CC 205 Tuesday~ 10/18/94 7:45a COMMUNITY & VALUES DISCUSSION GROUP, CC406 9:00a SCOTIA NAVAL OFFICE PRE-CEREMONY RECEPTION, HH MILANO LOUNGE 9:30a U-CALL. CC 409 11 :OOa RESIDENCE LIFE MEETING, CC 205 . ll :OOa NCUR STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING, CC3.05 12:00p JAPANESE LANGUAGE TABLE, CC'204 12:00p FINANCE OFFICE STAFF MEETING, CC 205 12:30p FLUTE CHOIR REHEARSAL. ARTS 313 12:30p RUSSIAN LANGUAGE TABLE. CC ATRIUM(NEAR THE PIANO) 4:30p CAREER DEVELOPMENT MEETNG. CC 204 5:30p DELTA PSI DELTA MEETING. CC 203 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 410 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL.SSO 16 6:30p PROTESTANT MINISTRY RELIGIOUS SERVICES,CC305 6:30p SHPE MEETING, CC 205 7:00p UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA REHEARSAL .. MEMORIAL CHAPEL 9:00p ''COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR Wednesday 10/19/94 9:30a U-CALL OPERA PROGRAM. CC AUDITORIUM 9:30a U-CALL. CC 409 3:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL, SS016 4:00p PAN HELLENIC COUNCIL MEETING, CC 203 5\:00p STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING. CC.205 ~:OOp RESIDENCE LIFE GIRL SCOUT MEETING, CC 409 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEEARSAL. ARTS 215 7:00p G.L.B.A. MEETING, CC 203 7:30p SPANISH CLUB MEETING. CC MOBIL (406) Thursday, 10/20/94 9:30a U-C ALL, CC 409 lO:OQa- 5:00p BINGHAMTON UNIVERSITY INFORMATION TABLE, CC ATRIUM . 12:00p SPANISH LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 205 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE. CC 203 12:30p HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS, BAILEY 201 · 5:00p AFFILIATES PHONE-A-THON. HH DINING ROOM 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING. CC 410 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL, SS016 7:00p IUG BROTHERJBJG SISTER M£J=:TING, CC 409 7:30p FRENCH CLUB MOVIE, CC MOBIL (406) 8:30p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL. PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) Friday, 10/21194 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL.SSO 16 7:00p INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING, CC406 MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & 10:30 pm unless otherwise indicated. Admission $2.00 Thurs., 10113 \CITY SLICKERS II\ SS 016 Friday, 10114, 10115, 10116, and Monday 10/17 \WOLF\, CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday, 10/18, 10/19, and 10/20 \THE SHADOW\ CC AUDITORIUM Friday, 10/21, 10/22, 10/23, and Monday, 10/24 \WY A IT EARP'', CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday, 10/25, 10/26, I 0/2 7, and Friday I 0/28 \ABOVE THE RIM\ CC AUDITORIUM SPORTS Saturday, 10/15/94 12 :OOp WOMEN'S SOCCER VS. VASSAR, GARIS FIELD 2:15p UNION FOOTBALLVS. RPI, BAILEY FIELD 3:30p MEN'S SOCCER vs·. RPI~ GARIS FIELD Sunday, 10/16/94 1 :OOp WOMEN'S FIELD HOCKEY VS. RPI, BAILEY FIELD· Tuesday, 10/18/94 3:30p MEN'S SOCCER VS. ROCHESTER, GARIS FIELD 7:00P. WOMEN'S SOCCER VS. RUSSELL SAGE, : ~ GARIS FIELD 7:00p WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS. RUSSELL SAGE . ' & ONEONTA, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE Saturday, 10/22/94 1 :30p UNION FOOTBALL VS. COAST GUARD, BAILEY FIELD

Personals To the sisters of :L~T, ~hanks for a great Saturday Night. Maybe next time it can go until Sunday moming. -the brothers of ZBT Elliot - I love you with all my heart. You mean the world to me; aHd you make me want to scream, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! Love always, Suzanne A - You're my best friend at Union College. Hope you make the right decision. Please, please, please don't transfer. Love ya always, S_ Congratulations to the 1994 spring pledges of Sigma Iota Al- pha, sorority, Inc Son-y for the late recognition. Good luck in the fature!!! David - Not enough people sent in personals for this week, so you havy to listen to this garbage from me again. Sony about your fin- ger. Hope it gets better soon. l promise not to count any of your ann wrestling losses until then. -guess who Guild- Hope your knee is better and that they didn't find a tumor. Tea? - Ros Plane 3147 ~Tea? PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS October 13, 1994, page 19 Stace ~Without you I don't know ·To all members of the 9021 0 what I would have done over the Club. The new president for this past month. Yes, it has been that year has been chosen. Don't miss short or long a time, whichever the first meeting so we can con- way you chose to look at it. gratulate \TH\ and welcome her Thanks again. Love you -H. to the position. See you Wednes- Jason - Bruised from shaving? Stayed with me at Bri's party? Sleeping on the floor? Had to go to Brattleboro with me? Stayed up until 5:30 \worrying\ the day before Y0\1 went back to school? Grow up! There is no way you could have thought you were making everyone feel better. Don't worry I don't feel like ev- erything was all my fault any- more, and I'm not crying for you. Good luck ·finding someone else to put up with your $#! *! Dear Katie- I hope you figure out what that sign in the window means because once you do I can buy you a straight jacket. Love- Moi Sangh -I'm so glad you calledme. Not only did I have a message at home, but one in the office. What more can a woman ask for? Keep Pam on track for me. -Heather Jenni - I miss you. I wish you were closer or not quite as busy. Keep your chin up, and remem- ber I love you. Tell Andy he can come over for tea anytime, once I get some. Love -the Union refugee day. Sethy, I'll always love you - I mean it! But please get that hand fixed. I just had to try one last time! -love Sis To Tweedledum & Tweedledee: Same time, same place_! Love, Dummer and Dummette Faggot! Bitch! Prick! Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me. Any unsure? Come to the Smith House informal discussion on Thursday at 8:00 about Lan- guage, Gende'r and Sexuality. Mr. Pinky says Hi, DFL! Iceman, congratulations on your first keg related injury. - Your roommates Classifieds ., SPRING BREAK '95 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE! l! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus represen- tatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648- .4849. WANTED!!! American's fastest growing spring break company is now seeking individuals to pro- mote our super spring break trips. Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Florida, South Padre, Barbados. Fantastic free travel and commis- sions. Call Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710. • FUND RAISING- Choose from 3 different fundraisers lasting ei- ther 3 or 7 days. No investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for your- self. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65. Sofa and Chair - Call during the day 372-2949, after 6 PM 377- 6578. Ask for Mrs. Dicarlo. The Garnet Yearbook needs staff members. If you are inter- ested in becoming a part of this great publication contact, Rachel Goldfine, Box 665. Scott Cartland will present in- fonnation about the opportunities with Teach for America, the na- tional teacher corps, Thursday, October 13th, CC302, 6PM. For further information about this program or Teach for America, stop by the CDC. Prepare your Resume .. .for the Career Festival or for recruiting, on and off campus. Special Drop- in hours: All Day on Friday, Oc- tober 14th for final critiques on your resume. CDC x6176 Advertise in The Concordy Classifieds. They really work! Send to Box 2577. for ~ess than a dollar a day, both will gwe you tqe power you need to survtve this semesfer. With an Apple Computer Loan, its now easier than ever to buy a Macintosh\ personal computer. In fact, with Apple's special low interest•and easy terms, you can own a Mac~ for as llttle as $23 per month: Buy any select Macintosh now, and you'll also get something no other computer offers: the Apple student software set. It includes a program designed to help you with all aspects of writing papers. A personal organizer/calendar created specifically for students (the only one of its kind). And the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-line resources for researching yourpapers. It even includes ClarisWorks, an integrated package complete with database, spreadsheet, word processing software and more. All at special low student pricing. With an offer this good, it's the best time ever to · · discover the power every student needs. The power to be your bese Contact Charles Bosworth Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 Offer expires October 17, 1994; available mlly while supplies /aS/. @ 1991 Apple Computer, !tic. All rights merved. Apple, /be App/e~a , ,l(acinloSb, l'elfonna anti \Tbe power lri be your best\ are registered tmdtmarlls.of Apple Com puler, !tiC. :AppleDe.lign, Mac and Power A!adnlusb are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Cfartsmmu Is a regisllred tradenmrlt of C/arls Corporation. ',1/olllb/ypaymenlls an est/male IJasetl on an e Compuitr Loa11 of $2,486.77 for /be Power Afadntosb 710at66 and $2,750.26 for /be Power Macintosh 7100166 wilb CD·ROAI systems shown abo~ $23 per IIWIIth Is an estimate based on an Apple Compuler Loatz of $1,549.15 for a Porforma' 636 system. Prices and loan amounts are .!Ubjeclto nee wUhout tlotla!. $etJ your Ajple Campus Keseller or represtnlaiive for cttrrent S)ijtem /Jrlf;es. A 5S% /cat I orlgitllllion fee will be adtJed to the req11esfed loan at110unJ. 7'be lnlertsl rttte Is varlab(e, based 011/be ciJinnterci4/ paper rate PittS 535%. For tbe month of Atlgus/1994, the Interest rale UiJS IO.IIJ'Io, wftb 1111 APR of 1136%. B.year /omr tmn with ttoprepaymenl penally. The monthly payment sbownMSU111/J 110 deferment of principal or interest. Sllldenls may dtfer principal payments up to 4 ;wrs, or 111110 graduation. iJefonnent will change your monlbfy paynumls. 7'be Apple C!Jmpukr IJJanls sub jed to crediJ I1/JflrOI'Ill.

Personals To the sisters ofit.T, 'Thanks for a great Saturday Night. Maybe next time it can go until Sunday moming. -the brothers of ZBT Elliot - I love you with all my heart. You mean the world to me; and you make me want to scream. ooh. ooh.ooh.ooh. ooh! Lon! always. Suzanne !\ - You're my best friend at Union College. !lope you make the right decision Please. please. please don't transfer. Lo\'e ya always. S Con g rat ul at i on s to the I 99 4 spring pledges of Sigma Iota Al- pha. sorority. Inc Son·y for the late recognition. Good luck in the future! ! ~ David - Not enough people sent in personals for this week. so you have to listen to this garbage from me again. Sony about your fin- ger. Hope it gets better soon. I promise not to count any of your ann \\.Testling losses until then. - guess who (luild- Hope your knee is better and that they didn't find a tumor. Tea'! - RtlS Plane 3147- Tea? PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS October 13, 1994, page 19 Stace - Without you I don't know what I would have done over the past month. Yes, it has beeB that short or long a time, whichever way you chose to look at it. Thanks again. Love you - H. Jason - Bnlised from shaving? Stayed with me at Bri's party? Sleeping on the floor? Had to go to Brattleboro with me? Stayed up until 5:30 \worrying\ the day before you went back to school? Grow up! There is no way you could have thought you were making everyone feel better. Don't wony I don't feel I ike ev- erything was all my fault any- more. and I'm not crying for you. Good luck finding someone else to put up with your $# ~ *! Dear Katie- I hope you figure out what that sign in the wiHdow means because once you do I can buy you a straight jacket. Love- Moi Sangh -I'm so glad you called tille. Not only did I have a message at home. but one in the office. What more can a woman ask for'? Keep Pam on track for me. -Heather Jenni - I miss you. I wish you were closer or not quite as busy. Keep your chin up, and remem- ber I love you. Tell Andy he can come over for tea anytime, once I get some. Love - the Union refugee To all members of the 90210 Club. TI1e new president for this year has been chosen. Don't miss the ·first meeting so we can con- gratulate \TH\ and welcome her to the position. See you Wednes- day. Sethy, I'll always love you - I mean it! But please get that hand fixed. I just had to try one last tin1c! -love Sis To Tweedledum & Twecdledee: Same time. same place~ Love. Dummer and Dummette Faggot! Bitch! Prick' Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me. Any unsure? Come to the Smith House informal discussion Ol:l Thursday at 8:00 about Lan- guage, Gender and Sexuality. Mr. Pinky says Hi. DFL! Iceman, congratulations on your first keg related injmy. - Your roommates Classifieds IV SPRING BREAK '95 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiri,ng campus represen- tatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648- .4849. WANTED!!! American's fastest growing spring break company is now seeking individuals to pro- mote our super spring break trips. Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Florida, South Padre. Barbados. Fantastic free travel and commis- sions. Call Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710. 0 FlJNDRAISING- Choose from 3 different fundraisers lasting ei- ther 3 or 7 days. No investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for your- self. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65. Sofa and Chair- Call during the day 372-2949, after 6 PM 377- 6578. Ask for Mrs. Dicarlo. The Garnet \' ea rbook needs staff members. If you arc inter- ested in becoming a part of this great publication contact, Rachel Goldfine, Box 665. Scott Cartland will present tn- fonnation about the oppot1unitie:; with Teach for America. the na- tional teacher COIF ... Thw~da:-. October 13th. CC302. 6PM. Fllr further information about tlllc. program or Teach fur Amerrc,1. stop by the CDC. Prepare your Resume ... for the Career Festival or for recruiting. on and off campus. Special Drop- in hours: All Day on Friday. Oc- tober I 4th for final critiques on your resume. CDC x6 176 Advertise in The Concordy Classifieds. They really work! Send to Box 2577 .. For less than a dollar a day, both will give you tqe power you need to surv1ve this semester. One jal'a, piping bot, 110 sugar and hold the moo juice: With an Apple Computer Loan, its now easier than ever to buy a Maclntosh' personal computer. In fact, with Apple's special low interest and easy terms, you can own a Mac~ for as little as $23 per month: Buy any select Macintosh now, and you'll also get something no other computer offers: the Apple student software set. It includes a program designed to help you with all aspects of writing papers. A personal organizer/calendar created specifically for students (the only one of its kind). And the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-line resources for researching your papers. It even includes ClarisWorks, an integrated package complete with database, spreadsheet, word processing software and more. All at special low student pricing. With an offer this good, its the best time ever to Apple··,_ discover the power every student needs. The power to be your bese l . Contact Charles Bosworth Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 Offer expires October 17, 1991; availilble only 11-hile Stf/JPlies last. © 1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rlg!JI.r resertm Apple, the Apple logo, ,1/acllllos!J, Performa and \'J1Je pouoer to be )UUr best\ are registered trademarks of Apple Compuler, inc. tlj!p!eDruign, Mac and Pou~r .1/acin/osb are tmdemarks of Apple Computer, Inc. CfarlsWorks is a registered trademark of Clarls Corporation. '.llontbly paymetlf is a11 estunate based 011 all A/lfi/e Computer l.oa11 of $2.486.77 for the Pouoer ftlacltttosh 7100/66 atzd $2,750 26 for tbe Pouoer Madllrosb 7100166 u~tb CD·ROAf systems sboun above. $23 per month Is rm es/lmale based on an Apple Compuler l.oatz of $1;519.15 for a Performa· 636 syJfem. Prices and Ivan amounts art! subject to i:bange wltlwut nollai. Ses your Apple Campus Reseiler or represettlalit'i!for current system prices. A 55% loan original/ott fee will be added to the reifuested loan anwunJ. 'f1le Interest rate l.r variable, based ott/he ccmmerci/11 paper rate plus 5J5%. For the month of August 1994, the illlemt ra/e IIXIS /0.10%, with an APR of JJJ6%. 8·year loatlkrln uilb no prepayment penally The motttbly payment shorm assumes tiO deform en/ of pritlcipal or Interest. Studel1ts may drifer principal paymenls up to 4 years, or unJI/ gradualiotl. Drifermenl will change your monibly paymenls. '!be Apple ComjJulllr loan ir subject tv credil approml.

Campus Calendar October 13-19 Thursday, 10/13/94 9:30a U-CALL CC 409 11 :30a BICENTENNIAL COMMENCEMENT COMMITTEE MEETING, cc 203 12:00p SPANISH LANGUAGE TABLE. CC 302 12:00p ANDERSON CONSULTING LUNCHEON. CC 205 12JOp GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 l 2·.\l.Op HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS. BAILEY 201 12.-'0p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: STUDENT SUMMER ll:OOp (1:00p (J: 30p RESEARCH. SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 CAREER DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION MEETING. CC 302 CIARNET MINSTRELS MEETING. CC 410 COLLEGE OF PODIATRIC MEDICINE INFORMATION MEET lNG. BAILEY I 00 ~:OOp CHARLES li REHEARSALS. CC 302 ~:JOp GERMAN FILM SERIES \A LOVE IN GERMANY\. CC 406 8:30p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL PER- FORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) Fridav, 1 0/14/94 cJ:OOa. PAULA BAYTELMAN REHEARSAL FOR CONCERT. MEMO- RIAL CHAPEL 12JOp ASSISTANT DEAN OF STUDENTS SEARCH COMMITTEE MEETING. CC 204 6:45p RAMEE CIRCLE EVENT. SPEAKER: PROF. SC AIFE.S&E NW 116 7:00p INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING. CC406 7:00p PHILOMATHEAN SOCIETY. HUMANITIES I 14 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR Saturday 10/15/94 I OJOa ADMISSIONS OFFICE GROUP INFORMATION SESSION. HUMANITIES 116 11 JOa ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT LUNCHEON -CEDRICK DEMPSEY. CC UPPER CLASS DININGHALL C):OOp \COFFEEHOUSE\'. RA THSKELLAR Sunday, 10/16/94 9:30a BICENTENNIAL MODERN DANCE REHEARSAL. PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p PHI IOTA ALPHA MEETING, CC 409 :\londay, 10/17/94 - II JOa FRENCH LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 204 2:00p CAMPUS PROTESTANT MINISTRY MEETING. CC 205 5:00p MEDITATION GROUP, CC 409 .. 6:00p RESIDENCE UFE HRA MEETING, CC 205 6:00p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL. PER FORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL,SSOI6 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/10/94- 11/11/94 Special Visual Arts Exhibit 9:00a - 6:00p EXHIBITION: LIVING WITH AIDS PHOTO- GRAPHS BY TOM McGOVERN, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM Thursday, 10/13/94 TRUSTEES WEEKEND BEGINS 12 :OOp - 4 :OOp CAREER FESTIVAL, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE I :30p PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR SPEAKER: DONALDCORCORA. SS104 Friday, l 0/14/94 HOMECOMING WEEKEND BEGINS 4:00p PHILOSOPHY COLLOQUIUM SPEAKER: LOGI GUNNARSSON, HUMANITIES 213 9:00p MEN'S SOCCER ALUMNI RECEPTION, CC305 Saturday, 10/15/94 I 2 :OOp DUTCH PIPERS/GARNET MINSTRELS, LAMONT HOUSE 12:30p CHIMES CONCERT, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 1 :30p - 5 :OOp CONCESSION STAND, ALEXANDER FIELD 4:45p PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION, ALUMNI GYM PORCH Sunday, 10/16/94 I 1 :OOa WOMEN'S TENNIS RECEPTION, CC406 & CC305 3:30p WOMEN'S SOCCER ALUMNI RECEPTION, ffii DINING 7:00p POLA BAYTELMAN PIANO RECITAL, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Tuesday, 10/18/94 12:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR SPEAKER: DR. JOSEPH COUS INS, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 Wednesday, 10/19/94 4:30p PRESIDENT'S CANOE TRIP SLIDE SHOW, CC AlJD 7:00p WRUC STAFF MEETING. CC 205 Tuesday, 10/18/94 7:45a COMMUNITY & VALUES DISCUSSION GROUP, CC406 9:00a SCOTIA NAVAL OFFICE PRE-CEREMONY RECEPTION. HH MILANO LOUNGE 9:30a U-CALL. CC 409 II :OOa RESIDENCE LIFE MEETING. CC 205 II :OOa NCUR STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING. CC305 12:00p JAPANESE LANGUAGE TABLE. CC204 12:00p FINANCE OFFICE STAFF MEETING. CC 205 12:30p FLUTE CHOIR REHEARSAL. ARTS 313 12:30p RUSSIAN LANGUAGE TABLE. CC ATRIUM(NEAR TilE PIANO) .f::~Op CAREER DEVELOPMENT MEETNG. CC 204 5:30p DELTA PSI DELTA MEETING. CC 203 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 410 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL.SSO 16 6:30p PROTESTANT MINISTRY RELIGIOUS SERVICES.CC\05 6:30p SHPE MEETING. CC 205 7:00p UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA REHEARSAL. MEMORIAL CHAPEL 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR Wednesday 10/19/94 9:30a U-C ALL OPERA PROGRAM. CC AUDITORIUM 9:30a U-C ALL. CC 409 3:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL SSO I 6 4:00p PAN HELLENIC COUNCIL MEETING. CC 203 5:00p STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING. CC 205 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE GIRL SCOUT MEETING. CC 409 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEEARSAL ARTS 215 7:00p G.L.B.A. MEETING. CC 203 7:30p SPANISH CLUB MEETING. CC MOBIL (406) Thursday, 10/20/94 9:30a U-C ALL CC 409 IO:OOa- 5:00p BINGHAMTON UNIVERSITY INFORMATION TABLE. CC 12:00p 12:30p 12:30p . 5:00p 6:00p 6:00p 7:00p 7:30p 8:30p ATRIUM SPANISH LANGUAGE TABLE. CC 205 GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE. CC 203 HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS. BAILEY 201 AFFILIATES PHONE-A-THON. HI-I DINING ROOM GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING. CC 410 PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL. SSO 16 BIG BROTHER/BJG SISTER MEETING. CC 409 FRENCH CLUB MOVIE. CC MOBIL (406) BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL. PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO ( 1 08) Friday, 1 0/21/94 6:00p PLAY: \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL.SSOl6 7:00p INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING. CC406 MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & 10:30 pm unless otherwise indicated. Admission $2.00 Thurs., I 0/13 ''CITY SLICKERS II\'. SS 016 Friday, 10/14,10/15, I0/16,andMonday 10/17 \WOLF\\. CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday.I0/18.10/19.and 10/20 \THE SHADOW\. CC AUDITORIUM Friday.I0/21, 10/22, I0/23.andMonday, 10/24 \WYATT EARP\ CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday, 10/25, 10/26. 10/27, and Friday 10/28 \ABOVE THE RIM\. CC AUDITORIUM SPORTS Saturday, 10/15/94 12:00p WOMEN'S SOCCER VS. VASSAR, GARIS FIELD 2: 15p UNION FOOTBALL VS. RPI, BAILEY FIELD 3:30p MEN'S SOCCER VS. RPI, GARIS FIELD Sunday, 10/16/94 I :OOp WOMEN'S FIELD HOCKEY VS. RPI, BAILEY FIELD Tuesday, 10/18/94 3:30p MEN'S SOCCER VS. ROCHESTER, GARIS FIELD 7:00p WOMEN'S SOCCER YS. RUSSELL SAGE, GARIS FIELD 7:00p WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS. RUSSELL SAGE & ONEONTA, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE Saturday, 10/22/94 I :30p UNION FOOTBALL VS. COAST GUARD. BAILEY FIELD

October 13, 1994, page 20 LIVING Heaven or Hull?: Has Union.Lost Its Personality? by Alex Shapiro Living Editor There is no doubt what-so- ever that the social life of our fair lady Madame Union has fallen in the past decade. The rumors of raging outdoor festi- vals with treats being dropped from the sky have become ob- scured by superimposed new rituals. Tradition has been dis- carded in a carefully choreo- graphed display of pyrotechnic splendor as an entirely new ide- ology is ushered in for the bi- centennial class. The fireworks were symbolic of everything shiny and fake that Union has become. Short bursts of lights and bawdy sound that every born again Unionite could soak in for some ironic sense of excitement, di- recting the energy of the primi- tive impulse toward hedonism to a bright new substitute. The time is strangely out of joint as a fresh breed of beauti- ful new twenty-somethings hit the streets running; Validine card in pocket and voice-mail empty. Inside the blue gate, Union is breeding a new kind of beast; this is a maladjusted, unbalanced, mutant little soci- ety severed by neuroticism and sorely in need of a positive identity. The quote of the year belongs to Joshua Parsons, as he says, \This used to be Union, now it's Union College.\ It all began in 1993 when Validine became mandatory. This was the first physical rep- resentation of the streamlining mentality coming to fruition. We were lined up at the fieldhouse and greeted by grin- ning technicians unifonned in white who offered us a shiny new card that would radically simplify and improve our lives. All we had to do was sit there and smile. What they neglected to emphasize was that by re-en- gineering the entire structure and tradition of currency and identification they were putting us all in plastic cages. TI1ey disconnected the human touch from the meal card and replaced it with a magnetic strip and a bar-code. Every time you step foot into the gym you are scanned and noted by the computer. Every time you get a cup of coffee, or do anything else on this '{!ampus, they know. When are we going to wake up and see what's go- ing on around here. We're living on a twisted ver- sion of M a.g g i e' s farm where the tigers are shaved like lambs. I brue.ss when Big Brother starts raiding the rooms to take away tobacco paraphernalia, I guess he already does. Or maybe eyes will open when Union College becomes a \Smoke Free Environment\ on December first. Your student I.D. number may be the most important thing you remember this year. Nineteen ninety-four, the bi- centennial year,, welcomes the death of the answering machine. The newest trick is voicemail: some computer generated voice that takes our messages and gives them back if it feels like it. \Enter this, enter that, press one, do this, do that, blah, blah, blah.\ This is another example of unnecessary technology tak- ing the place of creative possi- bility. Answering machines at least give a person some sense of control over their own voice. A little room for personality, a small forum for momentary ex- pression-, ~t' s .just too easy now to leave y,c;mr name and not worry ~bo~;t it.' TI1is new form of message storage is forging a deeper gulf between a stuc:jent and a sense of individualism and privacy. The convenience of this isjustasshiny and main- stream as the identification card, and equally as dangerous to free Union. Everyone knows that campus security, or possibly an even more sinister enemy, listens to all of our messages. This is the perfect surveillance tool for them, and we are virtually help- I CAN'T BELIEVE I OVERHEARD I CAN'T BELIEVE I OVERHEARD: someone say in the College Center, \I am passive- I have no opinions.\ I CAN'T BELIEVE I OVERHEARD: a woman say she is not a feminist. \Feminism is the radical notion that women are people. \ I CAN'T BELIEVE I OVERHEARD: Outside the college center on Monday night regarding chalk graffiti that read, \Feminism is not male bashing.\ Male I : \What is this?\ male 2: \Male bashing\ Female 1: (Silence) I CAN'T BELIEVE I OVERHEARD: Someone at the Paddy KiJrain performance at coffeehouse yell out, \Do you shave your annpitsT' What can't you believe you overheard? Send submissions to Box 499. Jess itl its perfection. TI1ey sit around and monitor for innu- endo, juice, deviance, or any activity not shiny enough to fit in the cage. TI1ey play games with our emotions by acciden- taHy omitting certain messages from the data bank, and, in do- ing so, control our infonnation. A word to the wise~ hook back up your answer- ing machine. As we move almost voice- lessly through this kiln of con- fonnity, there is a startling lack of outlets for trouble. It is in- creasingly suspi- cious the way the school is crack- ing down on par- ties throughout the week. I can't imagine how the administration can justify not allowing people. to congregate and do whatever the hell they waHt in the pri- vacy of a base- ment. It may be unfortunate, and maybe it's some kind of \sign of the times,\ but most teenag- ers do not graduate high-school with a strong sense of balance. If appetites are restrained at this. stage in the game, they'll do one of two things: come back with a vengeance when put in a free environment, or shrivel away and die (maybe?). Eight of my friends found out what happens when you allow your desires to control your actions - they failed out. I've met others who listen exclusively to reason - they are still here. TI1e impor- tant distinction is that after fail- ing out, my friends had some experience outside ofthe stmc- ture, and they came back pow- erhouses ofintelligentsia. They learned a tough lesson, but a cut always heals stronger than be- fore, and it's better to have raged and lost than never to have raged at alL Those that have vision and spark always bounce around before ,finding the rub. By pre- scribing limits on the nights of the week, and not considering the rich tradition of growth through experience, this college is taking away much more than hangovers in class. The trust is gone. Balance is test of bound- .aries, not a rigid set ofattitndes and beliefs that can be stamped like a bar-code on a validine card. Some say that the school is cracking down on partying dur- ing the week to create an atmo- sphere of i ntell ectul:Uity. a cozy little nook in upstate New York where we sit around in the Nott and study uritil 9:30 p.m. when we go back to the donns, brush our teeth, say our prayers, and go to sleep. This is an innocent vision of education that simply doesn't hold water. It ]s unarguable that different people leam in different ways. The most highlyesteemed of our cultures' influences came from the bar-rooms of Europ~, and that's not to say that it's the alcohol tHat tnMe the greahress. Not at all, but what it reflec.ts is a misdirection of focus. By re- stric~ing students activities. the college is not raising its reputa- tion. They say the proof of the pudding is in the eating. and so should it be for academics. l11is isn't high school b-ym class with E's for effort, if students can meet the requirements of the classroom then they're doing something right. It's called freedom, what this country is supposed to be based on. Fall Special For Visage! Call us at 374-0351 Women's Haircuts ............ u·························· $13 Men's •••••••••••e•••••••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••u•oo•••••••••o••••• $9 Perms ·····················~~······•··········•·o•••• ··~··········· $40 Stains ......... ., ............... ~····················~~··············· $25 -with cuts elio••·············-····~~············••o•••• $35 HighlightS •••••••••••••o•••••••••o•,.••••••••o••••••••••••••••••• $45 Manicures ...................... .., ................. u ........ \ $12 These special rates only apply with Penny, Angela, Melisssa and Beth Effective through November l, 1994

1994 ... 1995 ECAC Hockey Preview Last season Harvard blitzed through the EC AC regular season and playoffs. finished the season 25-5-4. and was an ove11ime goal away from the NCAA national championship garne. Harvard's 3-:2 overtime loss to eventual champion Lake Superior State in the NCAA semifinals should serve as a building block for this year's squad, Despite the loss of two of their three top scorers, the Crimson stiJ:J possess powerful offensive skill. 1993-94 ECAC Player of the Year and First Team All Arneri~ .can Steve Mm1ins (25 goals- 35 assists 60 points) retums to spearhead the offense which led the league in goals per game last season. Sup- pm1ed by senior fof\vards Cory Gustafson (21-10-32) and te.am captain Ben ·Coughlin ( 12-17-29). the Harvard offense exhibits a strong core of experienced scor- ers that should make Harvard's offense once again0ne·ofthe best in the nation. Harvard's only question hes along the blueline. All-American's Sean McCann and Derek Maguire. along with Lou Body were lost to graduation. Stepping in their place are seniors Bryan Longsinger ( 1-5-6) and Michael Breistrof (0-4-4) Al- though they won't neccessarily put up the same numbers as McCann and Maguire. their strong defensive play. along with ECAC All-Rookie Team member Ash in Halfnight (2-8-1 0), should keep the Crin1son among the top of the league in team defense. In goal. junior Trip Tracy ( 12-3-2, 3.0 I) takes over full time this sea- son after splitting time last year with Aaron Israel, who has left Harvard for a shot at the NHL. Tracy was the leading ECAC goalie as a freshman and should find success this season playing every night. If everything clicks and the defense works well to- gether. the Harvard Crimson could again find themselves with a shot at the national title. Not that Harvard will fin-d it a cakewalk within the division. 2. Vermont Several teams have a shot to make noise within the confer- ence. One of these will be the Vennont Catamounts. l11ey are losing only one impact player in forward Nicolas Perreault, and are hoping to improve on last season's 5th place finish. Among the 13 retuming forwards are a trio from Quebec, ECAC Rookie of the Year Eric Perrin {24-21- 45), Martin St. Louis (15-36-51) and Dominique Duchanne (12- 31-43} who fonn the scoring core. As freshmen, St. Loius and Perrin were 1-2 on the team in scoring and made the ECAC A11-Rookie Team. TI1ese three, along with junior Dale PattersQn (6-15-21) and senior Rob PatterSof! (8-19- 27), should keep sold out Gutterman Fieldhouse tacking. On defense the Catamount's don't lose any depth from last season. Captain Jason Williams (3-3 .. 6) and senior Mike Larkin ( 4-3-7) will lead a defensive core Can Union challenge HarvardfQr the ECAC crown? Senior captain Chris Albert behind the net in last year's 3-3 tie in Massachusetts (Josh H aines/TC) t11at il1corpotates a good mix of juniors and sophomores. Vennont's final line .of defense. sophomore goalie Tim llwmas (15-12-6. 3.03) should only im- prove on his freshman campaign, when he was selected to the ECAC all-Rookie Temn. With all this retuming talent, the 1994 sea- son should be a success. Nights notched second place in the conference with a 20- 9-5 overall record. its fifth- straight campaign with at least 20 wins. Clarkson should once again have the talent to match this per- fonnance. Six of their top 7 scor- ers retum, with the loss of top scorer Craig Conroy. Taking his place. is a Kent State transfer, Claude Morin. Morin is a CCHA All-Star and Kent State's top scorer for the past three season's. Also retuming are key wingers Marko Tuomainen (23-29-52) and Patrice Robitaille(16-31-47), who along with All-Rookie mem- bers Jean-Francais Houle (6-19- 25) and junior Steve Palmer ( 17- 23-40), should give the Knights some quality forwards. On de- fense, they look solid with All- American Brian Mueller (17-39- 56) anchoring the defense. Other defenseman include sophomore Adam Wiesel (3-7-10) and jun- ior Josh Bartell (1-2-3). Clarkson's only uncertainty lies between the pipes. A trio of new- comers, Junior Jonathan Parrella, freshman Dan Murphy and sophomore· Kerry Blanchard will compete for the job. If they can solve this question mark, they will have the offensive and defensive skill to contend for the title. 4. Union Several other teams could contend for the fiilal home ice playoff spot. Although any one of three teams could pull it out, this preview will exercise it's bias and pick Union. Last season Union went undefeated in its last 1 0 games, until being eliminated by RPI in the first round of the playoffs. Big things are now ex- peeled of the Dutchmen as they try to_develop into an ECAC power. l11ey lose but I ferward fonn last year's squad, and with a huge crew of experienced sophomores returning, they should be ready to move up in the standings. Seniors Chris Albert ( 11-18-29) and captain Cory Holbrough (10-12-22) lead a sophomore-led offense. All- Rookie Team members Chris Ford (20-15-35) and Troy Stevens (6-28-34) were 1-2 on the team in scoring last year. The entire defense is back, led by hard-hitting Reid Simonton (4- 20-24) and In net, Mike Gallant ( 10-9-1, 3 .80) and Luigi Villa (5- 2-2, 3.93) should agait{ split time between the pipes. Both had good runs down the stretch last season and were a major component in last year's success. 5. Rensselaer Union's crosstown rival RPI, looking to Improve on last season's trip to the NCAA toumametlt, will be com- peting with an entirely new team. RPI will have a new coach, lead- ing scorer, goaltender, and top defensive pairing. RPI wilt have a solid offense with Craig Hamelin (19-30-49), Bryan Richardson (23-29-52) and Wayne Clarke (22-17':-39). De- fense, however, might be a prob\ lem. Senior Adam Bartell leads a young defet1se that must rely on freshman to step up. Goaltender Neil Little, who started all but 3 games last season, will be re- placed by either Michael Tamburro (2-l-0, 2.38) or fresh- man Bryan Masotta. The keys here are the ability ofthe defense to gel and finding a new goalie. 6.Brown Brown will also be looking for a top 4 fin- ish. As they did last year, Brown will lose its . top scoring line to gradu- ation. Junior's Brian Jardine (7- 28-35) and Ryan Mulhern (18- 17-35) along with senior Eric Tract ( 11-13-24) will be the new first line. Stellar defenseman and Brown Captain Mike Traggio (3- 12-15) lead the Bears' eight re- turning defenseman. The key for Brown will be junior Mike Par- sons (2-4-1, 4 .38), who replaces first team All-Star Geoff Finch. Along with many other squads, Brown will need a goalie to step up to make a nm at one of the four top playoff seeds. TI1e Colgate Red Raiders, after The Best of the Rest 7. Colgate 8. Princeton 9. Cornell 10. St. Lawrence 11. Vide 12. Dartmouth starting strong last season, fin- ished with a mark of2-7 down the stretch, losing to Clarkson in the playoffs. l11is year, with added experience, they hope to sustain last year's strong start throughout the season. l11e offense will be ready, with Captain Ron Fogarty (13-30-43) and All-Rookie Team member Mike Harder (21-24-41) to be the main snipers. Nine vet- eran defensetnen, including six upperclassmen, will compete for the top six spots. This depth will allow Colgate to platoon without loss in production. Jason Gates (8-8-1, 4.32) and Matt Weder (5- 7-1, 3.64) will probably split time in net: A sustained team effort throughout the season could give the Raiders a better playoff seed- ing and more wins in the playoffs. A suprise team on the rise could be Princeton. For the first time in a while Princeton will return a number of top players, including six ofthe top seven scorers. Lead- ing retumees J.P. O'Connor (13- 11-24) and senior Ian Sharp (9- 13-22) will have to increase goal production to improve a Tiger offense that was next to last in goals per game last season (3 .03). Replacing leader Sean O'Brian on defense will be Jason Smith (1 .. 4-5 and Gavin Colquhoun (2-3- 5), along with three other return- ees who must step up their play. Goalie James Konte (1 0-13-3, 3.34) emerged last season to be- come a solid Division 1 player and lead the conference in min- utes played. The Comell Big Red will be unpredictable. Senior centerJ.ake Karam (10-17-27), junior Mike Sancimino ( 12-18-30) and AU- Rookie Team member Vinnie by Geoff Gardner Auger (11-13-24) will be the ba- sis of an offense from which they can build. TI1ey also hope to im- prove on their power play, which was the worst in the league last year,witha 10.7%scoringmark. Injury plagued defenseman Blair Ettles (0-5-5) figures to be part of the solution. Retuming sopho- mores Steve Wilson (3- IJ-16) and Chad Wilson (l-8-9) will both be key on defense. For the third year in a row Andy Bandursky (3 -8-3, 3. 81) and Eddy Skazyk (5-9-2, 4.21) will share minutes in goal. If Cornell can avoid their frequent injury problems and improve their power play, they wiH have a shot to capture a higher playoff seed. TI1e final three teams will be battling for the last playoff spot, come March. 111e St. Lawrence Saints were hit hard by injuries last season, and finished with a 10-21 record and a tenth place finish. TI1is season they hope the injury bug will leave them alone, and the now experienced sopho- mores will be able to lead them to the playoffs. TI1e offense is led by Burke Murphy (20-17-3 7) and rounded out by sophomores Scott Stevens (6-13-19) and Ryan Cassidy (2-11-13), who will try to replace four of their top five scorers. The defense is more solid, with junior Captains Jeff Kungle (4-6-10) and Tom Perry ( 4-8-12). Between the pipes wi 11 be sophomore Jon Bracco (4-4, 3.62), who had a respectable sea- son as a freshman. Consistency and health will help the Saints move forward in the rebuilding process and make it to the play- offs. Last season Yale and Dartmouth battled for the ECAC basement, and this year could bring another fight. Dartmouth is coming off a season in which it finished last, graduated its top scorer from the last two years, and its number one goalie. The of- fense will center around Co-Cap- tains Dion Del Monte (11-18-29) and Mike Stacci (14-7-21), who will lead a mix of veterans and freshmen forwards. Defensively, Trevor Dodman (3-9-12) and Dax Burkhart (1-10-11) lead a defense that must improve on its league worst 5.05 gottls per game aver- age. The goaltendingjob will rest on Ben Heller (2-4-0, 6.17) and two other varsity candidates. The good new for the Yale Bulldogs is that their coach Tim Taylor has retumed from coach- ing the Olympic squad. However, his team may be even worse than last year. The question for the team that was last in team offense and second to last in team de- fense, will be if last season's let- ter winners can produce the needed offense. Andy Weidenbach (12-14-26) and Zoran Kozic (10-8-18) will need to jump-start the offense. The defense will rely on freshmen to help Captain Rich Giroux (2-2-4). The stability will be in net where senior Todd Sullivan ( 4-15-1, 4.25) returns as the top goaltender. Regardless, Yale needs good seasons from their veterans and maybe a little inspi- ration from their retuming coach to move out of the basement.

October 13, 1994, page 22 SPORTS Men's Rugby Lambastes Hartwick, 65-0 by ~latt Godek Contributing Writer This past Saturday the Mighty Dutchmen tra\'eled to Hartwick and up to the top of Mt. Everest with a bus load of fans to begin a two week road trip. The weather ''as great. the field was beautiful and the Ru~hy Gods ,,:ere ecstatic as Union took the field. ll1is was a game which Hartwick will nc\\er f()rget as l Jnion crushed the conference record for points scored in a single game. As the smoke cleared. the blood of the Kid's head dticJ up and the game ended. the Dutchmen ''alked otT the field with a 65-0 \ ictorv. Yes. ~ ou heard right 65-0 The game \\as over from the 'cry beginning as a Hartwick penalty ended in lunch. Brian .. once a week .. Davenport took the midsection off a Hartwick rugger \\hile the ball ended up in the hands of Jon \I do no work but get all the credit\ Kaufman. Kaufman fell into the end zone for a 5-0 Union lead. Seconds later Union retrieved the ball from Hartwick to set Kaufman up for another score. and another, and another. Before the half \vas over Kaufman had done nothing hut fall into the end zone for a to- tal of 20 Union points. Union continued to trounc-e aH over Hartwick as they \\\ere unable to even cross mid field in the first half Kirk \I think I am going to tf)· out for the Clen~land Browns as place-kicker\ Andreae added an- other five points to the Union to- tal as did Mike Hanna & Bar-bara. Chris \the fastest man in Schenectady .. Delano. Cookie. and Seth .. the only rugger with- out a nickname\ Brown. The sec- ond half\\ as all the line as Jason ..Truck·· Sanahia and George '\i 7..zle-chcst ·· Baz0s added points to llnion's total. Grandpa .. the Jockey .. Schwartz also prmcd helpful by hitting the kicks to increase U.nion·s already monu- mental score. Additionally. Union was helped by the great playing by soine fine young athletes. Aaron ··give me a break I'm having a butt\ Guiten11an and Pike \Smimoffs my best friend\ Mody supported the Jockey to lead a successful serum. Furthennore, Jolm Q. \the Super Crossword ACROSS 1 A star In 112ACfO$S 6 DIC11on or , . faction starter <....._'f! Cpl. and sgt. -...Hebr-1)1.-e 18 Bk>od of the gods 18 ·e-tof -· 20 Wyatt of the West 21 Andrea- 23 Rol. fOI\ Bene Davis 25 Rolo for Katharine Hepburn 27 Plrata shlpe 28 Slno- autf.rla 29 Grandson of Esau 30 Washor cy.;ts 31 Indo-Iranian 32 Stair parts 33 Lfnle boy 38 Dvn•r'r\Nc:l or fl\'llllsUc:: •••rt•r 31t B.a-ball Q!G•t 40 t\llm starring Will Rage,. 50 VInegar from fermented ••• 51 1-iaJry wtld 52~. Broadway hl1 53 Braad ept-d 54 1936 role for Loretta Yaung 55 Those In office 158 Generation 57 Ship's officer 51f Or;o,ft org. 80 French lace 62 Communt from Scrooge 83Shed feathers IS4 Film starring Gary Cooper andH ... n Hayes 68 Other than 71 Ona of the \Linle Women· 7:Z Soak r1ax 73 Watering place '78 Noblornan. for sl'lar11 77 Chicago \loop\ trains 78Worka swindle on BO Like the lll&ld 83 High Anct.en plat••u :: ~:Y.~~•r 86 Period of Immaturity 87 Starring vehicle for Monty Wool lay 820ne otthe Stooges 83Walka ala klts.u~ely pace 84 Conc:orde, fo~on• 85 More tranquil 88 Placaot oblvlon 10 Theme song 10-. Tcddl .. ra o1 Francis 105 Pearl of high cr•a •net quanry Milto~ Bona 106 General 1 t l<lnd ot Uly region 12 Celestial 107 Enc:hanllng hunte~ place 13 Crime 11 :Z All-star fllm prevGntlon of the \30s org. 114 h starred 1<t Human being Bogart and 15 Fountain 3ergman specialties 115 II mfghl be 18 Papal common vestmenl 118 City In 1 7 Verslfl-, to unique ao!TIGI rev•r-1? 22 ·Makea a 11,.- Row 011 Nata rtoqUe8t 11a Spn.Jc- up 2 .. ca-ar•a sos the copy 2U Wort< or worm 118 Wo-rd be!fora stanar gas or :ah-t 28 Knight's gear 120 Wa:~te 31 Tapestry wall allowance hanging 121 Deltght 33 Russian CNetWMim· daspol5 't:ta ~:l~~~nu 3.4 ~:S.~:,\ head.-co=h• 315 Cancfu.ctor DOVVH Taylof 1 -Holes In a 37 Able or ca!!lllng mold skillful 2 \1'-rn 38 Han·ow·a·rival 3 Actress 39 Native Porlman · American 4 Rude rustles 41 Past 5 Ship's lowest 42 One or the dlllld( prlmalas S Cherish_. .. 3 Pr<lltandlsd souvenir courage 7 .l_.ah 44 tt's before rf!OOih klner, life 8 Floral or Hghl necklaces 45 He defeated e Ultimate goal AES Avwaae time of solution: 82 minutes most imposing player in the Northeast\ Stinkee destroyed the opposition with some devastating tackles. J.Q. injured so many of the Hartwick mggers that late in -the game Mike .. 1 get to wear the multicolored shirt\ Gifford ended up as a Hartwick fullback. <t8 Industrial diamonds •701herwiae 4• Requlremenr ••.Jun• bug 15451ndlan mulberry 57 Fo~aahadow 58 City on iho Danube 61 \Diamonds -Forever\ 82 Peripatetic NaiNe 83 WCIS1 of Hollywood 84 State or NE India esooan alti.,atk>n jab SSManiro ·Handford•• hidden hem 67Rivar In Garmany sa H-vuy or ...... oncont.d •• Indian macaque 'Jl\D .. -~._.n. Nach1rroualk\ 73 Traversea with rlllldar 74 Sornita employees 75 Sound the alarm 78 Llk•llf 77 AnglO-Saxon letter 82 Travelar·a haven 84 Reverend• fear as Btazlllan dane. &liOn. WhO ••vi-• 88 Bridge poslllon 00 L•r,.ual' and l:.a.we mualc:al 01 Gatekeepe. esG-rt-th 86 Scwerelgn·s decree 87Woody, tropical vine ua c .... •••natic:l neartha s. cet..lial D81f.:now 100 Goddess of peaca ~~ ~r:!;:'.:.- canoe·a pa.nner? 104 Sofe.of a 107f::me bankrupt 10aconfuaed 10&Biack blrdaol puzzledom 110 English 78 Muslc.l group 70 City on th• Oka 81 luau serving teach•rs' org. 111 Dara, In t10rne araaa 1131 T-.bte -rap 11• Sm.ll cain•: libbr. The Rugby team would like to thank the strong support of our fans and the hard work of our spiritual advisor, the wearer of the. magic socks and Tom. Come see the Rugby team this week as we travel to face u-ndefeated Plattsburgh. Our most popular player. Bagofdoughnuts, will he in full fonn for this contest. Tick- ets aboard the Skip Aycox ex- press are only $20 and can be purchased from student activities. Buy now and support your mighty Dutchmen. Athlete of the Week: Senior Soccer Defenseman ------------- tme leader for his teammates and by Jason Starr a dominant force on the field. Sports Editor What he and his team accom- Stuart Polk. the 6' I·· semor plished this week was truly amaz- out ofMilton Academy. anchors ing. TI1ey managed two shut-out a Dutchmen soccer defense that victories. one against what was emerged from its last two games the hest team in the state. In an without a blemish. This native interesting coincidence. the of Wellesley. MA is an impos- team's next game was also played ing frame on a soccer field. In a against the number one team in spott where the average player the state. RIT. who the Dutchmen is no more than 5'10\ Polk is played on Wednesday(afterpress often one of the biggest players time). were moved up to the num- on the field. This is a fact that ber one spot when Union knocked he successfully, ifnot intention- off St. I.,awrence (see Union soc- ally, uses to his advantage. cer). As co-captain, Polk not only TI1e play of Stuart Polk and his coordinates the defense but also impenetrable defense was instrtt- plays a role of motivator and mental in both of these wins. supporterforhisteammates .. His We'd like to wish Stu and his voice can usually be heard above teammates luck with the rest of the all others when his team needs a season and in all of their college source of inspiration. He is a endeavors. In teres ted in writing for sports or taking photos? -. call 6155 or stop by CC303

SPORTS Men's Soccer Rides Two Game Wave Dutchmen shock #7 St. Lawrence 4-0 by Jason Starr · Sports Editor What a great week for Union's men's soccer! The Dutchmen could not haw hoped' for much .more. They entered this week on a winless drought that spanned their last five games. On their schedule was a Utica team con,. sidered to be just as weakas: they were and St. Lawrence, a nation- ally ranked (seventh) powerhouse of a team that Union could not truly have expected to beat. But the Dutchmen pulled off the up- setthatjustmay turn their season around and get them headed in the right direction. The first game of the week was Wednesday against Utica. This was the first team that Union outplayed for the full length ofthe contest. After an uneventful first half hour of play the Dutchmen managed to place one in the back of the net. There were twelve minutes remaining in the half when Tom Feldman received a leed pass from Nick Zarrelli at the eighteen yard mark. After some fancy dribbling, Feldman rifled one into the right comer giving the Dutchmen the one point edge. This lead steod into half-fime as Utica could not muster a descent opportunity against the solid Union d\!fense. As the second half opened, Utica wasted no time showing that they were not yet out of the Tennis Suffers Loss Continued from page 24 doubles teams· followed suit, rounding out the forgettable day. Regardless of this loss, it is clear that second year coach Joanne game. However, despite a de- scent chance for Utica's offense to tie the score, Union held strong and kept their lead. The next twenty minutes ofplay was domi- nated by the Dutchmen. Theonly thing that kept this game close was the excellent play of Utica's goalkeeper. With this much pres- SliT~ behtg applied to Utica's de- fense, one was bound to go in, and it did with .seventeen minutes left to go in the game. This goal came . off a free kick that was flicked on by GeoffSipperly and placed into an open net by # l 0, Scott Rabideau. With the score at 2-0, this all but sealed Union's first victory in three weeks and their first home win of the season. The Dutchmen now had to pre- pare to take their one game streak on the road and put it on the line against what was the best team in the state. The stadium at St: Lawrence was filled with over 1500 parents and students cheer- ing for the schools best soccer team in years .. Union did not fig- ure to have a chance. The game plan,. as Coach Nardiello drew it up, was to pack the defense in tight and try to keep them off the scorebeard for as long as possible. Any scoring opportunities, he hoped, would come off counter attacks. How- ever, Union did not have to wait for a counter attack for their first goal. It came with ten minutes to play in the first half as Scott Little has done an admirable job, leading the team to a record of seven wins against only three losses. With only two matches re- maining before States, the team is coming down the homestretch. Although both match are away (at Rabideau got his second of the week on abouncing ball initiated from a corner kick. The half ended with Union up 1-nil. With just five minutes gone in the second, the Dutchmen put another one by the St. Lawrence keeper. This was one ofthe pret- tiest scores .of the year. It came when JeffSchotland sailed a di- rect kick into the penalty box where the ball was.picked clean out of the air by ieremy Liebhoff. This goal seemed to set the tone for the rest of the game. Utica could musterlittle offense and the Dutchmen managed to blast two more into the back of the St. Lawrence net. One was scored by Sipperly off a counterattack that saw him beat two defenders near midfield and squirt the ball past the keeper on his left. The fourth and final go~l was scored by a Rabideau header that came off a cross from deep in the left comer. When the final whistle sounded, f!nion had soundly beaten the best team in the state by a score of 4-0. 11iese two wins are very big for this team and they will hopefully have some sort of cany over ef- fect into the remainder of the sea· son. There now exists a positive attitude among the Dutchmen players and coaches, an inbJfedi- ent that has been absent for the last few weeks. They needed to win to regain this positivity and they now need to keep this posi- tive attitude in order to win. Russell Sage and New Paltz), you should make the roadtrip to cheer them on. Very quietly, this team has turned out to be one of Union's finest, and deserves your support. October 13, 1994, page 23 · es. i~f{)fe J go to bed · . it.~ , . . . ~·· . rt1!1~ty minut~ . . . ·ve,~turiq{fni~ ..... y. Last year was !antl::l•h ;3.r ·, 'Pla:ying with.~ ll~ited knowledge . .. ,. s ~lackjaik '~a~!~~~s,~d it .close sec- . p~~s I can m®t (}ften be found. And · · · · m~n on th~Viewffuder side of cnw~kllttg as l left disgruntled,· befuddled~ . w¢elhvith the consistency of a sch6ol~otk ·the only obstacle up:p@l;~ape•~• f~$ide~{l~~ u ov.,u .. ,n yon do Jose. For instance. ;~e{~Jll.11!e4.,, ~. ib~ri .far. :'compli- ~oot,te ·~·-u,.., •.. .,\.'\• .pl~y long; enough hiil~~:Y·\\·(,tt. ¢t.:'e ... · . eighttoten dol- • .stillg ftO~JJ tq.~ night, :\Vnt,;;vt:o.u~~l\l1Y. n0t~Se 'tiitlked :up tli~ii'! ·with i'.t.\ •.. ~:eritine .. announcements oftbe past,. t do ~Jl¢ C:t:tStil:o as a certain atid wefl~nooded alternative titll;e,.·f?reakup the lllOPo.tony that is the Union Col- . . .. ·My advieet~~hose \ho doemhafk ooto the Oneida .careful. do not bring your ATM card, and always ''1'1/H,.Mi.l. a ~leven ifthe dealer has between a three or a six Dutchmen Shutout Great Danes; RPI Homecoming Foes Continued from page 24 Leach and back Kevin Pessolano each recovered a fumble, while linebacker Bob Champlain had an interception. Jim Nickerson aJ\d Denton Randolf each had one QB sack, while linebacker Mario Maltese, Brad Duffy, and Pessolano led the team with four solo tackles apiece. Pessolano and Mike White lad with total tackles, with six apiece. Pollsters took notice to this vic- tory, as they gave Union back the top spot in the Upstate New York Poll. They remained at 15 in the Columbus Multimedia (National) Potl. As far as retuming to the NCAA playoffs, it appears Union can control their own des- tiny. TI1ey are currently ranked third in the Eastem Region, with the top four teams qualifying for the playoffs. Provided they con- tinue to play as strongly in their final three games, another play- off appearance is looking realis- tic. This Saturday's Homecoming matchup should be a doozy. Union and RPI will continue New York State's oldest collegiate football rivalry. Although your Tile Union offensive line at Albany. Tl1e line dominated tile game. (Joslt Haines/T!Je Concordiensis Dutchmen hold a 70-17-4 career edge against fhe Engineers, RPI, which brings into the game a 3-1 record, has ruined our Homecom- ing three times since 1980. RPI will be fired up this year not only to avenge last years 19-16 last- minute loss, but also to take back the coveted \Dutchmen Shoes\ trophy, which annually goes to the winner. Union, however, will be playing in front of a large home crowd, with a playoff berth in the distance. If RPI hopes to continue their Homecoming suc- cess, they will have to come and outplay a Dutchman squad as strong as ever. Irving Only 29 Yards From Union . Rushing Record Unbeknownst to most of the Dutchmen faithful, Chris Irv- ing is nearing a milestone in Union College sports. The 5 '9, 190 -pound running back, out of Williamsville, New York, is on the verge of eclips- ing three all-time football records. The senior finds him- self only 29 yards away from breaking Vlad Telemaque's record of2,860. After his 144 yard, I touchdown perfor- mance this past week against Albany, he needs only 5 more touchdowns to beat Telemaques record of 30 touchdowns. Finally, with three games to go in the sea- son, he needs just 168 yards to become the first Dutchmen ever to break the 3,000 yard barrier. One or possibly even all of the records could fall this in this Saturday's Bicentennial Homecoming against RPL so come out at1d watch, and maybe even see history in the making.

October 13, 1994 PAGE24 Women's Rugby Improve~ to 2-0 with Win Ov~r .Colgate by Tiffany Lussier Contributing Writfr l Jnion kept its uiidcfeatcd sta- tus, becoming 2-0, by defeating the Colgate women's team 10 to 5 this weekend on Library field. Union took the lead early in the game, 30 seconds into it to be precise. After being awarded a penalty, the Union serum, con- sisting of Kathy-bu-bye-Walter, Jaync-the•prop-SeckiJJS, .Sharon Czechowski (a rookie, therefore no nickname yet), Courtncy- Joes-m y-tape-look -OK?-Brem, Jessie-she's baaack-Zirinski, A emil i a-does-my-knee-look- funnv-to-vou')-Teasdale. Kellv- ~ \' \' hut- I 've-never-been-a-hook er- hefore -Cassidy. and Laura-be- ing-a·hooker-isn 't-so-hard- Grund. took the ball in a picture perfect scissors move. nnd got it out to Amy-the-only-gid-to- cver-tacklc-Andy-Kiaucke. who assisted Kim-get-out-of-my- \\ ay-or-dic-Sanahia. who touched it down for five points. l.ater in the garne. w.hen the l Inion players were all motnel1- tarily abducted by aliens, the Colgate team managed to get 5 points of their own. However, when the Union team was re- turned. they were led into a frenzy of tackles (which resulted in the hospitalizntion of several Colgate players) by Stacey-mas- t er-of- t he-chalk -Fe II ow s. I loffman-K ri steen-Hoffman. and Gaela-woosh-Schweizer. Women's rugby players during tlleir victory over Colgate tllis weekend. (plloto by Josll Haines for tile Concordiensis) The final score of the game was accomplished when serum-half Tiffany-Hicks-Lussier found her- self covered with Colgate players, she launched a pass that any NFL QB would be proud of right into the waiting anns of rookie Jen-ex- otic-late-night-dancer-Lelas who touched it down for the game winning 5 points. The second game was led by a few veterans, including Andrea- Pippi-Bruns, however, the fol- lowing rookies played a good Chantal Von Salrer during Union's /rome loss to Skidmore (plroto by Joslt Haines!TC) Tennis Falls to Skidmore, 9-0 by Ken Berman Spol'ts f!ditor Maybe it was the unseason- ably warm temperatures. Maybe it was the dreaded \Athlete of the Week Jinx.\ Maybe they were just due for a loss. Regardless of the rea- son, the Women's tennis team lost a heartbreaker Saturday afternoon, 9-0, to the visiting women of Saratoga. Playing un- der perfect tennis conditions, with sunny skies and temperatures hov- ering in the lower 70's, the Union faithful were treated to a well- played, albeit one-sided affair. First singles player Julie Ander- son was dealt her first loss of the season, playing against a player of Jennifer Capriati 's quality (without the heroin problem). Seniors Chantal Von Saber, Rachel Goldfine, Junior Amy Kessinger, and freshman Katherine Ott, rounding out the remaining singles matches, did not fare any better, as they all lost close matches. Unfortunately, Union's Continued on page 23 match, despite tl~eir serious lack of nicknames: Heather Daly, An- drea Schulman, Allison Ciolino, Debbie Spauld.ing, Jessica Kriebel, Amy Strugazeow, Carol Chase, Cat Stock, and Amy Jasinski. This weekend, the women ruggers play at Albany State, but they will be back to bring about the destruction of Oneonta the following weekend on library field. Footb-all Rebounds, Defeats Albany 21-0 by Ken Berman Sports Editor Playing in a night affair against their Capital District rivals, Union improved to 4-1 while dominat- ing the University of Albany on both sides ofthe ball Saturday, in a 21-0 victory that showed all onlookers they are not quite ready to roll over and play dead, after their disappointing loss last week to Dickinson. Albany, which had come into the game averaging 387 yards on offense, found itself helpless against the Dutchmen defenders, who limited them to only 150 yards, while forcing three turn- overs. Chris Irving led the Union offense on the ground, gaining 144 yards on 27 carries, while continuing his assault on the school record books (see adjoin- ing column). His efforts not only got him) on the ECAC \Honor Roll\ for the third time this sea- son, but it enabled Union to con- trol the ball for 38 minutes. Put simply, Albany rarely had the ball, and couldn't do anything with it when they did have it. You just don't win many ballgames li·ke that. On only it's second po.ssession, the Dutchmen claimed the lead that would stand for the remain- der of the game. Starting on their own 49, they drove the remain- ing 51 yards in only 5 plays. Irv- ing accounted for 46 of these yards, on 4 carries, including his 23 yard score with 6:33 to go in the first.· This score remained until Union scored it's second touchdown of the game, aft~r recieving the second half kickoff. T11is drive went 65 yards over 11 plays, with Irving once again ac- counting for 46 by himself. This time, however, it was his main blocking back, Justin Bourque, that found the endzone for the Dutchmen. He received a 2 yard scoring strike from quarterback Keith Lombardo, who ended up completing 7 of 11 passes for 92 yards. and two touchdowns. To go along with this touchdown, Bourque had the first 100 yard rushing game ofhiscareer, ort 14 carries .. The final Dutchmen strike came in the final quarter, when Lorn bardo drove the final stake into Albany's coffin, in the fonn of a 20 yard pass to sophomore receiver Shuron Morton, to set up his 29 yard scoring strike to Mike Bernardo. On the other side of the ball, the entire defense con- tributed to the shutout. EndAndy Contin11ed.on page 23

I ! ' ' ' Think Safety - Take the Escort Service · .. · ' • ! \ • ' • ' ' - - ' _...·nuror bi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIV, Number IV Schenectady, New York Football players embrace the Dutchmen's Shoes as President Roger Hull and Coach John Audino exchange congratulations. Union defeated Rensselaer 23-6 in New York State's oldest football rivalry to retain the trophy. (Josh HainesffC) Homecoming Festivities Help Celebrate Bicentennial by Caroline J. Paine News Editor Alumni and students gathered for Union's Bicentennial Homecoming celebration this past Saturday. The weather was made to order for the crisp fall day as alumni were greeted by a reception in front of Lamont House from 9:00pm to 4:00pm. Hot cider and other refreshments were served as the past students had a chance to greet each other and catch up with old friends. As a special event for the College's Bicentennial, Cedric Dempsey, the Executive Director of the NCAA, participated in a panel discussion on \The NCAA: It's Purposes, Prom- ise, and Performance\ and later gave a take on \The Future of the NCAA.\ Admission was free to college affiliates and the public. The highlight ofthe day was the annual football game be- tween Union and R.P.I. For every touchdown that Union scored, Professor Ted Bick sounded his victory trumpet from the stands. The two schools hold the oldest college sports rivalry in the United States. For over a hundred years the Dutchmen and the Engineers have be~n competing f~r the possession of the Dutch Shoes. The Shoes are the crowning glory of a spectacular trophy that the winning school gets to keep until the next Union Homecoming game. With in the last twenty-five years Union has lost the coveted icon only eight times and has held it for longest time consecutively of the two schools. Homecoming football has definitely been \Old Union's Game\ as an old college song suggests. This year the Dutchmen held on the Shoes and continued Union's Continued on page 4 Celebrating Our Bicentennial October 20, 1994 Academic Honesty: A Crack--down on Guidelines by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff Guidelines for academic honesty arc not getting tougher, but the ehforcemcnt oftlwse rules are. This is being done to keep the col· lege safe from liabilities. The academic honesty pol icy wasn · t changed because of a particular incident, hut it was just changed with the times. :\s the world becomes more bureaucratic and law- suits are being fileu mon: olkn. the sciWlll has to protect itself \Thl' guidelmes \\ c ha\ .... work.\ :\ssociatc I kan oft 'mkrgraduatL· Prtl- grams Margaret Schadler said The Academic Am1irs Committcc ,!nd th~o· Sub-Council on the St;.mding tlf Studl'nts worked with a team of lawyers to devise an efficient and protective policy. There were only a handful of substance changes. In the preamble of the policy it states that a quorum of the Sub-council will have six members. Previously, a quorum of one · third was understood, but now, membership is stated specifica11y. At the suggestion of the lawyers involved, the failure to appear, the standard of proof, and the appeals procedure were added. The failure to appear was stating the obvious. Generally the council schedules a meeting around the student's schedules. The standard of proof chooses the statement \clear and pet- suasive\ to describe high probability that the crime occurred. The last addition of the appeals works the most against the student. The appeal proce- dure can only be used if there was a proce- dural error, if new facts become available and if the consequences are unreasonably harsher Continued on page 4 Cedric Dempsey Reiterates Union's Connection to Founding of NCAA Executive Director of NCAA Delivers Union's Bicentennial Homecoming Address by Nalini Gupta Concordiensis Staff Union alumni, families and friends celebrated Union's festive bicentennial homecoming week- end with great spirit this year. The occasion also brought an op- portunity to assess the progress of the college itself and of organi- zations like· the NCAA which have emerged from its tradition. The National Collegiate At!tletic Association assembled last Satur- day, October 15, to re-examine its purpose in regulating intercolle- giate athletics and to recognize its accomplishments in doing so. The assembly gave NCAA members, Union athletes and community representatives a chance to remember the outstand- ing achievements of one of Union's greatest footbali players, Harold ''Blue\ Moore of the Class of 1908, who was carried from the field senseless in the final game of the season against New York University. Remarking on the incident, Cedric Dempsey, Executive di\ rector of the NCAA, said, \Moore was admired and re\ spec ted by his colleagues and his death caused a stunned response from many people including President Theodore Roosevelt. It had a permanent effect on college sport in America.\ Moore suffered a cerebral hemorrhage caused by a hard fall in the game and passed away without regaining consciousness. His death caused outcries and shock throughout the eastern col- lege world and started several movements· for the thorough re- form of football on a national scale, resulting in significant re- vision of rules for college foot- ball. Many college leaders and educators were stirred into action and a meeting of representatives from 64 institutions resulted in the founding of the present NCAA. The recent meeting consisted of several panelists who spoke on issues critical to the performance of the NCAA. Executive Direc- tor Cedric Dempsey, Associate Director Mary Barrett, Commis- sioner Clayton Chapman, Union graduate and Student Athletics Support Programs Director Rob- ert Koonce and Director of Ath- letics Rocco Carzo attended the meeting and addressed several issues of concern from the audi- ence. Speaking on the tremen- dous impact which Union had on his life, former football player Koonce remembered the support and dedication ofUnion' s faculty in helping him maintain his aca- demic standards. He also ex Continued on page 4

I , October 20, 1994, page 2 NEWS '· - caJ:ITe :Gtuttc1lrbien5iii Campus. Safety Department Weekly Incidelit Summary MONDAY, OCTOBERlO, 1994: 12:45 AM 1:30AM 1:15AM 10:02 PM 12:16 PM 4:41 PM Whitaker House Bronner House Richmond Park Place West College West College TUESDAY, OCTOBERll, 1994: 1:41 AM 2:00PM Fox House College Center \'' PROPERTY. DAMAGE: Window off track-cause unknpwn. THEFT: New chair stolen from dining area. SAFE!Y HAZARD: E~it blocked by 4x8 sheet of plywood. MOTO~ VEIUCLE ACCIDENT: Property damage accident involving crun~us vehicle and off campus vehicle. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Smoke detector damaged-cause undetermined. FIJ{E ALARM: Caused by accidental activation ofpuU box on Jrd floor. Work order filed for repair. SEX OFFENSE: Staff member hara&sed by nude male students. SAFETY HAZARD: Improper storage of supplies and' equipment blocking emergency access and exit. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12,.1994: 12:00 PM College Center MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR; Juvenile visitors causing disturbance. Fought with Campus Safety Officer. Identified and warned off campus. High School principal advised. 2:35 PM Nott Memorial SAfETY HAZARD: Sprinkler systeiU obstructed. 4:22 PM Child Care Center THEFT: Musical instruments stolen from two students. THURSDAY. OCTOBER 13, 1994: 12:20 AM 2~10 AM 5:10PM Library Lane Huntley Lane Hale House V ANDALlSM: Tree uprooted. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Unauthorized Social Event. Attendees attet:npting to uproot trees/shrubs in the area. TRESPASS: VIsitor soliciting food and money. :' · FRIDAY. OCTOBER 14, 1994: 1:05AM 2:~0 AM 6:24AM 3:27PM . . . 10:56 PM S.Terrace Lane Davidslim South College Nott Seward Lot Bailey Field ROBBERY: Female student walking alone accosted and robbed by three teenage suspects. No injury. SPD notified and investigating. FIRE ALARM: Caused by accidental damage to smoke detector on 3rd floor south. PROPERTY MISSING: Vacuum missing from housekeepers closet. Located. THEFT: Fire extinguisher stolen from parked campus vehicle. ' . ' ,- . SUBST ANC~ ABU.SE: Students in possession ofmarijuana . ' and paraphernalia. Conduct Charges filed. · SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15,1994: 12:34 PM 2:43PM 7:30PM 8:43PM Davidson North PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window in lounge broken-cause undetermined may be accidental. Huntley Lane TRESPASS/HARASSMENT: Three older visitors, appeared to be vagrants, carrying open containers on campus. Threatened Campus Safety Officer as he warned them off campus. Raymond North FIRE ALARM/LIFE SA,.FETY VIOLATION: Intentional activation of pull box in basement area. Life Safety Notice filed. Lenox Road VANDALISM: Visitor's vehicle damaged. SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1994: 3:00AM 3:05AM 3:45AM 4:10AM 5:15AM 9:00AM 9:28AM 11:40 AM 4:30PM • Achilles Rink area ROBBERY: Male student walking alone accosted by a group of young teenagers. Student knocked to ground. Wallet and cash stolen. SPD notified and investigating. Achilles Rink area SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Intoxicated underaged visitor alleged to have been drinking at campus social event. Paramedics notified. A <I>& LX STUDENT RELATIONS: Violations of Social l'olicy, noise complaints and trespass by teenaged youths at Sigma Chi. Raymond House BURGLARY: Two visitors entered residence hall through opened win- dow. Attempted theft was thwarted by resident. Campus Safety Officers contacted. One suspect apprehended and arrested for Criminal Trespass. AD Phi FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Intentional Sigma Phi. CCLot Raymond House Off Campus activation of pull box on ·first floor. Life Safety Notice filed. THEFT: Visitor's jacket stolen from basement area. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Staff members .cars collided while both were parked-accidental brake release. No Injury. VANDALISM: Windows broken inN& S sides of the building. HARASSMENT: Male student harassed on Nott Terrace by 3 city teenagers . MONDAY, OCTOBER 17,1994: 3:30PM 4:32PM Fox House West College HARASSMENT~ Recurring hang up phone calls. HARASSMENT: Students receiving recurring unwanted phone calls. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18,1994: 12:20 AM Edward House SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical outlet broken and sparking. Life Safety 12:57 AM 2:3'1 AM work order filed. AD Phi BURGLARY: Visitor entered building through unlocked door and stole a student's bike and a wheel from another student's bike. SPD contacted. Area searched for suspect-not located. West Beach area ATTEMPTED ROBBERY/ASSAULT: Male student walking alone accosted by lone male teenager possibly armed with a knife. Student fought suspect off and escaped uninjured. SPD contacted. Area searched for.suspect-not 'located.

NEWS Campus Under Siege! by })avid Levine & Sarah, Ruth Evans Contributing Editors Over the past four years there have been four reported personal attacks on the Union campus. On Tuesday, Paul Mantica, head of campus safety, Dean Alford, Vice-President Mammola, and Student Forum President Nate Coffin addressed a concerned audience of Union students to discuss a series of six reported security incidents over the past month, five of which have occurred during the past week. According to Mammola; \We •September 24, Lenox Road, 3 a.m. - Anned robbery of one stu- dent and one alumnus. 3 attackers. Shots were fired. Case Pend~ ing •October 14, Fox area, 1 ;05 a.m. - F.emale student attacked by 3 unidentified persons. Wallet stolen. •October ·16, Achilles Rink, 3 a.m. - Armed robbery of male stu- dent. Student was assaulted and injured. •October 18, Alpha Delta Phi, 12:57 a.m.- Male suspect entered fraternity and stole bicycle. •Octoqer 18, W-est Beach area, 2:31 a.m. - Male student threat- ened by artned suspect. •October 18, Raymond House, 3-5 a.m. -Two people enter stu- dents room. One person charged. you (the students) can't just buy front of the residence halls rather into safety.\ than in the unlit parking lots, and Mantica is outspoken about the addition of more lightweight students taking the proper vans that can travel on pedestrian are taking all of the incidents very seriously. We have taken a number of preventative measures to enhance the 'police presence' on the campus.\ The school is in the process of hiring \Tbe immediate goal is to put in m~easures to catch, arrest, and prosecute the criminals. We want to send a clear message that Union College is not an easy target for walkways. The administration is seeking student suggestions for future improvements. The school is trying to stay away from drastic measures, such as closing the school's crime.\ two new securing guards, which will raise the force to 20 officers. There will be more foot patrols, with campus safety aided by student patrols. Mammola also promised, \increased coordination with the Schenectady police department.\ \The immediate goal is to put in measures to catch, arrest, and prosecute the criminals. We want to send a clear message that Union College is not an easy target for crime.\ Ac.cording to Paul Mantica, \We all need to work together; gates at night, or precautions to safeguard arming the security force. \We themselves. Students should take don't want an intimidating the escort service late at night, walk in groups, and always comply with the requests of attackers. \Too many people attempt to be heroes, and they end up with heroes' funerals.\ Potential improvements to campus safety include the addition of escort vans, additional lighting behind North Hall and Lamont House, the opening of the road in front ofF ox and Davidson so vans can drop students off in presence,\ Mantica stated. \Our officers are capable of dealing with confrontational situations through the use of common sense.\ Other ideas for bolstering campus safety include installing window bars, and providing the campus security cars with sirens and lights similar to those appearing on police vehicles. In fighting the recent increase in crime, administrators admit that the school has limited October 20, 1994, pag~ 3 One of the many courtesy phones on campus to aid in tile safety of student (plroto by Rick Lederer/TC) resources. Only three officers are on duty during any given shift, and tl10ugh these officers have a lot of experience, Mantica exhorts students to take part in the efforts to secure the campus. Students have been bombarded with literature about safety recently; from the Dean's Office and in the student newspaper. Tile message about taking precautions is reaching the students. According to a senior female, \I never felt the need to take security home before these incidents, now I am terrified to step foot out of the College Center at night.\ Though the school does not want st11dents to be terrified, they prefer students to be on the safe side. Food Services: From the Privatized Perspective by Liza DeKoven Assistant News Editor Since the decision to privatize food services at Union College, Marriott has brought in Steve Pearse as the new director of din- ing services. Pearse is pleased to be a part of the school community. \Although I am a representative from Marriott food Services, I want to be a part of Union,\ said Pearse. \Even though I am paid by Marriott, I am part of a support system to help the students.\ \My goal is to go through part of a learning curve,'~ said Pearse. \Some things need immediate at- tention, some things are better off left alone, and some things are carved in stone.\ Pearse prides himself on the fact that he is trying to figure out what the students are looking for. \I am very interested in knowing both the positive and negative aspects offood services from the point of view of the students,\ said Pearse. Pearse is aware of the students concerns. He has decided to ex- tend the hours of Dutch Hollow to better suit the needs of the school community. Beginning ·this weekend, Dutch Hollow will be open on a trial ba~is during the week until midnight and on the weekend until one a.m. However, the extended Dutch Hollow hours will provide limited services. Stu- dents will only be able to get things like pizza, subs and drinks; the grill will be closed. In tenns of changes in the din- ing services, Pearse reports that the greatest changes took place in the West College dining facili- ties with its physical renovations. \Changes are going to continue to take place in West,\ said Pearse. \Very shortly a second milk dispenser will be added and an ice dispenser by the juice ma- chine will be added to limit the traffic in the dinning hall.\ \The switch to self service has received very positive feedback,\ said Pearse. \We feel that college students are adults, and we feel that college students are capable of de- ciding the amount that they want to eat.\ Pearse continued to reit- erate that the switch to self serve was not made because dining ser- vices were trying to cut costs. The number of employees in the din- ing halls has remained the same, the employees are just paying more attention to making the dining halls more service oriented and conve- nient. Pearse explained the rationale behind the a Ia carte service at Open House Draws Record-breaking Numbers by Stephanie Berliner Concordie11sis Staff Monday, October 1 0 was the annual Open House for perspec- tive freshmen. Union sent invi- tations to all perspective freshmen and this year, approximately 409 high school students came to the Open House. Including parents and other relatives, there was a total of900 people on campus for the open house. The majority of students came from different ar- eas of tl1e Northeast, Ohio, and Pennsylvania~ as well as from other states in the country. This year's open house was very successful. In fact, this is a record setting year. Last year, only 298 students came. This year's total of 409 students is a thirty-seven p.ercent increase. Kerry Mendez, of the Admissions staff, said that _this year's open house was \very positive,\ and it was an \effort from everyone.\ Some of th~ events- that took place on Monday included tours around the campus, a welcome address from President Hull and Nathan K. Coffin '95. (President ofUnion's Student Government), department meetings, and a stu- dent panel. Tl)e night before, there was a dinner for multicultural students. About sixty students went to the dinner. These students were pri- marily from New York and Bos- ton, as well as other cities. After the dinner, there was a program for the students to attend. These students stayed with host students and had the option to go to classes with their hosts. The other per- spectives could go to classes if they wanted to. There was, also, transportation for students who weren't able to come here by their own means of transportation. For example, there was a bus from New York City as well as trans- portation from Boston. Mendez would like to thank ev- eryone for their help. She says that \students faculty, and administra- tion were all involved\ and the day was \very effective and very suc- cessful.\ The students seemed to be \extremely impressed\ by the campus and the students. Unfor- tunately, there are no more apen houses this year. However, the college hopes to host several open houses next year. Upper Class for lunch. \Upper class is for people with a quasi meal plan,\ said Pearse. ''At Up- per class someone with a meal plan can use one swipe for what 'looks' like a reasonable amount of food, and someone without a meal plan can take their lunch off of their $200 declining balance.\ Pearse continued to explain that the a Ia carte system allows for faculty and staff to eat v.;ith the students on an infonnal basis. The biggest issue that Pearse ad- dressed was the transferability of meal swipes. He explained that if students start lending swipes to friends, students will not qualify for sales tax exemption. The New York Sales Tax Law clearly states that food and drink. under a meal plan, must be used for personal use only. Under the laws, meals on a meal plan can- not be purchased for another in- dividual and still be tax-exempt. In tenns of the price discrep- ancies that were noted by many students, Pierce apologized and said that he did not know what was going on. He is currently investigating what are competi- tive prices for items that are sold at both the convenience store and Dutch Hollow. Pearse is a graduate of Hobart College and has worked for food services at Bryant College, Trinity College, Mallhattan College and Wells CoJlege.

',, October 20, 1994, page 4 NEWS Campus Conduct Code Updated of the Board of trustees advised .··.that the college revis(th~ ·p01icy both to protect thetrtselves legally · in cases sltch as this and also to comply with state law. ln 1994, the Board of Trustees passed the revised regulations. governing campus conduct. clearly defined. For example, stu- dents will be prosecuted accord- ing to the guidelines. provided in the Studen~ Condu~t Code, while by Heather Manley Assista11t News Editor The 1994-1995 Union College Student Handbook includes the new regulations goveming cam~ pus conduct. The Board ofTmst- ees passed these regulations in compliance. with a New York State Law go\'cming education. Until this year, the school did not confonn with the law. ht 1969. during an era of dis- content on many college cam- puses in the fonn of riots and pro- tests, the State of New York de- fitied regulations for colleges in reference to conduct on campus or other college propetty used for educational purposes. Section 6450 ofEducation Law states that aH colleges chartered by the Board of Regents. nt\tSt provide ••rules and regulations for the maintenance of public erder ott college campuses and other col• lege property used for educational purposes and provide a program for the enfOI'cement thereof.\ That same year, the Board of Trustees outlio~le·d Union College's policy forcarnpus con- duct. The rules govemed the of- ficers oft he college, faculty; stu.- dents. licensees and vi,sitors .. They set forth regulations, but failed to clearly define disciplin- ary proceedings for those who violated the regulations. The original rules stated that all via- lators are to be prosecuted accord- ing to the same procedur¢ which \observe[ d) the. proprieties.of due process characteristic of aca- demic proceedings of:this kjnd,\ but never stated what d1e propri- eties would be. In the last few years, the .col- lege experienced incidents in which it thought it necessary to expel individuals from the prop- erty, explained Patricia Tappa, Assistant to the President. How- ever; according to its policy gov- eming conduct code, it had no legal right to do so. Because the 1969 policy did not specifi~;ally spell out all the conditions for prosecution, the college could not legally ban an individual from the property. The General Counsel The new regulations specifi- cally outline who the rules gov- em, what conduct is prohibited, the penalties, the proc.edure for· prosecution and the enforcement of the rules. Th·e important changes include a specific method of prosecution and differentiate between the prosecution proce~ dures for different parties. Un- der the fanner rules, all violators were subject to the same prosecu- tion. According to the revised niles, students, faculty, staff and visitors are each subject to differ• ent procedures, all of which are · a staff member is prosecuted in-- accordance with the guidelines in 'the Staff Manual. Students and faculty are no longer prosecuted according to the same ambigous procedures .. Tappa explained that tenured faculty have mme protection than staff members, who can be more easily dismissed. Student penal~ ties now follow current policy, unlike the past . Under the new regulations, students, faculty and staff have more protec;Hon uder well-defined policy that was pre- viously vague or nonexistent. Th.e new regulations also give Union more of a solid legal basis for preser\ring public order. Academic Honesty • Frederick Busch,. Novelist, Rules Enforced ·speaks·inAlbany Today Colltillued from page 1 than the crime. The student may not go back to the oi'igihal sub- council to address these concems. they must address the Vice Presi- dent of Academic Affairs. Linda Cool. The changes have been 111ade primarily due to liabilities of the college. On accom.lt of these aJ.:. terations the character of the council has thtl.nged against the students benefit. Union has been forced i11to formality. Many times, cases of academic dishon- esty ar'e solved in Dean Schadler's office. The Academic Affairs Council has representations from the stu- dent body. faculty. and adminis- tration to help make these deci- sions. Topics like honor code are an administrative issue, therefor no vote of the faculty is needed to pass the policy. This is obvi- ous because the new policy was printed in the 1994-1995 hand- book that was publish before the faculty reconvened this fall. One problem often confronted in policy changing is the switc!l- ing of roles from year to year. Each year new memhers join -committees and are forced to run policies that they had ne part itt putting together. James Kenney, chair of the Academic Affairs Council, is faced with the chal- lenge of enforcing this new policy in his first year ott the Academic Affairs Council. Academic Honesty is often times a feeder into honor code 0 ideas. Upperclassmen usually ex- press interest in the establishment of an honor code and committees and sub-councils are fanned. .. An honor code has to be it1iti- ated by the students,\ Schadler said. PressR~lease Albany,. NY .. Fiction writer · Frederick Busch will read from his work today, October 20, at 8:00p.m. in the AssembLy Hall,. campus Center 011 the university at Albany's uptown campus. Ear- lier that aftemoon at 3:00p.m. in Humanities 290, Busch will hold an infonnal seminar for students, writers and the general ptiblic. Both Busch's reading and semi- nar, which are free and ,open to the public, are sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Call the Institute at 518-442-5620 if planning to attend the seminar. Busch is the author of six col- lections of short stories and eleven novels including his best selling novel Clo.vilig Arguments (1991 ), which was termed \a devastatingly good nov~!,\ by the New York Times Book Review. Busch ;s.othernovels include, The Mutual Frie~1d (1978)., Round,· (1 979), Invisible Mending (1984 ), which won a National Jewish Book Award, Sometimes I Live ill the Country {t 986), Harry and Catherine (1990), and his most recent novel Long Way From Home (1993). Busdf s short stoiy colledions include Breathing Trouble (1973), Domestic par(iculars (1976), Too Late AmeriCan Boy- hood (1994) .. Bu~ch has been awarded the 1991 PEN/Malamud Award in recognition of his dis- tinguished work in the fonn ofthe short story. · In 1968 Busch was given an award in literature by the Ameri- can Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. Busch currently is ' the Edgar Fairchild Professor of Literature at Colgate Uriiversity, where he began teacl!ing as an . assistant professor more than 20 years ago. Write for News Next Week: The first in a series of articles about the G.E. Plot Controversy. Why are Union and Schenectady at odds? Homecoming Weekend: Lots of Scho.ol Spirit The NCAA Collti11ued from page I Contbmedjrom page 1 winning tradition. During halftime President Hull presented the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy to Phi Gamma Delta. The Brown Trophy is awarded to the best all around fra- temity on campus for academics and community service, among other qualities. Fiji unseated Phi Delta l11eta from its two year win- ning streak. After the game Alumni were invited to conclude the day at the President's Reception where hot and cold hor d'oeuvres were served on the veranda of the Alumni Gymnasium. l11is gave the past Union students one last chance to socialize before the conclusion of Homecoming. The last event of the evening was the 82nd Annual Fund Appreciation Dinner for those alumni who gave generous gifts this past year. Professor Ted Bick (matltematics), a Union alum, blows Ius ti'Untpet after a butclmten touclldown. Professor Bruce Rey11olds (ecotwmics) looks on. (piUJto by Joslt Haines for Tlze Concotdie1isis) pressed concem over the losing battle of educating college ath- letes at other universities. Acknowledging the impor- tance of organizations like the . NCAA, Chapman remarked, \It is essential for any group, espe- cially college athletic depart- . ments to bond together in fos- tering a healthy competitive · spirit and in uniting to ensure the success of each college's program.\ Other issues that · were addressed included gender . equity, scholarship funding, revenue and budgetary struc- tures and the overall participa- . tion in intercollegiate spo.rts. Many of Union's current ath- letes attended the discussion and were advised by NCAA . mem hers to strive for high stan- dards in sport and to respect the integril:y of their game.

.NEWS BRIEFS Internati9nal: Israel: Jordan and Israel initialed a draft peace treaty that will address water and land issues between them and that will maintain the momentum of Mideast peace efforts. United Nations: l11e Russian Foreign Minister came to the United Nations Security Council to make a plea for lifting sane~ tions on Iraq, but his statements drew no sympathy. North Korea: 1l1e United States and North Korea reached broad agreements on carrying out measures to freeze North Korea's nuclear program in exchange for coi1cessions. Mexico: Rebels tlu:eatened violence over,election results. Haiti: Haitians, at their President's urging, seized hundreds of paramilitary gunmen, and American tro0ps handed them over to the Haitian police who once collaborated with them, so it was unclear what the outcome would be. Yitbak Rabin: \No one lost, i1o one won, we all won.\ National: New Mexico: President Clinton went to New Mexico to address police chiefs but wound up giving an impassioned plea for a generation of children afflicted by violence. Tailhook: A former Navy pilot said she has seen ,the woman who first complained about the activities at the 1991 Tailhook convention having her legs shaved by a male pilot at the con- vention. Source.~ Tile New York Times 1()118194 WORLD NEWS October 20, 1994, page 5 The Peace Process' Hostage by Matt Sandler Conct;Jrdiensis Staff Many people ask, \Can one per- son really make a difference?\ The answer, always debated, proved to be tme in Israel and the P.L.O. autonomous region ofGaza mid the West Bank town o{ Jeri- that Cpl. Waxman was being held in the Gaza strip, called on Chair- than Ara:fat to deliver the hostage to safety, and ordered Tuesday the closure of the Gaza strip. He also with United States approval, broke off further talks with the P.L.O .• and hinted that existing agreements could be in jeopardy. T h i s cho, this past week. The abduction and murder of Corporal Nahshon Waxman, marks a se- vere impedi- \Hamas is determined forced Chair- launched a hostage rescue at- tempt. It is very probable that the force used was Sayeret Mat'kal, Israel's elite counterterrorist force, a force so secret it is de- nied to even exist. The comman- dos launched 90 minutes before the 9:00P.M. deadline, and man- aged to kll three and wound eight terrorists. However, Cpl. Waxman was bound by his feet and hands and shot in the neck and chest when they entered. to derail the peace accords and initiatives achieved thus far ••. \ m a n Arafat to order the Palestin- ian Po- ment to the cause of furthering peace. Cpl. Waxman, who holds American and Israeli citizenship, was abducted on Sunday, October 9, 1994, and Tuesday it was re- World News Opinion vea:led publicly that he was being held hostage. The Islamic militant group Hamas was holding the Israeli sol- dier hostage, demanding that Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin, and more than two hun- dred other Palestian prisoners be released. They marked Friday, October 14, 1994 at 9:00P.M. the deadline, or Cpl. Waxman would be killed. Prime Minister Rabi11 took aggressive steps believing lice force to make a two day sweep through Gaza, arresting two hundred mili- tants. Cpl. Waxen, age 19, whore- cently graduated high school. was being held two miles from h i s l11e safe house that the terror- ists were using was heavily forti- fied forcing the Israelis to use more explosives to enter, thereby giving the terrorists time to mur- der the hostage. 011e Israeli com- mando was killed in the raid: had they been successful in extracting the hostage it would have been reminiscent of the Raid on Entebbe in the mid S'eventies. Rabin home, in the t 0 w n 0 f Ramot. in the Israeli c 0 11- trol1 ed West Bank. \From Jefferson to the r e - marked after the rescue attempt, present, we have seen how force deters further acts of terrorism, and how ransomed appeasement . t . ,, ere a es more... · I would say, I'd b e happy ----------------- to give There was talk that the deadline was going to be extendedanother twenty four hours, and Israel back the Nobel Peace Prize, to bring to life both of the soldiers who fell.\ Sp·aniSh's Revenge for \Get\ Hamas is detennined to derail the peace accords and initiatives achieved tilus far. U.S. Secr~tary of State Warren Christopher is pressing ahead for the continued peace accords between Isra~l and Jordan, and the infonnal talks be- tween .Israel an<;l 'syria. If Cpl. Waxman is remembered as a hostage of the cause of peace, Hamas' terrorism will be victori- ous. It will a_lso prevent the needed cooperation to track, ar- rest and take out militants that threaten Israel as well as the be- ginnings of the Palestinian state. Israel had to launch that raid, as all countries faced with hostage crises should launch raids and hostage rescue attempts based on accurate intelligence. As histOI)' has taught us, you can't ~1egotiate with pirate and terrorists, force is the only way to secure the threat from being held hostage. From Jefferson to the present, we have seen how force deters further acts of terrorism, and how ransomed appeasement creates more. Israel has -one of the best counter terror- ism forces in the world, and in their missions their success rate is superior; though they failed to bring out Cpl. Waxman alive, they did what International Law allows and what they had to in the name of their national security. Courtesy of Mexico Journal Foreigners learning to speak English often complain loudly and bitti;:rly, about- the multi~pur­ pose, ubiquitous word \get.\ Rather than viewi!1g it as a labor- World News Opinion saving device - that is, a word that can be substituted for nearly any other English verb in nearly a11y circumstance- they view it as a masked 'demon of a _word, whose subtleties and nuances can drive decent folk insane:, You get up in the ,morning, get a coffee, get showered, get in yotlr car and get to work; after you get your work done, you get 011 your coat, get out of the office, and get down at the disco. All this getting up and getting down can make you feel as if you were getting sick- especially when it's a matter of learning ali the proper usages. Spanish, naturally, has its multi- purpose words as well, some of which are so convohtted as to con- stitute a fitting revenge for the rest of the world's ''gets.\ These are the words that in Spanish-English dictionaries have listings that last as long as the Perez section of the Guadalajara phone book. They are the words that scholars devote studies to, while novices think of ways to \speak around\ them. They are the words, finally, that an aspiring Spanish speaker must leaml though Jeaming them may seem like a task more Herculean than cleaning the stables at the Hipodromo. Perhaps the granddaddy of these intimidators is the verb echar, which. one Spanish-En- glishdictionary translates as \to cast, throw, fling, hurl, pitch, toss, dart; to turn or drive away, eje~t. throw out, expel; to dis~ charge; dismiss, (coli.) fire; to emit, give out (as sparks); to pour (as wine); to-serve (as food); to p-ut (in, into) .. .'' It goes on, but you get the pict~re. The word is a grabbag of renderings, each of which depends on a particular context. W11ete to start decipher- ing the echar demon? First of all, t1ote how most of the definitions deal with the act of expelling or casting out. Like many words in Spanish, this one should be leamed in terms of its general meaning before worry- ing about the detailed usages. Meter, for example, is the word for \putting things in,\ and sacar as a rule suggests \taking things out.\ Echar goes one step be- yond sacar, conveying a sense of violent or forcible expulsion. Your system might echar an un- wholesome meal, or your spouse niight find you unwholesome and echar you into the hall. Teachers can echar recalcitrant urchins from the classroom, ex-. orcists are pleaded with to echar unwelcome possessions .of the body and soul, and Ruta 100 buses are famous for their abil- ity to eehar smoke all over Mexico City. Getting a hold. of the .\expulsion\ concept will put you in command of as many as 75 percent of the possible uses for the demonic echar. These out of the way, there are a number of specific usages for echar that simply must be learned. It's tl1e common word for \to pour'\ for instance, as in \pour me another one\ (echame otra). It is also the most convenient way to say \to mail\ or \'to post\ a letter: ·La eche en elcorrea anteayer (\I mailed it the day before yester- day). Don't confuse it with echar las cartas or echar la suerte, though, which mean \to read one's fortune.\ Echar 1/m•e is \to lock,\ while echar a perder is the phrase you want for \to spoil,\ either in the sense of food or children. Querida! No hav leche? · Ya no. La dejaste en e/ microondas y se echo a perder (\Dear! lsn 't there any milk?- Not any more. You left it in the microwave and it went bad\). In this case, she's echandMe Ia culpa (\laying the blame on you\). A number of other expressions use echar and are encountered fre- quently in common speech. A mechanic telling you to start up your car will shout from under the hood, echelo andar (\start'er up\). A boss mi,ght complain that his underlings no le echan ganas a/ trabqjo (\don't put enough enthu- siasm into their work\). If his employees are real losers, and he needs a job d6tle quickly, he might evert ask you to echarle una mano (\lend him a hand\). Echar porras means \to root for,\ while echar pe!>les is \to bad-mouth.\ !:'char de menos is an accurate translation for \to miss,\ in the sense of feeling the absence of someone or something that has left Ertra11ar, however, is prob- al:ily the more frequent and.easier rendering: ''Come back soon. I miss you badly\ could be either f'uell'e pronto. Te extrano mucho or Te edw mucho de me nos. A couple of colorful Mexican expressions employ edwr as well. To say that someone is boastful and conceited you can say /e echa mucha c:rema a sus tacos (\he puts a lot of cream on his tacos\) 'To boast\ can be rendered echar-.wlas se ... : Mi hermano .w las echa de pimor (\My brother boasts of being a painter\). Fchar en saco roto (\to toss into a broken bag\') is a colloquial way of conveying, \in one ear and out the other,\ and echar mentiras is \to lie.\ A common use of echarse, the reflexive fonn of echar. with the preposition \a\ is to emphasize the suddenness or spontaneity of an action. ..-.)e echo a reir (\he burst out laughing\); .\e echaron a correr (\they took off run- ning\). Similarly, echarse una cupa means \to toss back a drink.\ Ultimately, the only sure- fire way to gain a command of all of echar' s usages is to echar raices (\pllt down roots\) in Me xi co and keep your ears open. Well what are you waiting for? Echale! (\Get to it!\). Send all submissions for the World News Section to Box 2577 c/o Craig f •' •, . '

.. ' . ' . ' October 20, 1994, page 6 SCIENCE AND HEALTH Prions Threaten to Rev.eal a New Genre of Infectious Agents. by Shveta Shrivastava Collcotdiel,sis Staff TI1e discovery of the stmcture of DNA in 1953 wasa significant one by James Watson and Francis Crick. DNA, or its counterpart. RNA, were known to be the core of any infectious agent, whether fungi, viruses, or bacteria. With- out the DNA or RNA, these agents could not multiply, and without increasing in the body, they could not cause any diseases. Now some new infonnation has arisen. Some researchers claim that they have found another kind of infectious agent, a tiny protein devoid of genes that could pro- liferate in the body and make people ill. All proteins are tran- scribed from genes. Dr. Stanl.ey B Prusiner, a neuo rologist at the University of Cali- fomia at San Francisco and col- leagues have passionately pro- motedthis new theory in the face of the skepticism and hostility from nianv scientists. Dr. Pntsiner helieves tlmt there is 1 usual class of proteins, whichhecalls prions. These prions can cause certain neurodegenerative diseases by inducing normal proteins to change their c~nfiguration and New Studies in Molecular Neurovirology ' become deadly. Dr. Prusiner's term prion (pronounced PREEE- alm ), for proteinaceous infectious partie.les has come under great criticisms. The \cold fusion of infectious diseases,\ one critic calls his theory. Last week Dr. Prusinerwon the prestigious Albert Lasker award for his commitment to medical re- search. Dr. J ardon U. Brown, a medical director of the laboratory of central nervous sys- tem studies at the National Insti- tute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in Bethesda, M.D., is that the prion people \have all the experimental evidence, but no theory, no dogma, no proven mechanism.\ Virus proponents, he added, \have no evidence, but be a virus and contained no genes. \People were very .skeptical of her data.\ said DL Prusiner. How- ever, he added, \they intrigued me immensely.\ Today, Dr. Prusiner says that it is clear that prions cause not only scrapie, but alsootherdiseases, including bo• vine spongifonn enephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, and several rare Gutterman, who is a professor and current chainnan of clinical immunology and bio- logical therapy at the M.D. Anderson Can- '\The main argument against the virus hypothesis bas been that these agents are extremely bard to kill and that they are sub-viral in size.'\ diseases. Dr. Prusiner also believes that diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's cer Center in Hous- ton, and who was the head of the awards committee, said, \Obvi- ously, the LAsker jury did not feel that this is controversial. Even if the final proof is debatabl.e, some of the most outstanding minds today think this is as solid as it gets.\ Another colleague, a molecu- lar biologist Dr. Philip Sharp of Massachusetts Institute of Tech- nology, also endorses Dr. Prusiner's work. TI1e prion dis- covery is \one of the most re- markable developments in infec- tious diseases that I know of.\ The problem, said Dr. Paul they do have a theory.\ Dr. Pmsiner began to get inter- ested in this field when he learned about the bizarre nature of the in- fectious agent that causes scrapie, a brain disease of sheep and other animals. In the mid '70's, a Brit- ish radiologist, Dr. Ticvah Alper, found that whatever the scrapie agent was. It was a very small and resistant to ultraviolet radia- tion which should inactivate the cell's genetic material . From the information that Dr. Alper accumulated, it seemed as if the scrapie was being caused by something that was too small to might be caused by prions. He and his colleague found that a nonnal cell of the prion protein is encoded by a gene that is found in every cell of the body .. The infectious prion pro- tein is like a normal cell except that it is folded into a different shape. Furthermore Dr. Prusiner be- lieves that Prion diseases can be inherited or acquired through in- fection. A family may pass on the mutated prion gene or a person can be directly infected, just as by a virus or bacteria. Dr. Prusiner ')ust bored in on the evidence,\said Dr. Joseph Martin, a neurologist at the Uni- versity of California at San Fran- cisco. This hypothesis \has stood the test of every experiment that anyone can think ofto do.\ But Dr. Robert G. Rowher, di- rector of th-e molecular neurovirology unit at the Veter- ans Affairs Medical Center in Baltimore says ''The main argu- ment against the virus hypothesis has been that these agents are ex- tremely hard to kill and that they are subviral in size.'' Dr. Laura Manuelidis, head of the neuropathology at the Yale Uni- versity School of Medicine, agrees with Dr. Rowher. Dr. Rowher says that there is no reason to abandon science as we know it until there is proofthat aprion protein can cause disease, \My view of this world field is that in the end it will be of great- est interest to sociologists or psy- chologists of science,\ he said. \There's a sort of boredom with virology. People what to be en- tertained by science.\ And the prion hypothesis, he said, \is very entertaining.\ Envir(J#tmentally Frien,dly The Secrets to Home Brewing . '' ··-~ ':. '·:: t·- '. . - .---.;.-·· .. · W:'eed _Treatment ''-. , . .. -.~.:.:,·: . . byAn a- Science f)n~l:f.:~~ltll Edito~ It ·.was •.. di·sGH;lVet¢d\ titat Al . group of c11emicahi ''called phetroxy ~qmpoup~~ T()t:lti~ely • _ Japanees~ 6hasecl_pfan~slQ fl~er. Soth cov-ered a >c organic 2,4-dichl6r6pllet1o'xy -.acetic_ chemical wh Mlsihein to acid, ;._ iUld 2-rfi~ethyl;-:4-, cotitrol the . ' ~lld flow.. chJor,opll~;:noxy a~etic add are ering of vari~d''$-li~oies.~of ar- .plant hormones, and proved rowhead. So~:e:·~~pfes'~far- most effective in flower pro'\ rowhead are c<.lfi$i·uered weeds; dttctioU:. What makes · tltese and concentrii~~itbst of their compounds so unique is that natural efforts~it,;~~preductioJt. tl1ey de story broad ·leaved Reproducti~ifi~dudes flow~ plants,' but leave grasses un .. ering, poltinittlh~.- and suhse- harmed, a valuhte property. que_.!lt disper~ar t~f~nninated . Phenoxy compounds work by seeds. The arro:wh,ead has be- stimulating honnonal activity. come a signitJ.Q,@lt ttnicance to In order for this to occur, the fanners in Japan·; who find ar- base 2,4-benzene subunit tnust rowhead plants ijivading crop be substituted with a radical as fi~lds, and leecbtq-:gsun, and nu- occurs. with th.e 2;6 snbstim.- . trients. The life cycle of the tion. If this position isblocked arrowhead is r~latively well by something else, then the understood, flow-ever the hor- compound wln have no bio- monal activities that acc01n- logical affectivity, Chetfiists pany floweriag are still ~ome- have tried sttbstituting the what of mystery. phenoxy position with differ- An interesti-ng aspect of the ent subunits, and have found arrowhead is its secession of that 2,6- growth after flowering. Scien~ diisopropylphenoxy(T]<.tJ· tists at the Weed Science Cen.. 925) works best ter at Utsunorniya decided to Several members of tlte ar- target this aspeCt of the prob... rowheadfamily are sensitive to !em because environmentally TKU-925.. One species, friendly metho:ds cOlild be used. Saggitaria tr{folia, also known Their method experts to cause as the arrowhead swamp. po- plants to pre~tratu;te flowering, tato, is edible f.md is a()tUB;lly. tllererby inhibiting. the more cultivated. Tltis reseatC'h . hannful growth, ln this man., _ promises to-provide an excel- ner they wottld tlot even have lent substitute for herbicides, to kill the plants/stmply stunt and a s¥~ method to increas~ their growth t\(Uj,reytn1t them productlYity, .. . . from damagil~g,:9-~(;>l?' yields as Sottroi.~ ·Look .Japan, August adult plants. 1994 A Quick Guide to ,Beer Making ' -·:' by Andy Salama Science and Health Editor A few thousand years ago, an Egyptian farmer left a basket of grains out in the rain, and them let them dry. Much to his sur- prise, when these grains were used for making beverages, they took on an intoxicating effect. Beer making has been around for thousands of years. Today, hoards ofbreweries from Niagara Falls to Nigeria produce millions of bottles every year. In the past 20 years, however, home brew- ers have been popping up every- where. In 1976 a federal law was passed allowing an individual, over the age of 21 to produce up to I 00 gallons 'ofhis/her own beer every year. Unfortunately, it is a federal offense to sell this fer- mented libation. Last summer I indulged and spent $45 on a beer making kit. I had no idea what was in store for me. 'TI1e kit I purchased consisted of two 5-gallons PVC carboys, some clear tubing, and a bottling device. Stores like the Sharper Image sell small scale kits for home brewing, but they have been harshly criticized by purists, like myself. They key word in home brew- ing is cleanliness. Everything that comes in touch with your brew in the process much be sanitized(I mean everythin!!\ l11is can be accomplished b. ,oaking all of your equipment in a solution of bleach and water( 2TBS/5gal- lons) for 45 minutes or longer. Raw supplies can be purchased from specialty home-brew shops, do not attempt to substitute any- thing with supermarket quality products. The first step is to boil 2 gal- lons of water in 4 gallon pot, pref- erable, stainless steel. The first in!,rredient to be added is the malt. Malt comes in two varieties, malt extract symp, and powdered malt. Malt extract is somewhat easier but lacks the quality of powdered malt. Once th.e malt is added to the boiling water, the mixture must he boiled for an additional 60 minutes. TI1e next ingredient is the hops. Hops is actually a dried flower, that imparts some body, and a great deal of flavor to a beer. This should be boiled for an additional 15-30 minutes. You are then ready to cool your beer from boiling temperature to about 500 F. Then add 3 addi- tional gallons of pre-boiled wa- ter. At this point, the cooled mix- ture, called \wart\ needs to poured into a 5-gallon carboy. Then 1-2oz. of beer yeast is added, don't even think of using Fleishman's Baking Yeast, it will ruin your beer. It is essential to cover the carboy with an air tight lid, provided with an airlock, so fermentation gases(Carbon diox- ide) can escape. After about a week and after the so called \primary fennentation\ more sugar needs to be added to produce the characteristic bubbles of the beer. This secondary fer- mentation needs to occur under pressure, so the beer bas to be bottled at this stage. After pa- tiently waiting for several weeks, the home~brew can be enjoyed. A nde of thumb is, the longer you wait, the better the beer will taste. The biology and chemistry be- hind this process is remarkable. Malts are basically complex sug- ars; which can be consumed by yeast, to produce alcohol. Only certain sugars are fennentable, so its important to chose your malts wisely so at least some alcohol will be produced. Adding table sugar to your wort may increase the alcohol content, but it will give it a particularly unpleasant taste. Yeast are single celled organ- isms that are able to perfonn a process called glycolysis. This involves the enzymatic cleavage of sugars into smaller carbon con- taining molecules, one of them being ethyl alcohol. Yeast ex- perts have developed excellent quality yeasts, which work more efficiently, and are less prone to be taken over by other organisms, than baking yeasts. Your choice ofyeast is of utmost importance. Hops flower is a resinous plant which gives beer its characteris- tic bitter taste. TI1e choice ofhops is one based on personal taste. Obviously the fresher the hops, the better. Commercial brewers make hop-pellets for home brew- ers which work very well, but fresh hops are available if you want to pay for them. Brewing, called Zymurgy is relatively cheap hobby accessible to just about anyone with enough time, and patience. It takes quite a bit of practice, and a limited understanding of the theory be- hind it.

. mqe «<nntnrbitn!?lis AR.TS & ENTERTAINMENT October 20, 1993, Page 7 Crystal Waters • porting crew to wmk; with. CD RevieW Surprisingly~ unlike m.ostdance by E'ric Winters Contributing Writer Well, Crystal Waters has given all of the clubgoers .and dance crazed people of the world another reason to getout on the dance .floor and bm>gie down with her new eleven-track album Storyteller. The new release mixes fast..,paced, funky da~ce beats and samples with smooth, lyrical vocals. It in- cludes her latest hit single, \lOO% pure love;\ which has practically become a standard on MTV's \Lip Service\ and \The Grind.\ Besides the fast-paced dance music she is known for, she proves that she is a multi-faceted artist by including a couple of smooth, rhythmic, and soulfuiballads such as the title track ''Storyteller,\ and the last track \Lover Lay Low.\ Not only was I impressed by the soulfulness of her vocals, but also the way in which she uses.samples in her music. She seems to know justthe right place to add in a jazzy sample, a sax riff, or a familiar beat. It is due in a large part to the great array of talented producers which she had, to produce this new album, including The Basement Boys, and Easy Moe Bee, who was responsible for producing and cre- ating Miles Davis's last album \Doo bop.\ An album which was created and completed after Miles's untimely death and was pieced tbgether using already re- corded material and fush1g it with hip-hop and street music.. As you can imagine, she had a great sup- music,. she manages to sneak some important and positive mes- sages concerning the inner cities. 11tis is most evident in track two, \Ghetto day,\ where she tells people living in the \Ghetto to have a strong mind and a posi- tive outlook, and they will even- tually overcome their surround~ ings. If you liked this dance diva's last release, I definitely suggest checking out Storyteller. It's a groover' s delight to the ears, and will make you want to get out there on the danc.e floor and shake your body! Hot tracks to check out: (I liked the whole album, but these are tracks I especially liked.) \100% Pure Love,\ \Storyteller and. \I Believe I love you.\ Rating: three Nott Memorials Rating system: One Nott, little redeeming qualities, comparable albums: Gary Glitter's' Greatest Hils. Two Notts, a few enjoyable tracks, but its no Thriller (as in MichaelJackson's Thriller, one of the best.;.selling albums of all time.). Three Notts; a quality al- bum, worth the money, on the verge of being one the best al- bums of the year, but not quite. Four Notts, is an album that musf be purchased by anyone who has ever listened to music. If you haven't heard of this album I'm thinking \Hello I'm a polka fiend, and I like to collect lint in my spare time.\ Note: No offense to polka fans, it's just not my kind of music. New York City Ballet Member to Teach Clas,s at Union Courtesy of Perfotming A·rts Miss Deborah Wingert of New York City Ballet will be guest t¢achiog a Master Class in Classical llallet at the Union College, Dance Studio in the Petforming Arts Building on Monday, October 24. The class is open to any intennediate/ad- vanced level ballet student, ages sixteen and up. A member of NYCB for twelve years, Miss Wingert has danc.ed with the company at Saratoga Perfonning Arts Cen- ·. ter since 1982. She has been a guest-lecturer for the Scotia- Glenville Children's Museum as well as an annual guest teacher at The Myers Studio, the offi.cial school of Northeast Ballet Company. Audiences have·viewed Miss Wingert in many principa:I roles including Balanchine's A Midsummer Night's Dream, Coppelia and ' Orpheus; Robbins' 1he Con- cert, and Mr. Martin's The Sleeping Beauly. In addition, PBC has hig!\ilighted her per- formances in Ditmer With Balanchine, Livefrom Lincoln Ce1iter, andDance in America. Recently, in conjunction with her dancing responsibili- ties, Miss Wingert has been a · regular visiting~:,~Uest teacher at The School of American Bat- Miss Deborall Wingert will teaclr a master class tlris Monday letandhas produced and directed special Outreach programs for youth audiences in Los Angeles, Glasgow, Scotlana and New York City. There is a $ 7.00 fee to partici- pate in the master class; free to Union College students enrolled in the dance practica program. Reservations are 1•ery essential. Please contact the Performing Arts Department, 388-620 J. Concert Review: Dave Matthews Band The Family Cat- \Magic Happens.\ by Ryan Marcus Contributing Writer Tuesday, October 11 was a very eventful night (especially for this writer) in Northampton, MA, as the Dal'e Matthews Band graced the stage of Pearl Street Nightclub. Albany-based From Good Home.t; opened. first two songs from his new re- lease, \Under The Table And Dreaming\ (on RCA Records); both renditions sounded great and projected live energy uncaptured on the recording. Following the second new song, \What Would You Say\ I proceeded to the barto get a drink (I am 21 and wasn't driving). Matthews, for those who don't know; is the leader of an acoustic . After this I walked back in to find my crew. Two of my fraternity '.G-o-----------., brothers (both of fusion quintet known for their ability to com- bine mellow, energetic chord progressions with driving, al- See Dave· whom are minors) Matthews as soon as were parched, as possible, but stay the the club was hell away from Pearl packed with sweaty, smelly Street UMass and Smith most thrashing, improvisation- based solos. Matthews has al- ready established himself as one of the best song writers of the 90's. TI1eirfirstrelease \Remem- berTwo TI1ings\has sold tremen- dously, and word of mouth pub- licity enabled the band to openfor the Allman Brothers on this summer's HORDE tour . Arriving at Pearl Street just in time, we missed the opening band (and that's not all). Matthews opened up with a stunning ver- sion of \Seek Up\ from the de- but. Next was an excellent ver- sion of \The Song Jane Likes\ Jru1e being Matthews' deceased sister's daughter, whoru he takes care of now. Following these two, Mattliews , and played the people, and asked me for a sip, which I promptly supplied. When I got the drink back, I couldn't even notice any missing. Two seconds pass, and a rather husky security guard is holding my drink motioning the three of us to follow him. We were thrown out of the establishment, and all three ofus were pretty pissed. We went and got a pizza, and came back to try to get back in. An emergency exit was crammed with security people who were unfortunately of the unbribable variety, so the three of us listened from outside, as the sound could not be throttled. Dave put on a killer show, as he always does. My night mined by the big brother tactics of over- zealous security guards, I stayed to listen to most of the perfor- mance. Pearl Street didn't come through, but Dave Matthews did. The night closed with classics \Ants Marching,\ which features the \Dueling Banjos\ suite, the acoustic love song \I'll Back You Up\ which is one of my favor- ites,\ and a version of\AJI Along The Watchtower,\ which is argu- ably the best since Jimi Hendrix. Go see Dave Matthews as soon as possible, but stay the hell away from Pearl Street. c 1994 Arista!Dedicated records. Rating: ~· by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Over tlw past six years, The fi'amily Cat has become a sensa- tion in England, garnering the re- spect of fe1Iow musicians, the praise of critics, and the follow- ing of many fans. During the summer of 1991, 1he Family Cat perfonned on the main stage of the Reading Festival with such hot groups as Nirvana, Sonic Youth, a.nd James. Shortly after \A MASTERPIECE! Romantic, Heroic and Passionate. An Oscar caliber 11101 ie \lith Oscar caliber performances from Kevin Costner and Dennis Quaid.\ . '' \ ....... ~ ,, \A spec111cular epic! Kevin Costner is riveting. Dennis Quaid is dynamite.\ ...,,..,,,oar«U'••\'\Ir~• \\\llliUilmK .. \A stunning, rlch super-epic. A triumph for Kasdan, Costner. Quaid and the company.\ \'i<l<>d~~tiUI\f'oUU:UII\1 \**** A sprawling epic of the old west.\ \A magnificent · achievemenl..srirring in its·scope and beauty.\ IUIWHfif.lll.\l\t;fllllll{l\\th \A sure-fire winner! Kevin Costner gives a powerful, stunning . performance. A rnhSt·see.\ Jdr!.rM!t\'lll~·nll\DIU \A grand epic. JJenn~ Quaid gives the performance of his life.'' IUJS.blw.\\UT'IIt.'»INIIM:Il \Triumphant ... Kevin Costner's Wyatt Earp Is a clas~c American ·perrormanc~. It rnnks with John Wayne in 'The Searchers' and Henry Fonda In 'The Grapes Of Wrath.' It is great.\ Mto!Op\<l.\f'\IIOIII\'£\I'UrtU \Grand·surnmer entertainment! Kasdan and his mnrvelous tast have created the definitive American Western.\ \**** Entertaining and . impressh·e.\ '·'\ I...W.II•\111\r.tn'IIIUI KEVIN DENNIS GENE COSTNER QUAID HACKMAN • L\1\1[1([ >AIO~IRL• Cf/:;i$tc;~L_ 1------------ -------- ---··- this event, the group released the number one altemative album (in the U.K.), Furthest From the Sun, which featured .. the number one U.K. &lternative single, \Steam- roller.\ But judging from the quality of their second album (and first ma- jor U.S. release), Magic Happens, 1he Family Cat sounds more like an amateur high school band fool- ing around in someone 's base- ment rather than an up-and-com- ing group. The 1:,1foup's first U.S. single, \Wonderful Excuse,\ is the first track on the album, ru1d a horrible first impression. The guitar com- pletely drowns out the singer, making it (as previously implied) fine fare for a high school band concert. While the music picks up later on, 1he Fam ilv ('at never experiments with different styles and approaches to their music, but constantly ends up being a cheap imitation of higher-profile, more quality groups. Their best track, \Springing the Atom,\ combines thoughtful lyr- ics and moderately-decent vocals. Nonnally, though, the lead singer lacks emotion. The music is interesting and somewhat complicated, but never memorable. Lyrics range from trashy-poetic to downright in- comprehensible. (\How far away can that water be? I ate snow. drank cheap sherry ... ) Oka:. whatever. . •' ~ f \' . \ .. ,. I'

.. ·' ' ' October 20, 1994, page 8 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Mountebanks to Perf or~ Night of Endings on Saturday . . - by Suzanne Robinson & Leena Mankad Arts Editors Mountebanks presents a Night of Hndings. This performance includes monologues and scenes in which are related to the· end- ing of relationships. TI1ere are three scenes: 'llw Valentine '.1· Fairy, a scene from David Mamet's play, Hdmwul, and a scene from the play, 1J1e Women, by Claire Booth. The 1 'a/emine \·Fairy, directed by Emilia Teasdale, is about a woman disillusioned with her re- lationships with men. She re- ceives a visit from the valentine's fairy to show her the love inside herself. It stars Jessica Bemstein and Ned Abbot. 1:'£/mund is an experiment di- rected by Jessica Bemstein, about a mm1 leaving his wife and a woman leaving her husband. 1l1ese scenes star Emilia Teasdale and Dug Bartell. Lauren Mouzakes and Amy Dougherty are the cast of a scene from l11e Women directed by Kate Goldman. The scene takes place in a beauty shop where a gossiping manicurist leams ales- son from an unlikely teacher. The Nigl~t t?f Endings also in- cludes a plethora of monologues by Mountebanks members in- cluding: Alexander Beckers, Jes- sica Bernstein, ·Heather Daly, Karen DePoto, Kate Goldman, Suzanne Robinson, Doug Schneider m1d Fred Ulrich. The mot1ologues feature scenes from Stephen Sondheilil 's \Assassins Michael Durand's \An Actor's Nightmare,\ Tom Stoppard's \\Rosencrantz and Guildemstem are Dead,\ Tony Kushner's \An- gels in America,.; and Maggie Mudd's \Chocolate Night.\ Also perfonned is \\From the Diary of Anais Nin,\ and ''Death ... or Life Rather.\ Ned Abott & Jessica Bernstein/rom tire scence of Valentine'sjairy (plroto by Laurel Ruma/TC) The performance win take place the night of October 22, Saturday, at 8 pm in Social Sci- ences, room 016. The Night t?f Endings is open to all and is free of charge. Johnny Depp Can't Save Ed Wood Bacb Festival Comes Tomorrow ' by William A. Vititow Concordimsis Staff The Tim Burton film, /:'d Wood. is the bizarre story of a· man and his dream. It is a story of friendship. and it is a story of professional passron. It is also a story that. though it contains won- derful scenes of acting, and has an interesting approach to story telling through the black and white cinematography, it suffers from length and lack of real pur- pose. Most college students have ei- ther seen an Ed Wood film in their life. or one that is similar. Their trademark is obvious: cheap sets, poor acting, and stock footage of such things as anny troop move- ments or stampeding buffalo scenes (which are often repeated in the same film to save$$). You may be familiar with these films because they are usually west- ems, war movies, or science fic- tion films that show up as tlte main feature on the \Very Very Late Late Movie.\ Well, Ed Wood was King of this genre. Johnny Depp (2 1 Jump Street, Edward Scissorhands) portrays Edward D. Wood Jr. an eccentric actor/writer/director from the 1940's who's fame today comes mostly from die hard fans who adore his ineptly made indepen- dent movies. \I grew up watching Ed Wood's movies on television,\ recalls Tim Burton, the film's di- rector. \Like everyone else at first. I remember thinking, 'Wow, what is this?'\ Burton claims to have been instantly drawn to this story upon reading its script. And even though realizing that Wood's films were bad, that in another sense they were real good. \Ed remained true to his work. He didn't let technicalities like visible wires distract him from his story telling. There's a twisted fonn of integrity to that.\ And with this t-w:isted quality of Ed Wood's films, the new Burton movie finds it appeal. Ed Wood was just an average kind of guy wishing to be an artist. That's a dream we can all relate to! The movie, Ed Wood, also has a warm side to it as it tells the story of friendship between Wood and a washed-up, has-been actor named Bela Lugosi, played by Martin Landau (Mission: Impos- sible, Space: 1999). ·ne two meet one day quite by chance, and Lugosi, a former Hollywood \Ghoul\ who competed with the great Boris Karloff for fame, wants nothing to do with Ed. But the two are destined to be aquatinted. TI1ey need each other. Wood seeks a star to help promote his films, and Lugosi needs ave- hicle to bring him back to stardom. With this and a further out- landish cast of Ed Wood regulars, Wood's first film, Glen or Glenda, is bom. This is a sort of auto- biographical film that tells Ed's hidden story of being a transvestite. Ed plays the leading role. Martin Landau is great in his performance as Lugosi, and is a certain Oscar nomination for Sup- porting Actor. Johnny Depp also does a superb job of capturing Ed wood's greatest quality: Wood never filmed a scene he didn't like. Be it the mistakes and blun- ders of his cast, or the cheapness of his props, Ed never shot backup footage, and worked with what he got the first time. When being prodded in one scene to re- shoot because Wood's extra, Tor Johnson, jus.t bumped into a flimsy prop, Ed explains to his Cl'Pltera crew that \he [The Ghoul] would have to deal with this prob- lem of bumping into walls every day,\ as though it were simply a handicap on the Ghoul's part. With that logic, the scene was kept in. · Perhaps the best part of Tim Burton's film is its production secrets. The recreation of old set!'!, and the different elements of de- sign that went into the making of a black and white film were im- portant decisions which obvi- ously do not receive much atten- tion by the audience once the movie starts to roll, but these de- cisions and their logic are inter- esting none the less. Cinematographer Stefan Czapsky (Batman Returns, Ed- ward Scissorhands) was faced with the challenge of photograph- ing two \spheres of cinematic reality.\ This involved the cre- ation of \crisp images - rich inky blacks and silvery highlight- and yet at the same time staying faith- ful to the blandness of Ed Wood movies.'·' \Since the film is being shot in black and white,\ says make-up artist Ve Neill (Beetlejuice, Ed- ward Scissorhcmd<t), \we couldt1 't use the same shades we would ordinarily use for color, so we went with black and gray tones instead. In color, Landau looked extremely pale, but in black and white he looked absolutely amaz- ing! He looks old and haggard, very much like Bela did in his last years,\ she said. This new Tim Burton film is sure to excite the Ed Wood cult- from the Ed Wood Fan clubs, in- cluding the nuts from science fic- tion conventions, to the on-line computer organization of Wood fanatics. But for the general pub- lic, I think Burton missed his mark. While being a film of su- perb acting on the part of it's cast, it is contradicting in qualities that audiences care about. The plot is long, and dry for long spells, and overall the film lacks the ability to hold peoples attention. Perhaps the greatest criticism will come when the audience leaves the the- ater and wonders what the true mission of this film was. In this manner, Ed Wood was very much like an Ed Wood Film! The New England Bach Festival, · his year celebrating the 85th birthc day of its artistic director Blanche Honegger Moyse, will perform f program of rarely -heard Bach cantas on Friday, Oct. 21, at 8 p.m. in Union College's Memorial Chapel. Joining the New England Bach Festival and the Blanche Moyse Cho~ rale will he baritone Sanford Sylvan, one of America's finest baritones, !who :s making his I Oth appearanc~ in the Schenectady Museum-Union College concert series. Also appear- ing as a soloist will be oboist Stephen Taylor, now a regular member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. Other soloists are Henriett~ Schellenberg, soprano; Peggy Spencer, violin; and Tim Pelikan, viola. On the program are Bach's Can- ata 32: Liebster Je!)u, mein Verlangen; Cantat 57: Selig ist de Mann; Cantata 82: Ich habe genug; and Cantata 199: Mein Herzt schwimmt im Blut. Moyse, born in Switzerland, came ~otheU.S. in 1949, whereshejoined RudolfSerkin; Adolph and Hermann Busch, and Marcel and Louis Moys~ o found the Marlboro Music Festi- val. Two years later, she started the Brattleboro(Vt.) Music Center and has been artistic directo. ever since. Twenty-six years ago, she began the New England Bach festival, a month -long festival with engagements throughout the North~ east. Moyse h~:~S been recognized !:IS om of the country's most respected in- erpreters of Bach. She provided scholarly commentary for a recen Public Broadcasting System video, 'The Stations of Bach,\ and she is .regularly invited to coach singers and instrumentalists around th~ world. Memorial Chapel, located near th~ center of the Union College campus, is a favorite venue of area chanibe music fans. Free parking is avaii- able on campus and nearby side streets. Tickets at $16($8 for students).ar~ available at the Schenectady Mu- seum or atthe door. For more infor- mation, call the museum at 382· 7890.

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT October 20, 1993, Page 9 ''How Did Things Get So Ugly?'' THE REEL PICTURE - Wes Craven's New Nightmare Fre~dy's Back (Again) in an Original and Daring Failure Suzanne Robinson A&E CO-Editor thor of The Experience l~{ Place, \The Old Way of See- ing takes us a few steps back- Have you ever walked down ward in c;>rder to help us leap . a street, any street, and won- ahead to a place where our · dered why the buildings all seem imagination can soar. This · to be so ugly?. They seem to be book enriches our possibilities simply made of concrete and of creating buildings, streets, vinyl with no architectural de- neighborhoo~s; towns, and cit- tails to speak of. One wonders ies that work.\ . what happened to cause archi- In a recent interview, · tects to surn;mnd us with st~.ch Jonathan Hale expresses his ugliness, instead r------------, views of the · of the beautiful · \In Our modern world today: \ln · structures ere- . visual environment, our modem vi- atedjust several 000 Everything looks. stJal environ- centuries ago. right but it's not ment, there is a. In his new book, sense of real.\ 'Ihe Old Way of barelessness; a Seeing, Jonathan Hale tries not only to answer this question but . also to provide llS with some way changing the path of archi- tecture. He argues that contemporary architecture can be traced to the 1830's when a young America . transformed its buildings from expressions. of lmman spirit to · just structures for a somber functionality. \The gas station is beautiful when we need gas, but when we're_ done filling the tank, we close it out- it's ugly, it becomes invisible.\ Hale argues that we can't re- pair the damage by creating new styles or imitating old ones, but by recovering a lost way of see- ing, by looking at the geometry of nature and the patterns found in the old buildings of the past. According to Tony Hiss, au- sense that you are nowhere - a sense of unreality. Everything looks right bur it's not real. But why do we, when we go to an old. town, feel like it is a real place? We used to see buildings in terms of propor- tion and fonn. Now we tend to look at them for what they represent.\ You might say to yourself that you don't want to read a dull book about architecture, but this book isn't just about architecture, it's about more- about seeing not just the sur- face and the purpose of the buildings but seeing beyond the surface. \Beautiful archi- tecture .also.helps its viewers experience the excitement that comes from reflecting what is inside us as well as the happi- ness of the designer.\ by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff \Wes Craven's New Nightmare.'' Starring Robert Englund, Heather Langencamp, Wes Craven. Di- rected by Wes Craven. Rated R, New Line Cinema. Rating: ** l/2 (out of four) Just when you thought you've seen .the last of him, Freddy Kreuger returns to the silver screen in one ofthe most unusual horror films ever made. If only it was somewhat scary ... Craven, the creator ofthe enor- mously-successful Nightmare 011 Elm Street series along with nu- merous other horror flicks, effec- tively killed ·off his cult hero Freddy in 1991's Fredt~V :'i Dead· Th¢ Final Nightmare. That film, of course, was notable for being shown in 3-D in theaters as weH ~s featuring that larger-than-life (literally) symbol of prime-time comedy success, Roseanne. But. Craven points out in this film (all characters play themselves) that Freddy is more popular with the public than ever, and he can't die. So goes the film's premise. The first scene opens on a movie set, where a \secret project\ (a new Freddy film) is being made. A prototype Freddy hand, with sharper knives and more power. is being tested, when it develops a mind of its own, killing several technicians, including Langenkamp's husband. But Laugenkamp awakens to find it was all a dream. A dream? Her husband travels away on a film set, but is ki11ed when her dreams become reality-and the prototype glove actually exists. Langenkamp. playing herself. is an actress persuaded into doing another Nightmare film. But she wants to concentrate more on TV. and her good friend, Robert Englund (Freddy in the films). wants her to consider another filtn. But Langenkamp 's nightmares become more frighteningly real. as her son becomes possessed through watching clips of earlier Nightmare films on an unplugged TV (traces of Pollergei.'it?). Her son warns her of Freddy's retum, and she gets harassing phone calls all the time from a Freddy- like voice. Craven plays himself, the writer of the next installment in the series who writes the new story only because he is having nightmares again; even though he doesn't realize his script is un- folding accurately in reality, he still feels compelled to make this film. Even Englund has night- mares, but feelsthe need to make this final film. So. what you have is a movie about the -making of the movie. It's certainly daring, and always entertaining. but leaves room for few shocks and gives you the im- $ Earn Holiday Money $ UNITED PARCEL SERVICE Part-Time Positions Available Monday tbru Friday Driver Helper - $6.50/hr from Nov 7th -Dec 24th. Flexible hours morning to ~arly evening at all UPS Centers in your City of State. For Further Information Contact: . . United Parcel Service Call: 786-4319 or 4218 for application appointment EOEM/F pression an explosive finale will happen. It never does. The en- tire concept behind this film is that Freddy cannot die-he is a form of evil that has existed throughout time. taking the form of Freddy when [the evil] became popular in the movies. Since the series was technically \'over this evil wants to live on as Freddy, and so wishes to transcend into our dimension. If you follow this concept, you might find it fasci- nating and worthy of debate. But the filmmakers abandon clearing up the details and instead try to go for the shocks. l11ey were too late. Horror films founded on the premise of carnage and gore can scare without sense: but Craven starts in creating an original con- cept and wanting to move on a slasher film without giving us an explanation how he got there. It's fun to watch these actors play themselves caught up in the sto- ries they created; it's not fun to watch them suddenly go into a new story without providing the old honor . As actors playing themselves. Langenkamp is rather boring to listen to, Englund does not have enough lines, and Craven comes off as an egotistical \\Titer only interested in making more money off the series. (Probably an ac- curate assumption.) Langenkamp's \son\ rivals Poltergeist's Heather O'Rourke in playing a possessed child. l11e direction is interesting: the scenes meant to portray \real-life\ are shot like a home video, as if it were tracing the daily routines of these actors, yet the camerawork is much too polished to pass for \camcorder shots.\ As the actors begin to play their roles in the new script one last time, the di- rection is very fluid. Unfortunately, Englund as Freddy is not as scary as Langenkamp's son. This new Freddy-remember. he is evil it- self, not Englund-does not have Englund's sense of humor, nor is he very smart. Langekamp's fi- nal battle with him is not. very shocking nor suspenseful: you know she will kill him in the end, but this Freddy can't stand up straight most ofthe time to fight her. If anything, this ••new\ Freddy is more human than Englund's other interpretation of him. Overall, this New Nightmare is certainly original and worthy of viewing (if you liked the others), but it is completely separated from the other films in terms of content. At least Craven ac- knowledges he intends to tum a profit by implying as much on screen: \Give the pttblic what they want.\ Hopefully, he'll suc- ceed because Freddy Kreuger stories have always managed to be more creative, workable, scarier and funnier than any Fri- day the 13th movie. This film is also notable for havitlg the most emihquakes oc- cut in it than in any other film to date. ,··

'' ': '' October 20, 1994, page 10 Students - It Can Happen to You Twenty year-olds are active, idealistic people. College students, by and large,. feel invincible. When it comes · to their own safety, they are stupid. On this campus they should be at least partially responsible for their own well-being. The recent outbreak of attacks on the campus must be addressed by administrators and students together. Closing Union's gates during the evening will not only be costly, but it will raise other problems as well. It will be more difficult for students to gain access to the school and the tension between students and Schenectady residents will become more pronounced. Many Schenectady residents already believe that Union College is isolated from Schenectady and that students are far removed from the city. Hiring more security officers is a good idea, but that might not serve as a deterrent to potential thugs. Nonetheless, having only three officers on duty for any given shift is not adequate for safeguarding the campus. This is particularly true during the early morning hours, when most of the crime has taken place. Although it is costly, maybe the school should consider significantly beefing up the night-time patrol by hiring several more officers who only work during the evening. At the Tuesday informational meeting, many good ideas were raised. Adding more lights and emergency phones will enhance the appearance of security, but unless thugs see security officers or policemen they will not think twice about making this campus a target for en me. The only way to radically improve the 'safety' ofthe campus is to work on students' mindsets. No matter how fast and how strong you are~ you can never be safe walking around this campus during the evening. Walk in groups and always take the escort service. If you are attacked. please do not try to be a hero. OP-ED OPINIONS College Should ~esolve Conflict Over Lenox Road Properties by Sarah Ruth Evans· Opi11ions Editor but not make any permanent bouse and being down campus changes to the interiors. has its many advantages; the cost By consulting with the historic of renovating Wells from offices Last Friday when I sat down in commission about the changes to residencies must have been sky Upperclass dining for lunch I no- andtheextent of the changes, per- high. Itis not just Wells house that ticed a photocopy from The haps Hull could assuage the city was expensive; to restore the ad- Schenectady Gazelle 's editorial and get the zoning changes. The ministrative buildings, that used page. The article immediately Schenectady Gazette portraying to be resjdencies back into resi- brought back memories of Presi- President Hull as a spoHed brat dencies would be extremely ex- dent Hull's argument with the and a bully does not help his pensive. The school just con- City of Schenectady over the use cause. Hull needs to play the role verted some of these buildings of the school owned houses on of diplomat. into offices less then ten years Lenox Road. At that time----------------- ago, and probably has Ireallydidnotcareabout \By consulting with the historic not recuperated its ex- the issue. My basic opin- · • • b h h d penses. ' ion last spring was if the COIDMISSIOD a . out t e C anges an Moving offices up school owns the property the extent of the changes, perhaps campus is best plan, but they should be able to do Hull could assuage the city and get in a tim.e in ~hich ~he what ever they want to it, · · · college IS trymg to Im- within reason. Yet at the his zoning changes.\ . prove its relationship same time I could see where the G.E. Plot property own- ers were coming from in their ar- gument against converting the houses. I do not know how accurate The .S'chenectady Gazelle 's editorial about President Hull and. his tac- tics to get zoning changes to con- vert the houses is. Last year, Hull said that the school would not make any changes to the exteri- ors of the buildings except to make them handicap acceptable and tltat would be camouflaged with landscaping. To appease the historic commission, Hull should convert the houses into offices, Perhaps if the city does not want Union to use the houses on Lenox Road for offices, but in- stead it would prefer them to be used as student theme housing for . independents. The college wants to convert the. present administra- tive buildings down campus to resident housing, but perhaps it would be more ideal and cheaper to convert the houses on Lenox into theme houses. I presently live in Wells House which was Graduate and Continu- ing Studies up until last year. Al- though I love living in a theme with the City of Schenectady maybe it is not the best idea to upset our neighbors on Lenox Road. Instead we should work out a compromise with them, and let them decide what they'Would prefer the Lenox Road properties to be used for; independent theme houses or of- fices. While I am a strong 'believer that Union should do anything it wants to the property it owns, it is time for the college planners and the historic commission to sit down and decide what is going to have the least impact on the neighborhood. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers_ Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not . necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Advertisements in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box2577, College Center, Union College Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) · 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street,' Gloversville, New York 12078. TheConcordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, College Press Service, King Syndicates.

October 20, 1994, page 10 Students - It Can Happen to You Twenty year-olds are active. idealistic people. College students. by and large, feel invincible. When it comes to their own safety, they are stupid. On this campus they should be at least partially responsible for their own well-being. The recent outbreak of attacks on the campus must be addressed by administrators and students together. Closing Union· s gates during the evening will not only be costly. but it will raise other problems as well. It will be more difficult for students to gain access to the school and the tension between students and Schenectady residents will become more pronounced. Many Schenectady residents already believe that Union College is isolated from Schenectady and that students arc f~1rremovcd from the city. I Iiring more security officers is a good idea, but that might not serve as a deterrent to potential thugs. Nonetheless. having only three officers on duty for any given shift is not adequate for safeguarding the campus. This is particularly true during the early morning hours, when most of the crime has taken place. Although it is costly. maybe the school should consider significantly beefing up the night-time patrol by hiring several more officers \vho only work during the evening. At the Tuesday in fom1ational meeting., many good ideas \Vere raised. Adding more lights and emergency phones wi 11 enhance the appearance of security. but . unless thugs see security oflicers or policemen they will \ m:t think twice about making this campus a target for i cnme. : The only way to radically improve the ·safety' ofthe ! campus is to work on students· mindsets. No matter '~ hm' fast and how strong you arc. you can never be safe : \\a! king around this campus Juring the evening. Walk i in groups and always take the escort service. If you are : attacked. please do not try to be a hero. I ! \Ulre (fLottcnrUienais Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1871 David Levine Hdifat-in-( ~hief Executive Editor News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor World News Editor Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors · Living Editor Computer Manager Photographers Assistant News Editors Faculty Advisor Heather l{eynolds Rtfitor .. Jn-·Chittf LisaLemoi Caroline Paine Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Suza1111e Robinsonr Leena Mankad Kermeth Berman, Jason. Starr Diana Sedita Josb Hain¢s Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy. Salallla, Kenny Lee . A.le>t Shapiro · Brett Saunders Jen Aherens, Scott l)ruckemiller; Debotah Proper; MlcheJeRoseman, • Laurel Ruma, Emily Schrier . Elizabeth OeKoven, lleather Manley S<;ott Scul1ion . Staff: Stefanie Bet•liner, Vhaod Oasa; Michelle Ellis, MarcFos .. ter, Alexandra Gwllpa, Natini Oup.ta, Tony LaV'eccltia; Adriatt Maclean. Martin Metz,. Bharat Na:v!ltlt Bltavam l'ifavf,lti, .L~ · · P,aska\ Kat'etl PepJatt, WilHam ru~t Chris J;fjngwald} Micl1ette .• Roserrbaum, BiUy Sha:kosl Shveta Srivastav~ Se()ft $teel'e~ Rawson Thurber~ Catrie Wh~elt:t. The Conconiiensf.'{meets every Monday and 1'uesday GlfJTte ana~ , demtc year. ft is published by the st~dents otlftt1ow Cctlteg~.and : in no way reflects the opinions ofU11Jon College. L----~----------------' OP-ED PRES\'DENT HULL CON11<lBUTES To .SC.\\E~A\J'.J ZOOO oN A MORE t)\ RE<,.T LE\JEL- OPINIONS College Should Resolve Conflict Over Lenox Road Properties by Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor Last Friday when I sat down in Upperclass dining for lunch I no- ticed a photocopy from The Schenectac~v Gazette\ editorial page. The article immediately brought back memories of Presi- dent Hull's argument with the City of Schenectady over the use of the school owned houses on but not make any permanent changes to the interiors. By consulting with the historic commission about the changes and the extent of the changes, per- haps Hull could assuage the city and get the zoning changes. 1he 51cheneclady Gazette portraying President Hu11 as a spoiled brat and a bully does not help his cause. Hull needs to play the role of diplomat. house and being down campus has its many advantages~ the cost of renovating Wells from offices to residencies must have been sky high. It is not just Wells house that was expensive; to restore the ad- ministrative buildings, that used to be residencies back into resi- dencies would be extremely ex- pensive. The school just con- verted some of these buildings into offices less then ten years Lenox Road. At that time ----------------- ago, and probably has Ireallydidnotcareabout \By consulting with the historic not recuperated its ex- the issue. My basic opin- • • b h h d penses. ion last spring was if the COffiffiiSSIOD a OUt t e C anges an Moving offices up school owns the prope11y the extent of the changes, perhaps campus is best plan, but they should be able to do Hull could assuage the city and get in a tim.e in ~hich .the what ever they want to it. college IS trymg to nn- within reason. Yet at the his zoning changes.\ prove its relationship same time I could see where the G.E. Plot property own- ers were coming from in their ar- gument against converting the houses. I do not know how accurate ?he ,\'chenectady (ia::etfe 's editorial about President Hull and his tac- tics to get zoning changes to con- vert the houses is. Last year, Hull said that the school would not make any changes to the exteri- ors of the buildings except to make them handicap acceptable and that would be camouflaged with landscaping. To appease the historic commission, Hull should convert the houses into offices, Perhaps if the city does not want Union to use the houses on Lenox Road for offices. but in- stead it would prefer them to be used as student theme housing for independents. nle college wants to convert the present administra- tive buildings down campus to resident housing, but perhaps it would be more ideal and cheaper to convert the houses on Lenox into theme houses. I presently live in Wells House which was Graduate and Continu- ing Studies up until last year. Al- though I Jove living in a theme with the City of Schenectady maybe it is not the best idea to upset our neighbors on Lenox Road. Instead we should work out a compromise with them, and let them decide what they would prefer the Lenox Road properties to be used for; independent theme houses or of- fices. While I am a strong believer that Union should do anything it wants to the property it owns, it is time for the college planners and the historic commission to sit down and decide what is going to have the least impact on the neighborhood. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Advertisements in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994. all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald. 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078 The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, College Press Service. King Syndicates.

, . . ,, OPINIONS October 20, 1994, page 11 The 4-l-4 System: Could It Work At Union? This article is part of an on-goingdiscussion about changing the current trimester system and the options that are viable. This viewpoint was presented last Tuesday at the Committee on Teaching meeting. The Concordiensis is seeking opinions on the trimester system. by Professor Jobn Garver Geology Department When I learned that Union's calendar was up for debate, I im- mediately thoughtofthe exciting possibilities of a 4-1-4 system. In this plan, the \January Tenn\ or \Wintersessiou\ offers a interest- ing change of pace in the middle of the winter when experimental and innovative courses caq be offered. A 4- i -4 system (four emulating, while others have a \soft'~ 4-1-4 where the January term is really optional. These schools with a \soft\ 4-l-4 have, in effect, a 4-4 semester system with a optional January \expe- rience\. I don't think it would be in our best interest to follow this path. TRUE 4,.1,.4 CALENDARS . . THA'I'WORK In my survey of peer institu- tions with a 4-1-4 calendar, I classes in ----------------- came across the fall, \A 4-1-4 system, four classes ,in four that one class the fall, one class in January, and seem to in Janu- ~ . h . . have an ex- then .our m t e sprlng IS a cross ary, and cellent sys- then four between our present trimester tern that classes in system and the proposed system.\ functions t h e well and is spring) is s<;>mething of a cross rigorous: Middlebury College between our present trimester sys- (Vermont). Macalester College tern (3-3-3; three terms of three (Minnesota), Bates College classes each) and the proposed se- (Maine), and Oberlin College mester system (4-4 or 5-5; two (Ohio). Why does the 4-1-4 sys- terms offour or five classes each). tern work so well at these The 4-1-4 system rearranges the schools? In my sampling of present 3-3-3 system, but leaves opinions at peer institutions with the same number of courses per the 4-1-4, I came to the follow- year (9 per year; 36 per 4 years). ing conclusions as to how a Typical 4-1-4 systems last 12 school can make the ·4-1-4 work weeks in the Fall, 4 weeks in the effectively. 1) Students are re- Winter and then 12 weeks in the quired to take four January Spring. Registration for the Janu- terms, although some schools al- ary term could be done at the low or even encourage students same time as Fall registration, so to miss one year in conjunction apart; neither students nor faculty take the term seriously. THE ADVANTAGES OF A 4-1-4 There are numerous advantages in our going to ~ 4-1-4 calendar, most of which center around the benefits of a January term during which students take only one class. At most schools, the January term allows professors and students to explore different intellectual terri- tory through innovative teaching strategies and nontraditional courses. The January term fosters innovation and woUld allow faculty to experiment with team teaching strategies that bridge disciplines. Many useful and advantageous combinations are likely between _ departments. For example, Geol- ogy, Civil Engineering, and Eco- nomics could offer a course in \Geologic Resources and Exploi- tation in the Third World\ that would draw on talent from all three departments. Because the January tenn is relatively short, it is possible to bring visiting scholars (writers, scientists, etc.) to the College for workshops or courses. It is important to emphasize that \nonnal\ courses presently offered can and would continue to be of- fered in the January tenn. This option is especially attractive to the Engineering community, where the curriculum is very tight because of the accredita- the paperwork reduction would with term he neariy the same as going to a abroad; ' 2) \At most schools, the January semester system. All courses term allows professors and tion lities. guide- New If you have ever sat down and are for credit. students to explore different courses may considered a college calendar, Perhaps one intellectual territory through develop that you quickly realize that Decem- course in a innovative teaching strategies can be used by ber holidays really put a wrench student's and non-tradional course.\ students to in the system- the pre-December four years \bridge\ one partoftheyearisshorterthanthe could · be ----~---------semestertoan­ post-December time. To make taken for non-credit. For e~- other. For example, at Middlebury tenns equal in length, you have ample, at Colby College some the Physics Department offers a to either start school in the sum- \Janplan\ courses are non-credit January tenn course that links two mer (late August in many cases), courses which include offerings traditional 12-week physics or end school in the summer (as such as \Guitar\ or \E.M.T. courses; the \bridge\ course is not we do). The 4-1-4 is a planner's Training and Certification\ required, but students have the op- dream come true. For example, (which, incidentally, is an ex- tion of taking it if they are unsure at Middlebury the 1994-95 cal en- tremely popular course), but in of themselves of ifthey had a diffi- dar looks like this: 1) Fall classes order to keep the system rigor- cult time with the first course. A are from 12 Sept em her to 9 De- ous, students are still required to winter term would be an ideal time cember; 2) Winter term is from 2 take a certain number of Janu- for our Math Department to offer January to 1 February; and ary courses for credit. 3) Fac- their precalculus refresher course. 3)Spring classes are from 13 Feb- ulty must participate so that An intensive focus on one class mary to 14 May; 4) graduation is enough courses are offered ev- can make for better learning envi- May 28th. A perfect solution to ery year (without requiring ad- ronment. For example, immersion courses, especially in the Ian- York city or not, the January term guages, can be ideal for either im- is ideal for plays, dance, and other prov.ing a language or preparing perfonning arts productions. for a term abroad. When St. If part of our mandate at this Lawerence had a 4-1-4, students college is to get a very high per- took a January term of Swahili be- centage of students on a· term fore going to Kenya for the abroad, then a \Month abroad\ spring. option would be an ideal way to Union is a leader in faculty and help engineers, and others with student research - our strong tight schedules, achieve this goal. showings at N.C.U.R. and the The Biology Department at Steinmetz Symposium are testi- Oberlin recently ran a winter tenn mony to this. Representatives at to China- a difficult undertaking all 0f the schools that I talked to with our present calendar or a se- emphasized that the January term mester system. is an excellent time for intensive One thing that I leamed as I faculty and student research. talked to different schools is that Most of faculty at Union would students like the 4-1-4 system. probably agree that a student Last year, students at both working on a thesis, with few Middlebury and Macalester other distractions, would be able voted on the issue of whether to to make significant headway on retain the system or not, and in tl~e projec~. \Immersion courses, especially both cases Stmtlarly, tf ·in the languages, can be ideal virtu a 11 Y f It 1 00% of the a acu y ~ • h . . b .or eat er amprovmg a mem er was . off for Janu- language or preparmg for a students voted in fa- ary tenn dur- term abroad.\ vor of it. In ing a given ---------------this regard, year, he or she.could have a full the 4-1-4 schedule can be an ef- month for research and writing. fective recruiting tool that ulti- An important option that a 4- mately could make Union a 1-4 system would provide is the stronger institution. Life on cam- opportunity for our students to do pus is an important aspect ofhow internships at a government or a school is perceived, and Janu- industry position - an option that ary tenns are a visible and im- is almost completely closed to portant part of college life. At Union students at this time. At schools that have a 4-1-4 system, Oberlin, student intemships are Admissions_Offices are quick to commonly undertaken with point out the exciting things that Oberlin alumni. This strate!,'Y not happen on campus during the only provides students with first- January tenn; this is an excellent hand experience in their chosen draw for prospective students. In field, but also brings alumni my data collection interviews, closer to the college. faculty from several schools spe- With students taking only one cifically pointed this out to me class during January tenn, there and noted that they felt some en- is little question that the faculty roJiments were based on their would have greater flexibility for having a 4-l-4 calendar. field excursions. For example, So as the debate about the cal- one might consider a course in the en dar heats up, bear in mind that \Winter Ecology of the there are really three options to Adirondacks\ where t)1e entire consider, and that only one, the class spent a week at the field site, 4-l-4 system, will allow us to or an Art History course that offer students and faculty a would make extensive use of the unique educational experience. art museums in New York City. So, yes the 4-1-4 could work at At Bates, the Theater Department Union and its implementation goes to New York City during the would make our academic year short tenn, then puts on a perfor- much more interesting. mance upon their return. New the Calendar problem. junct professors). For example Who has the 4-1-4? I was curi- at Smith College, the total teach- ous, so I did a little research on ing load is calculated for each the subject. Using the U.S. News faculty for the full year, (simi- and World Report's 1994 Guide larto our existing system). Other to America's Best Colleges, I schools have a set schedule for determined that of the top 35 Lib- January term teaching loads eral Arts Colleges in the U.S. (the (typically two years on and one group to which Union belongs), year off). 4) To encourage stu- Bucknell, Colby, Macalester, dents to experiment in other Middlebury, Oberlin, Smith, fields, January tenn grades do Wellesley, and Williams have a not count toward GPA or some 4-1-4 schedule as of the 199~ aca- courses are so designated. 5) demic year; Bates has a 4-4-1, \Soft\ classes with minimal or which means their short tenn is no faculty participation must be in May. I talked to faculty mem- avoided (e.g. \Contract Bridge\ hers at each of these colleges to for credit). Some schools have explore how the 4-1-4 works at encountered problems with the their institution and what are per- 4-1-4. Most of these problems ceived advantages and disadvan- center around the students and tages ofthe system. In research- the faculty not taking the term ing what a 4-1-4 represents at seriously. When the Winter term these schools, I leamed that some schedule is full of non-rigorol.ts have a rigorous 4-1-4 that is worth course offerings, the system falls II Effective Immediatel)!: Th~= ul I Concordiensis' deadline for !i all opinions and letters to the 1 editor will be Monday by 4PM. They must be submitted on High Density Disk, Word 5.0 and lower

OPINIONS October 20, 1994, page 11 The 4-1-4 System: Could It Work At Union? This article is part of an on-going discussion about changing the current trimester system and the options that are viable. This viewpoint was presented last Tuesday at the Committee on Teaching meeting. The Concordiensis is seeking opinions on the trimester system. by Professor John Garver Geology Department When I leamed that Union's calendar was up for debate, I im- mediately thought of the exciting possibilities of a 4-1-4 system. In this plan, the \January Term\ or \Wintersession\ offers a interest- ing change of pace in the middle of the winter when experimental and innovative courses can be offered. A 4-1-4 system (four classes in emulating, while others have a \soft\ 4-1-4 where the January tenn is really optional. TI1ese schools with a \soft\ 4- I -4 have, in effect, a 4-4 semester system with a optional January \expe- rience\. I don't think it would be in our best interest to follow this path. TRUE 4-1-4 CALENDARS THAT WORK In my survey of peer institu- tions with a 4-1-4 calendar, I came across apart; neither students nor faculty take the tenn seriously. THE ADVANTAGES OF A 4-l-4 the fall, one class in Janu- ary, and then four classes in \A 4-1-4 system, four classes in the fall, one class in January, and then four in the spring is a cross between our present trimester system and the proposed system.\ four that seem to have an ex- cellent sys- tem that functions l11ere are numerous advantages in our going to a 4-1-4 calendar, most of which center around the benefits of a January tenn during which students take only one class. At most schools, the January tenn allows professors and students to explore different intellectual terri- tory through innovative teaching strategies and nontraditional courses. The January tenn fosters innovation and would allow faculty to experiment with team teaching strategies that bridge disciplines. Many useful and ad van tag eo us combinations are likely between departments. For example, Geol- ogy, Civil Engineering, and Eco- nomics could offer a course in \Geologic Resources and Exploi- tation in the Third World\ that would draw on talent from all three departments. Because the January tenn is relatively short, it is possible to bring visiting scholars (writers, scientists. etc.) to the College for workshops or courses. h e ---------------well and is spring) is something of a cross between our present trimester sys- tem (3-3-3; three tenns of three classes each) and the proposed se- mester system (4-4 or 5-5; two tenns of four or five classes each). The 4-1-4 system rearranges the present 3-3-3 system, but leaves the same number of courses per year (9 per year: 36 per 4 years). Typical 4-1-4 systems last 12 weeks in the Fall, 4 weeks in the Winter and then 12 weeks in the Spring. Registration for the Janu- ary term could be done at the same time as Fall registration. so the paperwork reduction would be nearly the same as going to a semester system. rigorous: Middlebury College (Vermont), Macalester College (Minnesota), Bates College (Maine), and Oberlin College (Ohio). Why does the 4-1-4 sys- tem work so well at these schools? In my sampling of opinions at peer institutions with the 4-1-4, I came to the follow- ing conclusions as to how a school can make the 4-1-4 work effectively. I) Students are re- quired to take four January tenns, although some schools al- low or even encourage students to miss one year in conjunction with term It is important to emphasize that \nonnal\ courses presently offered can and would continue to be of- fered in the January tcnn. This option is especially attractive to the Engineering community, where the curriculum is very tight because of the accrcdita- abroad. 2) All courses are for credit. Perhaps one course 111 a student's four years \At most schools, the .January term allows professors and students to explore different intellectual territory through innovative teaching strategies and non-tradional course.\ t i 011 I in es. guide- Ne\\ courses may develop that can be used by students to \bridge\ one could be ---------------semestertoan- other. For example. at Middlebury the Physics Department offers a January tenn course that links two traditional 12-week physics courses: the \bridge\ course is not required, but students have the op- tion of taking it if they are unsure of themselves ofifthey had a diffi- cult time with the first course. A winter tenn would be an ideal time for our Math Department to offer their precalculus refresher course. An intensive focus on one class can make for better learning envi- ronment. For example, immersion courses. especially in the lan- guages. can be ideal for either im- proving a language or preparing for a term abroad. When St. Lawerence had a 4-1-4, students took a January tenn of Swahili be- fore going to Kenya for the spnng. Union is a lcader in faculty and student research - our strong showings at N.C.U.R. and the Steinmetz Symposium are testi- mony to this. Representatives at all of the schools that I talked to emphasized that the January tenn is an excellent time for intensive faculty and student research. Most of faculty at Union would probably agree that a student working on a thesis, with few other distractions, would be able to make significant headway on York city or not. the Jmmary tcnn is ideal for plays. dance. and other perfonning arts productions. If part of our mandate at this college is to get a very high per- centage of students on a term abroad. then a \Month abroad\ option would be an ideal way to help engineers. and others with tight schedules, achieve this !,!Oal The Biology Department at Oberlin recently ran a\ Inter tenn to C'hina- a difficult undertaking with our present calendar or a se- mester system. One thing that I kamed as I talked to different sclwols is that students like the Ll-1-4 system Last year. students at both Middlebury and Macalestcr voted on thc issue of \\hether tn retain the system or not, and in the project. Similarly, if a faculty member was off for Janu- ary tenn dur- \Immersion courses, especially in the languages, can be ideal for either improving a language or preparing for a term a broad.\ . . -------------------------------- both cases virtually I 00% of the students \ oted in fa- vor or it In th 1 s regard, 1ng a given year. he or she could have a full month for research and writing. An important option that a 4- 1-4 system \\mild provide is the opportunity for our students to Ull intcmships at a gmcrnment or industry position - an option that is almost completel: closed tp Union students at this time At Oberlin. student intcmships are commonly undcrtakcn \\ ith Oberlm alumni. This strategy not only provides students \\ith first- hand experience in their chosen field. but also brings alumni closer to the college. With students taking only one class during January tenn. there is little question that the faculty would have greater flexibility for field excursions. For example, one might consider a course in the \Winter Ecology of the Adirondacks\ where the entire class spent a week at the field site, or an Art History course that would make extensive use of the a1i museums in New York Cit;. At Bates, the Theater Department goes to New York City during the short tenn, then puts on a perfor- mance upon their return. New the 4-1---l schedule can be an ef- fccti\e recruiting tool that ulti- mately could make llnioll a stronger institution. l.ifc un cam- pus is an impur1ant a:-.pcct ofllll\\ a school is percei\t:d, ,llld Jallu- ary terms are a \ i~ibk .llld im- portant part uf Ullk!lt: iik_ At schools that ha\ e a -l-l-4 .-;ystcni. AJnliSsions Offices .tr e quick to point out the exclling things that !1 appen on campu:-. duri11g thc January tcnn: this is olll cxcellcnt dra\v for prospccti\t: students. In mv data collcc!ion intenic\\S. f acuity from several -;chools spe- cifically pointed this out to me and noted that the) felt some t.:ll- rollmcnts were based 011 their having a 4-1-4 calendar. So as the debate ahout the cal- endar heats up. bear in mi11d that tl1cre are really three optinns to consider, and that Dill~ one. the --1--1-..t system. \\iII a lim\ us to offer students and faculty a unique educational e\perie11cc. So. yes the 4-1-4 wuld \\ork at tJnwn and its implementation vo,;ould make our academic year much more interesting If you have ever sat down and considered a college calendar, you quickly realize that Decem- ber holidays really put a wrench in the system- the pre-December part oft he year is shorter than the post-December time. To make tenns equal in length, you have to either start school in the sum- mer (late August in many cases). or end school in the summer (as we do). The 4-1-4 is a planner's dream come true. For example, at Middlebury the 1994-95 calen- dar looks like this: 1) Fall classes are from 12 September to 9 De- cember; 2) Wintertenn is from 2 January to I February: and 3)Spring classes are from 13 Feb- ruary to 14 May: 4) graduation is May 28th. A perfect solution to the Calendar problem. taken for non-credit. For ex- ample, at Colby College some \Jan plan\ courses are non-credit courses which include offerings such as \Guitar\ or \E.M.T. Training and Certification\ (which, incidentally. is an ex- tremely popular course), but in order to keep the system rigor- ous, students are still required to take a certain number of Janu- ary courses for credit. 3) Fac- ulty must participate so that enough courses are offered ev- ery year (without requiring ad- junct professors). For example at Smith College, the total teach- ing load is calculated for each faculty for the full year, (simi- lar to our existing system). Other schools have a set schedule for January term teaching loads (typically two years on and one year off). 4) To encourage stu- dents to experiment in other fields, January tenn grades do not count toward GPA or some courses are so designated. 5) \Soft\ classes with minimal or no faculty participation must be avoided (e.g. \Contract Bridge\ for credit). Some schools have encountered problems with the 4-1-4. Most of these problems center around the students and the faculty not taking the tenn seriously. When the Winter tenn schedule is full of non-rigorous ~:oursc offerings, the system falls - ----- - . Who has the 4-1-4? I was curi- ous, so I did a little research on the subject. Using the U.S. News and World Report's 1994 Guide to America's Best Colleges, I detennined that of the top 35 Lib- eral Arts Colleges in the U.S. (the group to which Union belongs), Bucknell, Colby, Macalester, Middlebury, Oberlin, Smith, Wellesley. and Williams have a 4-1-4 schedule as of the 1993 aca- demic year; Bates has a 4-4-1, which means their short tenn is in May. I talked to faculty mem- bers at each of these colleges to explore how the 4-1-4 works at their institution and what are per- ceived advantages and disadvan- tages of the system. In research- ing what a 4-1-4 represents at these schools. I learned that some ha\c a rigorous 4-1-4 that is \\orth -r·- .. ; .I I ~ ' I .. ~ ..... - -~-· \' ·~· .. ·----·- , . ..,. .. -._,.._ . .....,-~ ... --__....\'..... ... _...._.. __ ___... •. \()' - '. :- .. ,~ ~: ; ... ~,: ._ .. :'i_~i\ ,':--:, ·.' ~.- I. / ... ~--:::..:.~-~~:.. ___ _; ____ <\ ·-· · .. ;_...., .:._. --~ .;:; ··'\\:· '~/ !; -~.:- \ i ·,] '. y-(~\ 'i ~ ;·\ <__:,_, / 1 ·,l •. J) -~'- ~ ~ ) -'/': / :: I, ' . ,.__ -~ . :.:. f .... \-- ,'/ ~ . ' -' ·,I - -..·' .- .. ··-'- ·-.,. '-· ' - ----- - ... j \\I \'/ r {.~/

October 20, 1994, page 12 OPINIONS The Crime Problem Needs To Be Addressed Soon by Tony Lavecchia Concordiensis Staff I have to admit that up until re- cently I didn't worry much about crime on campus. I figured that it couldn't happen to me. I would like to think that living in Brook- lyn for 16 years made me at least a little street smart. I wouldn't be caught walking alan~ in some ob- scure dark part of c;unpus late at night. When a girl was robbed av.d choked on the steps next to my dormitory it showed me that a crime on the union college cam- pus could take place anywhere to anyone. , Living on a campus in an ur- ban area, I think it is unreason- able to expect that all minor made it necessary for us to make the campus closed to anyone who isn't a student, worker delivery person etc. I would suggest hav- ing four open gates, one on each side of campus. Each gate would have a guard to check in all visi- tors, The campus should be closed to visitors after dark. This would prevent people from walk- ing onto campus, committing a crime and then simply walking off. Although this wouldn't pre- vent all crimes, it would provide a deterrent, and a means for catching the suspects. I know what I'm proposing would be ex- pensive and perhaps even incon- venient for everyone involved. On the other hand think about crimes can ------------------- how in- be elimi- nated. I also think that se- curity is do- ing a good job, but un- \Think about how conve- nit;:nt it would be if one of our stu- inconvenient it would be if one ofour students was shot during a robbery.\ fortunately not good enough_. When there are two instances of armed robbery in less than a month, 1 think it's time for a policy change. dents was shot during a robbery. At that point, I'm sure the school would take severe action, but it would be to late. us (or someone) $27,000 a year each to attend. I am by no means asserting that all of the burden should fall on the school. AU students should be aware that walking alone at night just isn't safe. Al- though being in a group doesn't guarantee safety it increases it. I also think the escort service needs to be used more often. Al- though every male 1 spoke to would be embarrassed to use the escort service(it must be some kind of macho thing). I don't think being full of bullet holes is particularly macho either. It would be nice to leave the campus open. It's nice to see young children bicycling freely through campus. What we have at Union is beautiful, and it's nice to be able to share it with the decent people of Schenectady. Unfortunately a few criminals are forcing us to take another look at our current policies. I think it's a shame, but the only way crime can be more effectively controlled would be to close off the free flow of visi- tors on and off of the campus. Stricter Safety Measures Needed Dear Editor, As two female students on · Union campus, we are growing increasingly. scared and con- cerned over the recent violent criminal acts committed by non- Union students. Each and ev- ery student here has purchased .the right to visit any campus lo ... cation at his or her will and to some degree that $26,600 ri·ght has been revoked by this im- pending fear. We've reached the point at which walking to any destinatien requires the col- laboration of the schedules ofa !,'l'Oup of people, because given recent events, we aren't even safe in groups of two. For example, if one of us . wants to simply cross campus to the college center, we have the ·tedious choice between waiting for five friends to accompany us or waiting for approximately five hours for campus security, who without leaving their van to escort us (which is undoubt- edly parked the same distance ffom us as our destination) forces us to walk alone. This brings us to the problem at hand. Campus security has offered us two solutions to \insure\ our · protection: waiting for the es- · cort service or traveling in groups, each option leaving us equally vulnerable. By writing this letter, we hope to gain the attention of those who have the power to keepus safe and informed. We are two women who do not readily put ourselves at risk, however some things sttch as off-campus intrusion qualify as the responsibility of the cam- pus. l11ese cencernsare, in fact, readily justified by the recent outbreak of crime, however our opinions are motivated by fear and eutrage. Hence, we. mean no disrespect to campus vio~ lence for the first time. We hope that the administrators of this college respond to this let- ter by creating and enforcing stricter safety ~neasures here at Uniou. Sincerely, Catharine E. Potvin Sarah S. Gottry Class of 1997 I have nothing against the town of Schenectady, ne.r can I be con- fident that the assailants came from Schenectady. I do however think that recent occurrences have Security in it's present form also needs to be increased. We need more security guards and more patrols. I don't think it's unreasonable to be able to feel safe in an environment that costs What Is The Idol? take l(.aplan and get a higHer score ••. Classes are starting!, Call now to enroiU Spring schedules are also available. · 489-0077 Stuyvesant Plaza • Albany To The Editor, What is the Idol? To many freshman and even upperclass- men, the answer would probably be \good question.\ Herein lies the problem. The Idol is Union College's literary magazine, in other words, it is your opportu- nity for literary and artistic ex- pression. Being a freshman, I can't Say that I know that much about college literary magazines, but I can say that at my High School, the literary magazine was very well done • expressing a lot of talent. I, therefore, look forward to working with the Idol staff to achieve the goal of dis- covering new talent and, in so doing, capturing the recognition from the Union community and beyond that the Idol deserves. What does the Idol need from you? It needs your input! Only through the students at Union can the Idol become what we all want it to be. What do we want it to be? Well, we (as the staff) want it to represent who we (as Uniou students) are. Artistic ex- pression is what the Idol offers to Uniou students, and that is some- thing that should not be taken for 1:,rranted. The Idol specifically needs your poems, stories, art work, and photographs. With the DEAD- LINE for all st~bmissions being FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4TH, the Idol staff strongly encourages you to get those creative juices flowing. Also, when reading sub- missions, the staff does not look at the name on the submitted products. Selections are, there- fore, based soley on their merit. Being published demonstrates talent, and talent is definitely something that I know is out there. Don't you ever feel that flow of inspiration coursillg through your body? This is what the Idol wants~ it wants you to share the products of your cre- ative impulses so that we, as a community, can discover new things aobut ourselves and/or the world around us. The idol can create a basis for understanding and seeing life from various dif- ferent perspectives. Your per- sonal input allows others to try on your glasses and vice versa. \The eyes are the windows to t11e soul,\ so let us express and share how and what we see through those lenses. Enlighten the Union community. Share with us- sub- mit to the Idol! We need U. For artwork call NamitaSingh x5933 and for photobrraphs can Matt Seekamp x5508 .. The Idol is in special need of photO!,'Ta- phers! There will be an Idol box outside. the mail room in the col- lege center for submissions or CCBOX #1471. lfyou are inter- ested on being on the staff, come to our next meeting. Sincereley, Stephanie Kuehn KAPLAN The answer to the test question ''lflt Ain't Bro~ken, Don't Fix It\ Does Not Apply Everyone Interested in Writing for The Concordiensis Should Come to The Staff Meetings Wednesdays 7:30·All .. EXTRA INCOME FOR '94 Earn $500-$1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details - RUSH $1.0~ with SASE to: Group Five 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901 To the Editors: Those of us who mised the is- sue of the College calendar and suggested the desirability of switching to a semester system would like to thank The Concol'· dieru~;s for helping to open up the discussion. The results of your student survey are not surprising: the students surveyed are indicat• ' ing their basic satisfaction with their experience here, and we would hope to find that. But as faculty we feel .that it is our job to maintain a wid~r perspective and to keep seeking ways to make things better. Therefore the old adage \If it ain't. broke; don't .fix it\ seems to have Hmited ret- ... evance. We would hope the col- lege could be \procative\ and cou- sider moving to improve an al- ready excellent institution. Yours tmly, Faye E. Dudden Associate Professor of History Sections.Need Writers C'C303 ·

LETTERS Pornography and Rape The Coucordiensis would like to apologize to Beth Lifson for incorrect~v identi[ving the author oft/tis opinion last week as Kojo Attah. by Beth Lifson Contributing Writer One in four women will be raped in her lifetime. While most of consider such an act abhoiTent each dav ,~·e cnJI:a(!;e in activities .. ..__ ._ that perpetuate such a s·tatistic. Why arc so many women brutal- ized in a soci.ety that is suppos- edly based on the pwtection of ri.ghts'? The answer to this is dif- licnlt to decipher. hut \Vhen look- ing at how women are presented to us it becomes more clear. E\·erywhere we look \\'e are shown images of \\'OJ.Ilcn whose sole purpose is sexuai.Objectitied images of wolnen hom bard us ~very where we tm11. \\hether it be in the pages of Playboy and Vogue. or the images on MTV. Everyday m:ti\ities that most of consider hannlcss enteiiainment might actually ha\'e rmuifications far beyond our consideration. Most of us rationalize it this \\ay: Sure. I look at smut (and I define pomography as any objec- tified image of <1 person. male or tl?mak). but I'm not a rapist. This is \\hat we say. And for most. it is the truth-- for most men with healthy ideas about women por- nography is not dnngetous. But I ask you. how many people have healthy ideas of members of the· opposite sex? And further. the fact that we tolerate the objectifi- cation ofhuman beings~ that we deem this behavior acc·eptable and NORMAL- is enough to create an environment where act- ing on such atti.tudcs is also ac- cepted. In other words. we are creating a society that is tolerant ofrape. Look through the pages of Mademoiselle. watch MTV for an hour. Women are presented a tor- sos ai1d legs- as tits and ass. Many .of their faces are expres- sionless and passive. or longi11g for sexual attention. Why do we present women like this? One rea- son could go back to adolescent male fantasies of woman as pas- sive object. or of nymphomaniac. Another popular image is that of \\Oman as dominatrix. Whichever medium of representatitm is used. the common theme is that in all these representations. women have one p~npose- to serve the fantastical sexual needs of men. But these images go far beyond the realm .of fantasy. These fantastical images of women are UMED translated .into real attitudes and actions towards women. We've deter-mined it is acceptable to view women this way for enter- tainment, why shouldn't we treat women that way in reality? Now, obviously we are not all rapists. Most oflead what is con- sidered to be an ethical and up- standing life. even if we do occa- sionally indulge in fantasy for pleasure. But unfortunately, for some people, the line between fantasy and reality has become blurred. The fantasy of woman as object is being fulfilled at the cost of our mothers. our sisters. our wives. and our girlfriends in the fonn of sexual assault. Now even though each of us isn't personally responsible for the victimization of women. we must reexamine our own lives and see how they affect the rest of society. Are we acting ways that may cause another man to bmtally attack our girlfriend? Are we contributing to a society that would rape our mother? Is the benefit of such entertain- 111£'111 worth the cost of our sis- ters and daughters? Union's Emergency Medical Service Sponsors: American Red Cross Community CPR/Standard First Aid Class Saturday, April 30, 1994 Open to the Campus Community Students, Faculty, and Staff Enrollment: $20.00 Pre-Register by 4/22 Questions and Registration Brian Roberts x6876 October 20, 1 ?94, page 13 11egaHve ~httage mld prevent eth~fS'\fr~in fttll}~\ learning:·· the ··· p6sitfN&eor<attti'b.ntes that · sports · ntf.\!e to of:f.¢f1 ' For ekample, sport~t>creates: a' sense ofeohe- slol1tdedicatiO,n artd oomtnit ... ·· t:ne:ttt tbat1:s <often· mis.wtder\ ~~~t¥.~~rr1¥· ·:n\:i:s .. sttuggt'¢.'S±iif'tdoajts. st~($~by;:tttatiy; How tmfurtu'\ l\'~~!tnma·~ ·· ·•·· wt).f;le<:~f.ha:Vertt{()~iptctO.. .. ' nate:' ·J~wrslt:tlle htdividuals that ifi'adt:VSttbh elatnn; ·wottld tn•1o/ · ;•o!ll:\rotte.,;;article,;il,mH.iistur.b~d:·tt;l· tak;e•t4te titne. to·: check tl1eit · s~tdt;e~oot~·of·atfO.otoaR'player atta1ysis and·. reasons before . ;\Vi;tat!l~·wo.rds -~,WiferDattetets\~ they tnake stl'ch insulting statew .·~tfemot*\ilis.'baokabov-e:votrr· mtfut&:becattse Stich ·fabtica- Atrnote.:~:· ~e:a)}y);;'!N~xpttlydbes tieliS:ti'Ot rlt\ly prove a lack of · ~~:~;ubsa pie.tttr¢:~cr~te, .l:nntJabr~ · k1wwledge of~t11e specific area. ltA1na:~es- ot\lbi:Ott~ntt·;rpJa;·yet··s··r·····tt .•. it.¢otlfttses.thergenel'alpltbHc·as 'to who the real criminals arej . li'Jome·stlC violen<:e is an in~ tte.ss ·.Of ~ociety that we must cotTect Unfortunately people tbaN'lummit iM1ardly go unpun ... ished because (}f t11is backward legislative system tliat we live tmder~ R~s even twice a8 un\' •fomntat<¢·tltatlts victi~:ns; ;een\' , :.:.ti'1Jcuously ~llve··ht ·• · ·. of th~f.r . ~ ' . A ·BEAUTIFUL SMILE IS ALWAY~ ·IN STYLE! . . Special Offer for Wliiter Teeth $75.00 special student discount \'~1lid with certificate - Expires 11/30/94 New Patient Examination X-Ray & Dental Cleaning $60.00 (Over $120.00 Value) with valid student ID CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT TODAY Mention ad in order to receive new patient discount Expires 12/31/94 Dr. Judd Lesser, D.D.S. Accepting all major dental plans. WCICfdl 214 7 Eastern Parkway- Schenectady 374-0385 Please remember to submit your letters to the Editor on HD Disk to box 2577 or deliver to CC303. All letters must be received by Monday at 4 PM.

', ... ,. October 20, 1994, page 14 LIVING . . . _, . ' - .. - . - - ., Bifocals or Binoculars? - Has Dating Become Extinct or Is it Simply a Case ofUnion-itis? by Hillary Gallay Co11tributing Writer Have the normal dating pat- tems of young adults ages 18 to 12 become extinct or is this just another symptom pf\Union-itis\ that fits on the list between alco- hol.ism and lethargy. As an upperclass female student it has become painfully obvious to me that dating practices on this cam- pus are not only not nonnal but they're basically nonexistent. On an average day I wake up, go to class, meals, socialize, pre- tend to socialize (in Dutch), go to the gym, the library if necessary, and some fratemity or other so- cial setting at night. The major- ity of this is done without the help of my glasses. I can see \Vithout them and prefer n.ot to rely on them when it's not absolutely necessary. Regardless of my glasses status, I still pay attention to the world around me and keep the radar out for \potentials.\ When I'm feeling really hopeless I tend to put my glasses on feel- ing as if it doesn't make a differ- ence what l look like and that maybe their super strength wiU enable me to see through the bull- shit. More often than not the glasses don't help in the search and their pres• ence IS 111- conse.quen- tial. So. I've come to the conc.lusion that glasses are not the answer. T h i s brings me to b if oc a I s. When the B.S. maybe I'll be able to tead the fine print that seems to be at- tached to the majoricy of males tha1 I seem to encounter. From glasses just don't do the trick I often wish that I had some- how invested MICRON~V( 51NG.L£S .•• in a pair of bifocals .. Yes, that's right bifo- cals. Not so that I can look all that much older but so that whel'l the glasses don't read through the what I gather the fine print must include items such as: likes to drink excessively even \\/hen there is something better to do, Dawn. nn ... Hipway:Ol \ With a 'irueksi9p ·Preaclzer · -·<. by Alex 5h3r1irQ Livilig ~'1/iior 0 . . ; :~ my Hf¢ rea<iing bo,oks .. lhat. l you're placing a Jr!1ditiQfl~t' thought. were ~peaking to t;n*'~ but judgement on my \vords man, what were they saying? The more I'm not preaching some rheto .. Jacob Johal1sonmall has en- I learned about loss and r~d.i:Unp- ric that makes no sense to my countered many a strange trav- tion, the more !~realized tllat there herd. I'm a shepherd dude. but . elling souls it' Jd~ seventeen are certain· the.tnes that nm I'm not dealing with lambs. if years as God's minJster on the through. aU th~ different theolo· you're. with me. I'm. dealing road. ·He is a. fQg~~r.substatlce gies. 1 bear m.pr~ jn a ,gPq4.. N~il vdth wolves ... and \'\'olye,~ pnly abuser that tJseQ,.to be. a tmck YP\l.Ag. 99ng. ~r SPlP¢ Vel\·~t l)n.. dance t9 a certailJ k~Jl\h;'1f~lue. driving tnan.Jifi~$elf until an der!Jf\lUnd tune; .. tha11 .. I (!?n get I am th~ di,{.~r~¥ttd~@:l'!l~t> incident b~ ~Q~~ii~~t~~ ~o ;P.eJl. ··~<?11t' .. S.Qill! }:V:~1rfl,;Ql<l-.bpQ~'~t;rl$m A.S •. . -,~Yolil:,itl$Q.,~~gl·,q,u\t~ miracle chat,l,g~d J:t.lS:life at.tQ.J: . $~t~~l:tba~ an~t~~r man cattJ~iive hea v Hy witb: the , idea: of.,,.,, tender age. O.ftwAA.ty'!!'lone~ . · . (!Jute antnspl~ttanalspe,eeMi:om elu~iees. Whatadvice,wonld · Jimmy weru:s,.a,gy~~arw.lth no tfie, K.ptan.., .Qt, tbe BibJe.,,otthe ,you hav-e{or':twen~y~00ti'bun... ' stri;ngs over ... hi$,\$hpuldetand.. Torah, .()r wbatever;hut-.J.~m.talk- ·dredeoUege,stl.tdents,wlto,\\-itl::·· preacheR his Q~:t\>:r~dof,g~s., in:g·lQ,,a;,,.,,grettP~,\e\op.eopt.e know · 11ead this,interv.i·ew'f v~:>~'\ ;\. · , pel. Ue. do~~;~,.lcil.O:w a w.ord . quit¢:;a bit abo\'J.t, ~ueelreat.power , JJ, . Letrn:e be.gl:ttt·Mitthth1S:• . , of any Bib!~~' b~tt,,pis UP.W over in differentthiugs.,,andJ.,canJtmns... .life is-<Coincideltot\h ,, ,¥ott<cfllt·w, fifty-:-sev:en regi.s~e;r,~parisbio- latetbat..po-wer,tomy!e!low,tnwk. b.ewalkingdownthestreetane.··. ners are noJesa,,q~rji~. .;: :: ,h ... < :.:\;::;::.::<'.:~:~;:c: .. :::·,.-;:.;·::::: .. ·. · ..... ·x.·) .r· c;· ··w od:ay atlEl'•btUn:p•·'·t cated to hhnu~f!~a_\J!$1t ··. .·· ... !tl'\mna shepa'rdd:ndie~.,lfmt·~I:r~m';nnt dealing \ll'ith~ ·· · ri:.gllt-illHlblisst·; ofit. JimmY·i!tt~nqe,fii, · 'ht1tfifJs;: i .. f>y .. ··.'On''r~'w .... ·-~.m .. ; .. \·.'.'m.··.····.··.''e.;~.,.:···;;J·····!m.:<.;deaUng \Vitll ···You ~au In~e:f);.·: the University .. '()f wolve.s'1t'nU'wolv~~:iJn1Y'dra:fl;ce to a cert~d'n drat·· certain' .. :·• Mississippi and '¥aS kind oftutte. -J a~tJl;edJffet~ntdrunutter.\ person. YOlt thirteen course cred~ can slmnble its away from receiv- ing his B.A. in American Stud- ies when he left school volun;. tarily. He comes from an up- per-middle class family in Sa- lem~ Massachusetts where his family runs a small restaurant called TI1e Grapevine. I found Jhntny at a stop around sixty miles from the Canadian border this summer \vhen my cat broke down and I was waiting for a little roadside assistance. He granted me this interview. A..S. You say you preach your own kind of gcspel, what kind ofsenncns do you deliver without intimate knowledge of a holy scripture1 J..l. The tmth is man,. I can't brii1g myself to read over those books. I spent twenty years of drivin' buddies. A.S. ·. You often nse Jimi Hendrix lyrics ln ymir sermons~ does the fact that Hendrix was a substance· abuser himself ctnn- promise the integrity of themes- sage yoh are tryin-g to get across? . ./.!. Not at all AI. Jhni \vas au angel from heaven and there fs no denyhtg that Unfortunately, art· gels and prophets aren~t very happy people .in this world. A tortured soul, man, but sometimes he would break through th~ haze, and there he would be rising and raising his WJice : \And I stand up next to a mountainll yhop it down with the edge of my h,cmd.\ He was a kindred spirit tcying to get his message across the best he could in a chaoti:c world that he. felt trapped in. And ahyway; ove.r a lpst manuscript of som-e famo.us playwright, the thing is, there is no recipe for coincidence- so it boils down to choices. Choosingthepat11 ofthe rigt)!;;· teous is not easy to distinguisli from that oftfte triisetable, ·I~$. ·• . about caii'itig s6me61ie wheti · you sa}' you're going to. Ws · .about tbinking before you act.· Ifs aMutdoing whatever feets right and not compromising your values for anyone. Man. I don't claim to know all the . answers. btt.tl know this... '.'t don't kt10W just Where. fm., going; but 1 sure know where· I've been, and I'm going to try for the kin.gdom if I can.\ rather hang out with his \broth· ers\ every night, too busy right now for a, relatJmtship (my per- sonal favorite), or the very generic very boring excuse of COin I'll itmeiH phobia. Al- though I haven't actu- ally seen this fine print, (I don't know e~actly where it's located) this must be a pretty good summary of its contents. So here as well I have omitted the need for bifocals (being able to guess how the list reads) or as- sessed their \VOrthlessness in the search for a significant other. This brings me to my final at- tempt at vision enhancement. No. notcontacts. binoculars. It seems as if (as hopeless as it rrtay be) binoculars are the only option that I can't really rule out. They broaden your field of vision' and maybe thafs just what 1 need. Not to open my mind anymore to something that I'm not looking for but to help me see beyond the perimeter of this campus and stop trying to manipulate the poor state of what's here. Don't get me YvTong. I'm not looking for Inar- riage or even a slight parallel. I just want someone· who wants to hang out at the end of a bad day, who Wilnts to watch a movie or T.V. rather than always party hard. who would take me to din- ner or let me take him, and would understand that I have a life too and I just want some affection and companionship in getting through it. Nothin~ more (O.K. a little more) and nothing less. If you feel as if this is a rather harsh view of the scene on cam- pus I'd love to be proved wrong. In fact there's not much I'd like more. Let me know. Box #661 Try it I dare you. ATTENTION: IDENTITY; RACIAL ETHNIC. AND PERSONAL A C'olloquim sponsored by Department of Philosoph_v The Phi-losophy Depl,lrtment is happy to sponsor a colloquim. under the auspices of the Spenser-Levitt chair. with Professor Anthony Appiah {Philosophy & Afri- . can-American Studies at Harvard). Laurence Thomas (Philosophy and Political Sci- ence at Syracuse) and Profes- sor Terry .Weiner (Political Science and Sociology at Union) on the theme. \Identity:Racial. Ethical and Personal.\ Professor Appiah. raised in Ghana. took his BA and PHD degrees in philosophy at Cam- bridge; most recently author of · In A~v Fa/her's House: .~{rica in the Philosophy t?f Culture, concerned with the rold of Af- rican-American intellectuals in shaping the cultural 1 ike of modern Afri.ca. numerous articals in technical philosophy and incultural studies, and co- editor with Skip Gates of a se- ries representing the J:'ar(v Af- rican-American Cltissic:s, Pro- fessor Appiah's insights on the modern struggle to define ethic · identity are penetrating and challenge the usual left/right political and intellectual as- . sumptions. Professor Laurence Thomas has published extensively in the areas of moral, political and · religious philosphy and moral psychology, including his re- cent Ves.\·els l?f Evih American Slavery and the Holocaust and Living Morality: a 1\vchology of Moral CluJrw.:ter. he has \\Titten not only with expertise but with wisdom on topics like the psychology and morality of eviL of shame and guilt the evil of the Holocaust and sla- \ ery. To the latter he brings persectin~ borl'} of his experi-. ence as an African-American· and his religious conviction as. a Jew. Professor Terry Weiner has published extensively on dis- cnrnination in health-care pub- lic policy against the retarded. on the etlects of race and class in the education of Black phy-. sicians. on the problems of standardized testing. Profes- sor Weiner joins learning with the practical insights of ad- ministration and he is well known for his criticisms of as- sumptions about ethnic iden- tity, educational policy and professional success. The Philosophy Department invites you to participate in the coloquium, to be held on Thursday, November 3rd, from 3-6. in the College Cen- ter Auditorium. Professors Appiah and Tho- mas will also visit various classes that Thursday and Fri-. day as well as discuss a paper of Professor Thomas's on \Group Autonomy and Narra- tive Identity\ on Friday. Further details of their visit will be posted soon. Direct further inquiries to Felman John Davis, Acting Chair, De- partment of Philosophy, Hu- manities Building 215a, Union College (38.8-6205).

FEATURES Drowsy Or Sleep-Deprived? Courtesy oft/tf! College Press Service Sleep. It's a biological neces ... sity. But how many ofus consider it as important as breathing or eat- ing? Eve.ry night, millions ·Of Americans hit the pillow a litHe later than they would have liked; only to wake tip to the piercing sotmds of their alarm clocks for another tiresome day. College students are infamous for skimping on sleep and then snoozing through classes. Not un- like many o.ther students, Bryan Marenstein, a University ofWash- ington sophomore, says he usually makes it to bed between 3 and 4 a.m., averaging six or less hours of sleep per night. has ari.sen where individuals can stay up through all houus of the night. But nature may be partially to blame for the chronic sleep dep- rivation of millions of Americans. O~tr bodies' biological clock, or circadian rhythm, is set to a 25- hour schedule ~ one hour longer than the solar day. ''What that means is it is easier for .people to stay up later ... But the probl'ern is that you still have to get up at a fixed time the next day,\ Vitiello said. \So almost by defi.nition it's very easy for you to (cut off) your sleep and end up sleep~deprived.\ Additionally, those who suffer from mid-aftemoon drowsiness can blame their body's circadian r:hythms. It has been documented day of a final. \The longest re- search conducted on humans shows that we can be awake as long as eight and a half to nine days without any reports of physical illnesses,\ Landis said. But a well-known 1964 Ameri- can Cancer Society study did find that the amount of sleep an indi- vidual receives can affect mortal- ity. Subjects who habitually slept less than six hours, or more than 1 0 hours, were more likely to live shorter lives, said Landis. Signsofsleep deprivation are all too common in a society that de:values the importance of sleep. Those who are sleep-deprived suffer from obvious symptoms such as fatigue and a general feel- ''Earlier in the quar- ter, I got a lot of sleep in the I ibrary _ on the couches, the chairs, the ground, anywhere I can find a pI ace to I i e down,\ Marenstein said. ':I got so much sleep at night that I was really tired during the day.\ Zzzzzzzz .... ing of daytime sleepiness. They often can be spot- ted in a series of \microsleeps or miniature episodes of sleep resulting in drooping eye- lids and continual head nodding. Another sign of sleep deprivation is falling aslee.p within five min- utes after crawling into bed. \Some people think that if Most sleep research expet1s agree that young adults need an average of seven to nine hours of sleep per night. ''But for whatever the reasons, maybe a colllbination between academic. social atid work de- mands, stlldents ei1d up getting five or six hours on the average,\ said Michael Vitiello, associate director of the University of Washington Sleep and Aging Re- search Program. A 1982 Stanford University study found that when placed in a dark. quiet room, college students fell asleep faster on the average than other adults. This has led rm1ny researchers to the conclu- sion that most college students are chronically sleep-deprived. \When I teach an 8:30 intra class that's obvious because on any given day, if I have 200 stu- dents there. I may have one or two with their heads down, col- lapsed,\ Vitiello said. Since Edison's invention of the lightbulb, a 24-hour society that around 3 p.m. a drop in body temperature triggers a feeling of sleepiness, resulting in the noto- nousmid-aftemoon nap. There are definite differences between losing sleep for a few nights and habitual sleep loss. Even one night of shortened sleep can impair mental functions. In laboratory tests, sleep-deprived individuals were unable to add up sim pie columns of numbers or hit certain buttons in a select pattem. ''Their perfonnance deteriorates. reaction times slow and accuracy diminishes,\ explained Carol Landis, University of Washing- toil assistant professor of physi- ological nursing. Although individuals can sometimes override the immedi- ate adverse effects of a shortened i1ight 's sleep, Landis does not rec- ommend all-nighters before the they're out as soon as their head hits the pillow ... that they're a good sleeper, but it actually may mean that they have a sleep dis- order or they are chronically sleep-deprived,\ Landis said. On the average, Americans fall asleep seven minutes after get- ting into bed. Fully-rested people fall asleep after 10 to 15 minutes in bed. Some-sleep deprived indi- viduals fall into a pattern of rely- ing on caffeine to wake them up in the momings and sleeping pills or alcohol to ensure a sound sleep at night. Vitiello wamed against reliance on drugs. ''If you have yourself a double espresso each moming, in a couple hours you may find yourself lower than be- fore.\ Never claim to have CLASS Only claim to have TASTE FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST.AURANT 183 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, NY 12308 (518) 393-5440 1 0°/o student discount with a student ID October 20, 1994 , Page 15 · · · }~rri :il senior aha am . · · hi\9 al}y opetii1lgs. I ,•:s ... : .... ··:( ,, ;. ·~ that·~~;~e ... ~:,p~~ple VQ~-ed t~J force :;:nem~~s. to be more Enti'Miirray,JasonRi~l~ettelH, & Mike Wl1itefor personally accosting me because 1 didn't write last week. The doctor s~ys llt;.r arms should l!eat in a week ~'.-. k prostitnte walks u}.}tP' a man on the street. She says to him, ~~For fifty bucks rn d6 anything you can say ht tlitee words .... The tnan thinks for a m:ittute and then invites ber to come t,Jm¢~ith him: · ·· · · · · ·· \\·:·· •. , ·.·J\'·b .. 1 , .... :; ~~nt .. · .. : ... ,. ~n b .,. .~~l~X. .. IJ~tf.? J!~, ~!.~J~¥;1~ $~~ .~f.l-•·:l~~re s 11 y ucks. ' .;~,l~~·ll~~ ~1 . .gtr,~;::, ' ' ' •: ,; .• .· ·.; .· , . . .

t·' ~ ' . October 20, 1994, page 16 FEATURES Breaking Up Is the Thing to Do: It's in the Air by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editot Autumn is in the air. 'Tis the season when a woman's fancy turns to ... breaking up with her boyfriend. This is not a laughing matter to be sure. However, it is an is- sue that needs to be addressed, as every day I heat of another relation- ship that has bit the d u s t . Those of you still hanging on should be starting to worry. You could be next. For those of you who are still unsure if breaking up is the thing for you to do, here are a few helpful hints that may tip you off. *Your boyfriendlgir{friend will no longer receive your calls. You call once,)1e/she's out. You call v thi\ll. <:tie . crnsad~r; it's • ·· · to c,· .'( )11tp,Jain later, he/she's in the shower. You call again, he/she' snapping. You call again, he/She's cooking din- ner. You call again, he/she's in the library. Wise up smarty, he/ she's in bed with someone else. *He/she doesn 'I like to be seen with you in pub- / i (,: . Don't y 0 u think it's strange t h a t when t11e two of you are walking some- where, he Ish e always makes sure to stay at least fifty paces ahead of you? Or when you put your arm around him/her in say, the College Cen- ter, he/she pushes it off, and whis- pers sharply, \Not here, people can see us!\ Do you accept re- jection as a daily occurance? It's no fun being a doormat. *He/she doesn 'I want to call Mostof,the tn¢1:U~hy:pe (;orlaQk. · ·~Mt!iill:·~~~h there ot) a'h01lt:P:ttr. g@neraliO:n , ·Y··:.i SP1lll\~Q:Uf;lf'4;J~N:~tflwiii;::::•1#:~ilit~B.;·tl:!\l~;'\·.l deals wtth .'Cm:rJ~iiek.·o£ wotiva ... · Q~~ticll~tnt:t:S•il'l\t!).~~:t'~;'if~gg;!1l!J!.$:r·i!~;. tion, hnagine:tl)a~ a.whole.gen ... _ tbJ~:I;it;$~1~1~Pf¥l:~;~~~ftNtimi*-gil!¥~r·h· I eration of .American .stackers; . ·· .. ·t·lo<::s.n:m~tl'd!n.g;{Al~~~~!!Wi·~~~~ti;!:,,., ... ,;j more intereste<l.itlmaUs than Micheaiattg¢~~~-Melr<Me ,fJ'k ... · . · stead pf Mo~~ft:;: ~jd .t Cr~w, you his/her girl/boyfriend If af- ter dating for twa years, your sig- nificant other says, \I think this is getting a little too serious. Let's just call each other, 'the person I sleep with,.'- okay?\ You are best to agree only if you are a prosti- tute. *If the very presence t?f your boy/girlfriend annoys you to the .brink qfinsanily. I hate the w.ay he/she talks. I hate the way he/ she dresses. I hate the way he/ she eats. I hate the way he/she sleeps. I hate it when he/she comes over. Face it- you hate him/her. Just dump it! * Helsheforgetsyour birthday, Christmas, and all other mqjor gjft•giving holidays. \You didn't tell me Christmas was the 25th this year. How did 1 know I should get you a present?\ This is not to say that gifts are every- thing, but you all remember what Mom said, \It's tl~e thought that counts.\ *You find almost everyone around you to he more atlractive than him/her. \I ,think the warts all over Joe Schmoe's face are so cute, don't you? My boy/girl ... friend doesn't have warts like that.\ \That run-in with the train only left him/her partially disfig- ured. I still think he/she's a babe!\ Hmmm ..... . *Being .\·ingle isju.'ll plain cool. Let's face it, there's nothing worse than sitting around listen- ing to your friends bitch and moan about how miserable their boy/ girlfriend is making them. You, on the other hand, just smile to yourself and think, \Boy am I ever glad I'm not her/him.\ Who needs to deal with that at our age? It's better this way. Ai1d as far as the Iong•terrn, it's a lot cheaper than a divorce. Do you think I'm too bitter? Students Face Tough Competition For Top Grad Schools recession ... Bad economic times Often, they are really good stu- Courtesy oftlte are very good for graduate schools dents, but the competition is so College Press Service · in tenns of student demand.\ tough,\ she said. \In philosophy Each year, ,1110re and more Graduate degrees also are be- you .practically have to walk on students are applying to graduate coming requited credentials for water to get in.\ schools only to face increasingly career advancement in many set- For example, Bower said slimmer chances for acceptance. tings slich as high scl1ool teach- \'there are 222 applications for five The harsh realities of limited ing, ptiblic administration, social slots in 1994. In 1993, applicants job opportunities has prompted work and nursing, Syverson notes.' had average GRE scores were 729 record numbers of students to Last fall results of an annual verbal, 717 quantitative, and 739 pursue advanced degrees. Now, survey of more than 220,000 analytical with a 3.75 GPA in many outstanding college seniors freshmen, conducted by UCLA's their major. Psychology has 883 who would have had little trouble Higher Education Research lnsti- applicants for 26 slots; history has being admitted to tap graduate tute, showed a record 65 percent 663 applications for 28 slots. programs a few years ago are be- said they were interested in attend- At some larger state univer- ing turned down cold. ing graduate school, a I 0 percent sities, economic cutbacks have David Na11, a senior at Rollins jump from 1 992: decreased financial assistance for College in Winter Park, Fla:.-is .. '' 1 'T11ere'sah;oahighetpercerit-< Sti.idents~ making it harder for .. one such student. Na11 has a 3.93 age of women coming into college some to attend even if they are GPA and GRE scores totalling intending to pursue graduate and accepted. 2230. He designed a rigorous professional study, and I think that At Ohio State University, combined major for himself in may be feeding the increased ad- where 11,000 students are en- art, philosophy, rolled in 115 music and En- graduate glish,andiscon- programs, sidered an excep- both appli- tional student by cations ahd his professors. enrollment \I applied to have shown philosophy Ph.D. a gr.adual.ln- progtams at six . -\crease since grad schools: 'r98'8. The Harvard, Berke- one excep- 1 ey, Stanford, tion was last MIT, Chicago year, when a and Northwest- n-ew appli- ern,\ he says. cation fee \All of them rejected me.\ missions as well,\ says David may have caused a slight de- Stanford, he was told, has six Merkowitz, director of public af- crease in inquiries, according to openings for more than 200 ap- fairs for the American Council on Paul Isaac, associate dean of the plicants. Nail is not alone. Even Education, sponsor of the survey. Graduate School. though growing numbers are ap- Some areas of graduate study At Ivy League schools like plying to graduate school, avail- are increasing faster than others. Princeton; the competition has able spaces have increased only Syverson cites humanities is in- always been tough, but now it is slightly, if at all. creasing at 12 percent annually, even more so. Dave Redmond, \From 1986 to 1992, gradu- public administration at 11 per- acting dean of the Graduate ate school applications increased cent, and social sciences at l 0 School, says Princeton has expe- at a rate of7 percent per year, and percent. rienced a 5 percent increase in in some cases even higher,'' says Only one area has shown a de-- applications this year. And, other Peter Syverson, director of infor- crease. \In the last year we've seen than a small decline last year, ap- mation services for the Council decreases in business applications, plications have been slowly in- of Graduate Schools. \Enroll- and that was expected because the creasing over the last several ment has gone up 2 percent per number of students taking the years. yearoverall. Ifapplicationsgoup GMAT test has gone down each David Nali is now one of faster than enrollment, institu- year for the past two ot three those who knows that pain ofre- tions become more selective. years,\ he said. \The MBA is not jection welt. \It was a numbing \Most attribute this (increase) the hot ticket it once was in the experience,\ says Nail, who is to the economy. As the job mar- '80s.\ re-evaluating his options. \I plan ket for new graduates closed, Bower has sympathy for the to work, save money and reap- many students lo~ked to continu- dilemma of students as competi- ply next year, perhaps to differ- ing their education as a way of tion shuts them out. \I feel ent grad schools where I won't increasing their competitive edge terrible ... these are somebody' s be facing such enonnous odds if while riding out the economic children we are turning away. there are any schools like that.\ ~ I ! I! I I

I . I PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS October 20, 1994, page 17 Personals· To ZBT, Thanks for the great wight and an excellent band! Love. SDT Dear Tri'-Delt, Kegs were great. Thnnks for a stiper gitlsnight out. Love, SDT To Chi Psi. The luge was fantas- tic and it \vas nice to see every- one dressed up.. Love, SDT Aaron, Ben, Jay - MonHny is coming this weekend. Daddy will have to u1iss out on all the agen- das. Well, !Hay be!!! -Yin Rock ·Baby Fro.ggic loves you and misses yon almost as much as I do. Rememt)erthe Rubber Ducky song andknow th<lt I \vill be home soon! Love. Moo .las- Happy 22nd. The first bit1h- day I've missed since your 14th. Just a little scary! I'll be thinking ofyou. -Me Bri - I hope you liked your flow- ers. I wanted to call you,but I knew that it would be a financially dangerous conversation. }. hope you're h·aving a good time. I miss you'! Come home soon. I need you! Love .. Heather Pam and lenni - You guys are amazing. I'm so impressed that you survived yottr first system. Keep it up, and know that yQu are always in my thoughts and in my heart. llove you both. -Hepsaba R&S- What to say? I don't know anymore. Can I just stat1 all over .again? I w.ish. When is BC go- ing to get on the ball with e-mail too. I miss my nightly fix of you guys? -Union Mom und Fruit - 1l1ank y'ou so much for loving me. Without you l n1ight have fallen apart. You are the best family anyone could ever ask for:. Fruit, keep up the good work. l'tn. so proud of you. Love - Sister/Citiderella Sheryl- I'm cni a roll. How many of these .personals do you know aretnine? Thanks for being such a. good roommate, ... H Women's Tennis - Good ·luck at States. Let;s Go U! Love- YD\It Captain Rachel Dave - Uma Thum'lan would be jealous of your pinky -JYH Josh - Pain of Lynn? Rich - Sorry to miss you on Fri. Personal problems. Couldn't make it. Call me smnetime. - sista J. Meredith - I'll call you - John (GLBA) Bill-1 want my books. - John (GLBA) Sethy- Smile. Love, Sis Jonathan - Hope you ar:e enjoy- ing yom personal. Hngs and Kisses -Caroline ,\ :'\ :'\ 0 L' :'\ C I ?\ G T \\' 0 :'\ E \\' C R E F A C C 0 L' :'\ T S YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. . WE :RECOMMEND BOTH. Introducing the CREF Growth Aceount :and the CREF Equity Index Account. W hether you want a fund that selects specific stocks or one that. covers the market, we're on the same page. . Our new CREF Growth.and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock mar- ket, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation!~' The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that are poised for superior growth. Jn contrast, the Equity Index Account looks For more diversification, with a portfolio encom\ passing ahnost the entire range of U'S. stock investments. It will invest in stocks Ensuring the future for tho~e who shape it.sM in the. Russell 300Q.®;t* a broad index of U.S. stocks. Like ·OUr CREF Stock Account, which combines active; indexed, and foreign investing, and our Giobal Eq.uities Account, which .actively seeks opportuni- ties worldwide, the new funds are managed by experienced investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension sy~tem in the U.S., managing over $1.30 billion in assets. ·To find out more about our new stock funds, and building your portfolio with TlAA-CREF, just call I 800-842-2776. And take your pick. \'The new ·ful\tls >1r~ ••• ai!al·!~ for Rt..!tir~ment Anilt1Jt!e1> ;;ub1cct til tht! ICJ\mS of ~·a11r .inz;{ltulinn:S ]llan. 'l'he.~ otre ,l\ailotbll· lor ,,JI Suppll.!mental Retarcm~nr Al\nu~tiei *•The Russell 3000 is a rcgistt!retl·tradcmark oF the F'rMk Ru~sell Cpmpuny. Rtui~ll is nbt a spo1lsor of the CRIW ·Equity lmlcx i\l·t:nunt ;and is not alliliatcd with it in <my way for more complete infurmat1on, in,loding ~.harscs and·c:xpl.\nses; t:all 1 800-S42-2i33. c:xl 5S09.for a CRErprospc~tm .. R~u.d the pr~pc,·lu~ ,,m·ruH) bt·lor~ .\ uu ,,~t\sl \' ~~nJ mMt\j CREP ccrtilicatcs Me tli!!irilnlteJ by TIAI\.Oltt.W lndh·idua! amllnstttlltionnl Sen·kt>s. lm Classifieds ., . Wanted!! America's fastest growing spring break company is now seeking individuals to pro- mote our super spring break trips. Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Florida, South Padre, Barbados. Call Sun Splash Tours at 1-800- 426-7710. 1981 OLDS CUTLASS SU- PREME - $2800 - 350 Chevy engine, brand-new transmission, posi rear-end, battery, brakes, ra- diator & muffler. Just painted - black custom. 283-44 73 after 6 PM. Ask for DAVE. Spring Break '95 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus represen- tatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call l-800-648- 4849. Use The Concordiensis Classifieds. They really work. . 1 NEAR EXIT 2W ON NORTHWAY ,, Sofa and Chair- Call during the day 372,2949. after 6 PM 377~ 657 8. Ask for Mrs. Dicarlo. The Garnet Yearbook needs staffmembers. If you.are inter- ested in becoming a part of this great publication contact Rachel Goldfine box 665. SPRING BREAK - Nassau/ Paradise Island,Cancun and Ja- maica from $299. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties and More! Or- ganize small group- eam FREE trip plus commissions! CaH 1-800-822-03 21. FUNDRAISING: Chose from 3 diffe~enet fundraisers lasting ei- ther 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Eam '$$$ for your group plus per- sonal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800-932~0528, Ext 65. Wanted!!! Individuals and Student Organi- zations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO- GRAMS 1-800~327-6013. Try Us For An Alternative SPEC!AL·PISCOUNTS FOR OUA).IFI® RISK pOOL DRIVERS JW INSURANCE 1533 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, N.Y. 12205 CALL (518) 452-9243 EDUCATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING Thursdav. October 27th • W- MEETINGS AT 9:30AM ll:OOAM and 1:00PM 27 North College- Conference Room (518) 388-63()1 MAKE A DIFFERENCE ..•. ... become a teacher! Students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic Ia~­ guages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth sci- ence, physics or general science) or social studies should at- tend. Information will be given regarding the undergradu- ate, graduate, and five-year combined degree programs. The General Electric Company will hold and information session to discuss permanent positions for the Technical Leadership Program at 7 PM and Co~op and Summer Job opportunities at 8 PM Tuesday, October 25 at the Career Development Center Old Chapel, Third Floor -

I' I/' \ ,, J l \ . I Campus Calendar Oct. 20~26 Thursday, 10/20 8:00a CAMPUS MINISTRY BOARD MEETING, CC 203 9JOa U CALL SEMINARS, CC 409 1 O:OOa BINGHAMTON UNIVERSITY INFORMATION TABLE, CC ATRIUM 12:00p SPANISHLANGUAGETABLE,CC20S 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 12JOp HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS, BAILEY 201 3 JOp DA YC ARE PLANNINGCOMMITIEE MEETING, CC 205 6:00p GARNETMINSlRELS MEETING. CC 410 6:00p \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 6JOp ADOPTGRANDPARENTMEETING.CC409 6:30p BIG BROTIJERS/BIG SISTERS TRAINING FOR VOLUNTEERS, HU 117 7:00p MARVIN GOODFRIEND CONVERSATION WITH STUDENTS. CC 305 7:00p SHAKTIMEETING. CC 203 7:00p BIG BROTHER/BIG SISTER. CC 409 7JOp FRENCH CLUB MOVIE. CC MOBIL ( 406) 8JOp BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL PAS (I 08) Friday, 10/21 7:30a FXECliTIVEINRE..~IDENCEPROGRAM: MARVINGOODFRIEND MOHA WKGOLDFCLUB BREAKFAST C1:00p \A NIGHT OF SCENES\ REHEARSAL. SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 6:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL SOCIAL SCIENCES.Ol 0 & 012 7:00p INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING. CC MOBIL(406) 7:00p PHILOMA THEAN SOCIETY MEETING. HUMANITIES 114 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR Saturda)', 10/22 2:00p MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSAL SOCIAL SCIENCES 0 lO & 012 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE\. RA THSKELLAR 1 O:OOa BICENTENNIAL MODERN DANCE REHEARSAL.PAS (I 08) 7:00p PHI JOT A ALPHA MEETING, CC 409 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/20/94 - 11/11194 Special Visual Arts Exhibit 9:00a- 6:00p EXHIBITION: LIVING WITH AIDS PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM McGOVERN. ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM (Mondays - Saturdays) Thursday, 10/20 I :30p PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM. SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR SPEAKER: GEORGE BUITERSTEIN. SOCIAL SCIENCES 1 04 Frida~·, 10/21 12:00p KENNETH B. SHARPE LECTURE: MARVIN GOODFRIEND('72). BAILEY312 4:00p ECONOMICS SEMINAR: MARVIN GOODFRIEND-EARLY DEVELOP- MENT. SOCIAL SCIENCES 110 8:00p COLLEGE'MUSEUMCONCERTSERIES: NEWENGLANDBACH FESTIVAL. MEMORIALCHAPEL Thursday, 10/20 F1iday.10121 Saturday. I 0122 Sunday. 1 0/23 Monday. 10/24 Tuesday, I 0/25 Weds .. 10/26 Thursday. 1 0/2 7 Fliday. 10/28 Saturday, 1 0/29 Sunday. 10/30 Monday, I 0/31 Tuesday. I 1 /0 1 Weds., 11/02 Thursday. 1 1/03 MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & 10:30 pm unless otherwise indi.cated. Admission $2.00 \THE SHADOW,\ CCAUDITORIUM \WYATT EARP,\ CC AUDITORIUM \WYATTEARP AUDITORIUM \WYATT EARP.\ CC AUDITORIUM \WYA TTEARP,''CC AUDITORIUM \ABOVE THE RIM,\ CC AUDITORIUM \ABOVE THE RIM.\ SS 016 \ABOVE THE RIM.\ CC AUDITORIUM \THECROW.\CC AUDITORIUM 'THECROW.\CC AUDITORIUM \THE CROW.\ CC AUDITORIUM ''THECROW,\SSOI6 \NO ESCAPE.\ SS 016 \NO ESCAPE,\ SS 016 \NO ESCAPE,\ SS016 Mark your Calendar for: November 4-6 PARENTS' WEEKEND and ARTS FEST November 7-11 AIDS CONFERENCE For Further Information Regarding Campus Events, Contact the Office of Special Events at 388-6098. M.onday, 10/24 11 :30a FRENCH LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 204 3:00p EDUCATIONAL STUDIES INTERNSHIP MEETING, CC 302 5:00p MEDIT A TIONGROUP, CC 302 5:00p AFFILIATES PHONE-A-THON, HH DINING ROOM 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE HRA MEETING, CC 205 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 7:00p WRUC STAFF MEETING, CC 205 Tuesday, l 0/25 , ' ,, 7:45a COMMUNITY & VALUES DISCUSSION GROUP,CCMOBIL (406) 9:30a U CALL SEMINARS, CC 409 II :OOa NCUR STEERING COMMITIEEMEETING CC 203 12:00p JAPANESELANGUAGETABLE,CC204. l2:30p FLUTE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 313 12:30p RUSSIAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC ATRIUM (near the piano) 5:30p DELTA PSI DELTA MEETING, CC 203 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 41'0 6:30p NEWMAN CLUB MEETING, CC MOBIL (406) 6:30p PROTESTANT MINISTRY RELIGIOUS SERVICES, CC STRAUSS (305) 6:30p SHPE MEETING, CC 205 7:00p UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA REHEARSAL, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 9:00p \COFFEEHOUSE'' THSKELLAR Wednesday, 10/26· 8:00a GE.INTERVIEWS (CDC), HH DINING ROOM 9:30a U CALL OPERA PROGRAM, CC AUDITORIUM 9:30a U CALL SEMINARS, CC 409 4:00p · PANHELLENICCOUNCILMEETING,CC203 5:00p STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING, CC 205 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 7:00p RESIDENCE LIFE SESSIONS WITH R.A. 'S, HUMANmES 112 7:00p G.L.B.A. MEETING, CC 203 SPORTS Saturday, 10/22 I :30p UNION FOOTBALL VS. COAST GUARD, ASTROTURF (BAILEY fiELD) Sunday, 10/30 7:00a SCHENECTADY SWIM CLUB ''TRICK OR TREAT MEET,\ ALUMNI GYM POOL Friday, ll/04 7:30p UNION HOCKEY VS. ARMY, AC~ES RINK MAIN FLOOR Upcoming Movie October 28th - 31st in CC Auditorium

' ~lie Cl!nnenr.biensis SPORTS Men's Soccer vs. Vassal' last week . . (photo by Adam Goldmmifor Tile Co11cordiellsis) Men's Soccer Comes Back to Earth by Jason Starr Sports Editor charge of the game ball control- wise. They were a very good passing team and they set up plays by the goalie and Liebhoff. The goaltender managed to gain pos- session but then simply .dropped the ball literally t\vo feet in front of the net. Liebhoffwas there to tap the ball in for Union's \vin- ning goal. Union has now won three of its last four games. Lets hope this mini streak continues into their last four games and they finish off with a winuin~ record. October 20, 1994, page 19 The KKorner Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor . Well. October 15 has come and gone yet the only pucks that can be heard echoing of the boards are those of the Albany River Rats and other such minor league affiliates. Gary Bettm;m has more or less succeeded in not only derailing the progress the NHL was mak- . ing in tenus of popularity and national exposure but also erasing the great successes .of last season. Gone is the talk of what a great April ai1d May it wa~. here to stay. or so it seems, is the buzz word as far as professional sports are concemed these days, \salary cap.\ 1l1e players \\'on 't take it. the o\\11ers won't let them play without it. See you in 1995 .... What do John Elway. Jim Kelly. and Boomer Esiason have in . common? Firstly, they have quarterbacked the last nine Super Bowl losers and secondly. they are three qu.arterbacks who I am sick and tired of seeing on my television week after week. Fell as. its time to move 011. Okay so the numbers may be comparable to the other 1 mediocre QB's in the league, but give us a break. huh? The hey day I is passed and the diminishing skills are more than noticeable. Al- readv this vear Elwav has blown three chances to win cames in the . ., . - ..... final minutes. this past Monday being the most recent when poor clock management gave the Chiefs and \his Joeness\ an opportu- nity to p~tt together a 70+ yard drive with I :29 remaining. Esiason is just no good anymore and Kelly, if not for his supporting cast. might be worse. Up to the broadcast booth with all of you! .... Finally. how about the tumout for this past Saturday's Home- coming football game against RPI.l11e crowd was estimated at close to 5.000. Would of been nice if everyone had a place to sit, but I guess one is e:'l1pected to make some concessions at a $24.000 school. The game itself was exciting for a while until the running game broke lose. namely Frank Attah who ran for two long scores to bury the hatchet and clinch someone· s shoes. TI1is week· s match-up pits the Dutchmen against Coast Guard at Frank Bailey Field. And if the lack of seating has you dmvn and out. don't forget that Union College football is always skillfully and professionally broadcast on89.7 WRUC. Well. we could not really have well in frmit of the net. Union's expected it. Back to back wins opportunities came mostly from against the two best teams in the quick bursts a11d counter-attacks. state is nearly an impossible task One of these quick bursts paid off when you are a mediocre team for the Dutchmen with six min- struggling to reach 500. So it was utes left in the first half. Jeremy not that big of a letdown when Liebhoff dribbled across the pen- the Dutchmen. coming off a stun- alty box from the right side to the i1ing upset over St. Lawrence left and poked one near post past failed to beat RIT. Not only did the RPI goalie. The half ended they fail to beat them. but they with a one-nothing Union lead. were severely outplayed. TI1e fi- l11e second half was equally as nal was 6-1 which is an indica- fast-paced as the first. Union's tion of jus~ ho~v qut\llatche~I .. f!rsrchatw.~ c.ame off a Liebhof£ Union was. However. this loss cross which was one-timed by was a bit easier to take than pre- Chris Estafani from about ten feet vious 011es in light ofRirs mun- out. Unbelievably though, her one status. Estafani sailed the shot over the Water Polo Season Starts Union, as they lost a 13-6 half- time lead. Colgate and Anny then proceeded,to trounce·rthe once powerful Union team. Last year. Union was ranked eigh!h in the natiot1 in club water poio. and qualified for the EWP.A \\ater polo championship. \This year is a rebuilding year after losing several players to graduation and tenn abroad.\ stated Bowden af- ter being asked about the week- end. The loss didnot seem to bother net. This miss looked like it the Union squad all that much ei- ther as they were very much up to their task four days later. This past Saturday in front of an un- usually large homecoming week- end crowd. the Dutchmen faced RPI. This was the most exitii1g game Union has played all year. TI1e play went back and forth all game and there were a host of pretty shots and opportunities on both ends of the field. It is safe to say however that RPI took \\'Ould prove costly for the Dutch- men when RPI tied the game with thirty minutes left. RPI then con- tinued to play an effective pass- ing and ball-control game until Uni011 was able to capitalize on a defetisive blunder committed by the RPI goalie. TI1e play started from a free kick which was de- flected by Geoff Sipperly with a beautiful bicycle kick. The ball sailed high and directly in front of the net where it was fought for Athletes of the Week ~~~....- .. -:--\7---- -\\\\---.--~__,... ' .r-~-~......-. .......... ~---....._,.---_,..,...., by n..en Berman Ch • 1 ·· Sport$ Editor . . • rlS rVIng TI1is Week's award goes to two people who have been key in the SLiccess of Union Footbaii, run-:- ning backs Chris Irvi11g and Kojo- Frank Attah. It would be ui1fait to give the award to just one of these great athletes, for they have both contributed greatly to Union's ground game. l11is past week this was particularly obvi·- ous. In the Dtttdunen 's Home- coming Day victory over RPI, the Senior Co-Captain,Chris Irving from Williamsville, New York, broke Vlad Telell1aques all time Union rushing record, with a 40 carry, 159 yard effort. He con- stantly pomided at the Engineer defense, in a relentless style that eventualJy just wore them down. He now stai1ds with a career total of2,991 yards, bringing him tan- l(ojo Attah Men's Football talizingly close to becoming the first Dutchmen to ever record 3,000 yards on the ground. Al- though Attah • s career has not been as longas Irving's, he is just as talented as his counterpart. This week Irvi11g rushed for 140 yards on only 1 0 carries. includ- ing touchdown runs of 32 and 70 yards. He came on with the game tied at 6-6, and his. two long runs catapulted Union to victory. The 205 pound junior from the Bronx. New York, has now rushed for 3 79 yards this season. and is av- eraging 6.5 yards a carry. With these two rushing soccesfully, · Union should continue. to control the ball, and Wil\ games. 'by Lee R. Schachter & Geoffrey Ephraim Wolfe Contributi11g Write,rs Recently. the Union Water Polo team kicked off the I 994 Eastem Water Polo Association season at Comell with the first part of a two-part tournament. TI1e team played four games- against RPL Columbia. Colgate. and Anm·. ~ . TI1e team was short-handed. with only eleven players present. TI1ey were 1-3 for the weekend. The weekend started off well with a win against RPI. 17-15. Trailing by the score of 5-2 at the end of one quarter and 8-7 at the half. they came roaring back by exploding for eight goals in the third quarter to take a 15-10 lead. They held on in the fourth quar- ter with some tough defense. Se- niors Scott Bowden and Geoffrey Ephraim Wolfe led the team in scoring with six goals each. Chris Riley had two. and Robbie Johnson. Tsuyoshi \Kobi\ Kobayashi. and Adam Levithan each scored one goal. TI1e next game was a nailbiter right down to the wire. with Union losing to Columbia by the score of 20-18. Again Bowden and Wolfe led the scoring with seven goals each. as Riley picked up three and Jo1mson had one. It was a disappointing loss for This weekend the team travels to Colgate to take on CornelL Buffalo State. and Hamilton. So take a road trip and come on out and support the Dutchmen and Union Water Polo. You'll be glad you did!!! Football Wins Co11tinued from page 20 this week, while Andy Leach had five tackles. a sack. and a pass deflection. Union will try to improve on these gaudy stats this week against the Coast Guard Academy, i11fhe final home game ofthe year. The Bears. who will be trying to avenge last years 52-1 0 spanking at the hands of Union, have won three in a row and are looking tough. Coast Guard is led by jun~ ior quarterback J?ete Melnick, who is equally effective running or passing. Meanwhile, Union '.s own resume is growing more im- pressive every week. They now stand at 5-1, and remain #I in Upstate New York. They im- proved both in the NCAA East- em Regional poll (where they are now at #2) , and in the national Columbus Multimedia poll, where they leaped from 15 to 14.

. ' ,, '.' October 20, 1994 PAGE20 On the Strength ·Of Their Shoes • • Dutchmen Pile Up 384 Rushing Yards En Route to 23-6 Win Over RPI. by Ken Berman Sports Editor It was a tale of two running back;s, one record breaking, the other simply spectacular, as Union ran it's record to 5-1 with a 23-6 victory over long-time ri- val Rensselear on Homecoming Saturday,allowing Union to keep the famous \Dutchmen Shoe's\ for aHeast another year. which means you can both con• trol the dock; and put points on the board. RPI was not able to do much with the baU when they had it, which is a tribute to the young but powerful Union defense, They could only come up with 70 yards on the grol:lnd, and totaled only 5 first down (compared with. the 15 that Irving came up with alene;). Although these numbers a:r.e out~ standing, your Dutchmen defend- ers have been putting up similar numbers all season long. They are giving up an average of only 246 total yards, with 117 of these coming on the ground. A more telling fact is that opponents are only averaging 3.1 yards a carry, and have rushed for just three touchdown this year. Op- posing quarterbacks are only completing 39% of their passes, a tribute to both a solid second- ary, which has come up with five interceptions, and a fast core of lineman and linebackers to put pressure on up front. They have come up with a total of 15 sacks so far, (including four this week) with sophomore Denton Randolf leading the way with 3 alone. Leading tacklers include line- backer Mike White and backs Kevin Pessolano and Kevin Weedmark. Weedmark had eight Bernardo overpowers RPI defender. (photo by Josh Haines/The Concordiensis) Senior Chris Irving was the work;horse~ carrying the pigskin 40 times for 159 yards in becom- ing Union's all time leading rusher. He now needs only 9 more yards to become Union's first ever 3,000 yard rusher. Jun- ior Frank Attah electrified the crowd in the second half, break- ing open the 6-6 tie with touch- down runs of32 and 70yards en route to a 140 yard game on only 10 carries. Sophomore halfback Justin Bourque chimed in with 71 yards of his own, giving the Dutchmen a total of384 yards on the ground, on 68 carries. Qui- etly enough, sophomore place- kicker Roger Egbert played a big role. He kicked field goals of34, 26, and 29 yards, which enabled Union to stay in the game early. Egbert was also perfect on his two extra-point attempts. As RPI learned in this game, if you can run the ball, you can hold the ball, Continued on page 19 Crew Opens Season With Mixed Success by Jody Mousseau Contributing Writer The Union Crew teams were confronted with extremely tough opposition last weekend as they opened the Fall 1994 season. The novice teams participated in the Head of the Mohawk, while the varsity teams headed ·to Rochester for the Bausch and Lomb Invitational Regatta. The Headofthe Mohawk pro- vided the novice team with their first rowing experience. Two men's eight boats, three women's eight boats, and one women's four boat raced. The women's eights took the fifth, seventh, and ninth places of the nine boat race. The men took the tenth and twelfth place spots of their twelve boat race, while the women's four walked away with first place. Their competi- tors included Army, Skidmore, Hamilton, and Colgate. In Rochester, Union rowed through the thin and the unex- pected. Coming off of a strong spring season from last year, little did most of the varsity team know what the regatta had in store for them. While Colgate, Hobart and William Smith, Albany, Skidmore, lthaca, and other familiar crews to the Union team were there, the boats were placed in the races with many Division 1 schools, such as Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Syra- cuse, and Cornell. For most of both the men and the women on the Union team, with the excep- tion of a few veterans, it was their first time rowing at a varsity level. sophomore Emily Smith described what many of us could only think while at the race. \There is a huge difference between the novice competition and the varsity com- petition.\ Regardless of ntinor equipment problems, the teams proceeded to race their garnet and white striped oars. This race was also the pre- miere race in which the women's newly painted white with garnet striped oars were presented. Af- ter a bitter, brisk Sunday morning became warm, the races began (with the help of the \Big P\). Two heavyweight Wome;n' s boats, one men's lightweight boat, and one men's heavyweight boat were raced. In the initial head race (3 .I miles), the men's heavyweight crew placed 22 out of32, the men's lightweight 12 out of 12, the women's heavyweight A 22 out of 31, and the women's heavyweight B 2 7 out of 31. A 1500m sprint then took place to determine each individual boat's final standing. The women's heavyweight B boat took the victory against Albany and moved up in the standings. The other boats, however, were faced with tougher competition and left extremely close losses. Overall, the Union Crew team did well. Head coach Jim Crick commented, \The women's team took a few steps forward. The men are building for the future.\ Women's varsity coach Eva Kovach upheld the positive per- spective by saying, \All crews rowed well It was definitely a learning experience. Now we know what we have to work on to be fast in the spring ... and we wiU be. I have confidence in that.\ Although Kate Heatherton was articulate in stating that she would never wear a hat to row again, freshman :tower Kenley Smith could say nothing but, \Pain is not an option.\ Drew Forsberg had no comment. The weekend proved to be in- teresting for the Union team. The women's varsity team will be rowing an eight in the Head of the Charles this weekend. Good luck. The Women's Soccer Team beat Vllsstlr 4 .. 0 on They have two more g11mes left. (photograph by Joshua Wills Haines for The Concordiensis) i: :, '·

' •' ::Skating Dutchmen Hockey Preview - Page 17 ' . ' . ' . . . ' . ' . . ' ' . ' ' ' -'-' . :. . .· . . . . . • • on tor t£ttSt5 The Student New~paper of Union College Since 1877 . Celebrating Our Bicentennial VolumeCXXIV, Number V Students Participate in Local Election Campaigns by Heather Manley AssistantNews Editor This week, Union students had the opportunity to participate in Schenectady County politics. On Tuesday, October 25, the League ofWomen Voters ofSchenectady County sponsored a Candidates' Forum at the Price Chopper Com-. munity Room on Eastern Park- way. At the forum, candidates had the opportunity to present their position on various issues to the Schenectady community. Schenectady, New York . . . October 27, 1994 Hull's Shameless Hardball? The First Article in a Series About The G. E. Plot Controversy by Elizabeth DeKoven & David Levine Colltributing Editors The debate between the city of Schenectady and Union College conceming the use of eight properties in the General Electric Plot is begin- News ning to resemble a mudslinging A I . contest. The long-term debate na YSIS over Union's right to use school- owned houses as administrative offices has been well publicized. The battle is between some Schenectady residents who are seeking to en- force the A-2 Zoning District Ordinance which requires properties in the G.E. Plot to be used for single family living or professional home occupations, and the Union College administra- tion, which is seeking to amend the ordinances or reach some .ki11d of compromise that would allow the school to effectively increase tl1e pe- . rimeter of the campus. Tl1e discussion process between Schenectady officials and President Roger Hull has reached a crossroads, and re- events indrcatethattfiepossibility forpeace- Y resolving the conflict has diminished. Hull is seeking to utilize Schenectady's finan- cial dependence on Union to facilitate amend- ments to the zoning ordinance. After a Schenectady Council meeting failed to produce a compromise, Hull sent a letter to the city Conn- The candidates who attended include Democrat/Liberal incum- bent William W. Barnes and his Republican/Conservative oppo- nent, William C. Martin for the office of County Sheriff. T11e candidates for County Clerk are Democrat/Liberal incumbent John J. Woodward, Republican Nicholas C. Barber and Conser·· vative l11omas I. Isabella. The candidates forjudge -hrelud'ed~ Michael C. Eidens, Democrat/ Liberal, George J. Camino, run~ ning on the Republican/Conser- vative and Right to Life tickets and Wayne P. Smith, Indepen- dent. Street Sign identifYillg tl1e G. E. Realty P/qt (photo by Laurel Ruma/TIIe Concordiensis) Continued on page 4 Union students greeted mem- bers of the community as they arrived. Members ofthe audience wrote down questions for the can- didates as they entered the com- munity center. The questions were later organized by the Union students to prevent duplicity and personal attacks on the candi- dates. Moderator Joan Elliott, of the League of Women Voters pre- College Broadens Horizons With Kenyan Term . sented questions to the candi- dates. Stttdents also aided in tim- ing the candidates speeches and responses to questions. This is the second year that Union students have assisted with the Candidates' Forum. Ethel David, Director of the Academic Continued on page 4 by Nalini Gupta Coucordiensis Staff Broadening their horizens a11d seeking knowledge of new cul- tures and lifestyles, Union stu- dents have once again traveled beyond the boundaries of con- ventional education to explore the foreign turf of Kenya. For the first time in Union history, the Kenya Term Abroad Program has been introduced to give stu- dents a chance to discoverthe tra- ditions of Africa as part of their course of study. Fourteen Union students first arrived at the Kenyan Intema- ·Index of Sections N·ews ..... , .......... ~ ... ~ ....... ~. 1--4 · Features .. ~ ................. $ ... 7 S-ci.en~ce. ~·;.-, ... .t~·v·\······- .. ..,,;. .. - .•... 8- Living .......... ~ .......... * .. , ... ,i .•.•• d t~4- · Calendar ..... , ...... \ .•. ~ •. ~.;;.; ... ~;. 9 · · Petsonats ~ ... , .• ~.-.~~.~;.~ ... 15 O·P/EIJ .. ct········~ .. ·-······~·····.-····· .. 1 -o-, s:.po-ns ·i·1t~~ .. ., •• ~-~-~--~,.-~ ... _e; . .,_~-1-~?~@:0: .. . -~-.. :·-··· -- .• ·.· .. :-!·:- ... ; tiona! Airpmt on September 19 and proqeeded to the Kenyan YMCA. TI1ere they participated in an orientation that included alec- ture by Union graduate Dr. Wil!,rio Orwa en the Culture and Society in Kenya. The students were also able to take a wildlife \game drive\ through Massai Mara and to visit a Massai village where they observed the customs and habits of the Massai people. Traveling through Arusha, the students had the opportunity to examine and discuss the Socialist Experiment initiated by the former President, Julius Nyerere. The !,'TOup also drove to the Ngorogoro Crater and to the Bomas ofKenya wl1ere they were treated to an African tradi- tional dance. Presently. the Kenya Program will only be conducted eve1y other year, alternating with the Brazil tenn abroad. \Originally. we were planning the tenn in Kenya on a once a year basis. It was a great disappointment when we found that it would only be possible once in two years\ said history Profes- sor Andrew Miller who wiil be alternating with Professor Quaye in conducting the trip. The pre- requisites for the program include taking a humanities course per- taining to Africa along with a rig- orous application and interview process. This year, 55 applicants applied, of which only 16 were accepted. Each of the students are en- rolled in courses which provide enriching experiences i.n field work and in the ethnographic study of the cultural aspects of Kenya. Twelve Union students are currently doing internships with various governmental and non-governmental organizations such as the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, private Jaw firms, women's organizations, and the Undugu Society which focuses on street children. Eight of the par- ticipants are taking a seminar course on \Health Care Issues in Kenya.\ As part .of the program, all par- ticipants are also taking \Modern Kiswahili,\ taught by Dr. Kith aka Mberia of the University of Nairobi. Ten students have also enrolled in a course titled, \Women. Development and En- vironment,\ which allows them to examine the society and social change in Kenya with special ref- erence to issues of ethnicity, gen- der relations, family pattems and community organization. The course is outstanding in its focus on such environmental and natu- ral resource issues as population and family planning, wildlife conservation, ~urbanization ~nd tourism in East Africa and is complimented with visits to Nairobi national parks, museums, and community based grassroots organizations. \The program has great stl'ength in the fact that it allows students majoring in a variety of disciplines to find niches per- fectly suited to their interests. Students are fitted to the intern- ships they need so that they may fulfill their professional goals as well as gain cross-cultural expe- rience in an exciting new setting,\ Miller said. A highlight of the pro!,rram will be a study tour to Mombasa and Mt. Kenya, which is being planned for early De- cember. l11e term will end on December 15, 1994.

.] I I II I •.\, October 27, 1994, page 2 NEWS Campus Safety Department Weekly Incident Summary TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, \1994 THROUGH MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994 DATE/TIME LOCATION TUESDAY. OCTOBER 18, 1994: 11 15 AM AD PHI l :34 PM College Center 2:42 PM Colle~e Center 6:40 PM Fox Parking Lot WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19,1994: 12:51 AM Fox House I :I l AM West College I 28 AM South College 540AM Wells House 624AM Fox House THURSDAY, OCTO;tJER 20,1994: 6:20 AM Coilege Center 8:30AM lessly 9:40AM 1:36PM 2.05 PM ·Off Campus .Smith Mouse Alumni Gym Fmd4ouse FRIDAY, OCTOBER21, 1994: 2:41 AM Social Science 3:00 AM . Schafff.r Library 3:49AM Crunpus Grounds 8:30AM Nerth College 7:05PM Library· Field area 9:04PM LibrarY Field area 10:45 PM Campus Grounds SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1994: 1:15AM Chi Psi 12:25 PM 1:22PM 4:27PM West College Alumni Gym area Bailey Field area SUNDAY. OCTOBER 23, 1994: I :36 AM Fox House 9:56AM Chi Psi MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994: 12:03 AM West College 2:24AM 3:08AM 5:39AM 5:51AM 9·27 AM 9:29AM 5:35PM Delta Phi Lenox Road Raymond Hm.tse Edwards House Administr&tion Bldg. r f/ . •t 1 • Potter House AD Phi INCIDENT VANDALISM: Broken windows THEFT: Student's jacket stolen. TRESPASS: Unauthorized solicitor Advised off ~;ampus. ATTEMPTED ROBBERY: Male student accosted by a suspect who demaHded his wallet. Robbery attempt thwarted by victim who distracted suspect and departed the area, SPD contacted and investigated. HARASSMENT: Threatening phone calls. HARASSMENT: Unwanted telephone calls. HARASSMENT/FALSE REPORT: False report of attack occurring on campus. Conduct charges .filed. SECURITY HAZARD: Entrance doors not locked Locks fixed to avoid recurrence. FIRE ALARM:- Cawsed by humidity from dryer-exhaust fans \' not turned' on. ' SAFETY HAZARD: 'Food leti cooking on stove unattended . - . Hazard secured and Dining Service advised SAFETY HAZARD: Report of campus van driving reck- en Liherty & Jay St. Operator identified and advised. HARASSMENT: ,Reports of two incidents that occurred during previous week: one involving males streaking through the building. and the- other involving threatening berhavior. FIRE ALARM: Cal!sed by faulty equipment ~dirty detector) FIRE ALARM: Caused bv steam from dryer. SECURITY HAZA'RD: Storage closet not secured SECURITY HAZARD: Door not properly1SC€uted. TRESPASS: 1fwo males acting suspiciously on campus grounds. Suspects fled· campus when observed. SPD notified and responded to check the area. THEFT: Mechankal room controls computer stolen from basement area. Note: This is a specialized piece of equipment that can be used ordy for controls operations TRESPASS: Visitor throwing fireworks. Identified imd warned off campus. · TRES;PASS: Visitors drinking alcoholic beverage-identified and warned· off campus. SPD notified-report filed. TRESPASS: Multiple reports of suspicious persons on campus. Numerous high school aged persons warned off campus. BURGLARY: Suspect(s) entered via window-theft of property and vandalism occurred. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Pumpkin smashed in stairwell. TRESPASS: Intoxicated visitor warned off campus WEAPONS: Visitor reported as possibly in possession of firearm. Campus Safety Officers identified NYS Corrections Ofticer. Subject advised to remove weapon from area. Complied. · MISCHIEVOUS BEfiA VI OR: Improper posting of sexually oriented notice-patterned after approved safety notice. FIRE ALARM: Immediate reset. Cause unknown-possible equipment malfuncton. Under investigation. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION/SAFETY HAZARD: Loose pull boxes. Urgent work request tiled. VANDALISM: Broken window. OFF CAMPUS/SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Campus Satety Officers observed suspicious person carrying stereo speakers. SPD contacted and investigated. Person identified and situation was normal. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Broken glass outside of building possible broken storm window-cause undetermined VANDALISM: Thermostat control dismantled and broken. TH~Fr: Money stolen from staff member's purse k1cated in unlocked office. Occurred Friday 10/21/94. FIRE ALARM: Caused by equiprrtent maltl1nction. Repair ' .. I • l)r;dedile~.for .replacement of det~ctor, . ·, ... : · THEFT: Stl!dent's backpack stolen. Occurred I 0/20/94.

NEWS October 27, 1994, page 3 $17 Million. Needed for Necessary Library Renovations by Adrian MacLean Concordie11sis Staff With the constant desire to climb the ladder of academic prestige, Union has begun design- ing and raising funds for an ex- pansion of the Schaffer Library. \The library is a road block to Union becoming an academic powerhouse,\ juriior Seth Brown said. According to Director of the Schaffer Library, Barbara Jones, the building will not begin until all of the funds have been raised. Union has raised three million of an estimated 17 million dollars for this project.. ''We do not want to mortgage the future of the col- lege,\ Jones said. the architects have taken many of these complaints into mind while designing. One of the main pri- orities in this design is a good ventilation system. The heat will be reasonably wann, and the air conditioning will not go to Arc- tic extremes. 'They need to expand the li- brary and they need to have more places to study,\ freshman Laurie Kirschner said. Study rooms for groups and individuals are also being added. Groups will be able to lock their projects up in the carols and fe- tum to them later. l11is will elimi- nate the hassle of reopening ev- erything every time a group meets. New lounges and lounge fumiture will be added, and the students will be able to help pick it out. The students· opinions have played an active role in the plans and Jones wants to continue this relatio!lship as it progresses. The 1 ibrary is for the students, and they have many complaints about the cunent library. The Lamont House has re- cently put out a brochure that de- tails the plans for library expan- sion. This is a tool that can be 1 \'ed in fundraising activities. Union is soliciting funds from alumni and corporations. TI1ey are lwping to obtain foundation support through grants as well. Tlze seco11djloor of tire library {photo by Laurie Kirschner for Tlte CollcordieiiSis) \The lighting is poor and it is too hot. H puts me to sleep,\ freshman Paras Desai said. \If they are going to expand the I ibrary, they need to consider that students cannot study at 98 dei,'Tee temperatures,·· freshman Ruthie Strosberg said. The committee in charge and Jones says that the fundraising committee is doing a \ job. As soon as the funds are raised, the project is estimated to take a year and a half to two years. During the construction, the school has made sure that the li- brary will be a functioning li- brary. l11ere will be full circula- tion and reference, but some of the books may need to be moved around. Moving into the technological age, comp\Iters and data bases are going to play a bigger role. Elec- · tronic work stations will be built Pan hellenic Revises Rush .Rules by Martin Metz Concordiensis Staff At the beginning otthis month The Panhellei1ic CounciL the rul- ing body of Union's sororities. met and decided to change the cmTent Rush svstem. Five vears . . ago a rule was made prohibiting freshmen women from visiting the sorority houses until after the completion of Rush. Every year since. the Panhellenic Council has received a number of complaints about this rule. saying that it is discriminatory and unfair. Yet, no amendments to the Ri.1sh rules were made. This year, when the Rush rules their house. Although, they are were .broug!1t up on the agenda. against all of the issues of \dirty three of the four houses voted to rush.~' the promising of a bid to a purge the ban of Freshmen potential rushee, which the lift- women in the sororities from the ing of the rule might encourage. Rush rules. Sigma .-----------, However, Lisa Delta Tau, Gamma ~r r<I>B Hall,DeltaGamma's Phi Beta. and Delta Rush Chairwomen. Delta Delta voted yes. ~~~ L~ T feels that the lifting while Delta Gamma of the rule is \a won- llnion's Four d rf 1 I' b abstained \vith a vote e u tung ecause of no. Sororities it will take the fear A Delta Gamma ~-----------' out of the Rush Sys- representative gave an explana- tion of the negative vote. l11e representative said that Delta Gamma is in no way against Freshmen women coming over to tem. and it wiii help to cut down on stereotypes.\ She also went on to say that she hopes that the Panhellenic Council will further continue to \work towards more as well as an electronic class room. TI1e librarians are going to teach cl~sses on command, in the elec- tronic classroom, and students will be able to learn directly on the computers. Even with the expansion, Union will not be able to own every book and periodical. Thus they are striv- ing to strengthen relations with nearby schools like Hamilton, deformalization [of Rush].\ Similarly, Gamma Phi Beta's Rush Chairwomen. Sue Cunanan, feel? that the lifting of the rule is a \ wonderful idea. but its still not enough. \ She still believes that the system is \discriminatory\ and she would like to eventually see the female rush process become more like the male rush, which she feels is much more laid back. A representative from Delta Delta Delta believes that Freshmen women being allowed to visit the houses is a \positive thing, but it would be better to lift the rule next year because the freshmen and the sisters weren't ready for the sud- den change in the middle of the term.\ l11e Panhellenic Council decided to lift the Rush rule in the Skidmore, Colgate and SUNY Albany. They are going to in- crease documents of unowned periodicals, continue with inter- library loan and expand docu- ment delivery. \There will be a bridge be- tween innovation and tradition,\ Jones said. middle of the tenn. Freshmen women were told that they would not be allowed to visit the soror- ity houses from the beginning of tl1e term. , Suddenly the underclass women have been in- formed that they are allowed. Cheryl Blitt, a member of Sigma Delta Tau and active President of the Panhellenic Council, said that abolishing the rule was \a step towards a less discrimina- tory rush process.\ TI1e general consensus about the new policy among female students seems to be positive. However, there is a fair number of skeptics who feel that the rule was either lifted at the wrong time, or was simply a step in the wrong direction. How to Use Your Voicemail Spelled ... .. Beaux Visages .. Just spell our name correctly and win $10 in FREE Beaux Visages® Make-up! One offer per customer. Not redeemable for cash. Offer valid thru 1114/94. MUst be 1 B yrs. or Older. Beaux Visage& EUROPEAN SKIN CARE CENTERS LATHAM NISKAYUNA 664 New Loudon Road 78~·1988 Nott Place • 1475 BaiHown Rd. 381·3915 by Diane Winkler Contributing Writer 1 . Sllldenls who lim t?[f campus ll'ere Kil·en persona/l'oice mail- hoxes as >t•e/1 w; those sl/ldents who lil'e on campus. All sh1dents can send and receive voice mail messages even if they don't have a college \address or phone num- ber.\ To send a message to an off campus student you need to know his/her name and/or his/her voice mailbox number. 2. For ANY MEMBER OF THE COLLEGE COMMUNITY, sending messages to any sub- scriber (off or on campus) through voice messaging (eg. not having to call someone on his/her collese phone number first) can be done in several ways. a. For current subscribers who have mailboxes, create themes- sage in own mailbox first. then send to another subscriber either by entering in his/her last name or voice mailbox #. b. Dialing the -1-diKil l'oice mail- ho.'< numher of any subscriber will either route you directly to the v0ice mailbox of the subscriber (for persons without a colleKe telephone #} or to the college phone number belonging to that subscriber, which if not answered, will then route you to the voice mailbox of that subscriber. c. Dialing Voice Mail Extension 6688 and entering the subscriber's voice mailbox nutnber at the prompt will get you directly into the subscriber's voice mailbox (if initialized). d. Dialing the Dial hy Name Et· ten.vicm 3333 and entering the subscriber's last (and possibly 1 or 2 letters of the first) name will get you directly into the subscriber's voice mailbox (if initialized). 3. Reminder that you can only \hold\ I 0 messages in your voice mailbox and if you listen to a message and neither delete it or save it, it will stay in your mailbox as an unheard message. If your box is full ( eg. I 0 mes- sages reside there), no one can send you any more messages. You actively have to delete the message by hitting [ 7 ] after the message, it won't be deleted any other way. Write for News

,, ,j ; '' ,,\' l\ I ,.,Jh ~' t 1 . '' l M· ,.-, October 27, 1994, page 4 NEWS The G.E. Plot Battle- Continuedjrompage 1 cilmen intimating that Union intends to sue the city to change its zoning ordinance in the event that the Council does not ap~ prove the amendments. If the controversy is resolved through the lawsuit, Hull also suggests that Union might consider re- voking its promise to ban park- ing at the G.E. Plot properties. Additionally, Union could choke Schenectady's tax base through campus layoffs. The Daily Gazette responded to the heated debate on October 14 with an editorial condemning President Hull. In 'Hull's Shameless Hardball'; the news- paper suggests that the President's threats \makes one wonder about his regard for the community and for the historic significance of the plot.\ \He also knows that turning the college's Plot homes into classrooms or whatever, and al- lowing dozens of cars to be parked up and down Lenox Road, would ruin the character of the precious neighborhood. It's bewildering that he so arro- gantly threatens to do all of the above.\ Not only could the resolution of the debate have seriousfinan:. cia! implications for Union Col- lege and for Schenectady, but a nasty and protracted legal battle could have a deleterious impact on relations between the city and the college. Robert Coan, an attorney whose firm 'represents Un:t·on College, explains why the zon- ing amendment should be grai1ted in a letter to Mayor Frartk Duci. Coan argues' that \without this zone change, these properties will not be pre- served.\ \No one else will buy and maintain those properties so that they will continue to be a credit to the community and to the G .E. Plot.\ Coan believes that allow- ing Union to use the Plot homes as offices will insure that the properties are maintained and restored. \What the college wants to do is a plus for Schenectady. The college has agreed that the tax implications will be neutral. Whatmore can the city ask for?\ Coan also believes Schenectady and Union can ben- efit from moving the college's administrational offices to the properties. \It will revitalize the neighborhood ... It will ad- versely affect landlords that have been gouging the students and violating the City's housing One o,[the houses in the G. E. Plot (photo by Joslr Haines!TC) code.\ neighbors) purchased our prop- Union would benefit from the erty, the large percentage of the additional revenue it could re- neighborhood affected by the ceive as a result ofhaving theca- change, the legal precedent (es- pacity to house more students-on tablished iftllese changes were campus. ·' to be approved), the park_ing Coan reiterates that problem, Union's terrible track Schenectady needs Union Col- record with maintenance, and lege from a financial standpoint. Union College's threatening Union is the second ·largest pri- posture.\ vate employer in Schenectady, This legal resolution of this · and \The College is the largest politically sensitive issue will tourist attraction in the County have significant ramifications and probably creates more motel for both Schenectady and and restaurant business than any Union. other entity.\ Additionally, Coan points to the importance of Union's students to local mer- chants. - Lastly, Coan believes that the City Council must take into con- sideration \the contributions the college and its students make to our community.\ The City Council has also been paraded with letters from con- cerned members of the Schenectady community who oppose any possible amendments to the zoning law. ·• Some of the objections to Union's proposals, according to a G.E. Plot resident, are based on the following points. \TI1e existing zoning law un- der which we (and other new Historical Note The General Electric Plot is a landmark. It is part of the State and National Register Historic District. TI1e plot of land was named to the register because of its association with important scientists at General Electric and because of the plot's collection of early twentieth century archi- tecture. ·. Editor's Note · Over the next few weeks, The Concordien.'iis will present a se- ries of articles on the G.E. Plot Controversy. This week's ar- ticle is intended to be an over- · view of the debate. Issues at stake for all involved parties will be discussed in considerable depth in upcoming articles. W:Jr.e mnnrnrbi.ensi~ Demonstrations ~gainst. Domestic Violence (NSNS)- Opposition to domes- tk violence turned into action re- cently as students staged separate demonstrations in the states of Colorado and Illinois. Few realize that the leading cause of severe injury to Ameri- can women aged I 8 to 44 is do- mestic violence - more than car accidents and muggings combined • according to statistics compiled by the American Medical Associa- tion. lil response to such shocking fig- ures, Colorado Gov. Roy Romer joined more than 200 women and men who demonstrated atthe state Capitol September 30. Romer signed a proclamation declaring October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. The Colorado Domestic Vio- lence Coalition sponsored the \clothesline project\ that person- a:lized the statistics with T-shirts owned by victims or made by sur- vi vots. A drum banged every 15 seconds, a somber reminder ofthe frequency of abuse against women in America. Among those attendittg the Colorado event was Ruth Aponte, executive director of Colorado Politically Active Student·s continued from page I Opportunities Program at Union and also a member of the League of Women Voters, coordinates the participation of Union stu- dents with the League president, Janet Linkinhoker. David works on voter registration for the League and appeals to both men Asthma Medication Research Studies Women's Agenda and a Ulliver- sity of Colorado- Denver !:,rt'adu- ate student. ''Part of my involvement was professional, because of my po- sition,\ she said. \Another rea- son was personal - I know first- hand the impact of sexual abuse.\ Aponte said going public with that part of her past was difficult but necessary. \If we don't step forward, who will?\ she asked. The coalition reported that 53 Coloradans have died this year in domestic violence incidents, in- cluding suicide and murder. On October 6, many people gathered outside the Lake County Courthouse in Lake Forest, Illi- nois, for a candle- righting in re- membrance and recognition of victims ofdomestic violence. Attendees listened to a .speech by Phyliss DeMott, executive di- rector of A Safe Place, a domes- tic violence preventio11 program. The evening ended with the light- ing of candles· and singing of \B lowin' in the· Wind.\ Ironic as it seemed, the wind was blowing quite hard and the candles were difficult to light. and women of Union College to help the political community. Students come from Professor Paula Consolini's American poli- tics classes, and include other volunteers as well. On N<;>vember. 2, th~.League will host another Candidates' Fo- mm to present candidates for the fourth judicial district of the New York State Supreme Court. In light of the new policy whereby Union students will be able to reg- ister tp vote in Schenectady in I 995, this is an exyellent oppor- tunity for students to begin par- ticipation in Schenectady County politics. The Division of Allergy is seeking patients (ages 12+) with asthma to participate in clinical research · programs evaluating new and existing medications Free Screening visits for eligible patients Free relatea medications and medical care Monetary compensation For further information call 434-0140 Mon-Fri 8am to 5 pm or Anytime 1-800-217-6612 Albany Medical College 62 Hackett Boulevard Albany, NY 12209 Allergy Division Thomas B. Edwards, MD Principal Investigator Excellence in Patient Care and Clinical Researcla The AIDS Committee of Union College is looking for more student participants. If interested, contact Lisa at xS837 or voicemail box 4245 .,

-· .... -:;;;;.. •. 4-; ---. FEATURES · October 27, 1994, page 5 First Station in the Nation Going on Seventy-Five Students Demonstrating That Apathy is Not Omnipresent at Union by Kara Christian Contributing Writer As Union approaches its bicen- tennial year, the community re- flects back on the many strong traditions here at Union. Among several other clubs, Union's WRUC has been one of these tra- ditions. For the past 75 years. WRUC has been entertaining the Uilion community and its sur- rounding areas. The radio station is an entirely student-run club. Without question, student in- volvement and enthusiasm have kept WRUC alive, running and progressing over the years. Unimi College's radio station was established on the evening of October 14, 1920. In fact, that evening, the Radio Club made history by becoming the first ra- dio station with official program- ming in the nation. At the time, the station was lecated in a shack behind the electrical engineering building. With the original cali letters 2ADD, the station broad- casted an evening program of popular music from the time. Each night, the college station's broadcast was heard up to 150 miles away. Shortly after the station was established, 2ADD changed its call letters to WRUC, standing for \Wireless Radio of Union Col- lege,\ and moved its location sev- -~t'al til'nes to. plac~s sudi as the basement of the Psi Upsilon fra- temity. the building which is now the admissions office, and the Old Chapel. Since its early years, WR UC has progressed and taken several positive strides. h1 1975, the sta- tion went FM, while operating on only lO watts. Later, in 1983, the Station increased its power to 100 watts? covering Schenectady, Troy, Albany and other surround~ ing areas. Today, WRUC, 89.7 FM, is located on the fourth floor of the College Center. Contrary to a popular rumor thatthe station was increasing its wattage, WRUC continues to operate on 100 watts, with _its rather weak signal trav- eling 50 miles on a good day. However, the station has consid- ered increasing its wattage. The expensive equipment and tech- nology used by the station is con- stantly being improved and up- dated. WRUC has become U11ion 's Iargest, most popular club on campus and receives the highest budget .. Unfortunately, however, the station's bttdget, was lowered this year. 1l1e station, run by Am it Chopra, Program Manager, a se- nior biology major, is completely 1 ··n and managed by students. Chopra became involved with the station fall tenn of his freshman year by helping out the Music Directors. One of the DJ's dropped his show, and Amit a freshman at the time, who was at the right place at the right time, and was able to pick up the time siot, and has been involved ever since. With over 70 shows per week, the..stAtion nins close to 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Chopra says that at such a small school, it is difficult to completely fill the week with shows. Early morn- ing time slots are hard to full. Chopra welcomes new members and hopes to eventually get fac- ulty involved. Presently, Union women's novice crew coach has her own show. Chopra is not the only driving force behind this organization. The Board Members are Chris Bryan, Business Manager; Dave Ovedivitz, Technical Manager; and Michael Rothstein, General Manager. There are also 10 di- rectors who work under Chopra to spread out responsibility. These students are Ted Corrigan, bance/Rap Director; Brandon Declet, New DirecJor, Kate Goldman, Promotions Director; Elisa Honig, PSA Director; Jon~ Alan Minehardt, Metal Director; Sarah Olson and Caleb Strugs, Co-Music Directors; Larry Paska, Station Director; Eric Seplewitz, Blues Director; and Phil Tavernier, Production Director. WRUC broadcasts mainly alter- native music programming. In addition, the station features Blues, Dance. Classic Rock, Country, Folk, Heavy Metal, and Jazz. Aside from music shows, WRUC is open to new ideas and offers a variety of different shows. In fact, for the past five years, WRUC has a Spanish Show broadcast by off-campus mem- bers. News, sports, and talk shows are also broadcast regu- larly. Chopra is proud of the sta- tion and feels that in comparison with other schools like Union, WllUC ha.s. e/{cell~nt DJ's. and strong programming. Many of WRUC's patrons are off-campus listeners, non-Union students. The station has found WORE, a local station, to be its top competi- tor. As Program Manager , Chopra communicates with several record companies. This past summer, Four WRUC's DJ's, ScottMorisseyandEvan Hymen, Ryan Marcus, and David Rothman, during radio show. (Deborah Proper/TC) Chopra worked to update the WRUC music collection. His ef- forts paid off as various record companies donated400+ CO's to the station. WRUC is constantly working toward improvement. Over the years, enthusiasm, commitment, and hard work have led this stu- dent-run club tq success. WRUC gives student members an oppor- tunity to do something they love to do, while entertaining and in- fonning ·the community around and within the Union College campus. For the past 75 years, WRUC has been an important part of the Union tradition. *ATTENTION FRESHMEN* Are you interested in serving on the Student Forum as a representative of the Class of 1998? In order to run for election *Pick up a petition in CC408 (Student Activities) on Friday, October 28 *Turn in pet~tion with 100 signatures at CC408 by F·riday, November 4 with a brief statement on a MS- Word HD disk and a photograph ELECTIONS ARE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11 .. - -- ..... ~

,I, I·' . ~\! I·/ l. y ,. i t•l' ' October 27, 1994, page 6 FEATURES Student to Professor: Anton Warde Reflects on His Years at Union by Alexis Leist Features Editor Professor Anton Warde is a member ofthe modern languages department and teaches Gennan. He attended Union College and as an alumni, offers an interest- ing perspective on Union College then and now. A: Why do you think Union College is so conservative? Is it more conservative now than when you attended? Warde: (Union) always has been conservative. I don't know why. Professor Warde went on to ex- plain that he believed Union's conservative atmosphere could be sttributed to the \hands on, prac- tical reputation of a liberal arts college with an especially strong science department. Thus, such a combination might have at- tracted students who were and are • extremely career oriented.\ Warde sees the presence of an · engineering department as lead~ ing to assumptions about sciences and working to essentially bring in \students who had plans.\ In fact, Warde himself was attracted to Union for its' sciences for he wanted to be a physics major. When asked about the life at Union in the 60's, Warde ex- plained that during his stay here as a student Union was a \combi- nation of boot\camp monastery, and prison.\ He does not mean to generalize but believes that \students liked Union more be- fore then and more since then (the 60's). As Warde sees it, the early 60's were the \calm before the storm,\ an almost \apolitical time.\ He believes that Union remained in the 50's longer- par- tially because students lived in their own world. Union was \a . little island\ and in an almost \.perverse\ fashion did not repre- sent the real world .. Professor Warde's memories of his college years are \black and white. with a pale cast of gray.\ There was \no color.\ When he attended, Union was \pretty run down.\ And the lifestyle was ba- si cally · \Spartan\, a deprived, \rough and tumble kind of cam- pus.\ Donn rooms had bare bulbs hanging from the ceiling and foot lockers-they closely resembled \barracks.\ On a l·ighter note. Warde does remember that there were \something like 34 kinds of beer at the Rathskellar.\ As a student, Warde remem- bers women as \special creatures that brought color and life on weekends.\ As hard as it may be to admit, Warde claims that women were seen as \recreational objects,\ and the arrival of women on weekends seemed like the im- ,porting of women as objects. A: What happened when women came to Union full time? Do you still see white males as dominating Union College? According to Warde, there was a \ht1ge improvement in everyone's life\ when women started to attend in tenns of \ap- propriate relations;\ because now women and men had a \24 hour a day, work and live relationship\ (Warde was already a faculty member when women were inte- grated into the coflege). Women were no longer viewed as strange creatures. For Warde, when \women came Techtticolor came,\ and, as said before, his memories of Union without women are black and white. In response to the second question, Warde agrees that all colleges which originally allowed only men to attend are \still kind of dominated by men.\ A: It seems to me that Union back then seemed more wellp known than it is today; why do you think this is? To Warde, Union's curse is that it is a \household name,\ even though it's purpose was to high- light Union's willingness to em- brace diverse cultures and back- grounds. The name of a person sticks with you, but because \union\ is an everyday, plain word, the name \goes through the consciousness,: it doesn't stick.\ r In the past. Union was always re- ferred to and regarded as Union College, while today it is just \Union a word with which people associate so many other things. \Union is an everywhere word~it has no name.\ Warde agrees that Union should be bet- ter known but because it has a c~mmon word as its name, it's fame may have been hindered. A: Was·Greek life as big then as it is today? In Warde's opinion, Greek .Jife was more. prevalent then than even now, and it \truly domi .. nated campus as a means to so- cial life.\ Independents had to use the Greek system for enter- tainment also. But the parties back then were much different. Then they had \! big parties\ that lasted the entire weekend. with a band at each fraternity. The parties were much more spe- cial; there were actually total \party weekends.\ The week- ends that this would not occur. Warde remembers a \great exo- dus\ as everyone packed and went away. Back then. there were no parties dttring the week and to \be on tap\ was consid- ered something special and re- served solely for the weekend. A: Do you see Union College today as multi.,cultural? In tenns of facttlty, when Pro- fessor Warde attended Union. there were no women professors. but women did work as librarians. It '·really was a man's faculty.\ Today, however. Professor Ward sees Union as becoming less and less conservative as time goes on because of the increasing num- ber of women and ethnic minori- ties that are students. professors. and administrators. As far as cul- tures go .. he sees Union as more inter-cultunil than it was even five years ago and. to him. this variety seems to be geometrically proportional. He supposes that there is still a long way to go. but he feels pretty good about the changes in Union College's at- mosphere that have taken place within the past 25 years. Watch A Child's Eyes Light Up: Make a Difference Join the COMPASS Mentoring Program at Zoller Elementary School by Prof. Bill Zwicker Matltematics Professor There is an organization look- ing for volunteers. COMPASS, which stands for Corporate Mentoring Program at Schenectady Schools, is aimed at teaching and expanding the minds of the students in public schools throughout the city. COMPASS. directed by the Schenectady Chamber of Com- merce, was started in 1990 by GE and the GE Elfun Society with a specific goal in mind. This goat is to \help graduates emerge from high school better equipped to enter the work force or higher education.\ The volunteer force has grown from 55 volunteers in the first year to a total of 400 mentors at the end of the 1992- 93 school year. This number can increase even more with your help. In addition to college stu- dents, mentors involved are sci- entists. bankers. secretaries~ and those in other fields. Mentors can be involved in dif- ferent ways. The teachers can request a mentor's help inside and outside the classroom, in various capacities, such as coordinating field trips, group projects, or ex- tracurricular activities. Whether placed in a small group or a full classroom, those involved in the prob'fBill are leaming as well as teaching. Union students are placed in the Zoller Elementary School, within walking distance from campus. Zoller offers the opportunity for Union students to work with chil- dren in kindergarten through 5th grade. in many different ways. In the past, Union students have helpedwith school plays, speech classes, English-as-a-second-lan- guag~ students, as well as one-on- one and group tutoring. If you are interested, please tear out the interest forrn and retum it, by NOVEMBER 3, to: Pro- fessor Zwicker. Math Depart- ment, and yot1 will soon after be contacted about an upcoming in- fonnatiol'tal meeti11g. The tradition ofUni0n helping Schenectady will continue to _, thrive only with your help. Zoller Elementary School - Union College Mentor Application Form for COMPASS Program 1994-95 Name: ______________________________________ __ Campus Phone: _______ ~- Box NO:. _______________ ~----- Home Phone:. _______ (or off-Campus Address) Reference: __________ _ {Returning Mentor, or New this year? ______ _ (a Union Prof. you know well) If returning, do you want to work with same teacher? __ same student ?__ • Major: other subjects you~d like to mentor in=--~----- Why do you wish to be a mentor ? Please note any special skills, foreign languages, experience, or enthusiasm (Drama ? Music?)That Might be relevant: ________________ _ Interested in both enriched and remedial mentoring, or strong preference for one of these? Any strong preferences for working 1-on-1, or with small groups? _________ _ Any strong preference for grade level (grades 2-5)? Will you be on campus for winter term? __ Spring Term? Do you have access to a car?_~- Can you make the orientation(tentative date: Nov 17, mid-aft)? (Strongly Recommended) Additional Comments: ----~------\\'--~------------------~---- BY VOLUNTEERING, YOU ARE AGREEING TO ATTEND A TRAINING SESSION, AND TO MENTOR FOR ONE.HOUR PER WEEK FOR THE TERMS YOU PARTICIPATE IN DUE NOV 3- DROP OFF OR CAMPUS MAlL TOw. ZWICKEit. MATH bEPI,'BAlti:Y HALL YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE!

i l s n e 1 ) FEATURES A Positive Perspective on Union : Well, A Valiant Effort At Least by Erin M. O'Neil Features Edi(Or My rnother said to me the other day, \Erin if you can't write an article about something positive or upbeat then maybe you shouldjust retire.\ That, to me, didn't seem like such a bad idea. No more pressure, and how the pressures of l11e ( 'lmcordiensis keep me up at night. No more people approach- ing me saying, \Your article, it was ... uh ... okay.'' they are architectural marvels. Union College houses the only sixteen-sided building in the Northem Hemisphere. Isn't that exciting? Don't you love tore- lay that little fact to your friends at other cdlleges? And it's being restored toitsoriginal condition. TI1ey say it'll be quite a place for us college kids to study- next year, afted graduate. But it isnotonlythe Nott which makes Union beautiful, what I have always loved about Union. Three classes, plenty of time to focus on them. Nice, neat ten week terms. Long Thanksgiving/ Christmas break. It really is a nice system. Oh- but they want to change it. Fortunately this will not happen until after I graduate. The most special thing about my time here at Union has been being a part of the Bicentennial Class. The first moment we ar- rived, they roHed out the red car- P.et for us, and ev- Basically, by retiring I would be allowing myself to fully retreat back info my shell. \Ah. U . w·& · · d I b·· . ? . , 111011. . . erever o · ~g1n. erything has been first-class ever since. Best of all is the promise of the be.st graduation weekend any col- lege has ever seen. The roads will be I'm not sure if I want to do that or not. First of aiL if I do, I will have absolute~v nothing of substance Tbe smaH~ yet (sometimes) pictur- esque cam pus lends inspiration to pages of prose, but alas, I must limit myself to a few columns. Tragedy.'' to put on my resume;::. Secondly, I like to bitch and complain. !thrive on it. But I guess, accordin.g to Mom at least. that just isn't what people \vant to hear. So as an at- tempt .to appease you all, l am about to compose what is to be my first positil'f! article about Union College. Take a deep breath ... Ah. Union. Wherever do l be- gin? The smalL yet (sometimes) picturesque campus lends inspira- tion to pages of prose, but alas. I must limit myself to a few col- umns. Tragedy. Take the build- ing.s: when not being reduced to mere shells 6ftl1eir fminer selves. about Memorial Chapel? Also under construction. as I remem- ber. ,this building was once, and •1i II he again. once I graduate, a magnificent structure. Schaffer library is also getting a facelift. Tons of new books. new techno!~ ogy· a library of the nineties, if you will. Construction is slated to begin soon after I graduate. And the all-new Yuhnan TI1eater is shaping up nicely. I can't wait to go there and catch a play or something. They say that there's a chancethere may'be one before I graduate. I The trimester is another' thing paved with gold. We will all wear silk caps and gowns. The Nott will be rotat- ing. All the new/newly restored buildings will be opened to the p~1blic,just as if they were always that way. And amidst all the hub- bub, President Clinton will de- scend from the sky in his presi- dential helicopter. landing on West Beach, and speak at our commencement ceremony. It will be what each one of us dreamed ofas a child, of what the perfect college experience would be. Union Utopia. Hope l can fit it aU in one ~veekend. J ambo (Hello) From Kenya Fourteen Union Student~ Investigate Culture and Society by Prof. R~ndolpll Quaye C01rtributbtg Writer The Ket1ya Tetm Abroad Pro- gram began wi·th the arrival of fmn1een eager. but tired students at the Kenyatta Intelitational Air- port early on the momi11g ofSep- tcmber 19, 1994. Th~y \vere, transported to the Kenya YMCA. 'where they started a day-long orientation. during which students heard a lecture by Dr. Wilgio Orwa (a Union graduate) on Culture and Society in Kenya. The Kenya tenn partici- pants then proceeded to the first part of their study tour: to Massai Mara for a game drive and a visit to a Massai village to observe the cus- toms and habits ·Of the Massai people. After a day's rest at the The students tetumed to Nairobi on Septetnber 28th after a visit to Bor11as of Kenya. \'lhere partici- pants v•ere treated to African tranditional dance. Classes started on the 29th. AIIKenya participants are tak- ing \tvlodent Kiswahili.\ tatLght by Dr. Kithaka Mberiaofthe Uni- versity of Nairobi. Ten students are enrclled in a course entitled. \Women Development and En- ·vironment .'' l11is course exam- munity organization. It also fo- cuses on such environmental and natural resource issues as popu- lation .and family planning, wild- life c:Qnservation, urbanization aJld tciurism in East Africa. Titis course is complimented with vis~ its.to Nairobi uational parks, mu .. · seums. and community-based gra~sro~ts .organizations. .:In ad- dition, eight participants are tak- .il'lg a seminar course on \Health Care Issues in Kenya.\ Each of the above courses require fie!d work, and an ethnographic study of some aspect of Kenyai1 culture is recommended. Twelve of the Kenya tenn participants are currently doing intemships with vari- . ous govemmental and non- governmental organiza- tiorls such as the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation. . a private law firm. Mm'a Paradise Lodge, they traveled to Tanzania via Arusha where they had an oppot1unity to visit and dis- InterRational Features women's organizations. the Undugu Society (focus on street children), and the like. cuss with local people the \Socialist Experiment\ initiated by the former· Presidetit, Julh:1s Nyerere. From Arusha. the group . drove to the Ngorogero Crater. ines society and social change in Kenya \.Vith special reference to issues of ethnicity. gender rela- tions. family pattems. and com- A study tour to Mombasa and Mt. Kenya is planned .for early December. TI1e Kenya tenn ends December 15, 1994. . -- - ~--- ............. ~ - October 27, 1994, Page 7 ltiJi.fef#Jr'l\Wiftt~'hlsw(!jrs rear que.v- lti¥J,t$il~f'f Rili!d'!'·J«<tltoal:live? Why_ tltlJ~l\'Alf.ftJint!Ask tfhcle !liJJtai hox 83. EJ;fsocle 52 of . If you are interested in becoming involl,ed witll tlte 1Jicentenniallssue of Tlte Concordiensis, our first orga11izational meeting will he lleld today, rlzursday, October ),71/t, iiJ CC303 at 7:30PM. All are welcome. People are needed for iJdV.,ertising solicitation, plzotograplly, writing, editing, contributing article suggestiohs, ar.cllival searcltes, etc. . . f! l lt 1 .. • • J •

October 27, 1994, page 8 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY M.C. Escher: Artist, Mathematician, or Both? by Kenny Lee Science Editor Most of us who know the work· of M.C. Escher see it as art that can mean one thing from one angle and another from another angle. We usually do not look at the art from a mathematical point of view. Througl)OUt his life Escher claimed that he hated math and that there was no math involved in his work. Mathema- ticians continue to argue that there must have been some type of calculation involved in his work. change in Eschers work, he no longer observed objects in order to make his drawings, instead he imagined them in his head. In Eschers work there were many evolving themes among what lead mathematicians to be- lieve that there was some sort of math going on when Escher made his art. The symmetry is a concept from math and Esc~er uses many types cm:icepts of separating point, line, plane and space. However, in Day and Night the concepts of reflectic.;m and duality are also present. In one of Eschers more it impossible to see the whole pnnt as mtlking sense, but rather each h~lf. Finally, in Eschers later works he incorporated the concept of infinity in tohis drawings, where figures continue to diminish in size endlessly as they approach a van- ishing point. Many times Escher did indeed work with mathematicians and reg marked later on in his life, \Above and all, I am happy about the con- ·. tact and friendship of mathemati- ciansthat resulted from it all. They have given me new ideas, and sometimes there is even an inter- action between us. · How playful they can be, these Teamed ladies and gentlemen.\ OneDfhis key works with math- ematicians occ11rred when he got a . joumal article from a 'mathemati- cians on planar sytinrietry. How~ . ever, this did not interest him as · much as the idea of circular arcs meeting an encompassing circle at right angles. This lead to Eschers sketches involving the concept of duality in Circle Limit. Maurits Camelis Escher was born in 1898 in Holland and from the beginning he was a very poor math student, but very good at art. At the age of 21 he entered the School of Architecture and Decorative Atts in Haarlem to study architecture. However his work caught the eye of a graph- ics artist (Samuel Jessurun de Mesquita) and Escher was en- couraged to enter that field. Af- ter his studies he moved to Italy and started his early work, but due to political problems he left Italy after two years to move to Switzerland and then to Belgium three years later. Escher finally settled in Holland where his work could begin again after the lay .. off associated wiJh his constant moving from place to place. These moves also caused a Escher's Day a11d Night. Black geese fly over a sunlit village, whereas white one$ wing over a 11iglzt view of a mirror image of tile same scene. (illustratioll from Scientific American) The question remains, \Was M.C. Escher really not an able stu- dent of mathematics and came up with these drawings from imagina- tion, or did he actually use some math to derive the patterns that he used in his drawings?\ Escher al-. ways denied his use of mathemat- ics, but his work definitely suggests the use of abstract concepts of mathematics and science. those included: symmetry, dual- ity, self-similarity, dimension, relativity, reflection and infinity. This is not to say that there was not an overlap in these styles, but these were his major points of concentration. These ideas of symmetry, including rotational where objects are placed such that at first they look random, but they are actually in a pattem which can go on forever. In Eschers use of dimension (fig. 1, Day and Night) he clearly- uses the mathematical Ha.ngovers.a,:nd n~~~:~o~~~~~~!~ Weekly EdltioB,uf t.lte ._·. ~ctence 0f B:e~r \ ···· by Andy_ Saliiwa Sciemfii.'Eilitor · Home-brewing te9eived so much attention last week that I have decided .to publish a continuing column on Home~ brewing. ; If you have ever consuttred more th.an three or four beers, you pro.bably know what it's like to wake up with head ach€1, and a generally achy feeling. _ This ailment ,commonly known as the \hang~over/' is particularly common among college students, who drink more than their share of low quality, high productionbeers, tnl.lciell:yde·'Wllllitlle'lt~lrrof atr· 1 ktelxsttn ··cJ:tn'~)as11V 'f1A'·•r~>.rtni1tt#ii :~=~y~~~~Ji.ii~~~:;?:l~~~~·· ..... ~faum~~ sucn-a$masst\l.~arti . js. · · R:n·Jfitl'fu·i~l'f· of ingested · alcobqJ. · beer to ex·tend their sJ:telf life. Acetylaldehyde therefore buHds Brewr ·;es can only sell beer if it appears to be fresh. they have to add adjuncts and preserva- tives. Somf' people cl'aim they have aflc:rgi'es t6 sutftr~s, and' it makes tn~m sick. ·Mrcro .. brew- , ' . . . There are tna11Y theories 011 the causes of the hang-overs. The most basic approacli is the claim that the· dehydr~tion brought on by the alcohol in beer causes hang:-ov.ers. Alco~ hol effects the bd~y's endo· crine system by inhibithrg the regulation of water ron trolled up afidLilfay b.e resptiilsl~lefltittlte · ' - :·-:. \. erles~ and}to:me .. brewers l.tS~tg~~Y scorn at th~ adni~Ion/'ot\ptb~~f~ v~ti ves-~beqau§e:'th¢y:ae~ci'ri4· on · the natutal fr~~hrtess of 1 be¢r, these beersJt1sttastibett¢t~ ~re · · fullet1'n •bcid'ySithd )fia;y~r~ ,and · · most irnpfiftaiiflyjth~r·ilhhtt give y·ou headach~s:·Jtrs- ptob- ably no shrpHs:e \l'hat tilaily · Americrutbeer'e{)ru()ani~s,s.erve the1r~t1~erar38oF;tt'fus;~tt~:tiiling by several hormones. Anti-Di .. uretic Honnone (ADH) release js inhibited by alcohoL As your body begins to fuse w~\ - teri tb¢te isriO'el\ernic~l sign~t·• to prevent you :ft•om losing.· more water. Sythe end ofoties- drinking ~xpedition';it' S:itn111~ _ •· · cantaniou11fonp¢body'~-wa\ . ter has been p~$$egJJ.l . . urine. . . . 111e ·· . $qrfer from andtlteite'- · sutt i$ yottrtaste · &ol'rit.a: sttng r~anyrts. , 1Eri:~m~n popular pieces, High and IAJW, he t!ses the concept of relativ- ity to show two different views of the same seen. l11is is based on the fact that what an observer sees is influenced by the con- text and vantage point. It makes 1: Source: Scientific Ameri<,.'WI, 1119-1 New Treatments for Childhood Epilepsy by Kenny Lee Science Editor For years the seizures assog ciated with epilepsy have given the medical world there share of problems. Drugs were dis- covered which reduced the sei- zures, but also tumed the pa- tients into zombie.-like crea- tures, greatly reducing their quality of life. Today, work is being done on epilepsy from many points of view. In this months Scient~fic American, there is talk about how the control of chaos in the hippocampus may help in the treatment of epilepsy. Also the search for new drugs is also still being sought. New drugs have been developed, especially aid- ing the treatment of childhood epilepsy. The drugs presently admin- istered to children seem to have few side effects and doctors are now trying to wean the children off the anti-epileptic drug who have been free of seizures for twoyears. The researchers and doctors are finding that about 75% of these children are free of seizures even without the medication. This is not to say that these drugs are full proof because there are still a num- ber of patients who have nega- tive side effects with the dnlg and need to go. to the next resort, alter- ing the diet or surgery. l11is may sound grim, but years ago this was not even an option for these children. Today, the surgery involves the removal of the part of the area of the brain responsible for the seizures. The change in diet is also very limiting, especially in the area of high fats which seem to in- crease the occurrence of seizures. There is also another key element in the control of seizures in chil- dren and that is the home environ- ment. l11ese children need. a home where they are encouraged to be self-confident and to have a high · self-esteem. However there is a fine line in this case because you do not want to overly protect your child because that only encourages being sheltered and that is not a good way of pushing the positive attitude. With the i1ew drugs and treat- ments for childhood epilepsy the prognosis for these children is much better than ever before. The work that is contin~1ing to go on is to help those other- 25% of children that cannot use the drugs that work so wonderful for the other 75% of children. Maybe one day child- hood epilepsy will be easily treated and not cause the hardships it still cause.s today. Source: New York Times 1011 219.J ; T l( 11 1~ l~ ~~ 3: 4: 6: 7: &:· 8-: 9: F I( 4: 7: 7: 9: S: ~~ 5: 9: S1 )( 7: - l ( l r r

. -;; ,. ~-:::....--:--~-~------ Calfipus Calendar for the Week of OCT 27th .. NOV 4th Thursday,.1 0/27 lO:OOa M ~ M-A-THON, ·cc ATRIDM 1l:30a FRESHMEN PRECEPTORIAL LUNCHEON, CC 204 12:00p SPANISH; LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 302 l2:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 l2:30p HELP SESSION FOR CALCULUS, BAILEY 201 3:00p EDUCATIONAL STUDIE~ INTERNSHIP MEETING, CC 302 4:30p CAMPUS PROTESTANT MINISTRY MEETING, CC STRAUSS (305) 6:00p GARNET MlNSTRELSMEETING, CC 410 7:30,p GERMAN FILM SERffiS: WINGS OF DESIRE, CC MOBIL (406) 8:·oop HERE'S TO U MEETING, CC 409 8:30p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE .REHEARSAL, PAS {lOS) 9:0Qp ASIAN STUDENT UNION MEETING, CC 203 Friday, 10/28 lO:OOa M & M-A-THON, CC ATRIUM _ 4:00p NCUR ENTERTAINMENT COMMITTEE MEETING, CC 203 7:00p INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP MEETING, CC(406) 7:00p PHILOMATHEAN SOCIETY, HH MILANO LOUNGE 9:00p COFFEEHOUSE; RA THSKELLAR. Saturday, 1 0/29 l2:00p U.;MEDCPRCOHRSE; SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 . 5':30p 7 YEAR MED STUDENTS GET TOGETHER, HH DINING ROOM 9:00p COFFEEHOUSE, RATHSKELLAR · Sunday, 10/30 10:00a BICENTENNIAL MODERN DANCE REHEARSAL, PAS (108) 7:00p PHI IOTA ALPHA MEETING, CC 409 ,..,,~ll ~w\~ .. ~ . I . . . ~ ~ ~ . UNION COLLJ!Gl! Career Development Center CDC Updates On-Campus Recruiting Information: ••• Connecticut Mutual is interviewing st~dents this fall .. Resume Deadline is November 4. Off-Campus Recruiting: Boston Resume Deadline is November 1 by 9pm. A resume for each company is required, a cover letter is strongly ·recommended. Programs/Workshops .. •Getting into ~raduate School ... November 1 at 4pm •\Finding an Internship\ Wednesday, November 2, 7pm. Work experience is what employers seek in ~ecentcollege gradu- ates. Learn how to find or develop an intership, for winter, spring sor summer, that will give you job experience and en- hance your marketability to future employers. •Stanley Kaplan GRE, LSAT Information Seminar November 1, 6pm in SS012 Sophomores • Seniors Resumes Deadline for the General Electric Company Co-op and Summer Job Internship is Friday, November 4 by 5pm. SPORT.S Sunday, 10/30 7:00a SCHENECTADY SWIM CLUB \TRICK OR TREAT MEET,\ ALUMNI GYM POOL Friday, 11/04 7:30p UNION HOCKEY VS. ARMY, ACHILLES RINK Friday, 11/11 · 7:30p UNION HOCKEY VS. ST. LAWRENCE, ACHILLES RINK Hockey ticket pick-ups for Union College students, faculty and staff are Mondays,9:00a-1:00p & . 2:00p-4:30p, rtt the Achilles Rink Box Office. You must present your Union ID to obtain tickets! . Monday, 10/31 11 :30a FRENCH LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 204 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE HRA MEETING, CC 205. 6:00p BICENTENNIAL BALLET SHOWCASE REHEARSAL, PAS(l08) 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 7:QOp WRUC STAFF MEETING, CC 205 Tuesday, 11/01 7:45a COMMUNITY & VALUES DISCUSSION GROUP, CC MOBIL (406) 10:00a MARINE CORPS INFORMATION SESSION, CC ATRIUM 11 :OOa NCUR STEERING COI\.1MITTEE MEETING, CC 203 11 :OOa COMMITTEE ON TEACHING MEETING, HUMANITIES 014 12:00p JAPANESE LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 204 12:15p FRESHMENPRECEPTORJALLUNCHEON, CC 302 l2:30p FLUTE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 313 12:30p RUSSIAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC ATRIUM (near the piano) 5:30p DELTA PSI DELTA MEETING, CC 203 6:00p GARNET MINSTRELS MEETING, CC 410 6:30p NEWMAN CLUB MEETING, CC MOBIL (406) 6:30p SHPE MEETING, CC 205 9:00p COFFEEHOUSE, RA THSK.ELLAR Wednesday, 11102 9:3Qa U-CALL OPERA PROGRAM, CC AUDITOlUUM 9:30a U-CALL SEMINARS, CC 409 4:00p PAN HELLENIC COUNCIL MEETING, CC 203 5:00p STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING, CC 205 6:00p RESIDENCE LIFE GIRL SCOUT MEETING, CC MOBIL (406) 6:30p UNION COLLEGE CHOIR REHEARSAL, ARTS 215 7:00p . G.L.B.A. MEETING, CC 203 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/28/94 - 11111/94 Special Visual Arts Exhibit EXHIBITION: \LIVING WITH AIDS\ PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM McGOVERN, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM (Mondays- Saturdays, 9:00a- 6:00p) Thursday, 10/27/94 12:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR SPEAKER: KAREN COLWELL, \FLOURES CENCE STUD1ES OF CYCLODEXTRIM POLYMERS,\ HU019 1 :JOp BIOLOGY COLLOQUIUM SPEAKER: ROBERT HALLOCK, \SUPERFLUID HELIUM,\ SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR STUDENT PRESENTATIONS, S104 7:00p MEHER TOORKEY PIANO RECITAL, ARTS 215 8:00p SHAKESPEAREAN SPEAKER: HELEN VENDLER, SS 016 Saturday, 10/29/94 8:00p OCTAVOS SINGERS CONCERT, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Monday, 1 0/3l/94 8:30a DIRECTOR SHAKESPEAREAN SHENANDOAHWORKSHOP, CC AUD 3:00p VISITING SHAKESPEAREAN COMPANY, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Thursday, 11103/94 12:30p CHEMISTRY SEMINAR SPEAKER: ALAN KENNELL, ,;THE CHARAC= TERIZATION OF ARTERIAL ANTIGEN SPECIFIC T-CELLS,\ HU019 1 :30p PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM SPEAKER: ESTHER CONWELL \1 & 3 DIMEN- SIONAL SEMICONDUCTORS,\ SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 3:00p PHILOSOPHY & DIVERSITY SPEAKERS: LAURENCE THOMAS & ANTHONY APPIAH, CC AUDITORIUM 4:00p PERSONNEL OFFICE RETIREMENT PLANNING, CC 409 4:30p BIOLOGY SEMINAR SPEAKER: JOHN SAMUELIA, SS 104 STUDENT ACTIVITIES · Mark your Calen- dar for: November 4-6 PARENTS' WEEK- END and ARTS FEST November 7-11 AIDS CONFERENCE · November 11 Union Hockey vs St. Lawrence November 12 Union Hockey vs Clarkson

October 27, 1994, page 10 Why Rush Rush? All Freshman women are told about the process of rushing a sorority through the Union College grapevine as soon as they get on campus. They are told that it is formal. They are told that it lasts five nights and they are told that they are judged based on the clothes that they are wearing. Freshman women are also told that they cannot go into the sororLy houses until rush starts and they are told that they cannot get invites for parties from sisters in a sorority. Some women are even told about dirty rushing, an underground operation that tries to persuade women to join a certain sorority by promising them a bid. This is the way that Freshmat'i women have been introduced to the rush process ever since sororities were allowed on Union's campus. However, this year the Panhellenic council, with the agreement of the majority of the sororities, changed the rules behind rush. Freshman girls are now allowed to go into the sorority house, they are now allowed to accept invitations for parties from· sisters in a sorority and dirty rushing is now legal according to the Panhellenic Council. But is this fair? Is it not going to be the same thirty Freshman women that are asked to these parties that are thrown by the sororities? What about the other 200 Freshman girls that are still too shy to go and meet Upperclassmen? Aren't the changes to the rush system adding unnecessary pressures to the lives of Freshman women? It is easy to understand from the point a view of an active sister that the changes in the system are a step in the right direction because it gives rushers a better chance to get to know the rushees. But, these changes also add pressures on the current sisters of the four sororities to\ make more of an effort to meet Freshman and try to persuade them to j 1in their sorority. The rush system should be entirely changed so that it is informal and eliminates much ofthe pettiness that goes on during Fall term and the first three weeks of Winter term, or rush should be kept the way it was with only a minimal amount of social contact permitted between current sisters and potential rushees. The new changes that have been made are taking a process that is already degrading and hurtful and making it worse. OP-ED POL I TICAL CORRECTNESS AT. UNION COLLEGE · . OPINIONS Language And The Role It Plays In Sexism Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor This past week I got into a heated discussion about the \Y in Womyn's Union, with some friends ofboth genders. By chang- ing the \E\ to \Y\ the Womyn's Union has attracted a lot of atten- tion. That was only part of the reason for the change in the spell- ing. l11e more important reason for changing the spelling of women, is to point out the sexism that subtly exists in our lan!,ruage. The word woman is derived from wife of man. Now I am a female and I consider myself a woman, but at the age of twenty I do not think of myself as· the wife of man. I am not suggesting that everyone change the way they spell women. This is not a linguistical crusade to expel all sexism from our language. I merely want to reveal the prob- lems with our language. With or without realizing it lan- guage plays a significant role in our lives. The way a person speaks; knowledge ofvocabulaty and grammar, and accents, tell a lot about that person's back- ground. As illustrated in My Fair J\ady it is possible to tell where a person is from and his or her so- cioeconomic background from a simple conversation. The words that a person uses in conversation also allows the listener to under- stand how they portray the things and the people around them. The males of this campus will often refer to females as girls. I will concede that not all of the females. on this campus are women. Maybe part of th~ prob- lem lies with the fact that the En- glish language does not have an equivalent of \guy\ for college aged females. By suggesting that females of college age are girls, Union males are subjugating women to a lower social position. The males that were involved in my discussion last week tried ar- guing that just because they call the females that they hooked up with the night before girls does not mean that they consider them be ten and eleven years old. Even though they do not consider the \girls\ ten or eleven, by calling them girls they are subtly or not so subtly stating that they do not think of these females as equals but rather someone who is lesser than they are. The same principle that was used to subjugate black men in the South is still be used to suppress women on this campus. Black men in the South used to called \boy\ with no regard to their age. It was not uncommon for a thirty year old white man to refer to a sixty year old black man as \boy.'' Using diminutives to describe a person is_ an effective way to in- sure that they remain lower. Words signify a 'Jot in out soci- ety; they are the easiest means to express our emotions and the way we perceive the world around us. Whether the sexism in our lan- guage is cause and effect relation- ship or an effect of our percep- tion of the roles women and men and men play is not for me to de- termine in this short opinion. Rather, next time you speak think about how the people around want to be perceived. I am not suggesting that you hide your feelings or opinions, because they need to be expressed in order to overcome misunderstandings, but if you know that the male who sits next to you in class wants to be called a \man\ and not a male respect his wishes. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 4 p.m.; the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. AU letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflectthe opinion of the editorial board. · Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any <>pinion columns reflect the opinions ofthe writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board; Advertisements appearing in The Concordien.l!is do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the. Editorial Board. 7he Concordien.-;is is published eight 11mrsdays a term by the st~tdents of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordie11si.<..·, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordien~i....- subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP)., College Press Service, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. The Concordiensis is a member of the A..;·sociated Collegiate Press. SUJJMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Monday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due· Friday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordien.~is office on the third floor of the College Center. 1 2 1 I (

October 27, 1994, page 10 Why Rush Rush? All Freshman women are told about the process of rushing a sorority through the Union College grapevine as soon as they get on campus. They are told that it is formal. They are told that it lasts five nights and they are told that they are judged based on the clothes that they are wearing. Freshman women are also told that they cannot go into the sorori y houses until rush starts and they are told that they cannot get invites for parties from sisters in a sorority. Some women are even told about dirty rushing, an underground operation that tries to persuade women to join a certain sorority by promising them a bid. This is the way that Freshman women have been introduced to the rush process ever since sororities were allowed on Union's campus. However, this year the Panhellenic council, with the agreement of the majority of the sororities, changed the rules behind rush. Freshman girls are now allowed to go into the sorority house, they are now allowed to accept invitations for parties from sisters in a sorority and dirty rushing is now legal according to the Panhellenic Council. But is this fair? Is it not going to be the same thirty Freshman women that are asked to these parties that are thrown by the sororities? What about the other 200 Freshman girls that are still too shy to go and meet Upperclassmen? Aren't the changes to the rush system adding unnecessary pressures to the lives of Freshman women? It is easy to understand from the point a view of an active s istcr that the changes in the system are a step in the right direction because it gives rushers a better chance to get to know the rushees. But, these changes also add pressures on the current sisters of the four sororities to-make more of an effort to meet Freshman and try to persuade them to j 'in their sorority. The rush system should be entirely changed so that it is informal and eliminates much ofthc pettiness that goes on during Fall term and the first three weeks of Winter term, or rush should be kept the way it was \Vith only a minimal amount of social contact permitted between current sisters and potential rushees. The new changes that have been made arc taking a process that is already degrading and hurtful and making it worse. · . Cartoonist · · . \ . . ,. · Assistant News;JE'ditors Faonlty Advisor · Staff: Stephanie Berliner;. \fino& P<.lsa,I¢f,f::!1Iletl;1ijltlteJl~lt:f:lis, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Ton~ t:a:¥¢c~1f{a:; Adrian· Mac~eanj Martin Metz, $:harat Navani. Bhttv.arrf.l'IT'l:ivarl. 'k~ Pa$~ WU~ liam Rice, Christoph Rit'lgwaldl Billy Shakos., · .Shv¢taS:tlvastava, Scott Steele, Rawson Thurber, Cattle Wlieel~t. 'ltu! ( 'oncordien.o;i,.,·meets every Monday and Tuesday ofthe aca- demic year. It is published by tlte students ofl1nion College and· itt no way reflects the opinions of the college. OP-ED .. POLITICAL CORRECTNESS AT UNION COLLEGE · OPINIONS Language And The Role It Plays In Sexism Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor This past week I got into a heated discussion about the \Y'' in Womyn 's Union, with some friends of both genders. By chang- ing the \E\ to \Y\ the Womyn's Union has attracted a lot of atten- tion. 1l1at was only part of the reason for the change in the spell- ing. TI1e more important reason for changing the spelling of women, is to point out the sexism that subtly exists in our language. The word woman is derived from wife of man. Now I am a female and I consider myself a woman, but at the age of twenty I do not think ofmyselfas.the wife of man. I am not suggesting that everyone change the way they spell women. This is not a linguistical crusade to expel all sexism from our language. I merely want to reveal the prob- lems with our language. With or without realizing it lan- guage plays a significant role in our lives. The way a person speaks; knowledge of vocabulaty and grammar, and accents, tell a lot about that person's back- ground. As illustrated in My Fair /,ady, it is possible to tell where a person is from and his or her so- cioeconomic background from a simple conversation. 1l1e words that a person uses in conversation also allows the listener to under- stand how they portray the things and the people around them. TI1e males of this campus will often refer to females as girls. I will concede that not all of the females on this campus are women. Maybe part of the prob- lem lies with the fact that the En- glish language does not have an equivalent of \guy\ for college aged females. By suggesting that females of college age are girls, Union males are subjugating women to a lower social position. 1l1e males that were involved in my discussion last week tried ar- guing that just because they call the females that they hooked up with the night before girls does not mean that they consider them be ten and eleven years old. Even though they do not consider the \girls\ ten or eleven, by calling them girls they are subtly or not so subtly stating that they do not think of these females as equals but rather someone who is lesser than they are. The same principle that was used to subjugate black men in the South is still be used to suppress women on this campus. Black men in the South used to called \boy\ with no regard to their age. It was not uncommon for a thirty year old white man to refer to a sixty year old black man as \boy.\ Using diminutives to describe a person is an effective way to in- sure that they remain lower. Words signify a lot in our soci- ety; they are the easiest means to express our emotions and the way we perceive the world around us. Whether the sexism in our lan- guage is cause and effect relation- ship or an effect of our percep- tion of the roles women and men and men play is not for me to de- termine in this short opinion. Rather, next time you speak think about how the people around want to be perceived. I am not suggesting that you hide your feelings or opinions, because they need to be expressed in order to overcome misunderstandings, but if you know that the male who sits next to you in class wants to be called a \man\ and not a male respect his wishes. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 4 p.m., the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions ofthe Editorial Board . Advertisements appearing in The Conconbensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Timrsdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. 711e Conc.:ordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), College Press Service, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. The Concordiensis is a member of the Associated Collegiate Press. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Monday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Othetwise, all submissions are due Friday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. Z( }I H c at w til e1 01 It n fi 0 p I I- p

OPINIONS October 27, 1994, page 11 .- Gazette Takes Cheap Shot At Hull To the Editor I read, witl1 deep regret, the Ga- zette editorial of October 14th, 1994 (\Hull's Shameless Hardball\) condemning Union College President Roger Hull's . attempts te reach an agreement with the City regarding the use of the College's Lenox Road prop- erties. I would like to offer an outsider's view of the situation. it is solely my opinion and is in no way to be construed as ail of- ficial opinion of Union College or any of its employees. I hap- pened to see the editorial because I was in Schenectady for Union's Homecoming tlu1t weekend. In my opinion, you have judged President Hull too harshly and, in fact, in<,Joqectly. Roger Hull is not out to hmt Schenectady. To do so would make prospective faculty, who are recruited na- tionally and worldwide, and pro- spective students less attracted to Union. That in tum would result in a lower quality faculty, fewer applications, lower admis- sions standards, .and ultimately a lower quality institution. Do ) vu really thinkthat's the legacy he wants to leave? I think not. Let's review a little. The GE Plot would not exist were it not for Union College. All of that property used to belong to the College. As such, it was pre- served in an undeveloped state for decades while the rest of the crowded neighborhoods were de- veloped around it. The present value of the GE Plot's properties, and Schenectady in general, is due in large part to the very presence ofUnion. Just as Middlebury, Wil- liams, Colgate, Lafayette, and other fine colleges act as a draw for their communities, Union College pro- vides a reason for outsiders, espe- cially wealthy outsiders, to come to town. What the Gazette (conveniently) failed to mention in its attack on President Hull was ·the enonnous financial benefit Union College brings to the City. Each of Union's students brings about $20,000 into the Schenectady economy every year; whether it be with a check Are We Getting All The Bang For A Buck That We Deserve? by Tony Levecchia Concordiimsis Stqff When I buy something expen- sive, I expect it to be high qual- ity. My parents and I both spend a lot of money on my \room and board\ here at Union. Unfortu- nately, my dorm and the food ser- vice don't live up to my high ex- pectations. Although neither is terdble, th<;!y both could and should be much better. This col- umn outlines a few things that could be improved. I think we should have cable T.V. in our rooms. The time a . friend from a state college was visiting really brought home my point. Apparently, he has Pre- mium -cable service in his room. We, on the other hand, have no cable service in our rooms. In order to stop the rare affliction known in our room as \Simpson's withdrawal,\ 1 we were forced to buy a sixty dollar antenna that only provides tts with mediocre reception. Although cable tele- vision isn't necessary for our edu- cation,J think it would be a wei- come luxury. Yes, for twenty- seven grand a year I expect a few luxuries. Cable would serve some educational service. It would be nice to see CNN once in a while, or perhaps tune in to the Discoyery Channel. For the amount of m(}ney we pay, I think it's reasonable to expect the same accommodations as someone paying about six thou- sand a year for their whole edu- catjon. The windows in my room, and presumably all the rooms in Fox, are old and leaky. In order t ~ close them, two people are nonnally needed. One person is required to turn the little crank, and the other to physi- cally pull the window shut. TI1e windows either need to be re- paired, or replaced. The bathroom in our dorm looks like it was borrowed from Grand Central Station. I'm not saying that it's not kept clean, which it is, it is old and falling apart. A renovation is needed. The showers are also a source of anger and frustration to those of us who live on the first floor ofF ox. TI1ere are three showers, but only two ever get used. There is a middle shower that needs to be passed through in order to get to the third shower. I have seen people wait in line before they use this shower. More showers need to be added, ot a more intelligent layout of the existing showers needs to take place. Although the food service has been written about before, I have one thing to apd. Tater tot casse- role! They wanted us to eat tater · tot casserole. I don't mind left- overs, but I think that certain items are better left off the menu. In all faimess, since the last time some- one complained, the food has im- proved. I Was very pleasantly sur- prised by the waffle machine one 1noming. Now, the quality of all our meals and food needs to be improved. Other than that, I don't have too much to complain about, at least until next week. Despite the nega- tive tone of most of my columns, I still think Union is a great college. There are just certain aspects of it that l think need improvement. Effective Immediately: The Concordiensis' . deadline for all opinions and letters to the editor will be Monday by 4PM. They must be submitted on High Density Disk, Word 5.0 and lo~wer. from Mom and Dad, or with Fed- eral and State aid, or with help from the millions of dollars con- tributed by the College from its endowment and the annual dona- tions of its loyal alumni. With ap- proximately 2000 students, that works out to forty million dollars every single yeru:. Unlike the state university system which takes tax money from Schenectady to give to students to go to school some- where else, Union brings that forty million dollars into town every year. It is paid to the fac- ulty and staff who live and spend their money in the immediate area. It is paid to Niagara Mohawk who employs hundreds of people to run its plants and maintain its systems. It is paid to local suppliers, and to the hun- dreds. oflocal contractors who are always doing something on the campus. And so it goes. TI1at forty million dollars is spent and re-spent several times over. Economists call this the \multi- plier effect.\ There is no Jack Welch of Unioi1 College. There are no out-of-town stockholders. Every dollar that comes to Union goes into the Schenectady area economy and stays ti1ere. Every dollar that passes through Union College benefits Schenectady many times more than a dollar that comes to General Electric, General Motors, or any other company with an out-of-town . headquarters. Long after GE has knocked down its last building; long after the last locomotive has rolled out of town, Union College will still be in Schenectady, still loyal to its host community. Union is the best friend this town will ever have. The Gazette should stop trying to en flame the citizens of Schenectady, and should instead act as a mediator for the mutu- ally beneficial resolution of a sen- sitive issue. Sincerely yours, Alan C. Craig, P.E. Bridgewater, New Jersey Union '69 The writer is a developer, a li- censed real estate agent, and has served six years as a Zoning Board tnember in his community of 30,000 residents. This feller to the editor was also .mhmitted ltJ ,\'chenectady Ga- zelle. Ten Cents For A Pat Of Butter! Hey!.Marriot, This Is Not Russia To the Editor lam appalled. This morning I had breakfast in Dutch Hollow. No big deal. . Now I was not expecting breakfast at The Mansion at Turtle Creek, but I was expecting something that resembled quality, at reasonable price. My breakfast cost a total $2.09; Vali-Dined of course. Now ifl had gone off campus for the same breakfast at Dunkin Donuts it would have cost only around $1.50. The part of my breakfast that upset me the most was the fact that after paying $0.95 for a muffin I was charged ten cents for a pat of butter. First of a!ll was overcharged for the muffin. If I had purchased it at an eati11g establishment off campus which was part of a market economy, the same muffin would not have cost nearly as much. I thought Marriot was going to improve the quality and the price of the food, boy was I wrong. Sure the muffin was good, even if over-pliced but the coffee is a different story. This morning my coffee was fresh but a little too weak. Is Marriot tryi11g to save money by not putting enough coffee grinds in the pot? I am happy that my coffee was fresh this morning, but I cannot even count the number of times that I have purchased stale coffee. My recommendations to Food Services are as follows: 1) enter a competitive market, or at least charge competitive prices. 2) Do not act like an old miser. Presently you behave as if you are the Scrooge of culinary services. Live a little. Is it really necessary to charge me ten cents for a pat of butter. If I had purchased the muffin at Brandywine Diner butter would have been included in the price. Do not skimp on coffee, put the right amount in the pot when brewing. There are usually directions on the um that tell you how much coffee to put in, use them. 1 would like my coffee tasting a little more like coffee and a lot less iike brown hot water. 3) This suggestion also deals with coffee. Now I realize that Dunkin Donuts is not your competitor, because you have none, but maybe you could rotate your coffee ~very once and a while. Letting the coffee sit until it is gone causes grumpy, whiny customers like myself. At the minimum the coffee should be brewed t=!Very 45 minutes and replaced. If you, Marriot, were to take my suggestions to heart you would have a few more happy customers. Sincerely yours. Sarah Ruth Evans . ' j 1 l I'

OPINIONS October 27, 1994, page 11 Gazette Takes Cheap Shot At Hull To the Editor I read, with deep regret, the Ga- zette editorial of October 14th, 1994 (\Hull's Shameless Hardball\) condemning Union College PresideBt Roger HuU's attempts to reach an agreement with the City t:egarding the l!lse of the College's Lenox Road prop- erties. I would like to offer an outsider's view of the situation. It is solely my opinion and is in no way to be coHstmed as an .of- ficial opiHion of Union College or any of its employees. I hap- pened to see the editorial because I was in Schenectady for Union's Homecoming tl1at weekend. In my opinion, you have judged President Hull too harshly and, in fact, incorrectly. Roger Hull is not out to hurt Schenectady. To do so would make prospective faculty, who are recruited na- tionally and worldwide, and pro- spective students less attracted to Union. That in tum would result in a lower quality faculty, fewer appiications, lower admis- sions standards, and ultimately a lower quality institution. Do ) uu really think that's the legacy he wants to leave? I think not. Let's review a little. l11e GE Plot would not exist were it not for Union College. All of that property used to belong to the College. As such, it was pre- served in an undeveloped state for decades while the rest of the crowded neighborhoods were de- veloped around it. The pres·ent value of the GE Plot's properties, and Schenectady in general, is due in large part to the very presence ofUnion. Just as Middlebury, Wil- liams, Colgate, Lafayette, and other fine colleges act as a draw for their communities, Union Col:lege pro- vides a reason for outsiders, espe- cially wealthy outsiders, to come to town. What the Gazette (conveniently) failed to mention in its attack on President Hull was the enon:nous financial benefit Union College brings to the City. Each of Union's students brings about $20,000 into the Schenectady economy every year, whether it be with a check Are We Getting All The Bang For A Buck That We Deserve? by Tony Levecchia Concordiensis St~ff When I buy something expen- sive, I expect it to be high qual- ity. My parents and I both spend a lot of money on my \room and board\ here at Union. Unfortu- nately, my donn and the food ser- vice don't live up to my high ex- pectations. Although neither is terrible, they both could and should be much better. This col- umn outlines a few things that could be improved. I think we should have cable T.V. in our rooms. The time a friend from a state college was visiting really brought home my point. Apparently, he has Pre- mium cable service in his room. We, on the other hand, have no cable service in our rooms. In order to stop the rare affliction known in our room as \Simpson's withdrawal,\ we were forced to buy a sixty dollar antenna that only provides us with mediocre reception. Although cable tele- vision isn't necessary for our edu- cation, I think it would be a wel- come luxury. Yes, for twenty- seven grand a year I expect a few luxuries. Cable would serve some educational service. It would be nice to see CNN once in a while, or perhaps tune in to the Discovery Channel. For the amount of money we pay, I think it's reasonable to expect the same accommodations as someone paying about six thou- sand a year for their whole edu- cation. The windows in my room, and presumably all the rooms in Fox, are old and leaky. In order t ~ close them, two people are nonnally needed. One person is required to turn the little crank, and the other to physi- cally pull the window shut. l11e windows either need to be re- paired, or replaced. The bathroom in our dorm looks like it was borrowed from Grand Central Station. I'm not saying that it's not kept clean, which it is, it is old and falling apart. A renovation is needed. The showers are also a source of anger and frustration to those of us who live on the first floor of Fox. 1l1ere are three showers, but only two ever get used. There is a middle shower that needs to be passed through in order to get to the third shower. I have seen people wait in line before they use this shower. More showers need to be added, or a more intelligent layout of the existing showers needs to take place. Although the food service has been written about before, I have one thing to add. Tater tot casse- role! They wanted us to eat tater tot casserole. I don't mind left- overs, but I think that certain items are better left off the menu. In all faimess, since the last time some- one complained, the food has im- proved. I was very pleasantly sur- prised by the waffle machine one moming. Now, the quality of all our meals and food needs to be improved. Other than that, I don't have too much to complain about, at least until next week. Despite the nega- tive tone of most of my columns, I still think Union is a great college. There are just certain aspects of it that I think need improvement. Effective Immediately~ The Concordiensis' deadline for all opinions and letters to the editor will be Monday by 4PM. They must be submitted on High Density Disk., Word 5.0 and lower. from Mom and Dad, or with Fed- eral and State aid, or with help from the millions of dollars con- tributed by the College from its endowment and the annual dona- tions of its loyal alumni. With ap- proximately 2000 students, that works out to forty million dollars every single year. Unlike the state university system which takes tax money from Schenectady to give to students to go to school some- where else, Union brings that forty million dollars into town every year. It is paid to the fac- ~dty and staff who live and spend their money in the immediate area. It is paid to Niagara Mohawk who employs hundreds of people to run its plants and maintain its systems. It is paid to local suppliers, and to the hun- dreds oflocal contractors who are always doing something on the campus. And so it goes. 1l1at forty million dollars is spent and re-spent several times over. Economists call this the \multi- plier effect.\ There is no Jack Welch of Union College. There are no out-of-town stockholders. Every dollar that comes to Union goes into the Schenectady area economy and stays there. Every dollar that passes through Union College benefits Schenectady many times more than a dollar that comes to General Electric, Gemeral Motors, or any other company with an out-of-town headquarters. Long after GE has knocked down its last building; long after the last locomotive has rolled out oftown, Umion College will still be in Schenectady, still loyal to its host community. Union is the best friend this town will ever have. 1l1e Gazette should stop trying to enflame the citizens of Schenectady, and should instead act as a mediator for the mutu- ally beneficial resolution of a sen- sitive issue. Sincerely yours, Alan C. Craig, P.E. Bridgewater, New Jersey Union '69 The writer is a developer. a li- censed real estate agent. and has served six years as a Zoning Board memb~r in his community of 30,000 residents. l11i.,. Ieifer to !he editor was also .whmitled to .\'chenectadv ( ia- :elle. Ten Cents For A Pat Of Butter! Hey! Marriot, This Is Not Russia To the Editor I am appalled. This moming I had breakfast in Dutch Hollow. No big deal. Now I was not expecting breakfast at The Mansion at Turtle Creek. but I was expecting something that resembled quality, at reasonable price. My breakfast cost a total $2.09: Vali-Dined of course. Now ifi had gone off campus for the same breakfast at Dunkin Donuts it would have cost only around $1.50. The part of my breakfast that upset me the most was the fact that after paying $0.95 for a muffin I was charged ten cents for a pat of butter. First of all I was overcharged for the muffin. If I had purchased it at an eating establishment off campus which was part of a market economy, the same muffin would not have cost nearly as much. I thought Marriot was going to improve the quality and the price of the food, boy was I wrong. Sure the muffin was good, even if over-priced but the coffee is a different story. lllis moming my coffee was fresh but a little too weak. Is Marriot trying to save money by not putting enough coffee grinds in the pot? I am happy that my coffee was fresh this morning, but I cannot even count the number of times that I have purchased stale coffee. My recommendations to Food Services are as follows: 1) enter a competitive market. or at least charge competitive prices 2) Do not act like an old miser. Presently you behave as if you are the Scrooge of culinary services. Live a little. ls it really necessary to charge me ten cents for a pat of butter. If I had purchased the muffin at Brandywine Diner butter would have been included in the price. Do not skimp on coffee, rut the right amount in the pot when brewing. There are usually directions on the um that tell you how much coffee to put in, use them. I would like my coffee tasting a little ll!ore like coffee and a lot less like brown hot water. ~) This suggestion also deals with coffee. Nov~ I realite that Dunkin Donuts is not your competitor, because you have none, but maybe you could rotate your coffee every once and a while. Letting the coffee sit until it is gone causes grumpy, whiny customers like myself. At the minimum the coffee should be brewed ~very 45 minutes and replaced. If you, Marriot, were to take my suggestions to heart you would have a few more happy customers. Sincerely yours. Sarah Ruth Evans

October 27, 1994, Page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Much Ado about Nothing to be Performed Monday Sugar Not As Sweet On New ~elease Courtesy of Professor Ruth Stevenson Much Ado About Nothing will be performed at Union College October 31 by the Shenandoal1 Shakespeare Express. They will also conduct a workshop on \Directing Shakespeare.\ The Company consists of eleven members and originated in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, at James Madison Col- lege. It places emphasis on the dramatic forces of Shakespeare's plays stripped of demanding props of scenery and · costume. Stephen B.ooth (Ber- . keley), author of several books on Shakespeare and editor of The Sonnets, compares their bare but vivid productions to a cappella singing in his rave re- view of the troupe in The Shakespeare Quarlerly. The tenn \Express\ describes the company's travels to its cus- tomers, delivering performances at sites usually previously un- known to them, hauling in a few props, donning the simplest of costumes, and assuming (as did the Elizabethan and Jacobean actors) multiple parts, as needed -doubling, tripling, and quadru- erary analyses of Shakespeare's piing of the roles in sex...;blind poems and plays worked out and casting. Each year the Express discussed m Shakespeare offers a repertoire of three plays courses, medieval and early- · and for the ,..--.,..--------------.,modern sur- 1994 . veys, and 1995 sea- classes in Re- · son they . naissance lit- will be per- erature of- forming · fered by the Much Ado English de- A b o u t partment. Nothing, The Ex- 0 t h e II o , press will con- and Taming duct a work- of the shop on \di- Shrew. r e c t i n g Each per- Shakespeare\ formance is at 8:40 in the limited to a ColJege Cen- · \two-hours traffic\ of the stage, ter Auditorium on Monday, Oc- strictly applied. The compact ef- tober 31. At 3 .pm on October ficiency which results derives not 31 they will perform Much Ado . from racing deliveries or editorial About Nothing in Memorial slashing of lines but from Chapel. They will perform eliminatining, as Booth points Othello at Page Hall, SUNY At- out, theatrical pauses: the players bany at 7 p.m. on Sunday, Oc- act and talk at the same time. tober 30, and Taming of the The Express comes to Union Shrew at Page Hall, SUNY At- through E.E.F. funds not only for bany at 8 p.m. on October 31 . the enjoyment of the college com- Admission to Union's workshop munity in general but especially and performance are free and in order to present dramatic, the- open to the Union College Com- ater-based complements to the lit- munity. by Ryan Marcus Concordiensis Staff mind.\ This topic is continued in \Can't Help You Anymore,\ the last verse proclaiming, \I've had enough of feeling slighted! I've had The band Sugar established it- enough to last a lifetime/ I've had self with its 1992 debut al\mm enough and I've decided/ I can't \Copper Blue\ and follow up EP help you anymore/ You can't hurt \Beaster\ as .a factory of grunge me anymore.\ This topic of person- influenced pop. The group had a ality conflict resolution is the sub- hit single, \If I Can't Change ject of many of Mould's songs. Your Mind,\ and the entire first Other songs on File Under: Easy album was excellent, blending Listening are a:bout random sub- beautifullysingerBobMould's(a jects. \Gee Angel\ relays a dream veteran of the Minneapolis trio to fly. connecting it to buying a \set Husker Du) uniquely dark and of wings thatlcouldn't use/Bought gruff yet musical voice wi,th them in a store on the avenue.\ The heavily distorted guitars. next track, ''Panama City Motel,'' Sugar is back with a vengeance, is about nearly being stranded on continuing the legacy of the road with no money. handcraftingpopsongs.primarily Mould works with a number of about relationships while discov- topics, yet he could alm~;>st talk ering other strange topics. The about anything. as his ability to pen new release, File Under: Ea.\y conscious, coherent lyrics has al- Listeniilg, is a strong effort that ways shown itself in his work, es- basically continues where previ- pecially on his solo albums, Work- ous work left off. hook and Black Sheets of Rain. The first single; \Your Favor- TI1e music here, however, is a ite Thing,\ discusses the.problem- little disappointing. Mould's work atic nature of inf<)tuation. Mould with acoustic guitars has histori- sings, \Stuck inside my head cally been outstanding, and little again/ Hoping that this never use is made of these instruments on ends/ I wouldn't mind/ It's my this alOum. Copper Blue contained existence you ignore/ And I can't better guitar riffs as well. The one take you anymore/ I wouldn't standout track on here is the single. Helen V endler Visits Union Pianist, Meher Toorkey, Performs Today Courtesy of Professor Ruth Stevenson Helen Vendler, the A. Kingsley Porter University Professor of Harvard University, will come to Union College as the Visiting Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature during the week of October 24. Professor Vendler writes prima- rily· and preeminently about po- etry, and her books include stud- ies of William Butler Yeats, George Herbert, John Keats, Wallace Stevens, and William Shakespeare. She has published two volumes of essays, many of them drawn from her critical stud- ies and regular reviews of poetry in The New Yorker, The New York Review of Boob', The New Repub- lic, The London Review of Books, and The Times Literary Supple- men/; three more volumes are now in press. She has been elected to the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and she sits on the board which determines the winners of the Pulitzer Prize. As a critic, Professor Vendler shows little interest in the extra- literary concerns of post-structur- alist critical theory and practice, although she does take these into account as Senior Fellow of the School of Criticism and Theory at Dartmouth: rather, she studies and in clear, beautiful English prose explains the intricate, com- plex sources and interactions of poetic power. She will conduct classes in Shakespeare, Herbert, Vaughan, Milton, Bishop, and Graham. On Thursday evening, October 27 at 8 p.m. in Social Sciences 016, she wilJ present a public lecture on \The Given and the Made: John Berryman.\ Courtesy of Performing Arts The Department ofPerfonning Arts presents London-based pi aM nist Meher Toorkey. The perfor- mance will be held Tlmrsday, October 27, 1994 at 7:00 pm in room 215 of the Arts Building. Born in Bombay, Meher Toorkey ranked first in India in the L.R.S.M. examination, win- ning the Sir Adrian Boult cup and shield. She was awarded a Brit- ish Council scholarship which . enabled her to study in London with the eminent Sw_iss pianist Albert Ferber, himself a pupil of Rachmaninoff and Walter Gieseking. Recently she has worked with the distinguished pianist Katharina Wolpe. Meher Toorkey ha~ performed all over India, England, Scotland, and America. This summer she was resident pianist on a cruise ship sailing in Southern Spain and Portugal. Perfonnances in Lon- don.have included an appearance at the Wigmore Hall where she premiered six songs by Atbert Ferber, and a highly successful Purce1l Room debut in 1989. She has regularly given lunch-time recitals in the city of London and Westminster and was one of the perfonners invited to participate in the summer Festival of Music organized by St. Lawrence Jewry. She has also played for Central Television, a recital which was broadcast on both Channel Four and lTV. She has an eclectiG repertoire ranging from C.P.E. Bach to Ber- keley, and is vitally interested in contemporary music, as much as the classical, romantic and French $ Earn Holiday Money $ UNITED PARCEL SERVICE r Part-Time Positions Available Monday thru Friday Driver Helpers - $6.50/hour from Nov 7th - Dec 24th Flexible hours in morning to early evening at\\all UPS Centers in your City or State For Further Information Contact: United Parcel Service Cafl: ·786-4219 or 4218 for appli~ation appointment EOEMIF repertoire. She returns to India to play for the British Council this winter, and has repeatedly been sponsored by the Goethe Institute. l11e perfoi-m'an~e Is 0pen to the public and admission is free. Widespread a~d Freddy Jones Rock Proctor's by Jason Starr Contributing Editor Proctor's Theater in downtown Schenectady is an odd place for a rock concert. Its atmosphere is distinctly geared for theatrical pre- sentations not for the intense sound of rhythm and lead guitars ripping through sustained impro- visational jams. However the venue adapted well to its perfonn- ers and acted as a brreat place to see a concert. The Freddy Jones band opened the show with an hour long set as the theater was starting to fill. The audience was mostly college stu- dents with a handful of older na- - . tives also occupying seats. The set Jist was a mixture of ballads and fast-paced rockers, most of which came from their one release entitled \Waiting For The Night.\ Their set up consisted of one acoustic and two electric guitars. One of the electrics played the slide while the other took most of the solos. The band was rounded out by the drummer. During the twenty minute inter- val between bands the rest of the crowd filed in. By the time Wide- spread Panic came on the theater was as packed as it was going to get (about thirty percent capacity). t t t t r t ·1

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT October 27, 1994, Page 13 CD Review City Ballet Member Performs Clapton's From the Cradle by Martin Metz Concordiensis Staff Clapton's latest release From the Cradle is documented proof that the Blues only gets better with age. Who would have thought that after .releasing Clapton Unplugged that he would top himself once again. I always knew Clapton was a great blues man, but rarely have I heard him sing .the blues like this. I've been waiting for him to do this kind of album for years and now its finally out. I don't believe that l have I1eard another artist explore their roots so indepthly as Clapton does. tually didn't believe that it was Clapton's voice. It sounded like one of the old blues men .of Rob- ert Johnson's time, and I had to double-check to make sure that it was Clapton singing. As you can imagine,. his guitar only matches, if not out does the au- thenticity ·of his voice. The al- bum, opens with the upbeat, soul- ful riffs of \Blues Before Sun~ rise,\ to the amazing sound of C1apton whaliog away a crawl- ing, whiny guitar solo on the last !track \Groanin' the Blues.\ by Suzanne Robinson & Leena Mankad Arts Editors Deborah Wingert from the New York City Ballet presented a day of performance and in- struction last Monday. She came to the Perfonning Arts Studio to offer a class for intermediate/ad- vanced level ballet students. Miss Wingert has been a member of New York City Bal- let for twelve years and has danced with the company at Saratoga Petfonning Arts Cen- ter since 1982. She has had nu- merous principle roles including · those in Midsummer·.\· Night · Dream, Coppelia and Orpheus, .. Robbins' The Concert, and Mr. . Martin's The Sleeping Beauty. • · PBS has highlighted her talents n umnerous times in perfor- mances of Dinner With Balalichine, Live .from Lincoln Center, anel Dance in America. To me, this album helps to clas- sify him as one ofthe great blues man of our time. To those of you who doubted the genuine charac- ter of Clapton 's style and labeled it \generic\ blues, he. has proven you wrong once again. You can go find someone else to label, like George Thoroughgood. Clapton pays tribute to his many iilflu- ences; Eddie Boyd, Freddy King, Elmore James, and most impor- tantly, the recently deceased Willie Dixon. Although a few people com- plained that the album is boring to listen to because it is just sn·aight ahead blues, most people f've talked to seem to think that its one of Clapton's greatest al- bums ever. I think that any true •an of the blues would agree. One of the things about Cl\apton that makes bini so great is his ability to play the blues, even .if its other people's tunes, and somehow make them his. Along with her performing, Miss Wingert has been a regular · guest teacher at numerous . schools and been involved in programs with youth audiences. Union College students who are currently enrolled in the dance practica program received a chance to participate in her class Winger at ller Performance on Monday (Josh Haines!TC) TI1e album consists of sixteen classic Blues tracks including \Hoochie Coochie Man,\ \Stan din' Round Cryin,\ and \It Hurts Me Too.\ On one of the ·tracks \How Long Blues,\ I ac- I was told that Clapton spent a lot of time making this album and it was harder for him to p.ut to- gether than many of his other al- bums. Well, it certainly shows, and I believe most Clapton fans will be happy that he put in the extra time and hard work which sets this album apart as one of his greats. Rating: 4 l/2 stars out of four. ·.this past Monday. Before the class, Miss Wingert, held an improvizational performance that was very unique and imaginative. In the class, Monday, she taught basic ballet technique. The class lasted approximately one and a half hours. The students who took the class found it very in- teresting and useful. They found her very happy & helpful in her teaching. THE REEL PICTURE - Pulp Fiction Undeniably One of the Most Unusual Films Ever Made by l.a rry Paska Concordiensis Staff Pulp Fiction. Starring John Travolta, Uma Tunnan, Samuel L. Jackson, Harvey Keitel, Christo- pher Walken, Eric Stoltz, Bruce Willis. Directed by Qttentin Tarantino. Rated R, Miramax Films. Rating: ****(out of four) Quentin Tarantino is one of those filmmakers who cannot do wrong, no matter what film bears his name. So obviously, one doesn't need to know that his lat- est work, Pulp Fiction, won the coveted Palm d'Or award at Cannes last spring to view the film as nothing short of a masterpiece. It takes great talent to pull off great stuff, and even such under- the-title names as Frank Whaley and Julia Sweeney contribute their efforts in making each character a passionately-driven human caught up in the dat:k underworld. The result is thefastest 2 hours and 35 minutes in film history. Tarantino weaves three separate stories into Fiction, taking the Robert Altman approach (as seen in Short Cut;\·) but does Altman one better, not pUtting these vi- gnettes in chronological order. h\ this way, the viewer is constantly treat~d to new surprises and twists. The opening scene centers on two robbers enjoying breakfast at a diner and contemplating rob• bing the place. (\No one ever thinks to rob a restaurat1t...\) As they're about to pull out their pistols, the credits roll, and the scene focuses on Vincent Vega 'llld his partner Jules (Travolta and Jackson, respectively), driv- ing to a hotel to make a hit. 1l1ey are the newest buddy team to hit the screen, and their chemistry ignites wonderfully. The two debate everything from the phi- losophy behind Jules' Biblical quotation from Ecclesiastes (he uses it when shooting someone) to the name of the Quarter Pounder with Cheese in France. This first story centers on Vega's \night out\ with the boss's wife, Mia (Turman). He avoids flirting with her, because the last guy who did was thrown out a window by the boss. But Mia takes to Vincent, and at a 50's nostalgia diner, gets him on the dance floor. Of course, the whole scene is an excuse to see Travolta dancing again, but the silliness is undermined by fast, witty dialogue. Back at Mia's house, she over- doses on drugs. Vincent's di- lemma in saving his \date\ be- fore the boss finds out is not only hilarious, but shockingly sicken- ing. Suffice it to say this film is perfect for any junkie wanting to quit cold turkey; one glimpse at Vincent sticking adrenaline through Mia's heart and you will swear off drugs forever - guaran- teed. 1l1e second tale focuses on a boxer named Butch, played with New Release the old gusto we once expected from Willis. He's under orders from the same boss to lose a box- ing match-and collect a big re- ward for it. But he doesn't want to lose, so he kills his opponent andsplits with the money. He and his baby-doll girlfriend plan to split the country, but Butch acci- dentally runs into the boss (liter- ally) and soon finds himself and the boss caught up in even greater trouble. · · And now back to Vincent and Jules, fresh from their hit in the hotel, catching bre!tkfast in a diner. Their witcy and dynamic dialogue moves briskly, conveying the impression they talk a lot about big things they don't understand. Backed by one of the most memorable and appropriate film soundtracks in recent memory, Fiction is one of the few films that throws in everything but the kitchen sink and is actually all the better for it. Not one plot detail is left unnoticed; for ev- ery twi~t Tarantino makes in his story (he wrote th.e screenplay), he proves how much fun he has in getting his dark characters out of it. Keitel tums up as a man who helps criminals deal with their messes ... which consists of or- dering them to clean up after themselves. After Vincent and Jules shoot a passenger in their back seat, they are left with a dilemma: how to hide the mess without arousing suspicion. Is Keitel poking fun at his role in Point of No Return, in which he plays another \clean-up man?\ If so, his perfonnance here is not wasted, but delightful, because he comes and goes, without do· ing anything himself. The film is nothing short of the product of genius, because only Tarantino .could make the perfect action, gangster, drama and comedy fit into one warped vision ofreality. The direction is polished and creative without One piece of advise Miss Wingert gave, that left an impres- sion, was that if one had a thought it should be a complete thought so that it would provide a complete position. One could tell that one was in the presence of a true proffesional in her style, technique and grace. being pretentious. Travolta rev- els in his first decent role to come his way since Look Who 's Talk- ing (one), and Jackson may finally get proper recognition for an out- standing perfonnance as hitman Jules. (Remember Amos & An- drew? Horrible film-but Jack- son stood out.) This is the kind of film you see many times to look for something different. And with storytelling talent such as this, there is plenty to see. Pulp F;ction is a triumph of cinema not because it dares to be different and succeeds on ev- ery scale but because it combines genres and overplays story con- ventions to develop an unconven- tional hit. A buddy film about two hitmen who appreciate debate and gourmet coffee? A corrupt boxer who saves the day and is devoted to a heirloom wristwatch? Two robbers who decide to take on a neighborhood diner? What is this we are watching? Something no other filmmaker could possibly touch with even the slightest bit of Tarantino's success. Also Recommended: Reserroir Dogs (* * ** ), True Romance (***),Natural Bom Killers(*_**11 2). Write for Arts

October 27, 1994, page 14 LIVING . . A Merchant of Jay Street by Alex Shapiro Living Editor \Just because I can't make my bed doesn't mean I can't make up my mind,\ insists a freshman who wished to remain anonymous. TI1is oveiWhelming sentiment of slack justice scours the veins of many a Union graduate, as well as undergraduate, aswe look past the Blue Gates to what s~;ems a vast vacuity of perilous pandemo- nium. Coming out from under the ashes of a disparaging career fair, it is refreshing to <wme across a Union alumnus who can shed some light on this darkness. Bret Goldin is the founder and owner of Caffe Dolce, the international coffee house and kiosk down on Jay Street, and also happens to be a .graduate of the class of 1992. Employed by the Open Door book store upmi graduation, Bret didn't loose faith that his higher educa- tion would serve him well. After a brief stint in New Mexico in March of '93, Goldin returned with a new vigor and, more impor- tantly, a vision of Java. He real- ized his ambition seven months later on October second with the kick-off party atCaffeDolce. Since then the coffee house has won numerous awards including the Metroland \Best Espresso Coffee Bar,\ and the Schenectady Cham- ber of Commerce \Most Out- -· • I I ': rtanding New Enterprise.\ I caught up with Goldin on a rainy Tuesday moming and we had this discussion (more or less): A.S. Is it, or is it not, true that a high ranking member of the Union administration was arrested out- side your establishment attempt- ing to throw a brick through ·the window? B.G. I never heard that one, but I'll tell you, I wo~tldn 't be sur- prised. We maintain a strained relationship with the administra- tion over here. Dean Alford has been here a couple times, and he seemed to have enjoyed himself. A few of the more progressive professors have brought classes down, and that's exactly the kind of thing I like. Charles Steckler has his photographs of the Berlin Wall on display here. President Hull has never, to the best of my knowledge, set foot in bere, though. I remember he said back in September of '93 that 'Schenectady must bloom for Union to thrive.' Well, I don't k,1ow what he's really doing in that area, some bull about Schenectady 2000. I try to stay involved with the college by do- ing things like offering the Caffe Dolce award of photography to a Junior art student. Truthfully, it is entirely possible for the area to start booming if the right people start motivating. A.S. How do think your place has affected the community? B.G. I've never really been into community service. I recognize it as a good thing, it's just not my thing. People come in here and dis. .•. I d1J1\.~ Co'f\fee is my drusl read their poetry, drink coffee, hang out. It's just a positive at-. mosphere for the exchange of thoughts, people meet here. Charles .the Second ,·., ; ' A ~omedyby John Howard Payne· and Washington Irving One often ge'ts a uselul lesson. in 'the . '; ~ .· ; . ~ . ·:. . .. ' course ol a ftc:-U~, ; . . . ~ . . . . ,. ' . . {j ..... \ .· ' ,. ( There was actually a weddingre.- ception here once for two people that met right over there (points to the comer). Coffee and cul- ture have some kind of connec- tion that goes back to the an .. cients, I was actually discussing the possibility of a course at Union on the subject with some- one just the other day. Anyway, I'm ho,ping that the genuinely positive mark this place has made on Jay Street will manifest itself in more and better places. Titis town is a goldmine just waiting to be busted wide open. A.S. Wl)o is your wost.interest- ing customer? B.G. It's definitely a toss up, but the· \Most Aesthetically Interest- ing\ award goes to Princess Heidi. Princess Heidi is a three hundred some odd pound transvestite who dresses him/herself up and tells me rm beautiful. That always puts a little spin on my day. A.S. Do you believe in the living dead? B.G. What? A.S. What's today? B.G. Tuesday, why? A.s: It's my friend;s birthday on Saturday. More C(?[fee appears So, what advice do you have for those of usstiJ.I dwelling in the circle of academia? · B. G. I would say that the world is ina state of flux. Small businesses are flourishing, and regardless of what everyone says there is a lot of opportunity for people 'ready to put their asses on the line. You have to break out ofthe idea that a job is waiting for you and re- train your ambition towards self- fulfillment. If you're good at even one thing, no matter how small, there's probably a niche for you. Trust in yourself and, with a little elbow grease, things will start happening. In other words, if you build it, they will come. A.S, Thank you. B.G. Thank you, I hope you die. A.S. What? B.G. Take care of yourself. A few questions to think about: But W~y Are You Heterosexual? 1. What do you think caused your heterosexu- ':llity? 2. When and how did you decide you were a heterosexual? 3. Is it possible that your heterosexuality is just a phase you may grow out of? 4~ Is it possible that your heterosexuality steins. from a neurotic fear of others of the same sex? 5. If you've ~ever slept with a person of the same sex, is it possible that all you need is a good gay lover? 6~ To whom have you disclosed your hetero- , . . ' -sexual tendencies? How did they react? '7·. Why do you heterosexukl-s feel. compelled to seduced others ~nto your lifestyle? : Bi.centennial Festival . . . . oi the Perlor~ning Arts . _ :,~~.:.·:. · · · : 8. :Why c~o you insist on flaunting your het- erosexuality? Can't you just be who you are and keep quiet? Friday thru Sunday, Nov. 4 • &, at 7:00 Saturday Matinee at 4:00 ·.in otd Chapel CaU 388•6S4S lor Tickets 9. Would you want your child to be hetero- sexual, knowing the problems he/she would face? 10. Why do heterosexuals place·so much em- phasis on sex? ~rougbt to you by the Pef?r Facilitators ' ' l • ~ . . ' I ,.,_ { •. , ·-,·. 'l fi.·

fi .· ..,. ~ l .. ' PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS October 27, 1994, page 15 Personals Mom and Dad - Happy Anniver- sary. I love you. YoU: really do i11Spire me. - D.L. Carl D. and Jordy D. -I hope you both have a wonderful Hallow- een. Yeah! Yeah! I love you both very much. Carl, write me! - Love T.D. Happy Birtbeay Tiff! ~,{; Jenni -Thanks fo~; coming to visit me. I wish I coidd have gone to vegetate with you. Conte again soon. Maybe if you were a little 1nore announced next time it would be good. five missed you. I'm losing my touch everyone. Please send me some personals. I am getting tired. of making up all ofthese. My friends are get- ting bored of hearing from me. They'd much rather dear from you. Send them to Box 2577 or drop them off at CC303. Ryan, Macho, Macho man, All I want to be is a macho man. Billy- Smooth Operator Pam- So, when will I ever see you again? How was lab? Are you getting bored of my dull person- als yet? Send me some interest- ing ones. Love - Heather Dave and Josh- You guys are too cute for words! Much love- the other 'personals queen' Heather - You are the only sane one in this place. Thank God for you! -the crazed editor Heath-man - So many men ... so little time! What am I going to do with you?! :ove- Me ShelleY.- See you didn't do so bad on that test - Congrats on your spectacular grade! Love - The crazy woman next door! To the brothers. of Theta Delta Chi The party on Friday \Rocked.\ Timnks for a great time. - The sisters of Delta Gamma Sethy boy - You know I love ya 'lots,. but I never see my bro! Let's do lunch (or dinner) sometime so011. Lots of Love, Sis J- Thanks for being there and lis- tenjng. LQve- Winthrop Kenny & Starr- What awesome ~ports editors! .-a fan The Wornyn's Union meets at 6:00 on Tuesdays- so dmi't worry about missing Melrose anymore. the Women's Center is between North College and the Arts Build- ing. Ally- Sorry my mind was wan- dering. Once it went all the way to Venus on mail order and I couldn't pay for it. Karin-It's almost over! Vineyard friends- you can't have 'everything. Where would you put it? Mrsise~:-but it looked so high tech! (click!) Brittany- Happy Halloween! Love, Big Sis . Classifieds \ Wanted!!! Individuals and Student OF.gani- zations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO- GRAMS 1-800-327-6013. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT - Students Needed! Fishing indus- try. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and board! Tram;portation! Male or Female. No experience necesssary. Call (206 )545-415 5 ext A51881 FUND RAISING Choose from 3 different fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65. WANtED!! AMERICA'S · Tam- FASTEST GROWING SPRING Waiter, I would like some pep- BREAK COMPANY IS NOW per in my paprikash. The Department of Philosophy Under the aegis of the Spenser-Leavitt Chair, is proud to present a colloquium ' IDENTITY: RACIAL, ETHNIC, AND PERSONAL our guests: Professor Anthony Appian Philosophy and African-American Studies Harvard University He has written extensively on the i::ole of African-Americans in shaping modern Africa, and on the Literary tradition of African-American writing. Professor Laurence Thomas Philosophy and Political Science Syracuse University · · - He has written extensively on moral psychology of shame, friendship, virtue, and on American slavery and The Holocaust Professor-Terry Weiner Political Sci~nce and Sociology Union College He has written extensively on discrimination in health-care policy, the effects of race and class in black education of Black physicians, and on politics of standardized testing. All are invited to an open forum discussion to be held Thursday, November 3rd 3 PM to 6 PM in the College Center Auditorium, Union College Direct inquiries to Feltnon Davis, Dept. of Philosophy/ Union College \388-6245 EXTRA INCOME EOR '94 Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details- RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: .. ·. GROUP FIVE . 57 Green tree Drive, Suite 307 ' ' . .. ' . Dover, DE 19901 LAS·TDAY TO\. WITHDRAW FROM COURSES IS FRIDAY -~.,NOVEMBER 4TH ,. -, ... ' ~ ~ ' •: ' • , V _,., ~·· • C I - SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PROMOTE OUR SUPER SPRING BREAK TRIPS. JAIMAICA, CANCUN, BAHA- MAS, FLORIDA, SOUTH PA- DRE, BARBADOS. FANTAS- TIC FREE TRAVEL AND COMMISSIONS. CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426- 7710. TRAVEL FREE TO CANCUN, NASSAU, JA- MAICA, & SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. SPRING BREAK WITH SUN BOUND VACA- TIONS. ORGANIZE A SMALL GROUP OF. 15 AS A COLLEGE REP. CALL 1-800- 4-SUN-BOUND FOR DE- TAILS. Stuck in the risk pool?- special discounts for qualified risk pool drivers -immediate coverage, low down payment, e-z monthly pay- ments, no turn downs, cancelled policies replaced, all drivers and cars insured - JW Insurance - 1533 Central Ave - (518) 452- 9243 EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on cont~mporary policy- relevant tssues. Area and Functional Fields: 0 Interamerican Studies (including U.S.-Latin American Relations) 0 European Studies 0 Post -Soviet Studies 0 Comparative Development 0 International Business 0 International Economics 0 International Health Policy 0 International Relations Theory 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Foreign Policy Analysis Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid. North• South Center UIIIVEI\SITT Of IIAII Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF IN'fERNATIONAL STUDIES Admissions, Room #373 Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 (305) 2844173 SEND PERSONALS TOBOX2577

Oj}j/fd like you to take this lamps and lights? Do you tum They're simple to simple test to see if your home them off when you exit a room? use, and inexpen- Ready? Let's begin. How many ing the day? Next, check your thermostat up or of you have TVs? thermostat. Odds are, it could down a few . How many times have you left the room and left it If all gas-heated homes on? How many were properly weather stripped we'dsaveenoughnaturalgas t. h . . lffies ave you to heat 4 million homes. fallen asleep watching it only to wake up to the \Star Spangled Banner\? And what about your mn.. A Public Service of ~~ This Publication use adjusting. And finally, see if degrees. If you Turning <if your lights can save electricity and reduce carbon dioxide pollution. there's a draft coming from your get cold, grab a windows and doors. If there is, sweater or a blanket. If you're you're letting valuable energy fly right outside. Now, for the answers. Try installing timers hot, wear fewer clothes. As for your windows and If everybody adjusted their , thermostat by 6 degrees we doors, a couple pack- could save up to 190,000 barre~ if oil a day. ages of $3.00 weather on your lights and television. stripping should do the trick. .. Each of these things will help save natural resources for the years to come. And if we can do that, we all deserve high marks. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND TIPS CAll, I-ROO-MY-SHARE. IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. ' ··.~·· -~Earth Share ' .

1994-1995 Union College Skating Dutchmen Preview by Dagan LaCorte Concordiensis Sport$ In 1991 Union College ac- cepted a bid to play division I hockey amongst such elite schools as Harvard, Clarkson, and Capital District :rival RPI. For Union and Coach Bruce Delventhal it was an experiment to see if a top division III school could be transformed into a com- petitive division J progr:am. In the first two seasons of division I competition the Dutchmen. com- piled a combined record of 6·43- 1, and finished last in the E.C.A.C . .in both of its first two seasons. Many critics began to fear that Union would become perennial basement dwellers; however all that changed follow- ing the success of the 1993~94 season. P ... D ... 'flNID!t . . ·_\_ --.~--_.·_ ... -.~.//·]···.· ..... :\s __ A '-- .. Skating Dutchmen I-lockey As a result of the maturing of many of the teams veterans and a tremendous freshman class, the 1993-94 Dutchmen were a team to be reckoned with. The veter- . ans of the 1992-93 season in- creased their offensive production by 95% in 1993-94, while five out of the Dutchmen's top ten scor- ers were freshmen. In addition the combined effort of goaltenders Mike Gallant and Luigi Villa was excellent. The Dutchmen finished the 1993-94 season with an overall record of 15-11-4, with a league record of 10-9-3. The high-point ofthe sea- son. was a ten game unbeaten streak which stretched from F~b­ ruary 5th to March 12th. The suc- cess in the regular season led to the Dutchmen's first playoff ap- - pearance, a three game series against the Engineers of RPI. Union took the first game, but eventually lost in three games, ending a highly successful sea- son. -Union's surprising success led to the naming of Bruce Delventhal as ECAC .. Coach of the Year,\ as well as Chris Ford and Troy Stevens being named to the ECAC \All Rookie Team.\ With the return of assistant coaches Kevin Sneddon and Dave Green, the success of last year's squad should hopefully transfer to the 1994-95 season. This year's squad has 23 return- ing players from last year, the only loss being captain Jeff Jiampetti. The Dutchmen have compensated for the loss of Jiampetti, by bringing in a fine freshmen class. With the excel- lent mix of veterans and fresh- men, the 1994-95 Skating Dutch- men promise to be an excellent team. TI1is years teain is led by senior captain Cory Holbrougt. Holbrough had his most success- ful season of his career in 1993- 94. In his first two seasons, Holbrough had a total of 14- points. Last year he .exploded for 1 0-goals and 12-assists for 22- points. The highlight of Holbrough 's season was an over'\ time goal in Union's 3-2 victory at Princeton. Holbrough is q~ite con- fident that the 94-95 Dutchmen win be suc- cessful, \We expect a definite im- provement from last year, in all ?spects of the team's son, totaling 15-points in thirty games. Prentice. has the ability to control both the physical and the -offensive aspects of a game, as exhibited by his 2-goal effort •· \All league honorable mention.\ In addition he was selected by the Quebec Nordiques in the June 1994 NHL supplemental draft. Simonton has the ability to domi- nate any game he wishes, at any level. However, on many occasions Simonton's per for~ mance is less than ex- plosive. There is no question t h a t Sitnoi1ton is the most tal- e n t e d defensemen g a m e . We'v-e upped our talent pool, with a good Assistant Captain Reid Simonton during last season's victory over Yale group of~----------~~~----~----~------~----~------~-- on the Dutchmen freshmen, and we're confident versus Dartmouth; an endeavor that we'll have another success- which earned him ECAC \Rookie ful year.\ For the second con- secutive s.eason, senior Chris Albert is one of the Dutchmen's assistant captains. Albert has con- sistently been one of the Dutchmen's top wingers for the pastthree years. His size enables him to be a force in the comers, as well as in front of the net. Albert was tied for third on the team in scoring last season, net- ting 11-goals for 29-points. The sole junior forward on this years Dutchmen te.am is Chris. Hancock. Hancock is perhaps the most aggressive player on th~ Dutchmen squad. Hancock's zeal for the physical. aspects of hockey was evidenced during a game ver- sus Dartmouth. Hancock was thrown out of the game as a re- sult of a third period fight. Of the thirteen remaining forwards, ten are sophomores. Much of Union, s success last year has to be .attributed to the excellent corps of freshmen (now sophomores) forwards. Led by linemates Troy Stevens and Chris Ford, last year's freshmen tore apart the E.C.A.C. Stevens was the team's second leading scorer (34-points), leader in assists (28), and also lead the team in faceoff s won (53.7 %). Stevens is deter- mined to prove that his success wasn't just luck, \Last year I set goals for myself, but I didn't know what to expect. This yeat I set higher goals, goals I think I can reach.\ Ford also had his share of success, leading the team in scoring (35-points), goals (20), ' power play goals (9} , game-win- ning goals (3), and scoring per- centage (14.6%). With Ford and Stevens back together, their of- , fensive production should only i:Qlprove. However Union's . freshmen success was not just a two man effort. Russ Monteith was fifth on the team in scoring with 1 0-goals and 17-assists, despite missing the first three games of the season. Jvhn Sicinski also had an impres- sive year, tallying 1 0-goals and 1 0-assists for 20-points. Sicinski ended last season on a hot streak, scoring six of his goals in the fi- nal eight games of the season. Sicirtski will hopefully fulfill the gap which Jeff iiampetti left. Jay Prentice also had a successful sea- of the Week.\ As Prentice con- tinues to mature. his production should increase a great deal. Chad Thompson also played an important role in the Dutchmen's succe.ss. Thompson totaled 11- points in 28 games, and was third in the team in faceoffs won (51.7%). Pat O'Flaherty had 3- goals and 3-assists in nineteen games, and was third amongst rookies in plus/minus with a + 3. Ryan Donovan was one of the most touted freshmen oflast year. As a result of knee surgery prior to coming to Union, Donovan was limited to 21-games (in . which he had 2-goals and 3-as- sists) last year. A healthy Donovan should prove to be a great asset to this years team. The final two sophomore forwards are Jamie Antoine and Craig Reckin. Jamie Antoine appeared in only eleven games last season, How- ever, Antoine is sure to have a greatly improved sophomore campaign. Antoine has been one of the most impressive forwards of the preseason; culminating with his 2-goal perfonnance in the Gamet vs. White game last week. Craig Reckin is one of the Dutchmen's biggest forwards,· at 6'2. The coaching staff is hop- ing that Reckin will display his abilities as a strong aggressive forward. The Defensive. corps of Union is very strong as well. Led by senior Dean Goulet, the defense is hoping to keep the action away from Union's net. Goulet, the team's sole senior blueliner, had an excellent season last year. Goulet matched his point produc- tion from his first two seasons, last year; totaling 11-points in 26- games. Perhaps the most talked about of all Union defensemen is Reid Simonton. Simonton, from the start of his career at Union, has been one of the most feared of all defensemen in the ECAC. In his rookie cam- paign Simonton was selected to the \All Rookie Team,\ and was Union's leading defensive scorer. Last year was an improvement for Simonton on most levels. He doubled. his point production from 12-points to 24-points. As a result of his sophomore cam- paign Simonton was voted as an squad, the question is, can he play at his highest level day in and day out? Scott Boyd was one of the most pleasant surprises of last season. After being considered an aver- age defensmen following his freshmen season, Boyd burst out of mediocrity and into the spot- light.. Teamed up with Reid Simonton, Boyd soon became one ofUnion's top defensemen. He tripled his point 'production from 5-points in 1992-93, to 15- point last year; another excellent season is expected from Scott Boyd. Despite suffering through a back injury which lasted all of last season, Shane Holunga was still one of Union's top defensemen. Holunga tallied 6- points in only twenty three games played. Last year's freshmen also played an important role in the defense. Andrew Will was one of the best overall defensemen last sea- son. He led all freshmen defensemen with 12-points, and was third in overall defensive scoring. Will is confldentthat this year's squad will get off to a quick start, \The guys are not going to be surprised this year, we're ready, and we're going to win back some of those close games which hurt us early last season.\ Another returning sophomore defensemen, is Bill Moody. Moody played in 27- games last season, tallying 4- , goals aJ)d 4-assists for 8-points. With one year ofECAC experi- ence, Moody should be an even bigger asset this year. Greg Buchanan is a big, strong physi- cal defensemen; at 6'2, 220 he is the biggest Dutchmen. Buchanan played well in fourteen games last season, and his play should im- prove has he sees more ice-time this season. Seabrook Satterlund appeared in only three games last year, a statistic which would dis- courage most players. Satterlund was not discouraged by his lack of playing time, and improved his physical conditioning during the off season. As a result~ Satterlund has become one of the Dutchmen's best defensemen during the preseason. He is an excellent skater, and has the abil- ity to rush the puck up~ice. He was the best defensemen on ei- ther side during the Gamet vs. White game, and will deservedly see more playing time this season. The defense cannot be complete .without mentioning the Dutch- men goaltending. Luigi Villa and Mike Gallant have shared the goaltending role for the past three years. Despite playing poorly in his first few games oflast season, Luigi Villa rebounded, posting a record of 5- 2-2. Villa recordedthe best goals against, and save percentage of his career. Gallant had an excel- lent season as well. Before the 1992-93 season, Mike Gallant had never recorded a victory, going 0- 19-0 ia his first two seasons. This all changed last year, as Gallant emerged as one of the top goaltenders in the nation. Gallant recorded a record of 10-9-2, and a save percentage of .895. As a result ofhis superb season, Mike Gallant was named MVP, by his teammates. Gallant and Villa are joined this season by freshman Trevor Koenig. Koenig is from Edmonton Alberta, and was second in the Alberta Junior Hockey League with a 2. 90 goals against average. He was also second in the league in save percentage at .904. Koenig's arrival is well antici- pated by the coaching staff. Delventhal had this to say about Union's goaltending situation, \It will be a lot like last year. We'll see how the three of them are playing and go from there.'' Koenig is not the only freshman who will make an impact on this year's Dutchmen squad. l11ere are three freshman forwards and one defensc;:men. Boe Leslie is from Carman, Manatoba and played for the Portage Terriers last year. He had an impressive season, netting 25-goals and 23- assists in 56-games. Leslie's of- fensive skills should help the Dutchmen. Charlie Moxham is also expected to make a positive impact on this years team. A member of the Calgary Royals, Moxham was voted \Most Inspi- rational Player\ last season. Moxham is a quick skater, and his talents should be put to good use this season. The third freshman forward is J.P. Mac Cullum, from Prince Edward Island. Mac Cullum made the team as a waJk.- on, and his physical play should contribute well to the future of the Dutchmen squad. The sole fresh- men defenseman is Matt Willis. Willis played for Northwood School prior to attending Union, and he is a solid physical defensemet1. Willis' defensive skills should contribute to the al- ready strong Union defense. The 1994-95 Dutchmen squad seems quite solid. l11e team com- bines a great deal of experience with young talent. Last year's team finished sixth in the ECAC, and appeared in their first play- off. This year's schedule offers Union some new competition. The Dutchmen will face off against Providence College and Minnesota Duluth. These teams as well as the rest of the ECAC, realize that Union is a team to be reckoned with. As a result, the rest of the league will be gearing up for Union, something which the Dutchmen have to be prepared for. -

.\ October 27, 1994, rage 18 SPORTS Women's Tennis Concludes Best Season Ever by Jason Starr Sports Editor The Union College Fore-hand- ing D11tchwomen played at the Division III New York State Women's Tennis Championship this weekend at Syracuse Univer- sity, and played their hearts out, finishing in sixth place overall. This was the best showing ever for the team, who in1proved on last season, when they finished in a· tie for sixth. The feat is even more impressive when one con- siders that sixteen teams com- peted in this annual event. Union won seven of it's open- ing nine matches, before running into some tough draws in the fol- lowing rounds. As a matter of fact, of the eight matches that Union eventually lost; seven were to teams from Skidmore College and Nazareth College, whose teams ended up first and second overall, respectively. With these type of statistics, one cannot help but wonder how our team would have fared with a slightly easier draw. Playing at first singles, Julie Anderson turned in a performance that her whole team could follow. She made it all the way to the semifinals, before losing to the number one seed from Nazareth, Toshimi Sugimoto. At second singles, Chantal Von Saber ad- vanced to the quarterfinals before losing to Kathryn Moynihean, from Nazareth. At third singles, Rachel Goldfine put up a heroic performance, before being elimi- nated by a third Nazarethite, Chris Antonyak. At fourth singles, Amy Kessinger played perhaps the most impressive tourney of them all, becoming only the sec- ond Union women's player ever to win the entire tournament (for more on Amy's story, turn to Ath- lete of the Week-yeah, it's her). Katie Ott, at fifth singles, unfor- tunately had some breaks go the ether way, and made an exit in the opening round, losing to another one of those girls from Nazareth However, she is only a freshman, su the future remains bright for this budding star. Rounding out the singles matches, Dawn Tessier lost in the quarterfinals. The three doubles teams, consisting mainly of singles players, also ran into some tough competition. The first squad, Anderson and Von Saher, were off their game; and lost to William Smith in the open- ing round. At second doubles, .the dynamic duo of Goldfine and Kessingerlost in the quarterfinals to the second seeded team, from Nazareth (not to reiterate}. Fi- nally, at third doubles, Joanna Freedman and Jes~ie Hallenback lost in the quarterfinals to a team from eventual champion Skidmore. The team finished with a dual- meet record of 9-3, tying the Union record for most wins ever in a season. The NCAA currently ranks them 15th in the Eastern Regional, which included teams from New England, New York, New Jersey, and lots of other \News.\ As coach Joanne Little said,\the team worked hard and wanted to win.\ All in all, it was a great season for the team, and it was a delight to cover their matches. Union Women Fight Hard at 25th Annual Head of the Ch .. arles by Jody Mousseau Co11tributing Writer It was the battle of the best, the final elimination in \no guts, no glory,\ and the ultimate judg- ment day to detennine who was the greatest. No room was allot- ted for the meek and the weak, and the blood, sweat, and tears were not excuses. Pain was the only option, and if you were go- ing to cry about it, you might as well go home. The confronta- tion was the only tradition worth living ... it was the Head of the Charles. The Head of the Charles in Boston is one of the largest single day sporting events in the world. On Sunday, October 23, teams from Cairo, Egypt to the Univer- sity of California, Berkeley fought for the prestige of the champion title during the silver anniversary of the race. The vast range ofblood hunbrry competitors included the Union College women's crew team. Union sent one women's heavyweight boat, which included Rebecca Barry, Sandy Druzba, Caroline Nemet, CeCe Buc1Hman, Kim Depolitti, Emily Smith, Heather Lech, and Kate Heatherton. The boat was coxed by Jessica Lowenstein. The mood had been set by the time the Women's Championship Eights race had arrived. It was the last race of the day and the weather had gone from sun to rain. Thirty eight boats were participating, in- cluding Boston University, Princeton University, Dartmouth, Radcliffe,\ University of Virginia, Northeastern, UMass Amherst, Yale, University ofMichigan, and Brown University. The teams were primarily varsity teams, many .of them Di'vision I. Union's club team was seeded 30th. If size had been an issue, the Union women would have stayed home. To compare would have been absurd. It was only a matter of will and strength. They would have to row hard, too. From a bird's-eye view off of Week's Bridge, the Union team pulled through and did their job. How- ever, despite their efforts, they ended in 35th place in the Women's Championship Eights race. They raced extremely well against the competition and repre- sented Union College with distinc- tion. This Saturday the men and women novice and var$ity teams will be rowing at the Head of the Fish, hosted by Skidmore in Saratoga. The regatta will host our usual rivals. The competition won't compare to the Head of the Charles, but come to cheer on the Union teams anyway. Good luck to all rowers, and bring home the title. Kessinger Takes ·State Championship by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff Amy's victories circulated around the world, all heads turned to Syracuse. At least one caravan of This column, written, re- loyal supporters left from Union, hearsed, directed, and perfortned just to cheer on their hero .. How- by the students of Union Col- ever, as the match began, lege, likes to refer to itself as an Kessinger looked weary from the ' equal-opportunity employer. long weekend. Therefore, readers of The Con- She lost the first set, 4-6, and cordiensis are treated every was in trouble in the second. Just week to stories concerning stu- like that, she was down 4-5, 15- dents with either greatness, he- 40, facing three match points. Vi- roics, or courage. This issue, we sions ofunthinkable victories and are all in for a treat, as we can heroic players, such as Larry read about a student who dis- Bird's theft oflsiah Thomas and plays all of these qualities (and his ensuing assist to Dennis she's really cool.) Johnson to win Game 5 of the Amy Kessinger traveled to 1987 NBA Eastern Conference Syracuse University this past Finals, were left as the only so- weekend with her tennis team- lace for Amyandhergang. What mates for the New York State happened next? Well, AI Championships. The junior, Michaels might as well have been hailing from Millbrook, New there, asking the crowd, \Do you York, was playing at the fourth believe in miracles?!\ The singles slot, as she has all year. answer: YES! Of course everyone had opti- Amy stonnedback, staving off mistic expectations for her, but thematch points, tying the set, and no one could have expected eventuallywinning.thetiebreaker, what actually happened. 7-6. The match, however, was not She started off playing well, yetover. Thethirdsetwentback advanctng past the first round, .and forth, with each point sway- and into the quarterfinals. , She ing the crowd from agony to ec- then won this match, which sent stasy. When the dust had settled, her to the semifinals (everyone however, it was Amy who was with me?). This Magit:al Mys· standing with a 6-4 victory, h:avJ tery Tour, however, does not end ing her the new State Champion. here. Kess~nger conquered her Congratulations to both Amy semifinal opponent, sending her and the team, for their great show- to final round. As news of ing at States. Cross Country Competes at Albany Invitational Women's Volleyball Moves to 20-7 Continuedjrompage 20 fastest times at Saratoga. Mike Martin bested his fastest time at Saratoga by over a minute. What a great improvement. I would also like to mention the performance of Adam Russell who ran a seasonal best at Saratoga, then matched that time at Albany down to the last second. That's pacework. But, m1r most noteable perfonnance from the past few weeks comes from junior Ray Tricozzi·. Running two minutes faster at Albany than at Saratoga, Ray probably feels like the weight of a snowblower was lifted off his shoulders. I would like to thank all the people who came to show their support at the Saratoga and Albany meets. It's always nice to see a friendly face before, during, and after the gmeling race. This ends the regular season competition for the mens and womens cross-country team. This upcoming weekend, the women have the opportunity to run at States, which will take place in u Genesseo. The following ~ 11.1 weekend, the men will also ~ '\t:l compete at States. but a ~ considerable amount closer to ~ home, at Saratoga State Park. The ~ \' season is quickly approaching the .D s end, and I think our teams are well o & ~--~--~----~--~~~~~~--~------~----------~--~----------~~ prepared to show their finest. '!- Tl1e Women's Volleyball team defeated Skidmore dur!ng the weekend to record tlreir 20th win. This is only the 3td Volleyball team;, schoolltistory to win 20 games. Going into Tuesday night's contest, the Dutchwomen halle won 14 of their last 17 matcltes. ( pla pe; Sa1 ere Gu wh a2 mu af: 111~ ag• tio int fe' tio Ch of spt fir: im tal bo jm 111< wi Be tro )¥1 Til sic eit the be rit, {aJ re1 wi U1 be 2- lo th Ia 0 te1 te< g< g< OJ

-··· == :A $1., SPORTS October 27, 1994, page 19 au uar ' • Coast Guard Stuns Union 14:_8; Dutchmen .'s NCAA Playoff Hopes Gone by Ken Berman · Sports Editor TI1e Union Football Dutchmen, playing in their final home ap., peiirance of the season this pasl Saturday, disappointed the home crowd in a lethargic loss to Coast Guard, t 4-8. The Union ground attack, which had been 1noving along at a 215 yards .. per-.game clip, could muster llP only 44 yards, against a fast, rnebiledefense. Thepass- ing \attack meailwhile, ltlan- aged only 98, with 13 comple- tions out of38 attempts, and three . interceptions. Bright spots were few this week, but congratula- tiens must go out tonmning back Chris Irving, who overcame one' of the largest milestones in Union sports history :in becoming the first ever mnning back to accu- mulate 3,000mshing yards. because the Dutchmen .couldn't put any points on the board, and Coast Guard couldn't move it out. Jason Baker was acnudly the star for Union, putting two punts.in- side the 20 (including one at the I yard line). He had quite a day, punting 13 times, while his Coast Guard counterpart managed only to get off 9. It just.wasn't a day for offense. The Dutchmen Defense, mean- while, was being it's usual nasty self. They allowed 3'01 total yards, but gave ttp just 14 points (with one coming 011 a 30 yard broken play). 11tere was no score at the end of the first, as both teams traded missed field goals, and Union came up huge with a ' goal-line stand. Coast Guard won the game.hy taking a .pa:ge· O\lt of Union's book, by utilizing an offense that just held on. to the baH for the majority of the game, and scored when it had the chance. The Bears ran 90 offensive plays, con- trolling the ball for 34:39, even ~hile giving up five turnovers. 11tis was an ugly game on both sides of the ball. The second quarter began like the first, with Union unable to take ·adv.antage of it's opportuni .. ties. A Kevin Pes solano sack led to a fumbl~ picked up by Union at the Coast Guard 37, but the re- sult was just a punt. .. The Bears finally. opened the scoring with a 66 yard, 13 play drive ending in a three yard touchdown pass. 'tuis was the only scoring of the half. · A little late: Union defender arrive.rjust as tile Co_ast Guard quarterback releases tire ball. The first few possessions for either team foreshadowed what the rest ofthe.game was going to be like. The ball was in Bear ter- ritory for the first eight minutes (after a Shuron Murton kickoff return to the Coast Guard 49), The third quarter saw much of the same, as the only scoring threat was thwarted when Coast Guard missed a 26 yard goal. The game continued this way until Coast Guard scored again, on a 30 yard quarterback scramble off of a broken play. The Bears, taking a 14-0 lead, had seemingly woken the sleep- ing giant when Union drove right down the field at 7:29 to get their tirst points of the game. The Chris lrving touchdown run, fol- lowed by the pass from Ll>inb~rdo to irving; for the con- version, made the score 14-8, and brought the crowd to life. This score would hold, however, as Union was not able to finish the job. The entire game cottld be summed up by what occurred with 2:31 to go. Union had stopped Coast Guard on downs, and Pessolano, with another big defensive play, blocked the punt on fourth down, to give Union the bat'! at the Coast Guard 15.The play was called back because of too many men on the field. It was mistakes like this that ruined the day for Union. This loss severely damages Union's playoff hopes. They will continue their season wHh two road games against Muhlenberg and Rochester, but will probably need help from other squads to make a retum to the post-season. l11ey dropped from first to third in the Upstate New York Poll, and will also drop in the NCAA poll, when it is annouttced later' on in the week. Although they no longer control their own playoff destinies. it is not impossible, as st.ranger things have happened. Water Polo Team Rebounds at Colgate and End·s at RPI by Lee Schachter & Geoff Wolfe Contrib.uting Writers After starting off the season with a dismal 1-3 re~ord, the Union Water Polo team re- bounded with a more respectful 2-2 showing at Colgate this past weekend. Tite weekend started off with a lo.ss to Cornell, 19-4. Even though the team lost, its spectacu- lar defense held the powerful Cornell team under 20 goals, ~f­ ter Cornell had beaten some other teams by scoring more than 30 goals. Geoff Wolfe scored three goals and Scott Bowden added one. Tite next game was against one of Union's biggest rivals, Hamilton. Union showed great improvement and desire in trash- ing Hamilton by the score of22- 9. It was never close. Wolfe again led the way with 12 goals, while Bowden had 9 and Tsuyoshi \Kobi\ Kobayashi added one. Union's anemic of- fense had finally brokeit out of its shell, and they just ran away with this one. The next game was a nailbiter against Cortland. Tite defense did its job again, as Union held Cortland to an 11-11 tie with 30 seconds left. Coached by Brad- ley Wolfe, Union tried a trick play ca1led the ''Triple Post.\ As Geoff Wolfe blocked two Cortland de- fenders, Bowden popped up to receive a pass from Robbie Johnson. ·He then released the ball- over a defender. It skimmed off the water, under the goalie's ann- nothing but net. After hold- ing off a tough final attack by the Cortland offense, Union found it- selfvictorious once again. Wolfe had.6 goals, Bowden had 3, John \SAT AN\ Fitzgerald had 2 and Freshman Jeff \Sprockets\ Fau- cet had 1. The last game against Buffalo State was supposed to be an easy win. But unlike their weakness of two years ago, they came out surprisingly strong. The result of the game came down to the fourth quarter once again. With. only two minutes left, the game was tied at 7. Two unexpected goals It's worth to travel extra mile for good food. we're just a mile down the road. FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT 183 NottTerrace,Schenectady NY 12308 (518) 393 .. 5440 10 o/o discount with student I. D.···· - . - '' .· . -: . put Union behind, resulting in the loss. Wolfe scored 4 goals, while Bowden added 2 before being ejected from the game in the sec- ond quarter, and Titan Stuntz had 1. Totals for the weekend had Wolfe with 25 goals, Bowden with 15, \Satan\ with2, andKobi, Stuntz, and Faucet with one apiece. Then this past weekend the team traveled to RPI for another tournament. TI1e weekend started off with another bashing against Hamilton. After falling behind 2- 0, Union came roaring back to score 8 out of the next 1 0 goals to take an 8-4 halftime lead. TI1ey never looked back, continuing on to a final score of 17-9. Wolfe scored II goals, Bowden had two, Ben Fox had a two•point goal, and Stuntz and Lee Schachter each had a goal. The weekend· quickly turned sour though. On Saturday, Union went up against Colgate, ·Coast Guard. and Asphalt Green. Los- ing by scores of 16 ... 6 against Colgate, a· close ll-1 0 score agaipst Coast Guard, and a tough 12-5 loss to Asphalt Green gave the Dutchmen a 1•3 record for the weekend. Over the course of these three games, Bowden scored nine goals, Wolfe had nine, Potenza had two, and Stuntz had one. This concludes the Fall season for the Union water polo team. Please stay tuned Spring term when they return for their fun filled spring season. Rugby Suffers Tough Loss Continued from page 20 merely two minutes to play, they scored one last tri to make the fi- nal tally 28-0. Although the Dutchmen were manhandled the entire way. the hitting was fierce on both sides. Oftentimes the slap of skin on skin could be heard by the entire crowd. Rugby is definitely un- derrated for its entertainment value. .[ highly recommend stop- ping by to watch the team play as an interesting alternative to foot- ball on a Saturday afternoon. -

'. October 2 7, 1994 A Tough Day for Union Rug~y by .Jason Starr Sports Editor It was a tough day indeed, but not for lack of motivation on the Dutchmen side. Union began the day with plenty of intensity and desire to come out and drive the Devils into the fluorescent green fertilizer. While the Dutchmen's emotions remained high through- out the contest, the score began to pile up against them. PAGE20 At the opening whistle the ball was pushed into Union's end and there it stayed for most of the game. ·n1e Devil's first surge was thwat1ed by an impressive Dutch- men goal line stand that kept the ball from traveling that extra three feet over the tri-line. Union was able to hold off the Devil attack until a free kick opened up the scoring and the proverbial flood gates. The unceasing Bing- hampton pressure finally pro- duced a tri which. with the two point conversion. made the score Devils I 0. Dutchmen 0. After Union missed its first scoring bid on a penalty kick, that is how the half would end. Tile V1rion Rugby playersfiglltfor tl1e hallduring tile Dutchmen's 28-0 loss to Binglrampton. (plloto by Josll Haines/Tite·Concordiensis) The second half opened much the way the first half did with Binghampton taking control of the ball and marching it deep into the Dutchmen end of the field. l11e only difference was that it did not take them all that long to score this time. Just a few minutes into the half, the Devils made the score 15-0 but failed to convert the two point extra kick. This past Saturday was an ex- ceptionally warm mid-fall day and the heat began to wear on both teams as the pace slowed considerably. The unusually wann temperatures also wore on the four-rnan Umed team who were in constant motion tending to the many faHen warriors on both sides. All in a days play when you're at a rugby match. The game's pace did however pick up towards the end when Binghampton converted two free kicks on two Union penalties within two minutes of each other. With the score now 21-0, the slaughter was on. And the Dev- ils showed no mercy when, with Continued on page 19 Cross Country Teams Look Ready for Post-Season by Nadine Filosi Contributing Writer Due to technical difficulties, the Cross Country articles have not been in the newspaper for the past couple of weeks. This is the rundown of the past two meets. At the Capital District Collegiate Cross Country Championships, the Dutchmen/ worn en were on a course they know oh too well. Both teams came home with hardware. Actually, they were t-shirts, but any college student can appreciate the vahLe of clean clothes. At the Albany Invitational, one of the Sara Morse competes;, tile Albany Invitational largest across the country, our teams ran swift times against the stiff competition, which included 32 teams, three different states, and exactly 700 runners. Kelly Jamieson, our senseless rookie, who is 'now enjoying double sessions, training for both cross country and swimming, once again captured tl1e first place spot for the team. Her overall places of 9th at Saratoga, and 53th at Albany were outstanding compared to the field size. Also noteable is hertime of20.16.21, a personal record for our tinted- !,'Teen rookie. Also running an impressive Jolm Metz during.tlte weeke11d meet. (plrotos by Jos/1 Haitles!TC) race, both at Saratoga and Albany, was Sarah Morse. Running very consistintly at under 7 minutes per mile she captured 18th at Capital Districts, finishing a mere 2 seconds behind her sister Liza, who placed 17th. .Sarah also placed second for the team at Albany. Liza had her best race of the season, so far, at Saratoga speeding to a finish time of 21.1 0. Also having seasopal bests at Saratoga were Tamara Saukin, Nadine Filosi, Jennifer Schwartz, and Alison Spring. Alison surpassed her fastest time by over haifa minute at Saratoga, but may have had a little advantage, with the plane to catch and all that. On the men's side, Nick Conway has consistently led the way, and these past two meets were no exception. Nick ran his best race of the season at Saratoga, with a 27.20. For you folks who don't want to calculate the average per mile pace, that's 5:28. Yes, 5 minutes and 28 seconds for 5 miles. That's what I call fast. John Metz, aka Shaggy, also ran his best race of th~ season, with a 27.3 7, and came home with that exquisite gray t~shirt. Pete Sorenson, Jay Goldberg, Mike Martin, Erik Sanderson, Jeremy Newman, and Jordan Pinsker also ran their Continued on page 18 i' ''

