nne or t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XII Schenectady, New York Students Conclude Celebration of Asian Awareness Week by Julia Lee Contl'ibuting Writer Students turned models walked the runway at a fashion show last Friday evening in the College Center as part -of a cul- tural event in celebration of Asian Awareness Week. Cosponsored by the Asian Student Union and Shakti, the annual week~Iong cel- ebration took place JanuaJY 23- 29. Last Friday, the celebration culminated with an evening of cultural festivities, including the Asian Culinary Expose,followed by the fashion show. Dressed in either East Asian or Indian fashions, approximately 30 female and male students pa- raded the runway following the Asian Culinary Expose at the Upperclass Dining Hall on Fri- day. During the first half of the fashion show, dedicated to Indian wear, some female students wore saris, traditional Indian clothing. Made of cotton, the diaphanous clothing is often colorfully dyed and designed with pattems and small Jewels or bells. The effect of the outfits on the women were complete with the adornment of gold and jeweled necklaces, ear- pose, during which approxi- mately 200 students, faculty, and members of the community sat down to a fonnal dinner of Chi- nese, Indian, Japanese, Korean, and Indonesian foods. The rings, and anklets; some women evening of festivities also in- evenwote -------------'--__,.. _ ___._eluded a tea r e d During Asian Awareness reception and a r;>ragon Dance, in cel- ebmtion o.f the Chinese New Year. bi ndhis Week, daily events were on their planned by the Asian Student ~e~d:. e - Union and Sba,kti .in an effort F to_ increase educa_tion and - or the sec- appreciation of the Asian ond half culture on the Union campus. of the During Asian Aware- ------~--~--~--ness Week, fashion show, students donned East Asian attire. Women and men wore traditional clothing from China, Korea, and Vietnam. Embroidered silk Chinese dresses still worn as formal attire today were modeled by some women, while others showed off costumes from as far back as the Ching Dynasty and Han Dynasty eras. The fashion show was pre- ceded by the Asian Culinary Ex- daily events were planned by the Asian Student Union and Shakti in an effort to increase education arid appreciation of the Asian cul- ture on the Union campus. Last. week, the film Madame Butter- fly was screened, a lecturer spoke on the topic of Asian-Americans in the United States today, Shakti held an Indian bake sale, and an artist demonstrated traditional Chinese brush painting. February 3, 1994 Union student models traditi01tal dress during.faslitan s/low lteld ill Upperclass Dini11g Halt (plwto by Jeremy Smit/1/TC) College to Begin Bicentennial Activities this Founder's Day Guest Speakers, Performances Plag.ned for February 25 New Board of Trustees Chairman Announced by Lawrence Paska people attend Founder's Day,\ Concordiensis Staff says Reidt. This Founder's Day will Union College's Bicentennial mark the beginning of Union's celebration officially kicks off 200th year. Other activities this Founder's Day, February slatedforthedayincludearead- 25, which is the first day of the ing of part of the charter, a reit- College's two-hundredth year. eration of the founding goals, Among the activities sched- and senior awards to teachers. uled for the bicentennial are This day will help the College guest speakers, student sympo- community to get prepared for siums, and performances. the forthcoming year. According to Bicentennial Next year, the entire Coilege Committee ~~~:::::.::~~==:::~~ will be kept m e m b e r The .Bicentennial busy celebrat- K r i s t e .n ing this his- Reidt, \We 1795 6 1995 torical event, are trying to as speakers, get everyone parties, and excited about gatherings this maJ· or will be in ~ . event.\ abundance • Reidt said \' .... \ throughout that on the campus. Founder's Among the Day, Paul L-..~___,_,.._ _______ _,· events sched- Kennedy, a political scientist at uled for the bicentennial, rep- Yale University, will be the resentatives from the nation's guest speaker. In an effort to oldest schools will help join in foster class and school unity, it the celebration. Union alumni is intended that the college and one of Oxford University's community will march to Me- directors will be invited as guest morial Chapel asagroup. \The speakers. A huge party is continued on page 2 idea is to foster pride in each · person's class and have many by Alex Kreisler Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, January 26, President Roger H. Hull an- nounced the newly elected chair- man of the College's Board of Tmstees: Joseph M. Hinchey of Westwood, Massachusetts, an at- torney and fonner vice president of Analog Devices Inc. Hinchey succeeds Norton H. Reamer of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, who completed a four-year term as chainnan. Hinchey graduated from Union in 1947 with a B.S. in electrical engineering, and later went on to earn his J.D. degree from Boston College Law School in 't980. Hinchey reveals that while he was always interested in the law, he did not study electrical engineer- ing with the intension of pursu- ing a career in law. However, he does feel that \any engineering degree prepares one to pursue a variety of career paths. In today's world, an engineering back- ground is helpful in marketing work as well as in the technology industry. Not to mention, most patent attorneys have a back- ground in electrical engineering.\ A member of Sigma Chi frater- nity, was president of his senior class, and a recipient ofthe Pull- man Engineering Prize as an un- dergraduate, Hinchey also served on the Trustee Board of Advisors and as an Associate Class Agent. He is also a member of the Ter- race Council, a select group of Union benefactors. Hinchey served in the Navy in World War II and the Korean War. In 1954, he was employed by General Dynamics where he became a sales manager and man- ager of the Electrodynamics divi- sion. He joined Texas Instruments in 1964, becoming manager of intemational operations in 1968 and then group vice president and manager of the Materials and Electric Products Group in Attleboro, Massachusetts. After taking a leave to study law, he joined Analog Devices in 1980. A life trustee of the College, Hinchey has been involved in a number of activities at Union. Among them, he has been the na- tional chairman of Union's $150 million Bicentennial Campaign. He was also chainnan of the presi- dential search committee which selected Roger Hall after an ex- tensive national search in I 990. In acknowledgment of Hinchey's new honor, Hull ex- presses, \Joe Hinchey has long served Union College with dis- tinction, that he will guide this College through our Bicentennial and as we prepare for our third century of service, I think, is es- pecially fitting. I look forward to working with him to continue moving this historic institution forward.\ Hinchey seems to share a simi- lar attitude with Hull in tenns of the College's development. He states, \my goals are consistent of the president and the strategic plan of the college being devel- oped.\ Further, he hopes to maintain excellence among the faculty as well as the student body, by filling the classes with a highly capable student body. In addition, Hinchey aims \to meet the financhd aid needs of the students. He also states, \While there are all kinds of is- sues in the world, I hope for ev- eryone in the student body to feel comfortable, in tenns of minori- ties and different geographic lo- cations.\ Another objective deals with the financial aspect of the Col- lege. Hinchey wishes to bring the Bicentennial Campaign to a successful conclusion.\ Finally, Hinchey reveals, \the fundamen- tal importance for the College is to keep the budget in balance by selecting priorities as much as you can in various directions.\ Inside News ............................. 2-3 Science and Health ........... 4 World News ...................... 5 Winter Fest ....................... 6 Business ............................ 7 Editorial ............................ 8 Opinions ........................... 9 Final Exam ..................... 10 Features ..................... 12-13 Campus News ................. 14 Sports ......................... 15-16

on cor t£U5t5 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XII Schenectady, New York Students Conclude Celebration of Asian A ware ness Week by Julia Lee Contributing Writer Students turned models walked the runway at a fashion show last Friday evening in the College Center as part of a cul- tural event in celebration of Asian Awareness Week. Cosponsored by the Asian Student Union and Shakti, the annual week-long cel- ebration took place January 23- 29. Last Friday, the celebration culminated with an evening of cultural festivities, including the Asian Culinary Expose, followed by the fashion show. Dressed in either East Asian or Indian fashions, approximately 30 female and male students pa- raded the runway following the Asian Culinary Expose at the Uwerela~rn~ngH~Ioofu­ day. During the first half of the fashion show, dedicated to Indian wear, some female students wore saris, traditional Indian clothing. Made of cotton, the diaphanous clothing is often colorfully dyed pose, during which approxi- and designed with patterns and mately 200 students, faculty, and small jewels or bells. The effect members of the community sat of the outfits on the women were down to a fonnal dinner of Chi- complete with the adornment of nese, Indian, Japanese, Korean, gold and jeweled necklaces, ear- and Indonesian foods. The rings, and anklets; some women evening of festivities also in- even wore--------------- eluded a tea r e d During Asian Awareness reception and bindhis Week, daily events were a Dragon on their planned by the Asian Student Dance, in cel- f o r e - ebration of heads. Union and Shakti in an effort the Chinese For the sec- ond half to increase education and New Year. appreciation of the Asian During of the culture on the Union campus. Asian Aware- ---------------ness Week, fashion show, students donned East Asian attire. Women and men wore traditional clothing from China, Korea. and Vietnam. Embroidered silk Chinese dresses still worn as fonnal attire today were modeled by some women, while others showed off costumes from as far back as the Ching Dynasty and Han Dynasty eras. The fashion show was pre- ceded by the Asian Culinary Ex- daily events were planned by the Asian Student Union and Shakti in an effort to increase education and appreciation of the Asian cul- ture on the Union campus. Last week, the film Madame Butter- fly was screened, a lecturer spoke on the topic of Asian-Americans in the United States today. Shakti held an Indian bake sale, and an artist demonstrated traditional Chinese brush painting. February 3, 1994 Union student models traditional dress during fashion sllow lte/d in Upperclass Dining Hall (photo by Jeremy Smitii/TC) College to Begin Bicentennial Activities this Founder's Day New Board of Trustees Chairman Announced Guest Speakers, Performances PlaiJ.ned for February 25 by Lawrence Paska Concordiensis Staff Union College's Bicentennial celebration officially kicks off this Founder's Day, February 25, which is the first day of the College's two-hundredth year. Among the activities sched- uled for the bicentennial are guest speakers, student sympo- siums, and performances. According to Bicentennial people attend Founder's Day,\ says Reidt. This Founder's Day will mark the beginning of Union's 200th year. Other activities slated for the day include a read- ing of part ofthe charter, a reit- eration of the founding goals, and senior awards to teachers. This day will help the College community to get prepared for the forthcoming year. Next year, the entire College Committee ~~~==::;~~~====~ll will be kept m e m b e r busy celebrat- K r i s t e n ing this his- Reidt, \We torical event, are trying to as speakers, get everyone parties, and excited about gat h e r i n g s this maJ· or will be in ~ . event.\ a bun dance . - Reidt said \' ... throughout that on the campus. Founder's Among the Day, Paul .__ ___________ __,events sched- Kennedy, a political scientist at Yale University, will be the guest speaker. In an effort to foster class and school unity, it is intended that the college community will march to Me- morial Chapel as a group. \The idea is to foster pride in each person's class and have many uled for the bicentennial, rep- resentatives from the nation's oldest schools will help join in the celebration. Union alumni and one of Oxford University's directors will be invited as guest speakers. A huge party is continued on page 2 by Alex Kreisler Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, January 26, President Roger H. Hull an- nounced the newly elected chair- man of the College's Board of Trustees: Joseph M. Hinchey of Westwood. Massachusetts, an at- torney and fonner vice president of Analog Devices Inc. Hinchey succeeds Norton H. Reamer of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, who completed a four-year term as chairman. Hinchey graduated from Union in 194 7 with a B.S. in electrical engineering, and later went on to earn his J.D. degree from Boston College Law School in 1980. Hinchey reveals that while he was always interested in the law, he did not study electrical engineer- ing with the intension of pursu- ing a career in law. However, he does feel that \any engineering degree prepares one to pursue a variety of career paths. In today's world, an engineering back- ground is helpful in marketing work as well as in the technology industry. Not to mention, most patent attorneys have a back- ground in electrical engineering.\ A member of Sigma Chi frater- nity, was president of his senior class, and a recipient of the Pull- man Engineering Prize as an un- dergraduate, Hinchey also served on the Trustee Board of Advisors and as an Associate Class Agent. He is also a member of the Ter- race Council, a select group of Union benefactors. Hinchey served in the Navy in World War II and the Korean War. In 1954, he was employed by General Dynamics where he became a sales manager and man- ager of the Electrodynamics divi- sion. He joined Texas Instruments in 1964, becoming manager of intemational operations in 1968 and then group vice president and manager of the Materials and Electric Products Group in Attleboro, Massachusetts. After taking a leave to study Jaw, he joined Analog Devices in 1980. A life trustee of the College, Hinchey has been involved in a number of activities at Union. Among them. he has been the na- tional chainnan of Union's $150 million Bicentennial Campaign. He was also chainnan of the presi- dential search committee which selected Roger Hall after an ex- tensive national search in 1990. In acknowledgment of Hinchey's new honor, Hull ex- presses, \Joe Hinchey has long served Union College with dis- tinction, that he will guide this College through our Bicentennial and as we prepare for our third century of service, I think, is es- pecially fitting. I look forward to working with him to continue moving this historic institution forward.\ Hinchey seems to share a simi- lar attitude with Hull in terms of the College's development. He states, \my goals are consistent of the president and the strategic plan of the college being devel- oped.\ Further. he hopes to maintain excellence among the faculty as well as the student body, by filling the classes with a highly capable student body. In addition, Hinchey aims \to meet the financial aid needs of the students. He also states. \While there are all kinds of is- sues in the world. I hope for ev- eryone in the student body to feel comfm1able, in tenns of minori- ties and different geographic lo- cations.\ Another objective deals with the financial aspect of the Col- lege. Hinchey wishes to bring the Bicentennial Campaign to a successful conclusion.\ Finally, Hinchey reveals. \the fundamen- tal importance for the College is to keep the budget in balance by selecting priorities as much as you can in various directions ... Inside Ne\vs ............................. 2-3 Science and Health ........... 4 World News ..................... 5 Winter Fest ....................... 6 Business ............................ 7 Editorial ............................ 8 Opinions ........................... 9 Final Exam ..................... 1 0 Features ..................... 12- D Campus News ................. 14 Sports ......................... 15-16

February 3, 1994, page 2 NEWS . . The Campus Makes Preparations for Union's Bicentennial Anniversary continued from page 1 planned in the Memorial Fieldhouse, and a large commu- nity gathering is being considered for some location off-campus. In honor of this special time for Union, the NCUR {National Council of Undergraduate Re- search) will be hosted by Union again. TI1e last time it was held at the college was about 4-6 years ago. The NCUR allows students from across the country to dem- onstrate their research. Also, an Intellectual Symposium is in de- velopment for the Fall of 1995, and will include speakers from around the world discussing edu- cation in the 21st century. o · TI1e Fall of 1995 is an impor- ~ tant milestone in two other areas ] at Union; the College will eel-.~ ebrate 2 5 years of women at Union and the 75th anniversary ofWRUC's first radio broadcast. A time capsule is being planned . ' ·~. for the bicentennial, in which stu- dents will have a voice about what will be placed inside it. TI1is way the students of Union's future will have a closer contact with its past than the bicentennial classes do. In this special year Union is reaching towards it future, as well as remembering its past. Reidt encourages support from the students for the bicentennial, adding that\ anyone is able to join any of the bicentennial commit- tees.\ TI1e upcoming Founder's Day will be more elaborate than those of the past, as it wiU set the ·stage for the important events to follow. As class unity is greatly stressed during the bicentennial, Reidt encourages all students to attend the Founder's Day events this February 25. Students interested in becom- ing a member of any Bicenten- nial Committee should contact Reidt or Student Activities. Union College Campus Safety Report . . DATEtriME LOCATION MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994: 12:35 AM College Center ' ' ' INCJl)ENT' VANDALISM: Fixtures in rest room dam aged. '1:0~~1il iii ~ ~ I;Iurowtllie~ ~ .; i, ;. I(< ..; ;;;;. V~NDAqS~Lf;JI~~t: ~i&.tuxes in .. ·~ .,. \ 10:30 AM Campus Grounds ,.. ... restdam~ged/stolen. LOST/STOLEN: Campus Operations por table radio lost on campus grounds in vicinity of Huntley Lane. 11:58 AM Alumni Gym-Mech. Rm. SAFETY HAZARD: Minor chlorine leak caused by equipment failure-repaired ... no haz 1:55PM Delta Phi Lot 3:53PM S&EArea 4:54PM South Lane TUESDAY. JANUARY 25. 1994: 12:08 AM 1:13AM 8:05AM 4:52PM 5:30PM .1/24/94 9:59PM Davidson Lounge College Center Alexander Lane 17 South Lane Davison West College WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 26,1994: 3 39 AM S&E 2nd floor 8:45AM Raymond South 9.00AM Davidson 10:25 AM Off Campus li:ISAM College Center 3 30PM Alumni Gym 3:45PM Off Campus 10 30 PM Alexander Lane THURSDAY, JANUARY 27,1994: 6:16PM West College ard or damage. VANDALISM: Staff member's car tires punc tured. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Campus vehicle damaged by snow falling off of roof RECKLESS DRIVING: Driving over side walks-Conduct Charges filed. WATER LEAK: Caused by build-up of ice/ snow. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Radio station violation of broad cast rules and etiquette. RECKLESS DRIVING: Vehicle driving on sidewalk-drove off campus. Witnesses pro vided description of vehicle. WATER LEAK: Caused by defective radia tor vent-repaired. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odorofmarijuanare ported. Report unconfirmed. Incident occurred at l0:17PM. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Violation of A! co holic Beverage Policy-open containers brought into the building by visitors. ' VANDALISM: Fixture in rest room damaged/ attempted theft. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Person hanging around entrance door-left campus when he was observed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with fire extinguishers in three rooms-Life Safety Notices filed. SEXUAL HARASSMENT/ABUSE: Student reported incident of sexual abuse off campus- Student advised regarding options. SAFETY HAZARD: Corridors blocked-advi sory made. LOST/STOLEN: Student reports back pack missing-left it in locker room upon return it was gpne. WATER MAIN BREAK: Union Ave. at Gillespie-road closed and water setvice to 3 campus buildings interrupted until II :OOPM. RECKLESS DRIVING: Driving on sidewalk. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen from unl ocked room. FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1994: 10:12 AM College Center 5:30PM Davidson 543 PM Chester Arthur 735 PM Davidson North 8:35PM South College SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1994: 1:16AM WestCollege 1:20AM Davidson 3rd floor 1:00PM Edwards House I ·20 PM North College 2:00PM A D. Phi House 3:54PM Wells House SUNDAY, JANUARY 30, 1994: 3.05 AM West College 3:50AM PROPERTY: 9:15AM 3:10PM I 10 PM 2:00PM 8:30PM 9·00PM 8:59PM !0:40PM 11:05 PM South College Old Chapel Becker Circle Off Campus Alexander Lane North Terrace Lane West College Smith House West College College Center THEFT: Vendor reports theft of piece of equipment that was left unattended in hall way, THEFT: Student reports desk chair stolen f.rom room-believedto have occurred over winter break. · FIRE ALARM: Believed to have been caused by spray used in vicinity of the detec tor. PROPERTY DAMAGE: \Vindow broken- accidental. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLA TION: Fire alarm activated intentionally via pull box on 2nd floor. THEFT: Donuts stolen from dining service delivery. SAFETY HAZARD: Electric! panel cover removed-Duty electrician responded and made repairs. SAFTY HAZARD: Makeshift electrical wir ing to lighting-fire & health hazard-removed. SAFETY HAZARD: Exit sign on 1st floor needs to be replaced-work order filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Combustibles, exit signs and pull box problems-Advisories and work order filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Falling ice and snow severed NlMO main service line into the building-NIMO notified for repair HARASSMENT/ASSAULT: Student struck by another student-minor injury. UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COLLEGE Students attempting to remove a couch from South College- ConductCharges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Blocked egress areas- advisories made. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Staff member's car damaged by snow falling from roof of South college. THEFT: Student's room key stolen-core changed. PARKING PROBLEM: Visitors to rink park ing along roadway. PARKING PROBLEM: Student vehicles parking in construction area and fire lanes. THEFT: Portable radio stolen from student's unlocked room. HARASSMENT: Annoying and threateni ng phone calls. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Violation of Alco holic Beverage Policy- open containers brought into the building by visitors. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered ve hide-persistent violator-Conduct Charges filed.

NEWS February 3, 1994, page 3 ,, ·Lee to Speak on the 'Dark Curve' of Alcohol by Charles King Contributillg Wtiter Jennifer Lee,. the fonner wife of Richard Ptyor, will speak on February 10 at 7:30 pm in the college center auditorium. Her talk, \Surviving the Dark Curve ofDrugs and Alcohol,\ is sched- uled as one of the campus-spon- sored events for Alchol Aware- ness month. Lee has seen first hand how alcohol has ripped apart many famous lives.. In her book, Tamished Angel: Sun,iv- ing the Dark Curve of Drugs, Violenc~. Sex and Fame. She describes her liaisons with War- ren Beaty, Roman Polanski, Waylon Jennings, Wil'lie Nelson, Jimmy Conners and others. Jennifer Lee's life of sex and drugs began during the mid~sev­ enties in New York City. During this time she was studying the- ater under Stella Adler, working 'on film production, and model- ing. It was at this time Lee began her affair with Warren Beaty and started to jet set with the wealthy and powerful. Lee recalls her first private plane trip to Los Angeles with Adnan Khoshoggi. She be- came fasincated with a man who could drop $600,000 at the baccarat table in Las Vegas with- out batting an eyelid. This signi- Professor Sharlet: Putting Political Science in Practice by Alexandra Gualpa Concordie11sis Staff Robert Sharlet,. professor of political science who specializes in Russian. and post-Soviet law and politics, is now in Ukraine acting as coordinator of the US Rule of Law program. He is working for two large consecu- tive finns, ARD and Checchi, to provide technicaf assistance on Rule of Law for the fonner So- viet re- publics. Sharlet will be involved in doing all the in- tellectual andlogis- t i c a 1 • work to help discover what Ukraine and the other countries need. In order to develop the Rule of Law, he will be going to Kiev and then four other Post- Soviet regions. There he will be interviewing judges, lawyers, and heads of privat~ associations. In Kiev he will be conferencing with the speaker of Parliament. Sharlet's role is to discover in · what way the US govemment can be helpful to these new countries and to help develop a method for foreign aid assistance. He hopes the program will improve the le- gal situation and develop efficient cost-cutting programs in the fonner republics. During the assessment process, SharJet will continue to travel ex- tensively between the fonner re- publics and monitor the legal pro- cesses taking place. He also plans on doing separate research, writ- ing articles and interviewing people. Sharlet says he is there as a '\scholar and operational ac- tivist'~. He calls it \an interesting job\ yet it will be difficult be- cause~ although many of the coun- tries have similar problems, they are culturally different. The soci- eties are d<:Jveloping and they need help. Be- cause of this, it is the first time this is being d one . Sharlet says that he's \in- venting the office as we go\. He hopes to develop a newsletter with the government's approval. Professor Sharlet has been a specialist in Soviet law and poli- tics for 25 years. He has published six books, including, Soviet ('on- stilutional Crises. He plans on be- ing abroad at least one year, and when he returns to Union he will have \more books to write\. Sharlet is interested in getting be- hind the abstract ideas; he wants to conceptualize and see how the laws will be developed. \This endeavor I attl engaged in, which . is to help develop the Rule of Law institution in the former Soviet Union, is unique, extremely inter- esting, and of course, a work .in progress\. fied the beginning ofLee's flirta- tion with the friviolous Holly- wood lifestyle. Lee's most harrowing stories come from her ten-year relation- ship with comedian Richard Pryor. After marrying Pryor, Lee was able to help inspire some of his best work, but this did not make her immune from his via- lent mood swings associated with his drug addiction. On various occasions, Pryor threatened her with a gun and beat her with his fists and with bottles. Despite these violent episodes, she con- tinued to go back to him. Eventually, Lee moved to Los Angeles where she made her film debut in the cult classic Rape Squad. She also appeared in many other films such as 1he Man in the Glass Booth, The Sunshine Boys, The Wild Party, and 1he Dutchess and The Dirtwater Fox. Along with these movie appear- ances Lee also worked in televi- sion, commercials, and even be- came an accomplished Country and Westem songwriter. Lee experienced first hand not only the effects of substance abuse on an individual level, but also its effects on the people sur- rounding the abuser. She speaks to many audiences about the frightening problems of alcohol and drugs. Her first hand experi- ences in the world of-addictions makes her the perfect speaker for Alcohol Awareness month. The Student Affairs Council announces Group Housing Opportunities 1. Raymond North- 37 Beds 2. Smith House - 17 Beds Specifies: - All groups are encouraged to apply by submitting a proposal to Student Affairs Council c/o Dean of Students Office College Center, Room 306 -Raymond North will be open to all groups and Smith House will be open only to groups who have and academic or intellectual focus. -The SAC will begin to review applications Tuesday, February 22, 1994. -The SAC will judge each application based on the group's ability to fill the house and its potential contribution to the community life of the College. -Neither of the two facilities will include a kitchen capable of sustaining a meal plan. Residents will have to be on the College meal plan. - Anyone wanting more information can inquire in the Office of Residence Life or Dean of Student Office. Under the terms of legislation developed by the Academic Affairs Council and approved by the Faculty, studetns are now able to devclare a mo\inor in Africana Studiss. They are also able to form an Interdepartmental Major by combinign courses in Mricana Sh1dies with courses in another discipline. Robert V. Wells, Chair of the History Department has been appointed as the first director of Africana Studies at Union. Assistant Professors Andrew T. Miller of History, Randolph Quaye ofSociology, and Nancy Lake Karib Shour of English were primarily responsible for the development of the Africana Studies Proposal. They will join several other faculty in offering course in the area of Africana Studies. Students with an intereset in a minor in African Studies of incorporating Africana Studies with and ID major are urged to speak with the faculty associated with the program. Professor Miller, Quaye, Shour, and Wells, are available for advice. Relevant forms should be signed by Pmfessor Wells Harare • ZIMBABWE

February 3, 1994, page 4 SCIENCE AND HEALTH Will New Technology Coupled With Sexism Threaten the Continuation of the Species by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff Aristotle and the Talmud thought that the direction of the bed could influence the sex of the offspring. Anaxagoras believed that lying on the right side could determine sex. More recently people have circulated the ideas of standing up, doing it underwa- ter and dietary controls as meth- ods for sex determination in off- spring. The truth is for humans, there still is no surefire method of sex control. Fish, insects, reptiles and other animals have ways to deter- mine the sex of the offspring based on environment, and ma- ternal decisions. A researcher on the human genome project, Bart Gledhill, admitted, \The only sure way to be certain of having a boy is, sadly, female infanticide or amniocentesis followed by abor- tion if it is a girl.\ It is even more shocking to realize that this \method\ is commonly practiced in some parts of the world. For tht; pCJst.two d_eqfid~s, ,the Chine~e \one child\ policy has left no op- tion for many families and this type of female iRfanticide has become so prevalent that in some age groups, the male to female ratio is 5: 1. China is not the only country: a study of abortion clin- ics in lhdia in 1988, showed that of 8,000 abortions performed, 7,997 of the fetuses were female. Though it has not been found that people can naturally deter- mine the sex of their child, there are some trends and patterns that have been documented. The \re- turning soldier effect\ is the most well known: returning soldiers father more sons than usual dur- ing and immediately after w~rs. This idea determining factor. A healthy male offspring can mate fre- quently, and produce many more offspring whereas a weak male offspring may not be able to mate at all, and thus is procreationally useless. In this instance a daugh- ter would serve better procreationally. Ev0lutionary theorist Robert Trivets and math- ematician Dan Willard first sum- marized this p:rocreational strategy 20years ago, that \parents in good condition-who will produce strong healthy offspring likely to succeed -'should' have male leads to the next trend, oc- cupation influence on sex de- \ .. a study of abortion clinics in India in 1988, showed that of8,000 abortions performed, 7,997 of the fetuses were female.\ young; parents in poor condi- tion 'should' have female young.\ Re- search has provided evi- dence to sup- termina- -------....------- tion. Male abalone divers, fighter pilots and anesthesiologists have daughters more frequently than sons. Age may also be a contrib- uting factor. Older men tend to have daughters while older women tend to have sons. For all, organisms the reas,on for offspring is, to perpetuat~ .o{ one's genes. For some species of ani- mals, this perpetuative need is the port this theory; female opossums that are fed regularly had nearly 1.4 times as many males offspring as females offspring. Physical conditions are also found to be detennining factors for hamsters, immature deer, and woodrats. In each of these cases, hunger, im- maturity, and stress in the produc- ing females seems to affect the sex determination and more daughters ., ,.,nrr·~ri·· .. ~ .. WboeYe.r ... S.ai.d That PTOcrastination Doesn't Pay Courtesy oftlte College Press Service Mark Forti had no idea two years ago that he was on the brink of discovering a remarkable new flying toy -he thought he was just goofing off by making paper airplanes in his apartment at Baylor University. \Basically I was avoiding homework ,\ he said in explaining how the X-zylo, a gyroscope that can fly twice the length of a football field when thrown, came to be marketed across the nation in toy stores for $6.95 to $8.95. His situation may seem ironic, considering that slacking off never pays off quite so handsomely for most people, but development ofX-zylo was more than just a fluke. \I've always been interested in air foils and other physical phenomena,\ said Forti, was graduate last year. He had been studying various air foil design (part of an airplane, such as a wing, that provides lift or stability ) for quite some time, and he was intrigued by the idea of coming up with a different technique. The curve of airplane wings fascinated him in particular, and the X-zylo was born essentially when Forti decided to take a paper airplane wing and bend it to form a circle that picks up lift after it is thrown and flies in a level line. At 23 years old, Forti now .is partner in a corporation with his dad, owns patents on the X-zylo and the national space industry is knocking on his door to find some scientific and technical applications for the gadget's design. He has reason to believe that life is good, very good. But Forti is quick to downplay the lucrative nature of his invention. He says the real challenge of a company is providing a product that customers are satisfied with. \Money is just a way of keeping score,\ Forti said. In its current fonn, the X-zylo has a heavy gyroscopic rim at the leading edge of the cylinder's body. When propelled forward, the heavy spinning rim allows the body to maintain its projected direction, and the rim's angular momentum seems to prevent the cylinder from nosing down in response to the force of gravity. That's the general flight principle, although Forti admits no one is certain precisely why the gadget flies. After he invented the cylinder, he realized that the device was aetodynamically unique because it flew straight across the room of his apartment quite easily. \At t11e time, I didn't realize that I had anything revolutionary; I just knew it was a very cool thing,\ he said. Forti tried other models with the same design and different materials, getting flying devices that progressively improved with each step. He was taking a marketing class at the time and was supposed to come up with a marketing strategy for a new product. He decided to design a marketing strategy for the X-zylo. His professor, Van Gray, have him and A on the project and encouraged Forti to market the product for real. First, Forti took his invention to the Physics Department at Baylor to get a more technical explanation of the X-zylo 's flight principles. The device baffled the experts there. Then he showed the X-zylo to his dad, Bill Forti, than an executive at General Dynamics Corp. in Pomona, Calif. TI1e X- zylo mystified the experts at General Dynamics as well. So, the Fortis took the device to the nation's top expert at NASA's Advanced Vehicles Division at Langey Research Center in Virginia. The X-zylo stumped NASA expert, too, and they're still working to try to explain it because they'd like to use the concept in high-altitude research aircraft or possibly in ballistics. As a toy, the manner is which the X-zylo is thrown has a lot to do with how far it goes. 1l1e flying gyroscope has the potential of travelling as far as 200 yards (600 feet), although 100 yards is likely the best distance to be gained on early tries. For more information about where the X-zylo is being sold, call Frank Martin Associates at 1-800-421-9434 are born. Another element-that seems to control sex determination for some animals is status and rank. In some species of primates, high-r:anking females bear males while low-ranking females give birth to females. Other·species have the opposite results. TI1is trend seems to be determined by migration habits. High-ranking females will have whichever sex that win stay in: the troop after it has reached maturity. For spi- der monkeys the female leaves the troop, therefore male off- spring are preferred because by remaining they will retain their mother's status. Since social status is linked to ;dominance in females is another trait has been considered in other primates with similar results. This theory has not been fully researched for humans, but studies of New Zealand women showed that women who had sons were more dominant on the whole than women who had daughters. A researcher at the University of Michigan noted that American Presidents have had 91 sons and only 60 daugh- ters. This may or may not be dominance related, but it is thought that perhaps the First Ladies derived some status from their hus~ands. Honnones are thougl1tto play a greater role in humans than these other factors and this may be part of the reason for the \re- turning soldier effect.\ Male sperm carry either the X or Y chromosome. Sex is deter- mined by the presence of a Y chromosome as contributed by the male sperm. Some research- ers believe that the presence of the hormone gonadotropin may favor X carrying sperm, thus when females have lower levels of gonadotropin, Y carrying spenn are more favored. Gona- dotropin levels are highest on the day of ovulation, therefore copulation during one of the lower gonadotropin levels may promote fertilization by a Y car- rying spenn. For this reason frequent sex may explain why more sons are bam when sol- diers return. Another different theory to explain the \returning soldier effect\ follows the domi- nant woman theory. While the soldiers have been away, the U-Med Union College First Aid Squad is offering CPR classes February 5th For more info. call Brian- , 6876 Seth- 6963 women have become m0re inde- pendent, i.e. dominant, thereby in- creasing the chances of having a son. Technology has progressed so much that it actually is possible for people to determine sex before conception. In vitro (test tube) fertilization joins several sperm and eggs in a controlled lab envi- ronment to allow several embryos to develop. At the eight cell stage, a single cell can be taken from the embryo and biopsied to reveal the sex. After the sex detennination, the desired embryo can be im- planted in the mother's uterus and development will continue nor- mally. This method however, is expensive, and raises serious ques- tions about misuse of reproductive technology. Amnioeentesis is a procedure intended for detection of genetic abnonnalities, but it is now employed for sex detennina- tiOI'l.. However since this is post- conception, abortion is the only method for removing an undesired fetus. This method is very con- troversial as it seems to condone abortion as a method of birth con- trol. The U.S. Dept. of Agricul- ture is looking into ways to sepa- rate X and Y carrying spenn for livestock breeding purposes, but it is possible that this technolo~:,ry will one day be used for humans. The separation involves using fluores- cent dyes that bihd to DNA. Y carrying spenn contain 3-4 % less DNA than X carrying sperm, thereby allowing the spenn to be separated when fluoresced. Though these new technologies offer options for people who want children; they also raise serious ethical discussions about whose right it is to play God. Not only must those issues be taken into consideration, but their future im- pact must be considered. If an in- expensive method is available to determine the sex of a child, what is to prevent the proliferation of one sex over the other? TI1is im- balance could lead to pendulum smt of overcompensation. At this time, there is no inexpensive way to \select-. a-sex\ for your child, but perhaps this really is for the better until society and science come to an agreement. After all, humans have survived for thou- sands of years without this capa- bility, in fact, it is the randomness and variations that have kept us alive. ~ettaanber your Vafentine %e open 1Joor . a. unique 6oolisto_re . 128-136 ')a.y St. Sclienectcu!y, !1ICY 518-346-2719

W:~.e <rrnnt.orbi.ensis · NEWS BRIEFS . . . International News: Ireland: Gerry Adams, the political head of the Irish Republic Anny, was perm-itted onto American soil this week. It is predicted that Northern Ireland's 25 years of urban guerrilla warfare would enter the stage toward World News peace. Somalia: Marines open fired in the streets of Mogidishu, killing at least eight Somalis and wounding 12 others. The Marines sup- posedly shet in self-defense. Russia: Washington urged Western allies to work with the Inter- national Monetary Fund and the Russian government to help it obtain loans. Washington has also assured Latvia that Russian . troops would pull out. Bosnia: Washington embraced a United Nations plan that could lead to air strikes against Serbs wlm disrupt peacekeepers' efforts to relieve their siege of two BosJlian towns. National: Blood: The nation's'blood hits its lowest level since World War II. TI1is has been the longest and worst shortage since WWII. TI1e · supply is so low that if more people had been injured in the Earth- quake, there might not have been enough blood to treat them. Ice Skating: Jeff Gillooly, the fanner husband ofTonya Harding, has stated that Harding helped plan the attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Harding has finally admitted that she knew of the attack after it occurred. Drug Use: Researchers recently reported a sharp jump in mari- juana smoking among high school students. This yet another sign that drug use is beginning to increase after a decade of decline. Savingand Loans: The Treasury Department's Office of Thrift Supervision imposed a moratorium on the purchase of mutiuil savings banks by commercial banks. The move came amid grow- ing concerns that executives and trustees of mutual savings banks may be enriching themselves at the expense of the depositors. Los Angeles: President Clinton has asked Congress to. alot more money for the relief effort in the quake stricken areas of Cal'ifor- nia. FEMA has been credited with acting more quickly and pro\' I viding more funds than it has to disaster survivors in the past. WORLD NEWS February 3, 1994, page 5 Lorrena Bobbitt: Insane Woman by Craig Greenberg World News Editor This article is intended to ex- press an alternative view to that expressed in last week's article, \Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model For AU Women\. As one of the World News Editors, I would like to apologize for last week's \ar- ticle\ as it was an opinion and not World News Opinion factual. As I watched portions of the Bobbitt trial on T.V., I found my- self wanting to believe Mrs. Bobbitt's testimony about sexual and physical abuse. TI1e question is how much this real'ly matters in determining the guilt of Lorrena. Last week, Lara wrote a lot of things which I will now examine one by one. First, she mentioned that cutting off a guy's penis was something that has pro.bably crossed a lot of female minds at one time or another. I would like to believe that most women do not sit down to contemplate cutting off a guy's penis. Next, Lara stated that John Bobbitt came home and raped his wife, Lorrena. John Bobbitt was acquitted of such charges last year. I am not saying that he is an an- gel, but the.court found him inno- ceilt. If one questions every court ruling, we might as well not have a court system. If the court says a man is not-guilty, yot1 cannot print an article which says the oppo: site. The next issue which Lara raised was how anyone could stay sane when each night there is a fear of unbelievable pain and torture. I would like to point out that I agree with this assertion. However, John Bobbitt was ac- quitted of these crimes. Lorrena may have been insane that night, but that doesn't mean that John Bobbitt was the cause of her in- sanity. How could Lara call Lorrena Bobbitt a \pioneer\? Could there ever be a pioneer in penis cut- ting? Maybe, someday, there someone breaks the law, they should be prepared to pay a price to society. An example would be if I killed the man who killed my child. I would kill this man knowing that I would go to prison for it. Lorrena did her deed and expected to pay no price. In this country, you can't take the law into your own hands and expect to go free. Most ridiculous, absurd, sick. and maybe even insane, is Lara's notion that fear of having one's penis cut off is equivalent to fear of rape. We are talking about amputation, mutilation, and loss of sexual function. Will some- \I would like to believe that most women do not sit down to contemplate cutting off a guy's penis ... Could there ever be a pioneer in penis cutting? Maybe, someday, there will be a pioneer in buttock skewering.\ will be a pioneer in buttock skewering. As far as Lorrena's situation is concerned, yes she is an immi- grant, yes she has little money, but Lara is incorrect in \again\ assuming that Lorrena' s husband was guilty of any crime. It is my opinion that if I was Lorenna, and all of her allega- tions are tme about John, then I may have done the same thing. However, it is my belief that if .... ' one please tell me how this is equivalent to rape. I am by no means lessening the severity of the fear of rape by making this statement. However, even ifi am a guy, I do feel that there is a dif- ference. Also, there is nothing good about fear, Lara seemed to think that a male fear of\the cut- ting\ was a good thing .. .I don't. Finally, I would like to add that I don't belieye Lorrena Bobbitt ha!imade'any step in the name of Term Limitations Necessary For Diversity In Congress ------------ money laundering and sex scan- l11ere is currently a court case to help himself and his political by Sarah Ruth Evans dais. being fought out in a Seattle court- cronies. Concordiensis Staff Congress has gone amuck. AI-. though during the last election prob'Tess was made towards diver- sifying Conb'Tess, more still needs to be done. The United' Stated Congress is one of the few bas- tions left for white upper class males left in this country. Last time I checked there were more minorities and women in this country than white males. It is time for change. Congress can get nothing done. The people who are presently in office are there for life. America needs a congress that is diverse as the country. Presently, it is possible to spend one's entire career in Congress. For example, Thomas Foley has spent the last 30 years in Congress. Most people do not spend 30 years working for a ma- jor corporation; but run for Con- gress your guaranteed a job for life, even if you are involved in Times are a changing. Four- room questioning the constitution- Tenn limitations are necessary. teen states have passed legisla- ality oftenn limits. TI1is case will The benefits are immense. Not tion limiting the number of years probably eventually end up in the only witl Congress become diver- their _legislators can serve. The Supreme Court. TI1e most promi- sified, but Congress members American public supports term nent of the plaintiffs in the case is will be less tempted to become World News Opinion limitations. When term limitation comes up for referendum these usually pass by overwhelming majorities. I thought that it was the duty of the elected congressperson to respond to the needs of the district from which he was elected. One would think that if people did not want their Congressperson to serve for more than six years then the con- gressional candidate would only serve for six years. But then again if the electorate wanted term limitations, they would not have to pass laws, but could sima ply stop voting for a candidate after they have served in office for 6 years. Speaker of the House Tom Foley. comtpt. Term limitations are long Why is this man fighting so hard enough that there will constantly to maintain his job? Does he re- be people in office who are ex- ally care that much about the perienced, so that can not be a American people that he wants to reasonable argument against tenn dedicate his life serving them or limitations. Also the more change are there deeper reasons for him over that occurs in Congress, the wanting to keep his job? I think more likely women and minori- that the reason he finds term limi- ties will be better represented. As tations unconstitutional is because it stands now, only 6% of the he would lose his job in 1998. Senate is female. Last time I Losing one's job is not scary be- checked the general population cause of the monetary aspect. The women made up slightly over reason that he scared is because he half the population. It is time for is a power hungry beast who is out a change. World News Wants You: Be Global Write For World News Contact Lara or .Craig at x6155 ..

February 3, 1994, page 6 WINTERFEST WEEKEND - Fd --- . 3-6 Thursdav. Feb. 3 . 5 pm :Buffet Dinner@ Upperclass (use validine) 7 pm: Gamet Minstrels, Dutch Pipers, Gospel Ensemble@ Memorial Chapel 9':36 pm: Mountebanks Cabaret I@ Chet's Fridav. Feb. 4 . • 4 pm: TGIF@ Chet's; 5-6 Chuck Rodman '95, piano 5:30 pm : JSU Semi-Fonnal Dinner. RSVP Adam Schwartz X5691 7:30 pm : Union v. Clarkson Hockey 10:30 pm : Comedians @ CC Atrium Saturdav, Feb . . 5 • am : Outing Club - American Cancer Association Cross-Country Ski-a-thon, Contact JeffNebolini 372-5078 for info. 1 pm: Union v. St. Lawrence Men's & Women's Swimming 1-3 pm : Snow Sculpture Contest. Register and place bets Jan. 26-Feb 2 @ ~C. 3 pm- 4 pm: Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream Social. Hot chocolate, etc@ CC. 4 pm :Union v. Nazareth Basketball 7 pm : Union v. St. Lawrence Hockey 10-2 pm: A Winter Affair@ Ramada. Buy tickets Jan. 24-28@ CC. Sundav. Feb. 6 • 4-7 pm : WRUC live broadcast of \The Sleepy Chicken Show\ (the tunes of the '80s) from the first floor CC. 7:30 pm : Jazz Ensemble Concert@ Chet's; Protest-ant Ministry Service@ Old Chapel Newman Club Service @ St. John's 9 pm: Mountebanks Cabaret II@ Chet's Support Union Hockey this weekend when they take on the Golden Knight of Clarkson on Friday at 7:30 p.m.and the St. Lawrence Saints on Saturday at 7 p.m. JOIN THE AWARD WINNING STAFF OF rorq.e <1Ioncnrb-itnsis * Med School Aspiration - Write for Science and Health * Harvard Business School on Your List- Work on the Advertising Staff *Are You Bored Monday and Tuesday Nights - Come Help Edit All Skills are needed. All you need is a willingness to learn. Training available. Come to Next week's meeting, Wednesday at 7:30P.M. to get involved with next year's staff. Any Questions: Contact Dave at x6155 THE Hfl>l>LE KJNGl>OH - ANDREA EARREIT \AN £XHtlA~1tNG goof( ... WON\OERFLIL ANr> GENEgol/5 INSIGHT u. 115. eART<tTT HAS CAPTURED A TRULY Al11H£NTfC tEfJING ... \ - AMY 1AN

BUSINESS National Service Initiative Becomes Reality by Alissa M. Mayo Business Writer CAUSE, in Hull's opinion, is the requirement of community service. President HuH ex- plained that CAUSE was also borne out of his belief that \stu- dents have an obligation to give something back to society. If they don't learn that while they're here at Union, then, [the College] has failed in serving its mission.\ He noted that this does not just apply to the stu- dents who are CAUSE recipi- ents. About one third of the stu- dents at Union College are ,in- velved in some form of com- munity service. has been extended to these stu- dents. One of the students is Joanne Haverly '97, from Phoenix, AZ. Haverly's interest in Union College extended to her sophomore year in high school. Union's five-year teaching pro- gram solidified her decision to tnatriculate here. Her academic inten::sts seemed to match CAUSE's obje'ctives, so she decided it would only make sense to apply for the grant. Ultimately, Haverly hopes to teach high school English. Both President Hull and The Clinton Administratian' s National Service initiative fi- nally became a reality in Janu• ary with the Congressional ap- proval -of the National\ Service and Community Trust Act of 1993. Under the auspices ofthe federally owned Corporation for National and Community Service, the program will en- able millions of students and adults to earn money for college in exchange for community ser- vice. Union College enacted a similar program three years ago. The Chester Arthur Under- graduate Scholarship for Excel- lence (CAUSE) was imple- mented by Union College Presi• dentRogerHull upon his arrival in 1991. CAUSE extends loans of up to $5,000 to sttidents, which can be repaid directly after graduation, or \paid off' at a rate of 20% by working in a career that provides some ser- vice to the public, such as teach- ing or the Peace Corps. \It [CAUSE schola.rships] was conceived as an alternative for students to attend college .and give something back to the community in return for payment of their school loans.\ It was conceived as an alter- native way for students to attend college and give something back to the community in return for the payment of their loans. Hull explained that many stu- dents from middle-income families were not able to afford Union's estimated $25,0-00 cost of attendance. At the same time, they were not eligible for the grants and other fonns of financial aid offered to students in lower income brackets by the federal and state govemments. Perhaps more important to CAUSE is the only program of its kind in the country. In fact, while Clinton was still a candidate for the Presidency, he corresponded with Dr. Hull about Union's CAUSE. While HuH does not claim to have in- spired Clinton's National Ser- vice initiative, he proudly re- ported that the United States government may look to Union's model in the future. President Hull believes the pro!:,'Tam is superior to the cur- rent prob'Tatn because it can help students while they are in col- lege, rather than requiring them to perfonn the community ser- vice first, then receiving the benefits. There are currently 14 recipients of CAUSE: five jun- iors, four sophomores, and five freshmen. According to Michael Brown, Director of Student Aid, just under $60,000 Preparing your car for winter Performing these mechanical and exterior services now can keep your car running well all winter. Battery: Check for loose cabJes . • . and acid · buildup. Cleantha terminals with a pastY mixture of baking soda and water applied With an old toothbrush •. Air filter: Replace every 7,500 miles or when it's dirty. Haverly agree that the number of applicants is low, relative to the size of the applicant pool. Last year, there were 74 appli- cants for the CAUSE Award. 16 of these students were ac- cepted, and five people actually enrolled at Union and accepted the award. \No one-none of the Freshmen, anyway-seems to know about [CAUSE],\ said Haverly. \Maybe if it was bet- ter advertised, there would be more people who'd want to participate in public service.\ Clinton's work/service ini tia- tive will have no immediate impact on the CAUSE pro- b'Tam. Although CAUSE and the National Service initiative tantalize young people with fi- nancial rewards, perhaps they will also inspire more people to volunteer for the non-material benefits of helping others. Windshield wash!!r/wiper blades: Add no-freeze windshield wiper fluid to the reservoir. Replace worn wiper-blade inserts. ~ ...,.._ · • .,....%1C ·c es:;;;eu;: February 3, 1994, page 7 Electric Cars by Alex Johnson Business Writer The last fifteen years have seen many Americans becom- ing more concerned with the hazards of pollution. With this in mind, the California State Government has set emissions standards for vehicles. This is not a new concept. Since the oil shortages of the 1970's the U.S. government has set \Corporate Average Fuel Economy\ (CAFE), .standards. In this system a level of fuel economy for cars is set. It is . presently 26.5 miles per gallon. The production of each auto maker is then examined. By tak- ing into account how many of . each car is sold at each fuel economy, an average is calcu- lated. lfthe average is above the CAFE level, the company is in · the clear. But if the average is below, the company is taxed at a rate of $5 I car sold I tenth of mile over the CAFE. In real tenns this adds up to millions of dollars. The California requirements are a bit different: an auto maker who wishes to sell cars in Cali- fornia must conform to the regulations to the letter. The most controversial part of the plan is a requirement sched- uled to begin in 1998- TI1e Elec- tric Vehicle Mandate. Under this law, 2% of a car maker's total sales in the state must be made up of Zero-Emis- sion Vehicles, AKA electric cars. This figure is slated to rise to 10% of sales by 2005. This plan, as one might guess, is not popular with Detroit's 'Big Three' car companies- OM., Ford, and Chrysler. They contend that it is possible to produce cars using electricity as their power source, but that such vehicles would be so costly, and have such a limited range that no one would want to buy them. In an effort to show that they are not just money grubbing, heart- less behemoths, the Big Three joined with the US. Department of Energy in late November to produce a ZEV by the years 2010. In the upcoming years, this joint project will pour over a billion dollars into R&D. Still, they contend that 1998 is an unreasonable date for sales of ZEV's. To this end legislators are re- thinking their requirements. A bill recently introduced by Cali- fornia State Assemblyman Bernie Richter (R), would sus- pend the ZEV requirement un- til battery technology advanced to the point of economic feasi- bility. Says Richter, \The man- date is driven by ideology, not rationality .. .it's going to cost billions of dollars and jobs too .. .I'm not for pollution, but this is madness.\ All hope is not lost for the idea of a ZEV: there are those who still think that the mandate will not be recanted . Former GM. Chairman Robert Stempel is planning to incorporate a company for the sole purpose of building cars which will meet California's 1998 requirements. Other companies have been set up for the same purpose. In the middle of October, GM. itself offered I 000 electric powered vehicles, (named the Impact), to customers in 12 test cites. For those of you wondering, Schenectady was not one of tl1e areas selected . The auto maker hope to use customer response to build sellable cars in the fu- ture. Fluid levels: Change oil; replace oil filter. Oil should be replaced with winter-weight oil, usually SW-30. Check the owner's manual for the proper way to check your car's transmission fluid and brake fluid levels. l,.ubrlcate locks 1 hinges: Squirt some lubricating oil onto the door, hood and trunk hinges and the hood latch/release mechanism . Graphite-based lubricant for locks prevents . · and undue wear. Check exhaust system for leaks: Replace faulty lli=~~:dl muffler and connecting pipes that may allow • deadly carbon . monoxide fumes to enter vehicle. 'I

j'' - February 3, 1994, page 8 Why is there racism at Union? One of the goals of a collegiate education is to prepare students for social interaction in the real world. In today' s day in age, people need to be made more aware of the cultures ofall of the racial, ethnic, and religious groups they will encounter after leaving college. One of the disadvantages ofUnion College is that the student body is very homogeneous. Additionally, there seems io be a lack of serious interaction between students coming :from different backgrounds. Racism at Union is, in part, caused by stereotyping that exists because students have not been taught to tolerate people who are different than they are. Most students have not been exposed to multipie cultures in high school. The Freshman Preceptorial class, and random dorm housing are expected to help Union students eradicate this deficiency. The power of the Greek system may curtail any of the administration's plans of exposing students to a plethora of cultures. Fraternities at Union are even more homogeneous than the student body. The Greek system catches students too early in their college careers. Although freshmen are not allowed to rush fraternities until winter term, they are marked by the Greek system the second they step foot on this campus. Students appear to be instantly divided into groups based on their race, ethnic affiliations, or religion. It is much easier for racism to grow in homogeneous groups whose members have little contact with people of different cultures. This seems to be the obvious ;mswer as to why there is any racism at schools'\like Union. How can racism at Union be eliminated? -Write Box 2577. · Note: This does notreflectstu<lent body opinion. ,; '. ' •••• ' • r ·•- ' ' I : .' •' '''' •\ ,• ' · OP-ED Letters to the Editor: To Greek Dashers Everywhere: To the editor: The purpose of this article is not only to defend Greek life at Union College bu talso to comment on the methods of criticism that have been used ahainst our fraternities and sororities in the past. Greek organizations play a large role here at Union College, that is why I feel it is so importfl!lt that they not be misunderstood or misrespresented. I can't hide the fact that I like being in a sorority, and I don't want to. I don't think liking, or not liking fraternities and sororities is the issue. The problem does not lie in our likes ans dislikes. The problem is the people are too quick t criticize each other. We are not here atthis college for the purpose of judg- ing one another. The men and women who have chosen to par- ticipate in Greek life have not done so to hurt anyone else. They, or should I say, we, do not deserve verbal abuse or ridicule because of our decision. Ther have been people in the past that have taken it upon them- selves to write about Greek life with harsh and bitter criticism, the majority of whom are not affili- ated with a sorority or fraternity. A non-member has every right to analyze the system and point out its negative aspects, but close- minded, insensitive, criticism re- flects more negativity upon the person dictating it than upon the intended target. Such criticism does induce improvement or change, it only offends and alien- ates. By out rightly bashing Greek organizations, you are not just putting down the concept of so- rorities and fraternities, you are insulting each and every member. When a man or a woman de- cides to participate in Greek life, he or she is taking advantage of an opportunity that comes but once in a lifetime. The experience is not unlike being on a sports team. As a member of a team you share a common goal; you excel at a sport as a unified group. In order to do so, you must do your best individually to contribute to the team as a whole, you must support your teammates, respect each other, be considerate and understanding, dedicated and strong. It takes time and effort, but in the end everything is worth it. In a fraternity or a sorority the principles are the same, although the goal .is a little different. We are not out to excel in any com- petitive athletics; our friendships, our bonds, our experiences, are their own end. If we have a col- lective goal, it would be to make the four years we spend at Union College a little friendlier, a little easier, a little bit more memo- rable, and a lot more fun. All of what I've mentioned above can, indeed, be attained without ever joining a Greek or- ganization at Union. But, they can offer much more. In no way does joining a House put your individuality at stake. On the con- trary it challenges you to grow as a strong individual, as well as teaches you to respect what makes every person different. When pledging a Greek organi- zation you are suddenly placed within a group of people you hardly know. In the beginning you feel as if you could never be like a brother or a sister to thes~ people, but things change. You are not forced to become imme- diate friends with anyone. You just get to know each other as in· dividuats. You learn to respect each other. You learn to trust each other, and support· each other. Nothing i~ petfect. There are always differences, like in any other family. Sometimes you won't like one of your brothers, occasionally when you'll disagree over a sister, regardless of what happens, you· never lose respect for one another. Fraternities and Sororities do not limit who you become friends with, they can only expand your social life. By interacting with each other and hosting open par- ties to the entire campus you are given the opportunity to meet every type of person that walks on these grounds. TI1rough or- ganized philantrophies Greek or- ganizations provide ways to con- tribute to the com1fiunity and raise funds for charities ranging from The American Lung Association, to the National Organization for the Prevention of Child Abuse. Positions within the House pro- vide members with leadership skills and challenges them to take on important responsibilities. As a brother or a sister, you interact with so many different people, and get involved with activities that help to prepare for the \real world\ out there. If you are a member of a fra- ternity or a sorority you know how much those two or three Greek letters begin to mean to you. When you wear them on your sweatshirt, or on your hat, if they hang from your keys, or are stuck to your car, they're there because you're proud of them. You're happy to be a part of what they stand for. With or with with- out the letters, the pride is always there. Not being a member of a Greek organization does not prevent you from having just as much of a fulfilling college experience. Greek life is not for everyone. The choice always has been, an always will be, one that a person has to make depending on what feels rightto them. It's a personal decision that is made for many reasons. We should never cruelly criticize people because they have decided to join, a fraternity or sorority. People need to stop tak- ing time out of their day in order to find some new way to make the Greek system look bad. It is that criticism, that disrespect for other people's individuality, that mis- representation, that causes alien- ation between Greeks and inde- pendents. I believe that any in- . dependent that has berated some- one for joining a Greek organi- zation should take time to dis- cover what they are really all about. They might change their minds. I also believe that any member of a fraternity or a soror- ity that looks down on someone because they .are not a member, should rethink why they became one themselves. Sincerely, Nicole Beland

February 3, 1994, page 8 Why is there racism at Union? One of the goals of a collegiate education is to prepare students for social interaction in the real world. In today's day in age, people need to be made more aware of the cultures of all of the racial, ethnic, and , religious groups they will encounter after leaving I college. · One ofthe disadvantages of Union College is that 1 the student body is very homogeneous. Additionally, 1 there seems to be a lack of serious interaction between : students coming from different backgrounds. i Racism at Union is, in part, caused by stereotyping i that exists because students have not been taught to i tolerate people who are different than they are. Most · students have not been exposed to multiple cultures in ! high school. The Freshman Preceptorial class, and i random dorm housing are expected to help Union : students eradicate this deficiency. I The power of the Greek system may curtail any of ; the administration's plans of exposing students to a ! plethora of cultures. Fraternities at Union are even 1 more homogeneous than the student body. The Greek ! system catches students too early in their college ! careers. Although freshmen are not allowed to rush i fraternities until winter term, they are marked by the i Greek system the second they step foot on this campus. : Students appear to be instantly divided into groups ; based on their race, ethnic affiliations, or religion. ! It is much easier for racism to grow in : homogeneous groups whose members have little contact with people of different cultures. This seems to be the obvious answer as to why there is any racism at schools··Iike Union. How can racism at Union be eliminated? - Write Box 2577. Note : This does not reflect student body opinion. mlf ········· ... · .. · .. •·.· .. ····~ .•.... , .. ~ David levine. ' Bdilor;,f.n,.ChieJ:· Associate PhC~td·•Bdlltot' AJisoeiate .. · ·· · ·· · • A .... 'M. N ~Edit f ss<Jctm.e . ews, .,. ·· q : Assooittte Editor . · . Computer Mana:get .·. . Pactdt)r Adviser. I. Photo.graphers · .... - ~ .. · Staff : .. Bruno aenzaqu¢f4 2li~~etli :Q'~ ~~~~n MiQhetl~ l$l1is., Sarah Evans.J Alexandra t:tuatp~•¢;~~Sng1;~~sa M'aytl;Pam Lin, Bharat Navani, Mike Nelsoih L~ ~~ska~ :t<ar~P. :Pepiatt~ Crai;g Pike, WilHam Rio~; Suzattne .l:t>ibln:$on, Mic:helle :Rosenbaum, Shveta Srivastava, Rawson T:hutbet, John Huang. The Concordiensis me.ets every M<>nday and Tuesday ofthe acar-- · demic year. It is published by the students of Union College. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: To Greek Rashers Everywhere: To the editor: 1l1e purpose of this article is not only to defend Greek life at Union College bu talso to comment on the methods of criticism that have been used ahainst our fraternities and sororities in the past. Greek organizations play a large role here at Union College, that is why I feel it is so important that they not be misunderstood or misrespresented. I can't hide the fact that I like being in a sorority, and I don't want to. I don't think liking, or not liking fraternities and sororities is the issue. The problem does not lie in our likes ans dislikes. 1l1e problem is the people are too quick t criticize each other. We are not here at this college for the purpose of judg- ing one another. The men and women who have chosen to par- ticipate in Greek life have not done so to hurt anyone else. They, or should I say, we, do not deserve verbal abuse or ridicule because of our decision. Ther have been people in the past that have taken it upon them- selves to write about Greek life with harsh and bitter criticism, the majority of whom are not affili- ated with a sorority or fraternity. A non-member has every right to analyze the system and point out its negative aspects, but close- minded, insensitive, criticism re- flects more negativity upon the person dictating it than upon the intended target Such criticism does induce improvement or change, it only offends and alien- ates. By out rightly bashing Greek organizations, you are not just putting down the concept of so- rorities and fraternities, you are insulting each and every member. When a man or a woman de- cides to participate in Greek life, he or she is taking advantage of an opportunity that comes but once in a lifetime. The experience is not unlike being on a sports team. As a member of a team you share a common goal; you excel at a sport as a unified group. In order to do so, you must do your best individually to contribute to the team as a whole, you must support your teammates, respect each other, be considerate and understanding, dedicated and strong. It takes time and effort, but in the end everything is worth it. In a fraternity or a sorority the principles are the same, although the goal is a little different. We are not out to excel in any com- petitive athletics; our friendships, our bonds, our experiences, are their own end. If we have a col- lective goal, it would be to make the four years we spend at Union College a little friendlier, a little easier, a little bit more memo- rable, and a lot more fun. All of what I've mentioned above can, indeed, be attained without ever joining a Greek or- ganization at Union. But, they can offer much more. In no way does joining a House put your individuality at stake. On the con- trary it challenges you to grow as a strong individual, as well as teaches you to respect what makes every person different. When pledging a Greek organi- zation you are suddenly placed within a group of people you hardly know. In the beginning you feel as if you could never be like a brother or a sister to these people, but things change. You are not forced to become imme- diate friends with anyone. You just get to know each other as in- dividuals. You learn to respect each other. You learn to trust each other, and support each other. Nothing is perfect. There are always differences, like in any other family. Sometimes you won't like one of your brothers, occasionally when you 'II disagree over a sister, regardless of what happens, you never lose respect for one another. Fraternities and Sororities do not limit who you become friends with, they can only expand your social life. By interacting with each other and hosting open par- ties to the entire campus you are given the opportunity to meet every type of person that walks on these grounds. 1l1rough or- ganized philantrophies Greek or- ganizations provide ways to con- tribute to the community and raise funds for charities ranging from The American Lung Association, to the National Organization for the Prevention of Child Abuse. Positions within the House pro- vide members with leadership skills and challenges them to take on important responsibilities. As a brother or a sister, you interact with so many different people, and get involved with activities that help to prepare for the \real world\ out there. If you are a member of a fra- ternity or a sorority you know how much those two or three Greek letters begin to mean to you. When you wear them on your sweatshirt, or on your hat, if they hang from your keys, or are stuck to your car, they're there because you're proud of them . You're happy to be a part of what they stand for. With or with with- out the letters, the pride is always there. Not being a member of a Greek organization does not prevent you from having just as much of a fulfilling college experience. Greek life is not for everyone. The choice always has been, an always will be, one that a person has to make depending on what feels right to them. It's a personal decision that is made for many reasons. We should never cruelly criticize people because they have decided to join, a fraternity or sorority. People need to stop tak- ing time out of their day in order to find some new way to make the Greek system look bad. It is that criticism, that disrespect for other people's individuality, that mis- representation, that causes alien- ation between Greeks and inde- pendents. I believe that any in- dependent that has berated some- one for joining a Greek organi- zation should take time to dis- cover what they are really all about. They might change their minds. I also believe that any member of a fraternity or a soror- ity that looks down on someone because they are not a member, should rethink why they became one themselves. Sincerely, Nicole Beland

OPINIONS February 3, 1994, page 9 Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model For All Criminals To the editor: It was shocking last week to read in this paper an article by Lara Greenberg regarding the Lottena Bobbitt case. First of all, is it really true that all women have contemplated cutting off a man'spenis? I find this very dis- turbing and believe most women have not considered such violent behavior. Further, I believe most men have not thought about mu- tilating women in their genital area. It was even more shocking to read Ms. Greenberg's com- ment: \Hell I'm even consider- ing it.\ If Ms. Greenberg does speak for all women and her quoted sources are valid, I have to ask all Union males a question, what kind of women are we at- tending school with? If a male student had stated in The Concor- diensis that they were thinking about cutting of a woman's breast they would probably have been expelled by now. Concerning the case in ques- tion, Ms. Greenberg stated that Mr. Bobbitt desen,ed to have his penis cut off and dumped in a convenient store parking lot be- cause he forcibly raped and abused his wife. Everyone should keep in mind that Mr. Bobbitt was acquitted of all these charges in a Virginia court of law. Accord~ ing to Mr. Bobbitt and members of his family, the reason Mrs. Bobbitt committed this heinous crime was for a completely dif- ferent reason. TI1e Babbitts were in the middle of a divorce and Mrs. Bobbitt decided that if she could not have John Wayne Bobbitt then no woman could have him. What better way for Mrs. Bobbitt to ensure this than to emasculate her husband. Ms. Greenberg further defends the vigilante actions of Mrs. Bobbitt when she calls it an ap- propriate punishment for the crime. However, there was no crime committed on the part of Mr. Bobbitt! :Mrs. Bobbitt is the criminal. She has been revealed Alum Speaks Highly of Term In Brazil To the Editor, . I was recently infonned of the cancellation of the Brazil Tem1 Abroad for Fall 1994-1995. As a past participant of the Brazil Term Abroad, I would like to express my anger and disappointment at the Admini&tration Decision. h1 Prec;ident Hull's inaugural speech, he said that, \No student graduating in the last decade of the twentieth century .can said to be educated unless he or she is at home in the world.\ ln a world whose success hinges increas- ingly on its commitment to intel- lectual and cultural diversity, pro- viding students with exposure to developing nations such as Bra- zil becomes even more crucial. Eliminating the Brazil Term Abroad is an alarming signal from an administration who says that it is trying to diversify Union's intellectual climate. Intellectual diversity is created by expanding, not eliminating programs such as Brazil's, which serve to fosterin- tellectual and cultural diversity. The'Brazil Tenn Abroad is rigor- ous and challenging, offering stu- dents a unique opportunity to study the role of women in de- veloping countries. The decision to cancel the Brazil Term Abroad suggests that diversifying Union's intel- lectual climate and curriculum is not a priority of the administra- tion. Union offers many Euro- pean Term Abroad programs. While significant, enriching stu- dents with the importance of di- versity is not their primary goal. If the administration is serious about increasing diversity at Union, it must offer programs which demonstrate its commit- ment. The decision to maintain all of Union's European Terms Abroad at the expense of one of the few Third World one's is a step in the wrong direction. I hope that the administration takes a step in the right direction and reconsiders its decision to cancel the Brazil Term Abroad. Sincerely, Jennifer Holmes Class of '91 as a thief as she has stolen from employers; she h~s proven to be a violent maniac by mutilating her husband as he slept; most recently she has proven to be a pathologi- cal liar by her performance on the witness stand. Mrs. Bobbitt could have received 20 years in a Vir- ginia prison if convicted and I believe she would have said ab- solutely anything on the stand to avoid this. Think about it. Even if Mr. Bobbitt was guilty of abusing his wife, this wouldnot have given her the right to muti- late him. If she was being abused why didn't she want a divorce? Why was she still having sex with him allegedly three times a day? If Mr. Bobbitt was guilty of abuse he should have been arrested, tried, convicted and sentenced. There are laws which protect women and they should be en- forced to the full letter of the law. We all live in a civilized soci- ety which is based on laws. We do not cut people • s body parts off for crimes. This is the Twentieth Century not the Middle Ages. Further, citizens cannot take the law into their own hands. With- out laws there would be anarchy. The acquittal ofLorrena Bobbitt on the grounds of insanity has set a very dangerous precedent. What will be the next acceptable reason to cut off a man's penis? Perhaps it will be because a man has bro- ken up with his girlfriend, or maybe a husband stays a little late at the office and his wife thinks he is having an affair. Where will it all end? The results of this case may lead to more violence against both men and women. Some women will think this action is acceptable and some men may perpetuate violence toward women in retaliation. Mrs. Bobbitt committed a crime and she should be in a Virginia prison right now, not a psychiatric center. Because of this travesty of justice the rela- tionship and trust between men and women could very well drop to an all time low. I agree with Ms. Greenberg that Brazil Term Abroad Clarified To the Editor: The letter from Professor Martha Huggins regarding the tenn abroad in Brazil was unfor- tunate in that, whether intended or not, it was quite misleading. Let us state the facts for the record: I) The tenn abroad to Brazil was not canceled. It will be cycled with the new tenn abroad in Kenya. It will be offered in the Fall 1995 academic tenn. There are absolutely no plans to cancel it unless it is seriously under en- rolled at the time. 2) The college is expanding its tenn abroad offerings in develop- ing and non-European settings. We will start a new tenn in Kenya this fall and we are examining the possibilities of terms and ex- changes in Costa Rica, India and another country in Asia. 3) The college does not rou- tinely offer airfare subsidies to distant destinations and deny them to students studying in Bra- _ zil. Only students going to China (a developing country) and Japan currently receive a subsidy. The college is examining the subsidy policy, and Brazil is being in- cluded in the discussion. 4) The decision to cycle Brazil was based on the following concems: l ) the desire to have a tenn abroad in Africa or a nation with a large Af- rican diaspora every year, 2) the desire to starfKeilya' iintn'edTately since many students (55 at last count) have expressed interest in that site, 3) the need to balance expensive and less expensive tenns in each year for budgetary reasons. Never was the possibil- ity of canceling the Brazil tenn considered by the administration. We are sure that professor Huggins is disappointed in not being able to direct the term abroad and go to Brazil (her area of research interest) next year, but it is misleading to leave the im- pression that either the commit- ment to Brazil or new tenns abroad in developing countries has dim in- ished. That is simply contrary to the facts. Terry Weiner Bill Thomas Who Canceled The Brazil Term Abroad? To the Editor: President Hull called me last week to say that he had not di- rected Dean Underwood and Tenns Abroad Director William Thomas. to cancel a term abroad. He had merely directed them to seek sources of savings within the Terms Abroad Program. I want to correct this error, because as an activist I appreciate the impor- tance oflmowing where to put the pressure. Thus, it appears that Dean Underwood and William Thomas decided that the best way to economize in the Terms Abroad Program was to cut Brazil for the 1994-1995 academic year. After I had been told that there would be no term abrQad to Brazil next year, I received a letter (1114/94) from Professor Thomas. sent to all faculty who have directed a term abroad, indicating the need to look for ways of cutting ex- penses within existing terms abroad programs. This letter, which came to me after Brazil had already been eliminated, makes it clear that Dean Underwood and Professor Thomas wanted to first get rid of Brazil, and then seek savings within the other terms abroad programs. I was not even given an opportunity to suggest savings in the Brazil program (to detennine if we could avoid cut- ting it). Clearly, Dean Underwood and Professor Tho- mas did not even seem to con- sider it worthwhile to gold off on cutting a tenn abroad program until they had detennined if suf- ficient savings could be achieved through less drastic means. I want to thank all of the stu- dents and faculty who l1ave writ- ten letters and sent petitions to President Hull. I urge President Hull to reconsider his administra- tors' hastily: conceived decision to eliminate the Brazil term abroad for 1994-1995. It takes very little professional imagina- tion to cut pro!:,>rams; much more creativity and professional craft is required to face squarely the administrative task of making best use of contracting resources to maintain and expand what is good. If President Hull did not ask his administrators to cut a term abroad for 1994-1995, and if he has a genuine commitment to study abroad and to curricular challenge and diversity, then he will want to reverse his adminis· trators' decision. Martha Huggins Professor of Sociology it is illegal to have sex with your wife if she is not consenting. This is rape by any definition of the law. Furthermore, I advocate that all women should be re- spected. Nothing could bring more joy to a man than the love of a woman. Women and men cannot take the law into their own hands to resolve problems. Instead of all this violence and antipathy between men and women there should be more concern about simply loving each other. Ms. Greenberg stated in her article that John Wayne Bobbitt will have trouble finding a date. This may very well be the case due to the perfidious assault his wife committed on him. I sub- mit that Mrs. Bobbitt will also , have trouble finding dates. That is, unless she can find a man who can sleep with one eye open. Sincerely, Steve Mackey Orientation Committee Selection is Announced To the editor, Once again it is time to start drscussilig orientation for the up- coming year. Every winter the most important part of the ori- entation takes place- selecting the orientation committee (the O.C.). It is with great anticipa- tion that I announce openings for this committee. Being a member on the Ori- - entation committee takes hard work, commitment and patience. It is the committee's duty to choose the Orientation Advisors, and plan the social and academic events that will be taking place during the first four days of next year. The role of an orientation committee member is one that plays a big part in the life of ev- . ery incoming Freshman. The committee's work is great but the satisfaction is far greater. Applications will be available at the Info. Booth and in Dean Schurick's office today. They are due into Mrs. Facenda, in the Dean's office, by Monday Feb- ruary 7th noon. Orientation needs you! Sincerely, Chuck Rodman All letters to the editor must be submitted by 5PM on the Tuesday before publication. Box 2577

OPINIONS February 3, 1994, page 9 Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model For All Criminals To the editor: It was shocking last week to read in this paper an article by Lara Greenberg regarding the Lorrena Bobbitt case. First of a\!1, is it really true that all women have contemplated cutting off a man's penis? I findthisvery dis- turbing and believe most women have not considered such violent behavior. Further, Ibelievemost men have not thought about mu- tilating women in their genital area. It was even more shocking to read Ms. Greenberg's com- ment: \Hell I'm even consider- ing it.\ If Ms. Greenberg does speak for all women and her quoted sources are valid, I have to ask aU Union males a question, what kind of women are we at- tending school with? If a male student had stated in TI1e Concor- diensis that they were thinking about c1.1tting of a woman's breast they would probably have been expelled by now. Concerning the case in ques- tion, Ms. Greenberg stated that Mr. Bobbitt deserved to have his penis cut off and dumped in a convenient store parking lot be- cause he forcibly raped and abused his wife. Everyone should keep in mind that Mr. Bobbitt was acquitted of all these charges in a Virginia court of law. Accord- ing to Mr. Bobbi,tt m~d members of his family, the reason Mrs. Bobbitt committed this heiNous crime was for a completely dif- ferent reason. l11e Babbitts were in the middle of a divorce and Mrs. Bobbitt decided that if she could not have John Wayne Bobbitt then no woman could have him. What better way for Mrs. Bobbitt to ensure this than to emasculate her husband. Ms. Greenberg further defends the vigilante actions of Mrs. Bobbitt when she calls it an ap- propriate punishment for the cnme. However, there was no crime committed on the part of Mr. Bobbitt! Mrs. Bobbitt is the criminal. She has been revealed Alum Speaks Highly of Term In Brazil To the Editor, I was recently infonned of the cancellation of the Brazil Tenn Abroad for Falll994-1995. As a past pruticipant of the Brazil Tenn Abroad. I would like to express my anger and disappointment at the Admiiti:.tratJor: ::Jecision. In Prec;ident Hull's inaugural speech, he said that, \'No student graduating in the last decade of the twentieth century can said to be educated unless he or she is at home in the world.\ In a world whose success hinges increas- ingly on its commitment to intel- lectual and cultural diversity, pro- viding students with exposure to developing nations such as Bra- zil becomes even more crucial. Eliminating the Brazil Term Abroad is ru1 alanning signal from an administration who says that it is trying to diversify Union's intellectual climate. Intellectual diversity is created by expanding, not eliminating programs such as Brazil's, which serve to foster in- tellectual and cultural diversity. The Brazil Tenn Abroad is rigor- ous and challenging, offering stu- dents a unique opportunity to study the role of women in de- veloping countries. The decision to cancel the Brazil Term Abroad suggests that diversifying Union's intel- lectual climate and curriculum is not a priority of the administra- tion. Union offers many Euro- pean Term Abroad programs. While significant, enriching stu- dents with the importance of di- versity is not their primary goal. If the administration is serious about increasing diversity at Union, it must offer programs which demonstrate its commit- ment. The decision to maintain all of Union's European Tenns Abroad at the expense of one of the few l11ird World one's is a step in the wrong direction. I hope that the administration takes a step in the right direction and reconsiders its decision to cancel the Brazil Term Abroad. Sincerely, Jennifer Holmes Class of '91 as a thief as she has stolen from employers; sbe has proven to be a violent maniac by mutilating her husband as he slept; most recently she has proven to be a pathologi- calliar by her perfonnance on the witness stand. Mrs. Bobbitt could have received 20 years in a Vir- ginia prison if convicted and I believe she would have said ab- solutely anything on the stand to avoid this. Think about it. Even if Mr. Bobbitt was guilty of abusing his wife, this would not have given her the right to muti- late him. If she was being abused why didn't she want a divorce? Why was she still having sex with him allegedly three times a day? IfMr. Bobbitt was guilty of abuse he should have been arrested. tried, convicted and sentenced. There are laws which protect women and they should be en- forced to the full letter of the law. We all live in a civilized soci- ety which is based on laws. We do not cut people's body parts off for crimes. This is the Twentieth Century not the Middle Ages. Further, citizens cmmot take the law into their own hands. With- out laws there would be anarchy. The acquittal ofLorrena Bobbitt on the grounds of insanity has set a very dangerous precedent. What will be the next acceptable reason to cut off a man's penis? Perhaps it will be because a man has bro- ken up with his girlfriend, or maybe a husband stays a little late at the office and his wife thinks he is having an affair. Where will it all end? The results of this case may lead to more violence against both men and women. Some women will think this action is acceptable and some men may perpetuate violence toward women in retaliation. Mrs. Bobbitt committed a crime and she should be in a Virginia prison right now. not a psychiatric center. Because of this travesty of justice the rela- tionship and trust between men and women could very well drop to an all time low. I agree with Ms. Greenberg that Brazil Term Abroad Clarified To the Editor: The letter from Professor Martha Huggins regarding the tenn abroad in Brazil was unfor- tunate in that. whether intended or not, it was quite misleading. Let us state the facts for the record: 1) The tenn abroad to Brazil was not canceled. It will be (ycled with the new tenn abroad in Kenya. It will be offered in the Fall 1995 academic tenn. There are absolutely no plans to cancel it unless it is seriously under en- rolled at the time. 2) The college is rxpandmg its tenn abroad offerings in develop- ing and non-European settings. We will start a new tenn in Kenya this fall and we are examining the possibilities of terms and ex- changes in Costa Rica. India and another country in Asia. 3) The college does not rou- tinely offer airfare subsidies to distant destinations and deny them to students studying in Bra- zil. Only students going to China (a developing country) and Japan currently receive a subsidy. The college is examining the subsidy policy. and Brazil is being in- c] udcd in the discussion. 4) The decision to cycle Brazil \Vas hascd on the following concems: l) the desire to have a tcnn abroad in Africa or a nation with a large Af- rican diaspora every year. 2) the desire to start Kenya immediately since many students (55 at last count) have expressed interest in that site, 3) the need to balance expensive and less expensive tenns in each year for budgetary reasons. Never was the possibil- ity of canceling the Brazil term considered by the administration. We are sure that professor Huggins is disappointed in not being able to direct the term abroad and go to Brazil (her area of research interest) next year. but it is misleading to leave the im- pression that either the commit- ment to Brazil or new tenns abroad in developing countries has dimin- ished. That is simply contrary to the facts. Terry Weiner Bill Thomas Who Canceled The Brazil Term Abroad? To the Editor: President Hull called me last week to say that he had not di- rected Dean Underwood and Terms Abroad Director William Thomas to cancel a term abroad. He had merely directed them to seek sources of savings within the Terms Abroad Program. I want to correct this error, because as an activist I appreciate the impor- tance of knowing where to put the pressure. Thus, it appears that Dean Underwood and William Thomas decided that the best way to economize in the Terms Abroad Program was to cut Brazil for the 1994-1995 academic year. After I had been told that there would be no term abroad to Brazil next year, I received a letter ( 1 /14/94) from Professor Thomas, sent to all faculty who have directed a term abroad, indicating the need to look for ways of cutting ex- penses within existing terms abroad programs. This letter, which came to me after Brazil had already been eliminated, makes it clear that Dean Underwood and Professor TI10mas wanted to first get rid of Brazil, and then seek savings within the other terms abroad programs. I was not even given an opportunity to suggest savings in the Brazil program (to determine if we could avoid cut- ting it). Clearly, Dean Underwood and Professor 1110- mas did not even seem to con- sider it worthwhile to gold off on cutting a tenn abroad program until they had detennined if suf- ficient savings could be achieved through less drastic means. I want to thank all of the stu- dents and faculty who have writ- ten letters and sent petitions to President Hull. I urge President Hull to reconsider his administra- tors' hastily conceived decision to eliminate the Brazil term abroad for I 994-199 5. It takes very little professional imagina- tion to cut programs; much more creativity and professional craft is required to face squarely the administrative task of making best use of contracting resources to maintain and expand what is good. If President Hull did not ask his administrators to cut a tenn abroad for 1994-1995, and if he has a genuine commitment to study abroad and to ctmicular challenge and diversity. then he wilJ want to reverse his admims- trators' decision. Martha Huggins Professor of Sociology it is illegal to have sex with your wife if she is not consenting. This is rape by any definition of the law. Furthennore, I advocate that all women should be re- spected. Nothing could bring more joy to a man than the Jove of a woman. Women and men cannot take the law into their own hands to resolve problems. Instead of all this violence and antipathy between men and women there should be more concern about s1mply loving each other. Ms. Greenberg stated in her article that John Wayne Bobbitt will have trouble finding a date. l11is may very well be the case due to the perfidious assault his wife committed on him. I sub- mit that Mrs. Bobbitt will also have trouble finding dates. That is, unless she can find a man who can sleep with one eye open. Sincerely, Steve Mackey Orientation Committee Selection is Announced To the editor. Once again it is time !l) start discussin,!! (\fll:ntatiPII lt •1 tilL\ Hp- coming year. her: ''inter the most impo11ant pat1 (\f the ori- entation takes place- selecting the orientation committee {the O.C.). It is wtth great anticipa- tion that I announce openings ft,r this committt:e. Iking a member on the Ori- entation committee takes hard work. commitment and patience. It is the committee's duty to choose the Orientation Advisors. and plan the social and academic events that will be taking place during the first four days of next year. The role of an orientation committee member is one that plays a big part in the life of ev- ery incoming Freshman. The committee's work is great but the satisfaction is far greater. Applications will be available at the Info. Booth and in Dean Schurick' s office today. They are due into Mrs. Facenda, in the Dean's office, by Monday Feb- ruary 7th noon. Orientation needs you! Sincerely. Chuck Rodman All letters to the editor must be submitted by 5PM on the Tuesday before publication. Box 2577

February 3, 1994, page 10 EXAMS FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE WINTER '94 This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate & Con• tinuing Studies courses will be announced, and stude.nts in Section \51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the examtime for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, Mareh 4th. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used~ ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR- Butterfield Hall HUMN - Humanities Bldg NWSE -North Wing, SIE Center PYCH- Psychology Bldg. STZH Steinmetz Hall ALUM - Alumrti Gym MONDAY, MARCH 14- 9:00-tl:OOAM FRN-145-01 GER-011-01 GER-120-01 PHY-017-01 PHY-017-02 PHY-017-03 PHY-018-01 PHY-018-02 SPN -011-01 SPN-011-02 Studies in the French Theater- L. Gates -HUMN 110 Basic German IT- S. Kellenter- HUMN 114 Intermediate German I - S. Kellenter- HUMN 114 General Physics I- S. Maleki- NWSE 112 General Physics I - M. Green - NWSE 116 General Physics I - G. Rodriguez -NWSE 1 I 4 General Physics II- C. Jones •NWSE 20 lA General Physics II- R. Khosropour- NWSE 210 Basic Spanish II - W. Garcia- HUMN 014 Basic Spanish II- A. Noel-Gosh- HUMN 112 MONDAY. MARCH 14 -1:00-3:00 PM BI0-016-01 BI0-140-01 BI0-150-01 CER-151-01 CHM-010-01 CHM-010-02 CHM-134-01 CSC-014-0l EC0-036-01 EGL-072-01 ESC-030-01 FRN-010-01 FRN-011-01 FRN-120-01 GE0-011-01 GER-010-01 HST-050-01 JPN-011-01 MER-033-01 MTH-030-01 MTH-100-01 PSY-020-01 SPN-010-01 ~j ; Introduction to Biology- L Fleishman- SSCI 016 Molecular Genetics- J.S. Horton- NWSE 322 Evolutionary Biology- J. Boyer- BAIL 201 Hydraulics- T. Jewell - BUTR 109 Fundamental Chemistry I- C. Weick· SSCI 014 Fundamental Chemistry I - M. Yin - BAIL 207 Organic Chemistry ill-S. Corlett- BAIL l 04 Information Processing • L. Almstead - STZH 108 Financial Markets -B. Lewis- SSCI 104 Literature of the New Nation - N. Shour- SSCI 012 Mechanics of Deformable Solids- M. Rivera- NWSE 210 Basic French I- L. Gates- HUMN 112 Basic French II- A. Leamon- HUMN 019 Intermediate French I -C. Laparra- HUMN 116 The Earth & Life through Time - J.I. Garver - BUTR 201 Basic German I- A. Warde- HUMN 115 Western Imperialism - E. Hansen - SSCI 112 Basic Japanese II- Y. Kahn- HUMN 113 Fluid Mechanics- A. Anderson - NWSE 222 Ordin Differential Equations - A. Seiken -BAIL 205 Orthogonal Functions- T. Bick- BAIL 102 Statistical Methods in Psychology- D.J. Bums- PYCH 213 Basic Spanish I- A. Noel-Gosh- HUMN.llO TUESDAY. MARCH 15-9:00-11:00 AM AAH-012-01 AMU-020-01 ANT-042-01 BI0-018-0J BI0-154-01 CER-015-01 CHM-012-0l CHM-012-02 CHM-150-01 CSC-011-01 EC0-012-02 EC0-034-01 EER-048-01 EGL-022-01 EGL-039-01 FRN-121-01 GRK-135-0l HST-026-01 HST·072-01 HST-112-01 HST-129-01 JPN-121-01 LAT-010-01 MER-022-01 MTH-010-01 MTH-028-01 MTH-070-01 PI-ll..-0 12-0 I PHL-012-02 PHY-140-01 PSY-010-01 RUS-011-01 RUS-121-01 SPN-120-01 SPN-120-02 wsT~to3-0I Intro to Art History - Part II - R. Phelan - ARTS 215 Music History I- H.A. Wilson -ARTS 313 Anthro & the Modem World - K. Brison - SSCI 110 Introduction to Biology II- P. Tobiessen, K. Williams- SSCI 016 Developmental Biology- B. Boyer- NWSE 114 Civil Engineering Computer Programming- E. Jones- BUTR 109 Fundamental Chemistry II - T. Werner- BAIL 207 Fundamental Chemistry II - D. Hayes- BUTR 204 Physical Chemistry I - J. Anderson - NWSE 222 Programming for Social Sciences- L. Almstead- STZH 106 Introduction to Economics- B. Reynolds- PYCH 102 Introduction to Financial Analysis -B. Lewis- SSCI 103 Semiconductor Devic~s & Circuits -E. Has sib- BUTR 106 Major American Authors -F. Gado- HUMN 116 Studies in Special Topics- P. Heinegg- HUMN 115 Intermediate French II - L. Gates - HUMN 014 Plato- M. Toher- HUMN 113 United States in World Arena- M. Jonas- SSCI 112 The Early History of the Jews - S. Berk - SSCI 1 04 Work & Workers in American History- F. Dudden- SSCI 012 Contemporary African/ American Thought- A. Miller- SSCI 014 Intermediate Japanese II- Y. Khan- HUMN 112 Principles of Latin I- J.S. Scullion - HUMN 110 Materials Science & Engineering - F. Milillo - NWSE 210 Calculus I- W. Zwicker- BAIL 201 Probability- T. LaBerge - ALUM 307 Fractals - M. Frame- BAIL 100 History ofWestem Philosophy- J. Ludwig- HUMN 114 History ofWestem Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 114 Quantum Mechanics- D. Peak- NWSE 303. A First Course in Psychology- L. Halpern- PYCH 113 Basic Russian II- B. Jordan- SSCI 213 Intermediate Russian II- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 213 Intermediate Spanish I - C. K. Connelly - BurR 300 Intermediate Spanish I - L. Martinez • HUMN 019 Contemporary African/American Thought- A. Miller- SSCI 014 TUESDAY. MARCH 15-1:00-3:00 PM ANT-010-01 ANT-035-01 BI0-046-01 CER-152-01 CHN-011-01 CHN-121-01 EC0-012-03 EC0-053-01 EGL-37b-01 GRK-OII-01 MER-Oll-01 MER-011-02 MER-026-01 MTH-018-01 MTH-101-01 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology - S. Leavitt· SSCI 014 Psychology ofLanguage- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 113 Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 213 Environmental Engineering I - P. Snow- BurR 300 Basic Chinese II- Lian Xi - HUMN 113 Intermediate Chinese II - Lian Xi • HUMN 113 Introduction to Economics - S. Schmidt • SSCI 104 The Economy of China- B. Reynolds - SSCI 110 Studies in Special Topics- N. Shour- HUMN 116 Principles of Greek II- J.S. Scullion· HUMN 019 Engineering Graphics I - R. Eggert- NWSE 222 Engineering Graphics I· M. Rivera- NWSE 201 Thermodynamics - R. Wilk - NWSE 210 Intro to Logic and Set Theory - W. Fairchild- BAIL 205 Advanced Calculus for Engineers - S. Niefield & K. Zimmerman ·BAIL 20 I TUESDAY, MARCH 15-1:00-3:00 PM CONTINUED PHI..-014-01 Introduction to Ethics- R. Baker- HUMN H5 P.HL-140-0l Knowledge and Skepticism- C. Womack- SSCI 105 PHY-040-01 Order and Chaos: Art and Magic- D. Peak- NWSE 112 PSC-012-02 Introduction to International Politics- A. Abootalebi- SSCll03 PSY -034•0 I The Psychology .of Language - T. IJ' Andrea, PYCH 11 3 PSY-046-01 IntroductiOn to Psychobiology • C. Weisse- PYCH 213 RUS-191-01 Russian Independent Study- N. Jemakoff -lrt.JMN 119 SOC-01 0-0 I Introduction to Sociology • R. Quaye - SSCI 112 SPN-121-01 IntennediateSpanishTI -M. O'Suna- NWSE 114 SPN-133-01 Survey of Peninsular Lit IT- W. Garcia- HUMN 112 WST-040-01 Studies in Special Topics • N. Shour- HUMN 116 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16-9:00-11:00 AM BI0-026-01 BI0-136-01 BI0-160-0'1 CER-035-01 CER-128\01 CLS-021-01 EC0-031-01 EC0-140-01 EER-143-01 HST-013-01 HST-014-0,J HST-035-01 HST-035-02 HST-036-01 HST-055-01 JPN-121-02 MER-041-01 MER-062-01 MTH-040-01 MTH-040-02 MTH-140-01 PHY-042-01 PHY-120-01 PSC-047-01 PSY-020-02 PSY-047-01 SPN-l49b-O 1 Cell Biology- G. Smith- BAIL 201 Mechanisms of Cell Regulation - B. Danowski - NWSE 116 Histology & Organology - W. Roth • NWSE 114 Water Resources & Environment- P. Snow- BUTR300 Structural Analysis - M. Mafi - BUTR 1 09 History of Greece- M. Toher • HUMN 115 Microeconomic Analysis- S. Yaisawarng- BAIL 207 Labor Economics - P. Prosper-SSCI 012 Electromagnetic Engineering I- Y. Chang· NWSE 201 History of U.S. to Civil War- F. Dudden- SSCI 103 History of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Feffer-HUMN 114 History of Europe I - E. Hansen - SSCI 112 History of Europe I-S. Sargent- HUMN 117 History of Europe II - J. Finkelstein.- SSCI 104 The Soviet Period-S. Berk- SSCI 014 Intermediate Japanese II- Y. Khan- SSCI 213 Engineering Design II - R. Eggert - NWSE ~ 1 0 Thermal Energy Conversion- F. Wicks - NWSE 222 Applied Linear Algebra- B. Johnson- ALUM 307 Applied Linear Algebra- W. Fairchild- BUTR 106 Linear Algebra- M. Frame- BAIL 100 Great Ideas of Modem Physics- J. McWhirter- NWSE 112 Astronomy and Astrophysics- A. Vanture- NWSE 303 Law and Public Policy - J. Board - SSCI 010 Statistical Methods In Psychology - K. DeBono- PYCH 213 Introduction to Health Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 Special Topic: Latin American Literature- L. Martinez- HUMN 019 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16-1:00-3:00 PM CHM-032-01 CHM-032-02 EER-041-01 EER-041-02 Organic Chemistry II- L. Hull - BUTR 204 Organic Chemistry II - J. Sow a- B UTR 204 Electrical Circuits- Y. Chang- NWSE 112 Electrical Circuits- Y. Chang- NWSE 112 THURSDAY, MARCH 17- 9:00-11:00 AM LAT-130-01 MTH-012-01 MTH-012-02 MTH-012-03 MTH-012-04 MTH-012-05 MTH-014-01 MTH-014-02 MTH-014-03 MTH-058-01 MTH-058-02 Catullus and Horace- J.S. Scullion- HUMN 213 Calculus II - A. Taylor -BAIL I 00 Calculus II - J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 207 Calculus II- J. Sauerberg- BAIL 201 Calculus II- J. Sauerberg- BAIL 201 Calculus II- B. Johnson- SSCI 104 Calculus III- A. Seiken -BAIL 205 Calculus III- T. LaBerge - BAIL 203 Calculus III- W. Zwicker- BAIL I 02 Appl of Math to Eco & Mgt - J. Muckenfuss - BAIL 207 Appl of Math to Eco & Mgt - B. Johnson - SSCI I 04 THURSDAY, MARCH 17- 1 :00-3:00 PM AAH-020-01 ACC-010-01 BI0-062-01 CER-022-01 CLS-024-0.1 EC0-141-01 EER-144-01 EGL-022-02 EGL-024-01 EGL-046-01 ESC-015-01 GE0-031-01 PHL-132-01 SOC-010-02 Classical Art & Architecture- L. Matthew -ARTS 215 Survey of Accounting - D. Arnold - NWSE 116 World Agriculture- C. George & P. Tobiessen- BAIL I 06 Civil Engineering Materials -A. Ghaly- BUTR I 09 Classical Art & Architecture- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 Monetary Economics - E. Motahar- SSCI I 04 Communication Systems I - E. Hassib- NWSE 114 Major American Authors- L. Slade- HUMN 117 Modem American Literature- B. Wineapple- HUMN 116 Modem Drama- A. Frazier- HUMN 114 Numerical Methods and C - N.M. Mazur- NWSE 222 Mineralo!:,>y- K. Hollocher- B UTR 20 I Modem Phil: Descartes- Leibniz- J. Ludwig- HUMN 119 Introduction to Sociology- J. Grigsby; SSCI 112 FRIDAY, MARCH 18- 9:00-11:00 AM AAH-030-01 ACC-010-02 CLS-031-01 ECO-Of2-0l GMI-150-01 JPN-190-01 JPN-191-01 PSY-010-02 PSY-030-01 PSY-050-01 STA-110-01 Renaissance Art & Architecture- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis -BAIL 207 Survey of Ancient Epic- J. Marin cola- HUMN 116 Introduction to Economics- E. Motahar - SSCI I 03 Organizational Theory- S. Lehr-man- BAIL 201 Japanese Independent Study- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 113 Japanese Independent Study- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 113 A First Course in Psychology- S. Greenberg- PYCH 113 Personality· D, Spring • D. Spring • PYCH I 02 Educational Psychology- J. Campito -PYCH 213 Intra to Statistical Methods I - R. A. Bowman -BAIL 205 FRIDA v. MARCH is -1 :oo-3:oo PM AMU-037-01 CSC-040-01 EGL-023-0l HEB-Oll-01 PSC-011-01 PSC-039-01 PSC-088-0 l PSY-024-01 SOC-024-01 SPN-121-02 WST-086-01 Music oflndia-_T.W. Ross -ARTS 313 Machine & Assembly -G. Williams - NWSE 112 The American Short Story- F. Gado - HUMN 117 BaSic Hebrew II- D. Heckelman - HUMN 112 Intro to American Politics- T. Merchant-Shapiro- SSCI I 03 Feminists Theorize the Political- P.A. Meyers- SSCI 010 Politics of the Middle East- A. Abootalebi - SSCI 014 Social Psychology- K. De'Bono- PYCH 113 Social Psychology- K. DeBono- J>YCH 113 Intermediate Spanish II - M. Tornatore - HUMN 116 Feminists Theorize the Political - P.A. Meyers- SSCI 0 I 0

#.\ -· ~~- -- z·z - ---~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT February 3, 1994, Page 11 You Don't Haye to Go to New Orleans for Ma,rdi Gras UNION COLLEGE DEPRRTMENT OF Y I SUfiL RRTS presents: Courtesy of Proctor's Tl1eatre Mardi Gras returns this year to Proctor's Theatre on Friday, Feb- mary 11, 1994, with America's Premier Cajun Band-Beausoleil and the rockin' Zydeco Blues Band-Buckwheat Zydecko. No group has be_en more re- sponsible for spreading the infec• tious joy of Cajun music across the world than Beausoleil. Formed in Louisiana in 1975 by fiddler Michael Doucet, Beausoleil established themselves as the leading ambassadors af Cajun music with sold out per- sonal appearances fromUCLA to Carnegie Hall. They can be heard on several film soundtracks, back- ing Mary Chapin Carpenter on her hit single \Down at the Twist and Shout,\and on a string of success- fill albums from 197'7' s The Spirit ojCajunMusic to 1991's Cqjun CoJ1ja. As four-time Graminy nominees, Beausoleil is a phe- Jo1n us for some Louisiana style fare offered in Proctor's Arcade at 6 P.M. nomenally popular touring band, headlining more than 100 con- certs and festivals a year. Also on the bill, is what has been called \mainstream's first king of exuberant accordian-fired dance music\- Buckwheat Zydecko. Stanley \Buckwheat\ Dural was the first zydecko artist signed to a major label, which eventually led this band, to four Grammy nominations. With 11 albums to his credit, as well as performances with U2, Eric Clapton and Los Lobos, Dural is at the forefront of the revival of zydecko. Join us for some Louisiana style fare offered in Proctor's Arcade beginning at 6 P.M. for an addi- tional charge. The menu will con- sist of jambalaya, crawfish 'etoufee, rice and beans, vegetar- ian gumbo, bayou pasta salad, Cajun fries, king cake, french quarter coffee and of course, Voo Doo Beer. Tickets for Mardi Gras at Proctor's are $18.50. The show starts at 8 P.M .. Tickets are avail- able at Proctor's Box Office at (518) 346-6204 and all Ticketmasters locations. Groups of20 or more may arrange for dis- counted tickets by calling Proctor's. Mardi Gras is spon- sored by Young Friends of Proctor's. MICHELE MRRINCDLR CONSERURTDR RT THE £:LOISTERS MUSEUM liiUING R TRLK ENTITLED: · \TUJO ·HERDS RRE BEITER THRN ONE; THE IDENTIFICRTION R/'110 RECONSTRUCTION OF R ROMRN COLOSSUS FROM EPHESUS\ Tuesday, February 8, 1994 10:00 am - Arts Building Room 215 Sponsored by The Walter li. Bal<er Endowment and The Department of IJisual Rrts Open to the Public Free Hdmlsslon Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Good Son\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. . STEEL MAGNOLIAS: Home Made TI1eater of Saratoga Springs presents Robert Harling's funny and powerful play. 8:15p.m., $14,$12,587-4427. SATURDAY,FEBRUARY5 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, February 4 STEEL MAGNOLIAS: See Friday, February 4 SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 6 ALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY & ART BIRTHDAY BASH: Festivities from 12:30 to 5:00, including Gallery tour, ballet performance, cake, etc. FREE, 125 Washington Ave, Albany, 463-4478. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. ·FILM: see Friday, February 4 MONDAY. FEBRUARY 7 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, February 4 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8 SOPRANO SONY A GABRIELLE BAKER TO PERFORM . CLASSICS: Will be accompanied by pianist William Jones, perfonning classical music and traditional spirituals. 12 noon, at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, corner of State and Second St., Troy, 273-0038. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10 AFRICAN AMERICANS IN EARLY ALBANY: A slide lecture by Project Director Stefan Bielinski, 12-4 p.m., Free, New York State Museum, 474-5877. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 11 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Malice\, 8 & 10 p.m., $2. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: See Friday, February 4 SATURDAY.FEBRUARY12 MICHAF~L FEINSTEIN AND NANCY WILSON: Proctor's Theater~ $33.50, $30.50, $25.50. 346-6204 . STEEL MAGNOLIAS: See Friday, Febriiary 4 . CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: JANUARY 21 -MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic surveying Instm- ments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: SUNY artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 JANUARY 20 - FEBRUARY 6 PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHINA: Four Chinese photogra- phers. Union College, Arts Building, 2nd floor photo gallery. 388- 6201. THROUGH FEBRUARY 6 LEGACY OF THOMAS COLE: Selections from the Pennanent Collection: Albany Institute of History and Art, Albany, 463-4478. THROUGH FEBRUARY 6 MARTIN BENJAMIN AND SANDY WIMER: Photo- graphs and prints. Union College, Schenectady, 3 88-620 1. JANUARY 22 -JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany. 464-4478. FEBRUARY 18 -MARCH FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Includes 19th centruty signage, horse power, washing machines, Harley Davidson Motorcycle with side car, 19th century architectural woodwork, restored portraits and paintings. New York State Museum. 474-5877. THROUGH MARCH 13, 1994 ALONE IN A CROWD: Prints of the 1930's-40's by African American Artists from the collection of Reba and Dave Williams. New York State Museum. 474-5877. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff

February 3, 1994, page 12 FEATURES Take a Trip Through Your Imagination by Michelle Rosenbaum Features Writer It is the fifth week and we are all tired. We are tired of the snow, cl~ses, the cold weather, the bud- get crisis, wearing ugly boots and of lack of sleep. Now it is time we all took a minute and relaxed. Close your eyes, sit'on a com- fortable chair and don't talk to anyone for a few minutes. I hope everyone is very relaxed. Are you ready for a trip through your imagination? Think of colors, every color, but not white! Think .of green, blue and especially the warm color red. Now put all colors into perspective. Green is on palm trees, which bring a slight shade above your head. Blue is warm water in the ocean and the sky which reflects it. Red and yel- low is the blazing sun upon you. There are also pretty colored flowers on the edge of the beach. It is very quiet, but there could be slight music if you chose. Definitely not Christmas music. Instead, there is a reggae band and you hear the light beat of the conga drums off in the distance. The main noise heard is basically seagulls and the swish of the waves hitting the rocks. The tide is low, so it is a quiet noise. The smell is of coconut and pineapple. You have Ban De Soleil sl:l.lltan lotion on. There is also the smell of the sand burn- ing from the hot sun. As you lay there, you smell the hot summer air. It is a warm, comfortable, soothing smell. You take a sip of your piiia colada or your strawberry dai- quiri. It is cold, but refreshing while laying under the eighty de- gree sun. It is the perfect thirst . quencher and it tastes so good and fresh. In the drink, there is a little umbrella which yeu take out and affix in the sand. You are laying on your brightly colored towel with your hands dug into the hot sand. You have no worries, no stress. You feel wann and comfortable. You go into the water to cool off. The water is wann, like a bath tub as you relax in the water on a float. The only real worry you have is if you have enough lotion on to prevent a sunburn. This is your own personal es- cape island. No two are the same. There are different sounds, sights, and experiences. One thing which is similar, is the warmth and sun. Something we have not felt in a long time! So, although you are cold and depressed from this awful win- ter, escape into your imagination for a while. It will keep you sane, I promise! You can do it. Only five weeks left of the cold, and soon you will really be out enjoy- ing the sun and warmth. Don't give up! It will happen. We are not in the land .of no sun, although it may feel that way. Union's Revolutionary Greeks The Saga Continues by Karen Peppiatt Contributing Writer Every year, as sorority Rush appJQfl~h~~~ w.,e JIJy,H9IT19fW4.~q QY, Union students criticizing the heartlessness of the sorority sys- tem. Independents, fraternity brothers, professors, coaches and even parents admonish Union's Greek women, every year, for being part of such shallow, elitist societies. Not many of these crit- ics, though, have ever bothered to ask a sorority member her opin- ion of the system before making these rash and judgmental state- ments. If one did ask a sister of any house on this campus of her opin- ion, the chances are that the woman would wholeheartedly agree that the system definitely sucks! Therefore, Union Greek women have been attempting to change the system. But change does take time and we hope that in the very near future there will be a completely de-formalized Rush. I am sure that sorority members would like this more than any of our very concerned critics. Thanks to the Panhellenic Council, the first attempts for de- formalization were made this year with great success and hopefully they will continue toward a bet- ter system in the upcoming years. But, again, it does take time that could be spent concentrating on how. !\1~ G~~~k. wmnen of the cainpus have taken the initiative to improve the system, rather than sit back and idly accept our cir- cumstances. Everyday, com- plaints can be heard from the masses of students at the College Center about every aspect of cam- pus life, and yet how many of these students attempt to bring about any change? Your Greek women should be commended for their efforts, instead of bashed for a system, which they neither like, nor created. Union is a school which began the tradition ofGreek fraternities in this country and for the women to have an equal stand with the men we need to have strong so- rorities and begin building tradi- tions of our own. Perhaps as the fraternities at Union have been acknowledged for changing so- rority systems around the coun- try, and bringing them into the present, where women are equal to men. It is unacceptable that in 1994, many universities and even state laws still consider groups of women living together in a resi- dence, where alcohol is served, a brothel. It is scary that this is still the mentality of so many people, but it is against this sexist attitude that Union's Greek women are fighting. The Greek women are not the evit elitist girls, tdfing scandal- ous stories late into the night, that the campus seems to think they are. Instead, they are trying to create powerful societies of intel- ligent and sensible women on the same level as the men of this cam- pus. This campus needs it's so- rorities, and especially sororities that are actively trying to improve their own system. It is time to stop bashing sororities and time to begin seeing them in the same light as the Union community sees fraternities. The disappoint- ment a girl may encounter while going through sorority Rush is no different than the disappoint- ments experienced by a guys go- ing through fraternity Rush when they don't get into the house of their choice, and yet all we hear about is the cruelty of the soror- ity sy-stem. Women have been put down long enough- the Union commu- nity should move out of the stone age, and begin to support their so- rorities as they try to move into the future. ''And The Band Played On A movie that chronicles AIDS from the beginning. Based on the award winning book by Larry Shilts. Sponsored by HBO and Residence Life Tuesday, February 8th at 7:00 pm College Center Auditorium Reception and Discussion following the film. ,,

~· -..' • r _____ __._..... - FEATURES February 3, 1994, page 13 The Disease Spreadi;ng Across Campus .......... Racism Some Obviously Don't Understand the Phrase ''Many Faces ........ One Union\ Do You? by Bharat Nirvani Co11cordiensis Staff ·It's when we treat somebody differently because of .his skin color, religion, or beliefs. It's when we treat somebody differ- ently because of his. accent, sexual preference, or ideas. It's when we are afraid. And sadly enough, it's when we are afraid of one and another. It's ALL rac- ism, .and it's all real. \Go home you fuckin' nigger!\ is a statement full of hate and full of anger~ it is a statement that is very noticeably written in the right stall of the men's bathroom at Humanities. Doesn't it make you wonder what kind of person, or people, would (take the time to) write such an ignorant, blind remark?One would think that in- dividuals in colleges, the \higher\ institutions of learning, might understaud the concept behind \many faces ... one dark skin: \How can you tell when you're dirty?\ - Individuals at the College Center on a Saturday night recit- ing their worst ethnic slurs and imitatingtheirbest ethnic accents to a \cornered\ Asian student. Union.\ But they just don't: \Union College is not immune to this disease [Wait a minute, maybe they were drunk. Not an ex- cuse. And no -· Swas- tika signs scribbled all over desks and walls. lmown as Racism. It exists here, but people choose to look the other way. Well, matter how tbis.a,pathy has to stop.\ --------....------ much every- -. Phrases like \Niggers be- long here\ written on bathroom stalls. one was laughing and enjoying the \performance it was not funny. Not funny at all]. -Someone asking a person of - Students receiving harassing LOEWS: ''Sit Back, Relax and Enjoy the Show'' .. NOT by Erin O'Neil Features Editor As I grow older I realize there are certain things r take for granted. For example, being able to stay up as late as I want on a school night, not having to hold someone's hand when crossing the street... gosh, I don't even live with my parents anymore. I was existing right along in this state of mind, when all of a sudden- WHAM! I was back in first grade again. I was grounded. I was carded at the LOEWS movie the- atre. All this may sound petty to you, but you cannot fully realize the magnitude ofthe situation unless you were actually there. So with my characteristic honesty I will now attempt to reenact the scene as it truly happened just hours ago. I'm still a bit shaken up, so bear with me. It was a brisk winter's ni'ght when four friends and myself de- cided it might be a nice idea to get away from campus and take in a movie. We piled into the car, all of us filled with anticipation. We were going to see the new Sharon Stone movie- everyone knows you have to be a grown up to see a Sharon Stone movie, but we are grown ups (technically), so we were allowed. We pulled into the parking lot laughing and singing, and we just couldn't get into the theatre fast enough. So there we are, standing in line, money in hand, ready to pur- chase our tickets, when the blonde power-tripping popcorn girl be- hind the counter sneered, \May I see some J.D. please?\ We all stared back blankly. \I:D.?\ she asked again, looking tough as . nails- let me tell you. \Are you serious?\ someone piped up at last. \Of course I'm serious,.it's company policy that we cannot sella ticket to an R-ratedmovie without checking the customer's I.D.\ No sooner had the words escaped her lips when two teen- agers behind us asked if they could go ahead of us, seeing as though we weren't getting any- where fast. Never have a seen a person transform so quickly. Popcorn bitch now had a smile of pure gold, \Hello ladies, ,welcome to LOEWS. What ticket can I get for you?\ \We'd really like to see the new Sharon Stone movie, I heard there was a lot of sex and dirty words and stuff.\ said one of the girls, who had braces by the way. Braces. Come on. I got my braces off in high school, when I was fifteen. Train tracks meant nothing to our polyester- vested tyrant; \Here are your tickets ma'am, you have a great show now!,\ she gushed. \Hey wait a minute!,\ yelled my friend, \Why didn't you ask her how old she is?\. \Fine. she growled, and turned to brace face, \I'm terribly sony to bother you ma'am, but would you mind if I asked your age?\ \Twenty- five,\ the teen giggled, and ran into the theatre. Try sixteen. No, try thirteen. Anyway, so these toddlers are going to· see Sharon Stone, and here we are, five ma- ture Union College students fac- ing off with Miss Linda Loews herself. We decided to try reason with her. \Listen miss,\ started one friend, \I don't mean to be a pain in the ass but...\ before he could complete his sentence the pop- corn pusher, whines, \Well you are!\ shoves by him and storms off towards a doorway. \I'd like to talk to your superior!,\ my friend called after her. She turned and shot him her evil death glare. We all looked at each other in as- tonishment. I .speak not on1y for myself when I say we were a good-looking, clean-cut, bunch of college students, certainly not troublemakers. Why was this happening to us? Why? Just then another popcorn pusher resembling Meatloaf reached over the counter and grabbed my friend by the collar. \Hey man, you stop messing with Gina, she's my babe and she's the assistant manager- you mess with her, you mess with me.\ He was interrupted by the sound of a slamming door. Before us loomed an enonnous gorilla-like woman, accompanied by Gina, her evil troll. \Who dare enter my theatre without proper identifica- tion?\ she bellowed. Three of us presented her with our drivers licenses, which she scrutinized to make sure we hadn't tampered with the date. \Well I will allow you to go to the movie, but real- ize I'm doing you a favor.\ I snapped. I stabbed her thir- teen times with my Swiss Anny knife,. and the five of us walked iu no problem. As for the movie, I'm not sure if it was worth the effort. Make your sweetheart's wish come true.· Give your honey a Ar flower for Valentine's Day. On Sale for $1. In the College Center through Friday All proceeds go to the Starlight Foundation and Sight Conservation Aid to the Blind. calls in the middle of the night that proclaim the dominance of the \white race.\ That's our Union College. Be- hind those wonderful pictures of the Nott Memorial that captivate every high school senior's imagi- nation, is a place in .secret turmoil. This is what a Brother of a frater~ nity here on campus had to say: \Take a group of men and give them a house of their own. Par- ties, dances, jokes .... Very com- mon. Sometimes, the jokes told are racially motivated. But they are jokes after all. What happens though, when these same [ideas behind the] jokes \spill out\ of the house? Is the joke still a joke? It's one thing when you are \home\ with your brothers, sitting, drink- ing, and just fooling [around]. It's another when the fooling and the ethnic jokes carry over [to the] outside. This kind of stuff just makes you wonder about the guys you've been living with for the past year. I mean, they aren't rac- ists, are they?\ Is the aforemen- tioned thought illustrating closet racism? Without a doubt, this is a tough question to answer; and one to think about. Sadly, this aspect of different colors and .religions is common to \both sides.\ There was the in- cident on campus of a girl animat- edly telling her Asian, guy friend about her plans to rush a sorority. · This ~as his resp'onse. to her: \Why do you have to be hanging out with those white people for, anyway? They don't care [for you]. What, you want to be a sell- out?\ This fear and ignorance (on both sides) has also led to a very unique kind of segregation here at Union: Self-inflicted segrega- tion! A novel term, wouldn't you say? This is what it means: A Wednesday like any other Wednesday. The time is 6:30, early evening. West dining hall is packed. But one notices a very boisterous pattern in the seating arrangement. As a whole, the \white\ students are discussing sports, politics, and their last Cal- culus exam on the left side of the dining hall, while the \other\ stu- dents discuss the very same thing, but on the right side. The \other\ refers to the African American, Asian, and Latino stu- dents here on campus. Why do we have to be so close- minded, so afraid of one and an- other that we separate ourselves from one another? Self inflicted segregation, and we know it! A Wednesday like any other Wednesday. In closing, I will try and answer the following question: Why was this piece written? That is, racism is universal, so why bring it up? Why write about it? True, racism is universal and malignant. But what makes it even more danger- ous is when someone smiles and says \hello\ to a \colored\ per- son, and then \Go home you fuckin' nigger\ on bathroom stalls. Any person, who would think about, and take the time to do such a thing are very sick and very capable. Union College is not immune to this disease known as Racism. It exists here, but people choose to look the other way. Well, this apathy has to stop. When some- one goes around scribbling Swas- tika signs all over campus, notre- ali~ing the qu;mber·ofhuman l?e;· ings that were ni'assacred'because l of that evil emblem, and when someone writes racial remarks on walls or makes threatening phone calls proclai!Jling the superiority ofhis ''white race,\ something has to be done. What this 'something' is, is really very simple: We, as individual students, have to ap- preciate the rich, cultural differ- ences that make our neighbors ... well, our neighbors! Think about it. - A humble thank-you to all those individuals who took the time to share with me their views and experiences concerning rac- ism at Union College. The Hale Writers' Forum of the Department of English of Union College Presents: 1946 --Poems-- Matthew Graham A reading of Poetry Wednesday, February 16th. 8:00pm Humanities Faculty Lounge- 2nd Floor Free and Open to the Public

February -3, 1994, page 14 Person.als Cherie, tu m'as beaucoup manque ce weekend? Sweetie \What you talkin' about Willis?\ Cute cation Seeks strong nucleo- phile with whom to bond; the stronger the bonds the better (please no dispersions). Was just involved in an elimination reac- tion. (I was the leaving group) and now seeking good substitu- tion reaction. Jim, TI1anks for introducing me to Bonnie and Clyde. I must ad~ mit that I was reluctant. Come back to the theatre sometime soon. To my concerned ex-es. Virginia is hardy and the storm will pass soon. Thanks for the love. Have faith ski-boy. You won't need Grenada. To my mud tutors: Ok, so you are opinionated, and I can't deny this used to bother me. Ok, you are confrontational. That both- ered me too. But you are great Bunny. Love, Union Snow man seeks Snowwoman for Artie Adventure! High ranking newspaper worker seeking gorgeous young woman to relieve tension ... To: Hig11 Altitude You guys made me proud! Only two more games to go. We can do it! Just gotta believe. P.S. Bump, set, ... duck?? --The Big B. Large rodent living in Fraternity basement seeking friend with whom to share skunked beer! Hey Kessler, way to catch that bottle!!! To the new member class of SDT, put on your crash helmets girls you're in for a long bumpy ride! Love, the sisters of SDT To the pledge classes of Gamma Phi Beta, Delta Gamma, Tri- Delt- congratulations and good luck! Love, the sisters of SDT Queen Nephertiti: Be happy, smile and remember that I'll be here whenever you need to talk! Jerry. Boom Boom and Nepher: had a great time Sunday morning-same time next week??? Thanks to the Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta and Richmond Second Floor for helping me get through this week. Seniors who attended the NYC Recruiting Day: did you remeber to write a thank you note to the recruiter(s)? We have their busi- ness cards at the CDC! To BIG \I never return a phone call unless my life is on the line\ RED: Thanks for putting up with me. Sorry I've been so sour lately. I will be more blunt about what I am thinking from now on. I WANT TO SEE YOU! Comes to mind. We need to talk about .......... the future. Love you. Me Gay male looking for warm, sin- cere, man with a sense of humor. Reply to Box 1383 A. SWF seeking male hunk with a twisted sense of humor for kinky ftm. Interested? Write to me at Box 1383 B. Nice Jewish male, 20, br/br, 5'8\ 150lbs, seeking SWJF 18-22 who is not into the frat scene. Reply to Box 1383 C. GWM, 19, 6'1\ bllbr, 180#, ISO GM for fun and romance. Seri- ous replies only to Box 1383 D. 18 yr old white female looking for female between 18-25 for an ex- cellent time. Reply to Box I 3 83 E. Newspaper editor seeking psy- chotic older woman. Skill with knives a must!!! Reply to Box 1383 F. SWF seeks SM. Must have a nice body, personality, and intellect. Must like intercourse in public places. Spontaneity and adventurousness desired. All re- plies serious and otherwise to Box 1383 G. Local Farmer seeking female to drive tractor, must be well versed in use of manual transmission. Reply to Box 1383 H. SWM, 20, 6'1\ 180LBS, bl/bl, in search of SWF 18-21. I love na- ture, enjoy quite evenings, and am from Maine!!! Serious only to Box 1383 I. Are you lonely, little girl? Need someone to love and cuddle? Well, you're in luck this week. I am God's gift to women. Write to me and worship me. Reply to Box 1383 J. SJM, 20, 6'2\ 195LBS body builder, Class of'95, biology ma- jor, ISO of any female for com- pany. Reply to Box 1383 K. Old man winter looking for younger woman to be his ray of sunshine! Serious only to Box 1383 L. Good looking Jewish male seeks a woman who is equally psy- chotic. Must like all nighters and Lorraina Bobbit should be your role model. Send all replies to Box 1383 M. To psycho weirdo: How about a three a.m. snack? -The yipee kid. To buttcheese: you are queaar Soiferhead: who's our roomate? ST. Thomas Here we come. I can't wait for spring term ... Soon we will cross the brook and I will lose your calculator. CAMPUS NEWS Classitieds - . ., . $700/wk Canneries; $4500/mo deckhands. Alaska summer fisheries now hiring. Employ- ment Alaska 1(206)323-2677 Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-$4000/mo. teaching basic conversational English in Japan, Taiwan, or South Korea. No teaching background required. For more information call: (206) 632- 1146 ext. J5188 GREEKS & CLUBS EARN $50-$250 FOR YOURSELF plus up to $500 for your club! This fundraiser cost nothng and lasts one week. Call now andre- ceive a free gift. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 65 SUMMER JOB: American Vil- lage Program, Vermont, Mon- tana, or France,. offers staff teach- ing positions working iwht young people. See the CDC for more information. SUMMER JOB: Deparmtne of Navy, Washington, DC is offer- ing employment in a research laboratory. Deadline, February 11, I 994. See the CDC for more information. SUMMER JOB: Yellowstone Park ServiceStations, Wyoming, offers a variety of staff positions for the National park. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER PROGRAM: GTE Laboratories, MA, is offering positions in an undergraduate re- search program. Deadline is Marchg 10, 1994. See the CDC for further details. The CDC has many more listins for summer jobs and internships. Stop by the office and see if there is something for you. UNION COLLEGE Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowship A vailabe Get pais $2000 to do research with a Union College professor Free room for the summer You MUST apply with a faculty mentor Pick up applications and guide- lines from the Deans' Office S 100 Sci. Ctr. Final application due March 2nd Are you aware of educational programs or events on Campus, that transmit infor- mation about: (check all that apply) 1) NUTRITION 2) EATING DISORDERS 3) BODY IMAGE Are these programs beneficial, informative, pertinent? YES NO What programs would you like to see instituted in the future Please give you suggestions or comments WHEN COMPLETED DROP IN BOX PROVIDED BY MAILROOM CONVENIENCE STORE Hey, you don't need a Harvard degree to ski for less at Stratton. Just a college ID~ Present it at any Stratton ticket window and you can ski for $10 off any Sunday thru Friday! ($5 off Saturdays and holidays.) So, c'mon, do the ski thing, and get 92 mind- bending trails, a speedy 57 -cabin gondola and all the downhill your brain can take! Heck, with great savings like this, you can ski all year and not be a poor student. * Must be 25 years of age or less, with other supporting !.D. (license). VERMONT ---~- --~- ----------~-- ~ -

SPORTS ,· February 3, 1994, page 15\ : ~'·tr~:l.•····~·t· ·e•·· .. x o··, .f·. t·h· · ,e. ·W· ·. ···e .. e. k• . . -/~ ,,.::.::11.·._ -~· ..<.- ·_.:-, ·--.. _. ' \- -- .. -\. '.:·· .:- ·~,:· d . p . .aD\.· .. :re.a : agnozzt ...,...__...,...__--,.......,_...__. .·- people out there who like to see by Mike Leding - the numbers. If Andrea had Concordiensis Staff called me back or if sports edi- tor Dagan LaCorte would have This marks the first time this picked up the infonnation from terin that a female athlete has the athletic department this ar- ' won the Athlete of the Week, the ticle would be filled with fun award that all athletes on this loving statistics and player campus are fighting for. This analysis's, but oh well no one female from Crestkill, New Jer- seems to care anymore, they sey is none other than the Lady treat this award as a complete ·. Dut~hmen' s Basketball teams farce, a joke, nothing substan- Ieading scorer Andrea Pagnozzi. rial. Not me though, if I ever . I have been chasing her down for won this award I would send weeks now and like other fe- copies of the article to eight mil- The Union College Hockey Team & Staff . males on this campus she won't lion of my closest friends. Ac- . l\etum my calls; however, I de- tually just as I speak Andrea did cided to go ahead and give her call me back. First girl at Union the award anyway. Since An- ever to do that. Well I had a nice drea would not talk to me I had chat with her, she is very deserv- . to get the low down on lier from ing of this award. Don't I feel · her teammate Michele like an idiot. &leinhaus. Well after that phone call ev- Would like to thank all the loyal . fans for their great support at both the RPI - Union Games on January 14th & 15th . ::X' As the team's record stands erything in this article has been '·· . are 7-9 last losing toAibany verified. rn end this article on five points. There next op- a quo_te from her reboundingter• . ponent is Middlebury~ the team ror ·teammate Michele Having your support means a lot to the team. Thank you again for being there! }{)Oks really detennined to crush Kleinhaus. Michele had this to the'Jil. 1 have been watching say about Andrea, \She's these ladies practice and they Great.\ Well that just about . )ookt@~fly deteanine4Jn g~t off~ sums it up don ~t you think. To tllts Io$fugstr.eak and tutntliings . the rest of you athletes don't aro · · · · !:~~0~~~: ~~: :s~~~~g; a · botnet tryitfg this we~k becau~~ Jtq~fk\~fs~. ~~~~~,tJ~~~,.a ·I already knew'Wh'o\tt·is 1 goi:ng UNION COLLEGE Department of Biological Sciences The Biology Department and The Biology Club Present \Dynamic Light Scattering from Actin Networks: A Model System for Cellular Cytoplasm\ Dr. Jay Newman Physics Department Union College · Thursday, February·3, 1994 Social Sciences 103 4:40p.m. ~ Refreshments 4:30 p.m. . gamif~lla'ft'?s~ · . . \ '1'9'· p<itn1s a to:·be~fie){'fWeete.- So gt:niliead . game for 'y.(niJess intelligent and break a leg anyway. by; CANCUN PACKAGE INCLUDES: *Round- Trip Air *7 Nights Hotel *Roundtrip Transfers *On Site Staff/Office *All Hotel Taxes and Tips *$150 Worth of Free Parties/Discounts Special Offer!! Organize a small group of friends and you will travel to Cancun FREE! College Tours is proud to be the only nation-wide operator serving students for over 25 years! For more information call: 1 (800) 959-4786

February 3, 1994 PAGE16 Women's Swimming Dominates Hartwick; Men's Swimming Impressive Despite Loss by Lee Schacter Associate Sports Editor For the first time this season, the Men's and Women's Swim- ming and Diving teams split a meet, as the women clobbered the Hamilton team, 14 7-94, and the men were edged out, 135-108. The men, however, broke three school records in their loss. It was a strong meet overall for the Swimming Dutchmen. TI1e women's shellacking of the Hamilton women was impres- sive since the Hamilton women are a strong team, even though they don't figure to be in the top three at the State Championships. Union took first in all but one event, and the score would have been even worse if the Union women didn't swim the last relay in exhibition. Kelly Bevan led the way with three individual victo- ries; qualifying for the \B\ cuts for the National Championships in two eventsw a remarkable feat in any case, but especially at this stage of the season. She quali- fied in the 200 yard individual medley and the 200 yard breast- stroke. Also placing first in at least one event were Jenn Allaire, Jenn Terrell, Jenn Baldwin, Eri Hayashi, Jackie Crane, Jonatha Meade, Natasha Zabka in both diving events, and CeCe ~. Buchanan. Scoring points (not an 1; · easy feat- when I swam, I almost ~ never scored points) were Alyson ~ <.J McKee, Mo O'Donnell, Jen 2 Borey, Jen Davidson, Anne~ Rozwadowski, Julie Ivanyi, Erica£ Saltz, Lindsey Johnston, Amy ..2 Ambrosini, and divers Nicole 2 0· \\\\\' ..<:: Men's Swimming ojftlre blocks in tlreir race tlzis weekend against Hamilton. Women's Swimmer performs tile breast stroke in win over Hamilton. (Piroto by Scott Druckemiller for Tire Concordiensis.) Rubin and Amy Lamphere. It was clearly an all-around team effort. TI1e Union Men's team was defeated by the Hamilton men, who are expected to be fighting for the top spot at States with ·union and Hartwick. The Hamilton men won a battle, but the war is not over. Union won both relays and .five individual events: two each by freshmen ph en oms Kevin Makarowski and Mike Humphreys, and one by Scott Bowden. In addition, Makarowski overtook school records in both the 200 yard indi- vidual medley and the 500 yard freestyle, while Mike Humphreys took the school record in the 200 yard backstroke. Involved in the winning relays were Chris Yousey, Robbie Johnson, Bill Humphreys, Mike Humphreys, Than Stuntz, Chris Riley, and Makarowski. Also scoring points for the Dutchmen were John Fitzgerald, Chip Quarrier, Drew Pirich, and divers Chris Bryan and Vinnie Obermeier. Even though in defeat, it was a strong performance for the men's team. The Swimming Dutchmen now move on to take on Hobart and St. Lawrence in the same meet this Saturday at 2:00pm at our very own Alumni Gym pool. So take a couple hours out of your free time and come cheer on the team- it will definitely be worth your time. This is your last chance to do so until the State Championships on February 24- 26. So come on out and Support the team! Skating Dutchmen E.C.A.C Playoff Bound? by Dagan La Corte ex-Sports Editor If the hockey season ended to- day, the Union College Skating Dutchmen would, for the first time, be in the E.C.A.C. playoffs. After beating Dartmouth 5-4 in Hanover, New Hampshire, the Dutchmen moved into sole posi- tion of tenth place, the final play- off spot. TI1e Dutchmen presently have a league record of 3-8-1 for seven points, with an overall mark of 7-8-2. The win over Dartmouth combined with the victory over Yale last weekend, marks the first time that the Dutchmen have recorded two consecutive league victories. The Dutchmen realize that if they want to make the playoffs, they have to put teams behind them, that was the case as the Dutch- men survived a three goal rally by the Big Green of Dartmouth. Dartmouth lit the lamp early in the first period, before Chris Albert tied the score at one. For the rest of the period, the Dutch- men played what was perhaps their most dominant period of hockey in three years. Cory Holbrough tallied the next goal, giving Union a 2-1 lead. The third, and next Dutchmen goal came from the \rookie line\. The line consisting of fresh- men Russell Monteith, Troy Stevens, and Chris Ford, has been coach Delventhal's most produc- tive trio. Stevens and Ford are tied for the team's leading scor- ers, and are strong contenders for E.C.A.C. Rookie Team honors. On the third goal, Stevens broke through Dartmouth's blue line, deeked one of the defensemen and layed a perfect pass onto Ford's stick; who then skated in, and blew the puck past a belea- guered Dartmouth goalie. Holbrough hit the mark again late in the period for his eighth goal of the season. So, the Dutchmen went into the locker-room up 4-1. However, the Dutchmen counted The Big Green (not Dave Green, because he's not big at all) out too soon, as they scored two second period goals, cutting Union's lead to 4- 3. Dartmouth evened the score at four early in the third period, and Union's hopes of winning seemed dim. Luckily for us Union fans that wasn't the case. With five minutes remaining in the period, Reid Simonton skated the puck up the ice, through the entire Dartmouth team, passed it to ·chris Albert, who fired it by the Dartmouth goalie for his second goal of the game. Luigi Villa protected Union's lead turning away all of Dartmouth's twenty two third period shots, securing Union's third league win of the season. However, Union's luck did not carry them over to their game against the Catamounts of Ver• mont, the following evening. Despite the presence of over sixty Union fans at Saturday's game, the Dutchmen were blanked by UVM. The Cata- mounts took a 1-0 lead midway into the first period, and never looked back. They added three second period goals, en route to a 4-0 shutout. Despite Union's poor performance on Saturday, they accomplished what they had to, put Dartmouth behind them. This weekend the Dutchmen play host to the Saints of SLU (Saint Lawrence University), and the Golden Nights of Clarkson. Early this season, in what is con- sidered to be the toughest road trip of the season, the Dutchmen lost to SLU 3-2 and fell to Clarkson in an 8-7 heart-breaker. These teams can be called hot and cold. Clarkson has been on a re- cent hot steak, unbeaten in five. On the opposite side ofthe spec- trum, St. Lawrence's play has been abysmal, winning one of their last eight. Hopefully the Skating Dutchmen will see the · same type of staunch crowd sup- port which both Clarkson and St. Lawrence boast of at Achilles this weekend. Rejected! Basketball Teams Struggle by Joe Saltzbart Ass. Sports Editor Two-thirds of the season has been completed and both basket- ball teams are amidst two game losing streaks. The men recently lost to Elmira 1 09-93 and to Hobart 89-77, all but eliminat- ing their hopes for an NCAA bid. Their record now stands at 10-7 and must turn around this two game slide to qualify for an ECAC post-season bid. This task won't be easy as the Union Men take on Nazareth this Sat- urday and Skidmore next week. The women recently lost ~o Albany State 77-69 in a tough game at home in front of a huge crowd of ten spectators. The game was highlighted by the fine shooting of Andrea Pagnozzi and the hard rebound- ing of Michelle Kleinhans. Kleinhans was the first women over six feet in NCAA Division Ill History to hit a three-point shot. Congratulations Michelle! The Union Women play. at Vassar next week and I know the hearts and hopes of the Union College Community will be with them to turn around their losing ways. Both basketball teams are looking to break their · singla season attendance records of 50 people, so come one-come all and Support Union Basket- ball. . I '

nntnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College· Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XIII Winterfest Weekend a Huge Success by S. Ruth Evans & Alexandra Gualpa Concordiensis Staff Friday night had a plethora of · alternatives to the usual drinking scene .. Jui1ior Chuck Rodman gave a piano concert in Chet's during TGIF. The Jewish Student Union sponsered a semi-fonnal dinner in the kosher kitchen. TI1irty-two students attended the dinner according to Sophomore Mike Kluegger. The dinner was a fine altemative to West dinning, serving roasted chicken, baked potatos, stuffing, salad, cake and cookies. President Hull made a cameo appearance at the dinner. The most well attended event of Friday night was the Union verses Clarkson hockey game. Achilles Rink was packed with spectators who were disappointed with the wrap arotmd goal in over- time, that lead to the Dutchmen's defeat. After the hockey game the Winterfest Weekend committee sponsered three comedians. TI1e committee brought three nation- ally known comeclians 'on campus for a two hour show. Tite first act was Mike Sullivan-lrwnin who has appeared on MTV!s 1/2 hour Schenectady, New York February I 0, 1994 Tuition Will Rise 5.5 Percent Courtesy of Public Relations The Board of Trustees has ap- proved a 5.5 percent increase in tuition and room and board for 1994-95. The current costs range fonn 23,331 to 23,637, depend- ing on the meal plan chosen. TI1e board also approved at its meeting last week, a financial aid budget of $11,766,000, or about 18 percent more than the 1993- 94 aid component. Tile projected expenditure part of the budget, excluding finan- cial aid, is still being refined by the administration in conjunction with the Planning and Priorities Committee. A detailed budget will be presented to the board at its April meeting. The board also: -Elected its officers for 1994. They are Joseph M. Hinchey '4 7, chairman: Robert DeMichele · cbairrnan:~:Da;\~d ·ft~. Winterfest Weekend conjures up different.images for everyone. ·For some the highlight was Union Hockey beating St. Lawrence Saturday night. For others it was the Winter Affair. Although very few students attended every event planned for Winterfest Weekend, most attended a couple of the events. TI1e Garnet Minstrels, the Dutch Pipers, Gospel Ensemble kicked off Winterfest Weekend when they perfonned at Memo- rial Chapter. Approxiamently 50 students attended this concert to listen to their peers sing. Later Thursday evening the Montebanks Cabaret made their first appearance of the weekend. \It was the best Caba- ret performance I have seen in my three years here. Monica Webster did a great job organizing it. Ev· ery act was great.\ according to Junior Craig Greenberg. Chet's was full for the performance plus people were watching from the atrium. Continued on Page 2 Schaffer Libr.ary glisteiiS in tlte brigllt stmligltt behind a mountain of snow caused by recent inclement weather. (Jeremy SmitltffC) Chapnick '59, counsel: Norton H. Remner '58, secretary: and Patricia Tappa. assistant secte- tary. Co11tilmed page 2 Many Students, Few Spaces 50 Students Apply for 12 places in Nairobi Term Abroad by Elizabeth De Koven Concordiensis Staff Union College students will be studying at the University of Nairobi in Africa through the Union' Tenns Abroad Office for the first time in the Fall of 1994. Students attending the prot:,rram will be able to choose any two courses they wish to take at tlie Universfzy, they must also partici· pate_ in ail independent study on life in K¢nSta supervised by Fac- ulty Member 'in Residence, Pro- fes.sor Quaye. \The projects will in~ilude health problems in Na)·robi, thlnegal system, and Insid.e News· ........................ 2-3 News Analysis ............ 4 Business ...................... 5 Features ..................... 6-7 OP/ED ......................... 8 Letters ......................... 9 A & E ................... 10-11 Campus News ........... 12 Science ...................... 13 Sports ................... 14-16 maybe even issues concerning women,\ said Director of Union Terms Abroad, Professor Tho- mas.\ The only limitations that I think Professor Quaye will set are going to deal with the availability of opportunities.'~ According to Professor Tho- mas; safety in Nairobi has not posed a major problem. \The is- sue of AIDS has been looked into,\ said Professor Thomas. \There appears to be no problem witbthe blood supply in Nairobi.\ All students enrolled in the pro- ·gram will become members of Flying Doctors, an organization that will be able to fly students to a hospital in the city even if they are outside of the Nairobi border. Approximately 12 students out of the 50 students that applied for the program will be chosen. \In- terest in the program is coming from lots of different students,\ said Professor Thomas. \Stu- dents of color are interested in the program because it deals with their roots, some students have become interested in the program because of courses they have taken and others have become fascinated with the program sim- ply because it is new.\ Priority will be given to stu- dents who are currently sopho- mores and juniors, whose majors and minors are affilrated with African studies and who have high grade point averages. The ultimate decision of who will be able to attend the program will be made by the professors who in- terview the applicants. Founder's Day to Begin Bicentennial Celebration Kennedy, Historian,to Speak Courtesy of Public Re/atio11s Is the United states in danger of losing its status as a world power, going the way of Napoleonic France or Edwardian England? Historian Paul Kennedy prompted that question with his book, 11w Ri!•e and Fall i!f /he Great Powers. Kennedy will discuss tlult and other questions when .he deliv- ers the Founders Day address on Friday, February 25 at 7:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. He will speak on \Global Change and the Responsibilities of Higher Education.\ Previously known mainly to his colleagues for his insights on military history, strategic stud- ies and intemational affairs, the 1988 book tumed Kennedy into a \literary and political hot prop- erty\ as his simple \academic monograph in history\ became a best seller. What interested main stream readers the most was the last chapter in Which compared the decline of Napoleonic France aHd Edwardian England to what he called the relative decline of the united States economy over the last three decades. Kennedy argues that the United States has ·over stretched its global responsibilities. particularly its military commitments, at the expense of its economic well being.\ \The take facing American statesmen over the next de- cades, \Kennedy wrote, \is to recognize that broad trends are under way, and that there is a need to \manage' affairs so that the relative erosion of the United States' position takes place slowly and smoothly, and is not accelerated by policies which bring merely short-tenn advantage, but longer-tenn dis- advantage.\ Kennedy's latest book, pre- paring jcJr the Tli'enty-First ( 'enlury, grew out of a discus- sion about Rise and Fall in which someone suggested that _ transitional issues like popula- tion growth, the impact of tech- Collti1111ed 011 Page 2

February 10, 1994, page 2 NEW-'S· Innovation is Keyword in Alternative Student·Bousing by Diana Smith College Press Service At one cooperative house at Stanford Uni'versity, residents are known to explore \less clothed states of being,\ while another accommodates the needs of veg- etariaN students. Cooperative houses, once all the rage in the early 1970s, are regaining popularitY in the 1990s, although for different reasons. With the high cost of tuition, room and board, more college students today are seeking alter- native housing that fits their bud- gets as well as their lifestyles and academic pursuits. .·'This is the '90s, and stu- dents are scraping,\ acknowl- edges Theresa Johnson of the Stanford News Bureau. The residents also think co- operative houses are more fun than donn living. ''We take a lot of pride in the house,\ said Ann Luetkemeyer, a senior American Studies major who has lived at the Enchanted Broccoli Forest for three years along with 51 other graduate and undergraduate stu- dents. Abouthalfthc residents are vegetarian. ''We all take tums cooking and cleaning: we have live bands every other Wednesday night. Everything is entirely student- run.\ In most cooperative houses, students pay a lower fee per se- mester or quarter for food and utilities than they would in regu- lar dorms or apartments. They share rooms and facilities and pitch in on common chores such as cooking and cleaning. At Stanford, the cost runs about $450 per quarter, about one-third of what dormitory food service would cost. \That's a big draw,.\ Luetkemeyer said. \And I think our food is just as good, or bet- ter, thafl you'd get in most cam- pus donns.\ The result is a living arrange- ment that encourages indepen- dence while fosteringresponsibil- ity to carry out chores as prom- ised. In a cooperative house, you don't \forget\ to cook dinner without incuning the wrath of fel- low residents. Other universities also have created or endorse the concept of ·'affinity\ houses for students of similarbackgtoUi1ds or academic pursuits who need the support such housing pr-ovides. For instance, Dartmouth Col- lege, which has the highest per- centage of Native-American en- rollment in the nation, has aNa- Kennedy to Speak February 25 Paul Kemredy, Yale Professor, will speak on Fmmder's Day Co11tilmed[rom page 1 nology, environmental damage and migration also play important roles in intemational relations. Kennedy. the author of 13 books. is the J. Richardson Di I worth professor of history and director of the 'ln.temational· Se- curity -Program at Yale Univer- sity. He serves on the editorial boards of scholarly joumals and writes for 11Ie New York Tillie.,·, 11Ie Atlantic, and may foreign periodicals. tive-American house where stu- dents live in a cultur.ally support- ive atmosphere, said Alex Hupp~, director of Dartmouth's News Service. Cultural and ethnic theme houses have become important in recent years. Going away to col- lege is difficult enough for the average student, and living with others who have similar back- l:,'TOtmds and experiences can help ease the transition. In addition, some traditional sororities and fraternities are char•ging to accommodate new lifestyle needs. Some previously all-male and all-female clubs are going co-ed and creating their own cooperative houses, Huppe said. \I guess that rather than being patriarchies and matdar- chies, they're panarchies,\ he said. Most major universities also have acknowledged the value of having students with similar in- terests or backgrounds living on the same P,onnitory _floor or in the same building. For example, at Florida State University in Tallahassee, Fla., women majoring in science, math and engineering have a dor- mitory floor on which they can elect to live. Women in math and science have a high incidence of switchingto other fields or drop- ping out. Living in a supportive environment is important, said Rita Moser, director ofhousing. Other donns at the fSU cam- pus have been set aside solely for honors and scholarship students, transfer students and to emphasize multiculturalism. The Southern Scholarship Foundation sponsors about 350 students in 21 cooperative houses in Florida - 13 at FSU, six at the University of Florida in Gainesville a.nd one at Bethune• Cookman Co.llege in Daytona Beach for students who wouldn't otherwise be able to afford col- lege. The program, which began in 1949, gives students free room at the houses. Students are assessed about $500 per semester for utiHties, food and other supplies. The an~ nual savings is about $3,000 for each student. \Most of our students work part time while attending school. Many ar.e totally self-supporting. Tlms, with this significant reduc-. tion in cost, a college education is placed within the earning capac- ity of well-motivated students who ::u:e willing to work for an educa- tion,'' according to a Southern · Scholarship Foundation brochure. One major difference between the foundati.on 's cooperative houses and those in California is that Florida houses are segregated by sex, no coed Jiving. That's different from coed houses such as those at Stanford, where men and :women can be roommates if they choose. \It's not a big deal,\ Luetkemeyer ·said. ~·we hav~ about four or five mixed-gender. rooms, and of those, only one could be called a couple. The rest are just good friends. It would be silly not to let them room together.\ Like other m~or universities,· Stanford also has affinity houses for smdents who .are American Indian, African American, Asian American and Mexican Ameri- can. The University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Wash., re- cently established a Women's House, where a small group of female students live and sp~cial programs focusing on women are conducted. Suggestions for fu- ture events include a self-defense class, a clothing drive for women's shelters, a poetry read- ing and speaker on women's health .issues. The Women's House is not used to belittle men, although some students may have that im- pression, Puget Sound Trail re- ported. \We're not here to bash men. We're here to enlighten and edu- cate the whole campus,\ said Julie Davidson, a house resident. A similar theme house for men also is under discussion. Winterfest Weekend a Winner COittimtedfrom Page I comedy hour. Sullivan-Irwin was hilarious and looked a lot like John Cat:tdy. The next act of the evening was Claudia Shennan, who wamed all the women in the audience never to get married, because men suck. Shennan has also appeared on MTV's 1/2 hour comedy hour. Dressed in her wed- ding gown, which she stated \I paid a $1 000 for this dress and I Tuition Hike Planned For 1994-5 Conti11ued[rom Page I - Declared tenurable and pro- moted to associate professor: Bonney MacDonald of English, Cherrice Trever of Electrical En- gineering and Computer Science, and Carol Weisse of Psychology. - Granted tenure to Susan Niefield of Mathematics. -Promoted to professor: Bruce Connolly of Schaffer Library, Michael Frame of Mathematics, Walter Hatke of Visual Arts, and Hilary Tann of Perfonning· Arts. - Honored outgoing chamnan, of the.\board is Norton Reamer '58. Mr. Re;lnter will rernain a member of the Board of Trustees. - Noted retirement from the board of Richard E. Roberts '50, who served as an alumni trustee from 197.8 to 1986 and as a tenn trustee fonn 1986~ 1994. am going to get the most usage out of.it I can. That is why I have been wearing it for the last three years.\ Tl1e last act of the evening was Tony Woods. Woods has been featured on HBO' s comedy show. TI1e act started out slowly for Woods, but as he became more comfortablewith the crowd he got funnier. All of the comedies were great and the audience was con- stantly laughing. The front row seemed to get the brunt of the jokes. TI1is event was very popu- lar with the students as Chet' sand the atrium were full. Saturday's events ranged from sporting to a fonnal. Union com- peted against St. Lawrence in Swimming and Hockey. Neither Dutchmen team disappointed their fans by bringing home vic- tories. The basketball team also competed against Nazareth Col- lege. Besides sporting events on Saturday there was also a Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream social at the College Centet. The much anticipated event of the weekend was the Winter Af- fair at the Ramada Inn in down- town Schenectady. The formal offered a change in pace from the \normal\ Union weekend.The formal gave people a chance to dress up and leave campus. The committee atTanged for busses to transport the students to and from the Ramada every fifteen min- utes. According to Junior Josh Haines \for Union College there was a large percentage of students dancing.\ Everyone who went seemed to have a great time. Winterfest Weekend events wound down on Sunday. WR,UC prodcasted from Chet's Sunday afternoon, playing the greatest hits from our childhood. The eighties produced some great music. Sunday evening there was a concert by the Jazz Ensemble. Mountebanks perfonned another production of Cabaret at Chet's Sunday night. Union College Campus Safety Notice Regarding Stolen Radio On January 18, 1994 at approximately ~:30 AM someone stole a Union College . · Campus Safety radio from the Security Assistant's desk. Thestud1,mtworkerleft the desK unattended for a few minutes and upon his return the radio was missing. This theft has caused great concern to the Campus Safety Department and to the student worker who was responsible for the radio at the time it was stolen. It would now setVe the best interests of the campus for you to return the radio. The radio is valued at $500.00. It is set on a selected channel and requires a · special battery charger to fech.ar.ge th~ radio. At this point the radio battery is most likely worn down and' the radio is inoperable and of no use to anyone. The radio has been used on. campus as late as Saturday, 2/5/94. PLEASE DO NOT DAMAGE, DESTROY, OR DISPOSE OF THIS RADIO. We would appreciate the return of the radio and we will close the matter as a 'Prank if the radio is retu111ed undamaged. If the radio is not returned voluntarily the Campus Safety Department will offer a reasonable award for information provided that will lead to the return of the radio atld the identity of. the person(s) responsible for the theft Anyone with information may contact Paul Mantica, Director of Campus Safety. All contacts will be held in confidence.

NEWS February 10, 1994, page 3 WRUC: A Community Helper Campus Trends·----- Boyscouts experiment witll WRUC equipment Pltil Tavernier is tlte DJ. (plwto by Jeremy Smit/1/TC) As part of WRUC's commu- nity outreach initiate, scouts from Pack 51 in Troy toured the FM station's studios and production facilities this past Saturday. The visit was in conjunction with a communications unit. The scouts learned to cue CO's and Records and were introduce by den leader, Walter Cook, how radio waves moves through space. several of the boys did live newscasts and station ID's. The visit was coor- dinated by office of computer ser- vices technician and den leader, Walter cook and WRUC pro- gramer and fonner boyscout, Ja- son Lietz. Love Responsibly, Students Urged Ah, Valentine's Day! It's a time when thoughts tum to flow- ers,. chocolates, champagne and an evening for two. But lovers should take heed:. \Cupid's arrow can have di- sastrous ·Consequences for ymtr health,.'' advises Peggy Clarke, president ofthe American Social Health Association. \Love means behaving responsibly.'' True love, Clarke says, also means carefully considering whether you are ready to enter a sexual relationship, 'having the cm1rage to talk about each other's sexual history and taking precau- tions to prevent sexually trans- mitted diseases. \While it is easy for most of us to believe that we aren't at risk for sexually transmitted diseases, the fact is that one in five adults in the U.S. already has an STD and the epidemic is spreading at a rate of 12 million new cases each year,\ Clarke said. ''STD infections aren't limited to pro- miscuous people, drug users, ho- mosexuals or low-income groups. They attack all ages, but two-third of new infections oc- cur in people under 25.\ NARS Offers Scholarships SALEM, Ore. _ l11e National Association of Returning Stu- dents is accepting applications for its third annual scholarship com petition. NARS will award scholar- ships of $250, $150 and $7 5 for best essays of 500 words or less. Entrants must be 25 years or older, a member of NARS and currently enrolled in school. Guidelines can be obtained from NARS at P.O. Box 3283, Salem, Ore. 97.302 orcall503-581-373l. w \' ( \'\ V 0 lA. ~ j V(. ~\e ~itt o~ hv~, Submit Papers to the Minerva Review if The Minerva Review is the Social Sciences and Humanities review and publishes yearly. Papers must be 5 to 20 pages and typed. Submit to Box 315 and 1383. If you have any questions, call Dan at 347-2206. ID pntle .. t d~atns+ AID~ ~\tl othu :,10' a\ wavs <4$e Jate.x condo rns CAMPUS SECURITY REPORT DATEffiME LOCATION MONDAY,JANUARY31, 1994: 9:00 AM Social Science Bldg. II :00 AM S& E Bldg. li:OOAM Fraternity basement I·44PM Humanities Bldg. 5:21PM Becker Circle 11:02 PM Richmond 11:05 PM South College TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1,1994: 8:30AM Hickock Lot 8:55AM Raymond South 9:30AM Raymond South 10:50 AM Fox South 2:30PM Fero Road 4:29PM College Center . WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARV 2,1994: I :00 PM Campus Operations 2:40PM Alumni Gym 4:45PM College Center Lot 6:51PM Alumni Gym Lot 7:49PM Nott Seward Lot 8:21PM West Colleg~ 8:33PM Webster Lot THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1994: 4:27AM College Center INCIDENT THEFT: Vendor owned copy paper stolen. VANDALISM!fHEFT: Walt clock stolen ... posters tom down. PROPERTY RECOVERY: Trafficwaming signs recovered from fraternity basement. THEFT:. Projection screen stolen from classroom. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered vehi cle-persisten.t violator. UNAUTHORIZED VISITOR: Visitor refused to leave-matter mediated and resolved. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATIONS: Fire trouble alarms caused by tampering with smoke detectors in two rooms-Life Safety Notices filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered car blocking traffic-Vehicle towed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Drug paraphernalia found in common area-confiscated. SAFETY HAZARD: Unsafe use of fireplace. VANDALISM: Glass in exterior door broken. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Two Campus vehicles collided-minor damage-no injury. HARASSMENT/DISORDERLY CONDllCf: Argument between two staff members. UARASSM ENT: Annoyance/threatening telephone call. THEFT: Camcorder stolen from locked office PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobi lized for repeated unregistered violations. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobi lized for repeated unregistered violations. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobi lized for repeated unregistered violations (Freshman). SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported-confirmed. Conduct Charges filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicleimmobi lized for repeated unregistered violations. VANDALISM: Waste bin in rest room damaged. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1994: 12 04 AM A D Pili 810AM Off Campus I 06PM Richmond Area 443PM 17 South Lane 4 28PM Becker Lot SATllRDA Y, FEBRUARY 5, 1994: I 19 AM Edwards House area I 50AM Delta Phi 2 23 AM Raymond House 2 25AM Hickok Bouse IIOOAM Edwards House I. II PM Fox South 2:36PM 27 North Terrace 3 lOPM Potter House 430PM Old Chapel Area 5 OOPM Campus Grounds Sl!NDAY. FEBRl1ARY6, 1994: 4: II PM Becker Lot 8:52PM College Center 9:45PM Schaffer Library SAFETY HAZARD: Ongoing elcctncal problem reported Advisories made-report filed MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Union Ave-collision between a campus vehicle and another vehicle-minor damage/injury RECKLESS DRIVING: Driving on sidewalk HARASSMENT: Staff member receiving harassing telephone cails PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized for repeated unregistered violations (Freshm;.v1) HARASSMENT: Student pushed/ punched by another student- No injuries reported FIRE ALARM: All detectors function ing-panel reset-cause could not be determined LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION/ V ANDALISI\1: Smoke detector destroyed causing fire trouble alert in building HARASSMENT: Students subjected to pushing/shoving by visitors-no injuries reported SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical problem- Fire system won't reset-electricians notified VANDALISM: Lounge window broken THEFT: Telephone stolen from Womens Union area HARASSMENT: Obscene Telephone calls. SAFETY HAZARD: Ice/snow falling onto walkway from roof-Area barricaded IIARASSMENT: Unauthorized radio transmissions being received on Campus Operations radios-source believed to be from stolen radios. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered vehicle-persistent violator-Conduct Charges filed. WATER LEAK: Ceiling tiles damaged 2nd floor area-believed to be caused by roof leak. TIIEFf: Student left Validine card in copy machine upon return the card was gone

February .10, 1994, page 4 NEWS ANALYSIS Why Don't Things Work Anymore? by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Harmony is a word used to de- scribe togetherness, whether it be musical or otherwise. Ideally our world should be in hannony due to the strength of the relationships between humans and humans, 1m- mans and nature;and nature and nature. In actuality, just as tone deaf people cannot hear or create harmony, the relationships that exist within the Earth, are not equally hannonious either. Nature fights with itself con- stantly as we experience earth- quakes, tornadoes, droughts, floods and hurricanes. These weather phenomenons do not ex- ist necessarily to make our life tough. But they do anyway. Hu- mans lose property. lives and hope when natural disasters strike. Is survival ofthe fittest still an explanation? Survivors of the most recent em1hquake in Cali- femia say that although they were scared, they were not scared enough to leave the place they call home. Maybe nature is telling them something? I have a feeling that .someday, California is going to become an island due to the complete separation of the San Andrea's Fault. Then will people still call California the greatest place to live? we are screwing up. Although conservationism is a major concern of a good percent .. age of people, we are still at high risk of completely depleting our resources becoming a lifeless planet. Theoretically, the Earth is supposed .to disappear into the sun Songwriters and poets should stop writing about peace and har- mony, and add in words such as · injustice, ineq\lality, and unfair- ness. A bit too harsh? It is reality though. However, rn agree that everyone needs a good song or good poem to uplift their spirits, Looking .at natu- ral disasters from another penpec- tive, maybe nature is trying to make our life tough. I can only assume that Mother Nature is not happy with the way we treat the Earth. Ourrela- ------------------------ even ifitisjust \Although conservationism is a a dream. • f d The only maJOr concern 0 a goo thing that ap- ;percentage of people; we are still pears in bal- ance to me, are at high risk of completely depleting accountant's our resources, lifeless planet.'' d \ b • books. Besides an • · CCOIDlDg a that, there is tionship with nature is far from hannonious, especially during the past decade. Our treatment of our natural resources has been com- ing back tohaunt us for sometime now. Global warming, ozone depletion, polluted water, acid rain, and the need to recycle are major issues that are a conse- quence of our abuse. This has to · be nature's way of telling us that some day, but we may destroy it first. Unless of course, a huge meteor crashes down on the Earth first. I guess then we would re- ally be in trouble. The least harmonious relation- ship in the world, exists between fellow humans. It se·ems as though we will never get it right. TI1ere are an absurd amount of ways in which humans clash. · something missing. Civil strifes, religious strifes, domestic strifes, racial strifes, these are the roots of disharmony. I don't think there is supposed to be the kind of harmony that we get out ofa dictionary definition. I think Webster should think of a new one. Any representative sample of our population when polled, would never completely agree on any major issue of world concern. Then why do we try to fit an the pieces together, as though people would agree? Isn't that what harmony means? Looking back at th~ issue of the survival of the fitte~t again Na- ture knows .that we are not in har- mony with the Earth. In many ways, w~ are exceeding it's boundaries. The fascination with space travel is a good indication of our dissatisfaction with the Earth's limits. Nature yells back at us, telling us that we need to control ourselves. Over popu- lated and crowded cities will con- tinue to grow without being curbed. I believe natlrr.e passed on diseases like the Plague and AIDS, because she knew that not too far in the future our popula- tion would exceed the limits be- fore space exploration could catch up. These theories, however valid, don't begin to explain such things as the tragedies ofwar, and hate. If anyone can give me some good theories on why these things hap- pen, let me know. What Do We Call News These Days Anyway? Cc~u Cc~u Cc{tu Cc~u Cc~u Cc-Uu Cc~et(!ct£uCc~£? · C~~u Cc~uCc{tu Cc-Uu Cc{tu Cc{tu C~-Uuc.?c{t~C?c{tu . 'Cc-t£u Cc{tu Cc{tu Cc,Uu e~:Uu Cc{tu Cc{tu Cc-Uu(!4tu . by Doug Bartell Concordiensis Staff When the news broke last week that Chicago police found 19 chil- dren locked up in a four-bedroom apartment, I was struck with an overwhelming revelation. The revelation wasn't that the children, ages fourteen to one, who existed among cockroaches and piles of dirty diapers, lived a life of horror. It wasn't that these poor creatures, who slept and ate with several Gennan Shepherds, were a metaphor for this age of neglect and abuse. The revela- tion wasn't even that these children's parents were them- selves a metaphor for misan- thropy ·and lovelessness by aban- doning these children into an apartment without window or any furmture. TI1e revelation was one of dis- gust at the fact that this article, in the sea of media sensationalizing, was drowned by a wave of Groundhogs, Babbitts and figure skating psychos. l11e real news, it seems, has taken a huge back seat to safe, fun stories that should not fonn the core of our infonna- tion sources. TI1is is not only the fault of the media, but also the fault of the public, which has in general succumbed to the hypno- tism induced by sensationalized stories. TI1is situation in Chicago, an embodiment of the emotional and physical atrocities that children sustain every day, didn't even make front page news. TI1e story was tucked neatly into the top of page 3 ofthe Daily Gazette, sup- ported by a three quarter page add exulting a \0% interest Semi- an- nual home sale\. What a fitting complement to a story about pov- erty and despair. A perfectmatch to 14 children sleeping on the floor. A perfect way to show the reader that the only reason the Gazette even carried the article, was because they felt obliged to. Does the Gazette really care about real human news? Maybe. They did include a picture of the apartment\ on the bottom of the front page, right below a huge col or photo of AI D' Amato in his boxers. Does America really care about real human news? Hard to say, but I would be willing to bet that most American's would recog- nize the name of Jeff Gillooly but not William Perry or Vladimir Zhirinovsky. For those of you who have spent the last month in a coma, Gillooly is Tonya Harding's ex-husband. Perry and Zhirinovsky, hold arguably two of the most influential polftical positions in the world. Perhaps it has simply become too difficult to deal with the cold realities of the real world. With crisises in Korea, Somalia, Bosnia, Los Angeles, Northern Ireland and Schenectady, to name a few, maybe it is easier to just follow the plight of Tonya Harding and Nancy Kerrigan than to try and understand just what is going on in Sarajevo. We should, however, try. It seems though, that there ate so few news sources that are willing to cater to the ac- tual news. Anyone not watching the six-o'clock news, will find it hard to get a grasp on the real news. Newsweek, for example, de- voted one cover to the L.A. fires and one (to my knowledge) to Sarajevo, but also devoted one to Pro2ac, one to B'obby Inman (sen- sationalizing his withdrawal} and TWO consecutive weeks to the Kerrigan/Harding fiasco. It is disheartening to see the lack of effort on the part of both the media and the public to really understand what is going on. We are living in a time when empa- thy is crucial to our mutual exist- ence. If we do not understand what is going on around us in the world and do not see that things need our help, then will anything really change? Is the case of the children in Chicago or of the massacres in Bosnia just something that will pass by itsef. Are they mere glitches in the world's program, or is it our job to prevent it from happening again by fixing the machine as much as we are able. Public and media ignorance is not bliss, it is dangerous and scary. It is high time that every- one face up to the world around them and accepts the challenges that it offers. There is more to our existence than Jeff Gillooly, even if the media doesn't think so. . . Cc-(tu Cc{tuCc,Uu Cc,Uu Cc~u Cc-U«Cc,Uu Cc,Uu Cc{tu . Cc,Uu e~,Uu <?c{tu <?c-ltue?c-Uu Cc-Uu C?c{tu Cct£u Cc{tu . •. Cc{tu Cc{ttd!c{tuCc-Uu Cc~u Cc.Uu Cc{tu Cct£u C1- Tu.. · Caffe Dolce - International Coffeehouse · and Kioskl42 Jay Street 347-2334 MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS: A Free Make-Up Demonstration _ with BOB KELLY, famous and reputable stage make-up artist!- (Credits include 22 television shows, 24 motion pictures and 17 theatre productions). Friday February 11th 12-1:30 in the Performing Arts Studio Here's ToU A confidential group who discuss and inform each other about alcohol Tuesday, February 8, 1994 College Center- 409 8:00pm We Meet the second Tuesday and fourth Thursday of the month during each term. Who Should Come? People Who: -Want to learn more about alcohol and its affects -Are concerned about how much they drink -Feel they need to drink to have a good time, are worried about a friend or relative -Feel their romantic lives require them to drink to lower their inhibitions -\Fit in\ only when they drink -Are in recovery . -Would like to meet others who like to socialize without alcohol -Are merely curi'ous about alcohol

BUSINESS February 10. 1994, page 5 Hendrix Comes Back Froni the Dead to Cure the Dow Jones Blues ' ' ' . A Dark Shadow Was Cast Over the Week by the Dow Jones' Fall of74.01 Points by Ale:tandel,' Shapiro Business Editor Our old friend Daw Jones was not feeling wen Friday night. Jones drapped 74.01 points to .3,871.42. The fall cast a dark shaduw over the weekend. I speculate a rise in Jack Daniels stock. Specialists attribute the cause of the fall to a .25 rise in the Federal funds rate, from 3 percent to 3.25 percent. It was. quite a fall, the eighth biggest in the history of the market. The bruises were felt by many, espe- cially after the rise to nearly 4,000. Fortunately, Monday's closing showed a 34.90 gain. 1l1e rally was led by I.B..M.., Alcoa, Disney, Union Carbide, General Motors, and Catepillar, and Schenectady's own General Elec- tric. l11e New York Times was quick to dub these companies \The Magnificent Seven\. ing by Touchstone, and rumor has it Laurence. Fishburne could be starring. There is even a tour, Jimi Hendrix: On the Road Again, on the college and conven- tion center circuit. doo Tubes\ a video room that surrounds the caS\tal user with mind-numbing psychedelic visu- als. Jimj's first serious gig was in Greenwich Village, around 1966. ately his extraordinary style and wild talent on tl1e guitar was rec- ognized and he was flown to En- gland to be paired up with Noel Redding and Mitch Mitchell. Redding was the bassist and to dream in technicolor that 1966 was the year something would happen to me, it's come true, 1966 is my year, in technicolor!\ From there, he redefined what \rock and roll\ meant to the world. Songs like HighWl(Y Chile, 111e Wind Cries Mary, and Purple Haze changed the face of blues- rock forever. Not to mention the fre11zy it cast on the generation he released them on. It is not going to far to suggest that his music played a crucial tole in shaping the consciousness of the sixties, and now he is at it again from the grave. TI1is is no surprise from a rnan who once said, \I woke up today and found myself dead.\ He played the Slur Spangled Banner and almost two hundred years of tradition new out the window. Record sales are higher today than they were thirty years ago. Hendrix has become big busi- ness. So if you have the Dow Jones blues, hit the tour. or buy a new album. Be sure not to miss the vi11ual reality booth that al- lows you to pick up a guitar and jam onstage with legend himself. Economists predict that the hangover should be gone by the end of the week, and Dow Jones should recover too. While ner- vous investors wait for their stock prices to rise, they can \lose their precious little minds\ to the tune of some quality re-released and previously unreleased rock and roll from guitar god, Jimi Hendrix. Jimi Hendrix, N()e/ Redding, and Mitch Mitchell l11e tour will be at Boston Con- vention Center, Feb. 23-27. Raul Nash, a correspondent at Georgia Tech in Athens, where the tour will set down on Feb. 14 describes the atmosphere of the school awaiting the multimedia tribute, \The scene here is complete chaos. It's gonna be crazy man, Crazy!\ That's right, Jimi's back and he's hotter than ever. 'Scuse Me .While /-.Kiss the Sky, ·~.major ti10vie adapted from· David Henderson's book, is in the mak- The tour displays in colorful and technologically amazing ways different aspects of the Ex- perience, including \The Electric 'Church\ an· air guitar jam ma- chine. Another exhibit is \Voo- It came five years after an honor- able discharge from the an11y, due to a )!)arachute jump accident. Reuaminghhns~lf Jimmy James, he played with a band called the Blue Flames. Almost immedi- Those Who Live in Glass Houses by Chris Richards Contributi!'g Writer Co(ia-Cola is trying to shake things {lp. Their risk-taking, rule breaking stance has signaled that they are operating on unconven- tional tenns. They are no longer trying to shock the c;ustomer into buying their product, rather, they have employed subtle, manipula- tive'measures to program the con- sumer. This campaign, (with a global budget estimated at $600 million), has been scorned from the onset for its asinine method, while simultaneously garnering praise for breaking from the tired traditions of Coca-Cola at'1d soft drink advertising. Competitor Pepsi is struggling due to these innovative commer- cial designs by Coke. ·!esse Meyers. editor and publisher of the Beverage Digest new~letter, · revealed that last week, Coke Classic's share in the American soft drink market rose to 20.1 per- cent in 1993 from 20 percent in 1992. Compared to a decline for it's archrival, Pepsi, to 17.7 per- cent from 18 percent. l11e creative element who Coke is mainly in- debted to is, an agency called Cre- ative Artists. Situated in Beverly Hil1s, California, they are the cream of the crop wl1en it comes to mind manipulation. Their new and latest commercial is titled \Hypnosis and features two eyes magically floating on the T.V. screen, with a Coca-Cola bottle cap swinging on a pendu- lum between the two eyes. Be- hind these eyes are four small television sets, each containing one of th.e following words; \store\, \is\, \thirsty\, \very.\ Weird and wild, wild stuff. But the reason for this success istbatthe commercial(s) operates on two different levels. l11ere are those viewers who pay acute at- tention to the commercial, and sincerely follow the add for it's ingenuity; while there are those who incessantly mock the com- mercial and laugh hysterically at it. Both viewers pay attention to the comtnercial, and both are af~ fected by it. There are also those who perceive it as serious, and those whon1 are amused. It tar- gets both audiences. Mt. Zyman. Coca-Cola's senior vice-partner. stated that it is \the most dramatic improvement in brand preference and brand imagery in most coun- tries we've seen in twenty years.\ But there is more going on than this. Coca-Cola has figured something out. Two years ago. the Pepsi-Coke rivalry was in a dead heat. Now Coke has anthro- poillorphic polar bears and ants dancing in the snow shouting for joy! Pepsi still think sex sells. Yeah, right. Mitchell was the drummer, to- gether the three made the Jimi Hendrix Experience. The Expe- rience tour~d in '66 and gathered an enonnous following. Jimi said of that year, \I used Business Week in Review Your Stock Info for the Week by Alex Shapiro Friday: From 1J1e New York Times Sunday Business Section TOP FIVE STOCKS A. T. & T Ameritech The Dow Drops 74.01 to 3,871.42 LAST CHG. 54 1/2 3/8 41 + 3/8 Bell Atlantic 54 1/8 0' Bell South 57 1/2 + 7/8 Exxon 65 3/8 - 1/8

February 1-0, 1994, .page 6 .FEATURES A Road Trip by Erin O'Neil Features Editor The first indication that a road trip is going wrong is when you look up and realize you've been going in the wrong direction for twenty minutes. Yeah, I know, it happens to everyone, but how often does it happen when you're coming from a placeyou'vebeen driving to your entire life? I guess writing and driving are a danger- ous combination. Oh look out! There goes an- . other cop. So, here I am. Driv- ing. Well, not driving exactly, I'm riding. I'm the passenger. I'm in the death seat. We've fi- nally reached the point where we started from, now only five or so hours till we reach our destina- tion. Since I'm not driving it's not my fault that we went the wrong way. Being a passenger is a very vulnerable position. I have absolutely no control over my life right now. My life is in the hands of a driver who went the wrong way retuming to Union from his own house. He could drive off the road right now if he wanted to and there would be nothing I could do about it Should I be scared? Why can't cars maintain a con- stant, comfortable temperature? I'd rather be hot. My compan- ion would rather be cold. It's just not right. Drive-thru windows. Seems like a nice idea, but you really need two hands to tmly enjoy a meal. I wonder how many car accidents have occurred as are- sult of someone trying to get some fries in the same mouthful as their burger? Think about it. Where do you put your drink if you don't have a drink holder? Cars are not restaurants. Didn't you know that? To sing, whistle, or hum? I'll whistle while the driver hums. Then we'll switch. I'm never as musical as when I'm in the car. Suddenly I am transfonned into a rhythm machine. I'll play the dashboard or the steering wheel, it doesn't matter. It's my car. Well, we're into the third hour. It's time for another pee break. I've had two already. Small blad- der. Why is it that I get an un- controllable urge to go to the bathroom every time I pass a «Next services 26 miles\ sign. I' always seem to stop at the same Burger King too. l11e one with the pink stalls and the low toilets. Who were these toilets made for anyway? Midgets? Don't sit on the seat though. You never know who's been there before you. It's actually really repulsive to think about the millionsofpeople who have used that very toilet you're contemplating sitting upon. I wouldn't do it if I were you. I'm beginning to wonder if this journey, much like this article, will ever end. Both seem to me to be boring, pointless, and end- less. At least I have the power to end one of them. Uncle Edna Uncle Edna is a Union College student who uses minoxydil and · eats Stave Top instead of potatoes. Why ask Anne or Abbey when , youcan ask your own uncle? Misanthropic? Irritated? For/om?' Write Uncle Edna -box 83. Edna's Mailbag Dear Uncle Edna, Today is Wed. February 2nd and I just received a copy of my class schedule. What is the logic behind this seemingly superfluous 5th week ritual? -Regis Dear Regis, Great Question! I don't know the logic behind it but each time that I get one of those in my mailbex in 5th week I like to yell \Thank God that I finally got my schedule! Do you know how many · classes I'm going to have to make up because I didn't know where to go?!? Whew, finally! direction in life.\ Dear Uncle Edna, The budget cutbacks are starting to really upset me. When will they stop? When will administration realize that something has t(_) be done to avoid some sort of campus revolution? -0. Cromwell Dear Mr. Cromwell, I have to answer this quickly because they have pawned all the computers in the mac lab to save money. Here's a quick Top Ten. Top Ten Top Ten things that President Hull should do to help cut the bud- get. 10. Adobe Dorms 9. Vali- toilets 8. Sell all nontenured faculty to the gypsies. 7. Implement Jeopardy watching as the only Gen-ed requirement. 6. Fire the Burgo-master 5. Less Neon in the College Center (heavens no!!) 4. Make the campus squirrels pay rent. 3.~ Eliminate the ridiculous .fifth week schedule mailing costs. 2. Annex smaller area colleges and soak their students for a change. 1. Quit. Students of the week . Steve Evans. Steve showed courage beyond compare this Satur- day when he dished off 12 assists even though he had two broken legs and a serious diaper rash. We're all so proud. Naomi Krupa. Not only does Naomi live in the Schenectady area, but she is also one of only a handful to walk without a limp. All that therapy did some good. Congrats. Dave Kozub, Jim Troy and Brad Julicher. They have put up · with my shananigans all year. Don't worry guys, I won't tell any- one about your woman's lingerie collection that you keep in ... A Few For Your Friends. How do you get your lover to yell and scream when you're having sex? Call him/her up and tell them where you arc. An 85 year old Man walks into a doctor's office and tells the doc- tor he wants a sperm count. \Are you sure?\ said the doctor, \You are kinda old\ l11e old man was steadfast in his request and so the doctor said, \OK take this here jar and go home and come back tomorrow with something I can sample.\ The Old man went home and retumed the next day with the jar, but it was still empty. \What happened?\ inquired the doctor. The old man replied \I banged it, I shook it, I ran it under water, I tried the left hand and th~ right hand..... but I still couldn't get the jar open.'' IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN BECOMING INVOLVED IN mip~ Qinnrnr~i£nsis~ COME TO THE STAFF MEETINGS WEDNESDAYS AT 7:30 IN CC303 OR CONTACT DAVE AT X6155 l i '·

February 10, 1994, page 6 FEATURES A Road Trip hy Erin 0';\leil Features Editor I he tibt 1ndicatwn that a ruac...l trip IS gomg \Hong is \\hen you louk up and realize :ou'vc been gomg in the \Hong direction for t\\ellt~ lllllllltes. YcaiL I kmm. it happens to e\ cryone. but hmv Plten dPe~ it h.tppell \.\hen you·n.: Cllllltll!.! fiLllll a place:.ou.\cheen drt\ III!-' tP \ llllll'lltlrc hk\' I f'lle~s \\11(1111..! dlld dtl\111)..! <lll' <l dall).!CI- ,,~h ultlll>tndtl!lll ! 111 ,,,,.l-_ 11ttt' I lh·t..: !-'•'c~ .111- ·•tllct ~·1p \1<1. h..:rc I atn Drl\- tng Well. Ill'! dr I\ 111g exact!:-, l\tn lldlllt!. l'n1 the pa~~cii).!er 1·111 111 the death ~eat \\'c.\c fi- n.tll; l<.:achd the po111t \\hen.:\\<.: 'l<!ltcd ftlllll. !Ill\\ onl: ti\·.: 01 so hours till \\e reach our destina- tion. Srnce I'm not dri\ ing it's nut Ill\ fault that \\C \\ent the \\ !\llll).! \\ .J>. Bc111!! a passeng..:r 1s :1 \ cr;. \ ulnerahlc pns1tion I ha\e absolute!: no control over my life n~htJHl\\ 1\h ilfe is in the hands ff.s :r reac.Jl·· · of a driver who went the wrong way retuming to Union from his own house lie could drive off the road ri~ht now if he \Vanted to and then: would be nothing I could do about it. Should I be scared? Why can ·t cars maintain a con- stant. comfortable tcmperature' 1 I'd rather be hot. My compan- ion\\ mtld rather be cold. It\s just not rq..!ht. I )ri \ e-thru \\ i ndm\ s. Seems like a ntcc idea. but ~ ou real!~ 11\::..:d I\\ n hands tn tmly en_1oy a tneal I \\ nnder ho\\ man\ car ;1ccident~ ha\ e occurred as a n:- ..,tdl nf someone tryin~ tn ~et -.,ome fries in the same mouthful as their bur~er'' Think about it. \\'here do you put ynur drink if :. ou don't have a drink holder'.' Cars are not restaurants. Didn't you knm\ that'! To sin!:!. whistle. or hum'' I'll \\histle \\hile the driver hums. Then \\e'll switch. rm lle\er as musical as when I'm in the car. Suddenlv I am transfonned into feeling th?i::Jt!g'h tl:~.,-~~i.eh@l~.li-t~r~•:r :J N:aeli tQ;ttnd tnt hem. . . !i~ thaug:h th~ ~~~ two h~· itt 1m\'}~;. 0ur ~~~:;tit~::~~~t~ti~';.····<(ii:, • eur fi«af4a;·no.iv·ittt~ti$:d ·--, \'· / Thta .. Je~l,lt!l~ll a rhythm machine. I'll play the dashboard or the steering wheel. it doesn't matter. It's my car. Well, we're into the third hour. It's time for another pee break. 1\:e had two already. Small blad- der. Why is it that I get an un- controllable urge to go to the bathroom every time I pass a \Next services 26 miles\ sign. I always seem to stop at the same Bur~er King too. ·n1e one with the pink stalls and the low toilets \\'ho were these toilets made fL,r <lll\ \\ av' 1 Midgcts'. 1 Don't sit on the scat thnu):!h You never know \lw ·s been there before ynu. It's actually really repulsi\·e to think about the millions of people who have used that very toilet you're contemplating sitting upon. '' ottldn 't do it if I were you. I'm he!:!inning to wonder if this journey. much like this article, \\ill ever end. Both seem to me to he boring. pointless. and end- less. At least I have the power to end one of them. Uncle Edna Uncle !:\dna is a Union Collep;e student who uses minoxydiland ea/s .\'tore Top instead l?[ potatoes. Why ask Anne or Ahhey when you can ask )'OUr own uncle.·> Afisanthropic:> Irritated) Forlorn/ Write { lnc/e Hdna -hox H3. Edna's Mailbag Dear Uncle Edna, Today is Wed. Febmary 2nd and I just received a copy of my class schedule. What is the logic behind this seemingly superfluous 5th week ritual'-' -Regis Dear Regis. Great Question! I don't know the logic behind it but each time that I get one of those in my mailbox in 5th week I like to yell 'Thank God that I finally got my schedule' Do you know how many classes I'm going to have to make up because I didn't know where to go?~·) Whew, finally! direction in life.\ Dear Uncle Edna, The budget cutbacks are starting to really upset me. When will they stop? When will administration realize that something has to be done to avoid some sort of campus revolution? -0. Cromwell Dear Mr. Crmmvell, I have to answer this quickly because they have pawned all the computers in the mac lab to save money. Here's a quick Top Ten. Top Ten Top Ten things that President Hull should do to help cuttlw hud- get. 10. Adobe Donns 9. Vali- toilets 8. Sell all nontenured faculty to the gypsies. 7. Implement Jeopardy \Vatching as the only Gen-ed requirement. 6. Fire the Burgo-master 5. Less Neon in the College Center (heavens no'') ..f. Make the campus squin·els pay rent. ~- Eliminate the ridiculous fifth week ~chedule mailing co~ts . .., Anne\X smaller area coll\!t!eS and soak thc1r students fnr a changt:. C)u it Students ofthc week Stt.•n• E\all'. Stt:\<.: -;]Hl\\t:d Clllll<lt!<.: be~ und t:\IIIIJl<llC tlti:; SatuJ- da~ \\hen ht: dhhd off I~ assist;. e\ en tltou!!h he had t\\ u broken It:!.!~ and a scriL'liS diaper rash. We're all so pr\lud. '\:wmi h:rupa :--.:nt onl: d<lt:~ \:,!Ptlllli\1.\ lllth..: S~..lictlcl\t.td~ a:,·,1. 1 lmt she i-. also Dill' of only a handful tn \\aiJ..: \dthntit a !imp ·\II that thcrap\ did some good. Con~rats. Dan- Kozuh .. Jim Troy and Brad .Julichcr They h;n e put up \\ ith my shan:llli!.!ans all year Dnn·l \\ nrry guys. I \\Oil 't tell any- one about :our\\ oman's lingerie collection that you keep in .-\ Few For Your Friends. I Im\ dll ynu get your lo\ cr to yell .md ~cream\\ h..:n) uu ·,e h;l\ ing sex' 1 Calllllm ht:tllp and tell them \\here you arc An Hi yl'ar old Man walks into a doctor's office and tells the do,.;- t·or he \\<Jill' <1 spcnn cnunt ··Arc: ou smc\' .. satd the dnctnr. \Yntt arc kmda 11ld .. lhl' ·•ld 111.111 '' .1' ,t~·;~dt.t~t 111 h1-. tcquc\t .111d ~~'til..: dt> ... !llt ,,ud. \( n.:. take till~ here Jill .md f'P home and come back (OllW!TO\\ \\I til I somethin)..! lean '-'<II!lple .. !he Old man\\ •:nt home and retu111ed the next day\\ ith thl· J<ll. but it \\ <1~ still em pt~. \\\'hat happened'.'\ inquired the dnctnr Tile old man replied ··1 ban[!.cd it. I shook it. I ran it under \\iller. I tried the left hand and the nght hand .... but I still couldn't get the pr open. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN BECOMING INVOLVED IN '<Irlfe ([oncorUiensis, COME TO THE STAFF MEETINGS WEDNESDAYS AT 7:30 IN CC303 OR CONTACT DAVE AT X6155 - .. -------~ ···----·-------·--·------------------·-------------------

i '· ·FEATURES Feb·ruary 10, 1994, page 7 Steak Dinner and Perfection by Rawson Thurber ConcQrditmsis Staff I was about eleven years old when my uncle on my mother's side came to visit. I remember quite a bit about his visit. I remember that he wanted me to call him Phil, and not Uncle Phil. This sounded funny to me, and I don't think I've ever actually· called him Phil. We went to a baseball game, and did a number of Uncle/Nephew things. But the moment that, without .question; has meant the most to me over the eight years since his visit, was the meal he cooked the night before he left. As all of the members of my mothers family seemed to have an innate ability to cook, it was hard to make one spectacular meal stand out from another. But Uncle Phil's ·steak dinner was the best meal I've ever had in my life. He cooked the steak; outside on a grill, but it wasn't a phony \Brady Bunch\ Weber barbecu- · ing moment, it was perfect. He made some potatoes and some asparagus or something, but these were aUnon-speaking parts in his immaculate play. As I sat atthe dinner table and ate, 1 knew that this was the best meal I .had ever had, or was ever going to have. The food was flawless. At eleven years old I'd experienced perfection. I had bad one of those moments that hap- pen only a handful of times in one's life. A mement where you are enveloped in the undulating wannth of exquisite unfaltering perfection. Some. people look back on events and say that, that was the best of this, or the best of that. But I'm talking about knowing its the best while you're experiencing it. It doesn't matter what one is do- ing. It could be anything. My father had had the same experience. We were skiing in Colorado on a particularly cold day, and on one of the lifts up the mountain I asked him what was the best day of skiing he'd ever had in his life. He answered with- out hesitation. He had skied on a beautiful day in Colorado. There was no one on the slopes, and three feet of fresh powder had fallen the night before. He said it was like skiing in a feather bed. He told me at that moment he knew tt1at that day was the best skiing he'd had in his life, and the best he would ever have. So I guess in a world where perfection is always strived for, Only the GE Classic MasterCarcl. oHers ~uclents this unequalecl package of benefds. 9 9 01 The. .GE Class.ic MasterCa. rd is t.he educat.e d 70 c:hoice for students looking for smart ways to save. It offers one of the loWC1St APRs I APR you'll find on campus-:- 9.9%* variable APR for the first year with a low 16.9% vanable APR thereafter. That means that even if you're only able to pay the minimum amount due, you'll pay just.9.9% on your outstanding balance. NO ANNUAL FEEl While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 or more, the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we don't see why you should pay jusdor putting our card In your wallet. This great offer could only come from a team like GE Card Services and MasterCard. GE Card Services is part of one of the leading financial services companies in the world. And MasterCard's the credit card more widely accepted than any other on the planet. Together, they provide you with unparalleled financial security. STUDENT DISCOUNTS. As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entitled to speeial discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the COLLEGE MasterValues ™** pr<)gram, you'll enjoy savings of up tp 40% on everything from CDs to travel. The GE Classic MasterCard. An educated choice. Look for an application on campus or in your mail. And get the financial aid every student needs. *APR's shown as of 111194. 9.9% van able APR applies for the first 12 bolling cycdle~ 1 : after thatAa v.lli?ble A~R. whic;,~rgo: ~~'rs6 ': :P 6 P-~Y .~~ 1 1 :~~. tA ~~:f.~dr!\'.:r ~~\; :: :~~~e~(~~rm: wiU oncrease to a vanable API\ whoch as of 1/1194 was 19.9%. based on your e onque11cy. mornmum tnance . $hnd max1mum $20) will be charged for each cash advance. . **COLLEGE MasterValues is a produat offered by MasterCard wh•ch , 5 subject to change and may be discontinued at any t•me. Certain terms and cond1t1ons apply. but rarely achieved, we should treasure the moments the universe brings perfection to us, however ephemeral the glimpse. Comments on lily last article: My last article (which was ac- tually a quiz) received, on the whole, a pretty enthusiastic re- sponse. A few people were upset with me that they scored in the \Suck\ category. Just so everyone is clear, the test was rather \tongue in cheek\. So please don't take your score to heart. This whole Lorena Bobbit Thing: Two weeks ago there was an article published in the Concordiensis concerning The Bobbit trial. The autl10r of the ar- ticle felt that Lorena Bobbit was a \role model\ for all women. Since the publication of the article there have been a couple of re- sponses written to the Concordiensis. So J figured I'd through my two cents into this , cutting edge.(weak pun intended) issue. My first feeling after reading the article concerning Lorena Bobbit was that the author couldn't be serious. I thought that she had to be writing the article for shock value alone. Then I thought I should write a rebuttle; and speak out for all of those liv- ing in the twenty-first century. But alas, it was responded to be- fore I could get off my lazy duff and do something about it. So I've got only two things left to say. TI1e next time I'm on a date I'm bringing flowers, and sleeping on my stomach. Any questions or comments?: Rawson Thurber 1Jox#2018 Happy Valentine's Day! The Peace Corps at L'nion Two Recruiters from the P~ace Corps will be at Ull!Oil to discuss career opportunities and their experiences in the Peace Corps. When: Timrsday, February lOth 10:00 AM-1:00PM Where CC Atrium Having Computer problems? Got those down - time blues? Wouldn't it be nice to know that there's someone out there who can help? The Office of Computer Services has always been and always will be there to help you. OCS is available to help you 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Just can x6291 ifyou: -can't connect to the Vax from wherever you are - are having hardware problems, or -of you just can't figure out why something won't work. If you are experiencing problems with software such as Microsoft Word for Macintosh or Windows, Word Perfect 5.1, Kermit, or MS-DOS please call the Student Consultant at x66ll. The consultants are available seven days a week.

FEATURES February 10., 1994, page 7 Steak Dinner and Perfection by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff I was about eleven years old when my uncle on my mother's side came to visit. I remember quite a bit about his visit. I remember that he wanted me to call him Phil, and not Uncle Phil. This sounded funny to me, and I don't think I've ever actually called him Phil. We went to a baseball game, and did a number of Uncle/Nephew things. But the moment that, without question, has meant the most to me over the eight years since his visit, was the meal he cooked the night before he left. As all of the members of my mothers family seemed to have an innate ability to cook, it was hard to make one spectacular meal stand out from another. But Uncle Phil's steak dinner was the best meal I've ever had in my life. He cooked the steak outside on a grill, but it wasn't a phony \Brady Bunch\ Weber barbecu- ing moment, it was perfect. He made some potatoes and some asparagus or something, but these were all non-speaking parts in his immaculate play. As I sat at the dinner table and ate, I knew that this was the best meal I had ever had, or was ever going to have. The food was flawless. At eleven years old I'd experienced perfection. I had had one of those moments that hap- pen only a handful of times in one's life. A moment where you are enveloped in the undulating wannth of exquisite unfaltering perfection. Some people look back on events and say that, that was the Only e GE Classic this uneq led best of this, or the best of that. But I'm talking about knowing its the best while you're experiencing it. It doesn't matter what one is do- ing. It could be anything. My father had had the same experience. We were skiing in Colorado on a particularly cold day, and on one of the lifts up the mountain I asked him what was the best day of skiing he'd ever had in his life. He answered with- out hesitation. He had skied on a beautiful day in Colorado. There was no one on the slopes, and three feet of fresh powder had fallen the night before. He said it was like skiing in a feather bed. He told me at that moment he knew that that day was the best skiing he'd had in his I i fe, and the best he would ever have. So I guess in a world where perfection is always strived for, rs students nefits. This great offer could only come from a team like GE Card Services and MasterCard. GE Card Services is part of one of the leading financial services 9 9 0l The GE Classic MasterC~rd is the educated 70 choice for students lookmg for smart ways to save. It offers one of the lowest APRs I APR you'll find on campus - 9.9%* variable APR for the first year with a low 16.9% variable APR thereafter. That means that even if you're only able to pay the minimum amount due, you'll pay just 9.9% on your outstanding balance. companies in the world. And MasterCard's the credit card more widely accepted than any other on the planet. Together, they provide you with unparalleled financial security. NO ANNUAL FEE! While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 or more, the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we don't see why you should pay just for putting our card in your wallet. STUDENT DISCOUNTS. As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entitled to special discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the COLLEGE MasterValues m** program, you'll enjoy savings of up to 40% on everything from CDs to travel. The GE Classic sterCard. An educated choice. Look for an application on campus or in your mail. And get the financial aid every student needs. $/ .t~,~-dl',r\' }. \\' :·c ,·~~·~{'·~' · l·_t,,_ .1-' l_'~-Y t • - ~ '-\' • i _, • l ,, ' - • ••• • • • • ' • • • ' ·\' ' but rarely achieved, we should treasure the moments the universe brings perfection to us, however ephemeral the glimpse. Comments on my last article: sponses written to the Concordiensis. So I figured I'd through my two cents into this cutting edge (weak pun intended) ISSUe. My last article (\vhich was ac- tually a quiz) received. on the whole, a pretty enthusiastic re- sponse. A few people were upset with me that they scored in the \Suck .. category. Just so everyone is clear, the test was rather \'tongue in cheek\. So please don't take your score to heart. This whole Lorena Bohbit Thing: Two weeks ago there \\as an art i cl e pub I i shed i n the Concordiensis conceming The Bob bit trial. l11e author of the ar- ticle felt that Lorena Bobbit vvas a \role model\ for all \.,·omen. Since the publication of the article there have been a couple of rc- My lirst feeling after reading the article concerning Lorena Bobbit was that the author couldn't be serious. I thou,1,dlt that she had to be writing the article for shock value alone. Then I thought I should \\rite a rebuttle; and speak out for all of those II\- ing tn the t\venty-lirst ccntur:-. But alas. it was responded to be- fore I could get off my lazy duff and do something about 11. So 1\e got only (\\O thin!,!S left to sa:-. The next time I'm on a date r m bringing flowers. and sleeping on my stomach. Any questions or u>mmcnts): Rmnon l!Jurher Hox;;~()/li Happy Valentine's Day! ; --~ ·-- --------- -~---,---~---~-- i------ --·---·------ ' ~T-ile~:..,.,.~.,-~(~, r··~ .. ·~: : ·j:Ltill ~ ,{ ~.t \,; <J ,;•-'· <J ., L'lli~_ •. :~ l l'I'·':~i;ll: ,_ .... .. :·:..i ~:~(j; _\t'.:i .... \' I l~- ,:lli;_\\1- ~ ;: \\h.:!~·lC :\ltJUtn ,:. i '\1 I i I I !laving Computer probierns: Got those down -time blues? \\'ouldn't it he nice to kno\\ that there's sometme out there\\ hn can heir'.) The Office of Computer Services has always hecn and ah\ays will be there to help you. OCS is available to help you 2..t hours ada~. sc\'cn days a week. Just call x6291 if~ou: -can't connect to the Vax from wherever you arc -arc having hardware problems. or -of you just can't figure out whj something won't work. 1 fyou are experiencing problems\\ ith soft\\i.lrc such as Microsotl \Vord for Macintosh or \\.'indo\\S. \\'orJ Perfect 5.1. K~o:rmit. t~r \1~-J)( )~ please call the Student Consultant at :\6() 1 I. !he consultants arc ~1\ailablc SC\Ctl days a \\Cd .. 'i I: ·I i I I I I' . I 'I II ~ I

February 10, 1994, page 8 Is Union Sending the message,·. \You don't go Girl''? We have been told since grade school that everyone is created . equal, and if we worked hard, we would get what we deserve. When we were in kindergarten, and the little girls and little boys played with the trucks and the dolls, we felt this equality, but now · that this equality is most important it has faded away to reveal reality. Sexism is alive and well at Union, and this reality has hit many · women in the face. Sorority sisters are the brunt of sexism be~ cause New Y-ork state law continues to define a .place where women live together and where alcohol can be served as a brothel. Fe~ male engineers are subjected to sexism, when an occasional pro~ fessor jokes, \Do all you ladies know what a wrench is?\ All female students on this campus are belittled when people still re- fer to them as girls. When will society stop treating women as second class citizens? In countries like El Salvador, women are captured and tortured because their husbands, brothers, or fathers may betray the gov~ emment. The Chinese bind the feet of millions of young girls, and living in the United States going to an institution of higher learning, women feel lucky, but are females really so fortunate? Is the disparity in sports funding fair? How come the women's sports team are called the Lady Dutchmen rather than the Dutchwomen? Why is it that when a woman sleeps with many people she is called a 'slut', but when a male sleeps with many · women he is either called a 'stud', or a 'male slut'? Gender bias against women occurs everyday on this campus. It can be subtle, such as when students are referred to as chicks, girls or ladies, instead of as women. It can be more obvious, as with the President's selected appearances at Men's Hockey, and Men's Foot~ ball games. In this newspaper, the Athlete of the Week has only been a woman 4 out of 11 times. How about the sexist undertones of last week's Athlete of the Week? The men on this campus should realize that Union women are their equals. Union females are not to be belittled. Women should have the same academic, social, and athletic opportunities avail- able to men. This editorial reflects the majority opinion of the staff mem~ bers present at Tuesday's Editorial Topic Discussion. The editorial in no way reflects the opinion of a particular mem- ber of The Concordiensis. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Yet Another Response to Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model For All Women To the editor: Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model For All Women?? If this state· men~ is true, then I fear for our society and its futute. It is fascinating to me that there is so much hatred oqt there. Ms. Greenberg should be ashamed to . condone such violence. If the gentle lady feels so strongly, as we all do, that John Wayne Bobbit and all like him are grossly wrong in their actions, then we should allow justice's wheels to tum and frown upon those that take the law into there own hands and refuse to let justice work. John Wayne Bobbit and those that commit similar crimes should be arrested, tried, and prosecuted to the full~ est extent of the law. Mostim~ portantly, as the Constitution of the United States guarantees, the accused must be afforded \the right to speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury.\ We cannot al~ low, in our civilized society, any- . one to pronounce someone's guilt and then proceed to enforce their own arbitrary punishment. This breeds chaos and anarchy, the o~ posite of what society is and rep• resents. If the Bobbit case sets precedents, it puts us all at risk. I do and did feel sorry for Lorrena Bobbit. My SYIIlpathy rang out for her, but, the simple fact ofthe matter is, she took the law into her own hands an4 that cannot and should never be tol~ , erated by society. If Ms. Greenberg feels \the punishment definitely fits the crime,\ then I might be so bold as to suggest that she ~;~light call or write her state Senator or As~ semblyman and asked that the punishment for rape be changed to castration. I assure her that I wouldjoinherin that fight. But I cannot bring myself to believe that taking the attitude of\A man can finally feel the same kind of fear that a woman does of rape,\ is very productive. No one in their right mind condones rape·or applauds when one occurs. What would be more productive is ex .. tra police, tougher laws ( castra- tion!?), and more prisons tore~ move rapists from society. · Also, it would prove very pro- ductive to try and rid ourselves of feelings of bate and bitterness between the sexes. It is despi~ cable~ disgraceful, and contempt~ ible that one would respond to such horrific and graphic violence with, •'this might sound like the · words of a bitter woman, but I am just rejoicing in the name of equality!\ What?!? Let me, again, assure the gentle lady that there is no equality in violent crime. Violent crime is sad and unfortunate regardless of whether it happens to a man or a woman. It seems to me that your comment and your entire arti.cle are in the words of a bitter woman, a bitter woman that needs help. This was my greatest fear when the jury handed down a not~guilty verdict for Lorrena Bobbit. - That hate-mongering feminists would see the Lorrena Bobbit decision as a .green light for their own barrage of violence against men. We all should take care to make sure this does not happen. So to Ms. Greenberg and all the other bate-mongering, radical feminists that have the same thoughts that were presented in Ms. Greenberg's article, do soci~ ety a favor, find a cop! Sincerely, Bill Ferguson The Concordiensis would like to apologize for any disorganization which may have led to articles, letters, or ads not getting published. Sometimes is becomes difficult to operate a business with full course loads. We will attempt to rectify any communications. problems. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by · 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that · concerns th~ Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. i,\ ,, • Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial B_oard. ; . Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved .. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS~Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all slibmissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiens;s office on the third floor of the College Center.

OPINIONS February 10, 1994, page 9 A \Jump Out of Your Seats\ Defense_ of Lorrena Bobbitt: A Role Model for All Women 'Two weeks ago, shortly after the acquittal.of Lorrena Bobbitt, I wrote an \article\ for which I receivedagreat amount criticism. I realize, when Writing on such a controversial issue, there is bound to be objections and other sides of the argument. The purpose ,of this article is not to complain abut the heat I've been getting, but is to clarify my position. Now be- fore all ofyou Lara-haters jump out of your seats, please, sit back lU1d try to understand my point of vtew. First I would like to start by saying ~that Cra:ig Greenberg (no relation), my co-world news edi- tor has not only the right, but the obligation to tell the other side of the story. Craig, however, does not need. to m~e a personal at- tack on me. Granted, the cutting off of genitals is a touchy subject, but I do not think I am \sick and insane\ as Craig so gently put it. Slandering one's co-workers is neither professional nor appropri- ate. I do not want my readers to misunderstand what I intend to say. Make no mistake, I do not advocate the use of violence. Physical violence is not the solu- tion to any problem no matter how bad the situation may be. I believe Lorrena Bobbitt was wrong in cutting off John Economics. Club Urges Students to Volunteer Time To Junior Achievement To the editor: l11e purpose of this article is to recognize those students who have volunteered their time and effort for the Economics Club and Junior Achievements and to wel- come students to help us out again. Every Spring the Econom- ics Club gives Union students the opportunity to provide positive role models for young children in the grades firstthtoughfourth. As a volunteer you can help students see the importance of their edu- cation- between what they learn now and how it will help them later. For the past few years members of the Economics Club have volunteered their time to teach students in the local schools. This opportunity is made possible through Junior Achievements, the oldest, largest, and fastest grow- ing business and economic edu- cation organization. Its mission is to educate and inspire young people to value free enterprise, understand business and econom- ics and be workforce ready. Vol- unteers from the community lead activities during school hours with training and materials pro- vided by Junior Achievements. The Economics Club invites you to get involved in its Spring pro- gram. So if you like to teach, have fm;t with young children, and would like to support the volun- teer efforts of Junior Achieve- ments, please attend the upcom- ing Economics Club meeting, on Tuesday, February 15, in Social Sciences 103, at 3:30pm or con- tact Kerry Roberts, Box 1808 for more information. Sincerely, Kerry Roberts. Economics Club Don't Forget ..... Economics Club Meeting When: Tuesday, Februa;ry 15 Where: Social Sciences, Rm 103 Topics: Job Information Upcoming Speakers Junior Achievements Do You Want To Teach, Work With Kids, And Have Fun Too?? All Interested In Particpating in Junior Achievement This Spring Term, Please Make This Meeting Or Contact Kerry Roberts, #346-2181 Wayne's penis, butl also believe that it elicited a very strong, and may I be so bold as to say, long awaited reaction. Men can finally relate to the woman's fear of bodily mutilation. Tiw mutilation I am referring to is rape. I am not trying to say that the act of rape and that of cutting off a penis are equivalent, but the fear of being seX:ually violated is very similar. The fact that men can now real- ize the fear a woman goes through every time she walks alone or has a secluded confrontation is some- thing that I thought I would never see. It is time that men know the knife cuts both ways and men can be brutalized in the same way that women can. Secondly, I stated that the idea of cutting off a man's penis has probably crossed a lot of people's minds. I did not say that I seri- ously contemplate it. I think of myself as a relatively stable per- son and one that realizes that with- out law, there is anarchy. I can't help but repeat that the phrase \I'm gonna cut it om\ is heard fre- quently around the Union College campus. I will not pass judgement on whether this has to do with the way relationships develop here, or the people, nonetheless, it is com- mon. Now, let us combine our common sense and our sense of humor and realize this is not a se- rious statement, merely a figure of speech as common to many people's vocabulary of phrases as is \Oh my G-d!\. Finally, John Wayne Bobbitt was acquitted of raping his wife, but on the same note, Lorrena was acquitted of her allegations by reason of insanity. Whatever it wac;; that John Wayne did to her was severe enough to cause her to go crazy and cut off his penis. I agree with Craig Greenberg and Steve Mackey: We live in a so- ciety where the court governs the land and the fact ofthe matter is, Lorrena is free because the court's decision made her so. Inadequacies and U nprofessionalism Cited in Athlete of the Week Article To the editor: We are writing in response to the \Athlete of the Week\ article in The Concordiensis, February 3, 1994. A very bitter Mike Leding wrote the article focusing on one of the women's basketball team's captains, Andrea Pagnozzi. TI1e article which should have been a celebration of her accomplish- ments as an athlete and a scholar was both inadequate and unpro- fession~l. We feel that since An- drea was named Athlete of the Week, she deserved to receive proper recognition. Instead, her spotlight was clouded by a dis- gruntled reporter's account ofhis frustrating job and social life. Mr. Leding attempted to por- tray himself as the oh~so-gener­ ous reporter by claiming \[An- drea] won't return my calls; how- . ever, I decided to go ahead an give her the award anyway.\ Truth be known, Andrea was to receive this award two weeks ago but Mr. Leding chose to wait until the day before going to print to call her. Consequently, when Andrea returned his call, she was told that the honor was no longer hers-she was too late. Perhaps Mr. Leding should have planned ahead when trying to contact varsity athletes during midtenns. In addition to being a captain of the basketball team, Andrea is also a captain of the woman's softball team. She has received recogni- tion from the ECAC as \Player of the Week\ and has twice been named to the ECAC honor roll since the start of this season. Had Mr. Leding actually attended a practice, as he indicated in the ar- ticle, he would have had the per- fect opportunity to gather infonna- tion such as this. So then the ques- tion remains, if Mr. Leding actu- ally did attend a practice why did he not take advantage of the situa- has gone electronic ... tion and simply approach An- drea there? tylr. Leding's views on both his column and his editors may have found an appropriate place in another article. However his choice to use the \Athlete of the Week\ column as a means of verbalizing his frustrations was unfair to such an accomplished athlete. Mr. Leding claims that ifhe won this award he \would send copies of the article to eight million of [his J closest friends.\ It is a shame that An- drea does not have an article wmih sending. We commend Mr. Leding in stating that An- drea Pagnozzi is deserving of the title \Athlete of the Week,\ because she certainly is. Sincerely, Ann Driscoll, '94 Tara Illiano, '94 You can now e-mail your question to our student consultants. Our username is Writing Of course, you can still meet with a consultant in Whitaker House. Hours are: Monday- Friday 2:00 pm - 4:30 prn ~ Sunday - Thursday 7:00 pm - 10 pm Red Ribbon T-Shirts $12 Proceeds to Benefit AIDS Awareness in the Community Call Ext. 5584 for Details Interested in helping organize a Dance Marathon to benefit AIDS Awareness in the community? Call ext 5584 for details Send your letters to the editor to W:q.e <frnncnrbitnsis - Box 2577 . ' ~' !' • \ • •• • ... ' '· . . . ~ P·\ ~ -t, .... 1~~ ~ ~~ ~:.~$; ::'··t

February 10, 1994, Page 10 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Blending the Political, Personal, and Artistic Courtesy oftlte Visual Arts Department POLISH DRAWINGS NOW, an exhibit of nearly forty draw- ings by ten contemporary Polish artists, will be on view in the Arts Atrium at Union College from Monday, February 14 through Thursday March 10. The show includes work by early and mid- career artists, as well as some who have worked in Poland for five decades. The pieces in this exhibit incor- porate a wide variety of media, including traditional ink, water- color, and acrylic on paper as well as silk-screen, collage, and pho- tographic collage. They vary widely in scale, medium, and ambition. Many combine figura- tive and abstract imagery. Some reflect the dreamlike intensity one associates with contemporary Eastem European fiction, blend- ing political, personal and artistic concerns. The 80's were a period of tre- mendous upheaval in Eastern Eu- rope. Artists, like other citizens, confronted the changes with an elation that was laced with pro- found uncet1ainty. The Commu- nist government had denied most of these artists official honors, exhibits and teaching positions that were controlled by the state, and there was virtually no com- mercial activity in the fine atts. Many artists defined themselves through a kind of quasi-under- ground opposition. When martial law was lifted, and the Commu- nist government fell, artists re- sponded with a tremendous out- burst of creative energy. TI1e activity of drawing, with the most direct and immediate means available, was well fitted to convey the sense of urgency that these artists felt .. Walking among these works is a little bit like crossing \a beach after the storm,\ as sculptor Charlie Brouwer puts it in his catalog es- say. We see both the specific and the general, the individual sensibility and the Zeitgeist. In these pieces, art is making an individual and collective statement about the vir- tue of seeing, recording, and act- ing. The personal becomes the political and the reverse is also tme. It's a brave moment which may have already passed. POLISH DRAWINGS NOW is a traveling exhibit curated by Pe- ter Dudek, faculty member at the School of Visual Arts in New York City; Charlie Brouwer of Radford University Gallery, Radford, Vir- ginia; and Polish critic K.rzysztof Stanislawski. Tite Union College exhibit was organized by Profes- sor Chris Duncan of the Depart- ment of Visual Arts, with support from the Union College Internal Education Foundation. ·~ A t St A Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY.FEBRUARY10 AFRICAN AMERICANS IN EARLY ALBANY: A slide lecture by Project Di- rector Stefan Bielinski, 12-4 p.m., Free, New York State Museum, 474-5877. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Age oflnnocence\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: Home Made Theater of Saratoga Springs presents Robert Harling's funny and powerful play. 8:15p.m., $14,$12 587-4427. SATURDAY.FEBRUARY12 ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: 8 p.m., Palace Theater, Albany. 465-4755. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 11 MICHAEL FEINSTEIN AND NANCY WILSON: Proctor's Tile- ater, $33.50, $30.50, $25.50. 346-6204. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: See Friday, Febmary It SUNDAY,FEBRUARY13 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, Febmary t 1 DUO-PIANO CONCERT: Works by Mozart and Rachmaninov, 3 p.m., Recital Hall, SUNY A. 442-3995. IN BRILLIANT LIGHT: VAN GOGH IN ARLES: A closer iook at landscape painters. Albany Institute of History & Art, 2 p.m .. $1.50/ · students. $3/general. 125 Washington Ave., Albany. 463-4478. MAUNARD FERGUSON & HIS BIG BOP NOUVEAU BAND: The jazz legend mixes pop, rock, fusion, bop, and straight-ahead_jazz. $16, 8 p.m .. Empire Center, The Egg, Albany. 473-1845. MONDAY.FEBRUARY14 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 11 HARLEM GLOBETROTTERS: ·Basketball magic. $14-$9, 7:30 p.m. Knickerbocker Arena, Albany. 487-2000. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 18 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Malice\, 8 & to p.m., $2. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: See Friday, February 11 CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS.: JANUARY 21 -MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic Surveying h1stmments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 - FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: SUNY artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 JANUARY 22- JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in AI- '\: bany. Albany h1stitute of History & Art, Albany. 464-4478. FEBRUARY 18- MARCH FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Includes 19th cen- tury signage, horse power, washing machines, Harley Davidson Mo- torcycle with side car, 19th century architectural woodwork, restored portraits and paintings. New York State Museum. 474-5877. THROUGH MARCH 13, 1994 ALONE IN A CROWD: Prints of the 1930's-40's by Afri- can American Artists from the collection of Reba and Dave Will-. iams, New York State Museum. 474-5877. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 ENGAGED CULTURES: TEN LATIN AMERICAN ·~ ~. ARTISTS: Paintings, drawings, prints. mixed media and sculpture by contemporary visual ofHispanic heritage, Picotte Hall, College of Saint Rose, Albany. 485-3902. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 PHOTO DISPLAY TO HIGHLIGHT THE DICOCESE: Visions Gal- lery, Pastoral Center, 40 No. Main Ave., Albany. 453-6688. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 PAINTINGS BY LINDA GRAN: Broughton Gallery, Schenectady Mu- seum & Planteriaum, Schencetady. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff __ .;

--..1 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT February 10, 1994, Page 11 AJI Russian Program at Proctor's Theatre Courtesy of Proctor's Tlleatre Schenectady Symphony Or- 'chestra Cancert Master, Michael Emery, will be the featured artist for the SSO's All Russian Con- cert on Sunday, February 27, at 3 p.m. at Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. SSO Music Direc- tor, Charles Schneider will con- duct. Emery, a Schenectady native who drew accolades from his solo performance of B.arbers's Violin Concerto with the SSO last seaa son, will dedicate his perfer- mance of Alexander Glazunov's \Concerto. for Violin\ te his first violin teacher, the late Alfredo Cavalieri. Emery beg;m his studies with Mr. Cavalieri at age 10. Here- ceived his B.S. in Music Educa- tion from the College of St. Rose in Albany and his Masters in Mu- sic Perfonnance, as a scholarship student at the Manhattan School of Music. He currently teaches at his pri- vate studio .in Schenectady, and is on the faculty at Union College, Schenectady County Community College, Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs and Hartwick College in Oneonta. In speaking of the work that he is preparing for this concert, Em- enr recently called the Glazunov piece \a virtual kaleidoscope ... a fantastic piece with complicated passages and general musical merrymaking.\ The concert will also feature Glazunov's \Adagio\ from \Raymonda a short niece of bal- let music. According to SSO mae- motion of a \Troika\ or three- horse sleigh and ends with the burial with offstage fanfare. The Russian theme continues in dramatic style with Dmitri Stostakovich's almost vaudeville- like dance gaiety and open buf- foonery in his Symphony No. 9. The piece takes a lyrical, roman- tic, and whimsical tone as it ac- celerates to endwith a \merry the- stro Charles Schneider it, \is a wonder- ful example of the composer's melodic and orchestrating gifts.\ \ The suite was developed from the atrical nm.\ s s 0 tickets are $15 for adults and $7 for stu- dents. music of a motion picture produced in Leningrad in 1933. \ The program will open with Serge Prokofiev's Suite from \Lieutenant Kije.\ TI1e suite was developed from the music of a motion picture produced in Leningrad, in 1933. The film, a comedy, concerned a mythical military leader, who was created by other officers as the result of a mistake by Czar Nicholas I. The five part suite follows the legend- ary lieutenant from cradle to; grave, and includes military fife and dmm themes, romantic and melodic wedding music, a Rus- sian tavern song suggesting the Through a Family Plan, underwriHen by Stewart's Shops, up to three stu- dents are FREE when accompa- nied by an adult paying full price. Tickets are available through Proctors Bqx Office .( 518) 346- 6204. The SSO receives funding from the New York State Coun- cil on the Arts, the Schenectady County Incentive Program and the GE Foundation. The Febru- ary 27 concert is underwritten in part by Murray and Zuckennan, Inc. Dr. O'Donohue's Students to Perform Visit The 1880's Without a Time Machine: Selling the Goods Exhibit Courtesy of tile Visual Arts Department Dr. O'Donohue is a memBer of the piano faculty at New York University and is also on the fac- ulty of the Manhattan School of Music, where she teaches a !:,rradu- ate cours~ on the piano concerto. She has lectured and taught piano master classes at the Shanghai Conservatory, China; Rotterdam Conservatory, The Netherlands; Society of Music, Poona, India; and in Canada and the United States. Active as an adjudicator she has also given numerous mas- ter classes there and in Europe. Forthcoming lectures/master classes include the Sibelius Acad- emy in Helsinki; Finland, the Rotterdam Conservatory and Madrid, Spain. Both the master class and lec- ture-concert ate free and open to the public. Students at the mas- ter class will perfonn works by Bach, Mozart, Schubert, and Liszt. For further information, call the Perfonning Arts Office at (518) 388-6201. by Belinda Crago Arts Editor Explore the era when Albany thrived among the many manufacturing-based communities across the United States in a new exhibit at the Albany Institute of History & Art. SELLING THE GOODS: Products and Advertising in Albany, which opened January 22, is the third in a series of exhibitions, that use objects to document the social, economic and political trends which have shaped our lives. SELLING THE GOODS uses photographs, product samples and advertisements to examine merchandise that was manufactured locally from the 1880's through the Depression. Wesley Balla, curator of history. explains that \During this period. Albany produced everything from cigars to potato chips.\ Irish Cream Ale beer tray made from the Beverwyck Brewing Company, illustrates how a local company began to market products for national consumption. \Unfortunately with the Depression came a depleted economy, increased competition Chet' s Corner Last week CHET'S was booming! 80's \Night was a true hit and Cabaret went perfectly. TGIF was a great success. so look for it again soon. This week CROSSTALK will be at CHET'S on Wednesday, Febru- ary 9th, concerning faculty and student relations. Later that evening at 10:00, THE OTHER HALF, a great city band, will be playing at CHET'S. CHET' S hours are: WEDNESDAY 8PM-1AM THURSDAY 8PM-IAM Come and enjoy the new CHET'S. and reduced labor forces so that baseballs remain locally-made, This is a proud reminder of Albany's po\verful past as a manufacturing hot spot.\ In an effort to explore new directions in collection development, the Albany Institute of History & Art continues to collect objects that allow scholars and the general public to understand some of the imporant themes of everyday life of areas residents. The visualization and interpreparation of these objects, aid in making the museum's collection relevant to the widest range of people.

,..,., February 10, 1994, Page 12 Personals GSL(Green Stanley Lunchbox) Looking for mate to go on pic- nics and Polish outings. Love bobka and keilbasa inside me. Shunned by previous owner, still hurting. Box #Polka Happy Birthday, Ali. Thanks for everything S & E - your 2 roommates. Virginia - Guess what! Valentine's Day is here, and so will he be. Yeah! Love - Wiggle Turtle- I missed you! So glad the week- end is almost here. Love, Me Drew- Thanks for introducing us to all the women @ the Limelight. We had a great time! -from the girls of 3rd floor Davidson-S. and Mascots Martin, it's your mother! fo my friends in Webster, I miss you all very much and look forward to seeing you again Sunday night Jill and Julie- you horny Pigs - Stop the sex wheel. Susie Q- Keep Skiing To Everyone at the Comedy Show: Titanks for your support! Eating Awareness Group Thursday 7:00 PM SSllO Student Run - Confidential Nutrition- Problems Marine Studies Term Abroad Bermuda Schooner Expedition Environmental Studies Newfoundland Woods Hole- Cape Cod Marine Policy *Information Meeting* Wednesday, February 16th 4:30pm, SS 110 (applications will be due this spring) Contact: Prof. Kaplan or Tenus Abroad Office Campus News Classifieds . ~. Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2,000-$4,000+/ mo. teaching basic conversa- tional English in Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No teaching back- ground or Asian languages re- quired. For information call: (206) 632-1146 ext. J5l88 Greeks &Clubs Earn $50-$250 foryourselfplus up to $500 for your club! Titis fundraiser costs ntohing and fasts one week. Call now and receive a free gift. 1-800-932- 0528, Ext. 65. SUMMERJOB: American Vil- lage Program, Vennont, Mot1- tana, or France, offers staff teaching positions workit1g with young people.See the CDC for more infonnation. SUMMER JOB: Camp Takajo, Maine, is searching for male studetns inter.ested in be- ing counselors. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER INTERN: Phillis Exeter Academy, Exeter, NH, is offering a teaching intern pro- !,tram to interested students. See the CDC for further details .. SUMMERJOB: CampSussex Inc. NJ, is offering summer staff positions for those inter- ested. See the CDC for further details. On February 1 7, 1994, the Col- lege Bookstore, College Center, will activate th.e returns of Win- ter Tenn Textbooks to Publish- ers. Students Please take notice and make your textbook pur- chase prior to February 17th. Attention Sophomores: Leam what the Career Devel- opment Center can do for you! All sophomores are invited to stop by anytime between 7 & 9 PM on Tuesday, February 8th to find out how the Career De- velopment Center (CD9) can help you: - Find a summer job or intemship - Write and effec- tive cover letter and restnne - Enhance your interview skills - Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Alliance For Inore Information Contact Box 613 o·r Come to Our Meetings on Mondays 10 PM CC 203 CHET'S Coupon 10 Free Wings When You Buy One Pitcher!. Good Every Wednesday and Thursday Night. Network with alumni- Explore your different career fi.elds of interest - Tour our career library and alumni lists - Answer any questions you tnany have. Come to the 3rd F:loor .of Old Chapel. Refreshments will be served. SUMMER JOB: College Painters Ltd,,Aiban~,isoffer­ ing summer· management posi- tions: See the CDC for further details. SUMMER PROGRAM: GTE Laboratories, MA, is offeving positions in an undergraduate research participation program. Deadline is March 1 0, 1994.. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER JOB: Yellowstone Park Service Stations, Wyo- ming, offers a variety of staff positions for the National Park. See the CDC for further details. Did you ever think about being a dentist? Attend \Careers in Dentistry\- a panel discussion on career opportunities and is~ sues in the field of dentistry. Practicing dentists will be present to answer all of your questions. Tuesday, February 15, 1994 at 7:30 in the CDC, third floor, Old Chapel. Spon- sored by the Pre-Health Society & the CDC. Use the CDC Computerized Job bank ttie National Wire Service What is the N.E.W.S.? N.E.W.S. is the National Emplo:Yment Wire Setv.ice, a . database available at the Career Development Center · ,.{or students an~ alumni to • search for job openings in your career field of interest. How Do l use the N.E.W.S.? Located in the Graduate School Area toward the back of the Career Development Center is our user-friendly menu driven computer. Ail you need to do is sign in when you use the system and follow the instructions as they appear on the tenninal. It is that easy. Computer printouts of jobs you are interested in purchasing are also available when you use the N.E.W.S. · from this system you can get the names and addresses of companies to target resume and cover letters as part of your career search. An Electronic career Development Tool Although there is no guarantee that N.E.W.S. will land you a job, it is one more tool that can be used in your job search strategy. If you have any questions or nl!ed assistance in operating the N.E.W.S. computer, please feel free to consult one of our Career Counselors.

February 10, 1994, Page 12 Personals GSL (Green Stanley Lunchbox) Looking for mate to go on pic- nics and Polish outings. Love bobka and keilbasa inside me. Shunned by previous owner, still hurting. Box #Polka Happy Birthday, Ali. Thanks for everything S & E - your 2 roommates. Virginia - Guess what! Valentine's Day is here, and so will he be. Yeah! Love- Wiggle Turtle- I missed you! So glad the week- end is almost here. Love. Me Drew- Thanks for introducing us to all the women @ the Limelight. We had a great time! -from the girls of 3rd floor Davidson-S. and Mascots Martin, it's your mother! To my friends in Webster, I miss you aH very much and look forward to seeing you again Sunday night Jill and Julie- you horny Pigs - Stop the sex wheel. Susie Q- Keep Skiing To Everyone at the C01nedy Show: TI1anks for your support! Eating Awareness Group Thursday 7:00PM SSllO Student Run - Confidential Nutrition - Problems Marine Studies Term Abroad Bermuda Schooner Expedition Environmental Studies Newfoundland Woods Hole- Cape Cod Marine Policy *Information Meeting* Wednesday, February 16th 4:30pm, SS 110 (applications will be due this spring) Contact: Prof. Kaplan or Terms Abroad Office Campus News Classitieds .., Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2,000-$4,000+/ mo. teaching basic conversa- tional E11glish in Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No teaching back- ground or Asian langttages re- quired. For information call: (206) 632-1146 ext. J5188 Greeks & Clubs Earn $50-$250 for yourself plus up to $500 for your club! lll:is fuHdraiser costs ntohi ng and lasts one week. Call now and receive a free gift. 1-800-932- 0528. Ext. 65. SUMMER JOB: American Vil- lage Program. Vennont. Mon- tana. or France. offers staff teaching positions working with young people.See the CDC for more infonnation. SUMMER JOB: Camp Takajo, Maine. is searching for male studetns interested in be- ing counselors. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER INTERN: Phillis Exeter Academy, Exeter, NH, is offering a teaclting intem pro- I:,tram to interested students. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER JOB: Camp Sussex Inc. NJ, is offering smnmer staff positions for those inter- ested. See the CDC for further details. On February 17, 1994, the Col- lege Bookstore, College Center, will activate the retums of Win- ter Tenn Textbooks to Publish- ers. Students Please take notice and make your textbook pHr- chase prior to February 17th. Attention Sophomores: Leam wbat the Career Devel- opment Center can do for you! All sophomores are invited to stop by anytime between 7 & 9 PM on Tuesday. February 8th to find mtt how the Career De- velopment Center (CDC) can help you: - Find a summer job or intemship- Write and effec- tive cover letter and resume - Enhance your interview skills - Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Alliance For more Information Contact Box 613 or Come to Our Meetings on Mondays 10 PM CC 203 CHET'S Coupon 1 0 Free Wings When You Buy One Pitcher! Good Every Wednesday and Thursday Night. Network with alumni- Explore your different career fields of interest- Tour our careerlibrary and alumni lists - Answer any questions you many have. Come to the 3rd Floor of Old Chapel. Refreshments will be served. SUMMER JOB: College Painters Ltd., Albany, is offer- img summer management posi- tions. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER PROGRAM: GTE Laboratories, MA, is offering positions in an undergraduate research participatiou program. Deadline is March 1 0, 1994. See the CDC for further details. SUMMER JOB: Yellowstone Park Service Stations, Wyo- ming. of£ers a variety of staff positions for the National Park. See the CDC for further details. Did you ever think about being a dentist? Attend \Careers in Dentistry\- a panel discussion on career opportunities and is- sues in the field of dentistry. Practicing dentists will be present to answer all of your questions. Tuesday. February 15. 1994 at 7:30 in the CDC. third floor. Old Chapel. Spon- sored by the Pre-llealth Society & the CDC. Use the CDC Computerized .Job bank The National Wire Service What is the N . .E.W.S.? N. E. W .S. is the National Employment Wire Service, a database available at the Career Development Center for students and alumni to search for job openings in your career field of interest. How Do I use the N.E.W.S.? Located in the Graduate School Area toward the back of the Career Development Center is our user-friendly menu driven computer. All you need to do is sign in when you use the system and follow the instructions as they appear on the terminal. It is that easy. Computer printouts of jobs you are interested in purchasing are also available when you use the N.E.W.S. from this system you can get the names and addresses of companies to target resume and cover letters as pat1 of your career search. An Electronic career Development Tool Although there is no guarantee that N.E.W.S. will land you a job, it is one more tool that can be used in your job search strategy. If you have any questions or n'eed assistance in operating the N.E.W.S. computer. please feel free to consult one of our Career Counselors.

SCIENCE AND HEALTH February 10, 1994, page 13 Alternative Health Professions As Medical Schools an,d Professional Schools Get More Selective, Students Look at Different Career Options ,. by Kenneth Lee Scie11ce & Healtfl editor In the past few years, martriculation into health care ' . professional schools has become progressivly more compeHtive. Th.e unstable economy has lead people to go to into the health professions because they provide a good deal of job security. As. more peoople apply to schools, the more comptetivie addmissions becomes. For the most part,. thC' schools are only accepting the very best qualified applicants. In 1993, approximately 43,000 people ap- plied to alipathic medical schools, of those, only 16,000 matricu- lated. TI1e average science GPA of those who applied was 3.15, and the non-science GPA mean was 3.4. The average science Healthrear GPA of those students accepted wasJ .4, and the average non-sci- ence GPA was 3.55. As. admissions become more difficult, more and more students are not getting into professional schools. However, tltt~re are vi- able options for candidates.toex- plore. On January 28th, the Pre- Health Society sponsored guests from the Pennsylvannia College of Podiatric Medicine. Brad Bierbraur, a recruiter, spoke on the adn1.ission process and showed a video about the school and it's activities. A member of the staff and former graduate, Doctor Jeanin Willis, spoke as well. Willis spoke on the academic environment and the curriculum, which resembles the curriculum of alipathic medical schools for the first two years. A current se- nior, Denise Beach, described the Mlddla aar infodlon. called otltl8 medii, l§ ~used by bacteria or VIruses that pass from the nose or throat up the Eustachian tube to lhe middle ear. The Infection causes earache, a red Inflamed eardrum and a buildup of pus and mucus behind the eardrum. This fluid cannot drain from · the middle ear because · the Eustachian tube Is swollen and inflamed. Infected ear HolloW ventilation tubes are Inserted eardnm to help equalize pressure In uJH HHr prevent the buildup of fluid. • -'\9 bones Inner ear educational process of podiatric medicine, as well. as describing some for her experiences at the school. Podiatric medicine focuses on t11e study of the lower extremeties and the foot. It provides a more office oriented profession as op- posed to a more hospital oriented aHopathic surgical lifestyle. Ap- proximately, 90% of podiatric sur- , geries are considered to be outpa- tient, or ambulatory procedures. Podiatry is considered to be a sub- specialty of alipathic medicine. Podiatry has become particular popular with women who find that it leaves a reas01~able amount of time to raise a family, while pro- viding for a good and rewarding profession. Another altemative to allopathic medical school, is osteopathic medical school. Presently, there are 15 of them in the United States. Again, the first two years are vir- tuaJly the equivalent of allo- pathic medical shool. There are 4,000 students enrolled in oste- opathy, carrying a mean GPA of 3.2. This is considerably lower than that of allopathic medical schools and. gives those border- line students another pathway to pursue. For the most part, the tuition for these schools is equivalent to that of other pro'\ fessional schools in the country. Osteopathy i·tself is based upo11 a holistic view of the 1m- man body. He asserts that if you have something wrong with one part of your body, it effects other body parts as well, and the indi- vidual as a whole, is worse off. It is believed that the body self- regulatcrs and self-heals in times of stress and that stress, effects many systems in the human body. Dentistry offers an attractive alternative for pre-med students. The acceptance rate has been rela- tively higher than medical school. However, in the near future admissiions is expected to be- come more difficult. In contrast to medicine, the recent trend in dentistry is to specialize. The de- mand for dentists has increased annually due to increased popu- lations and better education. Ad- vances in dental techniques have provided for several sub-speciali- ties of dentistry (i.e. Orthodontics, Oral Surgery, Pedodontics, Endodontics, Oral Pathology, Prosthodontics, and Dental Pub- lic Health). Trends in the health care pro- fessions have fluctuated violently in the past thirty years. The pre- health care students of today are being forced to assess the options of the health prefessions. Removing Time Restraints by Andy Salama Science alld Health Editor Heart attacks are one of the leading causes· of death in the United States. Every year I .25 million people suffer from heart attacks, of those, approximately 500,000 people die. Fifty perce1~t of the fatalities occur within one · hour after the oi1set of the attack, most often before the patient can reach a hospital. Most heart at- tacks are caused by bloods clots becoming lodged in narrow, clogged arteries. l11is prevents, oxygen rich blood from reaching tissuesresulting in cell death. By dissolving clots, blood flow is re- stored and damage is less likely to occur. On February 7, national health officials recommended that heart attack patients receive anti-clot- ting drugs within 30 minutes of arrival at an emergency room. Anti-clotting drugs(ACD) such as streptokinase, and tpa are catego- rized as thrombolytics. The effec- tiveness of ACD's decreases with time after the on set of the heart attack. It is therefore es- sential that a patient receive these drugs, if necessary as soon as possible. The drugs are most effective if administered within the first hour or two. Experi- mental evidence has shown that thd:-<lr~~lcan be effecti\re up to twelve the report by the Federal Health Commission. Most of these sug- gestions aim at reducing time con- suming processes. Healtli offi- cials would like to see registration times decreased, as well as initial diagnosis of heart attack patients. The commission also suggested that storing the ACD 's in the emergency room, and authorizing nurses to or- hours after the heart at- tack. \It is essential that a der diagnosis tests would decrease the waiting time for patients. The Fed- eral Health Commis- patient receives these drugs, if necessary as soon as possible.\ When treat- sian recom- mended the use of ACD's on ·patients of all ages. However, some physicians are weary about using ACD's on older pa- tients because complications may occur. Patients with con- ditions which predispose them to bleeding should not have ACD's administered. Several suggestions aimed at avoiding fatalities were made in ing trauma pa- tients time is one of key factors in saving lives. Emergency rooms have shown less than satisfactory performance in the past. The guidelines for the administering of anti-clotting drugs are the first in a series of steps aimed at im- proving health care in general. Source: New York Times, Fehm- ary 8, 199-1 Pre-Health Society Meeting Tuesday, February 15, 1994 Social Sciences 103 6:30PM Mandatory for All Pre--health Students Elections will be held and a discussion on professional schools will follow.

mq.e Qtnncnrbi.ensis SCIENCE AND HEALTH February 10, 1994, page 13 Alternative Health Professions As Medical Schools and Professional Schools Get More Selective, Students Look at Different Career Options by Kenneth Lee Science & Healtlt editor In the past few years, martriculation into health care professional schools has becmne progressivly more competitive. The unstable economy has lead people to go to into the health professions because they provide a good deal of job security. As. more peoople apply to schools, the more comptetivie addmissions becomes. For the most part, the schools are only accepting the very best qualified applicants. In 1993, approximately 43,000 people ap- plied to alipathic medical schools. of those. only 16,000 matricu- lated. The average science GPA of those who applied was 3.15. and the non-science GPA mean \\·as 3.4. The average science GPA of those stltdetltS accepted was 3 .4, and the average non-sci- ence GPA was 3.55. As admissions become more difficult, more and more students are not getting into professional schools. However, there are vi- able options for candidates to ex- plore. On January 28th,. tl~e Pre- Health Society sponsored guests from the Pennsylvannia College of Podiatric Mediciue. Brad Bierbraur, a recruiter, spoke on the admission process and showed a video about the school and it's activities. A member of the staff and former graduate, Doctor Jeanin Willis, spoke as well. Willis spoke on the academic environment and the curriculum, which resembles the curriculum of alipathic medical schools for the first two years. A current se- nior, Denise Beach, described the Chronic ear infections noome.eaf irifeoiiOr{can aatiSe· · . ·::. Nll:U 1 Mioss'ard ~aif.a ct.tii~ · · · .·· · ·. · tAilmirut·. Chr6rilc~,~~~rect~\n be ..... muK1wlll tne inSerttorrot Healthy ear MkidiQ Aar infaclion. called otltl5 media, i§ ~Used by bacteria or VIruses that pass from the nose or throat up ttle Eustachian tube to the middle ear. The Infection causes earache, a red Inflamed eardrum and a buildup of pus and mucus behind the eardrum. This fluid cannot drain from the middle ear because the Eustachian tube is swollen and inllamed. Infected ear Hollow ventilation tubes are Inserted through the eardrum to help equalize pressure In the . prevent the buildup of fluid. Hearing bones Inner ear educational process of podiatric medicine, as well as describing some for her experiences at the school. Podiatric tnedicine focuses on the study oftbe lower extremeties and the foot. It provides a more office oriented profession as op- posed to a more hospital oriented allopathic surgical lifestyle. Ap- proximately, 90% of podiatric sur- geries are considered to be outpa- tient, or ambulatory procedures. Podiatry is considered to be a sub- specialty of alipathic medicine. Podiatry has become particular popular with women who find that it leaves a reasonable amount of time to raise a family, while pro- viding for a good and rewarding profession. Another altemative to allopathic medical schooL is osteopathic medical school. Presently, there are 15 of them in the United States. Again, the first two years are vir- tually the eql.!livalent of allo- pathic medi,cal shoo I. There are 4,000 students enrolled in oste- opathy, carrying a mean GPA of 3.2. This is considerably lower than that of allopathic medical schools and gives those border- line students another pathway to pursue. For the most part, the tuition for these schools is equivalent to that of other pro- fessional schools in the country. Osteopathy itself is based upon a holistic view of the hu- man body. He asserts that if you have something wrong with one part of your body, it effects other body pmis as welL and the indi- vidual as a whole. is \Vorse off. It is believed that the body self- regulaters and self-heals in times of stress and that stress, effects many systems in the human body. Dentistry offers an attractive alternative for pre-med students. The acceptance rate has been rela- tively higher than medical school. However, in the near future admissiions is expected to be- come more difficult. In contrast to medicine, the recent trend in dentistry is to specialize. The de- mand for dentists has increased annually due to increased popu- lations and better education. Ad- vances in dental techniques have provided for several sub-speciali- ties of denti,stry (i.e. Orthodontics, Oral Surgery, Pedodontics, Endodontics, Oral Pathology, Prosthodontics, and Dental Pub- lic Health). Trends in the health care pro- fessions have fluctuated violently in the past thirty years. The pre- health care students of today are being forced to assess the options of the health prefcssions. Removing Time Restraints by Andy Salama Science and Health Editor Heart attacks arc one of the leading causes· of death in the United States. Every year 1.25 million people suffer from heart attacks, of those. approximately 500,000 people die. Fifty percent of the fatalities occur within one hour after the onset of the attack, most often before the patient can reach a hospital. Most heart at- tacks are caused by bloods clots becoming lodged in narrow, clogged arteries. TI1is prevents. oxygen rich blood from reaching tissues resulting in cell death. By dissolving clots. blood flow is re- stored and damage is less likely to occur. On February 7, national health officials recommended that hea1i attack patients receive anti-clot- ting drugs within 30 minutes of arrival at an emergency room. Anti-clotting drugs(ACD) such as streptokinase, and tpa are catego- rized as thrombolytics. The effcc- tiveness of ACD's decreases \vith time after the on set of the heart attack. It is therefore es- sential that a patient receive these drugs, if necessary as soon as possible. The drugs are most effective if administered within the first hour or two. Experi- mental evidence has shown that the drugs' can be effective up to twelve the report by the Federal Health Commission. Most of these sug- gestions aim at reducing time con- suming processes. Health offi- cials would like to see registration times decreased. as well as initial diagnosis of heart attack patients. The commission also suggested that storing the ACD's in the emergency room, and authorizing nurses to or- hours after \It is essential that a der diagnosis the heart at- tests would tack. patient receives these decrease the The Fed- drugs, if necessary as waiting time eral Health soon as possible.\ for patients. Commis- When treat~ sion recom- mended the use of ACD's on patients of all ages. However, some physicians are weary about using ACD's on older pa- tients because complications may occur. Patients with con- ditions which predispose them to bleeding should not have ACD's administered. Several suggestions aimed at avoiding fatalities were made in ing trauma pa- tients time is one of key factors in saving lives. Emergency rooms have shown less than satisfactory performance in the past. The guidelines for the administering of anti-clotting drugs are the first in a series of steps aimed at im~ proving health care in general. .\iource. ,\'1!}1' York 'f'imes. Fehnl- ary H. 199-1 Pre-Health Society Meeting Tuesday, February 15, 1994 Social Sciences 103 6:30PM Mandatory for All Pre-health Students Elections will be held and a discussion on professional schools will followo

· February 10, 1994, page 14 SPORTS It's Time For. • • The Athlete of the Week by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff .....-~....,.._........,.. free, I 000 free, 400 Individual This week, just for you Union College faithful Athlete t~f the Week fans, we have co- atllletes of the week. One male a11d one female, two fearless swimmers destroying every other Division HI athletes in their way. TI1ese two freshmen are Jackie Crane and Kevin Makarowski (alphabetical or- der, no favoritism here). Kevin Mackerowski Jackie holds two records in the 500 free and 1 000 free. Her time in the 500 is 5: 14.42, breaking the old record held by Gatt w.ho swam the event in 5:19.34. Jackie shat- tered the old 1000 record held by ~ K. Dorse(ll:05.19). Jackie swam ~ it in 10:39.92. Jackie also swims -\ ~ the 200 free, 50 free, I 00 fly, 100 c:: ~ free, and the 200 fly. Quite aver- ~ satile athlete. ] Kevin has broken four records ----------' \\ in his young career here at Union. Jackie Crane He has broken records in the 500 Medley, and the 200 fly. In these events he has swam . 4:46.91 breaking the old record . of 4:53.62 held by C. Shaw, . 10:04.67 breaking the old ~ record of 10:08.59 held by C. QJ 11 Shaw, 4:15.56 breaking the old ~ record af 4:23.71 held by A .. :. Trenaglio, and 1:57.15 smash- ~ ing the record of my boy Bill . .g_ Humphreys by 0.93 seconds re- · spectively. lt'.s O.K. Bill you . were an All-American two years ago. Kevin also swims the I 00 . free, 200 Individual Medley, and the 200 free. Jackie and Kevin are just two members of a highly talented classofrecmits. WeHgoodluck to Jackie and Kevin and the rest of the team as they prepare for states. Keep up the good work and as Tsuyoshi Kobiyashi would say, \Stay Persistent!\ Coming in March : The Athlete of the Season A Gallant Effort- Dutchmen Split Colltinue£1 from Page 16 luctance to give up was exempli- fied by captain Jeff Jiampetti dur- ing the last eighteen seconds of the game. With their goaltender pulled. and the extra skater on the 1ce. the Saints' were pr~ssuring the Dutchmen. deep in Union's zone. The Saints' were preparing to skate the puck up the ice, and Jiampetti was forechecking deep in their zone; he intercepted the puck, carried it behind the Saints' net, and kept it there for the dura- tion of the game (despite the will of two large St. Lawrence defensemen). So the Dutchmen held on for a 3-2 win, giving them nine league points, two behind ninth place Princeton. This weekend the Dutchmen play host to Dartmouth and UVM. Two weeks ago, Union beat Dartmouth 5-4, but were blanked by the Catamounts of Vermont 4-0. 9th Annual Public Speaking Contest Sign Up in the CC Atrium Women's and Men's Track Teams Improve at Capital District Meet by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff l11is past weekend at R.P J. the Men's and Women's Track Team went to the C~pital District Meet to compete against Albany, Siena, H&rtwick, Saint Rose, and R.P.I. The men's team finished fourth and the seven females on the women's team scored points, but ended up not far behind in sixth. The top sixth finishers scored ·points and here they are. Placing in the men's competi~ tion were Rich Pulver in the shot put, grabbing 1st with a throw of 15.69 meters. Chris Sanchak fin- ished 2nd in the triple jump with a leap of 12.08 meters. John Simon came in 4th in the 500 meters with a time of I : 10.3. John Comeau finished 6th in the 5000 meters( 50 laps this guy is crazy) in 17:37.4. Damon Bizzell landed a 4th place finish in the men's 35 'lb. weight throw with a distance of 9.21 meters. Dave Riggi got chested out of lst place in the 45 meters and after a photo finish had to settle for 2nd in a time of 5.74 seconds. Sharon Morton came burning in on his heels to finish 5th in this event in a time of 5 .. 85 seconds. These men are two of the sensational freshmen that have turned Union into a threat in the short sprints. Russ Stram finished 3rd in the 400 meters in a time of 54.0 seconds flat and Mike Leding finished 6th with a time of 54.9 seconds. In the 800 meters Brendan Sullivan ran an i~pressive 2:07.5 en this slow track to finish 4th. John Metzfin- ished 6th in the 3000 meters in a blazing time of9:47. l11e 1600 meter relay team of Stram, Leding, Fleming( due to Sullivan's injury), and Simon ran a time of 3:44.1 finishing 4th. The 3200 meter relay team of Metz, Comeau, Conway, and Russell ran time of 8:55.6 also finished 4th. Scoring for the women's team were Nadine Filosi in the long jump with a jump of 4.36 meters to finish 6th. Allison Gonyeau finished fifth in the triple jump with a jump of 8.58 meters. Nadine Filosi finished thirdin the 50 meter high hurdles in 8.6 sec- onds. Diana S)'lenello ran an ex- cellent strategical race in the 1000 meters to finish 1st in 3:20.6, one second off the state qualifying time. Nadine Filosi once again this time in the 45 meter dash fin- ishing 6th in 7 .01. Amelia Audette raced to 5th in the 800 · meters in a time of 2:39.6. To sum up, the women's 1600meter relay team finished 5th in a time of 4:48.8. Good luck to the team as they travel to Weslyan this weekend, and the eventual State Meet. Keep up the good work and con- tinue to practice hard. Sign Up February 9,10,11,14, and 15 l ! ! \ ,, ,r 'I 'I

l i I ;r ., il February 10; 1994, page 15 Swimniing Crushes St. Lawrence, Hobart & William Smith by Lee Sch3cbter Associate Sports 8ditor This past Saturday, the Union Swimming and Diving teams took on both St. Lawrence and Hobart & William Smith, right here at Union's own pool. Union defeated both of its visJt.iltg op- ponents by big scores. The men bludgeoned St. Lawrence by a scoreof168-l08 and Hobartby a score of 17 4-l 07. The women pummeled St. Lawrence 182-90 and then Wilfiam Smith, 164-125. Both the Union men and women swam the last three events in ex- hibition to keep the score from getting everi more lopsided. Union swam very well indeed. Men· 's Basketball Bounces Back Every Union swimmer in ev- ery event scored either fifth place or better• a phenomenal statistic, considering there were eight lanes and two other teams present, The men were led by Athle.te of the Week Kevin Makarowski, plac- ing first four times in the meet: in the WOO yard freestyle, the 50 yard freestyle, the 50 yard fly, and the 400 yard freestyle relay. Scott Bowden, Bill Hutn:phreys, and Mike Humphreys each took first three times, while Chip Quarrier, Chris Riley, and Titan Stuntz each had one first place finish. Over- all, the Union men won every swimming event except two. Meanwhile, Joe Saltzbart over- took a new Union College record with his fifth disqualification of the season. Everyone on the team scored points, as both upfront strength and depth came through big. by Joe Sa:ltzbart Associate Sports Editor '' The Union College Men's Var- sity Basketball Team had four- teen players scoring in their 101- 72 victory over Nazareth College. Their record now stands at 12-7 after defeating Skidmore late Tuesday night 69-66 in Saratoga Springs, stopping the Tharough- breds' eight game witming streak. In the Nazareth game, Jamie · \Hoover\ Haver led all Dutch- men scorers with 17 points. Mark \Goose\ Stodden had 15 points, three steals, and three blocks, while Steve \Mr. Assists\ Evans, Kenny \Dr. K\ Evans, and Reinis Kanders netted 10 points each. Of course, Dave \the son of a sharecropper\ Dagastino added 8 points of his own and had this to . say at the conclusion of the game, \Assists are like kissing your sis- ter, that's why I take the ball to the hole.\ Well that about sums it up for the Dutchmen this week. The Union Men host Hamilton on Saturday at 2pm in the Me- morial Field House and then W\u.~n v·~ ~tV(. ~\~ ~itt c~ lc\~.Q M. L-f. ~\' y t. H't; ~ Y' • t>, t c! pro f ~ V' 'v~ travel to take on the RPI Engineers and the Williams Ephs. Come out and watch as the team look to be a solid contender to take home a 1994 ECAC Championship. Wome.n's Basketball Loses to Tough Opponent by Joe Saltzbart Pili Gamma Sports Middlebury scored the game's final six points to defeat the Dutchwomen 63-59. · Titis third setback in a row gave the Union Women a record of7-l0 with only five games remaining. The Lady Dutchmen must get hot very fast in order to be considered for an ECAC Playoff Bid. Andrea Pagnozzi scored 21 points, eight ofthem on a 14-5 nm that put Union ahead late in the game 59-57, but the women went ice cold and could not hold off Middlebury. Other Dutch women scorers included Montano with 17 points, Hitz with 10 points, and Opugherty with 7 points. Next week, the Dutchwomen host a big game. against the Hamilton Continentals on Satur- day at 4pm in the Memorial Field House. Come out and watch these fine young women as they incor- porate their new Flex Defense to combat their losing ways. ' The women's meet took fonn in a similar manner. They took first in all but one event and were led by six swimmers who had three victories apiece: Athlete of the Week Jackie Crane, Kelly Bevan, Jonatha Meade, Amy Ambrosini, Jenn Allaire, and Natasha Zabka. Anne Rozwadowski, CeCe Buchanan, and Eri Hayashi each took first place one time. The women took first and ~econd place in an event ten times in the meet. TI1ere 's not too much more to say about the meet- everyone swam well, and the meet was just an outright smashing by Union. This c:;.oncludes the regular sea- son for the Union Swimming and Diving teams. The men finished at 7-2 and the women completed their schedule at 8-1. Both teams now look forward to their respec- tive State Championships: the · women at RPI on February 17-19 and the men right here at our very own pool on February 24-26. Both teams look strong goi11g into States, and they are hoping to have your support at the meets. So come on out and support the team! ----. __________ 'This \Valentine's !fJay ... ---~~ · · Simply rftoses. Simply Perfect. ~, . . . ..,. .. . ~: .... ' . SAVE · · ',, __ , __ _ 'I DELIVERY ANYWHERE IN THE CAPITAL $3.00 OFF ................. QISTRICT, ACROSS THE STATES, OR EVEN THE WORLD . To pro-tec:.t a'3ains+ Al D5 aY\d other STOs a\wa'/S use late.)(. condorns. J For a free, full-color poster ( 18\ x 24\) write: AIDS Poster 3, Box 2000, Albany, N.Y. 12220 · N.Y.S. Health Depart01ent Any purchase totaling ............... $30.00 or more with this coupon. Phone orders, mention code \DM-1\ for discount to apply. '',· ... _ 'I THREE CONVENIENT LOCATIONS WITH · ·... STUYVESANT PLAZA OPEN SUNDAYS. 658 CENTRAL AVE. PHONE 489-5<161 ALBANY, NV 12206 '!rf$4~~ .. FLORISTS, Inc. STUVVtSANT PL. PI-lONE 438-2202 ALBANY. NV 12203 239 DELAWARE AVE. PHONE 439-0971 DELMAR. NV 1205<1 ' ' ' ' ¥ MAJOR CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED. ' ' ' ' 'I FAX ORDERS 518-438-9203. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' • SUPERIOR QUALITY. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' Valid thru Feb. 14, 1994. Offer does not apply tO'lpards in~store .promotional sales or wire-out orders. • PROUDLY SERVING THE CAPITAL ' ' ' ' ' DISTRICT OVER 100 YEARS. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '

' February 10, 1994 PAGE16 - . . . . .. Troy Stevens brings tile puck up ice with Cltris Ford against Clgrkson. The Skating Dutchmen lost to the Golden· Knights 4-3 in overtime. Photo by Scott Druckemiller/J'C ~ ···:t ikey Likes It! ·Gallant· Shines in Skating .Dutchmen's 4-3 Loss to Clarkson, 3-2 Win Against St. Lawrence by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor The big four, Clarkson, St. Lawrence, Harvard, and RPI. Union's record against these four perennial E.C.A.C. powers, 0-21. TI1e Dutchmen had yet to beat any of these teams before this week- end, but Union's luck was about to change. Before Friday night's game against the Golden Knights of Clarkson, Union's league record stood a 3-8-1, placing them in sole possession of the final playoff position in the E.C.A.C. The Golden Knights took an early lead, and held it, until early in the second period. The Dutch- men got on the board two min- utes into the second period, when Russ Monteith tallied his fifth goal of the season,. on assists by Chris Ford and Troy Stevens. Less than three minutes later, the Dutchmen found themselves on the power play. Reid Simonton shot the puck through a crowd in front of the net, past the Clarkson goalie, giving the Dutchmen a 2- 1 lead. The Dutchmen continued to dommate, as they extended their lead to 3-1 on another goal by Monteith, this one was assisted by Chris Ford and defenseman Scott Boyd. However the momentum quickly changed as Clarkson scored a power play goal twenty seconds later, cutting Union's lead in half. The Dutchmen, thanks to goalie Mike Gallant, were able to keep Clarkson off the board for most of the period, until a ques- tionable call set up a Clarkson powerplay. TheGoldenKnights, who have the fifth ranked power play in the nation were not going to let this opportunity pass them up, as they tied the score with seven minutes remaining in the third period. The period ended in a 3-3 tie, setting the stage for Union's fourth overtime period of the sea- son. In their three previous \sud- den death\ games. Union had yet to win a game, posting a record of 0-1-2. Unfortunately for the Dutchmen, this trend would con- tinue, as the Golden Knights scored the game winner, I :25 into the overtime period. The sold out crowd at Achilles stood in shock, for it seemed that the Dutchmen would never catch a break. Although Union's bid for an upset fell shmt on Friday night, the Dutchmen were ready against St. Lawrence on Saturday. The Saints entered Achilles rink riding high from their come-from-be- hind overtime win over RPI the night before. Earlier this season St. Lawrence edged out Union 3- 2, so the Dutchmen were looking for revenge. This time Union stmck first, as Russ Monteith scored his third goal in two games, on assists by Chris Ford and Troy Stevens. The Dutchmen added another goal Ryan Donovan sets for a slaps/lot against Clarkson on Friday. {pltoto by Scott Druckemiller/TC) late in the period, on an amazing individual effort by captain Jeff Jiampetti. Jiampetti skated the puck up the right side of the ice, through the Saints' defense, and then shot the puck into the upper left hand corner of the net.. The Dutchmen took a 2-0 lead into the locker room. The Dutchmen controlled play in the second period, just as they . did in the first. ·They made it a 3- 0 lead, when Chris Ford scored his team leading fifteenth goal of the season, with assists going to his line-mates Steven-s and Monteith. However, Mike Gallant's bid at a shutout was cut short, as St. Lawrence made the score 3-1 midway into the second period. The score remained 3-1, until 15:59 of the third period, when the Saines scored on the power play, cutting Union's lead to one. However, this time the Dutch- men were not going to let thtiir two points slip away. Union's re- Continued on Page 14 - v - an of H wi pa so ffil su de m( is La S04 fur La Vi1 eX I pia tat tra Afi ad1 sur the the Ov. ren pro his1 era: j, cou off( ten1

i ' .. - • - • ' I <' • .......:- ... nnrnr tcnsts The Student Newspaper of Union CollegeSi~ce 1877 · Volume CXXIII, Number XIV Schenectady, New York February 17, I 994 - - African-American History Month Continues A:L .. A.S. Sponsors Multicultural Events to Further Student Awareness; Angela Davis to Speak Tonight .by Alexandra Kreisler Associate News £ditor The African and ~atino Alli- ance of Students (ALAS)kicked of their celebration of African Heritage Month on January 31 with a party. Unfortunately~ the party was cut short due to a faulty sound systelll, but the rest .ofthe mmith has proven to he quite a success, much to the credit of dedicated and motivated ALAS members. sified general education track is offered, (if at all), therefore, it is up to the students to educate themselves and acknowledge dif- ferent races and cultures. Black History Month is a perfect time to become mote aware of Afri- can heritage. On Febmary 7, Molefi Assante spoke Gn the subject of Afrocentricity, \which means lit- erally, placing African ideals at the center of any analysis that involves African culture and be- havior,\ as he states in his book,111e Afrocentric Idea. l:: Ericka Watkins, co-chair of the -5 Black History Month ~ committeee, reveals that there ~· was a good showing at Assanti's ~ lecture from a wide range of stu- 1;· dents. 0 ] February 7th and 9th brought a. Afrocentric vendors to the Col- The main philosophy of ALAS is to bring together African and Latino people, in order to further social and political goals, such as furthering African American and Latino awareness on campus. Victor Owusu, a member of the executive board of ALAS ex- plains, \our main goal is to es- tablish a non-western history track- either East Asian, Africano, or Latino.\ AL4S members Victor Owuso, Beverly Miller, Dionne Morgan, Leslie Douglass, Luis Beltre, and Amber lege Center, which was a big hit (from riglrt to left) lmve llelped to organize events for African-American History Montlr. with the entire student body. The It seems President Hull and his adminisratation are not entirely supportive of this idea because they ·claim that western history is the basis of American history. Owusu reveals that ALAS is cur- rently in the process of writing a proposal for their non-western history track idea, for the Gen- eral Education committee. ALAS members felt quite dis- couraged by the lack of support offered by the administration in tenns of their idea to diversify the general education program. Owusu states, \As an African, I don't really feel that comfortable on campus. President Hull wants everyone to feel comfortable on campus, but the administration is not willing to support a diverse program.\ Owusu adds, \the can- cellation of the Brazil term abroad for the Fall of 1994 is a backwards step because the monentum will be lost.\ In response to· his comfort fe<rof$.U per vebjcJ~,,_AAll'f:il~te$~< :· c;iJ!1::·~11 !l'~ltl~t·'::\J?~1~.$Ql~f.$, .. ,n~l:Ul~~~4;~1 . ~r~ hwreased to $25,. :·t •rer•,:,~(i;!~a·'-'''' ;:;(:;'t,Qi$'~·\~¢'~fer~~.n.q ~~~;·,-\c(f•&Jtc~/.-·1 tio,-.. New ·si,gns:.·desil~n,atingt 'c.wb~n.:,a·sft.ld~utt~,grstenS;,.roak-.·· ·. s~citi:c parkinglots for students . . ln.g .. ,.it .. d.ifti~il1:t ifor. ·'4 Jtesbmetr and faeulty 'have been installed. to .get~way witb:,registerin:g l1is Fiues now double .for ~tepeat,of.-. . ·Other qa):l,'·' Mantiea explained. fenders with .. unregistered· ve~ if61ftinuirlinp/rg~3 hicfes and · level with the white students on campus, Owustt generally feels that the white students are not aware of certain issues supported by ALAS. He states, \it is not a blatent disregard of ALAS's goals, but just that they [white stu- dent population] are unaware.\ Owusu believes that change starts from the top, working its way down- meaning that \if the ad- ininistration sets the agenda of diversity, there is no way it won't be carried out on Union's cam- pus.\ · It may be years before a diver- vendors sold a wide range of goods, including dolls from Soi1tl1 Africa, jewelery, beads, masks, and wall hangings. Watkins was pleased with the great tumout and expressed that everyone seemed really inter- continued on page 4 College Expects Large Turnout for 199th Founder's Day Celebration by Elizabeth Del(oven & Sarah Ruth Evans Concordiensis Stoff Founder's Day for l994,whfch will commemorafe the 19'<;)th · birthday of Union College, will take place on Friday, Febmaty 25. Food Service is kicking off the event with a special meal for all students on a meal plan. All of the dinning halls will be decorated with table clothes and flowers. Hdpefully, there will be student and faculty speakers at each of the dinning areas. Other fonns of en- tertainment are being pla1med for the meal. Students are being asked to 'dress smart' for dinner and the events that follow. The sororities and fraternities on campus, with their own meal plans, have also been encouraged to have special meals at their houses, in honor of Founder's Day. The celebration will, also, in- clude a contest among all of the different classes to determine which class wilJ have the largest percentage of participation. Stu- dents will be asked to gather in designated areas with their class- mates and march with the faculty to the Memorial Chapel. Students will assemble at 7:00 PM In their designated areas. The class of '94 will gather in the College Center Auditorium; the class of '95 will meet in Social SCiences 01 6; the class of'96 will congregate in So- cial Sciences 103 and I 04; and the class of '97 will come together in the Atrium in the Arts Building. Banners will be made by members of each class to carry at the front of their proces~ional. The class with the highest percentage of participation will receive $500 towards their Senior Class gift. \It will be a really classy act for all of the students to march around the campus,\ said Kristen Reidt, one of the organizers of the event. \Students should be proud oftheir college's birthday.\ At 7:30, con- vocation of Founder's Day will begin in Memorial Chapel. The celebration will also in- clude the reading of the college's charter. Union College's charter is unique in regards to the fact that is was one of the first non-de- nominational charters. The char- ter proves that Union never dis- criminated according to religion. Paul Kennedy, the director of the International Security Pro- gram at Yale University and a his· tory professor, will be the educa- tional speaker at the celebration. Kennedy, the author of 111e Rise and Full l~[ the Great Powers, Preparing for lhe lwenly-:firsl Century and 11 other books, will be speaking on the rise and fall of America. \Putting aside the apathy of students at Union College, stu- dents should support their class, hang with their friends, and have pride in themselves and their school,\ said Reidt. \It should be like one huge birthday party.\ Inside News ····~~·········· 2-4 Features ......... 5-7 Op/Ed ................. 8 Letters ....... GO...... 9 Business ........... 10 Science ...•..•...... 11 A & E ......... 12-13 Personals ...•..... 14 Sports .. .. ..... t 5-16

February 17,.1994, page 2 NEWS . Yltlfe Ql:(rttcnr.bien\!i$ · Student Loan Fu·nd Inf.r.mation Short on cash? Need a loan? Angela Davis to Speak Today Short term monies are available for supplies, rent. food and other educational necessities. A special fund has been estab- lished to offer a source of relief tor students toHt11fie the gap · between sudden, imp011ant needs and their abilitY to meet an. · immediate payment. Come to the Dean of Students Office, 306 College Center, to complete the loan application process. Committees Being. Formed· . A Third Year Review Committee has been formed to evaluate the performance of Annette LeClair, Assistant Librarian I. Head of Technical Services. Members of the review committee are Bruce Connolly, Inga Dambergs, and Barbara Jones. Any member of the Union College community who wishes to pro~ vide written comments about A:rmette,·LeCia.ir;·s professional development and scholarship, or college serviCe should con~ tact one of the committee members by February-25, 1994. In- terviews may by contacting Bruce COfinbllf~''tl\{f.'Ctimmittee chair. at ext. 6281. ,., ,.,,:;, ·-- ·'*''' 3 ';,,,,,,_,,_,+ ,, · ' '· ,:,.-· .' _., ,_•; . An Ad Hoc committee has been formed· to ,.;;,.. .. T'\' •. ,..., .• tenurability of Professor John Marincola of the committee are Julius Ba.rbanel Dudden (History), Mark Toher (Cla~sfcs). (Library). Any member of the Uniori'Go!Je&@ wishes to provide written comments a~;ffp;t .. Marincola' s teaching, scholarship, or eollege servic~ , . contact one of the committee members by March 12. ~9.~~· · lntervie\vs may be arranged by contacting Julius Barbanel, t~e, .. · committee chair, at ext. 6524. CDC Sponsors Speakers Courtesy of Public Relations Angela Davis has been an in- ternational figure in the move- ments for ra·cial equality, women's rights and world peace. Davis first came to national at- tention in 1669 when she was fired from her UCLA teaching post for her involvement with the Communist Party, USA, for which she was twice (in I 980 and 1984) a vice presidential candi- date. A proponent of socialism, she is no longer a member of the Communist party. Davis also was a key figure in a highly publicized trail in 1970 in which she was acquitted of kid- napping, murder and conspiracy in connection with a shootout at a Marin ~County, Calif., Court.- hous<1. Her incarceration brought about the \Free Angela\ cam- paign, which spurred the. fonna- tion, by\Davis and others ofthe National Alliance Against Racist and Political Repression. The author of several books, including her autobiography !lnd Women, Culture & Politics, she is a professor in the History and Consciousness Program· at UC SantaCruz. The Career Development Center is . · · Interviewing Skills Workshop or, 7:30pm on the 3rd floorofthe Old · ... ,.., .. .,, Campus Security Report.-. -------~ will .assist stq~ents in la·J 1orrnl ~sum:met help .5t~+4~ri!~··.to. dres~.· p. r~;:~~s~t!~f;)@H,Mi viev( que~~i~as;.,.an~ .. · . (If iptp~:i~~~,~~· ,,_ <\'·• . MONDA V, FEBRUARY 7, 1994: I 2:20PM Davidson 4:30PM Fox/Davidson Lot 6:33PM Delta Phi Lot TtiESDA V, FEBRUARY 8, 1994: II 45 AM West College Lot 4 IOPM College Center 7 IOPM Campus Operations Lot 10:00 PM Fox/Davidson Lot WEDNESDAV. FEBR;JJARY 9! 1994: 12 23 AM 4:48~M 5:00PM R.a¥mond North Fa« Lounge A1umniG¥m ; -THURS9A Y.. ·FEBRlli)'RY to, 1!94: : ·n: 51 :AM Cmlege Center , 5:37PM ' • :6:45PM ' . :s:26PM !0:22PM ll:057PM . H:40PM SeQker Cirde Catllpus Operations Lot ~E Basement • Fox House North College Chi Psi Lot . : -:FRIQf\Y~FEBitUARVJl, 1994; '3:00PM Raymond!P?tter Lot , 3 :JO PM Raymond/Potter Lot North College SATUIU)AY.fi'EBRUARV 1~,.1994: 1115 AM Fox South I 1:43AM FeroHouse 4:45PM Achilles Rink 9:30PM Achilles Rink !0:42PM West College IUS PM South College SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Small quantity of marijuana found in com mon area-confiscated, MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's parked car damaged by hit and run. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCJJ)ENT: Perimeter fence damaged by avendor's truck. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered car-persistent violator-vehicle towed. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered car-persistent violator-Con duct Charges filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered repeat violator.. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered repeat violator. VANDALISM: Glass in entry door broken. VANDALISM: Window broken. TRESPASS: Unauthorized visitors using gym court. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Reported as possible tampering with mail boxes-students identified-no problems. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered repeat violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized.Unregistered repeat violator. FIRE ALARM: Caused by dirt in smoke detector located under sub floor. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken-accidental. SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical hazard associated with outlet in student's room-Urgent work order to Electrical Dept PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered repeat violator . MISCHIEF: Eggs thrown on student's car. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's car damaged by hit and run, HARASSMENT: Student being harassed by anotherstudent- Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Lounge window broken. SECURITY ALARM: No problem-staff entering. SAFETY HAZARD: Trip hazard-to be assessed by staff MISCHIEF: Visitor causing disturbance. FIRE ALARM: Cause undetermined-all systems reset. FIRE ALARM: Caused by intentional activation of a pull box on the first floor.

' 1 Chemistry Department Awarded Keck Grant by Thomas Pannhorst Contributing Writer The Chemistry Department re- ceived a $175,000grantfrom the W. M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles.. The grant wiJI be used to purchase instrumentation and renovate the freshman chemistry laboratory and the polymer chem- istry laboratory. This isn't the first time the chemistry depart- ment has received funding from the Keck Foundatio9. Keck had partially ftmded the p1,1rchase of the Nuplear Magnetic Resonance instrument, used by students in most chemistry classes. The introduction of instrumen- tation into the freshman chemis- try labs will give freshman hands- on experience with modern equipment that would not nor~ mally be handled by undergradu- ates, at other colleges and un iver- sities. According to Professor Leslie Hull, chairman of the Chemistry Depa11ment, the instruments will allow for more rapid and repro- ducible data collection. The stu- dents will work together in groups to collect data. Each group will pool their data and engage in dis- cussions to draw conclusions. TI1e intent is to increase interest in chemistry through modern .equipment and discovery-ori- ented experiments. Andi Slaitas experiments in tlte senior chemistry laboratory. Tile laboratories will be expanded and updated. (photo by Josua llaines/TC) 1l1e instruments planned to be purchased include, two UV /Vis diode array spectrophotometers, two FT-IR spectrophotometers, an atomic absorption spectropho- tometer, and two capillary gas chromatography with flame ion- ization detection. The college belongs to a loan pro!:,7fam with otl1er universities that collectively own a scanning tunneling micro- scope, which will be brought to Union. The renovation of the freshman chemistry laboratory is necessary to make room for the new instrumentation. T11e pro- posedrenovations call for the ex- tension of the wall into the corri- dor and for the placement of glass. windows in the walL The glass will give the area a roomier feel. It will also allow for viewing of the instnunents from the corridor, during tours. TI1e existing polymer lab, used for upper-level chemistry classes and senior research students, is not well suited for lab work. The lab was built with the intentions Dining Services Student Committee Created by Pamela Y. Lin Concordiensis Staff Dining Services is looking for any students who would like to have some input and be a part of the Dining Services Committee. TI1e Committee is comprised of Dining Service administrators from all food service units and is open to all students. Students from all years are encouraged to attend. The committee hopes to ad- dress student concems and im- Downtowns 518.347.2334 prove the quality offood and ser- vice. Students on the committee will actively take part and conduct informal visits to each of the food service units to offer suggestions. The committee is also interested in increasing the vegetarian selec- tions. Submit ;;my recipes to Din- ing Services. Meetings are Tuesdays, at 4 PM, in one of the second floor conference rooms; across from Dining Services. For more infor- mation, call Dining Servic.es at x6050. of using it as a library. New fume hoods will be installed, which are sometimes necessary for synthe- sis and other lab work. Also, new work surfaces will be added to give sufficient work space. TI1e W. M. Keck Foundation is one of the nation's largest foun- dations in tenns of annual grants. It was established by William M. Keck, the founder of the Superior Oil Company, in 1954. the Foundation's primary focus is on grants to universities and colleges throughout the United Sates, with a particular emphasis in the fields of science, engineering and medi- cal research. The Union Chem- istry Department will t,'Teatly ben- efit from this grant. A parking violator's car clamped witlr Campus Safety boot. Vellicles 1101 parked in specifically desig11ated areas will be clamped and towed Owners are subject to fines. (pltoto by Micllele Roseman/TC) Campus Safety Impliments Strict Parking Policy Continued from page I All cats on campus are currently registered in upperclassmen's names. Compared to prior years, the rules have ch~nged the parki11g situation on cam pus dramatically. Fines have escalated, and park- ing violation enforcement have hardened. \People will come to Campus Safety sayi11g, 'I was not aware of the policy,' yet we send notices about the changes in the mail,\ Mantica said. TI1e College Center circle is still a problem, as the road has needed to be blocked off, a number of times recently. Mantica anticipates the number of unregistered cars on campus to increase, after spring break. The new policy has helped in the fall term, and more parking spaces have became available. But with this tenn 's snow fall, many park- ing spaces have been lost. One advantage, in tenns ofthe new registering procedures. is that students will no lm1ger be re- quired to register their cars annu- ally. or faculty. biatlnually. The first violation in failing to regis- ter a vehicle, will result in a no- tice that the vehicle must be reg- istered within 48 hours. The sec- ond violation, consists of the same notice with a $25 fine at- tached. After the third violation, a $50 fine will be imposed. along with the car being towed and a loss of campus parking privileges for a year. Other violations which result in a $25-$50 fine include; driving on the grass or a pedes- trian walkway, parking in a handicapped space without a per- mit, and parking in the middle of a campus roadway. •.

February 17, 1994, page 4 NEWS Survey: Freshmen Aspirations Hit a New High Courtesy ojtlte College Press Service More college freshmen have hopes of obtaining advanced de- grees after they get their four-year degree than ever before, and women are more likely than men to aspire to the highest possible degrees such as doctorates, ac- cording to findings in a sweep- ing survey of this year's freshmen class. The 28th annual survey of entering college freshmen, con- ducted by the Higher Education Research Institute at the Univer- sity of California-Los Angeles, also found that competitive pres- sures and stress among freshmen are at all-time highs. The survey was completed last fall by 220,7 57 first -year students at 42 7 colleges and universities, and was sponsored by the American Council on Education, a Wash- ington, D.C.-based higher educa- tion association. Sixty-five percent of the freshmen surveyed in 1993 plan to pursue a graduate degree after they finish college, the survey found.- In comparison, 55 percent of the freshmen polled in !992 and less than 50 percent of those polled in the early 1970s had in- dicated they wanted to pursue education beyond the four-year degree. More importantly researchers found, was the fact that for the four out of five (82..1 percent, satisfied with their college expe• first time ever in the survey compared with 78.5 percent last rience reached its lowest point in women were more likely than year) said that going to college is the history of the survey.'' men to seek all major types of important so they can get a ''bet- Nearly half (48 percent) said advanced degrees (master's, doc- ter job.\ they expected to be satisfied with toral, medical and law) than men; Money is also an important college, compared with 50.4 per- · 27.3 percent of the female first- reason why the incoming fresh- cent last year and 64.7 percent in year students indicated they man class selected theirinstitution 1970. wanted to pursue terminal de- _ 32 percent said that an impor- Among other findings of the grees, compared with 25.8 per- tant reason they picked their col- sttrvey: cent of the men. In 1967, three lege was low tuition or because • Competitive pr~ssures and times more men than women had they were offered financial assis- stress are at record levels. Record planned to pursue a doctoral, tance .. Nearly 40 percent said number of students are making medical or law degree (26.7 per- chances are good ~hey will get a multiple applications_ 70.3 per- cent vs. 8.5 percent), job to help out with college ex- cent _ and 22.2 percent ofthe ''To close such a wide gap in penses. The percentage of stu- freshmen applied to fotu or more a relatively short ,___...:;....;;__ _____ _.... __________ .., colleges, a record.\ ''A span of two de- recordofotherfindings cades is truly re- suggest that studentsare markable,'' said feeling increasingly UCLA Professor stressed,\ Astin said. A Alexander W. llighnmnber ofrespon- Astin, director of dents (23.2 percent, the survey. compared with 16 per- The cnmpre- cent in 1985) said they hensi_ve survey \feel overwhelmed by does not draw con- all I have to do'' and 9.4 elusions from the volumes of data dents working full time rose to its percent said they frequently' 'felt garnered from public and private highest level_ 5.6 percent _si11ce depressed.'' · two- and four-year institutions, the question was introduced in Ratin.gs on emotional and but rather shows statistical trends 1982. physical health hit all-time lows, among first-year students. \These findings suggest that with the percentage of students Financial security after gradu- the students may be more inter- missing classes because of sick- ation appears to be the motivation ested in graduate degrees because ness reached an all-time high.. The in obtaining advanced degrees, they feel that advanced training study cites problems at home as the survey found. Seventy-five will give them a competitive edge possible reasons for these trends; percent of the respondents said in their quest for jobs and finan- 3. 7 percent of the students said that a \very important\ reason cial security.''Astin said. \It is that their fathers were unem- for attending college is ''to be able also significant that the percent- ph~yed, and 25 .l percent said to make more money.'' More than age of freshmen who expect to be their parents are either separated or divorced. • In terms of social issues and political attitudes, about half the students defined themselves as being to the left or right of the political center. Students claim- ing to be \middle of the. road'' dipped to 49.9 percent for the first time since 1972, down from 53 percent last year and 60 per .. cent in 1980. Those who consid- ered themselves conservative in- creased 2.6 percentage points to 22.9 percent, the highest share re- ported since the question was first asked in 1970. The percent- age who consider themselves left of center was 27.2 percent. • Support to legalize mari- . juana increased to 28.2 percent, and student support for legisla .. tiori to outlaw homosexuality de- clined for the sixth year in a row to a low of36.2 percent. Eighty- one percent of the students sup- port greater efforts to control handguns, and a greater number of students_ 84.4 percent_ sup- port greater governmental efforts to reduce pollution. Copies of the 28th annual re- port, \The American Freshman: National Norms for Fal11993,\ are available for $20 (prepaid, plus $3 per book for shippi11g) from the Higher Education Re- search Institute, UCLA Graduate School of Edt~cation, 405 Hilgard Ave., 3005 Moore Hall, Los Angeles, Calif. 90024-1521. A.L.A.S. Encourages Participation in Multicultural Events Continued from page I ested in the origin of the items being sold- many questions were asked and a lot was bought. Workshops concerning black \\Omen and men issues took place on Februal)· lith and 14th. The first night. the men and women split up and discussed black gen- der issues. During their session. the women re-wrote history. how they \vanted to see it. As a result, they deleted the \babymaker\ image assigned to the female role. Februal)· I 4th. the groups recon- wned and discussed their views. The tumout for their workshops was mamly African American and Latino students. lfyou have already missed out on any or all of these events. Black History Month continues throughout the rest of Februal)'. so there is plenty of time to be- come involved and support ALAS's celebration of African heritage. This Thursday. February 17th. African American writer Angela Davis will be speaking in the Memorial Chapel at 7:30 PM. where a reception will follow. An African talent/fashion show will take place at 7PM in Uppper Class Dining on Saturday, Feb- ruary 19th. So far, there will be poetry readings. dance entertain- ment. and a perfonnance by the gospel ensemble. Watkins invites anyone to participate. as long as the entertainment maintains the Black Hist01y Month theme. ALAS offers. a \Taste of the Tropics\ on February 20th from 7 to 9PM where Can-ibeean, West Reception for Molefi Kete Asante, Professor and ell air of tile departme11t oj Ajrican.Ametican Studies at Temple University after Ills talk ;, Memorial Cllapel, titled \Afrocelltric Scllool ofT/wuglrt\ last Monday. (Piroto by Jeremy Smitl1jor Tile Concordiensis) Indian. and African dishes will be served to be sampled by anyone. The location has not yet been de- cided. The final film of the month. titled \11te Meeting\ will be shown at 7:00PM in Social Sciences oh February 23. Finally. a party at Fero House on February 25th will end this important month. 11te members of ALAS should ·certainly be commended for fulfilling their goal of \trying their best to eduate and entertain throughout the whole Black History Month.\ as Watkins expressed. ALAS mem- bers sought out their own means of financial support in order for all of these events to have taken and to still take· plac~. l11e Stu- dent Forum .financially supported lecturer Assanti and several other organizations will make it pos- sible for Anther Angela Davis to come to Union, on Thursday. ALAS has also arranged for Dhoruba Bin Wahad to come and speak at Union in the near future. Becanse he has been touring Af- rica, he is unable to come during BlackHistoty Month,

FEATURES February 17, 1994, page 5 Racism • • The G_reat Collegiate Divide Daily Iowan. Cartoon Rekindles Open Discussion about Ra·cism lnter(:oil(!giate Press Iowa City, Ia - Having a way to address the degree of racism in an institution is a challenge, accord- iHg to University of Iowa Dean of Students Phillip Jones·. \TI1e quality of life is a major issue on and the African-American Cul- tural C~nter, to create a greater sense of belonging and to make the UI community more receptive to ·their culture. A recently convened panel of Ul administrators expressed their views on an editorial cartoon pub- the bad because censoring the bad means it gets out there in the pub- lic forum, and people have the chance to tell the tmth about it.\ Despite its insulting nature, Jones thought the cartoon was beneficiaL \I thought it was a great cartoon\ Jones said. \It has all campuses, and we try to deal with it every day.\ Jones said the only way for progress to be made is for Jines of communication to re- main open and for ev- eryone to be respon- \There are ti.mes when the First Amendment per.mits hate mongers to spread their lies. It also permits most of the people, the healthy people, to reactverynegatively to it.\ sparked discussion of the issues. \I have been con- cerned for a long time that they aren't being discussed. Was it in- sulting? Yes. The press has a right to print things that are of- sive. \If you're going to have anything resembling civility and progress we have to work to- gether. \It's not enough ·to simply make excuses because its hard to communicate. For progress to be made, the things you dislike most about other people have got to be tolerated.\ Jones said African American students have been forming a number of groups, like Voices of Soul, the ·Black Student Union 0 D 0 lished in the Daily Iowan and has since sparked interest in the level of racism at the Ul. \I think it was extraordinarily thoughtless and insensitive for the DI to publish lhe cartoon,\ Pro- vost Peter Nathan said. \There are times when the First amend- ment permits hate mongers to spread their lies. It also pennits most of the people, the healthy people, to react very negatively to it. \TI1at's why we don't censor 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 \ 0 00 0 fensive. should.\ It does, it will and it Coalition member Joyce Debrah said she feels as though she is taking part in something similar to the civil rights move- ment of the 1960s. \Why am I going through this? If progress is being made, I wouldn't be standing here talking to you right now,\ she said. ..The issues should have been solved 35 years ago. So what happened? What went wrong?\ !,d\:pr£UtifiC'al\f¥''1tttcotrect coinment , UHiless~ Jt?1'~fat~'¢.o'!int131tl~ed 'by ·a .. pltysical' threa( a committee \lins·recomrrtended. The unr've'rSity decided ·· N;pv:- lY, :l99'3tO:- sd$pend en- ·for:ceJitenf of its existing hate . ··' ·speedt\Cbde and replace it by - ·eittl'~d:f' fl1e, 1:993 .. 941 'aea,.. 'Cilieln1etyeij.tr'w!tl1's'dine fohn·'of tas~ment while protecting their r!~ltts to ftee speech. :''\'~l:lle ~ ComriHssion on Str~ngthening the Community, ciimpl'ised of faculty, students atid'btlitr interested parties. pro- tmsed'tnat: • Student fipeech that does not eoi1taih a physical threat should not be subject to disci~ plinary action. • First~year students should be assigt1ed housing. Under the current system, students may choose whete they will reside fot\th&'flrslyear. ami the com- niission said the practice often · resuns in ''self-segregation and .rw;m;:1]V''\\@')···~ ~rn:~t~J~tH~,(lt!ltl!ttt,;e., , lo$t opnattunitiesfor wider in- teraction among diverse f.'!OUpS ofstudcents.' • · · Ac- ;,,.. Eleitlj\' firte:riiityruid.soror- >fusll tihfil: tiH!' s()pfion1ore U'611Hra ... ·· ····.··tO\Vtwd ccmtnlorl t.tonls. ~ • • -~' _.5.~~ ·:,.::: :\' .:~-:-..?.;::,:.;-;. ·.-:-:-.:: .... , .. , -: ..:-;._. ,,. ··-;. : ~---- .-· -. ' The Push for Diversity Awareness By Karen Neustadt Special Corresponde11t Diversity training, like it or not, is making a debut on many of America's college campuses as administrators grapple with new demographic realities that indi- cate vast differences in customs, culture and lifestyles among stu- dents. Educators say they are con- cerned, however, that there is a cloud .of misunderstanding sur- rounding the term \diversity which was coined in the late 1980s, and that students and fac- ulty often associate it only with ethnic issues. .,Multiculturalism is not just a racial issue. It's much more broad. It is an understanding of and appreciation for-cultural dif· • .... - . ~ • • ~ * ~- ; ~ ferences, whether they be with regard to race, ethnicity, lan- guage, religion, national origin. sexual orientation or gender,'' said Cydnee Martin. associate di- rector of the Women's Center at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. Some educators thought di- versity training was a passing fad, cropping up with the much-de- bated political correctness move- ment, but the concept appears to have made a ·leap from words to actions on many campuses. Once a trendy buzzword, it has become a reality in the form of work- shops. seminars and collrses. Another professor at the Uni- versity of Virg.inia says that Ameri·can colleges and tmiversi- ties would do well to study how other countries are .handling di- • O M 0° .: - t O versity issues in their school sys- tems. Robert F. McNergney, di- rector of the Commonwealth Center for Education of Teach- ers, is one of a three-member team who is scheduled to visit several European counties to pick up pointers ii1 diversity training. \We think the discourse about America and diversity might be infonned by examinillg what is going on in other coun~ tries. Our problems are not unique,\ McNergney said. ''For example, in Singapore. they are not afraid of experiment. If a group of people need integration. say the Malaysians, the govern- ment will encourage finding the resources to make them a part of society.\ Even in racially divided South Africa, McNergttey noted. there are experts who are work- ing on diversity issues in elemen- tmy. secondary and college class- rooms. ''They are trying to en- courage cooperation and collabo- ration.\ he said. adding that American educators would do well to model their approach to diversity from these experts. McNergney's team will vid- eotape foreign teachers as they handle diversity issues in class- rooms. then will integrate the tapes into traiiling programs for teachers in the U.S. ''Titese will be very rich slices of life. We will create case-based teaching of teachers:: he ,said. \llte use of cases also enables a temperate discussion of race and ethnicity. '' At the University of Arizona in Tucson, for the first time in-the' school's history. administrators will undergo special diversity training sessions beginning this year. The four-hour program is part of a larger. mandatory man- agement traming program that the school's faculty and staff are required to attend. Kit Taylor. a psychology professor and diversity special- ist at Arizona who developed the diversity segment of the pro- gram. said that he teaches stu- dents and educators that diver- sity is· 'the difference that makes a difference, or whatever it might be about people that makes us view them in a paiticular or limited way. ''Some people are so com- fortable with stereotypes. Titey think they have infonnation on CDIIIin11ed Oil page 7

Fe~ .. rua.ry_-lg.,: 1~94~ ,p~ge,;~ .. i•- . .-- ........ . ·{ . ~ ... . - .. ,- . .. . '.: .· . - · .. ~ . . .• Summit Focuses Op College Pollution, vironmental reform. Courtesy oftlle College Press Serveice Universities artd colleges waste millions of gallons of wa- ter and fuel every year while pro- ducing thousands of tons oftoxic waste and carbon dioxide, envi- ronmental protection groups charge. In fact, the average stu- dent generates about 640 pounds of garbage a year. Yet, there are many things that campuses could be doing to change their environmental poli- cies in order to reduce waste and to encourage recycling efforts. That's the point ofthe Cam- pus Earth Summit, scheduled Feb. 18-20, at Yale University in New Haven, Conn. Students, fac- ulty and administt:ators from more than 1 25 campuses, includ- ing 17 forei!,'ll universities, will meet to craft a blueprint for en- The summit marks the first time adminstrators will work with students and environmental leaders to create campus guide- lines that can be replicated inter- nationally. Carol Browner, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, will be the keynote speaker. A special one-hour col- lege edition of\Rock and the En- vironment\ radio show, pro- duced by the Yale Student Envi- ronmental Coalition and the Campus Green Vote, will be broadcast to more than 300 col- leges the week of the summit to reach students who can't attend. \From solid waste to radio- active waste, campus policies re- flect society's poor environmen- tal practices,\ said Jeff Courey, chairman of the 1994 Campus Earth Summit and the Yale Stu- W \.t ~ \1\ V tJ V.. ~ j V(. the ~itt o~ lo v~, if s p r o p t '<' l y. M a k:.~ ~\'-Y~ WYbppt.d To pro1ett a~a·,nst AlD5 arld o\\her STDs 1 ah.ua'/S ttse late:l(.condorns. dent Environmental Coalition, host ofthe conference. \Univer- sities must lead us into the 21st century by becoming responsible consumers and educators.\ Teresa Heinz, chairwo.man and chief executive officer of the Ht;inz Family Foundation, lead sponsorofthe summit, says cam- puses must accept a leadership role in environmental reform. ''Universities wield real power _ as major consumers of goods and services with signifi- cant environmental impacts, as educators with the opportunity to graduate ecologically literate citi- zens and as paragons whose be- havior speaks loudly to theircoin- munities and countries,\ she said. The biggest environmental culprits on campuses are solid waste,- energy use, water use and poor procurement policies. Ra- dioactive substances, toxic chemi- cals, medical waste, pesticides and air pollution are also press- ing problems. Hen\< are some examples of how campuses use resources and · what some colleges have done to reduce the waste, according to the Student EnvironmentaL Action Coalition: • Only about 5 percent of the 640 pounds of waste produced by an average student is recycled. Paper makes up about 40 percent to 50 percent of the waste stream. Yet~ a University of California- Los Angeles recycling prqgram saved an estimated 1,133 trees and 200 cubic yards of landfill space in its first seven months of operation. Rutgers University in New Jersey recycles more than 32 percent of its waste, saving more than $26,000 a year. Dis- tributing reusable coffee mugs at Potsdam University in New York cut use of polystyrene cups by 58 _percent. • The State University of New York's Buffalo campus generates more than 200,000 tons of carbon dioxide, seven tons per person, through its use ofelectricity. However, reducing room temperature. by 1 degree Fahrenheit saved 20;000 gallons of fuel and $8,000 a year at Con-. necticut College. Yale University's switch froni incan- descent to fluorescent lighting is expected to save about $3.5 mil- lion over the next 10 years. • The University of Missis- sippi uses up to 5 million gallons of water a day, and Brown Uni- versity is the second largest user of water in Rhode Island. Re- search shows that '·'low flow'' shower heads can save ll mil- lion gallons of water annually. . . YL Prayer j'or Love '·.;. · 6g rJ3illySfiw/(ps . c~~rtfien5is Staff It's fate now in tlie evening N I try to fa[[ asleep Mg eyes won't cwse or shutter I nstea£{tfieyc!Wos:e to ~weep.~ I fT!J so hard top rag to (joe{ I liave no otFzer cfwice I've {ost someone ancf sinned you see I prag you liear 11t1J voice. !For it is surefy /(TWwn 6y a{[ Sfre reads me {if(g_ a 6ool( I stofe tier Cove ancf turnecf away To tier I am a cro_ot g{pw she sees a cfifjerent me .:JL[tfiougli I fove lier so She te[fs me that her trost is gone Slie te[fs me I must go. I fwpe now Lor~ just one fine day Sfze'[[unrferstancf my theme . 'Ib /(now her 4 tiJ _U9ve !Wr ;. : lJ3ut to liave tier is a aream. Laging here I woncfer if I' ([ever five to see ?fie aay slie p_uts tliings a{{ aside To sfzare lier love with me. . To see tliis dream come true for ]'c[ cry in ais6elief 1' or why woura she give out fir-r Cove To one wfw gave fter grief? 'But now I ask...you just one tli · !for tfiis I trufgpray Lorr£ p fease p.romise me tliat Sfie'[[ be tlierefor me somedag. Big Brothers Big Sisters 8th Annual Bowl For Kid~' Sake Sunday, February 27th at 3:30 & 4:30_ Revere Lanes ;.. State Street in Sche!lectady Form a Team ofYour Own! All clubs, fraternities, soro~ities, residence halls, Big Brothers/Sisters are welcome! We Provide: t) Free· bowling and shoes 2) Free pizza .and soda 3) ,Prizes!' ·, · · ,; 4) Direct billing of your sponsors For more·· information call: .Marl~n.~ at 374-4523

February 17,. 1994, page 6 FEATURES. : . .· . ;.; .. Summit Focuses On College Pollution vironmental refonn. Courtesy oftlte College Press Serveice Universities and colleges waste millions of gallons of wa- ter and fHel every year while pro- ducing thousands of tons of toxic waste and carbon dioxide, envi- ronmental protection groups charge. In fact, the average stu- dent generates about 640 pounds of garbage a year. Yet, there are many things that campuses could be doing to change their environmental poli- cies in order to reduce waste and to encourage recycling efforts. That's the point of the Cam- pus Earth Summit, scheduled Feb. 18-20, at Yale University in New Haven, Conn. Students, fac- ulty and administrators from more than I 25 campuses, includ- ing I 7 foreign universities, will meet to craft a blueprint for en- The summit marks the first time adminstrators will work with students and environmental leaders to create campus guide- lines that can be replicated inter- nationally. Carol Browner, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, will be the keynote speaker. A special one-hour col- lege edition of\Rock and the En- vironment\ radio show, pro- duced by the Yale Student Envi- ronmental Coalition and the Cam.pus Green Vote, wi II be broadcast to more than 300 col- leges the week of the summit to reach students who can't attend. \From solid waste to radio- active waste, campus policies re- flect society's poor environmen- tal practices,\ said Jeff Courey, chairman of the 1994 Campus Earth Summit and the Yale Stu- W ~ e \' y (J \' \' i v(. the ~ift o~ M a k'_~ ~\'-YE!. wY \'t>P td pro pt~\y. TD pro-ted a~a·,ns+ A\DS ar'd othe~ STDs, ahAJa'/S use late:x condoms. dent Environmental Coalition, host of the conference. \Univer- sities must lead us into the 21st century by becomiNg responsible cons tuners and educators.'' Teresa Heinz, chairwoman and chief executive officer of the Heinz Family Foundation, lead sponsor of the summit, says cam- puses must accept a leadership role in environmental reform. \Universities wield real power _ as major consumers of goods and services with siglilifi- cant environmental impacts, as educators with the opportunity to graduate ecologically literate citi- zens and as paragons whose be- havior speaks loudly to their com- munities and coumtries,\ she said. The biggest environmental culprits on campuses are solid waste, energy use, water use and poor procurement policies. Ra- dioactive substances, toxic chemi- cals, medical waste, pesticides and air pollution are also press- ing problems. Here are some examples of how campuses use resources and what some colleges have done to reduce the waste, according to the Student Environmental Action Coalition: • Only about 5 percent of the 640 pounds of waste produced by an average student is recycled. Paper makes up about 40 percent to 50 percent of the waste stream. Yet, a University of California- Los Angeles recycling program saved an estimated I, 133 trees and 200 cubic yards of landfill space in its first seven months of operation. Rutgers University in New Jersey recycles more than 32 percent of its waste, saving more than $26,000 a year. Dis- tributing reusable coffee mugs at Potsdam University in New York cut use of polystyrene c11ps by 58 percent. • The State University of New York's Buffalo campus generates more than 200,000 tons of carbon dioxide, seven tons per person, through i·ts use of electridty. However, reducing room temperature by I degree Fahrenheit saved 20,000 gallons of fuel and $8,000 a year at Con- necticut College. Yale University's switch from incan- descent to fluorescent lighting is expected to save about $3.5 mil- lion over the next I 0 years. • l11e University of Missis- sippi uses up to 5 million gallons of water a day, and BroWN Uni- versity is the second largest user of water in Rhode Island. Re- search shows that \low flow\ shower heads can save 11 mil- lion gallons of water annually. .9L Prayer :For Love 6y fJ3if{y Sfia/(!Js Concorrfiensis Staff It's fate 1WW in the evening fu I tty to ja[[ asfeep 'Jvfy eyes won't cfose or sliutter I nsteacf they choose to .weep. I try so hard to pray to (jod I have 1W otlier choice I'Ve fost someone ana sinned' you see I pray !JOU hear my voice. :For it is sure[y known by a[[ She reacfs me fiR! a 6ook I stofe her Cove ancf turnecf aWa!J % her I am a croo( IJ{sJw she sees a cfijferent me J'lft-fwugfi I Cove tier so She te[fs me that fier trust is gone She te[fs me I must go. I fiope now Lore£ just one fine lay She' [[understand t1l!J tfieme 'Io {1WW her is to {ove her tJ3ut to have her is a dream. Laying here I woncfer if I' [[ever five to see %e rfay sfie E. uts tfiings a[[ asUfe 'Io share tier fove witli me. To see tfiis aream come true for I'd erg in cfis6e[iej :For wliy wou[d she give out her fove To one wfw gave her grief? fJ3ut 1WW I as!(you just one tli · !For tliis I truf!J pra!l Lore£ p Cease promise me that She'[[ be therefor me somerfay. Big Brothers Big Sisters 8th Annual Bowl For Kids' Sake Sunday, February 27th at 3:30 & 4:30 Revere Lanes - State Street in Schenectady Form a Team ofYour Own! All clubs, fraternities, sororities, residence halls, Big Brothers/Sisters are welcome! We Provide: I) Free bowling and shoes 2) Free pizza and soda For more information call: 3) Prizes! Marlene at 374-4523 4) Direct billing of your sponsors I ·I j I j

. ·FE.ATURES . - . The Cycle ofLi.~e~ ''.Life's. a.Loop'' Do you want everything to get better? Shout it out Michelle Rosenbaum Features Writer My friend from home always used to say the quote, \Life's a loop.\ He would say it whenever anything went wrong and then things immediately got better. .I see this quote as having various meanings. One interestingmean- ing is tnlly the cycle of life, from when we were young until we get old. It is a never-ending circle. I'll begin with the early, infant yeafs, before we got to kinder ... garten. Once teeth start growing in, infants begin to teeth and chew on anything in site. Young children, of about the age three, begin learning the things which me very important, such as talk- ing and walking. At first the words sound funny, and they walk a little wobbly, but soon they get the hang of it. They also do not have many companions, and 111om is their \best friend.\ Once kids get into kindergar- ten, life becomes a little more ·dif- ficult. They start making friends and communicating more. Col- oring inside the lines and cutting along the lines are the most diffi- cult tasks. Boys and girls don't mind sitting together, it could be where future couples meet! Elementary school is when children learned \the real Impor- tant aspects of life.\ They learn the importance of raising hands, and staying in line. When they go to gym, for example, they have to be in an organized line and stay perfectly silent. Hats are not al- lowed to be worn, and girls hate boys and vice-versa. In junior high, the straight lines are definitely abolished! Students walk with friends to classes. The \gum law~' comes into true effect, as if you are caught, you get de- tention! l11ese are the years the \teething\ retums. Notice how many twelve year olds love to chew gum although they can't. On the idea of boys and girls, . some attraction begins to occur and they can tolerate each other again, like in pre-school. Finally in high school, students think they are really grown up. They are usually permitted to chew gum and \teeth'; unless the teacher is really mean. Hats are sometimes allowed to be worn. Boys and girls get along really well and peer groups are formed. Mom and dad are less important, as high school. students would never be caught going to a movie with their parents. College is the main placewhere the loop connects. First of all, we can chew gum as much as we want. We eat as much candy as we want If you remember how infants learn to walk and talk, think about all the people who drink in college. They go right back to that wobbly, make no sense stage 1ike infants! When we were younger, we depended on \mommy and daddy.'; In college, although in- dependent, mom and dad seem to come back into most of our lives. Many of us have become closer to our parents and are not embarrassed to be with them in public. I, personally would love my parents to offer to take me to a movie now, especially since l have no money, yet in high school i would never! On the idea of'~boys and girls\ some of us are back to the stage of \liking\ one another again. Others, however, cut the loop a little shorter, as they seem to re- ally dislike the opposite sex just like back in elementary school! Guys drive girls crazy and girls make no sense to guys! We could also interptet \life's a loop'; in different ways. For example, how things go good, go bad, and always go back to good again. Also, people you may have known since elementary school and then disliked I ater on, may become your closest friends again. The loop is what you ~ake it, but it does occur every- day as We do things each minute and the cycle oflife keeps going on with birth and death. Multiculturalism: The New Buzzword on Campuses continued from page 5 people, so any element of sur- prise is reduced,\ Taylor said, noting that he attempts to show students and educators how to look at what others contribute, not at what is different about them. Taylor spent the past several years interviewing students, fac- ulty and administrators to get a sense of the types of attitudes about diversity that prevail at the university. \Diversity training is one of the most difficult and dan- gerous enterprises you can be in- volved in. You are messing with people's core values, and they have strong emotional attach- ments to them,\ Taylor said. \If you do a poor job with diversity training, you leave people farther back than when they came in ... more polarized than ever.\ Arizona has a student popu- lation that is about 73 percent white, almost I 7 percent His- panic, about 4 percent Asian American; 3 percent African American and about 3 percent Native American. Residential ad- visers also undergo diversity training, though students are notre- quired to take diversity training themselves. At the University of Virginia, a group of students and faculty have joined to provide multicultural workshops for the university community as well as for citizens in the nearby commu- nity of Charlottesville. The pro- gram, called \Multicultural Facili- tators,'' has impressed Virginia junior and English major Allison Linney enough that she wants to make it her life's work. \Multiculturalism is not just something I'm dabbling in; it is the way I choose to live my life at work, in the classroom and in my social activities,\ Linney said. \I plan to seek a career in diversity management, and I feel certain my experiences with the University of Virginia will make my goal a real- ity.\ Linney organized a program that offers a one and one-half hour diversity workshop to all students every year. ';We ask people to write down eight issues in theiriife, such as family of origin, religion, ethnici~, values and trad~tion. We teach them what the word 'cul- ture' means. This gives people ownership of the word,\ she said. Students are taught to de- velop sensitivity to ethnic slurs and joking, religious prejudice, gay bashing and physical dis- abilities. At the end of the class, students sign a contract that reads, \I (insert name) will (at- tend function or read book) to increase my awareness of multiculturalism.\ \We get tremendous feed- back about this. People challenge their comfort zone,\ said Linney, noting that the university has been committed to teaching di- versity to students and stands be- hind the training sessions. ';Multicultural education is the primary method by which educators can expose students to a world view that goes beyond an intellectual knowledge of cul- tnre to an experiential under- standing of how culture and race affect each of us,\ added Vasti Torres. assistant dean of students at Virginia. Torres said that without February 17, 1993, Page 7 multicultural education, students would view the world only from their cultures and never stretch their minds to deal with how the face of America will look within the next decade. \It is more than just a conversation about race. It is an understanding of individu- als,\ she added. Greer Dawscm Wilson, direc- tor of Newcomb Hall, the student union complex at the University of Virginia, likes to compare di- versity to a tapestry of various fabrics, colors and textures. \I dream of the day wheil people can come together and share their histories,\ she said. \Once we stat1 learning about one another and developing ac- ceptance and appreciation of people from different cultures, we will begin to develop a multicultural society.'' The Features· S~ction ~s Loo~ing For A Few~ Good Writers! • • • o ' F • If Interested Call Alexis or Erin at x6155

. ·, I l FEATURES The Cycle of Life: ''Life's a Loop'' Do you want everything to get better? Shout it out Michelle Rosenbaum Features Writer My friend from home always used to say the quote, \Life's a loop.\ He would say it whenever anything went wrong and then things immediately got better. I see this quote as having various meanings. One interesting mean- ing is truly the cycle of life, from when we were young unti,J we get old. It is a never-ending circle. I'll begiH with the early, infant years, before we got to kinder- garten. Once teeth start growing in, infants begiB to teeth and chew on a11ything in site. Young children, of about the age three, begin learning the things which are very important, such as talk- ing and walking. At first the words sound f~cmny, and they walk a little wobbly, but soon they get the hang of it. They also do not have many companions, and mom is their \best friend.\ Once kids get into kindergar- ten, life becomes a little more dif- ficult. lliey start making friends and communicating more. Col- oring inside the lines and cutting along the Ii.nes are the most diffi- cult tasks. Boys and girls don't mind sitting together, it could be where future couples meet! Elementary school is when children learned \the real Impor- tant aspects of life.\ They learn the importance of raising hands, and staying in line. When they go to gym, for example, they have to be in an organized line and stay perfectly si:Ient. Hats are not al- lowed to be worn, and girls hate boys and vice-versa. In junior high, the straight lines are definitely abolished! Students walk with friends to classes. TI1e \gum law\ comes into tme effect, as if you are caught, you get de- tention! These are the years the \teething\ returns. Notice how many twelve year olds love to chew gum althmtgh they can't. On the idea of boys and girls, some attraction begins to occur and they can tolerate each other again, like in pre-school. Finally in high school, students tbink they are really grown up. They are usually permitted to chew gum and \teeth\ unless the teacher is really mean. Hats are sometimes allowed to be worn. Boys and girls get along really well and peer groups are formed. Mom and dad are less important, as high school students would never be caught going to a movie with their parents. College is the main place where the loop connects. First of all, we can chew gum as much as we want. We eat as much candy as we want. If you remember how infants learn to walk and talk, think about all the people who drink in college. They go right back to that wobbly, make Ho sense stage like infants! When we were younger, we depended on \mommy and daddy.\ In college, although in- dependent, mom and dad seem to come back into most of our lives. Ma11y of us have become closer to our parents and are not embarrassed to be with them in public. I, personally would love my parents to offer to take me to a movie now, especially since I have no money, yet in high school I would never! On the idea of\boys and girls\ some of us are back to the stage of \liking\ one another again. Others, however, cut the loop a little shorter, as they seem tore- ally dislike the opposite sex just like back in elementary school! Guys drive girls crazy and girls make no sense to guys! We could also interpret \life's a loop\ in different ways. For example, how things go good, go bad, and always go back to good again. Also, people you may have known since elementary school and then disliked later on, may become your closest friends again. The loop is what you 1nake it, but it does occur every- day as we do things each minute and the cycle oflife keeps going on with birth and death. Multiculturalism: The New Buzzword on Campuses continued from page 5 people, so any element of sur- prise is reduced,\ Taylor said, noting that he attempts to show students and educators how to look at what others contribute, not at what is different about them. Taylor spent the past several years interviewing students, fac- ulty and administrators to get a sense of the types of attitudes about diversity that prevail at the university. \Diversity training is one of the most difficult and dan- gerous enterprises you can be in- volved in. You are messing with people's core values, and they have strong emotional attach- ments to them,\ Taylor said. \If you do a poor job with diversity training, you leave people farther back than when they came in ... more poI arized than ever.\ Arizona has a student popu- lation that is about 73 percent white, almost 17 percent His- panic, about 4 percent Asian American, 3 percent African American and about 3 percent Native American. Residential ad- visers also undergo diversity training, though students are notre- quired to take diversity training themselves. At the University of Virginia, a group of students and faculty have joined to provide multicultural workshops for the university community as well as for citizens in the nearby commu- nity of Charlottesville. The pro- gram, called \Multicultural Facili- tators,'' has impressed Virginia junior and English major Allison Linney enough that she wants to make it her life's work. ''Multiculturalism is not just something I'm dabbling in; it is the way I choose to live my I ife at work, in the classroom and in my social activities,\ Linney said. \I plan to seek a career in diversity management, and I feel certain my experiences with the University of Virginia will make my goal a real- ity.\ Linney organized a program that offers a one and one-half hour diversity workshop to all students every year. \We ask people to write down eight issues in their life, such as family of origin, religion, ethnicity, values and tradition. We teach them what the word 'cul- ture' means. l11is gives people ownership of the word,\ she said. Students are taught to de- velop sensitivity to ethnic slurs and joking, religious prejudice, gay bashing and physical dis- abilities. At the end of the class. students sign a contract that reads, ''I (insert name) will (at- tend function or read book) to increase my awareness of multiculturalism.'' \We get tremendous feed- back about this. People challenge their comfort zone,'' said Linney, noting that the university has been committed to teaching di- versity to students and stands be- hind the training sessions. \Multicultural education is the primary method by which educators can expose students to a world view that goes beyond an intellectual knowledge of cul- ture to an experiential under- standing of how culture and race affect each of us,\ added Vasti Torres, assistant dean of students at Virginia. Torres said that withou.t February 17, 1993, Page 7 ' - ·..-:··;. _,: _:_~ - ....... ·· · ... ,: . .' .. - .\ ·: _., -· ,.·. '- ... ::_. ~ . -_-.- . . - . . . _, . .- ' . , ·'Uit,clr:J!ilna is« '([ttii:>n 'Ctillege Studetit Who an.twers real ques~ . tian,s foont retil ~'!tltlettt.~:\ l!)istl't1.Ught?' Consternated? Scandelvus? Why ask Anne or Abby wht.m)Jliu can write your own Uncle Edna, Edna's Mailbag Dear Uncle Edna., If a cat always lands on its feet and a slice of bread always lands butter side down, then what would happen if you strapped a slice of buttered bread to the back of a cat? Would I get a girlfriend? Would Bob Sagat combust? Or would I just simply he left with an angry buttered cat? ~Curiosity Dear Curiosity. If7-ll stores are open 7 days a weeyk and 24 hours a day, than why are there locks on the door? Why was the Skipper able to build a radio out of bamboo, but not able to fix a 3 foot hole in the boat? Some questions, my fliend, are better left unanswered. A Modest Proposal · Lets change Union's Motto to somethi11g practical. Enough of this Minerva aap .. I suggest: CA VETn OLACIEM NEVEMQUE DECIDENTAM. For the l~atfit impaired ~fmt mi®x JJltWAR.H OF FAU.JNG ICE AND ,~/JikiW; . We,'Q;<~· the. coQ;liest c.t.Unpus in the North East : •• -, ,V j • ' !•--,. • -_: ,·_ • •> ' .-. • ' . ~- . . . ·,. ···:\':-i~~Jit:~~y~'gQi~ttfo~ Vat~ntines day that · ..... · .·· ,;~~~~~~1¥A!:~a. : .. · .... ··· . . . . . . • . ~<- $.Qll)~)t·l·~···. tl~~S-t)ame·.on.th~m. .l!O:'i YtttJf;fUtfJre. \ilt:itb>·Y·P ut. h~ad cut out up doll. f. The· Pee' ... ,-ee Heonatt guide to romance· ;,-., : . ~. - _, •.- - ·:~- . Dawn Grande and Brande Wells, The dynamic duo actually tded to use the front door of the College Center and were immediatly swanned by the Union College SWAT team and thrown in jait Tough Luck. Jake Dolce. For the haircut. Jake.some advice- keep it while you got it. I think this will also earn you a spot in the ('rack Hall ofFmne which will be announced 9th week. Kelty Bevan. Kelly actually swam down the Hudson to NYC last weekend before she realized it was really too cold and she probably should have drove. Once a swimmer, always a swim- mer I guess. One For Your Friends Mickey Mouse was in his lawyer's office gettihg consultation about a divorcee with Minnie. \Mickey\ the lawyer said, \I don't think you should get a divorce just because you think your wife is a little nuts.;. ~~r didn't say she was a little nuts. I said she was f--ing Goofy.\ multicultural education, students would view the world only from their cultures and never stretch their minds to deal with how the face of America will look within the next decade. \It is more than just a conversation about race. It is an understanding of individu- als,\ she added. Greer Dawson Wilson, direc- tor of Newcomb Hall, the student union complex at the University of Virginia, likes to compare di- versity to a tapestry of various fabrics, colors and textures. ''I dream of the day when people can come together and share their histories,\ she said. \Once we stati learning about one another and developing ac- ceptance and appreciation of people from different cultures. we will begin to develop a multicultural society.\ The Features Section Is Looking For A Few Good Writers! If Interested Call Alexis or Erin at x615 5

February 17, 1994, page 8 It's Time to Spend .and··Deliver., Organizations Sponsoring Events Must Encourage Student Turnout Here • s an analogy : Desert is to water as Union College is : · to money. That's true, money is becoming scarce at Union, · and many departments are being forced to streamline their operations. Organizations are being urged to spend their · · money in more practical fashions. · Certain campus events are important enough to warrant clubs and school departments to be more lenient with their . money. M9st students and administrators agree that the events planned for Alcohol Awareness Week should receive a significant amoimt of funding because some students could benefit from learning about the negative aspects of alcohol abuse. Four campus organizations, including the StudentF orum, the Speakers' Forum,. the Intrafratemity Council and the Dean's Office sponsored Jerinifer Lee as a speaker last Thurs- . day. The total amountthese organizations spent was $3700 .. Never mind how poor a speaker Mrs. Lee was, and never · mind that she almost glorified drug and alcohol abuse, what was more disturbing was the presence of only 36 people at · this event. The four organizations sponsoring this speaker should have . either done a much better job getting members of the Union . College community to attend this speech, or they shouldn't have spent nearly $4000 of their funds on such a useless event. This is a symptom of a type of apathy on the part of· student leaders and organizers. It is easier to spend money • than it is to get students to buy your product. One of the . biggest problems is that with the exception of the Dean's · Office, very few people from the organizations which spon- sored the event bothered to show up themselves. Only two Student Forum members attended this event which they par- tially sponsored. Some clubs are in need of funds, and it does not seem unreasonable that the Student Forum should take into con- sideration the poor attendance at this event before they spend their money and before they allocate funds to other clubs to spend on these events. 'Mlre Cl!nn:cnrhlensis Tlze Student Newspaper li/Unlon CoUegeSince 1877 · · David Levine Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor · News Editors Features Editors Arts .Editors .. Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor ·. Photo Editor News .Analysis Editor Wodd News Editors · Opfuion$ :Edit()f' · . Science & Health &:litPt$ · Business Editors ' ~=~~~~~:~: .. • A$sociatc;, Copy Editor. • Assoeiate Spod$ &litqts . Ass:ociiiteNewsc ~dit~ J\SsP¢ia:te. JUtiwr . , ' ... . ·()ompJU¢~·.M~~~t \:; : .. · . • iilo.u1t)h'Atl~$~f · . .. · .. •. p~~~~~~~~~~~J.:~x.•:i·:~:~,;:,~~,. {! . - - - - . . . ' . -·- . . . - Deb Mcinerney Caroline Paifi~, M~ttK.arlyn . Erin O'Neil; Alexi$ Leist B.elifi({a.C~g<l~ Nild Q9tdin · Ta1ley llel~i#ger . · ··· .. Pagall;.ta'Corte Lisa tempi, J3ulty ltub.~$tein Heather Reynolds · .. JqshUllines , V¢ronica:Qpgets . L~ ateenbttg~.{)tafg'<il'eenb¢rg · .. And • sai~::!!~'t: Ale~t · it0··~:i;··~: · ·· ··.~~~~~~~ · · ' ' .·. ... . <·.n~~a.$¢diftt. Joe ~sarmbart: . . ' ; ·. . .. ··;· :- .. ~- ., ,~,. . . . OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Does The Administration·Think About Students Before It Acts? To the Editor: Justa couple ofthings that have really been bothering me. First of all, what's the deal with the validine thing and the declining balance. Maybe someone could give me some of that great dining service logic as to why the de- clining balance doesn't carry over each year. I just can't seem to get it straight in my mind: every stu- dent gives dining services $200/ term plus whatever money they spend on their meal plan up front, before they have ever sunk their teeth into even one of those juicy burgomaster jobs. So at the and of the third term, when you are left with $150 on your declining balance ... what the hell, dining ser- vices will take care of that for you. You would think that in a civilized society, the money you didn't spend would be returned to you at the end of the year. I think this is all just a con- spiracy with the convenient store. I can see it now at the end of the year when the mad spending spree begins. Even that prune juice and those canned vienna sausages. will be flying off the shelves! You wait and see. Next complaint: maybe we could make the \no smoking\ signs bigger. I don't think that all the smokers crowding every domway can see these signs. You would think that they would have the ability to at least comprehend the pictures on the signs but ap- parently not. Most important complaint: I can't understand the logic behind the 1994-95 college calendar. It's bad enough starting classes 2 weeks after everyone you know has gone back to school, but next year we get to start classes on September 21. Then we get to go home again for Thanksgiving, Nov 23-27 (having finals loom- ing overhead always makes for a joyous holiday), come back for 2 more weeks and then leave again on the lOth of December. What kind of stupidity is that! So now if someone wants to go home for Thanksgiving and the other holidays, they have to buy two plane tickets or bus tickets or whatever. I'm sony Mr. Sched- ule maker, but my parents didn't buy me a Beammer to take me up and back to school, so now this whole thing is just a big pain in my butt. You know what else is just great ... the fact that the school is so sensitive to those stu- dents who really need to work over break in order to earn some money to heln pay for this $25 ,000/year education. I must say that the trimester system has many disadvantages, it was bad enough as it was; but now it is just pitiful. Sincerely, Jeremy Govennan Letters to the Editor must be · turned in by noon on Tuesday and they must be on a disk. There are no exceptions. -Send to Box 2577 or put in the drop box at CC 303 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board . Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily ·the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. · The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights ·reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370 .. 6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversvilie, New York 12078. The Concotdiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or Ms.;bos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. ·

the has bad is on be no a d , OPINIONS February 17, 1994, page 9 Renovations To Chet's Long Overdue, Not A Misappropriation To the Editor: l11is article is in response to the article concerning the misappro- priation of funds to Chet' s (ap- pearing 1/27/94). We recognize that there were some vety valid points raised in the article. But, we feel that many important as- pects of this issue were not repre- sented. These included the school's overall budget and the attempt to fulfill the lack of so- cjal alternatives at Union. Chet's was created to provide an alter- native setting. It allows both stu- dents and faculty to interact in a social and relaxed atmosphere. In addition, Chet's is a neutral set- ting where all students can enjoy the entertainment that itprovides. Many other schools provide a student center which is solely pro- vided for the benefit of student enjoyment. Before Chet's, Union was lacking this type of interac- tional setting. Two years ago, student forum agreed that the time had come for Union to cre- ate such a place. With money allocated from student forum, Chefs opened. The necessary funding was not allocated dur- ing this initial start-up stage. Chet' s was not formed on the assumption that it would produce profit. We have been accused of, \financially devastating Din- ing Services\. On the contrary, its creation was solely for Union College~s enjoyment. Chet's creation was a conscious deci- sion on beltalf of both the admin- istration and student forum to invest in the interests and plea- sure of the Union community. The most important aspect of the changes that have occurred at Chet's, is the fact that these alterations are not limiting. Chet's renovations cart be uti- lized even when Chet's is not open. TI1e television screens are used during the day. Other groups now have the opportunity to uti- lize the new sound system and the other renovations for their indi- vidual purposes. In addition, these changes which should have hap- pened two years ago, are on a more permanent level. The bar, the sound system, the lighting, the tele- visions are here for the future stu- dents of Union. As the article stated,\ our social lives are important and social al- ternatives are very much needed.\ This is an accurate statement, and one that the article unfortunately strays from. It continues by im- plying that a better way of spend- ing our money would be to pur- chase new printers that would al- low us to use a higher percentage of cotton paper. What does this have to do with providing alterna- tive social environments at Union? Obviously academics is the high- est priority at Union, but student fomm money is not intended for only academic use. Union Col- lege has an annual budget ofover 68 million dollars a year. Only $341,000 is allocated for student fomm 's distribution. Chet's re- ceived $16,000 last tenn for capi- tal improvements from a surplus of funds. In our minds, Chet's al- location is justifiable, since it of- fers its services to everyone. When student fonun allocated the 1993 budget, there were eight other major clubs which received higher funding. Since its creation, Chet's has successfully provideda,variety of entertainment. Clttbs, academic departments, and individual stu- dents have taken advantage of all Chet's has to offer. In the past, Chet's has provided a conducive atmosphere for Mountebank's perfonnances, both student and off-campus bands, Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrels, comedians, student presentations, cross- talks, town meetings, dramatic readings, vtewmg sporting events, Karaoke, class parties, T.G.I.F. {including free food) and other social events. No other organization on campus has at- tempted to meet all of these needs. Although not every stu- dent is attracted to all of these events, Chet's provides alterna- tives for a variety of different people. Not only does it provide these activities, but Chet' s has opened a gateway for new ideas and possibilities to enhance stu- dent life. Take advantage of what Union is trying to offer to students. If you haven't had a chance to check out the new additions to Chet's- stop by and enjoy the im- provements. Jodie Adams and Lee Popper The Ignorant Use of Language Nature Is Not The Reason Why Things Do Not Work To the Editor: I find it very hard to believe that at Union College and in our greater society, we are trying to rid society of hate and bitterness. No matter how hard I try to find some sort of sign to lead me to this conclusion, I am usually steered away. Don't be turned off, this is not cynicism, on the contrary, it is idealism. TI1e only rea~on I am cynical is because I know that it is possible to rid so- ciety of bitterness and hate and rooted in this is my cynicism. This surrender of words comes today from reading last week's Concordy and the letter \to the editor entitled, \Yet Another Re- sponse to Lorrena Bobbit: A Role Model For All Women\ where Bill Ferguson attempted to por- tray himself as the crusading pacifist calling for an attempt to forge a level of equality between the sexes. His letter deeply dis~ turbed me; I am once again forced to face the elementary condition and state of social awareness on the Union College campus. Judging from this letter, I am embarrassed to call Union an institution for higher educa- tion. To get to the point of my criticisms, I will focus on the mis- use, misplaced, slandering of words,llte proper use and under- standing of words might to some people seem a marginal piece of knowledge, but to me, it is one of the most important pieces of knowledge that we can obtain. l11e power of a word can be diz- zying, the use of discourse di- rectly bridges our thoughts to the outside world. Bill Ferguson's letter is quite confusing, he seems to be trying to prove to give one message while meanwhile, un- derlying is his true message. TI1e words he chooses do a cosmetic makeover in an attempt to hide the primary opinion that js care- lessly reve(\led through these choices. At first, he goes through the whole Lara-bashing song and dance again, but then in the middle of the letter, he says, \Also it would prove very pro- ductive to try and rid ourselves of feelings of hate and bitterness between the sexes.\ O.K., this sentiment is very admirable and age-old, but I find it very hard to believe that it is a sincere one when in the second to last para- graph he surrenders his greatest fear. Which, by the way, was very helpful of him to preface his fear for us so we wouldn't be confused by his contradiction in tenus. He says that this fear is, \That hate-mongering feminists would see ... as a green light for their own barrage of violence against tnen ... \ and then again in the next paragraph, \So to Ms. Greenberg and all the other hate- mongering, radical feminists .... \. Now, how can we believe Bill wl)en he says that he would like to see society blissful through the ridding of hat~ and bitterness when he so obviously harbors bitter feelings towards women who believe in their human rights? Besides the deep-rooted psychology involved in this that afflicts in a collective fonn that I won't get into, Bill Ferguson is revealing himself as a l1ypocrite. Not only is the hypocrisy appalling and I would think em- barrassing, but the misuse of such terms as \radical\ and \feminists\ and the coupling of them with theword, \hate-mon- gers\ is what needs to be ad- dressed and stopped. His use of word~ is very revealing indeed, but this isn't the point. The point is that iri order to strive for this violence free society that most feminists, and the same feminists that Bill Ferguson is referring to, desire, we must halt the misuse of words and properly place our discourse in an iiltelligent fash- ion. l11e misunderstanding that Bill Fergusonprescribes to about feminists is a sad thing, but the blasphemy and slandering that he projects is not only sad but characteristic of the exact behav- ior that he is condemning. A com- plete and thorough understanding needs to be completed on the words \feminists\ and \radical\ before freely using them and I know, by his article, that Bill Ferguson has not donethis.TI1is is imperative, we need to educate ourselves on the meanings of words, reevaluate the words we use and their placement; T11e words \feminists\ and \radical\ are widely misused, misunderstood words in our society and this is unfortunately pushing us back, so, if we truly desire to have a peace- ful society and a peaceful world , then please consider these thoughts. Sincerely, Donya A. Nagib To the Editor: \Why Don't TI1ings Work Any- more,\ which appeared in last week's issue of the Concordien- sis displayed a level of ignorance of the nature of reality and theo- ries of causation that I find appall- mg. The constant personification of nature found in the article is ri- diculous. Nature is not \trying to mak~ our lives rough;\ the natu- ral disasters listed as punishment ·for humankind's \\-rang-doings have been occmTing for far longer than humankind has existed. They are products of the rotation of the earth, plate tectonics, etc. (Califor- nia is not going to become an is- land due to the San Andreas Fault. no matter what you may feel.). Such things also occur. in greater scale. on planets where humans do MEALPLAN RECEPTION WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1994 TIME: TBA not live. It is not the case that \na- ture knows that we are not in har- mony with the earth;\ nature does not know anything. nature has no consciousness. Nature is merely the tenn we use to col- lectively lump everything that humans are not. The pseudo-religious doom- prophesying expressed in the ar- ticle has been going on for as long as humans have existed. The· Black Death was seen as punishment from God. but this was before people had knowl- edge of diseases and microor- ganisms. Now that we do, AIDS shouJd not be seen in the satne .... ~ way. Such medieval reasoning has no place in today· s society. and certainly not in our newspa- pers. James Polichak PLACE: DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT STAY TUNED FOR DETAilS ..... Red Ribbon T -Shirts $12 Proceeds to Benefit AIDS Awareness in the Community Call Ext. 5584 for Details , Send your letters to the editor to W~e Ol.oncor.hiensis - Box 2577 Surprise Sale! Up to 50°/o Off Feb 16- Feb 26 %e open 1Joor • \\'4- 6oaNtona 1%1-lJii 'J4:! St. ~. '1C' 518·)46·Z'Ta

February 17, 1993, page 10 Business ' \ ' . President Bill Clinton Reopens Trade Doors. to- Vietnam Money: The Mothers Milk of Politics by Alex Shapiro Business Editor \ ... And the rockets red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proofthrough the night that our Flag was still there ... \ President Bill Clinton made a bold move last Timrsday. He reopened the flaps for commer- cial relations between the United States and Vietnam. Much excitement has followed the decision to l-ift trade embargos with Vietnam. after having shut them off com- pletely for over nineteen years. It was one of America's most comprehensive economic sanc- tions against any country in his- tory. The President was following Senate's lead after they passed a bill to lift the commercial embargo on Vietnam. The logic behind this legislation. is that Vietnam has been more or less following the \Road Map\ plan for nonnalization of rela- tions implemented in 1991. We are now coming close to knowing the whole truth about what is really going on with Amerka's MIA's and POW's that haven't been heard from since the war. Of course, it never hurts that the Mekong Delta area is pro- ducing cheap oil that several other nations are already enjoy- ing, and that the Vietnamese economy is finally in a .position to be cautiously exploited. In 1975, after North Vietnam defeated South Vietnam, the United States expanded our sanctions to an embargo of the unified Vietnam. When in 1978 Vietnam invaded Cambo- dia, the isolation was set in stone. Vietnam became the leper of the western hemi- sphere, and nobody cared be- cause they had no money to buy our exports anyway. TI1e lack of United States commercial interests, also made it very eru;y for the Vietnamese to produce and import heroin in mass quantities. The reason was multi- pronged, as usual. After the Cambodia settlement in 1991, we began an incremental nor- malization program with Viet- nam called the \Road Map\ plan. For every preconditioned step Vietnam took in giving us infonnation regarding the War, and other things, we gave them a little \treat\. The plan has been going smoothly since then. Clinton believed it was time to finally normalize almost com- pletely. We still need to know a lot about various war crimes and our MIAs. Clinton believes opening relations will help in easing communication. TI1is is optimistic, but still many pres,.. sure groups are unhappy. Some do not think we should ever talk to Vietnam again. The issue of MIA's and POW's has been the major obstacle in normalization of bilateral .relations. Relations with Vietnam should improve with the returning the rest .of our deceased, sharing more infor- mation, and expanding access to crash sites. It is a highly emo- tionally charged argument. On top of communication, it is believed that Vietnam has a growing economy, and it makes good business sense to get in on it. We will stiU not allow any military sales, and trade will only be open for commercial gain. Vietnam will continue to face outrageous tariffs on prod- Dancing on the Tip of a Pin by Christopher Richards Busi11ess Writer For those sick of their crusty old road maps, the future will lay fire to these nuisances . In- cessant technology has created computerized navigation sys- tems, which pinpoint one's lo- cation in relation to their desti- nation. A five inch LCD screen, mounted on the dashboard, recieves signals from the Glo- bal Positioning System, which consists of twenty four govem- ment-launched satellites, which update one's location' every minute. Restaurants, hotels, bars, Burger King, all can be tracked within a ten mile sphere on one of these digital road maps. \It allows you to become a native instantly,\ states spokesman Daniel Janal of Road Scholar Corporation. Sony plans to introduce theiF top of the line product by mid- The Dear AI Section Business Advice for the Investment Impaired Dear AI, I recently invested in a stock that my friends father told her was going to be really hot. It hasn't been performing well at all. in fact I have lost quite a bit of money. Should I stick it out and \ride the wave\ or bail before it goes belly up? - Scomful Woman Scornful Woman, My advice is \ride it out.\ The bull market is a funny place and nothing is cast in stone, but hey, you don't seem to be that careful of an investor. As George Clinton once said, \Let it Ride!\ Dear AI, is Ford a safe stock option in the nineties? - Timothy Goff Goof, Ford has been steadily improving it's quality control and is selling hotter than ever in the Orient. It had a $2.5 Billion profit last year. The Ford F-Series sold the most units in 1993, 565;000. Even so, nothing is \safe\, except treasury bonds. An experiment is held every year by an underground group of Economic majors. They take twenty rodents labeled with the most popi.alar stock names and they race them. The outcome is · actually closer to true year end outcomes than professional predictions. So, Ford seems pretty hot, but nothing is for sure. year. l11ey have computerized maps of California and parts of Nevada. and expect all major metropolitan areas to be com- pleted by year's end (optimisti- cally). The information is stored on two CD-ROM disks and dis- plays a five inch digital map. Either portable or plug in, this version nms at $2,200. Oldsmobile is also in the hunt to reap rewards from this inno- vative enterprise. However, their edge is in adding a voice prompt to the digital displays. By punching in the address, the computer highlights the best route, and tells the driver when and where to turn. If a wrong .tum is taken, the computer yells at the driver and tells the driver to tum his stupid car around. Personal insults can be pro- grammed into these devices, to further humiliate the driver and entertain the passengers. This system costs roughly $2000, and · Oldsmobile expects future digi- tal maps to reveal up-to-date road-condition reports, alerting drivers to traffic accidents and other hazards ahead. Zooming in and out of streets will enable one to negotiate their position, and computer images of the destination can be printed out for those who can't wait. The twenty-first centuty is here; the television generation is here. Oprah is the Cliff Notes guide to life. At lt~ast we'll have suf- ficient guidance through the wasteland. ucts coming into the United States. We will flood them with McDonalds and Levi's. Coke and Pepsi are already working on advertising campaigns. The airlines are preparing for price wars. Let's give them the whole enchilada and see what hap- pens. The worst scen(U\io is that they'll spend all their money on our products and supply us with educated, cheap labor until they collapse from an unstable infra- structure. Other nations, such as France, Japan, Gennany, Thai- land and Taiwan, have already initiated trade,. and they are starting to see results. The big- gest financial opportunity in Vietnam, other than heroin, is oil. The Mekong Delta area in the South produces oil offshore, as do several regions in the North. We've estranged ourselves and gotten a late jump on an expanding economy. But the questions many are asking, are how soon we can resume nor- mal relations with a country .such as Vietnam, and how ready are they to shell out the big bucks for our products. Vietnam is trying to obtain M.F.N. status with America now. M.F .N. status means that when Vietnam ship goods to us, they get special treatment. That should be quite a while in the coming. America has blocked their attempts to get money for revitalization from the Interna- tional Monetary Fund. France is a proponent offunding there- vitalization. Well, time will tell what is re- ally best in this situation. Now that the threat .af Communism lives in the almost dusty pages ofhistory books, Vietnam really isn't that crucial of a territory. This may not be the final chap- ter the Vietnam drama, but we're getting there. Emily Sa.: rah, a Foreign Studies/ Business major at Waring .says, \As long as there's hope, there's a way. Vietnam is ready to rock, and nobody rocks like America!\ It's business as usual. The Olympics are raging, go team U.S.A.! \Oh say does that Star Spangled banner yet wave, In the land of the free, and the Home ofthe Brave ... \ Job Outlook Looks Bright in Sales Courtesy of tile College Press Service Recent college graduates with degrees in sales and mar- keting have good reason to be optimistic about job prospects in 1994, a consulting finn re- ported after surveying. 1,000 business executives in charge of new hires. The national survey said new hire projections for sales and marketing likely would hold steady in the first half of 1994, following increases dur- ing the past year and a half. The survey was conducted by Sales Consultants International, a di- vision of Management Recmit- ers International Inc. (MRI), a search and recmitment organi- zation. Of more than 1,000 busi- ness executives who responded to the survey, 37.5 percent in- dicated plans to increase their sales and marketing staffs dur- ing the next six months. Al- though the figure represents no change from projections during the last half of 1993, it does not indicate any slide in hiring, ei- ther, which the consulting firm sees as an optimistic sign. Alan Schonberg, president of Sales Consultants Interna- tional, said the upturn in hiring over the past year and a half is heartening news for people who are looking for jobs in sales and marketing. \As the economy · gets better and better, we will see everwincreasing sales and marketing hiring because this is what fuels a company's growth and the prosperity of our na- tion,\ he said. On a regional basis, the South Central United States was ex- pected to have better prospects in sales and marketing for job seekers. l11e survey indicated that 44.4 percent of the sales executives said they would in- crease their staffs in that region during the first half of 1994. l11e other top two areas for hir- ing were the North Central ( 42.9 percent) and the Midwest (41.2 percent). Companies in South Atlantic states (34.4 per- cent), the Middle Atlantic (33 .3 percent) and the West(33.1 per- cent)showedthli! slowest poten- tial growth in 1994. Do You Love the Stock Market? Do · You Have a Great Business Sense? WeU, Write for Business. Call tbe Concordi and Ask for Alex at x6l.55 ..

... '\\\-.. ~ ... .. -;. SCIENCE AND._IlE.ALTH ·-,• '\ i,' .... The Treatpteitt a\'-d Diagnosis of Prost~te C~ncer . - . . ' ., . ~ . ' ·- . . by Andy Salama shouldluive a routine, annual ex- vided for increased resohttion. ' ntere are. presently two com- lignancy. Careful eve. ... ation of Science & Healtlt Editor amination for prostate cancer. The third component of prostate mercia! tests available. The clini- these factors is incorporated into Prostate cancer is one of the leadjng causes of death for men above 50. The .prostate is a small · walnut shape organ, which is re ... sponsible for producing an en- zyme lubricant for spenn as they pass through the urethra upon ejaculation. U1e occurrence of cancer is somewhat age depen- dent, the older a-person is, the more likely he is to have prostate cancer. For unknown reasons, the rate of prostate cancer among African-American men, is higher than that of Caucasian. The rate '11te examination includes three 'screening is .the PSA antibody as- cal assay utilizes a monoclonal the treatment. tests.· say, PSA is a nrostate ~pecific antibod:fto identity PSA in blood l11e .first option in treating car- Th·e most basic is a rectal ex- !!fitigen. PSA is a glycoprotein serum. A research assay which cinomas, is the complete removal amlnation · that acts uses a polyclonal antibody sys- of the prostate gland. In this case ofthe pros- \The American Cancer Society as a tern, ·coupled with a a post-operative PSA assay is tate. Ex- suggests that allltlen above 50, s e r i n e radioimmunological test is also sometimes perfonned to verify ami nation protease, available. The most effective di- that all prosthetic tissue 1tas been of the pros- should have a routine, annual which is agnosis consists of these three removed, Theoretically the PSA tate using examination for prostrate active in tests together. One ofthem alone should be minimal or zero. The sonography cancer.\ s em en is not sufficient. second option is radiation therapy is useful lysis. It There are several stages of which is available in two fonns. tool in determining morphologi- is on1y secreted by the epithelial prostate cancer which are mea- One fonn uses a CAT scan to cal changes in tlte prostate, which cells of the prostate, and is there- sured on the Gleason scale, which detennine the exact size of the tu- may indicate a problem. The ba- fore an indicator ofprostateprob- ranges from the mild (I), to very mor. Radiation is then delivered sic dilemma with ultrasound is lems. TI1e PSA assay is prostate advanc.ed ( 10). The Gleason to a very specific region in doses that it is frequency dependent. specific, but not cancer specific, scale considers how much cancer- of apprm,imately 750 RADs per ofprostate cancer for Asian men The higher the frequency of which limits its use as a sole di- ous tissue is present, and how fast treatment session. A total of has been shown to be lower than sound waves used, the higher the agnostic tool. PSA can be re- metastasis (cancer tissue spread- 5000-6000 RADs is needed to resolution on the Ultrasound leased into the blood stream from in g) occurs. Treating prostatic completely irradiate the tumor, monitor. Recent technological the prostate when it becomes en- carcinomas is dependent on three which takes several weeks. An- advances, however, have pro- larged or undergoes trauma. factors; age, stage, degree of rna- other form of radiation treatment that ofCaucasians. The American Cancer Society suggests that all men above 50, A Controversial New Theory Abo~! Menstruation \Men Really Do Have Cooties\ by P.amela Y. Lin Conc(Jrdiensis Staff As ~ wo;na:n, I've 'heard it many ti~nes, aftd even been guilty ofaskfng the question my- self, ''Why do I have to menstn.I- . ate\ ahd '~Why·rNe?~' Up untii last fall, the scientific answer ·was that it is part of the woman's reproductive cycle and results when the endometrium lining of the utems sloughs off after tli.e . egg is not fertilized: Titis allows the endometrium to be renewed . in the next cycle and provides another chance for pregnancy. Menstruation is an exhaustive process as any woman knows, and eve11 biologically, it seems a waste of nutrients (tissue, bloo · and iron), and of time (it length- ens the reproductive cycle and reduces a woman's fertile time). Does this make any sense to you? It didn't make sense to Margie Profet either. Last September, the environ- mental biologist from the Uni- versity of Califomia, Berkeley, shook the biological community with a revolutionary new theory about menstruation that defies all previous theories. Publishing her article in the well known Quarterly Review of Biology, Profet claims that menstruation serves a defensive purpose in . protecting tl1e female from mi- crobes and other pathogens car- . riedinbyspenn. Thisdefensive approach carries two main ideas. The first is that the en- dometrium, the fertile. lining of the uterus and a virtual feast and · haven for bacteria and other ' ' I • ( pathogens, is sloughed off. ·The second part focuses on the.blood; the uterine area is exposed to considerable quantities o(blood, that carries agents of the imn1Wle system to fight off any patho- gens. Profet reason~d,. \ifmen.strua- tion were bo.th costly and func- tionless, natitral selection would · have eliminat~d it l9ng ago.;: Therefore menstruation, already .known to be an evolved process in humans, must serve some pur- pose. Profet theorizes that men- examples of sucl1 measures. struation is a controlled function., Profet also believes that her regulated by a spiral artery, that theory explains why womenwho lies adjacent to the uterus. The have implanted lUDs suffer spiral arterY ~irects m'enstru~tion . heavier periods. lUD's can cause by rapidly opening iind closing. ·intra-uterine inflammatien. In- . This rapid contracting and dilat- flammation is often symptomatic ing manipu'lat~s ·the blood .flow. of approaching infection, there- The ti'ssues thrive until deprived fore, the body releases more ofblood, and when the spiral ar- blood to counteract the infection. tery dilates again, the dead tissues These ide as carry significant are forced off. Menstrual blood impact as it defies traditional is different from blood that cir- ideas, and raises questions about culates around the body, it~ lacks current medical practices. Doc- clotting factors, but carries high tors often believe that the exces- numbers of macrophages. Mac- sive blood flow or unexpected rophages are specialized immune bleeding is a sign of a honnonal system attack cells that fight off flux and prescribe honnone treat- infectious agents. meJ1ts that reduce or halt the blood The body is known to con- flow. According to Profet's ~. Wl!en ~P'111ll =~:, To prev<!nl i!tfeJ:tion, the 3. Tlte i!rteri!!!i tile uterus, they carry bacteria that can body constricts the spiral allowing the blood. arteries that feed the uterine ·\' contains genn-flghting by sperm· infect the wlnerable lining. The lining, depr~ of ·• macrophages>to wash away TlME .. .,. : Uterine lining. .~. lrtlt»ltrtol3 ' '. ·1\- ' ' blood-and oxygen, dies. . ·~ tbe dead lining and bacteria. . ' . ·' .·.' . ~ . . •, . stantly destroy and replenish tis- sues, but menstruation demands an explanation, as it involves a considerable loss of blood that seems to have no purpose. The loss of blood rnay have been un- warranted according to t!1e old ideas of menstruation, but Profet theorizes that this blood loss is crucial. Bleeding is the female 1 s attempt to ward off pathogens and infection. .Monthly bleeding. is the body's way to' systematically fight these u~wanted microbes. Sloughing off the endometri1,1m is not enough, so the blood rich in macropha·ges, eliminates any re- maining pathogens. Profet sug- gests that unexplained ·uterine ble~9ing might. a9tually be an early wartiing of i1npending in- fection· or lin ·additi01ial nieasure ~the body. t~~s tp:p~event ~uc;h in- fections before they start. Post- . partum bleeding and bleeding af- ter embryo implantation may be theory this is the worst possible medical treatment. Profet sug- gests that doctors see the bleed- ing as a sign of possible infection and treat it with antibiotics, in- stead of halting the body's natu- ral defenses. One ofProfet's main pieces of evidence are electron micro- graphs showing bacteria \piggy- backing\ to spenn. Microbes and other pathogens 1nay be intro- duced by the spenn or picked up by the spenn along the way. The cervix and vagina of a healthy woman may be populated with millions ofbacterial microbes, but these are genenilly not a problem for women due to mucus around the cervix. TI1e mucus in11ibits microbes from entering the uterus, but the mucus becomes more permeable during ovulation. Speno can pick up these bacteria that are already in the vagina, or introduce foreign pathogens. Many question the absence of menstruation in pregnant and menopausal females, but Profet has ev-idence to explain why these women do not need monthly bleeding to prevent in- fection.. The·:mucus that is present in all females around the cervix, is thicker in pregnant and post-menopausal women. The mucus is less penneable to mi- crobes and thus, acts as an effi- cient barrier against pathogens. Therefore, the Inonthly men- Struation is not needed. Profet also believes that this is the case for all mammals and is an adaptation they have evolved. Many scientists do not believe this is the case because many animals have never exhibited si!,,'11S of menstmation. However, Profet contends that many mam- mals are much less overt about bleeding or do not need to bleed as much. Profet has raised a stonn of de- bate among scientists, but this is not her first deviation from tra- ditional ideas of thinking. One of her previous theories ex- plained moming sickness as the body's defense system to pre- vent women from ingesting natural toxins at a crucial time of developmen_t for the embryo. Another theory about allergies, was 'the body's system to fight off plant toxins. Daring to break convention, Profet does not even have a doctorate, but continues to publish her ideas. She was recently granted a MacArthur Foundation genius grant for $250,000. And so, the debate rages on, until more research is conducted. we won't really know the pur- pose of menstruation. Until then, it will continue to be the curse that comes each month. Perhaps one day women will know that it is for their own pro- tection and as one woman aptly quoted, \Maybe the boys really do have cooties.\ Source.s: New York Times- Sept. 21 /993, Time-0£:1. -1, · 1993. uses radioactive, biodegradable \seeds\, which are inserted into the maJ,ignant tissue. TI1e most drastic methods of dealing with prostatic carcinomas, uses a hor- monal approach which is limited to severe cases. The growth of prostatic tissue is dependent upon testosterone, which is produ~ed by the testes. An orchiectomy can be per- fanned This involves removal of the testes, which will cut offthe body's supply of testosterone and in some cases inhibits the growth of the prostate. A female sex hor- mone can also be used. which blocks prostatic cell receptors with the female honnone prevent- ing the binding of testosterone. However, because undesirable side effects occur, this treatment is not prefened. J\ third honnonal treatment, marketed under the name \Lupron \ causes a com- plete release of a testosterone chemical signal from the hypo- physis. This reduces the level of testosterone to a point where it can inhibit growth. Injections of the drug must be administered several times to be optimally ef- ficient. The honnonal approach of therapy is not full proof. Al- though this treatment is reserved for more advanced fonns of pro~ static cancer, some cancerous tis- sue can not be controlled by it. Systemic chemotherapy drugs have proved to be rather ineffectivem, as well as extraor- dinarily expensive. Sometimes the best treatment may actually be to do nothing at all. A 70 year old man with Gleason 2 cancer may be in little danger. It may takes years for a confined tumor to metastasize, in fact it may never metastasize. Unfortunately. men can do nothing to avoid prostate cancer. For now, the best treatment is an early diagnosis and early, appro- priate treatment. Do you amaze people. with stupid . Physics, Geology ·or · Astronomy factos? Well, Contact · Kenny or Andy at x6155, and write for Sceince and Health.

February 17, 1994, Page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Three Union Students to Peform Death and the Maiden On Friday, February 26th _, Death and the Maiden by Ariel Dorfman will be performed by three Union students. The play is set in Chile in modern times and deals with the relationsh.ip between a husband and wife and how rape affects this relationship. Robert Meranda, an American Soldier, played by Walt Sole, stumbles into the couples home one day, is recognized by Paulina Escoiar, played by Rebecca Parlakian, and the plot thickens. Ceroda Ecobar. the husband, who has been away at war, is played by Doug Bartell. Tickets for the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday perfonnances will be sold in the College Center Atrium, Monday through Friday of this week from . . u ll:OO - 1:30 PM. t: The actors would appreciate -~ \' your support, so pick up your .::c tickets in the College Center, and support your fellow students, and come to one of the three perfonnances. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar /\ - - . . - . FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 18 . COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Malice\, 8 & 10 p.m., $2. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: Home Made 1l1eater of Saratoga Springs presents Rob- ert Harling's·funny and powerful play. 8:15p.m., $14, $12. 587-4427. SATURDAY.FEBRUARYI9 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 18 BIG BAND '94-with Guy Lombardo's Royal Canadians: will feature 1l1e Pied Pipers, Gary Crosby and Guy Lombardo's Famous Orchestra conducted by AI Pierson, 8 p.m., Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, 382-3884. STEEL MAGNOLIAS: see Friday, February 18. SUNDAY.FEBRUARY20 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 18. PAUL CEZANNE: THE MAN AND THE MOUNTAIN: A closer look at landscape painters. Albany Institute of History & Art, 2 p.m. / .. $1.50/students, $3/general. 125 Washington Ave., Albany. 463-4478 .. · MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 18 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23 VISITING ARTIST/SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES: Lecture by painter, Linda Day, I 1 a.m. College Center Auditorium, Union Col- lege, Schenectady. 388-6201. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 25 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Nightmare Before Christmas\. 8 & 10 p.m., $2. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: JANUARY 21 -MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic surveying Instru- ments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 4 7 4-1201 JANUARY 20- FEBRUARY 27 PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHINA: Four Chinese photographers. Union Col- lege, Arts Building, 2nd floor photo gallery. 388-6201. FEBRUARY 14- MARCH 10 POLISH DRAWINGS NOW: Works on paper'by ten contemporary pol-. ish artists, Arts Atrium, Arts Building, Union College, Schenectady. 388-620 I. FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: SUNY att- ists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-120 I JANUARY 22- JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany. 464-44 78. FEBRUARY 18- MARCH FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Includes 19th cen- tury signage, horse power, washing machines. Harley .Davidson Mo- torcycle with side car. 19th century architectural woodwork. restored portraits and paintings. New York State Museum. 474-5877. THROUGH MARCH (3, 1994 ALONE IN A CROWD: Prints ofthe 1930's-40's by Afri- can American Artists from the collection of Reba and Dave Williams. New York State Museum. 4 7 4- 5877. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 ENGAGED CULTURES: TEN LATIN AMERICAN ARTISTS: Paintings. drawings, prints, mixed media and sculpture ·. by contemporary visual of Hispanic heritage, Picotte Hall. College of Saint Rose. Albany. 485-3902. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 PHOTO DISPLAY TO HIGHLIGHT THE DIOCESES: VisionsGal- lety, Pastoral Center, 40 No. Maine Ave .. Albany. 453-6688. THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 PAINTINGS BY LINDA GRAN: Broughton Gallery. SchenectadyMu- · · seum & Planetarium, Schenectady. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT February 17, 1994, Page 13 Abstract Artist, Linda Day, to Visit Union Courtesy of tlte Department of Visual Arts Artist Linda Day will present a talk with slides on her work 'Thursday, February 24, 1'994 at II :00 am in the Col'lege Center Auditorium. Linda Day is an abstract painter whose work combines a lyrical sense of color and drawing with a tough, urban surface. Her large (six foot square) canvasses of a few years ago, h1corporated strong gestural imagery that seemed to float in or. around dense washes of dark, elegiac color. Her recent work is much smaller, often just 16 inches square, and painted on primed wood panels rather than canvas. T.he pictures are brighter, packed with color and incident, and convey a tremendous sense ofcompressed enerbry. Drawing and shape are subsumed in color. Occasionally, the pictures seem on the verge of resolving them- selves into an image oflandsca,pe, but on West coasts. Recent exhibition credits include Gallery Waltraud Matt, Lichtenstein; Dorothy Goldeen furt.h e r inspec- tion they remain res o - lutely ab- stract. The pro- \Linda Day is an abstract painter whose work combines a lyrical sense of color and drawing with a tough, urban surface.\ Gallery, Santa Monica; Twin- ing Gal- l e r y , NYC; cess of finding the finished work -by painting, scraping away, and repainting until the picture is done -leaves visible traces. The act of physically working the picture, becomes a critical part of the painting process. Currently Assistant Professor of Painting and Drawing at UCLA, Linda Day has also been 011 the faculties of Syracuse University ·and the School of the Art Insti- tute .of Chicago. She has exhib- ited widely on both the East and and the Lowe Art Museum in Syracuse, NY. She has received three Resi- dency Fellowships from Yaddo in Saratoga Springs; a National En- dowment Fellowship in painting; and fellowships from the MacDowell Colony, the . Provincetown Fine Arts Center, and the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. Ms. Day received her BA from 9olby College and her MFA from the Pratt Institute. Alvin Ailey Dance Theatre To Teach Master Class Classical Dance Courtesy of tire .Performing Arts Department On Monday, April 1 J: 1994, members of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater will teach two master classes in the Horton modem dance technique at Union College. Classes are open to the Union College com= munity and to the general public. LOCATION: Performing Arts Studio, Arts Building DATE: Monday, April 11. 1994 TIME: Beginner Level - 4:30- 5:45 pm Intennediate Level- 6:00-7:30pm FEE: Students enrolled in the Dance Practica during the spring semester - no charge All others: $7.00 For those attendin~ one of the master classes, discount tickets are available for the Alvin Ailey American Dance l11eater Concert at Proctor's l11eater on Sunday, April 10, 1994 at 7:30pm. FEE: Union College students at- tending the master class: $ 5.50 Non-Union College participants of the master class:$ 15.50 A sign-up sheet for the master · classes and concert tickets, is lo- cated in the Department of Per- fanning Arts office, Arts Build- ing 1 01. Payment for concert tickets is due by March 5, 1994. Payment for the class is due April 5, 1994. For more infonnation, contact Dawn Parisi at 388-6201. . Kate Kelly Comes to ·Union College by Leena Mankad Concordiensis Staff Kate Kelly is a welcome ad- dition to the Visual arts program here at Union. She is a visiting Professor and actress from Skidmore College and teaches Fonun theatre. Professor Kelly first got \hooked\ on theatre and acting at a very young age. She would ac- company her mom; who was also an actress, to auditions, and that is how she was first introduced to the theatre. Professor Kelly was educated at Temple University and went on to graduate school at Catholic University, but says she received her real education in New York City under a master visual arts teacher, and also by performing both on and off Broadway. She finds acting \exhilarating''; and hopes to go back to New York to continue her acting career. She is currently married and raisi11g two children, ages 10 and 6. Pro- fessor Kelly has been at Skidmore College for the past twelve years. Here at Union, Professor Kelly is doing wonderful work in her Forum Theatre class. She teaches her classes how to \connect the- atre by using themselves.\ Through improvisational scenes and other techniques, Ms. Kelly emphasizes using one's real emo- tions and experiences to create drama. She feels that it is impor- tant to make drama more realistic and to take the ''phoniness\ out of acting. Tapping into yourself is the key to making a scene work, she says. While Professor Keily loves to act, she alsu enjoys teaching a great deal. \Watching people transfonn into their characters is the best part of class,\ she admits. Kate Kelly will be at Union through this tenn, and hopefully, she will have a chance to come back next year. Concert of South India Courtesy oftlte Departme11t of Performing Arts: l11e Union College Department of Performing Arts will present a concert of South Indian Dancers, Bharatha Natyam. This perfor- mance will grace the Union Col- lege campus on Friday, February l8th,at 7:30 PM, in the Arts Building, Perfonning Arts Studio. l11e classical dance of South India, Bharatha Natyam, is both rhythmically rigorous and lyri- cally compelling. Ankle-brace- lets punctuate exciting cross- rhythms, while face and hands express abhinaya, or mime. Ac- companying vocalists are adept in melodic ornamentation and rhythmic precision. Players ofthe mrdangam or barrel drum articu- late the rhythms outlined by the dance, l11e event is especially remark- able, in that all the performers are Americans who have studied dance and music oflndia, for pe- riods of twenty to thirty years. They have benefited from st~dy both in Americ<ymd India with a roster of illustrious artists. Tile Department of Performing Arts Presents: South Indian Classical Dance: Bharatha N .. r11,.,..., Friday, February 18 \'7:30PM Performing Arts Studio Chet's Corner This week at Chet's: 2/16- Dramatic Readings on Passion (in ho110r of Valentine's Day) beginning at 9:30PM 2/17- Arrowhead (an off-campus live band) beginning at 10 PM Next week at Chet's: 2/23- Dutch Pipers beginning at 9:30 PM 2/24- Bogart (student band) beginning at 10 PM BE THERE!!! Chet's Will Be Open Every Wednesday And Thursday 8-lPM, S(rCome And Enjoy! (You don't have to be 21 to enter.) Dancer Lauren Cmydery stud- ied for years with India's Balasaraswati, who has garnered uncounted honors and was almost single-handedly responsible for raising Bharatha Natyam to the re- spect it desetves. Singer TI1omas Ross, on the faculty of U!Jion College, Department of Perform- ing Arts, has studied with Ustad Amir Khan, K.V. Narayanaswamy, and T. Viswanathan. Mrdangam player David Nelson learned from T. Ranganathan and Karaikudi Mani Iyer. For further infonnation, contact Professor Ross or Dawn Parisi in the Perfonning Arts Department between 9:00 AM and 4:30PM at 388-6201. The even is open to the public, and admission Free. lf 'Y6tl 10Vf llfiY. Wll'Y R0'T WRn\E f0R T11E rtl\T'C) & ER'TEli- TltJRrH:ERT' C)EC!TI0R. 'R:EW ll>Ellii lU1D etrr L06K~ WE1e0M:E:D. ~'f6P R'Y W:EDR£C)- Dl!Y~ liT 1 :SO Pm lR eesos e'K elt.LL X6155.

·February 1?, 1994,. Page 14 PERSONJ\t:S'lCLASSIFIEDS Personals Delta Chi Fraternity extends our most sincere thanks Michelle for the Flowers. Jello, Anyone? Aimee- I have been watching you across the crowded college cen- ter, and I noticed how nicely you were dressed. I have been told by someone that it must be a \col- lege center day\. ·'Teeheeheehee To the love of my life - Thanks for putting up with me. You're a real sweetheart. Love, Caroline Allie and Alice and Meredith - You are all wonderful kids. We will have to visit the sexy waiter at Brandywhine sometime soon. Love, Mommy/Grandma To Seth .. You're a great kid. Love you lots - Big Sis Jess- Get well soon. Love- the world's most wonder- ful roommate. Sheryl - Thank you so much for the flower. I can't wait for next year either. Get used to these late Tuesday nights. You'll have to come get a tour of my second home soon. -Heather Dave- It's about time! Dear Bri - You still have the Ma- rines and Air Force to go, and then there's the reservists. Love - your ex's To Upperclass Bill - Sorry for putting my feet in my mouth the other day. I'll work on my man- ners. From -a com toasty lover Dean A., Li Li, and the Natick one. Birds of a feather flock to- gether! You guys are the best! Love, Jammer To the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta: Frozen Time is only an indication of what is yet to camel To my bear- Don't worry I'm not going.anywhere! See you tomOI'- row! Love, Me Wanted: A man who lovesreceiv- ing and giving shiatsu massages .. You bring your hands I'll bri·ng the oil! Box 436 . Tiredoffratemity ponies? Work- ing for an independent stallion? You can sow my oats. Box 436 Kira - You look like a queen. Holly and Amy, you still look like wet dung, but I love you any- way. Love - Sarah Dave - Thanks for the card. It meant a lot. I .love you, even if l don't always t.ell you. Love - Guess who! The sisters of Delta Gamma would like to thank the brothers of Phi Delta for a real blast at TNT! · Get the credit tou deserve- with the GE Class1c MasterCard®. 9 9 0l The GE Classic MasterCard is the educated 70 choice for students looking for smart ways to save. It offers one of the lowest APRs I APR you'll find on campus- 9.9%* variable APR for the first year with a low 16.9% variable APR thereafter. That means that even if you're only able to pay the minimum amount due, you'll pay just 9.9% on your outstanding balance. NO ANNUAL FEEl While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 or more, the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we don't see why you should pay just for putting our card in your wallet. This great offer could only come from a team like GE Card Services and MasterCard. GE Card Services is part of one of the leading financial services companies in the world. And MasterCard's the credit card more widely accepted than any other on the planet Together, they provide you with unparalleled financial security. STUDENT DI-SCOUNTS. As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entitled to special discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the COLLEGE MasterValues m** program, you'll enjoy savin~ of. up to 40% on everything from COs to travel. The GE Classic MasterCard. An educated choice. . Look for an application on campus or in your mail. ' It's required reading that can give you the credit you deserve. *APR's shown as of 111194.99% variable APR applies for the fim 12 billing cycles; after that a variable APR which as of 111/94 was 16.9%: will apply to all eldrting and new balances. At anytime, y~ur rate will increase to a variable APR. whtch as of lll/94was 19.9%, based on your delinquency. A minimum Finance Otarge of$.50 will apply at allttmes. A cash advance fee of2.5% of the advance (mtntmum $2 and maJ<tmUn'l $20) will be charged for each cash adyance. **COLLEGE MasterValues is a product offered by MasterCard whtch ts subject to change and may be disron1inued at any time. Certain terms and condaions apply. Classijj£_ds. Summer Job Opportunity ... JCC Camp Kingswood: On-Campus InteJ,Views- Feb.22 Sign up in the Career Develop- ment Center by Feb. 16 ... First come, first serve. Summer Opportunities .. Jor Juniors at Andersen Consulting ... Resume and Personal Data Sheet Required .. For more infonnation come to the Career Development Center TI1ird Floor, Old Chapel. Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-.$4000/nio. teaching basic conversational EHglish in Japan, Taiwan, ot South Korea. No teaching background required. For more information call: (206) 632- 1146 ext. 15188 !!!ATTENTION MATH MAJORS & UNDECIDED STUDENTS!!! Attend the WClDW AMI...lll M at(lemat- ics Program (pronounced wicked whammy and stands for What I Can Do With a Major in ... Math) on Tuesday, February 22, at 7:30PM in the CDC. Alun'lni math majors will be there to discuss career options. Discover the many opportunities available. This program is for undecided students, math majors and inquiring minds. Don't miss out. Summer Job .. ,The Shibley Summer Day Camp, Long . Island, seeking counselors/ drivers for summer session. See the CDC for fitrther details. Summer Prograrn ... SEA Education Association is offering sqmmer interdiscipli- nary program for students from all majors. Gain hands oil experience while eaming credit. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job Opp<:lftunity ... JCC Camp Kingswood offering on- campus interviews on Feb.22. Sign-up in CDC by Feb.16. \What Can I Do With A Major ln ... Math\ brought to you by the Mathematics Department and the CDC. Hear Alumni talk about career options for math majors. Tuesday, February 22, 7:30 PM in the CDC. Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available Get paid $2000 to do research with a Union College professor. Free rooln f()r the summer. You MUST apply with a faculty men- tor. Pick up applications and guidelines from the Deans' Office S 100 Sci. Ctr. Final application due March 2nd Union College Undergradu- ate Summer Research Fellowships Available Get Paid $2000 to do research with a Union College professor. Free room for the summer. You MUST apply with a fac- ulty mentor. Pick up applica- tions and guidelines from the Dean's Office SLOO Sci. Ctr. Final application due March 2nd. 3 OR 4 BEDROOM APARTMENT Available 1994-95 -Modernized Throughout -Includes All Appliances - w/w Carpet -Furnished -Parking - One Year Lease Call 370-5498 for more information

l SPORTS February 17, 1994, page 15 Track Teams Run Well at Wesleyan· _.Wom,en, 's Basketball by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff jump with a leap of 13'8 3/4\. She also placed sixth in the triple jump, jumping 31 '8 1/2\. Last weekend at Wesleyan in In the men's competition it was Connecticut the women's and the Dave Riggi and Jon Simon men's teams had their best per• show. Riggi placed first in the fonnances of the year. The men 55m and the 200m running times placed third overart and the . of 6.66s and 23.47 seconds re- wotnen grabbed seventh. There spectively. Simon placed first in were many highlights in this meet the 400m, second in the 200m, and a lot of personal best titnes. and anchored the winning 1600m Again at this meet the top sixth relay team which fitiished first. placed. Here are the.hi.ghlights I His time in the 400m was 52. Is was referring to. qttalifying him for states, and he In the women ;s cmnpetitiou the ran 23.65 in the 200m. \01e rest following women scored points. ·of the· scorers were Rich Pulver In the 800 meter Amelia Audette grabbing first in the shot put, fol- shaved three sec011ds offhertime .lowed by Ned Abbot in fifth. Bill and placed fourth in a time of Flet:ning vaulted I 0'6\ placing 2:36. Then Diana Spenello ran third in the pole vault. Sharon the I OOOm in 3: 19 placing fourth Morton placed fifth in the 200m and qualifying for states. Dawn in a time of24.47s. Scott Corley Landry placed fifth in the long got sixth in the 55m high hurdles, Athlete of the Week: Jay Prentice by Mike Leding Collcotdiensis Staff efforts in the Dartmouth game he was elected ECAC Rookie of the Week. It's no coincidence that the Oh yeah baby it is time to same athletes we honor get han- honor someone once again as the ored all over the world. Early on Athlete of the Week. This week in the season the Hockey News just for you Union College faith- Central Scouting Bureau rated Jay ful Hockey fans we have Jay as one of the top ten College play- Prentice. Jay. a freshmen from ers eligible for the draft. He was Scarborough, Ontario scored the rated seventh overall. Hockey fomth and fifth goals in a 5-3 win manager Dagan LaCoxte had this over Dartmouth, the fourth goal to say about Jay.\Man this guy is being the game winner. Shortly a great hockey player .\ after this goal Jay was knocked Jay had this to say senseless and had to leave the ice about Union's chances in· the to be stitched up. Jay went into playoffs. \We have a good chance the training room and caine out of getting into sixth or seventh looking for answers. He found place. We really don't want to be his answers by making any lower than eighth place, it Dartmouth look stupid with his would be nice to have home ice second goal of the game. l11is for our first playoff game.\ man showed real hea11 and cour- Well that is about it hockey age to venture back 011 the ice and fans. Keep up the support for stick it to Dartmouth, those Ivy these athletes as the follow the League pansies which all you puck into the play-offs. Keep the who got rejected wished to be. waves going, and remember don't On the year Jay has tln:ee goals - drink and drive. Thank you. that and seven assists from his for~ is all. ward position. Due to his valiant TV Viewing Notice On Thursday, February 24, Union College junior Nikki Stone will compete in the aerial freestyle ski • • JUmping competition in Lillehammer. sixth in the 200m, and fifth in the 400m. His times in these events were 9.88s, 26.4s, and 57.ls re- spectively. Nolan Fariss jumped 6 feet in the high jump to place fourth. In the 800m Mike Leding got fifth and Brenda1; Sullivan sixth in times of2:05 .5 and 2:06.3 respectively. The highlight of the day came in the l600m relay when Union had to show every- one what was up when the team of Stram, Leding, Sullivan, and Simon placed first as Simon walked down Trinity's anchor man finishing in a time of 3:32, four seconds faster than their best time of the year. Right now the team is prepar- ing for states. Good luck nmners and stay healthy. As Coach Larry Cottrell says, \Don't drink any yellow snow.\ Team Report Women Can Reach .500 With· Strong Finish by Joe Saltzba.rt Associate Sports £di(or The Union Women suffered another tough loss as they dropped a close game to the •. Hamilton Continentals 79-74. After leading 40-39 at halftime. several Dtttchwomen went cold in the second half including team leading scorer Andrea Pagnozzi. Yet with her' 15 point . performance~ she moved into fottrth place on the All- Time Leading Point Scorer List with 826 career points. Other Dntchwomen contdhqting to their offensive barrage were Amy Hitz; with l4 points, Kleinhaus with 10 points, Light : with 9 points, Montano with 8 · points, Capparello with 7 points, Dougherty with 6 points, Maguire with 3 points, and Ricci with 2 points. The 8·1 I Dutchwomen are winding down their season with . three games remaining. Come ottt and st~pport your Union Col- lege Basketball Dutchwomen as they take on Oneonta tonight at home and Utica at home, Satur- day the 26th, when the team honors its seniors for their ex- cellence. Hockey Team Moving Up in the ECAC at the End of the Season - .. R11ss Monteitli works tl1e boards against Dartmoutll (J. Hai11es!TC) Co11tinued from page 16 play. \vhen Vermont's McKell was called for slashing. The Dutchmen power play clicked, as Chris Ford netted his sixteenth goal of the season on Troy . Stevens' second 'assist of the game. However, Verrrtont once again regained. the lead, this time with under six minutes. remaining in the period. Things began to look dim for Union as the clock rail down, however this time lady luck was wearing garnet. With less than four minutes remaining in the game, Bill Moody skated the puck into the Vennont end and shot it towards the goal. the puck de:flected off a Catamount de- fender and ended up in the net, tying the game at four. Neither team was able to score in the five minute overtime, and Union re- corded its second league tie of the season. Luigi Villa was impres- sive in net, saving 29 of 33 Ver- mont shots. TI1e next night·the Dutchmen faced the Big Green of Dartmouth. l11e Dutchmen took a t-O lead 43 seconds into the game, when Troy Stevens netted his fifth goal of the season, on assists from defensemen Dean Goulet and winger Chris Ford. However Union's play faltered as Dartmouth scored two quick goals. giving them a 2-1 lead. After Dartmouth's second goal, Delventhal sent out his most ex- perienced line, in Chris Albert. Jeff Jiampetti. and Cory Holbrough. l11e line knew what they had to do, and they did just that, evening the score at 2-2, less than ten seconds after Dartmouth took the lead. The goal was scored by Chris Albert, his eighth of the season on assists by Jiampetti and Holbrough. The same line scored another goal later in the period, this time it was Jiampetti's eighth on assists from Holbrough and Reid Simonton, giving Union its lead lead. Union extended their lead to 4- 2, on the only goal of the second period. l11e goal was scored by freshmen Jay Prentice, his second of the season, on assists by Troy Stevens and Russ Monteith. So the Dutchmen went into the third period with a two goal lead. l11e Dutchmen played poorly in the third period, being outshot by Dartmouth 13 to 4, luckily Mike Gallant was on his game stopping all but one of Dartmouth's shots. Vennont cut Union's lead to one goal, and the crowd at Achilles was fearful that another game was going to slip through their fingers. Not this time though, as Jay Prentice added an insurance goal with just over two miliutes left, with assists going to Jon Sicinski and Andrew Will. So Union was able to hold on and defeat Dartmouth by the .score of 5-3, securing their first ever season sweep. This week- end the Dutchmen hit the road to face Princeton·and Yale, in per- haps the most important weekend of the season. Currently the Dutchmen are one point behind Princeton and Cornell, both of whom have thirteen points. So if Union wants to gain home ice for the playoffs, wins over Princeton and Yale are imperative. Hockey on 89.7 WRUC _ ....

February 17, 1994 PAGE 16 Take a Seat! Union KOs Dartmouth, Ties Vermont Three Point Weekend Moves Dut.~hln.tttl:.ip.to Ninth Place in th,e. -ECAC ~' \ .- ,... :4 ' ' ' • )• ·• . . t - . . . by Dagan La Corte Spotts Editor· It may be hard to believe, but the Union College Skating Dutch- men are on a rolL After taking three of four possible points this past weekend, Union is presently in ninth place in the E.C.A.C. with twelve points. On Friday night the Dutchmen rallied in the third period, to gain a tie against the Catamounts of Vermont, a team which shutout Union 4-0 in Burlington earlier this season. The following night the Dutch- men defeated the Big Green of Dartmouth 5-3, despite playing poorly. The two games gave Union its first three point week• end since entering division I com- petition. In addition to the three point milestone, Union achieved other division I firsts. .. ,.,- .... ~ ~ b'~ ~ lii?bl~~\~<\\':: • .;.;~;.,... ~.·-. ·~. .. - i With the win over Dartmouth on Saturday combined with a win in Hanover two weeks ago, Union achieved its first ever season sweep of a league opponent. Wait there's more... In the past three games, Union is 2-0-1, marking the Dutchmen's first ever three game unbeaten streak. In fact the team is 4-2-1 in their past -seven league games, with the sole tie occurring Friday against Ver- mont. Freshman Jolin Sicinski tries to set up a scoring opportunity for tire Skating Dutcllmen behind tile Dartmoutllnet in Saturday's win. TI1e Catamounts took a 1-0 lead five minutes into the first period, but Union fired back, evening the score at one, with four minutes remammg in the period. Defensemen Scott Boyd, who has been on a recent hot streak, scored his fifth goal ofthe season on as- sists by Troy Stevens and Chris Ford, leaving the score 1-1 after the first period. Vermont re- gained the lead halfway into the second period, but again Union tied the score, this time Cory Holbrough scored his ninth of the season, on assists by Chris Albert Men's Basketball Dominates Team Extends to 14-7 Record, Eyes ECAC Playoffs by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor The Union College Basketball Team continued their winning ways this week as they defeated Hamilton 84-74 and RPI I 01-88. These two impressive wins as- sured the Dutchmen (14-7) of a win-loss percentage greater than .500, a feat that has escaped them since their 1990-91 campaign. With four games remaining, the Union Men can solidify an ECAC Playoff Bid by defeating nation- ally ranked Williams and knock- ing off Middlebury, St. Lawrence, and Clarkson. his own Union Single Season In the Hamilton game, Block Record with 66 rejections Marcello \Jellow\ Tellez Jed all and counting. The Goose is av- scorers with 19 points. Also con- eraging just under 3.5 blocked tributing to the victory were Steve shots per game. Evans with 16 points and 9 as- Your last chance to catch a sists, Dr. K with 13 points and 5 Dutchmen Basketball Home assists, Hoover with II points and Game will be on February 22nd 2 assists, and d1e Goose with 9 against Middlebury. Come out points, 4 assists, and 2 blocks. and support your Union College Steve Evans needs just 17 more Basketball Dutchmen as seniors assists to break the Union Single Steve Evans, Kenny Evans, Season Assist Record of 176. Mr. Jamie Donigan, Bill Callahan, Assists is ranked in the top five and Adam Schwartz wind down in the nation with his 159 assists their fine athletic careers and are and 7.5 average assists per game. honored for their many achieve- Meanwhile, Mark Stodden broke ments. and defensemen Andrew Will. The scored remained tied at 2-2, until late in the period when Ver- mont scored on the power play, regaining a one goal lead. How- ever the Dutchmen were not go- ing to let Vermont take two points out of their building, as they ral- lied in the third period, behind the goaltending of Luigi Villa. Three minutes into the period, the Dutchmen when on the power Continued on Page 15 Bevan. Jenn Baldwin. J\'ffnn \ stto_pg !:wing int9' this State .~u~ire, ~ri Hayashi, a.nd'J&¥itha ChaQ1i)U1llshil)' rliebt. , · . M~ade. These women are hop~ . The meet takes place at RPI ing.to.return to the National,n\e~t this Thut$day, Priday, and Sat- , and, bring along some t}ew ufd~y. Fdbi416ty· 17-19. Trials pe¢ple as welt.. Bevan has at.. rtin lrom Hain ·2pm each day, ·.ready qualified for theU cuts. :tl.1r and'tlle final$,f0r each eventwill . the National:meet h1two 6v:(mts. be'af7pjn:topm each night So . She specializes in the breast~ ct>nte an out and st•p,port th,e · stroke, the butterfly, and the in- team as (}ley go for the State , dividnat medley. :Baldwhfs Championship!' .:, , . ,! _; . ' }·' ' ' . ' I , ! ' j•. I .f ~' '. ~ I ! I :: l ). [I i : \ l I i 1 ·r I .\ I I ' ; I i f l ' \ I ! ' ' l l ·I l ' ' I I I - Volu ] ] Pt By youn! vated teleg1 broke nolog phon.1 prior playi1 Ediso rity. andtl enter Ruth~ marvc follm; and:p orary Jus reach the in light there opera butt lamp: Edisc effici mean surfac sun, wave filam coate ducti· bulb air to he bu plant a few lowe1 tion. Fo conti that 1 At hi Th Hom ginni tern a awe' nOW• Ka Unio plac~ them poet1

,··.' } . '. ' ' ' ' ' li ll ! \ 1 .. ! . ' ' I ' \ _; i I ' ', ; I . ' Volume CXXIII, Number XV An Electric History by Frank Wicks Professor of Engineering By 1878, Thomas Edison, still young at ·31, had already inno- vated major improvements in the telegraph and telephone, and broke new ground in sound tech- nology with the invention of the phonograph. As there was no prior art for storing sound and playing it back at a later time, Edison became an instant celeb- rity. He was invited to Congress and then to the White House to entertain President and Mrs. Rutherford Hayes with this new marvel. Union College quickly followed suit in honoring Edison and presented him with an hon- orary doctorate degree. Just a short year later, Edison reached national attention with the invention.ofthe incandescent light-. Before Edison's invention, there were some electric lights operating in mansions and stor~s, but these were inefficient arc lamps, powered by generators. Edison's objective was a more efficient and safer lamp, which meant to use electricity to he~t a surface to the temperature of the sun, which is the visible light wavelength. Edison's successful filament was carbon for radiation coated on a hair for electric con- ductivity, and installed in a glass bulb that had been evacuated of air to prevent burnout. By 1882, he built the first central electric plant, which provided power for a few surrounding blocks from his lower Manhattan Pearl Street Sta- tion. For the next 50 years, Edison continued to thrive in the light that he had brought to America. At his death in 1931, it was sug- continued on page 4 ... ... nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York Union's Olympian, Nikki Stone Freestyle Ski Jumper is Ranked Second in the World by Caroline Paine News Editor Nikki Stone, class of 199 5, competed for the United States in the freestylt:t skiing semifmals on Monday, February 21. Stone trained to be a gymnast early in her life. By adolescence, she had grown too big for the sport. When she was 16, Stone hap- pened to view a documentary on freestyle skiing. She was fasci- nated by the inverted arialbatics and decided to pursue the sport. \lttakes a lot of nerve,\ Stone said in a previous interview with the Times Union . \Each time I go to a new site or a new aerial jump it gets my nerves pump- ing. It's scary, but in the same sense it keeps you on your toes and makes it more exciting be- cause the fear factor is in- volved.\ Since her beginnings as a freestyle skier, Stone has shown herself to be a great talent. She uses her psychology major to vi- sualize_ each jump before she at- tempts it. This incorporation of Stone's ascendances and sport has proved the secret of her success. In 1989, she began her skiing ca- reer, by winning the junior ballet title and finishing third in the com- bined, at the national champion- ships. Two years later, in 1991, Stone won the aerial title in the North American Developmental Circuit. She placed third in the ballet and finished second in the combined competition. In 1991, Stone transferred to Union from the University of Ver- mont. Union's trimester system made it possible for her to put her academics on hold during the wino ter and concentrate on her-skiing technique. After accomplishing honors in skiing ballet, Stone turned her at- tention back to what originally attracted her to the sport, aerials. In 1992, Stone entered the World Cup tour and placed ninth in the standings. She was honored by being named Rookie of the year in the World Cup. Last Monday, Stone had the opportunity to compete in the Winter Olympics freestyle ski- ing semifinals. In order to pass the semifinals, a ~kier must place higher than twelfth place out of two jumps. Stone earned the number one spot from her first jump. On her second at- tempt, Stone failed to complete her landing. This moved her to thirteenth place, just one place short of eligibility for the medal competition. Despite this set back, Stone retains an upbeat esteem, ac- cording to senior Wally Bzdell. \Nikki was disappointed but she is trying to keep a positive attitude. She is planning to stay [in Lillehammer] until the clos- ing ceremonies and then she is going to compete in two World Cup events in Germany and Austria and then in the United States Nationals in Utah,\ said continued on page 4 February 24, 1994 Davis For Student Activism by Alexandra Kreisler Associate News Editor On Thursday, February 17, Professor Angela Davis spoke on student activism in honor of Af- rican Heritage Month. A long time political activist, Davis cur- rently strives to educate audi- ences on social activism and its long history of organizers. Davis announced that 1994 marks the thirtieth anniversary of student activism, and proceeded to take the audience through a time line ofhistory, highlighting several of its past organizers. 1964 brought a vast number of students from different racial and cultural backgrounds to Missis- sippi, Georgia, and Alabama. Together they spent their summer standing in line to register in or- der for black people to vote. 1964 marked the emergence of women as a powerful force. Davis pointed to several women whose names tend to be erased in reference to this vast activist experience. When Davis asked for a show of hands as to who rec- ognized certain names, it was evi- dent that many organizers have not received due credit. Davis stated, \black history is often thought of as male history and now it's time to think about the focus- the individuals who brought us here today.\ The Free Speech Union was a direct result of students activat- ing in the summer of 1964. Many young women went south during that summer with the goal of se- curing the political rights of Af- rican Americans. As a result many became conscious of how women in general are marginalized. continued on page 3 CoffeeHouse Serves Up New Hours In This Issue News ····~~·········· 2-4 Science ............... 5 by Alexandra Gualpa Concordiensis Staff The CoffeeHouse at Fero House has expanded. At the be- ginning of this year, the social al- ternative was only open one night a week, Saturday. This tenn it is now open Tuesday nights as well. Kate Goldman, a freshman at Union, likes the idea of having a place where students can express themselves through music and poetry. Goldman begarl spending time there last tenn. It impressed her so much that she got involved with the inner workings of the CoffeeHouse. Presently she is the treasurer. Goldman is in charge of the budget; she buys candles, food and paper. The cof- fee is donated by Caffe Dolce. Goldman thinks that the CoffeeHouse is a good place to go for a \study break.\ There is free coffee and snacks, and board conti1med 011 page 4 Op/Ed •..••.••.•••••••• 6 Letters ········~~······· 7 A & E ••••••• GOO 1 0-11 Personals ..... uo. 12 Features ........... 13 Sports ....... .. 14-16 The \Vomen's Swimming Team Wins the State Championship - See Page 16 for more details.

February 24, 1994, page 2 Campus· Info Comm~· ··.·· A ~~Bb()~~d~€·~~~~~~~~ perfOrtlll:ltlOC.()f., . . ... Technical SeM\ ··of tfi\il reviiw · Connolly, l'tlgf!llambetgs, and Barbara lone~ .. A.Jl:Y .~em:ber,.of the Union Colletfe community who wishes to provid~rwntten~cum .. ments about· 1\lmett-e· teCUm's professronat·· developn'toot~ iititl · · scnolarship;tO;ee'tnl~eJseEv.fceshottldcontae.t.oruho£Tth~lettmntit<­ tee members byli!l~~,i~ 1994.· . Jnterviews·may·by·et~ntrult'\ J NEWS Campus Security Report DATEffiME LOCATION MONDAY. FEBRUARY 14,1994: !2:05PM Nott Seward Lot 1:03PM Nott Seward Lot TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1994: l2:35AM I 2:30AM 2:55AM 6:00AM 8:59AM li:OOAM !2:10PM West College Hickok House Old Chapel Area S&E Basement West College Raymond.Potter Lot College Center WEDNESDAY. FEBRUAR¥.16.1994: 9:10AM North Entry Road 1040AM Richmond Lot JlJOPM West Lot 5:12PM Richmond 6:50PM Potter 9:01PM Wells Lot 11:43 PM Richmond 11:55 PM Richmond Lot THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17,1994: 1:45PM West Lot 5:24PM Nott Seward Lot 5:04PM South College 6:00PM Social Science Bldg. 8:41PM West Lot 10:40PM College Center Atrium ll:34PM South Terrace Lane FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1994: l2:28AM Library Lane area 10:15 AM College Center . 10:30AM Wells Lot . 1:00PM College Center 3:55PM West College 4:33PM ,Smith Lot SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1994: 1:30AM 2:21AM 1:00PM 9:12PM Becker Circle Chi Psi Raymond South Raymond House SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1994: I 2:20AM Fox North 12:58AM Fox House I 2:58AM Fox House 8:40AM S&EArea 4:00PM Davidson 4:45PM College Center Lot 6:07PM West College INCIDENT PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered vehicle-persistent violator-Freshman. Conduct Charges filed. PARKINGVIOLA:TION: Unregistered vehicle-peristent violator: Conduct Cb~ges filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana-unconfirmed. SECURITY HAzARD: Problems with entrance doors• temporary repairs made-urgentwork order filed, MISCHIEF: Informational pamphlets strewn aroWidthe area SUBSTANCEABUSE: Suspected drug paraphernalia found in common area-unfounded. THEFT/FRAUDULENT USJ!] OF CREI)I'F CA.RD: Student's wallet stolen and credit cards used. Suspects identified. -SPD notified. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle-tire punctured. SAFETY HAZARD: Falling snowlice\South entrance. MOTOR V£HICLE ACCIDENT: Minor property damage accident-Campus vehicle struck by a vendor vehicle. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized~Unregistered persistent violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered persistent violator (Freshman). HARASSMENT: Obscene phone calls. HARASSMENT: Obscene phone calls. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered persistent violator. FIRE ALARM: Accidental trip-main panel activated, MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Minot Property damage- Campus vehicle struck dumpster. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered persistent violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered persistent violator. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Student's room entered. VANDALISM: Eastside basement door damaged. HARASSMENT: Written harassing message Iefton car .. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Atrium window broken-cause undetermined. SAFETY HAZARD: Vendor driving vehicle on sidewalk. RECKLESS DRIVING/PARKING VIOLATION: Student's parking privilege was revoked-vehicle towed off campus. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Unregistered persistent violator. , PARKING VIOLATION: Previously immobilized vehicle- towed . PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized- Unregistered persistent violator. THEFT: Personal items stolen from student's room. POSSESSION OF DB/PELLET GUN: Studentwamed regarding possession ofbb/pellet gun. Gun removed from campus. FIRE ALARM: City Fire Department pull box intentionally activated-False alarm. FIRE TROUBLE ALARM: Fire panel malfunction-electrician notified for repair, THEFT: Fraternity stereo equipment stolen. FIRE TROUBLE ALARM: Fire pan !'II malfunction-electrician notified for repair. NOISE COMPLAINT: Off campus resident complained about ongoing noise problem•live band music disturbing the peace. FIRE ALARM!V ANDALISM: Caused by tampering with detectors in lower level. LIFE SAFETY VIOLA TIONN ANDALISM: Fire bells and smoke detectors vandalized-lower level. VANDALISM: Trees and light poles spray painted. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Possible odor of marijuana reported- inconclusive-source unidentified. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property damage hit and run- two cars damaged by a third vehicle that left the scene. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIO~ATION: Caused by the intentional activation of a pull box on the 3rd floor North. ·~ >;

Union Sponsors Science Fair by Jeremy Smith Concordiensis Staff The Union College Biology, Chemistry, and Physics depart- ments assembl:e.d a variety of hands on experiments for local elementary school students. This was in an effort to increase scien- tific curiosity among beginning science students. Demonstrations included torque, electromagnetic repulsion, biological systems, an electrocardiograph, as well as many others. Participants were eager to be involved and Union students proved to be amiable in- structers despite the time con- straints imposed by the program. The most popular demonstration with students was a chemical syn- thesis which resulted in an opaque, pliable \slime.\ This also proved to be a distress to many of the students; chaperons. Over- all, the program was a success and most students left Union with an increased desire to pursue the sci- ences further. NEWS February 24, 1994, page 3 ~~::::.» ~~~~.~~,.~·~··?: ·:.:~~: '• -=~· •:;.. Rob Cressman, a Utlion College Junior, wit/1 local elementary scl10ol students at science fair. (pltoto by Jeremy Smit/IITC) Angela Davis Speaks at Memorial Chapel Continued From Page 1 The Women's Liberati.on Movement was a direct result of activists efforts made by young women for African American people. Davis pointed out that there are interesting connections between movements of the late sixties and early seventies. 1965, marked the year of black power and several' movements emerged thereafter, such as The Chicano Movement, Puerto Rican Move- ment, and American Indian Movement. Furthermore, Asian American organizations grew, and the Gay Rights Movement emerged. The problem of sexism, in 1964, was also raised; women were being treated as inferior. Davis is a living witness and vic- tim of such historical struggles. She suffered from the stigma of \Triple Jeopardy,\ due to racism, sexism, and imperialism. Davis. came to national atten- tion, in 1969, when she was re- moved from her teaching position in the Philosophy Department at UCLA, as a result of her activism and her membership in the U.S. Communist Party. In 1970, she was placed on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted List on false charges and 142 Jay Street 518.347.2334 was the subject of an intense po- lice search, which culminated in one of the most famous trials in American history. Davis served time in jail in both New York and California and was charged with three capi- tol crimes- murder, kidnapping, and conspiracy. Davis revealed that the state of California wanted to place her on death row. Presi- dent Richard Nixon regarded Davis as a terrorist, who had to be dealt with accordingly. During her incarceration, a ~assive, international \Free An- gela\ campaign was organized, leading to her acquittal in 1972. From this campaign emerged the National Alliance Against Racist and Political Repression, an or- . ganization co-founded by Profes- sor Davis. She continues to work actively with this organization today. After spending all most two years in prison, Davjs experi- enced the lack of rights given to prisoners. In effect, she became an advocate for prisoners' rights. Her commitment to the rights of prisoners dates back to her work to free the Soledad Brothers, which played a significant role in her own arrest and imprisonment. Today, she maintains her com- mitment by working with the education program of the San Francisco County Jail. She r~­ cently, conducted a series of in- terviews with incarcerated women for a research project that will ultimately develop sugges- tions for new prison system leg- islation. Unfortunately, the U.S. has the highest prison rate in the world and it continues to increase. A $23 billion crime bill was passed extending the federal death pen- alty to fifty two crimes. The gov- ernment is funding penalty en- hancement, opposed to penalty prevention. In addition, $70,000 a year is being given to build new prisons. \People are afraid of not what the real problem is,\ Davis reveals, \money is going to pris- ons, instead of recreation centers and education.\ Davis explains that the ideol- ogy of prison is so powerful that for well over a century, it was impossible to picture alternative ways to deal with crime. Reha- bilitation does not work because there is no control over your body or your life in prison. Unfortu- nately, crime is usually repro- duced in this environment. ture by issuing a challenge to her audience: \Organize in a way of a collective response. Move into the next century so the world can be- come a better place.\ D~vis is not only addressing racism, but homo- phonic, sexism, and c1assism too. Former California Governor, Davis offers advice to future ~ activists. She states, ''we need to § look forward, recognizing we are ~ standing on the shoulders of those ~ who represented struggles of~ those [past] times, but don't fall~ (..> down and tum the wheel back to :i where we were.\ ~ She feels it's time that the or- ~ ganizel's of the past receive credit 0 in the '90's. Davis ended her lee- Ronald Reagan, once vowed that Angela Davis would never again teach in the University of Cali- fornia System. Today, she is the first African American faculty member to hold a full professor- ship in the History of Conscious- ness Program at UC Santa Cruz. Write for News! Call x6155

February 24, 1994, page 4 NEWS Union Celebrates National Engineering Week Continued from page 1 gested that the electric power should be turned off as a gesture of mourning, but it was then real- ized this would be too disruptive. It is ironic that Edison's works had become so integral to life that a small gesture such as turning off the electric power in tribute to him would cause serious havoc. While in Edison's lifetime, electricity was still used primarily to light the darlmess and to power trolley trains, it is now also vital to efficient beating, air condition- ing, refrigerating, cooking, manu- facturing, washing and drying and to power most of our other modern necessities, conveniences and luxuries. Alessandro Volta, in 1800, de- veloped an electrochemical source of electricity with his bi- metallic pile, or electric generat- ing cell, which we now recognize as a battery. It is also notable that Volta may have actually rein- vented the bi-metal battery that were used four thousand years earlier for electro-plating metals in ancient Babylonia. The Volta cell provided a con- trollable electric supply for the next generation of pioneers. Hans Oerstedt discovered that flowing electricity caused magnetism as noted by the deflection of a com- pass held near the wire. Michael Faraday discovered that magne- tism can cause electricity, by ei- ther moving or changing the. strength of the magnet. Simon Ohm showed that the electric cur- rent varied directly with the elec- tric pressure and inversely with the resistance. The discoveries of Oerstedt and Faraday defined the basis for motors, generators and transform- ers. The seminal development of these machines can be traced to an Albany scientist Joseph Henry, Adirondack iron miner Allen Penfield, and Vermont black- smith, Thomas Davenport. In 1829, Joseph Henry exhibited a powerful magnet in the shape of a horseshoe with many windings of copper wire and powered by batteries that weighed 21 lbs but could lift an incredible 650 lbs. In 1831, one of these magnets Watch for Nikki on CBS continued from page 1 Bzdell. Although Stone will not be competing for a medal during the freestyle finals on Thursday, keep an eye out for Union's favorite · skier if you are watching the games. Stone will be commentating on the jumps for CBS. Keep watching Nikki Stone, she is far from finished jumping. Bzdell expresses Stone's determination, \It was only her first Olympics; she plans to go again in 1998.\ was installed by Mr Penfield to help separate ore at his mine in Ironville. Davenport learned of this powerful magnet, visited Iron ville, bought one magnet and made another. By using the mag- nets to work opposite from each other and designing a switch to control the magnets, Davenport made the first rotating electric machine. While Davenport's motor be- came the crucial element for all modern electric power systems, the practicality of his invention was limited by the relatively weak bi-metallic batteries. It was not until almost 30 years later that it was recognized that his motor could also serve as an electric generator, and thus a cen- tral source of energy. Previously, only waterfalls or steam power plants were capable of convert- ing mechanical energy to electric power for convenient and effi- cient reconverion to mechanical power for the user. • George Westinghouse, who was to become the greatest engi- neer and industrialist of his gen- eration, was the same age as Edison, and grew up in Schenectady. He learned ma- chinery in his father's factory along the Erie Canal, and entered Union College in 1865 as an 18 year old naval marine engineer- ing officer veteran of the Civil War. Westinghouse's attention turned to railroad switching equipment, and lead to his invention of the telephone switch board, and gas pipe line technology. His im- provements in gas line pipes re- lied on the use of compressors for efficient transmission and then pressure reducing valves for safe use. He would later pioneer the development of steam turbines to replace the large and inefficient reciprocating steam engines. Using his gas pipeline experi- ence, Westinghouse recognized that Edison's direct current (DC) system could only operate at a single voltage, that would be too low for efficient transmission on large systems, but too high for safe use. However, he realized that Gibb's alternating current (A C) transfonner, a novelty at the time, could step the voltage up and down, and thus serve better than DC syst~m. Westinghouse proceeded to redesign the transft former for higher efficiency and easier manufacture by winding on a lathe. In 1886 Westinghouse demon- strated the first AC lighting sys- tem in Great Barrington by with a 500 volt waterfall-driven gen- erator, transformed up to 2500 volts for transmission ~d stepped down to 500 volts for lighting. While the AC system was effi- cient for lighting, the system was limited since there was no practi- cal motor. Any DC motor vi- brated without rotating, when supplied with AC current, and an AC motor was considered impos- sible. However, in 1888 the great engineer NikoJa Testa demon- strated to Westinghouse the prac- tical AC motot, which was no- table because it used a wireless transfer of magnetizing .power from the stator to the rotor. Though much harder to under- stand, the AC motor it was much easier to build and more efficient than a DC motor. In May of 1888, Tesla pre- sented a paper entitled \A New System of Alternating Current ·Motors and Generators\ which defined our modern multiple volt- age and three phase electric sys- tem. Westinghouse and Tesla un· derstood classical mathematics and the ideal operation of AC sys- tem, but no one had the math- ematical tools for calculating the imperfections and losses in these oscillating systems. It was Charles Steinmetz, who came to Schenectady General Electric, in 1893, and Union Col- lege ten years later, who was to pioneer the use of geometric and trigometric functions and rotating vectors, or phasers, to represent operation and losses. With these methods, better transformers, generators and mo- tors could be designed, and bring a new era of fame to Schenectady and Union College. Each community rapidly in- stalled electric power systems, and the competition between the Edison DC and Westinghouse AC systems became a fierce and bi- ultimate use of these devices may zatte dratlla of the time, with the be.the development·ofanew kind Edison .arguing that AC was un- ·of DC power system. This new safe, and electrocuting animals, DC power system will have the and then building an AC electric · multiple voltage capability of AC chair to execute convicts to fur- systems, but with the additional ther prove the dangers. George efficiency of continuously van- Westinghouse countered that all able speed generators, greater dis- things were fundamentally un.. tances and lower transmission safe, butsafety could be achieved and distribution losses, and more With protective devices. efficient variable speed end use The defining competition was motors. A I 0 %fuel saving could the 1895 project of harnessing result from such a conversion, Niagara Falls for power to Buf- and furthermore the same solid falo 25 miles away. The great sci- state switching technology can entist Lord Kelvin firstarguedfor allow such a conversion to be DC 1 but later acknowledged that performed in an orderly manner. the AC system was the better With envirolllllental concerns in choice: Over the next years. the mind, engineers have begun de- smaller isolated systems would velopment of electric vehicles. A expand, and with the rural elec- great deal of progress has been trification programs and by 1945 made with motors and controllers, the United, States became inter- and limited progress 01,1 batteri.es. connected on our present day As the number of battery driven three phase, 60 cps and multiple vehicles decreases, the introduc- voltage grid. tion ·of \batteryless\ in an elec- . Now having established there- trio drive replaces the mechani- markable accomplishments that cal drive train on existing ve- have given us many ofour luxu- hicles, with the result ·Of a lower ries, the engineer~s question weight and more efficient con- should always be \can we do even tinuously variable speed trans- better?\ The transistor, which mission. provides efficient; reliable, and While this Engineer's Week compact switching of electricity, reminds us of the gradual and did not exist in 1945, but has painstaking development of our revolutionized all segments of electrically based modem society, modern life. it has demonstrated that even While the solid state switching greater opportunities can be ex- is now well demonstrated for pected. The engineer's challenge making our AC power systems is not to predict the future, butto more efficient .and reliable, the make the future. CoffeeHouse Gets New Hours continued from page 1 games are placed out for those interested. The atmosphere is much more relaxed than the col- lege center. It also offers enter- tainment; the student band \Your Mama\ has perfonned, as well as Miche Fambro, a local singer and folk rock guitar player. The CoffeeHouse offers the opportunity for students to share their talents; there is open mike poetry. Goldman says that in the future the CoffeeHouse hopes to have a \night of scenes\ and is pl!:llllling on the philosophy forum having de- bates as well. The CoffeeHouse has been a success so far. On several oc- casions there has been a full house. Yet Kate and the rest of the committee hopes that spring term, along with nicer weather, will attract larger crowds to the CoffeeHouse. The CoffeeHouse is always · looking for interested people to participate and to come visit. Goldman encourages anyone to bring readings, \even if they're not their own\ Anyone with ideas should feel free to call her · at x6849. Everyone is welcome to stop by and enjoy the friendly atmosphere and entertainment. \U Are a Treasure\: Union Recognizes It's Exceptional Staff Members by Alexandra Gualpa Concordiensis Staff The Personnel Office of Union College has begun a new pro- gram, \U Are a Treasure,\ de- signed to recognize the exem- plary performance and individual effort of employees. The pro- gram, which has been developed recently, has just awarded its first four \Union Treasures\ this month. · Len Seely was selected for his ideas on improving the heating efficiency; David Gr~bowski of Campus Opera- tions; Pamela Hopkins of Cam- pus Safety and Campus Opera- tions; and Helen Leece, secretary for special programs at admis- sions, were provided with a menu ofreward choices, and were hon- ored at a special ceremony, where Eric Noll standing achievements or showed individual effort. Recommenda- tions are made by anyone, and are presented to the person's respon- sibility centerhead. Noll then re- of the Per- sonnel de- partment presented them with their cer- tificates. \Nollbelieves th'atthis program is an imporant step towards recognizing individ~als who work very hard, but would ceives notifica- tion of the re- cipients, c a 1 I s them, summa- normally not be commended for their effort.\ E r i c ----------------- r i z e s Noll organizes and oversees the ''U Are a Treasure\ program. The rewards are presented to anyone who has performed special, out .. why they were nominated, and later presents them with their awards. There will be 100 cer- tificates given out, through the course of this program. Noll believes that this program is an important step towards rec- ognizing individuals who work very hard, but would normally .not be commended for their effort. He sees it as an effort on the part of the college to recognize the outstanding achievements in the employees. Noll says that he \didn't see enough 'Thank yous',\ and that this would be a good way to publicly thank all those who are deserving of special gratitude. He hopes that this program will be brought to the attention of the entire campus community to help ~'make this a special place\

SCIENCE AND HEALTH February 24, 1994, pag~ 5 African Eb·ola Virus Termed Most Pathogenic Ever ruses. Simpler viruses are helical, by Andrew Salama muchlik~ the well known tobacco Science & Health Co-editor mosaic virus. More complicated In everyday life, when we viruses have a quasisperical stmc- think of viruses, we concern our- ture, which is actually several selves with mv, Hepatitis, and polyhedrons, which assemble to cold viruses. The tropics of Af- fonn a sphere like structure. rica and Asia, however, have the The genetic material of the vi- potential to produce much more rus is maintained inside, either as deadly and pathogenic viruses. RNA or DNA. In the mid-seventies, the Ebola Viruses have sugar groups at- virus shocked the biological tached to proteins on the outer sur- world. Ebola has been loosely face called glycoprotein&. The described as a rhabdovirus, but glycoprotein on the surface ofthe has more recently been catego- virus facilitates the virus' entry proteins, which interfere with the normal cell functions. In 1976, theEbola virus erupted in 55 small villages in Zaire, and killed 9 out of 10 of its victims. It has the highest rate of mortality, ranking with rabies and HIV. Ebola is spread mainly through contact with body fluids and blood. There is evipence that it can be passed through evaporated fluids in the air. Many of the .people who prepared Ebola victims for burial in Zaire contracted the virus. Victims typically die 1 week af- so much blood that skin actually tears off, In the latter part of the infection, the body leaks blood containing huge amounts of vi- ral particles. Some facts are known about what Ebola does once it infects its victims. Within seven hours after the virus enters its hosts, it begins translating (producing) proteins. These proteins directly effect the body's system of blood clotting. Initially, a blood clotting protein is translated, then this protein is turned off and rized as a filovirus. The name into a cell. When a comes from the observation of virus approaches a the spaghetti or rod like appear- cell, its membrane ance of the virus· in the Trans:.. fuses with the cell miss.ion Electron membrane depend .. Microscope(TEM). ing on the compat- A virus consists of genetic ibility of the their material that is enclosed in a cap- glycoproteins. The sule. Viruses have no metabolic genetic material \In the .pasttwenty years, more and more powerful viruses have emerged from third world countries. To give you an idea of the number of viruses, it have been said that there a.re at least two viruses for every organis·m on Earth.\ a new protein is translated, which causes hemor- rhaging. The symptoms of Ebola are often called Ebola Hemmoragic Fe- ver. systems and no means ofmotil- (DNA or RNA) is basically ity, and are, therefore, not con- \dumped\ into the cytoplasm of sidered living organisms. One.of the cell. a viruse' main functions is to rep- Once the viral DNA is incorpo:.. licate copies of itself. Viruses rated into the genomic DNA, the reproduce by means of its host .. genomic DNA starts replicatj.ng, organism, in whiCh the genetic coding for errant proteins, as well material of the virus becoines a ~new viral proteins, used in mak- functional part of the cell it in- ing new v:iruses. Once the viral fects. Viral genes are added to proteins are assembled and the the o~~anismal DNA, either as construction of the virus is com- DNA or RNA, and produce new plete, they bud off. viruses ot induce the production Virally infected cells generally of mutant proteins, which ulti- die from two effects of the virus. mately results in cell death. The virus can replicate so much Before a vi,rus can replicate, that the cell b.ecomes full of vi- it must enter the a cell. The ruses and can no longer function mechanism by. which a virus nonnaily. It eventually explodes, enters a cell varies. The entry releasing thousands viral particles, into the cell by a virus directly which then infect other cells. nie depends on its structure. There second mechanism, by which the are two basic structures for vi- virus kills a cell, is by producing ter initial exposure. The first symptoms are an intense headache and a high grade fever. Ebola trig- gers a paradoxical combination of blood clots and hemorrhages. As the blood forms clots, the vic- tim develops what is known as Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation(DIC). DIC is like a having a stroke througl!out the en- tire body. These blood clots tend to be more common in the spleen, liver, and brain. As clots fonn, the organs begin to hemorrhage, and then the blood refuses to coagulate. When this occurs, cells start to lyse spontaneously. Inevitably, this leads tQ a stroke in the brain. Be- cause of the hemorrhaging, victims intestines fill up with blood and their skin becomes riddled with · bruises. These bruises accumulate People seem unable to pro- duce antibodies to fight off Ebola. This suggests that Ebola codes for an immunosuppressant protein, but this has not been verified. The virus not only in- hibits the body's blood clotting system, but also [prevents the · immune system from killing the virus or at least preventing its replication. Treating victims of the Ebola is nearly impossible. Because cases ofthe virus appear in third world countries, medical care helps very little. In fact, people who attempt to treat Ebola vic- tims end up being victims them- selves. Because Ebola i·s so pathogenic it has been labeled as BL4, which is Biolevel Safety. To give you an idea of how hot this virus is, HIV is a BL2. Re- searchers are required to wear a space suit like uniform in a nega- tive pressure laboratory. There is reason to be concerned about viruses like Ebola. Many types of research depend heavily on the use of primates imported from foreign countries. In 1990, 50 monkeys from the Philippines died mysteriously when they reached the United States. Tis- sue samples from the corpses in the TEM revealed a virus which looked exactly like Ebola. Tests revealed that the Filipino virus was strikingly similar to Ebola. Considering the nature in which Ebola is transmitted, it is very likely that humans could be in- fected with such a virus just by physical exposllfe to infected ani- mals. One German man, in charge of sacrificing monkeys for research, died of Ebola. In the US, there is a mandatory 30-day quarantine on all imported ani- mals. Theoretically, this would seem to lessen the chances of Ebola spreading, but several cases ofEbola have been transmitted in this manner. In the past 20 years, more and more powerful viruses have emerged from third world coun- tries. The source of these viruses is purely conjecture. To give you an idea of the number of viruses in existence, it has been said that there are at least 2 viruses for ev- ery organism on earth. Simple math gives a staggering number. Viruses usually do not jump from one species to another, but find ways to mutate and transfer them- selves to other organisms. New Treatment and Prevention For Jaundice Discovered African-American Engineers Honored During National Engineers' Week by Farhana Kahn Concordiensis Staff Jaundice is the most com- monly treated medical condition in newborns, in which a toxic yellow pigment, call~d bilirubin is produced faster than an infant's liver can remove it from the bloodstream, causing the skin to appear yellow. Research- ers, at Rockefeller University, in New York have developed a drug that could be given to new- borns toprevent this illness from occurring. Dr. Attallah Kappas, a Rockefeller University re- searcher, who led the group in developing a preventive, com- ments that this discovery will demonstrate an entirely new means of addressing the prob- lem of newborn jaundice. He also commented that the drug therapy might be preferable to phototherapy, the standard treat- ment, because phototherapy is administered after the buildup of harrn,ful levels of bilirubin and the baby to be kept in the hospi- tal for several days. 'The drug, tin- mesoporphyrin, or SnMP, i:s a chemical relative, an iron-con .. taining constituent, of the red- pigmented protein, hemoglobin, which is .r~sponsible for ~any- ing oxygen throughout the body.\ Dr. Jerold Lucey, who introduced the idea of phototherapy, ex- plained: \Babies are born with a few more red cells than nonnal, and their f¢tal hemoglobin also gradually changes to adult hemo- globin. Duringthatprocess, more heme (an iron constituent of he- moglobin) is turned over than is being metabolized, if you will, by , the baby, and the baby's liver is not capable of handling the load, so that is why this yellow color bujlds up.\ Dr. Lucey, also editor of Pedi- atrics, explained that as the excess red cells are processed for the re- moval from the body, heme is converted to bilirubin, by the en- zyme oxygenase. SnMP blocks that enzyme from working, and the heme is excreted from the body without being converted to bilirubin. Of the 1 to 2 percent of . the roughly 3 .5 million babies hom each year in the US., some 75 % of them develop visible jaundice. A four year study conducted in Greece, involved 517 preterm ba- bies, among whom jaundice is common. The babies, who re- . ceived a single small dose of SnMP shortly after birth, reduced their bilirubin peak levels by 41% and the need for phototherapy was cut~y 76%. by Karl West Contributing Writer In celebration of National En- gineers Week (Feb. 20-26) and Black History Month, the National Society of Black Engineers at Union College would like to rec- ognize those African Americans ·who have significantly contributed to the development of Science and Engineering Technology. Lewis H. Latimer,. a member of Thomas Edison's research team, made outstanding contributions to the development and commercial- ization of the electric light. Born in Boston, in 1848, Latimer first worked ~s a draftsman in a patent office. He later became interested in electric lighting and began a long, productive career in the field, during which he both patented a process for making carbon fi1a- ment for light bulbs and invented the bulb's threaded locket. He helped install the carbon filament lighting systems in New York City, Montreal, Philadelphia and London. In 1884, Latimer joined the Edison Electric Company, where he did research and, in 1890, wrote Incandescent Electric Lighting, a book which became a guide for lighting engineers. For many years, he served as an expert wit- ness in court battles over Edison's patents. At Latimer's death, in 1928, the Edison pioneer, of which he was a charter member, attributed his \important inven- tions\ to a \keen perception of the potential of the electric light and kindred industries.\ Mathematician, physicist, and engineer, J. Ernest Wilkins, Jr., has contributed his talents mainly to the research and de- velopment of nuclear power. As a teenager, Wilkins at- tracted nationwide attention, when he received his college degree at age 17 and his doctor- ate from the University of Chi- cago at 19. He taught mathemat- ics and did research at the University's Metallurgical Laboratory, which was working on the atomic bomb. Later, he became part owner of a com- pany, which designed and devel- oped nuclear reactors for power generation. His primary achievement has been the development of shields against gamma rays from the sun and nuclear sources. He devel- oped mathematical models by which the amount of gamma rays absorbed by a given mate- rial may be calculated; this tech- nique 'is in wide use among re- searchers in space and nuclear projects. Wilkins served several years as Distinguished Professor of Ap- plied Mathematical Physics at Howard University. A member of the National Academy of En- gineering, he was formerly president of the American Nuclear Society. Annie Easley is among the growing group of women who are making contributions to en- ergy research and management. Working at the National Aero- nautics and Space Administration's Lewis Research Center, in Cleveland, Ohio, Easley develops and implements computer codes used in solar, wind, and other projects. Her energy assignments have in- cluded studies to determine the life of storage batteries (such as those in electric vehicles) and to identify energy conversion sys- tems that offer the greatest im- provement over commercially available technology. A native of Birmingham, Ala- bama, Easley has worked for NASA and its predecessor agency, since 1955. She contin- ued.her education, while working and, in I 977, obtained a degree in mathematics from Cleveland State University. Over the years, she attended many courses in her specialization offered by NASA.

February 24, 1994, page 6 Hockey Team Thrives While President Keeps Academic Promise When President Roger Hull announced that UAion College was joining Division I Hockey in the Eastern Coast Athletic Conference in 1991, there were a lot of skeptics. Many people did not believe that a school as small as Union could create a winning hockey team without making major academic sacri- fices. As with any Division I sport, creating a good hockey program requires heavy recruiting, an admissions office that is willing to work with the athletic department to facilitate the acceptance of these recruits into the institution, and a college which is willing to spend a lot of money to support the pro- gram initially, because a winning tradition and large revenues I are not associated with new Division I programs. Union Col- \ lege is the second smallest Division I Hockey college (only Colorado College is smaller) in all of the four major Hockey conferences. Three years into the Division I experience, the college's gamble appears to be paying off. The exposure that Union is getting as a result of the hockey team is impressive. Last Wednesday, the New York Times wrote three paragraphs about the much-improved Skating Dutchmen, and the local papers are giving better coverage to the Dutchmen than they are to the R.P.I Engineers, a team with a legitimate shot at the ECAC title, and perhaps the NCAA Championship. Probably the most impressive aspect of the recent success of the hockey team, seventh in the ECAC, is that the admissions office did not have to make academic sacrifices in admitting the hockey players to this institution. The ECAC, which con- tains six Ivy League schools, has the strictest academic stan- dards for their athletes of any of the four Division I hockey conferences. Only Rensselaer and Clarkson offer athletic schol- arships and all schools have relatively high minimum GPAs and SAT scores for athletic applicants. Roger Hull promised the Board of Trustees that the college would not lower its academic standards in starting a Division I program, and although the hockey team is thriving, President Hull appears to be keeping his promise. The average GPA of Union's hockey players is 2.84, a shade higher than the school average. It seems that the hockey players have done a lot more than just play hockey. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Librarians Just As Frustrate,d With Library As Students To the Editor: I read with interest Matt Karlyn's op-ed piece about col- lege budget priorities. Schaffer Library and other campus depart- ments are spending a lot of time addressing the budgetary chal- lenges- as are our colleagues in undergraduate liberal arts colleges nationwide. While we might not all agree on the priorities, I am glad to see the students concern and involvement in these issues. I appreciate student frustration with the current library building. We have a plan for a renovated and expanded library to meet these needs and i, too, wish it were done yesterday! In the meantime, we have added a peri- odicals reading room where fac- ulty and students can browse through journals in their major fields. We also provide a fresh- man preceptorial program and one-on-one librruy instruction for anyone requesting it. The librarians share the student frustration with the skyrocketing cost ofbooks and periodicals and our resultant inability to buy ev- erything we want and need. We have, however, made progress compared to other liberal arts col- leges of our caliber. We have started a document dilivery pilot project to help us gain more ac- The Concordiensis is interested in finding students who will enjoy being a part of an award-winning newspaper during Union's Bicentennial - Please Call X615\5 For more information or stop by CC303. anytime. Weekly meetings are held on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. cess to morejournals. And Union has steadinly- added more new materials over the last few years- I 0, 070 volumes last year, compared to 6,686 in 1991. This . . rate of increase continues to grow favorably in comparison to under- graduate college libraries of our size. Sincerely, . Barbara Jones, Director of Schafter Library Letters to the Editor must be turned in by noon on Tuesday and they must be on a disk. There are no exceptions. -Send to Box 2577 or put in the drop box at CC 303 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers · Letters to the Editor should be addressedto the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a. sulimission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, ifthe writer so specifies .. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the · Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concotdiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577; College Center; Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversvitle, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the lntercollegiate Press(IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. · SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesd~y before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise aU submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. i I

I l I OPINIONS February 24, 1994, page 7 . Student Director Surprised With Death and the Maiden To the Editor: Upon turning to last week's Arts and Entertainment .section, I was surprised to find an article on Mountebanks' .production of Death and the Maiden. Surprised because, as the director, I thought it oddthat .someone would choose to publicize a play about which he or she knew absolutely noth- ing, without consulting anyone involved with the production. Aside from tlle play's title and· autllor. there was hardly one sen- tence-ofaccurate information. To begin, the production is not spon- sored by three student actors. Mountebanks deserves that dis- tinction, as their support, finan- cial and otherwise, made the pro- duction possible. Secondly, the performance is advertised as tak- ing place on· Friday, February 26th, a date which, at least ac- cording to my calendar, does not exist in 1994. I find these de- tails rather significant to miscon• strue, especially when one con- siders that I have not read be- yond the by-line and the .first line ofthe article. I have no desire to subject your readers to a sentence by sentence critique, but suffice it to say, the remainder of the piece is abun- dant in misinfonnation. For in- stance, the brief synopsis given is entirely the work of a staff member's imagination, and the themes addressed in the play are grossly oversimplified. But the article fails on a much more ba- sic level than its treatment of the play. Logically, one would assume that the pmpose of the col.umn was to advertise an. event to the college community, presenting any neces- sary infonnation, such as: the dates, times and place of the per- follllance. What is offered instead is meaningless, second-hand infor- mation, which contradicts the prin- ciples upon which a newspaper should exist. I suppose the question that I am posing to you is: How? How can a reporter justify writing an article of pure conjecture, and offer it to a reader as truth? And moreover, how can such an article, after pass- ing under the eyes of various edi- tors, whose responsibilities, at least in my tnind, include maintaining Only the GE Classic MasterCard. offers students this unequaled package of benef'ds. This great offer could only come from a team like GE Card Services and MasterCard. GE Card Services is part of one of the leading financial services 9 9. 0l The GE Classic Maste.rCard is .the educated 70 choice for students looking for smart ways to save. It offers one of the lowest APRs I APR you'll find on campus - 9:9%* variable APR for the first year with a low 16.9% variable APR thereafter. That means that even if you~re only able to pay the minimum amount due, you'll pay just 9.9% on your outstanding balance. companies in the world. And MasterCard's the credit card more widely accepted than·any other on the planet. Together, they provide you With unparalleled financial security. NO ANNUAL FEE! While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 of more, the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we don't see why you should pay just for putting our card in your wallet. STUDENT DISCOUNTS. As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entitled to special discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the COLLEGE MasterValuesTM** program, you'll enjoy savings of up to 40% on everything from CDs to travel. The GE Classic MasterCard. An educated choice. Look for an application on campus or in your mail. And get the financial aid every student needs. *APR\:. ~o...vn a!! of : ,'1 .'94 g 9\ ~ 41 .a!J:e APR. clpplres for the trn , ~ b.ll.ng c 1 de~. after that a vanable APR. whdl a5 of 1 i .194 wil~ i 6 9%. W'lii dpply tv oil~> e.~~.•sMg anG·nevv tModnlC~ A: <~r.y t.me. fOI.Ir •ate wrll rncrease to a vanable APR. wh.cr..as of 1 f 1194 was 19 9%. based on your delinquency A m1n1murn Frnance Charge of$ 50 Mil appl~ at ill tme'!t A <.a'!th oUvanc.e fee of 2 S 9o o( the advance (mlnrrnurn $2 and maxmum $20) Will be charged for each cash advance. **COLlEGE MasterValues tS a product offered by MasterCard whiCh rs subject to change and rriay be d1scanbnued at any t1me Certam terms and cohd1tron~ apply Send Your Letters to the Editor mire Qlnu.cndtiensis-Box 2577 quality and insuring accuracy, come to publication? Saying this, I am sure that a number of stu- dents, those comprising the faction which holds campus institutions beyond criticism, we piCking up their pens, ready to compose the if-you-don't-like-it-do-some- thlng-about-it letters, which so fre- quently appear on the editorial pages. But before they begin their tomes, allow me to say that I do not live deluded by thoughts of my own perfection. I realize that it is nearly impossible to catch every punctuation or spelling mistake; such things are chalked up to hu- man error, ever-present in each of us, and easily forgiven. However, errors that are a direct result of carelessness and thoughtlessness are much more disheartening and harder to ignore. I suppose that all this may be dismissed quite easily: I could come across as someone dis- gruntled because he didn't see his name in the paper. But I'd like to believe that I am con- cerned with larger issues than that. Above all else, I hope that the supposed voice of our cam- pus would consider more seri- ously its power to inform, con- vince, and persuade. For if such a speaker fails to realize these enormous responsibilities, then we 1 the listeners, must question whether or not it is a voice worth listening to. Sincerely, David Hopson Why Ask Why? Let me begin by saying that I have no intention of asking Mr. Hopson to join the newspaper. Although the Concordiensis has a very small editorial staff, every staff member is extremely well qualified. Along this line, I do not believe that I have . to justify the quality of the newspaper to anybody on this campus. One of the nice things about receiving an extremely prestigious award is that the foremost experts in college journalism (The Associated Collegiate Press) have judged this newspaper to be the second best college weekly in the United States. As previously stated, the Concordiensis has an extremely small staff,. and we depend upon other campus organizations for much of the information we print in the newspaper. Now, let's assess how last week's atrocity ended up in print. An actor in your play asked a Concordiensis photographer to take promotional photographs of a rehearsal. This photographer, on his own time, attended a rehearsal and took several photographs of members of the cast practicing for their perfonnance this weekend. A member of the Concordiensis was then approached about including these photos with a promotional press release in last week's issue. The same photographer contacted an actor, and was given the information which appeared in last week's issue. We falsely assumed that this individual was informed about when they were performing. I suppose we should also be at fault for printing an oversimplified plot which was dictated by an actor. Never mind that this promotional piece should have been accurately written and submitted to the Concordiensis by a member of MOtmtebanks long before the date of publication. The most disturbing aspect of this incident was your response to the telephone conversation that I had with you. I agreed to renm the article with the correct information, including a disclaimer that last week's release had been incorrect, I also infonned you how the infonnation appear'ing in this article was obtained. Since the event was not scheduled to take place until this weekend, I told you that we would do everything to accommodate any inconvenience caused to Mountebanks in this week's issue. Instead of taking me up on this generous offer, you decided to write an extremely pretentious Letter to the Editor, fi11ed with misconceptions. Even more disturbing was that the newspaper was threatened that if the letter wasn't printed this week, Mountebanks would slander Concordiensis in its Playbill. Mr. Hopson, it is not a wise political maneuver to threaten editors ofthe most widely read campus publication. Readers do question the legitimacy of the newspaper every week and, at last check, we were cle!lfing the newsstands. As the editor of the 'supposed campus voice', I suggest that you look inside your organization and find out why one of your actors could not bother to become informed enough to give us an accurate press release. Oh, and bye-the-way, you're welcome for the promotional photos which you are using in your posters. I'm sure those represent carelessness and thoughtlessness as well. - ed. LOSE WEIGHT NOW! NEVER DffiT AGAIN! STOP STARVING YOUR BODY YOU KNOW THAT DIETS DON'T WORK. YOU STARVE YOUR BODY AND TAKE IT OUT ON YOUR FAMILY. THEN YOU GAIN IT ALL BACK+ A FEW POUNDS MORE. IT'S A ROLLER COASTER RIDE AND YOU CAN'T GET OFF. FINALLY, A NEW, ALL NATURAL HERBAL COMBINATION. INCREASE ENERGY AND PROMOTES WEIGHT LOSS. -NO SliAKES- NO FASTING- NO PAIN DOCTOR TESTED! GUARANTEED RESULTS! ORDER YOUR TODAY! DON'T DELAY/ TO PLACE AN ORDER OR RECEIVE INFO CALL: BILL AT 37Q-4573

'\ !f oumfers f})ag Cefebration to-morrow ... !f ritfag, !february 25 Union Coffege turns 199 ... amf begins its 200tfi 9ear Cafetufar of events: 5:30 tPJvl --Specia( dinner served in V.ppercfass and West f}Jining :Jfa(fs . - . -- Otlier specia( dinners efsew/iere on campus 7:00 tPJvl --Students assembfe 6g cfassjor procession to Memoria( Cfzape( • Cfass of 1994: Co(fege Center YLuditorium • Cfass of 1995: Socia( Sciences 016 • Cfass of 1996: Socia( Sciences 103 and 104 • Cfass of 1997: YLrts r.Buifding YLtrium · . ($500 prize to tfie cfass witfi tlie fiigfiest percentage of its members in tfie procession.) 7:15 tPJvl -- Procession to Memo_ria( Cfzape( 6egins 7:30 tPJvl -- !F ouncfers fJJag Convocation, !Jvlenwria( Cfzape( SpeaRfr: ']Jr. Pau( ~nnedg, ryQ_[e V.niversiig 'Smart 'Dress\requested for dinner and tlie procession . .

au enne Historian and Author of The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers Speaking on \Global Change and the Responsibilities of Higher Ed-ucation\ What issues will play important roles in the future of international relations? How is higher education preparing people to deal with those issues? · Historian Paul Kennedy prompted those questions and others in his book, The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers. Previously known mainly to his colleagues for his insights on military history, strategic studies and international affairs, the 1988 best-seller turned Kennedy into a \literary and political hot property.\ Kennedy is the J. Richardson Dilworth professor of history and director of the International Security Program at Yale University. His latest book, Preparing for the Twenty-First Century, grew out of a discussion about Rise and Fall in which someone suggested that translational issues like population growth, the impact of technology, environmental damage and migration also play important roles in global change. Founders Day marks the I 99th anniversary of the signing by Gov. George Clinton of the Union College charter, the first charter granted by the state Board of Regents. Friday, February 25, 1994 7:30PM Union College Memorial Chapel Admission Free. For more information, call (518) 388-6103. ·-

February 24, 1994, Page 10 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Three Union Students to Perform Dea.th and the Maiden Note: Information Which appeared incorrectly in last week's paper appears correctly below. Mountebanks presents Death and the Maiden, a play by Ariel Dorfman. This play stars, Douglas Bartell, Rebecca Parlakian, Walter Soule, and is directed by David Hopson. Performences are February 26, 27, 28 at 8:00 pm at:td February 27 at 2:00 pm, in the Studio of Performing Arts, Arts Building, Union College. Tickets to all performances are free, but due to limited space, seating must be reserved. Recervations may be made February 21 to 25 in the College Center Atrium from 11:30 pm and 2:00pm. Note: In last week's article, Kate Kelly Comes to Union College, it was stated that Kate Kelly was a member of the Visual Arts. This is incorrect, she is a member of the Performing Arts. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 25 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: ''Nightmare Before Christmas\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. SATURDAY.FEBRUARY26 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 25. UNION COLLEGE CHOIR CONCERT: 4 p.m., Memorial Chapel, Union Col- lege, Schenectady. 388-6201. SUNDAY.FEBRUARY27 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, February 25. MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO: Works by Mozart, Mahler, Beethoven, and Brahms. $12, $6/students. 3 pm Union College Memorial Chapel, Schenectady. 382- 7890. SCHENECTADY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: Works by three Russian composers, Porkofiev, Glazunov, Shostakovich. $15/Adults, $7/Students. 3 p.m. Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. 346-6204. SAINT ROSE JAZZ ENSEMBLE/EMPIRE STATE JAZZ EN- SEMBLE SPRING CONCERT: $5, $2/students. 3 p.m. Saint J seph Hall Auditorium, College of Saint Rose, Albany. 454-5195. THEATRE UNDER THE GROUND: Innovative regional theatre begins with four one-act pieces. $7. 7 p.m. Eighth Step, Albany. 434- 1703. MONDAY. FEBRUARY 28 COLLEGE CENTERAUD. FILM: See Friday, February 25. TUESDAY. MARCH 1 DA VlD COPPERFIELD: One of the greatest magicians of our time. 5:30 & 8:30 p.m. $24.50-$29.50. Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. 346-6204. THURSDAY. MARCH 3 MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA: The empress of the African song. $22. 8 p.m. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Troy. 273-0038. FRIDAY. MARCH 4 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Three Musketeers\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: THROUGH FEBRUARY 25 ENGAGED CULTURES: TEN LATIN AMERICAN ARTISTS: Paint- ings, drawings~ prints, mixed media and sculpture by contemporary visual of His- panic heritage, Picotte Hall, College ofSaint Rose, Albany. 485-3902. JANUARY20-FEBRUARY27 PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHINA: Four Chinese photographers. Union Col- lege, Arts Building, 2nd floor photo gallery. 3 88-6201. THROUGH MARCH 4 ROBERTO BOCCI: Photographs and digital paintings. Upstairs Gallery, Albany Center Galleries, Albany. 462-4775. DAWN CLEMENTS: Paintings and drawings/ Leslie Urbach Gallery, Al- bany Center Galleries, Albany. 462-4775. FEBRUARY14-MARCH10 POLISH DRAWINGS NOW: Works on paper by ten contemporary pol- ish artists, Arts Atrium, Arts Building, Union College, Schenectady. 388-6201. . THROUGH MARCH 13, 1994 ALONE IN A CROWD: Prints ofthe 1930's-40's by Afri- can Arllerican Artists from the collection of Reba and Dave Williams, New York State Museum. 474-5877. FEBRUARY 27 .. MARCH 29 GEORGE WEINHEIMER & ILONA MCCONNELEE:. Oakroom Artists' Gallery, Schenectady. 895-8909. FEBRUARY18-MARCH FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Includes 19th c~n­ tury signage; horse power, washing machines, Harley Davidson Mo- torcycle with side car, 19th century architectural woodwork, restored portraits and paintings. New York State Museum. 474-5877. FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculptures, lithographs and more by SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 21- MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic surveying Instruments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 22 -JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany . lhstitute of History & Art, Albany. 464a4478. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson(Concordiensis Staff

Arts & Entertainment February 24, 1993, Page 11 Jenny Pyun Wins Chamber Music Competition ---~---· --------~ her freshman year, Jenny was a Courtesy ofthe ) \select performer\ for the Per.forming Arts Department Vladimir Feltsman Capital Re- On February 12th, sopho- more Jeti.ny Pyun competed as one of the finalists in a Chamber Music Piano Competition, .spon- sored by the Saratoga Chamber Players. This competition was · open to advanced piano students, age 16-22, residing in the greater Capital District. Jenny won first prize, performing Beethoven's Ten Variations for Piano Trio, Op. 121 a with the S~ratoga Chamber 'Players. This profes- sional group attracts audiences from the Capital District and the Adirondacks, and performs stan- dard and rarely heard composi.,. tions, from the classical era to the present. Founded in 1987, its regular members are: Lucy Jo- seph, violin; Susan St. Amour, viola; Douglas Moore, cello; Charles Joseph, piano. Along with a $100.00 hono- rarium,. Jenny Pyun '.s prize in- cludes two public pelformances with the Saratoga Chamber Play- ers, March 26th ·(Saturday) 8:00pm, at the Empire State Col- lege, Saratoga, and March 27th (Sunday) 3:00pm, at the Saratoga Springs Methodist Church. The program: Beethoven Variations for Piano Trio Op. 12/a, ·Schwartz Dream Music with Variations for piano quartet; and Dohnanyi Serenade for String Trio. Jenny Pyun is a sophomore in Griffin & Sabine: Reality or Imagination ·- by Leena Mankad Concordiensis Staff Gr.iffin: \It's good to get in touch with you at last. Could I have one of your fish postcards? Ithink you were right- the wine glass has more impact than the cup.\ Sabine Why would Griffin receive such a letter? He had never heard of a woman named Sabine. What did she have to do with him and how could she know about his private artwork? Nick Bantock unfolds the mysterious tale of Griffin and Sabine , a tale so intriguing and romantic that in 1991 it became ' ... ~/ a best seller and two more books were created to conclude this unique story. The plot revolves around an intriguing correspondence be- tween Griffin Moss, a post card artist/designer in London, and Sabine Strohem from the Siemon islands in the South Pacific. Their story unfolds through cards and letters within the pages. Each postcard or letter is splashed with color, containing elaborate draw- ings of creatures and abstract land- scapes that go beyond the reader's imagination. The brilliant illustra- tions combined with Bantock's unique style of writing provide readers with a fascinating story. This particular novel, is truly original, Th~ reader is allowed to :If Y0U .L6VE liRT, Wl}Y ROT WliXfE feR Tij:E liHT~ &- ER-- TERTlllRlfiERT ~EeTltlR'I REW ll>:El!~ liRD etrr .L60Kts WE.LC!0UJ£D. ~T0P BY WEDREC>DltYti lrf '1:30 Pm JR eesos en. eftLL X6155. step into the strange correspon- dence between this pair, and read- ers get a feeling as if they're ac- tually reading other people's mail. Letters are presented in ac- tual envelopes making the corre- spondence very real. After reading this novel, the ultimate question remains in the reader's head. Is Sabine real, or is she a lover created by Griffin within the confines ofhis imagi- nation to escape his dull, methodi- cal life.? The reader has yet to decide whether or not they are witnessing the \descent into mad- ness\ of lonely artist, or the blooming of a most mystical love affair between an artist and an en- chantress. This novel takes you just about everywhere; from European streets, through the portals of time, and finally into the soul and imagination of Griffin Moss. Reality versus imagination be- comes the struggle here, and keeps the reader guessing about the truth until the final postcard ..... the seven-year medical program, at Union College. She is major- ing in Biology with a second ma- jor in Music. She studies piano with Feroza LaBonne, on a Tidmarsh Piano Scholarship. In gion Master Class. Last fall, she perfonned the Schumann Piano Concerto with the Union College Orchestra, conducted by Profes- sor Hilary Tann. The day before winning the chamber music com- petition, on February 11th, Jenny Pyun pelformed Liszt 's virtuosic etude 'Un Sm.piro' for Dr. 0' Donohue of the Manhattan School of Music, in a piano mas- ter class, sponsored by the Per- forming Arts Department, at Union. Born in New Mexico, at the age of 14, Jenny won the Young Art- ist Competition, in Las Cruces, New Mexico, performing the Grieg Piano Concerto in A Mi- nor with the Las Cruces Sym- phony. In her junior and senior years in high school, she won first place four times in both the Baldwin and Yamaha Piano Competitions. These competi- tions were sponsored by the Mu- sic Teachers National Associa- tion. Sign Says: Art Object Stolen! by Andrea Bums Contributing Writer Monday afternoon, everyone in the arts department was overcome with shock the way a snail is fizzled, when it comes in contact with salt. Causing the turmoil was the disappearance of the val- ued ceramic tile placard, nonnally attached to the outer wall of the arts building. The imported ce- ramic sign stood as a symbol and indication of -the visual and per- forming arts that go on within its lovely confines. Will visitors, random people, and disoriented employees and art students be able to cope? Maybe not. For instance, many student workers, who ordinarily skipped into the arts building with glowing smiles, barely shuffle through the door- way. Mr. Tom Racht, of security, was the one man who received the honor of installing the ceramic placard, three years ago. Surpris- ingly, Mr. Racht was not stunned by the fact that the sign was sto- len. Besides the extrinsic worth, Tom knew that \signs are a big thing.\ Meaning that this type of crime happens often with plac- ards. Somewhere, an analogy between pseudo-Union-criminals and the art of\sign-stealing\ was drawn. Three years ago, Mr. Racht used \tamper proof screws\ to install the sign \so the only way to get it off was to break it off.\ Unfortunately, that's ex- actly what the crook (or crooks) did. Thus, the art students and fac- ulty, known for creating art, have to deal with the emptiness ofleft- over ceramic shards and rusted nails, on the front of their build- ing. Rumors were reported that the science engineers had played their \yearly prank\. Of course, the petty differences between the arts department and science and en- gineering department have been smoothed over like a stone sculp- ture, slowly being .sanded down over the years. Tom Racht, of security, denied the rumors of science engineers as the culprits. Engineers, of all people, would know how to deal with the \tamper proof screws.\ From 1852 to 1966, the Art Department was the physics hall. The Arts here at Union has grown into a department much in the same way that small oppressed groups have struggles for free- dom. A sign was taken that rep- resented the growth of the depart- ment. As the chair person of pet- forming arts, Professor Hilary Tann pointed out \we care about objects, just look at our atrium. This was a vandalism that goes much deeper.\ The chairperson ofvisual arts, Professor Martin Benjamin, hoped it was just a senseless prank, which was probably com- mitted by someone \under the influence of something.\ Was that \something\ an illegal sub- stance, a physics student with a vengeful wrath towards the art department, or both (or neither)? When professor Benjamin first came for an interview, ten years ago, the first five people could not tell him where the arts building was, despite the fact that they were standing right near it. Want to find it now? Want to roam the halls admiring the Pol- ish art works display or attend a dance pelformance? Well, look hard because the placard is miss- ing.

· February 24, ·t994; Page 12 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals Darla- To the TIA'S from hell .. If you thought 2 am was creative wait until we get revenge for Monday am! To the master of the mooshman- If we have to read anymore we'll puke! -Virginia & Concordy Woman Classijieds Happy Anniversary ... Thinking of you miles away .. Do not explode at Topshelf!!! Your Athenian goddess To the chicks at 840 Union- Keep the cushionss warm, the Braun blender energized, and The Pipe close at hand, Keep the toi- let paper soft! -Bad, Buff Babes Abroad in Athens Dave, the love of my life, Thanks for not hating me for not being here on Monday. -Your adoring fan To Anyone- ! really need a date for my for- mal, and like, what am I going to do!? Does anyonewantto go .. I'll be looking for you if ... To Fellow 3174ers- Hope this week hasn't been too confusing and societalistic. Bri- Thanks. I appreciated you agree- ing with me. It helped a lot. Talk about guts, we have them. Sorry the season ended so soon. You did great. We're ALL so proud. - love the ex's -Love ya' all- Delta Gamma Doug ... You dance divinely. Break a leg this weekend. rn be watching. ..;Caroline REMINDER: For all of you Bowling For Kids' Sake- we'll see you Sunday!! Good luck! Congratulations Dave+Heather- Have a grand ole time watc4ing the Wednesday morning sunrises together next term.!! -Linda Big Red - I'm glad I came. I will always love you, you just need to work on your intuition and mind reading a little more. I do appre- ciate your efforts. Sony your in 8th (hehehehehehe ). Oh well, life is tough. Love, Me Linda- Go Linda, get busy. Bowling for the gold. Guess who Seth- How's the lip,buddy? Take care of yourself. Love you lots- Sis Willing to fall in love with any- one who can teach me Quant at allhourse. Give me a C, give me an L, Give me a E, ... either shut up, or give me a gun. -Love always, your neighbors To my fan club- Keep the letters of love coming in .... and more messages, please. .:Guess who Virginia- I'm so glad taht NJ finally came up. I was gettingworried I would have to contemplate murder. Great book. Love-~ Jennifer- Sorry I didn't get a chance to ex- plain life to o/OU earlier; Bunny and Pencil \Rich\- ADQPTION: A loving couple longs for a newborn to cherish. We dream· of sharing our country home with a. precious little one. Your help will be the answer to out prayers. Call (uny and Rosf.l-800-556-8390. SPRING BREAK- from $299 Includes: :Air, 7 nights Hotel, Transfers, Parties and More'! Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun, Jamaica, San Juan. Earn a FREE trip plus commissions as our campus rep! 1-800-9-BEACH-1 NEEDED: Someone to tutor Basic Electricity and Physics. Upperclassmen or Graduate Student prefered. Call388-5848 for details. Just w~ted to sa~ thank you. I . CAREEROBSERVATION appreciate all the time and energy DAYS . . . S . . k . f thin' are commg pnng 1t too to convmce to o any g. T D 't b 1 ft 11 K L Can. di erm- on e e ou . eep ove- ce · . your eyes open for more mfo. BDC Presents: The First Annual ' MANAGEMENT Summer Job: Schenectady A.R.C. searching. for sununer help doing assembly line and pachaging tasks. For further information, see the CDC . Summer Program:. UMIJ New Jersey is offering undergraduate research ,programs in BiomediG cal Sciences. Deadline 4/1/94. See the CDC for further details., Summer Job: Schenectady Assoc. for Retatded Citizens is offereing the job of residence coum;elor. Deadline 411/94. See the CDC for furth~;rdetails. Summer Internships: Seth Godin Productions, Dobbs Ferry, NY is a fast growing book packager with two. positions for summer interms. Write,. edit, track projects, etc. Excellent writing and strong communication skills required. More info at the C])C. Friday, March 4,1994 · Upperclass 9PM m lAM Admission: $3 - in advance $5 - at the door '~ : . POSITION FOR WOMEN Now interviewing for one remaining position. Applicant must be a graduating senior or a recent alumni, possess a successful transcript, have outstanding communication skills and have demonstrated initiative. Assignments are available in computer management, finance, public rela- tions, intelligence/couterintelligence, logistics, or aviation (pilot). Position is supervisory in nature, and will require management skill and staff work. Applicants must be willing_ to undergo thorough se- lection standards a~d be willing to relocate -- first to Virginia for training, then to one of the following: Southern California, Hawaii, the Carolinas, the District of Columbia, or Japan. Information packets available on request. Interview will be conducted through early February. Hiring decisions will be made by early March. For more information, call Capt. K. M~ Detreux or Staff Sergeant Kendrick at 1-800-342-2408 or (518) 438-6963/64

/ FEATURES Interview for the Admissions Office! The Admissions Office offers. rising seniors opportunity to have a direct impact on the future of Union College, hone interpersonal skills and gain impressive experience! Any Junior who will not he on campus this spring **interested in the Admissions Internship please come to a mandatory informational meeting on Tuesday. March 1, 1994 at 4:30PM in the Admissions Office, Applications will be available. The Admissions Internship is extremely demanding, and quite possibly one of the mast rewarding positions available at Union. The position is paid, you work six to eight hours a week and two Saturday mornings a month. Admission to the Intem~hip is highly selective. Competitive candidates will be rising seniors with strong listening and evaluation skills, who have s1,1ccessfully met the !lCademic challenges and fully explored the broad <ange of e~tra curricular activities at the College. Prior service to the Admissions Office is looked upon favorably, but is not a prerequisite. ** Juniors who will be on campus this spring will have a separate meeting in the beginning of spring term. UNFORTUNATEI.l; THIS IS·· WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot ofpeople make a huge mistake on their taxes. They don't take advantage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's a mistake you carl easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax- bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the \extras\ that your regular pension and Soda! Security benefits may not cover. Because y(mr contributions are made in before-tax dollars, you pay less · taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality of life. What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. Benefit now from tnx deferm.l. Call OUY SRA botline 1800-842-2733, eAlt. 8016. Ensuring the future . for those who shape it!M CREF urti/~eatu arn)if/ribuieJ by TIAA-CREFlnJi,•iJw/ anJ Institutional Se,.,icu. For mort complttt infor111d/wn, incluJing cba~f/tJ anJ t.tpmsu, calli800-842-27JJ, t.tl. 8016 fora prospectUJ. ReaJthr prospettll.fcartfully before you in•ut orsmJ monty. February 24, 1994, page 13 Uncle Edna He IS the Burgomaster! Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers real ques- tions from real people. Why ask Anne or Abby when you can ask your own Uncle Edna? Distraught? In the Vali-dumps? Write Uncle Edna at box 83. Edna's mailbag Dear Uncle Edna, Why are there always so many, literally thousands, of birds around Hull's house? Kind of eerie, don't you think?-A. Hitchock Dear A. Hitchcock, Wasn't there a movie once about a bunch of birds... Perhaps they are simply there to underlie a metaphor. That is, they are crows and they make a lot of noise, but don'tdo much. Kind of symbolic, no? What surprises me though, is that there aren't any Vultures circling what with the budget problems and all. Prob- ably soon. Dear Uncle Edna, What is the logic behind Union not celebrating any holidays, President's Day being the most recent?-A. Lincoln Dear Mr. Lincoln, Perhaps the birthdays of our two most revered presidents weren't enough to merit a day off, you know our motto here at Union: \If it doesn't involve Chester Arthur, then the hell with it.\ · Dear Uncle Edna, I am a member of the Class of '94 and I feel cheated by the lack of difference that certain administrators have shown to us. Can you help ease the pain even a little? -MK DearMK, I can empathize with your want of respect. How about a top ten to help ease the pain ... Top Ten· Top Ten things that President Hull has said about the class of 1994. Hmmm. 10-2 ... I ; \The class of what?\ Students of the Week Sam Taylor. Sam- well, he's just Sam. Rumor has it that he has sent over 200 proposals to Tanya Harding. Good Luck. Tamara Du. Tamara has actually figured out why there is so much paperwork involved in registration procedures. Her con- clusion- Crack, lots of Crack. Remember that next week will be the official announce- ment of the CRACK HALL OFF AME/ Class of 1994. If you have any suggestions from the faculty, administration or student body send them to me, Uncle Edn~ by 2-28. The Union College Environmental Studies Society Presents: Professor Peter Tobiessen Speaks on , ~ \The Population Explosion\ 8 PM at Sigma Phi Fraternity, Tuesday, March 1, 1994. Hurs d'oeuvres. will be served.

'' ' ' i I .. February 24, 1994, page 14 SPORTS It was a beautiful Saturday af~ temoon, as I headed north for a day ofskiing at Gore Mountain. Tite sun was shining, the tern~ . perature was perfect, truly a ra- . diant day. And as I stumbled, lurched, and toppled down trails I clearly had no business being on, I could not help but think of one thing. Where the hell did all the birds in the Fox/Davidson parking lot come from? Actually, that is not exactly true. It is quite obvious that .they have migrated from the now·di .. sheveled Nott Memorial. What I was really thinking about was the advent of spring, and how elated I was going to be· when ' all this ice anci snow was gone from our campus. and I could . consistently journey outside the confmes of my room without donning five layers ()f clothing, I was thinking-about how nice it was going to be when there was finally no ne~d for the sch<lol to pump heat into .the dorms like its going out of style. ''K'' Korner by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor The thermostatic system at Union, which probably consists bus, sleeping in cheap hotels, of only an on/off switch, would and accepting meal money. make a sauna feel like a walk-in Whatever! And what about the Pefrigerator. But while overwhelming attention he will yesterday's storm may prove con- no doubt be the recipient ofev- trary to the fact, we are inching erywhwe he goes. Isn't that why closer and closer to warmer days, he quif basketball? To retreat which led me to another thought. into the background and be your If spring is on its way, that must average Joe Citizen or Grant mean that baseball is right around Trest? This is an experiment the comer. that has all the signs of failure. Of course, the main topic of fu other baseball news, while discussion~ as pitchers and catch- th¥ MJ,9ltP,§l Jor<i~ ~a;g~J~hm:~ .. ers vacated their winter opcqpa- Ql),. tll~. N<;;w.,XflrkM~t~, .. .th~. tions and: resumed withthe .. d¢\' wotst}}r0f¢ssinnaJ:~pt\)l¢$,J~' manding and ardupu~ life. Qf a in,19.~t;l. east.Qf:·the:.J)all~s Ma;v1: , professionalbaseballplwer, was, . eneks., have·-Ill:aQ~·enorm,Qlts·.; · Michael Jorda,l. and: h~s qu@$tto.. str,i.d~,,.towatd.$ :i,mprQVetn~Dtv rule th~ baseb~ di.ampn(\,~~~/.he, .K~¥ir~~g~nt$igJimg$;sU'lh·~' opce did. th¥ b~9woo4,. ..· · .. ·.:.'•·· ~ .... Q}~\lWt~D~vi~,o;·~;r,~,Sell14~mlh. .. l,.et.m~ gettb.is. o..ytQt:;th~,way •.... lmd,.~gg,.QlsPn;.,ru~ang3\¥itnAtv. The K.:{<oft;le.J; . .predi<;t~>t:ftat. ·his.,., .. ,· ... \lt~l\b,gste~ $t~~t~·;(l9.fmi~~~r'· ''Aimess\ will. hit .any.wh~~;¢. be.... · t~Ul:li}rv {:~n .... t,:~Y·~f~te;.,..,,K~Mi;tk, tween .080 and .l20·dutiJlg, spring, MfRl~gl.@§.AQMeuo\do.uJ}tsgr/. train~pg~ a()cept d~~9tiQ~,JQ .t;he;. ·, li4iA~~~~thMet'§~~~·eJ'>U.:t~n4~JS•;.; Whit~ So*J;'Jijp\~:.A aWu~~~~~ p~y . Y:e~,. ,Jiig9.tf· l~ JS?P~§. ~~~~,.;~\::i~t:~ .theJ!efo.r..am.ontll,JlUl>Y~·t\¥O.Janq,. · ·gp .. g.to.b.e,;mQtb¥r;J,Qng,~.~M·~t:: ::~l=t;!~i~:~:~;~~:::~}··:~~~~~~:,~:~~~:·~~::·'·, Athlete of the Week Kelly Bevan b . M'k · L d' · other two events. H.ertime in the Y 1 ~· ~ mg 200 also qualifies her for the A Concord1ensrs Staff t .. N' ti' al .Th. . th fi urth Last weekend at the State Meet the Union female swimmers dominated the rest ofthe compe- cu In a on s. . ts ·IS e o year in a row that she has made it to Nationals. Hertime in the 100 qualifies her for the B cut at Na- tionals. Kelly Bevan Swimming early in tile season; (File plloto) tition, winning by some one hun- dred and fifty points. Their domi- nance was led by senior captain Kelly Bevan. Kelly out of Dalton, Massachusetts landed three first place finishes, a second place, and a fourth place in individual events. The two relay te~PTis she was on finished .first and third. Her three first place finishes came in the 50, 100, and 200 yard breast stroke. Kelly breezed to times of31.66s, 1:08,21,.2:25.59 respectively. Her time in the 200 was a State Meet and Association record. · Kelly already held the school and state record in the Kelly placed second in the 100 fly in a time of 59.69s qualifYing . her for yet another B cut to Na- tionals. Then in the very next race she placed fourth in the 200 fly in a time of 2:16 .I. The. relays she took part in were the 200 medley in which the team got third and the 400 medley in which they placed first and made the B cut for Nationals. GQod luck to Kelly and the rest of the women that qualified for Nationals, as they undergo prepa- rations. Stay tuned for next week when someone else will win The Athlete of the Week. TONIGHT!!! STAND AND DELIVER 8:30PM. SPEAK UP UNION' • PUBLIC SPEAKING CONTEST FEBRUARY 24, 1994 UPPERCLASS DINING HALL COME SEE THE BEST!!! I , ,.

I . SPORTS February 24, 1994, page 15 Hockey in Seventh Heaven!! Skating l)utchmen Extend Unbeaten Streak to Five and Move into 7th in the ECA C by Dagan La Corte Sport$ EditQr The Skating Dutchmen af Union College are perhaps the hottestteam in the E.C.A.C. Af- ter posting a record of 2-7-1 in their first ten games, the Dutch- men have turned things around going 6-2-1 in their past nine. games. Their recent success has moved them from twelfth place to seventh place, and has poised Union for a home playoff game. Last week the Dutchmen te- cordec;l their first ever three point weekend, they bettered that mark by one this Weekei!d, with a two game sweep over Princeton and Yale. The Dutchmen faced off againstthe Tigers ofPrinceton,on Friday night. Earlier this seasan the Dutchmen blew a thirdperiad lead against ~ceton~ and ended up with a 4~4 tie; this time Union was looking for revenge.. The Dutchmen put early pressure an the Tigers keeping p~ay deep in their zone. Faurminutes intothe period it paid off, as Chris Ford scored his seventeenth goal of the season,. on assists from Troy Stevens and Russ Monteith. Union's lead wouldn't last long, as Princeton tied the game, one minute tater. So Union went into the locker room tied 1-1 , despite being outshot 10-6. The Dutch- men regained their lead early in the second period, on a beautiful goal by Scott Boyd. Boyd moved up on the play deep in the Princeton zone, re- ceived a pass from Cory Holbrough on his.backhand, spun around and shot it by a clueless Princeton goaltender, Jiampetti received the other assist. The Dutchmen held their lead for the remainder of the second period, and nineteen minutes ofthe third period, despite being outplayed. With a little over one minute re- mainjng in the third period, a Princeton shot was deflected past goalie Mike Gallant, tying the score at 2-2, and setting the stage for Union's sixth overtime of the season. The Dutchmen had yet to win an overtime game in their five previous overtime's (0-2-J), b~t this time things were differ- ent. . y .-. . ,, Captain Jeff Jiflmpetti muscles his way past a defender. (photo by Scott Druckemiller!TC) For the first four minutes of overtime, the Dutchmen were un- able to create any offense, bemg outshot 5-0. The only thing which kept the Dutchmen in the game, was the outstanding play of goaltender Mike Gallant. With 2:02left in the overtime, Gallant made a save off Princeton for- ward Tony Ranaldi, the rebound landed on the stick of Mervin Kopeck, who shot it towards. an off balance Gallant. Fortunately for Union, Gallant was able to tip the puck wide of the net, saving the game for Union. Gallant re- called that game saving play, \I was off balance, I thought 'Oh no.' I saw the guy shoot and I threw my glove out at the last sec- ond. Basically, my glove was behind me. It caught off a piece of-the glove and went wide.\ Princeton continued to keep the pressure on Gallant, until the last minute af the overtime. With the puck deep in the Dutchmen end, defenseman Shane Holunga cleared the puck tawards the point, where captain Jeff Jiampetti shot it off the boards towards a breaking Dutch- men player. That player was Cary Holbrough, who caught up · to the puck just over center ice, ~ carried it inta the zone, cut to- ~ wards the net, fooled the goalie ~ and put it between his pads, for .....; Union's first overtime victory in >. ...c two years. ~ Union's last overtime victory . .<:: came in its first ever division I win. Craig Ferraro scored an overtime goal to give Union a 3- 2 win in Hanover, over two years ago. The Dutchmen's luck car- ried over to the next night, as Union faced the Bulldogs ofY ale. This time junior net-minder Luigi Villa was between the pipes. The Dutchmen took an early 1- 0 le:ad on Jeff Jiampetti 's seventh gilll uf me seas.on, on assists from Chris Albert and Cory Holbrough. Ten minutes later Yale tied the game at 1-1, but that would be their sole tally, as Luigi Villa was brilliant in goal stop- ping 43 of 44 Bulldog shots. Union added their second goal early in the second period, when Jon Sicinski blew an odd angle shot past the Bulldog goaltender, Chris Albert and Andrew Will assisted <>n the goal, which turned out ta be the game winner. The Dutchmen added an insurance goal halfway through the third period. While an the pawer play, Chris Ford scored his eighteenth goal of the season on assists by Troy Stevens and Russ Manteith. The final score was 3-1, giving Union its first ever weekend sweep, and secand season sweep of an oppo- nent (the first being Dartmouth ·last week). A major reason for the success of the Dutchmen this weekend, was the play of the two gaaltenders. Combined the two Dutchm.en goalies saved 70 af73 shats, for a .959 save percentage. In the past ten games, Dutchmen goaltending has not let up more than four goals. In addition, Union's average goals against in that span is 3.1. The importance of good goaltending was summed up by defenseman Scott Boyd, \That's what you've got to have in the playoffs. There's not better time to get it than in a playoff drive.\ In their first two seasons in di- vision I play, the Dutchmen to- taled only five wins and one tie, for eleven points. This seasan Union has seven league wins and a total of sixteen points, with an overall record of 11-9-3. In ad- dition to their success within the league, the Dutchmen are gaining national respect. Entering this weekend, Mike Gallant was tied for ninth in the nation with a .897 save percentage. Also freshmen Troy Stevens and Chris Ford are amongst natianalleaders. Troy Stevens is in the top twenty in the nation with an average of 1.1 as- sists per game. His linemate, Ford was sixth in the nation averaging .83 goals per game. This week- end the Dutchmen hit the road, playing the top two teams in the league, Harvard and Brown. The Dutchmen have yet to win a game against these twa teams, posting a record of 0-6. They hope ta change their luck, and extend their five game unbeaten streak. ~~----------------------------~--------------------------------------, Women's Hoop Finishes Up Men's Swimming Prepares for State Championships by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor The Unian College Women's Basketball Team ended the sea- son with a win Tuesday night, blowing out Utica 72-40. In this overall team effort, the Union Women finished with a record of 10-12 in front of a large crowd on Senior Night. Andrea Pagnozzi .led all scorers with 13 points while seniors Andrea Light and Michelle Kleinhaus finished out their careers with strong per .. fonnances. Kleinhaus, with her sev~en rebounds, moved into sec- and place an the All-Time Union College Rebound List with 644 boards. Earlier in the week, Williams defeated Unian 67-54. Union led 14-12, early in the first half, but Williams shut down the Dutch women going into the inter- mission with a huge advantage. Pagnozzi finished with 26 paints fat the Dutchwomen while Kleinhaus wrestled down 11· re- bounds. ContinuedftomPage 16 Bowden, qualified for Nationals last year. He is hoping to return, and bring more teammates with him. The team is much im- provedthis season, and there are many swimmers in hopes of qualifying for the meet. Another important factor for the team is that there is a good mix of veterans and rookies. This mix led to the team posting an impressive 7-2 record this season. The veterans are: seniors Bill Humphreys, Chris Yousey, Chip Quarrier, Drew Pirich, Joe Saltzb.art, Luke Payne, James Ernst; juniors Bowden, Geoff Wolfe, Robbie Johnson, Adam Herst; and saphomores Tsuyoshi Kobayashi, John Fitzgerald, Matt Woodraw, Dave Saad, and Chris Riley. The rookies are freshmen Kevin Makarowski, Mike Humphreys, Eric Menard, Than Stuntz, Eric Smith, and Ken Hackett. Divers Chris Bryan and Vinnie Obermeier are rookies as well, and they have improved greatly over the season. This year's team is a definite contender at the State Champi- onship this weekend, and we have the hanor of hosting the meet. The action will begin on Thursday at 11am-2pm and will continue at 7pm-l Opm in the evening. The schedule will be the same on Friday and Satur- day as well. So come on out and . support the team as they go for the State Championship at our very own pool!

'I February 24, 1 994 PAGE 16 ... State Champs! Women's Swimming Finishes First in State Meet;· Ten Swimmers May Qualify for Nationals in March by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor . In a sensational perlormanee; the Women's Swim Team came through with the meet of a lifetime, as they placed firstatthe State Cham- pionship this past weekend. They defeated all of their competition by a wide margin, in- cluding their rnain rival, Ithaca. Ithaca was the three-time defending State Champions, and was again a power-house this season, only to have Union heat them by over one hun- dred points at States. The story of the meet and the many fantastic swims by the Union team is remarkable. Besides winning the State Championship, the Swimming Dutch women have something else to be proud of: there is a potential for ten Union women to participate in the Na- tional Championships. Three women- Ath- lete of the Week KeJly Bevan, Jackie Crane, and Natasha Zabka- have already qualified. Seven others- Jonatha Meade, Amy Ambrosini, CeCe Buchanan, Jenn Allaire, Mo O'Donnell. Eri Hayashi, and Jenn Baldwin- swam times that qualified for the \B\ cuts. This means that they have a good chance to go to Nationals, but it is not a certainty yet. The fact that ten women have a chance to go to Nationals is an extreme~y impressive sta- tistic demonstrating the success of the team. beat the state record by almost 20 seconds, and the 200 yard butterfly. Just to reiterate, Crane beat the state record in the 1650 by almost 20 seconds! Zabka won Diver of the Meet honors by taking first in both diving events. Jenn Allaire won both the 200 yard individual medley and the 400 yard individual med- ley. Also placing in the top eight in the state in their respective events, were Ambrosini, Meade, Buchanan, Mo O'Donnell, Baldwin, Jenn Terrell, and Hayashi. Nicole Rubin and Amy Lamphere also placed in the top · eight in both diving events. Many swim- mers placed in the top sixteen as well, and were instrumental in scoring points for the team, showing Union's great depth. Julie Ivanyi, Anne Rozwadowski, Jen Davidson, · Alyson McKee, Erica Saltz, Lindsey Johnston, and Heather Kanser all had great efforts during the meet. The entire team suq:eeded in bringing the team to a higher level. Kelly Bevan and Jackie Crane each broke state records and pool records in their fantas- tic showings. Bevan won the 50 yard breast- stroke, 100 yard breaststroke, and the 200 yard breaststroke. Crane won the_ 500 yard freestyle, the 165 0 breaststroke in which she It was truly a fantastic weekend for the whole team. Coach Bassett had this to say about the team's performance: \We knew · we could be competitive with Ithaca, but being competitive and winning are two dif- ferent things. To have as incredible a per- formance as we did was just amazing, and it paid off with a great victory. I'm very proud of the team, and they deserve it.\ Coach Bassett was given Coach ofthe Year honors, and she said, \I give credit for this award to the whole coaching staff and, of course, to all of the members of the team. It's really a group award.\ Union College Junior, Nikki Stone, is ranked second in tile world in freestyle ski jumping. Nikki, an olympian; will he returning to school for spring term after competing in Lillehammer, Norway. Men's Basketball Streaks Past Middlebury; Looks to ECAC Playoffs 15-8 Dutchmen Will Finish Regular Season at Clarkson, St. Lawrence This Weekend Ken Eva11s struggled to get tllis sltot off in the first !tal[ of Union's Loss to Williallls. (Piioto by Joslrua W. Haines/TC) by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor After a sound beating by Na- tionally-Ranked Williams 82-67 last Saturday, the Union College Men's Basketball Team defeated Middlebury 87-70 in front of a large home crowd on Senior Night. The team's four seniors, Steve Evans, Kenny Evans, Jamie Donigan, and Bill Callahan played extremely well from the start to finish their regular season careers. Jamie Haver led all scor- ers with 16 points and Mark Stodden had 12 rebounds and 5 blocked shots. Steve Evans had 8 assists; leaving him just three shy of the Single Season Record of 176. Hard to believe that this \exciting play\ was not the high- light of the evening. With 1:50 remaining in the game, Union called a time out to allow the real show to begin. From the back end ofthe arena, roughly 14 naked streakers marched in behind a Swiss Flag to the delight of the crowd. These masked men then broke up into two huddles resembling offensive and defensive units of a football game: After the play was called in the huddles, both sides lined up for what looked like to be an attempted .fie'Jd goal, but it was a naked fake. The naked holder, after receiving the ball off the snap, fired a perfect pass to a wide open naked receiver in the end zone to complete the play. All the streakers left the building, except for a tall 6 foot-7 inch streaker complete with mask and t-shirt. He strolled around the court wav- ing to the crowd before making his exit. Returning to a more serious note, the Union Dutchmen need ollly to win one of their two re- maining games to host a First Round ECAC Playoff Game. The Union Men hold a record of 15-8 and want to assure a # 1 seed in the ECAC Tourney with wins against St. Lawre11ce and Clarkson this Friday and Satur- day. So take a road trip and cheer on your own Union College Bas- ketball Dutchmen to two straight victories to end the season. state ·· season~ iSh evert tl1e Union .. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . An tb.e st!lt~ .. How: ~~~: ~~~h:.o ::;~~.~~:,~ta,~ .• ~;~~~~~ .. the t~~ ~~~~,,~94~t~9Rt; .. P. , .. ,. ,,_ .. l? .. , .· .·.. ., I·'''· ... ··~-~miltke!lle tmpr()v~m,<;t~t s:~<nc.~. right 'here '~t.Uniofi's o.wn . /.:~-J~~n.-:::·- .'the J?llowln.~ ~e,~r; Lastyear,Hartwick, Uriion, IW4 .PniQU~1li~h:~9. Htb, th¢n 5th~ ltamilton'were . ';. i 'a '\•rY. 3r(\;'di<•i'!i,' •· .......... e tt l1t'rfilier<>t : · j'iimtJl ·'·, ·.ii1$li~ ~!,:.~ · a~d ~aliWid(bea~ truiot(~<i .,, :l9i'. copti'pti~'·· . ,?;~ttfJP. ilis- Hamdton, respecttv~ly. Tliis weekend. . .· ..... . year, Union andHam'lHon have ...... The team also h~'its m.ind ?oth d.efe~t~4 ~~~~k~ .a~4 i~ s~~ on ~et~d,~g as manY, s~i~- . 1s expected that the St~te Cham- mers as poss1ble to the National pion' wm be either tJnion or Cbatnpionstiip's. Only one re- Ilarpiltofl:: p~~wetoP:~ , tu~pitlg .. ~ SC,ott i'VV¢ty .. ,.. ~· ~· \:\\·-~~---~-:..- l i f 1 ,( i t i l s l \ ~ f • I €: \ ( s ) ( s

