'f:. • ' ·~· ;,,\\' ~-\'.. .~ ... :,,,..,... : .... ,.:;,,..~o,;c '\';• ', M.'J/RII/Jf~tfit.·-·ANII•: ···111111· ~ ' . ·.·.•.· ·~ :' ' . . . '. . ·ne-cisio;.n of .Su-b,c,oun~il. on Cha_rges ·_. o_f Ac:ademic Dishonesty Stands During Fall teon of 1992, the Suocouncif on the St;J.nding of StUdents heard charges that a Union student hadviolatedthe Standards of Aca· demic Hon~sty op an exam in Organic. ·Chl;:mis .. uy. After reviewiug evidenc.e submitted by the professor and the .st\ident, theSubc9uncil agreed that the allegations ofac;ldemic dishonesty were substantiated and that the student .should receive an F in the course and be suspended from Union foraminimumoftwote:tms. The student did not accept the decision of the subcouncil. She and her parents hired an attorney and took the col~ lege to court. The news of the Subcouncil'sdeci~ sion spread rapidly via the campus grapevine throughout the Union community. AU. decisions, of the Subcouncil are .con:fiden .. tiatandits members co~ldnQt!nfiml or deny an.Y rumors .. When Jh~ student retutned winter teon 19~JJ (apparently in good .standing) the student body coric1tided that the Sub council b,ad reversed its decision under pressure from the student and her patents. In fact, tl:Ie college was restrained from enforcing the suspension by the Appellate Diyisionofthe Supreme Court of New York. The court case dragged on for nearly a year ami a half. The student completed winter and spring tenns, 1993 andleft the college. The case drew to a close this past winter tenn when the judge of Schenectad¥ County Supreme Court dismissed all causes of)<;tion against the College. ln January, 1994 the student p¢titioned the Subcouncil to return to the College. The Subcouncil accepted the petition and infm:medthe student that she could return in Fall of 1'994 after a full year's suspension. The article that follows was written by the college's attorney, Charles J. Assini (class of'78) for the Union community. Heh~s provided acare- :ful history of the case and has requested that it be · published in Co1u:ordiensis. ToquoteMr,'Assini's conclusion, ''the processfotrusciplininga student for academic dishonesty works.\ , . JiXCI4tPtftOJn 4S$ini:'slettel': .· ·. . . . '' ~ '· ' . :- - :' ·· .. ~ ' ._ - - . ' ··- . - . '·· --On.Janu.ary 28; J 99~;. the -Appellate Division,· Brooklyn; en~ .. · tered a Decision:~and :Order on the student's ·Motion which or.: dered th.attlle mjunctiOD contained in. the Order .to Show Cause dated .January 4,1993 was continued; tuition,. room, -and board for tlte::Winter1991 semester was to be paid; and her the appeal would be placed on.the calendar for Thursday, June 17, 1993. In reaching this. decision, the Appellate Division balanced the· equi- ties between the parties and detennined that the College would not stJffer if the student returned· pending tlie appeal .. What needs to be stre,~ed. here is that .although the student was allowed to return· to campus, enroll in classes, etc., it was merely temporary relief~ .Again, the Court did. not require the student to be rein- stated in good standing. · Please See Union's Lawyer - Page 4 .. .. t.ensts · Nate Coffin reacts to winning tlte presidency of tile Student · Forum (plwtagraplt by Joshua Haines for t/ie Concordiensis) Coffin Holds Off Benander to Win Forum Presidency by Caroline P~in~ News Editor Last Friday, over 650 mem- bers of the student body turned out to vote in the Student Forum · elections. Elissa Heckerwonthe position of Vice President for Administration. Antony Sinanis has been awarded the position of . Vice President for Academics. Liza Korber takes the Junior • Trustee position. Jon Miller, . who ran uncontested, will be the Vice President of Finance. The position of Student-Forum Presi .. dent will be filled by Nate Cof .. fin. wag<i'd a last minute write-in campaign. He did not run for- mally because h~ was afhiid he would not have the time to de- vote to a campaign, being on the Men's Tennis Team and director of the spring play, Death ofa Salesman. Once he saw that the position of presi• dent was going uncontested, he found the time to run. \I · thought I could pull off a dif- ferent kind of presidency,\ said Benander. His goals were to · create a new spirit among the classes and the school as a whole. Benander believed that he .could improve the image of The race for Student Forum the college fi·om the inside out · President almost went uncon- tested, until Thor Benander Continued on page 4 Alumni Council Meeting Sheds Light on Important Issues by David Levine on Union's progress with Tenns The President was adamant Editor-in-chtef Abroad, the school's . financial about not borrowing money for condition, and summarized some any construction. \Skidmore has The Alumni Council held its of the bicentennial plans. borrowed more money than the second and last meeting. for the Hull stressed what needs to be size of their endowment. We will academic year this Saturday, and done in order to in.crease not build until funds are pledged recurring topics were the thrust of. fundraising revenue. because I don't want to mortgage much of the discussion. Among \We need to get more alumni the future. In prior years, the ad- the main. issues of 1he meeting to think differently about the in- . ministration borrowed to pay for were Union,. s fundraising efforts, stitution than they have in the work done on the College Center the financing of on-campus con- past. The number of 7 and .8 fig.. and the Al)liDni Gym. As a result struction proje~ts, the bieenten.. ure gifts is low considering the of this, Union had to pay $1.4 nial plans, tbe school's involve.. quality of Union. There are million in interest charges on an ment with maintaining fraternity people in the Union community annual basis.\ houses, Union's relationship with capable of making these dona- The President continued, \At- Schenectady, the fonnation of a tions. We at;.e making progress, though l would like to expand the new athletic ·league, and the an- the Yulman Theater (largely library because that would help nual admissions report. fund.ed by donations fr'om tetetttion and admission~ at the The meeting was brought to Morton attd Helen Yulman) will moment we do not have all of the order by Council President Jerry make arts more visible. The con- money necessary to do so.\ Thurston '61, but ·the keynot~ struction of the Yulman Theater Hull, changing gears to the bi~ speech atthe meeting was deliv- · and the, renovation. of the Nott · centenpial plans, described the ered by Union President 1 Roger · Memorial are both paid for and . September 10 canoe trip wJti.ch Hull. Hull focused hi$ discussion fully endowed.'' · will kick off the festivities. In • ~ ; ' .j October, the Yulman Theater will be dedicated. the occasion being celebrated with a student produc- tion. In February, the college will celeb,.-ate its two-hundredth birth- day on Founders Day. Hull stressed that he wants \to identify Union alumni who have reached the pinnacle of their c.areers and single them out.'' Additionally. a major national speaker will speak on February25. ln April. NCUR (National Conference for Under- graduate Research) will be hosted by Union. For this event, over 1000 students from around the country will come to Schenectady to present their research. In June~ the college will hold the bicenten~ nial graduation. According to Hul1, \A national speaker of some renown will come to Union.~• ln October of 199$, the college will .host a Symposium of Leadership ,• ,' I and Liberal Arts in the 20th cen- tury. On the financial aspect. Hull announced that $2.5 million will be taken out of the budget for next year. One 'of the college's Continued on page 5 Inside:. Steinmetz ................. 7-9 .··OPfE·D· ............ -- •••••••••••• 1·0 . Letters ········\••••••o•••···· 11 Finals- .......................... 12 Features ••..•••...••••• 13·14 Arts ........................ ._ 15·17 .. Science ...................... 18 Personals ..................... 20 S'ports ..................... 21 ... 24 '•.

,.. ... nnrnr. t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIll, Number XXI Schenectady, New York Decision of Sub·council on Charges of Academic Dishonesty Stands During Fall term of 1992, the Subcouncil on the Standing of Students heard charges that a Union student had violated the Standards of Aca- demic Honesty on an exam ,in Organic Chemis- try. After reviewing evidence submitted by the professor and the student, the Subcouncil agreed that the allegations of academic dishonesty were substantiated and that the student should receive an F in the course and be suspended from Union for a minimum of two tenns, The student did not accept the decision of the subcouncil. She and her parents bired an attorney and took the col- lege to court. The news ofthe Subcouncil's deci- sion spread rapidly via the campus grapevine throughout the Union community. All decisions of the Subcouncil are confiden .. tial and its members could not affinn or deny any mmors. When the student returned winter tertn 1993 {apparently in good standing) the student body concluded that the Subcouncil had reversed its decision under pressure from the student and .- .- ... her parents. In fact, the college was restrained from enforcing the suspension hy the Appellate. Division of the Supreme Court of New York. The court case dragged on for nearly a year and a half. The student completed winter and spring tenns, 1993 and left the college. The case drew to a close this past winter tenn when the judge of Schenectady County Supreme Court dismissed all causes of action against the College. In January, 1994 the student petitioned the Subcouncil to return to the College. The Subcouncil accepted the petition and informed the student that she could return in Fall of 1994 after a full year's suspension. The article that follows was written by the college'.s attorney, Charles J. Assini (class of'78) for the Union community. He has provided a care- ful history of the case and has requested that it be published in Concordiensis. To quote Mr. Assini's conclusion, \the process for disciplining a student for academic dishonesty works.\ · :Exe:~rpt f~om As~iui,'s Letter: · . '.' ' ' ' ' - . On January 28, · 1993.,. the .Appellate Division; Brooklyn; en- tered a Decision-· and Order on tlie student's Motion which or- dered that the injunction contained in the Order to Show Cause dated January 4, 1993 was continued; tuition, room, -and board forthe_Winter 1993 semester was to be paid; and her the appeal , would be placed on the calendar for Thursday, June 17, 1993. In reaching this. decision, the Appellate Division balanced the· equi- ties between the parties and determined that the College would not s-q.ffer if the student returned pending tlie appeal. What needs to be str~.ssed here is that although the student was allowed to returnto campus, emoll in classes, etc., it was merely temporary relief. Again, the Court did not require the student to be rein- stated in good standing. Please See Union's Lawyer- Page 4 May 5, 1994 · Nate Coffin reacts to winning tire presidency of tile Student Forum (pltotograplr by Joslma Haines for tl1e Concordiensis) Coffin Holds Off Benander to Win Forum Presidency by Caroline Paine, News Editor Last Friday, over 650 mem- bers of the student body turned out to vote in the Student Forum elections. Elissa Hecker won the · position of Vice President for Administration. Antony Sinanis has been awarded the position of Vice President for Academics. Liza Korber takes the Junior Trustee position. Jon Miller, who ran uncontested, will be the Vice President of Finance. The position of Student-Forum Presi- dent will be filled by Nate Cof- fin. The race for Student Forum President almost went uncon- tested, until Thor Benander waged a last minute write-in campaign. He did not run for- mally because he was afraid he would not have the time to de- vote to a campaign, being on the Men's Tennis Team and director of the spring play, Death of a Salesman. Once he saw that the position of presi- dent was going uncontested, he found the time to run. \I thought I could pull off a dif- ferent kind of presidency,\ said Benander. His goals were to create a new spirit among the classes and the school as a whole. Benander believed that he could improve the image of the college from the inside out Continued on page 4 Alumni Council Meeting Sheds Light on Important Issues by David Levine Editor-in-chief The Alumni Council held its second and last meeting for the academic year this Saturday, and recurring topics were the thrust of much of the discussion. Among the main issues of the meeting were Union's fundraising efforts, the financing of on-campus con- struction projects, the bicenten- nial plans; the school's involve- ment with maintaining fraternity houses, Union's relationship with Schenectady, the formation of a new athletic league, and the an- nual admissions report. The meeting was brought to order by Council President Jerry Thurston '61, butthe keynote speech at the meeting was deliv- ered by Union President, Roger Hull. Hull focused his discussion on Union's progress with Tenns Abroad, the school's financial condition, and summarized some of the bicentennial plans. Hull stressed what needs to be done in order to increase fundraising revenue. ''We need to get more alumni to think differently about the in- stitution than they have in the past. The number of 7 and 8 fig- ure gifts is low considering the quality of Union. There are people in the Union community capable of making these dona- tions. We ru:e making progress. The Yulman Theater (largely funded by donations fr·om Morton and Helen Yulman) will make arts more visible. The con ... structiqn of the Yulman Theater and the .renovation of the Nott Memorial are both paid for and fully endowed.\ The President was adamant about not borrowing money for any construction. \Skidmore has borrowed more money than the size oftheir endowment. We will not build until funds are pledged because I don't want to mortgage the future. In prior years, the ad- ministration borrowed to J>ay for work done on the College Center and the Al_umni Gym. As a result of this, Union had to pay $1.4 million in interest charges on an annual basis.\ The President continued, \AI• though I would like to expand the library because that would help retention and admission, at the moment we do not have all of the money necessary to do so.\ Hull, changing gears to the bi- centennial plans, described the September 10 canoe trip which will kick off the festivities. In October, the Yulman Theater will be dedicated, the occasion being celebrated with a student produc- tion. In February, the college will celebrate its two-hundredth birth- day on Founders Day. Hull stressed that he wants \to identify Union alumni who have reached the pinnacle of their careers and single them out.\ Additionally, a major national speaker will speak on February 25. In April, NCUR (National Conference for Under- graduate Research) will be hosted by Union. For this event, over 1000 students from around the country will come to Schenectady to present their research. In June, the college will hold the bicenten- nial graduation. According to Hull, \A national speaker of some renown will come .to Union.'' In October of 1995, the college will host a Symposium of Leadership and Liberal Arts in the 20th cen- tury. On the financial aspect, Hull announced that $2.5 million will be taken out of the budget for next year. One 'of the college's Conti11ued 011 page 5 Inside: News .............•. (11 ••••••••• 2-6 Steinmetz ................. 7-9 OPIED ···············CI······· 10 Letters ···········~~······ .. n• 11 Finals .......................... 12 Features ....•.......... 13-14 Arts •.....•...•....•....• 15-17 Science ..................... 18 Personals ................... 20

May 5, 1994, page 2 MarineBi~Iagy,, M:il:fii1(e E~i~ll . ol(}gy 1 Ma~~ne Biol.o.D~ · men and women·far ,the Cp1,1rs~ .to .p,e. given ~ti~4e ·~. ·~@Url1 ratory in Maine. This full,.Qf~qi weeks~(September 2,.J7).on Ult~;.f).@~U.li!i®:JJ~rp$tcoftb~;Maine·~~§t?.VI and once·-per .. week session. mals an<J.i:wGleuen~leJ NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY· INCIDENT SUMMARY DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY. APRIL 25. 1994: 8:35 AM Humanities 8:39AM S&E North TUESDAY, APRIL.26, 1994: 6:30 PM Nott Memorial 7:01 PM Richmond Lot WEDNESDAY. APRIL 27, 1994: II :05 AM Davidson North 1 :00 PM Sigma Chi 2.00 PM !1:19PM Phi Delta Theta South College THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1994: 12:25 AM 2:23AM 5·58 AM I :01 PM 10:40 PM !1:30PM South Colleege S&E Building S&E Building Rathskellar Fox/Davidson Lot Fox/Davidson Lot FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1994: I :53 AM S&E Building 3:29AM Sigma Phi Lot 4:15 PM South College 8:25PM Davidson Lot · SATURDAY. APRIL 30, 1994: 3:00 AM Campus SUNDAY. May 1. 1994: 3:02AM College Center 5:39AM Fox North 3:27PM Fox Loading dock INCIDENT THEFT: Cabling for A. V. equipment stolen. THEFT: Exhibit \Chaos Pendulum\ stolen from 3rd floor. THEFT: Lumber stolen from construction site. V ANDAUSM: Damage to paint on student's car. THEFT: Toil!lt paper stolen from rest rooms. SAFETY HAZARD/UNSANITARY CONDITION: Fire sprinkler system room not locked area being used as a toilet facility. Inspector reft.Jsed to inspect/test the system. SAFETY HAZARD: Sprinkler system equipment problems. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pullbox intentionally activated lst floor north. Life Safety Notice filed. VANDALISM: Broken window. VANDALISM: Chemistry Dept. photo destroyed. VANDALISM: Profane graffiti written on public.notice board. FIRE ALARM: Three recurrent alanns 1 :OlPM, 1:36PM.and 5:35PM. System malfunction. Electricians notified. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Fourpersens wandering through lot looking into cars. Fled scene when challenged by a ::;tu- dent. Descriptions and vehicle plate provided. Police noti- fied. Suspects later located, identified and questioned. VANDALISM/A:TTEMPT.ItD THEFT: Student's car d;;un-· aged believed related to l0:40PM incident. SAFETY HAZARD: Gas burners left on. TRESPASS: Visitor searching through trash bins. Previously warned off campus regardirtg attempted theft of redeemable · cans. Arrested for trespass. LIFE SAFE'r,Y ,YIOLA )'ION: Tampering with room 'smo¥e' · ·d·~t~l:tor:· );.if~; Sclfety\'Nonce<filed: -~.: , _. .. ,., .. t<~a :\ r- :.: ~pARKING VIOL.ATION: . Persistent violator ·(Fresh~an) Conduct Charges filed. ACQUAINTANCE RAPE: Student reports acquaintance rape. TRESPASS/UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Students entered without __ authorization. Accidental-no problems/damage occurred. SECURITY HAZARDNANDALISM: Entry door mullion removed. Door would not secure. Temporary repairs made until locksmith is notified. THEFT: Suspects stole two bags of .redeemable cans. Stu· dent confronted suspects who fled in a vehicle. Vehicle de- scription and possible plate number provided. Investigation continuing. JUNIORS Watson Time is-Almost Here Interested? You should be. Where else can you win . . . $15,000 to go anywhere and do anything for a year, with no strings attached? The Spring information meeting is Thursday, May 19 at 7:00 PM.. Watch for further details. If you can't wait, see Prof. Klein, SS 109, or phone x6076.

NEWS Do White Males D;ominate Union? Crosstalk Produces Heated Debate on Importaot Issue by Michelle Ellis Concordien$iS Staff The Multicultural Affairs Group sponsored a crosstalk on Tuesday, May 3. Students fac- ulty and administrators debated the question: \Do white males dominate Union?\ The topics discussed primarily fell under the umbrella oflinguis- tic interpretations of subjects or words. Panelists Carolyn Mckenzie, Pat Haskell, Professor Linda Patrik, and Dean Terry Weiner argued with an extremely large and participatory audience for approximately two hours. The most predominant under- current of the Crosstalk was de- fining the word \multi- culturalism.\ Both students and administrators attempted to de- fine this loaded wotd. Ironically, a clear definition was not pro- vided and the failure to define this word became the subject ofbitter mudslinging. Political correctness triumphed as words such as \blacklisting\ and \domi:qance\ were probed by the .audience, Professor Scullion stated that there is a '~danger in words.\ Scullion claimed that it is dangerous to group women with other minmities and these two issues need to be divorced from one another. He stated that by placing the progress of the two groups together, people are com- mitting a g.toss failure to the progress of minorities. An associated linguistic issue was brought to the audience's at- . . tention by Michael Ezra. Ezra read a portion of a memorandum he received from Dean Terri Wiener and a subcouncil declar- ing that the course that he sub- mitted for credit approval was presently denied and under re- view. Students believed that the letter was a color-blind portrayal of the administration's inability to . change with the times. Countless topics and issues linked to multiculturalism were debated. Students agreed that the Crosstalk was controversial, yet counterproductive. Michael Ezra responded to ·the debate, \I think that the tone of the debate showed. that the students are un- willing to listen to false claims of attempted diversity by the admin- istration.\ Phi Beta Kappa to Induct New Members . ·. D H k . · Union's Phi Beta Kappa chap- Alexander Chiu, Michelle by Ehssa · ec er ter is one of the oldest in the na- Dietrich, Charles Doering, Lisa Concordiensis Staff tion, and members are considered Gerhan, David Hopson, Shawn The highest academic honor to be students of extremely high Jorgensen, Blaine Langberg, which can be awarded to a stu- caliber. Twenty-four members of Wendy Liebeck, Linda Lin, dent is election to the Phi Beta the graduating class and one Elizabeth Maranville, Jennifer Kappa society. Union's Juniors member of the class.of 1995 have McDermott, Keith Meier, Robert and seniors are selected based on been elected to Union's chapter Murray, Bac Nguyen, Rebecca their academic perfonnances and this year. They will be inducted Parlakian, Dana Rausch, Edward outstanding character. Students in a ceremony this Sunday May Seeger, Sarah Teasdale, Kurt whoexhibitamature,intellectual 8. Those students include, from Venator Michael Wolf and character are elected to the Phi the class of 1994: Soume Daulat, from the class of Beta Kappa Alpha .chapter of MelissaAhrend, Nayana Anne, 1995. New York. Jay Berger, Daniel Bullen, May 5, 1994, page 3 · Two Union students clean up a park in one of the many Schenectady 1000 planned projects. This Saturday, Union students will l1elp clean up Vale Park, on Nott Terrace. (photograph by Josh Haines!TC) Seniors Promised_Money For Participation in Gift Drive Voicemail: New Technology Proposed for Union College by Liza DeKoven Concordiensis Staff President Roger Hull has an- nounced that he will personally match, dollar for dollar, the amount of money that the Senior · Class raises for their Senior gift, provided 100 percent of the class participates in the drive. In addition to Hull's promise to the Senior class, Robert Bishop, class ofl943, promises to donate $1 ,000 to the fund if 100% par- ticipation is made by the Seniors. As of April 28, 28% of the Se- nior class had contributed to the fund, raising $2,000 for the new seating area being built around the flagpole in front of West Col- lege. However, the gift itself costs approximately $5,000. The Senior Class Gift Commit- tee comprised ofthe Senior class officers, Blaine Langberg, Rachel Kest and Adam Perlow, and members of the Steering Commit- tee. Matt Karlyn and Blaire Spritzer are personally soliciting each :member of the Senior class for contribution s to the fund. \We have been working really hard to encourage participation from our Senior Class,\ Karlyn, commented, representing the Se- nior Class Gift Committee. \All in all, seniors have been really receptive and many have already contributed. However, there are still seniors who haven't yet given, and we really need their help.\ The Senior Class has received a considerable amount of assis- tance from the school's annual fund administrative advisor, Perry Goff. \Perry has been a re- ally big help,\ added Karlyn. \We all appreciate the time that she has committed to this effort.\ This year's Senior gift was de- signed by Teddy Hirschfield, a member ofthe class of 1994, who has a minor in visual arts. His design was chosen by the Senior class. Hirshfield designed the Senior gift as part of an independent study project he did with the Co- ordinator of Campus Planning, Loren Rucinski. \I tiedthe design for the benches by the flagpole in with the benches in libraxy plaza,\ said Hirschfield. \I worked with my advisor to make the sketches, to measure everything out and to make a plot plan.\ Gifts are still being collected. To make a contribution please contact Blaine Langberg at 388- 5780 or Matt Karlyn at374-5260. Quote of the Week: \I write like Shakespeare. compared to some of the people at Union'' -anon. Physics Major by Diane R. Winkler Telecomm. Manager Union College Telecommuni- cations Office is planning to pro- vide all full-time Union College students use of Voicemail Net- working Technology commenc- ing Fall Term 1994. Each stu- dent, regardless of residence, would be assigned a private and confidential voicemail box, ac- cessible by password only. Stu- dents would keep their assigned voice mailbox and have access to the voicemail system 12 months of the yea.r as long as. they are actively matriculated undergraduates. A proposed mandatory charge for this ser- vice would be $15 per term per student, billable three times a year on the trimester tuition bill. This equates to $3.75/month or less than $1.00/week per stu- dent. The Telecommunications Office is holding meetings with the Student Affairs Staff and the new 1994-95 Officers ofthe Stu- dent Forum and Resident Advi- sors to apprise them of the plan; Other meetings will be sched- uled as is deemed necessary. It is anticipated that a decision will be made to move ahead with implementation ofvoicemail no later than the end of May. What Is Voicemail? Voicemail will enable students to record and send personal de- tailed messages to other student's mailboxes 24 hours a day, from any location, using a touch-tone telephone. Callers will be automatically routed to the voiceinail system when a telephone line in a residence hall room is \busy\ or there is no an- swer. Messages can also be ex- changed without dialing a tele- phone number. Individual and confidential messages can be re- ceived from other \subscribers\ on the system and from callers out- side the system. \Community\ answering machines will be a thing of the past. Each student will be able to establish \guest\ mailboxes within his/her own voice mailbox, which will allow personal two-way communications of a specific na- ture to persons outside the college ( eg. leaving a personalized mes- sage in your mailbox that only your parents can listen and respond to). Eventually, students will be able to exchange messages with professors, student groups, and other members of the college com- munity. Voicemail will also provide for Information Center Mailboxes, which are voice bulletin boards through which information can be accessed by large numbers of in- dividuals at the same time from any telephone on or off campus. It will replace the need (and ex- pense) to issue many written memos and notices. For ex- ample, students and staff will be able to dial into information cen- ter mailboxes and hear schedules and notices of events, plays, speakers, sports and ticket infor- mation, career center jobs hotline, dining hall menus and hours, etc. It would be used to announce emergency infonna- tion or \bulletins\ affecting the campus community. It is planned that such Information Voicemail boxes wouid be pro~ vided to student organizations and others on a per year subscrip- tion basis. As a future educational tool, voice processing will allow for immediate and direct communi- cations from faculty to individual students or to a distribution list containing all names of all stu- dents in a particular class. Pro- fessors will eventually be on the voicemail network and will be able to use the system to issue and update assignments to a whole class by recording one message and having it sent im- mediately (or marked for \future delivery\) to all students on a list. For student organizations, meetings can be scheduled with one message sent to all members on a predefined distribution list. The sender can also be sent a voicemail confirmation that the messages have been received (or not received). Communications are no longer held to rigid office hours and conflicting schedules. Continued 011 page 6

May 5, 1994, page 4 NEWS Union's Lawyer Explains Recent Cheating Case On March 2, 1994, the Hon- orable Robert E. Lynch, Supreme Court Justice in Schenectady County, dismissed all causes of action brought by a student against Union College. The law- suit involved a challenge of the decision of the Subcouncil on the Academic Standing of Students to suspend a student after finding a violation of the Standards of Academic Honesty. The Court's dismissal of the lawsuit is signifi- cant for a nwnber of reasons; but, perhaps most importantly, an end result of the dismissal is that it let stand the Subcouncil 's deci- sion. This article will summa- rize the complicated procedural history of the case and. offer com- mentary on the standard of re- view for academic dishonesty suits. The Subcouncil on the Aca- demic Standing of Students met on November 19, 1992 to hear charges brought by a professor against a student enrolled in his Organic Chemistry class. After hearing all the statements and reviewing all the documents pre- sented to it, the Subcouncil de- cided that the allegations of aca- demic dishonesty by the profes- sor were substantiated. The Subcouncil decided to give the student a failing grade for the course and place the student on academic suspension for a mini- mum of two terms beginning with the Winter Term of 1993. The student brought suit on De- cember 22, 1992 in the New York State Supreme Court, Nassau County, against Union College to restrain and enjoin the College from suspending her for cheat- ing on her Organic Chemistry exam and to direct the College to reinstate the student in good standing. The action was brought in Nassau County because the student apparently lived there with her parents when she was not in school. The student filed a Complaint against the College which contained the following causes of action: (i) breach of contract, (ii) violation of United States and New York State con- stitutional rights of due process, (iii) violation of the equal pro- tection clauses of the U.S. and N.Y .. 5. constitutions, and (iv) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and the Complaint sought damages in the sum of $5 million. The College interposed a Veri- fied Answer and Memorandum of Law (together with Affidavits from various College officials) and requested the Court enter an Order to: (i) transfer the venue of action to the Supreme Court for Schenectady County, (ii) con- vert the action to a proceeding under Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules. and (iU) deny the student's request for in- junctive relief. The College ar- gued before the Court that Schenectady County was the proper venue for this action be- cause it was the County where the Subcouncil met and decided the case and where several of the material witnesses live .. The Col- lege also argued that the student's relianc.e on alleged constitutional violations was misplaced. The College further maintained that since Union College is a private college (unlike a state university) it is bound only by its own pub· lished guidelines or rUles. Fi~ nally, the College argued that the appropriate recourse for the student's challenge is a procedure known as an Article 78, not breach of contract. Essentially, the purpose of an Article 78 is to determine whether the institution followed its published guidelines in good faith and did not act ar- bitrarily or capriciously. In an Order dated December 31, 1992, the Honorable Howard E. Levitt (Supreme Court, Nassau County) denied the student's motion for an Order restraining and enjoining the Col- lege from placing her on aca- demic suspension. The Court also granted the College's Cross-Mo- tion to transfer venue to Schenectady County and convert the pending action to an Article Coffin Wins Conti11ued from page 1 in an unconventional way. \I never liked positions of elected authority. I like to be more of a director,\ said Benander as here- flected on theatrical back round. Benander took his loss in stride and is now planning to run for Senior Class Representative. When asked how he thinks his opponent will be as president, Benander replied, \I never had a bad impression of Nate, he is an excellent person. I hope he and I can put it together, [if Benander is elected as rep.] that would be cool.\ Coffin was more 'compelled' than 'concerned' by Benander's campaign. \I was relieved, Tit or's campaign allayed my fears that no one else wanted this job,\ Coffm said smiling. Yet now that he has been elected as president, his goals will be to focus on the bicentennial, the issues of privatization of dining services and supporting multi-culturalism and diversity on campus. \My common goal for the Forum,\ re- ported Coffin, \is that every kind of person, no matter who or what they are or where they are from, will feel comfortable on this cam- pus.\ In order to accomplish this, Coffin wants to push for more terms abroad to more diverse places, such as another term in Africa. Also, he would like to see more campus groups working to- gether if they have over lapping goals and more people get in- volved within the politics of Union, whether it be making sug- gestions to their representatives or running for these positions them- selves. \When I leave this office,\ Cof- fin stated, \I don't want people to look back on all the great things I accomplished. I want to be able to look back on all the great things we accomplished.\ 78 proceeding. In so holding, the Court dismissed the breach of contract cause of action and the censtitutional causes of action. The Court, in other woFds, was persuaded by the College's posi- tion as to those claims. The only relief granted the student was a requirement that the College hold a further heacring of the Subcouncil. The student appealed this Or- der to the Appel'late Division, Second Department in Brooklyn; and requested the Court, pend• ing the determination of the ap- peal, to (i) restrain the College from placing her on academic suspension, (ii) reinstate her as a full-time student, and (iii) permit her to register and enroll in all her desired courses for the Win- ter 1993 semester at the College. On this same date, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, granted to the student the temporary relief re- quested. The Court, in essence, ruled that pending a determina- tion of the Motion and including a review of the Motion papers, the College was stayed from en- forcing the suspension of the stu- dent and was required to enroll the student for th~ Winter 1993 semester. The Court did not, however, require the College to reinstate the student in good standing. On January 11 , 1993, a recon- sideration hearing of the Subcouncil on the Academic Standing of Students was held; the suspension was confirmed. On January 28, 1993, the Ap- pellate Division, Brooklyn, en- tered a Decision and Order on the student's Motion which ordered that the injunction contained in the Order to Show Cause dated January 4,1993 was continued; tuition, room, and board for the Winter 1993 semester was to be paid; and her the appeal would be placed on the calendar for Thursday, June 17, 1993. In reaching this decision, the Appel- late Division balanced the equi- ties between the parties and de- termined that the College would not suffer if the student returned pending the appeal. What needs to be stressed here is that although the student was allowed to return to campus, enrollinclasses, etc., it was merely temporary relief. Again, the Court did not require the student to be reinstated in good standing. . The Appellate Division, on July 6,1993, affirmed the Lower Court's holding, namely to trans- fer venue to Schenectady County and to conver.t the actionto a pro- ceeding under Article 78, but ruled that the Lower Court should have granted the student the in- junctive relief requested pending the outcome of the Article 78 pro- ceeding. The Court basically was saying that Judge Levitt reached the proper result on the substan- tive issues before him but sbould have allowed the student to stay on campus pending the outcome of the Article 78 proceeding. The case was transferred to the Schenectady County Supreme Court and assigned to the Hon- orable Robert E. Lynch. The is- sue before Judge Lynch, as is the case with all academic dishonesty cases at private colleges in the context of an Article 78 proceed- ing, was whether the College sub- stantially followed its published guidelines and whether the College's findings were based upon the exercise of honest dis- cretion and were not. arbitrary or capricious. In establishing and applying this standard, New York . State courts are stating that they do not want to interfere with the legitimate authority of a college to discipline a student for aca- demic dishonesty as long as the rules are followed in good faith. As such, the student who chal- lenges a decision has a difficult burden of proof to overcome; namely, to demonstrate that the college did not substantially ad- here to its rules and acted in.bad faith in reaching it~ decision. The College mad~. a Motion to Dismiss the student's claims and submitted to the Court that the College adhered to its procedural guidelines, to wh: a preliminary review of the allegations was con· ducted by Dean Schadler (to- gether with the professo,r who brought the charges) with the ac- .cused student shortly after final exams were over.· Since the matter was ne.t resolved, the stu- dent was informed that the mat- ter would be heard before the Subcouncil; the student was pro- vided With a written copy of the charges as well as a list of the members of the Subcouncil and instructed that a member of the College community could serve as an advisor auhe hearing. The College also submitted to the Court that the Subcouncil's de- termination was neither arbitrary nor capricious but was based on the exercise of honest discretion after a ijlll review of the operat- ing facts. The stuaent did not contest the College's submissions in the Motion made by Judge Lynch. After considering the College's Motion for Summary Judgment, Judge Lynch dismissed all causes of action against the College .. The dismissal obviously repre- sents a victory for the College; but, more importantly, it. con- firms that the process for disci- plining a student for academic dishonesty works. In addition, tlle Cot}rt followed judicial precedent (in the context of the facts and circumstances of·the case dis- cussed) that a stude1_1r s ~lll!llenge to a decision of the College's Subcouncil involving academic dishonesty or discipline is to be decided pursuant an Article 78 pro~eeding (where the student has a significant burden to overcome) and that this hearing musfbe con- ducted where the institution is located. CHARLES J. ASSINI, JR. Higgins, Roberts, Beyer! & Coan, P.C. Attorneys for Union College 502 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305-2492 (518)374-3399 Male Seniors Seek More 'Prime·• Housing Options From Residence Life by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff The housing lottery creates an- nual dissension. This year is no exception. The male seniors of 1995 who desire single rooms in the residence halls are discon- tented with Residence Life. Some students have claimed that there are more singles available to women then men. · Residence Life insists that the same number of single spaces have been allotted in the residence · halls for 1995. Two additional singles have been created in Rich- mond and three extra singles have been added to South. The follow- ing list displays the breakdown of singles in the residence halls: 6 singles in Richmond, 18 singles in North, 4 singles in Davidson, and 2 singles in Fox. Male seniors seeking single housing are angered by the con- count the conditions of residence ditions of South. Residence Life halls, like South, when single claims that the 3 singles in the spaces are distributed. Trish Wil- annex of the fourth floor of South Iiams, the head ofResidence Life, are distinctly separated from the stated that this notion is incorrect. rest o( South by a privacy door. Williams states, that student per- Residence life admits that the ceptions of residence halls are conditions of the singles in South taken into consideration by Resi- are comparable to the poor con- dence Life. She says that the con- ditions of the other rooms in the ditions of a residence Hall flue- building. The entire building re- tuate from year to year. \Over the ceived a minor face lift this past past three years reputations of year. Residence Life is conscious residence halls have been solely of the need to fully renovate dependent upon the people who South. Especially since South is live there.\ recognized as the oldest standing Williams stated that Residence residence hall in New York State Life takes into account the con- that is still functioning. Residence ditions of dormitory buildings Life states that there are more when creating singles. However~ pressing renovations presently Residence life deems it only fair needed on campus but they hope that men and women are equally that South will he renovated allowed to have singles in single shortly. sexed residence halls. Students question that Resi~ dence Life does not take into ac- , conti11u.ed on page 6

. . Wife C!lnnc~_ibien!;iis . ' .. : ', / ·. . ' . NEWS May 5, 1994, page 5 Alumni Council Holds Scintillating Meeting Continued from page 1 primary objectives will be \to meet the full need ofall students who come to Union.\ By doing so, the President hopes that \the quality and quantity .of Union stu- dents will continue to increase,\ Furthermore, \no Union em- ployee will lose their jobs due to financial reasons, even though we have to make sacrifices.\ The President's speech was fol- lowed by a que!;!fion and answer period. Some al'utnni were curious as to how the President will meet his goal of sending l 00 percent of Union students on terms abroad. Although the school could' take strides to achieving this goal by reducing traveling cosfs, such as with tennsabroadto Canada, the President explained that \faculty and students expressed very little interest in creating a term abroad to\Quebec:\ Hull also explained drat Richard Kenyon, Dean of Engineering, and Bill Thomas, liead of'Terms Abroad, were try- ing to set up a system which would allow ertgiiieering students to participate in overseas study. According to Hull, engineering students should be encouraged to study abroad in the summer. In terms of maintenance offra- ternity houses; Hull and Dean Alford described that the college currently has a plan which would require all students living on cam- pris7;Tega~dte~s .of·wh,et~er they Council President, Jerry Thurston. '61, with otller officers during Saturday's .meeting. (photo by Jeremy Smith for the Concordiensis) live in college-owned housing. to offices. According to Hull, the dent stated that 75-80 more stu- Weekend in November. Moun- pay the same amount. By doing college has obtained each of the dents would be able to live on tebanks and the Glee Club will so, the college could set up a properties on Lennox Road. campus if current office space is have performances. maintenartcefundforfratemities, Some residents are opposed to abdicated. Alumni who live within 75 so that they would have the Union using these houses for of- Byron Nichols elaborated on miles of the campus will be in- money to maintain safe houses. flees, and they have used exist- the plans for the bicentennial vited back to the school for Some fraternities currently charge ing laws to prevent the school which will benefit from alumni Founders Day. The Nott Memo- less than the school charges for from beginning construction. attendance. rial will be rededicated on Febru- housing, and the administration According to Hull, the school has During Homecoming Weekend ary 25. The evening gala events argues that these organizations evaluated the possibility ofbuild- (October 13-14), Union will host will be simulcast via satellite to are not taking into consideration ing offices elsewhere, including a symposium on athletics versus up to 20 sites around the country. the costs of maintenance. the plot of parking land adjacent academics at the Division III ReUnion weekend will take The President was forced to from Nott Street, but the decision NCAA level. During this week- place June 22-24, with all classes answer questions about the G.E. to renovate the houses on Lennox end outstanding student-athletes invited to come back to the cam- Plot and the college's controver- Road \is necessary to increase the in Union history will be honored. pus. sial decision to turn houses on amount of on-campus ~ousing The history of arts at Union will Lennox Road into administration available to students.\ The Presi- be celebrated during Parents' ' ' . , t ~ ' ·\-· ! ! _1 ' . < MacinkM1JColor PowerBooll165 4180. C1tJssk!' 4180, .fJpW' JIJ!yboard n 'and nzouse. Madntosll LC 475 4/80, App~ Color Plus 14' Display, Aglle Extended &yboard 0 and mouse. Right now, you could take home one of the country's best-selling personal notebook computer. They're all powerful, easy to use and more affordable than computers• for incredibly low monthly payments. By qualifying for the Apple Computer Loan, you can The Apple Computer Loan. ever. Its that simple. So, stop by your Apple Campus Reseller for further information. Ap l .~ choose from the entire Macintosh•.!ine or grab a PowerBool(, the most popular You'll be amazedwhat you can buy on a tight college budget. p1e . Contact Charles Bosworth at Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 --~

May 5, 1994, page 6 NEWS Latino American Heroes Past and Present By Fransisco Munoz Contributing Writer During April, Latino Heritage Month, LOS ESCUDEROS of Pill IOTA ALPHA, are saluting those individuals who have de- voted their lives to the advance- ment of the Latino and Latina minds. For more than five hun- dred years these personalities have provided the world with ideological and, conduct mod- els that have uplifted Latinos love for their heritage. These men and women have shed their wisdom upon the world from all possible angles. This realm of people is composed of : painters, poets, playwrights, edu- cators, doctors, lawye~s, politi- cians, business men and women, militants, clergy, farmers, and more. In honor of Latino Heritage Month we pay tribute to just a few ofthese_ prominent people. Simon Bolivar (1783-1820) The greatest of the liberators, he was born to one of the richest and most powerful families in Caracas, Venezuela. He was per- sonally responsible for the libera- tion ofVenezuela and Colombia. His main goal after liberation was to create a federation of the states of South America and in the Antilles. The first phase of such an attempt was the creation of the Federal Republic of Greater Co- lombia. This includ~d Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela. His gen- erous liberal instincts were gr.adu- ally eroded by the violence and anarchies of the news societies and the disintegration ofthe new states due to foreign intervention. Bolivar towered above his peers in knowledge, judgment and abil- ity. His liberal education, wide reading, and extensive travels in Latin American and Europe heightened his innate idealism and opened his mind to new ho- rizons. Bolivar's basic aim was liberty, the only object worth the sacrifice of one's life. With this equality-that is, legal equality-for aU humans, regardless of their class, creed or color we would achieve Jiberty. He died of tu- berculosis on :his way into exile, despairing of Latin America ca- pacity for stability in progress. Benito Juarez (1806-1872) A full-blooded Zapotec Indian born in San Paulo Guelatao in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. As_ a child he knew that in order to get the education which he eagerly wanted to get, he would have to go through many cruel moments in life. Through determination and a brief stint in a seminary studying priesthood, Juarez be- came a lawyer. The study oflaw and a natural progression into politics marked the beginning of a career for Juarez that would lead him into many of the events shap- ing his nation. He even held mili- tary positions before being elected president in 1861. Dur- ing his administration, Juarez made tremendous efforts in the field of education. He felt that edu~ationwould provide much of the solution to the problems ofhls people and would serve as a foun- dation for a stronger national economy. He lead the nation dur- ing the War of the Reform and against the French Intervention in which M~xico became an inde- pendent nation of both Spain and Frlms~ r~~pectively. One of his achievements before he died was to face the rebellion of Porfirio Diaz. He died in 1872 after a se- ries of heart attacks. Jose Marti (1853-1895) \The Apostle\ of Cuba, Marti was born in Havana. He was greatly influenced in his educa- tion by Rafael Maria de Mendive, a revolutionary poet and journal- ist, who had dedicated himself to \' C.A.S. Y.M., a stf!el orchestra band, participates in one ojtlie events sponsored/or Latini) Heritage Montll outside tile College Center (plloto by F. Jeremy Smitii/TC) \furthering the advancement and improvement of the society\ in which he lived. It was during this time when the Ten Year's War pegan in Cuba. Marti was arrested and condemned to hard labor after he was accused of trea .. son. 1 He was. then deported to Spain in 1871. During this time, he enrolled at the Central Univer;. sity of Madrid where he received a Bachelor of Civil and Canon Law and a Doctor in Philosophy and Humanities. At the end of the Cuban Ten Year,'~ War for. Cuban Independence he retUrned to Cuba. During the years.tp fol .. low, he was exiled again from Cuba, and traveled to the United States where he held many posi- tions for Latin American govern- ments. He continued writing and giving speeches in both English and Spanish which served as in- spiration forhis major work \Our America;\ a recollection of thoughts about the situations in our nations. His major accom- plishment towards the indepen- of political sense made him vtil- dence of Cuba was the creatiot). . ne~able,. lie was fqrceq, to abdi- ofthe Cuban RtJvolutionary Party . cate in 1823 and spent rest of life in 1892; the Cuban Revolution- in Peru •. ary Party would: laterle.ad tqe Ern~.sto ... \C.HE''. ,!iu~vara movement for .indepegdeiJ,ce of .(1928-.1967). . _ Cuba. He was killed in action . Che was· an extraordinarily tal- during a battle ~t Dqs_ R;iqs,, e~ted~miJitatY)eadet.· His_great- Oriente Province, Cuba trying to est ass~.t was,. a· .combination .of achieve his goal ~'Libe,rtad.\ unique v~11ues aml insights. Not Bernard O'Higgins (1778-1842) only was .he .. \ln~Qrpassed as a The liberator of Chile·.. soldier but he also .p.ossessed a O'Higgins was the son . of visionari·l~tellige~~e. Che has Ambrioso O'Higgins, · an become a;nio~~l.ofwhat human- Irishman in Spanish colonial ser- ity should be, not only for Cubans vice and a CnUean·mother. He . ·bu~ aJso fur·peqp1~ ~\~~where--in was' educated in Engla'nd~di~- ·-'·(~fin' Amencaanci\ifie'~e~~of{he · fluenced by Francisco de world. Che carried revolutionary Miranda, \El Precursor.\ In -181'0 stoicism, t9 its highest ~~ptession. and 1813, he assisted his compa- The revol~tionary spirit of sac- triots in the fight for indepen- . rifle~ •. revolutionary .combative- dence as commander-in-chief. ness and the revolutionary's spirit His revolutionary record was of hard work wer~ defined bu rightly rewarded when he was Che .. No other person of our time appointed Supreme Director of has carried the spirit of interna- newly liberated Chile .. His regime ti9nalj~t)1 tp. its hiS,hest possible was an enlightened despoHsm, level as .Che di9~ His personal but his radical liberalism and lack . motto .was. \P~triq .0 .l\1uerte.\ - - ' . - - ~ . . . Residence Life Attempts to Accommodate All Economics· Senior Continued from page 4 Residence Life has. enough single spaced rooms for the 37 seniors who have requested singles. Out of the eleven men who requested singles, those with the best lottery numbers will be able to live in North. Residence Life states that these 37 seniors are given the prime single rooms in the residence halls. Williams states that it is necessary to limit the seniors choices in order to accommodate the rest of the stu- dents. Residence Life believes that it is· unfair for the seniors to force out the other classes from North singles, as they are the only class allowed to live off campus. Residence Life has attempted to appease the seniors who de- mand singles and in particular the senior males angered by living in South. The Student Affairs Com- mittee (SAC) approved last years changes in the senior housing lot- tery in hopes of avoiding future problyms. Seniors.~e now privi- leged to be the first class in the lottery. In turn, Residence Life is able to place the unclaimed singles back into the lottery. Se- niors are also given the option to sign up in advance for singles. Independent of the SAC's changes, Residence Life strongly encourages seniors and the rest of tile student body to come in and discuss any misund(U'standings about singles and how they are distributed in the housing lottery. I ;·~.~·J •. ·' :·:) ' ~ ·;.'' ·.·.:~ The$ iS l\1e~ting · · All students who will be writing a-senior thesis in econom,ics ne~~· y~at a.t:C _'a~~~d· Jo ;~~~t on Thursday, May 12th. at 4. PM.in, Sscn4 ... ... .. .. • ~ l'- 1:, • ~ \.' • ' If you cannot attend the _ThursdaY meeting, I. . -- - please meet inst~ad at 8:1~ AM on F.r~d~y,,.May 13 in SS016. .. ' Union Awaits New Telecommnnication.s. Technolog:y Continued from page 3 It removes the pressure and time constraints of having to track people down in person or over the phone. And users have complete control over the medium. If a caller develops second thoughts about a message, he/she can re- view it, re-record it, or cancel it, before sending. Messages can also be marked \confidential\ before sending which then blocks it from being routed to anyone but the identified recipient. Mes- sages can be saved for a prede- termined time, to be established by the College. Voicemail allows for call pro- cessing which allows a caller to rout him/herself to infonnation needed, either provided as a lis- ten-only mailbox with recorded announcements, or to a \real live ----------- person\. With one call to the Library, for example, a caller could listen to a list of options and rout him/herself to the circulation desk, interlibrary loan, archives, reference desk, etc. Plans are to utilize call processing technology for provision of an automated · telephone directory: callers who don't know a subscriber's direct telephone number can simply dial his or her last name artd be routed ----·---------- ... to the correct extension. Call processing will be added at a fu- ture date. Voicemail is f{lst, convenient, reliable and very easy to learn and use. If all goes as planned, Union Students will be provided a step by step system tutorial and guide upon arrival in the fall, with noti- fication of mailbox number and temporary password to get started. A HELP DESK will be set up for the first week of fall .. tenn, after which tifl\e,, students anQ others on tl:te system can call Telecommunications for assis- tance.. Again, Voicemail has been proposed fpr: installation over the .summer, and it is planned that all full time students will he provided voicemail boxes. Any comments are valuable and wel- come; please send c/o Telecom- munications Office, CC405.

' . -it.IJ.e QJ:nu.cnrbi.en~is STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM May 5, 1994, page 7 .. '93-'94 Steinmetz Symposium Events OPENING'SESSION 12:50 PM College Center Auditorium ~ lntroduc.tion and Greetings - President Roger Hull SESSION 1- 1:15- 2:35p.m. A. Arts 215- Faculty Moderator- Hilary Tann Alexandra H. Wheeler- Andrea del Sarto: Color Becomes an Energy in 16th Centl!uy Italian Painting Sponsor- Louisa Matthew Elizabeth A, Maranville- Stravinsky's \Rite of Spring\ as it Changes the Shape of Time Ramakrishna V. Gaddipati- Composing for Orchestra: The Development of \Nightscape\ Kevin Huang- Rediscovering Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E Minor Sponsor- Hilary Tann B. Humanities 019- Faculty Moderator- Twitty Styles Matthew Grabowski- A comparison of Alveo lar and Peritoneal Macrophages in Rats Sponsor- Twitty J. Styles Craig M. Mochson - Cloning and Character- i.zation of a Mitochondrial Enaonuclease Sponsor- Jill L. Salvo Bac X. Nguyen .:. In Vitro Cultivation of Pneumocystis carinii · Sponsor- Twitty J. Styles Christopher Hanna -Observation of Stress Fi- ·ber Formation ·in Living Cells Using Fluorescently-Labeled Alpha-Actinin Sponsor- Barbara Danowski ; .. · ·c: Hum&rijties'llO ·.:: Faclilty Moderator - Walid Thabet' · .. - ·· · · · · · · · Alexandra E. Conway and Adam M. Strafaci -Lump-Sum versus Unit-Price Estimating for Construction Projects Andrew R. Wood - Using Solid Modeling for Automatic Data Generation Within a Win- dows Environment Sponsor-.Walid Thabet William D. Humphreys- Effect of Cyclic Load- ing on Shear Strength of Sands Salvatore L. D' Aniello- Settlement Due to Fluc- tuation of Ground Water Table Sponsor- AshrafGhaly D. Humanities 112 - Faculty Moderator - Ann~ Anderson Charles Howarth and Charles Wheeler- An Experimental Study of Heat Transfer En- hancement in Cooling Passages Aaron Plotnik- A Numerical Study of Heat Transfer Enhancement in Cooling Passages Carla Stenze.J- Numerical Modeling of Heat Transfer Enhancement Techniques in Elec- tronics Cooling Applications Andrea Light- Design and Construction of a Wind Tunnel for Electronics Cooling Re- search Sponsor- Ann Anderson E. Humanities 114 - Faculty Moderator- Mary K. Carroll Jeffrey C. Nebolini- The Stratigraphy ofEast- em New York from the Precambrian to the Upper Devonian Sponsor- John I. Garver Janet E. Finn -Geochemistry of Mafic Inclu- sions in Granite, North Cascades, Washing- ton S.po,nsot- Jeffrey Tepper Keith M. Correia -Chemical Correlation Be- tween Lake Mascoma and its Watershed Sponsor- Kurt T. Hollocher Thomas S. Pannhorst- Development of a Di- ode-Laser-Based Optrode for Detection in Flow Injection Analysis Sponsor- Mary K. Carroll F.Humanities 115 - Faculty Moderator- Hugh Jenkins Jeremy Countryman and Blaine Lang berg- The Case of\Seinfeld\: The Fracturing of the American Psyche in the Late Twentieth Century Kitren Clair- From Bimbo to Heroine: The StoryofMilton's Eve Sponsor- Hugh Jenkins Eric Bulson- '~Phall ifbutwill, rise you must\: Paradise Lost Through Joycean Fict Sponsor- Edvige Giunta and Hugh Jenkins Nicole A. Beland- Breathing Under Water Sponsor- Harry Marten G. Humanities 116- Faculty Moderator- Kenneth G. DeBono N. Kyle Smith- An Examination of the Role of Arousal in the Changing of Stereotypes Jennifer McDermott- Cognitive Dissonance and Attitude Accessibility Heidi Howarth -Self-monitoring and Brand Loyalty Margo Benson and Jessica Shair- Attitude Ac- cessibility, Self-monitoring and Biased In- formation Processing Sponsor- Kenneth G. DeBono H. Humanities 117 -Faculty Moderat()r- William Garcia Session in Spanish Hillary A. Snow- \Un analisis feminista de 'El Monte de las Animas\' Marc 0~ Sheridan ·.;~'Zoot Suit y la experiencia chicana\ Patricia L. Serpas- \Erendira: unarealidad dentro de un mundo magico\ Daniel A. Aguirre- \Retrato de Teresa: un desafio ala sociedad patriarcal\ Sponsor- \Villi am Garcia I. Social Sciences 010 - Faculty Moderator- Suthathip Yaisawarng Erica L. Saltz- Student Achievement in Con- necticut High Schools Maria G. Bruno- The Efficiency ofPublic Fos- ter Care in New York State Gregory Midland -Efficiency Measurement for National Basketball Association Teams Us- ing Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) Sponsor- Suthathip Yaisawamg Biju Salgunan- The Role and Adjustment of Released Professional Baseball Players Sponsor- George Gmelch J. Social Sciences 012- Faculty Moderator- Theresa Marchant-Shapiro Derek J. Evans -Content and Technique of Negative Advertising in Presidential Elec- tions Melissa Ahrend- The Politics of Television Violence Michael Wolf- The Effect of State Gun Con- trol Legislation on Crimes Committed with Firearms Kristin L. Campbell- The First Ladies: Public versus Private Political Roles Sponsor- Theresa Marchant-Shapiro K. Social Sciences 014 - Faculty Moderator - Virginia Dersch ' Eva J. Garen- Health Care Policymaking: How to Maintain a Balance Between Efficiency and Democracy in the Policymaking Arena Sponsor- Theresa Marchant-Shapiro Tara L.llliano- Hospice Nurses: Do They Dif- fer from Other Nurse Professionals? Sponsor- Virginia Dersch Michael Andelman- Take Me Out to the Bil- lion Dollar Bali Game Sponsor- Paula Consolini L. Social Sciences 103 -Faculty Moderator- Carol S. Weisse Special Session on AIDS Awareness Kerry E. Evers- The Effectiveness ofHIV Seropo~itive Educators on College Campuses Susan D. Gray- The Role of Age-Appropriate Education in AIDS-Preventive Behavior LisaS. Gerhan- Relationship of Gender and Homophobia to Sexual Behavior, Perceived Risk of AIDS, and Safe Sex Intent Kerry E. Evers- Role Play vs. Modeling Tech- niques in HIV Prevention: When Practice Doesn't Make Perfect Sponsor- CarolS. Weisse SESSION II - Arts Building .. 2:40 - 3:55p.m. POSTERS -Dance Studio and Atrium Robert W. DuPuy- The Effects oflmagery Value on Item Gains and Losses Across Re- peated Tests Sponsor- Daniel J. Bums Jennifer L. Papazian- Varying Nutritional Re- quirements Among Reproductive and Non-reproductive Populations of the Inter- tidal Neogastropod Ilyenassa obsoleta Sponsor- Barbara C. Boyer Jean-Paul Torres and Stein Amundsen - In- dependent Architecture Study on Central Park at Albany \Underground Community Center\ Sponsor- Chris N. Duncan Dionne D. Morgan- The Effect ofDrinking Mo- tives and Gender on Alcohol Consumption Sponsor- Anthony V. Rubonis Jennifer A. Poldmets-Follicle Stimulating Hor- mone Receptor as a Contraceptive Sponsor- George M. Butterstein Kevin Tung- Analysis and Construction of Air- craft for Maximum Cargo Sponsor- Frank E. Wicks Victoria L. Wulfsohn- Birth Order and Per- sonality and Their Relationship to Popular- ity in Pre-school Children Sponsor- Linda N. Stanhope Mario R. Capece- A Programmable Toy Car- \The Mar-Mobile\ Sponsor- Cherrice A. Traver Angel A. Caraballo and Mahra B. Rubinstein- The Effects of Extracellular Matrix Pro- teins on the Amount and Localization of the Attachment Protein Vinculin Sponsor- Barbara Danowski Leslie A. Mason - The Effects oflmagery on Sentence Comprehension Sponsor- Daniel Bums Jeffrey L. Spees- Ecology of the Green Crab Sponsor - Carl George Parrish C. Smolcha- Six-Year, Daily Survey orthe Waterbirds of Collins Lake, Scotia, NY -Parti Sponsor- Carl George Stephen A. Gollance- Six-Year, Daily Survey of the Waterbirds of Collins Lake, Scotia, NY- Part II . Sponsor- Carl George Chantal A. VonSaher- Food, Diet and Culture Change in a Barbadian Village Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch Craig F. Prunier- The Geology of Barbados Sponsor- George Gtnelch Suzanne Bloch- Dependency and Separation from Parents in First-born and Later Born College Students Sponsor- Suzanne l3enack Colleen E. Clancy- Aerobic Degradation ofHa- logenated Biphenyls by Indigenous Micro• organisms

May 5, 1994, page 8 STEINMETZ SYMP~SIUM ' . .• {HIJ.e <!tnnrnrb:itnsi~ '93-'94 Steinmetz Symposium Cont~ School: The Options Available to Barbadian Sponsor - George M. Butterstein and Kenneth Fish Daniel A. Pflederer .. The Effects ofimagery Value on Item Gains and Losses Across Re- peated Tests Sponsor- Daniel Bums John DeMarco, Wendy Eulau and Jennifer Baldwin -In vitro Evaluation of The Union College Vortex Blood Pump Sponsor .. J. Richard Shanebrook Sara Dingledy -Issues ofViolence and the South African Elections Michael R Gran bard- Five Lives: Inside a Bar- badian Household Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch Loi Tran, Walter Dixon, Richard Lovejoy- Mobile Robots Sponsors- Cherrice Trav.er, ~avid . Hemmendinger, John Spmelh and Jagd1sh Gajjar Jennifer Voerman and Thomas Vail- Autono- mous Walking Machine Sponsor- David Hemmendinger Theresa Hanlon - Measures of Distinctive and Organizational Processing Sponsor -Daniel Bums Sean H. O'Brien- Family Conflict, Interper- sonal Stress and Social Enhancement Ex- pectancy as Predictors of Drinking Behav- ior in College Students Sponsor- Anthony V. Rubonis . . John Y. Huang- Gap Juntional commumcation in Embryos of Marine Mud Snail Jlyanassa obsoleta Sponsor- Barbara Boyer . . Wally B. Bzdell- Mental Imagery - How It IS Used by World Class Athletes to Enhance Perfonnance Sponsor .:·Donald Spring SECOND ANNUA.L UNDERGRA.DUA l'E JURIED ART EXHIBITION Juried by Ken Johnson, Contributing Editor of Art in America Arts Atrium -Arts Building PHOTOGRAPHY- Sponsor- Martin Benjamin Tanweer H. Chapman, Lauren J. Entes, Kristeen M. Hoffman, Blake E. Klauber, Chad P. LaBonte, Wendy T. Lie beck, Bevan Meyers, Gregory A. Nathan, Pamela A. . Novell, Sarah C. M. Olson, Shannon L. Path, Adam J. Roberts, Dominic A. Romeo, Laurel R. T. Ruma, Michele Roseman, Emily C. Schreier, Ian S. Spanier, Jeffrey L. Spees, Trinh V. Thai, Jean-Paul Torres, Alexandre Vallee, Luigi A. Villa, Alexandra H. Wheeler PRINTMAKING- Sponsor- Sandra Wimer Omar F. Al-Khalidi, Sarah M. Bennati, Andrea M. Bruns, Pamela Y. Lin, Brianna Patnode, S. Scott Steele PAINTING- Sponsor- Walter Hatke Andrea M. Bruns, Andrew H. Chapman, Julia L. Lee, Gregory Nathan, Maria Pant~leyeva, James W. Polichak, Sharon A. Schnelder, Randheer Shailam, Jennifer L. Voerman DRAWING- Sponsor- Chris Duncan and Walter Hatke Sarah M. Bennati, Rosemary J: Chandrankunnel, Hillary J. Gallay, Susan D .. Gray, Joon Sik Keum, Heather E. Lech, Maria Panteleyeva, Brianna L. Patnode, Heather C. Picken, Kathryn A. Sullivan 3-D DESIGN- Sponsor- Chris Duncan Dawn Bogdon, Nicole R. Goldin, Jeremy Goverman, l\1atthew R. Kirk, Piper I. Lawrence, Joshua W. Parsons, William J. Ransom, Andrew C. Siegel, Todd L. Solomon SESSION III - 4:00 - 5:20p.m. A Arts 2 I 5 -Faculty Moderator- Suzanne Benack Speakers from Student A~sessment Project - In- Youths tellectual EngagementofUmon Students In and Out Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch . . ofthe Classroom Amy J. Glassman~· Alcohol Expectancies of the ' Barbadian Population Vishnu D. Thanik, David Bullen, Sacheen Sponsor- Kenneth G. DeBono Carr Ellis, DonyaA. Nagib, Amy J. Glassman, Jonathan D. Mors~, Jennifer B. McDermott, Andrea B. Wilson, Jonathon G. Wintscb; James E. Dlubac, Esther A. Levy, Pamela A. Novell, Dennis 1\tl. Popeo, James W. Polichak B. Humanities 019- Faculty Moderator ... Leo J. Fleishman Charles J. Doering- Erythropoietin (EPO) In- crease irt the Pregnant Rat is Mediated · by Increasing Androgen Level~ Sponsor a George M. B~tterstem . Matthew Leibman- Negative RegulatiOn of Placental Fibronectin Expression by .GJuco- corticoids Sponsor- Michael Frohlich . Wendy E. Miller- Ultraviolet and Infrared VI- sion in Lizards Sponsor-Leo J. Fleishman Kurt R. Venator- TheNeuroethology ofDrag- on Fly Prey Pursuit Sponsor- Robert Olberg D. Humanities 112- Faculty Moderator- Leslie A. Hull JayS. Berger- Syflthesis of a Hybrid Baldwin Peptide James A. Ernst- Synthesis and NMR of Short Salt Bridged Pep tides Sponsor- Leslie A. Hull Jason T. Graves- Binding of2- Acetylnaphthalene to Cyclodextrin Polymers Sponsor- Thom.as C. Werner MicheJie L. Dietrich- The Effect of Zinc Ion on the Structure of A TCase Sponsor-JanetS. Anderson E. Humanities 114- Faculty Moderator- Jordan Smith Maria Petroccione- The Age <>fEnlightenment and its Exclusion of Women Sponsor- Elizabeth A. Mazzola William I. Wolff- What Has Been and What is to Come . Sponsor- Jordan F. Smith . Jeremy D. Countryman- Sleepsvdle; a collec- tion of poetry Sponsor- Jordan F. Sm~t~ . . . Karen M. Peppiatt- Gabnel s Eptphany m James Joyce's \'The Dead\ Sponsor- Adrian W. Frazier H. Humanities 117- Faculty Moderator- Victoria Martinez Session in Spanish £iiza beth: Rodriguez- \La representaci6n de la . amada en Quevedo y en Gongora\ Sponsor- W·illiam Garcia . . Wilson A. Martinez - \Fronteras mtenores en El gringo viejo.\ . '. · . Georgia Southworth- \Laopresi6n publica: sm datos ni .resolucion\ Eileen Colkin - ''Paz y Fuentes:la confluencia de ideas'en El gringo viejo.\ Sponsor- Louis A. Martinez I. Social Sciences 010- Faculty Moderator- Eshragh Motahar Kathryn Sullivan- The Effects ofLocational and Team Attributes on Attendance and Quality of Teams in the NHL Sponsor- Bradley G. Lewis Saleem A. Siddiqi -The Role of Swaps in Vola- tile Financial Markets Keith R. Meier- A Credit Crunch? The Impact of Bank Fimince on the Real Economy, 1989-1993 · Sponsor- Eshragh Motahar.. . . Kristina N. Frenyea -Economies of Scale m the Property/Casualty Insurance Industry Sponsor- James Kenney J. Social Sciences 0 12 - ModeratQrs - Andrew F effer and Jody Yetzer . . . · Special Session on Ethnic Diverstty/ Multicultural Affairs Jennifer M. Sweeney- The Eclipse ofWomen in African Society and Literature Sponsor- Elizabeth A. Mazzo.la . Michael L. Ezra- American Pubhc Perceptions of African American Heavyweight Champions · Sponsor- A. T. Miller . . . Charles R. King- The Role ofEthmc D1vers1ty and Government Decentralization in State Expenditures . Sponsor- Shelton S. Schmidt . Christopher P. Brundage..: Revolutionary Wave: The Successes and Failures of the Cuban Revolution in the Caribbean Basin Sponsor- Byron A. Nichols K. Social Sciences 0 PJ- F acuity Moderator- Janet F.Humanities 115 -Faculty Moderat<>r - Edvige Grigsby Giunta Katherine Ambrosio...;. Experimenting with Nar- rative: The Film Adaptation of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man Julie M. Rosenberg- H. D.'s Re-Memory of \Her\ Past in Hermione Esther A. Levy -'Absence, Silence, Sickness and Madness: The Realm ofF em ale Experience in Emily Saliers' Ghost Sponsor- Edvige Giunta John McGraw- Gertrude Stein and William S. Burroughs: Anomalies of Contemporary Lit- erary Criticism Sponsor- Brenda Wineapple Barbara McCuen- The Impact ofthe 1949 Peekskill Riots on the Folk Music Move- ment in Post- War America Sponsor- Andrew Fef~e~ . . Matthew A. Karlyn - Pohttcal Corruptton 1~ Japanese Govennent and the Fall of the Ltb- eral Democratic Party Sponsor- Donald R. Thurston. Rachel P. Kest .. Israel and Amencan Women: A Comparative Study oftheirMilitary Ex- perience . . Ann M. Dris.coll- Trouble in Paradtse: The Rise of Suburban Street Gangs Sponsor- Janet Grigsby '· G. Humanities 1 16 -·Faculty Moderator- George L. Social Sciences 103- Faculty Moderator- Tho- Gmelch mas D'Andrea Session Based on Study Abroad in Barbados Eric Sharfstein ~Migration and Ideological Change in Barbados Sponsor- George Gmelch Rachel S.R. Goldfine -.Schools, Sex and Stress: Adolescence in Rural Barbados Kathy Lynn Walter- Life After Secondary Rosalinda Affinito- Teachers Concept of the Creative Prototype Compared to Students Actual Creative Performance . Sponsor- Thomas D'Andrea · . . Rachel E. Seely- The Effect ofMovmg Func- A E I: c H D ai E. Ft

STEINMETZ SYMPOSIDM May 5, 1994, Page 9 '93-'94 Steinmetz Symposium Cont. tion Words from Their Original tocation within a Sentence Gregory N. Goldstein- The Missing-letter Ef;. fectAcrossDifferent Age Groups: Evidence in Support of the Structural Theory Sponsor- Seth N, Greenberg Karen L. Rubin- Mathematics Anxiety and College Major in Male and Female College Students. Sponsor- Linda N. Stanhope ' ent Structure in Poetry · Stein H. J. Amundsen -Graphical Tests ofDe- terminism in Business Data Colleen E. Clancy- Fractal Properties of the Limit Sets ofFamilies of Circle Inversions Sponsor .. Michael Frame James E. Dykes - Design of a Power Probe for High Pulse Energy Laser Sponsor .. James McWhirter F.Humanities 115 - Faculty Moderator- Adrian M. Arts Dance Studio- Faculty Moderator- Darlene Frazier Myers (Session beginsat4:30) Kira M. Sobczak, Car a H. So iter, Melissa S. Weiner and Hillary A. Snow-. \Wanderings\ Melissa S. Weiner and Hillary A. Snow - \Leap into Spring\ Sponsor- Darlene Myers Michael T. Morin, Ricltard D. Pulver, Monique G. Lin, Michael J. Rothstein and Charles L. Curran -Union College Karate Club Kata Demonstration Sponsor- Donald R Thurston SESSION IV - 5:25 - 6:45 p.m .. _ A. Arts 215 ... Faculty Moderator- Suzanne Benack Speakers from Student Assessment Project (see students listed in Session III, Arts 215) B. Humanities 019 - Faculty Moderator- Stephen Horton Jason Lietz- Ecological Parameters Related to Beech-bark Disease Resistance Sponsor- Peter L. Tobiessen Manisha Tinani- Aerobic Biodegradation of Trichl oroetliylene Sponsor- Joseph Salvo David J. Hill - The Occurrence of Pathogenic Fungi in a Private Industrial Compost Facility Sponsor- John Haines and Stephen Horton Brad Allen- A Two-Fluid Approach to Signal- ized Intersection Analysis Sponsor- Elizabeth G. Jones C. Humanities 110- Faculty Moderator- Ekram Hassib Eric L. Slocum- Scrambled FM Radio Com- munication System James R. Fink .. A Direct Sequence Spread· Spectrum Communication System William C. Mau- A Scrambling and Descrambling Device for Voice Communi- c'ations via Telephone Transmission Lines Sponsor- Ekram Hassib Lee Nicolai- An Aural P'iano Tuning Aid ·Sponsor- John M. Spinelli D. Humanities 112 -Faculty Moderator- J. Rich- ard·Shanebrook LeeR. Johnson, Jr.- Wind Tunnel Simulation of Blood Flow in Cardiovascular Bypass · Grafts Sponsor- J. Richard Shanebrook Carlos A. Caminero- The Peter Tailer Ther- mal Lag Engine Analysis and Potential Ap- plications Sponsor- Frank E. .Wicks Micha~l J. Bowman- Auto ignition of Alcohol Fuels Sponsor- Richard D. Wilk . _ James Klahr- Development of a Computer Model to CompareOtto and Miller Cycle En- gines Spon~or .. Frank E. Wicks E. Humanities 114 - Faculty Moderator- Michael Frame Blaine ·J. Langberg- Mandelbrot Meets Frost: · A Study ofFractaJ Geometry and Its Inher- Rebecca Perchick- Rewriting History to Cre- ate Heroes Wendy Pfaffenbacb- Double Standard Politics in Renaissance Literature Sponsor- Elizabeth A. Mazzola Peter M. McCarthy- From Pixote to Kiss of the Spider woman: The Mainstreaming of Hector Babenco? Sponsor- William Garcia Andria V. Coletta- Much Ado About King Arthur Sponsor- Elizabeth A. Mazzola G. Humanities 116- Faculty Moderator- George Gmelch Session Based on Study Abroad in Barba- dos (continued) Marcie C. Heffernan- The Influence of Sport in Rural Barbadian Society Michael J. Rury- Mammalian Pests of Barba- dos: Monkey, Mongoose, Rat Sponsor- George Gmelch Nicole F. LaTour- Cultural Penetration: The American Influence in Barbados Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch Joseph E. Sullivan III .. The Ethics of the Hu- man Genome Project: A Rawlsean Analysis Sponsor- Robert B. Baker H. Humanities 117- Faculty Moderator- Louis A. Martinez Special Session in Spanish Joon S. Keum- \Similaridades y contrastes en El gesticulador y An Artist of the Floa.ting World\ Fran L. Gold~tein- \El papel de las mujeres de la Revoluci6n mexicana\ Rachel Katz- \La vida de Jesusa Palancares y su lucha desupervivencia\ Francisco P. Munoz- \Las mujeres en Ia literatura revolucionaria mexicana\ Sponsor- Louis A. Martinez I. Social Sciences 010 - F acuity Moderator- Camille Lapana . Special Session in German and French Kristen Breit -Friedrich Torbergs Mein ist die Rache: Entscheidungen angesichts des Todes Sponsor- Sigrid Kellenter Paul Schultz- Bertold Brechts Furcht und Elend des 3. Reiches: Wirkungen der Macht Sponsor- Sigrid Kellenter Olvin Cab a - \Personnages Contestataires dans le Theatre Franyais,'' \Rebellious Characters in French Theatre\ Sponsor- Camille Laparra J. Social Sciences 012 - FacultY Moderator- Sharon B.Gmelch Rebecca Parlakian- Art Examination of the Female Wage Gap in Developing Na- tions: The J~panese and Malaysian Cases Sponsor- Bruce L. Reynolds . Betsy A. Robinson .. Health and Health Care of Female Migrant Farm Workers Elaine L. Lee- Breaking the Silence (Asian) Domestic Violence in Chinatown,- NY Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch K. Social Sciences,O 14- Faculty Moderator- Paula Consolini Eric P. Habib- Toxic Waste in Our Environ- ment Mia Caetano- The Evolution of Mental Health Care Policy Sponsor- Paula Consolini Michelle Kleinhans- The Views ofF our Var- sity Sport Team MembersoftheLeadership on Their Teams Sponsor- Rudy V. Nydegger Stephen Gillis - Ethical, Moral and Judicial Is sues of the Right to Die, and a Study of College Students and EMTs. Sponsor- Virginia Dersch L. Social Sciences I 03 -Faculty Moderator .. Linda N.Stanhope Sharon M. Krim- The Effects of Children's Perceptions ofTheir Mothers' Employment · on Academic Achievement Nicole Flynn- Children's Temperamentand So- ciability in Different Preschool Settings Darcy Kim Rawlings - Pediatric Cancer Pa- tients' Understanding oflllness Sponsor- LindaN. Stanhope Patricia A. Fintak- Perceived Credibility in the Age-related Eyewitness Testimony of the Sexually Abused Child Sponsor- Leslie Halpern BANQUET FOR PRESENTERS, MODERA- TORS, SPONSORS AND PARENTS Old Chapel-7:00p.m. STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM CONCERT MEMORIAL CHAPEL 8:30- 9:30P.M. Program includes the premiere of Nightscape oy Ramakrishna Gaddipati, plus a perfonnance of the last movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E Minor, by Kevin Huang. Concert will begin with Dvorak's festive overture, Carni- val, and end with three movements from the Brahms' Requiem by the Union College Orchestra and Choir Sponsors- Hilary Tann and Hugh Wilson ORCHESTRA Jill M. Arliss, Chia-EuChen, Raphael Chavalier, RichardT. Clements, Stacy L. Fel lows, Susan E. Flehinger, Ramakrishna Gaddipati, Carin J. Gado, Kenneth J. Hackett, Jennifer Huang, Kevin Huang, Meagan R. Katz, Mary Beth Lowes, Elizabeth Maranville, Brianna L. Patnode, Jennifer Pyun, Sarah B. Rodgers, Emilia J. Teasdale, Jodi S. Tesser, Katherine M. Vanderlinden CHOIR Steven J. Bachman, Isca R. Beswick, Daniel J. Bullen, Carol E. Case, Erin M. Counihan, .Soume B. Daulat, Deanne M. Dixon, Aaron G. Epstein, Michael D. Farwell~ William J. Fleming, Carin J. Gado, Julie P. Griswold, Richard J. Haag, Joanna R. Haverly, Hillary P. Jospe, Shireen Khalil, Monique G. Lin, Lawrence Paska, Betsy S. Phelps, Leif H. Roberg, Robyn A. Ross, Monica Scotto, Linda C. Seymour, An- drew B. Slovak, Adina E at Stoneberg, Mat- thew C. Usher, Andrew S. W e b b , Monica D. Webster, Hana Yamashita, A I I i s o n B • 'Ifie Open. 1.loor Zuckerman, ~~~6ooaaam Mary Carroll, 12 8-l 36 14.Y SL s~. !10\ !118·346·2119 B r 0 e e 'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-., Downsbrough

May 5, 1994, page 10 White Males Do Not Dominate this Campus Equal representation for all cultural, ethnic, .racial, sexual and religious groups in the educational arena is critical. The definition of equal representation is ambiguous, and group discussions on the issue are privy to emotional outbursts which can semetimes muddy the topic of conversation. This Tues- day, the Multicultural Affairs Group sponsored a crosstalk which questioned \Do White Males Dominate at Union?\ Empirically, participants were being asked to determine whether women (of any background) or non-whites (female or otherwise) hold a representative number of positions of power at this institution. Despite the fact that Union was a single-sex institution for approximately the first 175 years of its existence, and in lieu of the fact that aggressive affirmative action programs on col- lege campuses do not have lengthy histories, Union College has made great strides towards eliminating its image as a white- male dominated school. One need only look at the rapidly changing composition of administrators, faculty members, and student leaders to real- ize that Union is heading in the right direction in terms of improving its diversity. Many available administrative posi- tions have recently been filled by women, and the relative difficulty Union has encountered in attempting to attract non- white administrators and faculty members is reflective of the problems that all small Liberal Arts Colleges have fought against. The administration and faculty have not callously excluded non-whites. Rather, a more equal integration of women and non-whites will occur over time as current pro- fessors and administrators retire. A better indication of the progress that has been made in breaking down the barriers of what used to be a white-male dominated school is the degree to which women and non- whites have excelled as campus leaders. It is no coincidence that women currently occupy some of the most influential student positions. Non-whites are amongst the most active students on this campus. Do white males dominate this campus? Although their power may slightly exceed their representation, the tables are turning, and it is false to assume that current administrators, faculty members and student leaders are not aiding in this process. Features1Editor$: ; ,, . AJt$,.Jzcit~t:,;, : : :;.r:., .· .... \· ·,••·;,LiD : { Sp(nts Editors . .. . ... · ..• Copy Editqr . \ · Photo Jiditot .. . . Woxld. N(f!W$. J:i:Jilt0011· . • . .. . .·· Opi.nio•~:~: i4ittt .... '\\····\ ·i v.,}· r. Sci@W?e & Ii~ttltk:~~ititgrs Business ~i.tot AdV$!rtising·.J$dit~.p§, . \i}\';:·.iri:.,· .. :••>t' · OP-ED :r~ ..... \'!' ........... ~ Mu y .. , .......... Ma4ka s.ww OPINIONS \Do White Males Dominate at Union?'' by Sarah R. Evans Opinions Editor \Do white males dominate at Union?\ The obvious answer to this question is yes. White males dominate this campus academi- cally and socially. Academically white males dominate the curriculum. The General Education curriculum focus on white males. Every stu- dent at Union is required to study a predominately white male his- tory sequence, during their fresh- man year. There is the option to study non-Western cultures to ful- fill requirements, but not every student has to study these culture. We are forced to study the history of dead white upper-class males, but we are not forced to learned about other non-We stem cultures. White males dominate the so- cial scene at Union. There are very few alternatives on this campus to drinking at fraternity houses. Ob- viously since the word \ti'aternity\ implies an exclusive male orga- nization and .fraternities are the · main fonn of social activity on this campus; males control the social atmosphere of Union. There is nothing wrong with fra- ternities being part of the social ethnos of Union, but it causes the male dominance on this campus. Males have the opportunity to dominate. the social scene because neither Union nor Schenetady of- fers many social alternatives. I attended the Crosstalk spon-: sored by the Multicultural Affairs Group entitled \Do White Males Dominate at Union?\ The ques- tion was answered befut:e the de- bate even began, but the males on the panel, Pat Haskell and Dean Weiner, did their best to defend white males and they did have some valid points. Both Pat Haskell and Dean Weiner made references to the number of women who hold positions of authority on campus, both stu- dents, faculty and administration. The problem with pointing to these statistics is they might re- flect the fact th~t women are gaining importance and respect in this community, but they neglect the fact that the curriculum is still dominated by dead white males, whether it be in philosophy, his- tory, classics, economics or the sciences. President Roger Hull, Dean Weiner and Pat Haskell all made reference to the fact that as ofJuly 1st, three of the six admin- istrators who report h> President Hull will be women, in the de- fence of white males. An important comlllent was made from the floor of the debate, in which someone said that it is not only the number of women or minorities the school hires, but a:lso the quality of the wotnen has to be considered. It is not fair to hire a woman so that she can be a number rather than for what she can do. Professor Scullion also brought up another impottant as- pect in the debate. Affirmative All Letters To The Editor Must Be Submitted By Tuesday 5PM, Th~ Week Of Publication On High Density Disk. No Exceptions. Action has been successful in the recruitment of women faculty to Union, but unsuccessful in re- cruiting minority faculty. Minor- ity and women faculty hiring need to be separate, thex should not be classified in a lump as Affinna- tive Action hiring. By lumping to two together, we do not see the gross inequities in minority hir- ing. \Do White Males Dominate at Union?\ Of course they do. What can be done to end this subjuga- tion of women and minorities is the question that really needs to be addressed. I do not have any solutions to end this problem overnight. If I did have the solu- tion, not only would I solve the problem of male dominance at Union, but also in society as a whole and I would most likely win a Nobel prize, thank G/D I can speak Norwegian so I can accept the award in the native lan- guage. Back to reality. The end of white male dominance at Union will gradually change. It is not possible to niake changes over- night. Professor Patrik was right when she said that change is go- ing to occur first at the grassroot level. She also suggested that people look at what each indi- vidual person to encourage male dominance. We all neesJ to look at what we do to encourage white male dominance on this campus and how we can help create change. 1 p 0 a Sl 1 p c p tl l tl J 1\. g rr ft t( 8l 1( rr Cl a 0: 8l

• 'I • ij!4e (11:itnr,o-rb-ittu3is LETTERS May 5, 1994, page 11 Seniors: Can You Meet The Challenge? To the Editor: I read with great interest in the April 14 Concordiensis of the ef- fort by the Class of 1994 to make a graduation gift -of $5,000 to the College to construct seating around the Flagpole. Following is a related story and offer. My father, Milton W. Bishop, enlisted in World War I at the le- gally underage of 16 and served in the 10th Bailoon Corps in France. When he died in 1988. he had been commander ofthe A von Park(FL) Veterans ofWorld War I and the last surviving World War I balloonist-obviously very patriotic. In 1939 my father was with me on two visit at Union, the tirst for an Admission Interview and the second to deliverme for residence as a Freshman. On both occa .. sions,he noted Union's spectacu~ lar flagpole but no flag,. About a week after his second visit, President Dixon Ryan Fox received a. package with a large American Flag and. a note from my father that it was for the Union flagpole and that his son would raise it daily while in college. I did so for three and a half years of war accelerated college ending in active duty with the Army AirCorp$ as a pilot.insttue• tor for which I had :abo been trained at Union. When I left in December 1942; my cousin, DonaldM. Sullivan, then a fresh- man, continued flag raisi~g until himself called to infantry duty which ended with the Battle ofthe Bulge and his listing .among the alumni to whom Memorial Field brary in memory ofthe parents but House is dedicated. was absent from the ceremony as Raising the flag in those days I was attending my 50th ReUnion was far differ-ent than today. The ·· at Union College. flag could not be floWn at night That is the backgFound for the but had to be raised in the mom- following offer: I hereby challenge ing and taken down each night .at the Class of 1994 that I will con- sunset. The cleat on which the tribute $1,000 to their Flagpole manual halyard was wrapped at Seating Fund in memory of my its lower end was on the metal father and my cousin if at least section ofthe pole~ about 12 feet 70% of the members of _the class above the ground. The College contribute at least $4,000. furnished a special ladder to lam confident that The Class of climb to that point. aut the stu· 1994 can meet that challenge with dentflag-raisers developed a spe- as much devotion as my Class of cial technique of letting the ex- 1943 did last year in the largest cess halyard hang, then using it 50th ReUnion Annual Fund Gift to walk up the .stone base fro the in Union history with 79% partici- neNt occasion. In winter, ice on pation. the base was a special challenge. Last summer I gave a flagpole to the new Avon Park Public Li- Sincerely yours, Robert M. Bishop Administration To Close Faculty Daycare Co-Op To The Editor: On March 1st of this year, the parental board of the Union Day Care received a letter from Vice President Mammola informing them that they must vacate the Union college-owned building that they currently occupy by June 15th. Vice President Mammola cited space and bud- get cuts as the reasons for the dis- missal of the Union Day Care · frotri UniOn·~; 'campus. The cen- ter has existed for twenty years and offers services to Union Col- lege· faculty and staff as well as members of the Schenectady community. The center is run by a co-op system in which parents or close family members prepare and serve food to their children on a daily basis. In addition to the emphasis placed upon paren- tal contact, teachers Carolyn Danek and Carol Remmert orga- nize activities such as story-time, painting, math, music and move- ment.. The Union Day Care has been an asset to the Union Col- lege campus for many reasons. It has been used by Psychology stu- dents and Photography students who have observed and photo- graphed the children there and it ·has 'also allowed Uni6n fac'ulty and staff to attend to their duties on campus and at the same time remain in contact with their chil- dren. Finally, the Union Day Care is a positive link between Union College and the citizens of Schenectady. Despite the benefits that the ,.- Editorials, Letters & · · · Disclainters Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Boatd.e All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing itJ The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, .all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8~ 10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop l?ox outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. Union Day Care offers to the Union community, it will no longer reside on campus. Instead, the administration has decided that space and money must over- ride the humanity that the Day Care provides and represents. I cannot understand how the ad- ministration can reconcile their desire to have better relations with the Schenectady community yet close the Day Care which al- lows Schenectady residents to utilize a phenomenal Union facil- ity. I also wonder what message is being sent to the faculty and staff ofUnion when the Day Care closes. Is Union's administration saying that they are not interested in the family aspect of its employ- ees. In other words -Just show up for work and do your job. This idea saddens me in a time when employers throughout the country are beginning to recognize the fact that their employees have families that must be cared for. I have spent four years on this campus so I am not naive enough to think that this letter will change the decision to dose the Union Day Care. I hope, however, that the students, faculty and staff of Union College will recognize the closing of the Union Day Care as another sign that Union is no longer- a \h.ome'·' .for.- \one ·.big happy family.\ Instead, it is slowly evolving into a huge money-making factory that ig- nores the needs of its residents. Sincerely, Jennifer M. Sweeney . ··· S.it\~~r~ly~ ,,:Rrt1E./JemJ·tM; Kaplan yJJ,aiJ.tS,9~Plogyc:Qept. A Response to \The Fear of :.Religion\ To the Editor: This is in reply to Alexis Leist's article, \The Fear ofReligi_on: On the Verge of Atheism.\ Dear Alexis, Your experiences of Catholic grammar school, reminded me somewhat of my own Catholic childhood in the late 1950's. I was surprised and saddened that some of the same negative as- pects still exist 40 years later. I am sony forthe.mental and spiri- tual abuse you have suffered from Catholic religious persons. For those who believe, God is a God of love. God is not some judge up in the sky waiting to pounce on us everytime we do something wrong. The Creator did not make us perfect, but as human beings, who think and feel -and make mistakes. Fear is what keeps us from God. Jesus is the model in the way of love, he has an intimate rela- tionship wiht God as loving Par- ent. He tells us the way to God is by loving ourselves and one an- other. Love and relationship is key. The focus of Catholicism is not on the cruxifixion but on the Resur- rection. In love, God gives us choices, not as threats but in free- dom. God wants us to be happy in this life. Catholics did not write the Bible. The Hebrew Bible, (or Old Testa- ment), was written centuries be- fore Jesus was born. The New Tes- tament was written by members of the early Christian community. You are right, parts of Catholi- cism are sexist. But the Church has changed, and is continuing to change, as more and more lay- people, women and men, enroll in seminaries, and receive graduate degrees in theology. (For example, I have the same theological edu- cation, pastoral training and aca- demic creditials as my classmates who were ordained priests.) The Catholic Church has drastically changed in the past 30 years since Vatican IT - and it is still evolving. At present, as we ap- proach the Third Millenium~ the Church is on the v~rge of major change - it is no longer a ques- tion of \if' but a question of \when.\ I am not offended by anything you wrote, you are not damned \for thinking and writing such things.\ There is nothing wrong with asking questions about God, faith or the Church. We all need to grow-up in faith, to be chil- dren of God does not imply be- ing childish. Relating to God as an adult is· healthy- and nonnal. I encourage you to keep on think- ing, and asking questions. If you, or anyone else, would like to discuss these issues, in an open, non-judgemental manner, please give me a call, at #6087. Sincerely, Sr. Marie O'Ryan, RSCJ Religious Programs Office The Concordiens,is apologizes to Rich Fuerst. He did hand in a photograph which should have appeared in last week's newspaper under 'Candidates for Junior Trustee.' The photograph was lost somewhere between Schenectady and Gloversville.

FEATURES May 5, 1994, . ' ' ' . Question and Answer With Matt Karlyn, V.P~ Academics Part Ill in a Series of Interviews With Union's Student Leaders Q: What is the general level of student feedback? It is becoming increasingly bet- ter, but it is.still extremely poor. For instance in the four crosstalks that were held, an average· of 20 people showed up for each one. For one hour events, this is ex- tremely poor. We have tried to select topics which students are generally interested in, but they don't show up. At the town meetings, during which very important issues are discussed, attendance was horren- dous, and at the recent debates attendance was bordering on be- yond pitiful. Q: What would you change about the Forum? There are too many commit .. tees on this campus. There are too many beau.racratic hurdles that · have to be cleared in order · to accomplish anything: Q: Would you care to elabo- rate? ported that th~y have en- countered ap- proximately one case of . cheating each ·year. With over 160 fac- ulty members at Union, we · have deter- . mined that cheating oc- curs more of- . ten than one would expect. . Through vari- ous mea$ures,. we have tried · to raise con- sciousness on this issue. These mea- sures include . reporting to ments ~ave also been adopted to allow for a more academically diverse education. · Although more needs to be done, the AAC has taken ad- equate steps towards creating a more diverse curriculUin .. I hope that efforts will be taken in the future to create such pro- grams to study other cultural and religious groups .. Q: What other concems do you have on academic issues? I think its time that Unionmtlke \There are too many bureaucratic hurdles that have to be cleared in order to accomplish anything.\ In cases of emergency, the Forum should be able to by- pass constitl!- tional inconsis- tencies in order to bring about quick solutions Matt Karlyn in front oftlte senior class flag (photo the commit- tee on teach- a. stronger connnitment to aca- demics and academic affairs. A perfect example ofthe lack of at- tention that academics receive was the recent NCUR in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Students were bussed 14 hours each way, to and.from Kalamazoo with two juniorfaculty members, while the two senior faculty members on the trip not only flew each way, but also stayed at the ritziest ho- tei in town, without the Union group. It's unfortunate that students constantly complain about apathy on this campus, but never do any- thing to improve student involve- ment. I hope that in the future, students will take these events more seriously. to potentially damaging prob- lems. For example, this new club needed money to sponsor an event. The constitution stipulates that a club has to be an existence for I term before it can get fund- \At the Town Meetings, during which very important issues were was discussed, attendance horrendous, and at the recent debates attendance was bordering on beyond pitiful.\ Q: Some forum members have talked about the high level of debate on this year's Forum and how it has strengthened ·the Forum. Can you comment on this? One of the biggest problems on the Forum this year is that people [members of the Forum] fail to ask questions about the important issues with which we are faced. Often, debates involve the same people and the same issues. In the future, I hope more members will be eager to voice their opin- ions. Q: What have you gained from being a member of the Forum? I have gained the ability to un- derstand and appreciate the many different interests that exist within the Union gates. ing. The club didn't have one term to waste. The whole pro- cess of finding loopholes in the constitution [ so that funding could be granted] and the debates which ensued were extremely time consuming. If such a provi- sion existed, episodes like this could have been avoided. Q: What have been the Forum's biggest accomplishments this year? I )Getting the Finance Hand- book passed was a great accom- plishment. The handbook out- lines all of the rules and regula- tions that clubs and committees must follow in order to get fund- ing. Also, it will serve to rectify inconsistencies that currently are apparent in the Student Forutn. 2)Bringing greater awareness of academic integrity to Union. Currently, cheating is a proqlem that many students are realizing must be solved. 3)1 think Mia [Caetano] has done an excellent job directing the Student Forum this year and mak- ing it a mote cohesive unit. Q: Will this trend continue? I hope so. I think Nate is ex- tremely qualified for this new po- sition. Having a year of experi~ ence will help him lead the new Forum. Many of the new Forum positions will be occupied by in- cumbent members. This will hopefully help to carry on Mia's legacy. Q: What are some of the major accomplishments in academic affairs? Last year, Karen Hurwitz, with Professor McCarty, began a new sub council on academic honesty and progress. My biggest goal for this year was to increase Union's commitment to preserving aca- demic integrity at our school. Early in the year, the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) appointed two new professors to this com- mittee. Under the direction of Professor Carol Weisse, this sub- committee has worked extremely hard in trying to increase aware- ness of dishonesty at Union. Recently, we sent out a survey to all professors asking them to report their beliefs on this very important issue. The results were astonishing. Faculty members re- ing, working with the admissions office, and organizing crosstalks and open discus$ions. Also, we are trying to write a new policy that deals with those who cheat. I have collected in- formation from various schools that have dealt with this problem in much the same way that we have. Information from Rutgers University, obtained through Dr. Leslie Fishbein, has been ex- tremely helpful. I feel that the policy which is being discussed I too enjoy running around a multi-million dollar track and stepping on the fanciest stairmasters, but I also believe a .stronget:financial commitment to academics should be made. Stu- dents spend two terms preparing research and writing theses in or- der to participate in NCUR while receiving little support from our administration. It is within Union's financial resources to send these students in the proper \I too enjoy running around a multi- million dollar track and stepping on the fanciest stairmasters, but I also believe a stronger financial commitment to acad:emics should be made.'' for implementation at Rutgers would best fit Union's needs. By the end of the term, I hope Union will implement such a policy Q: How have you tried to in- crease diversity in the curricu- lum? The biggest accomplishment of the AAC this year has been imple- mentation of the Africana Stud- ies Program. Also, the term in Brazil has helped to bring more diversity to our curriculum . · The General Education require- manner. Maybe next time the administration will take a step back and look at what is really important to Union. Is it exces- sively expensive trustee meet- ings? Or is it the students who spend an endless amount of time tryingto achieve academic excel- lence. Yes, ifUnion is to return to col- legiate competitiveness, then aca- demics must become, and remain, the number one concern of the college. Blood Drive - Sponsored by Delta ·Gamma and Kappa Sigma In Alumni Gym May 19th- Thursday, 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. l

May 5, 1994, FINAL EXAMS UNION COLLEGE 1993-94 SPRING TERM FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE This exam schedule i~ primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate. schedule for Graduate&, Continuing Studies c~urs~s will b~ an.nounced, and students in Section \Sl or 52\ courses should be alert for the ailnoUncement of the exam time for those courses. Conf11cts m exarmnattons should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 27th. Examinations will bl:l held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the !:mUdings to be used. ARlS -Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR- Butterfield Hall HUMN- Humanities Bldg. COLC - College Center Auditorium MONDA Y.JUNE 6· 8:30-lO:JOAM NWSE -North Wing,S/E Center PYCH- Psychology Bldg. STZH- Steinmetz Hall ALUM- Alumni Gym Introduction to Cultural Anthropology· S. Leavitt-SSCl012 . Gender and Society- S. Gmelch-SSCI 110 lntroduction to Biology II • P~ Tobiessen-SSCI 016 Introduction to Ne~Jrobiology- R Olberg-BAIL 102 Soil Mechanics- A. Ghaly-BUTR I 06 TUESDAY,JlJNE 7-11:30..1:30 PM The Chemistry ofThings -1. Sowa-BUTR 109 Inorganic Chemistry- M. Yin-NWSE 201 BasicChinese ill- LianXi-HUMN 2B Introduction to Economics - J. Kel_Uley-BAIL 201 History of Economic Thought- B. Le\vis~BAlL312 Major American Authors- N. Shour~HUMN 115 Hurrt:Enlightenment& Romanticism- P. Heinegg-HUMN 114 Mechanics I- W. Thabet-BUTR 204 Mechanics II- M. Rivera-NWSE21Q Modem France -C. Laparra-BAIL 104 Physical Geology- G. Shaw-BUTR 210 Basic German ill-S. Kellenter-HUMN 112 The Holocaust • S. Berk-COLC Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft- S. Sargent-SSCI 112 IntermediateJapanese ill-Y. Khan-ARTS 215 Principles of Latin II- J.S. Scullion•HUMN 113 Latin Epic - M. Tohet-HUMN 119 Calculus II - K. Zimmerman-BAIL 100 Applied Linear Algebra- J. Sauerberg-ALUM Geometry of Nature- M. Frame•BAIL I 06 - . History ofWestem Philosophy- F. Davis & J. Ludwig-HUMN 014 Introduction to Political Thought- P.A. Meyers-BAIL 207 A First Course in Psychology- C. Weisse-PYCH 1I3 Developmental Psychology ~L. Stanhope-PYCH 213 Basic Russi on ill- B. Jordan-SSCI 213 PHY-015-01 PHY•015·02 PHY\Ol8•01 PHY..QJS-02 Physics for Life Sciences I- J. Newman-NWS.E 112 Physics for Life Sciences I- R Khosropour-NWSE 116 General Physics II -C. Jones-NWSE 114 General Physics II - M. Green-STZH 106 TUESDAY. JUNE 7 • 2:30-4:30 PM AMU-021-01 CER-023·01 CHN:.OJ0-01 EER-042-01 EGL-020-01 ENS\038-0l GER-121-01 GER-122-01 GRK-012-01 HST-071-01 MER-OI2-01 MER-012-02 MTH\l32-0l PHL-020-0l PHY-041-01 PSC-012-0I RUS-122\01 SPN-121-02 SPN-I22-0l Music History II- H.A. Wilson-ARTS 215 Dynamics and Vibrations- E. Jones-BUTR 300 Basic Chinese I - Lian Xi-SSCI llO Systems Theory I • J. Spinelli-NWSE 114 Major English Authors II- P. Heinegg-HUMN I16 Environmental Sci & the Atmos - R. Wilk -NWSE 21 0 Intermediate German ll- K. Hamm~Ehsani-HUMN 213 Advanced German- K. Hamm-Ehsani-HUMN 2 I 3 Greek Reading - J. Marincoia-SSCI I 05 Modem History of Middle Ea5t- S. Berk-SSCI 103 Engineering Graphics ll- M. Rivera-NWSE 222 Engineering Graphics ll- R. Eggert- NWSE 201 A Abstract Algebra I-T. LaBerge-BAIL 100 Intro to Logic & Crit Thinking- C. Womack-HUMN II 0 Life on the Edge: Roots ofOrg.- D.Peak & M.Frame- NWSE1I2 Introto International Pol- A.Abootalebi & B.Nichols-SSCI 104 Advanced Russian- N. Jernakoff-HUMN I13 Intermediate Spanish ll- C. Connelly-HUMN II 5 Advanced Spanish - L. Martinez-HUMN 1I7 ANT-0 J;O-(H ANT~Oli2-0l BIO~l8-0l BIQ-162-01 CER-142-01 CHM·Ol5-0l CHM'-118•91 CHN-01~·01 ECO~OI2-0l EC0-015-01 EGL-022-01 EGL-044-01 ESC-010'-01 ESC-020-0I FRN-130-01 GE0-010-0l GER-012-01 HST-058-0I HST-083-01 JPN-122-01 LAT-011-01 LAT-137:..01 MTH-012-01 MTH-040-01 MIH-056-01 PHL-013X01 PSC-013-01 PSY-010-01 PSY-038-01 RUS-012-01 SPN-130-0I WST-010-0I Spanish & Latin American Lit. - L. Martinez-PYCH 102 Gender and Society- S. Gmelch-SSCI 110 WEDNESDAY.JUNE8-8:30-10:30AM GRK-138-01 MTH-014-0l MTH-014-02 MfH-030-01 MTH-030-02 SPN-Oll-01 SPN-Oli-02 SPN-012-01 SPN-OI2-02 Greek Lyric and Elegiac Poetry- J.S. Scullion-HUMN 1I9 Calculus Ill - J. Sauerberg-BATI.. 100 Calculus Ill - W. Fairchild-BAIL 203 Ordin Differential Equations - J. Muckenfuss-BAIL I 06 Ordin Differential Equations- J. Barbanel-BAIL 205 Basic Spanish II- A. Noel-Gosh-HUMN 115 Basic Spanish II- A. Noel-Gosh-HUMN liS Basic Spanish ill- V. Martinez-HUMN 114 Basic Spanish ill- M. Osuna-IIDMN 1I7 MONDAY. JUNE 6- 2:30-4:30 PM ACC-010-01 AMU-030-0I ATH-051-0l AVA-045-01 BI0-045-01 ECO-OI4-0I ECO-OI7-0l HST-067-0l :PHL-174-01 PSC-019-0I PSC-042-01 PSY-020-01 PSY-049-01 PSY-050·01 Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis•BAIL 207 American Music- TW. Ross-ARTS 215 Directing- L Bloomrosen-ARTS 313 The Illustrated Organism- W. Hatke-ARTS 207 The Illustrated Organism- C. George-ARTS 207 Develop & Society in East Asia- B. Reynolds/D. Thurston-SSCI-112 Comp. Philo. in US Economic Pol. -D. Klein-SSCI I 03 Develop & Society in East Asia- D.Thurston & B.Reynolds-SSCI 112 Biomedical Ethics - R Baker-HUMN ll 0 Develop & Society in East Asia- D. Thurston & B.Reynolds-SSCI 112 Soviet and Russian Politics- J.S. Zacek-SSCI OI2 Statistical Methods in Psych-S. Greenberg-PYCH204 The Psychology of Addiction- T. Dowling-PYCH Il3 Educational Psychology- J. Campito-PYCH 213 TUESDAY, JUNE 7- 8:30-10:30 AM AAH-032-01 ANT-104-0l BI0-026-01 BI0-147-01 CER-165-0l CHM-040-01 CHM-lSZ-01 CLS-025-0I CLS-025•02 EC0-031-01 EER-14S-Ol FRN-148-0l HST-010-01 HSt-014-02 .HST-014-03 HST-019-01 HST-036-02 HST-117-01 ITL-010-01 :MER-050-01 MfH-101-01 PHY-044-01 PHY'-I62-0l PSY-053-0) PSY-130-01 SOC-051-01 SPN-142-01 WST-0&3,·01 WST-130-01 · High Renaissance in Italy - L. Matthew-ARTS 215 Contemporary Japanese Society- S. Gmelch-SSCI 010 Cell Biology- G. Smith & B.Panowski-BAIL 207 Immunology- T. Styles-NWSE 116 Systems Analysis and Design - T. Jewell-BUTR 3 00 Quantitative Chemistry .. T. Wemer~BAIL 104 Physical Chemistry ll- D. Hayes-BAIL I 06 HistoryofRome~M. Toher-HUMN 115 History ofRome- J. Marincola-HUMN 114 MicroewnomicArtalysis•S. Yaisa.warng-BUfR 109 Digital Circuits- E. Hassib-NWSE 112 FrenchSpecial Topic- W. Thomas-HUMN014 Hist & Soc :Tract Civilization- E.Hansen & R. Wells-BAIL 100 · History of U.S. Since Civil War- F. Dudden-SSCI104 History of U.S. Since Sivil War- J. Stemgass-SSCI 112 Great Depression& WW IT- M. Jonas•SSCI 012 History ofEurope II - S. Berk-SSCI 016 American Economy since the New Delil - J. Finkelstein-SSCI 014 Basic Italian I- M. Tomatore-HUMN 019 Heat Transfer Analysis & Design- R. Wilk-NWSE 210 Advanced Calculus for Engineers- J.Barbanel & W.Zwicker-BAIL 201 Introduction to Astronomy - A. V anture- NWSE 114 Advanced Topics in Physics m- S. Maieki-NWSE 303 Attitudes and Social Behavior- K. DeBOJio-PYCH I13 Se~illar in Learning&. Memory- D.J. Bums-PYCH 213 Race, Class & Gender in Society -R Quaye·BAIL 205 The Latin-American Novel- V. Martinez-BAIL 203 Race, Class & Gender in Society- R. Qu.aye-BAIL 205 Contemporary Japanese Society- S. Gmelch-SSCI-01 0 BI0-024-01 CER-132-0l CHM-010-01 CHM-012XOI CHM-016-01 CHM-182-01 CSC-OII-OI EGL-073-0I FRN-01I-01 FRN-012-01 FRN-122-01 GER-011-01 HST-045-01 JPN-012-01 MER-Q26-0I MER-042-01 MTII-018-01 MTII-028-0I MTII-059-01 MTH-134-01 PHL-035-01 PHY-019-01 PSC-058-0I PSY-024-01 SPN-121-01 Genetics & Evolution - J.Boyer & J.S. Horton-BAIL 207 Reinforced Concrete Design- M. Mafi-BUTR I 09 Fundamental Chemistry I- M. Carroll-BAIL 201 Fundamental Chemistly II- J. Anderson-BUTR 204 Inorganic Chemistry I - C. Weick -BAll.. I 04 Protein Structure and Function - A. Agadij anian-NWSE 222 Progranlming for Soc Sciences- L. Almstead-STZH I 06 Realism & Naturalism in Am Lit- B. MacDonaldHUMNII2 Basic French ll- L. Gates-HUMN II7 Basic French ill- A. Leamon-HUMN 110 Advanced French- C. Laparra-HUMN 113 Basic German IT-S. Kellenter-HUMN 119 The Second World War Era- E. Hansen-SSCI 103 Basic Japanese ill - Y. Khan-S SCI 01 0 Thermodynamics- R. Kenyon-NWSE 201 Engineering Design ill- R. Eggert-NWSE 210 Intro to Logic and Set Theory - S. Niefieid-BAll.. 203 Probability- W. Fairchild-BAIL 205 Appl ofMath to.Eco & Mgmtll- T. Bick-BATI.. 102 Differential Equations- A Seiken-SSCI 012 Philosof)hy in America- J. Ludwig-HUMN 014 General Physics ill - J. Me Whirter-NWSE I16 International Law- J. Board-SSCI 104 Social Psychology- K. DeBono-PYCH 113 Intermediate Spanish ll - M Tomatore-HUMN 019 WEDNESDAy I JUNE 8-11:30-1:30 PM CSC·OI0-01 MTH-124-01 PHL-015-01 PSC-011-01 PSC-059-01 PSY-010-02 SOC-140-01 Computers & Computing - L. Spallholz-STZH 106 Geometry- B. Johnson-BAIL 102 Philo & Existential Literature- L. Patrik-HUMN Il 0 Intro to American Politics- P. Consolini-SSCI 014 Global Development- A. Abootalebi-SSCI I 04 A First Course in Psychology- D. Spring-PYCH 102 State Repression in Africa- R Quaye-SSCI 112 WEDNESDAY. JUNE 8-1:30-.4:30 PM ANf-015-01 BI0-011-01 BI0-130-01 BI0-170-01 EC0~012~02 EC0-033-01 EC0-144-01 EGL-022-02 EGL-34d-Ol ESC-013-01 GE0-032-01 GE0-041-0I MTH-057-01 PSC-044-01 PSC~082-0l SOC-038-01 SPN-139-0I STA-111-01 Intro to Archeology - E. Cesarski-SSCI 105 Topics in Contemporary Biology - R. Willing-BAIL 201 Comparative Animal Physiology • L. Fleishman- BAIL 102 General Endocrinology - W. Roth-BAIL l 00 . Introduction to Economics - B. Reynolds-SSCI I 04 Public Pol & American Industry ·D. Klein-SSCI 0 I 0 International Economics - E. Motahar-SSCI 103 Major American Authors- B. Wineapple-HUMN Il4 Studies in American Literature - L. Slade-HUMN 019 High Level Lang Programming- D. Hemmendinger-NWSE 222 Petrology- K. Hollocher-BUTR 204 Structural Geology- J.I. Garver-BUTR 201 Game Theory: Applications to- A. Taylor-BAIL 106 Japanese Political Behavior- D. Thurston-SSCI 012 Health Politics and Policy- T. Weiner-BAIL I 04 Sociology of Deviant Behavior- J. Grigsby-SSCI 014 Peninsular and Latin Am Poetry - W. Garcia-HUMN 014 Intro Mathematical Statistics- J. Schmee-BAIL 312

May 5, 1994, Page 14 FEATURES Union Triutnphs in Concrete Canoe Contest at SUNY Buffalo ASCE student cl1apter Concrete Canoe Team:. back row, left to rigl1t: Prof. Ghaly, Sal D'Aniello, Joe Capovani, Scott Zollo, Prof. Libby Jones. Front row, leftto rigl1t: Stepllanie Wlliteltead, Paul Ketchum by Scott Zollo Contributing Writer On a cold and extremely windy lake on the SUNY Buffalo cam- pus, the Union College ASCE stu- dent chapter put in quite an ap- pearance, coming in third overall in a field of seven boats in the New York State·· Regional com- petition. The other schools com- peting were the United States Military Academy, Hudson Val- ley Community College, Broome County Community College, Cornell, SUNY Buffalo and our eternal favorite, Rennsaeler Poly- technic Institute. Having finished the final touches on the canoe a few days earlier, and knowing the ability of their chapter, the team was highly relaxed prior to the race. The driv- ing ability of the chapter's advi- sor, Professor Libby Jones, helped to create the proper atmo- sphere to concentrate on what was surely to be a heated battle for the first place trophy. The night be- fore the competition was spent in a strategy session planning the techniques that would lead to Union's success. Facing the brisk Buffalo wind, Union's team rose with the sun to find themselves only the second canoe to have arrived at the race sight. Unfazed by the inclement weather, the canoe was promptly placed in the lake and passed the swamp test with flying colors, en- abling Union to enter the race. Paddling for the Union team were Stephanie Whitehead, Paul Ketchum, Joe Capovani, Sal D' Aniello, Brad Allen and Scott Zollo. The faculty were repre- sented by professors Ashraf Ghaly and Libby Jones, both ex- perienced in canoe racing. The racing was noteworthy, and de- spite the intimidation tactics used by West Point in the faculty race, Union emerged unscathed. The afternoon presentation of the ca- noe was a stellar example of pub- lic speaking, earning Union high marks in the competition. The judges of the event would not let a clue slip as to how Union had done. Union, due to the ex- haustion and strain of the intense level of competition, asked Hudson Valley Community Col- lege if they would accept our awards, an invitation they politely accepted in the spirit of good sportsmanship. When news was received on Monday of our third place finish, the ASCE student chapter immediately cried rob- bery and vowed to avenge them- selves in next year's races. Should you care to view the canoe, it is currently on display in Concrete Canoe Hall. The chapter would like to thank the professors and students who at- tended from Union, Hudson Val- ley Community College for ac- cepting our award and also RPI, whose canoe suffered a \slight\ problem similar to that of the Titanic in the middle of the first race. Better luck next year. Mountebanks Presents ... Six Women with Brain Death May 15, 16, 17 at 8:00PM May 18 at 10:15 PM In College Center Auditorium Students- $3.00 Non-Students- $5.00 For Tickets or Questions, Call Lauren at x6850 Uncle Edna In H;is Third Year of Basic Naughtiness Uncle Edna is a Union College Student who answers rea/ques- tions from real people. Feeling Solipsistic.? Misanthropic? Ticked off! Ask Uncle Edna-box 83. Edna's Mailbag. Dear Uncle Edna, Did you notice the column in the Concordy two weeks ago titled \Dear Cathy?\ Is this some competition or what? I, for one, found. it an encroachment on your jurisdiction as letter answer- ing guru. -carnac Dear Camac, Thank you for your support. Don't worry, I've taken care of this \Dear Cathy\ the best way I learned as a young Irishman. I sent her a mail bomb. · Dear Uncle Edna, I find your columns very funny and think that you would be a fun date. Maybe if you make me laugh this week, I will ask you out to dinner. Go ahead, make my day. -Lolita Dear Lolita, Great name to sign with, almost as good as Edna. If we ended up getting married would you be Mrs. Uncle Edna to all my read- ers? Would you be Aunt Lolita? Would our kids be their cous- ins? Think of the implications! My dear Lolita, I submit to you 10 reasons to ask Uncle Edna on a date. Top Ten. Top Ten Reasons to go on a date with Uncle Edna 10. Only chance you '11 have to legally call someone 'uncle' and then hook-up with them. 9. Will offer waiter-our top ten possible entrees. \ 8. Instant recognition as student of the week. 7. Possible inquction into the Crack Hall of Fame. 6. I'll let you call me 'Ed.' 5. Celebrity status makes it easy to get tables at crowded restau ' rants. 4. Despite an asexual front I'm just as virile as the next psycho path. 3. I'm more fun than a barrel of administrators (and less likely to try and screw you!) 2. I promise to remember your name in the morning. 1 . Madonna said I was good. One For Your Friends How do you tell a male chromosome from a female chromo- some? Pull down its genes. In The News There are plans in the making to develop a new Love Boat series. Slated to appear in the first episode: Bob Packwood, Lorena Bobbitt, Joey Buttafuocco, Michael Jackson (and Bubbles), Ted Kennedy and Heidi Fleiss. The new ship's captain will be played by PeeWee Hennan and \Vicki\ will be played by Ami Fisher. Producers have not yet escaped the NC-17 rating. Students of The Week Allison Epstein and Jason Richite/li. They will star together in the new FOX series Joanie loves Chachi II. Deanna Johnston. Her work on Microwave Crogenics won her first prize at last months NCUR.conference. Walter Soule. Just because. Next Week.,. a salute to the senior class!!!

. . ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT May 5, 1994, page 15 The Reel Picture: Summer Movie Preview by Larry Paso Concordien$ls $t(lJ/ A lucrative winter and'spring at the box office (only .\Philadel phia,\'\Schindler's List\ and ''Ace Ventura: Pet Detective\ have proven to be hits) will hopefully gj.ve way to another blockbuster summer, as anticipated sequels and big,.;budget action flicks are gearing up for release. Whiie the official start of the summer film season isn't until Memorial Day; Warner Bros. Pic,. tures is releasing its big.,screen version of \Maverick\ on May 20th to attempt a profit before \The Flinstones\ arrives May 27th. Starring Mel Gibson, Jodie Foster and James Gamer (who played the original Maverick on TV), the Western tal~ of gambling marks the return of director Rich- ard Donner after a two-year ab- sence. The most awaited summer films will be released starting in late May. MAY 25: \Beverly Hills Cop III.\ Reportedly, a lot is riding on this sequel, with Eddie Murphy (estimated paycheck for this movie was $15 million) re- turning as Detroit cop Axel Foley, this time helping Judge Reinhold and others solve a crime at an amusement park. The trailers look promising, but will it end up being as bland as \Cop ll?'' MAY 27: \The Flinstones.\ We have been awaiting this one since the first trailer ap- pe'ared with \Jurassic Park.\ Now, John Goodman (who was born for the part) makes Fred Flinstone a live-action character, with Rick Moranis, Elizabeth Perkins and Rosie 0' Donnell roWiding out the main cast. Doz- ens of writers contributed to the screenplay, but face it: does any- one expect a plot in this film? Just seeing Goodman pull his car up to the drive-in in the preview is worth the price ·of admission. JUNE 10: \City Slickers II: The Legend of Curly's Gold.\ 1on Lovitz replaces Bruno Kirby, but this movie could once again make a star out ofthe fading Billy Crystal. With Jack Palance return- ing as the twin brother, who could resist it? JULY 15: \True Lies.\ Schwarzenegger returns, with James Cameron (The Terminator films, ~'Aliens\) directing. Will this he \Last Action Hero 2?\ H . so, it could be the downfall of Arnie. ALSO COMING THIS SUM- MER: \Wolf\ with Jack ' Nicholson playing a werewolf,and in love with Michelle Pfeiffer. Slated for a spring release, the Mike Nichols film was re-edited and is not pro- moted as a horror film, but a scary drama. \Blown Away.\ Jeff Bridges blows things up, Tommy Lee Jones is after him in a tension-filled thriller that needs to be an explosive hit for the financially-troubled MGM. \I Love Troubles\ Julia Rob- erts and Nick Nolte as joumalQ ists who are after the biggest scoop: eachother. Roberts' pres- ence guarantees this to be a hit. That doesn't guarantee it will be good. \Wyatt Earp.\ Kevin Costner's attempt to top \Tomb- stone.\ It should not be difficult to accomplish. \The Shadow.\ Alec Baldwin and Penelope Ann Millerin a big- screen version ofthe classic radio drama of yesteryear. Looks ex- pensive, but looks aren't every- thing. \Being Human.\ Robin Will- iams stars as a man who lives 9 lives. Is one of them as a cross- dresser? \Clear and Present Danger.\ Harrison Ford, who has starred in 7 of the Top 25 films of all time, returns as Jack Ryan in the adap- tation ofTom Clancy's best seller. Will this film be number 8 for Ford? And the list goes on. With doz- ens of films being released every month, the choices are endless. For now, the big question is: Will \The Flinstones\ be this year's \Jurassic Park?\ Big advertising says yes, the fierce competition says no. .Loca Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY, MAY 5 A HATFUL_ OF RAIN: See Friday, May 6 . . ALBANY SYMPHONY CONCERT PREVUE: David Alan Miller, conductor, leads a lively discussion of the upcoming concert, Albany Public Library, Washing- HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING: See ton Avenue, Albany; noon, free,. 465-4755. Friday, May 6. FRIDAY. MAY 6 RUMORS: See Friday, May 6 ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: World famous violinist Young Uck Kim SUNDAY. MAY 8 in Brahm's Concerto, Nielson's Symphony No.5 and a world premiere of Lam's Circle, Troy Savings B~ Music Hall, Second & State Streets, Troy; 8 pm, $12- CROSSING DELANCEY: 3 pm, see Friday, May 6 . . 32, 465 .. 4755. HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING: 2 pm, see AMERICAN BALLROOM THEATRE: Experts in the foxtrot, mombo, rumba & Friday, May 6. waltz perform, Empire Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $18, $10. 473-1845. CROSSING DELANCEY: Heart-wanning comedy about what happens when a modern Jewish woman falls in love with a man who works in a traditional Jewish deli., Albany Public Theater, Albany Civic Theater, 235 Second Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $10,462-1297. A HATFUL OF RAIN: Michael V. Gazzo's drama abmit a family caught in the web of drug addiction and deceit. Spa Little Theater, Saratoga Spa State Park; 8:15pm, $12-$14.,587-4427. RUMORS: Schenectady Civic Players, Playhouse 12 South Church St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $10, 382-2081. .. UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA AND CHOIR CONCERT: ' Orehestra featuring Kevin Huang, '96, in the last movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E Minor and the premiere of Nightscape by RamakrishnaGaddipati, '95, Choir featuring Dvorak's Te Deum. 8:30, Memorial Chapel. SATURDAY, MAY 7 ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: World famous violinist Young Uck Kim in Brahm's Concerto, Nielson's Symphony No. 5 and.a world premiere of Lam's Circle, Palace Theater, Albany; 8 pm, $12-32, 465-4755. CAPITAL HlLLS CHORAL SOCIETY'S ANNUAL SPRING CONCERT: selections from the Cannina Burana by Carl Orff, Five Musical Songs and Flos Campi by Ralph Vaughn Williams. Auditorium of the Philip Schuyler school, North . Lake Street in Albany, 8 pm, $10;. $8/students, '766-4041. CROSS:CNG DELANCEY: See Friday, May 6. SATYA NARAYANA CHARKA: Classical fudian Kathak Style dancing. Memo- rial Chapel, Union College, 2 pm, $10, $5/students. 388-5893. TUESDAY, MAY 10 NOON CONCERT: Richard Albagli & Matthew Ward perfonn works for percussion. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall , Second & State Streets, Troy; noon, free. 273-0038. WEDNESDAY. MAY 11 RUMO~: See Friday, May 6. THURSDAY, MAY 12 POETRY READING: Lewis Turco reads from \Voices in an Old House\ in conjunction with Passion, the national juried Visual Art & Poetry Exhibition. Rathbone Gallery, JWiior College of Albany, New Scotland Avenue, Albany; 5:20pm, free. 445-1778 . RUMORS: See Friday, May 6. FRIDAY, MAY 13 CAROL BLINN: Book artist will present talks. College Center Auditorium, Union College, 7:30pm. 388-6277. CROSSING DELANCEY: See Friday, May 6. THE MENDELSSOHN CLUB OF ALBANY SPRING CONCERT: Jeffrey L. Vredenburg conducts this 70 voice male chorus with guest artists from the Schenectady Light Opera Co .. Empire Center at The Egg, Albany; 8 pm. 395-8863. RUMORS: See Friday, May 6 . Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff J • -

· May 5, 1994, Page 16 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Joint Student Exhibit in Arts Department ··Ytf!f _ _,. ·/~;.~\Pi..>:'· Danie/le Triola, a senior art major, stands · some of her monotypes, which will present \Repetitions and Reflections\ in a joint exhibit with Wendy Lie back from May 9 - 13. The exhibit will he in The Arts Building. {Photo by LeifZurhmuhlen) Wendy Liebeck with some of her art from \The Fleeting Moment\ exhibit. (Photo by Leif Zurmuh/en) Courtesy of tl1e Visual Arts Department An opening reception for Wendy Liebeck's \The Fleeting Moment,\ and Danielle Triola's \Repetition and Reflection,\ will be held Tuesday, May 10. from 4 to 6 pm, in the Arts Building Atrium. Refreshments will be served. This exhibition is free and the public is invited. The Fleeting Moment is an in- vestigative series of monotype PHCE UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION LEHRN. Don't just hit the beach, hit the books this summer and get a head start on your next semester. Enroll in one or both of Pace University's summer sessions. Courses are available in a wide variety of areas. From Business and .Computer Science to Arts & Sciences to Nursing and Education. And six-week sessions allow for plenty of summertime living. LIVE. Summer session students enrolled in at least 6 credits may live on either the New York City or Westchester campuses for only $50 a week. Amazing when you consider all you'll be close to ... the · South Street Seaport, Greenwich Village, Little Italy, Chinatown and Central Park. Not the city type? Then consider our Westchester campuses, where you'll find swimming, jogging and tennis facilities. REGISTER. Don't procrastinate! Spaces are filling up quickly, so register today. SUMMER SESSION 0 BEGINS JUNE G. 1994 I SUMMER SESSION 8 BEGINS JULY 19.1994 FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL1•800•874•7223, EXTENSION UN1 OR SEND IN THECOMPlETED COUPON. NAME .. _------------- SSII: ------- COLLEGE CURRENTlY AmNDING : ________ YEAR OF GRADUATION:. ___ _ COLLEGE ADDRESS: CITY/STATE/ZIP: ------- HOME ADDRESS: CITYISTATEJZIP · ------- COLLEGE PHONE: HOMEPHONE:~------- 0 I'M INTERESTED IN UVING ON CAMPUS PLEASE SEND SCHEDULE !0: (J COLLEGE ADDRESS (J HOME ADDRESS PAcE i MAIL TO: PACE UNIVERSITY, ADMISSIONS INFORMATION CENTER, UNIVERSITY I PACE PLAZA. NEW YORK, NY10038 UN! ...................... L.•••··--·-·---•••••••••••oooo•-•-•••••••••••••\'\-•••- .. •--~-••-••-••-•••--··-·--··-·-·-~·-·--··--···•·•-···•-·--•••-••••-•••-•-•,.••••••••-•••••- and collage prints by Union Col- the concepts and works ofJasper lege senior, Wendy Liebeck. Johns and Gerhide Stein. Liebeck's abstract works exam- Through the exploration of rep- ine color, shape and line in tenns etition and reflection, she uses of emotion and language. Her line, shape, and color to create works invite the viewer to expe- unique patterns and designs. rience each moment; they invite These images capture the inner one into the artist's frame of mind and outer emotions of the self and then free the viewer to their while presenting a visual repre- own discovery of each piece. sentation of the creative spirit. Danielle Triola, currently a se- The collections will be exhib- nior Visual Arts major at Union itedfromMonday, May9through College, is presenting Caran May 13, 1994. D'Ache monotype prints based on . . · Heart Conditio.ns by Leena Mankad Concordiensis staff And you thought you had prob- lems! This book is for anyone who wants to escape from their own life crises and read about someone else· s for a change. If you've ever been confused about love, or life in general, take this book home with you for comfort. Heart Conditions is an important first novel for Sara Lewis. The story revolves around Alice Hammond, a young woman who is in somewhat of a transi- tional stage in her life. Alice longs to kiss her old job good-bye and find a new apartment in Man- hattan. She is also between rela- tionships when she discovers she is pregnant, andmakes the diffi- cult decision of not having an abortion. Alice has a slightly complicated life. Her best friend Dan, along with her sister and her Aunt Louise, all react in the expected unapproving manner, while her grandmother shows much consideration. Alice has a lot to deal with, but it gets even better. After Alice's baby is born, both Alice's new beau and the baby's father come to pay her a visit at the same time. Who's to say this situation won't work out? Read the rest of the book and find out! PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBITION IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE STEINMETZ - SYMPOSIUM PORTRAITS OF ASIAN- AMERICANS BY TRINH THAI RECIPIENT OF THE FIRST ANNUAL CAFFE DOLCE PRIZE IN PHOTOGRAPHY MAY 5 - JUNE 12, 1994 ARTS BUILDING 2ND FLOOR-PHOTOGRAPHY GALLERY

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT May 5, 1994, Page 17 Union Students Visit New York City by S'uzanne Robinson Arts Editor Last Thursday, April 21, two ·bus loads of Union college stu- dents left for New York City. Mostly. art history and visual arts students went They were accom- panied by several Union college professors, among them Pt:ofes- sor Walter Hatke.. After a long drive down to the city, the stu- dents broke up into several groups; to visit different galler- ies and see different .kinds of art. The students visited a variety of galleries varying from the Met to smaller galleries, including all sorts of art. One student re .. marked that the best part .of the trip was the fact that she saw some of Professor Hatke's paintings. She had actually worked in the same studio as this man, and now here his paintings were being ex- hibited in a gallery in New York City. Another student found the Frick gaJ:lery very impressive. The Frick is an old mansion that was open to the public on the death of it's owner. He had col- lected various art pieces during his lifetime and wanted to share them with the public. This stu- dent found that the gallery had some ofthe best art paintings. One student, a freshman, wash impressed by the laid back atti- tude of the professors \chaperon- ing\ the trip. The trip was laid back, and the students were free to .go wherever they pleased. Some students visited Chinatown during the trip. They attributed this excursion to too much art. They could only handles so much art in one day. They thought maybe two days might be nicer, especially since, they c)id a lot of driving in one day, that way they wouldn't .be so tired. One student believed that the trip was a necessity :because of Union's location. They believed that Schenectady did not offer much for the art students of Union. The trip to New York City was the only means avail .. able to view many fonns of art. Even though the students had · to get up early andtravel for three hours to get to New York City, the ones interviewed thought it well worth the trip and want to go again next year. Professor Matin Benjamin Presents '-'Rock Shots'' \James Taylor at Proctor's Tlteatl'e during a Union CoUege Concert in 1987\0ne of the many photos that will be on display at Caffe Dolce during his exhibition . . Coutesy of tlte Visual Am Department From May 2nd to May 29th, the Chair of the Department of Visual Arts, Martin Benjamin, will have- ·an of artist James Taylor. The pictures are mostly from live performances and include performers Dave Bryne, Bob Dylan, , David Bowie, Tina Turner, Blotto, Sinead O'Connor and bands more than sixty 16x20 prints in this exhibit. Prof. Benjamin will be having a reception for this exhibit on Saturday May 7th from 6 to 8 PM, at Caffe Dolce. All students are welcome and exhibition of photographs entitled \Rock Shots.\ The exhibition will be at Caffe Dolce, ''Prof. Benjamin win be h~ving a reception for this exhibition .Saturday, May 7th from 6 to 8 PM, at Caffe Dolce.\ encouraged to attend this reception. If you have any questions about the exhibit contact Dawn Parisi, Arts Department International Coffee House & Gallery on 142 Jay Street in Schenectady.· Among the many photos to be on display will be this oqe including U2 and Red Hot Chili Peppers., and many more. The photographs were taken from 1978-1994. There are Secretary, x620 1 or Prof. Benjamin at ·the same extension for . more information. Film Director Nancy Savoca to Visit Union by Julie Jacob Contributing Writer · Nancy Savoca, an Italian- American film director, is com- ing to Union on Friday May 13 to talk about her work and to lec- ture on the roles gender, ethnicity, and class play in her development as a director. Savoca's visit is sponsored by the Women's Com- mission and the Film Committee. The child of a Sicilian father and an Argentinean mother, Savoca grew up in Morris Park, NY, an Italian neighborhood in the Bronx. Drawing from her ex- periences as a child and teenager, Savoca's films reflect the unique plight of Italian-Americans to- day, caught in the homogenizing tendencies of the dominant cul- ture while tryit:ig to preserve and express individuality. Savoca's 1989 film debut, \True Love\ (starring Annabella Sciorra) examines the difficulties faced by a young Italian 8 Ameri- can couple asthey carry out wed- ding preparations. Trapped in a world that privileges family and community, Michael and Donna begin to question the validity of their love. Through a coinplex interplay of stereotypes and rhetoric, Savoca forces us to rec- ognize and re-evaluate socially constructed roles. She takes the domestic comedy and reMworks it to provide a telling satire of Ital- ian as well as American tradi- tions. Gender is an area of particular interest to Savoca and her films, usually dominated by a strong female protagonist, give voice to figures who have largely been ignored in American cinema. In 1991, she directed \Dogfight\ (with River Pheonix), a movie based on a script written by an ex- marine. The film script, co- authored by her husband and pro- ducer, Richard Guay, departs little from the original script. However, Savoca's movie pro- vides a uniquely feminine per- spective, opening up what used to be an exclusively male field, to women. In 1993; Savoca directed \Household Saints\ (with Tracy ffilmann and Lili Taylor) a film that reverts to Italian-American ethnicity as a key focus. Based on a novel written by Francine Prose,· \Household Saints,\ like \True Love\ before it, delves into the inner workings of a society bound by the limits it has constructed for itself. Recognized as an innovative and original director, Savoca challenges social mores, using the camera to expose the inner work- ings of a culture that has previ- ously remained unexplored, ex- cept in stereotypical ways, within the all encompassing fabric of America. The lecture will be held at 3:30pm in the College Center Auditorium. All are invited to attend. For information call Edi Giunta - X6579.

·,. (!Are probably saying to yourself, any four-year-old knows how to use the bath- • • • • room. But you may not know • • that you use more water in the • • bathroom than anyplace else in • • your home. In fact, between the • you re shaving. And • toilet, the shower and the • just because your • sink you can use up to 55 gallons a day. You could end up Multiply that by the using· 30 to 60% less water by number of homes using a low-flow shower head. in the world, and that's a lot of natural resources going down the drain. Now, were not saying you should stop taking showers or brushing your teeth. We're just suggesting some simple bathroom training. : shower sounds ./ .·· • • like an opera • • hall, dorit • • feel the need • . • tosmgone . • • • Shorter songs • • make for shorter showers . • • • And for the biggest rulprit of • : them all,· the toilet, try putting a weighted jug in the tank. It will help save water every time you ftush. Plus, don't Save up to 15% more wtl!er by installing a weighted jug in your toilet tank .. And~hyeah, : .· ·ifyou_ dod,e· · . \ think ... 'll· you . remember these things, take this newspaper with you the next time you go . FOR MORE INFORMATION AND, TIPS CALL 1--800-MY-SHARE. y<n~rwater For instance, when youre forget to tum out the lights while shaving or brushing your brushing your teeth, tum off when you leave. You'll be teeth can save 2gallonsif the water. Do the same when helping to conserve electricity. water each time. IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. ~~~~ A Public Service of ~~ This Publication ® Eart·h. Share· .

SCIENCE AND HEALTH May 5, 1994, Page 19 The First Garden Club: Long B·efore the Pill and the Diaphragm by Pam~la Lin Concordie11$is Staff Once upon a time, ·everyone waspro-choice. Awomanmade her own decisions about birth control and pregnancy. By using knowledge of!J.erbs and plantde- rivatives~ women wer.e able to prevent and terminate· pregnancy without .religious or political in.: tervention. In 7 B.C. the Greek colony of Cyrene found a plant from the Ferula genus that would place Cyrene on the map for the next milennium. Now a part of Libya, the ancient Greeks in this colony namedthismiracle plant silphion. Silphion was later changed to the latin form Silphium. The sap from silphium was useful in cough syrups and as food flavor- ing, hut its most popular use was as a contraceptive and an abortifacient. Silphium grew in such popu- lar demand that it became the leading syoibol ·of Cyiene. A likeness of silphium was found on many Cyrenian coins and Gre'ek: artifacts aS early as 6 s·.c. SiJphj1Jm is meq.~one~.in.poetry and literature by such greats as Roman poefCatullus and Athe- nian playwright Aristophanes. Syria and Greece attempted to grow silphium, but without suc- ces~; Unfortunately, silphhup. was in such demand that its stores were soon exhauste. By 1 A.J:?t a single stalk o.J sil111tium coi1d ·..-nr D r ff''·1.t:'H ·:1£: demaiid 'ilk wortK itt silver ti.iid more. By 3 and4A.D. silphi-fim was extinct, but many enterpris- ing Greeks '~ttempteli to replaCe silphium with a related species. seeds right after intercourse to in- times, and Dioscorides, a first Another member of the Ferula hi bit pregnancy. Similarly, century herbalist. Pomegranate genus, asaf~etida (best known women in the lower populated is best known from the myth of today as the ingredient which areas of Rajasthan, India chew on Persephone and Hades, \for ev- gives Worcestershire. Sauce its the dry seeds to lower fertility. ery pomegranate kernel that distinctive aroma), replaced Queen Anne's Lace, penny- Persephone ate, that many silphium for its greater availabil- royal, artemisia, myrrh and rue months were alloted to the infer- ity and lower cost. were all herbal alternatives for tile fall and winter.\ Though historians question the women seeking to prevent and (Archaelogy) Chemical analy- effectiveness of ancient birth con- stop pregnancy. Pennyroyal is sis of these three plants in the trois, recent scien• 1930's reveal that .. tists have analyzed they induce the some of the herbal production of fe- and plant deriva- male sexhonnones tives and affirmed and mirror present that they indeed do day birth control have contraceptive pills by decreasing qualities. fertility. The see.ds of And yet, even Queen Anne's Lace before the Greeks have also been in- and Romans, the vestigated for their Egyptians had ex- usefulness as con- perimented with traceptives and birth control meth- abo.rtifacients. ods. A medical Hippocrates. was document from amongthesupport- 1550-1500 B.C. ers of this plant. In known as the Ebers 1976, a study was A Cyrenian 4-dracltma coin depicts a woman toucl1ing her Papyrus listed aca- conducted where genitalia and a silphium plant circa 6 B.C (Archeology) cia gum, dates and mice ·were given doses of Queen deadly if not administered cor- other plants as possible methods Anne~sLaceonthefourthtosixth rectly. Itwas andsoreadilyavail- of contraception. One such day of pregnancy. Results indi- able and well known to ancient method lists a mixture of honey, qate that such exposure halts fetal women that it is mentioned in acacia gum, dates and plant fi- development. Other expel'Qnents Aristophanes' play Peace; ber to fonn a pessary (a vaginal have been conducted since the Hermes suggests that a woman suppository). Acacia gum was 197 6 study and indicate that the will not become pregnant if ''you mentioned even earlier in the seeds can also stop fetal and ova... add a dose of pennyroyal.\ Kahun gynecological papyrus .rian growth, as well as progester- Analysis has revealed that arou.nd 1900 B.C. as an ingredi- one production. This leads to the pulegone, a natural substance in ent ·in pregnancy preventing belief that Queen Anne's Lace is pennyroyal, can effectively end pessaries. useful to terminate pregnancy. A pregnancy. Analysis of acacia gum today group of women in Watauga Willow, date palm and pome- . revea:ls that it ' acts' :as· a· ' County, North Carolina drink a granatewere also listed among the spermicidal. When combined glass of water with a teaspoon of plant contraceptives of Galen, the with other chemicals, it synthe- dissolved Queen Anne's Lace most famous physician in ancient sizes lacti~ acicll!llhydride, a .Extended Survival Rates in AIDS Patients Scientists Have Linked This to High Levels of CDS T Cells by Kenny Lee Science & Health Editor In the ongoing research to find. a cure for AIDS attention has been shifted to those people who have survived a long time \~rith H.I. V. and ~ose who have been repeatedly exposed to the virus, but not infected. Recent work has been done to link the presence of hig-h levels of immune system agents(CP8 T cells) to extended survival periods. The correlation that has been found has not yet been confirme. , Scientists are looking to answer the questiqn of whether or not these·lQng tenn survivors hoid the clue ~g-~pecial immune r_esponses to p~{t~entfull blown AIDS. ,_. .. ~: . Work don~ by Susan P. Buchbinder and her cofl~agues at the San Francisd9 Dep~ent of Public Health, ~as sho~ th:at 1 in 12 men infect~d with H1V for more than 10 years, still have more than half of their·_CP4 T cells. This is interesting,because the level of these cells usually de- clines greatly in those infected with HlV. When the long tenn survivors were compared to the short term survivors they were similar in all respects except one. The major difference fo.und was that tile long temt survivors had large numbers of CD8 T cells (cytotoxic 1 cells l in their blood. These of cells are kllown to at- tack and kill cells ·infected by vi- ruses. Similar observations have been ma~eby John L. Sullivan at 'the University' of Massachusetts Medical School. He has found tlt~t children five years old and · older who Were infected with HIV before birth also have cytotoxic T cells that recognize mv. Those children who lack these cells do not seem to survive as long. An- grew J. McMichael, of Oxford University, has also observed that p~ttients with little cytotoxic T cell response to HIV proteins do wor.se than those with a nonnal response. It has been shown that the.ionger a patjent has the virus, th~. ~ytotoxic T .cell response de- qooses to a level near zero in someone with full blown AIDS. Bruce Walk~r and his col- leagues at Mass General have pre- liminary data to support the pre- vious observations. They also see elevated cytotoxic r cell activity in long term survivors. they have results which may implicate a specific site of action for cyto- toxic. T cells on the virus. The results and data gathered here may afso agree with the contro- versial studies done by Gene Shearer and Mario Clerici on macaque monkeys and the SIV VlruS. Working at the National Can- cer Institute, th~y found two types of immune responses, HIV- T helper I (TH1) and HIV- t helper 2 (TH2). TH1 responses are what stimulate cytotoxic lymphocytes, including CD8, which sometimes defeats the virus. TH2 responses lead to production of antibodies and are usually coupled with rapid deterioration. In other words, when you have a TH2 response you are in the latter stages of the disease. The work done by Shearer and Clerici has shown that macaque monkeys given immu- nization and exposed to the SIV, have a great Till response and no antibody production, thus pro- longing survival. Thosemonkeys exposed to the SIV without· itnl munization, had a TH2 response with the production of antibodies and rapid deterioration. All of this work; and the results that go along with it, are still in · the early stages of deciphering. Most researchers agree that it is too early to pass judgement on the work done. However, even if a correlation is made between THl response and extended survival, thel researchers still must explain why some patients survive longer than others and why some have a great Till response and others do not. Along with this work, re- search is going on to see if there is a genetic link to the preven- tion of the HIV. Preliminary work has been done on prosti- tutes in Kenya who have up to 50 customers a day and are re- peatedly exposed to the virus, but have not contracted it. Sci- entists have speculated that there may be a genetic resistance to the virus in some people. This is also preliminary work that has been done by researchers at the University of Manitoba and at Nlli. These are only two areas of research into the fight against the AIDS virus and the search for a cure. Much work is going inti:i.fmding prevention against the virus, as well as a way to help those already infected. The work that is being done must be taken with a \grain of salt\ and it must not be heralded as cures for AIDS because much of the work is still preliminary stages, and the studies on these long term survivors may end up being people who do not fit the nonnal statistical pool. Souce: Scientific American Apri/1994 component in modem contracep- tive jellies. Laboratory studies have indicated that both the leaves and seeds of acacia possess con- traceptive characteristics: Acacia leaves were fed to rats twice a day fQr five days and resulted in an 88-100% drop in litter rate. The seeds were 100% effective in pre- venting pregnancy. Archaelogical records from cemetaries in Athens, Corinth, and the Roman Empire indicate that birth rates decreased during the Roman era. Full term births may be estimated by looking at the scar- ring and pitting on the pelvic bone. Fewer births and longer life spans support archaelogist' s theory of a decline in population at this time. Historians believe that ancient civilizations utilized information about contraceptives for family planning purposes. The Greek his- torianPolybius (200B.C.-118B.C.) indicated that many families were limiting family size to one or two children. This infonnation was still utilized into the Middle Ages, but by the time the Renaissance be- gan, herbal knowledge and these plant contraceptives had fallen out of use. Medicine became less of a folklore and more of a. science. Physicians were university edu- cated and did not have much use forherbal knowledge. Though this change in medicine would bring about greater knowledge and stan- dards in the medical world, a great deal of knowledge was lost in the move. Source :Archae logy March/ April 1994

May 5, 1994, page 20 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals: To all the brothers and pledges of K}: - Thanks for everything. -Topper To Rachel, Pam, Jess, and Chelsea ~ Pledging is a almost done. Enjoy it while you're having fun. As the \dreaded\ week approaches. You know it's coming. Good Luck to you all. There's nothing that bad to fear. - Your favorite pseudo-Greek Floormate Kenny .. The girl is mine ... I want a lei - Can I have your lei? My shoe, my shoe! ... Butterfly, Butterfly ... It was really dark back there. Love, J & I Greg- No, no, she'.s mine ... Love, J & I A 90 on your physics. Let me just say that I am so ashamed. I can't wait for the summer, sweetheart. I miss you so much. Love, Me My Little Fruit - A home run! At least one of us got brains, brawn and coordina- tion. Love, Sister Great Prizes Bri - I hope everything turns out well, just don't let me hear about you rollerblading home at 5:00 anymore. I'll get Keith to give you the look. Love, H. To the brothers of Chi Psi- We want to thank you for your help on Friday night and Saturday morning. We had a .great time and Deltawood was a success. We would be more than happy to return the:; favor by helping with Jungle Love. ~ Love - The Tri-Delt Pledges To NJBurroughs: Thanks for Thursday night. I love your snore. You're cute. Call me and we'll repeat what we did. Love,JYHuang Rich - What's up with you and Hulbert? Hope you tw() live happily ever after. Sista J. Jenni, Hope the neuro notes helped. Give me a call and we'll get together for sushi, ok? John Vanessa, Thanks for being there when I needed to talk to someone at 4AM. Good luck on your finals and hey! SUNY isn't that bad, right? Mike, stop slurring! Quit cruis- ing men at Waterworks Pub! Classifieds ., Part-Tine Opportunity: TAAD Technical Services Corporation, Albany is looking for a tempo- rary Darkroom Assistant. Must be able to process.BIW film. Ten to 20 hours a week,. with a 2 - 4 month duration. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: Senses, statewide Emergency Network for Social and Economic Secu- rity, Albany is offering a summer internship in Community orga• nizing. The internship will run from June 20 ~A~gust 26. Paid, $8 per hour, 28 hours per week. Deadline, May 12;. 1994. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Makovsky & Com- pany Inc., New York is a mid- size public relations fiirn looking for interns for Fall, Spring, and Summer. Six month lead time is suggested on desired internship period. Stipencl available. · See the CDC for more details. Internship: Kaplan, Albany is offering a Marketing/Public Re- lations IntemshipforFall'94 and Winter/Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Food! RAFFLE Help The Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady (May 19th at 8PM at Cbet's) Sample Prizes: Gift Certificates: Fireside Pizza Glen Sander's Mansion Caffe Dolce Loew's Movie tickets Dutch Pipers' serenade Open Door Bookstore and Gifts UC Bookstore Manhattan Exchange UC Food Services Visage Strawberries Music (courtesy of Sigma Phi) Carmella's Restaurant (courtesy of Alpha Epsilon Pi) The Gap (courtesy of Delta Psi Delta) Chet's Walkman (courtesy of Phi Sigma Kappa) Foos Ball Table (courtesy of Phi Gamma Delta) AND MORE ... 'I} All Panhellenic Sororities, the Sociology Dept., and the Women's Union wiJJ·be selling tickets now through the 19th. SPONSORS: $1 EACH OR 3 FOR $2 Delta Delta Delta Gamma Phi Beta Women's Union Delta Gamma Sigma Delta Tau Sociology Dept. Internship Opportunity: The Coporate Response Group in Washington, DC is looking for full or part-time interns who seek business/investigative research experience. Internswilldeal with recent and on-going crises and natural disasters sue~ as Pepsi syringe scare and Hurricane An- drew. This position is unpaid. If you are interested contact the CDC for more infonnation. .Summer Internship Opportunity: The Bank of New York, New York City offers summer interships in one of their Manhat ... tan branches. interns will receiv:e on the job training in customer service;, and in banking products and services. More infonnation intheCDC. Summer Internship: Merrill Lynch & Co., New York City is looking for a research intern in their Quantitative Analysis & Convertibles Research Depart- ment. Economics, Mathematics, or other majors with quantitatve skills invited to appiy. Must have completed three years of college. Stipend available. More.infonna- tion in the CDC. Summer Program: Student Hos- teling Program has summer lead- ership positions available for teenage bicycling trips. Apply now. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Ben & Jerry's on Union Street is looking for a store manager. If you are int~tested' · in this position contact CDC for a contact person and further de- tails on this job opportunity. · Internship:. Prudential Securities, Albany :has an opportunity avail- able for undergraduates and graduates to gain experience working direQtly with a financial advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to apply. Intern- ship is unpaid but a possible sti- pend may be available after proven ability. CDC for more info. Summer of Falllntership: FLY 92 , Albany Broadcasting Com- pany, Albany offers a diverse communication media experience in a professional atmosphere. See the CDC for more info. For Seniors looking for pe:s:ma- nent oppotuniti~ the CDC Li- l?raryreceices job announcements on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are 8AM,.. 5PM Monday - Friday; 7 - 9PM -Tuesday & Wednesday while school i~ :in.ses- sion. Final Exam Help Fear. Test Taking no more! Hypnotherapy can help you with test anxiety, public speaking, weight loss, self-esteem, smoking sessation ... Reasonable student rate. Call Patricia Rumore, M.A. in couseling, certified hypn6therapist.r · 4l5- UOO. Jam with Lisa Loeb From the Reality Bites Soundtrack At FIJI coffee house On Tuesday, May 10 at 8 PM Free Food and Drink To benefit the Muscular Dystrophy . Association Tickets go on sale Thursday, May 5th. In the College Center atrium, $5.00 Donation COFFEE provided by ABC Coffee Service

May 5, 1994, page 20 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals To all the brothers and pledges of K~ - Thanks for everything. -Topper To Rachel, Pam, Jess, and Chelsea - Pledging is a almost done. Enjoy it wMle you're having fun. As the \dreaded\ week approaches. You know it's coming. Good Luck to you all. There's nothing that bad to fear. - Your favorite pseudo-Greek Floonnate Kenny- The girl is mine ... I want a lei - Can I have your lei? My shoe, my shoe! ... BMtterfly, Butterfly ... It was really dark back there. Love, 1 & I Greg- No, no, she's mine ... Love, J & I A 90 on your physics. Let me just say that I am so ashamed. I can't wait for the summer, sweetheart. I miss you so much. Love, Me My Little Fruit - A home run! At least one of us got brains, brawn and coordina- tion. Love, Sister Great Prizes Bri - I hope everything turns out well, just don't let me hear about you rollerblading home at 5:00 anymore. I'H get Keith to give you the look. Love, H. To the brothers of Chi Psi- We want to thank you for your help on Friday night and Saturday morning. We had a great time and Deltawood was a success. We wouldbe more than happy to return the favor by helping with Jungle Love. Love - The Tri-Delt Pledges To NJBurroughs: Thanks for Thursday night. I love your snore. You're cute. Call me and we'll repeat what we did. Love,JYHuang Rich - What's up with you and Hulbert? Hope yol:l two live happily ever after. Sista J. Jenni, Hope the neuro notes helped. Give me a call and we'll get together for sushi, ok? John Vanessa, Thanks for being there when I needed to talk to someone at 4AM. Good luck on your finals and hey! SUNY isn't that bad, right? Mike, stop slurring! Quit cruis- ing men at Waterworks Pub! Classifieds J Part-Tine Opportunity: TAAD Technical Services Corporation, Albany is looking for a tempo- rary Darkroom Assistant. Must be able to process B/W film. Ten to 20 hours a week, with a 2 - 4 month duration. Seethe CDC for more details. Summer Internship: Senses, statewide Emergency Network for Social and Economic Secu- rity, Albany is offering a summer internship in Community orga- nizing. The internship will run from June 20- August 26. Paid, $8 per hour, 28 hours per week. Deadline, May 12, 1994. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Makovsky & Com- pany Inc., New York is a mid- size public relations finn looking for interns for Fall, Spring, and Summer. Six month lead time is suggested on desired internship period. Stipend available. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Kaplan, Albany is offering a Marketing/Public Re- lations Internship for Fall '94 and Winter/Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Food! RAFFLE Help The Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady (May 19th at 8PM at Chet's) Sample Prizes: Gift Certificates: Fireside Pizza Glen Sander's Mansion Caffe Dolce Loew's Movie tickets Dutch Pipers' serenade Open Door Bookstore and Gifts UC Bookstore Manhattan Exchange UC Food Services Visage Strawberries Music (courtesy of Sigma Phi) Carmella's Restaurant (courtesy of Alpha Epsilon Pi) The Gap (courtesy of Delta Psi Delta) Chet's Walkman (courtesy of Phi Sigma Kappa) Foos Ball Table (courtesy of Phi Gamma Delta) AND MORE ..• ' All Panhellenic Sororities, the Sociology Dept., and the Women's Union will be selling tickets now through the 19th. SPONSORS: $1 EACH OR 3 FOR $2 Delta Delta Delta Gamma Phi Beta Women's Union Delta Gamma Sigma Delta Tau Sociology Dept. Internship Opportunity: The Coporate Response Group in Washington, DC is looking for full or part-time interns who seek business/investigative research experience. Interns will deal with recent and on-going crises and natural disasters such as Pepsi syringe scare and Hurricane Afl- drew. This position is unpaid. If you are interested contact the CDC for more infonnation. Summer Internship Opportunity: The Bank of New York, New York City offers summer interships in one of their Manhat- tan branches. Interns will receive on the job training in customer service, and in banking products and services. More information in the CDC. Summer Internship: Merrill Lynch & Co., New York City is looking for a research intern in their Quantitative Analysis & Convertibles Research Depart- ment. Economics, Mathematics, or other majors with quantitatve skills invited to apply. Must have completed three years of college. Stipend available. More informa- tion in the CDC. Summer Program: Student Hos- teling Program has summer lead- ership positions available for teenage bicycling trips. Apply now. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Ben & Jerry's on Union Street is looking for a store manager. If you are interested in this position contact CDC for a contact person and further de- tails on this job opportunity. Internship: Prudential Securities, Albany has an opportunity avail- ahle for undergraduates and graduates to gain experience working directly with a financial advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to apply. Intern- ship is unpaid but a possible sti- pend may be available after proven ability. CDC for more info. Summer of Fall Intership: FLY 92 , Albany Broadcasting Com- pany, Albany offers a diverse communication media experience in a professional atmosphere. See the CDC for more info. For Seniors looking for perma- nent oppotunities the CDC Li- brary receices job announcements on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are 8AM - 5PM Monday - Friday; 7 - 9PM Tuesday & Wednesday while school is in ses- sion. Final Exam He/J)_ Fear Test Taking no more! Hypnotherapy can help you with test anxiety, public speaking, weight loss, self-esteem, smoking sessation ... Reasonable student rate. Call Patricia Rumore, M.A. in couseling, certified hypnotherapist. 435-1200. Jam with Lisa Loeb From the Reality Bites Soundtrack At FIJI coffee house On Tuesday, May 10 at 8 PM Free Food and Drink To benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association Tickets go on sale Thursday, May 5th In the College Center atrium, $5.00 Donation COFFEE provided by ABC Coffee Service

CALENDAR Events Calendar· Thursday 05/05/94 7;30p 9:30p l\flCHAEL DUKAKIS\HEALTH CA IO:OOp 12:00a MOVIE: \'THE PIANO\ Friday. 05/06/94 l2:4Sp 1 :45p STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM 7:00p 9:00p STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM 8:30p 9:30p DVORAK, MENDELSSOHN & BRA lO:OOp l2:00a IN 'Tlm NAME OF THE FATHER Saturday 05/07 i94 . 11 :OOa 12:00p PJPZE DAY I2:00p 1 :30p PRIZE DAY . 7:30p 12:00a IN TfiE NAME OF THE FATHER Sunday 05/08/94 2:00p 4:00p SATYA NARAYANA CHARKA 7:30p 12:00a IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER Monday · 05/09/94 7:JOp 12:00a IN 'THE NAMEOFTHE FATHER Tuesday 05/10/94 1 1 :OOa 1 :30p WE CARE ABOUT U SCH'DY 11 ::30a 12:30p ENDOWED CHAIRS I I :45a l:OOp ENDOWED CHAIRS 7:30p 9:00p SPEAKER-DHOR:UBA BIN WAHAD 8:00p 12:00a MOVIE: THE BREAKFAST CLUB Wednesday 05/1 1/94 7:30p 9:00p SPEAKER: JOl-IN STOLTENBERG Meetings Thursday 05/05/94 8;00a 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS \ 3:30p 8:00p I)EATHOFA SALESMAN 5:30p M :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 6:00p 1:30p SHPE (i:OOp 8:00p STUDENT FORUM 7:00p 9:00p ORIENTATION COMMITTEE 8:0j)p 1 LOOp LAST OF THE REDJIOT LOVER 8:00p 12:00a CHET'S COMMITTEE Friday 05/06/94 6:00p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 6:30p 9:30p lNTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FE 7:00p ll:OOp PHILOMATHEN SOCIETY 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- Saturday 05/07/94 · 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 8:00a 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS 4:00p 8:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 5:00p 8:00p MEGA PID BETA 6:00p 9:30p SHAKTI 8:00p 12:00aOMEGAPHIBETA 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- Sunday 05/08/94 12:00a l2:00a MOUNTEBANKS 8:00a 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS 1 O:OOa I :OOp MEGA PID BETA 4:00p 7:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER . ' 5:30p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 9:30p PHI IOTA ALPIIA lO:OOp 11:00p MOUNTEBANKS Monday 05/09/94 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 12:30p 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS 4: ISp 6:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 6:30p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p WRUC 8:00p 12:00a UNION COLLEGE MOVIE II :OOp 12:00a DELTA PSI DELTA Tuesday 05/10/94 12:00a 1:00aDELTA PSI DELTA 12;00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS ll:30a 12:30p FRATERNITY/SORORITY 1 :30p 4:30p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 4:30p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 5:00p 7:30p DELTA PSI DELTA 6:00p 7:30p SHPE 9:00p ll:OOp SPEAKER RECEPTION 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES· Wednesday 05/11/94 · 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 4:00p 11 :OOp MOUNTE13ANXS 4:30p 6:30p I.F.C. GREEK WEEK 4:30p 7:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 6:00p 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p OUTING CLUB S:30p 9:00p DELtA PSI PELT A 8:30p 1 O:OOp G.L.B.A MEMORIAL CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM OLD CHAPEL MEMORIAL CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM MEMORIAL CHAPEL OLD CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM MEMORIAL C::HAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES01'6 COLLEGE CENTER AUDitORIUM COLLEGE CENTER 305- STRAUSS COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 HUMANITIES 113 - SEMINAR ROOM COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 CHET'S COLLEGE CENTER 302 COLLEGE CENTER 409 HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE COFFEE FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL QLDCHAPEL COFFEE FERO i 02 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENFER 409 OLD CHAPEL. COLtEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 205 SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 FER0102 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM OLD CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER 203 HUMANITIES 113 -SEMINAR ROOM CHET'S COFFEE FERO I 02 COLLEGE CENTER 204 OLD CHAPEL CHET'S SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 SOCIAL SCIENCES I 03 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER 205 COLLEGE CENTER 203 . May 5, 1994, page 21 StLJclellt Activities/(;()1143~ t::elltK itiiglllliS)Illi PEER FACI TORS pRESENT JohN SrolrENbmq WEdNESdAy, MAy 11 \7:'10 PM CCAud !LAS PRESENTS SPEAKER DHOBUBABIN WAHAB TUESDAY, MAY 10 7:30PM fJOAlJD Steinmetz Symposium Friday May 6 NOTICE: The Office of the Student Activities and the College Center, Concordiensis, and the Office of Events are now working together to present this calendar. In order to facilitate the centralization of scheduling, .smJI ey,ents and meetings scheduled throuah the Office of · · Events will be listed. Events are listed according to categories as designated by that office. Call x6098 or stop in tq their office in Wells House to list our events. .,

TTr I I ), ,'.· CALENDAR Events Calendar Thursday 05/05/94 7:30p 9:30p MICHAEL DUKAKIS-HEALTH CA 10:00p 12:00a MOVIE: \THE PIANO\ Friday 05/06/94 12:45p 1 :45p STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM 7:00p 9:00p STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM 8:30p 9:30p DVORAK, MENDELSSOHN & BRA IO:OOp 12:00a IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER Saturday 05/07/94 ll:OOa 12:00p PRIZE DAY 12:00p 1 :30p PRIZE DAY 7:30p 12:00a IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER Sunday 05/08/94 2:00p 4:00p SATYA NARAYANA CHARKA 7:30p 12:00aiN THE NAME OF THE FATHER Monday 05/09/94 7:30p 12:00a IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER Tuesday 05/10/94 1 1 :OOa I :30p WE CARE ABOUT U SCH'DY 1I :30a 12:30p ENDOWED CHAIRS II :45a 1 :OOp ENDOWED CHAIRS 7:30p 9:00p SPEAKER-DHORUBA BIN WAHAD 8:00p 12:00a MOVIE: THE BREAKFAST CLUB Wednesday 05/11/94 7:30p 9:00p SPEAKER: JOHN STOLTENBERG Meetings Thursday 05/05/94 8:00a S:OOp MOUNTEBANKS 3:30p 8:00p DEATH OF A SALESMAN 5:30p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 6:00p 7:30p SHPE 6:00p 8:00p STUDENT FORUM 7:00p 9:00p ORIENTATION COMMITTEE 8:00p ll:OOp LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 8:00p 12:00a CHET'S COMMITTEE Friday 05/06/94 6:00p II :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 6:30p 9:30p INTERV ARSITY CHRISTIAN FE 7 :OOp I I :OOp PHILOMA THEN SOCIETY 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- Saturday 05/07/94 I2:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 8:00a S:OOp MOUNTEBANKS 4:00p 8:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER S:OOp 8:00p MEGA PHI BETA 6:00p 9:30p SHAKTI 8:00p 12:00aOMEGA PHI BETA 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- Sunday 05/08/94 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 8:00a 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS IO:OOa l:OOp MEGA PHI BETA 4:00p 7:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 5 30p I I :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 7 OOp 9:30p PHI lOT A ALPHA I O:OOp II :OOp MOUNTEBANKS Monday 05/09/94 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 12:30p 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS 4: 15p 6:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 6:30p 11:00p MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p WRUC 8:00p 12:00a UNION COLLEGE MOVIE ll:OOp 12:00a DELTA PSI DELTA Tuesday 05/10/94 12:00a 1:00aDELTAPSIDELTA 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 11 :30a 12:30p FRATERNITY /SORORITY 1 :30p 4:30p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 4:30p ll:OOp MOUNTEBANKS 5:00p 7:30p DELTA PSI DELTA 6:00p 7:30p SHPE 9:00p 11 :OOp SPEAKER RECEPTION 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- Wednesday 05/11/94 12:00a 12:00a MOUNTEBANKS 4:00p 11 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 4:30p 6:30p I.F.C. GREEK WEEK 4:30p 7:00p LAST OF THE RED HOT LOVER 6:00p 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p OUTING CLUB 8:30p 9:00p DELTA PSI DELTA 8:30p 1 O:OOp G.L.B.A. MEMORIAL CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUbiTORIUM OLD CHAPEL MEMORIAL CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM MEMORIAL CHAPEL OLD CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM MEMORIAL CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES OI6 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER 305- STRAUSS COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 HUMANITIES I 13 - SEMINAR ROOM COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 CHET'S COLLEGE CENTER 302 COLLEGE CENTER 409 HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE COFFEE FERO 1 02 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL OLD CHAPEL COFFEE FERO I 02 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 409 OLD CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 205 SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 FERO 102 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM OLD CHAPEL COLLEGE CENTER 203 HUMANITIES 1 13- SEMINAR ROOM CHET'S COFFEE FERO I 02 COLLEGE CENTER 204 OLD CHAPEL CHET'S SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER 205 COLLEGE CENTER 203 May 5, 1994, page 21 StLJCiellt Activities/£()1te~ C:ellto- 1Hiigllllliif)ll1l~ PEER FAci ATORS pRESENT JoliN SrolTENbERG WEdNESdAy, MAy 11 7:~0 PM CCAud ALAS PRESENTS SPEAKER DHORUBABIN WAHAD TUESDAY, MAY 10 7:30PM OOA'UD NOTICE: The Office of the Student Activities and the College Center, Concordiensis, and the Office of Events are now working together to present this calendar. In order to facilitate the centralization of scheduling, .2!!JI events and meetings scheduled through the Office of Events will be listed. Events are listed according to categories as designated by that office. Callx6098 or stop in to their office in Wells House to list our events.

.... ... May 5, 1994, page 22 Athlete of the Week Stacey Anderson . by Mike Leding Ctmcordiensis Sports This week's Athlete of the · Week is Stacey Anderson, soph.omore phenom hitting machine of the Union College Women's Softball Team. . Stacey hails ftom local Scotia, NY where she attended Mohonosan High School and sharpenedherraw athletic ab!l- ity. Stacey leads the team in batting average, runs batted in; slugging percentage, home runs, and earned run average. Despite being their most pro- lific slugger, Stacey is also a very effective pitcher. The teams record after Tuesday's 7- 1 victory against powerhouse Williams is 18-14. They are headed to either a fifth or sixth seed in the State Tournament. Due to some quick statisti- cian work and a phone inter- view with Stacey we were able to find out that she is batting .416, with 5 homeruns, \quite a few, doubles and triples, and 28 R.B.I. 's to go along with a 11- Jl :Fecord and a 4.29 E.R.A. Down in Florida this ''vety com .. petitive team\ defeated some Division U clubs and Ivy League powerhouse Dartmouth.. Stacey had this to say about her team, ''We have a really strong team this year and despite playing a lot of games on the road, battling the ele- ments, and committing a lot of . errors at crucial times, we seem to be pulling together at the end. We have a lot of talent\ Well if there is any time to mesh it is definitely at the end of the sea- son. This team's 18 wins are the most in school history. Stacey is not hung up on sta~ tistics, but plays for the shear enjoymentofthe game. Tbat is refreshing to hear in au age where sports are statistically driven and have been reduced to nothing more than a monoto- . nous job. Well Stacey, good luck to you and the· rest of the team~ as you head into the postseason. SPORTS Women's Lacrosse Disappointed with . . Back to Back Season Ending Losses by Mik~ Leding Concordiensis Sports The Women's Lacrosse Team finished their season against Di- vision II Springfield and Oneonta, this past week. The Dutchwomen lost a hard fought battle with na- tionally ranked Springfield on Saturday, 14-12, in overtime. The mere fact that Union actually played a Division II squad is amazing, but to stay in the game long enough to take it to overtime is a miracle and a true testament to their determination. The women were happy with their performance despite the loss, yet failed to fuel their momentum and fell short once again in overtime dropping a heartbreaker 15-14 at Oneonta. Senior captain Wendy Miller had these following comments: \Against Springfield we play~d with a lot of heart and desire and then tonight versus Oneonta we had a huge letdown. It was very distressing for the graduating se- niors like myself because our team did not play up to its poten- tial.\ The team's S-9 record will attest to that. Wendy had to sit out the final twenty minutes ofher last game because she was thrown out by an official for arguing a call. Agains.t Oneonta, Molly Pearsall, the teams leading scorer, played tremendously adding four goals to her season total. Jenn Manna also scored two goals. Union was up by five goals with but a minute left in. regulation, yet the defense yielded five goals tak- ing the game into overtime and ultimately dealt them their ninth loss of the season. The Women's Lacrosse team showed some flashes afbrilliance this year and played brilliantly against some supedor squads. The coaching staff still has a solid core to work with and despite the loss of some key players, the NCAA playoffs seem to be within their grasp. HELP! Write for Sports. We need literate writers ,soon!! Call Joe at 5668 or Rob at 5957 Men's Tennis Struggles: Shutout Loss to Williams by Ken Berman Concordiensis.Sports For those of you out there in Concordy Land who have been faithfully following this publication's recent Men's Ten- nis articles, you are in for a dandy treat this week. As the old prov- erb goes, the third time will be a charm for a certain contributing writer, filling in for his boyhood idols, the wily veterans of the Concordiensis Sports Staff. How- ever, one can only go so far beat- ing his own drum, so let's move on to tennis. In a scene played out this week at The Country Club at Schenectady (the Union courts), the tennis team ran its record to a deceptively poor 2 wins and 8losses. Although two losses came this week in matches against Williants and Hamilton, it was certainly 110t due to a lack of effort. On Friday afternoon, the team continued its magical mystery tour of a season with a match against Hamilton College. Ev- ery member came out storming, determined to scratch out a win. Unfortunately, the God's ofTen- nis were not cooperating, as a 45 minute rain delay brought the Dutchmen Express to a grinding halt. This deadly combination of bad karma and tight muscles were two key factors contribut- ing to the tight loss. Determined to put all this behind them, our squad took on the nationally feared Ephs of Williams, in a Tuesday matinee. Playing under friendlier skies, our tennis heroes took on this well-oiled machine of a team, who doubled as a snobby collection of college rif- rafs. Tragically, a win was once again not in the cards, as Union lost another heartbreaker, 9-0. Bright spots included Jay Fishbein, who played his \best match of the season,\ losing 6- 3,6-2 .. Brett Shapiro also contin- ued his successful season, run- All Student Forum Petitions for Class ning his record to 4-4, along with Ian (there is no lin t-e-a .. m) Lev. Regardless of their record, the team. is- unquestion~bly coming together, and playing much more relaxed on game days. Good spirit has conquered all foes, as Union has learned the most im- portant lesson of all: if you can't beat 'em, well, you'll lose. In all seriousness, the team closes its season this -week against Hartwick, and· looks to finish on a high note. Notice: Representatives and the Newly Formed Position of Vice President of Campus Life Will Be Available in Stude11t Activities and at the Information Booth. 'Petitions and Statements are due Friday, May 13th. Statements for The Concordiensis are due Monday, May 16th by 4:00PM on HD Disk. Times for Pictures for the newspaper will be announced in Next Weeks Issue of the newspaper. Elections Will Be Held on Friday, May 20th. Description of the New Position of Vice President of Campus Life The new position of Vice President for Campus Life has overall responsibility for the organization of campus services, including student life .. The Vice President will insure that all campus services provide appropriate support for the College's academic program and are coherent with its central mission ~-the education of undergraduate students. Among the primary responsibilities of the Vice President will be the development of a rich campus community life for students -- in a first class manner; the planning and construction of new capital projects within a campus master plan; and the initiation and coordination of new cooperative ventures among all administrative support offices. Other responsibilities will be: 1) Chair of Social Committee . 2) Director of traffic for clubs who do not use their funds. Will give suggestions for the use of these funds. 3) Oversee coordination ofWinterfest and Springfest J Consulting with the Vice President for Campus Life will be the following directors: Dean of Students Capital Projects Manager Coordinator of Campus Planning The Vice President for Campus Life reports directly to the President and serves as a member of the President's staf£

SPORTS Dutchmen Upset Nationally Ranked Statesm·en of Hobart by Joe Salzbart Sports Editor As the Dutchmen recorded their last out to defeat the nationally ranked Statesmen of Hobart, so ended the careers of the four Senior Captains: John Aurora, Paul Drumm, Joe Saltzbart, and Kevin Sullivan. These tremendous physical up their defense and fine tuning a pitching staff that dominated superior teams in fleeting moments of the season. Dave Dagostino scored the game-winning. run in the second game against Hobart, on a wild pitch, allowing Union to salvage a split. Dagostino scored both tuns and had two hits. Keith games to Albany 4-3 and 8-5. Again, Union's errors in game one made it difficult for starting pitcher Mike Bernardo. Yet, the knuckleballing sophomore held Albany to three runs through seven innings when :Jay Greenstein entered the game to pitch with the bases loaded, nobody out, and the game tied. Bilseball Team Picture taken during spring training tr:ip to Florida. specimens-, gentleman · all, enjoyed 1h:e thri:J:ls and spins ·Of all · .. 8-20' se~st;n, which ~began' 'in defeat;· but ended in victory. All agree that they would like to be remembered as the forefathers of the resurgence ·Of Dutchmen Baseball at Union College. Although the team will suffer greatly from the graduation of these four superstars, the Union Men .look to be extremely competitive next season by suring Lombardo got the win in a 2-1 triumph for Union. Unfortunately, ttiumph was preceded· By tragedy as' Hobart's Todd Sterling singled and scored on a two base throwing err~r in the bottom of the seventh to win the first g~e 6-5. The Dutchmen waisted a solid pitching effort from Drumm and ~rett Rubin by committing six errors. Earlier in the week, the Dutchmen dropped two close After recording one out, Albany punched in a run to win the game. The second gamefeatured the pitching of Jimmy-Knight and Greenstein. Union outhit the Great Dan~s and also committed more errors, again proving to be the Dutchmen downfall. Jamie Haver hit a two-run home run in the first game and had a double and home run in the second game. Mike Bernardo had three hits in the losing effort. Crew Team Prepares For the ·New York State Championships by Steve Mooar Contributing Writer The crew team finished the regular season this past Saturday at the University of Rochester. For the firsttime in recent history, the weather and more specifically the wind was not a factor. The PROCTORS THEATER May 20 at 8 PM - Will Rogers Follies starring Mac Davis Tickets $30.15 good seats first come first serve. Call x6118. 20 Tickets . available June 1 Sister Rosensweig .. Comedy Tickets $26.65. First . come first serve. Call x6118. 20 Tickets available. clear skies and shelteredwater of the Erie Canal provided the per- fect race setting. The first race of the day was the novice men's eight. Coming off a rough race last weekend against Skidmore, they bad something to .prove. After racing even with Rochester for the first thousand meters, they began to pull away in the second thousand ofthe two thousand meter race. In the last five hundred, they left no doubt as to who would be the victor as they finished with open water between them and the Roch~ster eight. , ThenovicewQmen's eightwas unable to duplicate the novice men's results,. but it was not due toalackofttying. Roehester<loes not have a .novice women's eight, therefore; the novice women's eight raced against aN boat. The result was impressive as they lost by on1y one boat length to a much more experienced crew. With the eight out of the picture, the nov- ice women's four was left to deal with the Rochester novice women's team. Despite a change in the line up from last weeks four, the crew was able to pull together and win its second race in a row. The JV men's eight and varsity women's eight also made steps forward heading into the New York Championship Regatta. The JV·men lost a close race, while the varsity women put to- gether one of their better races of the season, but fell two boat lengths short of victory. Union Crew begins the post season this Saturday and Sunday at the New York State Champi- onship Regatta, at Cazenovia Lake. The team heads to States with 7 shells, 48 rowers, 7 cox- swains,. 1 Cleo, and the regular entourage of crew fans. Each crew's performance at States will determine whether they are in- vited to Nationals in Virginia or the season ends. May 5, 1994, page 23 ~nlite· eallipus·e~me$ .tegetber in a non- ~~:d'~r:fewt·wlto'~rouild· ·disagree that most eamnusre\rolv-es arouud·drinking. How .. . · wbioltyear·aftetyear b~ngs !Jndepen.-. . · .. ·:· \ ·.· : ... : . ·.· ..... ·:· .... ·. . I sp.eak, . · Uni~n College Volleyball Tournament. Th.is year .will m.ark ~h~ fifth consecutive year that tournament will be held . \t\t t9e ~each. volleyball court at Phi Gamma Delta on the weekend · ofMay 13-J'S. · Tb,e event was originally open to Greek students only. Basi· · •. ·• it w~s the volleyball battle of the fraternities ant;l sororities. Hn,we·11Pr. , t~ year, independent studeQ.ts were invited to partici~ l .. ,, .. vgw~,AJI!I> welt The response was so sucqe.ssful.that this year an tal iiitvitau·u tiw:Jasextendedto. thefi\9tlityl)lMthers ofUnion i;. . .c:Pi:fOJJtg,Withthe men's and women's, toitmaments, there be a faculty tournament, pending participation. · ·· · . · · .:¥earsg mare th$1 $~t,ooo, b.~ be~ raised for Brothers/ Big Sisters of Schenectady) the beneficiary of this event. But while the money is important and the main reason why t1lifstonmarnentds held, the Union College Volleyball Tourna· moot also .serves other purposes. It brings the student body and the faculty together in a competitive but friendly atmosphere. This is a unique event which allows students to interact with other students in a non-alcoholic atmosphere. It is not too late to participate. For more infonnation, look for flyers around the campus., ask your resident assistant if you have one) or call Aaron Rees at 388-5650. If you choose not to play. celtttse (eel fr~e to attend any of the gm:nes~.There will be terrific .· ...•.•. ·. . ..... · .. drawings, and ofcourse, great voll~yball. Hope to see •.. • . ' . . -- - -. • ~ • .y - • - ' ~- -· . '. Softball Slugs It Out Continued from page 24 Anderson and junior Allison Draizin have done a solid job all year long for the Dutchwomen. Anderson owns a 10-11 record, with one save, with a 4.29 earned run average. She has given up 136 hits in 134 innings, allowing 82 earned runs. Draizin, who missed all of preseason as well as the week-long Spring trip to Florida while she was a term abroad in Spain, has come on strong of late. She has won her last five decisions and sports an overall record of 6-3. Last week the Dutchwomen added a couple of\firsts\ to their record books. On April 26 they not only beat Division ll St. Rose, 11-9, for the first time ever, they played their first night game ever against the Knights. In their next outing at Albany on the 28th, Union knocked off Albany, 9-5 and 4-3 in eight innings, for its first twin bill sweep of the Great Danes. But perhaps the game that best epitomizes the spirit and effort of this year's team came in the sec- ond game of the doubleheader against Staten Island on the 30th. After winning the first game by a 12-5 margin, the Dutchwomen found themselves on the short end of an 8-0 score after the first half inning. The Dutchwomen fought back with two runs in the second, seven in the fourth, and five in the fifth to capture a 14-·1 0 come- back victory, Freshman catcher Andrea Kal.abokes, who had been on the disabled list since fractur- ing her leg during the Spring trip, celebrated her return to the start- ing lineup with two hits and four RBI while rookie Jen Lelas added a two-run triple, and junior first baseman Deb Montano contrib- uted a double, single, and two RBI. \These players don't know the meaning of the word quit,\ com- mented Pedone proudly. \Our success this year has been because of a total commitment by every single player on the roster. I couldn't be prouder.\ Men' s· Lacrosse Ends Seas-on with .Win Continued ftompage 24 they provided a w:-eat example for next year's captains to follow. Rico Vargas, Scott Lent, and Eric Skulte all had great careers, and will be sorely missed. Head Coach Pete Brown did well in his inaugural season with the team. Anchored by the solid leadership of the captains and the coaching staff, the lacrosse teams loQks to post season play next year. -..,. . ....

May 5, 1994 PAGE24 Men's Lacrosse Wins Capital Cup By Defeating RPI by Bill Endo Concordiensis Staff The men's lacrosse team has ended the year with a 6-5 record and rounded out the season with games against Trinity, Albany, and RPI. Despite a disappoint- ing loss to Albany, Union still was able to clinch the Capital Cup. Trinity strolled into ' '' .. _,, ' . ~ ' - ._ '' ' . • Schenectady with an impressive 7-3 record and expected to break Union's current winning streak, but the Dutchmen sent them back to Hartford with their heads in shame. The offense came out with a vengeance and buried Trinity and the relentless Dutch- men attack kept the pressure on the entire game. Trinity gathered up the energy for a rally late in the game, but fell short as the Dutchmen went on to win 12-10. The Great Danes of Albany also dueled the Dutchmen in a nailbiter that proved to be the closest contest of the season as both team traded goals with Union falling short 11-12. Cory Holbrouglr drives up tire field in a recent game. (photograph by Joshua W. Haines exclusively jot tl1e Concordiensis.) The game against RPI was piv- otal for the Dutchmen.; they h.ad to keep RPI under eight goals oth- etWise the Capital'Cup would be lost to Albany. Goalie Steve Rotkiewicz came through with a stunning performance. He made incredible saves throughout the game and kept the defense per- forming the best it has all season. Senior Scott Lent scored once and Eric Williams racked up a goal and an assist. On the offensive end, Teddy Side] completed his c.ollege career in dramatic fash- ion; scoring six times, he also set up many other offensive drives Attackman Dave Parott and Jus- Softball Ties Record for Victories in a Season Have Won Eight of Their Last Nine Games Winners in eight of their last nine games, the softball team tied the college record for victories in a season when it defeated host Hamilton, 11-2, last Sunday to improve its record to 17-11. The Dutchwomen headed into the fi- nal week of the regular-season with a five-game win streak and a ninth-place ranking in Upstate New York. Head coach Sue Pedone, who guided Union to a 17-5 record in 1991 and to a school-best second Alison Draizin Reacts to a recent win. (J.Haines/TC) place trophy in the New York State Tournament, is hopeful that a strong finish will impress the state selection committee and in- vite her Dutch women to the tour- nament for the first time in the last three seasons. \If we can win our final three games and go to the committee with a 20-win season against a quality schedule, it will be hard for them to keep us out,\ she said. \Either way, we've had a fantas- tic season. The team has played extremely well on th-e field and all of the players have been very supportive of each other.\ The Dutchwomen have an in- credible .322 batting average that has produced 76 extra base hits (a slugging percentage of .461) and 232 runs. Union has scored 10 or more runs nine times this season including the last three games. Sophomore Stacey Anderson leads the hit parade with her .416 average and is also the team's RBI leader with 28. Four other starters, junior short- stop Stephanie Ilowk (.383), sophomore catcher Jen Ricci (.349), sophomore centerfielder Kim Fannilig (.340) and junior second baseman Nikki Silvestri (.3 33) arc hitting well over the .300 mark. Silvestri's 24 RBI and Ricci's 23 arc right behind Anderson while Fanning, the team's leadoff hitter, has scored a Dutchwomen-high 32 runs. _ Continued on page 23 tin Perkins were equally instru- mental in the victory as the RPI defense failed to contain the Dutchmen. This year Union says good-bye to five players. The captains Ted Sidel and Bill Nook have kept the team together despite a 1-4 start. Their hard work and ~edication to the team was appreciated, and Continued on page 23

May 5, 1994 PAGE 24 ----------~· ····-·· ijllf£ <llonrorltiensis Men's Lacrosse Wins Capital Cup By Defeating RPI by Bill Endo Concordiensis Staff l he men· s la~,;russt: tt:a.m has ctHkd tl1c 'car \\ ith a (i_t; rc..:ord .ltl,l !•'ltlldcd •ll!l the sea-;o11 \\ t·th ~.ttllt'~ .tgatnst Trimty, AH>all~. and RPI. Despite a disappoint- ing loss tu Albany, Union still was able to clinch the Capital Cup. Trinity strolled into ···~· • Schenectady with an impressive 7-3 record and expected to break Union's current winning streak, but the Dutchmen sent them back to Hartford with their heads in shame. The offense came out with a vengeance and buried Trinity and the relentless Dutch- men attack kept the press1:1re on the entire game. Trinity gathered up the energy for a rally late in the game, but fell short as the Dutchmen went on to win 12-10. The Great Danes of Albany also dueled the Dutchmen in a nailbiter that proved to be the closest contest of the season as both team traded goals with Union falling short 11-12. Cory Holbrouglt drives up tile field in a recent game. (photograph byJoshua W. Haines exclusively for the Concordiensis.) The game against RPI was piv- otal for the Dutchmen.; they had to keep RPI under eight goals oth- erwise the Capital ·cup would be lost to Albany. Goalie Steve Rotkiewicz came through with a stunning performance. He made incredible saves throughout the game and kept the defense per- forming the best it has all season. Senior Scott Lent scored once and Eric Williams racked up a goal and an assist. On the offensive end, Teddy Sidel completed his college career in dramatic fash- ion; scoring six times, he also set up many other offensive drives Attackman Dave Parott and Jus- Softball Ties Record for Victories in a Season Have Won Eight of Their Last Nine Games Winners in eight of their last nine games, the softball team tied the college record for victories in a season when it defeated host Hamilton, 11-2, last Sunday to improve its record to 17-11. The Dutchwomen headed into the fi- :;·r,,,_.· nal week of the regular-season with a five-game win streak and a ninth-place ranking in Upstate New York. Head coach Sue Pedone, who guided Union to a 17-5 record in 1991 and to a school-best second Alison Draizin Reacts to a recent win. (J.Haines!TC) place trophy in the New York State Tournament, is hopeful that a strong finish will impress the state selection committee and in- vite her Dutchwomen to the tour- nament for the first time in the last three seasons. \If we can win our final three games and go to the committee with a 20-win season against a quality schedule, it will be hard for them to keep us out,\ she said. \Either way, we've had a fantas- tic season. The team has played extremely well on the field and all of the players have been very supportive of each other.\ The Dutchwomen have an in- credible .322 batting average that has produced 76 extra base hits (a slugging percentage of .461) and 232 runs. Union has scored 10 or more runs nine times this season including the last three games. Sophomore Stacey Anderson leads the hit parade with her .416 average and is also the team's RBI leader with 28. Four other starters, junior short- stop Stephanie Ilowk (.383), sophomore catcher Jen Ricci (.349), sophomore centerfielder Kim Fanning (.340) and junior second baseman Nikki Silvestri (.333) are hitting we11 over the .300 mark. Silvestri's 24 RBI and Ricci's 23 are right behind Anderson while Fanning, the team's leadoff hitter, has scored a Dutchwomen-high 32 runs. Continued on page 23 tin Perkins were equally instru- mental in the victory as the RPI defense failed to contain the Dutchmen. This year Union says good-bye to five players. The captains Ted by Mik~ :tediiJg CiJncotdiensis Sports Sidel and Bill Nook have kept the team together despite a 1-4 start. Their hard work and dedication to the team was appreciated, and Continued on page 23 ............. ······· pack at S~J~s. tQ~ tWojump- ei~ Marcelo. Tellez a11d Matt • Stem both placed welt in their ; This past weekend, the individual events. Marcelo . · weight team and jumpers trav- placed fourth in the High lump eled to Brown University ·to get soaring to a height of 6-feet 6 geared up for the upcoming inches. In the Triple Jump~ State Meet this weekend at Stem placed fifth with a leap of Brockport. These men left with 43 feet 3 inches. the intention to ameliorate..some The rest 0fthe te~ bas been • of their marks and hoped to at work on the Track getting · qualify for Nationals before ready for States. The runners ·. States, but all they ended up took the weekend off to rest up · doing was·. performing· well and. get themselves in o-ptimal · ·againstsomebettercompetition condition :for the upcoming . : andhope.fuliywork:edout:aUthe · meet;··which Js to, be held this •. kinks in their preparatrori for FridayandSattu:day. The team · · Nationals. The men that made · , 'wtll be le:wing:··at ~~00 ihttl'. ·(:>n . ··the road,.trfp wereliclt'Ptttver; 'Fttfiday m<Ytnin:g. ·so we· wish · ··Matt···J'olmso:n<; •Glntck;€Jletieis.·:···; tbern_;:w~lltas•,.they:ihtntd·eff. tl:r. :.· ·.Ma:tt:StettnrMatQt:l()!/Jleliez;an:d:·,. ;;,•.St>llte:s;. t ·;:;.r::.·.• : ,. · ::; •. r:;;.·;~.::: ;· .• ,.,,.· .. : <:·. ·.~. ,, .•. ' • · < J:ott:<J.ainOlki' ·: , .. , ·; \ •··· ;· :.Slta:t:es:: \:t0'tc NtadiJtec. !Fi.,La.s.i. · ··· <iJ\otnp~thlg•in·th~·i&hqt::•··~~·:·>· atmtedtast:S:un:~ay·,a.nd'M~.n:d~·· . •·.:~was:RJ:®:·PulV-.et:··and;;'a$';Usua~l:oi!ns·•~·:l'l~~atb!~n•·'·''.N«dine.·:·. ···ile pla.ced·furst·with<a.·•tllr0\V'•of: :·~(tlmp~edindl1.~$~;s~~etw~:¥-ent$t ,· · ,,A:l:•l'\~\~'t\·. ·m': .· \\\\\ ·· .. . »il.~t...,~,,...,.\\\\'t.. ··\' .•. .c.· .,··!ltAL:\<·m \\t\'\\'krtr·· . .tt;i.lla:.-;;s.···t.-·~··\'\'t' ·'20(}. ,, : ::·' .;;1:. ~:· -~~-~.~:}?F; __ : . Q~lvS~:·:>:~.u .. ~·:::~w,p;:,t~J.:tll!.:·:·:~::.:~:-· ::~~::~~-~~: .. ,-~::::~~--:~t-~_~1:~- .. i-U~~:ifiQ' -~f··, ... :·:·-: .>j<- . 1 • ;,,gtineclftha.t:the·¢Ompetitiellvvas''··'····meters;;ton:~,1~mp;'•:high.jl.lU1P~''· · :·.· novup·to,11is4evel~rhop.etull}t;at: , .. SIQ.•,mete:rtr; :oodf;~:the; j:aveHct. • · '·\'~'t\S'·th\\\' . ...,...,.,'<fl'·}il•··lkb:,......,.;..,.,..WI•·'\'>'.'\\T).;:; .... S.t\\\~h;lt · o.~.a\'. ~- · ¥·::u·J.vl·l'·'·l'Y¢ _1;'·:·u·\\'>;\':'1V.&:'Iiot\·~,tr;:-· ....... -:_-.1_'t·aQ:l~v-::. _.._ ___ .. _~·.::.e;~~ _ ··::'jV:.tf.:· w:-uu·e· . •to 'hi\s' :standard; ·Jt·tealtydCiles(: ·· ·c:dif>,the wt:~mren?•s·llOOtin:g .• :by· not matter·beeause he will an.. , grabbing·· fou'rtb·:in the,.:whf:lle niltilate thettl anyway; Itt the state :of New .Yorlc. Wonder Javelin~ Chuck Clerici• ended a · woman Nadine Filosi did it two week streak of placing ex.. again by performing this we1Hn · actlybehlndMattJolinsoth This the Heptathalon. Now Nadine time Chuck placed sixth and will join the rest of the women Matt ended up sev~nth. In the and men as they travel to states Hammer; Jon Gainor got him- this weekend. j, l' li ~ ~ . ~ 'I !·\ . ' I

.. .... nncnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 . -· - . - . - Volume CXXIII, Number XXII Schenectady, New York May 12, 1994 Lights Out Again Senior Dan Kull, junipr David Levine, and junior Jason Dickerson (left to rig/1t) participate i11 Vale Parkdeanup. (photo by Jos/1 Hai11esjor the Concordiensis) U Made a Difference! Over 150 members of the Schenectady community, including many Union students, participated in last Saturday's cleanup ofV ale Park, according to Brian Macherone of Schenectady 2000. Many Schenectadians were impressed with Union!s turnout at this long-awaited event. Macherone, a Union graduate and employee, was proud ofthe support of his alma mater. \I was very proud to be a Union alumni and employee, you [members of the Union community] have again proven to be an inspiration by your example of the outgoing spirit that makes Union one of a kind.\ Union students arrived at 9 a.m., and began cleaning up the Union- owned plot of the park. The initial efforts were so strong that future Union groups assisted in the other 5 sections of the park. Many students stayed to the end of the cleanup, when they helped to load garbage into the pickup trucks. Macherone estimated that the amount of garbage removed could have fit into a dumpster 10 feet wide, 5 feet high, and 40 feet long. Additionally, according to Macherone, over 3 tons of steel was removed from the park. Residents will reap the benefits of cleanup as early as next fall with the installation of picnic areas. The longer term projects in Vale Park, an.d future Schenectady 2000 projects, will need continued involvement from the Union community. Interested students should call 34 7-2000 and ask for Kim Perone. by Sarah R. Evans Concordiensis Staff First the campus was 'brown' and then it went 'black,' as the campus lost power at approxi- mately 7PM, Monday night. Power was completely lost on the south end of campus and the rest of the campus experienced a brown-out from 7PM, Monday until Tuesday morning. Up cam- pus, past the rink, was not affected by the power outage since it is on a different power grid. Most of lower campus was without power. The College Cen- ter and Science and Engineering operated en a limited power sup- ply Monday night, while the Li- brary, Memorial Chapel, Old Chapel, Hale House, Chester Arthur, South College, Fox Hall, Davidson Hall, Richmond Hall, Silliman Hall, Becker, and the Ad- ministration Building were with- out power. West College was un- affected by the .power outage be- cause it has a separate generator in case of emergency. The power to Richmond was quickly re- stored. According to Dave Gryz- bowski, from Campus Operations and Maintenance, as of Monday, the power should have been re- stored yesterday to the whole campus. The problem occurred because there was a fault in the high voltage line that runs from the Humanities Building to South, Fox and Davidson residence halls. The fault in the high voltage line can be compared to a hole in a water hose. Both of these prob- lems have similar affects. The school has electricians working on the power line con- tinually, without breaking, until the problem is solved. As of the time of publication, some of the electricians have been working for more than 24 hours straight. Although the only buildings that were effected directly were Me- morial Chapel, Old Chapel, Hale House, Chester Arthur, South College, and The Fox and Davidson Halls; the power was turned off in the rest of the build- ings down campus so the electri- cians could work safely. Emergency batteries were lighting the exit signs and an emergency generator is supply- ing energy for the telephone switch gear. The Greek Houses down campus have lost large amounts of food because they do not have generators to keep the refrigerators and freezers work- ing. The Fiji chef, Leo, estimates Fiji will lose at least a couple hundred dollars worth of food. If the power does not come back soon they could lose close to $1000. The power outage has caused many inconveniences for the stu- dents living down campus. There is no hot water to shower with and students cannot study in their rooms at night. This is the third power outage of the year. Ac- cording to Campus Safety there have been discussions about how to alleviate future power outages. Dukakis.On Health Care: Special Interview by Elissa Hecker Concotdiensis Staff \The infant mortality rate in Cuba is lower than it is in the United States. That tells you something.\ On a national tour pr:omoting and discussing the President's l1calthcare plan, Michael Dukakis, sponsored guest of Speaker's Forum, made such statements stressing the need for universal healthcate. He spoke on the evening of May 5 to an im- pressive crowd of students, ad- ministrators and area residents in Memorial Chapel. Attempting to disperse negative feelings of the populous towards a universal healthcare plan, Dukakis outlined aspects of its benefits and fielded many questions from concerned citizens. Dukakis opened his discussion by emphasizing that, \It isn't that the U.S. doesn't provide good healthca:re ... we do ... but there are a mimber ofthings .. .that are both- ering Americans.\ He cited the fact that the United States has the most expensive healthcare sys- tem, one which costs two times more per capita, and one that costs one hundred percent more than do most of our economic competitor nations, such as Canada, Japan, and much of Western Europe. He briefly gave a history of the iegislative at- tempts made in the past to inte- grate a universal healthcare sys- tem info operation, originating with Harry Truman's proposed legislation in 1945. He spoke of the Hawaiian healthcare system, after which the President's plan was formed. Hawaii has a f1early universal system, as over ninety-one per- cent of its citizens are insured. In a separate interview, Dukakis of- fered his views on this subject, \Well there's a lot of Hawaii in Clinton's pla...\l. He himselftalked about it a lot. I had the vety good , Dukakis speaks in Memorial Cltapel (pl10to by J. Smitii!TC). fortune to spend a semester and Hawaii and I spent a lot of time teaching there at the University of looking at the Hawaiian healthcare system. This was af- ter I left the C'TOvernor's office andafterihad signed the second universal healthcare bill in the country which was the one I signed 1n '88, and which was modeled to a very good extent after the one in Hawaii. And I'll tell you. I was enonnonsly im- pressed. Hawaii works, it's been Co11tinued on page 4 Inside: News ••••u·••••••••••••ee~••• 2-6 World News ............... 7 OPtED ....................... 8 Letters ......... a ............. 9 Awards u•••u··············ll Scie·nce .•. l! •••••••••••• ,. ••• 12 Arts .................... 13-14 Personals ............... 15 Sports ................ 17-18 Features ............ 19-20

.. .. nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XXII Schenectady, New York May 12, 1994 Lights Out Again Senior Dan Ku/1, junior David Levine, and junior Jason Dickerson (left to right) participate in Vale Park cleanup. (photo by Josh Haines for tile Concordiensis) U Made a Difference! Over 150 members of the Schenectady community, including many Union students, participated in last Saturday's cleanup ofVale Park, according to Brian Macherone of Schenectady 2000. Many Schenectadians were impressed with Union's turnout at this long-awaited event. Macherone, a Union graduate and employee, was proud of the support of his alma mater. \I was very proud to be a Union alumni and employee, you [members of the Union community] have again proven to be an inspiration by your example of the outgoing spirit that makes Union one of a kind.\ Union students arrived at 9 a.m., and began cleaning up the Union- owned plot ofthe park. The initial efforts were so strong that future Union groups assisted in the other 5 sections of the park. Many students stayed to the end of the cleanup, when they helped to load garbage into the pickup trucks. Macherone estimated that the amount of garbage removed could have fit into a dumpster 10 feet wide, 5 feet high, and 40 feet long. Additionally, according to Macherone, over 3 tons of steel was removed from the park. Residents will reap the benefits of cleanup as early as next fall with the installation of picnic areas. The longer term projects in Vale Park, and future Schenectady 2000 projects, will need continued involvement from the Union community. Interested students should call 347-2000 and ask for Kim Perone. by Sarah R. Evans Concordiensis Staff First the campus was 'brown' a.Hd then it went 'black,' as the campus lost power at approxi- mately 7PM, Monday night. Power was completely lost on the south end of campus and the rest of the campus experienced a brown-out from 7PM, Monday until Tuesday moming. Up cam- pus, past the rink, was not affected by the power outage since it is on a different power grid. Most of lower campus was without power. The College Cen- ter and Science and Engineering operated on a limited power sup- ply Monday night, while the Li- brary, Memorial Chapel, Old Chapel, Hale House, Chester Arthur, South College, Fox Hall, Davidson Hall, Richmond Hall, Silliman Hall, Becker, and the Ad- ministration Building were with- out power. West College was un- affected by the power outage be- cause it has a separate generator in case of emergency. The power to Richmond was quickly re- stored. According to Dave Gryz- bowski, from Campus Operations and Maintenance, as of Monday, the power should have been re- stored yesterday to the whole campus. The problem occurred because there was a fault in the high voltage line that runs from the Humanities Building to South, Fox and Davidson residence halls. The fault in the high voltage line can bt: co111pan.:J to a huk 111 a water hosc. Both of thcsc prob- lems have similar affects. The school has electricians working on the power line con- tinually, without breaking, until the problem is solved. As of the time of publication, some of the electricians have been working for more than 24 hours straight. Although the only buildings that were effected directly were Me- morial Chapel, Old Chapel, Hale House, Chester Arthur, South College, and The Fox and Davidson Halls; the power was turned off in the rest of the build- ings down campus so the electri- cians could work safely. Emergency batteries were lighting the exit signs and an emergency generator is supply- ing energy for the telephone switch gear. The Greek Houses down campus have lost large amounts of food because they do not have generators to keep the refrigerators and freezers work- ing. The Fiji chef, Leo, estimates Fiji will lose at least a couple hundred dollars worth of food. If the power does not come back soon they could lose close to $1000. The power outage has caused many inconveniences for the stu- dents living down campus. There is no hot water to shower with and students cannot study in their rooms at night. This is the third power outage of the year. Ac- cording to Campus Safety there have been discussions about how to alleviate future power outages. Dukakis On Health Care: Special Interview by Elissa Hecker Concordiensis Staff \The infant mortality rate in Cuba is lower than it is in the United States. That tells you something.\ On a national tour promoting and discussing the President's healthcare plan, Michael Dukakis, sponsored guest of Speaker's Forum, made such statements stressing the need for universal healthcare. He spoke on the evening of May 5 to an im- pressive crowd of students, ad- ministrators and area residents in Memorial Chapel. Attempting to disperse negative feelings of the populous towards a universal healthcare plan, Dukakis outlined aspects of its benefits and fielded many questions from concerned citizens. Dukakis opened his discussion by emphasizing that, \It isn't that the U.S. doesn't provide good healthcare ... we do ... but there are a mimber ofthings ... that are both- ering Americans.\ He cited the fact that the United States has the most expensive healthcare sys- tem, one which costs two times more per capita, and one that costs one hundred percent more than do most of our economic competitor nations, such as Canada, Japan, and much of Western Europe. He briefly gave a history of the legislative at- tempts made in the past to inte- grate a universal healthcare sys- tem into operation, originating with Harry Truman's proposed legislation in 1945. He spoke of the Hawaiian healthcare system, after which the President's plan was formed. Hawaii has a nearly universal system, as over ninety-one per- cent of its citizens are insured. In a separate interview, Dukakis of- fered his views on this subject, \Well there's a lot of Hawaii in Clinton's pla...\l. He himself talked about it a lot. I had the very good Dukakis speaks in Memorial Cllapel (pltoto by J. Smitii!TC) fortune to spend a semester and teaching there at the University of Hawaii and I spent a lot of time looking at the Hawaiian healthcare system. This was af- ter I left the Govemor's office and after I had signed the second universal healthcare bill in the country which was the one I signed in '88, and which was modeled to a very good extent after the one in Hawaii. And I'll tell you, I was enonnously im- pressed Hawaii works. it's hccn Continued on page 4 Inside: News ········••o••·········· 2-6 WorldNews ............... 7 OPtED tOtttltttlltfllllllttCIItl 8 Letters ....................... 9 A wa 1·ds .e •••••••••••••••••• , 11 Science ................. e •• 12 .i\ r1s .................... 13-14 Personals ............... 15 Sports .. . .. . . .. .. . .. . . l 7-18 Features ............ 19-20

. ' May 12, 1994, page 2 NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY. MAY 2.1994 THROUGH SUNDAY. MAY 8.1994 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY. MAY 2, 1994: 1 :40 AM Raymond House 1 :42 AM Raymond House 1:52AM Edwards House 8:1$ AM College Center 8:55AM 10:53 AM 12:55 PM 1:30PM 2:10PM 8:45PM Raymond :HclUse Fox House College Center Davidson House Lamont House Campus Safety ' TUESDAY. MAY3, 1994: I :57 AM Lamont House 2:45 AM College Center 6:20 AM <;::ampus Operations 8:40AM Whitaker House 1:13PM Bailey Hall WEDNESDAY. MAY 4.1~94: 12:40 AM Chi Psi 8:42AM Social Science 1:40PM Field House 6:42PM College Center 11:16 PM Fox House THURSDAY, MAY 5,1994: 3:06AM West College 6:50AM 8:03PM 8:24PM 10:16 PM Davidson Lot Davidson House Fox House Silliman Hall FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1994: 8:08AM Humanities 10:50 AM Nott Street 2:25PM 9:05PM Hale House Fox/Davidson Lot SATURDAY. MAY 7, 1994: 2:03AM Davidson Lot 7:17AM Richmond 1:51 PM Webster 8:17PM Fox House 8:42PM Chi Psi 9:20PM College Center 11:20 PM Fox/Davidson Lot SUNDAY. MAY 8. 1994: 1:45AM College Center 2:30AM West College 5:28AM Nott Street 3:04PM Sigma Phi 4:00PM Library Plaza 6:42PM Fox House 9:26PM Sigma Phi 9:45PM South College INCIDENT VANDALISM: Broken window. VANDALISM: Two broken w~ndow~. VANDALISM: Crash Bar - Entry Door ta,mpered with. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odot of marijuana reported. Unconfirtrled. TRESPASS: Visitor entered building without authorization. Identified and warned off campus. TRESPASS: 2 visitors entt:lred buildings without author:ization - Identified ~ Arrested. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana- Confirmed·- Suspects gone on arrival. VANDALISM: Part removed froni security telephone. THEFT: Parking designation sign stolen. VEH{CLE DAMAGE: Escort van windshield damaged ... cause und~termined. VANDALISM: Window broken. VANDALISM: Parts removed from campus vehicle. VANDALISM: Windows broken on three campus vehicles. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room fire extinguisher discharged and discarded. THEFT: Student's bicycle stolen.- chain C\lt. TRESPASS: Unauthorized entry into residence - fled when challenged. VANDALISM: Projection screen damaged. VANDALISM: Building siding, door and window damaged. THEFT: Student's bicycle stolen- chain cut. SAFETY HAZARD I HARASSMENT: Student locked in room. HARASSMENT I ABUSIVE BEHAVIOR - Students involved. VANDALISM: Windshield wiper broken off student's car. SAFETY HAZARD: Minor fire reported on roof- no damage - Student mischief involved. SAFETY HAZARD I HARASSMENT: Student locked m room. SAFETY HAZARD: Student's on fire escape. VANDALISM: Broken storm window. VEHlCLE ACCIDENT: Vehicle collided with fence. POSSIBLE THEFT: Room furnishings and antique items. SUSPiCIOUS PERSON: Identified as student. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Intoxicated non-student visitor. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student removed smoke detector from ceiling. MINOR FIRE: Plastic on stove - no damage - extinguished by student. POSSIBLE THEFT: Telephone missing. POTENTIAL SAFETY HAZARD: Social Event decora tions. SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE: Owner/Operator identified. MISCHIEF: Vehicle covered with shaving cream. THEFT: Property removed from campus vehicle. THEFT: Delivery goods removed. VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Vehicle collided with campus fence. THEFT: ~ersonal property stolen during social event - left unattended. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Identified and advised of campus policies. DISPUTE: Students involved - Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Personal property stolen during social event - left uhattended. SAFETY JiAZARD: hems being thrown from 4th floor.

Alumni Sponsor Innovative Faculty Exchange Program by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff Union College is fortunate to 11ave received a generous alumni contribution, which has be.en used to bring Eastem European and Fonner Soviet Union (FSU) sci- entists Marian Lupulescu and GaUna Ledneva to the campus. This progrrun has been an enor- mous success in that the college community has been exposed to scientists that it would not inter- act with nonnally. Marian Lupulescu is one of the twoforeign scientists presently at Union. Lupulescu is a geologist from the University of Bucharest in Romania. He is presently teaching. a course in Economic Geology (Mineral Resources). He is also conducting research on igneousrocks from Romania and, in particular, x-ray diffraction of ore minemls from Romania. Lupulescu thoroughly enjoys working at Union, and he bet.ieves ~ that the small size of.the Geology ~ Department is beneficial for stu- ~· dents and faculty. . Marian Lupulescu had diffi- ..... culty expressing the cultural dif.- ferences between Romania and the United States. He claims that NEWS May 12, 1994, page 3 Additionally, this unique pro- gram reveals a panoramic oppor- tunity for Union faculty and stu- dents.. For example, Professor Garver of the Geology Depart- ment visited Russia this past sum- mer and conducted research atthe Kamchatka Peninsula. If funded, he hopes to initiate a long-term ' research program there. In addi- tion, the prograin has resulted in the participation of Union geol- ogy students on a geological fidd trip to Romania this summer led by Lupulescu. Students and fac- ulty on the trip will study or~ de- posits of ancient mines in the Carpathian Mountains. These ge- ology students will also have the opportunity to visit Bucharest University andmake connections with the Romanian students an~l faculty members and in the pro- cess, learn about Romania's cul- tural history. he has experienced living in two extremely different worlds. He stated thattoday's Western world has freedom of human thought, while the Eastern world ttas just begun to relinquish its hold over personal freedom within the past four to five years. He believes that the restraints on individual free- doms have handicapped his corul- try for approximately fifty years. He explained that Union students are fortunate to work with the best, new, and competitive scien- tific equipment (an example of Union's equipment is the I.C.P.- M.S. which allows precise deter- mination of elemental composi- tion). Therefore, Union's students graduate knowing how to use these modem instruments, while Geology Department ltosts George Sltaw (left) and Joltn Garver (riglzt) with visiting scientists Galya Ledneva (from Russia) second from left, and Marian Lupeleseu (from Romania) second from rigltt Romanian students lack exposure to this equipment. Galya Ledneva is a Russian geologist from the Institute of Lithosphere of the Russian Acad- einy .of Sciences in Moscow. Ledneva met Professor Garver last summer while doing field work on the Kamchatka Penin- sula in the Russian Far East. She is currently researching the geochemistry of volcanic rocks from this study area.Galyareally enjoys working in Union's Ge- ology Department due to its im- pressive high-quality research equipment and friendly atmo- sphere. In trying to differentiate between the cultural differences between Russia and the United States, Ledneva was close to speechless. She stated that the two cultures are completely different from one an- other, whether it be the style ofliv- ing or working - everything from her perspective is different. She also spoke of the differences in freedom between the peoples of the two countries. Ledneva claims that the individual freedoms of thought, speech, and action of the people in the Russia have gradu- ally increased during the past two decades. For example, she stated that it would have been impossible for her to do research in the United States fifteen years ago, yet the fact that she is here today is tes- timony to the diffusion of free- dom throughout the FSU. De- spite the imposing cultural dif- ferences, she is well adjusted to life in America now and is quite comfortable in the Union com- munity. This alumni-funded program is extremely beneficial to Union College. Students and faculty need to recognize the important significance of these scientists on campus. As this institution ap- proaches the Twenty First Cen- tury, hopefully many other types of innovative programs will be formed. Professors Butterstein and Wine.apple Invested as Endowed Chairs by Sarah R. Evans Concordiensis Staff Professors George Butterstein and Brenda Wineapple were in- vested as the endowed chairs of the Florence- B. Sherwood Chair in Life Sciences and Washington Irving Chair in Modern Literary and Historical Studies, respec- tively. Butterstein considered this to be the highest academic honor that a professor can receive. Endowed Chairs are given to professors to recognize their ex- cellence in teaching and scholas- tic contributions. Not only is this award recognized by faculty on this campus, but by others outside the campus in academia. Professor George ·Butterstein has been teaching biology at Union since 1971 . One of the things that he is mostproudabout is the undergraduate research at Union. Pt;ofessor Butterstein en- joys working one on one with stu- dents doing research; he has worked with over eighty students doing individual research. Professor Brenda Wineapple has been a faculty member at Union since 1976. TI1e Washing- ton Irving Chair means a lot to her because Irving was the biographer of George Washington, and she too is a biographer. The Washington Irving Chair in Modem Literature and Historical Studies crosses dis- ciplinary boundaries, as does Pro- fessor Wineapple's work. Wineapple has written Genet: A Bi- ography flj Janel Flanner and is presently doing research for a bi- ography about Gertrude and Leo Stein. Tr a- di tion- ally,en- do wed chairs a r e g 1 v en b y families who do-, nate at I east $1,(XDJXX). T h e Shmrol Chair is s u p - ported by gifts from John L. Sl3\IDrl of the Dean Underwood wit/a Brenda Wineapple, George Butterstein and Roger Hull during ind11ction ceremonies (Laurel Rllma!TC) class 1899. l11e Irving Chair is sup- ported by a donation from Mr. and Mrs. Roger Stone. Mr. Stone was a member of the class of 1928. The Washington Irving Chair is now permanently in the English Department. Previously. the Irving Chair circulated be- tween the History and English department. Professors Butterstein and Wineapple will have the titles of the endowed chairs for the rest of their tenures at Union. The in- vestiture of Endowed Chairs oc- curred last Tuesday. May I Oth at 11:30. Remarks were made by college president. Roger Hull. The Dean of Faculty, James Underwood presented the nomi- nees. WRITE FOR NEWS CALL .6155

May 12, 1994, page 4 NEWS Student Loan Repayment Guidelines for Seniors Courtesy of Sallie Mae If you borrowed money to help fmance your education, you should start planning now for your ·first student loan payment, which typically comes six months after graduation. - \Many students do not think about repaying their loans during school, but it is important to re- member that the money you bor- row comes due shortly after graduation,\ says Allison Smythe, academic services rep- resentative at Salllie Mae. \Try to put some money aside each month to cover your payments.\ Towards the end of your senior year, to help you understand your repayment responsibilities and the repayment options available, you will be required to attend an exit interview with Union's financial aid adviser. Before you graduate, your lender will provide you with a disclosure statement outlining the amount you owe each month and your total principal and in- terest payment over the tenn of yourloan(s ). Read this document carefully. You do not want .any surprises. \Be sure to keep all loan docu- ments you receive in one place -· · especially the disclosure state- ment, which gives you all the in- formation about the terms of your loan,\ notes Smythe. \And notify your lender regarding any changes in your address or if your name changes. It is up to you to let your lender know your whereabouts, so you will not get behind in your payments.\ Many lenders sell their student loans to secondary markets, such as Sallie Mae, before students · graduate. The lenders do this to ' free up cash, which enables them to make more student loans. If your loan is sold, do not worry: your terms remain the same and, additionally, you maybe able to benefit from an expanded array of repayment options. About one in three loansis sold to Sallie Mae, the nation's ·largest holder and servicer of student loans. If your loan is one of them, you will receive a letter from Sallie Mae and a ''Select Your Terms\ guide, which provides an outline of all of the repayment options available to you to help you compare the plans and deter- mine which one is right for you. Your lender or loan holder may offer you a number of repayment options upon graduation, includ• ing automatic payment deduction from a checking or saying ac- count, a graduate repayment plan, and loan consolidation. AU of these programs can help you keep on top ofyour student loan pay- ments, which will ensure that your credit history remains good. One incentive to keeping your credit record unblemished is the Great Rewards program offered by Sallie Mae, which can save you money by lowering your in- terest rate by two percentage points if you make your payments Dukakis on Health Care Continued from page 1 in effect for twenty years. They're the healthiest state in the country, lowest infan_t mortality, (and has the) highest life expect- ancy. Costs in Hawaii are about equal to Canada's, and that in a very high cost state ... (as) the cost of living in Hawaii must be thirty to forty percent higher than it is on the mainland. It is not a gov- ernment system, it's a private sys- tem, but there is an employer mandate, all employees must con- tribute as well. Insurance com- panies cannot discriminate against anybody, they can't deny coverage to anybody, they've got to charge a single, average rate, a so-called community rate to all small and medium size compa- nies, and it works.\ Dukakis has not yet seen any- thing proposed by anyone in Con- gress in terms of simplicity, cost, and effectiveness that would outdo the Hawaiian system. However, he believes in \keep- ing it simple,\ and is optimistic about the eventual outcome of a comprehensive healthcare bill. \Look ... next to the creation of jobs and a healthy economy, this is the most important single do- mestic challenge we face in this country. We've been debating universal healthcare for fifty years ... and we're the only ad- vanced industrial country in the world that does not provide com- prehensive coverage. So my hope is that we're going to finally get action. I think the President deserves a tremendous amount of credit for providing leadership on this issue. I'm sure his plan is going to be changed and amended and so forth, and there are some things about the plan that I'd change if I were in Congress ... (but} When you're spending one trillion dol1ars on Healthcare ... unless the President puts the full prestige of his office behind it... it cannot get off the ground.\ When asked how he feels about the media's portrayal of the con- tinuing battle raging on Capitol Hill, Dukakis responded, \I think the media's done as good a job on healthcare as they've done a bad job on this Whitewater stuff ... I think the coverage on the whole has been good .. .it's a complicated subject. You can't blame the press if people ... don't fully un- derstand the details of the ... current plans that are before Congress. But, I think the media's done a very good job on this and will have to continue to do it. I would say one thing though, I don't know whether you ... remember, but during the '92 campaign for the first time the media began doing these ad watches ... and analyzed the com- mercials of the particular candi- dates and did a kind- of truth in advertising analysis ... I think it would have been quite helpful if the media had decided to do that when it comes to the advertising that's being used, I mean the Harry and Louise ads that the Health Insurance of America ran is an outrage ... an absolute out- rage. Nobody has done more than deny choice in this country than the insurance industry. Pre-exist- ing conditions, charging small businesses three times what they charge large businesses, refusing in many cases to insure some par- ticular small business because some child of one of the employ- ees has a disease, and ... it would have been nice ... to have had the same kind of serious and pretty hard-hitting analysis of those ads ... Of course, (they have) no relation to reality. I like the idea of the media analyzing this kind ·of advertising no matter where it comes from and saying here it is, because it keeps the advertisers honest, whether those advertisers are candidates or trade associa- tions.\ Dukakis encourages all citizens to ask questio!ls in order to be- come better infonned about the issues. He remains optimistic and acknowledges that, \It will be a battle ... \ but he believes in the success of an eventual universal healthcare program which would no longer make the United States the only advanced nation in the world where billions of dollars are wasted on such an inefficient sys- tem. on time for the first 48 months. Another program offered by Sallie Mae, Direct Repay, auto- matically deducts your monthly payments from your bank ac• count and reduces your interest rate by 1/4 percentage points. For borrowers who find it help- ful to lower the amountthey owe in the first years out ofschool and consolidate their various student loans into one monthly payment, loan consolidation may be the right choice. Sallie Mae's SMART LOAN account enables standing loans into one account and extend the term of your loan from 10 to up to 30 year, keep- ingpayments low throughout the re.payment ·period. And, for shorter tetm relief, Sallie Mae of- fers a graduate repayment plan, making your loan payment a more manageable part of your budget for the first two or four years of repayment without ex- tending the tenn of the loan. If you plan to attend graduate school in the fall, notify the bolder of your loan. You can apply for an in-school deferment, which will postpone repayment of your .student loan as long as you are a full-time student. If you are unable to find em-- ployment,. you may also be eli- gible for a deferment for up to three years. Again, talk to your loan holder to make sure you know all of your options. If you are not able to make a full payw rnent during any given month, contact your loan holder and work out a repayment plan. The alter- native - possibly going into de- fault - can irreparably d~UTiage your ability to get another loan or even a mortgage. \If you have questions about your student loan while you are in school, talk to your financial aid adminis·trator,\ says Smythe, \Your FAA has a wealth of infor- mation on the best way for you to ·repay your student loan.\ Jim Miller, Author, to. Speak by Adrian Frazier Englislt Professor Jim Miller, author of The Pas- sion of Michel Foucault, will give · a talk entitled \From Socrates to Foucault: The Problem of the Philosophical Life\ in the Hu- manities Building, room 115 at 7:30 on May 18. Miller is also the author of The Rolling Stone Illustrated History of Rock and Roll; History and Human Existence: From Marx to Merleau-Pollly; and Democracy in the Streets: From Port Horon to the Siege of Chicago. Nor- mally the Director ofLiberal stud- ies at New School for Social Re- search in New York, Miller is acting as the Visiting Lamont Pro- fessor of Ancient and ·Modem Languages at Union College. While at Union, Miller js lectur- ing on Rock and Roll in Profes- sor Peffer's course, \America in the Sixties'' in the History Depart• ment, and he is teaching foucault in Professor Frazier's Criticism course in the English Department. Miller's talk on May 18 will be of special interest to students and faculty in English, Philosophy, Political Science, and Intellectual History. A discussion period and refreshments will follow the talk in the Humanities Lounge, on the second floor of the Humanities Building. TODAY! Yossi Olmert to Speak on Middle Eastern Peace Talks at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel Next Week : Blaine Lang berg like you've never seen before. Actual unretouched photos of the Senior Class President

' . J NEWS Bone Marrow Donor Drive Next Wednesday On Wednesday, May 18th, from 11 am to 1 :30 .pm, the Bone Marrow Resource Foundation and the Psi Upsilon fraternity are sponsoring a donor drive in the College Center atrium. The jazz concert held on April 21st raised over $4000, enough money to add 100 new potential donors to the National Marrow Donor Program Registry. An estimated 16,000 American children and actults are stricken each year with leukemia, aplastic anemia,. or other fatal blood dis'- eases. For many~ the only hope of survival is a mtmowtransplant. Nearly 70 percent cannot find a suitable match within their own families. These patients need to find. unrelated donors - people who are willing to give the living gift oflife to a specific patient in need. Most of the generous volun- teers who have joined the Na- tional Marrow Donor Program Registry will never be asked to donate marrow. For the few who are called, it is because their tis- sue type precisely matches a pa- tient hi need. The only way to find those lifesaving matches is to tissue type hundreds of thou- sands of volunteers around the world who are willing to donate their marrow to a fatally ill pa- tient. The National Marrow Do- nor Program maintains a comput- erized registry which matches the patient and donor. A special need exists for minor- ity donors, who are under-repre- sented in the don<:}r tegistry. For example, only 4.7% of the 750,000 marrow donor volun- teers are African Americans. As of January 1993, a total of 1,606 unrelated transplants have taken place. Only 28 African Ameri- cans have received unrelated transplants. More minority do- nors are needed to improve the chances of findin,g a match for minority patients. BONE MARROW DONOR DRIVE WHEN? Wednesday, May 18th from 11 am to 1:30 pm. WliERE? College Center atrium. HOW DO I VOLUNTEER? l11e requirements to be a marrow donor are few. Unrelated marrow donors must be between 18 and 55 years old and ·be in good health. No special diet or physi- cal program is necessary. - A blood test is done to deter- mine the volunteer's Human Leu- kocyte Antigen (HLA) tissue type. - The volunteer's tissue type is entered into the National Marrow Donor Program's ' Registry through a local donor center. .. If properly matched to a recipi- ent and after making a commit- ment to donate marrow, the vol- unteer undergoes a simple surgi- cal procedure to remove marrow. - The donor's marrow completely replaces itself within a few weeks after the collection. - After the marrow collection, an overnight hospital .stay is usuall'y required. - The donor can expect to feel some soreness for a week to l 0 days, usually described as a dull ache in the lower back area (Speedskater Kristen talbot com- peted in the 1994 Winter Olym .. pies only weeks after donating marrow to h~;:r brother). -All donor expenses are paid by the NMDP and then billed to the p~tient and transplant center. May 12, 1994, page 5 N ·S' .. ,B; ,; ··e< y· :. Sa· 'VO·c· a to •. ·;·'··' :• !-'' - ::-: --~ ··.-:- -' . ' : ' -_. ._· ' . . . : _·.- - .. -,- :·: .:·· . ·'- ·. . . ._·: . . -· : - . '. . ' Speak Tommorow by Chailes Casey the United States Film Festival. Public Relo.tlfms Savoca said the film took -----__....·----· --·- seven years to make. Finane~ Film director Nancy Savoca, ing was a major problem until whose credits include True directors John Sayles (Eight Low~. Dogfight and Household Men Out, CiJyojHope, Pattsion Saint.5, will speak on Frid\y Fish)~ a Schenectady native, May 13, at 3:30pm in tlte Col- and Jonathan Demme (Philo- lege Center auditorium. Tme delphia) took an interest in her Love, which was shown at the work and bec~e.investors. College last month, chronicles Savoca recently released the poignant events and frantic Household Sa;ms. which fea· ettands that precede the mar- tun~s comedienne Tracy Ulman riage: of two young working:- in a dramatic role as a dowdy, class.Jtalian .. Anxericans who sullen bride who is \won\ by liva,inJhe Brortx. One reviewer her husband .. to .. be in a pinochle wiote, ·~ltalian·Ameriean direc.. game. Savoca, a graduate of the tors have been few and far be\'· Tisch School.ofthe Arts at New tween,andtheir:filmsunabash.: York University, also directed ·· edily male~(J.his). film ... is a River Phoenix in Dogfight. .• o.vvfY; feminist•'vi(:!W•ef:(Qarriage), .. ,. Savoca ,jg,,to,;he Joined by her Itl\lian\styJ~~'. ···,. ,;,;, :' · hnsba~d.·.··pr:odueer. Richard · .,.: .n~~*'l~rn,;~ot}kg{and:;R.t;.~.~.at· ·Quay •. · Steinmetz Symposium Produces Many Memories Steinmetzpl1otos by Joslt Haillesfor tl1e Concordiensis ,You MayBe His Only Hope . Roderick has a disease which can only be cured with a bone marrow transplant. He is searching for a matched donor who can offer him the Living Gift of Life.

. May 12, 1994, page 6 NEWS Jody L. Yetzer, winner of the Bailey Prize. For a complete listing of Prize Day award recipients please see page 11. (photo by F. Jeremy Who Turned Out the. Lights? by President Nott, witll lrelp from David Levine 1806 My Dear Catherine, On the 6th instant was exhibited one of the most sublime and awful spectacles this age has witnessed. A central eclipse of the sun at the time when the relative situations of the earth and the moon are such as to produce the entire obscuration of his disk and for the longest duration possible, is so rare an occurrence that its approach excited the highest sensibility and inspires ardent wishes for a favorable day. In this, we were gratified. The air was perfectly clear and not a cloud appeared in the horizon. We waited for the predicted moment; it arrived and unfolded to our view the phenomenon which had been anticipated. The place selected for making our observations proving inconvenient we were obliged to remove our telescope and unfortunately before it could again be adjusted, the penumbra had reached us and the instant had not been noted. The total obscuration commenced at 11:07 and 30 seconds. The total obscuration ended at 11 :12. The eclipse ended at 12:32. At the instant the last direct ray was intercepted and the obscuration became total, a tremulous undulating shadow, a kind of indescribable alternate Union Students Witness Solar Eclipse In this pictUre, the camera catches a reflection ojt/1e full solar eclipse at its peek at 1:36 p.m. EST. (photo by F.J. Smitlt/TC) prevalence and intermixture of light and shade struck the earth and played on its surface which gave to the most stable objects the semblance of agitation. It appeared as if the moon mde unsteadily in her orbit and the earth seemed to tremble on its axis. The deception was so complete that I felt instinctively, in spite of the dictates of my reason to the contrary, a tottering Professor Andrew Vantur, Union College Physics Department, views solar eclipse tllrough special/ens. (pltoto by F.J. Smith/TC) emotion. Some who were present I observed catching hold of whatever was near them for support whilst others suddenly leaned forward and insensibly flung themselves into an attitude which indicated that they found it difficult to stand. It was indeed an awful moment - - every voice was hushed in sile11ce and every mind was absorbed in the grandeur of the scene.

NEWS BRIEFS World News International News: Rwanda- Tens of thousands ofrefu- gees from Rwanda fled to neighbor- ing Tanzania. Tbe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service- . The Serviceannounced last week a · plan to put wolves in central Idaho and · the Yellowstone area. They hope to restore wolf.packs by 2002. South Africa - Nelson Mandela was officially sworn in as the President of South Africa. He replaces F. W. DeKlerk. England : England and France are now joined by a 31 mile ''chunnel.\ The tunnel will not be operational until next fall. ' Gaza : The Gaza Strip and much of the area surrounding Jericho, will be turned over to Palestinian control in the near future. Is- raeli Foreign Minister, Shimon Peres 1 likened the signing of the · accorrl'to giving birth. The negotiations were lengthy. Detroit : Dr. Jack Kevorkian was acquitted of violating Michigan's ban on assisting in suicides. D-Day : The 50th .a.mliversary of the landing of troops on the beaches of Normandy will be commemorated. New York: John Gotti lost his appeal to the Supreme Comt last · week. Gotti was seeking reprieve from the court decision, sen- . tencing him to life without parole on charges of racketeering and ·murder. Michael Fay : As a penalty for his vandalism in Singapore, Ameri- · can Michael Fay served his reduced punishment of four lashings · of a ratten rod across the buttocks. Japan : Last week, Shigeto Nagano_, Japan's new Justice Minis- ter, said that the 1937 \rape of Nanking;\ in which hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians were massacred, was a fabrica- tion. Sm~rce : U.S. Ne_ws and Wor!d Report WORLD NEWS May 12, 1994, page 7 A History Lesson for Japan? Craig Greenberg World News Editor Last week, Japan's new Justice Minister, Shigeto Nagano, said that the 19J7 massacre of hun- dreds of thousands of Chinese by Japanese soldiers was a ''fabrica- tion.\ He added that Japan was World News Opinion not an aggressor in World War II, preferring totefer to Japan as a lib- erator ofcolonies. rising population of Black anq Hispanic people. However, I do not believe that Japan's population as a whole share these views. I, myself, lived with a Japanese family this past fall tenn, while on Union's Japan term abroad. I had an in- credible time 'living among Japa- nese people and being part of their everyday lives. I did not sense any of this \war-fault de- nial\ in those who I encountered. Prime Minister Hata's re- sponse to Nagano's remarks was World War, the people trusted what their.government told them, thus believing that Americans were evil barbarians. This same trust problem may exist today. Japanese youth are simply taught that Japan wasn't very nice to tile other Asian nations during the war. That is all. They are not taught of the atrocities which Japanese soldiers inflicted on its neighbors. Furthermore, Japa• nese media is telling their people that Japan is completely fair in international trade, and that the Whether one wants to debate the issue of Japan's role of conqueror or 'liberator is not impor- tant to me because I can see how it was both. Japan's Justice Minister, Shigeto Nagano, said that the 1937 massacre of hundreds of thousands of Chinese by Japanese soldiers was a \fabrication.\ government can't understand what the Americans want from them (trade ne~ gotiations ). I believe that this same exten- sive trust in what However, for a top-level government official to deny inter- nationally recognized war crimes is shocking. This man is in charge of')ustice\ in the nation of Japan. Does this statement possibly rep- resent the true attitude of many in Japan's government? Does Nagano's statement possibly rep- resent the attitude of Japan's people? It is my opinion that Japan's government may indeed contain several officials that share Nagano's view of Japan's role and actions in the second World War. Afterall, this is not the first time that a Japanese official has shocked us with a remark. A few years ago, the then Prime Minis- ter of Japan was quoted as saying something about America's prob- lems weredue, in large part, to its a reprimand in which he said that it is not appropriate for govern- ment offi·cials to d'eny war crimes. This disappointed me because when I look at Hata's choice ofwords, I see a gap. He did not say that it is not appropri- ate to deny war crimes. He said that it is not appropriate for gov- ernment officials to deny them. Rata's statement almost implies that it is OK for the Japanese population to deny their crimes, as long as the officials who in- teract with the rest of the world say what the world wants to hear them say, \we were wrong.\ Once again, I wish to stress the \goodness\ of tlte Japanese people. I believe the problem lies with their faith in their gov- ernment. During the second their media and government tells them may cause future problems for us all. In essence, I think the Japanese people are a little gull- ible. I recognize that Americans are also gullible, I just think this gullibility can be found on a much larger scale in Japan. Nagano's comments do not represent any danger to the world now. If anything they are merely troubling_ to hear, but they may represent a problem in the future. Japan's military is increasing in size, Japan • s industry produces the latest military technologies, and Japan still considers some is- lands taken by Russia to be occu- pied Japanese territory. If Japa- nese youth are not taught of their nation's mistakes, they are doomed to repeat them. The Real Crim.ein America is Occurring in the Corporate Boardrooms Do Their Six Figure Salaries Compensate for Diverting the Truth? by Gary Sudborough Contributing Writer 'TI1e enclosed article is the most eloquent expression I have come across, of why I am angry enough to keep writing thousands oflet- ters across the country, trying desperately to make American people aware of what is happen- ing in the world. The only addi- Killing Fields\ to educate the American people. The real crime in America is occurring in the corporate board rooms - not in the streets of the ghettoes! _ These happy, smiling faces appear on the news every morn- ing to talk about TonyaHarding, Nancy Kerrigan or Michael Jackson and avoid talking about the actual' reasons the world is of evil! sored genocide? During the fif- Except from The Nation: teen-year, eleven-month period Allan Nairn and Amy Good man . starting from the announcement were nearly beaten to death in Dili, of the '7 5 invasion and running East Timor, on November 12, upuntil themassacrewesurvived, 1991, when Indonesian troops the ABC, NBC, and CBS evening killed27l peaceful Timorese dem- news shows did not run a single onstrators. A couple of weeks ago story on East Timor. Nightline Nairn and Goodman were up at and MacNeil/Lehrer have never Columbia University in New York mentioning it. And U.S. radio and to get press awards for a radio print, though occasionally men,.. documentary they tioning the killings, have inaccu- tion I would make, is that in a previous CIA-sponsored op- eration, over one half million Indo- nesians were \ •.. facism is still at work in this country and in the world and that evil triumphs when good people do noth- ing and keep silent ... \ made a year after the rately omitted the U.S. role. massacre. If you want to understand what Here's what Nairn the United States is doing, think of this baton as an M-16 [Take award baton and points it as his head.] it is pointed at the head of an innocent Timorese who has dared to stand up and ask for the end of the occupation. Washing- ton pauses, considers, says, 'Don't forget human rights, • and then hands the troops new ammo and says, 'Go ahead, open fire.' Re- peat that scenario 200,000 times, and you'll begin to grasp the enor- mity of the crime. said to the American journalistic elite as he and Goodman ac- ceptedtheir silver ba- **ANNOUNCEMENT** slaughtered when Sukarno was overthrown and General Suharto was brought to power. Suharto then invaded East Timor with United States' support because ofthe supposed threat of a leftist government there. When these two genocides are combined. with what occurred in Guatemala,Angola, Mozambique, the Congo, Chile, the generals' war against leftist students in Argentina; etc., the crime is every bit as atrocious as what the Nazi's did.in World War II. The only difference is that the CIA contracts the work out to butch.ers in foreign countries. And Hollywood doesn't make any films called \The Corporate going down the tubes. Evidently, their six figure salaries compen- sate for diverting the public's at- tention and not telling the Ameri- can people the truth. Of course, if oite talks like this, one is im- , mediately labeled as radical, paranoid, doom and gloom kook, and one's opinions are cast aside. ]fpeople learn anything from \Schindler's List,\ it should be that fascism is still at work in this country and in the world and that evil triumphs when good people do nothing and keep silent. This country will never make any real progress when genocide is swept under the rug. Good- cannot be built on a foundation tons. His remarks weFe broadcast on television later that night by PBS: The 1975 invasion ofTimorwas approved by President Ford, and as Timorese were herded into death camps for mass execution, the U.S. stepped in to block the United Na- tions from taking effective action and; kept sending in the fresh weap- ons which the Indonesian army used to do the job. The result has been a genocide which has killed 200,000 Timorese civilians - a third of the original population, the largest proportional slaughter since the Nazis. And what have the U.S. net- works done during this U.S. span- The Block U Award Dinner will be held Wednesday, May 18, 1994 Athletes MUST pick up their Tickets at the Alumni Gym by May 16, 1994. No one will be Admitted without a ticket.

May 12, 1994, page 8 To the bighlighter club : Are you teachers or just bitter people? One of the attractions of small colleges is that they have low faculty- student ratios. Students attending small colleges, like Union, expect to . · be in contact with their professors frequently during the tenn. In this type of environment, student development is greatly influenced by the level of encouragement pupils receive from their mentors. Several re- cent instances on this campus indicate that the student-faculty relation- ship may actually hinder students' growth. Students, like all people, make mistakes. Yet, certain professors have a propensity for exploiting these errors, and using these magnifications to illustrate a perceived level of student incompetence. Some profes- sors incorporate this negativity into their future expectations of students. Some even become cynical about the ability of students to adequately complete simple tasks. Even more often, it appears that some profes- · sors overlook outstanding overall efforts, and focus on what are small · mistakes in the scheme of larger projects. The students who Spend countless hours working for the student news- paper are subjected to such criticism frequently. If a type-o ends up in print, it is not because students do nofhow to spell, or because they did not care enough to use the spell checker. Rather, the error invariably occurs because of time restrictions and deadlines. Many of these dead- lines are brought closer because contributors (including faculty mem- bers) do not follow rules for submitting infonnation. Yet, some of these same professors complain at the smallest errors, and use minor gram- matical infractions as examples of student illiteracy and incompetence. We have been told that members of a certain science department have · their Thursday lunch around a large table, with newspapers in tote. These professors actually take out hlghligters and try to find all of the errors in the Concordiensis. Is that the role of some professors at Union? Do these individuals not care enough about their students to spend this time doing something constructive? Do they not think that the editors and writers will fmd out about their actions? Do they treat their students in the same manner? If the policy of these professors is to ostracize stu- dents for occasional minor errors, and to not compliment students for what may represent an unbelievable collective effort every week, does this same minimization of students' hard work carry over into their evalu• ation of students' academic work? This problem is indicative of a sort of intellectual-elitism which should not be prevalent at an institution this size. Certain members of the fac- ulty have forgotten that the purpose of college is for students to be educated in an environment which is conduciveto learning. While people learn from criticism, incessant irrelevant gripes in the absence an occa- sional compliment are detrimental to the learning environment. If a . professor believes that the people who are currently editing the newspa- . per are doing an inadequate job, they should recommend students who · have the time, energy, and dedication to perform these editorial duties. If they can'tcome up with a more qualified group of students, they should do what any good teacher would do. Give credit where credit is due. If they are incapable of doing this, perhaps they shouldn't be in this pro- fession. Da~d~~~,,:, ... Editol'-ltt...,CIJJ.ffl ExecJ.ttive ~mtf.lt· News Edit()f · Features Edftors Arts Editor Sports Editors ' Copy Editor Photo Editor Worta News Mtor OP-ED T . ~· . ~ OPINIONS Does the School Consider Economics to be a Real Major? by David Levine Editor-in-chief As much as students will say that accolades do not matter to them, most members of the collegiate community must agree that graduate schools and businesses rely heavily on academic success in narrowing down their applicant pools. Actually, there are many ingredients which are importafit to students' credentials. For example, graduate schools will look at faculty recommendations, grades, extracurricular activities and the level of difficulty of the courses taken, amongst many other factors, in detennining the quality of an applicant. One of the reasons why students select a college ·like Union is because they expect the school will help them achieve their goals. Most students believe that they will be rewarded by working hard. They count· on being recognized by the faculty and administration for their .efforts. Many high caliber students are recognized on prize day. In fact, students from every department, except for one receive awards for their achievements. Which department is so small and insignificant that no students majoring in it are deserving of awards? Why, it's the economics department. The school is sending several messages to those students majoring in economics. 1 )They do not believe that the department is rigorous academically. 2)They do not believe that the faculty are worthy of rewarding those students who have excelled in their classes. 3)They do not want to attract outstanding high school students to the economics department. · I can only speak about the first hypothesis. After taking many courses in other deparbneilts at Union, I have come to the · realization that 'the courses offered by the economics department are among the most challenging offered. Either the school should treat the major' like any other major (even if it involves creating awards without sponsors) and give the professors and students the respect they deserve, or they should cut the program so that students who are truly interested in economics will not hesitate to attend an institu'tion ·which rewards their intellectual curiosity. Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors interested in joining The Concordiensis next year should come to the May 19 meeting at 7:30 in CC 303 All Letters To The Editor Must Be Submitted By Tuesday 5PM, The Week Of Publication . On High Density Disk. No Ex~eptions.

F~culty Don't Like the P ·b·1·ty r· p· • till • OSSI I 1 0 . .~ .riV~, IZIDg Dining Services To The Editor: the 70's we endured commercial food service at. West College, a dismal unpalatable experience which eventually. led to our present excellent service. Of equal importance is the isA LETTERS Help ' Teasha! Union Student Needs Lung Transplant Dear Union College Co~unity, May 5, 1994, page 9 ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE WILL HAVE THE COMMENCEMENTREGALIA ON SALE BEGINNING MAY 16TH, 1994. PLEASE MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO PURCHASE YOUR CAPS AND GOWNS PRIOR TO THE lOTH, OF .JUNE. THANK YOU We have rec~ntly learned that our Administration is currently considering bids from commer• cial companies- to take over din- ing services at Union. College, and we feel strongly that the campus has much to lose from such a change, Quality and personal respon- sivenessare ~ong the likely first casualties. At present in the col- lege center we enjoy one of the bestsalad bars in the Capital Dis .. trict because of the constant at- tention to detail it receives, and the grade and variety of its ingre- dients. Similar avoidance of stan- dardization for the sake of good taste also characterizes our food service elsewhere on campus. Is it likely that a corporation which needs to pay high salaries to top management is also going to de- liver cost advantages to the Col- lege without resort to frequent servings of a commercial grade of Shepherd's Pie? Moreover, Union has \been there before\: in sue of staff dedication, quality, Our friend and classmate, and morale- currently very high, Teasha Nicholson, is severely ill. and noticeably so. For example Teasha, a member of the Union a visitor fro,m SWarthmore - on • College Community majoring in going through the line at the Pub, . Electrical Engineering, has a se- and later the supper line upstairs . vete lung disease (name un .. .. remarked on liowpa)pable was • known) and is in dire need of a the good natured spirit of the lung transplant. She recently left people behind the lines. Such school and returned home due to appreciation from people outside illness. While she awaits a do- is typical aiJ,d well deserved. . . nor, she remains dependent on Why change a winning game, oxygen support at home. In or- we ask, at the expense of people, · der to :financially assist her fam- service and fare? · ily in this time of need, we the AND CONGRATULATIONS THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MON-FRI 8:45-4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 PHONE 518 388-6188 rou are cordm~ itw~d to ·Sincerely, Torin Alexander Bill Fairchild Sigrid Kellenter Harry Marten Jim McCord Joanne Tobiessen Karl Zimmennann friends and classmates of Teasha .are sponsoring a fundraising A SPRING FLING rmag, Mag za 1994 10p.m.- 2 a.m. · party at Bronner House this Fri- day, May 13 at 10:00 p.m. The cost will be $2.00 with college ID and $3.00 without. If you are unable to attend the party you can show your support by giving money at a table in the College · Center where further donations --------------------- will be accepted. Everyone who Thank You Union Students is able is encouraged to give ad~ ditional donations. fh.t..-.J,. ,,... ?{ptt Strm To the Editor: I would like to express my ap- ·preciation to all the people from the Union community who par- ticipated in the Vale Park cleanup tha:t occUlTed Saturday, May 7. Over 150 p~ople pitched in to make this a very succes-sful project, with a larg percentage coming from Union. As a Schenectady 2000 task force member, I was impressed by the number of volunteers, their en- ergy, and their perseverance. But beyond that, I was very proud to be a Union al'umni and employee, you have proven to be .an inspira- tion by your example of the out- going spjrit that makes Union one of a kind. Thank you. Sincerely Brian Macher.one '92 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appeat in the newspaper, ifthe writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the · opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordien..vis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensi.r;, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP) 1 National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box o·utside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. Sincerely, Ttc~t~ on Sak May 9tft ·1Jtn In the Cof\ne Center Friends OfTeasha Co~k jlO Smgk$6 fomJ(f!Jtire ire/ Five Things Men Can Do to End Sexism and Male Violence Against Women 1) Read about yourself. Read articles, essays, books about masculinity, gender inequality, and the root causes of sexual violence. Educate yourself and others about the connections between larger social forces and the conflicts between individuallvomen and men. Resourcer: R.W. Connell \Gender and Power;\ D. Gilmore, ''Manhood in the Making;\ M. Messner, D. Sabo eds., \Sport Men and the Gender Order;\ J. Stoltenberg, \Refusing to Be a Man.\ 2) Understand how your own attitudes and actions perpetuate sexism and violence, and work toward changing them. Examples oftypicalsexist/abusive behavior: *Pressuring a woman to have sex (includes Rapes, Date Rape). *Taunting or whistling at women, following them around, embarrassing women in public (Sexual Harassment) *Controlling women by using threatening gestures, by outshouting women, blocking doorways, driving recklessly (Intimidation). *Verbally assaulting women by name-calling, swearing, mocking, ridiculing, criticizing, accusing, trivializing (Psychological Abuse). 3) Confront sexist, racist, homophobic and all other bigoted remarks or· jokes. Boycott comedians such as Andrew Dice Clay who verbally assault women in their acts. Boo in comedy when male comedians tell sexist jokes. 4) Recognize and speak out against homophobia and gay-bashing, understanding that discrimination against lesbians and gays is directly linked to (and is required to maintain) traditional masculinity, and therefore sexism. 5) Don't fund sexism. Don't purchase any magaz.ine, rent any video or buy any piece of music that portrays women in a sexual degrading or violent manner. Protest sexism in the media,

• • ~-~·- ~ ---- --·..---.---·· --~---·-- .. ~--- --·--\'- '!.·-- ..... ,...- -.·. •- .... --~·-,.· ·May 12, 1994, page 10 AD Union's Emergency Medical Service Presents:, . . . \The Crash : DWI Awareness Day\ A live car accident and extrication featuring the Schenectady Police and Fire Departments con . Wednesday, May 18 . 12:30 PM In front of the College Center Rain Date-- Thursday, May 19 12:30 PM

AWARDS May 12, 1994, page 11 Prize Day Award Recipients- May 7, 1994 Academy of American Po~ts Prjze William F. Allen Essay Pri;?::e Ronald Amiraian Prize Andrew W. Archibald Prize Arnold I. Bittlernan Memorial Award David Bci.nd Memorial Prize Caffe Dolce Prize Joseph D. Doty Prize Jere.@Y D. Countryman. Rebecca Parlakian, William I. Wolff Jeremy D. Countryman Joshua E. Kaplan · Jody L. Yetzer Melissa E. Tolan, John-Paul Torres Ka,therineE.Ambrosio, David W. Hopsop, John McGraw Trinh N. Thai Hans Hainebach Memorial Pri~ in German Literature Hans Hainebach Memorial Prize in Judaica Soume B. Daulat Robert H. Haslinger Lara F. Greenberg . Edward Everett Hale, Jr. Prize Nicole A. Beland Eric J. Bulson Oswald Heck (1924) .. Irwin Steingut Prize Andrew Kanter Victor Herbert Prize Jennifer Pyun Albert C. Ingham Prize Ann M. Driscoll John Iwanik Prize Andrew J. Frisbie William B. Jaffe Art Award Alexandra H. Wheeler Thomas J. Judson Memorial Book Award Elizabeth A. Gilman Harold A. Larrabee Prize Mortimer F. Sayre Prize Dr. Reuben Sorkin Award Ralph W. Steams Prize Lee and William Wrubel Memorial Prize Delphic Honor Society Awards Juniors Nalhan K, Coffin Hallie L. Heller David F. Levine Jonathan R. Miller Debora C. Montano Charles F. Rodman Adina E. Stonberg Andrea B. Wilson John J. DeMarco Bruno Benzaquen Jeffrey E. Cieszynski Matthew L. Grabowski Sepiors Mia A. Caetano Derek J. Evans Kerry E. Evers PatrickO. Haskell Matthew A. Karlyn Blaine J. Langberg Nicole P. Marshall Jody L. Y etzer Wendy Bernstein Memorial Award Antony P. Sinanis Calvin G. Sclunidt Award Jonathan R. Miller Pfizer Incorporated Award Nirupama Kakarla Debora Montano Alan Lake Chidsey Citizenship Award Mia A. Caetano ~ Oudstanding Greek Woman Kerry E. Evers Frederick B Hawley, Jr. Memorial Award Lee Popper Angela M. Carini, Beth M. Lifson · Roger Hull witlt Student Forum President Mia Caetano after Prize Day Ceremonies (J.HainesffC) Resident Assistant Leadership Award Aimee J. Belden Adina E. Stonberg Minerva Prize Le~is Henry Mo;g~ Pri.ze ·Robert G. O'Neale Prize Charles Alexander Richmond Prize J ody L. Y etzer Jonah J.weiner .Nicole P. Marshall Elizabeth Maranville,Andrew H. Chapman Rotary Club· of Schenectady Foundation Prize Dariiel Shocket Prize in Creative Writing Freling H. Smith Prize Wendy T. Liebeck Christopher P. Brundage Jeremy D. Countryman Tonia Kim, Meredith L. Singer Claudia David, Ann M. Driscoll Jennifer G. Balsam Kristin L. Campbell John McGraw Roger Thayer Stone Prize Wessel Ten Broeck Van Orden Prize Mildred Wilder Prize Eugene I. Yudis Prize Phi Beta Kappa Awards Junior Soume B. Daulet Melissa F. Ahrend, Linda L. Lin, Nayana Anne, Elizabeth Maranville, JayS. Berger, Jennifer B. McDermott, Daniel J. Bullen~ Keith R. Meier, Alexander G.Chiu, Robert E. Murray, Michelle L. Dietrich, Bac X. Nguyen, Charles J. Doering, Rebecca Parlakian, Lisa S. Gerhan, . Danfl R. Rausch, David W. Hopson, Edward A.Seeger, Shawn Jorgensen, Sarah Teasdale, Blaine J. Langberg, Kurt R. Seniors Venalor, Wendy T. Liebeck, Michael L. Wolf American Institute of Chemists' Award James A. Ernst American Society of Civil Engineering Award Salvatore L. D' Aniello American Chemical Society Award in Analytical Chemistry Michelle A. Spaziani San1uel S. Feuer Prize Benjamin S.Meyrat Robert M. Fuller Prize JayS. Berger, Jason D. Katz General Electric Power Generation Steinmetz Award LeeR. Johnson Shankar Gokhale Prize Daniel W. Kull Charles B. Hurd Prize Michelle L. Dietrich Ingvar lngvarsson Prize Warner King Prize Elhel Kirchenbaum Memorial Prize William E. Lasnik (1968) Prize Edith Emilee MacCoy Prize John Lewis March Prize The Moles Prize R E Morgan Memorial Award Psi Chi Senior Award .. Psi Chi Service Award Martin Terry Resch Prize · Robert L. Royal Award Frank J. Miele Casey L. Kurz Paul D. Schultz Aaron B. Hoffman Jennifer L Voerman Mario R. Capece Richard C. Lovejoy David J. Hill Jason W. Lietz Wally B. Bzdell Kerry E. Evers Matthew C. Schmitter Eric L. Slocum Lisa S. Gerhan Nicole M. Flynn SharonM. Krim Wendy T. Liebeck Sacheen Carr Ellis Joel A.. Halpern Award Meritorious Service Awards Adina E. Stonberg, John T. Arzberger Fred W. Bruhn Award Eastern College Athletic Conference Medal of Merit William B. Jaffe Medal William A. Pike Memorial Trophy Ronald F. Plumb Memorial Prize Robert B. Ridings Award President's Commission Prizes Senior Thesis Prize Jennifer M. Sweeney Senior Scholarly Activity Award Jennifer M. Sweeney Athletic Promise Award Community Service Award Senior Athletic Award Julian B. Hoffman, M.D. Memorial Award Frances Travis Memorial Award Horatio G. Warner Prize George H. Catlin Prize Joseph Daggett Prize Frank Bailey Prize - Mia A. Caetano Patrick 0. Haskell Blaine J. Langberg Dionne D. Morgan Sarah Teasdale Jody L. Yetzer Joseph B. Saltzbart Andrea T. Pagnozzi MarcoA.Lainez Cory J. Holbrough LewisJ .Acquarulo Kelly W. Bevan Rebecca Parlakian Kristin L. Campbell Melissa B. Lombardoni Jennifer L. Manna Jody L. Yetzer Wendy E. Miller Ramakrishna V. Gaddipati Jeffrey L. Spees Pamela K. Snyder Michael L. Wolf Daniel J. Bullen Lee D. Popper Jody L. Y etzer

'I .. ·, '' ' '. .; . ! 1 ·May 12, 1994, page 12 SCIENCE AND HEALTH Latex Condom Study Flawed Some Brands May Leak, and Not Provide Protection against AIDS Courtesy of tile Food and Drug Administration The FDA has received inquir- ies about .a Mariposa Foundation study that ranks the quality of various brands of condoms. Me- dia reports ofthe studies suggest that some brands leak and there- fore may not provide protection against AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. The follow- ing can be used to answer ques- tions. theFDAbe- lieves that the study is flawed and therefore cannot be relied on to judge the relative quality of various brands of condoms. The agency is con- cerned that some people may stop using condoms as a re- sult of this study. The FDA's position continues to be that latex condoms, if used consistently and correctly, pro- vide highly effective protection against sexually transmitted dis- eases, including AIDS. In 1988, the Mariposa Foundation, a pri,. vate researcb group in Topanga, California, conducted a labora~ tory study of 31 condom brands to select condoms to be used in a clinical trial that would have evaluated their protection against Have a Mouth Full of Cavities? There May Be More to Fear Than Dentures by Andy Salama Science and Health Editor If you have ever had minor dental surgery, you should be familar with lidocaine. Contrary to poplular belief, novacaine is veloped nasal cavity cancers. Despite this new carcinogenic evidence the FDA does not re- quire warning literature to ac- company bottles of lidocaine. The FDA is still not sure how much 2,6-DMA is produced from ternative product, 4-Hydroxy- DMA, may also be mutagenic. Researcher Jack Hinson at the University of Arkansas, reported that 2,6-DMA binds to blood he- moglobin. He believes, but has not reported, that 2,6-DMA could seldom used. Its .--------------------------, cause DNA use is not limited to dentistry, as it is used to treat c a r d i a c arrhythmias as well. The manu- facturer sells up- wards of 4 mil- lion dollars of lidocaine every year. Its poplularity stems from its effec- tiveness, and seemingly low occurance of side effects. Re- cently however, lidocaine has come under considerable fire from the Food and Drug Adminstration. The National Toxicology Pro- gram has recently recoginized 2,6-dimethylaniline (2,6-DMA), one of lidocaine's breakdown products as \clearly carcino- genic.\ In approxamately 50 per- cent of experimental rats (n= 112) exposed to 3 mg of lidocaine per Kilo of food, de- m • ~Hymoxy-DMA the breakdown of lidocaine in the human body. It appears that most ofthe drug is excreted in the urine as 4-Hydroxy-DMA, a derivitive of 2,6-DMA. Researchers are still unsure if 4-Hydraxy-DMA is .produced through a 2,6-DMA pathway. However, the lnterna~ tional Agency for Research on Cancer concluded that lidocaine is metabolized principally to 2,6- DMA. Even if the actual me- tabolism completely evades the production of 2,6-DMA, the a!- damage. Alfred Nickel, a dental sur- geon: be- lieves th~ mechanism of mutation involves ion channel distruption in nervous tissue. The key issue is, does the normal person receive enough lidocaine to cause cancer? The FDA says that if a person recieves between 20 and 50 doses over his lifetime, he will produce approxamately 1.7 grams of2,6- DM A. Whether this quantity .of metabolite is mutagenic has been hottly disputed. However; the FDA warns that the use of lidocaine should not be prematurly terminated until fur- ther studies have been conducted. Source: SA, May 1994 •~ - L • • • • • • 4 • • • • • ., .. ·' .. • • • • HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. This clinical trial was never con- ducted. One part of Mariposa?s laboratory study measured the ability of condoms to selVe as a physical barrier to HIV. Test re- sults indicated that at least eight brands offered excellent protec .. tion against the virus while at least five allowed some leakage. The FDA believes these results should not be .relied on for the following reasons: 1. Too few batches were ~ sampled to generalize about any brand as a whole. Mariposa s~mpled three batches f<K most brands. A sample . .of a few hun,. dred condoms from a batch of a million might provide adequate. infonnation. about that particular batch if the sample is taken in a scientifically random fashion, hut it cannot establish the perfor- mance of the entire brand. Envi- ronmental and manuf~cturing conditions vary too much from one batch to another to allow con .. elusions about ·the efficacy of a particular brand on the basis of a small study. The FDA regularly inspects condom manufacturers and tests samples of their prod- ucts. When a faulty batch is found, the. agency prevents the sale of that batch. This applies to both domestic and imported. condoms. 2. Some brands include condoms made by different manufacturers. Some batches from a single brand in the Mariposa study could have come from a different manufacturer thart the majority of condoms sold under that brand name. 3. The Mati- posa Foundation did not consider possible deterio- ration due to improper storage conditions or age. Condoms de- teriorate rapidly when subjected to extremes of temper.ature, and latex deteriorates as it ages. The FDA is establishing expi- ration dating for all latex condoms. Most domestic condoms already display an ex- piration date on th~ packaging .. New regula,tions will require ex- piration dates on domestic and imported condoms. Source: The FDA talk papers, 1993. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND THE BIOLOGY ·CLUB PRESENT: ANNE LACY Illustrating for the Adirondack Park, Smithsonian Institute, National Audubon Society, etc •.. Thursday, May 12, 1994 4:40p.m. Social Sciences Room 103 Refreshments: 4:30p.m .. All students are invited to attend this presentation.

ARTS & ENTERT AJNMENT May 12, 1994, page 13 The Union College Department of Performing Arts Presentsa\• Recital of Sonatas For Violin and Keyboard Hugb Allen Wilson harpsichord and fortepiano George Green violin - Featuring Works by: Marini, Schubert, Mozart and Beethoven ~onday,~ay16,1994 8:00PM Memorial Chapel West School of Dance Troupe Gives Sensational Performance by Leena Mardtad Concordiensis·staff This past weekend, the East- West School ofDance gave a per- formance at Old Chapel. The world-renowned dance troupe performed a classical Indian dance, retelling the tales of the Hindu Lord's, Krishna, childhood. The dance troupe performed their dance in Kathak style. Pt. Satayanarayana Charka, which was followed by the six tales. Within these tales, we find out how he plays.as achild. The music throughout the program was classical Indian, a very rhythmic and melodious type. A climactic interval in the first half came as special guest dancer Sri Himatenih Chauhan, per- fortned the Thali Nritya (Indian plate dance), at the age of 77. the first half. The final selection before inter- mission was a Holi dance. Holi is a festival of colors in India. Krishna, now older and his lover, Radha, play with colored powder and water, a famous Indian music tempo. As director Charka said, expression and rhythm are crucial in the art of dance to express its beauty. Through as series of group dances by the ensemble, Kathak is a traditional _....,.__,_ ____ ~--~----- this was expressed well, southeast Indian style of \A climatic interval in the first half along with the appearance dance, where oftentimes a came as special guest dancer Sri of the guest dancer myth-type story is told Himatenih Chauhan, performed the Chauhan. Chauhan through the dancer's move- Thali at the age of 77 .\ played another character ments. Forthedancers, this in Indian religion named becomes extremely arduous, as His strength and talent as a Ramayan. He used body and each movement must be precise, dancer was incredible. Chauhan voice (in rhythmic bursts of yet artistic, at the same time. This performed an artistic dance, shouts) to convey the story. particular dance tmupe retold cer- while balancing two thalis (steel The East- West School of tain tales of the Lord Krishna's plates) on his hands. His energy Dance is directed by Pandit Satya childhood. Lord Krishna is one and intense muscular move- Narayana Charka and was of the primary Gods in the Hindu ments, while keeping his age in founded in 1981, by Sri religion. mind; seemed to amaze the au- Brahamananda Saraswati Udasina With incense burning on the dience as they sat mesmerized in Monroe , New York. The dance ~tage filling the Old Chapel with by his perfonnance. Chauhan is company has given a number of a beautiful Indian scent, the pro- internationally renowned as the stunning performances over the gram began. The opening dance \king of expression.\ This was years; their performance at Union was. a solo performed by director by far one of the highlights of was equally as stunning. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar ~· . . ••• ~~· .. ~·· ~ ~· \l·.• !. ,. ···-· ' •• • ......... THURSDAY. MAY 12 ··- t•,,_ 1,._ .. ''· POETRY READING: Lewis Turco reads from \Voices in an Old House\ in con· , t I - ,' • • -' ,.. - ' • . - ~ .. ' ' junction with Passion, the national juried Visltal Art & Poetry Exhibition. Rathbone . 9'allery, Junipf College of Albany, New Scotland Avenue, Albany; 5:20pm, free .. . 445-1778 .. RUMORS: Schenectady Civic Players, Play~1ouse 12 South Church St. Schenectady; 8 pm, $10. 382-2081. FRIDAY. MAY 13 CAROL BLINN: B0ok artist will present talks, College Center Auditorium, Union College, 7:30pm. 388-6277. CROSSING DELANCEY: Heart-warming comedy about what happens when a mod- em Jewish woman falls in love with a man who works in a traditional Jewish deli. Albany Public Theater, Albany Civic l11eater, 235 Sec- . ond Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $10. 462-1297. . THE MENDELSSOHN CLUB OF ALBANY SPRING CON- ! CERT: Jeffrey L. Vredenburg cotlducts this 70 voice male choms · . with guest artists from the Schenectady Light Opera Co., Empire Cen- · ter at The Egg, Albany; 8 pm. 395-8863. RUMORS: See Thursday, May 12. SATURDAY •. MAY 14 A \GRAND TIME\ MONSTER PIANO CONCERT: A concert of . multiple b'Tand pianos, presented by Circle Music to benefit Proctor's. Proctor's Theater, 432 State St., Schenectady; $20.50. 382-3884. .. ALBANY PRO MUSICA- THE GREAT CHORAL TRADITION: David Janowerconducts Honegger's King David & Stravinsky'sMass with Robert Lurtsema, narrator, St. Cecilia Orchestra and soloists Catherine Gifford, Ftan Pallozzi, Rand Reeves, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second & State Streets, Troy; 8 pm; $12, $10 students. 356-9155. CROSSING DELANCEY: 5 & 9 pm, see Friday, May 13. FESTIVAL OF NATIONS: An outdoor festival of food music and dance from 20 countries. Schenectady Museum & Planetarium, Nott Terrace Heights, Schenectady; 10 am-6 pm, $3, $1. 382-7890. . RUMORS: See Thursday, May 12. · SUNDAY. MAY 15 CROSSING DELANCEY: 3 pm. See Friday, May 13. j JAZZ FOR THE ARTS: Annual super jazz jam featuring three hours of jazz by over a dozen of the region's leading jazz talents. Hart Theatre, Empire Center at The Egg, Albany; 7:30pm, $14, $12 students. 473-1845 . RUMORS: 2:30pm. See Thursday, May 12. MONDAY, MAY 16 SONATAS FOR VIOLIN AND PIANO: Featuring Sonatas of Beethoven, Schubert and Mozart, George Green, George Green playing the violin and Professor Hugh Allen Wilsonon the piano. Memorial Chapel, 8 pm. TUESDAY, MAY 17 SCHENECTADY ELECTRIC CITY CHORUS: An evening devoted to demon- strating the barbershop style of singing to prospective male singers. Faith United Methodist Church, Brandywine Avenue & Eastern Parkway, Schenectady; 7:30 pm, free. 732-2998 . \'·-::WILL ROGERS FOLLlES: Lavish musical presents the life & ca- reer of Will Rogers with girls, glitter & glamour. Proctor's, 432 State St., Schenectady; $27.50-39.50. 382-3884. WEDNESDAY. MAY 18 ART TALKS: Kazimer Malevich: 20th-century Russian artist. Al- bany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany; 12:10 pm, free, 463-4478. GUADAGNINI STRING TRIO: Encore performance with guest art- ists, WuHan on piano, Ida Kavafian on violin and Timothy Cobb on double bass. Helen Froehlich Auditorium stage at the Hyde Collec- tion, 8 pm, $12, $5/students. 792-4054 . WILL ROGERS .FOLLIES: Se~ Tuesday, May 17. THURSDAY, MAY 19 WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: Also 2 pm. See Tuesday, May 17. FRIDAY, MAY 20 CROSSING DELANCEY: See Friday, May 13. ST. CECILIA ORCHESTRA: Kenneth l<ieslerconductsMostlyMozart. Symphony No. 29, Symphony No. -10 and Sibelius' Romance In C. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second & State Streets, Troy; 8 pm. 433-9513 . WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: See Thursday, May 17. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff

' ' ' 4 May 12, 1994, Page 14 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT .. Joint Student Exhibit: Part II of A Series Courtesy of Visual Arts Depprtment An opening reception for Chad LaBonte ,s \Paintings Monotypes and Photographs,\ and Melissa Ellen Tolan's \Is Anyone Listening?\ will be held Tuesday, May l 7, from 4 to 6 pm, in the Arts Building Atrium. Refreshments will be served and the public is invited. Chad LaBonte, currently a se- nior Visual Arts major and Eco- nomics minor at Union College, is presenting a series of paint-· ings, monotype prints and pho- tographs which focus on per- spective, seascapes and architec- ture respectively. The paintings, prints and photographs highlight the artist's cmrent work. Melissa Ellen Tolan, currently a senior Visual Arts major at Union College, is presenting a series of prints which focus on the experimentation with various printmaking techniques, which were developed during the Pop Era. Her pieces concentrate pri- marily on two forms of printmaking; solvent transfers and combine prints. The tech- niques aim at presenting a unique way of looking at contemporary issues facing our society. Melissa Tolan's photograpll titled \Clrild Abuse, \from lrer collection, \Is Anyone Listening?\ (above), Cltad LaBontJ witltltis piece titled \Painting Monotypes, Pltotograplts\ (right), both collections will be exhibited in tlae Arts Building Atrium from May 16 to May 21. (Photo by Leif Zurltmulrlen) \Is Anyone Listening?\ high- lights the artist's current work and incorporates a selection of earlier pieces, offering a comparison be- tween the traditional and revolu- tionary forms of printmaking. The collections will be exhib- ited from Monday, May 16 through May 21, 1994. The Gal- lery hours are 9 am to 9 pm, seven days a week. The .Reel Picture: Clean Slate by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Starring Dana Carvey, Valeria Golino and James Earl Jones. Directed by Mick Jack- son. Rated PG-13, MGM Pic- tures. RATING: *1/2 (out of four) MGM~s second failed at- ing chased by the bad guys. It also creates problems because he is supposed to testify to the crime in court, yet no one suspects he has a recurring amnesia. So, in hiding this slight prob- lem, Pogue is set up in all kinds of situations which should be po- tentially funny, aren't. A tempt at a detective comedy \\\\_......,~­ (anyone remember \Fatal In- stinct\?) \Clean Slate,\ draws a blank on intelligence and has a surprisingly low amount of laughable humor, making it a thoroughly bland and one-note movie. The basic premise is bor- rowed from \Fatal Instinct'': a detective who can't do his job without bungling things up. Here though, Maurice Pogue (Carvey) suffers from a slight problem: whenever he wakes up, he cannot remember any- thing about the day before. This leads to complications when the witness he's protecting, Sarah Novak (Golino, the leading lady in the \Hot Shots!\films) is be- woman he's sl with, but forgets about the next day, ends up being the fiance of a friend, who cannot match two and two to- gether in implicating Pogue. This subplot is humorous for the first ten minutes, but grows stale and absurdly dumb after a while. Likewise, Pogue's dog, which suffers from a depth perception problem, constantly runs into doors, jumps into closets, etc. It's funny at first, but the idea goes no- where. Jones, obviously cast in this mess to draw audiences, plays a D.A. confined to a wheelchair and who is unsuspecting of Pogue's amnesia. He adds little, and turns in a rather dull perfonnance. As Carvey's fellow \partyer Mike Myers, went solo with \So I Married an Axe Murdeter\ last summer and bombed miserably, Carvey's effort to test his marque value is proving to be a disap- pointment. The two shine in \Wayne's World\ (although the sequel showed their presence doesn't hide a nothing script), but on their own, Myers and Carvey cannot make their one-joke per- sonalities into marketable full- length features. Carvey still gri- maces and giggles like his alter ego, Garth, and he fails to fit the role of a funny detective. He's no Clouseau, and even Jim Carrey's \Ace Ventura\ managed to draw a few laughs. Mick Jackson, director of the phenomenal hit, \The Body- guard,'; tries to capture that film's theme (cop protecting witness) by adding laughs and deleting sense. Not that \The Bodyguard\ was prol?elled by logic or anything. Recital of Sonatas for Violin and Keyboard Courtesy of Performing Arts Department Hugh Allen Wilson and. George Green will offer a recital on Mon- day evening, May 16th atS :00 pm in Memorial Chapel. The pro- gram, which will include selec- tions from Marini, Schubert, Mozart and Beethoven will fea- ture both harpsichord and fortepiano. The public is invited and there is no admission fee. Professor Wilson has been most wide1yknown internationally and nationally as a harpsichordist, or- ganist and choral conductor dur- ing his long career. He has per- fanned as soloist and continuo player with several of the princi- pal chamber orchestras of our time. These include the Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra under the di- rection of Kwl Munchinger, the Princeton Chamber Orchestra, the Boston Classical Orchestra and the Soviet Emigre Orchestra. An Artist-in-Residence and Professor of Music at Union Col- lege, Wilson is also the Conduc- tor/Musical Director of the Glens Falls Symphony Orche~tra. He is continuing his performing career as a concertizing organist and harpsichordist. George Green, a native of sub- urban New York City, has di- vided his education (at Eastman, Cornell and Yale) and his career almost equally between compo- sition and violin (as well as viola and baroque violin). His own works have been played by ensembles like the Fine Arts String Quartet, the Dorian Wind Quintet, the Rascher Saxo- phone Quartet, the Berlin Sym- phony, the Oklahoma City Sym- phony and many others in the U.S. and Europe. Several works are published and recorded. Following two seasons as first violinist in the Cincinnati Sym- phony, George Green taught at Cornell University, and from 1971-79, he served as chairman of the music department at Skidmore College where he is , now Professor of Music. His reviews of contemporary music concerts, recordings of new music and books on a variety of musical topics have appeared in The Musical Quarterly and Notes.

CALENDAR May 12, 1994, page 15 Calendar of Events at Union: 5/12 - 5/18 Campus Events 'Thursd,ay 5/12/94 8:00p 9:30p Dr. YossiOmert Sadat Lecture Friday 5/13/94 9:00a 3 :OOp Bake Sale Youth Table 1 Capital District Table 2 Memorial Chapel CCAtrium CCAtrium 3 :30p 5 :30p Nancy Savoca CC Auditorium Film D~rector Sponsor: Women's Commission 7:30p 9:JOp Speaker: Carol J. Blinn CC Auditorium Sponsor: Friends of Libra Monday 5/16/94 5:00p 7:00p George Green&· Memorial Chapel Hugh Wilson Stage Concert Wednesday 5/18/94 ' 5:30p 6:00p Block 'U' Reception Sponsor: Athletic Dept. 6: 15p 9:30p Block 'U' Dinner Sponsor: Athletic Dept. CCAtrium Upper Class Dining 7:30p 9:30p . Speaker: James Miller Humanities 115, S'S 016 Sponsor: English Dept. Student Activities Meetings Saturday 5/14/94 1 :OOp 2:30p Gospel Singers Spring Annual Concert Sunday 5/15/94 8:00p t O:OOp 6 Women with Brain Death Mountebanks Musical Monday 5/16/94 ,, 8:00p I O:OOp 6 Women with Brain Death Mountebanks Muscial Tuesday 5/17/94 ' 8:00p 1 O:OOp 6 Women with Brain Death Mountebanks Musical 8:00p 12:00a Movie: \The Shining\ at 8:00 & 10:00 Wednesday 5/18/94 12:30p 2:00p D.W.I. Awareness Day (Rain Date: 5/1 9) 10: 15p 12:00a 6 Women with Brain Death Mountebanks Musical PAS (108) CC Auditorium CC Auditorium CC Auditorium SS016 CC Circle CC Auditorium StucJ~ellt ,e\ctiviliei/,C()!I:I~egre CEilt!f31r ltiiigllllllii gJIIl1lS Cl-lET 1 s TliunsdAy: JAZZ BANd @lOPM FRidAy: GATEkEEpERS T.G.I.F. 4:~0,6:~0 FREE Food! Yearbook Sale May 16 & 18 from 10- 2 $50 - CCAtrium Bloodmobile May 2:9 from xo • 4 Alumni Gym SpRi NGfEsT is CoMiNG MAy 19 ... 22 NOTICE: The Office of the Student Activities and the College Center, Concordiensis, and the Office of Events are now working together to present this calendar. In order to facilitate the centralization of scheduling, .m.:!.!I events and meetin2s scheduled throu~h the Office of Events will be listed. Events are listed according to categories as designated by that office. Call x6098 or stop in to their office in Wells House to list your events. Immediate Career Opportunities . Available In: Marketing Financial Planning Sales We are looking for active, bright, highly~motivated individuals. Positions available in the Metropolitan New York Area including: Westchester, Rockland, Dutchess, Orange and Ulster Counties Send Resume To: Mike Kipness 969 Park Avenue, Suite 12E New York, NY 10028 ..

·May 12, 1994, page 16 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals To Rick, the quintessential gentle- man from Old Forge. Happy Birthday. From a Yanni lover. Dave, is it inherent laziness or what? Tom- Dinner? Love, Me Hey I have a great idea. Let's put all the freeriders in one group and that way they'll have· to do the work. Ski-boy. Congrats on PBK. bon 't fret, the thesis will come. Shelley- Congratulations! You deserved the ring even if you didn't get to tell everyone first. I love you·! -The crazy woman Grub and CW. When are we go- ing to Zither? A platypus lover is waiting. To the Secretary of the Navy of Congoland. I'm glad we've been neighbors, sorry for prying. Wel- come to the Den of Love. Cally, I know you're an English major, hut here's a little math les- son: snow in locker+ Dominoes + 8 am practice + powder + Flexall in jock + salt + de-pants in C.C. + ????!!! > Super-dunk- o-rarna. Thanks for the public- ity. The ball is in my court now! Love, Dr. K .. Get it a lot- Thanks for the sex. BYE. Guys, but I don't GET sex. -The Schaffs. Great Prizes Congrats to all the NI's of Delta G. We love you lots! -The rest of the sisters. Bruno, It's nice to have a second chance. To the woman with post-partum presidential depression, cheer up, you will always have those great memories of Leslie. Love, your grunt workers. Seeking mature, emotionally re- ceptive female for friendship. Quirobirobolo, Even though I can't be with you, you're still on my mind. Happy Birthday .Love, Nice Ahnya, rm going to miss you next fall. I love you. Write me. Oh, you're forgive·n for missing my 21st birthday. Lots .of love and kisses. Mom - I love you, and will always need you. - your little girl Andrew - I hope your hell week wasn't as bad as we thought. You can tell me all about it on a long wal at Thatcher. Good luck! love, Spunky Craig - My week is going OK, I hope your's is too. I can't wait to exchange stories. Love- Sherryn Richmond, TI1anks for the cheers Monday night. See U.--- Not a pledge class. - Richmond Mens' Choral En- semble. C.A.A.R.M.E.N. Classijieds Part-Tirne Opportunity: TAD Technical Services Corpora,tion, Albany is looking for a tempo- rary Darkroom Assistant. Must be able to process BIW film. Ten to 20 hours a week, with a 2 - 4 month duration. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: Beyond The Wall, Fairfield, CT, an ad- vertising poster catalog company looking for an Advertising/Pub- lic Relations Intern to work in an unstructured creative environ- ment. Paid position begins end of academic year and runs through Labor Day. See the CDC. Internship: Makovsky & Com- pany Inc., New York is a mid- size public relations finn looking for interns for Fall, Spring, and Summer. Six month lead time is suggested on desired internship . period. Stipend available. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Kaplan, Albany is offering a Marketing/Public Re- lations Internship for Fall '94 and Winter/Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: The Bank ofNew York, Manhattan, is of- fering summer positions to be as- signed to a branch in Manhattan. See the CDC for further details. Seniors looking for pennanent positions after graduaation should see go to the CDC. Food! FFLE Help The Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady (May 19th at 8PM at Chet's) Sample Prizes: Gift Certificates: ·Glen Sander's Mansion Caffe Dolce Fireside Pizza Loew's Movie tickets Dutch Pipers' serenade UC Bookstore Open Door Bookstore and Gi.fts Manhattan Exchange Visage UC Food Services Strawberries Music (courtesy of Sigma Phi) Carmella 's Restaurant (courtesy of Alpha Epsilon Pi) The Gap (courtesy of Delta Psi Delta) Chet's Walkman (courtesy of Phi Sigma Kappa) Foos Ball Table (courtesy of Phi Gamma Delta) · AND MORE ... All Panhellenic Sororities, the Sociology Dept., and the Women's Union will be selling tickets now through the 19th. SPONSORS: $1 EACH OR 3 FOR $2 Delta Delta Delta Gam rna Phi Beta Women;s Union Delta Gamma Sigma Delta Tau Sociology Dept. Summer Job: A couple in Loudonville, NY, is seeking a governess to care for 10 year-old daughter. See the CDC for fur- ther details. Summer Job: Cam·p Modin, Maine, is searching for college students for summer employ- ment. See the CDC for further details. . Summer Job: Rice. Inn Chinese & American Restaurant, search- ing for summer help. Must flu- ently speak Chinese (preferably Cantonese) and English. See the CDC for further details. Summer Internship: The Cor- porate Response Group Inc., Washington, D.C. is offering un- paid summer internships. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: The Schenectady Jewish Community Center is looking for a summer day camp, early childhood unit head. See the CDC for further details . Summer Internship Opportu- nity: The Bank of New York, New York City offers summer in- ternships in one of their Manhat- tan branches. Interns will receive on the job training in customer service, and in banking products and services. More information in the CDC. Summer Program: Student Hos,. teling Program has summer lead- ership positions availa_ble for teenage bicycling trips. Appiy now. See the CDC for further details. Internship: Prudential Securities, Albany has an opportunity avail- able for undergraduates and graduates to gain experience working.directly with a financial advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral, Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to apply. Intern- ship is unpaid but a possible sti- pend may be available after proven ability. See the CDC for more info. Summer of Fall Internship: FLY 92 , Albany Broadcasting Company, Albany offers a di- verse communication media ex- perience. ina professional atmo- sphere. See the CDC for more info. For Seniors looking for perma- nent opportunities the CDC Li- brary receives job announce- ments on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are 8AM - SPM Monday - Friday; 7 ~ 9PM Tuesday & Wednesday, whit~ school is in session. Classifieds must be submitted to The Concordiensis by the Mon- day before the publication which you would like it to appear. Final Exam Help Fear Test Taking no more! Hypnotherapy can help you with test anxiety, public speaking, weight loss, self-esteem, smoking cessation ... Reasonable student rate.· Call Patricia Rumore, M.A. in counseling, certified hypnotherapi'st. 435-l200:n' . Mountebanks Presents ... Six Women with Brain Death A smash hit in Dallas, TX and other cosmo- politan areas. By Nenge, Brandt, Coppedge, Fadan, Freese, Huston, Johnson, Wilson May 15, 16, 17 8PM May 18 at 10:15 PM in CC Auditorium \A snap little review about the collapse of culture, the demis of langJJage and meaning, and the anxiety of lives cut loose from their moorings and set adrift on a sea of medical waste.\ Students $3 Non-students $5 Tickets on Sale Now!!!

PERSON .1\LS/CLASSIFIEDS : ·. · i\ , ~-the ·F:IIilc~~cntiai St:lltk- :·;,~:. ;!,'Ill 1 l 1 d I ,q !-~e !lapp~ '' • t \. ._ ' . \IJ . ' ' l It;,.,, .... :. ·-., ! .. I~ \' I '\ ( . ' 'f i ~~ I c ll --. ' \II ! ) 1 ~ ~ :J.·n.ll!L'l. tile tht:~l~ ,,Jil.:•·llll.' '· 1 :L·] k\ · ('(lllf'l ,ltUJali< lib' \1 l\1 .it.:'\.'1\<.'d the !Ill).' C\Cll :f :· <•ll ,;;dn: :.:ct tPtcllc\t.:r\l'llt.: tir:>t I :, '' L' ·\ ,u• - l'ht.: u a/\ \nm an · : ... l. ·1r•· 1 F '\\' '\'l···r1 ·1r\ '\\ .... ' J I U l ' 1 I \.a \._ , If I..._ 1. ..... ~ \.. f;- \' . .llf' i11 /Ith.:1' '\ pl.tl\ pu-. l,,, .:r ~~ \\alltn}! ·--··----------- !,1 the Sr:crt.:ta~ of thr: Na'>~ nl Collf!oianJ I'm !!lad \\t:.\t: hr:r:n llCif!hbilrs. sil!T\ fur pn Ill!,! Wd- cnmr: to th.: I kn of l.m r:. Call~, I know :.ou'rr: an Lngiish mator. but lu.:n.: 'sa IIttk math les- son: sno\v ill lor:kcr • Dommocs · X am practice • JHm der · Flexall 111 .Jock · salt · de-pants Ill l' C. · .,.,.,.,, 1' · Super-dunk- (l·rama. llmnks for the publil:- Itv llH.: ball is 111 mv cour1 IHJ\\' !.me. Dr K (it:! 1! .1 IPt· !'hanks tnr thc ~C'\ B \T ( iu;. '· h11t lth •n·t < il· I -;n !lie \~,.h.tff, (;rca t Prizes Ct'II).!I.Ib h1 all the Sl's of Delta (; \', c J,,, t.: \ t~tt!Pts' -·llH.: n.:st of the ~hlL'I'- Bn::;,·, !r· :~1ct.: t'' h;l\c a s..:,:und ~· h a 11\:t.: :, 1hc \\IIIILI!l \\IIh JlilSt-parluin i'l<>:,knt:.d .kprt.:sSIPil. ~:hc.:I :1p. '-, •11 '' 1il .th <I\ s h.l\ c those l.!rt:at -----·-·------------~ '-.,..._·cki:1~ n;,I!UT( ...... 'JH,ltlunall\ .... - c;.T[I\1: fclll.lic (,,1 ~·lll:lllbhlf) ()uir,•biroht,ll'. !:\en tiJ,,u!!h ,·,111 t hr: \\ 1th \ Pll. : ou·rc -;till on Ill' llliiill !lapp~ Birthda: lt'\t:. '\;Ill.' \lin: .1. l'mt•Ping ll' miss :nu nc'\t fall l 1(1\C: nu Write me ()h. \ Pu'rc fpf~I\Cll for misslllg m: ~! •:! hr!hd:!'- l.l'ts i'f ll!\ e :md \h•lll- l !u\ c ~ uu. and\\ dl ah\a: s need ! ou. - ~ \lllf link !,!lrl Andre\\- - I hopt.: ~our hdl \cek \\asn't as ball as \\t.: tlwught. You \.:all tell me all about it on a hlllg \\a] at llJatdJer (iood lud. 1 hl\C, Spunky Craig- M~ \\eek is going OK, I hope your's is too. I C<UJ't \vait to cxd1ange stories. Lo\'e- Sherryn Richmond. Thanks tor the cheers Monday nit-:ht Sec l I - -- Not a pled!!e class · Richnwnd \lens' Choral hl- -..cmblc ( · .-\ .·\ R \.1 L ~ Part-Time Opportunit~: l':\D l t.:duuc,ll Sen ll:t.:S l'orpmation \lh.afl\ '\ J,ll,~lll!! f~•r .1 kmptl· . ,:, Darkmom Assistant \1ust :\\,' .tbk hi PH'lt.:SS B w film ren ·,. ~11 !wurs .1 \\ct.:i-.. 1\Ith .t ~- .1 . ,, .,,,iJ dtlfati,•n Sec tht.: t 'DC t;,r \'ummn lntl·rn~lup: He\ •'Iili :he W.ti! : .mtit.:ld l' r .Ill dd- .L'It:-..tli~~ 1\''\':L'J L,tid;t'~ Ullllpttll: ,(l('~lllt! hll .111 .-\d\cniSIIJ~~ Pub- ::~ Rt.:l<~tH•JlS lntcmlt' \\orl-. 111 ,lfl . :11 'II \I<.:!IIJC.i (f C<lll\1.: •;II \!TOll· m..:nt 1',lld Jll'SiliPn hc!.!Jtl'\ end , !' .tc.,,km :..: \car .IIIli run:\ t!Hl'll~il I alwr Da' l.;ct: the CDC lni(•rnship: \takm~k: & C'lllll- pan~ lia: . Se\\ Y urk IS a nwl- SI.lC pubilc n:lation~; finn luokint-: L•r !lltt.:ms fPI Fall. Spnng. and Summer Six month lead tunc is sug!!ested on des~rcd intcmsh1p pr:riud. Stipend available Sec tl11.: CDC lor more dctmls Internship: Kaplan. Alhany is tlllcnng a Markct1ng Puhl11.: Re- lations lntemslu p for Fall '').t and Winter Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: ·n1e Bank of New York, Manhattan, is of- fering summer positions to be as- signed to a branch in Manhattan. Sec the CDC for further details. St•niors loukm12 for pennanent J1l1SI!iOI1S after sraduaa!Hlll ~IH•uld sec!.!(' 1P the CDC Food! llclp The Battered \\'omen·s Shelter of Schenectady (i\1ay 19th at 8P:\1 at Chefs) Sample Prizes: Gift Certificates: Glen Sander's i\lansion Caffe Dolce Fireside Pizza Loew's l\1ovie tickets Dutch Pipers' serenade l'C Bookstore Open Door Bookstore and Gifts \lanhattan Exchange \'isage l :c Food Services Strawberries :\lusic (courtesy of Sigma Phi) Carmella's Restaurant (courtesy of Alpha Epsilon Pi) The Gap (courtesy of Delta Psi Delta) Chet's \\'alkman (courtesy of Phi Sigma Kappa) Foos Ball fable (courtesy of Phi Gamma Delta) A~n \lORE. .. \II Panln:ilt.'nir Sororities. the Sol'iolo}.!y Dq,t.. and the \\'omen·s l 'nion ''ill lw st.•lling tickets IHH\' through the 19th. S I F.\( Tl OR J FOH. S2 Delta Delta Delta f ;am rna Phi Beta \\omen's Union Delta Gamma ~-~h!nHI BeH2 Tau Sociology Dept ----- -~--·---~------------ ,____} Summer .Job: A l:Ouph: 111 Loutlonville. NY, is seeking a 1,!0\ cmcss to care for I 0 year-old daughter. See the CDC for fur- ther details. Summer Job: Camp Modin . \ 1ainc. IS searching for collegt: ·tlldCJJIS f,1r SllllltnCr employ- :nent \;n: tht: CDC for further Summt'r .Inh: Rice Inn Chinese .'.: ·\m..:nc .tn Restaurant. searl: h- ;n!.! j,,r -,unllncr ilt.:lp \1u-.t tlu- ..:ntl:- '>peal-- 1.. 'Inn esc {preferahl~ c ·.mtPne-;cl and Fnglish. Sec the I. 'DC for further details . Summer internship: ·n1c Cor- porate Response Group Inc . Washm~tnn. DC is offering un- paid ~ummcr intcmsi!Ips Sec the CDC for further details. Summer Job: ·n1c SchenectJLiy Jewish Community Center is looking for a summer day camp. early childhood unit head. Sec the CDC for fmiher details. Summer Internship Opportu- nity: ll1e Bank of New York. Nev .. York C1ty offers summer in- temslu ps in one of their Manhat- tan hranches Interns will recei\e on the job training in customer service, and in banking products and services. More infom1ation in the CDC. Summer Program Student Hos- teling Program has summer lead- ership positions available for teena[.!e bicyclin12 trips :\ppl~ 110\\ Sec the CDC for further dt.:tails. In tt'mshi p: Prudential Scwtitlcs. Albany has an opportunity avail- able for undergraduates and graduates to gain experience working directly with a financial advisor Students majoring in Fl:onomics. Applied Math. Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program :m: encouraged to apply lntem- ~hip is unpaid but a possible sti- r),. H d m a' he a v a i I a hI c after l'fi'\Tll abiiitv See the CDC fi)r mPrc mfo. Summer uf Fail Internship FLY 02 . Albany Broadcasting Cnmpan\. Albany offers a di- \ ~:ro;;e cmnrnunication media ex- pencncc in a professional atmo- -:pllere Sec the CDC for more info. For Seniors looking for perma- ru:nt opportunities the CDC l.i- hr<Iry recci\ cs .tob announce- ments on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are XAM- SPM Monday - Friday: 7 - !JPM Tuesday & Wednt:sda~. \\hilc school IS in SC~SIOII. Classitieds must he submitted to !he ( 'oncord!Cll\1\. by the Mon- day before the publication which you would like it to appear. Final Exam Help Fear Test Taking no more! Hypnotherapy can help you with test anxiety. public speak in!;!. \veight loss. self-esteem, smokmg cessation. Reasonable student rate. Call Patncia Rumore. M A. III C\lllllSC]Ing. certified hypnothcrap1 st 435-12110. Mountebanks Presents UG SL'( Wonten »'ith Brain Death :\smash hit in Dallas. TX and other cosmo- rol itan areas. By ~enge, Brandt. Coppedge. Fadan. Freese. Huston. Johnson. Wi !son IVIaJ 15\ 16, 17 8PM Mav 18 at 10:15 PM \' in CC Auditorium \A snap iittle review about the collapse of culture. the demis of language and meaning. and the anxiety of I ives cut loose from their moorings and set adrift on a sea of medical .... waste.,, Students $3 Non-students $5 Tickets on Sale Now!!!

SPORTS Union College Bowling~ Varsity in '96 by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano Sports Editor$ On Friday, May 6th, the undergraduate committee on Intercollegiate Athletics (UClA) passedresolutionl,884 Jtoaward the Union College Bowling Club varsity status. Vice President Joseph Mammola has agreed to lace up his old .bowling kicks and be the first Union College player/ coach in the history of the institution. Yet another accolade in his prolific career, his acclimation to the highest office of the college appears inevitable. \Jumpin~\ Joe Mammola was a four year letter winner in Squ&sh and Baseball at St. Joseph's University. While doing graduate work at Notre Dame, he was a special teams standout for the Fighting Irish football team. After a thorough investigation by the NCAA sub-committee on collegiateelligibility, Jum·pin' Joe was granted four years in a winter sport of'his preference. m an exclusive phone interview with the Vice President, he could barely contain his emotion as this announcement, for this represented the fulfillment of over a decade of arduous lobbying for a ten pin squad. Mammola has already begun the requisite networking necessary to piece together a championship team worthy of wearing the garnet and wh.ite. Notable recruits are coming from the renowned bowling meccas of Milwaukee, Duluth, · Cleveland, and Anchorage (that's in Alaska for those scoring at home). Most of. the faculty and administration are ecstatic to hear the news. Dining Services (aka: Ramada Foods, Inc.} has agreed to provide the. team with .a balanced, nutritional diet, tailored to suit their needs. In addition, Mike's Dogs, located on Eerie Boulevard will sponsor the team, serving dogs all the way and kelba~a imported from Madison, Wisconsin. Despite. a solid recruiting class, there just may be a spot available on the team. Tryouts will be held in the pit of Chet's Pub sometime this month. Be sure to B.Y.O.B. (Bring Your Own BaH) due to the recent athletic budget constraints brought upon by the Crew Team's·sudden move to Varsity. Track Team Performs Well at States Des,pite Injuries by Mike Leding Associate Sports Editor An ailing Union Track Team traveled to Brockport this past weekend to compete at the State Meet. The men's team placed ninth artd the women's team placed fourte~Q!ll:. -~here were injuries to the men's team that prevented them from finishing higher at:td ther~. were mishaps that occurred with the women that also resulted in their placing. The meet for the women started last weekend with N~diqe Fiio~i pla~ing fou.rth in the Hepthalon, unfortunately, this would prove to be the women's only scoring. The women had six points taken away from them when Linda Seymour, after plac- ing third in the l 0,000 meters, was disqualified for stepping Qn the inside of the track while run- ning. The meet started for the men Friday night. The weather was horrible, as it has been all season. The team left for the hotel Friday night with Matt Johnson and Chuck Clerici already having placed second and third respec- tively in the Javelin. Also hav- it1g qualified to run on Saturday, were the men's 4xl00m relay team of Frank Attah, Shurort Morton, Jon Simon, and Dave Riggi. Shuron also qualified for the finals of the 1OOm. The other freshmen sensation Dave_ Riggi had to relegate himself to the 4x 1OOm relay due to injury. Dave pulled his hamstring two weeks before at the Albany Invitationa.l. He is a big reason the team did not do better. Dave is the best mnneron the team, artd if it had not been for the untimely injury, he would have done very well in the 1OOm and the 200m. He is definitely the MVP for the run· ners t11is year. the next day in the 1OOm Hurdles had she not been so unlucky in the prelims. The day started for the men with a very impressive run by the 4xl00m relay team. Attah ran a great lead off leg and handed off to Morton who exploded down the backside offthe track, who in tum handed off to Simon,. who then handed to the injured Riggi. TI1e team ran a sizzling time of 42.83. The team placed fourth overall and Riggi showed a lot of courage running on that leg, This team missed the National stan- dard by 0.33 seconds. This team is comprised of two freshmen and two sophomores, so if everyone sticks with it, they will be a force to reckoned with for quite awhile. Off the track, Rich Pulver was winning States, as was expected, in the Shot Put with a throw of 14.95 meters to place. him first. Rich, for Indoor Track, will be the only member of the team, as of now, heading to Nationals in the Shot Put. Rich has been the over- all MVP of this team all year. He has placed near·the top in the Shot Put in every meet. Good luck to Rich as he ventures to Nationals. In the Triple Jump, Matt Sten leaped a personal best of 42 feet 4 inches, but ended up seventh by just fractions. The top six placed at this meet. Back on the track, Shuron Morton was running in the finals of the I 00 meters. Shuron is the ·other half of the freshmen sensa- tion duo. which includes' Riggi. Shuron ran a 11.43 to place him- self fifth and score again for the team, as he did in the 4x100m re- lay. J ort Metz ran a personal best of 16:09 in the 5,000 meters, showing as he has all year that he is the best long distance runner on the team. The last event of the meet was the4x400m relay. TI1e team con- sisted of Russ Stram, Mike Leding, Brendan Sullivan, and Jon Simon. Due to the fact that the team had not run this relay at the last two meets, their seed time was not quick enough to place them in the fast heat. Larry Cottrell informed them that they would have to win their heat in grand :fashion to bump someone out in the fast heat to place. This is a hard task to place on a team because you will always run faster when chasing someone. Eventhough, the team went out and gave it their all. Stram led off very quickly coming in tied for first, and hand- ing off the baton to Leding, who had to stay in his lane until the cut in. Leding beat the Plattsburgh runner to the cut in and opened up a lead that the re- maining runners, Sullivan and Simon, held and even extended a little bit. Simon crossed the line in a time of 3:27.11, winning the heat with a personal best time for the team by about 2.5 seconds. Now the team had to wait for the other heat to conclude. The sixth place team ran a 3:26.74, render- ing Union's team seventh, but who knows what would have happened if they would have been in that heat. However, the team consists of three sopho- mores and one freshmen, so they have a couple more years to- gether to destroy competing teams in Indoor and Outdoor Track. In the end it was a great year for this young team under first year coaches Aldo Nardiello and Larry Cottrell. The team would like to thank both of them for th\eir contributions. Well, Rich competes in two weeks at Nation- als, so good luck to him; To the rest of the team it was a great year. Thanks to every single member of the team for·theirpart in Union Track's success. May 12, 1994, page 17 Tennis Tea01 Finishes Long Season by Ken Berman Tennis Correspondent As the sparkling northern sun of New York set down. on the courts at Oneonta, the forehanding Dutchmen closed out their season this past week with a victory over bitter rival Hartwick. Not only was this vic- tory huge because it enabled them to close out their season with a victory, but it also served as the · juice that finally quenched the thirst the team had for a victory. It could not have come against a better team than Hartwick. In recent years, the Hartwick- Union contest has resembled such battles as those waged by the fabled Celtics and Lakers, the Big, Bad Bruins and the Canadi- ans, and the Red Sox ofBeantown against the Yankees. Following the example set by all of the above Boston squads, the Union Dutch- men came up big with the victory, when it counted. The team began their journey Saturday knowing that it would take more than just intensity for a victory: they would have to piece together the puzzle of Tri- umph, the concept which had eluded them for far too long. Ig- noring the verbal taunts being thrown at them from the Hartwick legions, our heroes warmed up, ever searching for the Eye of the Tiger that would lead them to vic- tory. Both squads spent the first hour of the meet feeling each other out, after which they pro- ceeded to play. The teams split the singles matches, with each squad taking three. That left the score at 3-3 (everybody following the math?}, with 3 doubles matches to be played. Our 3rd team came out flying, winning their match hand- ily. Given a chance to clinch the match, Union's 2nd doubles team came up just short, meaning that the final match of the day would decide the whole enchilada. With the score at 4-4, Phreshman Phenom Price Pfister Brett Shapiro, and team Captain Jay Fishbein squared off against their Hartwick counterparts. It was a nip-and-tuck I st set, as both tandems were aware of the con- sequences of the match. As the dust settled, it became clear that the first set would belong to Jay and Brett, as they took it 6-4. With this confidence booster, the two cruised through the second set, and had Hartwick crying, \NO MAS!\. Mercifully enough, they ended the set at 6-1~ secur- ing the victory for Union. Saturday rolled around and the only women left competing were Dawn Landry in the Triple Jump and Linda Seymour in the 500~. TI1e team was hurt the night be- fore ·when Nadine Filosi hit a hurdle and was deposited on the track. Nadine had been running extremely well up to that point and probably would have placed SPORTS WANTS YOU Call Joe at 6155 This victory finally showed what the tennis team was capable of. All year long, the squad had been offset by a potpourri of problems, but at the end, they fi- nally found a way to put it all to- gether. Hartwick was a quality team, so the Union was forced to play it's top game, and they were up to the task. Congratulations. Rock and roll, cola wars, I can't take it any more. . ,...

Wqe C1loncoroiensis SPORTS May 12, t 994, page 17 Union College Bowling- Varsity in '96 by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano .Sports Editors On Friday. May (Jth. the undergraduate committee on Intercollegiate Athletics (UClA) passed resolution 1.884 J to award the Union College Bowling Club \arsity status. Vice President Joseph Mammola has agreed to la~:c up his old btmling ki~:ks and be the first Union College player/ coach in the history of the mstitution Y ct another accolade 111 his prolific career. his acclimation tn the highest tlflicc tlf the ~:ollq!c appears inc\ itable \Jumpin'\ Joe Marnmola \\as a ftlllr :-car letter \\in ncr 111 Squash and Baseball at St Joseph's l ~Ill\ crsll\ While do in)! !-!raduatc work at Notre Dame. he \\as a special teams standout for the Fighting Irish football team. After a thorough investigation h:- the NCAA sub-committee on collegiate elligibility, Jumpin' Joe was granted four years in a\\ inter sport of his preference In an exclusive phone intcl\te\\ with the Vice President. he could barely contain his emotion as thi~ ann o u n c e m c n t. fn r t h h rcpr~:sented the fulfillmcnt uf, )\ cr a de~.:ade of arduous lobb: 111~ fm a ten pin squad. Mammnla has alrcad\ begun the requhtll: nel\\orking nccessar~ lu plc\.\e tu!.!dhcr ,, dlalllp!On~lllp te,un \\orthv ufwearin!.! the uamet and . ' ' \\hite Notable recruits arc c:umrng from the reno\\ ncd btl\\ lmg meccas of !\.1ih,aukce. Duluih. Ck,cland. and Andwragc (that's in Alaska for those scoring at home). Most of the facult:- and aJm inistration arc ecstatic to hear the nev·iS. Dining Services (aka· Ramada Foods. Inc.) has agn.:ed to providc the team with a balanced. nulri tiona! diet. tailored to suit their needs. In additton. !\1ikc · s Dugs. hH.:atcd un Ecnc Buulc\ard \\ill :-.ponsur the team. sen lllg dl1gs all the \\ay and kdbasa impnr1cd from !\1adtson. W!sconsHl. Despite a sol1d te\.\nllllll~ das~. there JUSt ma~ be a Sfllll a\ ad able , 'llthc team lr-y uuh ''Ill be held mthc pll t't ChL'l ~Put' sulllclllliC tlus month Be ~urc tP BY ( l B (Bring Your ( h\tl Balli Jue tu the recent <lthicllt: hud~Cel l<llh[l .unh brPught upon b~ tht: l rl'\\ Icam·s ~uddenlllP\C It' \',lr:-.11\ ortly. Sasi®Uy. it ·•.rot'Orities. However, last :U¢l@l:ll~ a$ welL The reo invitation was ex- Along with th¢: men's t®flity tQumament,.pend- been raised fQr Big •fivl·!O'ol'V of this e-vMt. But Track Team Performs Well at States Despite llnjuries '\'\\~ \\~>\ tl'iis tQ~ament WSil \@l'IWJS ~h~ pur~ by \1ike Leding . ·tssociate Sports l:'ditor An a!ltn~ l Jnton I rack I cam tr;n ded to Brnckport tillS past \\Cckend to compete at the State Meet I he men· s team placed llllllh and the \omen's team placed fourteenth. There were injuries to the men's team that prevented them fwm finishing higher and there \\cre mishaps that occurred with the \\omen that also resulted in their placing. The meet for the women started last weekend\\ 1th Nadine Filosi placing fourth in the llepthalon. unfortunately. this \\ ould pnn e to be the \\omen· s onl:- s~.:oring. Tht.: \\omen had s1x polllts taken ;may from them \'>hen Linda Sevmour. after plac- lllg third in the I 0,000 meters. \\as disqualified for stepping on the !llsJdc of the track \\hile nm- lllll g ·nH: meet started for the men Friday night l11e weather \\as horrible. as 11 has been all season. ·n1e team left for the hotel Fridav night \\ith Matt Johnson and Chuck Clerici already having placed second and third respcc- ttvely in the Ja\el!n. Also hav- mg qualified to run on Saturday. were the men· s ·hI (Him relay team of Franh. Attah. Shuron Morton. Jon S1nwn. and Da\e R1gg1. Shuron also qualitieJ for the finals of the I OOm. ·nle other freshmen sensation Dave Riggt had to rclc~ate hllnsclf to the 4x I OOrn relay due tOlllJllf). Dave pulled hts hamstnng two weeks before at the Alban~ hl\'ltational. He is a btg reason the team did not do better Da\ c 1s the best runner on the team. and if it had not been for the untimely injury. he \\otdd have done very well in the I OOm and the 200m. He is defirutcly the MVP for the run- ners this year. Satmday rolled around and the only women left competing were Da\\11 Landrv in the Triple Jump and r .inda Sc~ mour m the 5000m nle team was hurt the night be- fore \\hen Nadine Filosi hit a hurdle and \\as deposited on the track Nadme had been runmn~ extremely well up to that pomt and prohahlv would have placed the I!C\t da~ Ill the IOUm llllldlc..; h.1d she not been ..,n unlucl-.~ in the prel11ns .·- -' . ---.. - -- - -->:·-~ !\he d.1~ startcd for tiH: tllO.:ll \\ 1th a\ er:- nnprc'>SI\ e run b: the .. fx I OOm rei a: team Attah ran a !,!Icat lead off lc!2 and handed P!l tu !\1orton \\ lw e'>.pludcd do\\ n the backside off the track. \\hu Ill tum handed off to Simon. who then handed to the injured Riggi Ille team ran a sizzling time of 42.83. 1l1e team placed fourth overall and Riggi sho\'>ed a lot of courage running on that leg. This team missed the National stan- dard by 0 :n seconds ·n1is team is cornpnsed of two freshmen and t\\O sophomores. so if e\er:-one sticks\\ ith it. they will be a force to reckoned with fnr quite a\\ h ilc I -:dlllg. Brcnd.1n Sulll\ a11 .1nd Jt•n Simun Due lt> the !.tel that the team had IH>: run tin~ rel.1~ at the last t\\t' !llcet'. thcu seed tunc \\<lS not qlll~·k crwugh It' place them rn the f<l';t heat Larn Cottrcll intPnncd thctll th;lt the~ \Hluld ha' e It~ \\Ill their heat Ill grand fashion tu bump someone out in the fast heat to place. 1l1is is a hard task to place on a team because you Wlll always run faster when chasing someone. Eventhough. the team \\cnt out and gave it their all Tennis Team Finishe§ Long Season Off the track. Rich Pulver was \\inning States. as was expected. in the Shot Put with a thnm tlf 14.95 meters to place him first Rich. for Indoor Track. will he the only member of the team. as of nO\\, heading to Nationals 111 the Shot Put. Rich has been the over- all MVP of this team all year He has placed near the top in the Shot Put in e\er:-· meet. Good luck to Rtch as he ventures to Nationals In the Triple Jump. Matt Sten leaped a personal best of 42 feet -l1nches. but ended up SC\ enth b: just fractions ·ne top six placed at this meet Back on the track. Shurnn Mtllion \\as mrming m the finals of the I 00 meters Shuro11 is the other half nf the freshmen sensa- tion duo. v.hich includes Riggi. Shuron ran a II A.~ to place him- self fifth and score agarn for the team. as he did m the 4x I OOm re- Jav. Jon Mctz ran a personal best of 16 09 in the 5,000 meters. showing as he has all year that he is the best long distance nmner on the team. ll1e last event of the meet \\as the 4 x400m relay The team con- sisted of Russ Stram. Mtkc Stram led off \cr~ qtuckl~ coming in tied for tirst. and hand- mg off the baton to l.edlll~. \\ lw by Ken Berman Tennis Correspondent had to stay in h1s lane until the i :\s the sparklin~ northem sun cut 111. Iedin!,! beat thej I nf Ne\\ YPrk set dm\n pn the Plattsbur).!h runner to the cut Ill cl'urts at Oneonta. the I and opened up a lead that there- ! fmehandml! Dutchmen dosed (ltJt mam1ng runners. Sullivan and Ji their scaso~1 this past \\cek \\Ith Simon. held and C\Cll extended a 1 a nctory tl\.\Cr bitter fl\ al little bit Simon crossed the ltnc I llartwick. NDt onlv was thts \IC- tll a tune of-' 2~ II. \\llllllllg the I tPn hu!!e because t~ enabled them heat \\ith a pcrsonal best tune forJ Ito .clos~ tlUt their season \\ 1th a the team hy about 2 5 seconds \IdOl\. hut 11 also served as the Now the team had 1t1 \\alt for the II juice ~hat finall~ quenched the other heat to conclude ·n1e sixth thirst the team had for a \ ictt1rv place team ran a.\' 26 7 4. render- I It could not have come a!!ainst- a 1ng Union's team se,enth. hut I beltc!\!eam than llart\\ICk who knows what \\lltrld h;l\e I In recent vears. the Hart\\!Ck- ' . happened if I hey would ha vc ll ln!L)n contest has resembled such heen in that heat Hnwe,er. the j battles •:s thtlSC \\aged b: the team consists of tlnee ~t1plw- ; labkd C. dt1cs and I akers. the nwres and one freshmen. -;o the\ ~ Bq.!. Bad Brums and the Canad•- ha\c a Clluplc more :cars ,,, .. '<lib. ,liJd the Red Sox nfBe;mtm\11 gcthcr Ill dcstro: compctll1!2 i ag.unst the Y;mkees l·tllhming teams in Indnor and Outd<'t 1 I ! thcex.ullplcsct bvallofthcabme I • Track i Boston squad'>. the l'nwn Dutch· In the end 1t ''as a great\ e<ll ; men camt: up b1!! \\ 1th the\ Kllll\\y. I for this young team under lir-.1 i \\hen 11 Ctltllltcd : l.'ar coaches Aldn Nard1ellt1 and i l11c team began thc11 Jtllllllc~ Larry Cottrell. ·nle team v.nuid I SaturJa, krlll\\llll! that 1t \\t,uld like to thank both of them ft 1 r J take mt~re than Jt;st Intcnsit: fnr their contributions Well. Rich a \ Ictor:- thl.')o would ha\ e Ill competes in two weeks at NatHlll- ptcce together the ptll.tle llf Tri· als. so good luck to hun. To the umph. the cnnccpt \dl!dt had rest of the team it was a !}:reat year eluded them fnr far !tiP Inn~ I)!- lllanks to ever:- single mernbet Jrwnnc tht: \erbal taunts belll)! tlfthc team for their part inlln1on , thtt'\\ll atlhem fwm the llart\\lck Track's success ! kg1nns. Pur herPes \\;mncd up. I i SPORTS WANTS YOU Call Joe at 6155 t:ver searching ft~r the l·~c ,,f the li~er that\\ ould lead them IP' ~~­ tor:- Bt)th :'quads spent the lir~t lwur pf the meet tcelln!,! c.t~·h nther out. after 11 hich thL'\ f'lt'· ceeded to pL1: !he teams spl1t the stnglc~ matchc:-.. \\ ith ea..:h squ;1d t.1k1ng three. That left the scl1re .11 '-' te\Cf) bnd: follu\1 tllg the m.11h 'l. w1th ' doubles matches lt' be pla:ed Our lrd te,ml came tllll !lying.\\ ttmin~ their m.uch h;md- !lv (ii\en a chance tn clinch the match.lfnmn\ 2nd double~ team came up .Just short. mc.mlll!,! that the final match of the d.1: \\t~t!ld decide the \\ lwlc enchilada With the ~core at Phreshman Phenom Pnce l'ti~h:r Brett Shap1rn .. md tc.tlll C!pt;l!n .Ia: Fishbein squared Pll ·'!\·lith! their llarl\\ ick \.\ounterp.uh It \\as a li!Jhl!H..I-tul\k ]..,t set. .1-. b, >th tandems \\ere <1\\:Uc ,,f the C<'ll- sequences tll the rna!t:h :\~ tht: dust settled. 11 bc .... unc clcar th.tt the tirst set \\tluld bcl,,rH.: l•' .l,J\ and Brett. as the\ \'''\ 11 I•··l With th1s ~·lllllidence htlt)stel. the t\\ ll cnuscd thrt•U!,!h the sc~:,Jttd set. and h.Hlllar\\\tck L\I\Illt.:. ··No 1\1:\s··· \1cn.:tfulh etlt'u~·il. the\ ended the sc.:t .11 /1-1. ...cull 111~ the\ IC!t)l\ fl'r l 'nlllll Tills \H:It'l\ f1n.llh ~h,•\\l:'d '\ h.tt the tcmm te.un \\ .h c .1p.1bk t'f ·\II~ C,Jl lt>llg. the ~qu,hl h,ld been tlff.;l'l b' .1 J'<'q'•'llft! •'I prPblcms. but .11 the ~·n,J. the\ ti- n,tlh l<'lllld ,I \\,1\ !1 1 put II .111 lt'· ):'Ctht'r ll.ut'·' ~~·k '' ,, .... 1 l(ILillt\ IL',llll, ~11 the l 'lllt'll \1 .1~ fl'tu·,J I•' Jlla\ 11·, I<'J' L',llllC. c111d lhl'\ \.\l'IC up It' the t.hk Ct'II~Litul.ltl•'fb R•'t'k .111d !,•11. ,·,,1.1 ,,,t: .... 1 ,_u,·: tL1ke 11 an' llh't t.'

. ' ' May 12, 1994 PAGE 18 1994 Union College Campus Golf Open b J Sltzb. t & · Caddies are available upon Concordiensis Staff will be on · y oe a ar b . . h d . Rob Malfetano requ~st, ~t participants must an . ~Ith your foursome to keep ---- Sports Editors prov~de thetr own golf clu~s and score. tenms balls. Upon completiOn of The UCCG Open wiH take We, the Sport Editors of The Concordiensis, challenge the students, faculty, personnel, and administration of the Union College community to partake in the first annual Union College Campus Golf Open sponsored by Concordiensis Sports. The 18 hole course will incorporate the entire campus and is not for the weary or the faint of heart; only the best duffer need apply. the tourney, an awards ceremony place on Wednesday, May 18, will take place at which time the 1994,weatherpennitting. Arrive winner will receivetheMammola promptly at the flagpole/senior Cup and a cash prize. gift area(designedby Edward R. Interested? Here's how it Hirshfield '94) for tee times and works! Submit your name, any a course listing. other participants in your We hope to start a tradition foursome, box and phone with this tournament and what number. and your favorite better way to spend a lovely campus golf holes by Tuesday, Schenectady afternoon by having May l7 .1994 in the specially a couple of cold ones,. getting marked box outside the some sun, a:nd perhaps walking mailroom. A member of The away a few dollars richer. Softball 7th Seed in.· Crew Sends Four Boats to Nationals State Tourney ·-:.·- ..... •. by Adam Schwartz Softball Co\espondent Hey you Union sports fans, in case you haven't noticed, and judging by the attendance you haven't, the Union College Dutchwomen compiled a 19-15 record this past season and are now getting ready for States. This coming weekend the Dutchwomen will travel to Binghamton and take on the best in the state. Being ranked 7th in the eight team field~ the Dutchwomen have their work cut out for them, but they are a . very talented team and have what it takes to win it all. As in any solid softball team. good pitching 1eads to victories, and the Dutchwomen have that. Stacey \Wild Thing\ Anderson has been the starter for most of the season and has pitched well · The outfield was led by cen- ter fielder Kim Fanning as she , leq all outficlde:rs with 55 put\ outs. Also playing strong de .. fensively for the Dutchwomen was the diving Chrissy Nytransky. In right o~ could find the only Senior on the team; Chris Weske. Chris ended her Union career by re- cording 17 put-outsofherQwn. Additional help could beJ<>und from o~elder& len Lelas, ien Vernon. and' Lauren Papa,, New faces· were· fomid be- hind the plate for the Dutchw.omen this year as Sophomore Jen Ricci and Freshman Andrea Kalahokes wore the catching gear. An- drea, who suffered an injury early in the season, and Jen combined to throw out 75% of the runners who attempted to steal against them. The Dutchwomen's bats with a 11-12 record and a 4.15 were not quiet this year as they ERA. The only problems compiled a .315 batting avg Allison Draiz<m .. ha,s .. fa9ed th:is oy~r~~ .. ~@lW~U, •... ~~~,ptfbat~ season is rememberlhg that she , ter Kim Fanning <ltd ll#rjob in is no longer,onJ~rm-:-:,.Qt;,cq{lq i~ Spain. A~llson retuf:fietl from, her te~ m;~rSc~~S; tq,p~~~~e\@' 7.-J record incl:udmg ,a;,~&asr£m ·'· ending 4 .. 0,,shutout (lVer:Rlussell. Sage ... Clne tnustnotJetg.et:that with ~veJ!Y team the.,-ftttu~e/crot· always Jook bright and :with . Raqh.~l ~s .. i,!,l~g)<sjn$f,~i,!t •. \\ Although she Qnly. ~peared> itt;.· · three games this year~ We Can all were in great need of SGttte look to see mu~h more ofRachel wheels. Waiting in the wings . in seasons to follow. for tbi~ ypung Putcbwomen Behind every pitcher there team are Kelly Nadeau and must be a good defense, and Lynn Menlbolm, Union has shown us this the past We. wish the Dutcllwomen season. Union had a fielding the best <>.f luck this weekend percentage of 93%, This, was in Binghampton. As one can partially due t0the stellar defen.. see, this team had ,3 great sea ... sive play of Union\ s infield. son and it was fo:r that reason Andrea Pagnozzi Wf!S ava~q,urn that they : • e;tn\lst · at the ' 4 hot eomer 1 ' and tfn~:;sli~tt~ . wins in ·. stop~second base c<>m,binatiP:~· Dt·t fcnwc•nu~n>SOll\litlatf.;teiaHl'-'1 of Steph Howk and NiQqX~ with 19'. 1\ftM.,teahl.~.··,m· ·.,v,~•V\' Silv.~tri plugg¢d.th'eh'Ol~tUJlMiJt~. middle. Deb Morttanfi had a fattfdb... . by Steve Mooar Crew Correspondent Union Crew spent this past weekend in Cazenovia for the New York State College Rowing Championships. There were seven boats from Union compet- ing with five eligible for division II Nationals. This is the first sea- son the team has been considered a division II team. Although, last year a lightweight men's eight competed at this level the other crews competed at the division Ill level and the national tittle came at the division III level. Racing began on Saturday with heats to determine placement in Sunday's finals. Saturday was highlighted by heat victories by the novice women's eight and the novice men's four. Of the seven crews only two did not ad- vance to the fi- nals: the novice women's four and the men's novice eight. Each finished third in their heat and needed to fin- ish second to advance. In Sunday's finals, the best finish and feated Union by only four tenths of a second. This race ended up being much closer as Ithaca held off Union by a few feet. The sec- ond place finish gave the novice women an automatic bid to Na- tionals. Both the novice men's four and the JV eight finished fourth. For the JV's this was good enough to gain an invitation to Nationals. For the novice four it was the end of a good weekend and a good . season as they produced their best finish of the season in their big- gest race. The varsity men's and varsity women's eights also qualified for National's with sixth place fin- ishes. l11is means that four of the five eights eligible for Nationals were invited, far exceeding the expectations for a team competed at this level for the first time. The crew leaves Friday for Virginia to prepare for Sunday's racing. The racing will be very competitive with Temple and Georgetown having strong seasons this year. In addition, Union will have to face large schools such as Con- necticut, Michigan, and Miami. One final note, if you are keep- ing track coxswain JJ Wiener did not hit anything this past week- end, bringing his streak to two races without hitting anything. Plus, two boy Drew Forsberg has extended his streak to two races without swimming. 1 probably one of the most ex- citing races of the day be- longed to the novice women's eight. Ithaca and Union set the pace of this race and al- most created the exact re- play of a race earlier this sea- son between these two crews at Ithaca. In the earlier race Ithaca de- Women's Crew Team celebrates tlteit trip to NationalS (pltoto by J. Haines/TC)

FEATURES A Bit of Creative Writing; Not Necessarily by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor It was the end to a long and apocalyptic winter. Snow still covered the ground. The moon• light gleamed off the frozen tun- cka that lay before us. The Jester and the Joker led me across the white wasteland of this dark and dismal land. The members ofrny party were there to amuse and they would stop at nothing for a lat~gh. Although it was tough to drag the Jester out ·Of his court, the Joker made sure he was en- Joker bid his misery, while the Jester and I wore our hardships on. our sleeves. We began to slow down as the Journey became longer and harder, but as our des• tination approached, we upped the tempo and finally reached our destination. The arrival at the Pit ofDespair seemed to uplift the Jester., at~ though the realitY ofthe situation was grim. The Pit lay before us, 60 feet down into a pool of pure evil. Suddenly a grin crossed the Jesters face, an evil .grin which only meant that a cruel joke was dowrt into the mysteries that lay below. Upon regaining equilibrium with the world, the three of us re- alized that we had brought this situation upon ourselves. We had traveled here, out ofcuriosity, in an effort to expand our senses ~d knowledge ·of the world. We were too far gone from reality to turn back. We had undertaken this trip and there was no end in sight. Here we lay, at the bottom of the Pit of Despair,. cold, tired, dirty, and mentally fatigued. There was no end to our misery tertained. The Joker and I had to drag his sorry ass outdoors and his paranoia seemed to be spreading like some mysterious plague. As we trod across the tun• ....._._.__._,__..._ .......... _._ __________ ....___..______ in sight. The Joker still \The arrival of the Pit of Despair trying to make the·best .seemed to uplift the Jester, although the of things, whipped a reality of the situation was .grim. The ruby eyed snake an~ a Put lay before us, 60 feet down into a mystic herb out of his dra; or footsteps made the sound of crushing glass. We heard ev- ery whisper, saw every color, smelled every ice crystal, and felt the cold sting of a westward wind. Our destination was the Pit of De- spair. The journey was treacherous. Our bodies were chilled to the bone and the Jester's paranoia was becoming uncontrollable. The Joker tried to make him laugh, as l attempted to calm bis fears. Til is was our first journey with the Joker and seemed to have no problem making the best of our voyage. I can't say the same about the Jester and 1 Although we were atl cold and tired, the P ool of pure evil.,; satchel which he guar- anteed would get us out at hand. aefore I knew it the Jester gave the Joker a playful shove, as the Joker stood giaring into the deep chasm.. The Joker, frail of body, but tall of stature, hid a look ofterror as he tumbled into the Pit. I looked at the Jester with scorn and admonished him for his joke gone bad. TI1e Joker hadplummeted into the Pit of De- spair and something had to be done to remedy the problem. We hung over the edge ofth~ Pit and looked down into the. blackness. l11e Jester and I saw nothing but heard the sound of a faint giggle. Our eyes widened as we saw two bony hands rise up out of the blackness to pull us of our never-ending journey. He said it would finally allow us to rest. With thewave of a hand and the spark of a flame we found ourselves home, surrounded by good folks, good food and good music (supplied from the wander- ing minstrels of Gamehenge}. The Jester and I looked at the Joker and smiled. He smiled back in his wide crooked tooth grin, pulled his cloak over his head and said, \I'll see you next trip.\ With a flash of light and a puff a smoke he disappeared. The J,oker and I looked at each other in wide eyed surprise and decided that our trip had finally come to an end. Watson Time Is Here The Watson Fellowship awards $15,000 for a year of self-directed travel in the year following your graduation. VOU CAN GO ANYWHERE AND DO ANYTHING, with no strings attached. Thomas J~ Watson (the founder of I.UM corporation) believed that travel was an imporatant p;1rt of anyone's education, and this Fellowship honors his memory. Plan to Attend the Watson Information Meeting on Thursday, May 19, 1994, at6:30 PM, in SS014. Note Change in Time. May 12, 1994, page 19 li#swers real ques- f.rfJ~llt,.-,rqniJ:,p~(jiJiie:::- 4tl!J!is'bntr.nwi$'(YJ?· -.·Discombobulated? . Dear Uncle Edna. ·_ I am a little perplexed as to why the power went out last night. This sort oftbinghappensway too often. Any suggestions? · -in the dark i . lttn$;V~fill'.tl~da;si!tllftrqtte&tionlast spring term :when the power was l~lit~~r·thll~; :tnawe to suggest that Sorry about fh.:~ e:rtensiv~ly short colU1Jm this week. Due to cer- tain tune· co~atnts~ I will have my senior column next week. A ·qtriclc cc:ingra'tS'to K~nny Evans for his marvel~us dunking ex- position and to Bill Callahan who let Kenny use his balls. Tune fn tonight at 6 o'clock for the 1st Uncle Edna News and Comment show on WRUC. Erin M. O'Neil and I will bring you an the news and views that one hour can offer. Special guests: Tim Bailey and a few others. News From Vienna: ''ltHasn't Been All Work and No Play'' $6.85 For a McDonald's Extra Value Meal Number 2 and No Pooper-Scooper Law by Alissa Mayo Concordiensis Staff wooded refuge amidst the \urban boot camp, Herr Bach still needs averages ten faxes per week.) jungle.\ These women also report some practice before stealing all Melinda Wilson , '96, and I that Budapest, Hungary offers <>f Joe Superior's clientele. have mastered the fine art of sip- many surprises for the American Much to the chagrin of the ping cappuccino and guzzling students (Burger King, Pizza Hut~ Viennese, Kevin Wilmott, '95 spirits in the renovated outdoor and tall, dark men!) r---------------..., cafes. \With the help of Top Ten Reasons to Stay at Union (or, Why Vienna Sucks .•. Sometimes) I 0. $6.85 for a McDonald's Ex- tra Value Meal #2 Sophomores Rein is FINE looking waiters,\ 9. Platfonn shoes are still \in.\ Kanders and Scott Boyd, led Melinda explains, \our Ger- 8. Five flights of stairs just to get fearlessly by juniors Adam man has improved substan- to your 8:30 class!!? Bach and Tucker tially.\ 7. Youhavetosittotakeashower Gruss Gott aus Wien (wieder!) Spring has finally arrived along with Professor Anton Warde, who has kept us busy with essays to round out our studies of \authen- tic\ Bach organ concert in St. Stephan's Cathedral. The acous- tics were matched by tl1e ambi- Loudnsbury, rented a boat and \cruised \Much to the chagrin of along the ance of this high-gothic cathedral, restored to its splendor after its in- So, generally we're hav- (a.k.a \shath\). ing a great time, although 6. Euro-fuglies everywhere. Chad Stoffer, '95, misses his 5. Too many damn churches! friends (and Marcy!) and 4. There's no such thing as a wants desperately to shoot a \pooper scooper law.\ the Vienese, Kevin Wilmott Danube Ca- has perfected his \NYC nat.\ Swim- round of golf. Vienna is on 3. There's no such thing as a free the brinkofpolitical change beer (unless you're Melinda or bum\ impersonation.\ ming proved ------------- not to be an evitable decimation during the Second World War, But it hasn't been all work and no play! (We all adhere to Union's work ethic!) Students have taken full advantage of the joys of Spring. Carrie Wheeler, Jenn Brown, Tamara Du, and Heather Picken have trecked through the Wiener Wald, a enjoyable experience, how- as it decided whether or not Alissa). ever. (They discovered their International Features to join the European Union, 2. You eat, breathe, sh#t Baroque \Blue Danube\ was really just '----------~----------' and we're here to witness it! I. The toilet paper. \'nuff said.\ a sewer that serves several facto- has perfected his \NYCbum\ im- But Vienna is not Union, so we've So, 'til next week ... Servus! P.S. ries in Vienna!) personation by sprawling out in compiled our own \Top Ten\ list Sam and Jaime were unavailable Adam, incidentally, has tl1eparkduringwann spells. of the city's quirks and the rea- for comment. changed his major to cosmetol- Grant Repsker, '95, has torpe- sons we want to be back. ogy, not that he has given all btit doed into the \information ..--;;T.-e ..... II-.Y'\o_u_r-;::;F.... .. s-.,.O,.....n~T.-er_m_A.,....br_o_a_,d,_t.,...o-=w,....r...,.i.,...te-A..,......b-ou-t--=T::-h-,ei:-r--, three ofthe guys haircuts. Since autobahn\ with the help of his most of them look like marines at girlfriend in Paris. (Herr Repsker Experieces and Fax it to Tile Concordiensis c/o the Bookstore (518) 388-6260. '•·

May 12, 1994, page 20 FEATURES Baja Team Races to Automotive Engineer Competition Courtesy of Concordy Features On May 29, the racing world will be gathered at the brickyard of Indianapolis to witness the greatest automotive event in the world: The Indianapoils 500. By no coincidence, this same day in Montreal,the Society of Automo- tive Enginneers will host the ulti- mate off-road endurance race, the SAE Mini-Baja. Colleges and universities from all parts of the U.S. and Canada will present their own vehicles to race at the event. anything else that weed O!lt the weak from the mighty vehicles that were sufficiently prepared for this event. At Union College, the local SAEchapterhasbeen working on a vehicle that could take a beat- ing with the rest of this field. Team members, Bill Rice, Charles Howarth, Mike Valvo, and Brian Weed have been work- ing through weekends and vaca- tions to assemble a vehicle to compete. These students did not have to start from scratch, but took a vehicle that lay iH a coma in the engineering lab, searched through reports from past senior projects for valuable information, and teamed valuable knowledge from the tutoring of professors and the schools invaluable ma- chinists. The vehicles must fulfill certain requirements on Saturday before participating in the final event. First, the vehicle must pass a gru- eling safety inspection to prove that even your grandmother would survive the vehicle rolling over twenty times and catching fire. 1l1en the car must survive tests to prove its steering, suspen- sion, and power capabil-ities through obstacle courses, a chain pull, a mud bog, and a flat-out drag speed test. Finally, the car must maneuver across an obstacle course on a Jake to prove how well tbe car can float and propell itself on water. Most schools organize. their ef- forts around senior projects which o f f e r credit for participat- ing in such an effort, but the Union effort was under- taken by juniors a n d sop ho- mores who vol- unteered their time to learn about en- gineering from a practical, Project captai11, William Rice e11joys a test.ride witll Union's mini baja car. (pltotos by Josll Haines/TC) 1l1en on Sunday, the vehicles that survive these grueling tests will race in the three hour endur- ance race. 1l1e designers of this course decided to make life as difficult as possible. The start of the race involves driving across a lake before beginning the on-land portion of the race. Then, the driver must dry off by driving through a rough course of sand dunes, railroad ties, old tires and 7:30pm 7:30pm 8:00pm 9:00pm 9:30pm 4:30pm 7:30pm 10:00 pm 10:30 am 1:00pm 5:00pm 8:00pm 10:00 pm 11:00 am 4:00pm CCAUD Old Chapel Chet's Chet's Chet's Chet's Old Chapel Ramada Inn Old Chapel Outside CC Patio Fero House Chet's Alexander & Bailey Fields CC Patio Union College Social Committee presents: Springfest Weekend '94 With Special Thanks to the Concert Committee Thursday Peer Facilitators Diversity Series presents: Professor Steven Berk: \Anti-Semitism in America\ Neil Simon's \Last of the Red Hot Lovers\ directed by Ben Ross Raffle to benefit Battered Women's Shelter JSU & Peer Facilitators sponsor a re.ception for Prof. Steven Berk International Beer Festival Friday Economics Club sponsors TGIF Neil Simon's \Last of the Red Hot Lovers\ directed by Ben Ross SPRING FLING '94: · forma.l/semi-formal dance Saturday hands on perspective. On May 26, the team should be headed for Montreal to prove how well they can perfonn against this mi·ghty field. As shown in these photographs, the Mini-B.aja team has been practicing in a remote location to test the capabilities of their ma- chine, The car has proven that it can face nearly any obstacle on land, and reach a top speed of 30 miles per hour, whilefulfillingthe SAE regulations. Now the ve- hicle must be completedfor safety specifications, and succeed in flo- tation testing to be worthy ofrep- resent'ing Union College ~gainst schools from the U.S. and Canada. Peer Facilitators, presents: Jamie Washington : \Creating a Supportive Multicultural Community: Beyond Tolerance to Celebration\ Carnival, Vendors, Caricaturist All Classes Barbecue and Concert Coffeehouse presents : Mountebanks Monologues Chet's & Concert Committee present : 3 Comedians Sunday Big Brothers/Big Sisters Youth Olympics Concert Committee presents : \Battle of the Bands\ SUNDAY MOVIES FREE!!

. ! nn.cnr t£tt5t5 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII~ Number XXIII - . Schenectady, New York Steve Evans tosses afrlsbee during $ign!a Clti's matclr agabrst Delta Upsiion. (J. Haines/TC) Greek Week Festivities Provide Memories by Caroline Paine News Editor This past week the college celebrated Greek Week, the an- nual event that brings the Greek organizations on campus to- getherto demmistrate their abili- ties and have some fun too. ll1e Greeks participated in a variety of sporting and relay events that promoted positive competition and pride among the different houses. Events in- 1 eluded volleyball, softbalL ulti- mate frisbee, tug-of-war, a keg roll, and keg toss for the men. ·n1e women participated in tug- of-war, volleyball, softball and a relay race. Out of the 17 eligible fratemities represented on Inter- fratemity Cou~1cil (lFq, 11 par- ticipated. Of the sororities on the Panheilenic Council, there was 100 percent participation. Delta Phi came in fifth place overall, taking the second place in ultimate frisbee. Fiji took fourth place overall, winning the volleyball event. Sigma Chi claimed the bronze through their victory in ultimate frisbee. Theta Delta Chi pulled their way into second place by winning the tug- of ... war. Delta Upsilon became the overall winners of the week when they dominated in the softball and keg roll events, and placed in thesemi ... finals of the ultimate frisbee and tug-of-war cqntests .. Craig Losben, vke president of the IFC, stated, \I would like to thank all those who participated this week. Also congratulations to DU on their victory.\ ' l11e women also showed ex- cellent sportsmanship and a bet- ter percentage of participation. SigmaDelta Tau came in fourth place. Tri-Delta took third place after winning the volley- baH competition. The Delta Continued on page 4 May 19, 1994 Privatization! Say It Ain't So by Heather Reynolds Editor-in-cltief Last Thursday, the Student Fo• nun met with J~net Gray, the Di- rector of Dining Services, and Dean Alford to discuss the pos- sible privatization of Union's din- ing services. Presently, the college is considering four possible con- tracts for the control of foo~ ser- vices. Three of these are private companies, ARA, Daka, and Marriot, and one is Union ,s din- ing services. The college will make their decision about privatization next Wednesday, af- ter visiting schools that currently are contJ:olled by the three private contractors being considered, and looking at all four bids. At the stu- dent fomm, ineeting Dean Alford urged students to write \careful and thoughtful letters\ to President Hu11 if they were against the pro- posed privatization. TI1e pFivate contractors not only offer Union a financial incentive in tenns of an increase in return to the college at the end of the year, but also in interest free loans for renovation, which are tied to fur- ther contracts. Dining services currently returns a net to the col- lege at the end of each year, and proposes that a percentage of this could be put aside for renovation, while the rest is returned to the col- lege for the lowering of board costs or other things that are needed. The contractors have said that no jobs will be lost despite one of the leading proposals includQ ing $400,000 in proposed cuts from labor costs. The employ- ees of dining services would con\ .tinue to be employed by Union College, but would report to the private contractor. As a Food Service employee said, \There is no need to add this additional layer ofbeaurocracy to a system that is currently working well.\ An anonymous source, who had previously worked for a pri- vate contractor, and is now the director of an independent food service said, \Your school will lose many of the present services that many people don't realize they enjoy until they are gone. The personal touch is gone, es- pecially for events that were spe- cial to the sclwol. Managers are rotated in and out their positions, which creates a good situation for them [the contractors], but an uncomfortable one for the work- ers. It all comes down to what is important to your school, the happiness of its workers or a small change in its bottom line.\ A student worker at RPI said that the private contractor that currently controls most of their Continued on page 4 Schenectady Residents Outraged Over School's Plans for G.E. Plot by L. Scoop Paska Investigative Reporter Schenectady residents living in the surrounding areas ofthe Col- lege are protesting Union's pro- posed plan to move offices into their Lenox Road properties. .......- These plots of land, formerly owned by General Electric and acquired by the College, are the planned sites for the Administra- tive Services and Personnel Of- fice, Graduate and Continuing Studies, and other offices. Reinhard Sidor, President of the GE Realty Plot Association, said, \l11e College should look at other propet1ies for business use. This.area is the top neighborhood of the city, ai1d decreasing its size will impact it negatively. People are attracted to Schenectady be- cause of residential areas like this.\ In the 1960's, Sidor noted that Union College acquired many of these properties; often quietly, and attempted to tear some down. One property was demolished in the 1960's, after the then current president said the college had no plans to do so. In 1978, the area was desig- nated a \historic district,\ and in 1984, the Schenectady Qty Coun- members are in strongly oppos- ing the College's plan to use the buildings as offices. \We believe there are many office spaces close to the College which could be used for Union's purposes.\ cil voted for .-------~----------.The mem- a second change in zoning f 1' o m \single~ family housing with educa- tional ex- ceptions\ to \single- family only.\ ber sug- gested spaces on u 11 i 0 11 Street, Nott Terrace, the BigN Plaza opposite the Ramada Inn, and even in the city. \It is a Part II ;, a11 investigative report L----------------' shame to \Union had the opportunity to ob- ject then, but they didn\\ Sidor commented. A member of the Union Tri- angle Neighborhood Association, which cotnprises of Union Av- enue, Union Street, and the cross streets of Gillespie, University Park, and Wendell Avenue, was amazed at how united the group's make usable houses into offices; some individua!s could buy the houses and put them back on the tax rolls.\ 36 Union Avenue is an example of a house trans- fanned for Union's use; it is now used by the Modem Languages Department. While Union has stated that interior renovations would be i'e- versible and the buildings could be retumed to single-family use, the member said, \Who's to say what's next after the College ac- quires the rights to make the build- ings as offices?\ Schenectady is also seen in the member's mind as strong in neighborhoods, but hav- ing a definite weakness in busi- ness. \We know Union needs the space, but we do not like the plan. We want to see Union work with the city govemment to find a so- lution which win satisfy all par- ties involved.\ The properties do not help the economy either; taxes are not paid on the proper- ties, since they are claimed as being used for educational pur\ poses . Sidor agreed, adding, \It is time to return the properties to residential use. Residents buy- ing the homes wi\1 stimulate the economy.\ Inside News .............................................................. 2-4 Student Forum ....................................... ~ ...... 5-9 OP/ED ..... ~······-····&·· .. ~ ........... .................. - ........... 1 0 Letters ....................................................... 11- 12 Featu-res ...................................................... 13-16 Personals .......................................................... 20 Schedule., .............................................................. 21 Sports ........... •i ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • 22-24

May 19, 1994, page 2 NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, MAY 9, 1994 THROUGH SUNDAY. May 15, 1994. DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, MAY 9., 19.94: 12:28 PM College Center I :57 PM South Lane 7:06PM ... Campus TUESDAY, MAY tO, 1994: 12:40 AM South College 1:59AM · 12:30 PM 7:3S AM 9:00AM College Center South Lane Administration Lot Delta Phi Lot WEDNESDAY .• MAY 11.1994: INCIDENT Possible misdirection of student mail. VANDALISM: Campus Information Sign pried open. Power outage experienced. SAFETY HAZARD: Water balloons being thrown from 4th floor window. Possible unauthorized entry into c~pus vehicle. Individuals identified. Individuals observed running naked on campus. VANDALiSM: Staff m~mbers personal vehicle damaged. VEHICLE IMMOBILIZED.~ Persistent violator I unregis- tered. 3:50AM 1:40PM Butterfield Hall VANDALISM: Damage to classroom t~.bles. North Entry Gate VANDALJSM/TttEFT: Spot'light for ~i~~r~~pv~<J./sio-. len. 7:45PM Phi S.igm~ Kappa .. , . . , .UN.REG,IST~Rii;D. spqA:t;¥VENT: ,rossi~le ~tr.uctutal .. ··. , dfi~a9~ tg b.uild'ing:: , . :. , . . .. , \ .... , . . • TH,U~SDAY, MA:X 12, 199.4:, 4:10AM 8.:59 AM 1.10 PM S:S(/ PM 900 PM. ... 1):},5, PM Social Sci~ce North Terrace Lane Rathskellar College Center Collt;g~ ,Center ;.... f ., ; •• Humanities '1' FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1994: I :20 AM South College 11:30 AM 2 27 PM 6.4SPM 11.13 PM Jackson's Garden Becker Hall Yulman Theater OtT Campus SATURDAY, MAY 14. 1994: 12.26 AM 1.35 AM 413 AM 930 PM 10 20 PM 10'49 PM Phi Delta Theta West College 17 South Lane Fox/Davidson Lot Off Campus South College SUNDAY. May 15, 1994: 1·35 AM 240 AM . 8·30 AM IO·JS AM 10·60 PM C'ampus North Entry Road Nott Memorial Alumni Gym Lot Hickok Lot . ! • VANDALJSM/MISCHIEF:. Ioil~t ~~1.g;~ to ov.erflo.w- water' da~age to c~i,ling and ca,rpet .. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Light pole possibly hit by deliv- ery vehicle. SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE: tdentified I Warned off campus. Possible misuse of campus parking decal POTENTIAL SAFETY HAZARD: Storage obstructing • .. ' .. ; ' . ~! ' • ; ' . ' . . • acq\''~MP .~,W~<;:banical room.. ,, .. · • . :.. . . . . . , v A,m~Ap,sM:_ Wall ther;nPstat.?q.mflgeqJp•,dle<J off wall. TRESPASS I UNAUTHORIZED USE OF STUDENT ROOM: Non-students I Arrested. VANDALISM: Wooden bench damaged I broken. HARASSMENT: Staff member harassed by visitor. Ad vised off campus. SAFETY HAZARD: Unauthorized entry into construction area. ASSAULT I HARASSMENT: Cofl'\plainants not associated with the College - Suspect not identified. SAFETY HAZARD: Pull b.ox station falsely activated dur- ing a spcial event. THEFT: Delivered goods r~moved. VANDALISM: Emergency Telephone damaged. VANDALISM: Car window shattered f rear wiper bent. PROPERTY DAMAGE AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT~ Involved Student Escort Vehicle. V ANOAUSM /·MISCHIEF: Fire Extinguisher discharged in unoccupied rodm. MISCHIEF I ARSON: IDOL set on fire- extinguished RECOVERED PROPERTY:· Food items stolen from fra- ternity. SAFETY HAZARD I VANDALISM: Unauthorized entry into· construction site. THEFT: Purse stolen from parked vehicle. Window sma5hed. ATTEMPTED TftEFT IV ANPALISM: Attempted re- moval of vanity license plate froin parked vehicle. Ushers Needed for Commencement, Ju.ne 12, 1994 (Sunday) at 10::00·, AM. Please see Mrs. Marra in CC 408. ' . '.' . ~ . •.. •. . . ' ! . ,

NEWS May 19,- 1994, page 3 Yossi Olmert Delivers Talk on Middle Eastern Peace Settlement by Mi~helle Ellis Concordiensis Staff In honor of Anwar Sadat,. Yossi Olmert, a distinguished commen .. tator in Middle Eastem Affairs, gave .a captivating lecture on the Middle East peace process last Thursday evening. Yossi Olmert is a political figure, as well as a common participant in the Middle East Peace Process. He is a columnist and consultant in Middle Eastern Pelitics for a lead- ing Israeli Newspaper, as well as a professor at Tel Aviv Univer .. sity. Priorto his ctirrent position, he served as the Press Secretary for Yit1;hak Shamir's govern- ment, participated in the Madrid Peace Conference, has made sev- eral appearances on CNN, and has written nwnerous books and articles on the politics of the Middle East. phase of security. The threat of an all-out Arab attack on Israel was eliminated. Olmert claimed that this event allowed \the im- possible to become possible\ and '\the Dream became a reality.\ Before Olmert discussed the implication of the recent Peace Accord relinquishing Israel's 27 year hold over the Gaza Strip and Jericho,. he evaluated the crucial historical events of the past two decades, and their influence on the peace process. Beginning with the lran•Iraq War, which dominated the 1980's, Olmert noted that this devastating war was independent of the Middle Eastern Peace Pro- cess. More importantly, he dem• onstrated that this War reset pri- orities for the Arab nations. Y osi Olmert was the twelfth spealcer of the Sadat Lecture Se- ries. lie spoke of Anwar Sadat's centributions to the peace. process and discussed the recent vindica- tion· of Sadat. The Arab nations belittled Sadat's contribution for many years, and has only come to recognize his efforts. He quoted Sadat's prophetic words eloquently, \There will co1ne a day that the entire Arab World will congratulate me.\ Sadat's historic visit to the Israeli Knesset on November 19, 1977, accord- ing toOlmert, was an instmmen- tal step in disassembling the bar- riers to peace. He believes that Sadat understood the importance of instilling peace, trust, and un- derstanding in the Middle· East. In the words of senior Donya Nagib, \Sadat was a man of vi- sion before his times.\ He suggested that the recent spread of Islamic Fundamental- ism influenced the. Middle East peace process by posing a direct threat to the Arab countries' in- terior stability. Yossi 0/mert makes apoint during /lis lecture in Memorial Cltapel (pltoto by F.J. Smitlr/TC) In Olmert's opinion, Sadat's greatest contribution was the cru- cial factor of opening the door leading to the peace process of the Middle East. Referring to the sig- nificance ofthe Camp David Ac- cords of 1975, Olmert stated that Egypt's separation from the Arab hostilities towards Israel, allowed Egypt and Israel to begin a new Olmert believes that the depo- larization of the international world has directly affected the Middle East. He cited the reduc- tion of anns proliferations as tes- timony to the emergence of a New World Order. The Persian Gulf War was given as an ex- ample of this New World Order. Olmert perceives'that the Persian Gulf War demonstrated that the Middle Eastern Countries could no longer defy the United States without recourse. Another topic of discussion was the changing dynamics in Israeli society. He believes that the Camp David Accords created q a political climate that introduced a greater open•mindedness in Is- raeli society. Olmert illustrated these changes in the following statement, \The new pragmatic generation of the 1990's differs from previous generations in their ability to find solutions to prob· lems that previous Israeli's were unwilling to consider.\ He be- lieves that the disintegration and exhaustion of the siege and its mentality, as well as the rise of a pragmatic generation has allowed the peace process to take place. Shifting the focus of the lecture t~ the recently unfolding events in the Middle East, he stated that it is very difficult for historians and others to make judgments about today's and tomorrow's events. He emphasized the real- ity of this situation by stating that only in five to ten years will the true sif:,1flificance of these tremen- dous events be understood. He believes that the current peace process is inevitable and no retraction: is possibl.e. After three years of constant negotiations, no one wants out of the talks and even if they did choose to leave, Olmert claims it would be quite impossible now. The fact that 14 members of the Arab League are presently in negotiations with Is- rael, is evidence of the negotia- tions. Ironically, he stated that Sadat was right, as the balance within the Arab world shifted from rejectionist to those siding with Israel. While he admits that he foresees inevitable self-rule for the Palestinians, he realizes Terry Anderson to Speak Next Wednesday Courtesy of GNT On the morning of March 16, 1985, Terry Anderson was kid- napped off the streets of Beirut by four anned men, snatched at gunpoint from the world. For the next seven years he endured a cruel captivity few of us can imagine, becoming a leader and inspiration to his fellow prison- ers and a symbol of endurance and hope to the world. Reflect- ing on those seven years in his national best seHer, Den of Lions, Anderson has now given the world a lasting chronicle of un- limited possibilities of the human spirit in the face of hatred and conflict. Anderson will be speaking at Union on Wednesday, May 25, at 8 pm in the Memorial Chapel. Sharing his .story at the lecture podium, Anderson's honesty and quiet presence are having an un- forgettable impact in audiences around the globe. He offers a gripping profile of his captivity and its aftermath with an honesty and positive outlook that cuts right to the fundamentals of all our lives. Terry Anderson was chief Middle East corresponde;nt for Associated Press when he was taken hostage, swallowed by the very turmoil he covered for a liv- ing. He joined six Americans and Britians who had been taken hos- tage by Shiite Muslims in a year- lot1g kidnapping spree. They were chained to radiators and hidden from sunlight. Tiiey were trans- ported, gagged and blindfolded, in the trucks of cars to thwart res- cue attempts. Beatings were not uncommon. One guard even staged a mock execution. Defying such cruelty, the jour- nalist and ex-Marine quietly kept himself strong. He did sit-ups mid calisthenics as best as his cramped quarters would allow. He filled the long stretches of empty time thinking through the buildings of a house, a farm and a restaurant once he was free. He read the Bible with his fellow prisoners and played chess with makeshift pieces crafted from tinfoiL And he though_t about Sulome, the daughter he had never held, bom to his fiai1cee Madeleine Bassil three months after his abduction. TI1en, in the aftermath of the Gulf War, the delicate balance of power in the Middle East shifted. After 2,454 nights in captivity Terry Anderson was freed. Upon their release, Thomas Sutherland said, \Without Terry Anderson, I couldn't have made it for 6 I /2 years.\ Anderson was born October 27, 1947 in Lorain; Ohh He was Contilmed on page 4 that the Israelis are attempting to figure out the best package to cul- minate the process leading to a Palestinian Independent State. Olmert finished his lecture by highlighting some main future is- sues that the Middle East must contend with in order to achieve a lasting peace. He foresees terrorism as a po- tential obstacle towards peace. Yet, he believes that both the Is- raelis and the PLO could work together to eliminate this poten .. tially threatening occurrence. TI1e first issue discussed' con- cerned granting concessions from Jerusalem to the Palestinians and thatthepostponement cannot last forever. He hinted at the possibil- ity of the Israeli govemment mak- ing unpopular and controversial decisions about Jerusalem in the near future. He foresees future decisions about Jerusalem as highly volatile and conceivably explosive. He next discussed the futm:e posi·tion of the people in the fonner occupied territories, in re- gard to the hope that these people's living conditions will be improved. He referred to the haz- ardous potential for the intema- tional community to dismiss their financial pledges to the Middle East. Olmert perceives numerous economic problems arising in as- sociation to this issue the future. Y ossi Olmert' s lecture on the peace process in the Middle East challenged the audience's pre- conceived notions of peace, and more importantly, peace in the chaotic Middle East. In hopes that his and the audience's ques- tions will be answered in due time, he left many of the ques- tions unanswered. He is con- cemed that the process of recon- ciliation goes beyond the recent agreement. He fears that the in- dividual hatred, distrust, and bias of the peoples involved might hinder the peace process. Yossi Olmert left his audience with the following final thoughts. \You can't say that this is it. All must be realistic and sober. Each per- son must work hard and take re- sponsible risks ... We must learn from Sadat.\ Union Student In Need of Lung Transplant by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff Three weeks ago, Teasha Nicholson. a Union College freshman, left for her home in Chicago having been diagnosed with Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis, a condition that is only curable with a lung trans- . plant. ,. Teasha, an Engineering stu- dent, was hospitalized at the be- ginning of this year. She had told her friends and family that she had been diagnosed with a severe . case of asthma. Although, Teasha was fully aware of her condition, she planned to stay at Union un- til her lungs could take no more. It has been suggested that Teasha withheld the infonnation about her condition from her friends and family so as not to burden them. Teasha's friends said that they had slowly watched her deterio- rate over the last few months. \She couldn't talk for long peri- ods of time,\ said Theresa Will- iams, her advisor from the Aca- demic Opportunities Program. \She would lose her breath eas- ily, breathe heavily and walk very slowly.\ Teasha is currently resting at her home in Chicago. She is at- tached to an oxygen tank and will not be able to be taken off it until a lung donor is located. Funding for the lung transplant operation is posing a threat to Teasha's condition. The Nicholson family has no medical insurance currently. However, a \Friends ofTeasha\ fund has been started by members of ALAS and Phi Iota Alpha, but they need a considerable amount of help if they are going to raise enough money to pay for the operation. Teasha's friends are encourag- ing other students to ~end her cards at 520 East 40th Street, Apartttleilt 10, Chicago, Illinois 60653.

' . May 19, 1994, page 4 NEWS Phi Delta Theta Plays Ball For Cht1dren 's Benefit by Caroline Paine News Editor Phi Delta l11~ta sponsored its 9th Annual Softball Marathon this past Tuesday and Wednesday. Each year the fraternity chal- lenges the campus and the Schenectady communtty to come out and match their softball skills against Phi Delta's, within a twenty-four hour period. \Camp Good Days and Special Times,\ a non-profit organization that benefits children with cancer, has become the fraternity's char- ity of choice for this year's mara- thon. Adam Ullman, a Phi Delta sophomore, stated that, \Camp Good Days provides an excellent camping experience -and other activities for children with cancer. We chose this organization be- cause [one of our brothers] Pat Leo, works with the camp during the summers:· Leo overcame Hodgelcin 's disease as a child and now is championing the organi- zations that once helped him. Eleven teams signed up to meet the Phi Delta challenge and help the children. These teams in- cluded several fraternities and sororities, faculty, local radio sta- tions and businesses including Fly 92, 1he :')'c.:henectadyGazefle ancl General Electric. If full partici- pation is achieved the fraternity hopes to raise over $1000 for Camp Good Days. Phi Delta played several good games. They won the Fly 92 match, 22-21. Although the fac- u ulty defeated the fratemity by a ~ wide margin. Yet after all the ~. hard work and sleep deprivation, ~ Phi Delta junior, Brad Brennan, o:: reflected on a the event in a very \' positive way. \l11e most satisfy- ~ ing thing is seeing the sun rise and .o' knowing we di·d it for a good s cause.\ Scaife Profiled in Wall Street Journal . . ~ Cit aries Scaife prepari11g for scielltijic advelllllre. (pltoto by Charles Casey/The Cltrollicle) by Elizabeth DeKoven Co11cordiensis Staff Charles Scaife. Union chemis- try professor. was profiled on the cover page of 71u! Wall Street Journal this past Tuesday. Scaife is currently taking a six month sabbatical to teach elemen- tary school children about science through common objects like: Elmer's glue. Alka Seltzer, bath- room cleaner, Diet Pepsi cans and matches. Terry Anderson to Speak The article focused on Scaife's tour of Northeastem schools and the positive response he has re- ceived from the administrators of the schools and the parents of the students. Six months ago, Scaife and his wife packed up their belongings. rented out their house and left for their adventure in their mini-van. Since then. with the help of a $7,000 grant he received from the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation. Scaife has been liv- Colltillued from page I ing in other 'people's homes and visiting schools based on his reputation and word of mouth. In addition to being focused on in ?11e Wall L~'treel.!oumal, which circulates to over 1.8 million people. Scaife has been profiled in 77w Star-Ledger of Newark, New Jersey and many other lo- cal papers. Scaife will be return- ing to teach at Union again be- ginning fall ten~ of the '94-'95 academic year. raised in Batavia, New York, · where he was an honors student and Boy Scout. He served in the Marines for six years. stationed in Vietnam and Japan. He cov- ered the Far East and South Af- rica for AP before assigned to their Beirut bureau. Since his release. Anderson has emerged as a powerful advocate for human rights and political change. founding Ne\: York Re- naissance, a b'Tass-roots organiza- tion dedicated to refonn in gov- elilment. He currently resid_es in a suburb of New York City with his wife Madeleine and their daughter Sulome. To Sell Out or Not to Sell Out? - Contfrompage I food services, \has made a disas- ter out of the whole thing.\ Stu.:. dents at schools like St. Lawrence have put up quite a fight to keep the private contractors out of their dining services. Peter Connett, one of the students who was in- fluential in the fight at St. Lawrence against privatization, found. that in the Princeton Re- view 17 of the 20 schools who were rated to have the best col- lege food services, were indepen- dent. Sixteen of the twenty schools rated to have to worst food service were controlled by private contractors. Matt Karlyn, VP of Academics said, \Although I believe privatization would make the various dining facilities at Union more efficient, I also think that the current system should be allowed one more year to improve their services. This year there have been many changes in Union's facilities. The current team should be allowed the opportunity to ~djust to these changes. fully. One more year would allow then this chance. If, however, after one year, itis determined that the cur- rent system is still not function- ing as it should, privatization would be a viable option.\ A din- ing services manager feels simi- larly, \We can nu1 things more efficiently, and should be given the opportunity. The contractors have their shareholders as the first interest, but .J tmly believe all of the employees here feel the stu- dents should be first. Withmit the students. the college would just be a bunch of empty buildings.\ Junior, Pamela Lin said, \As a member of the Dining Services Committee l can honestly say that I would be very disappointed to see students lose a possible voice ai1d ally, not to mention quality of food and servi.ces, if the food · service is privatized.\ Another Junior said, \I remember Bill at Upperclass saving \Com Toaties\ for me. I don't think a private company would take the time to care.;' A student worker at Russell Sage, where Marriot is the private contractor, who previously worked for an independent food service said, \I felt like there was more of a sense offamily when it was handled by the scheol. Here, because your boss doesn't know you, there isn't as much of a sense of community.\ A petition has been put by the cash register at Dutch Hollow, and hundreds of students have added their names to voice their disapproval of privatization: This petition wilt be submitted to President Hull along with dining services proposal. Janet Gray said, \We don't think we're the best, but we have the potential to improve, and we would like the opportunity.\ With events like the Bicenten- nial and NCUR corning next year, Janet Gray wants dining services to be at its best. She said, \I want to be here fair and square. I don't want to win by default. lfi knew that my services were unsatisfac- tory I would hand in my resigna- tion today. Our current contact is Dean Alford, and I truly believe he cares about the students. It often takes him fifteen of twenty minutes to leave the college cen- ter because he stops to talk to all the students. A private contrac- tor would not do the same. We need to take responsibility for our own community, so that the same thing that has happened to the government does not happen to us. Changes should be made for the best of the community, and in this case that would be the stu- dent.\ Greek Week Continued/rom page 1 Gammas claimed the si.lver vic- tory after a11 excellent perfor- mance in the relay race. Gamma Phi Beta garnered the gold by coming 0ut on top in both the tug- of-war and softball toumaments. Everyone involved showed g0od sportsmanship and spirit. Losben reflected, \Everything went like clockwork, despite the questiotiable weather this week.\

:s ~1 1te ly od as tit re, IW se he w, ve !If tis to lg iy 1e to .1e n- tr, es nt l't w c- a- ct re It ty 1- u . -- 'e If 1e 1e 0 >r n 1- 1 :- ·- a y ·- ' , . d t. g e \ Candidates For Vice-President of Campus Life _··· .· . .... ... . . mentioned are not my only con- we must firstrealizethatforthere · needs to be augmented with new · · cerns here. I'm als0 concerned to be any changes in the I.i~rary, ideas and a receptivity to change. about the academic atmosphere there mustbe anethicofcare and This sentiment applies to all fac- here at Union as well. Have you courtesy. Students must r-ealize ets of the Union community, from ever wondered what happens to that the library is a place ·in which academics, to campus services, a professor's evaluation once it's they are liberated from as much and most importantly, campus completed by students? Have you \distraction\ as possible. How- · life. It has been my goal during ever wondered why Schaffer Li- ever, you and I know that's · the last year to address this need brary is an extension of the first clearly not the case because some and foster an environment in floor College Ce11ter? In other students continue to ignore the · which students may actively par- words, it seems that you tend to basic rule of common courtesy. ticipate in developing and coor- find people who are at the library Till we fuUy reai.ize how little dinating alternative social events. to socialize more than todotheir courtesy we show each other in To date, many campus-wide Kojo-Frank Attah work. Tims. the library usually th.e library, such attitudes would Andi Wilson events have been either.created or Hi, n1y name is Kojo-Frank Attah and I'm nmning for a seat as vice..,president of Student Life. Before I go on any further, let me describe to you the responsi- bilities that l have if elected to the positien. The V.P. of Student Life works in conjunCtion with other campus organized groups in ad- justing or shaping the social as- pect of students·here on campus. Slhe would see or provide alter- n&tives for students who may not be partofthe drinking population here at Union. What does this mean? Vote forme and you nec- essarily don't have to equate al- cohol with having a good time. V~te for me and you and I would create an atmosph~re where we can relax and show Union how to have a good time minus alco- hoL This is not<to belittle people who drink because it's within their own rights to do so, but nev- ertheless, the alternatives for non- drinkers are next to nothing and my goal if elected, is to seek bet- ter social environment for such individuals. However, l.et it be understood that the ideas afore- is the last place where m~ny stu- continue to linger in the library. · · In 1787, leaders.ofthe ti111e ere- revitalized. A Haunted House/ dents would like to do their work Last.ly, I would make it my duty ated a Constitution which set forth Campus Trick-or-Treating pro- . because other people might be ·to make my face known on .cam- a precedent for their standards of gram during Fall term gave inconsiderate to them. These are pus .so that students can come to government and social condi- Union students the opportunity to a few of many situations I would me with concrete critiques, solu- tions. In 1994, Union students promote better rapport between be dealing with if elected into of- tions, problems, etc. TI1ese are a have their own Constitution, but the school and the local commu- fice and if similar thoughts have fewof many solutions and hope- the standards it reflects are some- nity. as well as provide Hallow- come across your mind before, fully if elected, I would begin . what different. Perhaps the Con- een spirit on campus. The re- then you and I can begin a first immediately in fulfilling such an stitution might read as follows: sounding success of Winterfest step in tackling such problems agenda. We the students ofUnion College and the Winter Fonnal setved to because it's my firm belief that l'm not here to bore you with in order to fonn a more perfect alleviate the doldrums of second in order·for any goal to be vaguerhetoriclikemypr.edeces- community, establish identity. tenn. The upcoming Springfest reached, there must be a collabo- sors have done because it's my insure academic honesty, provide was developed in response to stu- ration of thinking individuals who utmost belief that the above state- for the common individual, pro- '<.Ients' requests to replicate the have a desire to see the need of ments have at least crossed the mote campus unity, and secure experience ofWinterfest. In con- such goals being implemented. mind of every Union College stu- the establishment of social ven- junction with these events. count- What are my solutions? First, dent at least once. So let you and ues for ottrselves and future gen- less hours have been spent coor- I would take a poll on student's I work in creating a solid atmo- erations. do ordain and establish dinating and assisting the partici- opinions in providing Union with sphere which could be appreci- this Constitution for Union Col- pation of various clubs and orga- a social atmosphere that does not ated and enjoyed by all. Come lege of New York. The preced- nizations. include the everyday norm. I voting day, keep Kojo-Frank ing selection .cannot be found in I look forward to continuing the would then read such solutions Attah in your minds because he's ·our actual Constitution. but I be- precedents set this year and ex- and see how realistic they are in a man who would see· to it Jhat lieve that it reflects som~ of the pan ding the role of the Social terms of addressing the altema- changes are made in a much goals we as a campus aspire to Committee as an asset. to student tives to the social life. Second, I needed place. achieve. life at Union College. 1l1is year's would meet with Presidents of Individually. Union College Student Forum, with the support various sororities and fraternities N.B.- The above statements have students also strive to achieve of the student body. established and see if we could hold events not been inflttenced by any other '· their ow11 personal goals. adher- the position of VP Campus Life. that necessarily don't have to be groups or individuals. They all ing to their own standards. Last The vision oft he Forum is for this alcohol centered. Thirdly, in stem from me and I apologize to Spring I assumed the position of position to continue and expand dealing with the library situation. anyone who may have fmmd the ' Chair of the Social Committee, upon the current responsibilities ~----------.---------------------, above offensive in any manner .. and formulated some of these ofthe Social Committee. As chair Vote. Friday It's YoUr Responsibility If you have any questions. com- goals. Jn retrospect. the past year of that committee. I feel that I am ments, critiques. etc., I could be has been one of revitalization and most qualified to set the standard reached at X5 579 or if you:w<:nild. · development of both the Social for this position and guarantee the like to drop me a:nc~te, m~ Box#· ·. Committee and the greater pur- continmty of the positive social is0071. Iencourageyoutodoso .·poses that the group is intended and organizational trends that because I am not p'erfi!'ct at1d l · to serve on can1pus. The year has have begun this year. I respec- .cannotn'lanifesteveryotielsideas' no,t been without challenge: tivcly request your support both but if the fanner 'senteitclts uti- . Unloit like many institutions. is a on Friday and in the future. To- lized with exhaustion, then we place steeped in tradition and gether. we can work to make 'vould begin a foundation of ac- sometimes reluctant to change. Union's campus life more cohe- commodation. However, as more students have sive. productive. and enjoyable begun to recognize. tradition for everyone. Candidates For Junior Class Representative Continued on page 8 Seth Brown My name is Seth Brown and I am running for Class of 1996 Representative. I want this position because I am qualified, motivated and dedicated to doing a good job. I have been on the Student Forum for the last two years and know how the Forum operates. In addition, I am active in many other aspects around campus. I feel that I am someone who can best represent the interests of the students in my class and the school. The Student Forum is a very important body. They do everything from approving budgets to establishing poli- cies. I think my two years of experience will be helpful in this re.spect. Union is a great school, but not without its faults. Together we can work to make it a better place. I would like to see the follow- ing changes in the Forum next year. l. Posted agendas before each meeting so the student body knows what each meet- ing wni be about and can at- tend if they want to. 2. Open forums before Trustee meetings so the stu- dent Trustees can get the sentiment of the entire stu- dent body. Make your vote count, vote Friday for SETH BROWN!!! Continued on Page 8 Other Candidates Jason Newmark Geremie Camara Tanwwer S. Anwari Kate l-ledgeman Rich Fuerst Ken Chase For those of you that don't know me, my name is Ken Chase and I am running for the position of junior class representative. First. let me tell you about my- self. I am an economics major and I am involved with the var- sity tennis team. and the admis- sions office. I consider myself to be hard working. willing to lis- ten, and most importantly enthu- siastic. Since becoming a stu- dent here at Union, there are a few things which I think could be im- proved. I feel that .the level of school spirit and class umty can be augmented, and as your class representative I would hope to improve these areas. In addition. I would actively seek to involve you in the decision making pro- cess and obtain not only your sup- poti, but your critical analysis of life at Union. The issue here is not only how I intend to correct these problems, but how we as a class can act to make our I ives at Union better for ourselves and the rest of the campus. In this way, we can act together to make our ex- perience better academically and socially. Thank You.

j- May 19, 1994, page 6 STUDENT FORUM Candidates For Sophomore Class Representtltive Azul Jaffer Hello, my name is Azul Jaffer. At present I am the student rep\ resentative for the class of 1997. I have held this position for three tenns. I know how the student government at Union College runs. The position for student representative is a position ofre- sponsibility-, patience, hard work, and leadership. I possessed some of these qualities in the fall, but as the year progressed I leamed a great deal more from the Student Forum. One might ask, \What have you done for us?\ The Student Fo- rum and I have done a number of things for the class of 1997, as well as all the students. Laws and rights were established concem- ing preceptorial classes; teachers and grading. Laws and rights concerning housing, the meal plan, the parking lot, academic honesty' pass fail courses, the new weightJ~P.O~th, {::.r~v,v.t~a,nl. the, privatiiatioh -of btitC\1 Hollow, fraternities . .fl}l,d :.sorgrities, and! spring weekend were also estab- lished. Funds were allocated to several events: Indigo Girls, Speakers, Crew team, and other maJor events that took place off campus. And finally, the Forum established 15 new clubs with budgets. I am running again because I feel I can handle the job due to my experience. I have experience in knowing the active members of the C.O.C, S.A.C, Finance Committee, and Academics Com- mittee. I also have experience in' knowing the heads of depart- ments, and the President of Union College. Knowing these people is a very big deal because when you want something passed or established, you know who to go to right away to get the job done. A representative has a big respon- sibility. and this responsibility can only be gained through experi- ence. I urge my class to make the right choice, because this position is of hrreat importance. On May 20th Vote- Azul Jaffer for sophomore Representative. Kim Sanabia My name is Kim Sanabia, and I'm running for sopho- more class representative. The :reason why I chose to run for this position is because I feel that it is the best way for me to become more involved in my class and make sure that both the males and fe- males are represented in our class. Along with my class, I am actively involved in cam- pus activities and campus life in general, includ-ing some organizations such as ALAS and the Union Women's Rugby Club. Not forgetting ·'about the life outside of school, I am also active in the community,ie. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters, and teaching English as a second language tESL) in the fall. During my first year at Union, I observed many suc- cessful organizations and theirleaders that made them so. Ov~rall, mosl af these peopleshared the same \easy to get along with\ personal- ity and basic approach to leadership. As many people on campus know, I a,m very personable and open-minded about issues of difference, especially with people and their views and opinions. The basic approach is to be experienced and dedicated, willing to put forth the time and effort necessary to reach a desired goal. My dedication and experience are two quali- ties that I am capable and willing to offer to Union, and more specifically, my class. I won't bore you with my ac- complishments, but ask for your vote on Friday, May 20th to be your class repre- sentative. If elected to this position, I will work to the best of my ability with the other two elected reps to make our sophomore year the start of a strong and ac- tive class for the next three years. My name is Stone Newman and I want to represent the class of 1997 on the Student Forum. I think that Union is a fantastic place with many great opportu- nities, however I often feel that people are not aware of all there is to offer. This unfortunately limit the potential of the schooL What I would like to accomplish is to help get rid of these limita- tions and improve the outlook lsca Beswick Hello. My name is Isca, and I'm one of the candidates for Sophomore Representative. Rather than bombarding you with the typical campaign 'speech', I'd like to ask you to think on what our class has to offer Union, and what our purpose should be. Since each member of our class should be informed oftheserious issues that impact our college life, our communication system be- tween the Forum, various com- mittees, mid the students should be improved. Evei1 though I'm not a member of the Student Fo- rum, I diligently attended these meetings on a weekly basis, be- caLtse I wanted to know first hand what was going on, and what ser- vices I could've volunteered. One of the issues that has been a we\ekly discussion at the Forum meetings, is the privatization of the Dining Services; privatization occurs whe1i an institution- nor- m'/'lJ:t,emi~trolled W.:the.c~llege is tar< en J;>ver by ii company., ln this case, the existing Dining Services would have an upper level of management to respond to, who have promised a nice profit to al- leviate the allotment of the College's budget. Why weren't the students infonned immedi- ately of this development, and why was the Student Forum over- looked as an organization eqaal in stature? Shouldn't the students have a chance to absorb the in- formation at1d express their opin- ions accordingly, whether it be through letter-writing campaigns, . or other resources? In any case1 this is just the tip of the iceberg surrounding the petition at the cashier, in Dutch which barely anyone has signed because how can one commit oneself to a po- ·sition, without first knowing the facts? All this unintended secrecy could've been alleviated if there was an efficient system to com- municate new developments, in a manner that wouldn't be time- consuming, or boring. Realizing that everyone is hard-pressed for Stone Newman ofthecampus as a whole. An im- portant step with which to begin is to make our class a real force on campus. I would like to rep- resent you in order to make these strides happen and to fulfill both our Class's and Union's potential. For those of you who do not know me, I am involved with many important campus-wide activities; I am a very open- minded person who would look titne,.there should be weekly 'in- fonnational meetings', and also E-mail briefings; instead of the obscure posting of general min- utes of the Forum meetings, in the College Center- which again few have knowledge. If the commu- nication gap is sufficiently mended, then our purpose as a class can be achieved with greater success, and would be the defin- ing quality of our class. Rebecca Willis My name is Rebecca Willis and I am miming for the position of Sophomore Class Representative. In this capacity it would be my responsibility to represent our class on the Student Fomm. l feel that my enthusiasm and commit- ment to hard work more than qualifies me for this position. l11e numerous elected positions I held in high school have given me the experience I need to serve you. As a Gatekeeper and as a participant in the Student Ambas- sador Phonathon Program, I have become bette'r' .ii'ifdrmed about campus issues and events. The key responsibility of a rep- resentative is to act on behalf of others. If elected to the position ofrepresentative, my goal will be to represent you to the best of my ability. I will strive not only to work for you but to learn your opinions and concerns about is- sues on campus. Let's work together to address the issues that affect us as a class. When you vote this Friday, cast a vote for a voice in your student government. Please vote for Rebecca Wills for Sophomore Class Representative. TI1ank you. Brandon Declet forward to presenting your ideas and representing you while act- ing in order to change things at Union. I believe in the group · versus individual goals, so I would be representing you and · your ideas, not just mine. By representing you, I think to- gether we will make a good team arid make the class of 1997 a force to be reckoned with. My name is'Brandon·Declet and tomorrow you will all come to the College Center to decide who will be your Sophomore Clas'S Representatives for the coming year. There are a lot of other freshman mnning for the three spots available in the Stu- dent Forum. Consider a _few things before you vote: 1. Will the candidate listen to your sug- gestions? 2. Will he or she be able to make a difference on the stu- dent forum bringing not only ex- perience but a detennination to represent our class's interests? 3. Will he or she be able to repre- sent the diverse group of people in our class? If you believe that it is important for a representative of our class to do any ofthe above then I believe you should consider me as ·one of yotJr choices. There are things that need some im- provement on campus and I be- lieve I can fielp accomplish them, To do this we ali need to get in- volved, join a club, be active and voice your opinions to the forum and the administration and above all come out and vote on May 20th. You, the class of 1997 can effect what happens on this cam- pus, you just have to elect the right people to office. We have witnessed what our current rep- resentatives can and caimot do, its up to you now. Mike Gifford My first impression of Union was one of strength and leader- ship, which are two highly re- garded ideals of my own. This is my primary reason for involve- ment in student government - to carry on my standards of intellect, academics, and leadership. I won't bore you with academic credentials -I'm here, aren't I. But few students with academic abili- ties have that blend of an ap- proachable nature. and the ability to lead; something I find vital to a government. After all, a gov- ernment is only as 'strong as the people who make it so. Over the course of the past year, this was prov~n time and .time again, on several issues which concerned most freshmen - the sports bud- get, academic interests, club and organization approval, and cam- pus events. Getting involved on behalf of all first year students ~as my main objective;· I'm glad I got to know so many of you during this year --know- ing whq I am working with makes my job a lot easier. 1 would be honored to setve you again next year as the representative for such an outstanding class. Cast a vote for confidence, leadership, and experience. Continue the tradi- tion of what Union is today.

STUDENT FORUM May 19, 1994, page 7 Candidates For Sophomore Class Representative Ben Fox~ \NEVER BE CONTENT~ WHEN YOU CAN ACHIEVE A MUCH HIGHER LEVEL OF SATISFACTION.\ In the fall, your elected representatives promised to amend the meal plan, allow freshman to 'have cars on campus and scores of other prom- ises they neglected to keep. I don't mean to belittle their ac- complishments. but we still pay for meals which we don't eat and the only way for a fi·eshmanto get a car on campus is to know an upperclassnian. Our class needs leadership and representation by individuals who will not only fight for what you want in the Stu- dent Forum, but won't give up until they've achievedyour goals. I will do just that. I've never had a problem stand- ing up for what l believe in and I believe we can change Union the way we want it to be, not the way we complain about it. TI1ere is a common misconception that the faculty and the administratioJ) make all of the decisions here at Umon. We, the student body set our own fate and don't let any- one tell you otherwise. Since the Student Body is in charge, we have the power to implement policies which can benefit us. The art of compromise is impor- tant, but not if you give up more than receive. I know that many of you are planning to go on tenns abroad in the coming years. Do you know ho\w hard it is to get in to some of those programs which should be easily accessible? For example, the term abroad pro- gram to England in the Fall ac- cepted 25 people and wait listed another 68. Most of the other tenn abroad programs are equally as selective. Everybody should have the opportunity to go abroad to the destination of their choice, not only a select few. This prob- lem might not currently affect you but it might in the future and the time to take action is now! Another problem which you might not be aware of (I was told about an hour ago) is the ,ongo- ing debate abaut the privatization of dining services. Currently the school is seriously-contemplating allowing a private contractor to come to Union and provide food at reduced costs to the school. Imagine for a moment that this food sucks! We'll even go crazy and say that it is worse than West (which is quite hard to imagine because I serve my dog better food than West serves us). All the school is concemed about is saving money. Our food bill wouldn't go down, the food would be much worse, and the school would be happy because they are saving a few dollars. This is not a make believe sce- nario; but a debate that the school is cunently in. Did 1 forget to mention that the Student Forum has little_ say in the decision mak- ing. TI1is scenario can be changed through strong leadership in the Student Forum. · The two Situations I just dis- cussed are only a few of the many situations which ate going un- challenged in the Student Forum. I want nothing more than to fight for our rights as students. We pay over $25,000 a year and we de- serve to have a say in everything that involves our class. Give me a chance to represent you and I promise you action instead of in- action! Thank You for your time. Ben Fox Rawson Thurber Well I've been on the Student Forum as the Freshman Class President for almost a full school tenn now, and I've learned a lot. When I arrived at my first meeting; I was a little taken back. I wasn't sure what to expect from the people on the Forum. I didn't know whether they were going to be a collection of students going through the motions in an attempt to pad their future resumes, or if they were actually at the meetings every week because they wanted to make a difference. And to my delight the latter of the two was their collective intention. l11e hardest thing about my first year on the Forum was leaming all the bureaucratic channels that one had to swim through in order to accomplish anything. I spent the first term lean1ing the differ- ence between the SAC, SEC, QTP, XYZ, and the bevy of other acronyms that are the powers that be here at Union. And make no mistake about it, if there's one thing I've learned from sitting on the Forum, it's that the student bogy has tremendous power. I never thought that we had any real tangible forc.e that we could employ to our benefit, but I. was extremely off the matk in my assumption. We do, and it works. l11e only problem is that most of the student body doesn't real- ize it. All you need to do is stop any Student Forum member whenever you see one; and tell him/her what you like, or what you want to see changed. And that member will bring your sugges- tion to the meeting for open dis- cussion. Now I'm not saying that every meeting we deal with an issue that has some earth-shattering reper .. cussion on the school and student body. In fact .most of .our meet- ings consist of minor events and slight changes in the wording of some obscure constitutional by- law; and a lot of the time it can be quite monotonous and time con- suming. But sometimes, not very often but sometimes, we actually do something on the Forum that \matters.\ Something the next day you can walk by and say, \I helped make that happen\. And that makes all the other tedious instances fade into the back- ground. That's what makes it worth doing. And it's because of those brief moments that I would love to be on the Student Forum again next year. Rocco Giovani-Giovani Hello, my name is Rocco Giovani-Giovani, and I wish to start offby sharing with you some family history and the origin of my last name. It all started in 196 7 when my grandfather sent my father, the youngest and stron- gest of eight brothers in the fam- ily, over from Italy to help out his ill uncle Pasquale Di Giovani. He was a World War I veteran who resided in upstate New York. [My great uncle had a different name with the Di because some- time in the post-war period, im- migrants had to change their iden- tity upon entering the U. S. So rather than changing the whole last name, he added the Di. Any- way, after my father settled with his uncle in upstate N.Y., he went back to Italy to marry my mother. Then my father and mother re- turned to help great uncle Pasquale together. As a result, my great uncle became a \father\ to my parents who were adjust- ing to American life. In respect for my dad's father in Italy and un~le in the U. S., my parents de- cided to take the name Giovani- Giovani and honor both. Aside from my grandfather in Italy, my great uncle, in away, also became my grandfather. After hearing this story as a child, I som~howunderstood how much my parents had to do to get my siblings and I so far. l11ey started with very little, and worked so hard and diligently to give the best for th~ir children. My work ethic grew from their accomplishments in raising me. In retum, I want to give so much back to them, but it won't be enough for what they've giv.en to me- life and ambition. I want to offer all my best and hard work to make people, like my parents, so happy. As for my classmates, I want a chance to offer you friendship and all my abilities to make you happy at Union. I enjoy making acquain- tances and hearing what people have to say about college life. For me, it was a challenge to adjust to college as it was for my par- ents to adjust in American living. Now I want the challenge to ad- just the social interactions, prob- lems, questions, and other ser- vices that affect students. I have adjusted the same qualities through leadership positions in high school sports and student government. Participating in community services, like We Care About U- Schenectady at Union, 1mi.kes me realize more that helping and serving others is so important to me. If I am of- fered the chance to help and give to the college community, then I will strive to do the best I can as a friend and representative of my sophomore class. Experience is important, but one will never have it until given the opportunity. Thank you, and I appreciate your support. Shaleen Patel Fellow members of the class .of 1997, Before last week, it hadn't crossed my mind to nm for the position of Sophomore Class rep- resentative. I had seen people wandering around West dining hall looking for signatures, and all the while l pretty much kept to myself, eating my half cooked poor excuse for nourishment la- sagna type food. All of a sudden I began to think \Why exactly are these people running, and what will they do?\ At some later point in time, I spoke to a few people, addressing them with the question \Do you know who our class rep- resentatives are, and do you know what they do?\ Astoundingly enough, not many people could answer my question. The fact that not many people knew anything about our say in the community is what led me to walk around West dining hall, harassing people in the middle of their peaceful meal, looking for signa- tures. l feel that our voice in the student government is the stron- gest vehicle that we, as a class, have to get our opinions across. It is sad that we do not utilize it. As your representative, l will not aim to erect a beer distillety next to west dining, but I will aim to get our voice across, because our voice is the only thing that we have to better our lives here at Union College. Now, many of you might ask \How will he do that?\ I'll tell you. First off, as annoying as the junk flyers that we receive in our mailboxes ev- ery so often may be, some junk has some merits to it (does any- one remember the Dominos flyer that said \A large for the price of a medium\?). I think that a little questionnaire and a summary of the going ons of the sh1dent gov- emment in the mailbox of every Sophomore would help commu- nications between the representa- tives and the class. However many are filled out, I will read them all. As a member of the class of 1997, this position is im- portant to me, because it affects our next year here at Union Col- lege. If the satisfaction of your next year at Union College is just as important to you, vote for the person that will best represent you. On Friday May 20, vote for Shaleen Patel. Student Forum Election will be he.ld tomorrow in the College Center Atrium. Each student may vote for three of the candidates as representa- tives for their class. The elections will be held from 10 AM until 3 PM~~ It is·. your respon- sibility to vote and • voice your • • OplDIOD.

! . ' . May 19, 1994; page 8 STU·DENT FORUM· Candidates for Junior Class Representative Jay Newmark 4 Rightnow,we,thedassof 96, are finishing up our second year here at Union, and our college experience is just about half-over. In retrospect it is hard to believe how fast the time has gone by and before we know it, it will be the spring of '96 and we will be ~:,rraduating. Thus far Union and our class have given me and all of you some great memori,es, some great friends, and have taught us a little bit more about ourselves and about lWe; and be- fore·ourtime has nm out, I would like to give something back to both by being our class represen- tative. As class representative I would hope to strenb>then the voice of the c·lass o(96 in the student forum, and hope to plan events to bring the class closer together through our final years at Union. Over the past years· I have been very ac- tive on camp\\s through athletics, as a11 orientation ad.visor,. as a tour-guide,. and by acting in many other clubs and groups on cam- pus. Titrough each of these I have come to know and interact with many of our professors, deans, and classmates, and have fonned strong relationships with each which could enable me to inter- act well in the student forum and really incorporate the wants and needs of our class into our cam- pus life. In any case, we have two more years here at Union to live and learn and I want to help in any way I can to make them the best they can be. I feel that I have many great relationships on cam- pus with both the faculty and the student body, that I have some great ideas, and that I can repre- sent our class very effectively. On Friday, May 20th please give me your vote and give me the chance to stand up and speak for our great class of '96, I won't let U down. Thanks, Jay Newmark Catherine Hedge man The word apathetic is too often associated with union students. There are -a great deal ofstudents who want to participate in many activities here at Union bl.!t have not had the chance to do that yet. As a freshman, I took the side- lineapproach to college activities since I was burned out from high school where I was National Honor society member, Treasurer of the student council, Founder and President .of the World Awareness club, and a four year member of the varsity basketball team. This year, after proving myself academically, I believe it is time for me to offer my talents to Union College. For those of you who know me, you already know that I am a contender for this positien. For those of you that do not know me, I have some convincing to do. So why should you elect me to t]Je student fonnn? First of all, I am not going to bore you to death with trivial details about myself, but if you are looking for a can- didate with broad based experi- ence you should elect me. Fur- thennore. I will not annoy and bombard you with catchy cam- paign slogans in order to get you to remember my name, nor will I make any promises [cannot keep or rattle on about what needs to be changed at Union. But what you will get if I am elected is ac- tion, not empty words. I am an i1;teUigent, amiable go-getter, who is respected by my peers, the faculty and the administration. These qualities will be crucial in the coming year since many im- portant decisions need to be made, including the dining ser- vices dilemma. l11ese decisions will require significant student input and I truly believe that I can represent the ideas and opinions of the junior class for what they really are. not what they seem or ought to be. It is now up to you, I have attempted to set myself . apart from the rest of the candi- dates by asserting my individual- ity and my willingness to serve t11e student body. Elect Catherine Hedgeman to the student forum, A vote for me is a vote for expe- rience, integrity, credibility and capability. · Tanweer Ansari Hi, my name is Tanweer Ansari, and I was contemplating bow many times have you won- dered what you could accomplish if you were a part of student gov- emment? I've thought about the same .idea several times myself, but I never really found the time or the nerve to go ahead and do so. But the more and more I pon- dered it, I really felt that I could make a difference at Union! Changes need to be made in many areas here at Union, and they are not happening fast enough. We need to change our whole philosophy on how we per- ceive one another first. Whether you are Greek or Independent, intellectual or jock (or both), se- nior or freshmen, faculty or stu- dent, or from various ethnic back- grounds, there should be no dif- ference in the quality ofthe edu- cation you receive at Union and everything that goes along with it! Ifl were elected as one of your Junior Representatives, I would help to foster & sense of coopera- tion rather than divisiveness among the diverse groups on campus. I would also address is- sues concerning academics, course offerings, terms abroad, health -services, dining services, diversity (in every sense of the word), community service/volun- teering, various social activities, and financial allocation of our money! Where does it all go any- way? Too many times, students elect representatives on to the Student Fonun who forget about why and how they got their positions. They lack the time and desire to deal with our questions and prob- lems. Elect me and I will help to guarantee that Union Juniors are well-represented on campus and make sure that we get our money's worth! Rich Fuerst I am seeking your support this week to be named as Junior Class Representative. As Union Col- lege Sophomore Class President my major priority is to reflect the interests and concerns of our stu- dents. And, my commitment to you is to serve as your represen- tative and spokesperson with the Administration. One of my key priorities is to echo the opini.ons of the students to help improve all aspects of campus life. ·For instance, al- though I think Union students do a commendable job with commu- nity service activities, I believe we need to generate more in- volvement and commitment by students with programs that sup- port the needs of the larger com~ munity. We.have an opportunity to improve the image of Union College as not only a school of- fering outstanding academic op.- portunity, but as a vital participant to the welfare of the greater Schenectady area. · Our challenges and opportuni- ties should be and can be ad- dressed through a willing,. knowl• edgeable, and committed repre- sentative who, as a life long resi- dent, knows this community. I ask for your support and vote to- morrow and am available to ad- dress questions or concerns you have. PLEASE VOTE 'RICH FUERST' as your Junior Class Representative! Geremie Camara . - Contrary to popular belief, stu- dents at Union College have· the ability te change the community in which we all l'ive. There are · too many instances in which stu- dents ate unhappy with current policies; but do ndthing about it.· I am not naively saying that the student body can change every- thing that it is not pleased with. Nor am I saying that \change\ is the best method towards a better Union. If we really want to have a say in the policies that effect our daily lives, we should get in- volved before they are made, not complain about them afterward. It is for this reason that the posi- tion of class representative is so important. The Student Fomm here at Union has the resources to improve the quality of our en- vironment. The Student Fomm also sets a direction in which it feels Union should be heading, and makes decisions consistent with this direction. I feel that the student body at Union should have a say in the direction irt which Union is mov- ing, and that is why I am running for Jr. Class Representative. Through my experience with various clubs and committees, I am confident that I have the abil- itY to represent my class to the Student Forum. I promise to be active and vocal in my approach, and to be open to ideas from any- one. When you vote for Jr. Class Representative, keep in mind not only who you think is the best qualified candidate, but also who you think will best represent our class. Vote Geremie Camara. Junior Rep Candidates Seth Brown, Kenton Chase, Jason N·ewmark, Geremie Camara, Tanweer S. Ansari, Kate Hedgeman, Rich Fuerst Get Involved : Join the staff of the award-winning Concordiensis. What you learn in the newsroom you cannot be taught anywhere else. It truly~is an invaluable Call X6155. Inte:fested Students Only • experience. Please. \

\ STUDENT FORUM May 19, 1994, page 9 Candidates/or Senior Class Representative David Levine In life there are many people who complain about how they have been wronged by adminis- trators and civil servants. l11ey expostulate about how the gov- ernment taxes too much and pro- vides too little service. Students complain about tl1e exorbitant costs of attending in,.. stitutions of higher learning. l11ese same people typically com- plain that policies implemented by college administrators and stu- dent leaders are not in the best interest of the student body .. Whenever new policies are ap- proved, exasperated students fre- quently wish they had been con- sulted first. Sometimes, they are subtly consulted. Far too often. however, student leaders fail to adequately bring important issues to the attention of their class- mates. Members of the Student Gov- enum:nt presetil several reasons for their inability to encourage student involvement at critical phases oft he decision process on important issues. Some leaders accuse their fellow students of being 'apathetic' or too involved with their schoel work or extra- curricular activities to actively engage in important discussions. Maybe, student leaders should consider that the methods they are using to attract student involve- ment are rotten right done to the core. What can students do to in- crease theirinvolvement with stu- dent government without getting directly involved by nmning for office themselves? Whenthe Stu- dent For-um elections are. held every year, students should vote far the people who have proven that they will succeed in facilitat- ing changes which lead to a more interactive Forum. Students should look at candidates' plat- fonns. After they look at the is- sues, individuals should deter- mine whicb cru1didate(s) have the most qualifications towards cat .. rying out their campaign prom- ises. Inevitably, however, elec- tions become popularity contests. ·. : ~ .. •• \l •. When students haphazardly vote, withmit considering candidates' credentials and platforms, they are sending a message to the elected candidates that they do not care what these individuals do once they are elected. As I present myself as a candi- date for Senior Class Represen- tative, I realize that some people do not know who I am, and still other people harbor resentment . towards me for the opinimts I have written. or for the issues which I have helped to bring to the forefront during my four tenn stint as editor-in-chief ofthe Con• cordiensis. \Ask not whether you know me, ask whether you know what I have done and will con- tinue to do for you.\ During my current two-year stint as editor-in-chief of the Con- cordiensis, I have used my power to not only transfonn the student newspaper into a nationally re- nowned publication, but under my leadership the newspaper has become the unofficial voice of the students of Union College. As you have noticed, our coverage focuses a lot more on students, our accomplishments, our orga- nizations, and our concems. When Dining Services imple- mented the Validine system in a fashion which most students were •• 1:...· 'if' ' . enraged over, The Concordiensis was the first student organization to attack the new policies. We did not give up on the issue, and when Dining Services inexplicably cut their hours at the beginning of winter tenn, we got to the bottom of the issue and reported to stu- dents in subsequent weeks what the administration was hiding from them. As a member .of the Student Forum I can assure you the students will be informed of everything that happens. Please vote responsibly tomor- row. Senior Year only happens once, make the most ofit. TI1ank you. Dawn Schwartz I am running for senior class representative. Throughout the past three years, I have been in- volved in a wide range of cam- pus activities. Some of these in- . ~, ~e-~ You are··cordiallYTrivited to A SP~JNG FLING Friday,. May 20, 1994 10 p.m.- 2 a.m. Ramada Inn N·ott Street Tickets on Sale at the Student Activities In the College Center $10 g· $6 elude: Varsity Athletics; a found- ing member of the Japanese club and Youth Olympics, (Big Broth- ers/Big sisters) Fundraising chair- person. Through these activities, I have become very familiar with the campus and. recognize both its strengths and weaknesses. Union College is a remarkable place, but has room for improvement. I am looking to expand the nature of campus activities and work to- wards a hannonious multicultural campus. I am very approachable and work well with other people. This characteristic will be benefi- cial when collaborating with other members of the student forum as well as the faculty and adminis- tration. With my dedication and enthusiasm, l will bring the Bi- centennial class together for its final year!!! ThQr Benander !'m impressed that you made it this far: . ·With all of the muck . you :11 wade;:thtaugh in some of these essays I'll take my oppor- tunity to give you a break. No propaganda. No BS. Electians at this school don't have the dy- namics of a \real\ election, so in this trend, I won't write a \real\ essay for candidacy. Instead, let's look back to the days before you came to Union, the days where college was a long way off, and people who were twenty one were old. We looked forward to the crazy pat1ies, and the high life. Never slow. Never boring. In looking at your time at Union, it would be unfair to ask if your experiences, both in and out of the classroom, have been as good as your imagination; but the question does remain: is it even close? Think about the differences between what you want and what you have. l11ink how refreshing · it would be to have something else to do. Think about what's really important in your life and in In these last few weeks, take a look at~ound you, at the people and the places and the things that matter. Take time to remember the moments you've made at Union. \n1is college is not a group of bui !dings, it's a group of people. Let's remember that.

May 19, 1994, page 10, - .• 0-P~ED-:~--. Letters To The Editor Save The Skeller To the Editor: Rumors abound on campus about the possibility of an outside private operation taking control of Dining Services next year. In fact, as I am writing this, President Hull may be solidifying his position on this issue, and by the time thatthis article goes to print, the deal could be being referred to in the past tense. Though I am a senior and won't be around next year, I am concemed about the fate of the Rathskel1ar if these changes are implemented. To tell the truth, I could care less about the Dutch Hollow, Upperclass, or West Dining Hall. I try not to eat at these places sim- ply because the best food option on campus is the Skellar. l11e Skellar is the only place where I enjoy just hanging out, maybe play some Gold Strike (that's a pinball game) and listening to some tunes on the jukebox. l11e food at the Skellar is great, and it's cooked made to order, instead of sitting under a heat lamp or in can't nail down what makes the Skellar great, but I do know this-If itain't broke, don't fix it. Let's go over the track record of the adm-inistration when it comes to \campus improve- ments\ that have been attempted in the past few years. First, we'll examine that most Titanic of di- sasters, Chet's Pub. The decision to locate Chet' s in the College Center has proven to be a gigan- tic mistake. Students scom Chet's as a realistic drinking option be- cause at its heart Chet's is not a pub, it is merely a section of the College Center with a few bar stools and a cooler full of beer. If that is what qualifies as a pub, then every back porch in this na- tion would need a liquor license. l11e image ofChet's as a student hang-out has never held water (or beer for that matter). The way that I see the development of Chefs is as follows: Someone had this half-cocked idea to put a bar in the College .Center, and to do it cheaply and with a minimum ofreorganization and rebuilding. So we got Chet's Pub. As with most half-cocked ideas, the re- sults were half-assed. a pan for a few hours. But the thing that I like most about the Skellar is the atmosphere and the people that I see there everyday. From the regular staff and the stu- dent worke-rs to the standard Skellar-folk, the attitude of Skellar-dwellers seems different than that of the other dining areas on campus. Whereas the other places are decidedly institutional- ized, the Skellar feels collegiate. The Skellar is everything that a College eatery should be. Maybe it's the fact that the Skellar is lo- cated in a basement, tlmt it's not well lit, that the ceilings are low, or that it frequently floods that gives the Skellar its appeal. Maybe it's the fact that people are free to smoke if they want to. Maybe. it's the fact that when I walk into the Skellar [ don't have to wony about bumping into that prof. whose class I skipped ear- lier in the day. For some reason, most profs. choose to eat at the Dutch Hollow. (Besides. even if I did bump into that prof. at the Skellar, any prof. eating there is probably cool enough to realize the value of playing hooky.) I· Then of course there was last year's meal plan modification, which raised eyebrows because of its unfairness to Greeks and off- campus students. Here was a chance for the school to redeem itself of the previous year's Chet's fiasco, but again they came up with a plan that was nine yards short of complete. They closed. the Skellar on weekends, leaving the only Validine option as the Dutch Hollow. That would have been okay except for the fact that the revamped Dutch Hollow is now a fast food joint complete with imnunerable heat latfips, ter- rible food, and a completely ri- diculous selection ofSnapple Iced Teas that can barely fit into four refrigerated chests. I myself have no desire for baklava flavored iced tea, but the Dutch Hollow seems to think of this as a posi- tive selling point. While the iced tea selection lms expanded, the choice of food, something that everyone cares about, has been reduced to a few prepackaged items and sandwiches that are made to order. I remember when you could get almost anything at the Dutch Hollow; and that was its appeal. Robbed of that, the Dutch Hollow is a waste of time for anyone who wants value for their dollar. Want proof that the Skellar works fine just the way it is? Just go in at lunch or dinner and look at all the students eating there. The Skellar,s always packed at meal time, and it still doesn't take ; long to get your food; it's hot and always just the way you asked for it. I don't' want the Skellar to change. Of course the issue for the ad- ministration and President Hull is money. It always comes down to money. Maybe the administra- tion, by signing an outside con- tract, is hoping to redeem itself for its past mistakes by improv- ing the overall. quality of food service here on campus. Maybe it will cost the school less and the changes will be appreciated by the student body. But if the school is looking for a cost effec- tive solution, let's hope that this time they realize the value of pleasing the students by doing something right, and not doing it cheaply and halfheartedly as they have done in the past. The one part of the meal plan that works is the Skellar, so keep the students happy and keep the Skellar the way it is now. For once, throw financial concerns into the wind (there's a realistic request) and leave the Skellaralone. l11ere are more important things than money, after all, and student sat- isfaction is one value that has been avoided lately by the admin- istration. Let t11e students decide what they like and what they don't like, and what they want changed and what they want to stay the same. I am confident that the Skellar has student approval, and that the Skellar should be nm by the same people, in the same way, for years to come. Sincerely, Tim Bailey

ijth.e Oinnrnrhi~nsis Tlte SJdent Newspaper ojUnio11 College Since 1877 David Levine Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editor . Features Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Editor , Photo Editor World News Editor Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors Business Editor Advertising Editors Associate Sports Editors Computer Manager Photographers Heather Reynolds Editor-in-Chief Lisa Leinoi · Caroline Paine Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Suzanne Robinson Joe Saltzbart Dagan La Corte I)iana Sedita Josh Haines Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenny Lee Alex Shapiro Ftan Goldstein Sharon Smith Rob Malfetano Mike Leding, Matt Grabowski Brett Saunders Scott Dntckemiller, Emily Schrier Jeremy Smith, Michele Roseman, Jen Aherens, Laurel Ruma Staff : Michelle Ellis, Elizabeth De Koven, Alexandra Gualpa, · Elissa D. Hecker, John Huang, , Pam Lin, Leena Mankad, Alissa Mayo, Bharat Navani, Larry Paska, Kare11 Pepiatt, William Rice, Michelle Rosenbaum, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler. The Concordiemis meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. It is published by the students of Union College and in no way reflects the· opinions of Union College. ' ) • ' ! Editori-als, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union . College community. Final Decisions concerning ' printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if· the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and notnecessarily the opinions ofthe Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do· not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights Feserved. Box 2577, College Center; Uriion Co.Ilege, Schenectady, NY 12308.. Telephone (5-18) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8.-1 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (lP}, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the · Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor ofthe College Ceriter. LETTERS May 19, 1994, page 11 D . . s . p . •t• t• IDing · erv1ces riVI IZa Ion To the Editor: Some questions tothe students of Union: 1.) Are you in favor of privatizing Dining Services at Union? 2.) Are you aware;; ofthe ramifications of out seurcing? 3.) Do you have sufficient knowl- edge about this issue to anive at aninformedopinion? 4.) Do you presently have any means of ac- quiring such infvrmation? Chances are, you will not be alone in responding with a re- sounding \no\ to aH of these questions. Whether you advocate privatization or oppose it, the fact of the matter is that the adminis- tration is on the verge of miiking a decision that will dramatically impact the entire student body and faculty, and quite simply, neither have any idea what's go- ing on. No doubt, you've heard the rumors and hearsay. Unfortu- nately, that appears to be the ex- tent of available infonnation re- garding this issue. A meeting with the administration this week marks. the first opportunity stu- dents have had to fonnally par- ticipate in the decision making proe.ess. A group of Student Forum representatives will be called upon to render the student body's perspectives regarding privatization. This gesture on the part of the administration should no doubt be commended. And, admittedly, if the administration is receptive to student concerns, such consideration deserves praise. Nonetheless, the entire process is completely undennined by the position that the students have been placed in .. How can a group of student representatives possibly render an accurate depic- tion ·of student body sentiments when the student body (and, it would seem, the entire Union community) has no basis for mak- ing informed decisions about privatization? TI1e distl.trbing lack of infonna- tion about this issue and the aura of secrecy that surrounds it should concem the.student body. At the same time, the Union community should be aware of the message that privatization of dining ser- vices would send. At heart, this issue seems to reduce to a matter ofprinciple; ifthe administration decides that the interests of this institution would be best served by pr.ivatizing dining services, the current Dining-Services staffwiH not have been given a fair chance. Before requesting bids from out- side contractors,.the administra- . Results From Surveys Surprising To the Editor: Some of you (about tWb ·hnn·.:: dred) may remember filling out a survey a few weeks ago, a sur- vey asking you all sorts of ques- tions about how you felt about Union intellectually inside and outside the classroom, what kinds of things you did in your spare time, etc. I'd like to discuss a few of the results, taking our sample to be an accurate representation of the entire community. The sur- vey produced many interesting results, but I am going to focus on a few here. Feel free to hunt down me or any of the other members of the Student Assess- ment Group if you want to know more. TI1e answers given to two ques- tion struck me as particularly in- teresting: Seventy percent of you said, \I wish more students here at Union were into more diverse things like politics, music, tlle- ater, dance, writing,\ and sixty- seven percent of you said \I have been disappointed by how simi- lar Union students are to one an- other. I wish we had a more di- verse student body.\ Now it is obvious ·that we do not merely have a disgruntled minority of students complaining. TI1e major- ity of students are saying \I wish we weren't so alike and that we did a greater variety of things.\ l11e problem is that most of you are just pointing fingers at your fellow students accusing them of not being interesting enough when they are just like you. It is impossible for two-thirds ofus to be interesting individuals, each contributing in our own way to the diversity of the college while sti11 saying that no one else is; the math just does not work. Un- doubtedly som_e of our ~omplail~~ ers have grounds for expressing their dissatisfaction with their fel- low students, but most do not. Our research shows that very few stu- dents do anything but drink, go to fratemity parties, sporting events and movies, and watch TV. No one does anything \diverse\ per- sonally, but we al1 want ey.eryone else to change. Shotlld we expect Admissions to import interesting students who are into politics, music, S&M, whatever, so we can entertained by their \diversity?\ Who should each be changing and b'TOWlllg ;md teaming, not remain- ing self-satisfied and set in our ways while complaining that ev- eiyone else is doing exactly the same thing. Before the majority of us accuse our fellow students of not being interesting enottgh. we should first think about ourselves. If you met yourself somewhere, would you find yourself interest- ing?Are you into any of the things you wish other people were inter- ested in? And if you find yourself to have a variety of interests, are you doing anything with them or are you just waiting for someone else to do it first? And interesting, diverse student body is composed of individuals who act on their interest instead of merely complaining that others aren't. Do something different yourself, take charge of your own life instead of waiting for some- one else to do it for you, or whin- ing when they don't. TTFN, James Polichak tion failed to cite any specific fail- ures or deficiencies in the current Dining Services program. Had the management of Dining Ser- vices been made aware of any of the administration's concerns, management would certainly have attempted to address them_ Instead, Dining Services may be denied the opportunity to make such improvements. To do so would be a travesty, particularly given the restrictions thatthe ad- ministration already puts on din- ing servi.ces (remember when Validine began? Guess who's idea that was? And no, it wasn't Dining Services.) Students, this issue is about representation. It is about infor- mation. It is about your role in making decis.ions at the school you attend. If that doesn't con- cem you, then at the very least, this issue is about the food that you will be eatmg for the rest of your days at Union College. The Student Forum is planning a Town Meeting next week in or- der to infonn and discuss the is- sue. Be there, be vocaL and you won't regret it. Sincerely. Nate Coffin Steinmetz Apathy. To theEditor: Last week's Steinmetz Sym- posium, along with many other interesting talks, the members of the Student Assessment · Group presented the findings of their year-long study of the in- tellectual life inside and outside of the classroom. The results of our surveys were full of impor- tant infonnation about how stu- dents feel about Union, in and out of class, why they take classes, what factors are impor- tant in helping them feel en- gaged, what activities they do out of class. l11e surveys pro- duced the largest collection of data about Union College thus far. This is why we were so sur- prised at the dismal attendance at the presentation, especially among the facu.lty. We thought the faculty would be interested in knowing why students took classes, whether they found them ·to be intellectually re- warding or not, etc. We thought everyone would be interested in finding out if Union College has an intellectual life and, if so, · what and who it co11sists of. About a dozen people were in- . terested in showing up, includ- ing three or four professors, two deans, and a few students. Un- doubtedly, some of those in at- tendance had their own work to present elsewhere, but not all or even a large minority. 11tis only ·further confirms the results of ·the survey. It seems that the lack of interest in the intellectual life at Union is not only limited to our student body but can be found in the teaching staff and administration as well. The Members of the Student Assessment Group

May 19, 1994, page 12 LETTERS Where Did All Night .. Study Go? ·Thank Y()u To All That Are ~elping Youth Oly~npics This Weekend To the Editor: It has recently come to my at- tention that though itis posted that All Night Study is available in the Social Sciences building, it is in fact not possible to find a place to study on this campus at all hours. For example, two Sundays ago my study group hadplanned to meet at 9 am at the College Center to study for a midtenn. We amved at the College Cen- ter, assuming that it would be open as we knew the library would not be open for a few mme hours. The doors were locked. Security officers inside did not even come to the door to seewhat was the matter. With the library dosed and the academic build- ings locked, there was no location available for us to meet, nor for other individual students to study. We finally solved the problem by entering the building through means that I find devious and unlawful. Perhaps if there were a place designated and available, we would not have had to stoop to such means to find a place to study. And this was at 9 in the moming on a Sunday, it was not as if it were an unreasonable hour. Though the administration might think that halfthe campus is still sobering up. I assure you that there are many of us who have more serious pursuits. It would be beneficial to many people to have a place to study outside of their donn rootns at anytime, not just on a Sunday morning. Shouldn't there be some location available even if one student wants to study? r d like to add . tl~at my friends and I were not the only students there at the College Center that morning. · There was at least one other stu- dent present who told me she fre- · quently had to sneak in the build- ing at this time on Sundays in order to study. As this was an isolated inci-. dent part of me was prepared to forget this matter and,Jet it go un- • mentioned, but another unfortu- nate incident occurred this past weekend. Arriving at the So- · cia] Sciences Building around 5 PM 011 a Saturday afternoon., my friend and I found the outside doors locked. We called Cam- pus Security and were infonned that All Night Study was not open on Friday and Saturday nights and would not be open until Sunday night How ridicu- lous is this? Is this customary policy? Even though Union's library hours are academically question- able to begin with, shouldn't· there be some altemative loca- tion for students to ·study at all hours? What type of academic precedent is being set here? How can you expect students to take academics seriously at this school when the administration can not even guarantee a place to study at all hours? l appreciate your attention to this matter and eagerly await for your response. Sincerely Pamela Y. Lin To the Editor: Thank you for taking an interest in this year's Youth Olympics. TI1is is the second annual event for the Union College campus, and we are very excited to have this op- portunity to help the youth of Schenectady. Hopefully this event will serve as a leaming experience for both the children of Schenectady and the Union stu- dents, as well as increase the com- munication between Union college and the Schenectady community. This idea first came about while I was an intem in City Hall, where I became aware that these types of events had been stricken from the city budget. The recent efforts through Union's clubs such as We Care About U and Big Brothers/ Big Sisters haye made astronomi- cal progress towards supporting the community. The Inter Frater- nity Council and tl~e Panhellenic Council, both enthusiastically sup- ported the idea of reinstating such an event at Union College to fur- ther this effort. From there the idea was presented to President Hull, whose large concem for commu- nity outreach programs led to both his and the administration's ap- proval. The support from both the administration -and the student body for this ·ide~ has. made the evept:possible;, ,t. - ,,-, · The Greek:i~oJses that have agreed to participate have fonned a planning COI~mittee, with repre- sentatives from each house along with other interested students. Through this committee, each Attention All Graduating Seniors If you have received a Perkins and/or, Institutional Loan, an EXIT Interview must be completed before graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notifi- cation ofthis, please contact Ms.Lombardi at x6039. Dates For Interviews: May 31st June 1st and 2nd ····· ........ . house has agreed to take on cer- tain responsi•bilities involving both preparation for and partici- pation in the. Youth Olympics. The Big Brothers/Big Sisters staff has also greatly contributed by contacting the youths involved in their program and infotming them of this event. This whole day would not be possible without this enthusiasm and outstanding joint effort demonstrated by the Greek organizations at Union ancl the Community organizations. The Youth Olympics will be held on Sunday, May 22, from 11 :00-4:00; The day will open up with messages from community leaders and Union's Administra- tion. Each youth will be paired with a Union student who will be a big brother/sister and will ac- company him/her for the day. During the course of the day, the youths will participate in fun ac- tivities, a cookout and will receive T-shirts and prizes. We all look forward to seeing this idea become a success. Not only will the youth of Schenectady benefit from all of the resources which Union stu- dentsare willing to share, but also the Union students will become a.ware of their need to support the community. Finally, I would like to thank all of the people who have as~ sisted in making this event pos .. sible. TI1.isincludes Union's Ad,. ministration, the student body, Greek organizations, Big Broth- ers/Big Sisters Staff, Unions Big Brothers/Big Sisters Club, and the parents.ofthe participants .. I owe special thanks to Deputy Mayor Mike Saccocio who intro- duced me to some ofthe severe problems that exist in Schenectady, We feel that to- gether we can effectively address these problems and really make a difference to help better the community in which we all live. Sincerely, Lee Popper -Chair of the Planning Committee for th.e Youth Olympics Men Deserve The Sallle Luxuries As The Wom.en . To the Editor: I'd like to bring up an issue that has been gnawing at me since my arrival here at lovely Union College, and that issue is the residence hall known as, \South College\. Upon finding out that I was as- signed to spend my freshman year in all-male South, I looked up its little blurb in the back of the ''Union College Handbook.\ And to my historical surprise, I found out that South CoiJege is the oldest stmcture still used for residence life in the great state of New York. Of course the brief paragraph stated that South had undergone many renovations since its humble beginnings. No problem I thought. Upon tny arrival at South I was appalled. We .the men of South, to put it in basic. tenus, get the short end of the stick when it comes to the niceties that the rest of the camptJS enjoys. Such extravagancies as carpet- ing in rooms (which by the way would only cost the school $18 a room to carpet), chairs whose innards aren't hanging out ev- erywhere,. dresser drawers that actually open easily when you pull on them, and desks that don't have 27 initials caiVed into them. I don't know maybe I'm being unreasonable. Maybe I'm asking a little much for my pal- try 26,000 dollars a year. Don ;t get me wrong, I enjoy being in an all-male donn. I'nt free to wanderthe halls stark n~­ ked without worrying about run- ning into a member of the fairer sex. I don't have any griev- ances about the resident advi- sors in South, or the fact that we seem to be without power more than most. I'd just like some compa- rable furnishings to that of our · sister house, Richmond. For those of you who have never had the pleasure of seeing a Richmond room, their furni- ·. ture is. immaculate. TJ1ey 've got beautifully stained ma- hogany dressers and desks. I'd also like to know why West College is on a different cable system then the r-est of the school, which allows them to . have HBO. Why can't every- one be hooked into this utopian · cable system? Is it really that difficult? Our school is notori- ous for producing engineers. i'm.sure one ofthetn could fig- ure out a way to splice into the West College cable service. I just want equal service and furnishings for equal pay. I don't think I'm being unrea- sonable. After all, Union Col- lege was on the national news last week for being one of the most over priced schools in the country- and the tuition is go- ing .Yl! next year! Maybe the media and the rest ofthe coun- try would understand Union's exponentially' superior tuition, if all the residence halls had · HBO. Sincerely, Rawson nmrber • Freshman Class PresideJlt

FEATURES May 19, 1994, page 13 If you do something silly we'll find out And Never Tell Us, ''You·Can't Run That!\ 4:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 8:00 p:ttl 9:00pm 9:30pm 4:30pm 7:30pm 10:00 pm 10:30 am 1:00pm 5:00pm 8:00pm 10:00 pm CCPatio CCAUD Old Chapel Chefs Chet's Chet's Chet's Old Chapel Ramada Inn Old Chapel Outside cc Fero House Chefs 11 :00 am Bailey Field 4:00 pm · CC Patio 5:00 pm CC Atrium 8:00 & 10 pm CC AUD Springfest Weekend •94 Thursday Classics Club Barbeque Peer Facilitators Diversity Series presents: Professor~Steven Berk : \Anti-Semitism in America\ Neil Simon's \Last of the Red Ho.t Lovers\ directed by Ben Ross Raffle to benefit Battered Women's Shelter JSU & Peer Facilitators sponsor a reception for Professor Steven Berk International Beer Festival Friday Economics Club sponsors TGIF Neil Simon's \Last of the Red Hot Lovers\ directed by Ben Ross SPRlNG FLING '94: formal/semi-formal dance Saturday Senior Class President B l • a 1 n e Langberg (in the pink) and Bill Woolf 'Ham it up' at the Lip Sync Contest. (photo courtesy -of Megan Kenney) Peer Facilitators presents: Jamie Washington : \Creating a Supportive Multicultural Community: Beyond Tolerance to Celebration\ Carnival, Vendors, Caricaturist All Campus Class Party and Concert Coffeehouse presents: Mountebanks Monologues Chet's & Concert Committee present : 3 Comedians Sunday Big Brothers/Big Sisters Youth Olympics Concert Committee presents : Battle of the \Bands\ All Campus Validine Barbeque Film Committee Sponsors : Free Showings of \Grumpy Old Men\ ..

. ' • I ' : May 19, 1994, page 14 FEATURES Reflections on Africana Studies at Union College The lmpotance of Realizing We Are Not Living In An Isolated Society· · by Daniel Riley and Jamie Donigan Contributing Writers This fall the faculty approved a minor and interdepartmental major in Africana Studies. The implementation of this discipline into the college curriculum was a long time in coming. As first seniors to graduate from Union with a minor in African Studies, we have several reflections on the importance of this program. First of all, Africana Studies is important because it forces stu- dents to make up their own minds when analyzing social and histori- cal issues. The current curriculum is dominated by a Eurocentric mindset that influences Shldents to think in a very uniform man- ner. When taking classes in the new program, students are ex- posed to a whole range of ideas that most have never encoun- tered. Africana Studies enables students to develop a much more realistic understanding of social, political and historical events. Africana Studies challenges the predominant Eurocentric setup that exists at Union. Students learn that many of the great ideas that are believed to originate in Greece and Rome are actually based on philosophies and scien- tific discoveries from Africa. This is important because the pro- gram helps to shed light on a more accurate view of history. History does not stem from one source but has many facets. If we have a de- sire to learn haw we got to the point we are at today, we must examine history from every pos- sible angle. Africana Studies does not seek to discredit or devalue the accom- plishments of Europeans. It merely seeks to develop an un- derstanding of the contributions that Africans have had on the world and African-Ameri- tion students should not be afraid of receiving criticism. The minute you think you \know it all\ is when you truly know noth- ing. The only way to learn, is to develop yeur thoughts and ideas through expression and listening and learning from others. It is important to realize that we are not living in an isolated s_oci- ety. In an age where technology is bridging the various cultures of Qur students will be at an enor- mous disadvantage. Africana Studies is important in that it causes us to be more aware ofthe different societies .in our world and leads one to be more sensi- tive to others outside ofhis or her culture. Finally, Africana. s.t,udie.s merely attempts to bring a truly diverse range of thoughts and ideas into an otherwise rigid cur- ricuhJm. The most signifi- cans have had in America. People should not view this as a threat. Africana Studies merely seeks to take its proper place beside the curriculum that has \Africana Studies is important because it forces students to make up their own minds when analyz- ing social and historical issues.\ . cant damage that a Eurpcentric interpretation of histocy does, is to de- value the contributions that others have made in been exclusionary for so long. Another important reason for the Africana Studies program is that it develops a discourse on is- sues that are only talked about behind closed doors. Africana Studies encourages students to give their reactions, thoughts and ideas about material in the class- room. Often students, particu- larly caucasion students, are afraid of\saying the wrong thing\ in the company of a African American student. In addition, it must be extremely intimidating for African American and other minority students to express what is on their minds at a school. The importance of public discourse is that students learn that they should not be afraid of saying what is on their minds. In addi- the world, it would be very un- fortunate if students were not pre- pared for our eveF expanding world. Africana Studies creates an awareness ofthe histories and philosophies of different societ- ies which allows people .of differ- ent backgromtds to foster respect- able relationships. In many in- stances the educational system does not teach students that there are other societies dissimilar from their own. This often leads stu- dents to view other societies in a tradit-ional European manner which does not prepare them for our mu1ti-cultural world. Many companies are realizing this fact and are preparing them- selves by having a diverse work force. If.the :educational system does not follow this example then American and world his- tory. In addition, students learn that history has npt always been pre- sented accurately. For example, they become aware that America may not be the \land of the free and the home of the brave.\ In many cases it is still the \land of · the thief and the home of the slave.\ Students, also, become aware that Europe is not the earth bed of civilizatio.o. When con- fronted with these ideas, students are forced to make a choice. Will they now simply ignore the fact that certain societal conditions exist? Or will they realize that the caucasian power structure in America and the world has cre- ated many atrocious violations of humanity. If they choose the lat- ter, then they tnay decide to avoid b~ing part of or as~imilating into the power structure and do some- thing to challenge it. The Africana Studies program at Union College is important for many reasons. For one, the in· stallation of this program shows that the traditionally Eurocentrjc method of interpreting history and contemporary issues are no longer the sole academic avenue for reasoning. The Africana Srud- ies program also illustrates the fact that we are no longer living in a homogenous society but one wheFe the insight of people other than European decent is a valu- able resource in tenns of shaping our history. It is important to rec- ognize that we live in a culturally heterogeneous society so it is vi- tal for our collegiate studies to prepare us for this reality. It is a shame that in the world of higher education many students gradu- ate from college without being exposed to a diverse range of ideas. One would hope that higher education could eliminate some of this ignorance that is produced at Union. It is crucial that the fac- ulty and students continue to en., thusiastically participate in the Africana Studies program to make Union College an institu- tion that is not guilty of prolifer- ating this ignorance. The Africana Studies program at Union College is the first step to..: wards this goal. The Union College Chapter of Big Brothers and Big Sisters would like to acknowledge and thank the following people for their particip.ation in the Big Brother and Big Sister program this past academic year. Marisol Agreda Anne Bartlett Jennifer Batts Aimee Belden Eric Bennett Shari Berger Jordan Bergtraum Kelly Bevan Deborah Binder Ericka Bloomfield Chad Borden Taylor Burke Kathleen Cantwell Chia-Jung Clliu Susan Ciani Andrew Coccia Eileen Colkin Shelby Denenberg Kimberly Deppoliti TamaraDu Eliza Eddy Aaron Epstein Derek Evans Courtney Evans Ricltard Fuerst David Grandwetter Karen Grant Laura Hession Ryan James Kevin Jennings Rupa Kakarla Suleena Kansal Jesse Karotkin Michelle Kleinllaus Barbara Kolski Susan Kratky •• v Alexandra Kreisler J ennijer Kruger Adena Leder Alexis Leist Lisa Lemoi If you are interested in becoming a Big Brother or Big Sister for next year, please contact Stephanie at 388-6228 or 374.:.4523, or talk to any of the people listed above. Also, the Union College community is invited to c·heer at the Second Annual Youth Olympics on Sunday, May 22 from t t AM to 4 PM on the turfs Vicki Lowery Dena Mallar Deborah Mcinerney Gretchen McTigue Larry Norman Erin O'Neil Sarah Olson Sandy Pentburn Bertha Peralta Brian Pidgeon Danie/la Pittocco Daniel Rosenfeld Mahra Rubinstein Rick Scharf Leigh Schmidt Paul Scllultz Jessica Sllair Leslie Silver Pamela Snyder Andrew Spanburgh Erin Spaulding Emilie Wang Bart Weisenjlu/1 Carrie Wl1eeler Andrea Zaremba Nick Zarrelli

FEA-TURES ' :; . - .. :- \ . . .,_ Union or Small Upper-Middle Class Town: Generation X Is the Same Everywhere by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff I come from. a sm.all, secluded, mostly white, suburb of the Bay Area. I've lived in that town from fourth grade on, so it's pretty safe to say that I've lived a fairly shelM tered life in my little upper-middle class town. Then ldecided to come to Union College. Across the con- tinent, located in some obscure town called Schenectady. And what do I find? Almost the exact same type of peopJe that I've grown up with my whole life. l don't know. Maybe I shouldn't blame Union College, or my iifestyle. It just seems to me that our generation( or the members of our generation that .I've met) is lacking in some from of \cosmic depth.\ For the most part everyone I grew up with, and most of the people here at Union are the \same.\ Everyone pretty much dresses alike. and enjoys the same stuff, and doesthesame things. It's like our whole generation has come from this colossal cookie- cutter. Most of the people here at Union dress the sante. The girls wear body-suits, boots, and jeans. And the male ensemble is just as generic. Consisting of jeans, brown leather shoes, and a button up shirt from the GAP, Eddie Bower, Banana Republic, or some relative facsimile there of. Don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that I'm any different. I get just as ex- cited as everyone else when the new J-Crew catalogue comes out. l guess the thing that bothers me, is that the people I've met from my generation have little ambi- tion but to go to college, get out, and think up something to do for the rest of their lives. If I may be so bold as to borrow a line from Christian Slater in the movie \Pump up the Volume.\ \I just don't find anything pleasant about living in, like a totally burned out decade, where there's nothing to look forward to, and no one to look up to.\ I mean the press can't even think up a cool name for our gen- eration. Our parents were known as the \Baby Boomers,\ and the best they can come up with for us is, \Generation X.\ Are you kidding me? \Generation X!?\ What a completely insulting and totally appropriate 11ame for our collectively mundane spoke in the wheel of life. Nothing seems to matter to us. We just plod through life. Sure there are high points on our graph. l11e beginning of the '90's looked good. We began to deal with the environment, and to some small extent we still are. But now it seems like the only time anything matters to us is when MTV starts up a \Rock the Vote\ campaign, or when Eddie Vedder grumbles something that's politi- cally correct. And then it comes as a shock to us that our generation is slated to be the first to do worse than its predecessor. Of course we're going to do worse, we aren't doing anything. OK, I'll get off my soap box now. But before I do, I'd like to share a passage from a letter that I received from my ex- stepfather Alan, {who was something of a radical in Berkeley during the 1960's). I had asked him what he thought about a heavily political rockgroup called, \Rage Against the Machine \ (which by the way are the best band I've heard in a long time). And this was his re- ply: My \movement\ days were really pretty unbelievable. The level of idealistic commitment was so intense and incredibly naive, yet so real and passion- ate. Many of us pray that such \delusion!!\ would grip some of today's youth. ''Rage Against tire Maclrine\ reminds me of an oft quoted hero of the 60's, Mario Savio, a Berkeley stu- dent who said (something like), \There comes a time when the workings of the established governments and institutions become so odious, so corrupt, that you have to lay your bod- ies down on the wheels and gears and bring it to a stop.\ Many, many people did, and although the wheels and gears are still rolling and churning up the rain forests and destroying the ozone layer, and although 45,000 children still die of star- vation every day, I think it made an impact and only hope we are finding more effective ways, rather than giving up. I don't pretend to have the an- swers. I'm just as messed up as the next guy. {just feel that there is so much more to ·life than what I've seen, and what we see here at Union. Maybe our generation. \Generation X,\ should start try- ing to get a real name. Any questions, comments, or hate mail, Rawson Thurber: Box #20/R. Student Affairs Council Review of Organized Residential Groups Team Evaluation Committee solicits comments from interested individuals on Ludlow House Suggested Areas of Inquiry: Purpose and Organization Care of Facility Learning Environment Membership Diver·sity Contribution to the College Anything Else of Interest or Concern Please submit information to or contact: , __________ \ ___________ . P•·of. Susan Niefield Mathematics Department Bailey Haii108C x6163 Term Abroad to Germany Informational Meeting: Thursday, May 19, 1994 Humanities 110 at 4:30

'' ' \ May 19, 1994, page 16 FEATURES People Watching: What Makes It So Fun? by Alexis Leist Features Editor What is it about people- Watching that makes it so much fun? Why do we laugh at the expense of someone else's feel- ings? I really have no idea. I just know that it is very enjoy- able. Not to hurt other people's feelings, but just to watch people, because I'm telling you, there are some psychos out there! a vampire with three children attd lives in the woodsin the back of my house. Don't tell my neigh- bor I know her life story. Anyway, people-watching is a must in any major city. Forget Broadway, go to Washington Square Park in Greenwich Vil- lage and just sit and watch. You'd be amazed at the variety of people and stories that you can come up with. Anything is pos- sible. If you are able, converse with some of the crazies you see, is she looking at?\ TI1at is when what I call \a domino reaction\ starts because then all the people around me start looking at what I'm looking at also. So basically, I have a whole line of cars in front of me, next to me, and behind me looking at each other and tuming around to the next car, like at church when everyone stands and shakes eachother's ·hands. I love it. I love harassing people in cars, because as long as I I'll admit it, I'm a little cooky my- self, but I'm talk- ing about flat out crazies! And we happen to attend a college directly in the middle of \I don't know why, when·people get into a car they feel invisible, like no one can see them bopping aroung in the car or putting their make-upon. My favorite is when .people around me are kissing.\ .keep my doors locked they can't get to me. Why I like to do such stupid things is beyond my comprehen- sion, but I'm not psycho-central, Schenectady, that is even better than making up alone. Come on, r know ev- New York .. I swear. it seems as a story. Nightlife is byfarthebest eryone loves to people watch. if every time I'm driving smne- in a major city, the get-ups are Maybe we need to know that where around here a person freaky and the people are even there are people out there more comes flying out of nowhere more approachable. crazy than ourselves. Then into the middle of the street and Another great time to people- again, those people think of us starts talking to themselves. It watch, is when you are driving. as psychos too. Spring and must be the water or something. At stop lights, look around and summer are the best seasons for Who knows. maybe we 'II all see what other people are doing. this kind of activity because it end up like this twenty years Some sing. Some smoke. Some seems as if people have liter- . from now. BetTer stop drinking talk (to themselves or others). ally emerged from hibernation. that water now! Some .Stare back. Some pick their My neighbor has at least. That . People-watching i~ ~lf'e.~t~ bJtt~ n.os~. ,, l don't \5no~ 'Vh:Y wlie~;l i~ w1111t~th~ be~ch is all about, it: takes a Jot of imag'inat~oli:' r . peo.pJe get inti5'a car they feefiil- . jlist gttys.~d girls looking back jtist don't look at someone and visible. Like no one can see them and forth at each other, a gro- say. \Wow. what an outfit,\ but bopping around in their car or tesque best body contest that is all sorts of questions come to putting on their makeup. My fa- played out in our minds. Kind mind. Like. where are they vorite is when the people around of sick, but natural I suppose. from? Do they go to school? me are kissing. Whatever you do, the car How old are they? Are they Now that I think about it, l game is safe only in the car, married? Oh, this is terrific. must also look just as foolish be- otherwise you will run the risk When I'm really bored I can cause I'm constantly 1ookit1g on of getting seriously hurt be- come up with some really great all sides of me and I usually laugh cause trust me, people are eas- stories. TI1ere is this woman in aloud or at least smile. TI1ey are ily annoyed. Ask my neighbor. my town, who I'm convinced is probably thinking, \What the hell She tried to kill me once. u~~c~~LAJ F C111L'1~ Josef Schmee Kenneth B, Sharpe, Professor of Management A Statistician's View of the Quality of Movement Tuesday, May 31, 19.94 . at 4:30PM College Center Auditorium Coffe,e & Tea Will Be s·erved at 4:00PM All Are Welcome to Attend You've Just Got to Love Those Dorms Who wouldn't want to share their space with hundreds of other people? by Erin O'Neil Features Editor There's nothing like life in the donns. I can not tell you how delighted I was upon retuming from my tenn abroad this winter, only to find out that I would be spending the remaiilder of my jllnioryearin luxurious Fox Hall. Who wants to deal with the hassles of off-campus living any- way'? You'd be crazy not to want to grab the opportunity to share yom personal space with hun- dreds of people you don't even know. Sure. it gets a little messy, a little noisy, but hey- it's college! E~erybody knows the donns are where it's at. But even as pro- donnitory as I am, I have man- aged to detect a few minor flaws in this seemingly flawless system. Th1s past weekend, some wacky residents decided it would be funny to throw eggs at. and into, various locations of Fox. These rascals were particularly crafty in their choice of the clothes dryer. What a good idea! Let's throw raw eggs in the dryer so whoever puts their clothes in it will have the joy of washing them all over again. Ha ha! What fore he/she hurled right in the doorway. Imagine my surprise when I returned home that same evening, having had a few drinks myself, and had to step over the pool of boot in order to relieve hair which comes out of your head while shampooing onto the shower walls? Where were you people raised?! Of course these problems do not lie solely on the shoulders of a funny joke! I also can't help but ad- mire how lovely the rotten egg on the front door looks. A great decorating idea, and so inex- \You'd be crazy not to want to grab the opportunity to share your personal space with hundreds ofpeople you don't even know. Sure it's. a little r:n.essy, a little noisy, but hey~ i·t's college! ... my fellow donmnates. Perhaps if the extra money were allocated to clean the bathrooms over the weekend I wouldn't have to brush my teeth at a pensive! Vomit control seems to be an- other problem which plagues our fair residence. Weeks ago, atipsy student christened our entranceway with his/her red, chunky stomach bile. Thank- fully, no one has thought to hose it off so that every time I enter and exit, the heavenly smell wafts into my nostrils. An even more pleasant experience occurred about three weekends ago. when another intoxicated resident made it all the way to the bathroom be- myself, nearly losing the contents of my own stomach in the process. Oh, the delightfully sour smell of vomit! While on the topic ofbathroom cleanliness, I'm going have to say that ours is not quite up to snuff. How is one supposed to glow with that \fresh from the shower\ feel- ing after standing in two inches of dirty water because the drains are clogged with hair balls and assorted shower trash? And is there really any need to smear the sink filled with loogies and after- vomit residi.te. We wouldn't have to fight every morning for the one working shower, as using any other is an experience I've been told is similar to a Nazi torture chamber. l myself equate it to standing outside naked during a raging hurricane. In my three years of dormitory living, I have yet to figure out what is the exact source for the garbage/excrement-type smell emitted from all-male floors. It nearly knocks me out every time I go to do my laundry. How can one live breathing in such fumes day after day? And why is this most displeasing aroma a solely male attibute? Is this the \musk\ smell which is supposed to tum women on, or are freshman males simply unfamiliar with the con- cept of bathing? One thing I will surely take away from 'n'IY experience at Union college are my fond memories of donn living. Prior to entering college, I had consid- ered communal living as a pos- sible lifestyle choice upon gradu- ation. Thanks to Residence Life, and the tidy residents of Fox Hall, I have learned to despise every person living within a fifty foot radius of myself, and now realize that would not be the best choice for me. So, thanks. By the way, I'd like scrambled eggs with my underwear next time. :1!

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT May 19, 1994, page 17 The Reel Picture: Spike Lee's \Crooklyn ,, Finally, The Positive Review You Have All Been Waiting For by Larry Paska ConcordiensisStaff Starring Alfre Woodard,.Delroy Lindo. Directed by Spike Lee. Rated PG-13; Universal Pic- tures. RATING: *** (out of four) ----------------~--------~-------------- Once again,.. Spike Lee has made . anothet.6rigim:i1 film: this one has no controversy attached to its theme. In a complete reversal from standard Lee fare, the only con~ . troversy to be found in his latest work is the absence of anything that would offend those,, ohl enough to count. Perhaps t~at's why his films IU'e taking o11lighter ratings; this film· is so clean, it al- mostdeserves a PG rating. Co-scripted by Lee and two of his siblings/'Crooklyn\ is a semi- autobiograp:hical look at the filmmaker's roots in Brooklyn. Although set around the mid- 1970's, this is a time beforerap, guns, and drugs ruled the streets. At least, they don't rule on the family's block, where the story is set. Woodard once more deliv- ers a wonderful perfonnance as mother and teacher Carolyn Carmichael, whos¢ household and job duties transform her into a strict disciplinarian. Her hus- band, Woody (Lindo), is a musi- cian too proud to play anyone else's music but his own; there.- fore, he has difficulty Ihaking ends meet and keeping harmony with his working wife. Perhaps the biggest controversy might be the absence of a definable plot. The film is little more than a series of vi- gnettes on family life, with daugh- ter Troy (newcomer Zelda Har- ris, a talented young actress) emerging as the focus of the screenplay. She is the outsider in the family, contending for rec- ognition among her four competi- tive brothers. She appears to hold the family together, playing the roles ofmother, daughter, sibling and symbol of innocence simul- taneously. No .character is more developed than she is, which is a shame,sincethe viewer never gets 'a clear sense ofthe four boys' per- ception of life in this family. In fact, the family members are always in conflict, this film's theme that never stops for a mo- ment. Don't they all get tired of arguing? Despite the internal battles, the common features of dysfunctional family, such as child abuse and alcoholism, and conspicuously absent here. The parents care about their family, but don't know how to go about providing the best for them. Lee proves again he is a mas- ter of filmmaking, creating innovatively-shot scenes and images, but.not always explain- ing their meaning. Troy's sum- mer visit to a relative's )lOUSe in Florida is shot with a distorted lens, sym- bolizing her view of the relative's surround- ings as for- eign and un- comfortable. While this technique is interesting, confused audiences will likely scream at the projec- tionist for what appears to be a switch from standard to widescreen film. Lee should not expect his audiences to guess his motives; unfortunately, he directs in this manner all the time. His stmytelling skills are not as sharp this time, making this a mildly unpolished film. The soundtrack, containing 70's soul and pop. music ranging from l11e Jackson Five's \ABC to The Stylistics's \People Make the World Go Round,\ isrelied on too heavily to convey meaning. l11e end credits, shown over footage from the television series, \Soul Train,\ is an eerie image back in time ... to an age just two decades past. As a re-creation of the cul- ture, Lee reminds us briefly where we were. Yet he never shows us where we're going (again, the ab- s~nce of controversy). Taking away this standard Lee controversy itself does not weaken the film, but by not filling the void. Spike Lee has made a nice little film that is only just \there.\ Still, \Crooklyn'' remains one of the better films now playing, and a testament to the belief that you don't always need to be preten- tious to make a film. Loc.al Arts and Entertainment Calendar . .. .'f j ~: ~(;•Jf j' • .r(,. •tf'tf '.: -1 • • • • , '• • J mUBSDAY. MAY 19 TOM McGOVERN: New York City photographer and photography editor of the Village Voice will visit Union to critique photography students' work, present his own work and discuss ~areer possibilities. Union College. 388-6201. WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: Lavish musical presents the life & career ofWill Rogers with girls, glitter & glamour. Proctor's, 432 State St., Schenectady; $27.50-$39.50 382-3884. FRIDAY. MAY 20 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Grumpy Old Men,\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. CROSSING DELANCEY: Heart-warming comedy about what · happens when a modem Jewish woman falls in love with a man ·r ... ,,,,,,,,,, .• .._~...,.\\\· who works in a traditional Jewish deli. Albany Public Theater, ; .. , Albany Civic 111eater, 235 Second Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $10. 462-1297. ST. CECILIA ORCHESTRA: Kenneth Kiesler conducts Mostly Mozart, Symphony No. 29, Symphony No. -10 and Sibel.ius' Romance In C Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second & State Streets, troy; 8 pm, 433-9513. WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: See Thursday, rytay 19. SATURDAY. MAY 21 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 20. CROSSING DELANCEY: 5 & 9 pm. See Friday, May 20. SHOSTAKOVISH PIANO CYCLE: Jeffrey Stein, music for solo piano. St. Anthony's Church, 331 Seward Place, Schenectady; 8 pm, $8. 374-4591. TERRENCE BLANCHARD: Jaz_z trumpeter; will perfonn a tribute to Billie Holi- day. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, comer of State a11d Second Streets, Troy, 8 pm, $20. 273-0038. VISIONARY JAZZ • MUSIC .BEYOND THE TIMES: Tisziji Munoz with Pharoal1 Sanders, Bemice Senenski, piano, Don Pate, bass, Bob Moses. drums, pre- sented by Anami Music & Master Copies. Page Hall, SUNY A, 135 Westem Ave., Albany; 8 pm, $10.436-8992. · WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: See Thursday, May 19. SUNDAY. MAY 22 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 20. CROSSING DELANCEY: 3 pm. See Friday, May 20. VISIONARY JAZZ- MUSIC BEYOND THE TIMES: 2 pm. See Saturday, May 21. WILL ROGERS FOLLIES: See Thursday, May 19. MONDAY. MAY 23 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 20. TUESDAY, MA V 24 COLLEGE CENTER A liD. FILM: \Top Gun,\ 8 & 10 pm, $1. . THURSDA V, MAY 26 JAZZ ENSEMB,LECONCERT: Chet's, College Center, Union College. 388-620 I. FRIDAY. MAY 27 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Six Degrees of Separa- tion,\ 8 & 10 pm. $2. CONTINUOS EXHIBITS THROUGH JUNE 19 PONDER THESE THINGS: Artists explore social, political, and spiritual ideas through a va- riety of media including painting, sculpture, collage, and pho- tography. New York State Museum in Albany. 4 7 4-120 I. THROUGH JULY 24 FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: This exhibit presents selections from the vast and varied holdings of the New York State Museum. Includes Harley Davidson Motorcycle. horse power, 19th century architectural woodwork, portraits, paintings, fossils, gems, crystals, and much more. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff i ~ I ! I .-...

t • : ' : ., May 19, 1994, Page 18 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Joint Student Exhibit: Part III of a Series Courtesy of Visual Arts Department Lieback,Melissa Ellen Tolan, and Chad LaBonte have been dis- played. They consist of many The art work of Andrew mediums including photographs, Chapman and Jeff Spees will be paintings, monotype prints, and on display in the arts building sculptures. atrium in .part three of joint stu- \It is strongly recommended dent art exhibits. The two seniors that you visit these wonderful will be exhibitin~ works from exhibits. They are not only visu- their senior projects. ally stimulating, but also quite Andrew Chapman is currently enlightening,\ said one visitor. a senior Visual Arts major at TI1e collections will be exhib- Union College. His training in- ited from Monday, May 23 eludes an eight month study at a through May 27. 1994. The Gal- painting school in southern leryhoursare9amto9pm,seven France. His works explore the days a week. There theme of \It is strongly recommended self-aware- h . . h d f I will be an n e s s through color, tone. t at you vasit t ese won er u opening perspective and image. exhibits. They are not only reception visually enlightening, but also for An- d r e w quite enlightening.\ a~apnal's in painting and photography. Jeff Spees is a senior Visual Arts and Biology major at Union College. His art seeks to expose archetypes and the collective, primitive nature of humanity. Works include paintings, photo- graphs, and sculptures. TI1ese two exhibits are part of a series of senior projects being displayed in the Arts Atrium Building. Already, the exhibits of Dm1ielle Triola. Wendy exhibit. \Andrew Chapman: Works,\' and JeffSpees' exhibit, and \Jeff Spees: Creations,\ to be held Tuesday, May 24, from 4 to 6 PM, in the Arts Building Atrium. Refreshments will be served and the public is invited. Future exhibits will include the works of Jean-Paul Torres and Maggie Weber. Torres' works will be exhibited from May 30 to June 3, while Weber's will be dis- played from Jufle 6 to June 11. Above, \Scissors\ by Andrew Cl.apman, one of Iris works to be on display from /tis Senior arts project Below, Jeffery Speees \Tire Can Man', wlliclt will be on display from May 23-27 in tl1e Arts Atrium. The Department ofPer.forming Arts presents JAZZ CONCERT Performance by Professor Tom Ross, guitar Alumnus Mike Migliozzi, drums Ray Jung, bass Special Guest Carol Daggs, piano and vocal Friday, May 20, 1994 7:30pm Arts Builiding Room 215 Pete Hamill's New Book, A Dri~.lf(ngLife, a.M.emo.ir of.His Life by Suzanne Robinson Arts Editor Pete Hamill's latest novel, A /)rinking Lffe, recently published, relates to us his own life. It cap- tures his life from his childhood during the Depression Era to his Navy years to his years in the world of reporting. He takes us inside the \culture of drinking\ that surrounded him and mvolved his. and which finally destroyed him marnage. Hamill is a recovering alco~ holic of twenty years. He started his writing career as a reporter for the New York l'osl in 1960 and is the author of seven novels, in- . eluding the critically acclaimed Llwining Women. He has been a columnist for many years at the l'osl, and has rec~ntly become the editor-in-chief. A Drinking L!fe, is Hamill's first nonfiction book. He brings to life the hard~drinking environ- ment that shaped his childhood and early years as a reporter. In a recent interview about his new book, Hamill expressed his reasons for writing ,the book and what he hoped people would walk away with. Hamill hoped his book might help people figure out why to stop drinking, without it being a sennon. \l11e key to it was that if you have some prob- lem in your life, you can't sepa- rate the problem from your life. You can't separate the dancer from the dance.\ This was Hamill's theory. Hamill recants how he first fell into \a drinking life.\ One major reason he recalls was his father who was a drinker. ''As a kid you ge through a stage of hero wor- shipping your father.\ Also, Hamill explains,it was the people around him. As a sailor in the navy, or a young man at the fringes of the art world in New York, drinking was a common thing. In response to whether this book was an aspect ofhis recov- ery from alcoholism, Hamill says he doesn't see it that way. \Ev- ery ·drinker is an 'individual, and if he or she feels there's a prob- lem, there's maybe a way of get- ting out of it with grace and honor and living the rest of your life.\ · He goes on to say, \if one person picks it [the bookJtlp and decides to save his or her lif~, then it was worth writing.\ Beyond the drinking aspect, Hamill hopes that if people read this book and see what he has been through and what he has done, that they realize that they too can do anything as well.

)• t- Jr , Ill ~s iS ~t, td as as ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT May 19, 1994, Page 19 Solar Eclipse Provides Illuminating Photograph Courtesy of tlte Visuals Arts Department , On Tuesday, May 1 0, at 1 :36 PM, .a solar eclipse occurred over Union College. Many students were enthralled with the event. Thetewere groups of students all over the campus trying to catch a safe glimpse ofthe eclipse. Out- side the Arts Building, Professor Cad George was surrounded by eager students waiting in line to use his homemade apparatus con- sisting simply ofa paper cup, with a hole punched in it. There was also a group of students in front of the Science and Engineering Building, waiting to view fhe event through a special telescope. Not only were people viewing the eclipse, they were also notic- ing the effects it had. In the adja- cent picture, one can see the shad:. ows fonnedhy the event. Teresa Bruns, from Carpinteria, Califor- nia was able to see the annular eclipse. Had Teresa not been at Union to visit her sister Andrea, she would have missed the eclipse entirely since the path of this rare event began in Baha, Mexico, below Carpinteria. Photographer Plloto of Andrea Burns andlter sister, Teresa, under tlte European Lindell tree outside tlte Arts Building duri11g tile solar eclispse that occured on May 10, 1994. Tile picture was taken at 1:40PM. Photo by Leif Zurmulllen. Leif Zurmuhlen snapped this por- trait .of the two sisters-under the shade of the European Linden outside the arts building. The crescent shaped patches of light cast on Andrea and Teresa are the images of the sun partially eclipsed by the moon at 1:40pm. Jazz Concert by Union Faculty and Alumni Photo of Professor Tom Ross of tire Visual and Performing Atts Department at Union College w.itll/1is guitar. Courtesy Qjtlle Department of Performing Arts Jazz- America's contribution to new art forms- comes to life at the Arts Building this Friday. Perfonners are Union's own Pro- fessor Tom Ross, guitar: recent alumnus Mike Migliozzi. drums: bassist Ray Jung: and special guest Carol Daggs, piano and vo- cal. Pieces will include originals by Ross and Daggs, as well as those from the bebop and swing reper- toires. Ross' \Snoll{/ake a rocker in 5 beats, premieres at Union, together with hopper .. Chari ie Parker's \Scrapple .from the Apple\ and Anton Carlos Jobim 's sultry bossa novas. Daggs will favor us with impro- vised vocal scatting as well as in- terpretations of songs. The concert on Friday, May 20th, is free of charge. l11e con- cert will begin at 7:30 PM in Room 215 of the Arts Building. Bring your friends and support the arts at this toe-tapping and adven- turous occasion! Lisa Loeb performs at Union, benefit for Muscular Dystrophy Association by Andrew Schneider Contributing Writer Muscular dystrophy is a heredi- tary disease charactru:ized by gradual wasting of the muscles, which leaves thousands severely handicapped and disabled. Ev- eryday, scientists are learning valuable information about the debilitating affects of muscular dystrophy. Unfortunately, this research requires expensive instrumenta- tion and el~borate procedures. Fortunately, the Muscular Dys• trophy Association is trying to raise hard to find money and provide funds for scientists to combat this disease. On Tuesday, May 10, 1994the Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta helped the Muscular Dystrophy Association win a small victory over the disease by hosting a char- ity concert/coffee house that fea- tured Lisa Loeb. a current pop art- ist known for her song \Stay'' from the Reality Bites Soundtrack. The atmosphere for the evening was established by a brilliant wann-up act featuring an acous- tic performance by Scott Morissey, Jesse and Damian Ashdown, Rich Lee, and Fiji brother Ryan Marcus. Despite the campus-wide power failure, Lisa Loeb took the stage full of electricity and filled everyone's ear with rhythm and harmony. This non-alcoholic event, drew over 120 people and raised $350 for the Muscular Dystrophy As- sociation. Coffee was provided free of charge by ABC Coffee Service. Much thanks goes to Brother Adam Goodman, a friend ofLiza Loeb; who was instrumen- tal in organizing the event. Interested in writing for Arts & Entertainment? Call X61SS.

' ' ,I-' '' ' \'r, ,. I ' l ' --··; May 19, 1994, page 20 PERSONALSICLASSIFIEDS Personals Sleeping Beauty - Thanks· for showing me X-gaits 4 (wed & a) Fun. - Ski-boy GUNGA - I don't think he'll be so keen you see, he has already got one. TERM ABROAD. Holborough: We found your legs! They're in the maiL Signed, your concerned Brothers in Aus- tria r<I>B's: I miss you guys! Can't wait to see everyone again in the fall. Hang iri there pledges - you're almost done. - Carrie Chantal, Jules, Daniella, and Deb -Miss you tons- wish I was there! Better not be too many HU Fac- tors I don't know about. Love, Carrie Jeff: Punched any windows lately? (Just remember you could go blind!) I miss you lots! Love, Boots. Holborough: Wasn't even Lodg- ers that found your legs! E>AX. Can't wait 'til June 9, Kev! I love ya! Hell-lo BET A! Wednesdays just ar~n't the same! Craig M/B, \.Quick -- Draw,\ Floundy, and Lainez: hope you're being all-kinds-of-naughty! See ya at graduation! Hello Deanna, Chrissy, 3rd Floor Fox South (what's going on with that floor - rumors!O Jeni - haven't found him for you yet. Miss you all! Jenn Shannon: \We get really d. on v. and s. a b ... \ Miss you and Mor- gan and Liz (Can I bum a smoke?) Say hi to Richmond! Love, Alissa To the bothers of Sigma Chi - TI1anks for the great night! Ev- erything was smoothe and went down easy! Hope to do it again soon! -The sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the bothers of Sigma Phi - Thanks for the great party! The sing off was fun, but we WON! Hope we can do it again soon! - T11e sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To tl1e newly initiated sisters of Gamma Phi Beta - Congratula- tions!- the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta Pam, Jenni, and Bri - I can't be- lieve that we are almost done. It seems like just a little wl1ile ago that I walked into our room in Chester Arthur for the first time. I love you guys so much, and I'm going to miss you terribly. -the fourth musketeer. Fruit - Some people just aren't worth the sadness. ·I love you, and I knoW there are a lot of other people who do too. I'm so proud ofyou. Love ... your big sister A, 4 years - 8 bad months =5/6 of l amazing relationship.Happy Anniversary Pi- we'll celebrate when we're both out ofhell! I love you. Forever yours, H Congratulations to Women's Novie Crew. Kate I predicted top three and that's just the way it went. I knew you were good from the fall. I didn't expect stardom so soon. Your all Great- E.S. Bu - TI1ank rou for 3 wonderful years as a best friend! Now that our time is over, we have both moved on. I. am sorry it had to be this way. One day I can only liope that you can forgive me. I will miss your friendship most impor- tantly. Maybe someday we can try it again, but I won't hold !JlY breat. Thank you for helping me through an important time in my life that I shall never forget or re- gret. I only hope you can do the same. Thanx for everything. -MAC Classifieds ·. ~ Part,. Time Opportu~ity: TAD Technical Services Corporation, Albany is looking for a tempo- rary Darkroom Assistant. Must be able to process J3/W film .. Ten to 20 hours a week, with a 2 - 4 month duration. See th¢ CDC for more details. Summer Internship: Beyond -l11e Wall, Fairfield, CT,. an ad- vertising poster catalog ccimpany looking for an Advertising/Pub- lic Relations Intern to worJ<: in an unstructured creative environ~ m~nt. Paid position begins end of ac·ademic year and' runs through Labor .Day, See tire CDC. Internship: Makovsky & Com- pany Inc., New York 1sa mid- size public relations·finn looking for interns for Fall, Spdrfg, and Summer. Six month lead time· is. . - f suggested on desired internship period. Stipend available. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Kaplan, Albany is offering a Marketing/Publ+c Re- lations Internship for Fall '94 and Winter/Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: The Bank of New York, Manhattan. is of- fering summer positions to be as- signed to a branch in Manhattan. See the CDC for further details. Seniors looking for pennanent positions after graduaation should see go to the CDC. Summer Job: A couple in Loudonville, NY, is seekipg a governess to care for 10 year-old daughter. See the: C.D~ forfHr:- . ther details. Summer Job: Catn.p :Mmdit1, Maine, is searching fq'r co·Jle~~ students for summe:r. ~tnploy- JUNIORS- WATSON MEETING_, .... A Reminder. For information about the Watson Travelling Fellowship, coiTie to the information meeting today at6:30 PM in SS014. The meeting will last no more than 45 minutes. If you can't make it, please fill out the form and return it to Prof Klein in the·Econon1ics Department: Yes! I'm a Junior, and I want to I earn how to win $15,000 for a year of travel after I -graduate, but I can't make the infonnation meeting. Name: Box: Phone: ----------------- Major(s): --------------------------~~ Return to Prof. Klein in the Economics Department, as soon as possible Notice: The listing for English 31 in the 1994 Summer School Catalogue is incorrect, It should Read: English 31 -Masterpieces of English Poetry- Prof. Heinegg From Geoffrey Chaucer to Adrienne Rich, from medieval England to mod~tn America: select, intensive readings from The Norton Anthology of Poetry. While surveying thts work in its historical context, the course will also emphasize the \titne- less\ qualities of poetry: verbal magic, tragic and comic vision, the creation of alterna- tive worlds. Term I, Mon., Wed. 6:00-9:00 PM ''' ment. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Rice Inn Chinese & American Restaurant, search- ing for summer help. Must flu,. ently speak Chinese ~preferably Cantonese) and Engljsh. See.the CDC for further details. teenage bicycling trips. Apply now. See the CDC for further details. Summer lnternshi.p: The Cor- porate Response Group Inc., Washington, D.C. is offering un- paid summer internships. See the CDC for further details. Internship: Prudential Securities, Albany has an opportunity avail- .able for undergraduates and graduates. to gain experience working directly with a financial advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to .apply. intern- ship is unpaid but a possible sti- pend may be av?.iJable after proven ability. See the CDC for more info. Summer Job: The Schenectady Jewish Community Center is looking for a summer day camp, early childhoodunitl1ead. See the CDC for further details. Summer Internship Opportu- nity: 'T11e Bank of New York, New York City offers summer in~ temships in one of their Manhat- tan branches. lntelils will t~ceive on the job training in customer service, and in banking pr.oducts and services .. More infonnation in the CDC. Summer or Fall lnternship: -FLY 92 , Albany Broadcasting Company, Albany offers a di- verse communication media ex- . perience in a professional atmo- sphere. See the CDC for more info .. Summer Progmm: Student Hos- . teling Program has summer lead- ·ership positions available for For Seniors looking for .perma- nent opportunities the CDC Li- brary rece.ives job announce- ments on a regtilar basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are SAM - 5PM Monqay - Friday; 7 - 9PM Tuesday & ~ednesday, while school is in session. .. . ', Make your Reservations Now!· . FEAR TEST TAKING NO MORE! HYPNOTHERAP:Y · Can Help you with: ~ Test Anxiety .. Pub 1 ic Speaking - Weight Loss -Self -Esteem -Quitting Smoking .Call PA TRlCIA RUMORE, M.A. Counseling Certified Sypnotherapist 435-.1200 /

SCHEDULE May 19, 1994, page 21 Campus Events Thursday 5/19/94 lO:OOa 4:00p Friday 5/20/94 9:00a 3:00p 4:30p 6:30p 8:00p 12:00a Saturday/5/21194 \0:30a lOOp I:OOp S:OOp S:OOp 8:00p 8:00p 12:00a IO:OOp -12:00a Sunday 5/22/94 II ·OOa I :OOp 3 OOp 8.00p 8 ·OOp I :?:OOa l\1onday 5/23/94 S:OOp 9:00p 8.00p 12:00a Tuesday 5/24/94 8 OOp 12 OOa \Vednesday 5/25/94 8:00p 1 O:OOp Red Cross Bloodmobile Sponsor: Student Activities Bake Sale Capital District Youth Chorale Table T.G.l.F. Movie: \Grumpy Old Men\ At 8:00 and 10:00 PM Dr. Jamie Washington Diversity Ser.ies Spel;lker Carnival Student Activities Spring Fest Carnival Outdoor Concert Student Activities· Spring Fest Alumni Gym Table 1 - CC Atrium Chet's CC Auditorium Old Chapel CC Front Lawn, West Beach CC Patio Movie: \Grumpy Old Men\ CC Atrium at 8:00 and !O:OOPM Leighimn, Cari, Sablina Spring Fest Comedians Youth Olympics Atroturf (Bailey Filed) Battle of The Bands SringFest Festivities l'vtovie \Grumpy Old Men\ -at 8·00 and 10:00 PM Senior Dinner Dean of Students Oftice Movie. \Grumpy Old Men\ at 8:00 and 10 00 Pl\1 Movie: \Top Gun\ at 8.00 and JO·OO PM Terry Anderson Bicentennial Lecture · ' Alexander Field CC Patio CC Auditorium Upper Class Dining CC Auditorium CC Auditorium Memorial Chapel Student Activities Meetings Thursday 5/19/94 12 OOa 4JOp 1200a 5 30p 12:00a 12:00a 6·00p 7:30p 6:00p 8:00p 7:00p 12:00a Friday 5/20/94 l2:00a 1'2:00a 7 :OOp I I:OOp l\tountebanks Rehearsal Mountebanks Dressing Room \Last of the R,ed Hot Lovers\ Sponsor: Art Department SHPE Student Forum Meeting Death of a Salesman Rehearsal \Last of The Red Hot Lovers\ Sponsor: Art Department Philomathean Society \Coffeehouse\ CC Auditorium CC204 Old Chapel Humanities 1 13 CC409 SSOI6 Old Chapel Hale House-Everet Fero 102 S tulclif)llt .Ac Uvi Ues/ CvUesru Cellt()lr llliiglllllliigllllt~ Cl-tET 1 S ThunsdAy: 'INT 1 l BEER FEsTivAl FRidAy: Diversity Series presents Eco Club T.G.LF. Prof. Steven Berk Thursday I May 1 9 7:30 PM CCAUD SATURdAy: Jamie Washington Saturday 1 May 21 10:30 AM CoMEdiANs! Old Chapel PERfoRMiNG Ams PRESENTS JAil CONCEIIT, FRidAy, MAy 20, 7: ~0 PM, ARTS 21 5 lAs! of IHf llEd HOILOVEI!S, MAy 18 .. 20, 7: m PM, Old CHApEl NOTICE: The Office of the Student Activities and the College Center, Concordiensis, and the Office of Events are now working together to present this calendar. In order to facilitate the centralization of scheduling, !!!J.1x events and meetings scheduled through the Qffice of Events win be listed. Events are listed according to categories as designated by that office. Callx6098 or stop in to their office in Wells House to list your events. Saturday 5/21/94 ·g OOa 5 OOp 8·00p 12:00a Sunday 5/22/94 7 OOp 9:30p Monday 5/23/94 7:00p 8:00p 8:30p t 2:00a Tuesday 5/24/94 I :30a 12:30p 12:00p I :30p 5 OOp 7.30p 6 OOp 7:30p 9 OOp 12:00a IO:OOp 12:00a \Vednesday 5/25/94 600p 8:00p 7:00p 8:00p 8:00p 12:00a 8:30p 9:00p 8:30p lO OOp 8:30p 12:00a U-MED \Coffehouse\ Student Activities Phi Iota Alpha Meeting WRUC Board Meeting Play Reherasal - \Sophie\ Fraternity/Sorority Meeting Campus Action Group Delta Psi Delta Meeting SHPE \Coffeehouse\ Student Activites Play Rehearsal -\Sophie\ Mountebanks Meeting Outing Club Chet's Committee Delta Psi Delta Meeting GL.B.A Meeting Play Rehearsal - \Sophie\ Hale House Fero 102 CC409 CC204 Arts215 CC409 CC205 CC203 HUII3 Fero 102 Arts215 SS103 CC409 Chet 1 s CC204 CC203 Arts 215P ·- ..,..

. ' ' . . ) ' } ') ' . • I May 19, 1994, page 22 SPORTS 1993-1994 Block U Varsity Letter Winners Edward Abbott, Indoor/Outdoor Track Lewis Acquarulo, Football Jennifer Ahrens, VolleybaH ChristoiJher Albert, Ice Hockey Jennifer Allaire, Women's Swimming Amy Ambrosini, Women's Swimming Michael Anderson, Football Julie Anderson, Women's Tennis Stacey Anderson, Softball Anthony Anderson, Men's Cross Country Frank Attah, Football, Outdoor Track Amelia Audette, X-Country!lndoor/Outdoor Track John Aurora, Jr., Football, Baseball Bill Bahrs, Men's Basketball Jason Baker, Football Jennifer Baldwin, Women's Swimming Katherine Barnett, Volleyball Jeffrey Bartel, Football Gary Ben-Ezra, Football Eli Benson, Men's Lacrosse Michael Bernardo, Baseball David Bernstein,. Baseball Kelly Bevan, Women's Swimming Damon Bizzell, Indoor/Outdoor Track Jennipher Borey, Women's Swimming Keith Bovardi, Football Scott Bowden, Men's Swimming Philip Boyce, Ice Hockey Scott Boyd, Ice Hockey Craig Bronder, Football Jennifer Brown, Field Hockey Michele Brustolon. Women's Lacrosse Christopher Bryan. Men's Swimming Cecelia Buchanan, Women's Swimming Gregory Buchanon, Ice Hockey Michael Bullen, Men's Soccer/Baseball Louisa Busalachi, Indoor/Outdoor Track William Callahan, Men's Basketball Tonya Capparello, Women's Basketball Kenton Chase, Men's Tennis David Chodosch. Men's Soccer Erik Chu, Men's Soccer Charles Clerici. Men's Outdoor Track Christopher Colpoys. Men's Cross Country Jonathan Comeau, Indoor /Outdoor Track Nicholas Conway, X-Country/lndoor/Outdoor Track Scott Corley, Indoor/Outdoor Track Edward Corrigan. Men's Indoor Track Jacqueline Crane. Women's Swimming Stephen Cusic. Football Dave Dagostino, Men's Basketball/Baseball Jennifer Davidson. Women's Sw1mming Margaret Day, Women's Lacrosse Christopher DeLano, Men's Lacrosse Sara Dingledy, Women's Soccer James Donigan, Men's Basketball Ryan Donovan. lee Hockey Charles Doran. Men's Soccer Amy Dougherty, Women's Basketball Allison Draizin. Softball Paul Drumm, Baseball Brad Duffy. Football Kate Durocher, Women's Lacrosse Gary Edmands, Men's Lacrosse Robert Emsing, Football James Ernst, Men's Swimming Kenneth Evans, Men's Basketball Steven Evans. Men's Basketball Dan Fabian, Men's Lacrosse Kimberly Fanning, Women's Soccer/Softball Nolan Farris, Indoor/Outdoor Track Penny Federbusch, Volleyball Megan Fehr, Women's Soccer Nadine Filosi, Indoor/Outdoor Track Jason Fishbein, Men's Tennis John Fitzgerald. Men's Swimming William Fleming, Indoor/Outdoor Track Christopher Ford, Ice Hockey Joanna Freedman, Women's Tennis Brad Funk. Men's Soccer Jonathan Gainor, Men's Outdoor Track Michael Gallant, Ice Hockey Heather Gauntt. Women's Soccer Rachel Goldfine, Women's Tennis Allison Gonyeau. Indoor/Outdoor Track Dean Goulet. Ice Hockey David Grandwetter, Men's Soccer Jason Greenstein. Baseball Susan Halliday, Field Hockey Christopher Hancock, Ice Hockey Gregory Harrison. Football Jam1e Haver, Men's Basketball/Baseball En Hayashi, Women's Sw1mmmg Paul Haydock, Football Amy Hitz, Women's Basketball Cory Holbrough, Ice Hockey,/Men 's Lacrosse Greg Holmes, Football Shane Holunga, Ice Hockey Neil Horgan, Football Adam Horst, Men's Swimming Megan Howell, Women's Soccer Stephanie Howk, Softball William Humphreys, Men's Swimming Michael Humphreys, Men's Swimming Lauren lngis, Women's Lacrosse Christopher Irving, Football/Men's Lacrosse Julie Ivanyi, Women's Swimming Jeffrey Jiampetti, Ice Hockey Robert Johnson, Men's Swimming Matthew Johnson, Football/Outdoor Track Suzanne Johnson, Women's Outdoor Track Lindsey Johnston, Women's Swimming Deanna Johnst0n, Softball Hillary Jospe, Women's Lacrosse Bradley Julicher, Football Andrea Kalabokes, Softball Lorene Kaminski, Field Hockey Rein is Kanders, Men's Basketba:ll Heather Kanser, Volleyball/Women's Swi111ming Jeffrey Kasowitz, Men's Tennis Amy Kessinger, Women's Tennis Mindy Kessler, Field Hockey/Women's Lacrosse Michelle Kleinhaus, Women's Basketball Steven Klopfer, Men's Tennis James Knight, Football/Baseball Tsuyoshi Kobayashi, Men's Swimming Eric Kujawski, Baseball Casey Kurz, Men's Soccer Chad LaBonte, Football Dagan LaCorte, Ice Hockey Mgr. Marco Lainez, Jr.. Football Amy Lamphere, Women's Swimming Elizabeth Landa, Women's Soccer Dawn Landry, Indoor/Outdoor Track Andrew Leach, Football Mike Leding, Indoor /Outdoor Track Jennifer Lelas, Softball C. Scott Lent, Men's Lacrosse Ian Lev, Men's Tennis Jeremy Liebhoff, Men's Soccer Andrea Light, Women's Basketball Edward Lippie, Football Keith Lombardo, Footbaii,/Baseball Melissa Lombardoni, Field Hockey, Women's Lacrosse Melissa Maguire, Women's BasketbaU Kevin Makarowski, Men's Swimming Mario Maltese, Men's Lacrosse Jennifer Manna., Women's Soccer/Women's Lacrosse Jim Manning, Football/Outdoor Track John Marbarger, Football Michelle McCarte, Field Hockey Owen McCarthy, Men's Lacrosse James McCloskey, Football Robert McHugh, Men's Soccer Alyson McKee, Women's Swimming Jonatha Meade, Women's Swimming William Mehleisen, Baseball Jeffrey Mel a, Men's Soccer Eric Menard, Men's Swimming John Mendelson, Men's Lacrosse John Metz. X-Countryllndoor/Outdoor Track Annika Michaels, Women's Soccer Mark Michalisin, Football Wendy Miller, Field Hockey/Women's Lacrosse David Mock, Football Alison Mohr, Women's Tennis Debora Montano, Softball/Women's Basketball Russell Monteith, Ice Hockey Bernard Moody, Ice Hockey Elizabeth Morse, Cross Country/Outdoor Track Sarah Morse. Cross Country/Outdoor Track Shuron Morton, Football/Indoor/Outdoor Track Craig Mosia. Football Mark Mulholland, Football Eric Murray, Football Scott Newton. Football William Nook, Men's Lacrosse Christine Nytransky, Softball/Women's Soccer Maureen O'Donnell, Women's Swimming Patrick O'Fiaherty, Ice Hockey Vincent Obermeier, Men's Soccer,/Men's Swimming Mark Oleson, Men's Soccer Gregory Oswitt, Football Andrea Pagnozzi, Women's Basketball/Softball Lauren Papa, Women's Soccer, Softball Kristen Pappas, Women's Lacrosse David Parrott, Men's Lacrosse Joshua Parsons, Football Jeff Pattridge, Men's Lacrosse Luke Payne, Men's Swimming Jon Pearlman, Men's Tennis Molly PearsalL Field Hockey/Women's Lacrosse Ryan Peek, Football Daniel Penna, Football Justin Perkins, Men's Lacrosse Kevin Pessolano, Football Drew Pirich, Men's Swimming Daniel Plakans,. Football Stuart Polk, Men's Soccer Lee Popper, Men's· Soccer Alan Poremba, Men's Outdoor Track Simon Poulis, Men's Basketball Amy Powell, Women's Soccer Jay Prentice, Ice Hockey Richard Pulver, Indoor/Outdoor Track Chip Quarrier, Men's Swimming Mike Rauseo, Football Todd Ray, Men's Lacrosse Craig Reckin, Ice Hockey Douglas Redstone, Football Emily Retterer, Women's Soccer Jennifer Ricci, Women's Basketball/Softball William Rice, Men's Cross Country Kathryn Richardson, Field Hockey Jason Richetelli, Football David Riggi, Indoor/Outdoor Track Charrod Riley, Football Christopher Riley, Men's Swimming Hl;lather Rock, Women's Soccer . Scott Rose, M~n's Tennis Cara Rothfuss, Volleyball Stephen Rotkiewicz, Men's Lacrosse Anne Rozwadowski, Women's Swimming Brett Rubin, Baseball Nicole Rubin, Women's Swimming Seth Rudin, Cross Country/Outdoor Track Joseph Ruggeri,. Football Adam Russell, X-Countryllndoor/Outdoor Track David Saad, Men's Swimming Erica Saltz, Women's Swimming Joseph Saltzbart, Baseball/Men's Swimming Kristian Sanchack, Indoor/Outdoor Track Stuart Savage, Men's Soccer Leigh Schmidt, Men's Lacrosse Matthew Schmitter, Football Andrew Schneider, Men'.s Tennis Linda Seymour, Cross Country/Outdoor Track Brett Shapiro, Men's Tennis Danielle Shelov, Women's Soccer Marc Sheridan, Cross Country/Outdoor Track Micah Sherman, Men's Lacrosse John Sicinski, Ice Hockey/Men's Lacrosse Ted Side!, Men's Lacrosse Marisa Silveri, Volleyball Nicole Silvestri, Volleybali,/Softball Jonathan Simon, Indoor/Outdoor Track Reid Simonton, Ice Hockey Geoff Sipperly, Men's Soccer Eric Skulte, Men's Lacross~ Eric Smith, Men's Swimming Nicole Solomos, Women's Soccer/Women's Lacrosse Georgia Southworth, Field Hockey Diana Spenello, X-Country!Indoor/Outdoor Track Danielle Spitz, Women's Soccer Blaire Spritzer, Women's Tennis Matt Stern, Men's Soccer/Outdoor Track Troy Stevens, Ice Hockey Mark Stodden, Men's Basketball Russell Stram, Indoor/Outdoor Tra.c:k Pat Streck, Men's Soccer Nathaniel Stuntz, Men's Swimming Matt Sugarman, Men's Basketball Kevin Sullivan, Baseball Brendan Sullivan, Indoor/Outdoor Track Christopher Swiecicki, Football Christina Taraborelli, Volleyball Sarah Teasdale, Cross Country/Outdoor track Paul Telesco, Men's Outdoor Track Marcelo Tellez, Men's Basketball/Outdoor Track Jennifer Terrell, Women's Swimming Chad Thompson, Ice Hockey Ray Tricozzi, Cross Country/Outdoor Track James Troy, Men's Lacrosse Richard Vargas, Men's Lacrosse Jennifer Vernon, Field Hockey Luigi Villa, Ice Hockey Gretchen Voegler, Volleyball Chantal Von Saher, Women's Tennis Tsutumu (Paul) Wakino, Men's Lacrosse Kevin Weedmark, Football Suzanne Weldon, Women's Soccer Christine Weske, Women's Soccer/Softball Michael White, Football Andrew Will, Ice Hockey Eric Williams, Men's Lacrosse Allison Williams, Women's Lacrosse Kevin Wilmot, Men's Soccer Geoffrey Wolfe, Men's Swimming Matthew Woodrow, Men's Swimming Michelle Woodward, Indoor/Outdoor Track Christopher Yousey, Men's Swimming N atasha Zabka, Women ~s Swimming ·Maria Zukowski,Women's Lacrosse

SPORTS ·Crew Team Concludes Another Successful Season ContinuedfromptJge 24 son by a combined time of less than a second. However, Ithaca would not even be a factor in this race. Union and Navy left the .rest of the field in their wake. The lead changed hands several times over the mile and a .quarter course with neither crew gaining a lead of more than ~wenty feet. The Union eight pulled off an incred- ible sprint over 'the last one hun- dred meters to finish side by side with Navy, It took the officials sion II level. The team was domi- over five minutes reviewing nated by freshman this year and video tape before it was deter.. was the. only club present at Na- mined that.Navy won by two tionals. Following a four year inches. plan set up by President Hull and The novice women's second other members of the Union Ad- place finish, along with the sue- ministration the team will gain cess of the other crews brought varsity status. With the support U·P .the question in the crowd, of the school and the leadership \Were is Union College?\ The of coaches Jim Crick, Eva team has successfully gotten the. Covack, and Alex Cmil this team attention ,of the .rowing commu- · · will continue to grow and gain nity and the best part is this is the speed. I can not wait to see what worst the team will be at the divi- Union Crew will do next year. . _)i - ' . . •.. . : ~~ Novice Women's Eiglttftom left to rigllt: Coaclt Eva Covack, coxswain Kate Lentz, Caroline Nemit, Eliza Eddy, Kim Deppoliti, CeCe Bucltanan, Nell Downey, Emily Smitll, Carmen McMurtry, Kate Heatlterton. (plloto courtesy of Steve Mooar) Call Herez Penske& save on your c::annpus ntolll!t .. IVa~il -~~· '1 0% otr when you leave carnpua with a Hertz Penaka ~n•r.:k We'll take I 0% e»ff when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske tri!ICk rentall We've got everything you need to make moving easy · a modern, clean fleet ... fr:ee unlimited mlleageon one way moves ••• convenient coast · to · coast loc41tlons •• a free moving guide .•. and all the accesorles to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the yello Pages for the Herta~: Penske location nearest you. 16 Brown Rd 228 Broadway Albany# NY' 12205 Menands, NY 12204 459 . 8090 426 . 4604 . ·· · Leaving Campus? · · · reid' • CraCk f'lrolft H•• &z Penalce 1111nd ge~ a 'fO% dlscounr on JI'CIUr o.ne ••.v 1l:ruclc re••lal. · DISCOUNT DISCOUNT lrlo...:f411bl•• ... ..,.., cl .. lfrl ..V~ ..- aa....,....l•.-d ,. •• ..,, •--.~-- .. 1 0\ - 24• trucks available • Automatic transmission and \ Free unlimited mileage aJr condtttoning on one way rentels . • ~4-h~ ~ergancy road sarvk:la Effective April 1, 1994 Good thru July .If, 1994 A \one way rental\ means your Hert~·Penske truck is rented in one city and returned to another.· _ , HertZ' Penske is a sewice of Penske Truck Leasing Co. , , , . May 19, 1994, page 23

~ .. ... May 19, 1994 PAGE24 Novice Women Finish Second at Nationals! by Steve Mooar Crew Correspondent The.Union College Crew Team competed in the Division II National Championships for the first time this past weekend in Virginia. Of the five crews eligible, four were invited to the event including the varsity women's eight, novice women's eight, JV men's eight, and varsity men's eight. For seniors Kristi Campbell, Kristina Frenyea, Josl1 Kaplan, J.J. Weiner, Steve Mo-bar, Kurt Venator, and Matt Kirk this would be the last race of their college xowing careers and probably the most memorable. For the varsity eights the field included the fastest eighteen schools in the country at this level. Many of the crews in attendance could even be considered in the short list for fastest crews in the country at any level. For example Temple, the winner of the varsity men's eight race, lost to Harvard, a very fast Division I crew, by only half a second. Union's eight being ranked twelve. Cox- swain Geo~gia Southworth and her crew:, including freshman Matt Sullivan, Lee Schmertzler, and Eric Minard,. with upper classman Eric Catalano, Josh Kaplan, Matt . Lann, Mike Cestone, and Rob Haslinger, would not be frustrated by the speed of the competition. When the racing was com- plete on Sunday, a fifth place finish in their . final improved their ranking to eleventh in the country. The varsity women's eight also im- proved their national ranking with a fifth place finish in their final. The. eight in- cluded coxswain Mark Weisman, Jen Voreman, Sandy Drnzba, Kristina Frenyea, Rebecca Barry, Kristi Campell, Rachel Seely, and was rounded out by freshman Lisa Hall and Karen Sigel, who had to be brought in 'late in the season to replace in- jured women's captain Heather Lech. TI1ey raced the entire season as an underdog, giving up size to every crew they faced. However, they never gave up and never stopped rowing hard. Of all the crews at Nationals they worked the hardest and de- served it the most. Union's men's varsity eight faced Temple in the heats. They learned that winning aNa- tional Championship as a lightweight crew at the Division Ill level in '93 meant nothing in this field. In the heat they finished sixth after rowing their fastest race of the year. TI1e·crew including coxswain J.J. Weiner, Rob Cressman, Matt Kirk, Kurt Venator, Matt For- ester, Doug Robertson, John Poor, Drew Forsberg, and Steve Mooar, ended the season seventeenth in the country. Of the Union varsity crews the JV men had the best ranking in the country. In the entire nation only twelve JV eights were invited with Despite great efforts by the varsity team one can not overlook the novice women. They were coming off a tough loss at states to Ithaca and responded by winning theit heat by open water. This placed them in the grand final with their nemesis Ithaca and a chance for revenge. The novice women have lost twice to Ithaca this sea- Tire Beaclt Volleyball Toumament was won by Pili Gamma Delta, tile llost fraternity. (Action photo by F. Jeremy Smith for Tile Concordiensis) Continued on page 23 Softball Team Finishes 5th by defeating Skidmore Courtesy of Concordiensis Sports This past weekend the women's softball team traveled to Binghamton for their first ever New York State Toumament ap- pearance. Seeded 7th of 8 teams, the Dutchwomen went in with little to lose, but a lot to prove. In the first game they faced a tough draw; Binghamton. Union played Dean Alford shows a fine follow tllrouglt during a rou11d of catc/1 011 West Beach (plloto by Joslr Willis Hail1es for tile Co~tcordiensis) them to a close game, but fell short with their hitting. The fi- nal score was Binghamton: 3 Union: 0 with an excellent pitched game by Alison Draizen. Because the New York State Championship is a single elimi- nation tournament, once you lose you immediately go to the con- solation round. Union still had something to prove. Putting the Binghamton game behind them, they went on to play their next game against Skidmore. It was Skidmore who this time fell a little short. The final score was Union: 9, Skidmore: 0. This game was pitched by multi-versatile Stacy Anderson. She pitched a two-hitter, and recorded her first ever career shutout. Skidmore who in the regular season had defeated Union twice packed their bags and left the tournament in shock. On to the next round in which the Union Dutchwomen faced RPI. Once Union took the lead they never looked back. It was a close game, hut Union always seemed in control. An excellent game was played by Union's shortstop Stephanie Hawk and also 2nd base Nicole Silvestri. The final score was Union: 6, RPI: 5, and the winning pitcher was Alison Draizen. Also to end her athletic career in two sports at Union College, is senior; Chris Weske, who caught the final out It's Over ... of the RPI game to seal the win. The Dutchwomen finished ~th in New York State, overall, which is an accomplishment in itself. With only one graduating s_enior, this young squad is looking to sur- prise a few coaches next year once again at the New York State Tour- nament. This_ time hoping that it is not in the consolation round. Wjth nine returning starters. a very .deep bench and a lot of ex- perience the Dutchwomen are looking forward to a great season next year. Congratulations to the entire team on a great season, and to our one graduating. senior, Chris Weske. Good luck, we wish you the best and we'll miss you! As the sports season concludes, The Concordiensis thanks all of the at·hletes who have represented Union in cQmpetition. (See Varsity Letter Winners - Page 22) I :I r! l! . i : ~ .l 'I ., j,; ,·

,l : I d il '! :t. ,, I~ -· ,, ,, ·I ., \ jl '< l ., '': \ ·-,, nn.cnr tensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XXIV Schenectady, New York ReUnion Weekend Will be a Blast by Charles Casey Public Relations Correspondent The public is welcome at a number of Uni,on College's \ReUnion\ activities from May 27 to May 29, including two spe- cial events on Saturday - an alumni parade at ll a.m. and fire- works at 9:30p.m. More than 800 Union College alumni are expected to return, to campus. The parade steps off from North Lane and proceeds clock- wise around the campus, finish- ing near the Nott Memorial at the center of the campus. The fireworks will be launched from Library Field., near the cen- ter of campus. In the parade wiH be the Mohonasen Marching Band, the Schenectady Pipe Band, the Hellerbergh Fife and Drum Corps, a calliope, a number of antique cars, and clowns. Each year, alumni from each class chooses a theme for their ReUnion and march in the parade with costumes and placards. The parade will conclude with an alumni convocation in front of Schaffer Library, during which Union's Alumni Council will present its Alumni Gold Medals for distinguished service, and the Faculty Meritorious Service award. eye atop tl1e scaffolding of tl1e Nott MemoriaL Union students bask in tire warm weatller and tire beauty ojUnifJil's blooming campus. In a few sl1ort months, tl1e blossoms will turn into tlte fiery foliage of November, when tl1e Nott Memorial will be completed (plloto by Josl1ua W. Haines for Tl1e Concordiensis) Nott Restoration: Halfway to Completion by Caroline Paine Ne.vsEditor As the' academic year draws . to a close, those working on the · Nott Memorial are preparing the structure for graduation. In order to provide more standing .room for Commence- . ment, the fence surrounding the Nott has been moved back sev- eral feet. A blue tarp will cover the fencing in order to detract from the construction. \They looked into .getting garnet tarps for commencement,\ said Paul Pothier, the Project Superinten- . dent, \But it would have not been financially feasible.\ According to Pothier, the con- struction on the Nott is now ap- - proximately 50% completed. The winter caused a retardation of the work, although with the recent good weather should lead to a sig- nificant increase in progress . \Work moves well this time of year. It is more comfortable to work in,\ Pothier said as he re- membered the bitter snow and wind of the winter months. Dur- ing the winter term. construction could only progress on the inside of the structure. Now the weather permits construction on the exte- rior as well as the interior. Since the last progress report of the Nott, there have been signifi- cant strides made. The elevator shaft has been completed from the basement to the second tier of the structure. Two more entrances to the building have been created, in addition to the original two. The main entrance, facing Li- brary Plaza, has been started. Ring beams have been put in place to support the structure and the outer dome has been started. The outer surface of the dome has been stripped of its slate cov- ering, so that an insulationlayer could be added. The glass 'stars' that originally shone in the in- side of the dome are also being replaced by stronger fixtures. When this is accomplished, the slate tiles will be replaced in the original formation. According to Pothier, the res- Continued on page 3 May 26, 1994 Pulitzer Prize Winner to Speak at Graduation by Michelle EUis Concordiensis Staff The Class of 1994 will hear their commencement address from a renown historian, biogra- pher, and journalist. McCull- ough, this year's graduation speaker and recipient of the hon- orary degree of Doctor of Letters, has much wisdom and experience to offer to the graduates. His critically acclaimed biog- raphy of Harry Truman is his greatest achievement thus far. This book, numbering over a thousand pages, was awarded the 1993 Pulitzer Prize. McCullough believes that Truman is the epitome of the American man. He had authen- tic frontier and middle American roots and led a very fascinating yet, straightforward life. McCullough· believes that Truman is an 'ordinary fellow who is called upon to do the ex- traordinary' and has been able to do it very well. According to McCullough the Truman Presi- dency is a very American theme. McCullough spent ten years researching and writing the Truman book. He conducted over a hundred interviews and physi- cally retraced the entire life of the former president. McCollough is convinced that it is essential that a historian know his full cast of characters inside out. He has become so cap- tivated by his work. He sees him- Continued on page 3 Spring Fest Weekend Draws Large Student Crowds by Caroline Paine News Editor In order to promote campus unity and a sense of community, the Social Committee sponsored a Spring Festival this past week- end, May 19-22. The weekend began with an early start on Thursday evening with an International Beer Festi- val. The Campus pub, Chet's, provided beers from around the world to be sampled by the legal portion of the College commu- nity. Drinks were atspecial prices and the sampling lasted well into the evening. On Friday evening 125 people turned out at the Ramada hlh for the Union spring formal, \The Spring Fling.\ The affair was catered with hors d'oet1vres from the Ramada along a Hawaiian theme. A 0;· J. played favorite dance tunes, while the dance floor remained crowded by party enthu- siasts for the majority of the evening. The next day, on Saturday af- ternoon, students basked in the wann weather and the wann sense of community -at a special Cam- pus Carnival. There were vend- ing booths from such companies as, Africana Jeweliy, J Crew, and Strawberries. Campus and Greek organizations sponsored booths to raise money for their favorite charities. There was a dunking booth sponsored by the Women's Union, sidewalk art from the En- t vironmental Society, pie throwing ~ from the Cheerleaders along with ·~ many others. Andrea Wilson, of ~ the Social Committee, reflected, ~\The carnival went very well.\ ~There was an excellent level of ~ campus wide participation. ' -g, Saturday evening an All Cam- pus Class Party and Concert was held to increase school spirit. Free food was provided in the College Center by Dining Ser- vices while Mitch Frasier pro- vided entertainment. Following dinner a Pink Floyd laser lights show was displayed in the col- Continued on page 4 Inside: News .••.••••..••..••.•••••.• & 2-4 Science •.••..••....•••••....•••• 5 . - - . ReUnion ...................... !) 6 Lette1~s .•.•...•••.•••••••.•.•..• 9 Springfest •••••.•.••..•••.•. 10 World News .•......•..... 11 Arts u••••••••••ee•••••••• 12-14 ·Features ........... ou······• 15 Personals ..••.........•..... 17 Sports ................... 19-20

May 26, 1994, page 2 Campus Info .... , ...... ~ ' NEWS CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, MAY 16. 1994: 9:30 AM Raymond/Potter Lot 8:56PM College Center Area TUESDAY, MAY J7, 1994: 1:1 S AM Alexander Field 7;31:1 PM 9:23PM Vale Cemetary Fox/Davidson Lot WEDNESDAY, MAY 18.1994: 1 :06 PM West College 2:00PM Sigma Phi THURSDAY.MAY 19, 1994: lO:OOAM West Dining 10:35 AM College Center Lot 5:29PM North College FRIDAY. MAY 20, 1994: 4:26AM Chi Psi 4:08PM Edwards House 5:43PM College Center 9:30PM Lamont Lot SATURDAY. MAY 21.1994: 1:45 AM West College 6:00AM 2:15PM 3:17PM 6:13PM 7:00PM 8:13PM 8:24PM West Parking Lot Phi Delta Theta Delta Phi Lot Campus Opr. Lot Chester Arthur Fero House Area College Center SUNDAY. MAY 22. 1994: 12:47 AM .Bailey Field 1:40AM 2:05AM 3:03AM 4:25AM 9:01AM 12:10 PM 1:30PM 1:50PM 2:44PM 6:23PM Fox North South College Southeast Campus Fox North Phi Delta Theta Aickok ,Lot B:umanities .Bldg. Campus Opr. Lot . Social Scien~e Bldg. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property Damage auto accident.. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor looking for redeemable cans or bottles. Suspect left area-not located on campus. A TEMPTED THEFT: Group of students attempting to remove sideline bench from field. Group fled abandoning the bench. VANDALISM: Graye markers overturned. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Visitors wandering through the parking area. Located and identified. Lot checked 00 dam- age noted. Advised off campus. FIRE ALARM: Caused by burned item in dining room toaster. SAFETY HAZARD: Possible code violation concerning occupancy in the boiler room area. · . MISSING PROPERTY: Charcoal-grin missing from Din- ing Service storage·. Located on 5/20 by Campus Safety Officer. Returned to West Dining. PARKING VIOLATIO~: Vehicle immobilized. Unreg- istered repeat violator. FIRE ALARM/MINOR FIRE: Minor fire in washing machine motor caused by overloading of the machine. No injury-damage Only to the washer. · V ANDAUSM/SAFETY HAZARD: Tampering with cov- ers for electrical and fire panels. FIRE ALARM: Caused by accidental contact with heat detector disk on 2nd floor. FIRE ALARM: Atrium Are~. Cause undetermined pos- sible defect in detector. Work order filed. THEFT: Credit cards stolen fr.om visitors vehicle. Pos- sible prank by friend of visitor. i THEFT: Student's property stolen. Suspect identified. THEFT: License plate stolen from staff member's car. VANDALISM: Basketball.post broken. TRESPASS: Visitor arrested. Had been warned off cam- pus and arrested previously. (Searching campus for redeemables.) VANDAL.ISM: Alumna's car damaged. Campus Safety Officer observed and identified suspect. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire alarm pull box in J st floor hallway intentionally activated. THEFT: Azalea shrub dug out and stolen. FIRE ALARM/MINOR FIRE: Minor electrical fire in air handling electrical contacts. No injury. Damage con- tained within air handler. Campus Electrician responded for repair. . FIRE: Minor fire in trash container caused py charcoal embers. No injury or damage. VANDALISM/UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Suspects gained entry to building via window. Screening damaged. Suspects confronted by stu~ents and fled. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken-accidental. VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Several acts· of van- dalism throt.Jghout area. Light pole damaged, items knocked over. Broken glass in roadways and .on sidewalks. UNAUTBORlZE:O ACCESS: Student and guests entered residence hall without authorization. Student involved identified. Conduct Charges filed. SAFETY I{AZARD: Sofa hanging off edge of the build · ing roof. Removed by Campus Safety Officers. MOTOR VEmCLE ACClDENT: Property damage to student's vehicle. No injury. BURGLARY: Theft of television and VCR from class room. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Taillight on campus vehicle broken.. Cause undetermined. BURGLARY: Campus Officers following up theft of TV ~d VCR from Humanities checked other sites where A V equipment is used and discoveredtheftofTV and VCR from a secofid classroom. Both thefts occurred over the week- ·.end. FIRE ALARM/SAFETY HAZARD: Alarm believed tp have been caused by malfunctioning detector. Work order on file to check detectors. During alarm a student advised of inability to hear the fire bells in music practice rooms. Work order filed for extension to fire bell system . .. .

Campus Helps Community Shelter Courtesy ·of Concordy News coordinated the event. Professor Ilene Kaplan of the sociology Department was the faculty ad- visor. NEWS May 26, 1994, page 3 Last Thursday, various women's organizations on cain- pus sponsored a raffle to raise money for the Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady. Tit rough coordinated teat1.1 efforts from the entire campus, including fraterni- ties and sororities, the sum of $924 was raised. TI1e success of the raffle demonstrated how well the campus can pull together for a worthwhile cause. The event was sponsored by the Sociology Department, Delta Gamma, Sigma Delta Tau, Gamma Phi Beta, Delta Delta Delta, and the Women's Union. Beth Decker, TI1e Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady was one of the first shelters established in New York State to help women and children who are in families with domestic violence. It has beel1 estimated that battering is the single major cause of injury to women in the United States. Tite Schenectady shelter receives ap- proxin:tately 2,000 calls on its hotline and offers temporary emergency housing to over 350 · clients each year. \This is much appreciated gift,\ stated Carol Mazurek, director of services to women at the Schenectady YWCA. Racl1el Katz, Professor Kaplan, len McDermott, and Beth Decker present gift to Y. W. C.A Director of . Services, Carole Merrill-Mazurek. (photo by F. Jeremy Smit/IITC) Rachel Katz, Rebecca Kleinhatidler, Jennifer McDermott and Jennifer Kruger Raffle prizes were donated by many campus and comrtmnity groups, including Delta Psi Delta, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Phi, Phi Sigma Kappa, the Campus Book Store, Food Services, Dutch Pip- Union Continues its Commitment to Recycling by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordlensis Staff The Union College Campus Operation department collected 159 tons of recyclable material in the form of cardboard, paper, plastic, tin and glass this year. Richard Mickus, director of Campus Operations, reported that Union College collected 12 tons of office paper, 62.2 tons of card- board, 54.1 tons ofplastic, tin and glass, and the balance in miscel- The week before graduation, Campus Operations will be lead- ing a large recycling campaign, called Operation Output. \Tables will be set up in every residence hall to collect all sundries, clothes and blankets that students are planning on leaving behind,\ said Mickus. \Everything that is col- lected will be dropped off at a lo- cal charity.\ Mickus stressed that in orderto improve recycling on campus, a student committee must be fonned. \Students need to create laneous items. their own program,\ said Mickus. \We have the ability to recycle \I would like to see students take just about anything. We can even ownership of recycling in dorms.\ recycle items like batteries and One suggestion that Mickus gave was for students to set up a large can drive outside the college cen- ter. He reported that \the mon- etary value of recycling would not benefit Campus Operations but students could collect be- tween three and four thousand dollars a year.\ Mickus estimated that over the last three years, Union College has increased their collection of recyclable goods by almost 50%. \We are looking at moving next years goal to 400 tons,\ said · Mickus. \That would be an am- bitious program, but it is pos- sible.\ toner cartridges,\ said Mickus. \We found a- place called Bam Raisers that will take anything we have to offer. They will find a use for everything.\ Campus Operations collects recyclable gQods in pop up bins McCullough to Speak at Graduation around campus. The bins are Continuedfrompage 1 emptied on Tuesdays, Wednes- days and Thursdays, and the items are brought to designated spots on ~self as a foreign correspondent campus. whose post is not necessarily far \We can recycle just about all away, but rather, located in the kinds ofpaper, that is everything past. McCullough wants people to except for envelopes with win- know that history is full of life, dows,\ said Mickus. \All of the and he tries to make his reading paper goes to a broker in Albany, as lively as the events were once and is then made into cheap toi- before. let paper and hand towels.\ McCullough believes that it is Cans, bottles and cardboard. are necessary for historians and stu- taken from the bins located dents of history to realize that around campus and are picked up nobody who lived in the past ever by a recycling company periodi- thought of themselves as living in cally. Campus Operations makes the present time. no profit from the recycling be- In addition to his recent biog- cause the money they receive is raphy of President Truman, \deducted from transportation,\ McCullough worked for Sports Illustrated shortly after graduat- ing from Yale. He also contrib- uted to Architectural Forum and Tfme, wrote for and edited Ameri- can Heritage, and wrote numer- ous novels and biographies. Ad- ditionally, he worked to create the PBS series, \The Civil War\ and he hosted PBS's \The American Experience.\ Grad'l.ates should not be sur- prised if they hear McCullough proclaim the foll9wing statement that he often states to graduating classes. McCullough stated in a recent interview with USA To- day, \History is a guide to navi- gation in perilous times. History is who we are and why we are the way we are.\ according to Mickus. ,---------------------------------------, UnionCollegeistryingtomake '\C.Ia·v··.e- a· Grea·t manufacturers responsible for ~ ~ what they drop off on campus. When the .new phone books were delivered this year, Nynex took all of the old phone books back with them. Summer! ers and the Sociology Department. Community prizes were donated by Glen Sanders Mansion, the Open Door, Caffe Dolce, Fireside Pizza, Manhattan Exchange, Castello's, Loew's Movie The- ater, Visage Hair Studio and Camelot Music. Union History Professor Receives Fulbright Grant to Teach at University of Oslo, Norway by Charles Casey Public Relations Andrew Feffer, assistant profes- sor of history at Union, has been awarded a Fulbright grant to lec- ture on American history and cul- ture at the institute of British and American studies of the University ofOslo. Nmway. 1l1e award was announced re- cently by the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board and the United States Infonnation Agency. Feffer, a resident of Albany, has been a member of the Union fac- ulty since 1989. He also has taught at American University, the Uni- versity of Pennsylvania and the University of Colorado- Boulder. He earned his doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania. Feffer is the author of The Chi- cago Pragmatist and American ProgresJ·ivism, published last year by Cornell University Press. The book is a study of philosophy and progressive refonn in Chicago at the tum of the century, highlight- ing the work of John Dewey and George Herbert Mead. Feffer is one of approximately 2,000 U.S. grantees who will travel abroad for the 1994-95 academic year under the Fulbright program. Established in 1946 under Con- gressional legislation introduced by former senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas, the program is designed \to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries.\ Under the Fulbright program, some 5,000 grants are awarcted each year to American students, teachers and scholars to study, teach and con- duct research around the world, and to foreign nations to engage in similar activities in the U.S .. Individuals are selected on the ba- sis of academic and professional qualifications, plus their ability and willingness to share ideas and ex- periences with people of diverse cultures. The Fulbright program is ad- ministered by the U.S. Informa- tion Agency under policy guide- lines established by the presiden- tially appointed J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board and in cooperation with a number of private organizations. Scholarships are awarded through open competition, with final selections made by the For- eign Scholarship Board. Thirty- seven foreign governments share in the funding of these ex- changes. Nott Continued from page 1 toration is being recorded by photographs, video, and written reports that will be stored in Fero House. During each phase of the restoration obscured parts of Union's history has been uncov- ered. The pinnacle of the Nott has been taken down for clean- ing. Through this process, it was discovered that students used to scale the outside of the Nott and carved their initials at the very top. The latest recorded carving dates back to 1902. Pothier projects, the building will be fully restored by Novem- ber of this year. The Nott will be officially opened to the stu- dent body in February of 1995, on Founder's Day-.

May 26, 1994, page 4 NE.WS Professor Berk Delivers Speech on Anti-Semitism in A.merica by David Levine Editor-in-clrief Union professor Stephen Berk delivered an electrifying speech to a near capacity crowd in Me- morial Chapel last Thursday on \Anti-Semitism in America.\ Berk, a nationally renowned ex- pert on Jewish, Russian and Middle Eastern Studies, was sponsored by Peer Facilitators as a part of their Annual Diversity Series. Before Berk discussed the his- tory of anti-Semitism, he told the audience that \only dead Jews have seen the last of anti• Semitism.\ Amongst the promi- nent anti-Semites in America were Ulysses Grant, Henry Ford, Charles Lindbergh and Father Coughlin. fu the 1920s, Henry Ford published a newspaper pro- moting anti-Semitism and Father Coughlin argued that Jews were responsible for the depression. In 1941, Charles Lindbergh argued that the Jews were dragging America into World War II. In fact, Berk argued, anti-Semitism during the 1930s was present at Union College. Union informed Jewish applicants who were re- jected that '\the quota under which you fall has already been filled.\ Searching for the roots of anti- Semitism, Berk pointed to Chris- tian teachings ab6Ut Jews. Chris- tianity has taught that \Jews wor- ship the letter of the law, and not the spirit of the law.,; Aodition.: · ally, Christians were taught that \Jews were guilty of the greatest crime - the killing of Christ.\ Traditionally, Jews have also Spring Fest Weekend Continued from page 1 lege center auditorium. The festivities of Spring Fest '94 concluded with abattleofthe bands on Sunday afternoon and a barb-be-que. Nine bands partici- pated. All those was participated won $15 worth of gift certificates to Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream. Puneet Pawha came in third place, winning $50. \Begart\ took sec- ond place, receiving $75. The victors of the battle was \Your Mamma,\ who took home $100. Spring Fest '94 was seen to be a big success. The campus has a chance to get together and enjoy the wonderful weather and each other. Seniors- Only 17 more days! Stephen Berk during last Tlrutsday's lecture. (Laurel Ruma/TC) been associated with commu- nism. Tom Watson called Jews \sexual perverts.\ Prior to the end of World War II, the Jews suf- fered from discrimination and alienation in the \Land of linmi- grants.\ After the war, the Jews entered their \Golden Age\ in America. According to Berk, JeWs· tl~riv1;d in America bec·ause of the sepa~ ration between Church and State and because of Westward expan- sion. Jews were able to thrive in the wealthy American society. Additionally, Jews were not sub- jected to as much racism as they had been subjected to in the past because \after what the Gennans did to the Jews, no one would dis- criminate against them.\ Nonetheless, anti-Semitism, and all kinds ·of discrimination continu~<,l to preyait irt Am eric~ society.· According to Berk, •(If . you are a bigot, American is a heaven. The pluralistic nature of American society gives you plenty of people to hate.\ Berk can-American leaders, such as submits that African-Americans; Louis Farrakhan, have used Latinos, and. Asian-Americans rhetoric to breed anti-Semitism. have been the brunt of hatred. These leaders have argued that The 1980s. and 1990s have Jews were responsible for the seen a resurg.ence of anti- slave trade and that Jewish doc- Semitism. Traditional sources of tors concocted AIDS to ki11 Af- hatred, such as the Ku Klux Klan ricans. TI1e first claim, accord- and the Neo-Nazls, are partly ,re- ing to Berk, has been .proven sponsible for the recent increase false~ and the second claim is ri- in anti-Semitism. According to diculous. Berk, Jews have been most sur- The anti-Semitism in the Afri:- pri.sed by the rise of anti- can-American community has Semitism in the African-Ameri- been accompanied by an increas• can community. Berk stressed ing Black Rage, according to that only a small part of the com- Berk. The community has raged munity has subscribed to the anti- because of the AIDS epidemic, Semitism preached by leaders poverty, and drugs, amon:gst such as Louis Fatrakhan. other factors. The increasing rift between M- \The beauty of anti-Semitism rican-Atnericans and Jews is sur.. is that it explains many phenom- prising, according to Berk, \be- enon in one way ... the Jews are cause in this country they have responsible.\ marched together.\ fu 1964, at Titese argume'nts are given,.ere- least 25% ofthe students present deuce by the \perception of Jews at the Civil Rights protests .in in the Am can-American commu- Mississippi were Jewish, 50% of nity.~' Many African-Americans the doctors attending were Jew- live in Jewish-owned apartments. ish, and 60'\70% of the lawyers \Jews are in positions that Afri- at the protests were Jewish. Berk can-Americans want.\ illustrated that, \Jews were well As far' as future anti-Semitism, represented in every branch of.the Berk stressed that Jews do not Civil Rights movement. have to worry about the possibil- Furthermore, Berk notes that ity of a holocaust in the United the Jewish community has tradi- States~ J3erkalso_~oesnptbelieve tionalty helped to fund fledgling that '\'large numbers of African- equal-rights organizations in the Americans agree with -· anti- African-American community. Semitisrn.'' Additionally, Berk Jews helped to fund the NAACP, added, \anti-Semitism will get Jewish trade unions always wei- African-Am~ricans nowhere.\ corned members of the African- Berk believes that '\the main- American community, and the tenance ofblack-Jewish coalition . Jewish p~~~~~:h~s. ~l~o~t_,al~ay~ ... is c~1!cal; . 9~fS: if~1~o~~ ·~~., been sympathetic to the plights of coordmatton takes pi ace shal1 we certain members of the black truly overcome~\ community. Berk believes that some Afri- Concordiensis photography editor, Josh Haines '95, standing on top of the Nott MemoriaL The front page photograph was taken from tills location. Haines, an electrical engineering major, has helped The Concordlensis soar to new heights tllisyear, and it iS a fitting trib11te to finally ptint a photograph of the man behind aU of tile pictures. Pkase don't kill us. (photo by Caroline PalneirC) . -

SCIENCE AND HEALTH May 26, 1994, page 5 Bringing Home the (Fat Free) Bacon by Pamela Y. Lin Concordiensis Staff There you are, in your favor- ite grocery store, cruising the aisles looking for something to fulfill your latest craving. No, too expensive; no not in the mood for that; no, had that yes- terday, when you suddenly see your favorite food with this new label on, o god, it's now, FAT- FREE! or REDUCED FAT! Your brain and body both go \Ba-da bing! at the same time. And what better for your body than something that will help you intake less fat? You grab three boxes of it and rush for the checkout line, you run/drive/ whatever home and plop down in the .nearest chair and tear into that snack like you haven't eaten in a month. It looks the sanie, same color and texture, and as it reaches your mouth you're thinking, \YES!\, and then ... your taste buds start screaming, \WAIT A MINUTE. IS THIS SOME KIND OF JOKE!\ mark flavoring ofthe food. Also foods with particles that are over No joke, as the general social the lack of vitamins in fat free 5 micrometers are chalky and trend has been toward being foods sometimes results in a feel- powdery. healthier diets with lower fat and ing of not quite being full. Unfortunately, one of the rna- cholesterol 'intake, food product Air and water as fat substitutes jor drawbacks to many of these companies are feverishly work- have been among the most com- fat substitutes is their inability to ing to find substitutes for fats in monly used as well as very finely withstand the intense tempera- many of their products. Fat-free chopped up .pieces of protein and tures needed to cook many foods. and reduced fat food \Fat-free and reduced fat food This means that products comprised many times the fat- about 7%ofnew food products comprised about seven free food ends up items introduced in percent of new food items introduced with a rather flat · 1993. Many food com- in 1993.\ sharp taste rather panies are resorting to than the smoothness designer fat (fats that provide the starch. Carrageenan, an extract or enjoyment of a fat-rich food. same flavor and other aspects from red algae and water, is used Designer fats are now being without the saturated and caloric in McDonald's McLean Deluxe sought after to fill the void and disadvantages.), or other substi- to keep in juices while reducing replace these older ,less suited fat tutes such as water, protein, air, fat. A designer fat called . substitutes. Sucrose polyesters carbohydrates and starches. Simplesse, manufactured by are being viewed as the next in Fats play a greater role than is NutraSweet, is derived from line. The human body cannot imagined; they contribute to the whey protein and has been used digest sucrose, therefore they flavor, texture and overall ap- to mimic the textur.es found in fat- · have no calories and no fat. Su- pearanc.e of food. Fats trap rich foods. Simplesse has par- erose polyesters can be used in- chemicals and fat-soluble vita- ticles which are from 0.1 mi- stead of grease and butter in mins that are crucial to how the crometers to 3 micrometers in di- many cases of food preparation food will taste. Oftentimes fat ameter. Foods with particles that and \are the great hope of the substitutes do not have this ca- are smaller than 0.1 micrometer diet-food industry\ says Michael pability and thus, lack the trade- are considered too watery, and Jacobson of the Center for the Science of Public Interest. Proctor & Gamble has a su- crose polyester Olestra that is presently under study by the FDA as the first sucrose polyes- ter approved as a fat substitute. So far Olestra has been shown safe and effective in 100 animal studies and 25 clinical trials. Some other researchers worry that large non-digestible fatty acid compounds may trap other compounds in the gut cavity, pre- venting their absorption. These trapped compounds include vi- tamins and drugs such as oral contraceptives. With the demand for fat-free foods on grocery store shelves, there is no immediate end in sight for the demand and possibilities in designer fats. Some compa- nies are merely attempting to re- structure their existing fats and lower the cholesterol and fat con- tent already present in their food products. Source: Science News, May 7, 1994 New Hope for Sufferers of Familial Hypocholesterolemia Plants May Be Man's Best Friend Twenty-five Percent of All Drugs Prescribed in the U.S. Are Rerived From Plants by Isca Beswick Contributing Writer by Andrew Salama Science & He.altlr Co-editor In 1795, a British physician re- ported that injection of leaves from the foxglove plant reduced the dal\gerous accumulation of . fluid caused by the inefficient pumping action of the heart. It appears that foxglove is a mem- ber of the Digitalis plant family. middle of this century phannacologic res~arch heavily depended on plant extracts. Ap- proximately 25 percent of all the drugs prescribed in the United States are derived from plants. More modem methods of chemi- cal synthesis have aJJowed these drugs to be produced in vitro, rather than being extracted di- rectly from plants. evolved as natural chemical de~ fenses against predators. Micro- organisms and fungi have been shown to provide a rich source of antibio~ics. The drug Taxol, iso- lated from the Pacific Yew tree, has been used to treat ovarian can- cer. Random testing by the Na- tional Cancer Institute were re- sponsible for its emergence. Cur- rent research focuses on the tra- Until recently people with the genetic mutation c._using famil- ial hypocholesterdlemia were unaware of thc.Ht' plight and were subjected to its conse- quences later in life; i.e. hig~ cholesterol, blocked arteries, and eventually heart attacks. However, thanks to Roger Wil- liams, professor of internal medicine at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, a net- work of collaborators at five other U.S. medical centers, and a number of foreign countries, people with the mutation can be diagnosed before they are placed at a more serious risk. lizes the extensive genealogy of the Church of Jesus Christ of • Latter Day Saints, to trace the family trees of both Mormons and non-Mormons. The pro- gram operates on the infonna- tion given to them via question- · naires from suspected FH suf- ferers. It is then the researcher's job to make an accurate diag- nosis by examining personal factors linked to high choles- terol and heart disease; includ- ing smoking, exercise habits, and personal medical history. Upon diagnostic confirma- tion, the next step would be to compile a list of relatives to aid in the detective work of track- · ing down,through as many as four generations, the transmis- sion of the defective gene to the present generation. If these relatives are found to have FH, a recommendation of a triglyc- eride test for their children would be made; this check and balance system ensures the early detection, and treatment of the disorder. COMMON DRUG MEDICAL APPLICATION SOURCE Familial Hypocholestero- lemia, or FH, a disorder that re- sults in elevated levels of cho- lesterol, a SOOmg/dL compared to a normal level of200mg/dL, is caused by a defect in cells which prevents absorption of low density lipoproteins (LDL's)orthe 'bad cholesterol' from the bloodstream; these LDL's are the culprits which clog the arteries and result in heart attacks. Left untreated, FH generally kills men in their 40's and women in their 50's. It was this reason which prompted Williams and his col- leagues tostm:t the \Make :garly Diagnoses- Prevent Early Deaths\ project- ot MED-PED. The MED-PED program uti- With the use of the geneal- ogy, this potentially fatal ge- netic .disease can be detected in its early stages, and therefore its consequences somewhat waned. The MED-PED pro- gram is indicative ofthe evolv- ing new era of early congenital disease diagnosis, which will help in the prevention of the development of such disease symptoms. Aspirin Codeine Reduces pain, and inflammation Eases pain Induces vomiting Ipecac Pilocarpine Pseudoephedrine Quinine Reserpine Scopolamine Theophylline Vinblastine Reduces octic pressure Reduces nasal congestion Malaria treatment Digitalis has long been used .to treat heart diseases. Two chemi- cal extracts, glycosides digoxin, and digitoxin are commonly pre- scribed to ameliorate atrial fibril- lation. It seems that the traditional methods of plant medicine are no longer the butt of scientific ridi- cule, as~ they are proving to be important sources for potentially therapeutic drugs. Until the Lowers blood pressure Cures motion sickness Asthma treatment Anti-cancer agent Current drug development is a long, arduous process often prov- ing to be fruitless. However, in the next decade new chemicals isolated by ethno~otanists will be introduced which hold a good deal of promise for the treatment of cancer and possibly AIDS. Plants act as inexhaustible source of medicines beeause they produce a myriad of bioactive molecules, which most likely Filipendula ulmaria Papaver somniferum Psychotria ipecacuanha Pilocarpus jaborandi Ephedra sinica Cinchona pubescens Rauvolfia serpent ina Datura stramoniu Camellia sinensis Catharanthus roseus ditional therapies used by other cultures for the treatment of symptoms. However this phe- nomenon is rare. Hopefully, this type of re- search, in a more organized fash- ion, may provide new medicines for the treatment of the most cata- strophic diseases of our era. Source: Scientific American June 1994. Interested in Graduate School in Biology? Come to a meeting on Wednesday, May 25th, 4:45PM, in S301, Science Center (Genetics Lab) to discuss possibilities and strategies. There are lots of opportunities out there. Learn how to find them. It's never too soon to start. )

•_-:;:- ...,.. .. May 26, 1994, page 6 REUNION Schedule of Events For ReUnion Weekend May 27-29, 1994 EVENTS DAYffiME FRIDAY. MAY 27 1:30PM 2:00PM-3:30PM 8:00PM& 10:00 8:00PM- 11:00 EVENT Minerva's ..,. ....... ~.- .KJ~gi~rtra1tton ·· Memorial Fieldhouse 1 mile race 3 mile race DESCRIPTION . :~~:~~~;.lW:~~~ .,,, ...... ~ .... andtdart~e to a ~ :=;: f;~; ~~~~ ;-; ;:~ ~~: .. .... t+,,.,,.,. hj:atutt¥if:·au~ors on display. I 1:00AM NOON I 2:30PM _;;if:: . ·:r;r~~;~~i.;?~~~i~~~l;;:~~~~ · · <;·},:'sed children's 3:00 PM- 4:00 PM 3:30PM-4:30PM 6:30PM Candlelight Cocktails start Dinner buffet «:Prli.AH at 7:00PM 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM Movie 9:30PM Fireworks I 0:00PM - 11:30 PM Evening Jazz SUNDAY,MAY29 9:00AM- II :30 AM Bon Voyage Breakfast ·Library Field· . . Upper (:lass Dining Room; :Dance or listen:to live jazz music. College Center . · . Cash bar and coffee available. buffet. Adults $8.00, Children 4-9) $5.00, Under 4 free.· , Under 4, free. Alumni - Subscribe to The Concordiensis to Keep aware of all of the bi~entennial events Enclose a check for $40 with this coupon. Send to The Concordiensis, Box 2577 Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 $40 will buy you a subscription for 1 year. Eclose $100 for a 3-year subscrip.ion . One year subs~ribers: You will receive 24 issues of the Concordiensis starting this fall, including our Bicentennial Spectacular (to be published on Founders Day, 1995) Mail to: . 1> \. I

. 'mfte (([.onrnrbiensis FITZHUGH LUDLOW May 26, 1994, page 7 FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY Sponsored by Fitz Hugh Ludlow Committee Warm sun, entertainment, and free food, all the necessities a student -could dream of, will be provided at Union College. What could be a better way to end Reu11ion Weekend and the school year than the fifteenth anni- versary celebration of FitzHugh Ludlow Day. In '1979, FitzHugh Ludlow Day was founded by a group of Union Col- lege students who wanted to do something for Union rather than for them- selves. A graduate of the class of 1856, a prominent literary figure and au- thor ofUnion'·s Alma Mater, FitzHugh Ludlow thoroughly enjoyed Union and was extremely proud to have lived and learned here. This day is meant to create a sense of community by promoting inter- action among the faculty, administration, st~ff and studentso The. day is recognized every year in order to create a family environment, where di- verse groups of the campus can come together to have a good time. Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day will be a non-alcoholic celebration of Union and it's stpdents. There will be free food and entertainment from lpm-6pm on u , , Sunday May 29th. Order of Eyents Starting at 1 PM **Special Guests** Garnet Minstrelles . Bogart Hanging Sheep Ashdown Gully Location: College Center Patio Date: Sunday, May 29th at 1 PM

.,.._ r May 26, 1994, page 8 Spring Fest Weekend a Success Thanks to Hard Work and Community Involvement There are very few occasions (other than large fra~ temity parties) when hundreds of Union students come together .. The last time this occurred was dur;. ing Union's road playoff game against RPI, last term, when over 500 students traveled twenty miles to watch the Skating Dutchmen. Last weekend, hun- dreds ofUnion students attended the events of Spring Fest weekend. For a weekend, the sense of commu- nity at Union was strong. Professor Berkkicked off Spring Fest Weekend with part of the Peer Facilitators Diversity Series:. \Anti-Semitism in America,\ and from that point on the weekend was jammed packed with activities for every student. Other speakers included Jamie Wash- ington, \Creating a Supportive Multicultural Com- munity: Beyond Tolerance to Celebration,\ and the three comedians sponsored by Chet's and Concert Committee. Union's diverse population was well represented with a dunking booth, caricaturist, ballroom danc- ing in front of the college center, the International Beer Fest, and many more club sponsored speakers and activities. The committee did a great job at plan- ning options for all types of students. Not only should the members of the Social Com- mittee feel pleased with Spring Fest Weekend, but so should the many Union students who came out on a beautiful Saturday afternoon to man game boothes, create items to sell, or exhibit special group talents. It is displays like these that convince one that the overused adjective apathetic does not al- ways apply to the Union students. The Social Committee deserves praise for a job well done. A great deal of time and effort went into planning this successful weekend. Events like these should be used to strengthen school spirit and class unity. Hopefully, next year, with the newly created Student Forum position of vice-president of Cam- pus Life, more events like these can provide a social alternatives to the usual weekend activities. '<irJr.e <1Lo:ntnr!ri.ensi$ Tlte Student Newspaper 'of lJJtwn. College Situ:e Jf7? ·. · David Levine • Editor*ill-Cliief Executive Editor .. News Edittlr · Features Editors Arts Editpr · ··· Sports Editors Copy EditQl' . Ph<ltQ. Editor WotldNews}i:dit<Jt·, . ··· Opinions· Bditf)r· · . iSciepce, k ·~~~tll ~it9r.~. · .~~d· s!n~!~~~.··· .·;·:>, .:· ·.· ri. V:etfi:Sltlg :c~t<>t$ · . · · · · . :,a:~~tlltr-::~~kiltit4s.:. • ·· ·:·~iJ~'~r4~~-~(if · . . l;iisa LetnoL Erin.p~~~rti!~~~tsi:, •· .. s~~L~o~tti~¢~. · Jc,e::Sfittzt>art .. . · .Dtana:1$edlta ; . ;\ ,-;j~:~~,:. A;t,14j;; $~~~~i: ,:::~:,-~·., ,:• . .A_ssQqi;lt~ $p~!'f~;}Eti:tow<';' ' 2 · ··: •· OP-ED Letters To The Editor White Males Dominate Adminstration and Faculty As Well As Student Body Dear Editor: At the recent Forum debate on, \Do White Males Dominate Union,\ President Hull defended the policies of his admini~tration by pointing out that as of July 1, three of the six persons directly reporting to him will not be males .. He did this in an apparent effort to support the college administration's position that there is no White Male domina- tion at Union and to give an im- pression that he is committed to a non-discriminatory policy. In do- ing so, however, President Hull articulated a standard that should be used in judging the issue of dominance and discrimination at Union. He also volunteered the fact that there were no persons of color in the president's executive staff. Clearly, administrative appoin- tees with authority to make per- sonnel evaluations and decisions and budgetary discretion repre- sent the dominating power group at most institutions. At Union, this group consists of members of the president's executive staff (also referred to as the cabinet), the Deans of Faculty, the Arts, and Engineering and the Director of Graduate Studies. TI1e secqnd tier of dominating persons, with bud- getary discretion and evaluatory authority, are department chair- persons and staff supervisors, all of whom are appointed by the first tier of administrators. President Hull's comments, clearly beg the questions: how does the rate of appointment of persons of color to these admin- istrative ranks compare with the rate of appointment of whites, particularly white males, and why has there never been any person of color in either the cabinet or at the Dean level for the past sev- eral decades. A widely accepted and statistically valid measure of the rate of appointments to posi- tions is the inverse of the average number of years of service for members of each group to achieve particular appointments. Let the record at Union speak for itself. Paucity and lack of administra- tive and staff supervisory ap- pointments stem from un~ridled and excessive subjectivity in the appointing process. The fact that these appoint~ents have been funneled through appointed com- mittees does not reduce the effects of subjectivity, particularly in view of the dominating role of administrators on the campus. Rhetorical justifications based on tokenism do not solve the under- lying structural problems which lead to the disparate outcomes. Similarly, except for a rela- tively few highly motivated Asian students attracted primarily by Union's pre-med programs, the record of admitting students of color to Union is dismal when compared to.population demo- graphics. Here again, rhetorical justifications made by comparing Union with a small group of \white\ schools does not serve to alter these statistics .. Given Union's image what is needed is a concerted effort in identifying and solving the underlying prob- lems of attracting and retaining students of color. The Jack of sen- sitivity to gender and race bias needs to be eradicated. After four years, it is time that President Htdl stops behaving like a lawyer defending a potentially guilty cli.ent using rhetoric and loopholes in the letter of the law. What Union needs is a statesman committed to providing moral leadership and integrity to support its egal'itarian promise. One can only wonderit:he is up to the task. Name withheld upon request. W~.e Qlon.cnrUi.ensis Wishes Our Readers of the Union Community a Safe and Happy Summer Vacation

- tfilrt ctinnrnrbiensis · Ju\-ging for Battle of the Ban·ds Unfair LETTERS Battered Women's Shelter . Appreciates May 26, 1994, page 9 T·be _Library is for Studying, Not for Socializing To the Spring Fest Committee: Dear Editor ' . to saythatthewinningbandsdid Union Stud.ents' not deserve to win. It is just that taking into account how little • Help in Recent Thisletterisf~rthosemetnbers ber of 1992, I have discovered that studying in the basement of the library is especially tough be- cause people are constantly so- cializing in front of the Xerox machines. Those who respond to my· complaints by asking, \If you need peace and quiet to study, then why don't you pick up your damn books and go somewhere else?' I only have this to say: Being.one of. the participants in the recent \l3attieofthe Bands\ I fell obligated to. point out several glaring infractions of justice com- mitted by the Spring Fest Com- mittee appointed judges .. Firstly, the usage of audience noise as a measure of a band's artistic tal- ent was inherently flawed. Being that the size of the crowd varied for each ban~~·the only fair-usage of .. audience noise\ would be if the size of the crowd is taken into account and used to .help accu- rately gauge the propositional amount of noise emitted by the crowd. In other words, size mat- ters. This method of letting the crowd decide, however, is also flawed due to the fact· of the crowd's inherent subjectivity. time it took the judges to produce Rame of the Xerox Machine Social the results following the end of · Club. You do know who you are, the concet1, it is obvious that the To the Staff and Students of don't you? I am talking about you final band, Bathroom Coffee, was Union College: students who insist on earring on never taken into consideration. very long and very LOUD conver- The t1nal4 bands were also not · Yougenerousgifttotheclients ·· sations with your friends in the allowed to play full 20 minutes of the YWCA Domestic Violence area in front of tb.e Xerox rna- sets. Let it be duly noted that all Service is greatly appreciated .. chines which are located in the thewinning bands played full, 20 Not only will your contributions basement of our library. You minutes sets. directly affect the daily life of a people are seemingly oblivious to The entire concept .of the con- person in crisis, your support the fact that only a few feet away test was founded on ad~atly un- projects a positive message to our from the Xerox machines, hard just, subjective judging system. . staff and volunteers. working students are trying their On these grounds I hereby de- Whether it is a client struggling best to give this college a good mand another Battle of The to establish a violence free life for academic reputation. Since com- Bands in which all the bands re- herself and her children, or a staff ing to Union College in Septem- ceive f~r and equal treatnient and person or volunteer working to When I go to a college library to get some work done, it should not be necessary for me to literally search for a quiet spot. Sincerely, Anand Rao, '96 are judged in a uniform non-sub- assist the client in restructuring jective manner. · her existence, the support of the 3 Bedroom Apartment September-June 1994 I also b.elieve that the outcome was pre-determined. In other words, it was rigged. This is not Thank You, A most disgruntled participant . Fans Angry With Battle of the Bands Outcome To the Union Community: I am writing to protest the out· rageous miscarriage of justice which took place· at th~ Battle of the Bands. Bathroom Coffee was robbed! All present could testify • ~ • j • to the power and majesty ofBath- room Coffee. They kicked ass and deserved thatmoneydammit. We will not let this 'go unprotested. We will not be silenced. The Fans of Bathroom Coffee . . Editorials, Letters & DisclaiDlers Letters to the Editor should be address~d to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m., the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The C oncordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 3.88-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, · Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensisoffice on the third floor of the College Center. community reflected in your gift is a vital part of the process. We all thank you for your contribu- tion to our effort to remove vio- lence from the daily lives of women and children in our com- munity. Sincerely, Carole A Merril-Mazurek Director Services to Women and Teens *Furnished *Appliances *Parking *Porch* Negotiable Lease - Carrie Street Call370-5498 · Union College Spring Term - 3 on 3 Basketball Tournament May 28-29 In Upper Campus Parking Lot (In Back of Raymond House) Benefitting Our Friend and Classmate Teasha Nicholson Registration in the College Center Wednesday-Friday 1 0:00am-4:00pm, any questions call #5827 *Double Eli.mination *$15 per team *2 divisions (based on skill level) * 1 varsity player per team *CASH PRIZES TO WINNING TEAMS! Presented By: Sigma Chi Fraternity and Union Intramural Offiee

May 26, 1994, page 10 SPRING FEST TOP- Students write their innermost thoughts on the pavement outside the College Center. RIGHT- Student is cooled of/inside a dunking booth. Photographs by Josh Haines for The Concordiensis I , Call He• l:z Peaslee & save on J!Dur caft'lpus .nove. We'll take 1 O% off when you. leave qampus with a Hertz Penske truck renta.Jl we•ve got •verythlng you need to make movJng easy - a modern. clean fleet ••• free unllrntted mileage on one way moves ••• convenl.-nt coast-to-coast locations --·a free moving guide ••• and all the accessories to get thlit job dona. For reservations. qall the location below. or check thlit YeiiO\IV Pages for the Hertz Penake location nearest you. 16 Brown Road Albany, NY 12205 459-8090 Here~ 228 Broadway Menands, NY 12204 426-4604 Dt8COUNT I I I I I I I I AIJiflw: .............. ····- Au:a:xl& ......... ,_ ... _.., ·- ., .... I • 10'\ - 24• trucks ausZ Ola • Aa.ltornatlc transrnissloti and I • Fnse unlimited Iiiii' ge alr conc:tiUOnlng un one way riii d r • 24-hatlr em.-gancy road S8I'Vice I - ........... ltf~V I ...... ~ ...... - t\t\il{ A--..,.,........... .................. I ......... ··--~--~---- I L -- llo•-•IOMI_,JI\w lll•l'nlell' n IIOC.. • • _______________ ...., _____ __ Spring Fest Weekend Produces Memories ·This is the last issue of ·The Concordiensis for the 1993-1994 academic year Thanks to all of our contributors for making this a great year.

WORLD NEWS May 26, 1994, page 11 NEWS BRIEFS . Tobacco Industry on Defense About Second-Hand Smoke by Craig Greenberg World News Editor In the last few weeks, the to• bacco industry has made various attempts to reverse the trend of banning smoking. The state of California has been a battle gFound for smoking legislation. An effort has been made to get rid of a re- cenJ: state anti-smoking law. TI1is has been followed by a R.J. Reynolds full page advertisement in several major newspapers. The general message of the ad was to express their opinion that second- hand smoke is barely a threat to non-smokers. TI1ey state that in a month, in a modem office where smoking is permitted, a non- smoker sharing an office with a smok:erwould~ on average, be ex- posed to the equivalent of smok- ing about one and a quarter ciga• rettes. I am not saying that these statistics are false, but I do have a hard time believing them. The Reynold's advertisement calls for cooperation to reach accommo- dation. Apparently, the company would like to see attacks on smoker's right's lessen in their severity. However, if one be- lieves other statistics that indicate smoking is a substantial health risk to non-smoking, second- hand smokers, then any sort of compromise on recent smoke- control laws is difficult to con- sider. The state of Mississippi an- nounced a law suit against the major tobacco producers this week. It is seeking reimburse- ment for its expenses in medical treatment for smokers. TI1is is an interesting addition to the ever growing smoke debate. If the state ofMississippi wins this law- suit, it could indicate major finan- cial responsibilities for American tobacco companies. Companies may decide to concentrate sales abroad, since foreign sales al- ready account for a sizable por- tion of their income. Fox Inc. : Announced their acquisition of 12 new television st&tions. These stations are located in cities across America and are switching from their current status as CBS, ABC, and NBC affiliates. Zaire in Despair; Drifting Into Anarchy Virginia : Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was buried in Arling- ton National Cemetery. Mississippi· : Tit~ state of Mississippi has sued the tobacco in- dustry seeking reimbursement for its expenses in medical treat- nient for smokers. Researchers : Have found further evidence supporting breast- feeding. This position is based on the better understanding. of numerous honnones and antibodies that are found in mothers' milk. Washington: U.S.. and Japanese trade experts ~achedagree­ tnent on a new format to revive stalled negotiations on opening Japan's markets. .:-1# i Zaire : After fo~r' years of political tunnoil, Government au- thority is dissolving. Tite nation appears to be drifting toward anarchy. · Haiti : Generals remain defiant as a strict embargo takes ef- fect. Moscow :Russia seeks special status in the NATO alliance. Poland : McDonald's wants to open a restaurant in 15th cen- tury Cracow square. Residents are resisting the idea. Sm•rce: T11e New York Times $1 by Farhana Khan Contributing Writer The government authority in Kinshasa, Zaire is slowly dissipat- ing, leaving the cities and: the c()untryside to dangerou$ soldiers and .roaming gangs. President Mobutu Sese ·Seko is still in charge, but is rarely seen or heard. The central authority that he per- sonified for nearly three decades has disintegrated. The same events have occurred in Somalia and in Liberia and Si- erra Leone. Fighting by warlorqs and youths in the streets has once again prevailed in Mogadishu. Rwanda, Zaire's neighbor, is giv- ing way into a deep chaotic civil war. Zaire's 40 million people have witnessed the drop in standards of living every year for the past de- cade. The economy is in shambles, with over 10 billion dollars in debt. Prices rise a hun- dred fold a year. TI1e infrastructure is shattering. About 85% of the 85,000 miles of roads that existed at independence in 1960 have been destroyed. A satellite earth station has broken down , so national radio and tele- vision has trouble reaching parts of Kisangani and other cities. Aids is widespread. A preven- tion program has been abandoned and as a result, the epidemic is soaring. In March the interna- tional relief organization Doctors Without Borders conducted a sur- vey of children up to 5 years of age in Kinshasa. It was found that 1 out of every 10 was mal- nourished and 1 out of 40 WCbi starving. Government and Health clin- ics are closing everyday. The streets of Kinshasa are covered with giant meteor-like potholes. There is hardly any transport sys- tem except for private open air trucks. Mr. Mobutu took office in a coup in 1965 with the backing of the Central Intelligence Agency in 1965. The CIA feared that the instability could lead to Commu- nism in the old Belgian Congo, and he has been Washington's point man in central Africa ever . $1 Fund Raising Raffle to Raise Money For AIDS Awareness •• ~ e •• ~ = Q ..= ~ 1st Prize - 50/50 Cash Drawing 2nd Prize- Weekend for two at the Albany M~rriott 3rd Prize - Two Loews Movie Passes 4th prize - Gift Certificate to the Open Door Bookstore Drawing Will be Held on Sunday, May 29,1994 since. However, Washington has made it clear that Mr. Mobutu is in disfavor because he is block- ing democratic reforms to take place. He has become a social outcast because he has been charged by a fonner minister that he accumulated about $5 billion from Zaire. Mr. Mobutu's image has some- what been disillusioned by the growing despair of his country. Almost a decade or two ago. his appearance seemed omnipresent. His image was everywhere, on the television, on the currency, in the newspaper.. But now, the image has dissipated. Even more sur- prising is the freedom demon- strated by the number of opposi- tion newspapers. The newspapers have depicted him in the most degrading way and there is no opposition to them. A number of human rights organizations have evolved and even they are being tolerated. The anny, with 40,000 troops, and 30,000 officers, have sta- tioned themselves on the roads in nearby areas. They levy fines il- legally and harass innocent people. TI1e troops are underpaid and are a constant source of dan- ger. The economic outlook for Zaire is gloomy. Inflation has decreased business and the cur- rency is practically of no value since money. In recent years, the banks have tried to control the currency problem by trying to is- sue new money, but those efforts have gone only so far. Trading is difficult due to the lack of trans- portation and the deteriorating infrastructure. Write for World News- Call Craig .:-.~· ·-~·

May 26, 1994, page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Fall in Love this Summer: Playboy Stories, Alligator Dance by Leena Mankad Concordiensis staff Well, the summer is approach- ing swiftly and those lazy summer nights are upon us. Where I'm from, evening time is the perfect time just sit and relax on the porch, and watch Spot run around the yard. Yup, that's what sum- mer is all about... those magazine. Playboy has been a showcase for the work of many of the. world's most acclaimed authors. This is an incredible an- thology that will keep you en- thralled. Each story proves to be · unique and very stimulating to the mind of the reader. If that doesn't do it for you, then read Alligator Dance, by the Waco incident, tells about a lawyer's daughter and her lessons injustice, On the whole, summertime is a wonderful time to read about all those things you were really inter- ested in, but couldn't .get around to because school got in the way. Just for fun perhaps, you and a guy mend could get together and read one of those self help Country Time Lemon- ade commercials. I fig- ured that since all of you faithful Arts readers would be devastated that this is the last issue of The Concordiensis for the year, that I would try and cheer you up. I've found some read- \The first book I recommend is entitled Playboy Stories, edited by Alice K. Turner. Keep your ,pants on, this isn't quite what you think. books on communica- tion between men and women. Those always provide for some good conversation and ban- ter. My personal favor- ites are quote ·books. Grab one; they can be really enlightening and often ring true for many situations. Quotes can ing material that should Playboy Stories is a compilation of fictional stories of the past forty years in the issues of Playboy magazine.\ really spark your inter- est; entertaining reading for those lazy summer nights with your sweetheart or yourself. The first book I recommend is entitled Playboy Stories, edited by Alice K. Turner. Keep your pants on, this isn't quite what you think. Playboy Stories is a compilation of fictional stories of the past 40 years in the issues of Playboy Janet Perry. Contained within this book are 10 dazzllng stories that tell the reader that we are all strangers in a strange land, deco- rated by beauty, brutality and grace. Nifty, eh? One of the sto- ries, \Alligator Dance,\ depicts the sexual awakening of a fourth grader, while yet another story,. \The Waco Wego-,\ played upon be funny, witty, and could sometimes even help you solve a problem you have. So .grab that sweetheart, friend or goldfish , and find something cool to read. For that romantic or special ambiance, try reading by candlelight and enjoy some of those warm summer nights with some printed thoughts: . . Flute Choir Concert Directed by: Jill Panitich Student Particicpants: Amelia Audette * Courtney Brem * Karen De Poto Monique Lin * Heather Symons * Julie Tolve Hana Yamashita Featuring works by William Boyce, Gabriel Faure, and Joseph Bodin Thursday, June 2, 1994 ~12:45 pm -·Arts Atrium Courtesy of the Union College Department of P~rforming Arts Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY. MAY 26 JAZZ ENSEMBLE CONCERT: Chet's, College Center, Union College. 388-6188. FRIDAY. MAY 27 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Six Degrees of Separation,\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. SATURDAY. MAY 28 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 27. SUNDAY. MAY 29 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 27. MONDAY. MAY 30 CLASSICAL CABARET: Featuring original student compo- sitions and performances. Arts Building, room 215, 7:30pm, free, Union College. 388-6188. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, May 27. TUESDAY. MAY 31 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Naked Gun,\ 8 & 10 pm. $1. WEDNESDAY. JUNE 1 . THE SISTERS ROSENWEIG: A delightfully funny play about three American sisters in London who host an outrageous . birthday celebration for the eldest. Proctor's, 432 State St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $22.50- $32.50. 382-3884. . THURSDAY, JUNE 2 . THE SISTERS ROSENWEIG: See Wednesday, June 1. FRIDAY. JUNE 3 . A CRY OF PLAYERS: A play by William Gibson directed by Diane Burrows. Theater Voices, Albany City Arts Building, Chapel & Orange, Albany; 8 pt:n, free. 439-6404. SATURDAY, JUNE 4 A CRY OF PLAYERS: 3:30 & 8 pm. See Friday, June 3. SUNDAY. JUNE 5 A CRY OF PLAYERS: 3 pm. See Friday, June 3. THURSDAY. JUNE 9 ELLEN DEGENERES: Currently starring on her new televi- sion series on ABC, \These Friends of Mine,\ to perfonri. live · on-stage at Proctor's Theatre, $23.50, 8 .pm. 346-6204. SUNDAY. JUNE 12 RANCH ROMANCE: this lively country & western band opened for k.d. lang during her 20-concert west coast tout, Sec- ond Wind Production~, Music Haven Stage, Central Park, Schenectady; 3-5 pm, free. 463-5222. CONTINUOS EXHIBITS THROUGit JUNE 19 PONDER THESE THINGS:· Artists explore social, political, and spiritual ideas through a va- riety of media including painting, sculpture, collage, and pho- tography. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 . THROUGH JULY 14 FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: This exhibit presents selections from the vast and varied hold- ings of the New York State :f\1useum, Includes Harley :pavid~on Motorcycle, horse power, 19th century architectural woodwork, portrru.ts, pamt- ings, fossils, gems, crystals, and much more. New York State Museum in Al- bany. 474-1201. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT May 26, 1994, page 13 The Final Review for the Reel Picture: The Crow \ . Don't Let It Slip by: ·Bringing to the Movie Screen Some Very Different Characters · by Larry Paska Concordiensis staff \THE CROW\ Starring Bran~ · don Lee, Emie Hudson. Directed by Alex Proyas. Rated R, Miramax/Dimension Pictures. Rating: **l/2 {out of four) tention had it not been for the death of its star, Brandon Lee. In fact, Miramax almost didn't release the film, but· it's a good thing they did; it he- came the number one film in A taste of the summer movie Am eric a season is given to audiences with last week- the release of the new film, \The d J. mp en , u - Crow\ (May 13). In the forth com- starting the ing season of action heroes and d y i n g television-based movies, new Spring Box films such as this one, bring to the Office. screen some very different char- Based on acters. the series Perhaps \The Crow~· would of comics and graphic novels by have slipped by most people's at- James O'Barr, this movie casts Student Exhibit:, Part V, The Final of a Series focus came about in response to Courtesy of the uneasiness created in the pre- Visual Arts Deportment sentation of human sexuality An opening re<2._eption for based on the issue of pomogra- Maggie Weber's \Sex and Sexu- phy. ality: A Study of the Human On the whole, sexuality has be- Fortn\ will be held Saturday, come one ofthe primary focuses June ll from l pm to 3 pm in the of fashion/model photography Arts Building Atrium. Refresh- and commercial advertising. It ments will be served. The exhi- · is Ms. Weber's intention to alter bition is free and the public is in- · this way of thinldng and to dis- vi ted. play sexuality as fine art photog- Maggie Weber, cwrently a se- raphy. Her exhibition entices the nior Visual Arts Major, is present• viewer to experience nude pho- ing a series of black and white tography free of the uneasiness nude. photographs, an exhibition created by the stigma ofpomog- based on concepts and photo- raphy. graphs of Robert Mapplethorpe The collection will be exhib- and Edward Westort. Weber's itedfromJune6toJune 12,1994. focus is based upon the sensual The Gallery hours are 9 am to 9 aspects of the male and female pm, seven days a week. sexuality in photography. Her Lee as Eric Draven, a musician who is murdered, along with his fiancee, by a gang of punks and then resurrected. Guided by a crow, he paints his face white (re- calling the Joker) and .sets out \'making the wrong things right\ by killing his attackers. Every time Draven flashes back to his life, the viewer is haunted by Lee's own off-screen tragedy, mak- ing the al- ready dark film more ee- rie. He actu- ally showed signs of de- veloping into a respectable actor here; while the action scenes contain mostly uninnovative gunfighting, his emotions throughout suggest an adolescent eternally anguished over losing his youth. This is a big leap from his previous effort, \Rapid Fire;' which contained better action but less depth. However, this does not mask the poorer aspects of the film. As in \Batman this film is dark, set in the big city where the streets are desolate, it is never daytime, and the only people to be seen are the bad guys.. This atmosphere does not convey the filmmaker's intention very well, which seems to be a sort of mystical fantasy. Instead, it's another dismal view of death. First-time director Proyas tries a little too hard for art and not enough for heart, but manages to disguise Lee's post- mortem stunt-double very well. The Department of Performing Arts Presents DIRECT THIS! A Week of Theater Monday, May 30th 9 pm in Old Chapel \Dogg's Hamlet, Cahoot's Macbeth\ By Tom Stoppard Directed by David Hopson & Emilia Teasdale Wednesday, June 1st 8pminCC302 \Sexual Perversity in Chicago\ By David Mamet Directed by Greg Roth Saturday, June 4 at 7 pm in the CC Auditorum \The Baltimore Waltz\ Directed by Antonio Viva Friday, June 3rd & Saturday, June 4th 8:30pm in the Perfonning Arts Studio \A Good Time\ By Ernest Thompson Directed by Stephanie Richter & \Making Contact\ By Patricia Bosworth Directed by Jenna Goldberg All Performances are FREE! - ....... - .. \'·

........ , May 26, 1994, page 14 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Student Exhibit: Part IV of f the Series .of Student Exhibits Courtesy of Visual Arts Department An opening reception will be held on Tuesday, May 31 from 4 to 6 .pm in the Arts Buildipg Atrium for ''Portraits From My Homeland,\ a senior exhibit by Jean .:Paul Torres. The reception is free and the general public is invited. Torres, in \Portraits from My Homeland,'' explores his inner self through sculptures, prints, drawings, painting, and photog- raphy. His abstracts and repre- sentational works symbolize a bridge to a personal pas~. Within .. this past are memories, filled with a myriad of feelings, emotions and moods regarding his native country, Ecuador. In his art, Torres explores the way his personal relationship with Latin American history and cul- ture has influenced his personal- ity and creative work. Mr. Torres invites the viewer to share and experience this history and cul- ture with a contemporary view. The exhibit will be held from May 30to June 3, 1994. The Gallery hours are 9 am to 9 pm, seven days a week. A special thanks to all our faithful Arts & Entertain- ment readers. Next year we hope to improve the sec- tion. If you have any suggestions or are interested in writing next year, there will be a meeting at the be- ginning of fall term. Thanks again: Flute Choir Performance Courtesy of Performing Arts Department The Union College Flute Choir will perform an infonnal,. free concert in the Arts Atrium on Thursday, June 2, at I 2:45pm. The program will feature works by William Boyce, Gabriel Faure and Joseph Bodin de Boismortier. Refreshments will be served following the program. The Flute Choir is an ensemble which was formed during the 1993 fall tenn. It is open to all students wishing· to experience playing works written and/or ar- ranged for multiple flutes. The weekly sessions are directed by J111 Panitch, an area flutist and teacher. Those students participating in the June 2nd performance in- clude Amelia Audette, Courtney Brem, Karen DePoto, Monique Lin, Heather Symons, Julie TolveandHana Yamashita. The performance is free and open to the public. The Department of P'erforming Arts pres~nts JAZZ ENSEMBLE CONCERT Directed by Professor. Tom Ross Thursday, May 26, 1994 CHET'S 9:30pm A Spring Concert photo by Leif Zurmuhlen Courtesy of Petfotming Arts Department On Monday, May 30th, at 7 pm, students from the Perform- ing Arts Department will present A Spr;ng Concert in Arts 215. Contemporary works by Bartok, Debussy,Hindemith, and Prokofiev will be featured, as well as original student compositions. Pictured above are student per- formers and composers Katherine Brownstein, David Castellano, Ramakrishna Gaddipati, Carin Gado, Jennifer Huang, Elizabeth Maranville, Jennifer Pyun, and Charles Rodman. The concert is free to the public. ·

FEATURES May 26, 1994, Page 15 Conclu_ding the Vienna Term Abroad by Alissa Mayo Viemra Correspondent The past few weeks of our tenn abroad in Vienna have not been spent exclusively in this city. Two weekends ago, Professor Warde and the \Vienna Fifteen\traveled to Dresden in the fonner Gennan Democratic Republic and to Prague; the capital of the Czech republic. Last Wednesday as well, the group trekked to Melk, the site of one of Austria's oldest monas- teries. The ,guided tour of this ba- roque gem was followed by a cruise along the Wachau, argu- ably the most scenic stretch of the Danube Riyer VaHey. Most re,. cently, we were able to take ad- vantage of along weekend by vis- iting locales such as Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Paris and Rome. I personally high tailed it to Ber- lin, ostensibly to see the Zoo Sta- tion and all of the places where U2 has been filming their music videos (pretty silly in retrospect). The sights and sounds of Berlin were truly a world apart from Vienna! But the world is a different place now, isn't it? Last week whilewewere in Prague, Czech's presidet1t Valclav Havel was in Vienna to speak at an economic summit. He urged member& of the world commu._ity to not refer to the \former communist coun- tries\ as such. After visiting some of these places, however, it's rather difficult to avoid the asso- ciation. It seems like every day there is another country asking for diplomatic recognition -the \Fonner Republic ofSandoSo.\ But for me the most obvious difference in the world- perhaps because I am a student ofGennan history, literature, culture, and so on. is the fact that I actually got int0 these areas. Six years ago as an exchange student in Cologne, W.Germany, I was denied access to the East (no visa; no legal guardian to accompany me). I came as close to the border as possible at a border check point, when through my field glasses I watched an East Gennan soldier patrol a field where old men tended their cows. As I watched them go about their business-to them this was all \normal\ -I wondered if they were asking the same questions that I was: what's on the other side of that fence, and why are the communists keeping me out? I uncovered part of the truth these past few weekends, but some things I'll never understand (more on this later). Although Gennan unification commenced five years ago, one need not know the city of Berlin to tell where the eastern part ofthe city begins and ends. It's not just the sterile, con- crete slab-type buildings that be- tray the easterners, who seemed almost embarrassed that they ac- cepted such inferior conditions of livjng for so long. While the west- em part of Berlin was swathed in neon lights and dominated by tourist coming in to see the Brandenburg Gate, the east looked like a crumbling dinosaur. But it was the attitudes of the people that gave them away. Some of the people we met in the eastern regions of Berlin seemed more angry and pessimistic. They were almost charicatures of them- selves: the shopkeepers' eyes got bigger when I asked to pay with traveler's check. The people in clubs who asked where I came fonn where so psyched to meet someone from America that I did not have the heart to tell them that I wasn't from the City, just the state. And though the drug deal- ers and skinheads were ubiqui- tous, they seemed more exagger- ated and bold than their non-Nazi counterparts in other cities of Europe. Economic hardship is, despite prospects for improvement, a definite reality in many cities of the follTier GDF. Many younger people seem to like us- but again more exaggerated versions of the \Generation X' waifs (PS- sony Rawson; I hate the expression too). They are all too eager to search for a solution for neo-Na- zism becam~e it plays on their in- security and promises them a so- lution to problem. It feels good to believe in this movement. But how could hate violence ever ful- fill apromiseto give these people any answers? Weren't hate and violence the source of all the par- titions and walls in the first place? I know the answer is that this kind of behavior is just no good, as everybody does. But then I wonder are things really any dif- ferent in America? Doctor Roth to Retire After Many Years ofS~rvice to Union by Kenneth Lee Science Editor On Monday May 9th, I had the Opportunity to speak' witWDr. Willard Roth about his upcoming retirement, an award he recently received and things he has done and wishes he had done in his 27 years at Union. At the end oflast term Dr. Roth and Professor George Smith of the Biology de- partment went to Maryland to at- tend the annual meeting of the National Association of Medical Minority Educators, Inc. {NAMME). At this meeting Dr. Roth was one offour people who received an award. The award was for recognition of many long years of work with the group. Along with this award Dr. Roth also received a citation from the governor of Maryland and the mayor of Baltimore. This is the second award that Dr. Roth has received from NAMME, the other coming in 1983 for out- standing contribution to the group. Dr. Roth was one of the original members of NAMME, most of which are involved with medical schools as administrators or education. Dr. Roth is one of the few undergraduate adminis- trators involved with this group. NAMME came to be about 20 years ago during a meeting of the group on student affairs. The main focus of the group is to fur- ther the recruitment of minorities in the health profession. Their present goal is called 3000 by 2000. This is a major effort by NAMME to have 3000 minority students entering medical school by the year 2000. The primary focus is on inner city schools, grades k-12 in order to foster an early interest in medicine and pro- vide a motivation to those stu- dents who normally would not have the reassurance from others. At the end of this academic year Dr. Roth will relinquish his ~< ., • ' ·._ - ~ the Health Professions. Along with his job as chainnan and ad- . ministrator, Dr. Roth never gave up his position as a full time fac- ulty member, teaching courses such as Introductory Biology, Histology and Endocrinology. Since 1975 he has also served as the director of the joint Bio-Med 617 year program with Albany Medical College. Although it has been many years since Dr. Roth has been. able to actively pursue his research interests, he still from time to time will work with another faculty member to set up a project for a student interested in his field. Dr. Roth's research interests are cen- tered around the study of neuro- endocrinology and the relation- ship between the two systems. A file p/1oto of Dr. Rot/1 1 wlto will be retiring after many years of service to tile college. As a practicing Tibetan Bud- dhist, Dr. Roth is a person who likes to keep a low profile and is not one to brag about his accom- plishments. His retirement in June will mark the end of a lec- turing style unique from most other faculty. Future students v .. ill not have the opportunity to C:\pc- rience Dr. Roth in the classrL'<'IIl. When I asked him what hi~ t·:~­ gcst frustration was he rcspt•:J. hi that being constantly bus) :..~s prevented him from getting to know all the students that he en- counters over the years. position as full time faculty, but will retain his position as an ad- ministrator, specifically, the Di- rector of Undergradu'ate Health Profession Programs. Dr. Roth received his B.A. from Swarthmore and M.S. and Ph.D from Harvard and went on to work at Harvard for 11 years. Dr. Roth was hired in 1967 by Union in order to build a biology depart- ment which at that time consisted of 7 faculty members and an av- erage graduating class of 2 ma- jors. Three years later the depart- ment had 13 faculty members and 40-50 majors graduating. For his first 14 years at Union he served as the chainnan of the department as well as the principle advisor to ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING SENIORS If you have received a Perkins and/or, Institutional Loan, an EXIT Interview must be completed before graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notification of this, please contact Ms. Lombardi at x6039. Dates For Interviews: May 31st June 1st and 2nd '> ·:..

A F S RCO SE. IN HOME ECONOMICS. oy:j{d like you to take this lamps and lights? Do you turn They're simple to ~ simple test to see if your home them off when you exit a room? use, and inexpen- is as energy efficient as possible. Is your house excessively lit dur- sive. Turn your Ready? Let's begin. How many ing the day? Next, ched< your thermostat up or of you have TVs? thermostat. Odds are, it could down a few How many times have you left the room and left it . If all gas-heated homes on? H?w many were properly weather stripped we'd save enoitgh natural gas ..:~. L __ . . t.U.u.es nave you to beat 4 million homes. fallen asleep watching it only to wake up to the uStar Spangled Banner\? And what about your l!tJI A Public Service of ~~ This Publication use adjusting. And finally; see if degrees. If you Turning oft your lights can save elcaricity andreduce carbon dioxide pollution. there's a draft coming from your get cold, grab a windows and doors. If there is, sweater or a blanket. If you're \you're letting valuable hot, wear fewer clothes. energy fly right outside. As for your windows and Now, for ilie answers. ij ~erybody adjusted their . , \ . >' . . • . . thermostat by 6 degrees we doors, a couple pack- could save up to 190,000 Try installing timers barrels of oil a day. ages of $3.00 weather on your lights and television. stripping should do the trick. Each of these things will help save natural resources for the years to come. And if we can do that, we all deserve high marks. FOR MORE INFORlvf.ATION AND TIPS CALL l-800-M¥--SHARE. IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD~ DO YOUR SHARE.

PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS May 26, 1994, page 17 Personals Tom -Still waiting ... Shelly., Rachel, Heather, Greta, andHeidi 66 Union• Can't Wait!! Love, Ouch Meredith - We will have to do mom/daughter bonding more of- ten. Love, \Mommy\ · . To the Seniors of DG- We will miss you lots next year, Good luck next year. Good luck With everything you do!! Love ITB Congratulations. Springers .. We love you all. ITB, DG Holly, and Kira, Congratulations on getting sistered in. Love, Sarah Joe - 4 more on the .floor? Jodi -I love you. -Mark Elephants wear shoes. Cute curvaceous female that looks good in jade blue, seeks sexy well-built male that looks_ good in black. Must be able to travel long distances, handled well, and have good endurance. To my X-es. I will miss you very much next year. Don't think that you ca11 escape Virginia. I will still be local and more than happy to give you your recommended daily allowance. P+H+ J+B TLA To the inhabitants of Cong~land - Ithave been a ·great year for 1ne living with you guys. I won't for- get you. ].3est ofluck to you all in the Den of Love, and your re- maining years here at Union. To my favorite Italian - Thanks for your dedicated friendship and love. E.J. Peaches Pam and Jenni- I can't believe this will be the last issue that you guys will be here with me. I will miss you terribly. Love - or H'ren Louie - Can you believe we are DONE for the year? I can! Trust me I won't miss this place, but I will miss you just a little. Love, Heather Linda - What will I do with Loui~ without you? I will miss you. Come back son. Love, Lorretta Little Fruit -I'm glad that you had a good time at the prom; You looked so old. I can't believe you . are 16 already. I love you. Ushers Are Needed For Commence- ment on June 12· · J; . . . (Sunday). Contact Mrs. Marra for more I ~ . ·. t• ' n.orma Ion. Classifieds ' v Part-Tim.e Opportunity: TAD Technical Services Corporation, Albany is looking fora temporary Darkroom Assistant. Must be able to process B/W film. Ten to 20hours a week, with a2-4 rno~th duration. See the CDC for more details. Internship:. Markovsky& Com- pany Inc., New Y Qtk is a midsize public relations firm looking for interns for Fall, Spring, and Sum- mer. Six month lead time is sug- gested on desired internship pe- riod. Stipend available. See the CDC for more details. Internship: Kaplan, Albany is of- fering a Marketing/Public Rela- tions Internship for Fall '94 and Winter/Spring '95. See the CDC for more details. Summer Internship: The Bank of New York, Manhattan, is of- fering summer positions to be as- signed to a branch in Manhattan. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: A couple in Loudonville, NY, is seeking a governess to care for 1 0 year old daughter. See the CDC for fur- ther details. Summe.r Job: Rice Inn Chinese & American Restaurant, search- ing for summer help. Must flu- ently speak Chines (preferably Cantonese) and English. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Camp Modin, Maine, is searching for college students for summer employ- ment. See the CDC for further details. Summer Internship: The Cor- porate Response Group Inc., Washington, D.C. is offering un- paid summer internships. See the CDC for further details. WATSON WINNERS RETURN Whether or not you are planning to apply for a Watson Fellowship, come out and hear the tales of past Union Watson winners, as Union helps the Watson Foundation celebrate 25 YEARS OF THE WATSON FELLOWSHIP Many past Watson winners from Union will be back as part ofReUnion week- end, and will describe their experiences, from baseball in Cuba, to toys in Kenya, to the sociology of Scottish fishing villages. You name it, you can do it with a Watson. The gathering will be: Saturday, May 28 3:30-4:30+ Fero House first floor Come and be inspired! If you haven't gotte~ information about applying for a Watson, it will be available Saturday, or fill in the form below, and return to Prof. Klein in the Economics Department. Yes. 1 want to win money to travel anywhere and do anything for a yerear after I graduate! Name: __________________________________________________________ ___ Box: ______________________ __ Major(s) ------------------ Phone: ------------------------------- Tear out and return to Prof. Klein in Economics as soon as possible. Summer Job: The Schenectady Jewish Community Center is looking for a summer day camp, early childhood unit head. See the CDC for further details. Internship: Prudential Securi- ties, Albany has an opportunity available for undergraduate and graduates to gain experience :working directly with a financial · advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to apply. Intern- ship is unpaid but a possible s~i­ pend may be available after proven ability. See the CDC for more info. Summer or FaH Internship: FLY 92, Albany Broadcasting Company, Albany offers a di- verse communication media ex- perience in a professional atmo- sphere. See the CDC for more info. For Seniors looking for perma- nent employment: the CDC Li- brary receives job announce- ments on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are 8 AM - 5PM Monday - Friday; 7-9PM Tuesday and Wednesday. while school is in session. Babysitter For Summer Posi- tion Available: Hire my reliable and nice babysitter for the sum- mer. Call her evenings (Kim 393- 8704) or me for reference. (Pro- fessor Laura Gattes - 3 7 4-7 621) Electric Guitar For Sale: Gretsch. Double Humbuckes pickups. $150./b.o. x5900. Attention Seniors! Permanent Position: Couch, White, Brenner, Howard & Feigenbaum, Law Of- fice, Albany is looking for para- legal assistance. See the CDC for more details. Attention Seniors! Permanent Position: Independent State Agency has two vacancies for computer programmers: Entry Level Systems Programmer and Computer Programmer/Analyst. .See the Job Listing Binders un· derComputer Science in the CDC library for details. Summer Internship: GE, Schenectady is looking for a sum- mer intern in the GE Power Sys- tems Engineering Department with a strong background in Com- puter Sciences. Proficient in Con UNIX workstations, knowledge of X-Window, background in C++, OQP in a plus. Competitive salary. Part-time opportunity. Summer Internship: Beyond the WaH, Fairfield, CT, an adver- tising poster catalog company is looking for an Advertising/Pub- lications Intern to work in an un- structured, creative environment. Paid positions begin end of aca- demic year and runs through La- bor day. See the CDC for further details. Internship: Makovsky & Com- pany Inc., New York is a mid-size public-relations finn looking for interns for Fall, Spring, and Sum- mer. Six: month lead time is sug- gested on desired internship pe- riod. Stipend available. See the CDC. Summer Employment Oppor- tunity: Child care for two well- behaved (honest) kids, ages 4 (girl) and 5 (boy). Monday- Fri- day: 7:50AM-4:30PM. Duties- Plan, lead and participate in daily activities. 4rrange and escort kids on picnies, field trips, to li- brary, etc. Needs: Responsible, reliable individ~al, US citizen, interest in child qare. Location: GE plot. Contact $81-3969 (eve- nings) If you have a bed and would like someone to take it off your hands. Please contact Sheryl at x5855. Preferably a double bed. Student Affairs Council Review of Organized Residential Groups Team Evaluation Committee solicits comments from interested individuals on Psi Upsilon Fraternity Suggested Areas of Inquiry: Purpose and Organization Care of Facility Learning Environment Membership Diversity Contribution to the College Anything Else of Interest or Concern Please submit information to or contact: Prof. Scott Scullion Classics Dept. Humanities 215E x6067 '· -

I) May 26, 1994, page 18 SCHEDULE CAMPUS CALENDAR Thursday 5/26/94 7:30p 9:00p ReUnion Weekend Welcome Reception CC305 RE-UNION 9:30p 12:00a Friday 5/27/94 8:30a ~:OOp 1 :30p 2:30p 2:00p 3:30p 3:00p 4:30p 4:30p 6:30p 4:30p 7:00p 5:30p 7:00p 5:30p 7:00p 5:30p 7:00p 5:30p 7:00p 5:30p, 7:00p 5:30p 9:30p 6:00p II :OOp 6:30p 9:30p 7:00p lO:OOp 8:00p II :OOp 8:00p 12:00a Saturday 5/28/94 8:00a l:OOp 9:00a 1 O:OOa lO:OOa ll:OOa 12:00p 12:45p 12:00p 5:00p l2:45p 2:30p 2:00p 2:30p 2:30p 3:30p Jazz Ensemble Arts Department ReUnion Weekend Recreational Use ReUnion Weekend Chet's Alumni Gym Pool Memorial Fieldhouse Minerva's Race Registration ReUnion Weekend CC305, Nott, Yulman and Libracy Plaza ReUnion Weekend Hale House -Everest Planned Giving Seminar Lounge T.G.I.F. Chet's ReUnion Weekend CC406 ReUnion Weekend CC203 '39 Class Reception ReUnion Weekend CC204 '24 Class Reception ReUnion Weekend CC205 '29 Class Reception ReUnion Weekend CC409 '38 Class Reception ReUnion Weekend CC305 '34 Class Reception ReUnion Weekend Upper Class Dining Garnet Guard Cocktail Dinner ReUnion Weekend Alumni Gym Junior ReUnion Weekend for Children ReUnion Weekend Hale House - Milano Watson Fellowship Dinner ReUnion Weekend Hale House Dining Room 50th ReUnion Dinner ReUnion Weekend CCAtrium-Dutch Alumni Reception Six Degrees of SS016 Separation Movie: 8:00 and 10:00 PM ReUnion Weekend HU116 , Nurse's Station ReUnion Weekend CC305 Admissions Workshop ReUnion Weekend Library Plaza Class Picture & Parade ReUnion Weekend Memorial Chapel Concocation & Chimes Concert ReUnion Weekend Alumni Gym Pool Recreational use ReUnion Weekend Alexander Field Picnic ReUnion Weekend HU112 Steinmetz Symposium Poster Presentaion ReUnion Weekend HU114 Steimetz Symposium 'toomt Ac::tivitit3s/Cdle~ £ellto- Uis UwnsdAy: JAZZ ENSEMblE NEXT TliuRsdAy: SENioR ClAss Skirs NEXT FRidAy: l TGIF Chuck RodMAN This Woman's Work II Thursday, May 26 8 PM - Fero House A Sprin.9 Concert Monda.y, Ma.y .30, 7:00- 8:30PM Arts 215 3:00p 4:00p ReUnion Weekend Hale - Everet Lounge Legacy Reception 3:30p 6:30p ReUnion Weekend Fero 102 Watson Presentaion 4:30p 5:30p ReUnion Weekend Arts Atrium 25th ReUnion Cocktail Reception 4:30p 7:00p ReUnion Weekend Hale Dining Room 50th ReUnion Reception 5:00p 6:30p ReUnion Weekend CCAtrium-Dutch Terrace Council Reception Saturday 5/28/94 6:30p 9:00p ReUnion Weekend UpperClass Dining Candlelight Dinner Buffet 8:00p 12:00a Six Degrees of Separation ' SSOl6 Movie: 8 and 10 PM 8:00p 12:00a, ReUnion Weekend Old Chapel 40th ReUnion Reception 9:30p IO:OOp ReUnion Weekend Library Plaza Fireworks Sunday 5/29/94 9:00a ll:30a ReUnion Weekend UpperClass Dining Bon Voyage Breakfast l:OOp 5:00p ReUnion Weekend Alumni Gym Pool Recreation Use 8:00p 12:00a Six Degrees of Separation CCAud Movie: 8:00 and 10:00 PM Monday 5/30/94 8:00p 12:00a Six Degrees of Separation CCAud Movie: 8:00 and 10:00 PM Tuesday 5/31/94 4:00p 6:00p Faculty Colloqium CCAud 8:00p 12:00a Movie: The Naked Gun CCAud at 8:00 and 1 o:oo PM Wednesday 6/1/94 3:30p S:OOp Ice Cream Social North College Sponsor: Women's Union

SPORTS May 26, 1994, page 19 Ruggeri and Aurora Win First Annual Cainpus Golf Tourney by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano Spotts Editors Eighteen holes of pure excite- ment ... the inaugural Union Col- lege Campus Golf Open proved to be the most excitement this in- stitution has seen since Chester Arthur downed a 36 '?unce m1.1:g of Mount Gay Rum on Fitzhugh Ludlow Day and proceeded to parade naked arQ.und campus; no wonder they named the Pub cifter him. Seniors J:oe Ruggeri and John Aurora dueled to tie and opted not to partake in a sudden death playoff. The duo will share a hefty amount of money .. and walk home the winners of the Matn}ITola Cup which will be on display in the College Center be- fore graduation. sonal b;Ittle. The muscular Au- rora looked like John Daly with his colossal drives and his pow- erful stroke. Ruggeri, on the other hand, countered with precise technique characteristic .of tile pin-point accuracy of Tom Kite. The course covered the four corners of the Union College Campus. - Irt the words of Marc Mt;lkonian, a Tournament Cad- .die, ~·~hese _holes are tougher than some ofthe ones on the profes- sional circuit.\ .The par 6 :four- teenth hole sitUated between Pot- ter and Raymond Houses, a.k.a. \the grassy knoll'', was perhaps more challenging than the six:~ teenth at Cypress Point (200 yard carry over an inlet of the Pacific Ocean). . Despite conditions ill.:befitting a round of golf, a stalwart few took on the challenging ~ourse as if it were the US Open. No.one· else in the otherwise talented pool challenged Joe arid John .who transformed th.e match into a per- Teeing oft for the eighteenth hole, Aurora was down a stroke at three under par. To Win, he would have to best Ruggeri <>nthe par 5 cup which meant negotiat- .ing the uneven terrain of the Rugby field and reaching the Flagpole/Senior Gift (engineered by William D. Humphreys). Joe Ruggeri and Jolm Aurora froid Campus Golf Cup. (photo by F. Jeremy Smitlt!TC) When the dust settled and Aurora released Ruggeri from a sleeper hold, both were crowned cham- pions. Unfortunately, Commis- sioner Joe Mammola was unavail- able to present the trophy. Thanks to all who came out and start practicing for next year's tournament. Bad Boys Win Intramural Softball Championship B League Intramural Champions - \The Bad Boys\ '( photo by F. Jeremy S.mithlfC) Brought together by breaking the law, the Bad Boys were con- ceived. Fourteen young stallions with world class speed, guns that are wanted by Snoop Doggy Dog. The team was motivated by trash talking and hating R.P.I. At the beginning, the Bad Boys drove to R.P.I. with the attitude of \I am not going to be denied\ and,th_roughout their longjoumey they weren't. The original Bad Boys, Paul \4.2 forty\ Schweiger and Dmitri \Big D\ Konon trashed talked their way to being kicked out of the RP .I first play- off game. With lines like \Shut your trap or I'll shut h for you\ ''Listen hear sizzle chest\ and \The only red on the R.P.I. uni- fonn should be from ... \ it is no wonder why these two delin- quents were kicked out of the R..P.I games. From this small be~ ginning other Bad Boys joined the posse. Starting with \Boom Boom Foley\ Adam \The Horse\ •i Horst, Sine, Lany \Earl the Pearl\ Bascom, and Seth \Satan\ Henry. The rowdy bunch of Bad Boys then fonned the dream team soft- ball team. Adding to the already'\ powerful posse, Mike \The Snake\ Delima, Chris \Ringer\, Ketch, Peeker, and Buddy. With guidance from the all knowing fifth year senior Zollo, the team dominated the \B\ league intra- mural softball conference. We must also praise the First Lady of the team, Rachel \High-five Schaeffer\. The team received so much nation wide recognition that All Star second baseman Steve Sax came to inspire the team on to victory. This may sound surprising but most of the Bad Boys are available. If there are any interesting beauty queens out there, please send fan mail to box number 1966 or call Ext. 5763. The·Concordiensis would like to thank all of our senior editors for their outstanding contributions to the newspaper. Deb Mcinerney, Matt Karlyn, Belinda Crago, Nikki Goldin, Talley Heisinger, Lara Greenberg, Dylan Ratigan, Sharon Smith, Joe Saltzbart, Rob ·Malfetano, Alex Kreisl~r, David Fischer and all of the seniors who have contributed to the newspaper . .

May 26, 1994 PAGE 20 Union Hosts Big Bfother/Big Sister Youth Olympics by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff The second annual Youth Olympics were spQnsored this past Sunday by Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Schenectady, We Care About U, the Inter-Fraternity Council and the Panhellenic Council. The day opened with messages from the community leaders and the Union Administration. Youths were paired up with Union students who served as their big brothers and big sisters for the day. The kids also received t-shirts and prizes for the activi- ties that they participated in. Events of the day included a potato sack race, a water balloon toss, a spoon and egg relay, an obstacle course, a suit up frenzy and a three legged race. Kids were also given a chance to have their faces painted and their t-shirts tie- dyed. Lee Popper, Chair of the Plan- ning Committee for the Youth Olympics, came up with the idea for the Olympics while intcming at City Hall. during his intem- the IFC and the Panhellenic Council about providing an event for Schenectady youths. The idea was then taken to President Hull whose concem for the community led to the College's support for a Youth Olympics. Participating Greek houses, along with a number of indepen- dent students, formed a commit- tee to plan the day's festivities. The committee recruited many of the Greek houses on campus to be responsibl'e for setting up and running the events. \This whole day would not [have been] pos- sible without [the] enthusiasm and outstanding joint effort. dem- onstrated by Greek organizations at Union and the Community or- ganizations,\ stated Popper in a brochure explaining the events of the Youth Olympics. Popper reported that \the event [served] as a learning experience for both the children of Schenectady and Union students, as well as increasing the commu- nication between Union College and the Schenectady commu- nity.\ • ship, Popper learned that the events like this had been cut from the City budget. Popper addressed At the end of the day 1 04 youth participants had taken part and over 200 student volunteers had helped to make the day enjoyable for everyone. Youngster balances an egg on a spoon as ller big sister offers encouragement (plloto by J. Haine$1TC) An obstacle: Not for this cltild, as he maneuvers tl~toug/1 tires (p/10to by J. Haines/TC) Pulver Makes Nationals by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano Sports Editors While most of Union's aca- demic elite are preoccupied by delusions of grandeur and its ath- letes relishing the ·off season through their hard earned inebriacy, there is one student ath- lete who still carries a heavy bur- den on his shoulder. The burden happens to be a 16 pound shot put and the man 6'3\ 270 pound, Rich Pulver. Pulver has muscled his way into the NCAA Division lii Na- tionals which are currently taking place at North Central College in Naperville, Illinois. While this is his first trip to the outdoor meet, he finished 9th in the indoor na- tionals with a toss of 49 feet ten inches and won the New York State outdoor title throwing the shot 49 feet eight inches. Despite breaking his wrist last year he still garnered top honors in both indoor and out- door seasons;.no one could match his mammoth throws. Pulver looks to place in the top ten and with his best throw over 53 feet, the challenge is hardly insur- mountable. Inside: The Winner of the Campus Golf Cup - Page 19 ----~-·-------------- --------~·~~,.-'---.,.~~~~---~-, The Final Word • • • by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano Sports Editors In an effort to substantially upgrade the sports section of this publication, we focused our en- ergy and commitment towards . Union College Sports. Over the· years, The Concordiensi'iSports section has revolved around Football, Hockey, and opinion- ated articles about professional sports. That's it! No articles about school squads, sucb as soccer, swimming, or lacrosse. Yet, over the course ofthis aca- demic year, we have received numerous complaints, threats. and been victims of vehement criticism. Not only are such at- tacks unwarranted, but .ground- less in light ofhow far this sec- tion has come in one year. This fa11, the only articles that ·were submitted were about Football and Rugby. Conse- quently, we took it upon our- selves to thoroughly cov~r ALL of the sports community by in- terviewing players and coaches, and reporting the highlights of their games. To our surprise we received letters to the editor be- moaning the dearth of adequate . coverage. While the complaints were spurious and ludicrous, we obliged our readers by adding more in-depth articles. We chal- lenge you to pick up an issue from years past that has four pages of Union Sports; the sports section speaks for itself. Another outrageous com- plaint dealt with was an article that appeared in a fall term is- sue. It was a candid piece that gave an accurate account of a: team's recent performances. The author witnessed the games first• hand and evaluated them with a keen eye for the sport, one that .has been developed through years as a referee, a player, and a brother of an NCAA Division l Women's Soccer Player; he has seen the sport played at its best. The response from the coaching staff and players was harsh. Why? ~ When they played well, they were praised accordingly, yet some students still expect lofty acclaim after poor perfonnances. · The ronc:ordienJ;i.\· stands by .its reporters and refuses to glorify sub-par efforts. We go to a sup- posedly prestigious institution and yet The C(mcordiensis, the \student voice\ is expected to sacrifice its integrity so that its athletic programs appear to be successful, even in defeat. This is a farce, and we will not com- ply with these preposterous de- mands, we're going to tell it like it is. We are proud of the product and its progress over the year and we were pleased toreport the suc- cess and accolades of the sport• ing community here at Union College. It is our hope that this section of the Nationally Re- 'nowned Concordiensis continues to develop into a well informed voice of the sporting community. We're graduating, we're broken, so have a nice day! Thank you, God Bless You, and God Bless You the United States of America.

