Volume CXXV, Number IV Proctor's Too Returns by Michelle Ellis News Editor This year Union students will have the opportunity to explore a new type of artistic performance at the Yulman Theater. After a brief hiatus, due to the construc- tion of the new Yulman Theater, Proctors Too is returning to Union. Proctors Too is an offshoot of Proctors Theater in Schenectady. Proctors Too provides a forum for innovative theater. The perfor- mances of Proctors Too will en- gage the audience members in an avant guarde, interactive theatri- cal experience. The Yulman theater was com- missioned by the college to make the arts at Union more visible. To further the expression of artistic· performance both on campus and in the surrounding community, Union collaborated with Proctors Theater of Schenectady. Bearing Union students in mind, Gloria Lamere, Executive Director of Proctors Theater, ex- pressed the intention of Proctors Too. \The main goal for Proctors is the survival oftheater. We want to get students, young people, in- volved in the theater. They are the onrnrb-i.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 .;:: -~~~:{!f' > -- -~ •• :; • ,-, •• ''\\ ' -·~:;~.~n~ ·~·'- ~\M·\ij~\\\ .\f ,..·- .. Schenect&:~.dy, New York .... ' ,.,.-~ . ,.- October 5 , 1995 Yulman Theater will Jwst Proctor's Too starting October 20. (photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis) next generation.\ Lamere claimed, \Proctors Too will pro- vide something fresh that students can relate to. Proctors Too is not traditional theater. It is geared for the student's generation. The lan- guage and body movement is alien to my generation.\ Lamere also commented on the strong alliance between Proctors Theater and Bill Finlay, the Di- rector of the Yulman Theater. Lamere alluded that Finlay has been very instrumental in getting Proctors Too off the ground again. Bill Finlay expressed his enthu- siasm about this year's roster of performances and stated, \There seems to be a need for a different wing of theater in the capital re- gion.\ Finlay is hopeful that Union students will be able to work with some of the artists per- fanning here throughout the year. Three performances are sched- uled for this school year, one per trimester. On October 20 & 21, Mup & Smoot, the outrageous \clowns ofhorror,\ will appear on campus. During the winter tri- mester a play based on the poems. of American poet E. E. Cummings entitled ofE.E. I Sing will be per- formed on January 12 and 13. Proctors Too will also host The Idiot Variations on April12 and 13. This one man play will ex- plore the fine line that distin- guishes genius from lunacy. Union Student Slashed at Old Chapel by Michelle Ellis News Editor After the events that transpired during the Alpha Phi Alpha dance party, which left one student slashed and a visitor to the cam- pus charged with felony assault, both students and administrators are wondering what can be done to prevent these types of tragedies from occurring in the future. The violence erupted early Sunday morning after Carl E. Gamble, a 22 year old man. from Troy, broke two window panes at Old Chapel. As members of the fraternity escorted Gamble out of the building, pushing and shov- ing broke out. In their attempt to Inside ... News ............ 2-4 WorldNews .•. 5 intervene and stop the fighting, a Union student and an alumni of Union were injured. In order to assure the safety of the 150 people attending the event, campus security officers received back up from surround- ing police forces. Police from Glenville, Scotia, Njskayuna, and Duanesburg arrived on the scene. Oscar Hassel, 17, of Troy stands accused of pulling a knife and slashing a Union senior in the face. Hassel was charged with first-degree assault with intentto disfigure, and Gamble was charged with fourth-degree crimi- nal mischief for allegedly break- ing windows at Old. Chapel. Fred Alford, Dean of Students, Student Forum .... u6 OP/ED ....•..•.. 7-9 commented on the tragic conse- quences of the Alpha Phi Alpha event and considered what pos- sible implications this incident may have upon future social pol i- cies at Union. Alford expressed concern over the fact that an event which was non-alcoholic had such negative repercussions. \Ironically the col- lege has given much more atten- tion to the policies of alcoholic events than those of non-alco- holic events,\ stated Alford. President of the Alpha PhiAl- phaFratemity, VictorOwoso '96, also expressed dismay that the senseless violence occurred dur- ing his fraternity's non-alcoholic fund-raiser for a scholarship pro- Coed .....•.•.. 10-11 A & E •....•.•..•.... 12 Features .......... 13 gram. \Alpha Phi Alpha, since its introduction to the campus, has attempted to provide non-alco- holic social alternatives and, for eight years, it has been success- ful. It is unfortunate that at such a positive event, such a negative situation occurred. We will con- tinue to provide these social events, but will definitely pay more attention to providing secu- rity for Union students and their guests.\ Dean Alford commended the fraternity for properly handling the crisis. \The men of Alpha Phi AI pha did a great job in respond- ing to an emergency, and I have a lot offaith in their ability to give us good suggestions as to how to Living ............. 14 Calendar ......... 15 Pers./Class •.•.• 16 plan for the future.\ He stated that he and other members of the ad- ministration will be meeting with the officers of the fraternity to discuss the possibility of making small refinements in the event in the future, such as having a po- lice officer monitor the event. Alford emphasized that the col- lege administration does not want to over react to the incident. \The consequences of the event were grave, but it is not an epidemic problem,\ Alford stated. \It was unfortunate. These things happen, and we are going to work hard to learn whatever lessons we can from this ... everyone who hosts events here should pay attention to who is attending their event.'' Sports ...... 18-20 VOTE!!!!

~ ~ An Ad Hoc· Committee nas been f6rfue(ft6. inv~Sti'gatefhe\ten\lra151flcy·ofPfof~soor Dan Burns in the Psychology Department. Any student or facultY member who wishes to meet with the committee or send a letter coridern1ngProress6f .. ·· · ... tenurability may cohtact Professor Weiner(Political\Scit:mc6)~ Ptoft:§sofBeria:c'KtP~~' ' chology ), Professor Maleki (Physics), or Professor Chang (Electrical Engineering). A tenuabHity review for Professor Andrew Peffer of the Histoty Depattlnent is underway. Anyone wishing to submit a written statement concerning the tenurability of Professor Feffer should send it to a member of the committee no later than No- . vember 14, I 995. Members of the committee are Professors Berk (History), F.raziet (English. Chair), Niefield (Math), and Strosberg (GMI). · The Concordiensis Meets every Wednesday night at 7:00pm in the Reamer ·Campus Center 303. All ar.e welcome. UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY Campus News MONDAY SEPTEMBER25, 1995 THROl!Gll SUNDAY,OCTOBER 1,1995 DATEffiME LOCATION INCIDENT MONDA Y,SEPTEMBER 25, 1995: 3:28PM Davidson THEFT: Compactdiskstakenfrom co!Tlmonroom. No signofforced entry. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1995: 10:30 AM Davidsen VANDALISM: Fire exitsign broken; lightbulbs placed inside laundry room dryer and broken. I I :40 AM Fox/Davidson Lot THEFT: Campus Safety Officerobservedthtee visitors carryin~ plastic bags full.ofredeemable cans. Two suspects ran off, third was:apprehended and arrested for larceny. Had been previously ad- vised off campus. WEDNESDAY, SEPT,EMB'ER 27,1995: 12:40 AM Alumni Gym Lot THEFT: Student's carpusheq from parking lot onto city street then ransacked. Property stolen from car. SPD notified. 8:12AM Lamont Lot VANDALISM/THEFT: Parkinglotdesignation sign broken off and removed from area. 9:30AM ,Fox House VANDALISM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student's room smoke detector damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 3:05PM Humanities Bldg. THEFT; S~udent's bicycle stolen. Was chained to a tree. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1995: 3:17AM WestCoHege FALSEFIREALARM/LIFESAFETYVIOLA- 9:35AM S&E 7:18PM Fraternity TION: Pull box on 2nd floor north was intention ally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Computers iR sev- eral staff offices being used without permission. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Drug paraphernalia ob served in student's room. Item confiscated Con- duct Charges filed. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, l995: 4:30PM Steinmetz THEFT: Computer scavenged. Parts stolen. 5·02 PM West College THEFT: Cash stolen from bookbag in student's room. No forced entry. 7:10PM Reamer Center VANDALISM: Elevator control panel damaged. Elevator will not operate. Called for emergency repair due to Homecoming weekend events. R·28 PM Reamer Center MISCHIEVOUS BEllA VI OR: Toilet paper dis penser in 2nd floor men's room forced open. Pa- perstrewn all overroom. 11 OR PM Davidson MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Student throwing trash all over corridor in residence halL SATORDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1995: ]·52 AM Fox South VANDALISM: Window broken. SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1995: I :04 AM Old Chapel DISORDERLY CONDUCT/VANDALISM/AS SAULT: Visitor to campus event broke windows. Disruptive behavior of visitors friends led to a physi- cal confrontation. A student and alumnus were slashed during melee. Law Enforcement Officers were summoned to assist Campus Safety. Two visi- tors were arrested; one for Criminal Mischief the other for Assault. Campus Safety officer sustained 2:47AM Fraternity 3:39AM Edwards House !2:15PM Chi Psi Lot 1:00PM Fox House 4:33PM Fox South 8:46PM Union A venue II :18 PM Davidson back injury during incident. ASSAULT: Student struck in face and injured by another student. SPD noti-fied. One student arrested for assault. VANDALISM: Large plate glass lounge window broken. Rock was thrown through the window. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car damaged. Believed to have been struck by hit and run driver. THEFT: Student's clothing stolen from laundry . room dryer. VANDALISM: Window broken. THEFT/VANDALISM: Student's car was parked on street. Window was broken and car entered. Cash stolen from wallet. SPD notified. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Suspcious odorreported. Area checked) report not confirmed_ ( i I i. \ i I I (! I' ' '• I; r ' l I i I. '' ) {

I i r: '' I '' ~ ·1 •I ALIENS RUNNING UNION ADMINIS,.RA,.ION BULL, MAMMOLA MIR-riANS Brian Williams General Editor of f'hs National Enq11irer Will speak. in Memorial Chapel on October II at Bpm Admission is free! The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 3 Pitiful Turnout to Discuss 25 Years .of Women by Omar AI-Khalidi News Staff The Crosstalk entitled \After 25 Years of Coeducation: Are Women Still Guests at Union?\ was organized to explore ev- ery facet of female integration into Union's student body si11ce 1965. The event was held on Wednesday, September 27, at 7 p.m. in the Reamer Campus Center. The panel was composed of two stu- dents, Ned Abbott and Ally Hirschman, and professors Dick Shanebrook and Ruth Stevenson. Professor Stevenson is a doc- tor of English, and Professor Shanebrook is a doctor of Mechanical Engineering. After a mediator introduced the topic for disc;;ussion toa lively audience of nearly ten people (faculty and students com- bined), Ally Hi1:schman began her disser- tation with a variety of dictionary defini- tions for the word \guest.\ In building her case, she relied on stereotypical char- acteristics of a guest lacking of responsi- bility. Sh.e asserted that since many stu- dents at Union act like guests, they are appropriately treated as guests. In addi- tion, she communicated that she chooses to be an equal among males while pursu- ing her education. While pursuing a so- cial life, she went as far as to say that women can in effect use males for ben- efits such as receiving free drinks. Doctor Shanebrook, a professor at Union since 1965, Feminisced about what an all male Union was like. His opinion is that cosmetically, Union has become a better place since the enrollment of women students. Specifically, women have pro- vided men with the motivation to look and act cleaner. However, when considering engineering students at Union, Dr. Shanebrook holds women to be anything but guests. Rather, he feels that women engineering majors have been equal par- ticipants from the very beginning of Union's move to co-educational enroll- ment. He cited the fact that \by the 1970's, Union already had a Society of Women's Engineers (S.W.E.S.).\ Ned Abbott's terse discourse offered an oddly rational inference. Abbott's con- viction that women at Union hold a sec- ondary role to men was explained by the fact that the student population is approxi- mately half male, while males do notre- quire a Student Union to strive for equal- ity as women do. Abbott also expressed doubt that women could seriously impact the social base and thoughts developed by men over 175 years in the short period of25 years. Doctor Stevenson began the final ora- tion by introducing two college bumper sticker slogans. The slogans, \Hampton City College: Where the Men Are Men and the Women Are Guests\ and \West Point: Where the Men Are Men and So Are the Women,\ are believed by Doctor Stevenson to imply male ownership in colleges as well as in the world. Doctor Stevenson cited the costly, ostentatious fa- cilities such as Achilles Rink and the foot- ball field, being primarily used by and maintained for male athletic programs, as an example of male dominated resource allocation. She also asserted that the foot- b<ll field was designed in favor of males because it is made of Astroturf and Astroturf is more physically deleterious to women. Also, men's capitol. gener- ated over the years, has been used to pur- chase and maintain fraternity houses. She criticized this for providing an opportu- nity for male students to own a large part of the aesthetic and architectural beauty on campus. As a result of these and other forms of male dominated ownership, Dr. Stevenson suggests that male students have the ability to own the social lives, drinks, music, and even the sex lives on campus. She attributes left-over (pre-Coed.) fac- ulty, a vast majority of males on the board of trustees, and male groups (such as fra- ternities) maintaining old ideas and men- talities as possible sources of the unequal resource availability. She concluded that a male autonomy has reigned at Union be- cause the men remain as hosts by refusing joint ownership to women. One student questioned why everyone present was so interested in discussing why women at Union have not achieved equal access to resources if the case is not any different in the rest of the world. Professor Scullion voiced his opinion on the fact that in this day and age, he finds it odd that the board of trustees still sup- ports groups whose membership policies implement sex discrimination. In closing, Professor Danowski asked that if we at Union, as a community, were to reallocate all of the resources and re- write every policy to create a new Union, would we change anything? However, as one student pointed out, conservatism is resistant to changes. Radical changes re- quire a lot of support from special interest groups. Judging from the small number of participants in this cross talk, conser- vatism is alive and well at Union College when it comes to women's current posi- tion in the campus community. Career Festival a Big Success by Adrian MacLean News Staff The 1995 Union College Career Festival was a success for both students and em- ployers. Roughly five hundred students, forty companies, and twenty graduate schools participated in the fair. According to the Assistant Director of the Career Development Center, Thomas Denham, the festival was a complete success. \Students came well dressed, were prepared with resumes, asked excellent questions, and showed initiative.\ The festival opened up an opportunity for students to explore different careers and learn about graduate schools. Denham suggested that students who were originally thinking of graduate school may have been swayed by an employer and visa versa. Underclassmen were also able to benefit from internship opportunities. Employers and schools were impressed by Union students. \I thought it was one of the better run, more well organized fairs- nice students, intelligent questions, and a good facility. We'll be back!\ Connecticut School ofLawstated. Denham wants to encourage all the students who attended the fair to follow up with the employers and schools that they encountered. This is a crucial step in completing a good impression.

Page 4 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis Hull Expands Term Abroad Opportunities by Adrian MacLean News Staff Union will be bridgingthe gap abmad with the introduction of three new exchanges and a new term abroad to Costa Rica. President Hull recently made visits to eastern Europe and Costa Rica in an attempt to expand Union's international opportuni- ties. Students will be traveling to Costa Rica this winter for the first time. The opportunity was made possible by the Stone family. Union Trustee Sam Stone is from Costa Rica and helped consider- ably in facilitating the trip. The Stone family has been active in many facets of Union: Stephanie Stone, graduated in the class of 1986, and Doris Stone, the mother of Sam, has financially supported Union by providing a Chair for the English and Sociology J?e- partments. The term in Costa Rica will fo- cus primarily on Environmental Biology. However, it also pre- sents students with a chance to learn about the oldest democracy in Latin America. Professor Twitty Styles of the Biology De- partment will be the faculty advi- sor for the trip. Three students from Union will be selected to participate in each of the three new exchanges abroad, and one student from each country will come to Union for the entire year. The first exchange is in Blagowgrad, Bt:tlgaria. This is open to all majors, but has an emphasis on the economic and political.structure of a former communist nation. Students will live ten miles outside of Macedonia in the fonner commu- nist training school located in the old headquarters. This exchange provides integrative experience with non-Union students, some- thing that President Hull wants all the term abroad programs to incorporate. As greater flexibility is being introduced to the engineering curriculum, two technical ex- changes have been developed for engineering majors. The Tech- nical University ofRoclaw, Po- land, and the Technical Univer- sity of Prague in the Chec Re- publi\ will each welcome three Union students. President HuH created these opportunities dur- ing his visit to Prague for the gathering ofthe Alliance ofUni- versities for Democracy. The goal ofthismeetingwasto bring the Presidents and Rectors of universities from the East and the West together. UNION LAUNDRY 561 NOTT ST. SCH'DY OPEN SAM TO 1 0:30PM DAILY SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS UNION COLLEGE Campus News Marriot Bring:s H·ome · Recip,es to. Union by Bhavani Meduri News Staff How many times have you dreamed about those grea,t dinners· . your Mom always whips up for you when you're back home- espe- , cially after another blase meal .of pasta or a sandwich at school? . Well, dream no more because Union College Dining Services has . · decided to make your dream come true! Beginning October 17, welcome to Family Recipe Days at West· and Upp.er-class. This is o:iningService's latest plan to expand the · variety of foods served at Union. The program was implemeated over the summer when students and their families were asked to send in their favorite recipes. These . · were then collected and tested by the staff to see if they were fea- sible to serve a large student body. The ones that were chosen have been incorporated .into the school's menu cycle for the rest of the school year. The first recipe to be presented comes from the father of sopho- . more Peter Zeigler. It is entitled Jambalaya. Both Zeigler a,nd his parents have been notified of this honor and have been invited to . . come sample the cuisine. Mo Schifley, the Director of Dining Services, is quick to assure students that their recipes will be followed down to the letter and asks students to be-'as specific as possible' when sending in the. recipes for their favorite foods. One of the main goals of this program is to make sure the quality · of the foods is not jeopardized by the large quantities in which they will be made. Schifley believes tllat one way to accomplish this goal is by assigning a single cook to any one recipe to maintain consistency in the food prepared. The popularity of this idea among Union students has come as a pleasant surpass to the staff at Dining Services. They have collected about 55 recipes and are anticipating more over the year. The vari- ety of foods. include everything from Cranberry Jazz, a variation on cranberry sauce that is to be served at the Thanksgiving Dinner Special, to Garlic Tortellini Soup. The parents of Amy Schram have sent the instructions for a complete dinner affair, including side dishes, appropriately named Chicken Schram! Schifley hopes to expand this program to include reCipes sent in by faculty and staff at Union. She believes this would provide more friendly and informal interaction. Although Schifley believes that 'We won't know anything until we try it,\ she hopes the '}M.egram will be a big success. DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES AND Da Vinci Exhibit in the N ott THE BIOLOGY CLUB ***************************************** SEMINAR u APPLICATION OF BIOFILTERS IN THE TREATMENT OF HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS\ WAYNE KANT, P.E. (Union Class of ~85) MAl'<AGER OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOP MEN\! EG&GROTRON SAUGERTIES, NY THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5,1995 4:40PM SOC!:\!. SClf~CES 101 RPtrP<hmenfq 4:10 P!\.f by Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer \In the summer of 1994, a Nott Exhibits Committee was formed in conjunction with the renovation and dedication of the NottMemorial, and has been ex- tended for the purpose of a con- tinuous rotation of displays. As a member of the commit- tee, I encourage all members of-- the Union College community to take the opportunity to examine the remarkable models of the in- ventions of Leonardo da Vinci that were commissioned by Tho- mas Watson of IBM and are now on display. Da Vinci was born in 1452 at the same time that Johann Gutenberg was inventing a prac- tical printing press. For the first time the printed word and books could be reproduced in large quantities. Knowledge could be preserved and proliferated. The dark ages of intellectual stagna- tion were replaced by a new era of excitement and creativity. Along with becoming one of the greatest artists of the Italian Renaissance with his \Last Sup- per\ and \Mona Lisa,\ Da Vinci was also an inventor, a civil and military engineer, a botanist, an astronomer, a geologist, an anato- mist and a pioneer in aviation. The models were recreated from sketches of his inventions. ·Along with a flying machine, an armored vehicle for warfare, and parachute, is an improvementon Gutenberg's printing press - specifically, roller bearings to re- duce friction on wagon wheels. My own imagination was most stimulated by his system of plumb lines to measure the size of the earth. Since each line points to the earth's center, a careful mea~ surement of the angle between two lines and knowledge of ge· ometry can be used to calculate tht~ earth's radius. This experiment is intriguing because Leonardo da Vinci was a contemporary of Christopher Columbus (b 1451 '1). They lived at a time when it took outstand- ing intellect to believe the world is round and not flat as it appears. The 1492 voyage by Colum- bus was an effort to commercial- ize on the round earth hypothesis. He would go east by sailing west and ope~ a profitable new trade route. His estimate of3,000 miles from the Canary Islandsto Japan presumed the earth was about one quarter of its actual size. Columbus discovered new con- tinents, but it is also true that he did not really know where he was going, he did not know where he. was when he got there, and he did not know where he had been w~en he returned to Spain. The size of the world was still a mys- tery. Thus, while Columbus was starting a new era of global ex- ploration and discovery, Leonardo da Vinci was attempt- ing to measure its size by com- bining mathematics with experi- mental science. \

World News Social Security Needs· A Trim by Matt Sandler Wor~dNews Editor The Republican plan to slow the rate of increase in Medicate and Med- icaid and save a combined $452 billion, or 16 percent over seven years, has stirred great controversy. Since theRe- publican Contract with America has been marshaled through Congress, the nation finds itself in a realistic position to curtail the locked in- deficits and un- controlled spending which until now it has failed to do. The Republican agenda has stressed that the Federal Government has become too intrusive Into people , lives and too many people's financial successes have become tied to the money dole-outs of Uncle Sam. With the effort to balance the budget, Republicans said Social Security was off the table to the budget axe and had to set their sites on Medicare, the insurance program for the elderly that benefits 3 7 million Ameri- cans and is growing at uncontrollable rates. The restructuring of Medicare and up; it effects everyone, but more so the people living on fixed pension plans (i.e. Social Security). The government, therefore, responded by instituting Cost- of~Living-Adjustments (COLAs) which compensate Social Security pensioners for inflation, due mostly by yearly bud- get deficits which foster inflation, which fosters COLAs, which fosters a deficit, which fosters a debt. The pattern is a cyclical spiral that never ends unless the deficits are brought under control. What options does the United States have? Economists have argued for years that the Consumer Price Index overstates inflation. It is from the Consumer Price Index that the government calculates the Cost-of-Living-Adjustments to compen- sate pensioners and to pay Civil Service retirement and military pensions. Sena- tor Daniel Patrick Moynihan stated that $2& 1 billion could be saved over a seven year period iftheCost-of-Living-Adjust- ments were based on the Consumer Price Index minus one percentage point. \In- ch:~ded in the $281 billion savings would be $98 billion in addition tax revenue \The Republican Agenda has stressed that the Federal Government has become too intrusive into people lives and too many people's financial successes have become tied to the money dole-outs of Uncle Sam . ... The Baby :Soomers are getting older and older each year. Soon they will start collecting their benefits.\ Medicaid is meant to save the programs and add the needed money to balance the budget by the Republican appointed goal of 2002. The Republicans also want $245 billion in tax cuts over seven years, which is why the Medicare sav- ings goal is so high. The Congressional Budget Office said, \The Senate bill [Medicare] would achieve the goal of saving $270 billion in Medicare over seven years. Beneficiaries would con- tribute $71 billion through higher pre- miums and deductibles. Doctors, hos- pitals and other health care providers would give up $152 billion .. And $47.5 bil1ion would be saved through use of health maintenance organization, 'medi- cal savings accounts', and other alterna- tives to the standard Medicare program.\ There are other measures available. Social Security is a pay-as-you-go program, meaning that the workers ofto- day pay for the retirees now. The work- ers of today pay into the system, expect- ing that when they retire, they will have the workers of that period pay their sti- pends. This system is great so long as there is a larger ratio of workers to retir- ees. The Baby Boomers are getting older and older each year. Soon they will start collecting their benefits. Gen- erally, as people become more success- ful financially they have fewer children; this is certainly true of the Baby Boomers. The work force that is meant to support the Baby Boomers on Social Security cannot support their parents without huge tax increases. Right now Social Security runs a surplus, which means that the money is used to under- wri.te the ballooning budget deficits. In the year 2013, that surplus will run out, and in the next twelve years the program will hit bankruptcy. Not only do Social Security recipients get Social Security checks, but they get Cost-of-Living- Adjustments as welL As inflation goes that would be collected because changes in the consumer Price Index imply changes income tax brackets and the personal exemption.\ According to Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Fed- eral Reserve, \the Government could save billions by 'correcting' this bias.\ A change of one percentage point would give the country a money wind- fall. The government would be able to lower the Medicare savings to smooth the transition of changes in the program. If the Republicans compromised to a $200 billion tax cut, President Clinton would be more open to Republican ini- tiatives and the budget could be balanced with less pain inflicted. The difference between $245 and $200 is $45 billion dollars - $45 billion dollars worth of options to reach the goal of fiscal disci- pline. If the tax breaks remain the same and the restructuring of Medicare and ·Medicaid produce a budget that is bal- anced by 2002, the Social Security Cost- of-Living-Adjustment change in per- centage point will give the government a surplus, something that has not hap- pened since 1969. This money could even be plowed back into the Social Se- curity system to extend the rate of sur- plus past 2013. If the change by a per- centage point would save the govern- ment $281 billion over seven years, the next seven years will also show a sav- ings because the government would be paying COLAs on a corrected Consumer Price Index, not a biased one. It is in all of our interests that our elected leaders seize hold of this impor- tant option. It would be an enonnous · tragedy if the United States was locked into bankruptcy and a further erosion of our sovereignty because of one percent- age point. This percentage point is prob- ably the most important statistic this country will ever produce; one that may well be written into the history books as the solution to our insolvency crisis. The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 e Page 5 Jesse flelms says Aids is ~he result of ... If that were true ... International: * Israel and the P.LO. reached a de- tailed accord of a step by step transfer ofthe West Bank area to the Palestin- ian authority. The leaders of the United States, Israel, the P.L.O., Egypt, and Jordan, attended a White House Ceremony for the Accord. Absent from the scene were the lead- ers of Syria and Lebanon. * \Sixty-one passengers sued British Airways for allowing their flight to land in Kuwait on the day ofthe Iraqi invasion in 1990, accusing the airline of using the jet to land British com- mandos.\ * Canada has proposed a force to help the UN. respond more aggressively to world situations. This force would be deployed for the period between the initial start of the crisis and the time the Security Council decides to send U.N. peacekeepers. * China has decided to cancel the deal for selling Iran two nuclear reactors. This is in part w)1at has led to a wors- ening oftensions between the U.S. and China. * A French mercenary who once was the armed power behind the presi- dency ofthe Comoros led a new coup attempt against the island nation off Africa's east coast and took the Presi- dent hostage. ... del,berate, disgusting. revolting conduct. .,. wouldn't he have it? .. * \The HIV virus that causes AIDS attacks the cells in the immune sys- tem called T cells, leaving the body defenseless against infections, Re- searchers at the AIDS Institute ofthe University of California at Los An- geles have identified a gene in HIV that stops the reproduction of the CD4 T-lymphocyte cells. The next step is figuring out how the Vpr gene, as it is known, prevents the dis- ease-fighting cells from dividing.\ Washington: *The G.O.P. leaders in Congress and President Clinton have agreed to a stopgap measure to prevent the Fed- eral government from closing down with the start of the next fiscal year, already past that began on Oct I. The agreement provides a reduced allowance for six weeks, everything that is contentious between the White . House and Congress. These six weeks, the Republicans and Demo- crats will have to iron out the 1996 budget. *The Central Intelligence Agency may dismiss the Chief officer in- volved in Guatemala. *The National Reconnaissance Of- fice, responsible for the nation's fleet of spy satellites has hoarded $1.5 billion in appropriated money. Con- gress cut the agency's budget by $1 billion dollars for 1996 fiscal year.

Page 6 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis Student Forum Randy Pellish The student body is the foundation and heart of Union College, and must be properly represented to those people who sit at the top of the decision-making structure: including our president, deans, and mostimportantly, the Board ofTrust- ees. Student representation must be a premium on the Board of Trustees due to the fact that this group, through no fault oftheir own, is disconnected from the mainstream of campus life. The Board of Trustees, more than any governing group, needs solid information on how students feel and what students need. I am running for this position so that I can ensure that the Board of Trustees knows exactly how the students feel abouttheir college, and exactly what stu- dents feel. they need to improve Union. At the same time, I want to make sure that the students understand the ideas and opinions of the Trustees. We all want one thing, and that is to maintain the greatness ofUnion College. To reach this goal together, I will see that the lines of communication between the students and the Trustees remain open. I know Union'5 future can be one in which both students and administration alike will feel proud of, but it must hap- pen in an open, cooperative environment where all sides understand each other. With this understanding, we wiH main- tain all the things about Union which we love, and be able to incorporate the new ideas and projects which can improve our college. I ask you for your vote be- cause I believe I can serve you as Junior Trustee, representing your collective in- terests to the Board of Trustees, and maintaining representation as a premium at Union College. Thank you. Jesse Shafer · I offer you no triumphed up promises. If you vote for Jesse Shafer as Junior Trustee, what I can promise is that I will work hard and be fully and completely involved in this serious undertaking. I ensure you that the needs and interests of the student body will not be lost in the bureaucratic shuffle to make ends meet. I want this job and will remain an active voice---please put stock in my • judgement to do what needs to be done. Like you, I work, party and live in this environment, too. However, though solid in many areas, there are still issues that the trustees need a student's opinion on. Trust in my opinion: vote for Jesse Shafer as Junior Trustee this Friday. ......... - ..... .~- ... ~· ., •• •• ......... ~Student Activities Announc_es: ••• •• , I EVENING HOURS ~ : ~ ; Monday thru Friday: 5 to llPM ! ~~ Saturday and Sunday: 8to llPM .:'.! ..... ,. Program Assistants are in ............ .. ., ,~ •••••• CC410 ~··'·• ••••• •••••••• DO NOT FORGET TO VOTE ON FRIDAY!! ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD IN THE COLLEGE CENTER. Procto(s Theatre proudly presents ... Rosemary Clooney and Hal Linden with special guest DIVA- IINo Man's Band .. UNDERWRITIEN BY: 0, Key Bank Don't miss this spectacular evening of jazz and entertainment, as two of the world's most highly regarded performers kick off Proctor's 95-6 season. Rosemary Clooney is an artist still at the peak of her popularity, which skyrocketed more that 40 years ago with her enormous hit 1 IICome On-a My House... Hal Linden, who shifts effortlessly from theatrical and television roles to gracing the stage as a singer/musician in some of the world's finest nightclubs, will open the show. Fronted by DIVA/ a 16 peice all female Big Band ensemble, Rosemary and Hal will swing the night away with a show you won't forget! Tickets <reg.): $29.50-$39.50 Saturday, October 7 at 8 PM Proctor's Cha.rge by Phone: (518) 346-6204 UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS AND PARENTS: Bring this ad to the Box Office for a 30% discount on tickets to this special show! • .. .. _ ... b ~ .... ~ .. - ... ..;.. - - .... - ... ~ - .......... - - - .... ~ - - --- - - - - - -

' OP/ED Tile Student Newspaper ojUnion College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS EDITOR Diana Sedita EDITOR Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Lisa Lenwi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richma1• CARTOONISt Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia . OPINIONS EDITOR Ale~ Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, .Laurel Ruma. STAFF: Omar AI-Khalidi, Pavan Atlqri; Emily Battis, Vi nod Dasa, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, 'Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Raquel Millman, Pete Sorenson, Kathy Walter ,. The Concordiensis · October 5, 1995 · Page 7 . EDITORIAL . · . - . '' . Union's Outside Visitor Policy Needs Reevaluation This past Saturday night, violence broke out as Alpha Phi Alpha had their annual \step show\ in Old Chapel. A fight broke out after an off campus visitor broke two windows in Old Chapel. As members of Alpha Phi Alpha escorted the man out, the violence began. When the brawl was cleared a senior Alpha Phi Alpha brother was left with a knife slash across the face caused by an off campus visitor. As the Union College community tries to come to terms with the horrible crime that occured, one tries to lay blame. The brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha should in no way be blamed for the crime that occured at their party. They were not responsible for inciting the violence that occurred, but rather they tried to calm the rising tension. Security acted quickly and city and state police were called to the scene to breakup the brawl. The only people that should take the blame are those who instigated the violence. More specifically Carl E. Gamble, who broke the windows, and Oscar Hassell, who was charged with first degree assault with intent to disfigure. Both .of these men are residents of Troy. One question remains. Should the Union College .campus be so easily accessible to outside visitors? No it should not. Something needs to be done about the rising instances of crime committed by outside visitors. Last year a crime spree swept over the campus. Those crimes involved the assaults and muggings ofUnion students by members from the Schenectady and neighboring community. Maybe it is time to make getting onto the campus more difficult. After a certain hour, the main gates should be closed and locked and other openings in the fences around campus should be patrolled constantly. Union should not be its own island in which absolutely no contact is made with the surrounding areeas, however, Union's policy of allowing \visitors broad access tot he campus\ needs to be reevaluated. Union Needs Stricter Security Measures Tony LaVecchia Opinions Editor Last year, a series ofcrimes that took place on campus caused the administration to re-evaluate our security policy. At thattime, more patrols were added, and light bars were installed on top of the pa- trol cars which police the campus. These changes have helped to improve our security situation. I feel that at this point, it is time to again re-evaluate the state of se- curity on campus. Recent events have highlighted the student body's vulnerability to violence. Whether this violence is being caused by people from Union or Schenectady really isn't the relevant issue. The relevant issue is to provide stricter secu'- rity so that all students will feel safe walking on our campus at any given time or place. I do not feel that this is an unreasonable expectation, nor do I think that at this time there is sufficient security to provide this level of comfort. Several issues need to be ad- dressed in order to provide a more secure environment First, I main- tain, as I have in the past, that it is time to monitor campus visitors. By monitor, I do not mean elimi- nate, but rather I proposethat all outside visitors to campus would have to sign in with a guard. Obviously, in order to provide this type of around the clock pro- tection changes would need to be made. All but a few main en• trances to campus would need to be closed. These entrance would have to be supervised by guards who would check in people who arrive on campus. Students and faculty would not have to sign in, but any type of visitor would. Although I recognize that such a system would be expensive and inconvenient, I think it would pro- vide us with a mechanism to pre- vent outsiders from entering cam- pus and committing crimes. I be- lieve that if a visitor were forced to provide identification upon exit and entry he/she would be reluctant to commit a crime on campus. Such a solution would only take ca~e of part of the problem. It is also important to provide more safeguards against internal crime and violence. Currently, the check in system that monitors nighttime entrance into the donns is a joke. This is less the case when adults are placed at dorm entrances, and particularly the case when students are placed in control of our dorms security. I recognizethatthere are many stu- dents who take their desk posi- tions seriously, and wish only to criticize those who are not vigi- lant in doing there jobs. At this point, it is often easy to gain entrance into a donn that you do not inhabit by simply walking in with a crowd. It is assumed that if you walk in with one person who has a key, you must live in the building. Although I often find this system convenient, I think it is time for a change. I think that if we are going to place security at dorm entrances they should ask for ID from every per- son who enters. I realize what a pain this will be, but unfortu- All submissions made to The Concordiensis must be done by the Monday before publication by 5:00pm or it will not be included in the issue. Please submit all items on either a high density Macintosh Microsoft Word or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks--DO NOT SAVE AS 6.0 OR HIGHER. Also include a hard copy of the submission and drop off everything to CC303. nately I think that such a policy will help prevent crime in the dorms. 1 also think that more blue \emergency\ phones need to be added. I have already noticed the addition of a few more over the summer, but I still see that there are large areas of campus that do not have any such emergency call station in place. Obviously any time security is tightened, expense and inconve- nience follow. These are neces- sary pains that come along with a feeling of safety. Security has improved considerably in the short time 1 have been at Union. I hope that this improvement con- tinues to the point were every single student and visitor will feel completely safe on the Union campus. sj·o:ms. are· due the ·:·-:·--·/' .-. ·· y berore publication at . · ~~;riJtQl:,~ll:l\>tnitted Otl· either Madntnsh High Density Hit}tosoftWord disks, or MS .. &os Mlcrosoft Word o,r ~or;dPer!tet $aved as S.l or lnwet N'Ot 6.0 OR 6.1 disks · · •· : ... : .. ~~d~;m:;b,$ ~J.\()pl)~dl9ffWith the llara·· d:it§:y ifl::~tne.· dr()·P box ··. ·;·. +·· .'.A·. ,.;ifi~'tk .. ·.,.CJ,· .,.,...., . .J,J.,. . .,.,,. •. · . @:U.~$*~~\'···*·'tJJ..;: · ·•¢~;0tttrtll'th1td·N-oor \\lfthtt

. ) Page 8 · October 5, 1995 ·The Con£ordiensis Change Union's Motto to Include Women To the Editor: The motto of the college is not something that is often thought about other than in the context of Union's mission. Throughout this year, the 200th anniversary of the college and the 25th anni- versary of coeducation we have all heard the praises of Union's achievements, progress and innovativeness. In this tradition, we would like to examine a tra- dition that has symbolically rep- resented Union's spirit of inclu- siveness: the motto. Translated the motto reads, \Under the laws of Minerva we all become one.\ This alludes to the idea that through the search for knowledge and truth, all can be equal. Yet, the current language ofthe motto not only con notates Union's posi- tive traditions but also denotes the strong history of the patriarchy of the institution. For the past 25 years, this has been outdated and is inappropriate especially now as we celebrate the history of women at Union. We do not pro- pose a drastic change in the motto, only one simple word that would make the statement more inclusive of all those who make up the Union community. Instead of\Under the laws ofMinerva we all become brothers,\ we propose the simple change to, \Under the laws of Minerva we all become united.\ We ask the support of the stu- dent body in raising this issue with the administration. Some may ask, '\what's the point? I never even knew what the motto said anyway.\ The point is sim- p! y, that the motto appears every- where. We see it everyday. It is the symbol of the Union commu- nity. Why should we limit that symbol to discussing the merits of men and not the many contri- butions of the female student body to the Union community? Some may argue, tradition is tradtion, why change it? We have the postition that the change we would like to see is not defYing the tradition, but building on that tradition. The proposed phras- ing of the motto is not exclusive or inflamatory but would stress the value and importance of all who constitute the Union commu- nity. Please show your support for this change by signing one of the petitions that are circulating throughout the campus! Sincerely, Tracy Bush, Co-chair, Womyn's Union OP/ED WRUC Answers Back To the Editor: Does \VRUC have an identity crisis? If one attempts to pigeon- hole the College's radio station, to place 1:.miform labels on the foreheads of the members of Union's largest club, perhaps such an erroneous conclusion could be made. The station cer- tairrly has an identity; the follow- ing will attempttoshed some light on the subject. As The Concordiensis staff writer dutifully noted, in the ques- tionably titled 'WRUC \We Rec. spect Ugly Chart Toppers\' of September 28, the station does not have a mandate- commercial or otherwise- to comply to a de- tennined format. WRUC is the al- ternative to the oft-stagnant and creatively bankrupt medium of commercial format radio. I choose the word 'alternative' carefully and use the most precise definition: a possibility of choice between two things. The station's identity emerges from its relative freedom from the fetters of a spe.- cific format, be it Top 40, AAA, Classic Rock, New Country or Talk Radio. WRUC is student-run radio for the students of Union College. By this, it does not, and should not, be constrained to a single fonnat. What goes on the air is determined by those who have shows. That is why one is able to hear rock, blues, country, reggae, rap, dance, ska, indie, heavy metal, industrial and jazz music (just to name a few) throughout the week. That is also Clarifying the Code of Ethics Letter to the Editor We write to clarify some points in Prof. Gajjar's letter in the Sep- tember 28,1995 The Concordien- sis in the hopes ofavoiding any misunderstandings. I. The Multicultural Advisory Group did discuss at some length the Code of Ethics described in the letter, and agreed for the most part that the points ( 1-6) are wor- thy principles toward which a community such as ours should strive. 2. We could not reach agree- ment that all of these principles in the form they are stated should be the basis for disciplinary re- view nor that we could impose on others a duty to report incidents, and we did not make such a rec- ommendation to the President. Sincerely, the Representatives ofMAG 1993-94 Fred Alford Scott Corley William Garcia Victor Owusu Trish Williams .. why one also hears sports broad- casts and Spanish programming, on the weekends. There are certain sacrifices which have to be made to keep WRUC vigorous. Since record labels- major and independent alike - deal obsessively with categorizing, the station must be clas.sified in order to continue to receive new music throughout the year. WRUC has- tra~litionally been labelled a modena rock sta- tion. Although 'moc;Jen;t rock' is a broad category and encapsulates many of genres liste~!abpve, it does somewhat constrain musical freedom. It is a catch 22 iMbat if we do not cater to moder:!l ,rock more than other styles ofmus)c, WRUC will no longer rec~Jve new, vital music. Unfortunately, such catering leaves less time available for other styles. Ther.e is a conscious~ continuous effort to strike an appropriate balance; there are often growing pains, however, especially in the first term when so many 'so-called DJ's' (as The Concordiensis writer put it) are rookies. It cannot be stressed enough that voluntary student participa- tion gives WRUC its identity. There is simply not sufficient space here to provide a treatise on what constitutes 'alternative mu- sic' per se; there are as many defi- nitions of the genre as there are music listeners. Put simply though, we at WRUC try to im- press upon new DJ's the impor- tance of diversity and v~riety to success. It would be disastrous if the WRUC Executive Board ever designed a fonnat and attempted to strictly enforce play lists; ·the corps of volunteers would quickly evaporate and we simply haven't the funds to pay people to go on the air. Eve11 ifWRUC could af- ford to pay radio personalities, I doubtsuch a decision would yield as creative· and drverse program- mmg. The free-form programming method does lend itself to in- stances of severe repetition (Dave Matthews and Alanis Morissette currently come to mind), appear- ances of more mainstream music or poor judgement on the part of some DJ's. These problems are a part of the learning process for club members; they have not been ch:r:onic in the past and I am con- fident they will be worked out this year as well. . We do not attempt to make WRUC all things to all people; everyone knows you can't please everyone aU the time. We do try to make programming diverse. If any student ever believes there is a void to be filled on the air, by all means bring it to the station's attention. Should there be no time slots available in the present term, make a point to sign up for a show next term. I laud the writer for taking the initiative to get his own show, albeit after his column was sent to press. Matt Macinnis Program Manager WRUC89.7fm WRUC Defended To the Editor, I am writing in regards to Mr. McKenzie's article about WRUC, ourveryownradio sta- tion. With Mr. McKenzie's lim- ited knowledge of our radio sta- tion, he fails to realize that not every show plays Dave Matthew's Band or Blues Trav- eler; WRUC has a wide variety of shows playing a wide variety of music. This variety, or so called \lack ofidentity\ accmd- ing to Mr. McKenzie, allows us to play music that is not played on commercial radio. The ad- vantage of being a college ra- dio station is the fact that it al- lows us to experiment and al- lows students to see what radio production is all about. Granted, not all of our DJs have many . years of experience like com- mercial DJs do, but there is a learning experience that one . goes throu~h. The advantage of listening to a college radio sta- tion over a commercial station is the fact that WRUC broad- casts college-related news and is much more spontaneous than a commercial station. Yes., maybe it might include \cutting off a song\ or something along those lines, but we do not pay our bJs, they do it for fun and to learn. Overall, a college ra- dio station is a springboard of opportunities and exposure to the music industry, allowing stu- dents to see more of what goes on in radio production. We con- stantly work to refine our shows and the music we play to try and keep on top, but we always have newpeople coming through who have to learn. In regards to promoting the Belly concert, we cannot be ex- pected to have every band's CD on hand, money does not grow on trees. Besides, WRUC DJs did promote the concert by read- ing the informational poster that someone hung on the wall. As Promotional Manager, I know more could have been done with promoting the concert. How- ever, no one from the concert committee approached WRUC about doing special promotion for the concert, and it is not our responsibility to go around and .promote every single poster we see hung up around campus. If. a group specifically asks us to promote an event, we are more than happy to do so. I believe that if you have better ideas for the radio station, get involved and try to make a difference. We are always open to new mem- bers and to suggestions at our meetings. . Sincerely, Andrew Fradkin Promotional Manager, WRUC

OP/ED The Concordi12nsis ·October 5, 1995 ·Page 9 Where's the/Beef I \Dr. or Professor?\ To the editor: As a an appalled and dis- gruntled member of this fine in- stitution of higher learning I find it apropos and compulsory that I share with the campus commu- nity a great disservice that was done unto the Kappa Alpha Lit- erary Society. It is with great re- gFet, and deep concern, that I ex- pose a most unfortunate theft that occurred. on the evening of Wednesday the 20th of'Septem- ber. Between the hours of2 and 3AM a Price Chopper family pack of nine eye round steaks was thieved from our refrigerator in McKean House. The package of steaks .in ques- tion was purchased on Sunday the 1 7th ofSeptember from the Price Chopper on New Eastern Park- way. The steaks had a retail value of$9.14, that is $3.99 a pound, and had an expiration date of 9/ 20. I last saw the steaks when I moved them from the freezer to the refrigerator on Wednesday· evening, as they were intended for Thursday's dinner. The effects of this larceny can be neither overlooked norderided for their myriad implications are / prominent and far-reaching. fuch an act impacts each indivi~lial' of our house, the society as a whole, and the campus at largy.' First, I ask you to recogniz/ that our house is in a translional year. The vegetarian pop;llation, once thriving and abmyiant, has now dropped to a mere-Singular minor- ity. In this ·tr;ytsition we hav. e tried to econothically and. taste- furiy ineorpotate meatdishes into our meal scliedule----this incident comes as freal ~lap in the fac~. Furthermor-e, umque to our soci- ety istbat each of us shares the responsibilities of cooking, clean- ing and shopping. This blas- phemy arr,ives as a disappoint- ment and inconvenienc.e to those whO' spent time and energy in rel}ipe searching, budgeting and defending the pros of beef con- sumption. Most significant, however, is not the the effects thJt such an act has on our self-esteem as a house, but the implications it holds for the moral environment of our col- lege. If one examines the act of stealing food by any ethical theory, unless perhaps you are Robin Hood, it is deemed im- moral. Certainly, I would not will that one steal from a strangers' refrigerator whenever he/she wished as universal law. Like- wise, the amount of pleasure gained by the thieves, on any scale, could not measure up to the pain, and extent thereof, felt by those who suffer the loss. Here at Union College we should do unto others as we would want done unto us. Imagine .if we didn't adopt a moral code such as this-. you would likely never see me in Price Chopper again on a Sunday Night. Thus, please, I charge and plea 1:hat the Union College commu- nity attempt to repossess any un- cooked meat that may have been stolen from the Kappa Alpha re- frigerator. Secondly, I suggest that each individual uphold a high moral standard and make a con- certed effort to discourage a friend who may find humor or pleasure in food theft. And lastly, I scream loudly, \You you who stole those eye round steaks ... KEEP YOUR FRICKIN' FIN- GERS OUT OF OUR REFRIG- ERATOR!\ Thanks and forgive those that trespass against us, Meredith R. Miller Kappa Alpha To the Editor, I would I ike to respond to the article \Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Getting into Medical School...\ in the Sep- . tember 28, 1995 issue of the Concordiensis. First and foremost, I would like to thank Dennis Popeo for organizing such a large vol- ume of information into what should serve as a guide to students planning a career in medicine. The article outlined a number of important issues of which all members of the college community should be aware, and I greatly appreciate the time Dennis took to compose such a thorough report. I would, however, like to com- ment on one \faux pas\ in the article that l am sure was not done intentionally, and that was to refer to me as \Dr.\ while making reference to my colleagues on the Health Professions Advisory Committee as \Professors.\ While it is true that anyone with a Ph.D. can refer ta themselves as \Dr.\ and that many faculty at other schools prefer this salutation be used by their students, at Union the nonn is to refer to faculty as Professor. So please, call me Professor Weisse. Just don'tcall meMs./Mrs. Weisse! Sincerely, Professor Carol S. Weisse, Director Health Profession Programs UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center CDC Updates ••• GE Co-ops: Information meeting on Oct. 5, at 7pm CDC. Me- chanical/Electrical Engineering majors for a winter/spring co-op. Excellent opportunity to learn about co-op program and network with key personnel at GE. If interested in 1996 summer/fall co-op opportunities, you are also encouraged to attend. World Wide Web: The CDC is now on the Web. Check us out on the Union College Home Page (http://www.union.edu). Of- fers general overview of the CDC: handouts, calendar of events, recruiting, internships, newsletters, alumni services, etc. Graduating Students: Andersen Consulting extended Resume Deadline to Friday, October 6 by 5pm. A personal data sheet is also required. Workshops/Programs - Please sign up in advance to attend • Interviewing- Tuesday, Oct. 10 @ 8pm & Wednesday~ Oct. 11@ 3:45pm. Learn to identify your strong points and prepare for and present yourself effectively in a personal interview. (Preparation for a mock interview.) • Boston & New York City Recruiting Day Information Sessions: Wed. Oct. 11@ 7pm & Thurs., Oct. 12 @ 3:45pm, CDC. For Humanities, Social Science, and Science seniors interested in interviewing for positions in Boston and/or New York City in January. Learn about partcipating companies and fall term procedures for applying. -

Page 10 • October 5, 1995 • The. Concordiensis 25 Years of Coeducation l\ ' Trustees OK Coeducation , For Fall, '70 This article was reprinted from theJuly3, 1969, Volume99,No.1 issue ofThe Concordiensis Sriking down a 175-year old tradition, the Board ofTrustees of Union College voted at their Commencement meeting to make the College completely coeducational with the entering class of September, 1970. Recruitment of the Class of 1974, of about 400 men and I 00 women, will beginimmediatly. The trustees voted in favor of coeduacation by a substantial majority. The College's evening and graduate divisions have been coeduacational for more than 20 years. 400Women The trustees' projection calls for arise in thenumberofwomen at Union by about 100 annually through 1973-74, while the number of men will be stabilized atthisyear's level. By September, 1974, the College will have about 2,000 students, about 400 more than were enrolled this past fall. The 400 additional students will be women. The formal decision by the Board climaxes more than eight years of discussion and a year long round of report presentations and polls. The report of an ad hoc faculty committee chaired by Carl Niemeyer, Lamont Professor of Literature, last September set in motion the process .leading to the decision. Along the way, coeducation received separate polls among the alumni and the executive committee of the Trustees gave its approval at a meeting in ApriL The first woman at Union will be housed in RichmondHouse, a dormitory built in 1960, which now houses primarily freshmen. Changes in Union's residential policy, permitting a larger number of upperclassmen to live off campus, will free the additional rooms in the other dormitory facilities needed for the men displaced from Richmond. At the next stage of demand for space, North College will be completely renovated to serve as a second women's dormitory. North, constructed in 1814 from the proceeds of aNew York State lottery, has been changed only superficially in its more than 150 years. It was 'dropped from the active list of residences last year upon completion of Union's two Exploring Your Options in Science and Engineering at Union College: Students' Perspective Panel Discussion and Reception sponsored by W.I.S .. E. (Women in Science and Engineering) Student panelists will address the following questions: -How do you choose a major? -How do you balance your wishes with those of your parents? -Getting help when needed: What resources are out there, and how do you take advantage of them? Come and meet the women in science and engineering, students and faculty! Hear what students have to say about science and engineering at Union! Join us for GREAT refreshments! When: Wednesday, October 11th, at 5:00PM Where: Strauss Lounge (3rd floor, Reamer Campus Center). newest upperclass dorms. Another change wiU be the relocation of the College's infirmary to larger quarters,a projecf'already contemplated before · the question of coeducation arose. The North Collonade, where the psychology department is now located, will be the home of the infirmary. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, .said coeducation will aid academic programs where present costs are high. A vail able data, he said shows that women students will concentrate in academic areas such as modern languages and classics, where majors are expected to jump six- fold and ten-fold, respectively. Dr. Martin said that a substantial portion of the women students at Union could be absorbed without adding additional faculty and staff. The student-faculty ratio, will rise a little, he said, from 11. 5: 1 to 14: 1 in 1975. He emphasized,that such a small increase will not damage the small-class concept, since more than two-thirds of all classes at Union now have fewer than 20 students, and one-third have 10 or fewer students () 0 ]\0 \ · .. 0 80'f M~tTS 6lRl- «ANtO tV STYLE This cartoon appeared in the September 30, 1969 issue of The Concordiensis. Rave things really changed that much? Be sure to look through the calendar of events to get the times for the panel discussions, presentations, sporting events and dining options this weekendo Union College Seal Should be Altered to Better Reflect the School by Beth Decker and Andrea Zaremba I Contributing Writers Union is celebrating twenty- five years of co-education on campus, and in doing so we her- ald the decision to go co-ed as a positive move. We declare that we accept women fully and are a better school for admit- ting women. Knowing all this how can Union continue to ig- nore the fact that the College's seal reflects times gone past? For those of you that are not aware, the school's motto reads in French: \Sous Les Lois De Minerve Nous Devenons Tous Freres\. Translated: \Under the laws of Minerva we are all brothers\. How can a school that proudly declares itself to have a nearly 50150 male/fe- male ratio really be pleased with tl1e fact that their motto repre- sents only part of their popula- tion? This seal which nobly adorns all official Union docu- ments and such, continues to de- clare that we are still a male in- stitution. It is outdated and un- reflective of the current student body. ChaJ;Jging the motto to re- flect the school would not take drastic measures. Simply insert- ing the words \Et Soeures\ into the model would declare our- selves \Under _the laws of Minerva we are all Brothers and Si~ters\. · • We understand that .the -argu- ment to k~ep the current seal is that it is'\tradition';. \It's a part of the school and has been around a lot longer than any of us\ . Yes, but it was also ·tradition that Union was an all-male school and the school decided to change that long ago. Certainly inserting two·, words into our motto is less dras- tic:; ~an the decision to first ad- mit women. . We have spent a great-deal pf time pondering whether we would like to push for this change. We are strong believers in tradition, and it is one of the things .we love most about Union College. However to maintain the seal in its current state is inappropriate and unfair to women who have matricu- lated here at Union. Union tnade the decision to consider itself a co-educational institu- tion, now the time has come to \finish the deal\- declare our- selves co-educational on the $Chool's seal. . We uD4erstand that this may be upsetting to many ind.ividu.- als, especially genetatioqs of Union grads that matriculated here when it was an aU-male institution. However, can you blame women for wanting the motto changed, for wanting tile declaration Of inclusion and equal:ity at Unionl which twenty-five years of women at Union College so rightly de- serve? To those that may be supportive or disgruntled, we invite you to write to this paper in response to this article.

25 Years of Coeducation The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 11 . Schedule of Events for Composing a Union: 25 Years of Coeducation Parents' Weekend, October 6-8 I Please join us in celebrating Union's 25-year commitment to coeducation as were- member the past,. examine the present, and look toward the future. The Bieentennial Committee on 25 Years ofCoeducationhas been working in conjunction with the Home- coming and Parents Weekend Committees on an exciting schedule of events. Friday, October 6 4:00p.m .. Field Hockey vs .. Vassar Bailey Field 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. Welcome Receptioil/Registration Reamer Campus Center Atrium 8:00-p.m. and 10:00 p.m. , /. / • '11 ... •1 Movie , • -~l Field of Dreams (produced by Phil Alden RoJilp.son,a member of Union's Class of 1'971) Part ofthe Student. Film Committee Serief 3 :. / Social Sciences, Room SS016 , 7 · $2 at the door • < lt . I I 8:00- 10:00 p.m. Cabaret ! Student, alumnae/i, and faculty performances in an informal and fun .setting, Dutch Hollow, Reamer Campus Center 10:00 p.m. - Midnight Begonia Listen and dance to the music of this popular local rock band. Upperclass Dining, Reamer CalTJpus Center Saturday, October 7 8:00a.m. Registration and Welcome Reception (Continues through 10:00 a.rn.) Old Chapel, Hale House 8:30a.m. Professor of Anthropology Do race and gender affect how students, faculty, and administrators behave among them- selves and with each other? Don't miss this inside look at how business and social interac- tions happen (and sometimes misfire) in the campus environment. Nott Memorial Bridgh:tg the Ga.p: Women in Engineering Mod,erator: LeAta Jackson • 88 Alumnae of the College's programs in computer sciences and mechanical and electrical engineering join a cOrrent civil engineering student and Dean Richard A. Kenyon to discuss their career paths and today's issues in the wor~place and in higher education. Hale House 1:30 p.m. Football vs. Albany~ Bailey Field 3:00 p.m. Panel Discussions Confronting Campus Health Issues How do students cope with (Or ignore) health concerns like eating disorders, AIDS, alcohol- ism, or mental disorders among their peers? Come join this panel of students, administra- tors, and health professionals in candid discussion. - Hale House Gender Politics in Student Organizations Moderator: Kathryn L. Mullaney '74, former member, Board of Trustees Just who attains leadership in campus organizations? How have patterns changed in the 25 years of coeducation - or have they? Join this panel ofcurrent students and recent graduates and find out. Old Chapel The Curriculum in Transition: Ethnic Studies and Women's Studies at Union Moderator: Professor Bradley G. Lewis, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs Does Union's curriculum represent ethnic and women's studies appropriately? Or has Union gone too far in incorporating diversity into the curriculum? Or not far enough? Student and faculty panelists will explore this current hot issue in academe. Nott Memorial Parents' Council Meeting . 5:00 p.m. Parents are welcome to drop by to hear remarks by College officials and learn more how Interfaith Service about this advisory organization works. Organized by the College's Protestant, Catholic and Jewish Chaplains Nott Memorial Memorial Chapel 10:00 a.m.- 11:00 a.m. President Roger H. Hull will present the College's official welcome in the new!y restored Nott Memorial. Nott Memorial 10:45 a.m. Panel Discussions Club U: Who Rules the Social Scene at Union Moderator: Scott Scullion, Assistant Professor of Classics Join us for what promises to be a provocative and interesting presentation by six current students active in different social circles on campus. Old Chapel May They Ring With Thy Children's Chorus Moderator: Kathleen J. Schurick, Assistant Dean of Students This title is taken from the last line of Union's alma mater. The panel will feature current Union students and their alumnae/,i parents talking about campus then ... and campus now. Hale House 12:00 noon International Buffet Luncheon Pioneering Lives: 25 Years of Women at Union Our luncheon program will feature presentations by students of Professor Martha Huggins on the women in Union's Classes of '74, '84 and '94. Cost for this sit-down luncheon is: $12 for adults and $5 for children (under 12). Current Union·students may cllatg~ lunch as one meal·on theit'Vali-Dine account. Pre-registration required.· Upperclass Dining; Reamer Campus Center 1:30 p.m. Panel Discussions Issues in Equity: Union and Beyond Moderator: Michele A. Paludi '76, Ph.D. Prominent Union atumnae return to campus to talk -about what it's really like to compete professionally in The Real World .• Some think their ex~riences as pioneering women on the Union campus was good training. Join us for what protnis.es to be a thought•provoking discussion for parents and current students, alike. Old Chapel Issues of Power and Privilege in the Academy Moderator: Linda E. Cool, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dean of the Faculty, and ... - ¥ ... -··· - - ... - - - - - - -- ..... - .... - - .. - ... - 5:30p.m. Field Hockey vs. St. Lawrence Bailey Field 8:00p.m. Women in Society: Going from College Life into the Real World Mary Catherine Bateson Memorial Chapel Following the lecture, a reception for the speaker will be hosted by the Anthropology De- partment in Old Chapel. 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Movie Field of Dreams (produced by Phil Alden Robinson, a member of Union's Class of 1971) Part of the Student Film Committee Series Social Sciences, Room SSO 16 $2 at the door 9:30p.m. Coffeehouse A chance to meet, mingle and dance, featuring the sounds of student band, \Your Momma.\ Chet's, Reamer Campus Center Sunday, October 8 ll:OO·a.m. Brunch Join us for brunch and an opportunity to learn about the international research of two of the College's Watson Fellows. Cost for the brunch is: $13 for adults and $6 for children (under 12). Current Union students may charge lunch as one meal on their Vali-Dine account. Pre-registration required. Upperclass Dining, Reamer Campus Center 11:00 a.m.- 5:00p.m. Fall Fest Between events, stop by and try some of the best sweets in the Capital District. Proceeds benefit Equinox, a local human services agency. Memorial Fieldhouse 1:30 p.m. Concert Union College Choir and Orchestra Conducted by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson Memorial Chapel; reception following in Old Chapel.

' .. \ . - -. Page 12 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis . ' ., ' . . .:· .· l'HE SCRE:ENING ROOM · .. . The Usual Suspects A Complicated Crime Creates One Unusual Movie by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor \The Usual Suspects.\ Starring Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Chazz Palm interi, Kevin Pollack, Pete Postlewaite, Dan Hedaya, Kevin Spacey. Directed by Bryan Singer. Rated R, Gramercy Pictures. Rating:*** (outoffour) Twenty-seven year old director Singer's debut is anything but your \usual\ mystery. Loaded with more surprises, sus- pense, and B-list (but good) actors than any drama in recent memory, Suspects ends up being the most complicated, intrigu- ing, and fresh film in quite some time. While the cast does not include a single big name to bring in the money, this film has already become a late summer sleeper, drawing crowds in more than just art-houses. The reason is simple: each actor is quite talented and when brought together under a challenging script; no one emerges the \star.\ Instead each character has his own devious story to tell. The opening is at a pier where at night, 27 men have been killed over a $91 million drug deaL The onlyproblem is, there is no evidence that the drug money was ever there. Now, back- track six months to a police lineup where Byrne, Spacey, Pol- lack and Baldwin are framed for stealing a weapons truck. Each character claims innocence, but soon they become entangled with the supposedly mythical underworld-lord, Kaiser Soze. Each man had unintentionally stolen something from this fig- ure and are now forced to work for him. Palminteri, as the cop investigating the case, brings Spacey into his office to rat out the bad guys. Of course, he won't, but he does relate the \true\ story ofthe crimes to him. The search is now focused on finding out the identity of Kaiser Soze, whom no one has seen . This brief description barely skims the surface of the two million subplots and schemes going on with each character. In fact, it would take multiple viewings of this film to fully piece together and comprehend the goings-on here. (During shoot- ing, even the actors were supposedly baffled about the Kaiser's identity.) Singer pays homage to film nair, shooting his film in dark tones throughout Sometimes, however, the film comes off as a star vehicle for Byrne, who gets the best lines in many scenes and wears the brightest clothing to contrast the other characters' darker (and more obscure) personalities. Fortu- nately, Byrne displays a lot of talent here, effectively portray- ing a subdued AI Pacino. But the best job here goes to Spacey, who plays his role with such a straight face, that his bits of humor in the detective's office seem much funnier than they tum out to be. Spacey may get typecast for playing unemotional villains after his other appearance in the new film, Seven. With that expressionless face, you know he could be thinking anything. The frequent, frantic shifting oftime isn't that confusing if you keep up with it. Singer moves the setting around wildly, and it's important to backtrack to remember the events leading to each new situation. The Usual Suspects is a highly original and fascinating film. It maintains a steady momentum and keeps sailing right through to its ending, which is not hastily con- ceived. While the finale shoot-out seems a little more suited for a James Bond film, Suspects generally keeps the interest level high and the adrenaline pumping fast. UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS PRESENTS MORPHIC MEMORI-ES SCULPIURE EXHIBITION BY IBERJ KRKKORKAN SEPTEMBER 18 - OCTOBER 20, 1995 Arts & Entertainment God Delivers ''It's NOTT a Heavenly Pizza Parlor'' by Shaheen Mahmud and Raquel Mintab Staff Writers A U around campus·, the name God Delivers has been seen with a telephone number. So what is God De- livers all about? Play direc.- tor William Finlay and design direc.- tor Charles Steckler ex- plained. God Delivers was commis- sioned by the Bi- centennial Com- mittee and has been in the work- ings since last June. The play was written by Jon Lipsky and in- cludes a choir of Union students and the lead role, which is played by a professional ac- tor. The play is sub- titled \a graveside meditation on the life and times of Eliphalet Nott.\ The literal translation of the name Eliphaletis \God is de- liverance'~- thus, the play~s title, God Delivers. This play is not a history lesson, nor isit a documented drama on the life ofEliphalet N ott. Instead, it attempts to depict how Eliphalet Nott en- counters and reacts to his philosophies being practiced 'Union Co([ege '.Bicentennial ,. \' Parents Wee~nc£ Concert 6y tfie V.nion Co{fege Orcfiestta and V.nion Co{fege Cfwir Conducterf Gy Hugli fil.((en 'Wilson · am{ Tim Ofsen Jfaydn Crmcerto for :Jfarpsicfum[ an4 Orcliestra Conurto for 'T'ntmpet antf Orcftestra 'IIie 'Tempest 'lJizet Canru;nSuite !J(p. 1 Sunday October 8, 1995 1:30pm !7vlemoriaf CfiapeC 9{9 Jil.amission Cfiarge Presented vy tfi.e 'lJepattment af Peifonni71£1 J1lrts in the twentieth century. -rile play also shows Union's ftrst graduating class of thirteen students and goes on describing how Eliphalet N ott structured the founda- tions that Union College is now based upon. The play is \a little some- th . d'ffi . \ d mg · l . erent, an . includes everything from puppets to as- tronauts. God De- livers was written as a variety show. It is a play with songs sung by a chorus of eleven Union stu- dents. It also has visual interest, for a contemporary audi- ence. Tickets go on sale for God Delivers on Friday, October 6.. The play will be run- ning for four days: Friday, October 13 to Monday, October 16 in the Yulman Theater. Tickets prices are $7 for the general public and $5 for students with a collegeiD.

Features The Taste of Fear by R~quel Millman Features Staff The very word Homecoming makes the average person think ·of football .games, big crowds, parties, bonfires, and spirit. My first Homecoming at Union CoUege was far fi·om Wh&t I had expected. I was anticipating what would be the weekend of all weekends. I even invited up my boyfriend to share the good times. I couldn't wait. Saturday's game was a blast. it's so nice to have such an amazing football team!' The weekend continued with games that varied from field hockey to rugby. The weather was beautiful and the alumni were populated nicely. By the time Saturday night rolled around, I was ready for a night of con- stant parties (as was everyone else on campus}! So in our freshmen pack we went from fraternity to fraternity. We toured the campus from ten to two and after four hours of walking and dancing, it was time for bed. But something in- terrupted my walk back to West; I heard a scream. I don't ever remember hearing any- thing as angry as this sound. Immedi- ately, I stopped my moonlit stroH by the Nott only to find words ofhate be- ing exchanged loudly and angrily. There were so many people that I didn't know where to look first. AU I could see was a mob of a hundred creating a scene, that if photographed would dis- play better than any definition ever could explain, what hatred truly is. One emotion flooded my body: fear. It wasn ~{simply a fear of who was hurt, or should I move away from the vio- Ienc_e to protect myself; it was a fear that was asking, \How could this hap- pen?'' I chose Union College as my surrogate home because it had all of the characteristics ofiny home. It was beautiful, cozy, caring, small, close, and safe. These people were not only jeopardizing their own safety and the safety of others, they were destroying the safe cozy atmosphere in my home as well as the home of two thousand other students at Union College. I must admit that I do not know ev- ery detail of the incident, buti do know what I saw. There are two facts that remain stipulated. the first fact is that many of the people involved in this horrendous display do not attend, nor Within Wells: The Zoller Program by Jeffery Druzba Features Staff We find ourselves at the beginning of a New year. In our four years at Union, we must decide what we like or hate to do in life. Through sports and student activities, the students ofUnion College find the right pursuits to follow for much of their time here. These activities are usually carried though with students for a good portion of their lives after Union. Wells House offers a unique program at Union College. They present ways to get involved with the local community that don't restrict the life of a college student. One of the Wells House programs works closely with Zoller School, a local elementary school. The \One On One\ program with Zoller is unique in that, after Union and Zoller students are paired, they are allowed to handle the rest! What happens is simple: Union students involved in the progl;'am \hang out\ with their Zoller student at least once a week after school, for at least an hour. Students are free to visit places oflocal interest and to participate in any activity the two great minds involved can come up with. If you can't live without meeting more than once a week, then so be it. The Zoller and Union students work well together and both have fun. For more informa- tion about the \One On One\ program, please call Jeev at x6707. Wells House par- ticipates in many activities to suit interests ofevery sort. If you have questions about getting involved with Wells House, please give us a call or stop over anytime. Get- ting involved with Wells House gets you involved with the community. Fall Daze by Aaron Greenberg . Co11tributing Writer Fall term g~nerates peculiar social ener- gies- interesting, yet typically intoxi- cated. Wide-eyed freshmen, and transfer students, (I will refer to them as 'newcom- ers') encourage weathered upperclassmen to dust oftheir Union social attire and par- ticipate in a nostalgic stupor. Howe~er, it would be unjust not to point out tbe sense ofrenewed sexual:drive that newcomers ·bring to Campus (the enduring, honnonal side of human behavior), as well as the possibility of new friends, enemies and acquaintances. The sometimes dazzled countenance of a newcomer can provide quality social in- teraction in which upperclassmen can re- flect, and newcomers can get a feel for the experiences which await them. Cliches such as \How do you like Union?, are more apt to inspire potent introspective conversation in the Fall rather than later in the year. With close to three months gone, Fall term also has a ser.ious impact on one's pr~vious school-year .relations. Good friends are almost always nice to see, and negative sagas have a chance to be re- solved, forgotten, or continued, However, with all ofthis talk of intimate relations it is important not to neglect the ·ever-present acquaintance factor oftJrtion College social life; the \Hi Bye\ humans who wander in and out of one's Union experience providing shells never to be removed, and names most likely to be for- gotten. These social energies combine to form a renewal to what I feel is, for the most pC\rt, a defective social system. Similar to an antique pocket watch, Union needs to be rewound socially each year in order to function. The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 13 One emotion flooded my body .. · fear. lt wasn't simply a fear ofwho.was hurt, or should I move away from the violence to protect myself; it was a fear that was ask- ing, \How could this happen?\ have ever attended Union College. What were they doing here? There is quite obviously a reason that they do not attend Union; they do not belong here. It is dangerous to have visitors who promote violence and hatred in our community. The other fact is the situation was out ofhand. The amount ofpolice cars and officers that I wit- nessed that night proves it was a grave enough situation to warrant the Schenectady police .. I will not tolerate this blatant disre- gard for Union College, its constitu- ents, and most importantly the intru- siveness into my home. Parties should not be open to the city of Schenectady. Even if it means having security hang around the campus parties, if it means the difference between being safe and not being safe, then do it. Obviously, whatever system is presently in effect is not working. My image of Homecoming was shat- tered by a few people and few moments of uncontrollable anger. I resent the people who triggered this incident and destroyed the security of my horne. I resent the fact that I fell asleep to the sounds ofhateful people saying hate- ful things. I am writing this \Vith the intention that others will not tolerate this inva- sion either. The students of Union College are the ones with the power to create change. We are not paying thou- sands of dollars so that we should feel scared as we walk to our donn at night. Something must be done or this epi- sode will be repeated. I am putting pressure on both the school's security system as well as on the students. Without help from both, this will not end. It will not be over until our home is safe once again. · . · ·sup~r Crossword . : ACROSS 48 Postal Creed role DOWN 37Turneror 74 Definitely 1 Dentist's word 83 Big party 1 Chips' Cole dislikes weapon? 49 Gusto 84 Building wing accompani- 38 Feathered 76Fixed 6\Noman- 50 British 85 Be of use men! friend? machine part island\ Museum 86 Mai- 2 Genetic info 40Dramatist n Bikini half 10 Gush display (cocktail) 3-Amin Edward 80 They travel 13 Couch 54 Funnyman 87 Word form for 4 China's- 41 Marion in troops 17 Sari site Philips \community\ Biao Branda film 81 Main drags 18 \Beat ill\ 55 Author 88 -Plaines, Ill. 5 Hailing from 42 Forum figure 82 List ender: 19 Gl's address LeShan 89 Gambles Riga 43NYC abbr. 20 Wickerwork S&Summoned 90 Green grp. 6 Tristan's love borough 83Stole wood mommy 92 Dog-toy part 7 Actress 46Command 87 Native. New 22 Lerner/Loewe 57 \The Three 95 The Plastic - Elisabeth 47 Galbo or Yorkers musical Musketeers\ Band 8 Major artery Scacchi 90 '70s musical 25 Leisurely, to props 96 Pushbuttons' 9 At once 50 Undo an 91 Breathe with Mozart 58 Actor Penn predecessors 10 Endangered error effort 26Jeeves' 59 Giovanni or 98 Coffee pol feline 51 Mrs. Munster 93 The Dionnes, profession Rickl.es 99 Convent 11 Age 52 Least e.g. 27 Zany red- 60 Castle's dwellers: 12 Braxton or benevolent 94 Air bear? head family room abbr. Tennille 53 Taxing time? 96Northem 29 H.S. subject 61 Garcon's 100 \Bernadette\ 13 Thick slice 56 Stylish French city 32 Nonpartisan: offering singers 14 Gymnast 58-Lanka 97Composer abbr. 62 It's down in 105 Crop up Korbut 61 Campus Erik 33 Islamic deity the mouth 1071mproved, 15 Thwart females 100 Pitfall 35 Suffix with 64 \Driving Miss maybe ' 16 Court-martial 6211 suits some 101 \-Comes \pay\ or _ .. 108 Alistair candidate 63 Lillehammer Santa Claus\ •gran\ 66 Actress Braga Maclean 20 Mike of \60 leap 102 Author 36 Hawaiian 67 Hepburn thriller Minutes\ 65 Great bird? Ferber volcano hairdo 114 \Gunsmoke\ 21 Exercises 66 Tremendous 103 Competitors 39 Boathouse 68 Put mind star the noggin bargain 104 Some hwys. item over platter? 115 Musician 23 Pull sharply 67 Kelly's 106 Supreme 40 \- may look 70 Heavy metal Winding 24- breve possum leader? on a king\ 71 Fido's treat 116 \Schindler's 28 Residents 68 Had a 109Weeone 41 Scepter's 72 Narcs' org. .. 29 Flabber- conniption 110 Thwack sidekick 75 Out of control 117 Bridal path? gas ted 69Zola or 111 \Do--;: say, 44 Nordic 76 Sows 118 Soup veggies 30 Texas city Durkheim\- not ... 45 Hoopsters' n Lox locale 119 Anger or 31 Damon 70 Big rigs 112\- Follow org. 78 Bowe blow envy Runyon book 71 Principle the Sun\ 47 Candied, as 79 \-Bias\ 120 - up (admit) 34 Cash on 73 Less 113 Take·home fruit 80 Gene Barry 121 Wading bird credit demanding pay

Page 14 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis Living An Ugly Reality Government Threatens Our Pursuit of Happiness by David Eder Living Editor Last week I introduced myself as a person who celebrates real- ity. I suggested that the reality seen through the eyes of the soul is always beautiful. I explained that there may be tempestuous waves on the water's surface but the ocean's integrity remains. Well, I havefoundaproblem with these remarks. I felt reality could not be greatly affected by institu- . - tions. I was wrong. There is one institution that can wreak havoc on all the others. This institution can even disturb the most transcended individuals. This institution creates waves in the ocean comparable only to that of a fat man doing a belly flop in a bath tub. The repercussions of this institution's actions are felt by all. These actions are threat- ening our \inalienable right\ to the pursuit of happiness. If you guessed that institution that I am talking about is the gov- ·crumbling Sunshine Try to construct a simple thought It could bendcolors Inside this creation it screams pleasurable yet empty defiance Framed by betrayal the child watps perception while Flat chested retraction breaks the silence. Cross upon designs. Around our colors water flows. Stones find solace. Dogs impregnated urinate within boundaries not around the feces. Bloody prostitutes excl-aim alabaster. Emptiness fulfillment and fiber spun laughter. Tightly revolved decisions coarse my shadows. The fountain there sanguinely sucks dust. People Iovin& death while flowers confuse their resurrection. Shed your pretense if only momentarily. Killed illusions crumbling sunshine. Lust cup forms. Chimney's smoke. Sing with me. Revealing tundra does irreparable alteration masking her violation. His silence forgiven due to retribution. Dill enhances omelet. Father buries son with silhouetted incest. Fragmentation whirls about. Skinny keys click her inhabitation's licking trees and shout silence in caverns. Hardly can I creak without an answer. Karma is pole. Looking yields wet transgression. Raw sneakers slip mesh loosely as fish compound pageantry. Circles em body children who age under periodic churning pain. Pink assault found. Limbs linger loosely, loosely, while frost listens. Frozen words expand from within. Disarray eats away. Truth lies in trash. A coral shines heavily during whispers eaten. Did I say eaten? I meant beaten. Recess to blue. Sometimes epistles rape God while nuns watch. Hanging chords break from the chambers ruin. Orphans escape on clouds crashing. Whiskers starve naked chickens. A suck dirt enters divots deep decisions for slotted rocks and I'm up. Clay balloons float. Meet blossoms pestilence. Nice out. Pick fire carefully. Brewing bones engage. Picture yourself as a bitsy bit ofbone contemplating skeletal deconstruction. Engagements clot my octopus imagination . Orange sinewy points displace to forbidding skies. Look! There dances the dawn's symphony while knifing mountains crow philosophical beaks. Your righteous alphabet thinks that Violent strings strum birds. Possess it, seek the copper fun. ernment of the United States you are right. Our government was created \by the people, for the people and of the people.\ I can not'believe that anyone today be- lieves that this is still the case. Thefounders·dream ofacountry of free people governing them- selves has not been achieved. Somewhere down the line the U.S. Government began resem- b I ing the very government that it declared independence from in 1776. In the Declaration oflndepen- dence, Thomas Jefferson listed a the colonies reasons for separat- ing from Great Britain. Among other things, Jefferson acc~ed the King of Great Britain of re- fusing to pass laws of \immedi- ate importance.\ Jefferson said \He(the King of Great Britain) called together legislative bodies at places unusual...and distant from the public ... for the sole pur- pose offatiguingthem into com- pliance.\ \He has obstructed the administration of justice.\ \He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harass our People, and eat their substance.\ \He has affected to render the Military in- dependent and superior to the Civil power.\ All of these remarks could be said of our government. The gov- ernment as a whole has failed to pass the most important laws. It ish, and that selfishness plus has become an intangible entity. . power spells the fall of democ- Our attempts to be heard result in · racy. Small freedoms are slowly an endless weary journey achiev- being taken away. We can no ing nothing. The government has longer walk in certain places or harassed us with outrageous de- swim in others. Hunting is all but mands and we comply because illegal in many places and fish- we dd not know that we do not ing .is restricted. This and high have to. The police, the DEA, and property taxes make self-suffi- the military are above the law. ciency impossible. For proof, rememberthemocktri- \Revolution starts in the minds als on Wako. ofmen.\ Histotically,.ithasbeen This government of ours has the job of the college students to failed to supply many of us with keep the government in check. the opportunity to pursue happi- _ Today we have only three popu-- ness, has taken away many of our lations of people, these are the liberties, and someti~eshastaken poor, rich and the college stu- lives. Not having the needed dents. The poor understand the space to delve into the problems, need for change~ but have no I must give a quick overview. power to stimulate it. The The poQr of this country do not wealthy have the ability to act as have a chance to find happiness. a catalyst, but often see no need Our tax dollars at;e wasted i.n un- for change.. Thus the burden of successful programs. (Did you having to create a bettergovern- know that if you are an alcoholic . ment falls into the hands of the or drug addict you may be entitled , college students. to receive disability checks?) Our College students are exposed to taxes rise each year while our the problems and have the power Social Security money will run to do something about them. Un- out before any of us receive a fortunately, college students are cent. The government continues nm;nh. Intoxicated by absurd so- to spend billions of dollars each cial demands, alcohol and drugs, year helping other countries when delusions of grandeur, greed, and we are in need of help. Special other selfish desires; the college interest groups control the politi- student has failed to rise to the cians. Has anyone realized that occasiOn. there is no room in this society This is the reality of our for special interest groups? That situation. the very term is disgustingly self- In a Shape.--- by Chris Richards Living Editor didn't know what he was doing. His mind was not his own. He · flew into a fit and that's all it took. ------------ One second of insanity and ev- The people made him sick. The books made him sicker. This can't wait. The colors exploded on the glazed tiles. He's tired of these stupid conversations repeat- ing themselves. This stained glass is only beautiful from the inside. From the outside you are clueless. This million dollar heap of stone will scream no more boredom. Seated asleep in the cushioned chair, he is startled awake over the bannister. The dangerous books gave him the courage, and he erything will be undone. He sees his dead body. It begs of him. See the Exit signs? ·1 get it. The jewels and the ceiling. . It won't happen this year, nor the next, but the killing floor is there and it will kill. Does he take the elevator or the stairs? His colorful shadow plays with itself, until its mind is made up. Circling around and around he de- termines his final vision. Your subconscious has been taking notes for you. You thought you ran the show. The fixed echo makes you sure of your insanity. All these wires. All these snakes. No one save for the security guard sees you. Would anyone look up? Would the scream'be heard through the stone and glass? Will it make it to his mother's heart? The -green really isn't very green, and the red is dull. This most beautiful creation has made the most terrible vision. This will not be premeditated. It will be spontaneous. It will simply happen; happen so fast that the person will not even re- alize their own death. It won't be washed away. And it will also be nothing like this.

Calendar The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 15 Calendar for 10/5-10/12 MEETINGS Thursday 10/05/95 . 1 :30p 4:00p Physics Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 3:00p 4:30p Safety Lecture CC AUDITORIUM 3:00p 5:00pHighTeaHHMILANOLOUNGE 4:00p 6:00pGMILecture HUMANITIES 115 4:00p 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFERLIBRARYFIELD 4:30p 6:00p Biology Seminar SOCIAL SCIENCES l 03 5:00p 6:30pAdventurers' GuildCC409 6:.00p 7:30pBalletH PERFORMING ARTSSTUDIO(l08) 6:30p lO:OOpAOPTutoring BAILEY 104 BAILEY 106 7:00p 9:00p Recruiting Meeting HH OLD CHAPEL · 7:30p8:30piFCMeetingCC203 . 7:30p 9:00pCombinedBalletii/III PERFORMING ARTSSTUDIO(l08) 7:30p lO:OOpCalculusCrisisCenter BAILEY 100 8:QOp 1 O:OOp Safe Space Group Meeting CC 409 8:00p 12:00aChet'sCommittee CHET'S Friday 10/06/95 9:.00a 4:00p AE Pi Fundraiser-Tay-Sachs Disease CC ATRIUM Il:OOa l:OOpBikeRaftle-Women'sSoftball CCATRIUM 12:00p 1:30pDeanofStudents CC409 12:00p 3 :OOp 25 Years of Co-EdT -Shirt SaleCC ATRIUM I :30p 2:30p Japanese Speaking Table CC 205 3 :30p 6: 30pStudentlnterviews CC 205 4:00p 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFERLIBRARYFIELD 7:00p 9:00p IntervarsityFellowship CC STRAUSS (305) 7: 15p 9: 15p Philomathean Society HH MILANO LOUNGE Saturday 10/07/95 8:00a l2:00p Parents' Council HH MILANO LOUNGE 1 O:OOa 6:00p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 1 0:30a 1 :OOp Group Sessions- Admissions CC 203 Sunday 10/08/95 ll:OOa2:00pJSUReception WESTCOLLEGE KOSHERKITCHEN 6:00p 1 O:OOp Fi Iota Alpha CC 409 6:00p lO:OOp Student Organization SOCIAL SCIENCES 012 6:30p 8:00p Delta Psi Delta CC 205 7:00p 8:00pSundayWorship HHOLDCHAPEL 7~00p 8:30pFinanceCommittee CC410 Monday 10/09/95 8 :OOa 5: OOp Prospective Students Day CC 409 Admissions Office CC ATRIUM 8:00a S:OOp Prospective Students Day HH BELL LOBBY,Admissions Office HHDINING ROOM,HHMILANO LOUNGE, HH OLD CHAPEL, MEMO- RIALCHAPEL,MEMORIALFIELDHOUSE 9:00a 4:00p Admissions Office NOTTMEMORIAL 11 :30a 1 :OOp Residence Life CC 204 1 ;OOp 5:00p Prospective StudentsCC AUDITORIUM 4:45p 6:00p Modem Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 4:45p 6:30pRugbyClubMeeting SOCIALSCIENCESOlO 5:00p 6:30p Student Forum Meeting CC 409 5:00p lO:OOpAffiliateTraining HHDINlNGROOM 6:00p 9:00p Affiliates Training SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 7:00p 8:30pRichmondRAMeeting IDIOLDCHAPEL 7 :OOp 9: OOp Union College Orchestra MEMORIAL CHAPEL Rehearsal 8 :OOp lO:OOp College Relations Meeting CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday 10/10/95 9:00a 10: lSaMATProgram-ModemLanguaHUMANITIES 113 -SEMINARROOM 9:30a 3:30p UCALLMEETING CC409 1 0:45a 11 :30aModem Languages SOCIAL SCIENCES 105- SEMINAR 11 :OOa 12:30p Discipline Committee Meet CC 205 11 :OOa 2:00p Finance Office CC 203 I I :30a 1 :30p Faculty Soup & Beverage .I-IH DINING ROOM 12:00p 1 :OOp Committee Values Group Me HH MLANO LOUNGE l2:00p 1 :30p FRESHMEN PRECEPTORIAL HH OLD CHAPEL 12 :OOp 1 :30p Residence Life CC 204 2:00p 4:00p Dining Services Meeting CC 203 3: 30p 6: 30p Student Interviews CC 409 4:00p 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 5:00p lO:OOpAffiliateTraining HHDINING ROOM 5 :30p 7:00p Bal!etiii PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p 7:00p UBGiadMeeting CC204 6:00p 8:00p Resident Assistants HUMANITIES 019 6:00p 8:00p Schenectady Executive Committee Meeting CC 205 6:00p 9:00p Affiliates Training SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 6:30p 10:00pAOPTutoring BAILEY 104 BAILEY 106 7:00p 7:30p Bib Brothers/Big Sisters CC MOBIL (406) 7: OOp 8: OOp Religious Programs CC 409 7:00p 8:30p Balletl PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO(l08) 7:00p 12:00aGameNight Delta Psi Delta CC203 7:30p 8:30pBigBrothers/BigSisters CC410 · 7:30p lO:OOpCalculusCrisisCenter BAILEY 100 Wednesday 10/11/95 9:30a 12:30p U Call HH DINING ROOM IO:OOa 2:00pDeltaGammaSale CCATRIUM 11 :OOa 2:00p United Parcel Service Inf CC ATRIUM 12:30p 3:30p UCallMeeting CC409 4:00p 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 4:30p 6:15pGMI Seminar HUMANITIES 114 4:45p 6:00pModemDance PERFORMINQ.ARTS STUDI0(108) 5:00p 6:30pStudentForum Meeting CC 409 6:00p 8:00pUnionCollegeChoir ARTS215 6:15p 7:30pintro. toDanceMovement PERFORMING ARTS STUDI0(108) 6:30p 8:00p Girl Scouts Meeting CC 409 7:00p 9:00pJazzEnsembleRehearsal ARTS313 7:00p 9:00p Pan Hellenic Meeting CC 205 7:30p 9:00p Adventures Guild Meeting CC 203 7:3 Op 1 O:OOp Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY I 00 8:00p 12:00aChet'sCommittee CHET'S Thursday 10/12/95 9:00a 1 0:30a Dean of Students Meeting CC 205 lO:OOa 2:00pDeltaGammaSale CCATRIUM 12:00p 1 :OOp Spanish Speaking Table CC 205 12:30p 1:30pGerman SpeakingTab1e CC203 12:30p 2:00pStudentSummerResearch ChemDepartSCIENCE& ENG NW 116 1 :30p 4:00p Physics Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:00p 6:00pGMILecture HUMANITIES 115 CAMPUS EVENTS Thursday 10/05/95 9:00a 9:00p Exhibit: Works ofSculptor ARTS BUILDING Belj Krikorian ATRIUM Through 10/20/95 12:00p 1 O:OOp Exhibit: The Machines of Leonardo Da Vine NOTT MEMORIAL 8:00p 1 O:OOp Parents Weekend: Cabaret DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT lO:OOp 12:00aParentsWeekend: Band: \Begonia\ DUTCH HOLLOW Saturday I 0/07/95 8:00a 1 O:OOa Parents Weekend: Registration & Welcome Reception HH DINING ROOM 8:30a 1 O:OOa Parents Weekend: Parents Council Meeting HH OLD CHAPEL IO:OOa ll:OOaParentsWeekend: PresidentHull'sWelcome NOTTMEMORIAL 1 0:45a 12:00p Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \May They Ring With Thy Children's Chorus\ HH DINING ROOM 1 :30p 3 :OOp Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: '<Issues in Equity: Union & Beyond\ HH OLD CHAPEL I :30p 3 :OOp Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \Issues ofPower and Privilege in the Academy\ NOIT MEMORIAL 1 :30p 3:00p Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \Bridging the Gap: Women in Engineering\HH DINING ROOM 3:00p 4:00p Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \Confronting Campus Health Issues\ HI-I DINING ROOM 3:00p 4:00p Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \GenderPolitics in Student Orga nizations\ HH OLD CHAPEL 3:00p 4:00p Parents Weekend: Panel Discussion: \The Curriculum in Transition: Ethnic Studies & Women's Studies at Union\ NOTI MEMORIAL 5:00p 6:00p Parents Weekend: Interfaith Service MEMORIAL CHAPEL 8:00p 9:30p Lecture: Mary Catherine Bateson 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union \Women in Society: Going From College Life into the Real Wor1d\MEMORIAL CHAPEL 9:30p 12:00aParents Weekend: Band: \Your Mama\ DUTCH HOLLOW RES TAURANT 11 :OOa 5:00p Parents Weekend: Student Activities Fall Fest MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE 1 :30p 3 :OOp Parents Weekend: Union Choir and Orchestra Concert MEMORIAL CHAPEL 2:3CJp 4:00p Post Concert Reception HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOa 4:00p Red Cross Bloodmobile HH OLD CHAPEL 8:00p 9:30p'TheNottPiay\ YULMANTHEATER 8:00p lO:OOpLecture: Brian Williams Sponsored bySpeakers'sForum MEMORIAL CHAPEL MOVIES Friday l 0/06/95 8:00p lO:OOp\FieldofDreams\ SOCIALSCIENCES016 Saturday 10/07/95 8:00p 12:00a \Pocahantas\ SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 Sunday l 0/08/95 8:00p 12:00a \Pocahantas\ SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 Monday 10/09/95 8:00p 12:00a\Pocahantas\ SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 ----------------------- SPORTS Friday 10/06/95 4:00p 6:00p Field Hockey vs. Vassar ASTROTURF Saturday 10/07/95 1 :30p 4:00p Union Football vs. Albany ASTROTURF 5:30p 7:30pField Hockey vs. St. Lawrence ASTROTURF Tuesday 10/10/95 4:00p 6:00p Men's Soccervs. RIT GARIS FIELD - l ~ l ~ ·~ ~ . ~ ~ ~ 1 l l ~

I' \ '':- ' . . ; I ) ' . ' I' Page 16 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis Personals Hey Killer- I'm not so much fun with you not here, but New Years in Cleveland will be more than a bundle offun. Puppy licks well and they will never smell. Freshman boy - Are your honnones intact? -the invisible woman To the gang- You can suck my Don Juan DeMarco! Rovin- y our Visa is being revoked after December 8th, so enjoy it while you can. Love, you know who Hey bloody cabbage- I love you. -A To my favorite men on 1st floor Davidson- The flagpole will always have special meaning for now. I had a blast this weekend. -Dirty Beware of flying tomatoes! Hi Hairy Billy - I love you Cinnamon is nothing without a little Sugar. Come back quick!! LS, EB, SF, KP, & J?- 1,503 - Wow ... that's two and a half a day. -DF SD- Hey my Marley Iovin', studly In- dian boy- I love you babe. -from your babe Scott- What was that about IBMs over MACS? Wanted: Blond girl from Ohio, transplanted to Italy, to watch films about North Africa during WWII. Apply in person. Hey Laswicious - I am \not\ the Lizard Queen. Hey ,did you want to kiss me as badly as I wanted to kiss you on Saturday night? Party in Cleveland 12/28/95 un- til 112/96. Must be 21 by 12.30/ 95 to attend. People from as far as Troy, NY expected. What ever happened to \Boom boom, boom?\ You're still not here yet. Hi Nicole- You non-letter writing, non-post- I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories-- student-intitiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects is Octo- ber26, 1995. Proposals for student-intitialted research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S 100, Science and Engi- neering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals shouls submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also avail- able in the Dean's Office (S 1 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assisitant to the Dean of Arts and Sciences. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should reflect the best rates avail- able. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ****************************** FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S 100, S&E). THe deadline for submission of pro- posals is October 26, 1995. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human. subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Hu- man Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee. Personals/Classifieds card sending \friend.\ LS.; Would you like to say \Happy Birthday\ to your friend in a differ- ent way? Would you like to embarrass some- one in print? Would you like to say hello to that special someone? Would you like to find a significant other? If you answered \yes\ to any of the above ques- tions, then you are in luck! The Concordien- sis would love :to pub- lish your personals ev- ery week. Just drop them off to CC 303 by the Tuesday before publication by 5:OOpm. If no one is in the of- fice put them in the drop box next to the door. -your still waiting for correspon- dence pal Bev Thanks for story hour. -DF &DS Laurel- To my Suitemates- Thanks for the postcard. We all miss you tons! I c~n't waitto have our \bitching arid moaning\ session. I'll buy the jug o' wine and we'H set a time, and place. -Sed Is ita bad thing to want a \hook- up\ buddy? -Diana Roomie- r hope you are feeling better. Make sure to relax this weekend! Classifieds -D What did O.J. Simpson say to Marcia Clark after the trial? SPRING BREAK '96 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Ser~ vices is now hiring campus rep- resentatives. Lowest rates to Ja- maica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800- 648-4849. Can I have my gloves back? Ben- It was great seeing ymt the other day! We should definately all get together soon. We miss you! -DS, JF & DF SUBLET'S AVAILABLE!! Dear Prof. S - Beam me up Scotty! Love always, your dept. secretary and helot 2 Bedrooms available winter/ spring terms. Across the street from campus. Big, Spacious liv- ing area. $165 + util/month each person. Call 370-4017 or write Box#276. P R I N C l P L E S ·,) f' .. S ·o U N D R E T I R E ill E ~ T I N \' i~ ,S T I N G . ' . . ' . BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY, ASI( FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. Y ou put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes fo1· the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall .financial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all widely recognized resom·ces for finding out how strong a financial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co., AAA from DuJT & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability and over- all financial strength. (These are ratings of Ensudng the fut:ure for those who shape it.S\' insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CRl~F.) And TIAA-which, backed by the companys claims-paying ability, oUers a guaranteed rate of return and the opportunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nation- wide that currently hold these highest marks . CRER FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future:\ Together, TIAA and CRI~F form the world's largest private retirement system based on assets under management, wit-h over $145 billion in assets and mm·e than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide; tlte only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. *Not all accounts nrc available undt<r rile hattir retirement plnns at all inslitutions. ThPy are, ~owever, nil availathle for 'f'IAA·CRE;F Suppl~rncntnl ltetirement t\nnuitie• (SIIAo). CIIEP certilicates are diottibutcd by Tlt\t\-CREF Individual & ln•tiltttional Servic... .

. ' Advertisement The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 17 Games Vendors M . . . agtctan Picture-Magnets p-.., ........ _.~· .. .,. ..=,~ ! ., - .,t1' :.:· •• ,- / .... . _., . J' / I' , . . ! .. I I r , .. . J .. . . .,. . '1. • ·•· J.• • , -;,.•• .'.·: .~.:·. ~~. ·:: . . . . I ••• ... •;• ~ .· \ Union A Bene ~ Baked Goods EQUINOX Sunday, October 8th Union College Fieldhouse 11 AM· 5 PM Admission: $1 Children, $2 Adults

Page 18 • October 5, 1995 • The Concordiensis Two Colossal Victories For Men's Rugby by Bill Ackerbaur Sports Staff The Men's Rugby Club started their fall season last Saturday with two colossal victories over the Dead Cats of St. Lawrence University. Despite the oversight of a standard pre-game tacti- cal session and a hair- raising haul over the Adirondacks, the Smokin' Dutchmen con- quered opponents in two matches of old .. time fif- teen man rugby. A sloppy kickoff and several minutes of chaotic loose play quickly turned around in Union's favor with the help of outside center Ian \Don't Tread on Me\ Laycock. The Welsch terror scored two tries in the first half, one of which involved a Jedi mind trick that forced St. Lawrence players to pass the ball to their opponents. The second half saw an in- creased intensity in the URFC's offense. Tremendous efforts by rookies Eric \Bring it on, Sir\ Menard and Jamie Shinski led to a powerful spread-eagle score by eight man Alex \Smooth\ Douville. Union's final try was scored by Chris Delano. The efforts of Turk, Lothar, Jockey, Steve \1 can't drive 55\ Carling, and all those without cool nicknames were greatly appreci- ated. Kicks were made by Line Captain Seth \Apotheosize Me\ Brown for a 24-8 fiFml score. In a post-match interview, Serum Coach Tom Milner declared, \Wow. Those Dead Cats really stink! Union's Killer B's attacked St. Lawrence with the fierceness ex- pected of them. Newcomers Chuck Parish, Brendan Schafer, Tim Howe, Mike Citroni, and Nate Phelps were led in their first match by veterans Dennis Pope.o and Matt Lux. Props Dan Rickson and \Cupcake\ Spitzer success- fully tenderized the neck of Union's newest hooker, Eric \Squanto the Magnificent\Smith. Two spectacular tries were scored by the evil spirits that occupied John Poor's body on Saturday. St. Lawrence's B's limped away af- ter the crippling match, defeated 15-3. Hundreds of students and alumni witnessed the URFC's first home match this Saturday. Union's Ruggers defeated th.e Scum Dogs of LeMoyne College in an internecine bloodbath. The wiley and swift Backs and our stalwart and noisome Forwards came together as a unit to over- come their toughest opponentsto date. Kamikaze runs by Ian Laycock and Jay Sanabia and kicks by Adam \Rag Doll\ Shwartz left the score at 19-16. LeMoyne's Flyhalf deserves hon- orable mention for his kicking ability and his hair. Unfortunately, Union's Kiner B's did not fare as well as their veteran counterparts. Led by Dennis \Try that again and I'll bleed on you\ Popeo, the second side was laid low by cruel twists of fate and a manic-depressive referee. A single penalty kick won the game for Lemoyne's B, s, 3-0. Come cheer us on in our match versus Clarkson this Saturday at 1 :00 PM in the middle of cam- pus. Head Coach Skip \Psychic Advisor to the Stars\ Aycox will be on hand to autograph copies of his latest best seller, The Culi- nary Buddha: 1001 recipes for Chicken Legs. Cross Country~ Women Kick vASSar & Men Just Kick by Linda Seymour Sports Writer Another typical Homecoming weekend ... and the cross-country teams took their winged heels south. Vassar College was the place, and Union feet dominated the race. At eleven o'clock sharp, a veri- table drove of thirteen Union women swarmed Vassar's five and New Paltz's token four as they all made a beeline across the field for the trail entrance. See- ing the motley melee charge up the first hill made me wonder what happened to the pre-race \multi-pack\ strategy -working the race together as two or three separate groups. Overcome with anti-gregari- ousness (and perhapsby the b.o. of a certain New Paltz chick), they all blazed up the hill and into the woods, each a pioneer in her own right. I guess you could say that each went into the woods because she wanted to run deliberately ... Anyway, the rough first mile of trail running was followed by quite possibly the most ideal coasting hill on the planet (just ask Kelly). Then, after jaunting through campus, dodging pesky cars and heavily perfumed stu- dents, and taking a tum about the brown lake (which almost looked appetizing enough to drink at this point), they retraced their steps and faced the final hill. The dual-lipped asphalt incline was mildly painful but endurable because salvation lay but 200yds away. Laboring under the dazed- heifer stares of voyeuristic golf- ers, however, was another chal- lenge entirely. Our leading runner, Amelia Audette, rose to the occasion (pun intended, naturally) and put away the hot-pink bedecked Vassarite at the hill's crest and went on to finish first in 20: 11. After con- ceding second place, Kelly Jamison, Linda \no more stupid nicknames\ Seymour, Sarah Morse, and Katie McDowell streamed across the finish line with times of20:40, 21 :00,21 :06, and 21 :20 respectively. Two places and 22 seconds later, the next wave of Union run- ners rolled in: Molly Hood (21 :42), Charity McManman (21 :47), Sara Mcintosh (22:03), .Ten Schwartz (22:27), and Emily Morse (23:05). Filling out the squad were the rapidly improv- ing Denise LaPierre (24:0 1 ), Diane Colten, and Alison Spring; the latter both finished in 24:43 - over six minutes ahead of Vassar's fifth and final runner\ To make a long story short (too late!), the Union women romped Vassar 19-40. Great show gals! Once the women cleared the course, the men lined up and then shot into the woods with gri- maces on their faces, courage in their hearts and Vassaritesattheir elbows. To their credit, the men adhered to their'inulti-pack strat- egy for just over a mile. Their course was the same as the women's; but, to prove their manliness by running 5 miles as opposed to 3, the guys ran essen- tially two loops and omitted the lake bit the second time around. After nearly 28 minutes of toil- ing, freshman Peter Flynn shot up the last hill, around the bend, and finished strongly in a time of 28:01. Nick \I think everyone but me had an awesome race\ Conway streaked across in fifth place with a time of28: 18. Less than 30 seconds later, Dave Kunselman and Shaggy Metz fin- ished in 28:40 and 28:44. Hugh Meyer, Will Morris, Erik Sandersen, and Steve McKick all strode in within the next minute or so with times of29: 16, 30: 14, 30:21, and 30:26 respectively . The Union men ran valiantly (not to mention speedily) but came up a couple of points short. . It was an off meet weekend, though, and the guys conserved two of their top five runners for tomorrow's Capital Districtmeet at Saratoga. The race will be held atSPAC. Thewomenrunat4pm sharp and the men take off at 4:30pm. Be there. Sports Union Rocks at Homecoming by Kathy \~Leg$'! Walter Sports Staff Okay, so it wasn't high noon (more like 4:00 PM) when the women tuggers took on the Albany (choose an appropriate nick- name) team. However, energy was pumping and the Union women were looking for blood!!! (and another win. Although Albany blood would have sufficed!) Union struck hard in the opening kick-off and kept the ball downfield. About 5 minutes into the game Jen \Hit 'em hard and leave 'em flat\ Lelas scored in a combined line effort making the score 5-0 Union. Sara \Did you doubt I would make it\ Gower kicked the extra point and Union remained in the lead. Somewhere in there Albany scored, but it wasn't that spectacular and really wasn't worth mentioning (especially becausethey couldn't kick it · through the uprights!), Then just before the half, Sar.a \I could do this all day\ Gower kicked a penalty for three more points making the score 10-5, for Union; Although we honestly believe rugby is · not a horribly violent sport, the half was not without injury. Jen ·. Lelas was viciously accosted by some Albany players and was forced out of the game kicking and screaming. \Just give me some beer and the shakes will stop. That's all I need, really. Okay, maybe not all I need, but it'll work. Please, please,\ etc. was all that could be heard. After the half, Albany scored. No rhyme or reason really, un- . less of course you realized there were only 14 people on the field , · for Union. (For anyone who doesn't understand the game of rugby, that's one less than we were supposed to have). The score became l o ... t 0 and remained so for the rest of the tough game. Special congratulations to all of our rookies for playing an outstanding game. Cathy \the twig with wings\ Budgen who ran like a crazywoman about 30 meters before being taken .down by the 5 Albany players who had latched onto her. Also, a hip-hip-hooray to all the members of the serum who, though battered and beaten, went on to pummel Albany throughout the game. Then it was the killer B's tum. Tiffany \I'm a serum-half and · I'm okay\ Lussier ran for a breakaway score early in the half of play. Sara \I can't think of anymore nicknames\ Gower kicked · for the extra points the score 7-0. Then, in an amazing return from · last week's injury, Noelle \Sweeeet P\ Somers rolled off the serum ·· for an amazing eight man try. The score ended at 12-0 and EV- ERYONE was happy! (ExceptAlbany,butwhatever ... ) What else can we say, the line ran, the serum supported and · everyone had a great time. (Writer's note: Kim \the train, truck and everything else\ Sanabia played quite intensely at both this and last week's games and I apologize immensely for leaving her out of the article last week. Don't worry sportsfans, the bruises she inflicted will fade within the week!) Thank you to all the fans who stayed to watch our lovely game. Hope to see you next week when Union takes on Oneonta at 11 :30 for Parents' Weekend. Union College Extends A Warm Welcome to Prospective Students and Their F amities on October 9th for Open House.

Sports The Concordiensis • October 5, 1995 • Page 19 First A·nnual Union Crew Alumni Race by Jeffery Druzba Crew Correspondent The fall blue sky was without a cloud, and the sounds of chirp- ing birds could still. be heard not too far in the distance. It seemed to be a perfectly serene day at the Union Crew Boathouse this past Sunday. Thep thealumnidonned their shorts and shirts. Squirrels parted ways, many ofthem find· ing their brethren. for safety and security from the sights of some- thing scary. The birds fled the trees in search of more peaceful perches. The FirstAnnual Union Crew Alumni Race was about to begin. in the day.\ When reminded it was already one o'clock in the afternoon, Coach Richter further explained most efthe alums were awake until three o 'dock the pre- vious evening enjoying an intense game ofOld Maid. Union's varsity men stepped up to the challenge and both boats appeared at the start of the 1000 meter course alongthe Mohawk. The alumni boat,. needing every advantage they couldget:, sprinted out of the start seconds before the call. The vatsity:men rose to meet that and roared with laughter as · the alumni boat took on gallons ofwaterfrom aspeedboatwake. Most of the team was on hand to witness the awful spanking the alumni were asking for. The alumni eight was (stern-bow) Matt Greene '93, Peter Schwab '93, Mike Kimber '93, Shea Wallon '93, EvanGrace '91,Matt Kirk '94, Kevin Pltppe '94, and Gary Chase '91. Surprisingly, they appeared fit, thoagh it was noted thatthey didn 'ttake a wann up run. Their coach, Mark Rich- ter '91, commented that he was afraid of\tiring his men so early T:hetwo boats edged neck and neck for the entire length of the famous \abutments to the bridge\ race course. No clear advantage could be seen, ... or'were. the var- sity men toying with their men- tors? Nev,ertheless, the race passed through the finish line in the same way that that it was rowed, The officiql call from the judges was split and the tie -breaker was decided upon: the race hinged on which boat could Lefttoright: Evan.Grace '91, Mark Richter '91, Peter Schwab '93, Shea Wallon '93, Mike Kimber '93, Matt Kirk '94, Kevin Puppe. '94, Gary Chase '91 and Matt Greene '93. (plwto by Mike Ferguson) go the farthest distance in exactly twenty strokes. Here, the varsity men showed their superior oarsmanship and flew by the the alumni boat with four strokes to go. However, bypassing even their test of strength were Union's varsity women who won by a boat length. The official win- ners ofthe race were the varsity men after a slight scare from the Field Hockey NipS Middlebury; Succumbs to Springfield by Jon Gasthalter SportsStaff Opening the week with a two and three record in the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association and a four and three record over- all, the field hockey Dutchwomen knew their two home contests against Middlebury and Spring- field would be key in their drive to a playoff berth. \We are atthe mid-point of the season, where you can either slide or crank it up a notch and the players really proved they are ready to take on the next half of the season no matter who the op- ponent is and go head-strong into every game,\ said Coach Chari yn Robert. Middlebury proved to be a for- midable foe on Wednesday,Sep- tember 27, as the Dutchwomen began their third game of a seven game homestand. The teams were evenly matched and and the game was tight. Union came out playing an of- fensively oriented game and al- most netted the opening goal five minutes into the first half, as the Middlebury goaltender made two good stops to quell the Union drive. Middlebury came down the field moments later on a two on one, but senior goaltender Elana Goldberg came up with two big saves to thwart the attack. As the first half came to a close, the score remained tied at zero with Union out-shooting Middlebury nine to four. The second half began much as the first, with play tightly con- trolled by both teams. Union broke the ice with 21:31 left in the half as Christina Jabbour con- nected on a Bianca Prumo cross in front of the goal mouth How- ever, Middlebury struck back, scoring on a corner just 31 sec- onds later to even the score at one apiece. Middlebury continued its at- tack to the end of the half as Goldberg continued to shine in goal suppressing the Panthers. Coach Robert felt that Goldberg played extremely well, saying \She [Eiana Goldberg] stepped it up an entire notch compared to what Middlebury expected, she played a great game.\ Regulation time ended with the score tied at one all. Over- time began and the teams were re- duced to seven players on the field at a time. Union dominated the overtime period putting in- tense pressure on the Panthers from the start. Freshman Carrie Heroth scored the game winner, converting on a Prumo pass in front of the goal with seven minutes to play in the extended period to up Union's overall record to 5-3. \Every game we have put an- other piece of the puzzle together and yesterday, with out sacrific- ing anything, we put the sustain- ing of the attack together,\ com- mented Coach Robert. On Friday, September 30, Springfield was Union's guest under the lights of Frank Bailey Field. Springfield, a strong of- fensive team, came out of the gate driving to the net Goaltender Goldberg made three sprawling saves to stop the early threat. Minutes later, the Dutchwomen could not convert a Tonya Capparello pass in front of the goal mouth as the ball was tipped over the cage. Springfield scored on a comer, with twelve mintues left in the half, faking a shot and then pass- ing the ball to a wide open player who beat Goldberg to make the score 1-0. The offensive domination of Springfield was apparent as Union was out-shot 6-0 in the first half. The second half saw Union mount a few quality scor- ing drives which did not produce a goal. The Dutch women defense kept Springfield off of the scoreboard in the second half and the game ended 1-0 in favorofSpringfield. The Dutchwomen end their homestand with games versus Oneonta, Vassar, and St. La·.vrence this week. Write lor Sports! Contact Jason or Ken @ x61SS alumni. After the race, the current and former rowers shook hands, laughed a l;ittle, trash talked, and proceeded to eat. Everyone that at- tended, including the valiant members ofthe women's novice squad, would agree the day was a great success. A spirit of cama- raderie was ignited between the members of Union Crew and those who selflessly built the foundation for today's team. A second AI umni Race is being planned to celebrate the spring dedication ofUnion Crew's new boathouse along the Mohawk. ·by Frank Rossi Contributing Writer Before this p~t weekend, a post-season seemed unlikely for the , Union women's volleyball team. What a difference a week makes. On Saturday, the Dutchwomen were able to win both games of their doubleheader against Hartwick and Utica and move their record to 6 wins and 7 losses. In the Hartwick game, Union stumbled out of the gate but came back with a vengeance to win the best~of- five-set match 14-16, 15- 7, 15-6, and 15-10. Coach Leslie Bogucki pointed out that the first game has posed problems for the Dutchwomen all season and stated, \We need to come outalittle stronger., In five.ofthe Dutchwomen's seven losses, the tea.tn lost the first set and failed to recover. The remainder of the match b?hmged to Union, as did the second match. · Union mauled Utica in straight sets~ 15-0, 15-6, 15-1. !he prosp~ct fora state tournament slot is now within sight for . the Du~chwomen, <:;oac;h Bogucki added, ·~A winning record is necessary for us tt1 reach ~he tournament.\ At(6-7} and with only a few games left, it is ¢ru;nth time for Union. . Qn Sa,f;U:fday the ..... · .: co~captitins~ Christina Taraborelli and ·or.etcli~n. . · tremendous l'eadership which they '\yf}lne,@ifto is to J:llake_it!11to the state tourna~ , · · . made t;J}jQfeiglitfeshmen and . team ~skllll¢ader, likes what she . . sh~ s~ys: .Sh~ptitnta·uutthe team~s Iu ...... \\'·· ·Frj~sl · ·} tt~~ ~nother fresh- getltin•g ·. ~t'lot lie in 4i!s: a backAine worktl1at ~ey have put into master- paying oft tea1ms. however~ theDut.chwornents servM vo1~2H~rstated, ••().ur sel'Vi11g is inconsis- ......... ~ .... ,,t<>~ .. ~~,, J;toglJkOki· s~t¢d earlier that their serving overall ~'does SatUtday,s croubleheadetwas promising, how· players were t'J;bte~to control their serves and string se,v,emd·· pointS together. Re~at·dl'l)lS$ of whether Union gains a tourttament slot or not, the • e11d of the season looks promising as the Freshmen are gaining somemuch~needed experience for next year. Their next game was Wedn¢sday (before this issue was released) against nearby rival St. Rose at the Fieldhouse, and Saturday (October 17th), they travel to · • Skidmtlte for the UCAA ln~Season Tottrnament at 9~0GAM.

October 5, 1995 PAGE20 Football Rocks Nationally Ranked Dickenson by Mike Leding Sports StmJj The Dickinson Red Devils ar- rived at Union around 4;00p.m. on Friday and took straightto the field like they owned it. They were going over their pre-game routines and stretches and being quite loud about it. They could be heard from the soccer field ranting and raving, seeming as confident as the 49ers about to play an expansion team. When Saturday rolled.aroundthey had that confidence beaten out of them in the first six minutes of the football game by the Dutchmen. The Dutchmen went on to Vv:in 20- 7 and improve theirrecord to 3-1 in front of an enthusiastic Horne- coming crowd. Dickinson came into the game averaging 321 yards rushing and were held to just 60 yards by a pumped up Union defense. Com- ing into the game the Dutchmen's defense and special teams had scored 77 ofUnion's91 points on the season. The defense was strong as usuaL but an this Satur- day the offense caine out with a chip on their shoulders. Tired of hearing they were be- ing carried by the defense, they came out on their first drive and scored a touchdown. It only took the offense six plays to cover 87 yards; the drive was capped .off when Ryan Smith hit Jim Man- ning for a beautiful 72 yard touchdown. Manning took a 15 yard pass over the middle, !efta few defend- ers standing still, then reversed his field and outran the defense for the touchdown. Kicker Roger Egbert added the PAT to give Union a 7-0 lead. Thisdrive took the Dutchmen 4 minutes and 51 seconds. Two possessions later Union found themselves back in the endzone after Kevin Pessolano's second fumble recovery of the season gave the offense the ball at the Dickinson 36. On third and four, Smith avoided a sack and hooked up with junior flanker Peter Buscemi all alone on the left side of the endzone. This 30 yard touchdown followed by the PAT gave Union a 14-0 lead. Dickinson had one shot at a touchdown in the first half when they recovered a fumbled punt and moved to the Dutchmen's six. Their attempt at a 23 yard field goal was thwarted by sophomore tackle Jim Kochan, who broke through the Di~kinson line to pick up a block. Egbert gave Union a 20-0 lead with a 35-yard field goal at 14:30 of the fourth quarter,and a 39- yard field goal with 11 :31 left to play. The Devil's avoided the shut out when Dwayne Shoe- maker returned a punt 53 yards for a touchdown. Tailback Kojo Attah gained 103 of Union's 308 total yards rushing the balL Ryan Smith fin- ished six of eleven for 138yards and two touchdowns. On the defensive side of the ball junior linebacker Bobby Champlin led the team with 12 tackles, three ofthern solo. This defense, which has only been giv- ing up 88.3 yards of offense a game, was strong as usual. The freshman defensive backs had another strong .tame recording three sacks. Other big tacklers for the Dutchmen were junior linebacker Mario Maltese with nine tackles, four of which were solo, and se- nior defensive end Andy Leach with seven. . _ .. · ,• Pessolano was named ECAC Upstate New York '\Defensive Player of the Week\ for the sec- ond time this year, as well as UCAA' s co-\Defensive Player of the Week,\ also for the second time. Smith picked up his first collegiate award as he was named to the UCAA honor· roll along with Champlin. The Dutchmen will play host to Division II Albany here at Frank Bailey's Field at 1:30 on parent's weekend. It would be great if the student body could come out as they did last week and show the ~earn some support . Dutch women Soccer Continues to Dominate Opponents by Aaron Sicotte Contributing Writer Coming off a mediocre 6-9 season in 1994, the Women~s Soccer Team was expecting to have a relatively good year. The loss of only two players and the addition of a number of skilled freshmen, combined with a new talented, motivating coach, left them with a great sense of opti- mism. Butthe amount of success they have had this year has still come as a bit of a surprise. The team • s enthusiasm and confidence has risen to an explo- sive intensity and their level of play has been phenomenal. De- spite the lack of coverage and support this fall, they have been quietly winning games. Heading into the game on Friday - and a rough stretch of three games in four days • their ~ecord was an impressive 4-1; their lone ~oss be- ing a 1-0 setback at Binghamton to the third best team in the coun- try. With fan support slowly mount- ing, the team took the field Friday against visiting Skidmore. Union carne out playing hard from the start but couldn't capitalize on their chances. Unfortunately, Skidmore did, scoring in the sixth minute of the game on a disputed off sides goal. But the Union of- fense kept pounding away with excellent play by forwards Nicole Solomos and Autumn Renn. Despite a brief but costly defen- sive breakdown that allowed a sec- ond Skidmore goal, the defense played a strong game, led by Daniell Shelov and Lauren Papa. The Union offense was unre- lenting for the final 10 minutes, but couldn't finish a number of great opportunities, and the team walked away with a disappointing 2-0 loss. But on Saturday the teams re- siliency showed through with an impressive 2-1 over RPI. The Dutchwomen again came out strong from the opening whistle, and took an early 1-0 lead. Seven minutes into the half, Kim Fan- ning crossed the ball into the goal box, and Emily Retterer re- directed it past the RPI goalie with a perfect header. Rensselaer surged back to tie the score on a fluke goal in the 40th minute. But once again the team responded and the Union offense stormed back to take the lead for good on a perfect 18 yard shot by Solomos into the lower corner of the goal at the end of the half. The defense played tenaci_ously the second half and preserved the win for the home team. After a day of rest the Dutchwomen continued its dominating play when Utica paid a visit to Garis Field on Monday afternoon. The eveF-ip.creasing and excited crowd Wrtfi again treated to an outstanding perfor- mance from the teamZ · · Fanning started thltscoring late in the first half with a nice shot into the comer, artd the half ended with Union leading 1-0. Liz Kittleman opened the second half with another spectacular goal for the Dutchwomen. The defense, which had been playing near perfection for the entire game, allowed one goal from a long shot by a Utica player. Once again the team rallied and stepped up their defensive play to close within one. The offense responded by put- ting the finishing touches on the victory with a late goal from defensemen Sarah Moss. The team left the field with a solid 3- 1 victory, to give their homestand a2-1 record. The Dutchwomen wifl be on the road for all buttheir last game, and it won't be an easy time. They will be playing two top 10 nation- ally ranked teams in the next week. There next home game will be October 19th at 3:00 at Garis Field. Hopefully the fan support will continue to increase and sup- port Union's dominating Women's Soccer team. The Women's Lacrosse team is looking for new players. Contact Coach Charlyn Roberts atx6040

.......... ·.·onrorbi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number V Schenectady, New York. Fallfest: Fudge and Family in th·e Fieldhouse by Aileen Quigley Contributing Writer On October 8th Union opened the doors of the Memorial Field House to parents and community members alike in a benefit for Equinox. In order to raise funds on behalfofthis local community service organization, vendors were invited to setup booths and sell their merchandise. Delectable edibles ranging from hand- painted chocolates to home- baked cakes and pastries adorned tables around the room. The Rathskellar also satisfied steady, hungry crowds, as did the fried dough truck located just outside the doors. Aside from the cornu- copia of confections, clothing vendors like L.L.Bean and J. Crew shared their wares with bargain- happy buyers. Other popular items were the large woolen sweaters and complementary pic- ture magnets. Clubs, Greek houses, and varsity sports used this opportunity to sell T-shirts, baked goods, and raffle tickets as welt. The vendors drew an atten- dance of almost 1 000 parents, stu- dents, and local crowds, accord- ing to Ruthie Strosberg, Union's own social committee president. The main goals of FallFest, Strosberg states, was to~\provide a campus-wide social event and to raise ... money for Equinox.\ To help meet these goals, non-'stu- dents were charged a small ad- mission price, and all proceeds went to the well-deserving cause. Equinox is a local community service agency who sets up youth centers, Thanksgiving dinners and counseling in our area. This agency puts on a major choco- late fair in Albany, which was the original plan for FaliFest here at Union. Instead, what resulted this past weekend was a merging of the Schenectady and Union com- munities towards a common ob- jective: to have a good time, find some good bargains, and help out a commendable organization. Many thanks to all who at- tended, and especially to the so- cial committee and Mrs. Marra for all their hard work and dedi- cation in making FallFest a suc- cess! Special thanks to Mr. Ed Teller and Campus Security, and Campus Operations for their out- standing efforts! Upper left: Students and members of the Schenectady community at Fallfest browse and enjoy one of the -numerous stands that were available. Lower right: Among the many stands available, a magician entettained young children as their parents looked on. The kids all said they loved it (plwto courtesy ofShaun-Paul Manorefor The Concordiensis) Research on Coeducation Presented by Michelle Ellis News Editor - Union's campus came alive during Parenes Weekend. There were so many diverse activities planned to celebrate Union's twenty fifth anniversary of coedu- cation. It was difficult to choose which eventto attend. In addition to the weekend sports activities, there were many thought provok- ing panel discussions, and a re- nown cultural anthropologist, Mary Catherine Bateson, ad- dressed the campus community. During a luncheon held for both parents and students on Sat- urday afternoon, two students presented some enlightening re- search entitled Pioneering Lives: 25 Years of Women at Union. Beth Decker '96 and Ahnya Mendes '96 disclosed their re- search on coeducation at Union. Decker and Mendes were part of a research team that included; Siri Doble '97, Christopher Freed '97, Susan Greenberg '96, and Jennifer Hacker '96. These stu- dents spent the past year working with Sociology Professor Martha Huggins to examine three \gen- erations\ of women graduates of Union. The students conducted the study by mailing a survey to women graduates from the pio- neer class of 1974 and the classes of 1984 and 1994. Out of 255 questionnaires 117 women re- sponded. The research team analyzed the data from the survey by focusing on the women's experiences prior to Union, during Union, and post Union. The respondents divulged information about their academic experiences, their co-curricular activities, their involvement with sports, their social activities, and instances of sexual harassment at Union during the past 25 years. In analyzing Unionwomen'sex- periences after graduation there- searchers explored female graduate'sjobs and incomes. The student researchers also collected information about instances of job discrimination and sexual harass- ment that these women had faced after graduation. In evaluating the research team's findings, Beth Decker sug- gested that the majority of the women surveyed conveyed that they enjoyed their Union experi- ence. In highlighting some of the more negative responses that the research team received, Ahnya Mendes indicated that all classes expressed that they believed Union to be an \old boy net- work.\ To illustrate this point Mendes quoted a 1974 graduate. \Union offered an early opportu- nity to function professionally and socially in situations where there are more males than fe- males.\ Decker and Mendes also spoke of the negative feedback that the team received from the respondents concerning the fra- ternity system. Mendes read the following statement from a 1984 Union graduate. \Women felt like sex objects at most frat parties.\ To illustrate that recent graduates still perceive the fraternity system as demeaning, Mendes read the response of a 1994 graduate. \Be- cause oftheii large population at times they would let their male- ness take over and they would ignore the existence of the female population. Basically, I believe this only occurred at fraternity parties.\ Decker read a comment from another 1994 graduate. \The entire Greek-dominated system is highly unsuportive to women- i.e. the men wait drunkenly in the frat for the vulnerable women to stop in. What occurs next is almost inevitable.\ Beth Decker also commented on the negative re- sponses that the research team received concerning the inequi- ties between men's and women's sports teams and facilities. Decker indicated that this was attributable to the obvious differences be- tween the sports facilities avail- able for women in 197 4 and 1 994. When asked to reflect upon the implications of the team's find- ings, Decker stated, \In general women graduates enjoyed their time at Union, however; there were certain negative responses that were echoed throughout the study. Attention should be paid to the results.We've come a long way ,but we still have farther to go.\ October 13 , 1995 Inside ... News ......... 2-3 Science & Medicine ..... 4 Wid News .. 5 OP/ED ..... 6-7 Finals ....... u. 8 A&E -~~ ... 9-10 Features •.. 11 Calendar .. 13 Personals/ Class ......... 14 Sports .. 15-16

Pa~e 2 • October 13, 1995• The Concordiensis The Concordiensis Meets \-\ etlery Wednesday night at 7:00pm in the Reamer Campus Center 303. All are welcome. CampusNe~s UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY OCTOBER2, 1995THROUGHSUNDAY, OCTOBERS, 1995 DATEIT·IME LOCATION MONDAY,OCTOBER 2, 1995: 9:44PM S&E II :05 PM Richmond TUESDA Y,OCTOBER 3, 1995: INCIDENT VANDALISM: Door handle broken off of west entrance door. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Guest being threat- ened by visitor. 2:33AM West SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student taken iH by over indulgence ofalcohol. Paramedics responded. 11:40PM Davidson DISORDERLYCONDUCT/HEALTHHAZ- ARD: Suspect urinated into student'.s room through opened window. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4,.1995: 8:42AM Davidson North I2:55 PM Fox/Davidson Lot Y ANDALISM: Window broken. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Re- peat unregistered violations. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1995: 1:11AM WestCollege MINORFIRE/LIFESAFETYVIOLATION: Fire alarm activated caused by cigarette smolder- ing in hallway carpet. Several residents failed to evacute-Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 2:00AM Wells House DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Eggs thrown at house. Suspects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 3:03 AM Delta Phi/Rink area UNAUTHORIZED ENTRYN ANDALISM: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995: Students forcibly entered restricted area. Also dam- aged several exterior lights on Achilles Rink. Sus- pects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 8:57AM Reamer Center SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Subject reportedly act- ing unusual and causing anxiety by his behavior. Subject identified as alumnus. Subject was advised regarding his behavior and access to campus facili- ties. Subject left campus. 3:36PM Fox House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odorofmarijuanare- ported. Source and subject located and identified. Conduct Charges filed. 6:55PM Fox/Davidson Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Re- peat unregistered violations. I 0:30PM Campus HARASSMENT: Student reports ongoing prob- lem with another student. Conduct Charges filed. II :33 PM Davidson SAFETY HAZARD: Student throwing bottles from roof. Conduct Charges filed. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7,1995: l :07 AM Raymond South 1:39AM Davidson 2: I9 AM Library Field area 3:13AM WestCollege I 0:00AM Psi Upsilon 1:20PM Alexander Lane 1:30PM Alexander Lane 8:30PM West College SUNDAY; OCTOBER8,1995: 3:34AM Richmond 4:15AM Psi Upsilon I :55 PM<~ Richmond Lot 6:06PM Psi Upsilon area ' l } . l : ·'--:- ,., PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken-acci- dental. HARASSMENT: Annoyance telephone calls. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Goal post pro tectors removed from Bailey Field and left by flag- pole area. FALSE FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLA- TION: Pull box 2nd floor south activated. This is the 4th occurrence in past several weeks.. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's room door lock jammed, possibly caused by abuse. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: No injury. Visitor backed into another visitor's parked car. THEFT: Traffic Control warning sign stolen frol'l1 barrier chain. THEFT: Staff member's walkman stolen from unlocked area. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student taken ill by over indulgence of alcohol. VANDALISM: Student's room door kicked in- door jam busted. VANDALISM: Student's car tire punctured. TRESPASS: Group ofvisitors searching trash · ~ .. aumpster for redeemables. Identified and advised ~ 9ff campus. ·

Campus News A New Student Center? 'by Diana Sedita Editor-in-Chief The Student Forum held the first Town Meeting ofthe year this past Monday night at Chet's. The purpose of the public meet- ing was to discu:;;s the creation of a student center. The Student Forum posed certain main questions that included whether or not Union needs a student center, what it would contain, and whether or not the Reamer Campus Center is alfeady a stu- dent center. \The whole point ofthemeet· ing was to gather ideas,\ stated Ken Chase, President of the Student Forum, as he greeted the handful of students, facul'ty and administrators that bothered .to show up. The panel consisted of President Roger Hull, Ken Chase, President of the Student Forum, Steve Lapinski, IFC President and Carolyn Miller who is Pan Hellenic Coun- cil President. In Chase's opening remarks he commented that, \The goal is to find a central place where students of all ages and faculty can come together, have fun and relax.\ Lapinski then voiced his opinion that Union needs a new student center. He stated that one of the reasons Chet's has not flourished is because of the location, \No one wants to go to a bar in the Col- lege Center.\ Lapinski feels that the Col- lege community needs a building with more space to have a lounge type area for relaxation and entertainment. lle also pro- posed that the student center have games, a pool table, a pub and office space for stu- dent organizations. In her statement, Miller added that the College Center has a mall type atm.osphere and that students need a place that is more \comfortable\ and that generated a \warmer feel in g.\ President Hull then spoke and stated that he felt the Reamer College Center is al- ready a student center. Hull made it dear that the first priority is the renovation of Schaffer Library although he was willing to listen to viable optiom on ways to im- prove the existing College Center. Presi- dent Hull said that it was very possible to \take a building like this (College Center) and make it into a great party area (as was done with Club U).\ After opening statements were made, the audience was permitted to voice their opin- ions. Ruthie Strosberg, Vice President of Campus Life said that one of the main problemswith the College Center is that it closes at 1:OOam and that most students feel it is too early. Many students expressed that the College Center is not a comfort- able and not a fun place to be. Some students felt that it was unneces- sary for a student center to be built Fred Ulrich stated that \to build a student cen- ter is not practical.\ One faculty member said that people that believe the building is the problem and not the people seem to be evincing an \if you build it they will come\ attitude. \The fear here is ending up with a baseball stadium in a cornfield.\ The problem of location was also brought up. Many felt that the old Day Care center would be the perfect spot. President HuH added that \the Lenox Road properties would make student life here much better.\ Hull also feared that the con- struction of \a multi million dollar build- ing would tum the College Center into obsoleteness.\ The one thing that was made absolutely clear was that a new building would not be built for the student center and if any- thing was done another building would be renovated such as Fero House, the old Psy- chology Building or the old Day Care Cen- ter. Before anything is actually done Presi- dent Hull wants to wait for a master plan as to what the students want. The Concoroiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 3 .. -· .. ·;. . . . . . ·75 Years of Alternati-ve Sound by Bhavani Meduri Newt Sta;/f Tb,~sSaturday Union will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the frrst broadcast on · WRUC., Union.CoUegets very own· radio sta.tion. Andy Fratkin, the promotional manager._ believes that the anniversary is very special because it h.onors a station that pioneered the radio world. WRUC is unique in that it was on(( of tire first stations in the country to broadcast actual program- miQg to its-~viewers. W:hentb.e station was firstcr~ated. its shows were aired over a 600 mile radius, ·. '· wllicltinoluded Catlada1 However, with the development of FCC regulations WRUC • · h.a~ limite<! its broru.:Ical'lts to the capitol district •..• ·· • Jlratkitn stated.at.:w:Jt:UC -is school. fund~,d.· ¥f:bi,((b. allows its deejays to be more 'user oriented.' The station is also completely run by students and tries to broad- cast aU day. everyday. ''1\{l\l\Stude.tits .weleome t<Hlpf>ly for a.tbn(} slot. The most P.QIJWaP~;wme~.>~e,;tb.trlug·<ttJ.e;·:ev~ning hollr&:.·N.l.l:Qmi llarel,~·.$Qphomore, remem~ ,··:beli»:~~:.,~;¥epjng,sht~w'·la$t .Yea.f~S·llavi~g (j,\~UdP!Jilli.~te~jng .audience of both '· stl:Jf!~tS4~:n,4;rces.WJentsi.lf$che;n~otaQy, She .~l&o re~k~ that she and fellow deejay . Nadia Govanlu get to play a lot 9f diverse music on their late Tuesday morning ··· sh<;t;wwthts·MfM!.f ~e@aJJS:tl-· of ail tbe rand.om people . .that tend to call in the. mornings , with requests.. ... . . .. < ··· • ·/·.3Jb~\JUrog1J~i.qg iaindee.d.varie.d; everything from Alternative to . · Reggae···io,J3QU:,tltl.W'··•,j.s,,,!play~4- .. \The. statioa also broadca&ts Union's football and h'tJ.P~§Yvg~~s·ill@Jl!:·Wi~~spQnt.stalksbows.,hosted by Union students. There is also · a:~timeslatAtevQ,te~,~·tl:t~Spa.nislupeaking population. This slot is complete with Spanish,mu.si(;l\anfl,&pa.nishtlet>jays, F.ratkiiL~li,~¥~S4Jlat WRUC CQUld easiijr, .. p.e. the. . .Qigg~%t.club on campus .. In fact, even professor-s,ha.ve beenil'lvolvq~,,wi.!hhPB~i:gg talls;\snq:ws.J!l the past. In order to properly hono:ri~i,;mpiversary, WRUC will have a big celebration this January. Alumni will Q.&:,invlted,backto meet and sl;lare past experiences with current deejays and sta:tion members. O.J.: The Verdict Discussed by Adrian MacLean News Staff The Union community had an oppor- tunity to voice their opinion on the OJ Simpson verdict, at last Wednesday's Crosstalk. Less than twenty people reaped the benefits. Union's Catholic Chaplain Tom Frieberg led the discus- sion and opened a provocative debate with the scarce partici- pants. The Crosstalk had a slow start, as nobody spoke out, but eventually an intimate group emerged in Chets. The small group enabled various opinions and questions to be expressed. Issues such as: if the process was used, was jus- tice done; is OJ still a hero; and the effect of the trial's high profile media coverage were some ofthe topics discussed by the group. better as a result of the trial and that it will do a more precise job in the future. \They needed a better representation of the United States, and as a result they would have had .more insight,\ Kohn said. the whole judicial system without play- ing the race card,\ Attah said. One student adamantly disagreed stat- ing that racism is not against the law, but murder is, and this was turned from a murder trial into one about race. An Another heated topic centered around the issue of the jury's qualifications to make a fair de cis ion. Many students ex- pressed that in order for the trial to be fair that the jury should have had a bet- ter mix of gender, economic background, and race. Other students at the Crosstalk expressed concern that the evidence of the case, es- pecially the DNA, required a high level of intellect. The lim- ited education level ofthejury, may have made them vulner- able to manipulation by Johnnie Cochran. \When dealing with complicated DNA evidence, an educated jury is needed,\ Jun- ior Joshua Hedaya stated. Students expressed their concerns about Simpson's abil- ity to buy his freedom due to his financial status and re- sources. OJ was able to hire the top lawyers in the country, so would the average person have been found innocent under the same circumstances? \The re- sources should be fair. Both sides should have equal re- sources,\ Sophomore Paul Smith asserted. Sophomore Kirstin Kohn, from Los Angeles, felt that the trial became a racial issue and that the jury needed to be more diverse. From Kohn's perspec- tive, the racial tension over- shadowed the real issues. She stated that her family was directly affected by the Students discuss the verdict oftlte OJ Simpson Trial at Chet's this past Wednesday night (photo by Sltaun-Paul MAnorefor The Concordiensis) The verdict of the OJ trial gave Union students another chance to discuss their feelings. Few took advantage of the op- trial. She commented that her parents would have been more tentative to come to Union tbr Parents Weekend, had OJ been found guilty. She feels that the Los Angelos Police Department may now act \The jurors were not a sampling ofthe country,\ Senior Mark Zames sta~ed. Senior Frank Attah disagreed wi'th Kohn because he felt that race is con- stant!~ an iss~e. \One cannot examine portunity, but those that man- example used to exemplify the race is- aged to participate in Wednesday's dis- sue was the celebration ofthe black com~ · cuss ion had an in depth and beneficial munity and the use of the black power talk. Crosstalks are arranged in hopes symbol following the announcement of that students will have a forum to ex- the verdict. press their voices.

·Page 4 • October 13, 1995 • The Conc·ordiensis Science and Medicine Sexy Science: The Cutting Edge of Science and Technology Today by Demais Popeo Science and Medicine Editor With the I 50th Anniversary of Scientific American Magazine comes a deluge ofspecial reports about hot topics in science. Here is a brief·sampling of what we can look forward to tomorrow, and what is here t0day, as told in the latest issue of the magazine. Look for more articl.es on the cuttting edge of technology in future issues. DNA Computers DNA quite J,iterally makes us who we are. It determines our hair color, facial features, body types, and some even argue, most of our personality and intelli- gence. Scientists are now at- tempting to useDNA, our genetic material, as a biological com- puter. In the calculations ofthe scientists, various bits of infor- mation is assigned a specific DNA base-pair code. These codes are then mixed together in various ways, and after a brief analysis, the scientists are able to find the answer. Sure, it is not as easy as punch.ing numbers into a computer, but it may be better. In fact, biomolecular comput- ing has caused quite a stir among the scientific community. It seems that this system has solved the \traveling salesman\ prob- lem. The challenge was to find a route between several cities that stops at each city only once. Leonard Adleman of Princeton University chose short DNA mol- ecules to encode seven cities and possible legs of the trip. After several days, and many laboratory tests, the correct solution W8;S found. This may seem impres- sive, but since computers oanmap the route in seconds, the effi- ciency ofbiomolecular computers is seriously in question. . Proponents of these type sys- tems insist that their test tube cal- culators will be effective, butonly after new biochemical age)lts are found. Another Princeton scien- tist, Richard Lipton, has ex- panded biomolecular computer research by describing a plan to solve \satisfaction\ problem;; (SAT). SA Ts are word problems that consist oflogically connected propositions that can be either true or false. In this .case, the challenge is to find which propo- sitions need to be true in order for the entire expression to be true. There are 2n possible solutions for n amount of variables, Past a Chemist~y Department Seminar October 19, 1995 \Total Synthesis of the Immuno-Suppressant Rampamyacin'' . Dr. Cheryl Howard Senior Research Scientist Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Groton, CT. Room N 116 of Science and Engineering 12:30 PM (pizza and soft drinks wi 11 be served) certain point, no computer today can solve these problems with complete certainty. The biomolecular model how- ever, can turn out solutions to very large SA Tproblems .. If each statement in the SAT is coded as a strand of DNA, and taken to- gether in a single test tube, some billion billion operations can be performed at once. This is more powerful than any computer. The _ biomolecular models that Lipton has devised have already proven useful; he and two graduate stu- dents have devised a tactic for cracking the National Security Agency's data encryption system; Adleman is currently working on a prototype biomolecular com- puter that can solve SAT prob- lems, but has suffered set backs due to the multiple errors pro~ duced in copying and combining strands of DNA. On the practical side, this re- search has already made promis- ing breakthroughs in making DNA fingerprinting more effi- cient. It has also created the pos- sibility for \smart\ drugs that can ad just their effects after com- pleting calculations in the body, which in tum elucidate how cells store and process information. The most interesting product of this research is that it may find important connecti<ms between computer science and biology. Thus, in the distant future, com-. puter viruses may not ~nly de- stroy information, but could end up being communicable to hQ- mans. Australia and the Everglades It has been said that well mean- ing humans .have caused greater harm to the environm.ent that those that are exploiting it. In the early >1900's, in order to dry out the Everglades and control mosquito swarms, Floridians imported themelaleuca tree from Australia. The tree thrived, and eventually crowded out native plants, altering the ecosystem of the Everglades, causing the di~ versity of animal species to sharply decrease. The tree which was imported to dry the Ever- glades out, did just that. It used more than four times the water that the native plants did. In an area like Southern Florida, where water is in relatively short sup- ply, this moved detrimental to the native ecosystem. The trees, then, were cut down, but to no avail; the continue to spread nearly fifty acres a day. In order to solve the melaleuca How to find direction of a magnetic field • N • The \right·hand rule\ , ': ·, points out the direction of · ·• •• a magnetic field around a • . , ; wire. If your thumb points : 1 '' : along the flow of ··._·,·.your fingers wrap\'~\'\\'\ · ;::. : the wire in the direction · ·.the field. Magnetic field Flow of electric current • You can find the 1 direction of the magnetic field surrounding a 1 solenoid by ' wrapping your ' fingers around the coil in the direction of the current. Your thumb points to the north pole. problem, researchers and ec01o- gists had to look homeward. The home of the melaleuca, Austra- lia, that is. The researchers de- cided to import th,e Austnilian we~vil, an insect that find melaleuca trees very tasty, but do not harm the native Florida flora. Researchers have already released several hundred weevils into the Everglades to combat the trees. Afthough the progress of the insects is slow, other programs like this have beenpr0ven effec- tive. Unfortunately, the funding fo.r this program has, like the Everglades water supply, dried up. Thus, it seems a biological solution is the only means to corn- bat the trees: The insects, once released, do not cost anything to be maintained; they take care of themselves. Other means of con- taining the trees, such as spray- ing or clear-cutting cost a tremen- dous amount. Ecologists at the Everglades also point out that biological weapons of this type only hann their intended targets, the trees. When the trees are gone, the in- sects will also .perish because of theirintolerancetonative species. In all, it seems that an Austra- lian problem, needed an Austra- lian solution, which makes me want to say \G' day mate\.

World News A Tale of Two TrialS by Matt Sandler World News Editor This we~k has been filied with ver- dicts stretching from shore to shore of the United States of America, with equally dis- tant and different decisions. One of the trials was a .success for the prosecution, and the other was a success for the defense. One trial is connected to Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and nine followers who were found guilty ofa conspiracy of terrorism against the United States. The other trial was a shocking surprise with a not guilty verdict on all accounts rendering OJ. Simpson a free man forthwith; this was a nine month trial ordeal for everyone in- volved. More people took interest in the O.J. Simpson trial which was only one month longer than the terrorism trial With more people concerned about O.J., who were the people concerned about the ter- ror trial which is \a clear and present dan- ger to national security of the United States.\ Even President Clinton left the Oval Office and walked to his secretary's television to watch the verdict for the Simpson triaL Afterwards, he wrote a brief response urging respect for the decision and prayers for the victims. Did he take the time to listen to the verdict involving terror against national security? Or was he merely informed by one of his advisors or aides? Terrorism against the United States vs. O.J. Simpson The jury found the men charged in the bomb trial guilty on forty-eight of the fifty charges.. The government won on an obscure 19th ceRli:Ny law, which ritakes it a crime to \conspire to overthrow, or put down, or destroy by force the Government of the United States.\ The defendants planned a four year campaign of urban vio- lence. This was the biggest terrorism trial in the nation's history. \The aim of the conspiracy, according to prosecutors who had no actual explosion or killing to show jurors and who relied heavily on secretly made tapes and a shady [well paid] in- former, was to be a cataclysmic 'day of terror:' five bombs that were to blow up the United Nations headquarters, the Lin- coln and Holland tunnels, the George Washington Bridge and 26 Federal Plaza, the Government's main office building in New York.\ In addition, they planned to kill hundreds of people and force America to abandon its support for Israel and Egypt. The OJ. Simpson trial, on the other hand, mired in tainted evidence, a racist cop, and scandal drew the ratings and the public's attention. This T.V. soap opera ended on Tuesday, October 3, at one o'clock in the afternoon. O.J. Simpson had the Dream Team Super Defense which he will take all the way to the bank. This Super Defense team cost vast amounts of money, but OJ. Simpson will write his book, sell his story, give paid interviews to earn back his money to enter into his portfolio. Of course he will have to spend hundreds ofthousands of dollars to rework his image, and to try and regain custody of his kids. There are many things that one can say about these two trials. This trial proves that the systein of justice has to be re-ex- amined. This is not to say the principle of innocent to proven guilty should be re-in- terpreted or changed; no, this is the cor- nerstone of our system and should never be dismantled. Why is it the public seems to think O.J. Simpson is guilty and the jury found him not guilty. People watching on television have no responsibilities, they could watch the trial and pass judgement, as all or most people did~- The jury is charged with responsibility to establish that the Prosecution, proved beyonda reason- able doubt that 0.~. Simpson was guilty of the double murder. The Prosecution failed to do this because ofthe sloppy han- dling of the evidence by the police and the racism of police officer Mark Fuhrman. The Defense team played the race card to perfection. The sloppy evidence and the distrust that blacks feel toward the Los An- geles Police Department were no doubt on the minds of the predominantly black jury. The media called this \the trial ofthe century.\ Is the O.J. Simpson Trial, the trial of the century? This century has wit- nessed war on an unprecedented scale. Certainly, World War II was the defining period of this century. The Nazi's un- leashed a state sponsored program of geno- cide on an unprecedented scale. Certainly, the Nuremberg trials with the Nazi war criminals having to face the world opin- ion, and take responsibility for their actions or actions of their subordinates, was the real trial of the century. In Britain there is a policy that is the stark opposite of the United States. In England, the stress is placed on the right of a fair trial rather than the freedom of the press. English ''Newspapers and broad~ casters operate under strict rules that pro- hibit publishing or offering details on the air that could influence a jury. Those who flout the rules can receive fines that usu- ally run to the tens of thousands of pounds.\ There is no ~ensationalism in the court of l~w in England because there are no cameras allowed. The lawyers are not allowed to speak with the media until the end of the trial.\ There should be a limit placed on the amo~nt a person can spend on a trial. That would make the system equitable. The charge would be raised that if someone wants to spend all their money on their defense, he/she should be entitled to. The response is no. Because the legal system is meant to protect all and is the corner- stone of our democracy, then it should be a equitable system for all, notjustthe elite. The 14th ~endmentto the constitution says in part, \ ... equal protection under the law.\ How can we have a system that al- lows people with money to get the very best defense, and people who are poor or middle class get a decent but not as good defense. The legal system is the heart of a democracy, therefore, a division between rich and poor is anathema to our core be- liefs. It is the legal system which estab- lishes our common and shared traits. If we continue to.upholq ~he present l,lnjust system, what will be left but bitterness be- tween people, races in riot, and a system of justice that reinforces the divisions in society? • Petitions foP Vice President of Multicultural AffaiPs,TFeasuPeF-SecFefaPlJ of the Junio'r Class and freshman RepPesenfafives cJPe avoilable toda4 in Student Adivihes in Colleqe Cenfep 408. Petitions ar:>e due f rida4 10-20 b4 5:00pm in StudentAdivihes. Statements for The ConcoFdlJ ape due on Monday 10-23 by 5:00pm and are to be dPopped off fo College Cenfel' 303. Eledions will be held f Piday, 10-27 fpom 10:00drn~4:00pm in the Colleqe Cenfep, • • • The Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 5 PHOTO NOT A VAl LABLE AT PRESSTIME Week: Organization expand mpass Eastern Europe? result lead to a conflict Campus Mail to Under 500 words International: * The warring parties have agreed to a cease-fire in Bosnia and a plan for peace talks. The cease fire is to be- come effective at 000 I hours on Oc- tober I 0 with provisions for Sarajevo's electrical utility service to be restored. If service can not be re- stored by October 10, the Cease-Fire will take effect at 0001 hours after the service is restored. * NATO, citing self-defense, bombed Bosnian Serb missile batteries after the sites I ocked their radar systems on NATO planes patrolling overhead. * Pope John Paul II arrived for a tour, saying, \Thank God for the extraor- dinary human epic that is the United States of America.\ He also called for the United States to live up to its ideals. * U.S. allies are criticizing Washing- ton for failing to pay its debt to the United Nations. The British Foreign Secretary said it was \representation without taxation.\ * Mexico paid back $700 million, ahead of schedule, on the $12.5 bil- lion direct loan from the United States, that was granted to save the peso. * lsrael asked the United States to hand over Hamas leader Musa Abu Marzuk. Hamas has warned that it will target Americans if their politi- cal leader is extradited to Israel. * Bob Denard, a Frenchman and a Mercenary, gave up in the Comoros, after French forces intervened to sup- press the coup that he led against the ' small nation consisting of a chain of islands that is situated between Mozambique and Madagascar on Africa's East Coast. Washington: * President Clinton is preparing to relax restric:_tions on the export of high-performance computers. The Computer industry, Clinton support- ers, have been pressing for this move. Administration officials and some in Congress fear that these computers will be used for the development of weapons of mass destruction. * Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said, \There will be tax cuts, there will be credits, child credits for fami- lies with children. Will it be $245 billion? I'm not certain at this point.\ Speakerofthe House Gingrich is in- tent to deliver on the G':ontract with America's promise to cut taxes. Originally, the House wanted to cut taxes by $370 billion over seven years. The House and the Senate compromised in conference commit- tee at$245 billion mark.

Page 6 · October 13, 1995 • The Concordiensis <QJ:fr.e Qlnn.cnrniensis Tlte Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS EDITOR Diana Sedita EDITOR Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SrORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popel! SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun-Paul Manore, Laurel Ruma. STAFF: Omar Al-1\halidi, Pavao Atluri, Emily Battis, Vi nod Dasa, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike 'Leding, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Raquel Millman, Evan Morris, Pete Sorenson, Kathy Walter OPIED . . -:· . EDITORIAL · . . ~ . Sex Discrimination Still E . u .. XIStS at· ·.nJOD This past weekend, Union College, thanks to the hard work of the committee on 25 years of coeducation, was host to numerous panel discussions and many presentations by both students and visitors. The information that was provided about coeducation and women's issues at Union enlightened many people and brought about many interesting questions that still need to be addressed. Many disturbing facts about discriminatory occurrences on campus were noted however. · One would think that as we approach the year 2000, especially at Union, discriminatory statements would be few and far between. By the stories recounted at some ofthepanel discussions, it is clear that Union has a long way to go in ensuring equal rights for women. It was noted that certain faculty members have made discriminatory remarks against women in both class and in private. One such story goes as follows. One women who came to Union as an Engineering major felt pressured into changing her major due to comments made by her professor in and out of class. For example, while in class, the professor began to discuss using a wrench for a project and then he stopped the class aad stated, \That is if you girls know what a wrench is.\ Another woman told ofdiscriminating remarks made by her science pr-ofessor. He. had said that she should not bother to becomeadoctorbutshould rather become a technician or something that was not as high stress and easier for a woman to handle. When asked why these womendidnot complain or file a repcir·t regarding these remarks, they explained that they were afraid of getting \blackballed.\ They were nervous about the repercussions they would face by other members of the faculty,·so they let the incidents slide by without complaining. The students ofUniofl College can also be heatd making derogatory remarks toward women. One of the most obvious places these things are heard are on the coed intramur~l sports teams: Women are treated as the liabilities of the team. Women are very rarely able show their skillsbecause they are rarely given the chance to. The worst part about all of this is that women continue toletthishappen. Wornenmuststa!ld up for themselves. The administration; the faculty and the students must stop the derogatory remarks. As Union celebrates twenty-five years of coeducation, let's actually try and make this a better Union. ' . ' ' . . . ·. -~ ··:·· ·-. · ~ · -. ·. . · . · ()PINIONS . < ~~ L ~ 0 • ~ < ft' ' .. 0 - • ~ ~ 0 0 0 0 Apathy at Union? by Pete Sorensen Features Staff How many ofyouthinkthatthe government threatens our pursuit of happiness? Let me take a step back. .. how many read Mr. Eder's excellent article of October 5 re- garding the government and its constituents? Well, how many think it matters? Despite my tenure at Union, I remain unsure of the readership of the Concordiensis, and from the viewpoint of an observer and a participant, I remain disap- pointed with the involvement of the student body. Allow me to make a brash assumption: 7% of Union students will read this ar~ tiel e. Of them, most will really care, but only another 7% will act on their discontent. That makes an even ten students-almost enough for an official club here. Fortunately, we (the students), are an entity subject to change; but what variety of catalyst would effect some serious and deter- mined involvement? Not that I stay up nights won- dering, but really-college; a hotbed ofrevolution,right? What would it take to make you, a stu- dent, jump out of your seat and want to tell the world that you are pissed, and some policy maker somewhere had better make a change? Last year, all it took was an attempt to control and limit Greek-letterorganizations-most of the Greek campus rallied (al- beit unsuccessfully) against the change ii1 the dining situation. Student involvement! So why might I still want to slap the label 'apathetic' on the collective we (college students)? To discover reason# I, read Mr. Eder's article. To discover reason #2, read it again. In quick review of reasons # 1 and #2, the world is bigger than our campus, and our campus is an unrealistic microcosm of the world, anyway. There are forums for us at Union; the Concordien- sis, crosstalks, President Hull's lawn, etc. Outside of campus, it is far more difficult to be heard- but shouldn't we try anyway? Within the U.S. alone we do not suffer from any lack of relevant, important or infuriating issues; I paid nearly $150 this summer to social security I'll probably never collect; the current consumption rate of natural resources in the U.S .. will probably leave us, our children, etc. with shortages across the board; if you get preg- nant, or if you get her pregnant, Uncle Sam could force you two to become parents. And last year, New York State dissolved mil- lionsofdollars ofpotential finan- cial aid. I could go on, but I'd rather try to figure out something to do. Realistically, we are limited. Unfortunately, we are also limit- ing ourselves. Here is an inter- esting opportunity: our school is offering 20 odd grants of up to $500 each to \strengthen aca- demic life.\ I challenge you: challenge yourselves. Use your knowledge, your potential, and apply. Maybe it will take work, or genuine creativity and interest. But do it, because you can. I'm not implying that the world is going to change once Union stu- dents get involved and vocal, but it might be a nice side-effect of a politically aware (and even ac- tive?) school. Last spring about 15 Union stu- dents went to Washington, D.C. for the National Organization of Women protest march. And there were schools there with rather large delegations, banners, the works. Just one more possibil- ity, one more idea, one more cause to care about. .. Terms of Endearment Abolish the Term \Doid\ From Union by Aaron Greenberg Opinions Staff Over my three years as a participant in the Union college environment, one of my most uncomfortable, reoccurring mo- ments are rooted in the general attitudes towards the residents of this struggling city. Now, before I go further with this re- ality, it is important to make known that I am not innocent of the proceeding charges. There have been a handful of times where I used the term \doid\ in contexts which equaled the pompous, mindless, abbreviation of the slang word \Schenectadoid\. What is it that sparks this typical annoying behavior? For some, I assume it is the lurking presence oflearned discrirnina- TilE FJIZS T \vN to /1/ J:)oo DL- E.,_ 'L tion through certain tainted ex- periences or warp.ed mediums. However for most, the use of thderm \doid\ is kept alive by the passive pressures of certain social circles one may find themselves in. Let us imagine a hypothetical situation, where one is participating in ordinary \small talk\. The group ofper- sons involved are acquaintan- ces, and someone (looking for a laugh) makes reference to \doids\ as being \~othersome\ or \deranged\. Everyone chuckles; but it is an uncomfort- able moment- a brief silence proceeds, and the topic is then changed. This, in brief, is my general experience with this is- sue, and it denotes a serious back-step for Union's environ- ment, which claims such lofty integrity. This is not to say that Union ANOTHER fails at making efforts designed to strike th!! ·cords Qf the in ore compassionate hearts, or resume builders, with programs such as \Big Brothers, Big Sisters\ and \We Care About U Schenectady\. However, what needs to be done begins in the consciousness of each student on the campus. Residents of Schenectady need to be recog- nized as being a large part of our sometimes overly-united com- munity. I, for one, have just started my off-campus experi- ence which qualifies me as be- ing a resident ofSchenectady- so watch your tongue! In closing, do not forget last weeks A Phi A social event, for it is a powerfully haunting re- minder of the problems we face, both mentally and physically, in the tragic realm of human co- existence. I L

(, I I, OPIED The Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 · Page 7 . OPINIONS . · Down the Toilet ... HOW TO USE 'll-IE BATHROOM. by Jesse Karotkin Concordiensis Staff Several days ago I entered a Reamer center bathroom to be greeted by .the mysterious flushing of urinals. A thor- ough foot search revealed that I was the lone. occupantofthis facility. It was I who had trig- gered the high tech apparatus which operates these self flushing toilets. Simply dis- regarding this anomaly as one of the minor effects of progress, I proceededto finish the task ofbidding farewell to the fully digested products of Marriot. Minutes later, as I reached for the toilet paper, the ov~r eager commode again flushed itself without any prior warning. Anyone who has experienced this phenomenon before, understands the unset- tling feeling one gets while sit- ting on a toilet that loves to flush itself. A contest of man versus machine ensues as one attempts to avoid contact with the rising mist. Task completed and ready to go, I prepared myself for the final flush which would send the toilet paper on its journey which ends somewhere along the Mohawk river. I waited, and waited ... but only silence. This toilet which only mo- ments ago responded to every slight motion was suddenly on strike. Refusing to leave with- out results, I proceeded to place my hand in front of the beam at different intervals and then take it away. Surely I thought I could trigger a re- sponse,butno, this state of the art john was too smart for any of my tricks. I continued unrelentlesly as I was not will- ing to accept defeat by a toi- let. Were it not for my even- tual success, I would probably still be at a stand off with this device. While this confrontation may seem trivial, one must consider the greater implica- tions of such technology. \False-alarm flushes\ must account for thousands or per- haps even millions of gallons of water wasted annually. What if someone drops a cher .. ished item or piece of jewelry into the bowl? Just as they devise a plan to retrieve the sunken item ... Whoosh it's gone! gfu're probably saying ro )Oursd£ any fotll'-year-old knows how to ttsethe bath- r··· ·~ ........ .. •I • room. But )OU may not know 8 • rhat )OLl use more water m rlle e • Consider the implications. for goldfish funerals. With an automated toilet, one must ac- tually sit down on the throne and then stand up to complete the funeral service. Ifl were a goldfish, I would not want this to be my last memory of the earthly realm. So much to sac• rifice, and all for what... we don't need to pull down on a lever anymore. bathroom than anyplace else in • )UUihome, In met, benwcn the stn't' uplol5% Of course technological ad- vances should be welcomed, especially on a college cam- pus, but is the bathroom really where we want to focus our resources? Will we all tell our grandchildren about the \old days\ when it was necessary to pull a 'lever on the toilet? I doubt most people consider using a normal toilet any more tedious than a space age self flusher. ooilet, the sli= and the : just because your sink you can usc up : shower sotmds morr \\Yllt\r by mslai!mg a wrtghtrd;ug 111 )Uur tozlez ra11k. to 55 gallons a day. Y~\'\'ld md up Multiply that by rllc usmg 30 to 60%> ltJswattrby nUinb<rofhomes \'\~· fcw..J&.> s'-rht.J in·the \\arid, and • • iii<., an opera • • hall, dorit , . . ' • • ro sing one • . that'sa·lot of natural resoun:es : Shorter songs going down the dr.Un. Now, were not saying you : And furthe biggest rulprit of • should stop taking showers : them all, the toilet, try !\'Icing or brushi.,g )\U1\ teeth. We're jusr suggesting sorn< It will help save water every simple bathroom trnininl} }'Olfr\Vflh'r fOrget to nnn out the l1ght> ,viJ;{, '\'\\&\ brushing your teed1, turn off the water. Do the same when bnulnl{g.WJ!r rtttbm11 sa\'( 2ga{/,uo[ helping to COnsctve' drctrtcity. warrr rath time IrS A CONNEcrED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. Andoh yeah, tf you dorit Perhaps the administration of Union College feels the need to compete with our na- tions major airports. The in- vention ofselfflushers clearly ranks up there with devices such as the solar powered flashlight. Oh how I rejoice to see my tuition money put to good work. -~~arth Share UNION COLLEGE SCHAFFER LIBRARY september 28, 1995 'i(Hl:\JI-CTAOY. \\11\'o:. YORK l~lLJfl;\..,4 1\1 I R; U!.P.·f-..'7~ Greetings from Schaffer Library and Barbara Jones, Library Director: National Archives Week takes place during the week of October 9 through 13 and Union and the Schaffer Library will participate by hosting a special presentation in the Reamer Campus Center Auditorium, featuring a computerized demonstration. Schaffer Library and Union College will celebrate National Archives Week through an informative session called 11 Pl.anninq for the Library of the Future: Books and the Digital Age. u Please join members of the college community as we learn more about electronic and digital library issues, and explore Union's plans for designing a new library. 2:00 P-M. - 3:30P.M. ~UESDAY, OCTOBER 10 RE~R CAMPOS CENTER AUDITORIUM The session will. include a four-part program: * A tour of the World Wide Web by Mary Cahil~, Associate Librarian * scanning of archival documents by Gail Golderman, Visiting Instructor * A review of Union•s archives by El1en Fladger, College Archivist • The vision for a 21st century library by Barbara Jones, Library Director The event will conclude with a tour of the Nott Memorial and the temporary exhibit, \The Machines of Leonardo DaVinci, 11 on display in the second floor gallery. Please join me and the Union community in celebrating National Archives Week. I I-I Hll,\11\-lG nt:ll Klll-:'111-.;''\1

Page 8 • October 13, 1995 • The Concordiensis Fimil Exam Schedule FALL 1995 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 8:30AM-10:30AM AAH*020*01 Classical Art & Arch. Matthew, L. BIO*OSl *01 Ecology Tobiessen, P. CER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics Jewell, T. CER*150*01 Hydrology Snow, P. CLS*024*01 Classical Art & Arch. Matthew, L. ECO*l45*01 Managerial Economics Kenney, J. EER *041 *01 Electric Circuits Chang, Y. EER * 124 *01 Intro to Prob. Systems Spinelli, J. GER*OI2*01 Basic German 3 Warde, A. GRK*120*01 Attic Prose Loomis, W. MER*l64*01 Solar Energy An. & Des. Wilk, R. MTH*O I 0*0 1 Calculus 1 Bick, T. MTH*Ol 0*02 Calculus I Prindle, A. MTH*Ol0*03 Calculus 1 Barbanel, J. MTH*O I 0*04 Calculus 1 Bick, T. MTH*OI0*05 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. MTH*Ol3*01 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*Ol3*02 AP Calculus Johnson, B. MTH*O 13*03 AP Calculus Johnson, B. MTH*OI3*04 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*Ol3*05 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*OI3*06 AP Calculus Niefield, S. MTH*Ol5*01 Calculus 3 Sauerberg, J. MTH*017*0I CalciV:lntegral Vector Niefield, S. MTH*030*01 Ordinary Diff Equation Fairchild, W. MTH*060*0 1 Topics in Math Pol Sci Taylor, A. MTH*l46*01 Advanced Calculus I Seiken, A. PHL *011 *01 History Western Phil Patrik, L. ARTS215 BAIL 1'06 BUTR300 BUTR 109 ARTS215 SSCI llO NWSE20IA NWSE l16 HUMN213 HUMN ll9 NWSE222 HUMN 115 BAIL 102 BAIL lOO HUMN 115 BAlL207 HUMN019 HUMN117 HUMN 117 HUMNOI9 HUMNOI9 BAIL201 SSCI 112 BAIL201 BAIL 104 BAIL 207 BAIL 300 PHL * 064 * 0 I Issues in Alner Ed Ludwig, J/Weiner, T HUMN 110 HUMN 114 HUMN 116 HUMN 116 NWSE 112 NWSE 114 PHL*I44*01 Political Philosophy Baker, R. PHL*l74*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. PHY*016*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Schick, K. PHY*016*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Rodriguez, G. PSC*023*01 Math Pol Science Taylor, A. PSC* 139*01 Seminar:Pol Theory Meyers, P.A. PSY*025*01 Intra to Exper Pych Bums, D. J. PSY*049*01 Psych of Addiction Dowling, T. SOC*052*01 Issues in Amer Ed Ludwig, J/Weiner, T FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- J'I:30AM -1:30PM CLS*032*01 Rei. in Pagan World Scullion, J. S EC0*031 *01 Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawarng, S. EGL *019*02 Major English Authors I Stevenson, R. HST*071 *0 I Mod Hist of Middle East Berk, S. MTH*l27*01 .. Numerical Methods Fairchild, W. PSC*O 11 *02 Intro to Am Politics Weiner, T. PSY*030*01 Personality Spring, D. PSY*048*01 Psychotherapy Halpern, L. SOC*060*01 Quant Social Research Cotter, D. SPN* 120* 01 Inter Spanish 1 Rodriguez-Jaca, N. SPN* 120*02 Inter Spanish I Merediz, E. SPN* 120*03 Inter Spanish 1 Gupta, M. SPN* 130*01 Span & Latin Alner Lit Garcia, W. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 2:30PM- 4:30PM CHM*142*01 Chem Instrumentation Wemer,T. EC0*034*01 Intro to Finan Analysis .Kenney, J. ESC*OIO*Ol Mechanics I Bucinell, R. FRN* 146*01 Realism & Naturalism Laparra, C. GE0*021 *01 Strat. of Eastern NY Garver, J. I. GE0*052*01 Glacial & Quatem Geo. Rodbell, D. MER*040*01 Engineering Design I Rivera, M. MTH*099*01 Intra Log & Set Theory Barbanel, J. PSC*012N*02 Intro Intema'tl Pol Abootalebi, A. PSC*070*01 C01istitutional Law Board, J. PSY*Ol0*03 Intro to Psychology Rubonis, A. PSY*OION*OI Intro to Psychology DeBono, K. PSY*OION*02 Intro to Psychology Greenberg, S. PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. PSY*033*01 Psych of Mem/Think Bums, D. J. SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 8:30AM- 10:30AM BI0*024*01 Genetics Horton, J. S. BI0*032*01 Comp VertebrateAnat Butterstein,G. CER*160*01 Transportation Engr Jones, E. CER*l60*02 Transportation Engr Jones, E. CLS*021 *01 History of Greece Toher, M. CLS*021 *02 History of Greece Loomis, W. EER*Ol8*01 Intro to Dig Computers Traver, C. FRN*l31*01 Survey of French Lit I Gates, L. GER*I34*01 Goethes Faust Warde, A. HEB*010*01 Basic Hebrew 1 Heckeltnan, D. HST*Ol3*01 Hist of US to Civil War Dudden, F. HST*013*02 Hfst of US to Civil War Millex, A.T. HST*013*03 · Hist of US to Civil War Meade, T. HST*035*01 Hist of Europe I Halliday, P. HST*035*02 Hist of Europe 1 Hansen, E. HST*045*01 Tudor Eng.: 1485-1603 Halliday, P. HST*I51 *01 Nazi Gennany Walker, M. LAT*Ol2*01 Latin Reading Marin cola, J. MER*026*01 Thennodynamics Shanebrook, J. MTH* 180*01 Foundations of Math Taylor, A. PSC*044*01 Japanese Gov't & Pol Gilman, T. PSY*035*0 I Indust/Organ Psych Nydegger, R. RUS* 120*0 I Intennediate Russian I Jordan, B. BAJL207 SSCI 105 BA:IL303 BA:IL312 lillMN 114 HUMN 114 SSCI 010 HUMNllO SSCI 110 BAIL 201 SSCI 104 BAIL 312 BAIL 300 SSCI 103 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 HUMN 113 STZH 108 sscr 104 NWSE 222 HUMN 119 BUTR 201 BUTR 109 NWSE 210 BAIL 106 SSCIOIO NWSE 114 BAIL 207 BUTR 204 SSCI 016 BUTR 204 BAIL312 BUTR 204 SSCI 016 BAIL207 BAIL201 BAIL201 HUMNOI9 HUMN019 NWSE222 HUMN014 HUMN 119 HUMN117 SSCI 112 HUMN 114 SSCI I 03 HUMN I 15 SSCI 104 HUMN 115 SSCIOIO HUMN 113 NWSE210 BAIL 104 SSCI I 10 HUMNII6 HUMN 213 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1995 -11:30AM -1:30PM ANT*072*01 . Psychological Anthro Leav;itt, S. SSCI 110 CER*035*01 Water Res. & Enviro Srrow,P. BUTR300 CHN*OIO*Ol Basic Chinese 1 Xie, Y. HUMN 113 EGL*042*01 Humanities:The Orig. Heinegg, P. HUMN 014 EGL*072*0 l Lit of the New Nation Shour, N. HUMN 110 FRN*OlO*Ol Basic French 1 Laparra, C. HUMN 114 FRN*l20*01 Intennediate French 1 Leamon; A. HUMN 112 FRN*l20*02 Intennediate French 1 Boone, J. SSCI 103 GE0*012*01 Environmental Geology Locke, S BUTR20l GER*OIO*Ol Basic German 1 :Kellenter, S. HUMN 116 GER*010*02 Basic Gennan 1 Hamm-Ehsani,K HUMN 116 HST*029*01 African-American History 2 Miller, A.T. SSCI 014 MLT*015*01 Art & Politics in Spain Moyaho;P. HUMN 019 PHY*044*01 Introduction to Astronomy MalT, J.M. NWSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psych Greenberg,S. BAIL300 SPN*OI2*01 Basic Spanish 3 · Martinez, L. HUMN 115 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 2:30PM- 4:30PM ACC*Ol 0*01 ACC*OI0*02 AMU*031*01 BI0*130*01 EER*060*01 EGL*022*01 EGL *022N*Ol FRN*Ol2*01 GEO*OIO*OI HST*043*01 MER*022*01 PSY*039*01 SPN*OlO*Ol SPN*OI0*02 SPN*l22*01 SPN*122*02 WST*030*01 Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. Music of Black America Olsen, T. Animal Physiology Fleishman, L. System Theory II Rudko, M. Major Amer Authors MacDonald, B. Major Amer Authors Shour, N. Basic French 3 Gates, L. Physical Geology HollocJtet, K. Europe in the Early Mod Era Hansen, E. Materials Science&Eng Milillo,F. Psychology of Sex Roles P£<ludi, M. Basic Spanish 1 Garcia, W. Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. Advanced Spanish Osuna, M. Advanced Spanish Moyano, P. Psychology of Sex Roles Paludi, M. HUMN115 HUMN115 ARTS215 BAILl04 NWSE201 HUMN'l12 HUMNIIO HUMN119 BUTR201 SSCI 014 NWSE210 BAIL300 HUMN019 HUMNOI9 HUMN117 HUMN117 BAIL301 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21,·1995- 8:30AM'\ 10:30AM CER*143*01 CfiM*OI 0*01 CHM*010*02 CHM*OI0*03 CHM*010*04 CHM*030*01 CHM*030*02 CSC*011 *01 CSC*014*01 EC0*032*01 EER*133*01 ESC*030*01 HST*026*01 JPN*120*01 MER*030*01 MTH*I35*01 PHY*050*01 PSC*013*01 PSY*031 *01 PSY*036*01 Foundation Engineering Ghaly, A. BUTR 300 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Anderson, J. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Fox, K. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Anderson, J. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Carroll, M. BUTR204 Organic Chemistry·! Adrian, J. HUMN 019 Organic Chemistry 1 Sowa, J. BAIL207 Progr for the Sciences Almstead, L. SSCI I 04 Infonnation Processing Ahnstead, L. SSCI 104 Labor & Ind Relations Prosper, P. SSCI 012 Communication Circuits Hassib, E. NWSE l16 Mech ofDefonnable Solid TI1abet, W. BUTR109 The U.S. in the Wid Arena Jonas, M. SSCI 112 Intennediate Japanese I Wojnovich, M. SSCI 105 Dynamics of Systems Rivera, M. NWSE 222 Number Theory Zimmennann, K. BA:IL 100 Electronic Projects Jones, C. NWSE 301 Intro to Pol Thought Meyers, P.A. NWSE 114 Abnonnal Psychology Rubonis, A. BAIL 307 Psych of Leaming DAndrea, T. BAIL 312 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 11:30AM -1:30PM AAH*033*01 European Art & Arch Eyerman,C ARTS 215 ANT*OIO*Ol Intro to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. SSCI 104 ANT*OJ0*02 BIO* 144*01 CSC*037*01 ECO*Ol2*01 EC0*012*02 ECO*Ol2*03 ECO*OI2*04 EC0*055*01 ECO*I38*01 EGL*034D*Ol ESC*OI0*02 JPN*OlO*Ol MTH*054*01 PSC*047*01 lntro to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. Cytology Smith, G. StructuredProgramming Hannay, D. Intra to Eco · Mukheijee, J. Intro to Eco Mukherjee, J. Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S. Introduction to Economics Reynolds, B. US-Japanese Eco Relations Reynolds, B. Quantitative Methods in Eco Schmidt, S.J. Intro to Black Poetry Slade, L. Mechanics 1 Anderson, A.M. Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. Number Theory Zimmennann, K. Law & Public Policy Board, J. SSCI 104 STZH 106 NWSE201A HUMN019 HUMN 019 SSCI 012 SSCI 103 SSCI 103 SSCI 010 HUMN 112 NWSE210 HUMN 110 BAIL 102 SSCI llO TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 2:30PM- 4:30PM B10*016*01 BJQII<053*01 EC0*042*01 EER*063*01 EGL*019N*OI EGL*07?*01 ESC*013*01 GER* 120*01 GRK*OJO*Ol HST*052*01 HST*065*01 LAT*OlO*Ol PHL*020*01 PHY*OI7*01 PHY*017*02 PHY*OI7A*OJ PSY*038*01 RUS*OIO*OI SOC*Ol0*03 SPN* 132*01 Biology I Forests of the Northeast Macroeco TI1eory & Policy Anal/Design Electr Circts Major English Authors 1 Early American Novel High-Level Lang Program Intetmediate Gennan 1 Principles of Greek 1 Modem Ft•ance: 1815-1949 East Asian Civ Part 1 Principles of Latin I Intra to Logic/Crit Think General Physics I General Physics I General Physics 1 Developmental Psychology Basic Russian I Intra to Sociology Spanish Peninsular Lit 1· Olberg, R. COLC Tobiessen, P. SWSE 303 Kwok, C. SSCI 014 Hassib, E. NWSE 116 Hilles, C. HUMN 116 Gado, F. HUMN 019 Hemmendinger NWSE201A Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 117 Marincola, J. HUMN 113 Walker, M. SSCI 110 Madancy, J. SSCI 103 Scullion, J. S HUMN 110 Womack, C. HUMN 112 Anderson, A. NWSE 114 Reich, G. NWSE 112 Maleki, S. NWSE 304 Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 Jordan, B. HUMN 1J9 Cotter, D. SSCI I 04 Martinez. L. HUMN 114

Art~ & Entertainment PHOTOGRAPHS BY IL IE II IF ZUIIRJ\\11\ Ul!HI JL IE N ON EXHIBIT AT CAFIFIE !DOLCE COFfEE BAR AND TEA GARDE \I 271 LARK STREET. ALBAI\Y. \-l't 463-~049 SIEPTIEMIIBIER ~5-0CTOBIER 311. 11995 Coming to Union ... SWEET HONEY /NTH£ ROCK The Grammy-award winning a capella singing group, which plays to standing-room 01zly crowds at venues ranging from Troy Music Hall to Carnegie Hall, will present a concert on Friday, Oct. 27, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The College expects a large response from members of the Union and local commu11ities. Union students, faculty and staff will be offered free tickets (up to two each) before they are made available to the public. Information on reservatimts will be distributed shortly. Sweet Honey. a popular all-female A(rrcan-Amenwn ,, capella group has been performmg musrc.wtth roots m spmtuals. hymns. gospel, 1azz and blues for 20 years. Founded by Bernrce johnson Reagan. the group's arttstrc director and profes· sor of history at American Umverstty. the group has been hugely populctt rn con- certs around the country. GOD DE __ ___ by Jon Lipsky DirccLed by WiLliam A: Fhilay OcLohcr 13-J G, 1995 8]1111 Yu!mnn 'l'heater Union College 13ox Office: :lRR-6545 l'i'!lri Uninn (!ullc~o !!l!Jf, f't•lchnllinf-! 2flll Yr'nn1 1\ (; rnveHide Mcd ita!.ion On Lhe Li fc' nnd TimcH of' Eliplwlct NoLL RS by Sari Leivent Staff Writer On the second floor of the Arts Building, Sarah Olson was given the hmtor of exhibiting her photography portfolios. Olson is a senior at Union Col- lege whose minor in visual arts has brought her much success. One of her portfolios, entitled Youth and Beyond, was her freshman year project for her Photography II class. This col- lection of photographs con- trasts childhood and old age. Olson visited The Brown School h1 Schenectady on many occa- sions to photograph the chil- dren in their familiar environ- ment. Olson remarked that she enjoyed working with the cnil- dren because of their carefree natures. Even when she took \' ,., _,. ' The Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 9 the time to pose the children in particular positions, those poses only lasted for a few mim1tes. The children's rest- lessness actually resulted in a more realistic portrayal of their personalities. The con- trast between the young chil- dren and\ the .elderly is a com- pelling sight. Olson's choice of subject creates a remark- ablephoto exhibit Olson'ssecondportfolio is entitled Life Seems Unreal. The photograph for this col- lection were taken in the spring of last year for her Photography III class. Olson's motivation behind this theme was to grasp a rep- resentation ofreality through her photographs. She has captured an aspect of life which is so foreign to the world at Union College. Olson traveled to New York City, Washington, D.C., Albany,. and to the outskirts of Schenectady to capture metro- politan life in action. She pho- tographed the common street dwellers and interviewed most of them before taking their pic- ture. She took a few minutes to converse with these people; the faces in her photos mean more to her than they would to the viewer. The fact that Olson was cho- sen by Professor McGovern and LeifZurmuhlen to exhibit her portfolios says a lot about her talent. The amount of time and energy dedicated to this exhibition should be enough of a motivation to visit the Arts Building and view this superb collection of photographs. Photographs by Sarah C.M. Olson Union Class of 1995. \Life seems unreal\ a Photo III portfolio from Spring 1995 encompasses the world beyond the gates of Union, into the real world. \Youth and beyond\ a Photo II portfolio from Spring 1993 compares and contrasts childhood to old age by focusing on the similarities, yet showing the differences between the two. 2nd Floor Photography Gallery Union College Arts Building

- Page 10 • October 13, 1995 • The Concordiensis A Photographer's Perspective: An Interview with LeifZurmuhlen by Sari Leivent StaffWriter The opening of the second Caffe Dolce on Lark Street in Al- bany last month was accompa- Aied by an exhibition of photo- graphs by LeifZurmuhlen. The cafe opened its doors for Lark Fest on September 15 and wel- comed its customers with thir- teen of the artist's eccentric black and white portraits. The owner ofboth Caffe Dolce loca- tions, on Jay Street in Schenectady and Lark Street in Albany, is B~et Goldin, a 1992 graduate from Union College. He had exhibited Lei:f s work in Schenectady after he opened his first cafe on Jay Street. The grand opening of his second cafe in Albany wouldn't have been complete without a show- case of Leif s photographs. In the fall of1992,Zurmuhlen became the Photo Lab Techni- cian in the Union College De- partment of Visual Arts. His in- terest in photography began at the early age of twelve. He found himselfkeenly interested in the work of popular fashion magazines. His work as a freelance photographer in- cludes advertising, editorial, pri- vate clients, Metroland maga- zine and occasionally Union College. Zurmuhlen's work is idiosyn- cratic and each photograph re- flects a certain mood. Each por- trait is a long deliberated pro- cess. The nature of his work tends to express a sense of sim- plicity, yet each one has the power to engage the viewer. · The artist doesn't just pho- tograph the average beautiful model. The viewer cannot al- · ways identify a familiar face in his work. His main objective is to isolate one focal point of in- terest and create an \exagger- ated reality.\ Each photograph stands alone: there is no com- mon theme connecting the work, and each piece is a Sepa- rate appreciation of a particular person. His intent is to capture . , some vtsual aspect of a person, not necessarily the personality. The photographer doesn't usual'ly shoot his subjects in a studio. His settings have in- cluded eemeteries, junkyards', bedrooms, and forests - among other places. His photographs combine the subject with a par- ticular environment. He finds his subjects all over: on the streets, in bars and clubs, etc. Occasionally, he has used Union students or professional models. The combination ofhis particular choiCe of subject and setting creates a captivating piece of artwork. The artist's photographs are not usually given a particular TGIF RETURNS! REAL DINNER!! NOT JUST HOT DOGS a BURGERS. CHICKEN, CASSEROLES, SALADS AND GARDENBURGERS, TOO, FOR ALL YOU VEGETARIANS! CHECK IT OUT. 4-7:00 pm at Chet's title, save the subject's first name. This leaves the viewer with much freedom to create his or her own story. He takes the liberty to create the art and leaves the viewer with the op- portunity to interpret as they wish. Zurmuhlen finds himself taking on more of a role of a di- rector rather than that of a pho- tojournalist. He actively applies the makeup and chooses the clothing and setting for each photograph. His creativity ex- · tends far beyond the camera lens. The photograph accompany- ing this article is a portrait of a 1995 Union graduate, Carolyn Levy. His intent was to high- light the texture of her hair. He darkened her skin tone with a mixture of potting soil and Vaseline. Zurmuhlen's next exhibition will be held from November2-27 at Madeline's Espresso Bar, 350 Broadway, Saratoga Springs. There will be an Artist's Recep- tion on Thursday, November 2 from 6-9 PM. The photographs are also for sale there. The exhibition at Caffe Dolce continues through October 31. There will be an Artist's Recep- tion on Saturday, October 28 from 6-8 PM at the Caffe Dolce Coffee Bar and Tea Garden, 271 Lark Street, Albany. Call 463- 2049 for more information. Free Food & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment God Delivers at Union , . Tomorrow Night! New Play From The Performing Arts Dept. is Set to Del~ver byShaheen Mahmud and Raquel Mintah StaffWriten Eliphalet Nott into his busy schedule as a professor at Bos- ton University. He trQveled back and forth from Boston to Union on weekends for reheats- With just one more day until als, as did Dire.ctor Finlay.. show time and the actors and From our brief interaction we actresses of the new play, God realized the play contained a lot Delivers, are working hard. In a ofinformation. \There is no in- recent interview, the cast mem- bers of the upcoming God De- termission,\ stated Professor livers talked about what they Finlay. We asked the perform- actually thought ofthe play. ers what they felt they had We first asked everyone to learned from the Graveside state the role or character they Meditation ofEliphalet Nott .. \I played. Surprisingly, no one learned how to court a woman,\ could, as Director William Finlay said senior Stephanie Richter. told us, \no one has a role or \To speak the truth,\ \Think for part, these are all members of the yourself' and \Don't trust au- chorus and everyone plays dif- thority\ were some othe~ re- ferent parts throughout the sponses. Thecastmemberstold play.\ We went on to ask the us they now understand why chorus members what they re- New York State and Union are ally thought of the play. The they way they are today. \We responses ranged from \Crazy\ also learned so many things that and \Blow your mind\ to people don't know about \You'll walk out and have to Eliphalet Nott,\ exclaimed comes~e it again.\ sophomore Amy Rilling. So, just what is the best part Eliphalet Nott was described to of the play? \Definitely the be a very radical individual. He scene with the couch potato,\ . single-handedly put an end to said sophomore Doug dueling. He also led a very Schneider. And what about the tragic life: with the death of his worstpartoftheplay? \Itwould wifeanddaughter, women didn't have to be the scene with the even like him! Eliphalet had a couch potato,\ argued the rest dark side as well, as depicted in of the cast- jokingly, of course. the play, but he did compensate Seriously, though, everyone for his mistakes. Most interest- agreed that the play is infonna- ingly his picture hangs in The tive and entertaining, as said by White House. senior Bill Ackerbauer. \There Producing God Delivers en- is a lot of interaction between tailed a lot ofhard work. \From the audience and the actors, drums to graves to whips and which makes the play a lot of chains. It'slikenothingyou've fun. We have whips, chains and ever seen before,\screamed kazoos! We even have an actor Schneider. Tickets for God De- from Renssalaer Polytechnic In- livers have been on sale since stitute, Anthony Clay, but we last week and opening night is won't hold that against him,\ tomorrow at 8:00PM. There are the cast members said. about 150 seats per show, so Most of all, the cast experi- don't miss the chance to see this enced working with a profes- bicentennial tribute to Eliphalet sional actor, who plays the lead Nott, from October 13-16th in the role. Bill Lacey fit playing Yulman Theater.

Features Where's The Brew? by Jules Features Staff Fraternities are a time-honored tradition. A secure and safe ha- ven, a home, a place where good. friends live. Fraternities are, ·well, lets cut to the chase-frats honor a time and tradition where friends safely secure good, home- brewed brew. They do? you might ask incredulously. Huh? Which Union are you at? South- ern Union Baptist College? And you stare, askance, and make noises like GA-GA~GA. Then you stagger off. And me? I'm serious. I also graduated class of 1898. Union had a good five or six Greek-let- ter Societies then-houses, or frats, as freshmen say. FJ:ats. Freshwomen don't say frats- they say tee-dee-chi (sorry-! had to say it). As I understand it, referring to a fraternity as a frat is sort of like calling a country a, welL. ... which is sort of what its all about, anyway, if you happen to be Greek-letter brother. If you happen to be a guy, actually. But back to the chaste. I mean ·chase. Which chase? The home-brewed brew one. Ympmy. Many of you probably haven't heard of Kappa Alpha- it seems to have faded into ob- scurity-but that is where I spent most of my junior year. KA :was home, and home is, well; home is where you hang your hat, kick off your shoes, brew, brew, screw, eschew (your work) ami pop the cork. I spent most of my time brewing, which was fine because most everyone else spent their time drinking and screwing, pretty much in that order. As it turned out, 1897 is re- membered as a particularly good year. You might well say we were addicted to making yeast excrete into vats ofpurified wa- ter, a challenging and glamor- ous pastime if you look at it non- '([ls the Season at uc~s \J~\0~ COL\.fGC S1DoH-ns . cf-lolldtH( ~osltlon.s flvaila6le 0 Drivers helpers needed for the holiday season. 0 Positions available at all Upstate UPS facilities (Especially Albany, Troy, and Schenectady) 0 Must be available Monday thru Friday November 27th thru December 22nd 0 Hours worked will be as needed 0 Starting pay $6.50 Please contact: EOEIM/F Schenectady Job Service 600 Franklin Street Schenectady, NY 12305 I I The Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 11 scientifically. In October, we put the traditional stuff aside and did the cider thing. J. Byron Nichols' dad's farm provided some espe- cially stout Macs which lea~, in due course, to some especially stout cider. Everything was dandy, and then young Nichols got a bit too boisterous and left a pail of it out for the beavers. Except there were no beavers in his fa- thers' pond, only woodchucks. Imagine a woodchuck stagger, stagger, fall, crawl across the grass and plop into the pond. So we bottled some of that whacked Mac brew, and a tradition was born. Perhaps you've tried it? By late November, we were back to beer brewin'. Inciden- tally, yeast can excrete some pretty yummy stuff if you feed them well; threw in a dash of nutmeg and pumpkin pie spices for the seasonal effect, and on Decem- ber 1st, 1896, we invited several of the faculty over for dinner and dessert. Dessert, of course, was liquid, and most of the faculty lost most of their faculties. Four months later we inaugu- rated what became a tradition, however watered-down it now be. We had a springfest (!). Fes- tivities included scores of manly games and music, followed by springfest brew, followed by more boyish frolic, which was getting thoroughly boring by the time the horse-and-carriage ex- press arrived, from ... ... Skidmore, naturally. And naturally followed by more brew(in'), which led to other 'in' things. But then the fun ended, sort of. The school president con- fiscated our big brass boiler ketde, the stewing vats. and all the filtration equipment because it \interfered with academics.\ Evidently, it didn't interfere with his living room furniture, though it did bother his belly ... he wasn't such the brew master. Talk about yeast excrement gone bad. And where are we now? Lost in the remnants of a tradition since de- posed, the glory gone. The ex- crement y'all drink is horribly bland and a bit sour. Paradise lost? Perhaps. PefiliiJnl l1r Vice Presitlenlol ~ Mullicullural A/lairs, Trealf/ter/ Secrelary ol JuniiJr ClaGG anti Fresllman Cla11 Reptelenlalivet are a\ailable this Friday in Student Acthtities in College Center 408. Petitions are due Friday, 10/20 by 5:00pm in Stu- dent Acti.,ifies. Statements for The Concordy are due on Monday 10/23 hy 5:00pm and are to be dropped off to College Center JOJ. Elections will be held Fri- day, 10/27 from 10:00am-4pm in the College Center. ............... ~ ............... -Humor In The Handbook---- by Jeffery Druzba feature staff The student handbook is one of Union's most neglected pieces of literature. Every student gets one at the beginning of the year but do they read what others toiled to produce? Pick up your handbook, if you haven't already thrown it away, and discover the humor of the handbook along with me. Yes, it's free entertainment, wire bound and with a spiffy cover. Page 77 - The section that re- lates the details of the hazing policy is full of good laughs. In the fourth paragraph, we can see that \reckless situations\ might include \wearing of public ap- parel which is conspicuous and not normally in good taste.\ I would hope that most apparel is conspicuous on it's wearer. Isn't one of the points of clothing to cover the body? If someone can't tell you're wearing clothes, it's time for a new wardrobe. What is this question of good taste? Something could be in good taste sometimes but not normally? Who decides ·if the situation deems the clothing in good taste? Of course! One of the security of- ficers is assigned to the fashion patrol. In the same paragraph as the previous finding, a bad thing to do is to engage \in public stunts and buffoonery.\ OK, I looked it up and, believe it or not, it is a real word but who talks like that? What might qualify as buffoon- ery? People might have different interpretations of what buffoon- ery is. You say buffoonery, I say tomfoolery. You say all in good fun, I say assgrabbing. Let's call the Whole thing off. Page 78- Yet more examples of\Potentially Dangerous Activi- ties Which Could Lead To Men· tal or Physical Injury.\Oneofmy favorites includes \walking around the campus or city carry- ing a sign with a ridiculous slo- gan.\ How about some of these slogans: I'M AN IDIOT! or GtVE BUFFOONERY A CHANCE! I would even go so far as to put CLINTON/GORE IN '96 on that list. Another thing to look out for is \singing lewd songs.\ Aren't most songs lewd? Much of mod- ern popular music deals with love and sex. Weren't Elvis' songs and even Elvis himself considered to be lewd at one time? Yes, it's scary how much times have changed. «Kidnapping\ is a big concern. When the brothers of the house require you to take a small child from the anns ofhis mother, then you're in a little too deep. For in- dependents and pledges alike, it'sjust not a good idea to kid- nap anyone. Mental cruelty might also be defined as «building up pledge expe.ctations and then letting them down abruptly.\ The fol- lowing situation comes to mind: Pledges are lined up in fFatemity basement. The leader has a big bag of assorted candies. The pledges are then promised candy in exchange for doing or saying different things. \You want some candy, boy? I bet you want some candy. Well, I said I was going to give you some candy before hut I think I'll keep it all to myself. Mmmmm ... Ha Ha Ha!\ Now that is a big let down. Page 73 - \Sports are not per- mitted in the common areas of the residence hall due to the potential for injury and damage.\ That's funny because. I thought table ten- nis was a sport. It seems that the college provides table tennis for the students because it isn't a sport. I think the college might wish to speak with the Olympic athletes who participate in the sport. Yes, if students can play one sport, they should be able to play all ofthem in the common room! Guess what else is considered a sport? Chess! That's right, no playing chess in the common area because people might get hurt! Page 72 - The section on nox- ious odors is funny enough that I will quot~ the entire selection. \Activities producing odors con- sidered offensive to members of the residence h.all community must be curtailed upon request. In the event of such odors, the resi- dence hall staffmay check com- mon area and individual rooms for the source.\ That's right, keep your odors to yourself. \Hey Bill, did you let one rip? You did, didn't you? In the name ofthe members of this residence hall community and the name of all that is good, I order you to fart no more. Look what you've done now Bill. The RA is coming to check for the source of that nox- ious odor.\ (RA enters room and sniffs around.) RA says, \Bill I have reason to believe that nox- ious odors are coming from your butt. I'm going to have to report this to the proper authorities.\ There you have it. A few min- utes of side splitting, knee slap- ping, good ol' fashioned fun at your fingertips. Pick up your stu- dent handbook and give ita look. You don't know what you're miss- ing.

... - k ·Page 12 • October 13, 1995 ·The Concordiensis The Dead Dull Pain by Chris Richards Living Editor I have never seen a fuller moon than the one I saw last night. lt seemed so close. It also seemed as if it were my desigf! that put it there. It's strange to think that this distance between earth and moon never changes. Never. Not for us anyways. Only the illusion changes. It was a ball. All I want to talk about is the earth, the moon and the sun. On the earth we watch the sun trans- form the moon. Sometimes the moon has horns and sometimes it has a halo. Other times it is in- visible. Sometimes we have horns and other times we have halos, other times we are lost in the dark. The sun is the invisible agent at night which ignites the moon. Not that the moon gives a damn. I wish I could think that it is the moon that truly radiates. But it's really just white sunshine at night with the sun controlling the illusion. Some people act like moons. Others act like the sun. The people of the moon wear masks, they are the clowns. These clowns think they are the inspira- tion for the movem~nt of an idea or a style, when they are simply an expression of the source. But don't get me wrong, I love clowns. However, few act like the sun. They are clearly recognizable for there is a true revolution around people who are genuine. They have an energy which breathes life into you. But most people fade very quickly, others more slowly, and you realize that you can no longer be free around them. You become accustomed to their responses and you know what they are going to say. All freedom is gone and nothing is left but the depression of people who think they knoweverything. Yes we all know that there is an energy in the universe ... blah blah. You can't think for one second that your brain has created your concept of a soul. Rather than taking the arrow out of your side and tending to your wound, you wander around with the arrow intact trying to kill the person that shot it. You are pain. You will never find him and you will never tell me who truly shot this arrow. Nietzche claims that religion is a life-supporting illusion, and that we all need to live with some sort of illusion. Take away the illu- sion and we see the horror of things as they truly exist. You can't live without your illusion. Your ideas were once alluring but now I no longer see any artful in- genuity. The sun is tired of mak- ing you shine. Your mask is warped and grotesque.. Your people have become invisible and nauseating in their own ashen world of self-importance when they forget that it is the sun and it a} ways was the sun. Nothing can be presented to them because they are completely sold out on their own brains, and it is now so frag- ile that it can no longer be played with, for to question it is a per- sonal attack on their integrity. Yes you do know everything and no one is better than you. Living Dreams: Are They the Windows to the Soul? by David Eder Living Editor I started that day as I did every day. I woke in bed lying on my back and tried to recall my dreams in order to write them in my jour- n~L This daily exercise was sug- gested to me, by a friend in hopes that I might learn more about my state of mind and possibly gain some advantage in this self-explo- ration. The nature, origin, and mean- ing of dreams have long been de- bated. Some argue that dreams are no more than the hrain enjoy- ing a chemical bath. Others say thatdreams help us resolve inter- nal conflicts. And some believe that in this state of subconscious perception we can heal ourselves, others, and even predict the fu- ture. This particular morning my dreams were recalled vividly. I saw myself separated from a girl by a body of water that was par- tially frozen over. This girl pad plagued my dreams for the past few months. But this dream seemed to have more significance or at least it had a greater effect on me than any of my previous subconscious experiences. It was becoming more and more diffi- cult to determine what was a dream and what was reality. Puzzled by the meaning of this dream, I decided to go on a hike and meditate on this subject. I enjoy great serenity in the woods and felt that the abnormally cool summer breeze would help cleanse my cluttered mind of all it's trivial influences and allow me to explore my subconscious. During the walk I noticed a single ray of I ight penetrating the ACROSS thick ceiling of leaves that pro- tected me from th_e sun. In this beam of energy a single feather floated ethereally. I reached up to touch the feather but could not reach it. In defeat I slowly low- ered my arm and suddenly, as if out of another time in space, a hawk landed on my forearm. In a state·ofbewildered confusion I closed my eyes and thought that this apparition was not real. My body froze and I was incapable of moving anything but my eye- lids, I opened my eyes and found myselfstaring into the eyes of this bird. Reflected in this specter's eyes was the image of my soul. The bird opened it's beak as ifto speak but then as suddenly as it appeared it flew away. I was left alone with no proof of this amazing encounter until I looked up and saw two feathers slowly fall'ing in the beam oflight that I had seen earlier. I quickly grabbed them and made my way home. These feathers are proof to me that this indeed happened, but I doubt that many others would believe such a story. Could these events be meaning- Jess? I refused. to believe this, but I had no ability to place value to the expeFience. Did my dreams play apart in this? Was I dream- ing? Sometimes you remember more of dreams at times when you would least expect it. This became true of my interaction with the hawk. The image of my soul asreflected in the bird' s eyes was revealed to me later in the day as l sat in class. My reflection seemed starved. Deprived of some essential element, it was an emaciated figure. That night I did not have to worry about having any dreams. I was trapped in a sl~epless night of reflection. Meaning of my. dreams an~ my experience were construeable. But I began to feel that I was drawing conclusions about life with no tangible facts. I was incapable of accepting the · notion that there is destiny and that aH events real and perceived have meaning. I po~sessed no faith and doubted the concept of meaning. I thought that nothing had meaning. That !ife had no meaning. I fell into a deep depression. 1 was walking the thin fine that separates heaven from hell I felt that there was no right or wrong. That everything was shades of gray. This thought p~ttern made me vulnerable to pain. I once again ventured outside hoping to find peace and direc- tion. As I stood underneath a tall pine tree and stared at the infinite stars. I then experienced my eyes rising out of my body toward the stars. I was able to see myself and the stars. I saw myself beneath the tree and witnessed that in the large picture I am very small but important. I felt protected. I knew then that all it took to step over the line into heaven was faith. Faith that we are all gov- erned by something greater than ourselves. Faith that there is true love. That there is a purpose and a meaning. Faith that we are al1 as infinite as the sky. As I re- vealed myself to life, life revealed itself to me. So what did the dreams of the girl mean? What did the hawk say? And what is the nature of coincidence? I now trust that these questions are answerable. I do not pretend to know the an- ,swers, but I have an idea and re- main hopeful. Answers to Super Crossword 54 \Rebecca\ 112 Playground 10 Director 49 Cantaloupe 95 Forest father 1 \The Luck of aulhor gamlil Craven or casaba 97 Authentic Roaring-\ 60 Conductor 115 \Wuthering 11 lke\s domain 51 Improvised 99 -one's 5 Conceal Kostelanetz Heigh is\ 12 Twist or 52 Commerqe ears (busy) 91mpressed 61 Milo m Tessie author minuet 5,3 Uruguayan 100 Perform immensely 62 Doll up 118 JFK Library 13 Ocasek ol title a pressing 13 Pee Wee 63 -Altos, Calif. architect the Cars 55\From -to . task? or Della 65 Sp1rit 119 Place· 14 Cornerstone !;ternity\ 1 01 PDQ, politely 18 Malarial fever 66 Clear (of) kicker's prop abbr. 56 Spring spirit 103 Cut an.d 19 Bad day for 68 Marsh duck 120Maui me· 15 Make one's 57 Actio11 area dried? Caesar 10 Poet men to day sli:Merkel or ) 08 Presidimtial 20 \- Smile Be K.hayyam 121 Tall story? 16 Cleave O'Connor nickname Your Um· 72 Wedding 125 Sudden 17 Genesis 59 \Arrivederci 110 Miss Libilrty, brella\ words attacks garden .. for one 21 Deceived 73\Emma\ 129 Fit for farming 21 \The Magic 64 Cash stash · 111 Faiher of 22 \The Lottery\ author 132 \Mousetrap\ Flute\ 67Where. · Enos author 78 \Giant\ author author composer blades meet 113 Gilpin of 25 From C to 81 Rage 136 Seafaring 23 It be-comes 69·1nfamous \Frasier'' shining C? 82 \Bambi\ storyteller ewe? lnnke!)per 114 Bomb 26 Fate extias 137 \Swan ·Lake\ 24Zodiac 71 Like a queen 115 A Ia· King? 27 Gene 83 ~patriae skirt crustacean 7\31s in accord 116 Intended Tierney film 85 Freud topic 138 Highway 2~ Have a 74\- You Glad 117\Rawhide\ 28 Short 86 They cause 139 N11g subtly mortgage You're You\ prop • relative? hiV!'lS 1·40 Two•masted 32 Fancy 75\1 ~v;;~ca· 119 Chore 30 Jack's 88 -into vessel appetizer lion!\ 122 \Scarlett\ predecessor (attack) 141 Pay to pl~;~y 34 Steel beam 76 Wax device setting 31 Mischief- 89 Grind one's 142 Thai tutor 35 XXI plus n ''The Other\ 123 Byzantine maker teeth 143 Just lXXXII author art form 33 \The Color 92 Porthos' pal DOWN 36 Cretnona 79Stage stuH 124 Detective Purple\ 95 W~ch'shome 1 Amontillado cash 80 Coli. cadets Charlie author 98 \Little container 37 New Hamp· 84 Booker T. & 126\Biame- 38 Ryan's pitch Women\ 2 T urklsh title shire campus the- lhe Bossa 43 Besch or author 3 Actress Jean 38 Hound's 87Maestro Nova\ Andersson 102 Gets boring 4 Learner's \handle\ Georg 127 Face 44 Part of 104 Educ. network license 39 \'h woe!\ 90 Leave pori 128 Provocative HOMES 105 Lends a hand 5 Hasten 40 Frosh's 91 Stevenson' 130 English 45 U.N. branch 106 Actress 6 Pastoral ·nemesis scoundrl)l channel? 46 Herbal Hagen. poem 41 A swan was 93\TheChil· 131 - ·di-dah concoctions 107 Birmingham 7-vu. her swain dren's -\ 133 Bulldog, e.g. 48 Objective bye-bye 8 Isaac's eldest. 42 Praise 94 Bus driver . 134 ABA member 50 Buys cones 109 Have a rough 9 Detergent 47 Smacked, on''ihe 135 Vitamin for kids night Ingredient In Scripture Simpspns\ bottle abbr.

Calendar l'he Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 13 Calendar 10/13-10/19 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/12/95-10/20/95 Saturday & Sunday 9:00a-6:00p- Monday thru Friday 9:00a-9:00p Exhibit; Works ·Of Sculptor Berj KrikGrian ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM 10/12/95-ll/18/95 ._ . I . 12:00p-lO:OOp Exhibit: The Machines of Leonardo Da Vinci NOTT MEM. 10/12/95-10/15/95 8:00p- 9:30p Play: \God Delivers\ A Graveside Meditation on the Life & times ofEliphalet Nott YULMAN THEATER 10112/95 8:00p-10:00p Raphael Ensemble String Quartet College/Museum Concert MEMORIAL CHAPEL Series Friday 10/13/95 12:00p- 4:00p NottOpen NOTTMEMORIAL 7:DOp-8;00p Early Bird Reception Sesquicentennial/Centennial Celebration REAMER CAMPUS CENTER Sesquicentennial/Centennial Celebration Saturday 10/14/95 8:30a- 9:00a Division IV Faculty Retreat & Members of the Curriculum Task Force REAMER CAMPUS CENTER 9:00a-12:00p Preliminary Report & Open Discussion of the New Union Col- lege Core Curriculum in Engineering -REAMER CTRAUD. 12: 15p- 1 :45p Luncheon- Speaker: Edward J. Craig A History ofEngineering at Union College- 1845-1995\ UPPER CLASS DINING ROOM 2:00p- 5.:00p \The Practice of Engineering in the Twenty-First Century- The Changing Nature ofthe Traditional Engineering Disciplines\ Panel Moderator: Dr. George D. Peterson Speaking for Civil Eng- Raymond E. List, P.E. '66 Speaking for Electrical Eng- Lawrence J. Matteson, '61 Speaking for Mechanical Eng.- Nancy D. Fitzroy, P.E. REAMER CAMPUS CTR AUD. ,. 5 :JOp- 6: 15p Reception NOTT MEMORIAL 6:30p- 7:45p Dinner UPPER CLASS 8:00p-1 O:OOp Speaker: Dr. Edward A. Parrish \' \Engineering Education fora Changing Engineering Profession\ 1 995 Union College/IEEE Steinmetz LectureMEMORIAL CHAPEL Thursday 10/19/95 12:30p- 2:00p Dr. Cheryl Hayward 'Total Synthesis ofthe Immuno-Suppressant · · · R.apamyacin\ChemistrySeminarSCIENCE &•ENG. NW 116 7:30p- 9:30p Dr. Na-irn Akbar ALAS Speaker REAMER CENTER AUD. 12;00p- 5:00p Nott Opeh NOTT MEMORIAL MEETINGS Sunday thru Monday 11 :OOP- 8:00a All Night Study Area SOCIAL SCIENCES I 05 12:00a-l2:00p 9:00a-1 0:30a 9:00a-12:00p 1 O:OOa- 2:00p 11 :OOa- 2:.00p 11:30a- 1:30p 12:00p- l:OOp 12:30p- 1:30p 12:30p- 2:00p 12:30p- 3:30p 1 :30p- 4:00p 4:00p- 6:00p 4:00p- 6:30p 4:30p- 6:00p 5:00p- 6:30p 6:00p- 7:30p 6:00p- 8:00p 6:00p- 8:00p SOCIAL SCIENCES 112 Campus Operations HH DINING ROOM Dean of Students Meeting CC 205 College/Museum Concert Series MEMORIAL CHAPEL Rehearsal Delta Gamtna Sale CC ATRIUM Ticket Sale: \God Delivers\ CC ATRIUM Religious Programs CC ATRIUM Spanish Speaking Table CC 205 German Speaking Table CC 203 Student Summer Research SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 Chemistry Department U Call Meeting CC 409 Physics Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 GMI Lecture HUMANITIES 115 Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFERLIBRARYFIELD Biology Seminar SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 Adventurers' Guild Meeting CC 409 Ballet II PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO Washington Term Students CC 203 Big Brothers/Big Sisters Training Session CC AUD. Friday 1.0/13/95 3:00p- 4:00p Modern Languages 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby T~am Practice 7:00p- 9:00p Intervarsity Fellowship 7: I5p- 9: 15p Philomathean Society 8 :OOp-12: OOa Chet' s Committee Saturday 10/14/95 CC205 SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD CC STRAUSS (305) HUMANITIES 019 CHET'S 9:30a-1 O:OOa Athletic Department CC 203 1 0:30a- l:OOp Group Sessions- Admissions CC 203 5:00p- 8:00p WRUC CC MOBIL (406)' 7:30p- 8:30p Big Brothers/Big Sisters CC 410 Sunday. ·10/15/95 . ,, 9:00a- 6:00p Skydiving Meeting HUMANITlES 019 ' . • 6:00p-1 O:OOp Fi Iota Alpha 6:00p-1 O:OOp Student Organization 6:30p- 8:00p Delta Psi Delta 7:00p~ 8:00p Garnet& White Game 7:00p- 8:30p Finance CommiUee Monday 10116/95 CC409 SOCIAL SCIENCES 012 CC205 ACHILLES RINK CC410 9:00a- 8:00p Senior Pictures CC 204 1 O:OOa- 2:00p Delta Gamma Sale CC ATRIUM lO:OOa- 3:00p Sigmalota Alpha Halloween Sale CC ATRIUM lO:OOa- 3:00p Telemarketing Group Info. CC ATRIUM 11 :30a-12:30p Dean of Students Office CC 203 11 :30a- 1 :OOp Residence Life CC 205 2:30p- 4:00p Technology Committee Meeting CC 205 3:30p- 4:30p Math Department BAILEY 201 4:00p- 5:30p Economics Seminar CC 203 4:45p- 6:00p Modern Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 4:45p- 6:30p Rugby Club Meeting SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum Meeting CC 409 7:00p- 9:00p Union Col:legeOrchestra Rehearsal MEMORIAL CHAPEL Tuesday l 0/17/95 9:00a-10:15a MAT Program-Modern Languages HUMANITIES 113 9:00a- 8:00p Senior Pictures CC 204 9:30a- 3:30p U CALL CC 409 lO:OOa- 2:00p Delta Gamma Sale CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa- 3 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Holloween Sale CC ATRIUM 1 0:45a-ll :30a Modern Languages SOCIAL SCIENCES I 05 11 :30a-12:30p Committee on Teaching Meeting Ml~ANO LOUNGE 12:00p- 1 :OOp Committee Values Group CC STRAUSS (305) 12:00p- I :30p Freshmen Preceptorial HH OLD CHAPEL 12:00p- 1 :30p Residence Life CC 203 2:00p- 4:00p Dining Services CC 203 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 5:30p-7:00p Ballet III PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 6:00p- 7:00p U B Glad Meeting CC 203 6:00p- 8:00p Resident Assistants In-Service HUMANITIES 019 6:30p-10:00p AOP Tutoring BAILEY 104 BAILEY 106 7:00p- 8:00p Religious Programs CC 409 7:00p- 8:30p Ballet I PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 7:00p- 9:30p Political & Social Theory HH OLD CHAPEL 7 :30p-1 O:OOp Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY 100 Wednesday 10/18/95 9:00a- 5:00p Senior Pictures CC 204 9:30a-12:30p U Call HH OLD CHAPEL l O:OOa- 3 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Halloween Sale CC ATRIUM 12:30p- 3:30p U Call Meeting CC 409 1 :OOp- 2:30p Sigma Iota Alpha CC 203 1 :OOp- 4:00p Dance- Arts Department CC 205 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD '4:30p- 6: 15p GMI Seminar HUMANITIES 114 4:30p- 6:30p Geology Lecture SCIENCE & ENG. NW 20 lA 4:45p- 6:00p Modem Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum CC 409 6:00p- 8:00p Union College Choir ARTS 215 6: 15p- 7:30p Intro. to Dance Movement PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 7:00p- 9:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal ARTS 313 7:00p-9:00p Pan Hellenic CC 205 7:00p- 9:00p RA Programming-Richmond SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 7 :30p~ 1 O:OOp Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY 1 00 8:00p-12:00a Chet's Committee· CHET'S Show times are 8:00 & I 0:00p.m. unless otherwise indicated Admission: $2.00 10/13/95 and 10/14/95 \Batman Forever\ 10/15/95 and 10/16/95 .. Batman Forever\ Friday 10/13/95 MOVIES SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 REAMER CAMPUS AUDITORIUM SPORTS 3:30p- 5:30p Men's Soccer vs. Clarkson GARIS FIELD Saturday 10114/95 1 :OOp- 3:00p Men's Soccer vs. St. Lawrence GARIS FIELD Tuesday I 0/17/9 5 10:00a-12:00p Women's Tennis vs. New Paltt AL. GYM TENNIS CRTS . Wednesday 10/18/95 4:00p- 6:00p Field Hockey vs. Hartwick ASTROTURF

Page 14 • October 13, 1995 • Tbe Concordiensis Personals Tomes am is at Union, the U.K., and Italy- I miss you guys so much! France is great, but a bit lonely without you. Can't wit to see y'all in '96!!! Love, Aradhana CREWbies- Hope the season is going well, watchout for those barges! France is great, I'll see ya this in- ter. -CN Bonjour Dana! Just wanted you to know that somebody loves you. -your french bud CP girl- 1 hope you feel better. You know I am always around to talk. I love you. -Pfqueen SC- Why don't you ever visit me? am sick ofthe stairs! love, p chick Leif- \exiting is good.\ How's the field work going? -Hannah Sproket- If I ever eat your cookie dough again I will probably die. I miss you! -Miss Ben & Jerry's SWF searching for handsome man on campus. Enjoy long walks, quiet music and good sex. If compatible please find me. N- Hope things are better. Weekend was OK-I'm stressed. Write me- l miss you! Au voir -D To Ivy- Deny! Deny! Deny! Love,Ahnya To Ahnya- Neg. on the Frickatifofee! Luv, Ivy To K&S- Hey roomies, thanks for the invite ... ! wouldn't missit! Have an awesome birthday!! -J (the chic in the other room ... with a door ... ) Jo- Let's do lunch again! Len- We spend more time apart than we do together. Hurry home! -Mish Line- I miss you -alotl I know you still read this stuff. Come by an~ visit us. Love, your news god- dess prodigy To the girls of Fox Third Floor South- Just remember: The C is in the F! Ace- Keep up the good work! Don't walk here, the ground is not firm. We are all Union students with heads down and should be fed to the worms. -the Crow Shelby- 1 want you! Ditch Ghost! -RATA PS-wiH it fit? KFC- You will always love me. -Mosija Rockies- ... Dirty, Dirty, Dirty ... Nedd I say more? -Vina McDonald- TOObig!! -Babit Kennedy- biggie SMALLS! -Arsenic MW&CR- You guys are the most coolio. See ya on the flowered couch. love, AN & AS A-Bear- Stop killing your brain· cells and keep away from FF. Is that whipped cream from a sun- dae on your sleeve? TJ, LB, BH- Drink more tea and less Guiness. We miss you so much, you fools, Good-bye darlin's. love,AS&AN LJ & K2 - Wine, wine, wine! Your room is messy, ours smells like superskunk. Hurry home-we need you for CP traumas. -AS &AN SO & L T- Get out and have some fun. Sorry to hear about your misfortune in Amsterdam. Enjoy the Vel veeta AN&AS .TO & the Don -Thanks for being so hospitable. Lucky for you, we don't like crackers or mints. Love, the bag, bag, cirlcle. bag girls Roomie- Enjoy the croosword puzzle .. .I actually remember to include the answers this time! -D Spigot- Thanks for everything the last couple of days. You are an awe- some friend. I love you! -Dirty Schmerti- Going a little crazy this weekend? I don't blame you. Drink like it's your job! -the nut upstairs Author Signing * Alan Chartock Sat. Oct 14 3-5:00pm Me & Mario Cuomo rJ1ie Open 'lJoor a tmique Bookstore 128-136.Jay St. Downtown Schenectady 518-346-2719 Personal$/Classifieds SUBLET'S AVAILABLE!! Classijieds 2 Bedrooms available winter/spring terms. Across the street from cam- pus. Big, Spacious living area. $165 + util/month each person. Call 370-4017 or write Box #276. ro K-NON &AGEL t) r~vLY EDVCA r--------------- 3 FREE &AGEL~ 8RJNG n-M COV~ON TD ANY &R...vEGGEfil LOCAnoN AND P-rCK. VP 5 f-/01; FRE~f--/-FR...OM- n-IE-OVEN D'R...VEGGEfil &AGELJ Afr(OLVITLY Fl?£t: 1 fi<_Y 8R...VEGGEfi'i .. NE'NEITFLAVORS, D'LVEBERR...Y AND )VN-DRJED @···a· !OMA!O, OR. P.rCK.. VP n-JR...ft: OLD FAVOI<JTH. ·. .._.. ON~ (0VPON P~R.. (V[Il)M~I2... NOT '1/AuD V\Jifl-f· Ofi--I~R.. OFF~RS · . BRUEGGER'S 1f'AGEL BAKERY® I I I I I I I I I I I I I TOTALLY COM~U~IELY oerc::m:D wrn-t FREIHNt=llsM I L---------------------~~ I b 3 4 V ~i(fJ\L ~ f\ • 1 ftM rrkr pi~ces t-rro-. I ;• I l l ' I ,j 1

i ,. l ! \ I ( ! I I ., 'l 'I 1 ,, Sports Baseball is Back The Yankees and Mariners Put on Quite a Show by Jason Starr Sports Editor Let me apologize in advance for bringing up what is such a bitter memory for a good portion of this campus, but that was an incredible game. For both sides it was amazingly tense at times and overwhelmingly joyous at others. The Yankees and the Mariners definitely played one for the ages on Sunday night, capping one ofthe best series in recent memory. But what this game did, beyond advancing one team and eliminating another, was remind America why we lovebasebal'l. Recently, the term America's pastime has taken on sort of a mocking tone. The strike did a lot to discredit both the players and the owners. In fact, the whole game lost much of its fan base due to the disillusionment brought on by the strike. Last October baseball was not America's pastime, it was fight- ing for its existence. With all of the pennant races wrapped up well before season's end, the wild card chases did a lot to increase the national expo- sure of the game by involving a lot of different cities. However, not an of the damage had been repaired, that is, not until Sun- daynight. Even fora person like me, who happens to think football, basket- ball, and hockey are more exit- ing, this game proved that base- ball at its ,finest really can't be beat. Suddenly the time between pitches that seemed interminable during the regular season became filled with delicious tension that could actually be physically felt. When Cone stood on the mound . . in the eighth, after having thrown well over 100 pitches, ready to deal to Doug Strange, it was one of the most dramatic moments of the season. The bases were loaded, the count was full, and the Mariners needed a zying run. It was the moment of anticipation that was best, the moment when Cone stared into the catchers mitt deciding what to throw, allowing all of the tension to build. This is what sets baseball apart from other sports. Sunday night's game turned into what baseball fans every- where crave and what the game itself desperately needs. Before the ninth inning was over, not only was it a race to score the winning run, but it also became a Field Hockey Heads. for Home Stretch by Jon Gasthalter Sports Writer Coming into the week, the Union Dutchwomen field hockey team was in fourth place in the Upstate Col1egiate Athletic Asso- ciation behind William Smith, Hamilton, and St. Lawrence. At . weeks end, the Dutchwomen were seven and five overall and two and four in the UCAA. Coach Charyln Robert felt that the team had a shot at making the playoffs, saying \With two weeks left in the season, anything can happen. Right now, it looks like there are nine schools vying for eight [playoff] spots. We are one of those nine schools.\ SUNY Oneonta was the Dutchwomen's guest on Wednesday, October 4. Tonya Capparello was the star as she netted three goals in the Dutchwomen's 5-1 victory. Katie Richardson, Ramsey Lowe, and Carrie Heroth excelled in the game. On Friday, OctoJ?er 6, Union played host to the Vassar Brewers. In front of a sparse crowd, the Dutch women drew first blood early in the first half as Capparello and Richardson set up Christina Jabbur who fired the ball past the Vassar goaltender. Jabbur net- ted her second goal of the game moments after the Dutchwomen missed two scoring opportunities directly in front of the Vassar cage. Union continued to dominate the half offensively and out- shot the Brewers thirteen to one. The second half was different only in the fact that Union scored one goal. This time, Richardson converted on a cross in front of the net to end the scoring. The Dutchwomen closed out their seven game homestand against' St. Lawrence on Saturday in front of a large crowd at Frank Bailey field. The Dutchwomen played a superb game, but lost to visiting St. Lawrence by the score of three to two. Jabbur scored the first goal for the Dutchwomen on a beautiful shot in front of the cage. Capparello then tallied after receiving a pass from Richardson to cap off a strong scoring drive that began deep in the Union end. The Outchwomen out-shot St. Lawrence 28-13 and, in co-captain Richardson's opinion, out-played the Saints. \We totally·domi- J1ated the whole game and I can't believe that we lost.\ The Dutchwomen continue their dri·ve towards the playoffs with games at Williams and Oswego this week. The Dutchwomen wrap up their season at home on October 18 against Hartwick. duel between two of the games best pitchers. Jack McDowell and Randy Johnson both entered the game under very unfamiliar circumstances. But the baseball r fan co~ld .ask for nothing more- the best players in the tensest of situations. The Yankees and Mariners provided the country with many great moments this past week. How can you not admire Ken Griffey Jr. after watching the ef~ fectiveness ofhisbeautifully fluid swing, or Don Mattingly who played beyond all expectations in his first ever venture into post- season, or Randy Johnson for sav- ing the Mariners' season in game three, then coming back on a day's rest and winning game five almost entirely on will and de- termination? The American Baseball Hero is no longer a thing if the past. The affects of the strike can- not be remedied by one week of great baseball. In fact, the fans in towns Like Pittsburgh and De- troit may be just as disillusioned as ever. But Sunday night's game reminded folks in these parts why baseball is unique and special. It definitely moved the game one step closer to regaining its title as The National Pastime. Dutchmen Ready to Contend for UCAA Title by Jon Fader & Eric Svenson Contributing Writers I fyou watched the Dutchmen struggle against a mediocre Skidmore soccer program Friday the 29th, visions of last years 4- 9-2 season might have surfaced. The Dutchmen were defeated 2- 1 by Skidmore and the season seemed to be in jeopardy. Just when you thought you were watching the Dutchmen's 1995 squad begin yet another disap- pointing season, they responded to the pressure by tucking two wins under their belt. The first victory came at the expense ofRPI, previously con- sidered the toughest team in the league·. This might have only been Union's third win of the year, but it was withoutquestion their most dramatic. Down 1-0 early, freshman Steve Baumgartner got the Dutchmen on the scoreboard tying the game up at 1-1. The game remained in stalemate due to Unions excel- lent low pressure attack. It wasn't until the game seemed to be head- ing into overtime when senior captain David Grandwetter hit the \shot heard 'round the The Concordiensis • October 13, 1995 • Page 15 world\ leading Union to a 2-1 comeback victory. Granny's game winning 40 yard blast seemed to instill a sense of con- fidence in the Dutchmen which would carry into their next game. David Grandwetter- what a cap- tain!!! The Dutchmen hit the road, destination Utica, New York. Early on, goalkeeper Joe Caruso shut down the Utica offense with his heroic efforts in net. Tough defense, Ted Doran's 2 goals, and Geoff Sipperly's solo shot were enough to allow Union to cruise to a 3-0 victory and even their record at4-4-l. Note, the Dutch- men have already equaled their number of wins fi·om last season. Men's soccer has three fonni~ dable opponents in the upcom- ing week: RIT, Clarkson, and St. Larry. As far as these sports writ- ers are concerned, they're ready for the test. The confidence of the team can be seen in Junior Eric Chu' s statement, \ After beating RPI, the top team, we are now in a position to contend for the UCAA title.\ GO DUTCH- MEN!!!

October 13, 1995 PAGE 16 The Concordiensis Mortimore's Three Interceptions Key Victory Over Albany by Mike Leding Sports Staff On a dreary, overcast Saturday the Albany Danes traveled to Union for a little taste of defense. As the game concluded the Danes left with their tails be- tween their legs and another L in their loss column, as they fell 20-6 to the Dutchmen. Defense and special teams were the key once again to the Dutchmen's victory. Sophomore Len Mortimore picked off three Al- bany passes returning one for 82 yards and a touchdown breaking Albany's back and giving the Dutchmen a 14-0 lead. Mortimore has five interceptions on the year to go along with his 14 tackles, one sack, and three pass deflections. In lieu of everything Mortimore did, the defense also forced another five turnovers, had three sacks, and a blocked kick The Dutchmen arc easily the best defensive unit in the state gi,·ing up only n h yards per game rushing. As a comparison Union running back Kojo Attah is gaining 71.8 yards a game by himself against opposing de- fenses. Bill Mehleisen had his first interception of the year to give the Dutchmen 13 intercep- tions on the year. Kojo Attalt rushes in this weekend's victory over Division II Albany (photo by Scott Druckemiller for The Concordiensis) Since the upset at St. Lawrence, the Dutchmen have put together a four game winning streak outscoring their opponents 123-28 to improve their record to 4-1. On the offensive side of the ball the special teams set up their only touchdown when Jim Man- ning returned a punt 49 yards to the Albany hine. Two plays later running back Justin Borque scored from two yards out. Roger Egber.t added the other points with field goals of 41 and 42 yards. These were Egbert's seventh and eighth field goals on the year; he leads the team with 34 points scored this season. This is a big weekend coming Men's B's Trounce in Melee With Clarkson by Mike Gifford Contributing Writer The pitch was angry that day, my friends-like an old dog being moved from it's favorite pillow. The sky opened up earlier that morning, soaking Library Field m a Cambodian-like rainfall. Under the adult supervision of head coaches Major Tom Milner and Skip Aycox, the Union team faced the well-conditioned Clarkson bunch in a brew-ha-ha that lasted almost four hours. Almost right from the start, one could tell it would be a match that could exhaust even Sting's sexual exploits. The Union team lead the way with a pre-emptive strike against what looked like the Clarkson All-American Powerlifting Squad, but to no avail. The Clarkson Flying Squirrels were quick out of the nest with a try, throwing their smallest wingman 16 yards through the air, only to lose his life between Pike \quadzilla\ Mody 's 116\ thighs. Union had an almost impenetrable defense, which stopped Clarkson at the try zone twice, pushing hard enough, in fact, to drive three small opponents 16\ into the ground. Our newest import from Wales, Ian \all the honeys love my accent\ Laycox, scored the only try for Union, via an impressive run up the sideline cracking through three Clarkson Squirrels, breaking one opponent's nose with his head. The 160 pound Laycox was rendered useless for 2 minutes as he regained his senses. The kick was made by our 72 lb. hooker, Adam \Fourstardave\ Schwartz, who sent the pill well over South College and into northbound traffic on Nott Terrace. Seth \8 stitches to the dome\ Brown played through blackouts and the occasional hallucination to send a penalty kick through the uprights. Despite a well-played game, Union was defeated 14-10. However, the Union B's, who were in obviously better shape than the A -side, flattened the Squirrels into a mess like you see on the road on a fall day. With a potpourri of players from both sides, Union was able to score four times to Clarkson's one. The first came late in the first half, when Nate \please move, I'm on crack\ Phelps with powers not of this Earth, pushed through the defensive line into the try zone. This was appreximately I 0 minutes after the last round ofhis swingfestwith Clarkson's own \Queenie who couldn't exactly play well with others. Nate scored again later in the second half after a combination run by the two military brats, Michael \Absolut\ Citroni and Mike \airborne!\ Gifford. A pass from Citroni, just before sacrificing himselfto Clarkson's Samoan Death Star, to the already at full-speed Giff led to a 35-yard run down the strong side- only to end in a tackle that sent young Gifford skidding into the College Center. Dwayne \Braveheart\ Manhood, using both skill and black magic, rammed his way through the petrified Clarkson defense to score Union's third try. A quick-thinking Tim \Rebecca\ Howe scored Union's fourth try on a 10-yard run after feigning a pass to the line, after Eric ''I'll wreck you\ Smith used his 23-inch legs to wrench the ball from the impending serum. Kudos to both teams, who have both the potential and bulldog tenacity to go far in the Upstate Division. up. Union travels to RPI to play the 3-1 Engineers who are aver- aging 463.3 yards oftotal offense a game and scoring 35.2 points. Something has to give as the de- fensive machine of Union takes on RPI's powerful offense. RPI's running game is averaging 2g7.3 yards per game, over 200 yards more than the defense has been giving up. As both teams are still in the hunt for a play off berth a loss this weekend would be costly. So good luck to the Dutchmen as they head across town to take on a tough RPI team. \If You Need Me Mom, I'll Be on the Rugby Field\ by Kathy \Legs\ Walter Sports Writer Time: Saturday at II :30 am; Place: the Rugby Field (capi- talized for importance); Weather: wetter than a duck pond. Yes folks, Saturday was rugby day and what a day it was. In all my years of rugby, I have never seen such a day! The women ruggers of Union are so rough, tough and buff that not one but two teams did not show up to play!!! Hamilton forfeited making our record 2-0-1) So, we played ourselves (hey, every- body wins. We even invited some of the newly formed women's team from RPI to romp in the mud. (Yes, it was ·much more entertaining than the football game, I'd wager!) Many a feat of athletic pnw- ess was at work, and the over- whelming feeling of \Thank God she usually plays on my team!\ was running through everyone's thoughts. There was a stalemate until about half-way through the first half when Cathy \there she goes again\ Budgen scored for the Union \Red'' Stripes. Sara \the kicker~' Gower completed the PAT (points after try) and the score was 7-0. Then one of the RPI players ripped past all ofthe garnet stripes to score for the motley stripes (Boy, is this con- fusing!). The attempt at extra points failed slightly· under the direction of Andrea \I kick, therefore I am\ Schulman and then it was half time. The bumps and bruises were padded and it was off to another rumble. After much rucking and war paint (i.e. slamming each other into the mud), Tiffany \I may be beaten, but I will overcome\ Lussier scored for the Union · Reds. Gower kicked again and the score ended at 14-5, a sweet Union victory (as if you were expecting anything else). We would like to graciously thank the RPI coach who refer- eed his second game and 'just let us play' and all of the par- ents who showed up to watch their 'little baby girls' play. Thank you for your support! Also, Cheers to Kat who became the newest social chair on Sat- urday (may she never have to celebrate her 21st again!). The Union women will rally again next Saturday against Potsdam (wehaven'tquitedecidedonthe. here or there part yet, but we '11 get back to you.) - •. }!.

. .. }~. ' ·· .. '. . ~ ~ ,: '•\ '. I ; • ; , t ¥olume.CXXV, Number VI Tom Brokaw Visits Union by Adrian Mat Lean News Staff & Diana Sedita Editor•in-Chief Unio.n College hosted NBC Nightly News Anchorman Tom Brokaw and approximately forty college presidents for a sympo- sium· on \Liberal Arts \Colleges and Leadership in the 21st cen- tury'' on October 15. The Nott Memorial served as the meeting place where President Htdl introduced Brokaw. Stu- dents and faculty leaders w~re invited to observe .the presenta- tion_ JUI.d questioned that .w~re . opened up to the college presi- dents. Williams, Davidson, Bryn Mawr; Grinnell, Occi-dental and. · · Dickinson . w~re· so~e o.f the . schools represented Preceding Brokaw's speech, President Hull gave insigrytto his interpretation ofleadership. He felt that a true leaders take others where they would not normally . go. Hull affirmed that prejudices of a liberal arts education such as continued on page 3 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York . Schaffer Library will be greatly expanded by the fall term of 199 7 (photo by Rick Ledererfl'C) Large Drop in Minority Enrollment by Bbavani Meduri News Staff A disturbing statistic has been spotted in this year's freshmen class. The number of minority students enrolled in the class of 1999 has dropped by nearly fifty percent. This absence of students of color was first brought to 'light by professors who saw a noticeable homogeneity in their freshmen classes. Many upset faculty mem- bers sent letters of concern to the Admissions office which had al- ready begun its own investigation ofwhat went wrong. The concllision oftheir search revealed some crucial problems in Union's minority recruitment efforts and led some staff and fac- ulty to believe that Admissions has been derelict in Its duties to increase the diversity of the stu- dent body. Dan Lundquist, director of Ad- missions, accepted responsibility for this year's poor results in mi- nority recruitment, however; was not quick to admit that his office was at fault. Instead, he believes that a major reason fewer minori- ties were accepted this year was that a large percentage of the mi- nority applicant pool had incom- plete tiles. He stated thatthts year may have just been a 'freak' year in package incomp_leteness and asserted that this was not a major problem in the past. This was not an acceptable ex- cuse to Ethel David, director AOP/HEOP, who said she has, 'serious cancerns about th~ out• come of this year's admissions.' She questioned why extensive follow-up calling was not done to these students in order to get the information needed to complete their files. David also disputed Lundquist's claim that her staff and other faculty members were asked by Admissions to help with the follow-up calls to students. Her sentiment was echoed by Professor Peter Tobiessen ofthe Biology Department. He felt that just as an extra effort is made to recruit a promising athlete~ the same effort should go toward mi- nority recruitment. He com- mented on the extreme competi· tion that exists between compa• rable schools for minorities, in partic~:tlar, African-Americans and Latinos. The problem of incomplete aid packages could have been avoided ifthe minority applicant pool was monitored. Lundquist admitted that Admissions did not ask for a race breakdown when COI\Sidering the number of stu- dents who had incomplete files. It was not until after acceptance decisions were made that he and his staff noticed that a large per- centageofthe minority applicants were in this group of incompletes. Lundquistsays in response to the criticism he has received,'l am deeply disappointed but want _to learn my lesson and move on.' The problem is more deep rooted than a simple case of inq complete files. Less than half of the African .. Americans and Latinos that did receive aid actu- ally chose to attend Union. In a survey that was sent out to students who were accepted but chose not to come here, it was asked why they chose college X over Union. A significant num- ber answer~d that the negative feedback they received from their hosts convinced them not to atM tend. Although Lundquist stated that screening for only upbeat hosts continued on page 4 October 19 , 1995 Library Expanded by Fall of1997 by Adrian MacLean News Staff Although only 8.25 million has been raised for the 17 million dol, Jar project, the Schaffer Library expansion is set to be completed by fall term 1997. This time last year, three mil- lion had been raised. Even though significant funds have been collected, much more is needed before ground is broken. Union is awaiting an approval of a one million dollar grant. If the grant is attained, the school will b~ under the obligation to match the Qne miHion with four. \We wi.JI.notgo forward until we have at_l~as_t_14_ million,\ President Roger Hull said. According to President Hull, raising most of the money early is essential in preventing students from paying added tuition or suf- fering cuts in programs. It is also important for Union not to mort- gage away their future. The breakdown of the 17 million dol- lar estimate is as follows: 12 mil- l ion for the actual cost of con- struction, a 2 million dollar en- dowment for operations, and a 3 million dollar technology endow- continued on page 3 Inside ... News ........... 2-4 World News .. 5 Science & . Medicine ........ 6 OP/ED ........ 7-8 A&E •...•..•• 9-10 Features ........ 11 Living ........... 12 Final Exams · Scbed ule ...... 13 Calendar ...... 16 Personals & Classifieds .. .. 17 Sports ..... 18-20

Page 2 • October· 19, 1995• Th·e Concordiensis Tile C1Jnc1Jrlien1i1 mee11 every Wedne1tlay ni1llf al 1:00pm in llle Reamer Camp111 Cenler, /111om 101. Campus News UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMAR\' MONDAY OCTOBER 9, 1995 THROUGH SUNDAY,OCTOBER 15, 1995 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 9,1995: 1 :.20 AM Achilles Rink area 1:OOPM 3:30PM 4:00PM 4:00PM 4:17PM 6:20PM 6:20PM !0:09PM 11:54PM Bailey Hall Peschel Center Campus Grounds Campus Grounds Edwards House Achil:les Lot Achilles Lot Lenox Road area Schaffer Library TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1995: 3:00 PM Potter South WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1995: 6:12PM Reamer Center . ·· THURSDAY, OCTOBER12, 1995: 7:10AM Fox/Davidson Lot 11 :24AM North College H~40AM Steinmbtz 101 I:05PM Reamer Center ,. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1995: 2:23AM Webster Lot 4:10AM Fox/Davidson Lot 5:00AM Raymond/Potter Lot 10:40 PM Huntley Lane SA TURDAV, OCTOBER 14, 1995: 10:50 AM Bailey Field 10:55 AM Psi Upsilon 2:40PM West College 6:00PM Machine Lab lot 9:10PM Campus Grounds SUNDA,V,OCTOBER 15,1995: 12:42 AM Psi Upsilon !1:39AM North College INCIDENT SAFETY HAZARD: Student reports that escort driver was driving in an unsafe manner. THEFT: Student's textbook stolen from classroom. THEFT/UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: External source accessing OCS network. NYSP investigating. HARASSMENT: Two students being subjected to harassment and threat by an · other student Dean's Office notified. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Two campus vehicles sustained damage. Cause unde- termined? incidents .notreported by driv- ers. VANDALISM: Broken window. VANDALISM: Student's carpaintkeyed while parked in lot. . PARKING VIOLATION: Freshman with car on campus. Coriduct Charges filed. : SAFETY HAZARD: Student reports that escort driver was driving in an unsafe manner. THEFT:. Student's room key stolen from unattended study area. Room core changed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Drug Parapher- nalia found in student's room. Items con- fiscated. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Several students refused to evacuate during fire al.{lrm. \Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: Chocolate pudding snieared all over student's car while parked in lot. FIRE: Minor fire in 3rd floor north kitch- enette. No damage or injury. Caused by bumtfood. · THEFT: Parts scavenged from computer in Graphics Lab. THEFT: Check drawn on a closed ac- ~ount issued to pay for purchases. Inves- tigation in progress. PARKING VIOLATlON: Repeat unreg- istered vehicle. Previously booted. Con- duct Charges filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Repea~ unregistered violations. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Repeat unregistered violations. TRESPASS: Four visitors wandering campus. Falsely misrepresented them selves. Identified & advised off campus. VANDALISM: Graffiti spray painted on Bailey Field press box. VANDALISM: ·Student's room door forced open. Door jam busted. DISORDERLY CONDlJCT: Student's mattress subjected to .improper abuse/ health hazard. New-mattress issued. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Repeat unregistered violations. HARASSMENT/TRESPASS: Student subjected to harassing phone calls. · Asso- ciated with visitor attempting to contact student in defiance.of restraining order. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VJOLATJ()N: lt1ten- tional false fire a1arrn. Pull box on first tloor activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. · FIRE: Mlnort1re in 2nd floor kitchen. No damage or injury. Food left imattended on stove. Life Safety Violation filed.

Ca~pus News The Concordiensis •October 19, 1995-· Page 3 General Editor of The National Enquirer Tells All by Omar AI-Khalidi News Staff On Wednesday. October 11, at 8 PM in the Memorial Chapel, Brian Williams, the General Edi- torofthe National Enquirer, gave a presentation on life behind the scenes of the National Enquirer. WiHiams began his presenta- tion with a video that presented some basic facts about the tabloid_ Some facts of interest are that the .tabloid's circulation quadrupled myth that critics have is that the writer:s at the National Enquirer fabricate all of their stories. Williams then went on to describe stories in which reporters from the National Enquirer went to great efforts and did painstaking re- search to confirm reports from tipsters and other sources. ably legitimate. Williams said that the majority of the celebri- ties never go to court about the story for fear of further exposure. The third myth is that the Na- tional Enquirer writes ludicrous stories about two-headed babies and space aliens. Williams said that these are stories typical of an The final myth is that the sto- ries :in the National Enquirer do not provide readers with anYthing useful. Willliams explained that although many of the stories are about famous people who lead fun lives, many other of the sto- ries are useful. The National Enquirer has done medical stories in conjunc- tion with the Ameri- can Cancer Society andphilan- thropic stories that raised aid for poor American commum- ties. lebrity, who does something av- erage. This type of person is the most complicated because it in- cludes a subset of people. The subset is composed of future ce- lebrities dying to be publicized in the tabloid, established celebrities trying to make sure they are not the subject of the next story, and out-dated celebrities who want money for their stories. The sec- ond type ofperson is the average person who does something ex- . traordinary. Finally, Williams cited Pamela Anderson when speaking of the third type of per- son. Williams calls this type of person, with no talent or abilities, just an unexplainable celebrity who makes the news. from one million copies to four million copies per week in 1960 when it was ffrst velided in super- markets. The staff also allocates millions of dollars every year for checking the facts. The tabloid averages less than two law suits per year. Starting journalists at the National Enquirer are the highest paid in the business at 50,000 dollars per year. Lastly, medical and human interest sto- ries constitute the bulk of the sto- ries in the tabloiC!. Next, Williams delivered a dis- sertationtodispelfourofthe big- gest myths that critics attribute to the National Enquirer. Inciden- tally, as there are 2-3 millim1 avid readers of the National Enquirer, Williams cites people who do not read the tabloid as its worst critic. According to Williams, th_e first The sec- ond myth is that the National Enquirer is always in- valved In lawsuits f o r ririsdoings. Williams said that since the Enquirer is a good tar- getforJaw- suits, they rarely get sued be- cause they Brian Williams, Editor of The National Enquierer shows one of their front page spreads (photo by Rick Lederer/TC) As a final leg of the presen- tation, Wi II iams set up a· slide show of many Williams hosted a questiOn and answer period after his presenta- tion. However, as there were scarcely any Union College stu- dents or faculty present in Memo- rial Chapel, and most ofthe ques- tions posed by older fans of the ta~loid needed to be explained to the audience, one just had to be there to understand the questions and answers. Although Mr. Wil- liamsl presentation was informa- tive and entertaining, it is a re- sponsibility as a Union College student to wonder why we spend money on guest speakers if no one is interested in them. are so in- credibly careful. This is not to say that the reporters walk around on eggshells. I fthe tabloid prints a story that a celebrity does not 1 ike, and the celebrity says \'it's aU lies, none of it is true, I am going to sue\ the story is prob- ancient National Enquirer admin- istration. However, he did men- tion that the modern National Enquirer will occasionally cover a. U.F.O. story if the source is someone reputabl'e such as a po- liceman or army personnel. Brokaw Speaks on Campus . • • continued from page 1 elitism and uselessness had to be overcome. In order to be success- ful, Hull stated that '\leaders need a liberal arts education.\ Brokaw was invited to lead this discussion be- cause Hull felt he was an ideal example of a . true leader. The three things that proved Brokaw's lead- ership were: he was a leader of a major news organization, has come face to face with leaders of all different spheres, and has a strong wilL a scheduled commencement speech years befo,re for a kayakingtrip. Beginning on a national spec- trum, Brokaw felt that people came to the United States for its common welfare and leadership ground. \We have allowed and encpuraged leaqership that di- vides ... and exploits, instead of unifies,\ Brokaw said, \Individu- als must find a common ground to ensure good leadership.\ Expanding on the future of leadership, Brokaw felt _that people are beginning to act more as in- dividuals and less as a group. People who are unhappy want someone else to solve their problem rather then help them- selves. \We are beginning to resemble the world's largest dysfunctional fami.Jy,\ Brokaw said. Opening his speech entitled ''The Nature of Leadership for the 21 Ceh- tury\ with a little humor, Brokaw stated that once stu- dents give more money to the school they will be able to sit down a11d participate oh the main t1oor. Brokaw came Tom Brokaw, anchorman ofNBCN.igiJtlyNewsspeakson . leadership (plloto courtesy of P. Blankman of Pztblic Relations) As a journal- ist, Brokaw sated his rol.e in society was to state what was wrong and ·not right. He has emerged as a leader is his field, but feels that anyone can be.come a leader as well. Societies prejl!dices should not af- to Union last spring with David McCullough, and he likes com- ing to Union because of the na- ture of the school. He also felt a sense of guilt because he canceled opportunities. Leaders need to be provided with an opportunity to ··emerge, but society is now begin-. nit1g to create a climate of con- frontation instead of cornmon feet potential leaders to raise to their occasion. \The DNA of leadership is not defined as gender, race, or age.\ famous as well as many recent National Enquirer front pages. He used the slides to tell stories about the three types of people that theN ational Enquirer writes about. The first type of person is the extraordinary person, or ce- Expansion of Schaffer Library·~ . ,~ continuedfrompage 1 ment. President Hull stated at the town meeting on October 9 that no substantial facilities will be built, including a new student center, ahead of the expansion of Schaffer Library. The Current renova- tion of the Achilles Rink is being funded by its own endowment. Small scope projects will continue, such as the renovation of the Arts Building, but large projects will remain on hold. Students will be provided \Vith a functioning library throughout the entire construction process to prevent any unnecessary incon- venience. In preparation, Director of Schaffer Library Barbara Jones is planning to meet with students and faculty in the spring to dis- cuss their what will be needs during construction. To goal is fo break ground this summer in order to get a bulk of the construction accomplished while many students are away. It is likely that the 1974 addition will be razec and the original 1965 library will be a working space. Boqks \viii be nioved according to the stages of the project, and some will be placed in storage. To make it easier to obtain books in storage, the librarians will retrieve two to three times a day. \'It is important to improve the campus, but not to have a nega- tive impact,\ President Hull said. Although the time of transition may be difficult, the goal of the new I ibrary is to have a comfortable environment. Jones said that various study styles will be accommodated through the availability · of individual, group, and social areas. A limited number a flocked study carols will be a new addition to students with research projects. \We want to build a library that is user friendly and is something students will want to use and feel comfortable with,\ President Hull said. Technology will be improved and hardware and software will be continually updated with the I ibrary' s three mill ion dollar technol- ogy endowment. A state of the art electronic classroom will be created to help teach students and faculty how to best utilize the facilities. Wired study carols will also allow everyone to hook up to the Interment. \We want to create the concept of the library as a learning center and teach students and faculty to be comfortable with the technology,\ Jones said. The new technology will not be the only focus of the new li- brary. Union has 200 years of special collections. Exhibit space is going to be provided to let the community be aware and have ac- cess to the archives. A new 1 anguage laboratory will be added with audio and visual aides. Jones also mentioned that the plans intend to allow more natural light into the study areas, and books will be placed in the darker areas. Building will begin this summer assum- ing that the sufficient funds are raised throughout the year.

Page 4 • October 19, 1995 • The Concordiensis ' • 0 • ' __ -. Jl71te .. S.tudent· Forum <Jorner '' ,· \1 • ' ' • • ; ' \ ' , • • • ' ' '. -Minutes from 10/16 * Leadership Conference - Conference to be held Sat- urday Oct. 21 from 9-5 at Si~ enna College. AH members will be present. Conference will provide various workshops for each Forum position and will allowmembers to discuss issues with their peers. - Motion to accept minutes of last meeting by Malaspina and 2nd by Tolkoff. Passes 16-0. Officer Reports Strosberg: - Fall fest was a success and over $1130 was raised for Equi- nox. - More social events are be- ing planned. WINTER AF- FAIR, fonnal dance, will be in winter term. - Letter is being sent to all club presidents .to better orga- nize for events and ask for more · support in activities. Schaffer: - There are some discrepncy between the studentand faculty manuals with regards to mein- bership credentials for various committees. Unfortunately many students had to be re- moved from committees to these discrepnacies. Forum de- bated ways to resolve this prob- lem form happening again and Schaffer plans to meet with fac- ulty to work out. a solution. Forum votes 16-0 to sup-port Schaffer. · · · nCailiata? · , · · ' ' · . . - Purchasing of new Student F arum van ha been achieved. The van will be avai I able for use within the next two weeks. Tolkoff: - AAC has met numerous times and has been discussing the standards and expectations on students and faculty. The issue of Alcohol was a main focus as was the discussion of the engineering department in- ~reasing their course loads for students. Pelt ish: - Announces that the Trustees of tl1e College met this past Fri- day and that information will be provided about the meeting in new business. *Petitions for V.P. of MuHi- Cultutal Affairs are available in the Reamer Center 4th floor. These petitions are due this Fri- day Oct. 20 and elections are to be held Oct. 27. Miller: -Announces the dates for so- rority rush. Jan. 21-26. New Business Camara: - ASCE needs funds to send two college representatives to a National Confence. The amount needed is $130. Kyle Van W (Treasurer of ASCE) came to de- scribe conference. Brown mo- tions that ASCE be given the ad- ditional funding, 2nd by Shapiro. Passes 16-0. - Shakti sent two representa- tives to the meeting to ask that some of their monies be .reallo- cated in order to pay for acelebrational dinner and evening for the Indian New Year. There- ception wi11 be held in Hale House on Oct. '28 and will be opened to the student body on a first come first serve basis. Camara motions that the monies be reallocated and is 2nd by Shapiro. Motion passes 14..:0 with Brown abstaining. - Announceme11.t that the van has been purchased and that the ~ina'r a~feerri~bts ·raF ~iyirt'ent ~1ave'been ~Jiiade. 'Th-e 'idea: of placing a student forum sticker on the van is discussed as well, and the van should be ready by the end of this week. -Webster House has asked for funds in order to run their annual Haunted House for the Schenectady Community. Forum asks ifWebster can receive some funds from residence life and Camara will look into this. Camara motions that Webster be given the money for the time be- ing. Motion 2nd by Malaspina and passes 16-0. - Adventurers' Guild needs to have a budget approved. Camara announces that the Fi- nance committee has met with the club members and motions to accept the established bud- get. Motion 2nd by Tolkoff and passes 14~0 with Pell ish and Brown abstaining. - Chase announces idea that forum amend the by-laws and ensure that all clubs elect a new cabinet in theSpring of each year and propose a budget for each club for the following year at this time as well With this amendment, the problems of clubs not having a budget or be- ing disorganized .in the fall, as is the case this year, can be di- verted. Further, a MANDA- TORY LATE FEE will be charged to any committee which submits its budget pro- posals late. Camara and Schaffer will look into the pos- sibility of enacting this type of amendment further and the fo- rum will continue deliberations next week. - Pellish announces that the Trustees of the College n;tet on Friday Oct. 13 and discussed ways to reengineer the campus life at Union. The main issues discussed were the need for more mulit-culturism, the prob- lems of alcohol, the lack of a strong intellectual atmosphere at Union, and the need to get faculty and students more in- volved with each other and I• . ' ' ' ' with campus ljfe itself. The idea of improving Central plan- ning was discussed as a pos- sible solution. Overall, Pellish was impressed with the discus- sions and with the Trustees re- sponse to current issues. More news on these issues will be provided in the future. *CLUB U will be held this FRIDAY NIGHT, OCT. 20 in theReamerCenterfrom 10 PM to2AM. BETHERE!!!!!! -Meeting called to a close by unanimous vote at 7:35 PM. Campus News Neo-N azi Infiltrator· to Speak at \flnion by Michelle Ellis Co-News Editor Nazis are not just skinhead thugs, but professional lawyers, profes- sors, military personnel, engi- The Jewish Student Union is neers, and policemen. He is cur- hosting Yaron Svoray, an inves- rently working with the Simon · tigative Israeli journalist, anti- Wiesenthal Center to bring 34 terrorist fighter, and neo-Nazzi members ofthemovementto jus- infiltrator on Monday October tice and in his questforjustice he 30th at 7:00pm in the Reamer has testified befo~e both the Center Auditorium. While ad-~ American Congress and theGer- dressing the topic: \In Hitler's man Ministry. Shadow: Neo-Nazis in the Yaron Svoray's story has 1990s,\ Svoray will take his recieved global press coverage. audience behind the scenes of The book that he wrote about his the growing neo-Nazi movement. President -oftheJewish .. Student Union\ A d a m G I auberg, '96 com- mented on his group's dec.ision to bring Yanm Svoray to Union's campus. \The Jewish Stu<,ient Union is proud to sponsor such an important event. The JSU and its co-sponserors believe in the im- portance of educating the college and the surrounding community about the threat of neo-Nazis world wide. What better way to do this than by having one tof the world's rn,ost exciting speakers come to Union College.\ During his presentation, Yaron Svoray will discuss how he infil\' trated the Gennan neo-Nazi move- ment in October of 1992 to iden- tify and expose the leaders of the movement, as well as determine the movenjent's strength, leader- ship, and financial base. He will recount how he posed as a right wing Austrian journalist a11d n{:!o- Nazi' sy1npathiser, named \Ron Furey\' to travel within the move- ment. Svoray will disclose his findings, which illustrate that the neo-Nazi threat is much more per- vasive than previously suspected. Svoray discovered that the neo- experiences infiltrating the neo- nazi move- ment entitled In Hitler's Shadow, was published by Doubleday in 1994. A movie version of his story entitled, \The Infiltra- tor\ was pro- duce by HBO and aired this past spring. , Svoray is a ryative ofisrael and the son of Holocaust survi- ,' \ ' 1 vors. He served as a commando in the elite Israeli paratroopers and as a detective sergeant in Israel's Central Police Command Unit. He holds a graduate degree in communication and film stud- ies and works as an investigative journalist internationally .. Most recently, Svoray has bee·r1 inves- tigating war crimes being com- mitted in Serbia and Croatia. The Jewish Student Union has been able to bring Yaron Svoray to campus with the assistence of funding from Rabbi Konheim from Congregation Agudat Achim, Rabbi Cutler's discussion I ·group from Congregation Gate's of Heaven, Midrasha, the hebrew high school of Schenectady, the Community Relation's Council of the United Jewish Federation of Northeastern New York, Jewish Student Services of United Fed- eration of Albany, and the Peer Facilitators of Union College. Leaky Roof at Achilles Rink by Aileen Quigley News Staff contractor. Payment forth is endeavor will come from the Achilles Rink En- dowment fund. Repairs began three weeks ago, and the pro- jected date for conipletion is the first week in November. Until then, Mr. David Grzbowski states that the rink is perfectly safe and that no precautions need to be Mino_rity Enrollment Down ... Union's own Achilles Rink is leaking. For the past three to four years, according to Mr. Bruce Del venthal, head hockey coach, leaks have been noticed through- out the roof. The Rink boasts its original roof from its first construc- tion al- most ex- a c t I y twenty years ago. Union has started to repair nu- merous leaks throughout the building. Since then, the damage had be- come extensive enough to war- rant the replace(llentofthe entire roof. This project, costing an es- timated $200,000, will be handled by Weatherguard, a private, local taken. As continuedfrompage 1 would have given prospective minority students an artificial perspective of J.jfe at Union, David felt that it still should have bee.n done. She believes that scaring prospective ·students far as 1 i mite d away by exposing them to nega- tive comments about Union is access,· there are sections of the bleachers that are covered and parts oftheice are blocked off. These conditions are only during morning hours, and will notaffectaftemoon skat~ ing. The hockey team has lost a few practices, but Coach Del venthal insists that the season will not be affected. counterproductive when trying to increase the diversity of the school. David and Professor A. T. Miller are two individuals who feel that Admil?sions has practi- cally dropped the whole minor- ·ity recruitinent policy. In fact, next to none of the mi- nority students in the freshmen class were brought in by regular Admissions but were recruited through programs such as A OJ>/ HEOP, the Seven Year Medical, and the Athletic Department. Lundquist and David along with other staff and faculty have not seen eye to eye on many is- sues concerning the efforts Admis- sions put into recruiting minorities over the past years. However, all feel that the results evident in the class of l999 indicate that some- thing needs to be done differently in the future. Lundquist has said he and his staffplan to monitor the applicati(}n process of minority students more rigourously and is already enthusiastic about the greater .number of minority pro- spective students this year who have shown an interest in Union. David hopes that Admissions· will do more than just monitor the situation. She wants them to work on actively nurturing. the interests that students may have in Union and making prospective students feel more vvelcome here. She and Tobiessen both ex- pressed that Union's finanical aid policies need to be revamped. They want to see the amount of resources that are set aside for minority students increase, as fi- nancial aid is often an impo·rtant factor for students when decid- ii1g which college to attend. They maintain that a larger monetary incentive could give Unfon the edge over other schools in a pro- spective student's decision mak- ing process. David refered to a quote by Immanuel !{ant who said, 'It is through good education that all good in the world arises.' An es- sential part o fa 'good education' at Union is a diverse student body. David along with faculty Jhembers such as Tobiessen and Miller hope that students will re- alize this fact and came together as a commuity to make sure thi-s past year's poor,results will not be repeated.

World News Shattered Promise: The Beginning Effects of Peace in Bosnia by Matt Sandler WotldNews·Editor With a cease fire in Bosnia slowly taking hold, the prospects of peace are now pressing past the stranglehold ofdespair, which has gripped the country for almost four years.· The progress of peace came after punishing NATO air strikes were launched against the Serbs in a sustained and continu- ous assault. The battlefield suc- cess of the Croats from Croatia, the Croat militia in Bosnia, and the Bosnian government forces in recovering more than twenty per- cent ofland that was captured by theSerbs pushed forth the process to peace. The division ofBosnia, on the battlefield, is roughly at a fifty-fifty split. Assistant Secre- tary of State Richard C. Hollbrooke presented the administration's plan for peace and has conducted extensive shuttle diplomacy throughout the fanner Yugoslavia to achieve the latest diplomatic breakthrough. Ev·en the prospects of peace, many are finding that the peace is still perilous. The New York Times reported on a story about the Brkonic family and their tragic fate; The Brkonic's tale is a. symbol ofthe tragedy ofBosnia. It is their story which humanizes a warthathasdisrupted families, forced people to divide along eth- nic I ines or have it done by force (with mass killings, rapes, and brutality), paralyzed the United Nations, caused divisions on both sides of the Atlantic, and caused so Jh uch devastation. The Brkonic's were very happy that gas was being supplied to the city. Complete restoration of all utility service was one condition of the cease fire. The Brkonic's had been very lucky, no family member had been killed by mor- tars or sniper bullets in the three and a half year war. The Brkonic's rigged their home- made gas stove back to the power line, wanting to use it as symbol of the peace to come. As the gas would flow through the pipes to Sarajevo, perhaps peace would flow through the rest of Bosnia. In the middle of the night there were gunshots going off all around the city, not fired in an- ger but in joy. The smell ofacid permeated the air. Namic Brkonic, who was 19 years old, The Tradegy of Peace: One family's hopes and dreams came crashing down around them. turned on the light to investigate, and \he blew the place to bits.\ The gas line had exploded throughout his house. Semira Viteskic, a nurse working at the hospital and a friend ofNamic's said; \\When he arrived in the hospital, I could only recogniz;e him by his blue eyes.\ Because Namic was caught in the middle of the explosion and received bums over sixty percent of his body,doctorsatthe burn urtitsaid he has a fifty percent chance of survtvmg. His parents and younger brother were also badly burned, yet their odds are better than fifty percent. This is not the first time that gas has caused explosions in Sarajevo due to mishandling or poor facili- ties. \In 1994, when utilities were turned on briefly, the bum unit at city's Kosevo Hospital over- flowed with more than 200 such injuries.\ The majority of people I iving in Sarajevo never used gas before the war. They used elec- tricity for heating and cooking. 'I11e Bosnian gas company and the United Nations' engineers have been inspecting lines and teach- ing people about the fuel, but there are still many home-made appliances and rigged lines run- ning throughout the city. '\Heat- ers and stoves are often connected to the pipes with rotten rubber hose~ and ventilated by wafting the fumes into the apartment above.\ The gas is not odorized so victims cannot smell it. With- out knowing. otherwise, the people light a match for a ciga- rette at the wrong time or leave the appliances on at night which has violent consequences. \I will have none of it,\ said Ramya Karalic, \I would rather freeze than have this bomb waiting for me when I came home.\ Ibrahim Brkonic, Namic'sfather,lying in his hospital bed said his family had gone to bed optmisitic about what the future held. Then the explosion happened, \everything in the house .[came] crashing down,\ their dreams included. He further said, \'It's really hard for me to accept this happenig to us on this special day. We had so many of these cease-fires before but for this one we had hope. Now, little of it matters. We are lost anyway.\ The peace of Bosnia will never be complete until people are se- cure in their homes. During the war they had to hide inside to evade the Serbs artillery. Now that peace is here, they cannot stay there. What is left when peopte are not secure in their homes? A home is supposed to provide security. If there is inse- curity within the walls of the citi- zens house, then where is the ba- sis of peace and security through- out the entire country? Shifting power from the federal government to the states ... UNION LAUNI)RY so·t t'lo·rr s~t sct-t_uoy OP·EI'I 8J.\J'i\ ·ro 1 Ot30PJ'I\ DAllY ~;1 J.\ 'IVJ.\S)-tt S'\fJ-1 'IVJ.\St-1 FRE£ !E S'\fORE 10:t D.E'\fJ.\ttS & J.\DDrftOi'IJ.\t SJ.\VIi'IG The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995 • Page 5 __ _, * U.S.De- fense Sec- retary Wiliam J. Perry and Russian Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev were un~ able to work out the chain of command for the force to police Bosnia. Russia said it would never put its troops under NATO command, and NATO said that a nonmem- ber could not have a say in the Alliance's decision mak- ing apparatus. * Russia suspended steps to- ward disarmament and troop reductions in Chechyna after * Five million workers called a strike in France to protest the pay freeze. The strike cuts across all areas ofthe economy from trans- portatio,.., to schools, .. hopitd~, . t~lephones, .. weather forecasts., · * Israel, following its com- mitment to further the peace process with the P.L.O., freed 900 Palestin- ians. * The Amazon rainforest is again burning wildly, ap- proaching its worst levels ever. With little or no rain failing to quench the run- away blazes and \the an- nual ritual from July to early November where \Vorld News ranchers, farmers, and de- velopers clear the land for grazing, planting, and building,\ continuing, there is a crisis situation brewing on an ecological scale. * The Japanese govern- ment declared that its an- nexation of Korea in 1910 was legal and was not forced on the Korean people. This raises concern about Japan's reluctance to apologize for wartime ac- tions that were considered cruel and barbaric. Washington: * Domestic terrorism is the suspected motive of the in Arizona. The sabotage caused the train to plunge thirty feet into a ravine in Arizona. One person was killed and a hundred were injured. A note was leftatthe scene with the Son's of Ge- stapo on it and anti-govern- ment attacks in reference to WACO and the Ruby Ridge standoff. * The health lobby started to attack the Republican plans for Medicare even as it was brought to the House floor. The American Medi- cal Association said it backs the G.O.P. plan after they won concessions. * Leaders from both houses of Congress are going to meet daily on budget and spending measures. Should the United N auxiliary force that under a senior military designated by the Security Ifso, would this force operate Security Council or have J..l.l.ll, .. urity, once established, to act only a notification sent to Nations? What forces would operate under this new authority? Send responses to box 1928. Under 500 words please. Responses will be printed within two weeks.

Page 6 • October 19, 1995 • The Concordiensis Science and Medicine Computer Software That Can Really Work for You by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Although computers are rather common, how many people truly understand what is happening in- side the gray box that sits on our desk? The gap between the so- phistication of.the user and the sophistication of the computer is widening every day .. Today, computers can only re- spond to direct manipulation; nothing happens unless a person touches a mouse, keyboard or screen. Thus, the computer is passive, waiting to be told exactly what to do. It does not provide much help for truly complex tasks, such as searching for in- formation. In the future this will not be so. Computers will be pro- grammed to take on a more ac- tive role, acting autonomously on the behalf of the user. These agents, as they are called, will perfonn many functions, from hiding technical details· of com- plex tasks, to acting as a personal secretary, reminding users which tasks need to be done, and which are complete. Although this may sound strange, it is merely the wave of the future if computers and people are to getalong effectively. In fact, some really simple agents are in place today. Many e-mail software packages include an agent which will sort incoming messages by sender, subjec~mat­ ter or date. These e-mait agents are not truly the agents that will benefit us all in the future; it is a simple system that can only fol- low mles,that the user sets down. Future agents will employ more characteristics of artificial intelligence. The agents will be programmed with knowledge about the tasks that must be per- formed, and the agent must infer the proper response to a specific situation. In the example of the e-mail agent program, an \intel- ligent\ program would recognize DEPARTMENT SEMINARS Biology: Dr. Rex Cocroft Cornell University Thursday, October 26; 4:30pm, Social Sciences 103 Refreshments Served Chemistry: \The Ultraviolet Photo Dissociation Dynamics ,of Ozone, Via--Two-Dimensional Ion Imaging\ Dr. Robin Miller, Union Alum. '89 Senior Research Scientist; Shipply Co., MA Thursday, October 26; 12:30, Science and Engineering: Nll6 Refreshments Served \Hands On Science for Elementary Students\ Professor Charles W.J. Scaife Union College Thursday, October 24, 4:00pm; Reamer Campus Center Auditorium. Please bring your Elementary and Middle School aged children of! ittle brother/sister. Refreshments Served Physics: \Laser Cooling and Trapping for Atom Interferometers\ Dr. Steven Chu Stanford University Tuesday, October 24; I :30 pm Refreshments Served. \Holding on to Atoms and Molecules with Light\ Dr. Steven Chu Stanford University · . Tuesday, October 24; 8:00 pm; Rearper Campus Center Auditorium. This lecture is aimed at General Audiences. LOOK FOR MORE EXCITING DEPARTMENT SEMINARS IN THIS AREA IN THE FUTURE. RUBES® By leigh Rubin •\ II lHEr' CALLED HIM FliPPO?. a message regarding a meeting, and forward the information to the user's calendar so the user will not forget the appointment. Programs such as the one I have hypotheticallydescribed,do exist today, but can only function within a very narrow range of possibilities. It seems that in or- der for an agent program to sur- vive in the teal world, itn1u'st be programmed with a vast base of common sense knowledge. This is a monumental task, and even then, would the public on the whole be able to trust an agent that was programmed and trained by someone else? The most promising approach to the field of agents employs techniques developed in the field of artificial life. This field mod- els computer programs after or- ganisms and their responses to their changing environments. These systems, although ex- -tremely primitive are truly au- tonomous and even pro gram themselves. Their software is designed to change based on ex- perience and on interactions with other agents. For example an e- mail agent could learn thata per- son always adds specific infonna- tion contained in a message re- garding .. a meeting to his or her calendar. After this occurs sev- eral times, the agent will begin to do this automatically. Also the agents would work together and share ·information. I fan agent is unsure how to handle a specific situation, it can asJ.s: other agents for suggestions. Over time, the agents wuuld evolve, and codify and combine the behaviors that are most effec- tive in meeting the needs oftheir owners. The systemswould also begin to breed better agents that would serve the user even more efficiently. It could be predicted, that since the \artificial life\ agents are modeled after biologi- cal systems, computer ecosystems would evolve, with agents that serve different electronic niches. It is also expected that symbio- sis, parasitism and survival ofthe fittest would also come into play in the electronic universe .of the agents, Although this system will seem to make life easy for a user, there are several questions tHat must be answered. Will users be respon- sible for the actions o.f their agents? How can we insure that agents wi II protect the privacy of the user? Should agents try to automate the bad habits of users, or try to teach users better hab- its? There are as many questions as there are potentials for wide- spread use of agent software. Where the future takes us though, is anybody's or any agent's guess. This is the third article in the series SexyScience: The Cutting Edge of Science and Technology Today. Look for more articles in the series in upcoming editions of The Concordiensis. Dolphins are one of the few species of mammals that live their lives underwater. They are also considered very intellige,nt, with a ''lan- guage\ of their own. Dolphins have been long used as entertainment and as food by many peoples. Only recently has the human race come to question these activities. Breathing: Surfaces · about every 2 min. to exhale and inhale through blowhole. Respiratory system prevents \bends\ when diving. Skin: Hairless and rubbery to the touch. Streamlined body moves fast through the water. t f f,··\( ,' ~ ' ' ' . '•\ ·-:~~. \: . \ ,. ' 1 /~ ' ' _.ill 1/ \~ .,.,. ' ' . .4f,,', ',.,~ ~-:· .... .... \' ....... Bottlenose dolphin ' . Up to 13ft. long; usually stays within 100 mi. of shore; can live 25 years Orca (Killer whale) Up to 30ft.; ranges from · ·-. tropical to polar seas; can live 90 6 to 8 ft. long; sometimes form large schools in open ocean years. Gets its name from habit of killing othet Whales and dolphins, not humans: • Dolphins have pointed snouts and cone-shaped teeth. • Porpoises have round snouts and flat teeth. Attack against the shore ......... ~.~ .... . \ .. _ ........ \ ........... --

1 ~ I 1 I I 1 OP/ED. Tlte Student Newspaper oj.Vnion College Since 1877 Scllellectady's Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoveri Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITORS Larry Paska . ARTS EDITOR Eva~ Morris Adam Richman LAYOUT EDiTORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR D.avid Eder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COM~UTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnsun BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Lanrie Kirschner, Shaun-Paul Manore, Laurel Ruma. STAFF: Omar AI-Khalidi, Pavan Atluri, EmilY Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Raquel Millman, Pete Sorenson, Kathy Walter The Concordiensis ·October 19, 19_95 ·Page 7 ' ' -. ~ I ~ '' • k . · . · EDITORI1\L · .· . .. ,<_._:· . ' . - ' . . ' ' :- ' ~ Food For Thought A Second Course -Why would Union College invite such a prominent figure, as Tom Brokaw, to speak on campus, invite a \select few\ students and faculty and use them as props--seated in the peanut gallery, seen but not heard? -Why is Union in denial about the frequency of date rape? We students know where this happens. Why don't you administrators wake up and do something about it? Why don't you recognize that female students are afraid to speak out because of intimidation from groups whose · existence you countenance? -Reread the first sentence of the preceding question substituting for the phrase \date rape\ with the word \hazing\. -Is it true·that Union College has the Alpha chapter of AA. -How come the Bookstore doesn't make allowances for shifting enrollments in the beginning of a term? We know of three students who had to wait four weeks to get a text for their course. -Moreover, Why is the Bookstore a profit center? Why do we make money on books but spend it on sports? -President Hull told Parents at Parents' Weekend that one of the three things he has Greek organizations on warning about is \discrimination.\ How is it that exclusion on the basis of sex fails to qualify? -Why can't the lawns directly outside classrooms be mowed while classes are NOT in session? The buzzing is not conducive to learning or teaching and does not make for relaxing background noise. -Regarding Dorm Fines: The good people of Residence Life need to be reminded that \justice\ made crude and communal is not more effective justice but gross injustice, and also disproportionately affects less wealthy students. · . - . . OPINIONS .· . . .' , __ ·~ ' ' ' ' \' . - The Midterm Blues By Tony LaVecchia Opinion's Editor As you intelligent college people out there may have guessed from the title, I've got \those mid-term blues.\ Yes, we have arrived at that critical, not to mention stressful time of the term where the teachers try to determine if the students have actually been doing any work and the students try to determine how many beers they can have while still managing to turn the pages of the textbook they're reading. I can assure you that you will personallywitness a lot of strange things this week. The stress ously wrong. I am by no means implying that strangeness at Union is confined to exam times, but this time, all the .people I krtow who are acting like lunatics are actually sober. Seriously though, I know that a lot of you out there in \Concordy-land\ are stressing over your midtenns or papers that are happening this or last week. Believe me, I am. So I suggest that you all take heart in the fact that this whole midterm night- mare will be over soon. I know I've personally come close to go- ing over the edge recently, bu! I take heart in the fact that next week I will have completed m.y last midtenn and will be able to tends to get to peopl'e. J notice that during this time tension run high ... particu- larly among roommates and people who spend lots I suggest that we all take a deep breath, drink some cof- fee, and hit the books hard. of time together .. I am sure that as midterms have approached, my roommate has often thought of how to make my demise look I ike an accident, so that he can cash in on his 4.0 for the tenn. Inci- dentally, despite popular opinion, no such rule exists here. Ifyour roommate \has an accident,\ it will not result in your getting a 4.0 for the ten:n. So, if you've loosened all the screws in you roommates loft in the hope that an accident will leave you on the dean's list, you are barking up the wrong tree. The stress also has other mani- festations. I have seen stress make some usually very normal people act like a bunch of nuts .. I thi11k it's fair to say that when some- one you've kpown for years starts \break dancing\ in the middle of a discussion, something is seri- coast along peacefully until finals. To freshman that have never gone through this before~ l have a little piece of advice: go at the books as hard as you can, for at least this week, because a strong performance on your midterms can .set the tone for a successful tenn. Ifyo1:1 don't put all of you effort into them, then you will find yourselves in the unpleasant situation of having to play catch- up during finals. . I suggest that we all take a deep breath, drink some coffee, and hit the books hard. After all, we sometimes loose sight of the fact that we all came here prini.ariiy in order to receive an education. I realize that sometimes during the course ofthe tenn we all loose sight of that fact, but mid-terms help re.mind us what exactly we are here for. Washington D.C~ March Necessary For Black Unity by Jesse Karotkin Concordiensis Staff This past Monday, black men from around the nation flocked to Washington D.C. to lend their support to the \Million Man March\.· The march was orga- nized by Louis Farrakhan the con- troversial leader of the Nation of Islam. Farrakhan was joined by other black leaders including Jesse Jackson, Joseph Lowery of the Southern Christian Leader- ship Conference, AI Sharpton, and numerous others. Several major black organizations includ- ing the NAACP and the Urban League refused to lend their sup- port to the often vitriolic Farrakhan. Despite some skepti- cism, the march was a necessary and successful. It was not a day of hate speech, but rather a call for action and improvement. The men attending were urged to go home and help bring about change in their communities. Several speakers, including Farrakhan stressed the impor- tance of playing a larger role in the political system. Each indi- vidual was urged to go home and register eight unregistered, black voters. Cleaning up inner-city neighborhoods was also ad- dressed. Farrakhan proposed that economic stability was crucial to black success. He called for the men to, \Go home and make our communities productive places.\ The burden, F ~rrakhan proposed, should be carried by the black man. The gathering was also a call for unity among blaeks. Farrakhan repeatedly proclaimed, \We can not let artificial barriers divide us'\\. \Disunity\, Farrakhan proclaimed, has been manipulated by white suprema- cists for centuries to keep blacks in an inferior status. The marchers proved that many black men possess a strong de- sire to improve their situation. In this era of growing racial tension, the march was a valuable outlet for the frustration felt by black men. Aside from the men who made the journey to the nations capitol, those viewing the event on TV. were also touched by the message. Victor Owusu, co- chair of ALAS was one of the men present for the march. Ac- cording to Victor, the event, \will definitely have an impact on black men and women.\ The event stressed the fact that \Black men have to take responsibility for their own actions\ Victor stated. Critics pointed out that the march was sexist by virtue of the fact women were excluded. Many black women clearly did not share this view. While Farrakhan fo- cused on issues that were offun- damental concern to both men and women, the men needed this time to reflect on their inadequa..: cies. According to Leslie Dou- glas the other co-chair of ALAS, \Black women have carried the burden (in the past), now we can carry the burden as partners.\ For years, women have struggled to hold the black community to- gether, Monday was a time for men to take responsibility. The event was also a valuable Jesson to white America. Several hun- dred black men from different factions gathered together with- out creating violence. If this en- ergy in fact brought back home to the various communities, the plight of black communities ev- erywhere will improve.

Page 8 · October 19, 1995 · The Concordiensis OPtED ' . . . . · OP·INIONS To the Editor Concordiensis The enclosed letter was given to me by a col.league, who wishes not to be identified. I have agreed to submit it to you. I shall appreciate your printing it in the paper. Please make any necessary corrections. · Sincerely, T.J. G~jar Prof. EE/CS A MATTER OF INTEGRITY AND LEADERSHIP In his letter to the editor in the May 11, issue, J. M. Hinchey, Union's Chairman ofthe Board, in response to Davis Druschel's letter deplored \a lack of decency or willingness to express disagreements in a civil manner.\ He further went on to state, \those who seek to be heard or to express an opinion will do so in manner that will make us proud to be part of the civilized community Union strives to he.\ His defense of President Hull does not address the fundamental issues, some of which led to the Druschelletter, the earlier letter by Professor Gado, and other issues at Union both before and since President Hull's arrival here. In a civilized society, one does not expect to be persecuted for expressing one's candid opinions, simply because they do not agree with those in authority. Yet, that is precisely what Professor Gado's letter has alleged. The issue Druschel raised is: Hull, like others at Union, has indiscriminately continued to engage in an arrogant disregard for the rights of others. During the morning cotTee gatherings, when free coffee was served the faculty, .[certain Deans and faculty members] repeatedly made disparaging remarks about [certain faculty members]. Can anyone honestly doubt their capability for manipulating the out- come of the Faculty Review Board's decisions? Professor Gado in his allegations states that he did not receive a single merit raise since his disagreements with the .[then vice- president]. What safeguards have been there in \civilized\ Union to prevent abuse by the cronies of [Deans or Vice Presidents] from being the reasons for his failure to obtain the merit raises? Is this kind of conduct acceptable in the \civilized\ Union community? Why was President Hull reluctant to appoint a committee to investigate Professor Gado's allegations? What were the findings of the committee that was appointed after the faculty voted to investigate these allegations, over his objections? Was there any abuse of author- ity, and if so, what steps have been taken to penalize or otherwise reprimand those engag- ing in such violations? How widespread were the abuses and what steps are being taken to Tectify their effects -upon those affected? The campus commun\ty deserves an answer to these. The board, in turn, needs to address the issues of integrity and leadership in the adminis- tration. Students often complain about arrogance by the administration. Low morale in the staff can also be attributed to administrative arrogance. The board needs to ensure that discretionary authority given administrators is not a tool for silencing legitimate dissent, favoritism, vendetta, manipulation or arrogant abuse. It needs to remind the administration that, as employees of the college, it is their responsibility to ensure that Union can provide opportunity for everyone to achieve her or his maximum potential. Faculty ~nd staff who give selfless service to Union and students who are its very soul and potential future trust- ees deserve nothing less. If it wishes Union to excel, the board needs to demand leadership from the administration. Sincerely, Name withheld by request. Get- Involved in the Community To the Editor, Security fences around Union's campus will notre- duce crime in our community. Schenectady is our community; Union is just one part. Ifthere is crime on the streets of Schenectady, there is crime at Union. Union is not (although some would like to believe) a paradise in the squalor of a run~ down industrial city. As mem~ bers of this large community, we must realize that Union is only as safe as Schenectady is. Our desire to lock Union up as a treasure should be replaced with a desire to re~make Schenectady as a treasure. By standing beh'ind our pearly gates, we are saying to the greater community that they are not important;' if they were, they would be behind the fence as well. Union students who want to make a difference at Union should become a part of the greater com~ munity, and interact with Schenectady. There are organi~ • zations to join, such as Big Broth~ ers/Big Sisters, and We Care About You Schenectady, that try to be a part of the greater com~ munity. Be involved in the community, be a part of Schenectady-don't just close your eyes and stand be~ hind the fence, do something. Sincerely, LaureiRuma Philosophy or Living Section ... To the Editor, Recent articles in the living sec- tion manage-oddly-to probe the boundary of living and thinking you are living (i.e.-dreams). Dreams, said Freud, are really just distorted wish fulfillment; and, Nietzche might add, a life-supporting illu- sion. So as l understand it, there are lots of life-sapping, distorted and ·unfulfilled wishful~drea:mers wan- dering about searching for their souls amidst the illusion of bom- agam Bhuddists.. what? Umrnm ... should the Living section perhaps be renamed the Philosophy Practica section? Or, you could just throw some hints about making bet- ter souffle into the current Lfving section. As long as you don't cut it. Thank-you an un-confused reader The Million Man March To the Editor, The contents ofthis letter may be upsetting to som.e Union stu- dents. Please understand that I am writing with the aim ofreconcili~ ation rather than strife. I was a bit uneasy when I saw Union stuc.ents marching in support of Louis Fartakhan on October 16th. To me, it seemed like a slap in the face to the Jewish communityhere at Union. I 1nyselfam notJewish but Scottish-American and Chris- tian; however, I am quite alanned that in this modern day, after the world has seen the ravages of the Holocaust, that a group of people-any people, for any cause- would decide to stand with a a man who preaches rac- ism and anti- Semitism. I do not throw this accusation around lightly. Farrakhan has in the past labeled Judaism as a ••gutter religion.\ He also remained silent after one of his aids, Khalid Abdul Mohammed, said to an audience at Kean College that Jews are ''the blood suckers ofthe black nation,\ along with several other anti~ Semiticcomments. Tomyfurthest knowledge, none of these re~ marks have been recanted. Such hateful statements cannot be ignored, no matter how favor- able Farrakhan 's social policies may appear. Famikhan and the Nation of Islam stand for the emancipation of the African~ American comm.unity, the large majority 0f which continues to suffer both economic and social prejudices. To the shame of our country, this. is still a desperately needed social agenda. But the irony of Farrakhan's message is this: in marching for black eman~ cipati0n, he is verbally trampling over an equally as oppressed group. I support African-Ameri- cans at Union who are struggling for Black equality, and I appeal to you no. Irt your quest for jus,. tice, please don't allow the per- secution of your people to result in the persecution of other people. As Will.iam Ochen Ajjugo Levy said, himselfa Black-African Jew and the founder of a relief project for the South Suden, '\The oppo~ site of black racism is not white racism. It is anti~racism.\ Jason Hills E-Mail: \hillsj\ Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page ana must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before · publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that conc.erns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. AU letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not · necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordien~is do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the.studentsofUnion College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The C oncordiens is, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by Th~ Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National StudentNews Service, King Syndicates. Submissions: All submissions are due the Monday before publication at 5 pm submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, <it MS-Dos Mic-rosoft Word or WordPerfect disks and can be dropped off with the hard copy in the drop box outside The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center.

Arts& Entertainment The Coffee Craze Caffe Doke Features Fine Coffees and Entertainment Beyond Union's. Gates bySariLeivent -~ Sta.ffWriter No one can contest to the fact that Union College and the City ofSchenectady are two difrerent worlds. Union defi- nitely does not attract its pfo~ spective students because it is in a college town. Unlikethe majority ofgradu- ating Union College studen}s, Bret Goldin did not flee Schenectady after Spring tenn of his senior year. Instead, he ventured down to Jay Street .and found himself the proud ownerofCaffe Dolce, Interna- tional Coffeehouse and Kiosk. Goldin's intentions were to change Schene.ctady's bad reputation by creating a new attraction for students inter- ested in life beyond the cam- pus. Goldin, a I 992 Union gradu- ate, was an Economics/Politi- cal Science major. His simple explanation of opening this cafe was that \the town needed it, I needed a job, and I .Jove coffee.\ Along with being a great place to relax and enjoy a cup , of cappuccino, Goldin created an exquisite cultural ambiance. There are over sixty magazines for the customer's leisure, en- tertaining live music, and in- triguing poetic.readings. Many Union Collegefaculty have ex- hibited their art work inside, in- cluding Professors Benjamin and Steckler, and Leif Zurmuhlen from the VisQa! and Performing Arts departments. Professor Tom McGovern will be showcasing his photographs in the near future. Caffe Dolce encourages Union students to step beyond the campus gates and take a walk down to Jay Street There is a ten percent discount to all students with college ID's. Goldin has made a strong effort to create a life for students off campus. He knew how it felt to be trapped on campus with no other altematives, and wanted to end that. Caffe Dolce is a goodplac~to relax, socialize, or study. ·· Goldin is now the owner of two other cafes in the area. Af- ter a couple of years of friendly competition, the owner .of Stephanucci' s .Cafe in Albany has merged with Goldin. After three months of planning, Goldin and Geoff Scalera opened a new cafe on 275 River Street in Troy. Goldin and Scalera now share the ownership of four ca- fes, which includes the Jay Street cafe, the new Caffe Dolce on Lark Street in Albany, the Troy location, and one off Broadway in Saratoga Springs. Both have the best of intentions in opening twenty-five coffee- houses in the Capital Region within the next year. The coffee craze is just beginning to reach its peak, and both owners wish to open new cafes as this craze for coffee intensifies. Each year, Caffe Dolce re- wards a$1 00 prize to a Union College photographer of the junior class. The winner is cho- sen by the Visual Arts Depart- ment. The I 996 annual Caffe ·Dolce photography award is commgsoon. The Concordiensis ·October 19,1995' Page 9 The Union College Department of Visual Arts presents a slide lecture by WAYNE FRANITS Professor of Art History and Chair of Fine Arts Syracuse University IIHOUSEWIVES AND HUSSIES: CONSTRUCTS OF WOMANHOOD IN THE 17TH CENTURY DUTCH REPUBLICII Friday, October 20, 1995 1:40pm Arts Building 215 Free and Open to the Public RPJ Payers Presents: Mary Shelley's Frankenstein adapted by Tim Kelly. RPJ Playhouse 8:00PM November 9, 10, 15~J.7. Tickets $6 Students/Seniors, $10 Adults. Por reservations ca.f/2 76-6503 Not recommended for children under 12

Lenny get:s o·aJ;iiJ?:ltt'ttiP'in tha>tt.t.rurd into it~· andwitnesses the rnutuli1:t'' was ;atthe cdm(H:J'Cene, It se~tt\.s the . . . . . . . . \\Malcolm Xfor the 21 stCentury .\was kHled by tWo cops, and now those cops ate afi'er hirrt The near future is beHevaib'le; a great deal of realism i-spr~S.!t}nt 5 as Lenny does not drive a space buggy and flying. saucers don't invade the scene. This is the highp()tt1tin an a:ge ~her~ . . . . . · only ten years ahead come acrossasineonceivttble. 'TI~e «vi:lttmal tefflity'\' aspect.~ .getting adtlicied to,tel<twin,gtith~t~l\l~())P'le',s,~t11~~ tions- is qttite ef!ecti:ve: ·Not ortiy is tnis aereatfV'¢;(fjl'(!}tftoxj'Iiiillikt:~ . diHingdevice. · · Arts&· Entertainment A Lesson in the Basics of Rock AC/DC is Back with a New Album byJohnMetz Staff Writer In this era of rapidly chang- ing musical tastes and numer- ous differ:ent styles of rock mu- sic, where many performers break into and fade out ofstar- dom within months, how many groups still churn out good old hard rock 'n roll? And how many of those have been doing .it, without re- spite, for 21 years? There's only one, and . just when most of you thought the rockers from Down Under had decided to pack it in after their Live release in 1992, AC/ DC is back with their newest al- bum, Ball Breaker (EastWest Records America). Since 1974, the sound of AC/ DC, from their first Australian releases to this present offering, has been frighteningly consis- tent. While other groups of simi- lar advanced age have changed their styles continuaUy with the times, AC/DC retains their simple, unrelenting ways on Ball Breaker: steadily pound- ing drums, harsh rhythm guitar riffs, explicit lyrics, and ARgus Young's bluesy, gradually en- trancing solos where he, at first, slowly reels you in, and then eli· maxes by violently driving his guitar, like a saber, straight down the listener's throat. There are no surprises on this CD. As they have done in all their pre- vious albums, AC/DC gives us no additives, no preservatives, and no artificial co.loring on Ball Breaker. It'sjustpureAC/DC. The printed lyrics on this re- lease remind us of when the censorship controversy was centered not on rappers, but on hard rock and heavy metal out- fits. In accordance with their fif- teen previous albums, AC/DC' s new tracks are expressions of sex, violence, alcohol, and, of course,Satan, Songs like \Hard as aRock,\ \Cover You in Oil,\ and \The Honey Roll\ leave nothing to the imagination. AC/ DC oozes evil masculin- ity, treating women as objects, Romance is non-existent, while in- tellectual, philosophi .. cal, or political state- ments are also not to be found. You might consider . ACIDC to be a stub- born dinosaur, way past its prime, and reluctant to adapt to the time period, but these guys don't care about you. They like what they do, and will keep do- ing it until Lucifer himself comes up and drags them down from their equipment. This is hard rock stripped down to the core, which no other band can pro- vide. Buy this CD, and AC/DC will teach you a course on the fundamentals of true rock. The Union College Department of Performing Arts presents ollege azz nsem.Ie • DIOD Conducted by Professor Tim Olsen lvith spetial guests • • ' e tu rt no a uartet Wednesday, N ofember 1, 1995 8:00p.m. Arts Building/Studio ~15 Free and open to the public

Features Neurotic Diversity by Con or McKenzi~ Features Staff Union is making me neurotic. I wake up in the morning, i take a shower and I go to breakfast.· I like a little consistency in my Hfe. It would be very reassuring if 1 could count on always having the same old cereal, bagels With an ineffective cutter; or perhaps even a Belgian waffle. No, that would be way too easy. Dining services is constantly screwing with my mind. They're always changing the cereals around, so that we don't get sick of the old ones. They put out these fresh bagels with-get this-a real knife. To top it all off, they keep putting out this tasty gourmet coffee. I like drinking bad coffee god-damn it! The breakfast scene isn't really what'sgettingmedown. Though, it still hurts starting .off the day with so much variety. The walk to my classes, now that's a r:eal bummer. The veritable cornu- copia of people that walk by me every morning are seriously driv- ing me to neurosis. For some rea- son I always walk by these damn punks (one ofthem I would swear is Johnny Rotten), they seem to be all over campus. The rest of the people that walk by me all dress with such.~individuality I can't even classify them. Say nothing of all the ethnic diversity. For chrissake, you'd think this was the United Nations. What I wouldn'tgiveto see just one kid wearing a white baseball cap (with Union embroidered on it, perhaps?), God, I'd be in heaven ifeveryone dr~ssed right out of J. Crew. It would be so comforting if we could all order that same \cool J. Crew sweater\ and not worry about making fash- ion mistakes. My dasses themselves aren't all that disturbing. I just have one teensy weensy J.ittle gripe. Why can't 90% of the class stop tak- ing sttch an \'active role in their education\? It's not like the pr.o- fessor is going to step teaching if no one raises their hands. Pay's the same either way, so why the hell should every one feel so obliged to raise their hands and participate in the classroom dis- cussion? Just sit back, and let the knowledge soak in. If the day is Friday, my mental condition quickly worsens as the sun sets. There are just too many ~.!hoices to occupy your time with. It seems that everybody is always doing weird stuff like camping outside the Nott. The other night, a huge group ofkids surprised me by dropping Poopa-Troopas (parachute persons) out of the college center. Then there is the \Notties\ who are really starting to get really old. This huge grm,1p of kids is always doing weird stuff around the Nott. Last Friday night they formed a ring around it and were singing songs and passing a bubble pipe armmdthe circle. That's just the half of the student body that stays on campus. J:t seems like everyone is going out to clubs and socializing with Schenectady locals. So many people are friends with locals· now, that you caN't even call them \doids\ anymore Yeah, some people go to the fraternities, but the parties are always open to ev- ery one, and they're always serv- ing good beer and having cock- tails. I wish all the partieswere invi- tation only-· so we could keep out ail the losers, and what.f wouldn't give for all the beer to be Golden Anniversary Light If only I could enjoy the taste of that beautiful fluid bubbling down my throat once more ... ahhh, if Golden An- niversary wasagasoliRe, it would be high-test. This place is driving me nuts. Why do we all have to be indi- viduals? Why couldn't we all look and act as if cut from the dough oflife by the same cookie cutter? I'm going to be a neurotic nutcase before thanksgiving. Oh yeah, why can't everyone just listen to Dave Mathews? PeliliiJnl lor : Vice Pre1ilen·1 ol Mullicilfloral A/lairs, Treasurer/Secrefary ol Junior Cla11 I Freshman Clast Represenfalives are available in Student Aeti.,ities ·in College Center 408. Petitions are due Friday, 10/20 by 5:00pm in Student Acti.,ities. Statements for The Concordy are due on Monday 10/23 by 5:00pm and are to be dropped off to College Center 303. Elections will. be held Friday, 10/27 from 10:00am-4pm in the Cellege Center. The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995 • Page 11 Jackson's Haiku by Jules Features Writer We walked through the darkness to the Garden of.Tackson To drink our favorite brew Trippingon roots and shrubs and stuff t.intill tripped on you. You stood five-foot-six and one-half but I quickly changed that fact . making you an even one-foot-one lying sideways in the track. Ephemeral height! you rolled onto your back . a vertical displacement increase despite absent bra you still lay tall spec ifi call y, one-foot-three. I helped you up and stared far off the dark hills rolled-my imagination scoffed then lead me to thoughts of my comfortable loft- which broke when an audacious squirrel coughed. Two days later we walked through the light through Jackson's Forest, to the secret smoking sight floating over grass, streams, willows and the like doting on each other and h1gh as two kites. We made love tranquilly on the forest floor beneath pine cones and polarfleece and sky staring straight up at a girl I adore lying on pine boughs, climax drawing nigh A night so perfect, no sirens broke the mood what jerk on what drug would have thought to intrude? Lucky us-some hood! ums crossed our path the short, fat one reeked of egg, her accomplice smelled like *ss an unlikely combo, we felt our town's wrath Accented by a third, who calmly smoked crack. I'm sorry to shock you, but let it be known Jackson's Garden ain't the hot spot for lovers to go better still-· though a tad bit musty and not quite as soft is the pool table beneath Richmond or a timber-nest loft. Is the PreHistory over?? Naaah ... we11, perhaps its on hold while I chase more interesting combinations onime, space, and company. This might be a tad bit more linear than my previous ramblings, . and hence a bit more palatable to the rest of the community ... as · always, its completely true-ah! there's more ... What became of us that night, you might like to know well, they left us alone, and they also left the smelt don't laugh, we were lucky-· aU they wanted was a smoke and two copses over lay two other folks pursuing other pleasure, on a safer note-- the girl sparked a lighter, then reached into her coat and w~ watched as she whipped out a fai bag of dope.

· Page 12 • The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995 What Is Hunting Really. About? by David Eder Living Editor Hunting season is officially open. Bow hunters wer-e allowed to enter the woods on Sunday in hopes of shooting a deer. Gun hunters will have to wait a couple more weeks untilthey are allowed to do the same. It is my wish to shed some light on the subject of hunting. Contrary to popular belief, hunters are not all blood thirsty want to be Rambo's. Some, and I would argue most hunters are se~rching for mme than a trophy. Hunter's have found something in the woods. They have found solace, beauty, education, experience. While hunting, the hunter discovers evolution. Not only nature's evolution but his own. Henry David Thoreau was asked if boys should be allowed to hunt. Thoreau answered \yes-remembering that it was one of the best parts of my education,- make them hunters, though sportsman only at first, if possible, mighty hunters at last, ... hunters as well as fishers of men.\ In Song of Myself, Whitman writes: .. Alone far in the wilds and mountains I hunt, Wandering amazed at my own lightness and glee, In the late afternoon choosing a safe spot to pass the night, Kind! ing a fire and broiling the fresh killed game, Soundly falling asleep on the gathered leaves, my dog and gun by my side.\ Here are two of the leaders in the transcendentalist movement who have experienced the value ofhunting. Two men who preached love, and also pro- moted hunting. The question is: What is it about hunting that is so spiritual that these two men would talk of it with such reverence? The hunter is one of only a few that has experienced the intricate web ofnature. The hunter sits quietly in self reflection for hours. He gains respect for the woods and himself. Conceived in the art of destruction is the respect for creation. Upon entering the woods, natural laws of energy flow take over. One enters the woods filled with fears, anxieties, and confusion. These energies of the material world are immedi- ately released and the purity of nature flows in. A hunter will watch animals for years. If he is a g~od hunter he will be able to see the changes in his prey. Ifhe is a great hunter he will be able to see the changes within himself. .. Both of my brothers are great hunters. On Sunday morning I met one of my brothers at the land we hunt. We went through the normally rituals of checking our bows and a'rtdws, dressing,i andAHscussing· the;habits -of the deer during this part of thtfseason.'' We then picked the spots tHat we· would hunt and left eacfi' other. While I was sitting and enjoying the sun rise it occurred to me that I never felt closer to my brothers than at that moment. 1 was separated from one brother · by only a few hundred yards, but separated from the other brother by a few tho~­ sand miles. But we were all hunting on Sunday. We all hoped that the others would shoot one. All three of us were sitting quietly observing nature. We sat apart but grew closer together. I experienced that communication through silence is real. Af- ter the sunset, I discovered that descending tbe tree that I was sitting in was going to be dangerous. Part of my climbing gear broke. At the moment I be- gan to worry my brother showed up and offered the much needed as- sistance. Somehow he knew I needed help. Neither my brother or I shot a deer on Sunday but my oldest brother did get one out west. The thing is, it does not matter if any- one gets one. Of course, I would love some veni- ~ii~~fi~~--~·. , :mr son jerky right now, but L.:~!!!!~,....:..: .• i:.\': ·-:---::_ the killing of a deer proved ::.: _ _;._ --- to be a cause. Living Bring it Back! \As I sat in the chapel I looked around and the depression began to set in.·:\ by Chris Richards Living Editor Last Wednesday at eight o'clock the general editor of The National Enquirer gave a demonstration of disbelief in the foyer of the Memorial Chapel. His face wore a perplexingly comical expression while his .eyes w~re fixed upon the black windowpane. He looked as if his dog had suddenly been given the powers of ian\ guage to reveal to his wife, children and friends everything he does when he is alone ... Ohh .... my .... Gooood\ he slowly repeated back and forth to himself . \Oh my God ... Ohmy God ... Ohmy Godt\ He looked mad but he also appeared as if he had just heard a great joke. At eight o'clock there were nineteen people present and at eight fifteen there were twenty one. When the reality hit him, the situation became very clear. Refusing to be mockecl by the maximum occupancy sign (of 93 9), he marched to the podium. Standing be- hind the microphone for about ten seconds without saying a word, I felt as if a pi~ could drop and everyone would break o~Jt . into uncontrollable laughter. It was one of those isolated scenes where silent com- ' municated thoughts express themselves through vision. I saw Union through the eye$ of a stranger. Did you choose to come to this wasteland? he said to us. His comi- cal expression infected me and I couldn't keep a straight face. My eyes watered. Yes, I did choose to come here. Does everyone knows of The National Enquirer? They prey on people's lives and push ever)t.buttori;of destruction they:can. Doesn't anyone want to hang this man for the evil he spreads? Does no one want to unseat, aggravate, rage? No one? Can't wehavesomefun? Couldn'tweihave made . . . this place a nightmare forhirit?' Why can't we all get together and crucify tHis bastard and laugh whHe we do it? As 1 sat in tne chapel I looked ar~mnd and the depression began to set in. A chapel, or a house of worship, is something which should pitch u;; out. of our normal existenees and project us into them ystery oflife. The Union chapel, however, is lit- tered with portraits of sixteen dead white men who were the former presidents of Union College. I'm sure they were all great men, b\lt isn't that queer? A church.with no religion it? I'm not religious but it is very strange to go into a barren chapel without a symbol in sight. Engraved upon the stone precipice is-the \Men of Union College Who Gave Their Lives In The Great War 1914-1918.\ In a chapel? We engrave \War\ on our chapel? What is wnmg with this place? No wonder no one wants to come in. · Go to the Memorial Chapel and see a microcosm of America. Rernember the huge device that sat outside the Memorial Chapel for weeks and sprayed the dirt off the white marble? Did you know that at night the machine went into the chapel and SL\cked all the religion out? They went into the chapel with a firehose. We can no longer go into our chapel without being agonizingly pulled in. I want to swim out, WfJY out, the nexttime I go into my chapel. Let me see that frightening deep green please, you can have all the oily pcirtraits to yourselves. · Sometimes I sit, and communicate with The perspiring wall of Union College. On this occasion it speaks to me of experience Melded with purpose and cryptic remarks Regarding containment. It is getting chilly-. I zipper my cordaro_v jacket, 'I protect.' J.have purpose! I am shelter For those who possess the green, (unfortunatly · · This makes me biased). I gaurd a potential Haven for the budding minds admitted; A fatigued vice-grip{01' thier ranging quests. Do not mock my glistening gates-/ am Decievingly wise in such concrete circumstc.mces. ' Coo/your natural impulses, for next it \speaks of Entrances and· exits. '!lure, then admit or decline admission. Those 1 admit are given the opportunity to probe And experience all! have within-/ expect nothing In return aside the cash which is due. Each year 1 turn out a number of bewildered Souls, prepared, or not, for the negitive space I defend against daily. Go with FORCE! I scream, but am rare(v heard. Protection bears Lone(v countenance. Doyou see it? ' I respond to wall b;V saying \I am young\ Although in retrospect !do not kn()W what I Intended to convey. Then a true epiph~ny hit nye-1 am conyers ing With a !Vall. It is getting bright so I trip my way Home; Ahhhhhh! ,·

Final Exam Schedule The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995 • Page 13 FALL 1995 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 8:30AM- 10:30AM AAH*020*0l Classical Art & Arch. Matthew, L. · BI0*051*0 1 Ecology Tobiessen, P. CER*033*01 Fluicl Mechanics Jewell, T. CER*lSO*Ol Hydrology Snow, P. CLS*024*01 · Classical Art & Arch. Matthew, L. EC0*145*01 Managerial Economics Kenney, J. EER*041 *01 Electric Circuits Chang, Y. EER * 124\'01 Intra to Prob. Systems Spinelli, J. GER*012*01 Basic Gennan 3 Warde, A. GRK*120*01 Att.ic Prose Loomis, W. MER*164*01 Solar Energy An. & Des. Wilk, R. MTH*OTO*Ol Calculus 1 Bick, T. MTH*010*02 Calculus 1 Prindle, A. MTH*010*03 Calculus 1 Barbanel, J. MTH*010*04 Calculus 1 Bick, T. MTH*010*05 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. MTH*013*01 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*013*02 AP Calculus . Johnson, B. MTH*013*03 AP Calculus Johnson, B. MTH*Ol3*04 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*Ol3*05 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*013*06 AP Calculus Niefield, S. MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 Sauerberg, J. MTH*O 17*01 Calc IV:Integral Vector Niefield, S; MTH*030*01 Ordinary Diff Equation Fairchild, W. MTH*060*01 Topics in Math Pol Sci Taylor; A. MTH*l46*01 Advanced Calculus I Seiken, A. PHL*Oli*Ol History Western Phil 1 Patrik, L. PHL*064*0l Issues in Amer Ed Ludwig,'J/Weiner, T PHL*144*01 Political Philosophy Baker, R.. · PHL*174*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. PHY*016*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Schick, K. PHY*O 16*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Rodriguez, G. PSC*023*01 Math Pol Science Taylor, A. PSC*139*01 Seminar:Pol Theory Meyers, P.A. PSY*025*01 Intro to Exper Pych Burns, D. j, PSY*049*01 • Psych of Addiction Dowling,T. SOC*052*01 Issues in Airier Ed Ludwig,J/Weiner, T FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 11:30AM -1:30PM CLS*032*01 Rei. in Pagan World Scullion, J. S EC0*03 I *01 Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawarng, S. EGL*019*02 Major English Authors 1 Stevenson, R. · HST*071 *01 Mod Hist of Middle East Berk, S. MTH*l27*01 Numerical Methods Fairchild, W. PSC*Oll *02 Intra to Am Politics Weiner, T. PSY*030*01 Personality Spring, D. PSY*048*01 Psychotherapy Halpern, L. SOC*060*01 Quant Social Research Cotter, D. SPN*120*01 lllter Spanish 1 Rodriguez-Jaca, N. SPN* 120*02 Inter Spanish 1 Merediz, E. SPN* 120*03 h1ter Spanish 1 Gupta, M. SPN*l30*01 Span & Latin Alner Lit Garcia, W. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995.- 2:30PM- 4:30PM CHM:*142*01 Chern Instrumentation Werner, T. EC0*034*01 Intro to Finan Analysis Kenney, J. ESC*OlO*Ol Mechanics 1 Bucinell, R. FRN*146*01 Realism & Naturalism Laparra, C. GE0*021*01 Strat. of Eastern NY Garver, J. I. GE0*052*01 Glacial & Quatem Geo. Rodbell, D. MER*040*01 Engineering Designl Rivera, M. MTH*099*01 Intro Log & Set Theory Barbanel, J. PSC*Ot2N*02 Intra Intema'tl Pol Abootalebi, A. PSC*070*01 Constitutiorial Law Board. J. PSY*010*03 Intra to Psychology Rubonis, A. PSY*OION*Ol lntro to Psycholoi:,'Y DeBono, K. PSY*010N*02 Intro to Psychology Greenberg, S. PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. PSY*033*01 Psych of Metnffi1ink Bums. D. J. SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 8:30AM- I 0:30AM BI0*024*01 B10*032*01 CER*160*01 CER*160*02 CLS*021 *01 CLS*021 *02 EER*018*01 FRN*131 *01 GER*134*01 HEB*OlO*OI HST*013*01 HST*OI3*02 HST*Ol3*03 HST*035*01 HST*035*02 HST*045*01 HSi'* 151 *01 LAT*012*01 MER*026*01 MTH*180*01 PSC*.044*01 PSY*035*01 RUS*120*01 Genetics Horton, J. S. Comp VertebrateAnat Butterstein,G. Transportation Engr Jones, E. Transportation Engr Jones. E. History of Greece Toher, M. History of-Greece Loomis, W. · Iutro to Dig Computers Traver,C. Survey of French Lit 1 Gates, L. Goethes Faust Warde, A. Basic Hebrew l Heckehnan, D. Hist of US to Civil War Dudden, F. Hist of US to Civil War Miller, A.T. Hist of US to Civil War Meade, T. Hist of Europe 1 Halliday, P. Hist of Europe 1 Hansen, E. Tudor Eng.:1485-1603 Halliday, P. Nazi Gennany Walker, M. Latin Reading Matincoia, J. Thennodynamics Shanebrook, J. Foundations of Math Taylor, A. Japanese Gov't & Pol Gilman, T. Indust/Orgatl Psych Nydegger, R. lntennediate Russian 1 Jordan, B. ARTS215 BAIL 106 BUTR300 BU1Rl09 ARTS215 SSCI 110 NWSE201A NWSE 116 HUMN213 HUMN119 NWSE222 HUMN 115 BAIL 102 BAIL 100 HUMN115 BAIL207 HUMN019 HUMN117 HUMN 117 HUMN019 HUMN019 BAIL201 SSCI112 BAIL201 BAIL104 BAIL207 BAIL300 HUMNllO HUMN114 HUMN116 HUMN116 NWSE 112 NWSE 114 BAIL207 SSCI 105 BAIL303 BAIL312 HUMN114 HUMN114 SSCI 010 HUMN 110 SSCI 110 BAIL201 SSCI 104 BAIL312 BAIL300 SSCI 103 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 HUMN113 STZH 108 SSCI 104 NWSE222 HUMN 119 BUTR201 BUTR 109 NWSE210 BAIL 106 SSCI 010 NWSE 114 BAIL207 BUTR204 SSCI 016 BUTR204 BAIL312 BUTR204 SSCI 016 BAIL207 BAIL201 BAIL201 HUMN019 HUMN 019 NWSE222 HUMN 014 HUMN 119 HUMN 117 SSCI 112 HUMN 114 SSCI 103 HUMN 115 SSCI 104 HUMN 115 SSCI010 eHUMN 113 NWSE210 BAIL 104 SSCI 110 HUMN116 HUMN213 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 11:30AM- 1:30PM ANT*072*0l Psychological;,.Anthro Leavitt, S. SSCI 110 CER*035*01 Water Res. & Enviro Snow, P. BUTR 300 CHN*010*01 Basic Chinese 1 Xie, Y. HUMN 113 EGL*042*01 Humanities:The Orig. Heinegg, P. HUMN 014 EGL*072*01 Lit of the New Nation Shour, N. HUMN 110 FRN*OlO*Ol Basic French I Laparra, C. HUMN 114 FRN*120*01 h1termediate French l Leamon, A. HUMN 112 FRN*120*02 Intermediate French 1 Boone, J. SSCI 103 GE0*012*01 Environmental Geology Locke, S · BUTR 201 GER*OlO*Ol Basic German 1 Kellenter, S. HUMN 116 GER*010*02 Basic German 1 Harum-Ehsani,K HUMN 116 HST*029*01 African-American History 2 Miller, A.T. SSCI 014 MLT*015*01 Art & Politics in Spain Moyano, P. HUMN019 PHY*044*01 h1troduction to Astronomy MaiT, J.M. NWSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psych Greenberg,S. BAIL300 SPN*Ol2*01 Basic Spanish 3 . Martinez, L. HUMN 115 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 2:30PM - 4:30PM ACC*OIO*Ol ACC*Ol0*02 AMU*031 *01 BIO*l30*01 EER*060*01 · EGL*022*01 EGL*022N*Ol FRN*Ol2*01 GEO*Ol0*01 HST*043*01 MER*022*01 PSY*039*01 SPN*OIO*Ol SPN*Ol0*02 SPN*122*01 SPN*122*02 WST*030*01 Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. Music of Black America Olsen, T. Animal Physiology Fleishman, L. System Theory II Rudko, M. Major Amer Authors MacDonald, B. Major Amer Authors Shour, N. Basic French 3 Gates, L. Physical Geology HoHocher, K. Europe in the Early Mod Era Hansen, E. Materials Science&Eng Milillo,F. Psychology of Sex Roles Paludi, M. Basic Spanish I Garcia, W. Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. Advanced Spanish Osuna, M. Advanced Spanish Moyano, P. Psychology of Sex Roles Paludi, M. HUMN 115 HUMN 115 ARTS215 BAIL 104 NWSE201 HUMN 112 HUMN 110 HUMN 119 BUTR201 SSCI 014 NWSE210 BAIL300 HUMN019 HUMN019 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 BAIL301 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 8:30AM- I 0:30AM CER*143*01 CHM*OIO*Ol CHM*Ol0*02 CHM*Ol0*03 CHM*OI0*04 CHM*030*01 CHM*030*02 CSC*Oll *01 CSC*Ol4*01 EC0*032*01 EER*l33*01 ESC*030*01 HST*026*01 JPN*l20*01 MER*030*01 MTH*1~5*01 PHY*050*01 PSC*OI3*01 PSY*031 *01 PSY*036*01 . Foundation Engineering Ghaly, A. BUTR 300 Fundament~! Chemistry I Anderson, J. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry I Fox, K. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry I Anderson, J. . BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Carroll, M. BUTR 204 Organic Chemistry 1 Adrian, J. HUMN 019 Organic Chemistry I Sow a, J. BAIL 207 Progr for the Sciences Aim stead, L. SSCI I 04 Infonnation Processing Aim stead, L. SSCI 104 Labor & lnd Relations Prosper, P. SSC1 012 Communication Circuits Hassib, E. NWSE 116 Mech ofDefonnable Solid Thabet, W. BUTR109 The U.S. in the Wid Arena Jonas, M. SSCIII2 lntennediate Japanese I Wojnovich, M. SSCI I 05 Dynamics of Systems Rivera, M. NWSE 222 Number Theory Zimmennann, K. BAIL I 00 Electronic Projects Jones, C. NWSE 301 Intro to Pol Thought Meyers, P.A. NWSE 114 Abnonnal Psychology Rubonis, A. BAIL 307 Psych of Learning DAndrea, T. BAIL 312 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995 -I 1:30AM- 1:30PM AAH*033*01 European Art & Arch Eyennan,C ANT*OIO*Ol Intro to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. SSCl 104 Intra to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. Cytolo1:,ry Smith, G. StructuredProgramming Hannay, D. Intra to Eco Mukherjee, J. Intm to Eco Mukherjee, J. Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S. Introduction to Economics Reynolds, B. US-Japanese Eco Relations Reynolds, B. Quantitative Methods in Eco Schmidt, S.J. Intra to Black Poetry Slade, L. Mechanics 1 Anderson, A.M. Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. ARTS215 SSCI 104 STZH 106 NWSE20IA HUMNOI9 HUMNOI9 SSCI 012 SSCI 103 SSCI 103 SSCI 010 HUMN 112 NWSE210 HUMN 110 ANT*010*02 BIO* 144*01 CSC*037*01 EC0*012*01 EC0*012*02 EC0*012*03 ECO*Ol2*04 EC0*055*01 EC0*138*01 EGL*034D*01 ESC*OI0*02 JPN*OIO*OI MTH*054*0l PSC*047*01 Number Theory Zimmennann, K. BAIL 102 SSCI 110 Law & Public Policy Board, J. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 2:30PM- 4:30PM BI0*016*01 Biology I Olberg,R. COLC BI0•053*01 Forests of the Northeast Tobiessen, P. SWSE303 EC0*042*01 Macroeco Theory & Policy Kwok, C. SSCIOI4 EER*063*01 Anal/Design Electr Circts Hassib, E. NWSE 116 EGL*OI9N*Ol Major English Authors 1 Hilles. C. HUMN 116 EGL*.075*01 Early American Novel Gado, F. HUMN 019 ESC*013*01 High-Level Lang Program Hemmendinger NWSE201A GER*120*01 Intennediate Gennan I Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN II 7 GRK*OlO*Ol Principles of Greek 1 Marincola, J. l'IUMN 113 HST*052*01 Modem France: 1815-1949 Walker, M. SSCIII 0 HST*065*0t East Asian Civ Part I Madancy, J. SSCI 103 LAT*OIO*OI Principles of Latin 1 Scullion, J. S HUMN 110 PHL*020*01 Intra to Logic/Crit Think Womack,C HUMN 112 PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 Anderson, A. NWSE 114 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 Reich, G. NWSE 112 PHY*017A*Ot General Physics I Maleki, S. NWSE304 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 RUS*OIO*Ol Basic Russian J Jordan, B. HUMN ll9 soc•oto*OJ lntro to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCII04 SPN*132*01 Spanish Penit1sular Lit I Martinez, L. HUMN 114 -

Page 14 • October 19, 1995 • The Concordiensis A·dvertiseinent BE LESS PRODUCTIVE ~ -.EOFFICE .. c:§ihe office has always been are some simple ways you can a plac~ to get ahead. produce less waste at work. When also a place where a you're at the copier, lot of natural resources start It takes 95% less ene-r;gy to mamifacture products from recycled materials. only make the . coptes you to fall behind. Take a look need. Use both sides of the around the next time you're at paper-when writing a memo. · work. See how many · - Turn off yoirr light when you ~ghts are left on when people leave. See how Use both sides of the paper when writing a memo. much paper is being wasted. How much electricity is being used to run computers that are left . on. Look at how much water is being wasted in the restrooms. And how much solid waste is being thrown out in the trash cans. We bet it's a lot Now, here leave. Use a lower watt bulb · in your lamps. Drink your coffee or tea out of mugs instead of throwaway cups. Set ~p a recycling bin for aluminum cans and one for bottles. And when youre in the bathroom IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. brushing your teeth or washing your face, don't let the faucet run. Remember, 1f we use fewer resources today; we'll save more for Which would Drink out of mugs · ~Y be a job instead of throwaway cups. ll· d we. one. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND TIPS CALL l-800-MY-SHARE. Every ton of paper not landftlkd saves3 cubic yards of space. • I

• I Advertisements 1295,-96 WINTER TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES Pr~scheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAX. October 20tq. Students should review the ('()Urse listing, consul! with their adviser, and select the courses they Wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCJlEDULING FORM. IF tHE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRPERSON OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \Jist\ courses, and are indicated on the course listing by a (Y). Lists for the courses will be posted by the departments on MONDAY, October 23.rd. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY. October 27th to fii1d out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a Hst course must obtain a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. Students are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30 P.M. ON MONDAY. October 30th WilL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students should verify that the courses they have chosen arc not rimed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preschedtding form. Students must see a staff member in the Registrar's Office to preschedule courses. The date and tinw for each student's appointment is printed 011 the label or tile prescheduling form. Students may NOT preschedule eadicr than their assigned lime. However, they can come any time AFTER their appointment time. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, November 3rd. Additional course changes may be made during the \drop/add\ pe1·iod at Registration in january 1996. Students who do not plan to relum lo Unioa for the Winter Te.nu._except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY Till: Dll/\N 01' STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Students who will he 011 a Union College term abroad f01: the Fall term do not need to preschedule their rourses. Winter term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, October 30th - FRIDAY. November 3rd at the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Office of the Registrar October 1995 TGIF RIDES AGAIN! REAL DUfNER!.! NOT JUST HOT DOGS & BURGERS. CHICKEN, CASSEROLES, SAU\DS AND GARDENBURGERS, tOO, FOR ALL YDU VEGETARIANS! CHECK IT OUT. 4 · 7:00 PM at Chet's Free Food & Entertainment The Concordiensis\ October 19, 1995 • Page 15 CROSSTALK! One Down, 23 to Go: Is it Time to Bout the Greeks? Wednesday, Oct. 25 7 PM at Chet' s Coming to Union ... SltYEET HON.-EY : .. ~. IN THE ROCK The Grammy-award winning a capella singing group, which plays to standing-room only crowds at venues ranging from Troy Music Hall to Carnegie Hall, will present a concert on Friday!J Oct. 27, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The College expects a large response from members of the Union and local communities. Union students, faculty and staff will be offered free tickets (up to two each) before they are made available to the public. Information on reservations will be distributed shortly. . Sweet Honey, a popular all-female African-American a capella group has been performing music with roots in spirituals, hymns, gospel, jazz and blues for 20 years. Founded by Bernice johnson Reagan, the group's artistic director and profes- sor of history at American University, the group has been hugely popular in con- certs around the country. 'IOlU~I,fEERS 'iVJ.\i',,fED Volunteers are needed to assist the Schenectady Chapter of the League of women's voters with the upcoming candidates' Forum. candidates are those running for Mayor, City Clerk, county Legisla- tors and Board supervisors in Schenectady City and Cbunty Government. Forums are scheduled at 7pm on Wednesday, october 25, in scotia/Glenville; Thursday, october 26, in Niskayuna; Wednesday, November 1, in Rotterdam and Thursday, November 2, in Schenectady. Transportation will be pro- vided to each site. Duties include welcoming citizens attending meeting, assisting with time keeping of candidates' comments, and assisting citizens with questions for candidates. Other instructions regarding duties will be discussed at an informational. planning meeting. student volunteers in the past have said the Forums were exciting and a great learning experi· ence. Those interested in volunteering should call Ethel David at Ext. 6115 as soon as possible.

Campus Calendar Page 16, Volume 1.4 Union College October 19 - 31, 1995 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/19/95-1 0/20/~5 9:00a-9:00p Exhibit: Works of Sculptor Berj Krikorian ARTS BiD. ATRIUM 10/19/95-1 0/31/~5 Sunday- Thursday 12:00p-10:00p Friday and Saturday 12:00p-5:00p NOTT MEMORIAL OPEN Exhibit: The Machines otLeonardo Da Vinci 10/20/95-10/21/95 8:00p-10:00p Mump & Smoot- Proctors' Two, YULMAN THEATER Thursday,.10/19/9S 12:30p Dr. Cheryl Hayward \Total Synthesis of the Immuno-Supressant Rapamyacin\ SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 7:30p Dr. Na-irn Akbar, ALAS Speaker CC AUDITORIUM Friday, 10/20/95 4:00p- 7:00p TG.I.F., CHET'S Tuesday, 10/24/95 4:00p Faculty Colloquium, CC AUDITORJUM Wednesday, 10/25/95 7:00p Crosstalk on Greek System, GIET'S 8:00p Camerata Bern Chamber Orchestra CoHege/Museum Series, :MEMORIAL CHAPEL Thursday, 10/26/95 12:30p Dr. Robin Miller, Class of'89 \The Ultraviolet Photo Dissociation Dynamics of Ozone, Via Two-Dimensional Ion Imaging\ SCIENCE & ENG. NW 116 6:00p Performance: Henry V, CC AUDITORIUM CAMPUS MEETINGS Thursday .. 10/19/95 II :OOp- 8:00a All Night Study Area SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 & 112 -\\ _n..-.A~\. ... Mo~ilday thru Sund-ay '' 8:30a-l O:OOa 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union Committee Meeting CC 203 9:00a- 5:00p Senior Pictures CC 204 II :OOa- 3:00p Sweet Honey In The Rock-Student Ticket Pick UP CC ATRIUM 12:00p- I :OOp Spanish Speaking Table CC 205 12:30p- 3:30p U Call Meeting CC 409 1 :30p- 4:00p Physics Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 4:00p- 6:00p GMI Lecture HUMANITIES 115 4:30p- 5:30p Costa Rica Information HUMANITIES 112 4:30p- 6:00p Biology Seminar SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 6:00p- 9:00p LSAT/GRE SOCIAL SCIENCES 014 6:30p-1 O:OOp AOP Tutoring BAILEY 104 & I 06 7:00p- 8:00p Jr. Class Meeting SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 Thursday 10/19/95 7:00p- 9:00p Teach For America Information HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p- 9:30p Political & Social Theory HH DINING ROOM 7:30p- 8:30p IFC CC 203 7:30p- 9:00p Combined Ballet II/III PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 7:30p-1 O:OOp Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY I 00 8:00p-1 O:OOp Safe Space Group Meeting CC 409 8:00p-12:00a Chefs Committee CHET'S 9:00p-ll :OOp Henry V Rehearsal CC 205 9:30p-12:00a Alpha Phi Alpha CC 203 Friday 10/20/95 9:00a- 5:00p Senior Pictures CC 204 1 O:OOa- 2:00p Delta Psi Delta Yellow Pages Handout CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa- 3:00p Sigma Iota Alpha Halloween Sale CC ATRIUM I :30p- 2:30p Japanese Speaking Table CC 205 1 :30p- 3:00p Civil Engineering Dept. BUTTERFIELD 300 2:00p- 6:00p ACHESA Faculty Review HH OLD CHAPEL 3:00p- 4:00p Modern Languages CC 205 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 5:00p- 7:00p Virtual U SOCIAL SCIENCESOI6 7:00p- 9:00p Intervarsity Fellowship CC STRAUSS (305) 7: 15p- 9: 15p Philomathean Society HH MILANO LOUNGE Saturday 10/21/95 9:00a- I :OOp GMI Council HH DINING ROOM 1 0:30a- 1 :OOp Group Session- Admissions HH MILANO LOUNGE I :OOp- 4:00p Delta Gamma House Retreat HH OLD CHAPEL Sunday 10/22/95 5:00p- 7:00p Henry V Rehearsal 6:00p-10:00p Phi Iota Alpha cc 204 CC409 6:00p-10:00p Student Organization 6:30p- 8:00p Delta Psi Delta 7:00p'\ 8:00p Sunday Worship 7:00p- 8:30p Finance Committee ·. Monday 10/23/95 SOCIAL SCIENCES 012 CC205 HH OLD CHAPEL CC4l0 9:00a-ll :OOa Solicitor's Meeting CC 203 9:00a- 1 :OOp Union College Orchestra Photo Shoot IviEM CHAPEL · 10:00a-3:00p SigmalotaA!phaHolloween Sale CC ATRIUM 11: 30a- 1: OOp Residence Ufe Office CC 2@4 12:30p- 1 :30p Voice Mail Training CC 409 2:30p- 3:30p Voice Mail Training CC409 4:00p- 5:00p Mandatory lntership Meeting HUMANITIES 115 4:45p- 6:00p Modern Dance PERFORMING ARTS STIJDIO 4:45p- 6:30p Rugby Club SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 · 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum CC 409 5:00p-l0:00p AffiliatesPhone-a-thon HH DINING ROOM 6:00p- 8:00p Henry V Rehearsal CC 204 7:00p- 9:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:00p- 9:00p U-Med SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 Tuesday 10/24/95 8:30a- 3:30p GE Grant CC 203, CC STRAUSS (305), CC MOBIL (406) 9:00a-10:15a MATProgram-ModemLanguages HUMANITIES 113 9:30a- 3:30p U CALL CC 409 10: OOa- 3 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Halloween Sale CC A TRIU}\1 · l0:45a-11 :30a Mod~rn Languages SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 11 :30a- I :30p Faculty Soup & Beverage IDI DINING ROOM 12: OOp- 1 : OOp Committee Values Group Meeting HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p- I :30p Freshmen Preceptorial HHOLD CHAPEL 12:00p- I :30p Residence Life CC 204 12:30p- 2:00p History Department CC 205 1:30p- 4:00p Physics Special Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 2:00p- 4:00p Dining Services CC 204 4:00p- 5:30p Ad-Hoc Meeting HUMANITIES 113 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFER LIBRARY FIELD 4:30p- 6:00p Biology/Ecology-Costa Rica SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 5:00p-10:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon HH DINING ROOM 5:30p- 7:00p Ballet III PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 6:00p- 7:00p U B Glad Meeting CC 203 6:00p- 8:00p Resident Assistants In-Service HUMANITIES 019 7:00p- 8:00p Religious Programs CC 409 7:00p- 8:30p Ballet I PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO . 7:00p- 9:00p GE Information Session HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p- 9:30p Political & Social Theory Iffi MILANO LOUNGE 7:30p-10:00p Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY IOO 9:00p-ll :OOp Henry V Rehearsal CC 204 9:30p-10:30p Reception for Prof. Chu CC STRAUSS (305) Wednesday 10/25/95 9:30a-12:30p U Call Iffi OLDCHAPEL 12:30p- 3:30p U Call Meeting CC 409 I :OOp- 2:30p Sigma Iota CC 203 4:00p- 6:30p Rugby Team Practice SCHAFFERLIBRARYFIELD 4:30p- 6: 15p GMI Seminar HUMANITIES 114 4:45p- 6:00p Modern Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 5:00p- 6:00p SAC CC 205 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum CC 409 5:00p-10:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon HHDINING ROOM 6:00p- 8:00p Union College Choir ARTS 215 6: 15p-7:30p Intro. to Dance Movement PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 6:30p- 8:00p Girl Scouts CC 409 7:00p- 9:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal ARTS 313 7:00p- 9:00p Pan Hellenic CC 205 7:30p-10:00p Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY 100 MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & !O:OOp.m. unless otherwise indicated Admission: $2.00 Wednesday, 10/25/95 7 :30p \The Infiltrator\ CC AUDITORIUM (No Admission Fee) Friday, 10/20/95 through Monday, l0/23/95 \Panther\, CC AUDITORIUM SPORTS Thursday, l0/19/95 3:00p Women'sSoccervs. Oneonta, GARIS FIELD Sunday, 10/22/95 2:00p Union Hockey vs. Waterloo, ACHILLES RINK MAIN FLOOR Tuesday, 10/24/95 7:00p Volleyball vs. Hamilton, MEMORIAL.FIELDHOUSE ) . i r I

i ~ j Personals/Ciassifieds Personals Dear Duffy Moon - You can do it! I love and miss you! -.T Tex- Helpl You are the masterofthe relationless relationship, or rnaybenot! -L . Hey you! So when are we going to have our fm1? How about this weekend-my calendar is open. To EAO, Ant & Steph- A big hello from Brazil' -AU Rock, Karen and Barb - Miss you guys, see you in a few months. -M \Hein' good isn't always easy, no matter how hard I try.\ Hello t:UY beautiful sisters ofEIA, inc. I miss· you ladies so much. Seeya soon! ~'' Amable\ ,. Roomie- Kill 'em in Boston.· Too bad I can't use the single! -the guy on top Lauren You Rock! -your pal J Tara N., Heather P., Corrine D.- Miss you guys, Can't wait to hear frqm you. -Sandra Sampson & Sanabia- I miss you guys. -Sandra Karam- A few more weeks! -B~rb Mike- The time will go by faster than you.thinkll See you soon. Love, Maria Sophomore guy searching for bed. Iffound in the laundry room, pleaseretum. -Liqnut Zip it up Coke. -Us Envy, Vengeance, Sloth and Lust huh guys? I -Tex. Hi guys! How'.s the palace? I ·can't wait to move in! See you soon! -Susan To my buds in the UK- This campus just isn't the same without you guys here. -Sed Kelly~Kel in France- Greetings from Brazill Have fun aHd write soon. Love ya, Slack For the SWFs looking for a sen- sitive SWM one is found. VM Box 4581 ~Leave a message. To Roomie and Friend- Thanks so much for Saturday night. Occasionally reafity hits me and I get a little crazy_ You guys are the best! Love, Dirty BFB &ARH- Hello, how are you? I miss you guys and I'll see you soon! -SMG P.S.- Tell little Herman I say Hi! Herms and Peaches - Hello from Brazil. Be good, and don:'t do anything I wouldn't.... ~Slack HELLO!! I!!! PEGGY!! II! ! -Luis, Francisco, Roberto Sproket- I found your key, no need to go through the window. -Liqnut Sarah & Kate - Hope you had great birthdays! The party was a blast and we should definately do it again. Love, Dawn 'and Diana UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center CDC Updates ... Kaplan Strategy Sessions: Thurs., Oct. 19, 6- 7:30pm for the LSAT. · and 7:30- 9 pm for the GRE. Social Sciences 014. . Teach for America Information Session, Oct. 19 at 7 pm in Old ChapeL A representative will be holding an infonnal session. Sign up in the CDC. ME Co-op Meeting for sophs and juniors on Oct. 19 at 7:30pm, CDC. DELPHI Summer Internship: For electrical and mechanical engi- neering. Resumes due at CDC by 5 pm on Friday, Oct. 20. US Peace Corps on-campus interviews on Friday, Oct. 27. Sign up • deadline for interviews is Monday, October 23. Application is required for i'nterview. Educational Resources Group is interviewing on-campus November , 10. Teaching Positions will be available for Math, Science, History, En- · glish and Foreign Language majors. Coaching athletic teams a plus. Re- sume .and transcript extended DEADLINE October 27 before 5pn. Company Information Sessions American Power Conversion on Oct. 23 in CDC at 7 pltl. General Eledric on Oct. 24 in Old Chapel at 7 pltl. Northwestern Mutual Life on Oct. 24 in CDC at 7 pm. Internship Workshop, Oct. 25 in CDC at 7 pm. Employers oftern seek ' graduates with releVa1ll experience. Learn how to arrange an irzten1ship which will use and build your career skills. The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995 • Page 17 My drunken stupor is my excuse, that's why my friends endure the abuse. -the Crow Spigot- I'm glad you're feeling better and always remember I'm never to busyforyou. By the way, when::'s .my little budy? -D • YOUR VOTE can make a difference in the city where you spend the first four years of your adult life. To the brothers ofODX- Thanks fortheparty-We had a lot of fun. • You can influence policy by being active politically in the community where you receive your college education. -the sisters off<i>B • EM&TL- You wiU be able to view the difference your vote makes because you are here. Best ofluck! I'm looking forward to lunch. Voting is a right and a privilege --exercise yours-- VOTE! -Sed Keg stand anyone? Lisa- Thanks so much for all of your help with the trip. You are the best. I wish you were coming! Prof. S- ThaHks for a11 of your help and all of the laughs. -your Concordy staff by the Committee to Elect Conroy P R 1· N C I I' L E S o f S 0 L' (<.; () R E T I R I~ ,\\' E 7\ T ., I ::'\ \' E S T I :-., G . . - BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY, ASI( FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. Y ou put more than just your sav.ings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overatl financial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all widely recognized resources for finding out how strong a financial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade.· IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. TlAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability and over- all financial strength. (These are ratings of Ensuring the future for those who shape it~ insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) And TIAA~which, backed by the company'lO' claims-paying ability, oflers a guaranteed rate of return and the opportunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nation- wide that currently hold these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LEITERS EVERYONE ~lHOULD KNOW. For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future~ Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest pr·ivate retirement system based on assets under management, with over $.146 billion in assets and more than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. •Not .111 arcount,; nre availaLlc- under the basic retirement plans at all institu1ion~. ThPy t'lre, however. all avail\ble for T1AA:CREF Supplt.\mrntal R•tir•m•nl i\nnuili., (SR!I<). C'RilF e<'rlifioate! are di•oributed by TIAA-CREF lndividu•l & ln•litutional Servie\. .

. i ,. ,. Page 18 • October 19, 1995 • The Concordiensis Sports The 1995-96 Union Hockey Season Preview by Dagan LaCorte, Sports Staff The 1995-96 Union Hockey season is here! The Skat- ing Dutchmen open their season this Sunday, as they play host to Waterloo. The 1995-96 season marks Union's fifth season in division I play, and coach Bruce Delventhal 's eighth behind the Dutchmen bench. In the past t\vo sea- sons Delventhallead the Dutchmen to their first two ECAC division I playoffbirths. Assisting Delventhal for the third straight season is Kevin Sneddon. former Harvard captain and Los J\.ngeles Kings dratt pick. With nineteen return- ing lcttcnncn. the 1995-96 squad should prove to be a suc- cessful one. In addition to the number of familiar faces, Uni.on Hockey as made some key additions Assistant coach David Green left Union this past summer, opt- ing to pursue his graduate educa- tion at Clarkson University. Green is replaced by Lake Supe- rior graduate Vince Faucher. Faucher was a member of Lake Superior's National Champion- ship team, and following gradua- tion played in the Ottawa Sena- tors organization prior to coming to Union. The coaching staff is further bolstered by the addition of former Skating Dutchmen Chris Sears. Sears was a mem- ber of the Skating Dutchmen squad from 1992-1993. Sears, a senior at Union is a volunteer as- sistant coach and will add a great deal of knowledge and enthusi- asm to an already strong coach- ing staff. One of the strongest aspects of the 1995-96 Dutchmen squad is thegreatdeal.ofexperience which is provided by the senior class. Coach Delventhal spoke very highly about the senior leader- ship, \I think this year's class is the best we've seen since becom- ing a division I team. They have the experience it takes to move us in a new direction\ Defensemen Reid Simonton leads the Dutch- men squad, wearing the captain's \C.\ Simonton has had a success- ful career at Union, being named as an ECAC All-Rookie in 1992- 93, as well as being an honorable mention on the ECAC All-Star team for the past two seasons. Simonton is by far the most tal- ented player on the Union squad • and has the ability to dominate a game. His excellent skating and puck-handling abilities led to his selection in the 1994 NHL supplemental draft by the Quebec Nordiques (now Denver Ava- lanche). lfthe Dutchmen expect to be a major force in the ECAC this season, Simonton must play consistently every night. Simonton is assisted by defensive partner Scott Boyd. Boyd, like Simonton has enjoyed a great deal of success in his career. In his first season and a half at Union, Boyd was not considered to be one of the Dutchmen's top defensemen However, all that changed as his p.lay began to solidify greatly midway through the I 993-94 sea- son. Playing alongside fellow Calgary native Reid Simonton, Boyd became a major reason for the team's tremendous year-end drive in I 994. Since then Boyd and Simonton have represented Union's top defensivepair. The only senior forward on the 1995- 96 squad is Ryan Donovan. Donovan, although academi- cally only a junior, is in his final year of NCAA eligibility. Last season Donovan nearly tripled his offensive production of the year before, netting five goals and eight assists. Donovan, a Vancouver na- tive centers the Dutchmen's top line. Withjuniorwingers Chris Ford and Russell Monteith, Donovan should be amongst Union's top of- fensive producers this sea- son. Of the team's four cap- tains and assistants, Andrew Will represents the only non- · senior to receive the honor. From the moment Andrew Will stepped on the ice two years ago, he has been a model of consis- tency. Will has been Union's most consistent player over the past two seasons, missing only one game in two full seasons. . Will represents an excellent com- bination of defensive and offen- sive talents. Last year Will lead all Dutchmen defensemet:l in scoring, totaling twenty one points on seven goals and four- teen assists. Andrew Will repre- sents only one component of the strong junior class, which is the heart of the Dutchmen team. Of the 26 members of the Dutchmen squad, twelve are juniors. The junior forwards are led by Chris Fot:d, Russell Monteith, and John Sicinski. Ford and Monteith have been linemates since early on in their fresh- men campaigns. Their styles complement each other very well, as Ford is more of a sniper while Monteith is very strong on his feet in the cor- ners. Together they accounted for forty- four points last sea- son. JohnSicinski was fourth in goal scoring last season with nine. Sicinski is a strong forward with good moves and a deceptive shot. In the past, most ofSicinsk i 's production has come in the latter half of the season. If Sicinski is able to score goals consistently from the start of the season, then the Dutchmen will be in goo.d shape. Junior Jay Prentice is also one of the top Dutchmen forwards. Prentice is a good skater who likes to take the puck to the net. Prentice appeared in all twenty- nine Dutchmen games last sea- son, totaling 13-points. Center Chad Thompson returns for his third season as well. Thompson is one ofthe most popular Skat- ing Dutchmen, as his gritty play and ability to create offense serve as great strengths to the Dutch- men squad. The team is hoping to see Thompson return to the level ofplay which saw him tally ten points in his first eleven games in 1993. One of the Dutchmen's finer points last sea- son was the emergence of Craig Reck in as a versatile forward. Craig Reck in had a disappoint- ing freshmen campaign, as he saw no point production in a lim- ited number of games. However, last' season proved much more successful for Reck in, as he be- came one of the Dutchmen's top penalty killers. In addition to his excellent penalty killing, Reckin totaled six points on two goals and four assists. If Reckin continues to im- prove his play, he could develop into the Dutchmen's top two- way forward. The final two junior forwards are Pat O'Flaherty and Jamie Antoine. Pat O'Flaherty saw much action in his freshmen campaign, contributing a great deal to the Dutchmen's late season success. However, since then, injuries have plagued 0 'Flaherty so that he has ·been able to see o.nly a limited amount of action. After missing this seasons Garnet and White Game, O'Flaherty is expected to return to the Dutchmen line-up soon. l-lis return wiH serve to so- lidify the Dutchmen's center po- sition. Jamie Antoine saw very limited action in his first season and a half with the Dutchmen. He only began to see action regularly during the latter half of last sea- son. Antoine responded well, tal- lying three goals and two assists in only sixteen appearances. In this season's Gamet and White Game, Antoine was perhaps the most impressive of all Dutchmen forwards, scor- ing one goal, and playing very well physically, All of the re- maining junior players are defensemen. Bill Moody has been a con- sistent defensemen in his first two seasons with the Dutchmen, appearing in almost all ofUnion's games, second only to Andrew Will among junior defensemen. In addition to his defensive play, Moody added four assists last season. Seabrook Satterltmd exemplifies the term persistence. After playing in only three games in his freshmen sea- son, Satterlund emerged as one of the Dutchmen's top defensemen last season. In twenty three games last year, Satterlund tallied six as- sists. In this season's Garnet and White Game, Satterlund was the most impressive of all Dutchmen defensemen. Greg Buchanan rounds of the junior class. Buchanan saw action in only eleven games last season, but his physical play was far from unseen. Buchanan, at 6' 2'' • 220 pounds. is Union's strongest defensemen. His nature of play is something which is often lacking in many of Union's gan1es. The sophomore class sees the return of three key players. Winger Charlie Moxham had a very impressive rookie campaign last season, totaling fourteen points on five goals and nine as- sists. Moxham is a very quick skater who has the ability to pro- duce a great deal of offense. The other returning sophomore for- ward is Boe Leslie. Leslie saw ac- tion mostly in the latter half of last season. His play greatly im- proved in each game he played. Leslie had three points last sea- son and is expected to improve upon that this season. Leslie is one of the hardest workers on the goalie Trevor Koenig. Dutch- m e n squad a n d shou !d emerg.e as one of t h e team's leaders. T h e most no- table of a I l Dutch- m e n sopho~ mores IS Trevor Koenig, who was ex~ pected to see only limited action last season, emerged as Union's top goalie midway through last season. Koenig appeared in twenty ofUnion's games last sea- son, posting a record of 7-9-2 with a goals against average of 3. 70, and a . 884 save percentage. In addition, Koenig recorded Union's first ever division I shut- out with a 6-0 performance against St Lawrence. Coach Delventhal expects a great deal from Koenig now that he has a full year of division I experience under his belt In addition to the great deal of experience that the Dutchmen have, they hope to be aided by a crop of talented fresh- men. The freshmen class consists of three defense men, four forwards, and one goalie. Captain Reid Simonton is confident that the freshmen class will make a gFeat contribution to the Dutchmen hockey team. \There are a few guys who will be able to step right in and make an immediate im- pact. The resf of the freshmen will need some time to gain some experience and will eventually all become an important part of the team\. Defensemen Mark Will and Ryan Boyd are the younger brothers of Andrew Will and Scott Boyd and will hopefully have similar impacts to those of their older brothers. Defensemen Joel Bond is seen as a player who will be able to make an immedi- ate impact, as a result of his strength and physical play. The freshmen forwards are Darcey O'Shea, Mark Szuchs, Eric Houle, and Brent Ozarowski. All are expected to become major contributors to the Dutchmen of- fense, with Ozarowski expected to make an immediate impact. Leeor Shtrom represents the fu- ture of Dutchmen goaltending. Leeor is considered to be a top goaltending prospect, and will be seeing some action alongside starting goalie Trevor Ko~nig. With a strong mix of experi- enced veteral'ls and some young talent, the Dutchmen will hope- fully experience a chemistry which will retum them to the fonn which saw the tea1ii finish in the top half ofthe ECAC.

r { f 1 ) s e y c II d t. 1- i- tg e- ry m :le Win Over RPI Moves Men's . . Rugby Into Tie for First by Mike Gifford Sports Staff In a sport-that averages six or seven matches per season, ther:e is little room for poor perfor- mance. One lost match can de- stroy your chances at a title, de'\' ciding whether or not a club goes to Upstates, or stays home. Uni9n is one game away from both. On Saturday afternoon, with the usual uncooperative weather, the men's rugby team defeated the number one ranked team in the division, RPI. With an un- swerv-ing. west wind and periods of rainfall, Union battled its way through mud and injury to hold off an impending RI>I advance .. ment, d'ealing with the faster, stronger Engineers in a highly de- fensive manner. Three international veterans from Argentina playing for RPI made the job even worse, as the well-conditioned line and serum had Union pulling out all the stops. However, we had a kick ass international player ourselves, and a team whose iror1 will even- tually wore down the RPI dark Engineers and broke them in half. Union came off of the pitch 90 minutes later with a 13 to 5 win over the ex-lone-number-one- we're-supposedly-the-best-team- of-the-century, Engineers. After a slow first half with the wind at their faces, it was tough enough just running, let alone try- ing to pass or kick. The plays shouted out by the fly half during the blustery weather were often not heard, making the plays very difficult to carry out with even the sligh~est amount of precision. A slippery baH also added to the confusion on both s.ide.s, b11t it didn't .real:ly tttatter though, be- cause RPI was slowly being toppled by Union's tanacious baH-handling skills. As RPI's coach, \Sally Spare-Tire,\ bitched ar,td squeaked at his already floun- dering team, Union's own Skip Aycox and Tom Milner were a solid, composed leading faction. During the secondhalfthe hy- drophobic Engineers, continuing to whine about ho~ cold it was, time and time again lost te.atn co- hesion and sportsmanship;· and generally fell apart. RPFs con- stant second-half cries of, \there's mud on my shirt,\ \it's raining again,\ or my favorite, \why are they hitting sohard,\ combined with a high Union morale, led to their downfall. Pike Mody and Adam Schwartz were two key elements in the serum conflicts, as Jay Sanabia and Mike Hanna both demon- strated what it means to take one for the team-Hanna left with a slight concussion and two 12'' gashes across his chest, and Sanabia with 20 stitches above his right brow. RPI 's fate was sealed with Chris Delano's \missile run\ down the Weak side to the try zone, with Seth Brown's penalty kicks to boot. Women's Tennis Set \ . Their Sights on States by Eric Svenson Sports Staff The Union College women's tennis team finish out their sea- son with a record of 5-6 but look towards states as new challenge. The Dutchwotnen were beaten by Skidmore 8-1 last w~ekend but is important to get a I ittle background on Skidmore before we make our judgm~nt on the loss. If we turn the clock back just one weekend prior to the 8-l loss we would see a women's tennis tourna- ment held at William- Smith. A women's tennis tourna- ment that hosted eight teams and re- sulted in Skidmore placing t1rst overall. Skidmore, s impressive standing at the tour- ney gives us a little itisight on the toughness oftheirprogtam. This toughness obviously ef- fected the performance of the · Dutchmen as they faced the pow- erhouse just one week later. Well, maybe it didn't effect all of the Dutchwomen, after all there was one player who was not scared off by the. reputation. There was one woman who saw the underdog position as simply a challenge, a challenge but by no means a determining factor. Dawn Tessier played her heart out at six singles and walked away with a proud 6-4, 0-6, 6-4 victory. T h e· Dutchwomen left Skidmore with a 8- t loss, placed 6th in the Wil- liam-Smith Tournament, fi.n.ished their season 5-6, and are headed into states with positive atti- tude. In the words of Tessier, \Even though we didn't play up to onr po- tential at Skidmore, we are con- fident heading i11to states.\ The B-game was almost a car- bon copy of the first, shutting down RPI and beating them sensel€ss. Sprinkled with both members of the A and B teams due to the many injuries, in a game in which Union playing was the textbook definition of the gem known as commitment, the Fight- ing Dutchmen came together and won the only way they know how-· as a team. John Poor, who p'layed both games, managed to r-each ·inside and pull out enough energy for a try on a kick off, knocking over abo~It 8 guys on his way there. Seth Brown also scored twice, using his strategic veteran knowl- edge to wind his way through the opposing line. Chuck Martin rammed his way through the op- posing serum to score as well. Pike Mody and Mike Gifford both scored with runs up the strong side, adding to the damage. Being Mody's first collegiate score, which is difficult for a wing for-Ward, he celebrated by drag- ging four opponents into the try zone with him. Union levels RPI, 38-0. Saturday's away game against Binghamton is the deciding match for Union. If we play half as well as we did this weekend, we're going to screw their stuff up. A special thanks goes out to the two men who's skill and pro- fessionalism have taken us this ·- far, Mr. Skip Aycox and Mr. Tom Milner. Champlin's Interception Seals RPI's Fate· Compiled by sports contacts The Union College Football team showed up at RPI on Sat- urday looking to keep their play- off hopes alive against Upstate New York's top ranked offense. Luckily for Union they have what some believe to be one of the nation's top defenses in Di- vision IH college football. Yes once again the story of the game was Union's defense, they held RPI's high powered scoring at- tack to t 3 points to hold on to a 16-13 victory. With forty seconds remaining in the football game and the ball at Union's 13, Bobby Champlin intercepted his second pass ofthe game to hold offRPI 's last stand, and virtually end their season. Champlin received ECAC's and UCAA 's \De(ensive Player of the Week\ honors as he recorded 16 tackles, intercepted two passes, and came up with a sack. Champlin spearheaded a defense that came up with two goal line stands, a blocked punt, three in- terceptions, and two sacks. On Union's first goal line stand they stopped RPI on the one yard line The Concordiensis • October 19, 1995! Page 19 bi'ir/ ... ;ftiij .. 1..,.,'ll,.\. to i'1RlgiJr6flS Test ,by Tobias Le.n CantributJng Writer On the weekend of October 28 and 29, the Union College Skat- ing Dutch1nen will face their toughest test in the history ofthe progra1n. The University of . Maine and the University of New Hampshire will come .into . Ac~ilies Rink, for a weeken.J se-- on fourth down. The next time RPI got the ball it went from the Union 29 to a first and goal at the Dutchmen four before senior de- fensive back Charrod Riley came up with an interception in the endzone. Union scored the first points of the game when freshman phenom Justin Campbell blocked his fourth punt of the season(which is no easy feat)and sophomore Jason Noker recovered it in the endzone for a touchdown. The PAT was blocked and Union led 6-0. Campbell from his defensive back spot is tied for the team led with five sacks. He is playing a position where he is expected to cover receivers, but he seems to do it all, he also has 30 tackles, three fumble recoveries, and an interception. The Engineers stormed back and took a 7-6lead with 10:09 to remain in the second quarter. They traveled 40 yards in five plays, scoring on a nine yard touchdown pass. Union's first possession of the second half re- sulted in a 30 yard Roger Egbert field goal to put the Dutchmen up 9-7 with 7:58 remaining in the half. The Engineers drove 61 dates lead a list of impressive forwards. That list also includes Trevor Roenick, brother ofNHL superstar Jeremy Roenick. As far as the New Hampshire Wildcats, they are not far be- hind. They have been mvited to the NCAA tournament for the past .two years, and have been among the elite in Hockey East since it was formed. The Wild- cats are led hy Mike Sullivan Mark Mowers ( 13- ~A';!f:%:: · ·· · · h~ve yards in 10 plays to take a 13-9 lead with 6:42 to play. On a fourth and 25 the RPI cen- ter snapped the ball high giving the Dutchmen the ball at the nine. The very next play freshmen quarterback Tom McKewon see- ing his first action of the season hooked up with junior running back Justin Barque in the left flat for a nine yard score. Egbert added the PAT to give Union a 16-131ead with 3:32 to play. Then Champlin came up with the game winning turnover. To hear announcer Greg Kalish make the announcement was a thing of beauty. Greg went on to state that \every ·offensive player should shake a defense player's hand and offer to buy him a beer\. Once again the defense saved the show. On the offensive side ofthe ball McKewon had to pick up the load completing 10-20 passes for 106 yards and a touchdown Union's leading ground gainer Kojo Attah was benched due to disciplinary actions and will continue to play this week against Coast Guard Coast Guard devastated Union's season last year so the Dutchmen are sure to be on the warpath this week for revenge. - .>\ •

.. :p 7? '' ,, O~tober 19, 1995 Men's Soccer Late Season Flop Dutchmen Lose Three Straight by Eric Svenson & Jon Fader Sports Staff While the men's soccer team had high hopes for. their final stretch ofthe season, things didn't exactly go as they had wished. The Dutchmen suffered three straight l·osses this past week; Even more demoralizing was the fact that the ball didn't once see the back of the opponents net In soccer, as in most sports, it's hard to win when you don't score. The first game could have gone either way. After regulation and one overtime the game remained scoreless. It wasn'tuntil ten min- utes were left in the second over- time when RIT scored and ren- dered the Dutchmen ad isappoint- ing 1-0 home defeat lt was all downhill from there. The team went on to lose 3-0 to Clarkson and 4-0 to St Lawrence. After such a tough stretch it is going to be difficult to raise the morale of the team. Hopefully Coach Nardiello will find some way to revive the Dutchmen attack for their three remaining games. Ryan Cohen escapes a St. Lawrence tlefender during the Dutchmen's 4-0 loss. (photos by Scott Druckemiller/TC) Dutchwomen Still in Playoff Hunt by Jon Gasthalter Sports Staff With three games left in the season, the Dutchwomen began the week with a 2-4 record in the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Associa- tion and a slim chance of making the playoffs. The Dutchwomen traveled to Williams College on October 11 and SUNY Oswego on the fourteenth. The team split the two games and, with one game remaining in the season, the Dutch women's playoff aspirations ap- peared to be growing bleaker as the team's record went to eight and five overalL However, with one game remaining, the Dutchwomen' s place in the playoff picture is still very much a possibility. Coach Charlyn Robert felt that the team had a \very good chance ef getting in [to the playoffs]\ due to the strength of the team's schedule and suc- cess that the team had against teams that are very strong including Middlebury, Harnilton, Springfield, and Rochester. In addition, University of Brockport lost to Rensslaer this past weekend, put- ting Union into tbe eighth spot in the race for a playoff position. The Dutch women's final game at home against Hartwick on Oc- tober 18 will play an important part in determining Union's future. \They [Hartwick] are kind of in the middle of the pack and we are kind of at the tail-end right now, so a good game against them and a big win against them could mean a real surprise for us,\ said Rob- ert. At Williams, the Dutchwomen played a very strong game. At the end of regulation time, neither team had scored. However, Williams struck in the overtime period, as goaltender Elan a Goldberg saved a first shot, but was beaten on the rebound, as Williams took home a one to nothing win. . The Dutch women, in a must win situation, continued on to Os- wego. Union dominated the game offensively as five different play- ers scored goals to give the Dutchwomen a much needed five to two win. Freshman Bianca Promo netted her first collegiate goal in the first half. PAGE20 &JI~·~~ii'Jf!fl::,:,~. >•- .·-•--•- ....... !illllllllll~~- .. ~~~ ..... ,.~''-''~.~:.~,;/;~~t:I~:::-., '· ... • :•r3<•~:N':'·~·,£:;:;:,,y,.,;.~·:·: .. ,·,;~;~:~;.-:,,-:: ,.,;{''''''<'·7-'':: The Dutchmen battle St Lawrence in an effort to prevent the eminent shutout (photos by Scott Druckemiller for The Concordiensis) Three Cheers for the Firmans Women Ruggers Are on Their Questfor the Title by Kathy \Legs\ Walter Sports Staff Well, it's Saturday again, and you know what thatmeans. Yes, the women ruggers had another rumble with destiny. Armed with only the Firmans, Bro'scar, Tiffs tank and the Mom-mobile, Union traveled to the windyand desolate (boy, do we ever mean desolate!) north to play the lady polecats of Potsdam State. (How desolate was it you ask? I could have driven on the left side ofthe road for the entire trip and not run into anybody!) For those of you who don't know what a polecat is, it's a skunk. And yes, they did have one on the side of the field! (What were you ex- pecting, they're in the middle of nowhere; what else are they go~ ing to play with?) Groggy, the Union women managed to fair quite well against the polecats (I just love saying the name. It rolls right off the tongue. Go ahead, say it!). Kim \They ain't got no thin\' Sanabia scored the only try of the game early in the first half, and Sara \you are goin' down, babe\ Gower kicked the PAT (points after try) to make it 7-0. Unfortunately, the gale- force winds and sheets of rain proved to be a huge obstacle for kicking and the score ended at 7-0, Union. There were a plethora of pen- alties called against Potsdam during the game, due, in a large part, to the intellectual prowess of the Union women and their amazing ability to fake it. (Potsdam didn't stand a chancel) They were off sides here, they had too many men in the Iine- .out there, and the biggy, they were shirt tackling! Ill! Yes folks, Union was just too quick to 'get a wrap on' I Happily for us, the refs attitude was, \If you can't bring down your opponent, thfm forget it, you get a penalty.\ And believe me, we took full ad- vantage. Katie \The Iron Wall\ Conway, for one, literally ran straight into their serum and knocked about 5 or 6 of them right on their bums! (She was like a bowling ball and they were ... not happy.) The beauty was, Katie's shear force didn't allow them to tackle her, so Potsdam got another penalty called! And what do you think we did? Of course, we ran the play again!! (Brilliant, eh?) Beth \the Squinner\ Wheat used the p~nalty idea and chose to just keep rolling off of people as they grabbed her shirt, which got sick- ening amounts of yardage for Union. The previously mentioned game was brought to you, not in part, but completely by the com- bined effort ofthe serum made up of Julie \J just live here\ Firman and Katie \Don't mess with me\ Conway (the two props); Ahnya ''I'm so sorry\ Mendes and Shalini '\I may be quiet, but\ Sood (the hookers. Yes, hookers play this game, too); Courtney \I had· to wait 'til she got position\ Brem and Kathy \?!#%*\ Walter (the two <lriving forces ofthe serum); Jayne \I need a new nickname\ Seekins, and Andrea \just get me home, I want to get hammered\ Schulman (the flankers), and Naomi \I love my mouth guard, especially when it's in right\ Harel (the eight man who tasted many a try, and made up for it later) and 'the· line with Jen \Rugby has everything - and I love it all\ Lelas (she came, she saw, she kicked some polecat boo- tie), Kim \Fraternity parties never looked so good!\ Sanabia (the drill sergeant), Beth ''I always wear a bandanna\ Wheat (the smiling,witha capitalS) wing that just loves life, especially the hard- hitting rugby Hfel Can you blame her?), Cathy \Party Girl\ Budgen (she may be a rookie, but, she al~ ready knows the ropes!), Deb \don't let the tape fool you'; Spaulding (we'll see if she plays softball in the spring), Sara \you mean we have to run after .that\ Gower (who kicked. some amaz- ing strategy plays which gave us even more amazing field position. It would have been a miracle, though, if someone could have actually kept up with her for sup- port) and Stacey \Squinty\ Fel- lows (the blind fullback witha big mouth). When a tackle was made by any of these fine young women, you knew it, no doubt. (Just ask a lady polecat;· I told you it rolls off the tongue when you say it.) Afterwards, part of the team stayed to mend over the bruises that we caused in the game, by showing our true rugby spirit. I must say, not only did we outdo them on the field, but we blew them away on the drink-up. There have been blatant winnings of drink-ups, but it usually occurs on the home turf! Not so this time. In fact, if drink-ups were counted as part of our record, this win would have brought us to States!! (Yes, our mothers ar.e proud,) At this-time we wquld like to thank the. ref for giving 'l:\S the 'proper' riJles for rugby, the res~ taurant in Tupper Lake for being ever so quick to serve us, and the Lady polecats for having good sportsmanship. Okay, offthe sar~ casticnoteand on toamoreposi~ tive one. We would really like to · thank Amanda ''the surrogate mom\ who traveled with us to Potsdam and has been a great re .. source this season (she's ·another late bloomer to rugby; but we thinkshe'shooked. Canyousay, interesting rookie night?) and the Schenectady Reds (our ·surro- gate .... , ru leave that where it is) who have adopted us and been a great asset as coaches. The women ruggers take on Plattsburgh next Saturday around noon. Hope to see you there as we romp for the title and privi- lege of attending the State cham- pionships.

Volume CXXV Number VII ' ' Union Students Make A Difference , by Aileen Quigley' News Staff Making a difference in another person's life or helping out in your community can be one of the single most rewarding experi- ences. On October 28th, Union College, in conjunction with be- nevolent organizations and vof- unteers all over the country, will get the chance to make an impact. Your mission, should you choose to accept, is \to take one day and make life better for oth· ers,\ as stated by USA Weekend. On a:locallevel, Schenectady will also take part in this na~t~nal event. Michael Lynch, Assistant Director of AlumniAffaits, along with the office ofthe De8n ofStu~ dents, is organizing agrmtp to aid Schenectady's non-denomina- tional City Mission in''pi~paring for the holidays.,, In a letter t<J the Points ofLight Foundation in Washington, D.C., he states the function ofthe city mission is to \serve the poor and homeless.\ The s,ix-buildingmis- , sion \incl udes.programs for men, women, and local youth.\ In preparation for the holiday seasori, Lynch's group will assist mission staff and other commu- nity members in generally ck:an- continued on page 3 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York Enjoy the scenery before the term · and the campus is buried u.nder tlzree feet ofsnow. (photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis) _,....,...Watson Finalists Announced Courtesy of Economics Dept This year's finalists for the Thomas J. Watson Traveling Traveling Fellowship are Karen Peppiatt, Mara Sipzener, Sara Stoner, and Trinh Thai. They will advance to a competition with fi- nalists from 49 other top liberal arts colleges across the country, from whom 60 winners will be anounced in mid-March by the Watson Foundation. Winners recieve a stipend of$16,000 to go anywhere (o\ltside North America) and do anything (except go 'to school}duting the year af- ter grduation. The finalists were chosen on the basis oftheir pro- posal for a year of travel, letters ofrecortunendation, and an inter- view wth the Union selection committee chaired by Professor Klein of the Economics Depart- ment. The proposals from this years finalists are all over the map, both literally and figurativ~ly. Karen, and English major, has planned a year in the Celtic cultures of the British Isles, the Channel Islands, and Brittany. She wants to meet up and coming poets in those re- gions, and to also have the time to write her own poetry. Mara's proposal combines both an aca- demic and at the same time very personal interest. As a Psychol- ogy major and the grandaugheter of a Holocaust survivor, she is interested generally in how cuJ• ture affects the transmission of trauma froni generation to gen:. eration, and specifically in meet- ing other children and grandchil- dren of survivors in Europe and Israel. Sara wants to expand on her Economics major, and her inter- est in third word development by using her Fellowship to help es- tablish women-owned and oper- ate.d small businesses in Kenya, Brazil, and the Dominican Re- public. She hopes by doing this to not only help the women in- volved, but to learn more about the development process. Last, but not least, Trinh is interested in learning about the technical and social aspects of historic bridges in both Europe and Asia. As a Civil Engineer, she is interested in seeing how these bridges were built, but she is equally interested in why they were built, and what social, political, and economic effects they had. The selection committee of Prof. Klein, Prof, Carroll Hilles (English), Prof. Libby Jones (Civil Engineering), Prof. Safi Maleki (Physics), and Prof. Teresa Meade (History), would like to salute all of the se11iors who applied for the Watson this year. It is always fun to read the pro~ posals, and the selection process is very difficult. The other appli- cants and their topics are listed below. Ryan Bloom: High unemploy~ ment and angry youth. in France Rebecca Barry: Cultural values in Children's literature Tracy Bush : The culture of food in France Michele Cohen: Families, cul- tural values, and child rearing in Latin America Michelle Ellis: Status of immi- grants in Israel and Australia John Green: Cultural Festivals Chris Hancock: Helping out in disaster zones Lorene Kaminski: Practice of dentistry Rein is Kanders: Role of scien- tists in political change Jefferey M~lec: The history of sailing Brian Pidgeon: Italian regional food Craig Pike: German reunifica- tion Anand Rao: Technology and discontent in Ireland and India Eric Sharfstein: Cultural iden- tity vs. national identity Monica Webster: Finding bet- ter ways to teach second lan- guages October 26 ~ 1995 Visit the New Multicultural Center by Michelle Ellis News Editor Students are encouraged by Assistant Dean ofStudents, Dean Letriz, to take advantage of the new Multi-Cultural Resource Center, which opened this Fall. Letriz is primarily responsible for multi-cultural and intema· tiona I student life on campus He oversees the Multi-Cultural Af- fairs Group, which consists of students, facult)i, andadministra- tive representatives. It is largely due to Dean Letriz and President Roger Hull's joint efforts that the Multi-Cultural Resource Center was established. The new Multi-Cultural Re- source Center is located on the third floor of the Reamer Center., across from the Dean of Student's Office and down the hall from the Women's Center The Multi-Cultural Resource Center is equipped with three computers.which provide access to the internet and the World Wide Web, The room also sup- plies adequate meeting space, a library ,which will soon be avail- able 'on line: and portraitsrep- resenting different cultures. ln encouraging students to take ad- continued on page Inside News ........... 2-4 World News .. 5 Science & Medicine ..••..•. 6 OP/ED .•••..•. 7-8 A&E ..•...•.. 9-10 Features ....... 11 Elections . 12-13 Living ...... ee.. 14 Personals & Classifieds ... 15 Calendar .••.. 16 Finals ............. 17 Sports ...•. 19-20

.. '\ •I ~. . ; Page 2 • October 26, 1995• The Concordiensis Tile C1Jn1J1Jttliensi1 meel1 every Wetlne1tl1y nijlll af 1:00pm in file Reamer Camp111 Cenlet, R111Jm 101. Campus News UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENTSUMM:ARY MONDAY OCTOBER 16,1995 THROUGH SUNDAY, OCTOBER,22, 1995 DATE/TlME LOCATION MONDAY,OCTOJ3ER 16,1995: 1:20AM Achilles Rink area l :25 PM Fox Loading Dock 5:02PM Reamer Center TUESDAY,OCTOBER 17,1995: 1 :09 AM Davidson 9:45PM Raymond/Patter Lot WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18,1995: l :37 AM Fox House THURSDAY,OCTOBER19, 1995: 12:15 AM South College 2:15PM Schaffer Library liAS PM College Center Circle FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20,.1995: 1:47AM Davidson Lot 2:30 Arvi Sigma Phi Lot 3:59AM South College !2:40PM Webster House 8:35PM Raymond House area 11:31 PM Davidson SATURDAY,OCTOBER21, l995: 1 :04 AM Reamer Center · 10:44 PM Davidson SUNPAY, OCTOBER22, 1995: 2:43AM Phi Delta Theta 2:43AM 4:56AM 4:56AM 2:06PM 5:40PM 6:50PM 8:19PM 10:48 PM 10:53 PM Phi Delta Theta Sigma Chi Sigma Chi Richtnond area West College . North Terrace Lane West College Edwards House Raymond South INCIDENT VANDALISM: Graffiti spray painted on entry stairway. THEFT: Redeemable cans stolen. Stu- dentchasedtwosuspectsoffcampus. SPD contacted. Area checked suspects gone. HARASSMENT: Students subjected to r~peated harassing telephone calls. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/HEALTH HAZARD: Student urinated on 1st floor hall carpet. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM/ATTEMPTED THEFT: Canvas top on student's car cut open. Car entered and searched. No theft. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odoroftnari- juana reported. Report coAfirmed. Drug paraphernalia coAfiscated. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Student receiving an- noyance telephone calls. INDECENT EXPOSURE: Subject, be lievedto be a visitor, exposed himself in the library. Campus searched. Suspect not located . PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Repeat unregistered violation. PARKING VIOLATION: Repeatunreg- istered vehicle violation. Previously booted. Conduct Charges filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle booted. Repeat unregistered violations. SECURITY HAZARD/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Door lock latch immobi- lized. Access to building unimpeded. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. HARASSMENT: Student receiving an- noyance calls. TRESPASS: Two high school students attempting to gain entry into social event Identified and advised off campus. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to overindulgence. Paramedics no- tified. Conduct Charges tiled. SUBSTANCE ABUSE/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Student providing alcoholic beverage tci underage person. Refused to leave the building when requested. Con- duct Charges filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT /SAFETY HAZARD: Students throwing beer bottles from residence hall windows. FIRE: Minor fire in building. SFD reponded. Cause of tire not determined/ admitted. No Damage/injury. LIFE SAFETY.VI.OLA TION/SAFETY HAZARD: Room smoke detector not working-repaired. Fire extinquisher tbund discharged-Life Safety Violation Notice t1led. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Several residents failed to evacuate during tire alann. Life Safety Violation Notices filed, SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Drug Parapher- nalia found in two student's rooms. Items cotifiscated. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Tree uprooted. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student removed room smoke detector. Life Safety Violation Notice tiled . THEFTN ANDALISM; Traffic control sign stolen from barrier gate. VANDALISM: Ceiling tiles damaged on 2nd and 4th floors. SECURITY HAZARD: Doors/windows not working properly. Work order filed. SECURITY/SAFETY HAZARD: Exit doors blocked and wedged open. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. ! ! I ·l I ·'

i I ! I ! I ' Campus News Renown Israeli Author Speaks on Peace Process :by Michelle Ellis News Editor Israeli author, Amos Oz, will be speaking at Union as part of the Frederick S. Miller. Anwar Sadat Lecture Series. Amos Oz has been a rnajor activist in the Israeli Palestin- ian Peace Process and has been one of the leading fig- ures of \Peace Now\ since its conception In 1977. Oz has pub- li~hed 16 books, and 450 articles and essays in Is- raeli and Interna- tional magazines and newspapers on poLiticaL fictionaL and ideological topics. Some of the books he has writ- ten are My Michael. The Hill ofEl·il Counsel. In the Land of Israel. To Know a Woman. and Is- rael. Palestineand Peace. He has been the recipient of many prestigious honors for his contribu- tions to literature Among these are the Bialik Prize. the Prix Fem ina Etrangcr (France· s top annual! iterary award for the best foreign novel). Black Box. and the German Union International Peace Prize. Professor of History at Union. Stephen Berk, is coordinating Amos Oz's visit. Berk com- mented,\' Amos Oz is per haps the greatest 1 iving Israeli \\Titer. He may some day win the Nobel pnze for literature. He ts a very important political activist. Un- like writers in many countries who abstain from politics, Oz throws himself into the political structure. He is a very strong ad- vocate of the peace process.\ Berk spoke with compassion for the Union College alumnus Frederick Miller \Vho was respon- sible for initiating the Sadat Lec- ture Series that has enabled the Union History department to bring Amos Oz to Union. Berk recalled how Miller con- tacted him in 1980 after the as- sassinati·on of Anwar SadaL Miller expressed to Berk his in- tention to commemorate Sadat's metnory by establishing a grant m his honor. In a letter addressed to Stephen Berk in 1982. Miller expressed his intentions for the grant. \There is no reason why Union should notbecomea focal point, ratherthan a reflection. She has ·had and does have the intel- lectual capacity and interest... .The tiny flame of hope lit by Sadat must not go out Its maintenance could be left to fate. Or worse yet, to someone else. History records the dismal results of 'someone else.'\ h was MiUer's hope that this grant would be used to bring very dis- tinguished scholars. political figures, and journalists in Middle Eastern affairs to Union College. Since its conception in 1982, the Frederick Miller Sad at Lecture Series had provided the funds to bring a number of famous speakers to Union College ,\'ew York Times Journalist and author Thomas Friedman; historian. Bernard Lev.:is; head ofthe West Bank Data Project. Meron Benvenisti; Ambassa- dor of the Arab League to the United Nations. Clovis Maksoud; Fonner Under Secretary of State, Joseph Sisco. and columnist. Yossi Oltnert have all partici- pated in the lecture series. Amos Oz will be speaking about the peace process on Nov 6th in Memorial Chapel Adm is- s ion to the event is free, and are- ception will follmv For more information. contact the Union College History Dept at 388-6220. President's Medal of Science Awarded to Union Alumni b~· Adrian MacLean News Staff HeriTiann Anton Haus, class of 1949, was honored by President Clihton to receive the Medal of Science on October 18. J.hus is an electrical engineer- ing professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After graduating from Union. Haus pursued an M.S. from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1951. and, in 1954, he received a Doctorate in Science from MIT. H~joined the faculty following his Doctor- ate studies. \Herman Haus personifies the MIT faculty tradition of excel- lence and scientific leadership,\ MIT President Charles M. Vest said. Haus served oi1 Union's Trustee Board of Advisors and the Visiting Committee tor Engi- neering. He was a\varded an hon- orary doctor of science degree from Union in I 989 In 1982, he was chosen as the James R. Killian Faculty Achievement Lecturer. \He regularly generates new insights and analytical tools with considerably wider aRplication than the immed·iate.. His talents enable him to bridge the gap be- tween fundamental science and engineering applications, regu- larly putting novel engineering concepts on finn. theoretical ground. and where necessary, de- veloping new methodologies to clarify and extet)d understand- ing,\ was a comment made at the Kill ian Award citation. Known for his work in quan- tum optics, his work has ranged from basic science to investiga- tions ofquantum uncertainty. His work has helped to revolutionize applications in fiber optics, eye surgery, and.seientific instnunen- tation. In 1994, the Optical Soci- ety of America awarded him with the highest honor, the Frederic Ives Medal. Honored at many institutes across the world, Haus has been a Guggenheim Fellow in Austria; a visiting MacKay Professor at the University ofCalifornia, Ber- keley~ a visiting member of the technical staff at the Bell Labo- ratories: a visiting professor at Tokyo Institute ofTechnoiogy: a Fulbright Scholar in Austria; and a visiting scientist at Cambridge University in England. As an author offive books and roughly 300 articles, Haus' s pres- ence is requested at nearly every symposium and conference on laser and quantum electronics. Sigma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi, the American Physicai Society, and the National Acad- emy of Engineering are some of the groups that Haus is a mem- ber. Haus is also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 3 : -~· ·- ·:~-~::::'·: _,_._}·'·-;:: ___ /: '; -{:. -::i·f-~~~'~ <· :~~ . =·- .. ,Y- . ' .; .,.·'!.'- -~ •': '-.,-·:\-·. _:•c, __ ;-;• ·;'·,, >' ;' - ~ M~m.Jiers.~t'$ent ,L,apin:5l~i ... · Cb.~y~Jlst.Peeting .to o;rder a~5 :o.s PJ\1 ~ tolkorfmotinns to amend minutes of 10/16, 2nd by Brown. Pt\.ssesl5~0 .. ()fficer Repprts -Schaffer - cot has attempted to contact all clubs in order to compile updated membership rosters. No club has gotten back to the toe as of yet. Due to this, the constitutions for several clubs have been suspended or revoked. These clubs are the Women's Step Team. and Virtual U. Chase and the COC will attemptto contact all clubs again, and final decisions on constitutions will be made by Friday, · O~t .. 27. · -Tolkoff - The AAC has met again. The topic of conversation was onceaga;in on the standards and expectations of the student body and faculty. Discussion on the possible added course load to the engineering curriculum is planned for the near future. Tolkoffwill provide specific infonnation on this topic next week, and Chase and TolkoffwiU attempt to provide this information to ail the engi· neeringstudents. ~ Strosberg -Announces that this Friday, Ott 27, will be Union Spirit Day. All students are encouraged to wear the school's colors or some- thing with Union's name on it. Also, a voice mail was created to inform the student body about this and to remind all students about the football and hockey games this weekend. ~Announces that the Winter Affair (formal dance) will be held February 24, 1996, at the Schenectady Ramada. - Announces that there will be an Open Meeting with the Cam- pus Planner on Wednesday ,Oct. 25, at 4 PM in the Reamer Center auditorium. . NEW Business - Pettish ·annd(ln,ces that Elections forV.P. of Multi-Cultural Af- f3ir:s~,$ecretary/Treisurer of the Junior Ciass, and afi Fresh- . ..Sn aepresentatives win be held Friday, Oct 27. • Tbe forum discussed <\ttending dinners at West regularly to dis- • with the freshtnan class. a. st4d.e.nt body book Swan to be held. at the ei1d or ,. • . t- ~ ~ ~ • •. ·, \:.:~-· '1..', ·._.,:: •. • ; ',, y, • >·,~ ,,; .·r1\ , ·, .--i;-~ 1 .·:;. ;1 < • ,.:..,·'·\: ~-;-;'~ .. - ,:.J.· ~)1- f. ' '' ~ • -.,,;.._ .('~ i-' ,,: ~, · . ' v~;;e!R!!\~tn:~·~ .... •·~·.f!~.~·.u ttet;tn sva:;tdispJSSW! Detai}~:ar~.StiUtQ'b'e WOi'ketJ o.wt; · · Str~st>ergand dmndwett~r wiir 1oak'into the matter furthec . , . .. . ... ~ .,<;::ha,se. ~eint;p~~s~s,th7 ~e~lsset by th~ fQrtJnl in .the past few weeks. The forurp. delib.e,r~~~4 QIJ these g(f~ls and has placed each member in charge o£achi~vi~g ~~~p@cific goal, Some of the ideas di.squ~~-~~:tw.ers; (1) having.~ f{1c4,ltx review at the end of each year (~t:M9i~:~J:¥~~,J:~i~y_9n .. ~ij~pi§i~),:~ .. ~tY9.~!fJ, i;:~n~er ( 4.) Va1~4ine · cap&!Qi~itii§,.~~teh(;led.(.5) Aiiad,~Q;i;,!p.:.r;~q,l.lireD;Jents. , .. . ~·· Str9SJ?~rgrnplions that the SoCial Conuriittee receive an extra $200 for q(:{iq,e S~!PJ~lies for all cluhs to use. Second by Miller and passes 15~0.\ ··.. . .• . . ' * Ne. :J4rum.foilf.$l?Q;t?JiitJrPha;:;t(paraphernali~.Jor t .... !'i·' ·~~ ::Mott~Ji;:~a.;de .. {>y:ilrewn and 2t!d· by. T oikbtf:t$.p.ro¥idei'~ruhds. Passes 13~0 witl~ ·Ca1t)ara and Shapiro IN HITLER,S .SHADOW: NEO-NAZIS IN THE 1990'S -An Israeli Investigative Journalist- -An infiltrator of Neo-Nazi Movement- -An an-ti--terrorist Fighter- YARON SVORAY \I traveled from the lowliest skinheads who took me out\ to show how they beat Turks ... to the leaders of [separate] neo-Nazl groups.\ ••••• at Union College Reamer Campus Center Auditorium October 30, 1995 7'30 pm Open to all members of the community ._..~>~'Tilt~_,........, Ofllrlon Cologor ...... Un!tod,.,.,...,_\' ~ \-\\\\ (~Fu'dof\-Cn:lown\mt\\\\ !lorkn, ~-- c::....l). ...... \\\\\\\' \' ,.....,.Col<go, H.Schofl\o' ,_,_ ~ M<lrooh>. l<abtl MortCulio<', Rob1:i JoO \\\\\\'~ L.oo11o10 ofB'rol l!mh. .

. . ' J ,, d l ., '· ' ' ., Page 4 • October 26, 1995 • The Conco·rdiensis Campus News Why Judgment of ''Right'' and ''Wrong'' Do Not Help Us Anymore Kappa Sig Awarded the Brow~ Cup by Prof. Linda Patrik Philosophy Department Tonight at 7 p.m. in the second floor Humanities Building Lounge, philosophy professor Ri- chardTaylorwiU betalkingabout the failure morality to deal with new, unprec- edented ethi- cal situations. There are two · basic ways to decide how to act. The tradi- tional ap- proach is to apply some moral rule about what is right or wrong. This rule-following morality is backed up by religion. For ex- ample, the Ten Commandments are moral values that everyone is supposed to live by-rules that should not be questioned. The other approach is called \situation ethics\~ this approach does not use rules at all, but looks at each individual situation. Ac- cording to situation ethics, we should decide how to act by fig- uring out what promotes human well-being, rather than by using a rule to judge which actions are right and which actions are wrong. In modern times, when medi- cal advances and new technolo- gies create situations that have never been seen before, it is ri- diculous to use old moral rules that never took such situations into account. For example, there is a debate in this country about whether to use fetal tissue from aborted fetuses; if this fetal tissue is implanted in the brains of Parkinson's disease patients, it helps stop the deterioration this disease causes. In earlier times, this medical procedure was im- possible. But today, it canbe done, and because it can be done, it cre- ates a new, unprecedented ~itua­ tion in medicine. To judge this medical procedure right or wrong is to use old moral rules in anew situation. But is this the way to -·~·New- M.ulticultu_ral Resource Center ... The new multiculturalcentef-in..the .. -Reamer Campus Center on the tltirdjloor. (photo by R. Lederer/TC) vantage of the new room, Letriz stated, \Students rave about the set up. They say it has a welcoming living room atmosphere.\ Even though the focus of the Multi-Cultural Resource Center is on ethnic student groups, the gay and lesbian community, Jewish culture, and international studentsJ,~e.trj? e_mpha~i?:e...clthe Center is open to the entire college community. ''Only in encountering different people and cultures can you truly begin to understand yourself, so in those terms even if you are not part of an ethnic minority, an international student, gay or lesbian, or a Jewish stu- dent that alone should not d iscourage-¥ou .. from using the resources ofthe Multi-Cultural Resource Center. The Multi Cultural Resource Center has been created for you ... so use it,\ stated Letriz. make our ethical decisions.? Richard Taylor argues that in- stead of using old moral rules in new situations, it is better to think about each situation in its own terms. Look at each situation in its own terms. Look at each situ- ation and discover a way to act in that situ• ation so t:hat you'll increase your own and other's well-being. Norules- jHst atten- tiveness and careful thought about each unique situation. Taylor believes that we are all really situation ethicists deep down. We may want to live by moral rules, be- cause in many ways they make life easier, but pretty soon we discover that these rules are too cut and d:ryto live by the real life · situationsthat we experience ar~ more complex, and our own de- cisions are moral open-minded than traditional morality allows for;· it is better to respect this complexity than to force each situation to fit the old moral rules. by Erin Counihan Contributing Writer The brothers of Kappa Sig owarded~the Brown Cup this past · Parent's Weekend (photo courtesy of Kappa Sig) The Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy is presented annu- ally to the outstanding fraternity at Union. This award is based on scholarship, community service and activities and is given to the house which shows the greatest overall achievement in these three catergories. The winner of the. Brown Cup for the 1994-95 school year is the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. While maintaining an excellent rating in scholastics, the brothers of Kappa Sigma were consis- tently dedicated to performing numerous community service projects and remaining active within the Union College Com- rtmnity. Though not one of.the larger houses on campus, their perseverence showed that they are worthy winners of this out- standing fraternity award. Students Make a Difference • • • continued from page 1 ing up the grounds, as well as weeding and painting projects. In addition, each participant is asked to bring a canned good or type of children's toy to the clean-up. All Union students, local recent alumni ( 1985-1995), and any interested persons are invited to lend a hand. As of early October, it has been esti- mated that approximately twenty-five people will be par- ticipating in the event. Interested volunteers will meet 1 on the corneF of Clinton and Hamilton Streets at the City Mis- sion of Schenectady at II :00 a.m. on October 28th: For direc- tions and further details, please call the Alumni Office at x6 i 65. The afternoon concludes at 3:00 p.m., and refreshments will be served. For information from the Make A Difference Foundation, calll-800-416-3824. Hopefully, the weather and the turnout will be terrific. Even if you cannot-attend the clean-up, please make an effort on your own. Acts of kindness are· only limited by your imagination and can continue after the specified date. Projects exhibiting outstand- ing \impact and imagination\ may be selected to receive awards. Ten awards of $2,000 will be given out by USA Weekend for local charities the winners select. Fifty projects will be awarded $2,000 each from Paul Newman's company. ·campbell soup is do- nating cans of food to an area shelter in your name, up to a total of thirty million cans nationally! Just clip this fonn and send it in by November 15th. The judges include Paul Newman, Whoopi Goldberg, Chris Zorich, Kathie Lee Gifford, and Robert K. Goodwin. Entries become property of USA Weekend and will not be re- turned. In a few hours, you may start and/or complete something that could make you feel good for years! From now until the end of Spring Term GET NEW SPEAKERS TAX FREEl! MOM'S STEREO 3905 State Street Schenectady 393-4677 Boston Acoustic's FREE CD with purchase

World News The Concordiensis • October 26, l995\ Page 5 Where's the Dough? Tlie Central Intelligence Agency Estimate by Matt Sa.ndler World News Editor The Democrat Corner The Republican Corner by Karen Watts by Mark Anderson World NewsStaff Contributing Writer Once again, the Republicans have de- Complain, complain. That is all CJ.inton The Central Intelligence Agency is now emerging as a defender of America's economic interests, as well as maintaining a tight grip on for- eign military threats and troop and missile emplacements. As the world moves closet to economic integration and dependence, nations find they have a lot to gain from re-.tasking their intelligence assets into the eco- nomic world arena. cided to reduce massive amounts of spend- and all the other Washington Democrats tary Ronald 1I. Brown delivered in Con- ing from another crucial social program can do these days. After losing terribly in gress, cites, \almost 100 cases of foreign Medicare. On Thursday October 19, the November 1994, liberals are on the back firms using bribery to undercut U.S. fim1s' Republicans passed l~gislation\to curb burners trying not to get snuffed out. Medi- efforts to win international contracts worth Medicare spending and enc<mrage the eld- care is just one of the major issues to hit about $45 billion,\ adding, \the foreign erly to turn to private managed care orga- the platform in Congress over the last few firms that offer bribes typically win about nizations from the traditional Government weeks. Recently, the House just passed 80 percent of the deals.\ The C.I.A. has plan that has served them since their version ofhowMedicareshould con- caught companies winning contracts 1965\(NYT 1 0/20). The new savings plan tinue in years to come, although President througl~ this unfair trade practice, and it is to cut spending by $270 bill ion over the Clinton has other plans for it, which in- During negotiations with the Japanese last spring, Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, was assisted by analysts from the C.I.A.'s Tokyo sta.., tion and the National Secwrity Agency. The National Security Agency is an agency that dwarfs the C.I.A. and is respoFJ.sible for breaking codes, intercepting foreign electronic signals, and analy:zing them .. \When the negotiations came to a climax in Geneva, the intelligence team was in place at the Intercontinental Hotel, work- .ing alongside Mr. Kantor's negotiators, of- fering assessments ofhow far the Japanese side could be pressed.\ Administration officials conceded thatthe value of intelli- gence produced is still under question. Japanese officials said that their reaction to the New York Times story would be brought to Washington where they would question publicly the report's allegations. President Clinton has directed that economic matters, especially information to protect and defend A111erican competi- tiveness, technology, and financial secu- rity, be a prime directive for National Se- curity. \The Administration asked the C.I.A. for draJnatic improvement in three areas where it had previously played_!;\ qnly a bit role: supportingtnide negotiations, tracking legal and il1egal tactics other Econom.ic Spying has become a major focus of the Intelligence Communit~,· informs the State department. The State next seven years. eludes a veto. Department can then act by jawboning for- This reduction in spending will raise the The argument for the Democrats is that eign countries against the contracts, and monthly premiums from $46.1 O(this year) Republicans are gutting Medicare, making then the Economic War Room in the.base- to $87.60 by the year 2002. That is al- it harder for the elderly of this country to ment of the Commerce Department, if it most a $27.00 dollar increase from what get decent health care. The Democrats also survives Congress' attempted dismantle- it would be in the year 2002 under the cur- say that the Republicans are simply trying ment, can assist American corporations in rent rate($60.80). Under this new plan, to pay for tax cuts which will only go to winning those contracts, with help from the elderly would be able to choose be- the rich. But these arguments are not new the President if needed. tween the current plan or the new from the Democrats, who think that the Economic spying is a legitimate func- MedicarePlus. The new MedicarePlus Federal government can solve the social tion of our intelligence community. As consists of many different plans that could problems of yesterday, today, and the fu- the world moves more towards economic be with HM.O. 's, docters, hospitals, or. ture. matters and away from solely military from a private health plan. The Republicans say they are not gut- ones, the intelligence community must Although this new plan may seem in the ting Medicare but making the necessary adapt. It will take a long time for the best interests of those on Medicare, it is changes so the program does not go bank- agency to develop the resources it needs only going to cause moreproblems. With rupt by the year 2002. The Republicans in to fulfill the mission that President Clin- this new revision of Medicare, the lower Congress want to slow the rate of growth ton ordered, but it must do it. France is income people are going to have to choose of Medicare by saving $270 billion in seven notorious for spying on American compa- plans that do not cost as much, whereas years. But the reality is, the Federal gov- _qies by planting moles :an<;I)reaking into !be _higher ,!~£O~e. peo~le .... ~ilL h~~e-\lo.th ~ .~r!lm~_n.t_\)'ill .ac~aijy be -~pen~i¥~ore 1 1 e?{ecutives hotel·roomsto steal important •. ~ptJOp o.f,ch~tlsmg a b~Dc;r-4-,n:9J~~.r'l; ~~~ }{~W4<th6!J1i!Jvi)lJhis_;y~arJ~erq will, information. The French publicly\ de- s1veplan. Ate we notgomg to mfact Widen be a steady increase. The government will manded the C.I.A. station's expulsion be- the gap between the rich and the poor, spend $354 billion more in the next seven cause of spying. The C.I.A. station was ·when Medicare was set up to ameliorate years then the last seyen years. The aver- trying to get French positions on Agricul- the lives ofthose that could not afford ex- age person will receive $6,700 more than ture and I imits on the importation of pensive health care packages? the $4,800 they receive now. It certainly · American movies during the GATT nego· Not only will the Republ icansnew plan seems like the Republicans are spending countries use to Win business, and spotting · · tiations. A woman, who was a C.I.A. op- . affect those dependent on i~ butit will also mor~,n;!9.~l',;,t? ~e. . financial troubles that can become foreign erative, courted an aide to French Prime affect some hospitals and health' mainte- The Republican plan is more than just policy crises as happened in Mexico last Minister Edouard Balladur. Then a C.I.A. nance organizations. Inevitably, some increases in spending. The plan offers more year.\ During the General Agreement on officer tried to bribe the aide for his infor- hospitals that are located in poor or run choices in elderly health care. \We want to Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks in 1993, mation. In what was a breach of protocol, down neighborhoods may have to shut give choices,\ says Dan Miller, Represen- intelligence analysts targeted the thinking the French responded publicly by order- down and/or cut some services, because tative from Florida. \I also want to make of French officials. There was vociferous ing the expulsions, when normally they Medicare provides for almost half of their it clear that no one will be forced into protest against GATT from French farm- would have asked the U.S. to do it behind earnings. H.M.O.'s will be affected in the HMO's.lfMedicare beneficiaries wish to ers, who burned the American flag and the scenes. This highlights the position sense that they will have to deal with an keep the current fee-for-service benefit protested against the agreeement. France economic matters have taken in terms of increasing competition from other health where they have complete choice of doc- was one of the major stumbling blocks that national self interests. With nations tied plans. tor, they will be permitted to do so. Ifben- GA TT Stlpporters had to overcome to pass to each other economically, a financial cri- It is ridiculous to expect that a$270 bil- eficiaries want to enroll in an HMO which the trade initiative. The GATT agreement sis could ripple through the entire world. lion dollar cut in a program that is so cru- might include additional health benefits or passed; however, the intelligence produced Even though nations are competing for cia! is plausible without having worse side some other Medicare plus plan, they can was not real decivise in the outcome. their individual advancement, there is a effects. Hopefully, with a veto from Presi- do so,\ argues Representative Michael The area that the intelligence is most binding factor that makes it necessary to dent Clinton, the two sides can reach a rea- Billrakis ofFlorida. The Democrats didn't effective in tracking is the foreign bribes cooperate to preserve the environment that sonable compromise on ho-w to cut spend- have these choices in their plan, which was that countries use to undermine American they compete in. Economic spying is in ing in a more sensible manner. severely defeated 283-149. business efforts abroad. An unclassified the interest of the national security of the Not only do the elderly benefit from their version of a report that Commerce Secre- United States of America. plan but so do doctors. Two weeks ago, the American Medical Association (AMA) supported the Republican plan to change Medicare. Doctors received a cap on mal- practice damage awards and received re- lief from anti-trust regulations so doctors can form private groups to compete with managed-care networks. This competition could alter the cost or at least slow the rate of growth. After all the debate and name-calling, the Republicans passed the bill without much help from the Democrats. This plan will make a change in Medicare as we know it, but the objectives will remain the same: to help the elderly and the disabled. Without any changes, Medicare, which costs $182 blllion, will double by the year 2003 Re- publicans have given more choices in health care providers while still spending more on health care Go Mr Newt' 11

,, 'I I, Page 6 •October 26, 1995 • The Concordiensis Ebola: Elusive and Underfunded by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor WhenEbolaemerges, it does so with a vengeance, causing painful and quick deaths. It then leaves rather quickly, leavi'ng no footprints indicat- ing where it came from, or where it went to. This often leaves researchers, between outbreaks, trapping and testing anything that tl)ey can get their gloved hands on. What scientists have learned is indeed frightening. It seems that the strain of virus that caused the latest Ebola out- break in Zaire this past spring is the same strain that caused an outbreak 19 years earlier and 1000 kilometers away. Al- though this may not seem sig- nificant, it means that Ebola has not mutated much in 19 years. This means that the vi- , rus has found a stable niche in which to live. This .little fact also means that the host ofthe virus, the carrier if you will, does not migrate. Thus, un- less researchers can trace the epidemics and the first infected individuals to a specific com- mon area, the hosts will most likely not be found. Since scientists cannot accu- rately trace the virus by the in- dividuals first stricken with it (they usually die before re- searchers can question them), they must systematically search for a host. Unfortunately, sci- entists willing to undertake such a task are having . diffi- culty finding funding for their projects. Since outbreaks are few and far between~ many bod- ies that fund research do not consider ita high priority. There have been some break- throughs regarding Ebola. Re- searchers have found tribes of pygmies in the Central African , Republics southern district of . Lobaye that test positive for the antibodies to the Ebola virus. This means that these tribes must come in contact with the viruses host on a regular basis. Since the tribes are rather di- verse in their relationship with the environment they live in, it is not easy to find a common denominator which will even- tually lead researchers to the host of the virus. Also, since the tribes are alive, they must have found some way to treat, or at least avoid the virus, which could save ·lives in the future. The Pre-Health Society Presents: Expl or ing\\\\tfte\ 'R'ectl th·...Cl?rore·ss ions :-<c A Panel Discussion Thursday, November 2, 1995 7:00 PM in Reamer Campus Center Room 305 FEATURING: Paul Busma, D.P.M. ('72) a podiatrist who will also discuss sports medicine Mary L. Fish, R.P.A.-C. Clinical Coordinator of the Physician Assistant Program at Albany Medical College Carolyn Micklas Recruiting Coordinator for the Union College graduate Management Institute DEPARTMENT SEMINARS BIOLOGY: Dr. Peter Minorski Union College Thursday~ November 2, 1995 4:30 PM in Social Sciences 103 Refreshments Served CHEMISTRY: Mr. Philip Launer Owner and Senior Scientist; Laboratory for Materials Inc. (a self-employed IR spectroscopist) Thursday, November 2, 1995 12:30 PM in Science and Engineering N 116 Refreshments Served. SCIENOE The mountain gorilla The threat~ning-looking, butpeace-loving, mountain gmilla has l:leen pushed to the bnnk of extinction by human expansion and civil wars. IIIII Habitat: Mountain fmests.AII of the world's known mountain gorillas live in Rwanda, Zaire and Uganda. None are being kept in captivity; 650 are living in the wild. IIIIIUfe expectancy; 35 to 50yrs. RWANDA: Volcanoes National Par.k ZAIRE: Virungas National Park UGANDA: Kigezi Gorilla Sanctuary t~. a... A typir;:al day Feeding •Diet and feeding: Mostly thistles, nettles and wild celery. Some grubs and snails. •Traveling: Gorillas walk on all fours, using their knuckles for support. Can stand and travel short distances on their legs. eWhile resting: Groom each other to 'remove plarasites, strengthen social bonds and set the social heirarchy. Top female grooms the dominant male. • At night: Build nests of vegetation; young shc;re the nest of an adult relative. Silverback stands guard, a,ided by one or two older members. ----------·----·---·----- ---·-~~~- a... Social groups Gorillas form tightly knit family groups of from two to 20. A typical group: eSilverback: Undisputed leader, a sexually matu male 15 years or older; 375 pounds, 6 feet tall. Distinctive silver hair on back and sides. • Blackback: Sexually immature male age 8 to 13; weighs 250 pounds. \'\'v'\' ....,,~ . : , tp; grqup. . Science and Medicine etf group is threatened: Silverback charges, roaring, tearing up vegetation . and beating his chest. If aggression display fails, he will fightto the death • Encounters between gori I Ia groups: Females and juveniles v-isit and play. Gorillas sometimes voluntarily switch groups, possioly to improve their status or bre.eding opportunities. Rival silverbacks sometimes try to get control of each other's females. • Females: Three orfour sexually mature females, 8 or older; 200 pounds. Usually bond to silverback for life. 0 Immature members: Males females, age 8 or less. ASTHMA RESEARCI-I Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath. We are dedicated to evaluating investlgaf:ional drugs for UJc inflamation and obstruction found in the lungs of those with astluna. We need asthmatics. age 4-70 years, to help evaluate research medications. They must be non-smokers and in good health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care and the opportunity to learn more about their asthma. Those qualified will receive study medication and be paid. TI1ese studies are conducted under the supervision of a board certified allergist and clinical immunologist in a private office setting. For further information call 452-2510 Mnnday- Friday 8am to 5 pm. or 1-800-363-3464 (24 hours) ALLERGY & ASTHMA CENTER OF ALBANY MED 215 Washington Ave. Ext. Albany, NY 12205 ·~ Thomas B. Edwards, MD Director 'E:{cdf.cna in Pa tien.t Care aru! CfinU:af !R.fse.ardi l I ,, lj . I f:.

I ! .. lj OP/ED Tl1e Student Newspaper ofUniou College Since 187_7 Sclrenectady's Oldest Newspaper Diana. Sedita EDITOR Eli:r;abeth 'DeKoven Lisa Lemoi Michelle Ellis EXECUTIVE EDITOR NEWS EDITORS Larry Paskn ARTS EDITOR - Evan, Morris Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn . COPY :EDITOR Keo Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDJ'FORS Matthew S:mdler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR David Eder Chri.s Richards LIViNG EDITORS Denil~s Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR . Tntiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman • CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY APVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BlJS:rN:ESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun-Paul Maoore, Laurel Ruma. STAFF: Omar Al-Khalidi, Pavao Atluri, Emily Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff Druzba:, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, . Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Raqnel Millman, Pete \ Sorenson, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters The Concordiensis ·October 26, 1995 ·Page 7 . EDITORIAL . . .. · ''What's Hot at Union?'' DrinkiRg, Greeks, Drugs, Sex and Cigarettes Recently, some disturbing information came across the desks of the Editorial Board of The Concordiensis. Apparently, The Princeton Review has a section called \What's Hot, What's Not\ for each college and university it rates. Union College was showrr to have some somewhat surprising, if not to say interesting, information in the \What's Hot\ portion. Drinking, Greeks, drugs, sex and cigarettes are the more popular things to do on this campus as printed in The Review. While other schools listed such things as certain classes, .majors or places to go on or around campus, our school boasts vices as pastimes. How will this new reputation ofbeing a party school affect Union admissions or our future in the job .market? Now, Union is still known for being a good academic school ~th a variety of organizations for students to join, but this could become a secondary thought to the \hot\ things on campus to outsiders. Will employers not take Union graduates as seriously as they once did? Will graduate, medical or law schools see our \party hard\ attitude and pass us by? This may sound drastic, but one never knows. Think about the typical Friday or Saturday night for the average Union student. Most of us go out to fraternity parties, drink or smoke (whether it be tobacco or marijuana), and hope to possibly ''hook-up.\ Anyone who denies that this happens every weekend has either been living in a hole or is living a completely sheltered life. The question still remains, how will this affect the future of Union College and the future ofUnion students? What can be done to increase the intellectual life here at Union? The scary thing is that most of the students who are shocked and dismayed at this information, participate every weekend in at least two of the \hot things\. Right now, we as a community must decide if we want to be lmown as a \party school\ or more of an intellectual one? Does anyone care enough to offer suggestions as to what we should do, or are we, administrators, facU;lty, staff and students, too apathetic? . · · .. · ·LETTERS .. . . ·.·. - . Setting the Record Straight on Minority ··Enrollment To the editor, I~ m writing in response to the article that appeared in last weeks Concordiensis titled, '\Large Drop in Minor- ity Enrollment\. As the Assistant Dean of Admissions who is responsible for prospective students out-reach programs, I need to set the record straight. Each academic year the admissions oficr sponsors a number of phonathons to contact students who have expressed an intrest in Union. As corrdinator of these programs I know that students of colar are a constitu- ency group that is always highlighted. As a target group, they are made a prority at each phonathon, especially the one during winter term. The phonathon during win- ter term focuses on students who have applied to Union. Union College Ambassadors cover everything from fi- nancial aid to the over night hosting program when chat- ting with each applicant. Student out-reach programs, like the phonathons, are designed to assist in attracting and eventuall enrolling students of color to Union. Students of color are and will continue to be a priority in all recruitment events. Sincerly yours, Dominick Famulare '92 Assistant Dean of Admissions . . . Something is Missing in Memorial Chapel I To the Editors, I offer thanks and congratula- tions to Chris Richards foi- his comments about Memorial Chapel in the October 19 Concor- diensis. As one of three chaplains on campus, I sympathize with Mr. · Richards' dismay that Memorial Chapel lacks virtually any reli- gious symbolism. While we live in much more religiously diverse times than those who gave birth to the college, or those who built Memorial Chapel, still I think it would be possible to address his concern. Memorial Chapel, with a little creativity and good taste, could easily accommodate spiri- tual and religious symbols from the world's major traditions (in- cluding, I would think, Jewish, Muslim, Christian, Hindi, and Buddhist, at the very least). On a smaller scale, something similar could be done instead in Old Chapel. (Isn't it interesting that we have not one but two \chapels\ devoid of all religious symbolism?) Do Old Chapel and Memorial Chapel's names sug- gest that, for the coli ege, rei igion is \old hat,\ or that it ought be no more than a \memory?\' Of course not. Protestant, Catholic and Jewish chaplains are granted hospitality by the college, for in- stance, and I know many mem- bers of the college community who are very grateful for our pres- ence. Encouraging and support- ive ofour efforts, these students, faculty ana staff care about the full growth and development of Union students: intellectual, so- cial, emotional, moral and spiri- tual. Of course, that spiritual growth won't be the same for ev- eryone, and for some it won't even be religious in the traditional sense (though for many it is). Like Richards' expectations of a chapel, I'm confident that Union itself can be a place where, now and then at least, we are 'pitched out of our normal existence and projected into the mystery oflife'. Ironically, in light of Mr. Richards' arti.cle, Memorial Chapel was recently the site of an Interfaith Prayer Service for Parent's Weekend. Aided by the talent and generosity of students Ned Abbot, Carin Gado, Ruthie Strosberg, and Amber James, my colleagues Margo Strosberg (Jewish Chaplain), Kathleen Buckley (Protestant Chaplain) and I presented a service at 5:00 that Saturday evening. The worship was warm and reverent, although our turnout was very small (but I suppose I can take some consolation from the fact that maybe, just barely, we drew a bigger crowd than The National Inquirer). While we certainly would have loved a larger crowd, of course, what..was more distressing to me was the fact that the college scheduled another event across campus for the yery same time. That event was apparently added to the schedule, opposite the worship service, just a few days before Parent's Weekend and none of us were informed, let alone con- sulted. An organizereftheweek- end has since apologized, and for that I am grateful.. Still, as l stood in Memorial Chapel that evening minutes before our scheduled start, and heard about this other «late addition\: to the schedule, I was angry and hurt, and won- deredjusthow important(oreven respected) religion is in the eyes ofthe administration. On the brighter side, I can as- sure Mr. Richards that while reli- gious symbolism may have been sucked out of Memorial Chapel, religion is alive and well at Union. The Jewish Student Union's ser- vices on Friday evenings in the Kosher Kitchen (West College), Protestant worship in Old Chapel, and Roman Catholic mass at St. John the Evangelist Church (both on Sunday evenings) and other, non-worship, activities by all three groups attest to it. But it isn't worship alone that points to a lively spiritual life . Religious questions and doubts, a passion for justice, love for oth- ers, the yearning for deep friend- ship, the appreciation of beauty and care for the natural world- all these and countless other hu- man stirrings can speak, 1 believe, of the spiritual in our midst. Un- fortunately our society, and Union is no exception, doesn't always know how to foster that spiritual sense while also respect- ing the pluralism and vast reli- gious differences among us. It's a fine line, and one that's often difficult to negotiate. But ac- knowledging, as Chris Richards has, the value of sacred space and the power ofreligious symbols is one good way to start. Tom Frieberg, Catholic Chaplain Silliman Hall (phone: 6087}

.' ;, ,; ., '• ., '! 'I l, ·, I, I;_ ,_ ' . \ Page 8 · October 26, 1995 · The Concordiensis OP/ED . \ ' . ' ~ . ... ' . ' ' ' . · .· · · · OPINIONS & LETTE·RS . · ' • ; ' ' ' • ' ' ' < ' • • ' -Academics First?- Tony La Veccbia Opinions Editor I: is is one of those col- umn that was easy to write. Sometimes, I have to strain in order to decide what aspect of our life here at ·union I will comment on, but this week the topic was clear. I find the cashier;s and registrar's poli- cies regarding unpaid debts and registration materials to be lu- dicrous and outrageous. As it stands now, if you have an out- standing phone bill of over 50 dollars, your pre-registration materials are withheld until you settle up your debt. Now, I realize that there is a legitimate need to assure that students settle their debts. It seems to me, however, that the current pol icy is using the threat of hurting a student's academic good standing to as- sure their prompt financial pay- ment. Ifl owe the school sixty dollars they can prevent me from pre-registering for my classes. Last time I checked, I pay approximately 27,000 dol~ Iars to attend this fine academic institution. Note the word \aca- demic.\ Why is the school will- ing to jeopardize some one's abil- ity to getinto the classes that they want to take, over an relatively sma:ll amount of money. I think a: much more fair and intelligent policy for Union to have would be the one SUNY Albany currently uses. If a student does not pay their bill at SUNY Albany their phone gets shut off. If a student does not pay theiF phone bill, they should be de- prived oflong distance access, not of acade1nic opportunity. Moving from my general gripe with the administration's policy to my dismay over some indi- vidual cases, I have heard of sev- eral students who were not con- tacted about their debt until pre- registration. When they were no- tified, it was in the form of a let-: ter they picked up at the registrar's office in lieu of their pre-registratioo materials. One person I know is currently in dispute with the cashier about whether or not he paid his phone bill. He claims to have paid in cash, and the cashier has no record of his transaction. I real- ize that mistakes happen, but this example illustrates several alarm- ing things. Assuming that this stu- dent did not pay his phone bill, even though 1 believe he did, the cash- iers handling of this case is ques- tionable at best. First of all, the disputedphone bill is one from last year. Keeping this in mind, how was. this student al- lowed to register for the classes he is taking this term? Howcome this student was not notified about his debt until he tried to pre-register for classes? If he did not in fact pay his bill, why was he not billed overthe summer. Meanwhile, it has oeen impossible for him to verify his pay- ment with the registrar because of the way they file their receipts. · Rather than keeping receipts in SOJTle sort of alphabetical order, or in a students personal file, they are kept by day. Since the student can not remember which day he paid the bill, the cashier does not have time to look through each day's file from the end oflast spring term. Pre-registration is approaching quickly and as this person searches for his receipt, we are moving closer and closer to our registration ap~ pointments. It seems to rne unfair that while this conflict is being re- solved, the students academic standing has been left swinging in the wind. imagine . the if each of us spent one day .help- ing other peopl_e, Wouldn't it MAK~ A DIFFERENCE if we gave a pair of Shoes to a homeless person? Or cleaned up a city street or a neighborhood park? What if we helped an older person paint her horne? Or fixed a meal for someone who is ill? Wouldn't it be great to make good news in our awn community? The fifth annual Make A Differenqe Day . is Saturday, October 28, 1995, Jain us. Take one. day and make life better for others, USA WEEKEND and The Points of Light Foundation challenge you to jo1n the hundreds of thousands who will make a dlf- terence across the nation on this special day. 1illfe: II a.ITJ. until3 p.m. 'PIIIt:•• City Mission of Schenectady Coml!t'of O!nton and H~~~tilton Streets See IJa lhere! Admissions Responds:_,__..__ ___ _ To the Union College Community, I would 1 ike to generally ad- dress Union's efforts in recruit- ing students of color, and spe- cifically respond to the article entitled \Large Drop in Minor- ity Enrollment\ that appeared in the most recent issue of The Concordiensis. As Assistant Dean of Admis- sions, one of my main respon- sibilities is recruiting stQdents of color . A great deal of my effort is directed toward attract- ing and eventually enrolling these students. Unfortunately, this past year Union experi- enced a significant and disap- pointing drop in students of color enrolled in the freshman class. Disappointing because, since my time in the admissions office, we put more effort into minority recruitment for the Class of 1 999 than we had in previous years, with lesser re- sults. Many are aware, and oth- ers should be informed, that recruitment of students of color to predominantly white institu- tions is a difficult task The competition for these students is fierce, especrally if you con- sider that the ma.rority our peer 1nstrtut10ns are predominantly whrte also hopmg to increase thctr divcrs1ty and m many cases wrth many of the same students we attract. To increase diversity at Un1on. the adm 1ssion office puts a great deal of effort into both on and off campus programs to he I p students of color become more familiar with Union. We also try to tie the college commu- nity into these programs, getting assistance from students, faculty, administrators, and alumni who are interested in helping Union's student population become more diverse. We do these types of programs because we want to help prospective students to fall in love with Union, not necessar~ ily with admissions. While I am the person who oversees minority recruitment, all admissions staff\buy-in\ to our goals. We have specially targeted travel, we are working to create a minority alumni network, we hold off-campus interviews for minority students, we produced a brochure (for all students) regard· ing multiculturalism at Union, we have special on-campus pro~ grams geared toward minority student recruiting as well as tar~ geted ,phonathons and mailings. We have made special efforts to invite current Union students of color to become formally in- volved in the admissions process. Additionally, admissions staff at- tend New York State-sponsored HEOP fairs and we have devel·· oped contacts with community- based fellowship/scholarship groups nationwide These arc just some of the things we currently do, and we will increase our recruitment ef- forts to ensure that we do not ex- perience another disappointing year in this area of recruitment. In other areas of recruitment, Union had a successful year. We hope that some of the other programs that have helped recruit students in gen- eraL will also help attract students of color. It is also importantto note that the area of athletic recruitment is handled by the Union's Athletic Department. As someone intensely Involved with recruitment, and as an African- American alumnus concerned about diversity at Union, I feel that the Admission office does show a considerable commitment to help- ing Union's student population be- come more diverse. However, many feel that Admissions has been \derelict in its duties to increase the diversity of the student body,\ and that we have \practically dropped the whole minority recruitment policy.\ I fi.nd these opinions to be terribly inaccurate and blatantly in- flammatory. I'd like to strongly express that, despite our unsuccess- ful recruitment this past year, we will continue to be positive about reaching our goals, and that the as- sumption that we have abandoned these goals is completely ridiculous. In my opinion this type of criticism in malicious and counterproductive. However, I think it is important to question and even criticize those who are hopefully working toward the same objective, in this case, en- rolling more students of color. So as an admissions office, we did question ourselves, discussing things that affected our yield of stu- dents of color. We came away with some assumptions, like appeal of other schools these students may dents who volunteer are very sup- have been admitted to, financial portive and are my most relied-on aid, and the fact that we need to resource for helping prospective do more in recruiting these stu- students make a connection with dents. Union. However, I think that these Upon suggestions by many, we students also try to paint an accu- conducted a survey to ask pro- rate and honest picture of what it spective students of color about is like to be a student of color at their colleges search process, to Union_ Reporting theresults, 1 was find how Union became a choice simply relaying the responses and why they chose to matriculate gathered from the survey to those elsewhere. Some of our assump- who may be interested. I guess if tions were accurate. These stu- I had any intention in reporting dents were admitted to very cpm- that common response, it was to petitlve colleges, and in many let those interested that some stu- cases financial aid was more at- dents at Union are unha.ppy, tractive than Union's package. Lastly, I would like to address There was one other common ·is- the type of criticism that has flown sue expressed by the students we around campus and why it is dis- contacted. I believe the perceived turbing to those who work in Ad- intention of my inclusion of this missions. We feel a strong con- issue in the phone suryey report nection to the college community, was quite misunderstood. Many and as professionals we try our best of the students expressed that the to do what we can to help the col- inregards to diversity, the colleges lege meet its institutional goals. I that they chose to attend had, for _ think comments that suggest we them, more a inviting environ- are negligent in our profes~ions ment for students of color. ft was and unconcerned about a most also commonly expressed that vis~ important part of what we do lack iting students, when talking to any type of professional decorum. Union students about issues of This being said, I am still en- diversity, got some feedback that couraged that Union can become gave them concern about student a multicultural environment, if we life at Union. pull our strengths together. The I think that many who read this Admission Office can certainly report assutned that Admissions learn from constructive criticism was attempting to use the discon- from the college community, but tent of some of our current stu· much prefer and can better use sug- dents of color as a scapegoat for gestions of we can do our jobs an unsuccessful year in diversity more effectively. recntitment. That was not my in~ tent, however, .l believe it does point toward a deeper problem. I must express that our current stu- RespectfLilly,, S. Darryl Tiggle '90 Assistant Dean ofAdmissions .,... ..

.. Arts & Entertainment ~ . TI-IE SCREENING ROOM II . - ' ' />,- ' ' To Die For Nicole Kidman Rises to Stardom as a Woman You Love to Hate by Lawrence Paska ArlsEditor \ToDieFor.\ Starring Nicole Kidman, Joaquin Phoenix, Matt Dillon, Dan Hedaya. Directedhy Gus Van Sant. Rated R, Colum- bia Pictures. Rating:*** (out of four) Finally, Nicole Kidman gets the kind of a role that can show off her hidden talents. Finally, Gus Van Sant makes a decent movie. To Die For may not be a movie that is, it- self, \to die for,\ but it does represent the kind of play- ful, mean-spirited satire that hasn't been done well for quite a while. Kidman stars as a small- town nobody who wants to hit-it big on television. Her firm belief is that the only good life is one spent on TV, because that is where everyone can see you, and where all the im- portant things happen. So, she forces the boss of a local cable access station · to give her a job ... as a re- ceptionist. But she has big ideas, and, after hounding her boss with plans to make a documentary on local high school kids, he gives her the job of news weatherman ... oops, . weatherwoman. ~~ She meets and marries Dillon, a nice Italian barkeeper who helps his father (Hedaya) run the business, but discovers fast that the married life isn't for her; she can't settle down, she's going to be famous on TV! She can't afford to get pregnant- imagine what that would do to her figure! She can't stay in a Hicksville all her. life - the only good places for career advancement are big cit- ies! Realizing her mistakes, she begins to manipulate the sub- jects of her documentary, in- cluding a slobbish girl and a dim-witted boy (Phoenix), to plot the murderofherhusband. The contrasts here couldn't be more striking. Dillon is a nice guy who supports his wife's career; Kidman is so self-involved that she'd kill her own husband to become a news anchor. The film is shot as a series of interviews, with Dillion's sister, Phoenix, the grubby girl, and even Kidman herself explaining their motives. Of course, Kidman puts on her best act, trying to convince ev- eryone that she really is a sweet girl, and that she can't let what's important to her stand in her way. She really wants the audience to like her, as if no one could see through that deceptive \I didn't know any other way to behave\ actshe puts on. -·~ VanSant's film is packed with humorous moments in the worst places, like when Kidman plays the song ''All By Myself' at her husband's funeral, putting a tape deck on top of a tombstone. Overall, the performances are rich and the script is sharp, even ifit is not suited to everyone's taste. Van Sant's films are never for all moviegoers, but this is surely his most mainstream effort to date, and it succeeds be- cause it strays from conven- tionality without going over- board. It also offers enough surprises to keep the mo- mentum going. After the disappoin~ing My Own Pri- vate Idaho and Even Cow- girls Get the Blues, VanSant has made a truly repulsive character, .sensationalizing her without promoting her like the next Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction. And for Kidman herself, expectplenty more grea1ness now that her time in medio- cre roles is through and she's a star. To see her in good form in other films, you can really only look at the under appreciated Far and Away, in which she co- stars with husband Tom Cruise. Just don't compare her acting here to her job in Batman Forever; she wasn't supposed to be good in that! The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • . Page 9 NYC Ballet Dancer to Present Lecture and Master Class Courtesy ojthe Peiforming Arts Dept. Fonner principal dancer of the New York Ci1y Ballet Com- . pany, Peter Frame, will present an infonnallecture followed by a master class on Friday, Oc- tober 27, in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Build- ing at Union College. The lec- ture will take place at 5:30 PM, with the master class begin- ning at4:00 PM. Mr. Frame joined the New York City Ballet in 1976 and was promoted to principal sta- tus in 1987. He presently guest teaches throughout the United States as well as at The School of American Ballet He developed a course for young male dancers at the school to enrich their partnering skills. In addition, he is also called upon to \set\ Balanchine works on smaller companies around the country and is a person?:! trainer in New York Ci1y. Mr. Frame is the Artistic Advi- sor ofNortheast Ballet Company, the resident company of Proctor's Theater in Schenectady. Reservations are requested; registration is limited to twenty- five dancers, with preference given to Union College student dancers. Dancers must be at least thirteen years of age and \on pointe,\ although the class will not be on pointe. The cost for the class is $1 0 per person and is free to Union College students enrolled in the dance practica. There is no charge for the informal lecture. For reservations, contact the Performing Arts Department at 388-6785. Coming to Union ... In Concert: Union College Jazz Ensemble and The Nick Brignola Quartet SWEET HONE~ IN THE ROCK The Grammy-award winning a capella singing grou,p, which . plays to standing-room only crowds at venues ranging from Troy Music Hall to Carnegie Hall, will present a concert on Friday, Oct. 27,· 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The College expects a large-response from members of the Union and local communities. Union students, faculty and staff will be offered free tickets (up to two each) before they are made available to the public. Informatiott on reservations will be distributed shortly. Sweet Honey, a .popular all-female African-American a capella group has been performing music with toots in spirituals, hymns, gospel, iazz and blues for 20 years. Founded by Bernice johnson Reagan, the group's artistic director and profes- sor of history at American· Uniti'ersity, the group has been hugely popular in con- certs around the country. . . The Union College Jazz En a semble, under the direction of Professor Tim Olsen, will per- form on Wednesday, Novem- J,er 1, at 8:00PM in Stu- dio 215 of the Arts Building. Special guest The Nick Brignola Quar- tet will perform. This concert is free and open to the public. Baritone saxophonist and Troy native Nick Brignola has perfonned internationally and has consistently appeared among the top names in baritone sax polls in Down Beat and JazzTimes magazines. A popular figure at fes- tivals, colleges, and jazz clubs, Brignola has toured and recorded with the bands of Courtesy of Tire Peiforming Arts Dept Woody Herman, Charles Mingus, and Phil Woods. About Brignola 's most recent CD, Like Old Times, Owen Cordle wrote in Down Beat, \This is one of the finest displays of bebop bari on record .. Brignola blows the house down.\ The Union College Jazz En- semble is made up of Union Col- lege students as well as mem- bers of the Schenectady com- munity. The concert will fea- ture standards by suc·h jazz greats as Duke Ellington, Hoagy Carmichael, and Bobby Shew, as well as original works and arrangements by Olsen. Pianist and trumpet player Olsen joined the Union College faculty as Visiting Assistant Professor of Performing Arts in September 1994 and is an ac- tive composer, perfonner, and educator. He received the Doc- tor ofMusical Arts degree from Yale University in May 1995. For more information, con- tact the Perfon'ning Arts Depart- ment at 3 88 ... 620 1 .

' . '· Page 10 ·October 26, 1995 • The Concordiensis • 'FilE SCREENING ROOM . Two New Thrillers Break the Boundaries of Formula Genre by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor \Copycat.\ Starring Sigourney Weaver, Holly Hunter, Dermot Mulroney, Harry CoRnick, Jr. Directed by Jon Aniiel. Rated R, Warner Bros. Pictures. '\Assassins.\ Starring Sylvester Stallone, Antonio Banderas, Julianne Moore. Directed by Richard Donner. Rated R, WarnerBros:Pictures. Sigourney Weaver being chased by something evil she cannot see. Sylvester Stallone living up his larger-than-life image. These two scenarios are almost imperative in each ofthesestars' new releases. But the two most recent suspense-thrillers by these Hollywood figures are anything but formulaic, breaking the bounds of conventionality and delivering fresh plots to tired characters. Only one of these fi.lms, however, ends up completely satisfying. Right from the opening sequence of Copycat, the viewer knows trouble is brewing. As serial killer psychologist Dr. Helen Hudson, Weaver gives a guest lecture on her new book about the mind of serial killers at a college campus. The Dutch cameraangles and frantic zooming suggest someone in the crowd is up to something. Hudson, in the blink of an eye, sees a student glaring at her, but then he's gone. Next, in the women's room, that same student(Connick) attempts to strangle her, but is caught before he can kill her. Cut to a year later. Hudson has confined herself to her home, spending her time on computers and popping pills. Suddenlya grisly series of murders are cm:nmitted- cops Hunter and Mulroney approach the \retired\ Hudson to seek her advice. Her opinion: the murders are being committed in the style ofthe Boston Strangler. The \copycat killer'' evades police, but also seems to be en joying scaring the wits out of Hudson, p Ianting clues at crime scenes and tapping into her internet account. It is believed that Darryl Cullum, the student who attacked her before, might be committing the crimes to get back at her. Yes, Weaver has played this \woman in distress\ part three times before (theA lien series), but she has never done it so well. She is aging now, but her wrinkles make her seem all-the-more faded from the stress of the crime. Her I ines aren't particularly remarkable, but she retains an edge during the incidents. Hunter and Mulroney are a good pair, even though their teamwork never clearly comes through. The surprise ofthe film is CoRnick, who showed up everywhere in the previews but has only about five minutes of screen time: this is a shame. He has really matured as an actor. With two chipped front teeth and blemishes all over his face, he looks so evil and menacing you don't need to know he's guilty to want to execute him on the spot What gives Copycat its edge over the usual thriller is its ability to keep the tension high even during the ~Jow dialogue. Some new plot twist always develops, and under Amiel 's wild direction, no character seems exempt from peril. Some things don't make sense, like how Hudson got over her agoraphobia so quickly, or what exact! y the serial killer's occupation is. But the premise ofa new serial ·killer copying tl:testyles ofrinfamous murderers (like Ted Bundy). is executed so frightenin\gly well, you don't care alJout the minor details. In Assassins, director Donner attempts to change the rules ofSiy Stallone's action films: why have big explosions, car chases, and fist fights when youcan have Stallone ... petting a cat? Typing on a Macintosh? People don't patronize Stallone films to see him dressed in suits- they want him to flex those muscles. But in this film, Stallone doesn't show a single bicep, and the closest he comes to . physical violence is smacking a taxicab driver. Instead, he spends the entire two and· a quarter hours loading his gun, bellyaching about losing sight ofBanderas, and fleeing the country with computer expert Moore. Heck, he doesn't even try to romance Moore for the entire movie, so yop know things must be screwed up in this one. As '\world's number one assassin\ Robert Rath (there's something to put on your resume), Stallone wants to retire, but keeps getting sent contracts. Then, as he's about to make a \hit another assassin kills the target, instead, and Rath ends up pursuing him. The new assassin on the scene is none other than Banderas, playing the rookie killer, Miguel. Donner's idea of an action-filled scene with these two is Miguel leaning out of the backseat window of a t::txi and attempting to shoot Rath driving in the front seat. Both men are pitted against each other in killing Electra (Moore), who carries her cat around as her trademark. Rath escapes, saving Electra, and the two form a partnership against Miguel. What makes this movie so utterly boring is its lackofsuspense, style, and music ... yes, music! The entire \climactic\ gunfight is filmed without music, and just comes across as plain dull. Banderas deserves the vote for Worst Performance of the Year. As Miguel, he shows frustration by making a series of monkey-noises. He is supposed to be a reckless young assassin, but when he delivers profanity, it sounds absolutely hilarious. Banderas obviously has no command of the English lan- guage, since his dialogue is delivered so weakly. Why is he getting so many starring rol·es now? Moore is decent enough, but it really makes one wonder why no flaming romance was stirred between her and Rath. Not to complain- it's good to see something different. But usually when two characters are alone in a hotel room and on the run from a bad guy, something happens between them! It's these changes that make one wonder if Donner intended a \wholesome\ action film, an art- house version of a Stallone flick. He failed OR every account, because action movies are .supposed to be exciting and filled with .... action! This is an uninspiring and action-less movie. Someone like Alec Baldwin would have been better suited to the role, where he could have brought more emotion out of a character whose role demanded less physical displaysofauthority. If Donner really intended more drama, he should have made better use of his drawn-out scenes. Each scene could easily be cut by a few minutes and still be coherent; Donner spreads the dialogue so far out that some scenes could have passed for slow-motion at its worst. . .. ............ - ......... . ..... . .... ··~-----·--··- ~ -·- ... _,__,_ Arts & Entertainment Goverman Works on Display in the Arts Building Raku pottery- to be shown at Reamer Center by Sari Leivent Staff Writer One would never think that a biology mtYortrying to compete for applications to medical school would have the time to sit down at a pottery wheel Jer- emy Goverman, a senior at Union, has achieved an impres- sive amount of success with his pottery. Goverman's interest in pot- tery began during his junior year · of high school at Thayer Acad- emy in Braintree, Massachu- setts. The young potter was greatly influenced by the well- known Raku potter, Steve Branfman. Govennan studied under the instruction of Branfman at The Potter's Shop and School in Needham, Mas- sachusetts. Goverman learned a specific kind of pottery. Most of his pieces are decorative Raku vases.- Raku is a low-fire pot- tery technique. Raku pottery must be heated in a kiln and then cooled in an extremely specific manner. This unique process creates pottery with the charac- teristic black color of most Raku works. Goverman was well aware that he wanted to have the opportu- nity to continue with his pot- tery throughout his college years. Union offered no such opportunity, yet he knew that there were people who were will- ing to accommodate his per- sonal interests. As a freshman at Union, he received an IEF Grant, as well as a donation from Dt. David Winnick (Union class of 1975). These grants helped him to es- tablish the· Ceramics Club at Union. Govennan is the presi- dentand instructor for this club. Over the past four years, the club has developed greatlY, as a resultofhis enthusiastic efforts. Thirty members nave had the opportunity to receive instruc- tion from Govennanhimself. Last year, Govennan received another IEF Grant and an addi- tional donation from President Roger Hull. Such financial as- sistance made it possible .for Goverman to complete an inde- pendent study in ceramics. Govennan' s interest in ceram- ics has developed far beyond as hobby. His work has been shown at The Fuller Art Mu- seum and at The Impressions Art Gallery in Boston. The young potter has previously sold a number of his pieces. Goverman remarked that it only takes five to twenty min- utes of work at the wheel for each piece. It is quite impres- sive that a vase of such quality can be molded in such a mini- mum amountoftime. The hands, mind, and creativity of Jeremy Goverman work together to cre- ate such unique works of art. Some select pieces of pottery are now being showcased in the Arts Building display case, by the first floor entrance facing the Reamer ~amp us Cent~r. Or maybe it was just Banderas' random shooting of anyone who got in his way that .is the major turn-off Don't professional assassins only kill who tliey are paid to kill? Isn't there some kind of · \assassin code\ to killing? If so, he forgot it: the senseless shootings ofscores of innocents in the first half-hour is depressing. Directors Arnie! and Donner tried for something different in their genre films. Arnie! succeeded by far, putting staple figures in one gripping story. Donnerputstereotyped Stallone in a dramatic vision. of an assassin's life. While assassins may be people, too, they surely have more depth than Stallone's Rath. who comes across as man with no soul whatsoever. Ratings (out of four). Copycat: * ** 1/2 Assassins: * I /2

Features Down With The Idiot Types by Jeffery Druiba Features Staff There are just too many' idiots walking around, too many people that need a good kick in the butt. Mine is nota problem With people who wear white hats,. roll neck sweaters, or listen to \Ants Marching\ until their ears bleed. I have to admit that I do that my- self except for the sweater part, but that's only because I don't own one of those rollneck ones. Anyway, mine is a problem with the way some people.are and the stupid things they do. My first story is about the girl who, just this morning, thought I .was taking her bagel. My bagel was cut in such a manner that I could easily recognize it from any other bagel. One side of it was an inch thick while the other was paper thin. I could tell that this was my bagel. Why does that al- ways happen to me? It doesn't matter because, in this case, my bad bagel cutting technique was my bagel ID at the West College toaster conveyor belt The bagel wasn't toasted on the first run, so I went over and put it back on for a second time. I have this theory that the first run is the wanning run, while the second one is the toasting run. The first time through the toaster is a prep for the bagel to be toasted. This girl was standing there by the toaster .belt all confused. There was a bagel sitting in the bagel collection pan on the bottom, and it was toasted already. The girl stood there for about a minute as my bagel went through. Finally, she picked up the one in the pan and walked off. Did she honestly think she was going to get my bagel when I was standing right there? Was she going to defiantly grab my bagel, wave it in my face, and, as she walked by with her nose in the air, say to me, \My bageL MY :BAGEL! ALL MINE!\ I mighthavedecked her if she tried anything. I was done with breakfast and my company ditched me to go tc class. I was heading back to my room, walking along the side- walk, whenl heard footsteps di,. rectly behind me. If this person was walking any closer to my heels I would have been giving him a piggy back ride. What do you do when someone does this to you? It's a simple violation of the space around me. You don't walk that dose to people unless there is a need for you to do so. I was tempted to tum around sud- denly and yell, \Boogadee boogadee, boooooo!\ in their face as I shook uncontrollably. That would have been fun. I went up the stairs instead and found my- · self deliberately taking a differ- ent route !n order to shake this person off. I hate those types. I should have gone with that other plan. I was in the college center last week going up the elevator. Here's the scene: Myself, two other students, a young guy with a piece of electrical equipment (I will ca11 him \the equipment guy\); and a flower delivery guy with a vase of flowers in hand were all waiting at the door of the elevator closed at ground level. Silence ensued as is customary in Make Your Vote Count! Vote for Jim Conroy Endorsed by Democratic, Liberal and Independence parties. lJNION LAUNDRY 561 NOTT ST. SCi·i'DY O·PEN SAM TO 1 0:30PM DAILY SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS situations like an elevator ride. Dead silence to let everyone else in that climbing box know that I don't really care to say, \How dee doo,\ and they don't care to do the same with me. We stopped at the third floor. One student got off.Jhe door is n~w open and the guy with the equipment presses the fourth floor button again, (al- ready lit which means that the fourth floor was where we were going next anyway). Then the guy with the equipment pressed the \DOOR CLOSE\ 'button sev- eral times. Then, the button didn't work and the door just waited its time before closing. The equipment guy, probably because he couldn't take the pres- sure ofthe silence anymore, said, \Door close button doesn't work.\ At which point, the door closed. The elevator started to go up to the fourth floor. More S:i- lence, and the flower guy finally said \Yeah I think they put those on there to _give you something to do.\ More silence for a mo- ment, and the equipment guy says, \Yeah it doesn't work.\ The flower guy chuckled. The elevator was at the fourth floor and, as the door opens the equip- ment guy says so'.{'tl:y; «Door Close.\ W~ all part ways on teh fourth floor. I think I'm the only one who realizes what actually went on in there for that brief moment. Sheer stupidity is what it was. These people must be stopped before their evil ways affect us normal types. The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 11 GuidE ro A NAkEd No\ RuN by Jules Features Staff Naked Nott run! Sounds scary, sounds like fun, sounds like you'd do it if a coercive roomate held a gun (or water pistol) to your ear; its risque, a bit cliche, from some it evokes fear, from me a well-concealed sneer; to know it is to love it, to love it is a sign that you're sexually frustrated and have way too much free-time. Situation: you're down in the bar, somewhat loaded and try- ing way too hard, and your prey keeps evading you, erstwhile baiting you ... and what you really want to say is \hey lets get naked\ but what departs your dry esophagus is barely more than gibberish, your eyes give you away, your face is in her face and she turns and walks away. So you turn to your buddy and say, «naked Nott run?'' You set down the empty cup after sucking back the suds, head for the stairs and stumble outside, greet the fresh air; you walk towards theN ott and stand around in the light looking wholly unsuspicious for ten minutes while you find your courage; then you strip, let out a whoop, and take off as fast as you can run. Perspective, ettiquette and disclaimers: I) stand not in the light while you tremble with fright-strip in the gardens, hid- den from sight. 2) to outrun Carl Lewis is no small feat, to do it hog-nekid is actually pretty neat-but, slow down a wee bit, ' test your mettle, FREE YOUR SfiRiT.f ''3) don 'i_ff~sfe~a:ra:~~~~~~·{f p something you need to outrun a Daihatsu and evade Security. 4) last but not least, once in plain sight, sing a song or scream a tune--don 'tcave in to fright-or carry an instrument, if you're the musical type. This is a tradition that goes back farther than the ceremonious Nott-memorial-shaped opium pipe. And (this is the disclaimer) if you happen to go out on the wrong night, you might catch the school president. .. running in fright. \F ofoca de Sao Paulo, Brasil\ From Term Abroad in Brazil After five weeks we are happy to report that all is well in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The huge amount of work and the cultural adjust- ments are challenging, but worth- while. We've finally accepted the fact tpat we have rice and beans at every meal, and the toi- let paper goes in the trash, not the toilet. Here are some highlights from our trip. Liz has her own seat at the beauty parlor, she skipped class to get her hair poofed and is considering becoming an \Aqua Net\ girl when she returns to the U.S. Eric, on the other hand, loves the Brazilian beaches so much that he had an encoun- ter with the police when they gave him a speeding ticket for rushing to the beach to show off his new Speedo. Adam is more interested in the acad'etnic experience of the term. He has mastered how to take five breaks in a two hour class! Su- san has been struggling with her thesis and has become so stressed by it that she's decided to drop it and become a ticket collector (cobradora) on the bus. Ansella has taken on the task of educat- ing Brazilians about the Bahamas, because, as she always says, \I am not American, I'm Baha- mian.\ Even though we're at school from 9:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. Mon- day to Thursday and have to go to our internships as well, it's also possible for us to find time for the little necessities in life. Sandra manages to make 7-11 runs at least three times a day for her Guarano-flavored slurpies. Nicole always has a story to tell about Kenya, including her pick- up games of spades. She has mastered the guys on our trip and is now challenging the Brazilian population. Heather amazes us every day - five weeks have passed and she has yet to repeat an outfit. For a weekend excursion, most people head out to the beach or the mountains. We promise to get Jason boozin' on the board- walk in Rio before he returns home. As for Jenn, she decided to take a break from the city and journey to the mountains. It was a long trek up the mountain and she didn't think she'd make it, but she survived! Rovin has to get his travelling in while he can because after December 8tl1, his visa is going to be revoked. Amy decided to spend a week- end in the city attempting to mas- ter the streets and the language. We're sorry to report that after five weeks, she's as clueless as ever. Barbara, on the other hand, has been a real trooper. Her chronic ailments have yet to get the best of her. Foreign relations between Bra- zil and the U.S. have never been better. Although she slacked to- day, Maria usually manages to write at least one letter a day to Mike. But have no fear, com- munication is not lost; she's· sure to receive a phone call tonight. Martha is her usual self-whip- ping everyone into shape, with killer exams to boot! However, without Martha, we'd be miss- ing out on all Brazil has to offer. Rejinho, bejinho ... Tchau, tchau! P.S. - Dona Jacqueline ... Muito obrigado por todo seu travalha e sua dedica ao. Todos sua trabalha nao foi em vao.

' I !I ,, ,, Page 12 • October 26, 1995• The Concordiensis Camp~sNews The Candidates for Student Forum Representatives Jason Kellman The picture above is okay, but I really had my eye set on ana- ked full body pose. My name is Jason Kellman and l w0uld like to represent our freshman class at Union College's Student Forum. We all know that I am doing this for the benefit of my class and I plan to help the freshman, but on the other hand wouldn't \College Class President\ look spicy on my resume? No, I'm just kidding. I am running for this position be- Thomas l'oO'''··\'';r\'i':c·::M·a:r:mo ..... ,_, . .,,:;:_,\ Michelle Neier When told about the elections for class representative I knew it was a position I would like to aim for. All throughout middle and high school, I represented my peers in student government. I would I ike to continue this activ- ity now that I am in college. If elected to student govern- ment, I would try to enact changes both·in our social and residential life as well as our academic life. Recently I have heard debate and concern about security, recon- struction of Schaeffer I ibrary, food on the meal plan, the aca- demic calendar as well as many other topics. I hope that as part of student government I would be entitled to take a formal part in these discussions. I will not make any promises to you that I cannot necessarily keep but I will make one promise I will do anything cause I want to know who makes the decisions on campus and why the students play a minor part in that. We are paying over three :fin- gers, a lung, and a knee cap to go here, therefore I want to have the opportunity to voice my opinion. I attended public schoorand most of the decisions concerning food, classes, and extracurricular events were decided by the state government. I was Vice President of my senior class in high school and instead of the authority here at Union making all the decisions, I would like to help make choices for the class of 1999. Here at Union I have bought an education as well as a ticket to say what I want, when I want. .... and this school is being paid to teach and to listen. Being a representative for our class, I will get more at- tracting student activities for the Union campus. Telling you about cheesy ideas of bands and poster sales would be a waste of your time. If elected, when you have an idea, tell me, and I will go to the Student Forum with that idea. Most ofall a thing that I would My name is Thomas S. Marino and I am running for Freshman Representative. I am running fgrthis posi-tion because, I believe that we, as a class, must stand united. It is my goal that the class of 1999 will make · some noise in the student gov- ernment. The way I view being your representative is to be your voice. A voice that will be heard in our student govern- ment· I am very eager to listen to the ideas that we possess as a class and I hope to see them brought to action. So remem- ber this\ If you want TO Make student governMent An effec- tively woRkiNg Organization, Vote for me this Friday!\ in my power to make the changes all of you are looking for. My parents always told me, \Don't worry, good things come in small packages.\ I would like to think that at 4' 1 1\ I have proven this true. Please keep this in mind when you vote for fresh- man representative. Remember- ( 'm the little girl with big ideas! like to change would be the hours of the Nott Memorial. The Nott is a great place to study and hav- ing it close at 10 o 'dock really does nothing for myself and many Union students. The Nott should have it's doors open until mid- night or even later. As Freshman Class Represen- tative I want to he the person at the Student F arum meetings ask- ing why things are the way they are to make this year aU the bet- ter. There are many issues that Union College needs to attend to and that is why the college is ask- ing the students for a Freshman Class Representative. When you all go to vote and I expect everyone to voice their opinion by doing so, think about what it is costing to attend here and ask yourself, \Who makes the choices for our class at Union.\ I want to be the person helping to make the choices. for our class. Decisions that are made here at Union are not told to us. Vote for Jason Kellman on Friday, Octo- ber 27th and understand that \If you pay, you should have a say.\ Caryn Anapolsky As a candidate for the Student Forum, I would like to explain why I chose to run. I have come Jonathon-- Z,andman This is not High School; you're in College now. Student Govern- ment shouJd be a full time com- mitment, not a popularity contest. Other candidates may give their fancy speeches, and teH you how much they love the class, but I am simply running to really represent you. They can talk all they want to Union with an extensive stu- dent government background. My involvement with student government began as a represen- tative for my h-igh school fresh- men class in Student Council. The following year I became Sec- retary. I later became Vice-Presi- dent, and thereafter was elected President. I helped to accomplish a variety of goals set forth by my fellow classmates. I was also cho- sen as the Regional Student Rep- resentative to the State Board of · Education. Becauseofthese lead- ership positions, I have learned what responsibility entails and what it means to represent a stu- dentbody. If! were elected for any of the positions, I would carry out the responsibility to attend all meet- ings and act as the best liaison be- now, but what it comes down to is: who will do the work once they are in office? Who can find innovative ways to facilitate life, make college more fun and, most importantly, best represent and hear your voice? I intend to use every means possible to accom- plish these goals. Here are .some thoughts: In order to connect everyone to the Government, why nothave an Internet homepage, where you can give suggestions and com- ments, and get infonnation about what your Government is doing? Creative thinking leads to creative ideas, and with 500minds think- ing together, the possibilities for· our class are endless. Only by in- cluding everyone can government truly serve: all. If you like these concepts, and want to see more ideas, support me, and we can all make Union a better place. We are one ofthe most talented, se- lective classes to come to Union, and together we can accomplish anything. ' · tween the students and adminis- tration. Not only would I bring in new ideas but I would also lis· ten to everyone's voice. In the past, I have also been a dedicated peer leader. In this role, I learned how to get along with others through communication; there- fore, I know I can work well with others. Similarto most freshmen, it has taken many years of hard work for us to arrive here: it is only fair that we deserve the best four years of our life here at Union College. That is why with your help on October 27, 1995, I will continue thrs dedication to the bestofmyability. Please vote for Caryn Anapolsky on election day. Thank you. Betsy Pekin Hi, my name is Betsy and ~s you obviously know by now, rm running for freshman representative. As a representative I would hope to present the views of the freshman class to the student forum. I think that this is an important position not only because it would al- low me to help make improvements in Union, but it will also give a voice to the only \underclassmen\ in the school. I have many ideas for this school, such as trying to get parking permits for freshman, and will always !Je open to expressing the ideas .of others. \Oh if you're ever unsatisfied with the way life is treating you; you know you can count on me to take good care ofyou.\ -Ph ish •

e I a Campus News Freshmen Reps Cont'd · Jenn.ifer Graziosa For those of you who don't know me, I'm Jennifer Graziosa and I am running for Freshman Representative. Ifit is experience that you want, I'm the person to vote for. Throughout my high achool career, I've been the presi· dent of every commitee, the edi- tor of each and every publication , and the captain of every sports team, even the guys teams. If you vote forme, I promise to install a frozen yogurt machine in every dorm, free laundry service, and a on-campus dating service. O.K. so maybe this isn't all true; actu- ally maybe none -of it is true. On a more serious·note, if you vote for me as representative, I would be the voice of the Freshman class. I would listen to all of your requests and would do the best that I could to have your needs met. I have always prided myself on being an open, friendly and ap- proachable person, and I hope that you would all feel comfort- able enough to come and talk to me when you feel that there is a problem. Ifl were elected to rep- resent our class; I would like to organize activities whose goat\' would be to help unify our grade .. Although it may seem unrealistic to unite over 500 people, I feel that events such as dances, Fresh- man Club U's, grade barbecues and maybe even a grade ski trip or something of that sort would help to do this. These activities would not be mandatory, but would be open to all freshman who wished to participlite. Ac- tivities such as these would en- able us to get to know a larger portion of our grade. Addition- ally, I would like to place a sug- gestion box in either the college center or in the freshman donns so that people would have an op- portunity to voice their opinions and ideas. I can assure you that if you vote for me, you do not · have to worry about a lack of ex- perience. In high school, I was Editor-in-Chief ofthe Yearbook; an active member of Model United Nations, Captain of the Varsity Track Team and a mem- ber ofthe ISAC Committee(Intra School Activities Committee). I hope that this shows you that I do possess strong leadership skills as well as the ability to work well with others. I am extremely de- voted and always follow through on what I've started. I do not want to promise anything because I do not know what the future holds, but I can honestly tell you that I will do the best that I can to make this the best Freshman class. VP of Multicultural Affairs · Carey Miller My name is Carey Miller and I'm currently running for V .P. of Multicultural Affairs. As a sophomore, I am aware of the various cultural groups and stu- dents' backgrounds on campus. Therefore, to better the awareness of multiculturalism and diversity on campus I would like to: put forth a strong effort to change Union College into a more of a unified community instead ofa fra:gmented community, be mind- ful of the different cultures and needs of those outside the main- stream population, and improve the departments of Women's Studies, Africana Studies and Latino Studies. As this is a newly created posi- tion, it will be up to myself and everyone else on this campus, to critically define it. For too long, Union has viewed multiculturalism and diversity as separate and distinct from the whole. In my view, the only way we can fully actualize the vast po- tentialofUnion College is to rec- ognize the uniqueness of indi- viduals, enhance them, and ce- ment it into the foundation of Union College. It has been my experience that sameness breeds monotony, which inevitably leads to medi- ocrity.. Therefore, if we as a col- lege community are to advance to the next level, then we must rec- ognize and appreciate the diver- sity that exists among us all. This V.P. position is the first step to- wards that goal. However, we must be careful to place someone in that position who has commit- ment, energy and desire to further its intended agenda. Therefore, if you are truly desir-ous of mov- ing Union out of the fragmented community that it is, then vote Carey M.iHer for V.P. of Multicultural Affairs. Neil Alpert Living America, being an American, and having freedoms, are some of the themes that seem all too lost on Union's campus. In America each individual has the right, and the power to select his or her leader. The disturbing fact is that only a minute percent- age of the people participate in this right. On college campuses voter participation in elections is low, and unfortunately, this trend is nowhere more prevalent than on Union'scampus. We all need to go out this Friday and vote, as a student body and as an indi- vidual, for only then will we be Pete Sorensen Hi, I 'ni a smurf, I live in the smurf village. Smurfette lives next door, she thinks I'm smurfy. Handy, Hefty, Brainy, Gardener, Jokey-. they're all here. And Gargamel can't find us because he is scared to look in Schenectady. Is that it? The entire world in a nutshell? Maybe we should look beyond the ~pparent homogeneity of our little village-indeed, what diversity lies hidden under the blanket of Americana? Do we care? I'm not one to judge, but I think we should: at the least we should be aware ... Vice-President of Multi-cultural affairs sounds like a rather omi- . no us title, but I see it as being loaded with potential. Think: diver- sity of cultural courses, perfonnance.s, guest speakers, whatever else a college can conceivably offer, whatever else you can concieve of-and a VP with no other concerns to s.murfabout What can be done? Lets take the bubble off the village and find out. Choose wisely, my fhends ... Geoffrey Oravec When we .first came to cam- pus this year we were asked to vote for the creation of the new position, Vice President of Multicultural Affairs. Your vote was supportive of this action. and thus this position was created. Most of us who have been on campus for a while know that there is a definite lack of cultural activities, this is why I feel that our student body needs this posi- tion. Since this is the first elec- All of us at Union live on a multi-cultural campus, containing all races, peoples and rei igions, but we are not a multi-cultural community. Instead of being a community, we are many small interest groups. We must come together if we are to have an ef- fective say which carries any weight with the administration. We can only do so ifwework to- gether, and it is the job of the multi-cultural vice president to break the barriers which prevent us from functioning as a cohesive unit. It's time. We have to put aside the stereotypes and bond as a group. It won't be easy to break these walls, but we as a student body can do so. I would like to work hand in hand with the peer facilitators to have more diversity workshops. because how else will we get people's true feelings out in the open? Union needs to bring diverse speakers that are power- ful enough to allow us to look in- side of ourselves and kill any pre- conceived notions that we have about races, peoples, and reli- gions, that are different than ours. I ask, what do we have to lose? Minority presence has dropped 27.5%(according to Admissions) and if allow this trend to continue the minority presence could dis- appear on campus completely. Once we are a cohesive student body, we will have say in such things as enrollment, and through this we can keep Union a multi- cultural school in its truest sense, as coeducational was only the first step; we now have to make Union a cornucopia of cultures, and I think that L Neil Alpert, could achieve this This Friday I will be voting at the College Center any time from I 0 00 to 4 00, and it's your individual right andre- sponsibility to do the same May the best person win, and thank you tion for this office, it is impera- tive for the student body to vote for a person who will be able to give this position the time and energy it deserves. With your vote, I can turn this position into a very meaningful and worth- while office. Many of you must be asking yourselves, \What exactly is this position?\ The answer is it will be my job to help Union College break out of the \cultural rut\ and establish activities (speakers, gatherings); and most importantly work with the student body to get feedback on concerns which you might have and suggestions which you feel wiU benefit the Union College campus. On Friday. October 27. we will all f?e faced with the tedious task of deciding whom to elect for the new position of Vice President of Multicultural Affairs. I assure you that it is not that hard, the choice is clear, there is only one person who will give this \First Year\ office the time and dedi- cation it needs: VOTE GEOFF ORAVEC for VICE PRESI- DENT OF MULTICULTURAL AFFAIRS- Mul ticu 1 turalism never looked so good!!!!!!!! Manny Cunanan My name is Manny Cunanan. I am running for Junior Class Representative. I have been in this position throughout my high school career, as two year class presi- dent, and student body presi- dent my senior year The po- sition of Junior Class Repre- sentative requires a person with an innovative personal- ity, and an open ear to the other students, qualities w! a:h I possess. My goal is the ld- dress all the issues that Ym, m.' concerned with. inordl· !() strengthen the lines of c '. munication hetwecn thl.' ~,:1· dent body ahd the adm im:.' ~ .1- .•.

II If \ I I \ '!, 'i , I ' t { i ) ' ') . ,, Page 14 • The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 Baseball: The Perfect Metaphor for Dating by David Eder Living Editor better to go down swinging than it is to go down looking. The next thing to keep in mind is that it is better to GO FOR A SINGLE than to go for the waH. It is the The World Series is underway ... the higherpercentageshotandisbetterthana Braves vs. the Indians. However, there is homerun if you are looking to start a rally. a far more important game going on ev- A single, which in this case is a date, is far eryday here at Unio1;1. The game of which superior to picking some drunk girl up at a I speak is dating. fraternity and getting laid. Besides, we all It seerns that baseball is a perfect meta- know that it lasts longer and is far more phor for dating. We would all benefit exciting to run the bases than it is to hit a greatly i fth.ere was a book of rules on the homerun. A date- what a novel idea! procedare of dating as there is a clear set If you are swinging the bat, even.tually ofinstructions for baseball. The follow~ you will get a date. This makes for the ing'isasimple set of instructions pertain- most ex(fiting part of the game. You are ing.t{)the game of baseball or dating. on first, and the girl is the pitcher. She The first thing to do is to make sure you controls the game, but if you are smooth, have the proper equipment. That is to say, patient, funny, and charming, you can a soph()more student Should not attempt STEAL SECOND. AHHH,the first kiss. tndate a thirty-year-old investment banker. Going for the kiss is a gamble. You That would be the equivalent of trying to might get picked off, in which case you hit a fastball with a badminton racquet. have to get right up to bat again. But ifit The next and most important rule to re- feels right- go for it! There is nothing more member is to ALWAYS KEEP SWING- thrilling than the anticipation, the trepida- ING THE BAT. If you fail to do this, all tion, and the feelings of felicity that over- ofthe following rules are useless. Let me come you when you manage to steal sec- repeat rnyself- always keep trying; keep ond. If you can't steal second, you may asking girls out. If you don't swing.the need to have a friend hit a sacrifice fly. bat, youcan'tma.kecontac~. The ball never You may need him to date your date's ste- fl.ies into the bat. It is up to you to hit the atopygous friend. ball. Now you are on second. You have man- !'11 be the first to admit that swinging aged to get a kiss. This is where most the bat can be tough. It can even be scary. people get confused. And it is easy to get The ball may be moving 1 OOmph, and it is confused because the game changes im- natural to want to duck out of the way. But mediately after the first kiss. In fact, it is you must stay an~ face the ball. The main not baseball anymore, it is now a game of reason it is difficult to swing the bat is be- tennis. MANY IS THE TIME I SHOWED cause of the fans. We care too much. UP AT A TENNIS COURT WEARING That's the next rule: CARING IS BAD. BASEBALL CLEATS. Don't.letthishap- ~he f~~,sonttol us. We are always-the . .'-~.ptm to yo:tt. · ·'-· visiting team. The fans are hostile, but we You now have to decide if you want to have to block them out; we have to stop serve an ace or serve it slow in hopes of a caring. Think about it Think about when long rally. You and the girl both have the you were young, hitting rocks with a broom option at anytime to put the ball down and stick, and you swung at every pitch. That's walk off the court. If the girl chooses this because there were no fans, and if there option, remember to get back to the plate were you ditln'teare. You swung becfl.use and start swinging the bat again. The im- it was fun whether you hit the rock or not. portance of swinging the bat cannot be The fans have hidden the fun with their overemphasized. I know because of my heckles, but if you block them out, the repeated failure to do so. gameisstilljust as fun. Stop caring, swing the bat, enjoy the Remember that you must swing at ev- game, and remember that you have got to ery pitch that is near the plate. It is far be in it to win it. great scores ... Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where !\'i-- .. you need it most. We'll show you the proven skills and test-taking .techniques that help you get a higher score. great skills ... Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to vitual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who really care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. KAPLAN Call .489-0077 for more information. A Recipefor Chocolafe Souffle. 3usf like Crandma S. by David Eder ·Living editor Living • • Pursuant to an un-confused re~der's. request, we have included a recipe fo.r a Chocolate Souffle. The following com,es from page 77 in The Way to Cook by Julia Child. This is the best formula for chocolate souffle I have run into so far~ it has a fine chocolate flavor,. a subtle texture, and it holds up well for serving. The secret is in the egg whites, which are beate.n into a merirtque {6 egg whites held up with 1/2 cup of sugar). INGREDIENTS: 7 ounces sweet baking chocolate smoothly melted with 113 cup strong coffee. 1/3 cup flour 2cups milk 3 Tbs. butter A big pinch of salt 1 Tbs. pure vanilla extract 4 egg yolks 6egg whites 1/2 cup granulated sugar Confectionary sugar in fine meshed sieve Whisk flour and milk together. Bring to a boil slowly and add butter, vanilla, then the egg yolks, and finally the oh so smoothly melted chocolate. Beat the egg whites and slowly add 112 cup sugar. Then add the chocolate sauce to the egg whites, rapidly folding the two together . Bake for 55 minutes at 375 degrees F. Take out of oven and sprinkle with confectionary sugar and serve. Cut however you'd like. ' ; ' ~; ;

Page 14 • The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 Baseball: The Perfect Metaphor for Dating by David Eder Living Editor The World Series is underway ... the Braves vs. the Indians. However, there is a far more important game going on ev- eryday here at Union. The game of which I speak is dating. It seems that baseball is a perfect meta- phor for dating. We would all benefit greatly if there was a book of rules on the procedure of dating as there is a clear set of instructions for baseball. The follow- ing ~sa simple set of instructions pertain- ing to the game of baseball or dating. The first thing to do is to make sure you have the proper equipment. That is to say, a sophomore student should not attempt to date a thirty-year-old investment banker. That would be the equivalent of trying to hit a fastball with a badminton racquet. The next and most important rule tore- member is to ALWAYS KEEP SWING- ING THE BAT If you fail to do this, all of the following rules are useless. Let me repeat myself- always keep trying; keep asking girls out. If you don't swing the bat, you can't make contact. The ball never flies into the bat It is up to you to hit the ball I'll be the first to admit that swinging the bat can he tough It can even be scary. The ball may be moving 1 OOmph, and it is natural to want to duck out of the way. But you must stay ansi face the ball. The main reason it is difficult to swing the bat is be- cause of the fans. We care too much. Thafs the next rule: CARING IS BAD. The fans control us. We are always the visiting team. The fans are hostile, but we have to block them out; we have to stop caring Think about it Think about when you were young. hitting rocks with a broom stick. and you swung at every pitch That ·s because there were no fans. and if there \\:ere you didn't care. You swung because 1t \\as fun whether vou hit the rock or not The !~ills have hidden the fun with their heckles. hut if you hlock them out. the game is still just as fun Remember that you must w.ing at c\- cry pitch that is near the plate It is far better to go down swinging than it is to go down looking. The next thing to keep in mind is that it is better to GO FOR A SINGLE than to go for the wall. It is the higher percentage shot and is better than a homerun if you are looking to start a rally. A single, which in this case is a date, is far superior to picking some drunk girl up at a fraternity and getting laid. Besides, we all know that it lasts longer and is far more exciting to run the bases than it is to hit a homerun. A date- what a novel idea! If you are swinging the bat, eventually you will get a date. This makes for the most exciting part of the game. You are on first, and the girl is the pitcher. She controls the game, but if you are smooth, patient, funny, and charming, you can STEAL SECOND. AHHH, the first kiss. Going for the kiss is a gamble. You might get picked off, in which case you have to get right up to bat again. But if it feels right- go for it! There is nothing more thrilling than the anticipation, the trepida- tion, and the feelings of felicity that over- come you when you manage to steal sec- ond. If you can't steal second, you may need to have a friend hit a sacrifice fly. You may need him to date your date's ste- atopygous friend. Now you are on second. You have man- aged to get a kiss. This is where most people get confused. And it is easy to get confused because the game changes im- mediately after the first kiss. In fact, it is not baseball anymore, it is now a game of tennis. MANY IS THE TIME I SHOWED UP AT A TENNIS COURT WEARING BASEBALL CLEATS. Don't let this hap- pen to you. You now have to decide ifyou wantto serve an ace or serve it slow in hopes of a long rally. You and the girl both have the option at anytime to put the ball down and walk offthe court. lfthe girl chooses this option. remember to get hack to the plate and start swinging the hat again The im- portance of swinging the bat cannot be overemphasized. I know because of my repeated failure to do so Stop caring. S\ving the bat, enjoy the game, and remember that you have got to he in it to win it great scores ... Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where ~- ..... .- you need it most. We'll show you the proven skills and test-taking techniques that help you get a higher score. great skills ... Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to vitual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who really care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. KAPLAN Call 489-0077 for more information. A Recipe(or Chocolafe Souffle. 3usf like Crandma $ by David Eder Living editor Living • • Pursuant to an un-confused reader's request, we have included a recipe for a Chocolate Souffle. The following comes from page 77 in The Way to Cook by Julia Child. This is the best formula for chocolate souffle I have run into so far-it has a fine chocolate flavor, a subtle texture, and it holds up well for serving. The .secret is in the egg whites, which are beaten into a meringue (6 egg whites held up with 112 cup of sugar}. INGREDIENTS: 7 ounces sweet baking chocolate smoothly melted with 1/3 cup strong coffee. 1/3 cup flour 2 cups milk 3 Tbs. butter A big pinch of salt 1 Tbs. pure vanilla extract 4 egg yolks 6 egg whites 1/2 cup granulated sugar Confectionary sugar in fine meshed sieve Whisk flour and milk together. Bring to a boil slowly and add butter, vanilla, then the egg yolks, and finally the oh so smoothly melted chocolate. Beat the egg whites and slowly add 1/2 cup sugar. Then add the chocolate sauce to the egg whites, rapidly folding the two together. Bake for 55 minutes at 375 degrees F. Take out of oven and sprinkle with confectionary sugar and serve. Cut however you'd like.

Personals/Classitieds Personals To my princess Julissa Rosario - I, The Duke ofYork, shall be tak- ing my princess' hand at the year's dawn. -Sir Vincent Lopez I AA- The reason why your wrote that article is because you're a true doidnow. -Dad TomyODB'S- Medication is at a grim state, but you know how :J do it. Amsterdam & London were lovlier, but better yet, dirtier than the gimp scene in Pulp Fiction. -Sir Vin Rock Ben- 2.0, 2 .. 1 - as long as you're get- ting lifted son! One Love. -Daddy Oomie- 1 love and miss you lots ... Teddy says hi.. .. Dah, Dah. Love, Veeta Quote ofthe ce11tury: \Men can't live with them, pass the beer nuts.\ Sometimes it is good to bitch. We did great and I'm proud of all of us. Let's hope it's one to grow on. -Liqnut Karin and Nicole- Hope the package I sent went to good use (better use than it would ifi had kept it!). I miss you guys and hope to see yem soonJ Love, your Southern friend Hey Dan- Hurry up and fix your knee be- fore your pong game suffers! From, Iris' biggest fan in North Carolina Roomie- I'm so sorry about your ankle! You certainly like to keep things interesting, huh? Well, ifl were you, I would milk it for all it's worth. -D Jeff- Keepin' it real after 8 months. Happy Anniversary! Love you Lots! -Jazz OF- Enjoyed our picnic by the rivet. We'll do it again when you're up and going. -LS ToA.A- Just wanted to know how the tank is holdin' up? Don't worry Pri- vate, It's all good!!! -England's Finest, Jay Luv El Gato Rojo - Live it up in Rio Land while you can ... You know I am!H -EI Gato Preto y Diablo Sexy- 1'11 be back soon so keep ya head up and we'll be eating Japanese in no time! : } : ) P.S. -Write me! -New York TotheGimp- Bummer about the leg, but at least you get a tub out of the deal. -Lefty TEX- Havea great Birthday! You must celebrate in a major way this weekend! Love, the gang Benjo! Mental relaxations are scarse!! ! Will be flying east for the winter. One Love,Jay Luv Concordy Staff- Only one more to go for the term. My how time flies when you're having fun! -Sed Brown Sugar- A void the Ebola at all costs! : ) Miss:in' ya! -Black Coffee mixingwith creme The Three Musketeers- Silence is a virtue, but it can also be deadly! :) - \Phillip\ Classijieds Job Opportunity Looking for a motivated student (preferable a psychology or soci- ology major) to work 10 hours/ week for the Union College ChapterofBig Brothers/Big S-is- ters. Responsibilities include match supervisio, fund raising, and other organizational tasks. Must be work study eligible. Please call x6228 if interested. Wanted!!! Individuals, Student Organiza- tions to promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER~CAMPUS PROGRAMS http://www. icpt.com I -800-372-6013 SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE with SunSplash Tours. Highest commissions, lowest prices. Campus Reps needed to sell Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama City, Padre. 1-800-426-7710 The Union College Department of Performing Arts presents =-~ - Former principal dance.~ ::-=New York City Ballet Com~ .;;=---- ~~- offering a~;::;:~­ and info~lk ·-·· .. ~ .. -~ ;::; ~~ - £~ ~--= .~ ~ ~~17~27 1995 _____ _..._,....' Masterclass'O pm Lecture ~pm ~ ~ ~ Performing Art~dio :IS_ = ~~ \\' $10.00 Fee_:! *Free to Union College students enrolffil:in the Dance Practica rm UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center Discussion No Chl!!!fe :z:; ~ ~ For reservations, contact the Performing Arts Department, 388·6785 CDC Updates .•. Attention Graduating Students ... looking for a job? Tom Kingsley '93 is representing Sapient, a small, fast growing computer con- sulting company designing critical business solutions for Fortune 500 compa- nies. He will be discussing positions available for '96 grads. at an informa~ interactive infomudwn session on Wed., Nov. 1 at 3:30. Sign-ups for this pro- gram are essential. Reswnes will be accepte<t Company brochures are available at the CDC. lnfonnation Sessions (all students are welcome to attend these program~ to learn more about the companies) Coopers & Lybrand - Monday; October 30 at 7 pm Hughes Training- Thursday, November 2 at 7 pm Albany Law School • Thursday, Nov. 2 at 6 pm. Workshops Behavioral Interviewing Video - Wed., November 1 at 7 pm. CDC Information Table at RCC Atrium - Wed., Nov. 1 from 11 - 1 pm Resume Deadlines •Educational Resources Group is inteNiewing on-campus November 10. Teaching Positions wiiJ be available for Math,Science, History, English and Foreign Language majors. Coaching athletic teams a plus. Resume and tran- script extended DEADLINE October 27 before 5pm. •CAl Wireless: Resume Deadline on Nov. 1 for EE or PH majors. •Norton Company Co-op: Reswne and Transcript Deadline on Nov. 1 for EE, ME, PH, and CH majors. •Boston Recruiting Day: Reswne and Cover Letter Deadline on Friday, Nov. 3 by Spm. The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 15 Make great Christmas $ in CT! If you can begin work the first week of Dec. or earlier, aw~rd winning retail shop in New Canaan, CT is now accepting Xmas sales help applications. $8/br, 40 hr weel{. Please call Ray for more info @. Pennyweights Jewlery Gift Store. (203) 966-7739. Secure your job today! VOTE ON FRIDAY FOR STUDENT FORUM REPRESENTATIVES IN THE COLLEGE CENTER FROM 10:00-4:00PM!!! ~d now college special oppor- tu¢tyto enjoy. it all at great prices. Just purchase an Extra Credit Card for $30. Then, your first day on the slopes is free, and you can Mount ....... v_,., If you've never tried boarding, try a For $3S a day, you get a ·Iess:on, mountain lift ticket, and a complete rental package. So get the card that gives you something extra ... and enjoy the payback. 0&11 ~-800-88-PEAKS -88'7-325'1) to get. yours. http://www.peaks.com/ may apply. Must be a full-time college student.

Personals/Classifieds Personals To my princess Julissa Rosario- I, The Duke of York, shall be tak- ing my princess' hand at the year's dawn. -Sir Vincent Lopez I AA- The reason why your wrote that article is because you're a true doidnow. -Dad TornyODB'S- Medication is at a grim state, but you know how I do it. Amsterdam & London were lovl ier, but better yet, dirtier than the gimp scene in Pulp Fiction. -Sir Vin Rock Ben- 2.0, 2.1 - as long as you're get- ting lifted son! One Love. -Daddy Oomie- I love and miss you lots .. .Teddy says hi .... Dah, Dah. Love, Veeta Quote of the century: \Men can't live with them, pass the beer nuts'' Sometimes it is good to bitch We did great and I'm proud of all of us. Let's hope it's one to grow on. -Liqnut Karin and Nicole- Hope the package I sent went to good use (better use than it would ifl had kept it!). I miss you guys and hope to see you soon! Love, your Southern friend Hey Dan- Hurry up and fix your knee be- fore your pong game suffers! From, Iris' biggest fan in North Carolina Roomie- I'm so sorry about your ankle! You certainly like to keep things interesting, huh? Well, ifi were you, I would milk it for all it's worth. -D Jeff- Keepin' it real after 8 months. Happy Anniversary! Love you Lots' -Jazz OF- EnJoyed our picmc by the river. We'll do it again when you're up and going. -LS To A.A.- Just wanted to know how the tank is holdin' up'l Don't worry Pri- vate, It's all good! I! - England's Finest, Jay Luv El Gato Rojo- Live it up in Rio Land while you can ... You know I am! I! -EI Gato Preto y Diablo Sexy- 1'11 be back soon so keep ya head up and we'll be eating Japanese in no time! : ) : ) P S. -Write mel -New York To the Gimp- Bummer about the leg, but at least you get a tub out of the deal. -Lefty TEX- HaveagreatBirthdayl Youmust celebrate in a major way this weekend! Love, the gang Benjol Mental relaxations are scarse!!! Will be flying east for the winter. One Love, Jay Luv Concordy Staff- On! y one more to go for the term. My how time flies when you're having funl -Sed Brown Sugar- A void the Ebola at all costs! : ) Missin' ya! -Black Coffee mixing with creme The Three Musketeers - Silence is a virtue, but it can also be deadly! : ) - II Phillip\ Classifieds Job Opportunity Looking for a motivated student (preferable a psychology or soci- ology maJOr) to work I 0 hours/ week for the Union College Chapter of Big Brothers/Big Sis- ters. Responsibilities include match superv1sio, fund raising, and other organizational tasks. Must be work study eligible. Please call x6228 if interested. Wanted! I! Individuals, Student Organiza- tions to promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS http I /www 1cpt. com 1-800-3 72-6013 SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE with SunSplash Tours. Highest commissions, lowest prices. Campus Reps needed to sell Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama City, Padre 1-800-426-7710 The Union College Department of Performing Arts presents PETE-RME -=-~- Former principal dance~ New York City Ballet Co~ ~~ =~ -:--~-­ offering a~_$_-;--,-- __ and inforiifiilri:alk --- :~ --==--- ~ !5!1 ---~17~~2~ 1995 UNION COL LEGE Career Droe I 0pm.e11 t Center -~ Masterclass ~0 pm Lecture S:ff} pm ~ .§;::= ~ Performing Art~dio ~ ,:::;; ·~ '\\\ $10.00Fee5 •Free to Union College students enrolWi/:;in the Dance Practica Discussion No Chlf}!'e -, < For reservations, contact the Performing Arts Department, 388-6785 CDC Updates .•. Attention Graduating Students ... looking for a job? Tom Kingsley '93 is representing Sapient, a small. fast growing computer con- sulting company designing critical business solutions for Fortune 500 compa- nies. He will be dbcussing positions available for '96 grads. at an informa~ interactive informatwn session on Wed., Nov. I at 3:30. Sign-ups for this pro- gram are essential. Resumes will he accepted. Company brochures are available at the CDC. Infonnation Sessions (all srudents are welcome to attend lhcse program~ to learn more about !he companies) Coopers & Lybrand - Monday, October 30 at 7 pm Hughes Training- Thursday, November 2 at 7 pm Albany Law School - Thursday. Nov. 2 at 6 pm. Workshops Behavioral Interviewing Video- Wed .. November I at 7 pm. CDC Information Tahle at RCC Atrium -Wed., Nov. 1 from I1 - I pm Resume Deadlines •Educational Resources Group is interYiewing on-campus November 10. Teaching Positions will he available for Ma!b.Science, History, English and Foreign Language majors. Coaching a!bletic teams a plus. Resume and tran- script extended DEADLINE October 27 before Spm. •CAl Wireless: Resume Deadline on Nov. 1 for EE or PH majors. •Norton Company Co-op: Resume and Transcript Deadline on Nov. 1 for EE, ME, PH, and CH majors. •Boston Recruiting Day: Resume and Cover Letter Deadline on Friday, Nov. 3 by 5 pm. The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 15 Make great Christmas $ in CT! If you can begin work the first week of Dec. or earlier, aw~rd winning retail shop in New Canaan, CT is now accepting Xmas sales help appHcations. $8/hr, 40 hr weel{. Please call Ray for more info @Pennyweights Jewlery Gift Store. (203) 966-7739. Secure your job today! VOTE ON FRIDAY FOR STUDENT FORUM REPRESENTATIVES IN THE COLLEGE CENTER FROM 1 0:00-4:00PM!!! ·With six of . England, drive from boarding in half-pipes, breath away\ And now college special oppor- tunity to enjoy.it all at great prices. Just purchase an Extra Credit Card for $30. Then, your first day on the slopes CIC:illing!~~· Mount Snow ·- ... - ·ws·•'•\••J •a•:•11·a:•• < •• , ·, • Hay$tack ..&sugarloaf/usa ~Waterville Valley ~N~ BROMLEY is free, and you can buy lift tickets at Killington, Mount Snow/Haystack, Sugarloaf/USA, WaterVJ.Je Yalley or '~~?~~y .ty:~untain for~ . fto $30. And r new· this year, the car · d every day&> .. throughout the seaso [i< i%~~·\ If you've never tried or snow- {JJs· boarding, try a learn~v\ ackage. For j~l\t $3 S a day, you get a lesson, a lower - mountain lift ticket, and a complete rental package. So get the card that gives you something extra ... and enjoy the payback. Call ~-800-88-PEAKS -88?-3251) to get yours. http://www.peaks.com/ may apply. Must be a full·time college student.

.? '' , ' '' •I ,, \ ~ ., \ ' ., '· ' ( Campus Calendar Page 16, Volume 1.5 Union College October 26- November 3, 1995 CAMPUS EVENTS 10/26/95-11/03/95 Sunday-Thursday 12:00p-10:00p Friday and Saturday 12:00p-5:00p NOTIMEMORIAL OPEN 10/26/95-11/18/95 12:00p-1 O:OOp Exhibit: The Machines of Leonardo Da Vinci, NOIT MEMORIAL Thursday, 10/26/95 12:30p Dr. Robin Miller, Class of' 89 «The Ultraviol~t -· Photo Dissociation Dynamics of Ozone, Via Two-Dimensional Ion Imaging\ SCIENCE&ENG.NW 116 6:00p Performance: Henry V, CC AUDITORIUM Friday, 10/27/95 11 :OOa Speaker: Richard Moe,\ How We Can All Be Partners in Preservation\ NOTT MEMORIAL 4:00p- 7:00p TG.I.F. CHET'S 8:00p \Sweet Honey in the Rock\ African AcappeHo Group, :MEMORIAL CHAPEL Saturday, 10/28/95 8:00p Octavos Singers, MEMORIALCHAPEL Monday, 10/30/95 7:30p Speaker: Yaron Svoray, \In Hitler's Shadow: Neo-Nazis in the 1990's\ ,CC AUDITORlUM Wednesday, 11/0l/95 8:00p Jazz Ensemble & Nick Brignola Quartet Performances, ARTS 215 Thursday, ll/02/05 12:30p Ml\. Philip Launer Chemistry Seminar, SCIENCE& ENG. NW 116 r\i I ,j ;.JIJ.fl/1 1\.JJI;l;dDrr~J-eS ................... ·, lV.tEJJ:!}i l..l.t~-\:J ~ nu• n•••,.t~•\ ' ; ..,all Term Sundays through Mondays 11 :OOp- 8:00a All Night Study Area SOCIAL SCIENCES 105& 112 9:00a- 5:00p GEinterviews CC204 1 O:OOa- 3 :OOp Delta Gamma CC ATRIUM O:OOa- 3 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Halloween Sale CC ATRIUM lO:OOa-4:00p ·Campus Operations'· CCSTRAUSS 11 :30a- 1 :30p Religious Programs' \ CCATRiUM 12:00p- 1 :OOp Spanish Speaking Table CC205 12:00p-1 :30p Minerva Meeting HHDININGROOM 12:30p- 1 :30p German Speaking Table CC 203 12:30p- 3 :OOp Students for the Ethical Treatment of Animals CC ATRIUM 12:30p- 3 :30p U Call CC 409 1 :30p- 3:30p Political Science SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 1: 30p- 4 :OOp Physics Colloquium SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 ~:00p-5:00p HighTea HHMILANOLOUNGE ~:OOp- 5:00p The Ambassador Program CC AUDITORIUM ~:00p-6:00p GMI Lecture HUMANlTIES 115 ~:30p- 5:30p Economics Thesis SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 ~:30p- 5:30p International Programs HUMANITIES 117 ~:30p-6:00p Biology Seminar SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 S:Oop.:. 6:30p Adventurers' Guild Meeting CC205 o:00p-7:30p Balletll PERFORMINGARTSSTUDIO Tuesdays & Thursdays o:30p-10:00p AOPTutoring BAILEY 104& 106 ~:30p- 8:30p IFC Meeting CC205 17:30p- 9:00p Combined Ballet II/III PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 17:30p-1 O:OOp Calculus Crisis Center BAILEY 100 · Tuesdays, Wednesdays & Thursdays ~:OOp-JO:OOp SafeSpaceGroup CC409 ~:00p-12:00a Chet's Committee CHEf'S ~:30p-12:00a Alpha Phi Alpha CC203 friday 10/27/95 1 O:OOa- 3 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Hollo ween Sale CC ATRIUM II :30a· 2:00p College Relations CC204 12:30p-1:30p ClassicsClub CC203 1:30p-2:30p Japanese Speaking Table CC205 2:00p- 6:00p GMI CC409 3:00p-4:00p Modern Languages CC205 4 OOp~ 5 JOp Peter Frame-Ballet Master Class PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO p: 30p- 6 OOp Peter Frame- Infonnal Talk PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 17 OOp- 9:00p Intervarsity Fellowship CC STRAUSS (305) 7 15p- 9 15p Philomathean Society HH MILANO LOUNGE ~aturday 10/28/95 8:00a- 5:30p Astronomical Society ofNY SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 8:00a-12:00a AOP Meeting SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 9:30a-l0:00a AthleticDepartment CC203 · 1 0:30a-l :OOp Group Sessions- Admissions HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p-2:00p Astronomical Society ofNY HHDININGROOM Sunday 1-0/29/95 6:00p-10:00p Fi IotaAlfa CC409 6:00p-10:00p Student Organization SOCIAL SCIENCES 012 6:30p- 8:00p Delta Psi Delta CC205 7:0Qp ... 8:00p Sunday Worship HHOLDCHAPEL 7:00p- 8:30p FinanceCommittee CC410 Mond~y 10/30/95 1 O:OOa- 3 :OOp JSU- Publicity for Speaker CC ATRIUM 11: 3Ga-1 :OOp Residence Life CC204 3:30p- 4:30p Math Department BAILEY201 4:45p- 6:00p Modem Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 4:45p- 6:30p Rugby Club SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum CC409 7:00p- 9:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal MEMORIAL CHAPEL Tuesday 10/31/95 9:00a-l0: 15a MAT Program-Modem Languages HUMANITIES 113 9:30a- 3:30p U CALL CC409 10:45a-11:30a ModemLanguages SOCIALSCIENCES 105 11: 30a-12 :30p Voter Registration Information CC 203 11 :30a-1 :30p Faculty Soup & Beverage HHDINING ROOM 12 :OOp-1 :OOp Committee Values Group fffi MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p-I :OOp Engineering TaskForce SCIENCE &ENG. NW 116 12:00p-1 :30p Freshmen Preceptorial HHOLDCHAPEL 12:00p-l :30p Residence Life CC204 2:00p- 4:00p Dining Services CC203 3:30p- 7:00p AOP Planning CC204 4:30p- 6:00p Biology/Ecology-Costa Rica CC AUDITORIUM 5:30p-7:00p Balletiii PERFORMINGARTSSTUDIO 6:00p-7:00p U BGladMeeting CC203 6:00p- 8:00p Resident Assistants In-Service HUMANITIES 019 6:30p-l0:00p AOPTutoring BAILEY 104& 106 7:00p- 8:00p Religious Programs CC409 7:00p- 8:30p Balleti PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 7:00p- 9:30p Political & Social Theory HH OLDCHAPEL 7:30p-10:00p CalculusCrisisCenter BAILEYlOO Wednesday ll/01/95 9:30a-12:30p UCall HHOLDCHAPEL • ' .· • •• r • f - i •' t • •! 11 :30a-3:00p EhphaltNottSocJety 12:30p-3:30p UCall l:OOp- 2:30p Sigma Iota Alpha ' HHMiLANOLduNGE' CC409 CC204 4:30p-6:15p GMISeminar HUMANITIES 114 4:45p- 6:00p Modem Dance PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO 5:00p- 6:00p SAC CC204 5:00p- 6:00p The Idol CCMOBIL(406) 5:00p- 6:30p Student Forum Meeting 6:00p- 9:00p Campus Operations CC203 CC409 6:15p-7:3Qp Intra. to Dance Movement PERFORMING ARTS STUDI0(108) 7 :OOp- 9: OOp Spanish Club Film HUMANITIES 019 7:00p- 9:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal ARTS 313 3:00p- 4:00p Modern Languages CC205 7:00p- 9:00p Intervarsity Fellowship CC STRAUSS (305) 7: 15p- 9: 15p . Philomathean Society HH MILANO LOUNGE 8:00p-ll : 30p Mountebanks Performance HH OLD CHAPEL Saturday, l 0/28/95 MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & I O:OOp.m. unless otherwise indicated Admission: $2.00 10/27/95-10/29/95 Apollo 13, CC AUDITORIUM 10/30/95 \Apollo 13\ SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 11/03/95-11/06/95 \Braveheart\, CC AUDITORIUM . SPORTS 1 :30p Union Football vs. Muhlenberg, ASTROTIJRF (BAILEY FIELD) 7:00p Union Hockey vs. Maine, ACHILLES RINK MAIN FLOOR Sunday, .10/29/95 7:00p Union Hockey vs. New Hampshire, ACHILLES RINK MAIN FLOOR

Final Exam Schedule The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 17 FALL i995 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 8:30AM- !0:30AM ., AAH'~'020*01 Cli:tssical Art & Arch. Matthew, L. BIO*OSl *OI Ecology · Tobiessen, P. CER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics Jewell, T. CER*l50*01 Hydrology Snow; P. CLS*024*01 Classical Art & Arch: Matthew, L. ECO*T45*01 Managerial Economics Kenney, J. EER*041 *0 l Electric Circuits Chang, Y. EER*124*01 Intro to Prob. Systems Spinelli, J. GER*012*01 Basic German 3 Warde, A. GRK*l20*01 Attic Prose Loomis, W. MER* J64 * 0 I Solar Energy An. & Des. Wilk, R. MTH*OlO*Ol Calculus 1 Bick, T. MTH*010*02 Calculus 1 Prindle, A. MTH*Ol0*03 Calculus 1 Barbanel, J. M1'H*010*04 Calcuh.ts 1 Bick, T. MTH*010*05 Calculus I Taylor, A. .MTH*013*01 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. .MTH*Ol3*02 AP Calculus Johnson, B. MTH*013*03 AP Calculus Johnson, B. MTH*OB*04 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*013*05 AP Calculus Zwicker, W. MTH*013*06 AP Calculus Niefield, S. MTH*O 15*0 I Calculus 3 Sauerberg, J. MTH*O I 7*0 1 Calc IV:Integral Vector· Niefieid, S. MTH*030*01 Ordinary DiffEquation Fairchild, W. MTH*060*0 1 Topics in Math Pol Sci Taylor, A. Mffi*l46*01 Advanced Calculus 1 Seiken, A. PHL*OU*Ol History Westem Phil! Patrik, L. PHL *064*01 Issues in Amer Ed Ludwig, J/Weiner, T PHL * 144*01 Political Philosophy Baker, R. PHL*l74*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. PHY*Ol6*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Schick, K. PHY*016*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 Rodriguez, G. PSC*023*01 Math Pol Science Taylor, A. PSC*l39*01 Seminar:Pol Theory .Meyers,P.A.. PSY*025*0l Intro to Exper Pych Bums, D. J. PSY*049*01 Psych of Addiction Dowling, T. SOC*052*01 ls~ues in Alner Ed Ludwig, J/Weiner, T FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995- 11:30AM -1:30PM CLS*032*01 Rei. in Pagan World Scullion, J. S EC0*031 *01 Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawamg, S. EGL *019*02 Major English Authors 1 Stevenson, R. HST*071 *01 Mod Hist of Middle East Berk, S. MTH*127*01 Numerical Methods Fairchild, W. PSC*OI1 *02 lntro to Am Politics Weiner, T. PSY*030*01 Personality Spring, D. PSY*048*01 Psychotherapy Halpern, L. SOC*060*01 Quant Social Research Cotter, D. SPN* 120*01 Inter Spanish 1 Rodriguez-Jaca, N. SPN* 120*02 Inter Spanish I Merediz, E. SPN* 120*03 Inter Spanish 1 Gupta, M. SPN*130*01 Span & Latin Amer Lit Garcia, W. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995 - 2:30PM- 4:30PM CHM*l42*01 Chern Instrumentation Werner, T. EC0*034*01 Intra to Finan Analysis Kenney, J. ESC*OI 0*01 Mechanics 1 Bucinell, R. FRN* 146*01 Realism & Naturalism Laparra, C. GE0*021*01 Strat. of Eastern NY Garver,J. I. GE0*052*01 Glacial & Quatem Geo. Rodbell, D. MER *040*0 1 Engineering Design 1 Rivera, M. MTH*099*01 Intro Log & Set Theory Barbanel, J. PSC*012N*02 Intra Intema'tl Pol Abootalebi, A. PSC*070*01 Constitutional Law Board, J. PSY*.01 0*03 lntro to Psychology Rubonis, A. PSY*Ol ON*\O 1 Intro to Psychology DeBono, K. PSY*010N*02 Intra to Psychology Greei1berg, S. PSY*024*01 Social PsycholO!,'Y DeBono, K. PSY*033*01 Psych of Mem/Think Burns, D. J. SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- 8:30AM- !0:30AM BI0*024*01 BI0*032*01 CER *160*01 CER*160*02 CLS*021 *01 CLS*021 *02 EER*OI8*01 FRN*131*01 GER*134*01 HEB*OlO*Ol HST*013*01 HST*013*02 HST*013*03 HST*035*01 HST*035*02 HST*045*01 HST*151*01 LAT*012*01 MER*026*01 MTH*180*01 PSC*044*01 PS¥*035*01 RUS*I20*01 Genetics · Horton, J. S. Com p, VertebrateAnat B utterstein, G. Transportation Engr Jones, E. Transportation Engr Jones, E. History of Greece Tober, M. History of Greece Loomis, W. Intro to Dig Computers Traver, C. Sttrvey of French Lit I Gates, L. Goethes Faust Warde, A. Basic Hebrew 1 Heckelman, D. Hist of US to Civil War Dudden, F. Hist of US to Civil War Miller, A.T. Hist of US to Civil War Meade, T. Hist of Europe 1 Halliday, P. Hist of Europe 1 Hansen, E. Tudor Eng.: 1485-1603 Halliday, P. Nazi Gennany Walker, M. Latin Reading Marincola, J. Thennodynamics Shanebrook, J. Foundations of Math Taylor, A. Japanese Gov't & Pol Gilman, t. Indust/Organ Psych Nydegger, R. Intennediate Russian 1 Jordan, B. ARTS215 BAIL 106 BUTR300 BUTR109 ARTS215 SSCI 110 NWSE201A NWSE 116 HUMN213 HUMN119 NWSE222 HUMN 115 BAIL 102 • BAIL 100 HUMN 115 BAIL207 HUMN019 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 HUMN019 HUMN019 BAIL201 SSCI 112 BAIL201 BAIL 104 BAIL207 BAIL300 HUMN110 HUMN 114 HUMN 116 HUMN116 NWSE 112 NWSE 114 BA.IL207 SSCI105 BAIL303 BAIL312 HUMN114 HUMN 114 SSCI 010 HUMN 110 SSCI 110 BAIL201 SSCI 104 BAIL312 BAIL300 SSCI 103 HUMN117 HUMN 117 HUMN117 HUMN113 STZH 108 sse' to4 NWSE222 HUMN 119 BUTR201 BUTR 109 . NWSE210 BAIL106 SSCI 010 NWSE 114 BAIL207 BUTR204 SSCI 016 BUTR204 BAIL312 BUTR204 SSCI 016 BAIL207 BAIL201 BAIL201 HUMN019 HUMN019 NWSE222 HUMN014 HUMN119 HUMN 117 SSCI 112 HUMN 114 SSCI 103 HUMN 115 SSCI 104 HUMN 115 SSCI 010 HUMNI13 NWSE2IO BAlL 104 ·ssCI 110 HUMN116 HUMN213 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995- ll:30AM- 1:30PM ANT*072*-0l Psychological Anthro Leavitt, S. SSCI 110 CER*035*01 Water Res. & Enviro Snow, P. BUTR 300 CHN*OlO*Ol Basic Chinese I Xie, Y. HUMN 113 · EGL*042*01 Humanities:The Orig. Heinegg, P. HUMN 014 EGL*072*01 LitoftheNewNation Shour,N. HUMN110 FRN*OlO*Ol Basic French 1 Laparra, C. HUMN 114 FRN*l20*01 Intermediate French I Leamon, A. HUMN 112 FRN* 120*02 Intermediate French 1 Boone,. J. SSCI 103 GE0*012*0I Environmental Geology Locke, S BUTR 201 GER*010*01 Basic Gennan 1 Kellenter, S. HUMN 116 GER *010*02 Basic Ge1man 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 1I6 . HST*029*01 African-American Histozy 2 Miller, A.T. SSCI014 MLT*Ol5*01 Art & Politics in Spain Moyano, P. HUMN 019 PHY*044*0I Introduction to Astronomy Marr, J.M. NWSE 1I2 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psych Greenberg,S. BAIL300 SPN*012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Martinez, L. HUMN 1I5 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995 • 2:30PM -4:30PM ACC*010*01 Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. ACC*Ol0*02 Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. AMU*031 *01 Music of Black America Olsen, T. BI0*130*01 Animal Physiology Fleishman, L. EER *060*01 System Theory II Rudko, M. EGL*022*01 Major Amer Authors MacDonald, B. EGL*022N*Ol Major Amer Authors Shour, N. FRN*012*01 Basic French 3 Gates, L. GEO*Ol0*01 Physical Geology Hollocher, K. HST*043*01 Europe in the Early Mod Era Hansen, E. · MER*022*01 Materials Science&Eng Milillo,F. PSY*039*01 Psychology of Sex Roles Paludi, M. SPN*01 0*0 1 Basic Spanish 1 Garcia, W. SPN*01 0*02 Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. SPN*l22*01 Advanced Spanish Osuna, M. SPN* 122*02 Advanced Spanish Moyano, P. WST*030*01 Psychology of Sex Roles Paludi, M. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 8:30AM- I 0:30AM iiDMN 115 HUMN 115 ARTS 215 BAIL104 NWSE201 HUMN 112 HUMN 110 HUMN 119 BUTR201 SSCI 014 NWSE210 BA.IL300 HUMN019 HUMN019 HUMN 117 HUMN 117 BAIL301 CER*143*01 CHM*OlO*Ol CHM*Ol0*02 CHM*OI0*03 CHM*Ol0*04 CHM*030*01 CHM*030*02 CSC*011*01 CSC*014*01 EC0*032*01 BER*l33*01 ESC*030*01 HST*046*0I JPN*l20*01 MER*030*01 MTH*135*01 PHY*050*01 PSC*013*01 PSY*031*01 PSY*036*01 Foundation Engineering Ghaly, A. BUTR 300 Fundamental Chemistry 1 Anderson, J. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry I Fox, K. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry 1 A11derson, J. BUTR 204 Fundamental Chemistry I Carroll, M. BUTR 204 Organic Chemistry I Adrian, J. HUMN 019 Organic Chemistry 1 Sowa, J. BAIL207 Progr for the Sciences Almstead, L. SSCI 104 h1fonnation Proces$ing Aim stead, L. SSCI I 04 Labor & Ind Relations Prosper, P. SSCI 012 Communication. €iFCJtit~ i Hl{&sipNtJ NWSE 1 I 6 Mech ofDefonnable Solid Thabet, W. BUTRI09 TI1e U.S. in the Wid Arena Jonas, M. SSCI 112 Intennediate Japanese I Wojnovich, M. SSCI 105 Dynamics of Systems Rivera, M. NWSE 222 Number Theory Zimmermann, K. BAIL 100 Electronic Projects Jones, C. NWSE 301 h1tro to Pol Thought Meyers, P.A. NWSE 114 Abnonnal Psychology Rubonis, A. BAIL 307 Psych of Learning DAndrea, T. BAIL312 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 11:30AM- 1:30PM AAH*033*01 European Art & Arcb Eyerrnan,C ANT*Ol0*01 Intro to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. SS€1 104 - ANT*Ol0*02 h1tro to Cult Anthro Gmelch, S. Cytology Smith, G . StmcturedProgramming Hannay, D. Intro to Eco Mukherjee, J. Intro to Eco Mukherjee, J. Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S. Introduction to Economics Reynolds, B. • US-Japanese Eco Relations Reynolds, B. Quantitative Methods in Eco Schmidt, S .J. h1tro to Black Poetry Slade, L. Mechanics 1 Anderson, A.M. Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. ARTS 215 SSCI104 STZH 106 NWSE201A HUMN019 HUMN019 SSCI012 SSCI 103 SSCI 103 SSCIOIO . BI0*144*01 CSC*037*01 ECO*Ol2*01 ECO*Ol2*02 ECO*Ol2*03 ECO*OI2*04 EC0*055*01 ECO*I38*01 EGL*034D*01 ESC*010*02 JPN*010*01 MTH*054*01 PSC*047*01 Number TI1eozy Zimmennann, K. HUMN 112 NWSE210 HUMN 110 BAIL 102 SSCI 110 Law & Public Policy Board, J. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1995- 2:30PM - 4:30PM BIO*Ol6*01 Biology 1 Olberg, R. COLC BI0*053*0l Forests of the Northeast Tobiessen, P. SWSE 303 EC0*042*01 Macroeco Theory & Policy Kwok, C. SSCI014 EER * 063 *0 1 Anal/Design Electr Circts Hassib, E. NWSE 116 EGL*Ol9N*OI Major English Authors l Hilles, C. HUMN 116 EGL*075*01 · Early American Novel Gado, F. HUMN 019 ESC*013*01 High-Level Lang Program Hemmendinger NWSE201A GER* I20*0 1 Intennediate Gennan I Hamm-Ehsani, ~ HUMN 117 GRK*OlO*Ol Principles of Greek 1 Marincola, J. HUMN 113 HST*052*01 Modem France:1815-l949 Walker, M. SSCI 110 HST*065*01 East Asian Civ Part 1 Madancy, J. SSCI 103 LAT*010*01 Principles of Latin 1 Scullion, J. S HUMN 110 PHL*020*01 Intro to Logic/Crit Think Womack, C. HUMN 112 PHY*Ol7*01 General Physics I Anderson, A. NWSE 114 PHY*017*02 · General Physics 1 Reich, G. NWSE 112 PHY*017A*Ol General Physics I Maleki, S. NWSE 304 PSY*038*0 I Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 RUS*010*01 Basic Russian 1 Jordan, B. HUMN 119 SOC*010*03 Intra to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI 104 SPN*.J32*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 1 Martinez, L. HUMN 114

t ~~ ' ·, ' ,, '• '• ' '• \ .· ' ) ) i / Page 18 • October 26, 1995 • The Concordie~sis Advertisement . . r· R I N C I P L E S . o f S C) U N D R E T I R E 1\ l E N· T I N \' E S T I· N G . . . . 1\'\looclv ' .. '.\\~''' ,,,,,,~,,,:.::. .::}:[': '}'! .. .; .~::: : , . ......, . ·S..t. d . \-·Ltl ·· · · ~drd& 1 '') ~ · tf.>r~ . \' BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUtfURE TOANYCO~,ASKFOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. Y . ou put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in : .~ ... :;'\\'··ff.OUV.Jtr.ust,andhopes for the future, too. So._ . · · · . before you choose one, ask some 'questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall financial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all widely recognized resources for finding out how strong a financial services company 'really is, gave TIAA their top grade. IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. • TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co.~ AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability and over- all financial strength. (These are ratings of Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) . _ And TIAA-which, backed by.the company's .. claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate of return and the opportunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nation- wide that currently hold these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. For further growth potential and diversi- fication, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future~ Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest private retirement system based on assets under management, with over $145 billion in assets and more than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. *Not all accounts are available under the basic retirement plans at all institutions. They are, however, all available for TIAA·CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs). CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services. ' :,; l

( r ; Sports And. the Rains Came Tul1lblin' Down Women Ruggers Continue Their Quest for the Title by Kathy \Legs;' Walter Sports Staff Remember Saturday when you looked outside, couldn 'tsee more than a few feet -out your window and decided that you were going stay in all day. Well, the Union women ruggers had to play in that -· and boy was it FUN!! ! Yes siree, th€ women ruggers slipped, fell, slid, plopped and rolled their way to another victory against Plattsburgh State. (It was sweet revenge for two years ago when we played them in States, trust me). The Plattsburgh something-or- others scored first as the rain pelted the faces and spirits ofthe Union team. Battered, but cer- tainly not defeated, the Union sGrum, Jed by Ahnya \knock down choo-choo\ Mendes, pushed (or rather f€ll) on! It was during the second half that Union was able to rally the hall to the correct side of the field {i.e. Plattsburgh'·s defending side; the one we score on). where it stayed the whole rest ofthe game. Cathy \it's about time they let me run\ Budgenran the ball in for a score and Andrea \don't touch me\ Schulman split the uprights to make the score 7-5 in favor of Union. And stil.l it rained. The combine,d .serum of f\atie \GRRRRRRRR\Conway, Julie ·'What?\ Firman, Courtney \the mud queen\ Brem, Jayne \She was dr;Gwning!\ Seekins, Andrea \don't run into me, my head will explode\ Schulman, Noelle \be gentle, it was only my second time (playing second row, that is)\ Somers, Kathy \I forgot the admission ticket\ Walter (don't ask), Naomi \it was only .six inches away, and she stole if' Hare! (who tasted at least 2 tries, yet increased her frustration level ten-fold) matched up with a line of Stacey \the responsible one\ Fel•lows (who did manage to make it to the Formal on time), Kim \the Killer Truck'' Sanabia (who dusted and walked over many, many Plattsburgh players), her sidekick Jen \the faker\ Lelas (who threw enough dummy passes to make Plattsburgh's headsspin -· · quite a sight), Beth \llike to run free like a deer\ Wheat, Deb \yes my finger is damaged still\ Spaulding, Alice \Boom-hahstiek\ Grabowski (who just hits whoever has the ball), Tiffany \this week she's part of the line\ Lussier (the serum-half who always has a home); and Cathy \I am sooo sick\ Budgen just gave Plattsburgh everything that was coming to them!!!! (And there's reaHy no other way to say it!) The score remained 7-5 for a Union victory. However, it was not the only thing we won. Even by American judging standards WOMEN'S. SOCCER ENDS STRONG by Aaron Sicotte Sports writer (which we all know to be espe- cially harsh}, Union women . ruggers are, by far, .the best mud sliders around. Just give us a puddle and we'll slip eur way right into your heart!!! (Hard ground -· that's another story.) Plattsburgh didn't have a chance. In fact, since they lost the game and the mud sliding, they did not have the spirit or the stamina to try and beat us in the drink-up! [Bringing our league record to 3- 0-l and, more imRortantly, our drink up record to 4-0 - an amazing feat, I'd wager! 1 What about the B-game, you ask? Well, Albany came (Potsdam forfeited this weekend to them) to play a combined team ofthose Plattsburgh players who were not showering in Richmond and Union. About three minutes into the game, the miss-matched serums looked at each other closely (because the rain was so thick, that was the only way to see them) and said, (and I quote) «Ah, #$%@ it.\ And that was that. Our last game before States is Wednesday afternoon against Hamilton. We decided that play- ing them and winning is going to be much more fun than just ac- cepting their forfeit. (Actually, our team tally for bruises was only l 00, and we need to at least double that before States in or- der to fully qualify!!!) Write for Sports! Call x6155 The Concordiensis • October 26, 1995 • Page 19 . XlJtf lljsh Are Coming <e'h~ ·/ fl':ettJIIf;'-\ Vi~it Union Due to a mid-season loss to Vassar, the women's soccer team knew they had virtually no . chance at post-season play. De- spite this~ they were.detennined to end the season on a high note. game. Both teams came out fired up and ready to play. The game was back and forth the whole day. Oneonta opened the scor- ing early in the first, but Union never relented and finally scored the equalizer. Kim Fanning beat a defender in the comer and sent a perfect cross into the boz t~ the waiting Retterer who non- chalantly flipped a header into the net. The 1-1 score lasted un- til the half. Union Heads To The Charles Their final two games were against Russell Sage (away) and Oneonta (home). Tuesday at Russell Sage they took a great step toward ending on a high with a 5-0 pounding by the Dutchwomen. Senoir Suzanne Weldon opened the scoring early in the first half with a nearly perfect shot by the goalie after beatil'lg a Russell Sage de- fender. Emily Retterer contin- ued the scoring with a quick shot that left the goal tender frozen, and the Dutchwomen ended the half with a 2- 0 lead. The second half began simi• larly to the first with the Union offense pressing. Nicole So lomas opened the second half with a beautiful shot to the cor- ner to go up 3-0. Kerrie Tho- mas quickly followed with a goal of her own to put the game out of reach. With stifling defense and a lat;e goal by Solomos; Union walked away with a convincing victory, and a roll heading into their match with Oneonta. As the two teams took the field on Thursday, the crowd knew they were in for a great · Again Oneonta was able to score first in the half For the ma- jority of the half, the two teams traded scoring opportunities and spectacular defensive plays. Just when it appeared the Dutchwomen would end the year with a loss, Fanning took control. Danielle Shelov made a beau- ti.ful defensive play, beat a player, and sent a perfect pass to Fanning. She received the ball and cut through the Oneonta de- fense with the ease of wind through a wheat field. Faqning's goal tied the game with under three minutes to go. With tencious defense from both teams, neither offense was able to score in the overtime, and the game ended in a 2-2 deadlock. The soccer team ended the year with a much improved 8-5-2 record. Although theywon'tbe partaking in post-season play, they hope the success ofthis year will continue when they take the field next fall. by Jeffery Druzba Crew Correspondent Who could disagree that the Head of the Charles weekend is the last great weekend road trip of the fall? Who would honestly admit that there was nothing to do in Boston last Sunday? No one would dare make these statements because everyone knows that the 31st running of the Head of the Charles was the place to be on Sunday. That's exactly where Union Crew was. The event couldn't have asked for a better day. It was a perfect autumn day. It was the kind of weather in which you have no other choice but to lay in the sun in your sweatshirt or sweater, slowly being warmed even though there is a chill in the air. The morning was quite a bit cooler and that was when Union's crews took tothe Charles. Union had entries in the Women's Club Fours and the Men's Club Eights divisions. Both crews took to the Charles with their best efforts. Head races are reserved for the fall season of rowing. They are typically about 3 miles long. In these fall races, the athletes row at a lower rating, or lesser amount of strokes per minute, than they would normally row at in the spring, the spring being reserved for sprint races of 2000 meters. The Head of the Charles is a special race to the rowing world, it being the world's larg- est single day regatta. The course is also unusually difficult for cox- swains to navigate. There are several difficult turns in which the wrong judgment could mean di- saster for the crew. This year'~ event went off with a surprisingly small amount of errors or oar clashes with other boats and bridges. Union's Club Four Women consisted .of sophomores (from bow) Margaret Sullivan, Lauren Kreisel, Kenley Smith, and Jen Brady. Coxswain was junior Katie Murray. The women were passed by only a few boats such as the perennial powers Wiscon- sin and the Boston Masters Women on their way to the fin- ish. The young Varsity Women's team will now prepare for this weekend's Head of the Fish at Saratoga. The Men's Eight also fared well on the Charles. The men were passed by a few boats as well. One of these, the Yale Old Boys, was comprised of Yale's crew graduates from last year. The Union Men's Club Eight was as follows from bow: Lee Schmertzler, Mike Ferguson, Walter Lane, Scott Feig, Jason Monnell, Graham Lucas, An- drew Siegel, and Nick Papanickolas. Coxswain was Kirsten Lauber. UnionCrew is now anticipat- ing the Head of the Fish at Saratoga this Saturday. The team will compete in several events against competition that included Hobart and William Smith as well as Dartmouth last year. Come to the Head of the Fish this weekend, watch the races, explore the charming town of Saratoga, and relax for one of the last pleasant weekends of the fall term. Follow 87 North to exit 14 and take a left. Be there around 9 AM 'to support Union Crew.

October 26, 1995 PAGE20. Wfr.e @nnrnrUi.eusis Dutchmen Hockey Wastes Waterloo by Dagan LaCorte Sportswriter The Skating Dutchmen op.ened their season this past ·sunday, playing host to Waterloo. Wa.- ter1oo, coming off an impressive 6-4 win over Colgate the previ- ous night, proved to he no match for Union. Before a crowd of 1 ,200, the Dutchmen recorded their most lopsided win since going Division I. embarrassing Waterloo 9-0. Goalies Trevor Koenig and Leeor Shtrom were solid in net, combining for a 25- save shutout. Union scored their first goal seven minutes into the period, when Ryan Donovan's shot de~ fleeted off a Waterloo defensemen and into the net. Greg Buchanan recorded the only assist on Donovan's first goal. Two minutes later, captain Reid Simonton scored his first goal of the season on an impressive in- dividual effort. Simonton picked up the pucw in the neutral ~one, skated through the Waterloo de- fense, and put the puck past goalie Scott Pattinson. Three minutes later, Ryan Donovan tal- lledhis second goal ofthe after- noon making the score 3-0. HnF-m!lfe~ ~nri~ f. erFJ ~nFJ B-H~~n Monteith assisted on Donovan,. s second goal. Union's effensive onslaught continued through the second period Freshinan Mark Szucs scored his first career gt;ml eleven rninutes.into the period on assists by defenseman Andrew Will and goalie Trevor Koenig. In addi- tion to his offensive contribu- tions, Koenig made some key saves during the period. One of these saves lead to a go~l, as defenseman Joel Bond picked up the puck following a Koenig save, and passed it towards a breaking Jamie Antoine. Antoine passed .the puck to Brent Ozarowski, who streaked into the offensive end, and put the puck past the Waterloo netminder. Union rolled the score up to 7-0 added to the Dutchmen lead in by the end of the second period, the third period, making the fi- on goals by junior John Sicinski nal score 9-0. and sophomore Boe Leslie. Although Waterloo is not nee- Following the second period, essarily indicative of the types of coach Bruce Delventhal let the teams the Dutchmen will be fac- goalies decide who would be in ing this season, the game did net for the start of the third pe- have many positive results. riod. Koenig decided to put his Union's offense which has not shutout in the hands of freshman always scored a great deal of Leeor Shtrom. Shtrom was up to goals, should be feeling a surge the task, stopping all of of confidence after Sunday's Waterloo's five third period shots. game. Of the twenty players who Jamie Antoine and John Sicinski dressed for the game· · . . ,~, . ' ~ .&.\J .. offthepuckin Union's opening victory over Waterloo. Field Hockey Dut:Chwomen Slip into PlayoffS by Jon Gasthalter Sports Writer Despite finishing fifth out of seven in the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association with a2-4 record and an 8-6 record overall. the Dutchwomen were still very much in the hunt tor a playoff berth with one game remaining in their season. Hartwick was UnionJEs guest for the season finale on Frank Bailey tleld on Wednesday, October 18. The DutchwomenJEs playoff future was the issue at hand as they faced off against a powerful Hartwick team on this warm Fall afternoon. Hartwick dominated the first halt~ keeping the ball on the Union side of the field for the majority of the time. Goaltender Elana GoldbergJEs play kept the score tied with twelve minutes remaining as she ended a Hartwick drive with a magnificent kick save. This would be the turning point for the Dutchwomen in the half, as they successfully drove down field for the first time in the half. The Hartwick goaltender stopped both shots, thwarting the Union attempt. Hartwick rebounded from the attack and continued its strong offensive play, breaking the deadlock with 4:53 left in the halfto make the score 1-0. The second half saw Union step up its .level of play considerably. Two minutes into the half, freshman Bianca Prun:10 converted on a pass from Michele McCarte in front of the goal mouth to tie the score at one apiece. Union began to play the offensive style game it had played throughout the season. However, Hartwick drove down-field with 11:30 left in the half. The combination of a good shot and a miscommunication by the Union defense allowed Hartwick to break the tie once again. Hartwick, having regaine<:l its momentum, continued to batter the Dutchwomen defense. Union put on some pressure with about twenty minutes to go in the half and was rewarded, as Prurno tallied again, this time dribblipg in and tapping the ball past the Hartwick goaltender. Union could not maintain the pressure and Hartwick scored twice more to go on to win the game 4-2. The loss to Hartwick forced the Dutchwomen into a waiting game, as the playoff brackets were to be announced Sunday night at 8:00. The Dutchwomen slid into the eighth and final spot of the playoffs. The team plays at William Smith, the number one seed on Wednesday, October· 25, In their previous meeting, the Dutchwomen were shut-out by William Smith by the score of 6-0 o.n September ninth. Head Coach Charlyn Robert felt that the 6-0 loss earlier in the season was not a good indication of UnionlEs team. oWhen they saw us early in the season, we were a very different team. Now fourteen games later, we are much more confident,· our individual players have performed much better, all the pieces of the puzzle have been found at this point, we just hope that they all cornetogeth~rfor VVednesday. · goalies), fifteen recorded at least one point In addition, all three freshmen who dressed Sunday :had points. This confidence- booster could not have come at a better time. · The Dutchmen play host this weekend to national powerhouses Maine and New Hampshire. If Union plays well against these two teams, then the Dutchmen should be in good shape to make some serious noise in the ECAC Volleyball Places First Aarofi Sicotte Staff Writer This past weekend, the Union Volleyball team traveled to battle Skidmore and Plattsburgh in the Skidmore Tournament. They started off the day against Plattsburgh. The first game of the match was a heartbreaking loss despite a valiant effort by Union, who came up short 14-16. In the second game, they regrouped and, with better serving and hitting, stormed back to take the second 15-4. Freshman Erika Friedrich, with 8 points in a row, and Gretchen Voegler, with 21 kills . and 7 solo blocks, led the Dutch women to victory. They continued their momentum and tookthematch14-16, tS-4, 15-5, andl5-2. Union kept rolling in the second match against Skidmore, beating them 15-7, 15-8, andlS .. ll.' Led by the emotional leadership of Cara Rothfuss and Jinsy Andrews, and with great teamwork and an all- around effort, the Dutchwomen put together three solid games to take first place in the Skidmore Tournament. Union ( 14-9) win play this ~aturday in a tournament at Elmira, looking to continue their winning ways.

