:~·-. •II,.. , ,_ , . . .. .,.. ......... ~-.'fl.:.,..· ... ·.~·· , , ',Theend of an era- We•re Broken!! , •. . . ' ' ' . ' ~ ' ' . . . ~ .... nnrnr tensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XVI - . Schenectady, New York March 2, 1995 :· . ·Blcent(fJilial Week.end a Smashing Succes~~l,t/nion E~ters its Third Century ~ ~~2~~--- ·_,: ';·~ v• ~ ;·w • .. ~ . -- • • • ' • Convocation ; Celebrates College's 200th· Anniversary by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis St(l/f the Convocation ceremony on Sati.itday commenced Uhi<;>n's. · 200th birthday. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson led the ceremony with an Organ Prelude in the. newly refurbished Memoriai Chapel. Once the Pro~ cessional was seated~.Philos.ophy .Professor and College Marshal. Jan K. Ludwig :announced the opening of the Convocation. A welcome was issued by the Chairman oftheBoard ofTrust- ees, Joseph M. Hinchey '47. He reflected on the chartering of Union on Schenectady'sFrontier Post; this was not the.· ideal place for a college, but a signed peti~ tion and an executive order by Govern. or George Clinton helped open up the first nondenomina- tional college. .Nate Coffin,. President of the Student Forum offered his wel- come on behalf of the student body. He addressed the 25th an- niversary of women and cel- ebrated by sharing the· spotffght with Elissan Hecker, Vice Presi- . dent of Administration. Hecker remarked on the progression that . Uniiln has made by develc,ping a 50/SO ratio iJf men and women fat· . the bicentennial graduation, . · 1.. Georgel3utterstein,.Florence B. Sherwood~ Professor ofBiotogy and Chairman of the Faculty E.!'- ecutive Committee, gave gr~et;. ings on behalfofthe faculty. He reminisced about the first three professors, Taylor, Yates and Smith and how they were able to teach on a one to one basis.· The Continued on page 6 . Simply· Splendid! ·Refurbished Nott Dazzles Visitors·· . . by C~rolin~ Paine . . . in b~ing cottipleted due to lack . NewsEditor of funds. Yet when it was com- pleted it survived a variety of \If a picture·speaksa thousand · funct~ons as a museum, a library · words, then this build'ing could and a the~rt9 name only a few. . : speak volumes,\ said. Presideni President Hull explained that · · · RogerHull atthe rededication of ·in 1903, when the Nott became · the NottMemoriallastSaturday. the College library a floor was · Almost a year and a half after · spanned across the second bal- · ·. ·itS·reconstruction .commenced, .cony, .in order to create more ~he Nott Memoriat.was finally · . space.. Before th~ renovation rededicated and opened for pub~ ·• arid removal of this floor; Hull lie. viewing. The o·figinal con- pointed outthat\iu> alumni alive · struction of this $ixteen sided Vic- today .could have looked from torian Gothic building began in the bottom floor to the top of the the 1850's. Then Union College dome.\ Almostacentury later President, Eliphalet Nott, com- this is now possible. Hull mis·sioned architect Edward proudly exclaimed that though Tuckerman Potter to build a cam- $11 million of generous dona- Charles H. Dyson, Dr. Ann~ Dysoh, andPresident Roger Hull cut the ceremonial ribbon at the Nott MemoritJI Rededicatio11. pus center in the middle of cam- pus. The building was a long time Continued on page 6 Union College Satelite ·Show by a short excerpt from the re• dedication of the Nott. The Union vs. Harvard hockey game, which Union won, was incorporated into the program for thirty seconds. The program also incorporated \Union through the years,\ a his- tory of Union College. The seg- ment included scenes from the Nott era of the 1860's, the Steinmetz era, the 1930's, World by Jody Mousseau Concordiensis Staff While the students, faculty, staff, and numerous almnni of Union College attended the BiM centennial Gala on Saturday evening, many alumni across the nation witnessed a piece broad~ casted by satellite of events that took place throughouttheday. On Saturday evening twei}ty six din .. ners were held across the nation, from Seattle to New Y or!(, which broadcasted the event for alumni. The running time of the show was approximately fifty minutes. It began at 8 PM with an opening showing the newly renovated. Nott Memorial in the evening hours. The scene was lit with the lights recently installed, whose primary purpose is to enhance the aesthetic value of the N9tt, and the music of the Dutch Pipers pro- vided a background atmosphere. Tracy Egan, a local news broad- caster and alumna ofUnion, made the welcoming comments and in· troduced each event. The events followed President Hull's re- marks, \Today is the culmination of 200 years of Union history,\ as well as Jerry Thurston's greet- ings to the various alumni clubs watching the event nationwide. Events of the day were summa- rized, including Convocation highlights, a slide segment of the building of the Nott, accompanied Continr~ed on page 3 . '

ancor.biensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our .Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XVI Schenectady, New York March 2, 1995 Bicente11nial Weekend a Smashing SuccesslcUnion Enters its Third Century ·- _:-:·~-:~~··: :t~~·. ~ Convocation Celebrates College's 200th Anniversary by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff The Convocation ceremony on Saturday commenced Union's 200th birthday. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson led the ceremony with an Organ Prelude in the newly refurbished Memorial Chapel. Once the Pro- cessional was seated, Philosophy Professor and College Marshal, Jan K. Ludwig announced the opening of the Convocation. A welcome was issued by the Chairman of the Board ofTrust- ees, Joseph M. Hinchey '47. He reflected on the chartering of Union on Schenectady's Frontier Post; this was not the ideal place for a college, but a signed peti- tion and an executive order by Governor George Clinton helped open up the first nondenomina- tional college. Nate Coffin, President of the Student Forum offered his wel- come on behalf of the student. body. He addressed the 25th an- niversary of women and cel- ebrated by sharing the spotlight with Elissa D. H~ker, Vice Presi- dent of Administration. Hecker remarked on the progression that Union has made by developing a 50/50 ratio ofmen and women for · the bicentennial graduation. George Butterstein, Florence B. Sherwood, Professor of Biology and Chairman of the Faculty Ex- ecutive Committee, gave greet- ings on hehalfofthe faculty He remtmsced about the first three professors, Taylor, Yates and Smith and how they were able to teach on a one to one basis. The Continued on page 6 _.l-J. Charles H. Dyson, Dr. Ann~ Dyson, and President Roger Hull cut the ceremonial ribbon at the Nott Memorial Rededication. Simply Splendid! Refurbished Nott Dazzles Visitors by Caroline Paine News Editor \If a picture speaks athousand words, then this building could speak volumes,\ said President Roger Hull at the rededication of the NottMemoriallast Saturday. Almost a year and a half after its reconstruction commenced, the Nott Memorial was finally rededicated and opened for pub- lic viewing. The original con- struction of this sixteen sided Vic- torian Gothic building began in the I X50's Then l 1 n1on (',Jllcgc President, Eliphalet Nott, com- missioned architect Edward Tuckerman Potter to build a cam- pus center in the middle of cam- pus. The building was a long time in being completed due to lack offunds. Yet when it was com- pleted it survived a variety of functions as a museum, a library and a theater to name only a few. President Hull explained that in 1903, when the Nott became the College library a floor was spanned across the second bal- cony, in order to create more space. Before the renovation and removal of this floor, Hull pointed out that \no alumni alive today could have looked from the bottom floor to the top of the JUillL' - :\illHI:>( ,l Cl.'!llUI~ l.tk'l this is now possible. Hull proudly exclaimed that though $11 million of generous dona- Continued on page 6 Union College Satelite Show by a short excerpt from the re- dedication of the Nott. The Union vs Harvard hockey game, which Union won, was incorporated into the program for thirty seconds. The program also incorporated \Union through the years,\ a his- tory of Union College. The seg- ment included scenes from the Nott era of the !~60's, the Steinmetz era, the 1930's, World by Jody Mousseau Concordiensis Staff While the students, faculty, staff, and numerous alumni of Union College attended the Bi- centennial Gala on Saturday evening, many alumni across the nation witnessed a piece hroad- casted by satellite of events that took place throughout the day. On Saturday evening twenty six din- ners were held across the nation, from Seattle to New Y ori<, which broadcasted the event for alumni. The running time of the show was approximately fifty minutes. It began at 8 PM with an opening showing the newly renovated Nott Memorial in the evening hours. The scene was lit with the lights recently installed, whose primary purpose is to enhance the aesthetic value of the N9tt, and the music of the Dutch Pipers pro- vided a background atmosphere. Tracy Egan, a local news broad- .:a.':itcr and alumna ofUnion, mJdt.: the welcoming comments and in- troduced each event. The events followed President Hull's re- marks, \Today is the culmination of 200 years of Union history,\ as well as Jerry Thurston's greet- ings to the various alumni clubs watching the event nationwide. Events of the day were summa- riLed, including Comu~o:aLiun highlights, a slide scgmcntofthe building of the Nott, accompanied C01rtinued on page 3

' . 1 ' 1' •' Page 2 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis -. YO(:~•-, Eating 'Dfsiirders~rt Ser h~s a pt~ki~~~ tnei¢,~$ help... # C.R.A.E.O (Capital Region Association for B~fing Di;ofders) (518) 581-7693 Four Winds Saratoga Springs~ NY (518)584-3600 .. Albany Medi~at:Center(Eating PisordQf$ Clfutc!A~~arw '\ (518)445-52?9 . . . ., .... )·: . ' Campus News Campus Security Report TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 21, 1995: 2:03AM College Center 11:45 AM Administration Bldg. 9:14PM S&E 10:24 PM College Center WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 22. 1995: 12:52 AM 1:47AM 1:50AM . 2:54AM West College Whitld<er House Hickok College Ce11ter THURSDAY oJ!EBRUARY 23, 1995: 12:20 AM Rathskeller Area FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 24, 199S: 3:45AM Alexander Lane 10:55 AM West Dining 12:46 PM Hale House area 4:35PM South College 6:11PM President's House area 8:55PM Alumni Gym area 11:15 PM North college SATURDAY. FEBRUARY25, 1995: SAFETY HAZARD:Gasleak. Pilot light on stove out and burner in UCDII left on. Gas shut down. area vented. Dining Service notified of occurrence and need for repairs. SAFETY HAZARD: Inquiry regarding possible asbestos content in fireproof file cabinets. Research with manufacturer's representative indicates lining is concrete . T:HEFf: Camera and probes stolen from la:b. Room was locked. Leek core and locking mechanism changed. l'RESP ASS: Suspicious person; previously advised off campus, was arrested fer trespass. SPD assisted. VANDALISM: Courtesy telephone on lst floor datnaged. SECURITY HAZARD: DoorslUllockedlajar. Area checked and doors fe-secured. HARASSMENT: Threatening telephone calls. P~OPERTY DAMAGE: Paint splattered through 1st floor area. Apparently caused by students paint- ing the idol. House~eeping was able to removethe paint before it dried. TRESPASS: Visitors attempting to enter buildings. Located, identified and advisedoffcarnpus. No entry or damage evident. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Vehicle ob- served driving across campus via sidewalk. Vehicle identified. Owner contacted. Report filed. THEFT: Small amount <Jf cash taken from desk in unlocked staff office. ANIMAL PROBLEM: Dog owned by studentnm- ning unleashed on catilplls. Dog harassed and men- aced a student. TRESPASS: Student reports unauthorized entry into locked. residence room- Lock core changed. HARASSMENT/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Campus Safety Officer harassed and threatened l>y visitor. Suspect arrested for harassment with assis- tance of SPD. SAFETY HAZARD: Report of stucco falling near west entrance. Safety barricades placed. Campus Operations notified. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Possession and use of marijuana and paraphernalia. Conduct Charges.filed, No reported incidents (Founder's Day Celebration events held throughout the day.) SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 26. 1995: 1:50AM Psi Upsilon 2:20AM College Center 4:55PM North College 9:16PM Fox Noith MONDAY. FEBRUARY 27.1995: 10:11 PM University Place 10:31 PM Chi Psi V ANDALISM/SAF,ETY HAZARD: Fire panel damaged. Evidence that liquid substance was poured into the panel damaging cicuit board. Emergency repajrs required. Life Safety Violation filed. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Picture lrnocked off wall, frame damaged. C~use unknown, possibly acciden- ·tal. WEAPONS: Possession and use.of compressed gas pel1et gun. Conduct Charges filed. No evident dam- age located. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Minor water leak caused by malfunctioning ice machine. :Ma- chine shilt down by Carnpus Operations until repair or replacement is made. SAFETY HAZARD: Escort vehicle lost traction due to severe icing conditions. Had to be towed to avoid property damage to parked cars. VANDALISM/SECURITY HAZARD: Lecking mechanism removed fr<:>m basement electric closet. Campus Operations notified for repair/replacement.

Canlpus News The Concordiensis o March 2, 1995 o Page 3 Union Honors its Alumni With Nott Medals by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff In celebr&tion ofthe Bicenten- nial, prominent alumnus were awarded the Eliphalet NottMedal and the Founders Medal. The Founders Medal was cre- ated in 1968 by the Bo~rd of Trustees to be presented on spe- cial occasions to the alumnus that had dedicated\ unusual and dis- tinguished service to Union Col- lege.\ This years recipient was William G. Bums, class of 1954. The Founders Medal was created ... to be presented on special occasions to the ai umn us that had dedicated \unusual and distinguished service to Union Col~tege.\ search and how she originally came to Union to study journal- ism. The summer before her freshtnan year the journalism classes were abolished. It was snowing when she was touring and she saw some sledders with cafeteria trays on the hill outside Chi Psi. Burns is now the retired vice chairman.ofNYNEX. When he was a student, his activities in- cluded: Student Council, presi- dent of the Newman Club, mem- berof American Society ofCivil Engineers and he was a Phi Delta Theta. His contributions grew after is graduation where he took the position of president of the Albany Alumni Club, head agent of the Annual Fund, chairman of his 25th ReUnion, chairman of the bicentennial committee and a member of the Campaign for Union's National Committee. Union awarded six Eliphalet Nott Medals this weekend. (photo by Josh H aines/l'he Concordiensis) \Go through life thrilling on a cafeteria tray,\ White said. The last Nott Medal was given to Baruch S. Blumberg, class of 1946, Fox Chase Scientist at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. Blumberg was re- nowned for his studies of blood serum samples from different cul- tural environments. His studies helped discover the causes of vi- ral hepatitis and cancer of the liver. Blumberg was also elected the first American Master of Balliol College, a branch of Ox- ford University. ·· With extended service to the College and more, Burns was ap- pointed a Trustee of the College in 1979. He moved up the ladder to vice chairman in 1985 and from 1986-90 he was the chair- man. Today Bums is a iifetrustet: of the College. To honor Alumni who have achieved the highest standards in their fields, the Nott Medal was gi..;ren.' President Eliphalet Nott had a saying that \perseverance conquers all,\ and these alum wete awarded medals, for the first · time on Founders Day weekend, to those who fulfilled the words ofEliphalet Nott. Robert I. Chartoff '55 was the first recipient. He is the president ofChartoffProductions in Santa Monica, Calif. He produced a num.berofmajorfilmsincluding: the Rocky series; They Shoot Horses. Don 't They?; The Gang ThatCouldn 'tShootStraight; The Right Stuff and Raging Bull. Chartoffreflected in his accep- tance speech about the anxiety he had when he was approaching graduation. \I'm getting close to the end, what do I do next? There are so many adults.\ Then here- assured everyone that it's not so bad, but \Eliphalet Nott was the one true adult.\ \The last time I attended an event in this building I was re- quired to be here,\ A. Lee FritSchler ' 59 said accepting his medal. Fritschler is now president of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. He is also was the former dean of the College of Public and Inter- national Affairs at American U ni- versity, and former director of the Center for Public Policy Educa- tion, both residing in Washington DC. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Home Box Office (HBO), Michael J. Fuchs '67 ac- cepted his Nott Medal and then talked about the 25th anniversary of women. \It is an honor to be here for the 25th anniversary of coeduca- tion and the addition of women - unfortunately it happened three years after I graduated.\ Fuchs joked about coeducation taking up most of his spare thought in college and that his dreams and fantasies had been fulfilled just a few years later. In closing he joked about a11 men's colleges. \Bill Clinton said he never even considered an all men's school, but enough personal politics,\ Fuchs said. Robert A. Laudise '52 is are- search director for chemistry at the AT & T Bell Laboratories. His primary research focus is crystal growth and he joined the International Organization for Crystal Growth to help recognize his research. Editor-in-chief of Redbook magazine, Kathleen M. White '72 successfully climbed the ladder of the publishing business. She was a feature writer for Glamour magazine, executive editor of Family Weekly, executive editor of Mademoiselle, editor-in-chief of Child, Working Woman and McCa/ll's. White talked about her college In his address, Blumberg dealt with the stereotype ofthe evil sci- entist. He sighted movies like Ju- rassic Park and Frankenstein as fictional stories that hindered the profile of scientists. Blumberg amused the crowed poking fun at his speech with a quote from Mark Twain commenting on the music ofWagner, \It's not as bad as it sounds.\ A Discussion on the Israeli~ Palestinian Peace Process by Michelle Ellis Associate News Editor An informal panel discussion, sponsored by the Jewish Student Union on the multi faceted Israeli . Palestinian peace process will take place this evening. The JSU hopes to foster an awareness on campus of the stra- tegic importance of the Middle East in terms of its military, eco- nomic, and political significance in international politics. One of the students organizing the event commented on Israel's unique position as the crossroad of three cultures and continents. This event was initiated by Robin Block '95, Allison Goldberg '95, and Mike Kluger '96. These students created this discussion due to the obvious connections between the JSU and the goals of this project. Co-Presidentofthe JSU Adam Glauberg '96 commented on the principles behind the creation of this program. \This is an attempt to educate the whole campus on the issues surrounding the poli- tics of the Middle East and spe- cifically the Israeli Palestinian peace process.\ The event has been structured to represent as many of the dif- ferent perspectives on the peace process as possible. Mike Grosfky, a speaker from New York City, will be representing the Israeli right. Martin Adleman, a professor from Sunny Albany, will be representing the Israeli left. Professor Ali Abootalebi, from the Union College political Science department will be pre- senting a centralist argument. Robin Block '95 will moderate the panel. The JSU encourages the cam- pus community to participate in this event. All students are wel- come to attend the panel discus- sion at 7:00 pm in Humanities 014. Satelite Broadcasts Celebration Across the Nation Continuedftompage I War II, the early 1970's and the welcoming of women to Union, and the present day. The Union Video, a live video segment depicting students and alumni today, was introduced on Saturday evening. Following the video segment was the biography of Tracy Egan and how her dreams have been fulfilled. Fi- nally, the Gala was briefly in- cluded for two minutes, but pre- ceding the beginning of the sign off from Hale House. Joe Hinchey, chairman ofthe Union College Board of Trustees, com- mented on the role that the Trust- ees have had with the College throughout Union's two hundred historical years. In the closing remarks, Presi- dent Hull gave the Bicentennial Toast to \Union's Future.\ At this time, all alumni who were watch- ing raised their glasses to toast to Union's past and future. the fi- nal minutes of the program in- cluded a singing of Union's alma mater, and was concluded by tracy Egan's final farewell to all who were viewing. Long periods of preparation were -dedicated to the organiza- tion of Founders Day weekend. Now that it has come and gone, the rest of the bicentennial cel- ebration will be concluded this fall. Write for News The JSU hopes to foster an awareness on the campus of the strategic importance of the Middle East in terms of its military, economic, and political significance in international politics. MUSIC & VIDEO GAME LOVERS 156.JAY STREET Import CD's New & Used CD's New & Used Tapes 1,000 Used Vinyl Limited Edition Vinyl Super Nintendo Games Genesis Games Nintendo Games DJ Tapes & 12\ Singles DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY 377-8382 M-Sat 11-7

. I Page 4 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Rosemary Dempsey, NOW Spo·kesperson, Encourages Student Involvement in April Rally by David Levine Editor-in-chief On Monday, February 27, Rosemary Dempsey, a leading executive for the National Organization for Women, encouraged a crowd of approximately 50 Union students to help end discrimination against women and promote equality among the sexes. The speech 'Ending the Culture of Violence Against Women,' was sponsored by Union College's Womyn's Union. Dempsey describes how society has promoted sexism by perpetuating traditional sex roles. \The defining concept of maleness is the ability to successfully use violence to control, protect, and defend. A little boy knows that if he's not able to fight, someone is going to think of him as a sissy.\ On the other hand, a female is defined as \'that which a boy does not want to be.\ \Thirty years ago there was a modern wave offeminism which changed society's way of thinking, but there was a tremendous backlash associated with these movements. Participants in the movement · were· labeled as radicals, anarchists, and communists.\ The backlash has resulted because lawmakers are \powerholders protecting ··thems~l ves from people who want to compete for . the quality oflife.\ According to Dempsey, women have been the victims of the backlash. Every 12 seconds, a woman is beaten by someone who loves her. The only violent crime that is on the rise is tape. \It shouldn't be a surprise that what is com·ing out of the 104th congress is scary stuff. Rush Limbaugh refers to feminists as 'Feminazis' and stipulates that Native Americans should thank Europeans for releasing them from their barbaric existence. African-Americans are taking resources away from real Americans.\ D e m p s e y discusses how scapegoating is once again on the rise. She cites the personal attacks on Hilary Clinton as an example of the nsmg animosity towards powerful, aggressive women. \The mass rally in April is an important event. In March if I 992 we organized a march ar.1d we made the issue of reproductive rights central to the election. Now, for the first time, people will speak out about the culture of violence against women. We will not go back to a time when wamen were so disempowered that issues were not discussed. Wewon'tgo back toatimewhen there were no regulations on businesses, and there was a lower quality oflifeformosteverybody. Come on April 9 and say 'we won't go back to those times.\' The 1 03rd Congress passed legislation that\ ... is the first action that interprets gender violence as interfering with the ability of a person to exercise their Civil Rights. This legislation will not last long with this Congress unless people show solidarity.\ According to Womyn's Union President, Kate Durocher, \We are hoping to send two buses of Union students down to Washingtonfortherally. Weare appealing to all campus groups- greeks and independents.\ At the moment, Durocher is working · with the Albany chapter of NOW so that the organization can obtain special rates for students to help defray the costs ufthe trip. Any interested· individuals should contact Kate Durocher at 346- 5142, . *****I 1, 'S . Campus News J(arenga,](wanzaa Founder, Speaks for African Heritage Month by Nalini Gupta Concordiensis Staff Continuing its efforts to pro- mote awareness of the African- American history on campu.§, the · · African and Latino Alliance of Students at Union College pre ... sen ted speaker Maul ana Karenga this past week on Thursday, Feb- ruary 23 at the Memorial Chapel. · · Speaking on the heritage of Afri- can cultme in its c:elebrationofthe 'traditional Kwanzaa holiday, : Karenga drew upon several anec-- . dotal histories of the African- .. American struggle and on its prevalence in modem society. Kwanzaa, meaning \First · Fruits\ in Swahili, is a seven-day celebration starting on December 26 with each day following day representing tenets of this holi- day, is an activist and scholar with a national and international repu- tation. He has lectured on the life and struggle of African peoples on the major campuses of the U.S., Canada, Africa, China, Cuba, and Trinidad. Karenga is the author ofnumer~ ous scholarly articles and eight books. His latest works include Introduction to Black Studies, the most widely-used introductory tex;t in black studies; his re-trans- lation and commentary on ancient Egyptian texts titled Selections from Husia: Sacred Wisdom of Ancie.nt Egypt; The African American Holiday of Kwanzaa: A celebration ofFamily, Commu- nity and Culture; and The Book of Coming Forth By Day: The Ethics of the Declaration of In- nocence. Karenga is chainnan and asso- ciate professor of the Department of Black Studies at California State University, Long Beach. He is also director of the Institute of Pan-African Studies in Los An- geles, and national chairman of \Us a cultural and social change organization. He has taught at California State University at Los Angeles, Dominguez Hills and San Diego. He was also a visit- ing professor of Black politics at Stanford University, and distin- guished visiting scholar in Black studies at the University of Ne- braska, Omaha. Seniors: Only One Term Left! . ' , .... J I • • • Jl It l ·'I CHET'S ONCE AGAIN PRESENTS: SATURDAY, MARCH 4th FROM llpm to 2am .lli THE *****C 0 L L E G E***** ******C EN 'I' :E; R****** '; l .I i ' I .·, i I {,

... I Campus News The Concordiensis Elects New Editor Compiled from national wire reports The staff of The Concordien- sis, Union's student newspaper, has elected Diana Sedita as the paper's editor-in-chief for the next three academic terms. Sedita,. a sophomore from North Salem, New York, has served as the Copy Editor for The Concor- diensis for the past 25 issues. She will replac.eretiring editorsDavid Levine and Heather Reynolds. Sedita, who was elected Feb- ruary 21 at the newspaper's an- nual elections, stressed her goals for the newspaper during the up- coming yeaJ. \I wouldliketo uphold the fine aesthetic quality of the newspa- per and we will work to increase campus. coverage. Specifically, we would like to do a better job promotingcampus organizations and clubs so that students can avail themselves ofthe many op- portunities this cam pus has to of- fer.\ \In addition, we will work to impwve the efficiency and orga- nization of the newspaper. This \I would like to uphold the fine aesthetic quality of the newspaper a~d we will work to increase campus coverage. Specifically, we would liketodoa better job promoting campus organizations and clubs so that students can avail themselves of the many opportunities this campus has to offer.\ - Diana Sedita will help 1:1s to improve the qual- ity and contentof articles appear- ing in The Concordiensis.\ \There is no doubt in our minds that the newspaper will improve over the next year. Diana is well qualified for the position, and she will work with a young, but ea- ger and diligent, staff.\ Levine .and Reynolds served as co-editors since last spring. Levine steps down after holding the position ofeditor-ln-chieffor two years. ln November 1993, The Concordiensis was selected as the second best college weekly tabloid in the United States by the Associated Collegiate Press. Over the past two years, the news- paper has changed dramatically in content and layout. During the spring of 1993, the newspaper received its first layout comput- ers, and within six months The Concordiensiswas fully comput- erized, utilizing Desktop Publish- ing. On September 16, 1993 the newspaper ran its first color pho- tographs, and since then The Con- cordiensis has committed itself to full-color on the front and back pages. In terms of content, the paper is more aggressive in its coverage of campus events and administrational decisions. New section editors will be an- nounced by the end of next week. The Concordiensis ·March 2, 1995 · Page 5 Diana Sedita, Concordy 's new editor. (photo by Josh Haines//'C) Union Mourns Loss of Two Hull Encourages Students to Continue Budget Cut Protests Courtesy of Public Relations Union College mourns the loss of two of its prominent extended campus 'family' members. Codman Hislop '31 and Elma Hicks Martin, wife of the fonner Union president, Harold C. Mar- tin. Both wereplanning to attend the bicentennial celebrations on Saturday, but fell ill and passed away·on Sunday, February 26. Hislop, 89, was a research pro- fessoremerims of American civi- lization and·the author of the bi- ography, Eliphalet Nott . He earned his bachelor's degree in liberal arts from Union in 1931 ' . , and received an honorary doctor of letters degree in 1972. He held amaster'sin American literature from C«<tlmbia University, and a Ph.D. from Harvard University. As an undergraduate, he was a member of Sigma Chi fraternity, Corcordiensis, Garnet, English club, Mountebanks, Choir, Phi Delta Epsilon, Sigma Phi Society. He was .a winner of the College's Bailey Prize. · In addition to his acclaimed bi- ography on Nott, which the Col- lege is publishing this year in abridged form for the bicenten- nial, Hislop was author of The Mohawk and Albany: Dutch, En- glish and American. His writings were also published in a number of scholarly journals, and he served the College as sesquicen- tennial poet. Through his re- search, he discovered a number of important historical documents including letters by George Washington and early campus plans by architect Joseph Jacques Ramee. Hislop's interests included New England and New York State history, American Social History, American literature and English literature. He was active · in the Schenectady Civic Theater, having roles in a number of pro- ductions. In addition to his many other accomplishments, Hislop traveled · around the world in 1979 and served inthe U.S. Army Air Force during World Warn. . Elma Hicks Martin, 85, was the wife of Harold C. Martin, who served as presidentofUnion Col- lege from 1965 to 1974. Until Martin had' taken ill Jast week, President and Mrs. Martin had been planning to attend the Col- leges Bicentennial Weekend events. President Martin was to have lectured Sunday on Jonathan Pearson and Eliphalet Nott. Mrs. Martin held a bachelor's degree from Virginia State Uni- versity and a master's degree in English from University of Michigan. She was a teacher at Webster Springs High School, Orange County Community Col- lege in Middletown, N.Y. and the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Mass .. She tu- tored English throughout her ca- reer. Martin was also the co-edi- tor of a family magazine, and published in West Virginia School Journal and Massachusetts Teacher. Martin is survived by her hus- band and two sons, Thomas. of Jamaica Plains, Mass., and Joel of Portland, Maine; and two daughters, Ann of Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Rebecca Evarts of Arlington, Mass. She also leaves behind ten grandchildren. Union College will miss the contributions of these two great members of its extended commu- nity. They will be mourned and remembered by all who knew them. by Elizabeth DeKoven AssociateNewsEditor In a recent memo to the college community, Roger Hull, Presi- dent of Union College~ urged the community to voice their opin- ions concerning the proposed fed- eral and state cuts in aid to edu- cation. Hull gave the community background on the proposed cuts, suggestions for needed action and · a list of talking points on the re- scission issue. Hull reiterated to the commu- nity that the house appropriation subcommittee that determines education spending is pending a decision on a rescission bill. If the bill were implemented, funding . for the approaching year would be affected. If cuts are made to student aid, the reduction in aid would have a profound affect on students attending Union this fall. The subcommittee is looking to make up to $2 billion in cuts. These cuts could conceivably in- clude educational programs like the State Studerit Incentive Grant Program, Supplemental Educa- tionOppor.tunity Grants, Perkins Loans, Federal Work Study, Pell Grants, TRIO programs, Title III, and graduate education programs. Hull urged in his memo for stu- dents to call their representatives as soon as possible to tell them to oppose the cuts in student aid, to urge appropriations committee members to fight against the cuts, . and to ask other representatives to talk to members of the appro-· priations committee about their concerns. Hull told the campus community to call the Capitol Operator at 202-225-3121 to get a hold of their respective repre- sentatives or to call the Alliance to Save Student Aid hotline at 1- 800-574-4AID. Hull attached to his memo in- formation on student aid pro- grams. On the Federal level Hull reported that ifPell Grants were cut Union could loose up tp $484,699 a year, if Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants were cut Union could loose up to $247,035 a year and if Work Study were. cut Union could loose up to $120, 197 a year. Hull also reported that if PLUS Loans, SLS Loans and Stafford Loans were cut Union could loose up to $629,000 a year. On the State level Hull reported that proposed cuts would include for Union an $80,000 reduction in the current $950;000 allotted to TAP, and an i in HEOP and a $45,371 cut in the $270,000 allotted to BUNDY. I leave the News Section in the cap\able hands of the Underclassmen8 Good Luck. I Am Outta Here! -C. Paine Applications for the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) are due by March 12. Pleas~ bring them to the Student Activities Office, CC408. Appointed officials will serve until the end of the a~ademic year.

'' Page 6 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Bicentennial Convocation Continued from page 1 first class had only three students; there was a 3 to 3 student to fac- ulty ratio, but with Union's pro- gression it has developed roughly a 455 to 180 ratio. President of the Alumni coun- cil, Jerry L. Thurston '61, issued thanks and acknowledged that to have an institution like Union re- quired \time talent, and money.\ The first graduation class was in 1797; Thurston joked about the fact that there were mote admin- istrators than lawyers- opposite oftoday's graduates. He quoted fonner Union President Dixon RyanFox, \Itwasagreatinstitu- tion long, long before we were thought of and it will be a great institution long, long after we lay down our labors.\ Mayor Frank Duci presented a key to the city of Schenectady to the College. After touching on the history of Schenectady, Mayor Duci announced that this year has been declared Founders Year in the city of Schenectady. \I'm sure this will unlock fu- ture controversies we may have,\ President Hull said upon receiv- ing the key to the city. The last greeting came from Regent James C. Dawson from the Regents ofthe University of the State of New York. Union was the first college to receive a charter form the Board o'fRegents and the second of higher educap tion behind Columbia University. Dawson also touched Hpon the affects that Governor Pataki ~ s budget proposal will have for Union. President Roger Hull spoke af- ter the greetings. He focused. on Union's path to success, the in- troduction of engineering and the curriculum's movement into the 21st century. \Today we celebrate and plan: celebrate an idea and an institu- tion; and plan for a future that, if we apply ourselves courageously and diligently, can reassert the College's leadership role in edu- cation and steer the Union ship past education's Scylla and Charybdis,\ Hull said opening his speech. Hull spoke about Union's mile- stones; one being that only 17 other colleges have a longer his- tory. Many hardships had to be overcome, but good leadership moved Union ahead as an insti- tution ofhigper education. Presi- dent ~liphalet Nett introduced engineering for the first time in a l'iberal ~ school in 1845., Presi- dent Andrew Van V rank en Raymond brought Charles Steinmetz, during the centennial year ( 1895), to introduce electri- cal engineering and, despite the death of President Dixon Ryan Fox, his plan to ()pen Union's campus to World War II Veter- ans was sustained in 1945. \Union once more has a unique opportunity, an opportunity that, thanks te a gen~rous grant from theGeneral Electric Foundation, will en~le the Collt:ge to develop the engineering curric4l urn for the 21st century and bring liberal arts and technology together to provide a Qlodel for aU ofhigher education,\ Hull said. Hull also spoke about the his- · tory of the college, but then dealt about the three parts of knowl- edge: acquisition, transmission and application. He quoted Campus News Eliphalet Nott saying,\ in the ac- quisition of knowledge, you are never to be stationary, but always. progres$ive., Following aH of the greetings and President Hull's speech the Premier of Proud Music was per- formed by the Union College Choir and directed by Professor Hush Allen Wilson. Brian L. Fennelly '58, ProfessorofMusic at New York University, com- posed the piece in honor of the bicentennial. N ott Rededicated Continued jrom page 1 tions from 1,743 contributors, \We have brought the sight of \The Way We Were\ back to the way it was.\ Although many people con- tributed to the Nott's restoration, it would be lengthy to list them all. President Hull took time dur- ing the rededication in order to pay tribute to three ofthe largest contributors~ Margaret MacGregor Dyson, David C. Mandeville '45 and Frederick C. Wikoff '43. The upper two lev- els of the memorial are named in honor ofMandeville and Wikoff, who unfortunately, were unable to attend the ceremony. The ground level was dedicated to Dyson. Dyson, Hull's mother-in- law, was the largest contributor. She had been on campus only once in her lifetime, in October 1990, before she passed away in December of that same year. Anne E. Dyson, Hull's wife, gave a stirring accmmt of how her mother came to give such a gen- erous gift to the College. Dyson said that her mother was an ex- traordinary woman in her sim- plicity. She concentrated on help- ing the things that were most im- portant in her life, the foremost of which was her family. \She · wanted to help 'her Roger,\' Dyson said of her mother. \She didn't do it to show some lofty thoughts of historic preservation or ofeducation. It was an act of pure love.\ David McCullough, Pulitzer Prize winning author and speaker at last year's commencement, · also spoke of the love and energy that had to be expanded to pro- duce both the historic building and the institution for which it has become a symbol. \What a thrill- ing event this is,\ McCullough said of the rededication and bi- centennial. \What an expression of exuberance it is. This build- ing rises from a time that is very unlike our own.\ The author pointed out that although the Nott is the product of an enlightened time, when New York State was really the \Empire State,\ Edison was inventing the light bulb and Mark Twain was putting the fin- ishing touches on Huckleberry Finn, its creation did not come easy. The Nott is the product of hard work and controversy, as all great accomplishments of the past and present are. \This building is an act of affinnation, both when it was built and restored, of the belief in what Union stands for. We look at this building and learn from it,\ McCullough said. Les- sons in life, history, failure and success all can be learned through Union College and its ancient symbol. A structure, such as the NottMemorial, would not be pos- sible without the possession of talent. McCullough emphasized that this talent does not occur all at one time and it does not hap- pen at al1 without a place like Union College. He ended by pointing out, \Like your song says 'to thee, the brave and free.\' A ribbon cutting by Anne E. Dyson, Charles H. Dyson and Roger H. Hull officially opened the Nott. The ceremony con- cluded with a rendition of Amaz- ing Grace by the Schenectady Pipe Band. i. '.

Page 6 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Bicentennial Convocation Continuedfrompage 1 first class had only three students; there was a 3 to 3 student to fac- ulty ratio, but with Union's pro- gression it has developed roughly a455to 180ratio. President of the Alumni coun- cil, JerryL. Thurston '61, issued thanks and acknowledged that to have an institution like Union re- quired \time talent, and money.\ The first graduation class was in 1797; Thurston joked about the fact that there were more admiN- istrators than lawyers- opposite oftoday's graduates. He quoted former Union President Dixon Ryan Fox, \It was a great institu- tion long, long before we were thought of and it will be a great institution long, long after we lay downourlabors.\ Mayor Frank Duci presented a key to the city of Schenectady to the College. After touching on the history of Schenectady, Mayor Duci announced that this year has beeR declared Founders Year in the city of Schenectady. \I'm sure this will unlock fu- ture controversies we may have,\ President Hull said upon receiv- ing the key to the city. The last greeting came from Regent James C. Dawson from the Regents of the University of the State ofNew York. Union was the first col:lege to receive a charter form the Board of Regents and the second of higher educa~ tion behind Columbia University. Dawson also touched upon the affects that Governor Patak i 's budget proposal will have for Union. President Roger Hull spoke af- ter the greetings. He focused on UNion's path to success, the in- troduction of engineering and tl!.e curriculwm 's movement into the 21st century. \Today we celebrate and plan: celebrate an idea and an institu- tion; and plan for a future that, if we apply ourselves courageously and diligently, can reassert the College's leadership role in edu- cation and steer the Union ship past education's Scylla and Charybdis,\ Hull said opening his speech. Hull spoke about Union's mile- stones; one being that only 17 other colleges have a longer his- tory. Many hardships had to be overcome, but good leadership moved Union ahead as an insti- tution ofhigher education. Presi- dent Eliphalet Nott introduced engineering for the first time in a liberal arts school in 1845, Presi- dent Andrew Van Vranken Raymond brought Charles Steinmetz, during the centennial year ( 1895), to introduce electri- cal engineering and, despite the death of President Dixon Ryan Fox, his plan to open Union's campus to World War II Veter- ans was sustained in 1945. \Union once more has a unique opportunity, an opportunity that, thanks to a generous grant from the General Electric Foundation, will enable the College to develop the engineering curriculum for the2lstcentury and bring liberal arts and technology together to provide a model for all of higher education,\ Hull said. Hull also spoke about the his- tory of the college, but then dealt about the three parts of knowl- edge: acquisition, transmission and application. He quoted Eliphalet Nott saying,\ in the ac- quisition of knowledge, you are never to be stationary, b1:1talways . \ progressive. Following all of the greetings and President Hull's speech the Premier of Proud Music was per- formed by the Union College Choir and directed by Professor Hush Allen Wilson. Brian L. Fennelly '58, ProfessorofMusic at New York University, com- posed the piece in honor of the biccntenn ial. Nott Rededicated Continuedfrompage I tions from 1,743 contributors, \We have brought the sight of \The Way We Were\ back to the way it was.\ Although many people con- tributed to the Nott's restoration, it would be lengthy to list them all. President Hull took time dur- ing the rededication in order to pay tribute to three of the largest contributors; Margaret MacGregor Dyson, David C. Mandeville '45 and Frederick C. Wikoff '43. The upper two lev- els of the memorial are named in honor of Mandeville and Wikoff, who unfortunately, were unable to attend the ceremony. The ground level was dedicated to Dyson. Dyson, Hull's mother-in- Jaw, was the largest contributor. She had been on campus only once in her 1 ifetime, in October 1990, before she passed away in December ofthat same year. Anne E. Dyson, Hull's wife, gave a stirring account ofhow her mother came to give such a gen- erous gift to the College. Dyson said that her mother was an ex- traordinary woman in her sim- p! ieity. She concentrated on help- ing the things that were most im- po'rtant in her life, the foremost of which was her family. \She wanted to help 'her Roger,\' Dyson said of her mother. \She didn't do it to show some lofty thoughts of historic preservation or of education. It was an act of pure love.\ David McCullough, Pulitzer Prize winning author and speaker at last year's commencement, also spoke of the love and energy that had to be expanded to pro- duce both the historic building and the institution for which it has becomeasymbol. \Whatathrill- ing event this is,\ McCullough said of the rededication and bi- centennial. \What an expression of exuberance it is. This build- ing rises from a time that is very unlike our own.\ The author pointed out that although the Nott is the product of an enlightened time, when New York State was really the \Empire State,\ Edison was inventing the light bulb and Mark Twain was putting the fin- ishing touches on Huckleberry Finn, its creation did not come easy. The Nott is the product of hard work and controversy,as all great accomplishments of the past and present are. \This building is an act of affirmation, both when it was built and restored, of the belief in what Union stands for. We look at this building and learn from it,\ McCullough said. Les- sons in life, history, failure and success all can be learned through Union College and its ancient symbol. A structure, such as the Nott Memorial, would not be pos- sible without the possession of talent. McCullough emphasized that this talent does not occur all at one time and it does not hap- pen at all without a place like Union College. He ended by pointing out, \Like your song says 'to thee, the brave and free.\' A ribbon cutting by Anne E. Dyson, Charles H. Dyson and Roger H. Hull officially opened the Nott. The ceremony con- cluded with a rendition of Amaz- ing Grace by the Schenectady Pipe Band.

s. s - y y e e e e g \ d d y ' !,, \ ,; OP/ED · COllre QTnnrnr!ri.ensis Tire Student Newspaper of U11ion College Since 1877 Scllenectady 's Oldest Newspaper David Levine, Heather Reynold~ EDITORS Caroline Paioe NEWS EDITOR Erin O'Neil FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mrt'nkad · ARTS EDITORS Jo$h llaines PHOTO EDITOR Dillna Sedita· COPY EDITOR Ken Berma11 Jason Starr r~ , · sP-ORts· EDITORS' CEaig Gre~nbe_rg . . .. WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jeremy Smith ART DIRECTOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Kenny Lee Aru:!y Salam3. · . SCIENCE EDIT0R1!i · .. Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Rkhman CARTOONIST Elizabeth DeKoven Heatber Manley Michelle Ellis ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORS . Scott Scuillon FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR P..HOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Dru~keroiller, Laurel Ruma, Rick Lederer, Deborah Proper, Laurie I<ir.schner. . ' ~ •' I . • · STAFF: Doug Barti!l~ Vinod Dasa, Jeff Ellen; Marc ·Foster, Nali_ni Gupta, · Stephanil.l Kuehn, Mike Leding, Adrian Maci-ean, Martin• Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani N~tv-ari', Larry Pask11, William Rice, Christoph Ringwald, Ma~t Sandler, Billy Sh;lkps, Shveta Srivastava, Scott Steele, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler:; · · ' · · . The Ctlncordiensis · March 2, 19~5 · Page 7 . . . EDITORIAL · · Doing the Right Thing: The Final Word We were challenged to write a positive editorial for the last issue ofthis administration. 'It is even more difficult to write this editorial because posi- tive e(lft<)riall; require way too much thought and · ¢ff-O'rt, .. ariiif·we write this 5 minutes before we-are ·se~i&~'gd:J~~pf.e~~- As every<>ne knows, it's a lot ·\easier tobe::critical than to recognize and cite people or orgaiik:ations. for 'Doing the right thing.' Hon- estly;· we. were waiting for something to go wrong du'ring last ;weekend's bicentennial events. We ''searched high and low, but every event was impec- cablyplanned: Even the hockey team, a good source of criticism, decided to play up to their potential. Union tGok a bold step into itsthird century with a series 9feventsthat celebrated the CGllege's il- lustrious pasf-and -left little doubt about Union's bright future. On S'aturday morning, Union hon- :ored· its· currentpi::orninent alumni by awarding six Eliphalet N6tt Medal~:' The event was very well attended, despite the lQ a.m. starting time. To their credit, org~izersincluded stu4ents in the academic process~Gn, . . . Tl;J.e Nott Memodal .rededication was tpe high- light of the week~nd,. The builqing was restored to its gre~tness by the A.J. Martini Company, Presi- dent Hull deserves a lot of credit for organizing the effort to rebuild the Nott The project cost .in ex- cess 9f$l0 MiJiion and took more than 18 months, but.itwa~.well w.ort}l.themoneyand the.wait The school also owes a debt of gratitude to the donors, notably Margaret Dyson, who bequeathed the larg- est single donation towards the project. WOW! What a centerpiece for the campus. Later in the afternoon, the Skating Dutchmen, playing inspired hockey, routed the Harvard Crim- son in the last home. game ofthe season. The vic- tory was especially significant because it is Union's first ever win against Harvard in hockey. The meet- ing has added historical meaning because Union won the right its colors by defeating the Crimson in a crew race over one-hllndred years ago. The evening gala was a grand finale to Founders Day. Over two thousand seven-hundredpeopleat- tended the event. The Memorial Fieldhouse was transfonned into a beautiful ballroom. The food was outstanding, the orchestra performed well, and the ambiance reflected the celebratory nature o fthe weekend. Sunday's events celebrated the College's relation- ship with the City of Schenectady. It was a fitting way to cap a weekend that also included a String Quartet performance, and the performance of Pri- mary English Class, the first ever performance in the Yul'man Theatec. Alas, something we can criti- cize. Eight months after it should have been dedi- cated, the Yulman Theater still is in~omplete ... and the basement's flooded. Women Should Have More Choice About SHAKTI is not an Open Club Professor Sbarlet Will Return to PS Department in the Fall I Going Greek To the Editor, Why after twenty-five years of coeducation at Union is there still an overwhelming discrepancy between the number of fraterni- ties to sororities on this campus.? I am a junior who is very happy to be an independent, yet I also believe that women should have more choice when making the decision to be a part of the greek system. This is the sole purpose that I have been working so hard along with Lisa Kl imkewicz and Sara Olson to bring a new national so- rority to Union. You would think that with these good intentions I would receive more support from the student body and the Greek system., but this is not the case. I have encountered an abundance of red tape from the members of the Panhellenic Council whose support is necessary to start a so- rority. Those of you who believe that equal treatment is needed, and women should have the same op- portunities as the men, please help. Atthispointwedonotknow which sorority will be chosen, but this is not the main concern. Un- less more people get involved, the battle will never be won. Lorene Kaminski Send Lettters to Box 2577 To the Editor, Rarely do I encounter a situa- tion where I've lost complete re- spect for a person. What I am about to describe is an incident by two people, more specifically, the president and treasurer of SHAKTI, that to me was a hor- rible injustice. Last Wednesday, we had our regular meeting of SHAKTI, the student organiza- tion that co-sponsored the Asian Awareness week and the Culi- nary Expose at upper class. I walked in with a young man whom I recently met. He was from south India, and is president of the Indian Association at Dartmouth. He is taking one class here at Union, while doing legislative work for Albany for a term. Eager and enthusiastic about what Indian life is !.ike here at Union, the young man decided to attend the SHAKTI meeting, saying that he had spoken with its president a few days ago. Upon arriving, however, the club's president told the young man he was \unwelcome\ and that the meeting was \closed to outsiders.\ The club's secretary further insisted upon this young man leaving because \it was irt- appro.priate\ for him to be there, and that he would have to \wait outside.\ He couldn't even open his mouth to speak because he was so shocked with their tones. I'm not usually one to speak up, but I told them that he had paid a student activities fee and that he was allowed to use all the facili- ties on campus. After they told me I was wrong, I asked to see their constitution, which they cleverly seemed to have mis- placed. So, the young man left and .so did I, disturbed with what I had just witnessed. A young man had just been humiliated by a roomful of people because of a personal preference by two board members. I cannot begin to express the lack of class, decorum or even politeness presented by the presi- dent and the secretary. Their tones of voice were extremely rude and they were out of line with their actions. What rightdo they have to kick someone out as if he were an untouchable, just because of a personal opinion? Who do they think they are? The reason that I am writing this let- ter is that I cannot let this inci- dent go unexposed. Legally, they were wrong in kicking out a stu- dent who had every right to be there; socially, they were wrong in acting so exclusive. SHAKTI has such a fine im- age on campus: a group that pro- motes the awareness of Asian culture. But after this incident, I need to infonn you all of the lack of character ofthese board mem- bers. I don't think that these two are worthy of representing such a fine group of people. To sup- port their actions would be wrong. No one has the right to alienate or exclude a person based on a five minute impression. And besides, isn't the idea of having an organization like SHAKTI on campus to promote that we are all one, and that all different cui tures share the world together? If I were president, I would want as much support for SHAKTI as possible from the stu- dent body. Whether they are full time or part time students shouldn't matter. Perhaps these two board members could think about the humiliation they be- sto.wed upon this person, and apologize for their less than classy actions. Leena Mankad To the Editor, Reading the Letters column of Concordy of February 16th, I noticed speculation about my fu- ture plans. Very briefly, I will be returning to Union upon comple- tion ofthis second year of a two- year, unpaid leave. I am work- ing in Washington, DC for the Rule of Law Consortium, an ex- perience which I expect to be beneficial to several of my courses. I will resume teaching during the Spring trimester of 1995-96, when I shall be offering my much renovated course on \Soviet & Russian Politics.\ Robert Sharlet Professor Political Science

f I f l I 1 ' ' t t OP/ED Tile Student Newspaper ofUilion College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper David Levine, Heather Reynolds EDITORS Caroline Paine NEWS EDITOR Erin O'Neil FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Jm;h Haines PHOTO EDITOR Diana Sedita COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Craig Greenberg WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jeremy Smith ART DIRECTOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Kenny Lee Andy Salama SCIENCE EDITORS Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Elizabeth DeKoven Heather Manley Michelle Ellis ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Rick Lederer, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF. Doug Bartell, Vi nod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Stephanie Kuehn, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Nav.ani, Bhavani Navari, Larry Paska, William Rice, Christoph Ringwald, Matt Sandler, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, Scott Steele, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler .. The Concordiensis · March 2, 19~5 · Page 7 Doing the Right Thing: The Final Word We were challenged to write a positive editorial for the last issue of this administration. It is even more difficult to write this editorial because posi- tive editorials require way too much thought and effort, and we write this 5 minutes before we are set to go to press. As everyone knows, it's a lot easier to be critical than to recognize and cite people ororgani~ations for 'Doing the right thing.' Hon- estly, we were waiting for something to go wrong during last weekend's bicentennial events. We searched high and low, but every event was impec- cably planned. Even the hockey team, a good source ofcriticism, decided to play up to their potential. Union took a bold step into its third century with a series of events that celebrated the College's il- lustrious past and left little doubt about UnioVI 's bright future. On Saturday morning, Union hon- ored its current prominent alumni by awarding six Eliphalet Nott Medals. The event was very well attended, despite the 10 a.m. starting time. To their credit, organizers inc! uded students in the a cad em ic procession. The Nott Memorial rededication was the high- light ofthe weekend. The builqing was restored to its greatness by the A.J. Martini Company. Presi- dent Hull deserves a lot of credit for organizing the effort to rebuild the Nott. The project cost in ex- cess of $10 Million and took more than 18 months, but it was well worth the money and the wait. The school also owes a debt of gratitude to the donors, notably Margaret Dyson, who bequeathed the larg- est single donation towards the project. WOWI What a centerpiece for the campus. Later in the afternoon, the Skating Dutchmen, playing inspired hockey, routed the Harvard Crim- son in the last home game of the season. The vic- tory w.as especially significant because it is Union's first ever win against Harvard in hockey. The meet- ing has added historical meaning because Union won the right its colors by defeating the Crimson in a crew race over one-hundred years ago. The evening gala was a grand finale to Founders Day. Over two thousand seven-hundred people at- tended the event. The Memorial Fieldhouse was transfonned into a beautiful ballroom. The food was outstanding, the orchestra performed well, and the ambiance reflected the celebratory nature of the weekend. Sunday's events celebrated the College's relation- ship with the City of Schenectady. It was a fitting way to cap a weekend that also included a String Quartet perfonnance, and the performance of Pri- mary English Class, the first ever perfonnance in the Yulman Theater. Alas, something we can criti- cize. Eight months after it should have been dedi- cated, the Yulman Theater still is incomplete ... and the basement's flooded Women Should Have More Choice About Going Greek SHAKTI is not an Open Club Professor Sharlet WiH Return to PS Department in the Fall To the Editor. Why after twenty-five years of coeducation at Union is there still an overwhelming discrepancy between the number of fraterni- ties to sororities on this campus.? I am a junior who is very happy to be an independent, yet I also believe that women should have more choice when making the decision to be a part of the greek system. This is the sole purpose that I have been working so hard along with Lisa Klimkewicz and Sara Olson to bring a new national so- rority to Union You would think that with these good intentions I would receive more support from the student body and the Greek system., but this is not the case. I have encountered an abundance of red tape from the members of the Panhellenic Council whose support is necessary to start a so- rority. Those ofyou who believe that equal treatment is needed, and women should have the same op- portunities as the men, please help. At this point we do not know which sorority will be chosen, but this is not the main concern. Un- less more people get involved, the battle will never be won. Lorene Kaminski Send Lettters to Box 2577 To the Editor, Rarely do I encounter a situa- tion where I've lost complete re- spect for a person. What I am about to describe is an incident by two people. more specifically, the president and treasurer of SHAKTI, that to me was a hor- rible injustice. Last Wednesday, we had our regular meeting of SHAKTI, the student organiza- tion that co-sponsored the Asian Awareness week and the Culi- nary Expose at upper class. I walked in with a young man whom I recently met. He was from south India, and is president of the Indian Association at Dartmouth. He is taking one class here at Union, while doing legislative work for Albany for a term Eager and enthusiastic about what Indian life is like here at Union, the young man decided to attend the SHAKTI meeting, saying that he had spoken with its president a few days ago Upon arriving, however, the club's president told the young man he was \'unwelcome\ and that the meeting was \closed to outsiders.\ The club's secretary further insisted upon this young man leaving because \it was in- appropriate\ for him to be there, and that he would have to \wait outside\ He couldn't even open his mouth to speak because he was so shocked with their tones I'm not usually one to speak up, but I told them that he had paid a student activities fee and that he was allowed to use all the facili- ties on campus. After they told me I was wrong, I asked to see their constitution, which they cleverly seemed to have mis- placed. So, the young man left and so did I, disturbed with what I had just witnessed. A young man had just been humiliated by a roomful of people because of a personal preference by two board members. I cannot begin to express the lack of class, decorum or even politeness presented by the presi- dent and the secretary. Their tones of voice were extremely rude and they were out of line with their actions. What right do they have to kick someone out as if he were an UAtouchable, just because of a personal opinion? Who do they think they are') The reason that I am writing this let- ter is that I cannot let this inci- dent go unexposed. Legally, they were wrong in kicking out a stu- dent vrho had every right to be there, socially, they were wrong in acting so exclusive. SHAKTI has such a fine im- age on campus: a group that pro- motes the awareness of Asian culture. But after this incident, I need to infonn you all of the lack of character of these board mem- bers I don't think that these two are worthy of representing such a fine group of people. To sup- port their actions would be wrong. No one has the right to alienate or exclude a person based on a five minute impression. And besides, isn't the idea of having an organization like SHAKTI on campus to promote that we are all one, and that all different cultures share the world together? If I were president. I would want as much support for SHAKTI as possible from the stu- dent body. Whether they are full time or part time students shouldn't matter. Perhaps these two board members could think about the humiliation they be- stowed upon this person, and apologize for their less than classy actions. Leena Mankad To the Editor, Reading the Letters column of Concordy of February 16th. I noticed speculation about my fu- ture plans. Very briefly, I will be returning to Union upon comple- tion ofthis second year of a two- year, unpaid leave. I am work- ing in Washington, DC for the Rule of Law Consortium, an ex- perience which I expect to be beneficial to several of my courses. I will resume teaching during the Spring trimester of 1995-96, when I shall be offering my much renovated course on \Soviet & Russian Politics.\ Robert Sharlet Professor Political Science

Page 8 · March 2, 1995 · The Concordiensis OP/ED UNlON STUDENT AtnVISI'\ AT1EN1\\oM H \\'\ERE' WILL ~E A 5°/o 1\> \ilOt\1 :t NC.R'E.P-SE Fa~ \~E\ \'\<\5- \0,~{, :£..~o:>L 'te~ L J I --~i=============~~~. UN\ON BOOKSTOl<E BJ\' SACK ?6L IC 'I !'?~*• #!!~1!1 _>· . . . · . OPINIONS · , . · . . . ' . . ' ' . . . . . The N ott Memorial is a Beautiful Centerpiece for Union byTo·ny LaVecchia Opinions Editor It takes a lot to impress me. The inside of the Nott Memorial is one of the few things that has truly struck me as being really impres- sive. For those of you who have yet to venture into our sixteen sided wonder, I strongly suggest that you do in the near future. Since the Nott has been opened, I have overheard and participated in a lot of debate about the need to spend millions of dollars on a building that serves very little practical purpose. I think the res- toration of the Nott was a very good move for the school. That's right folks, Tony LaVecchia is actually writing a column to defend school policy, Sure we could have Nott. First of all, the inside is beauti- ful, plain and simple. T've honestly never seen anything quite like the Nott on the inside. Students will be Nott, it would certainly leave a positive lasting impression on me about the school. It is also nice to speak(qrag) about the national historic land mark that is the cen- terpiece of our spent eleven million dollars on a building that was more \I've honestly never seen anything quite like the Nott on the inside ... To me, every aspect of the interior was well done and aesthetically pleasing.\ campus. I know it may seem a bit superficial, but it's hard not to be impressed with practical, but the real value that the restored Nott brings to campus is intan- gible. If I am correct, the cost of restoring the Nott is a small price to pay for some the benefits Union will get from restoring the the beauty of the structure once inside. It may not be the most important factor in a perspective students decision to go to school here, nor should it, but I think it will definitely make Union's already beautiful campus an even more attractive place. hindrance in the past, and I see the Nott as one potential way to help alleviate this problem. There is certainly an argument to be made that the Nott is im- practical. Lookingjust at the ob- vious \practical\ value of the building, it's easy to criticize the expensive restoration as a waste of money. It is importantto keep in mind that the Nottwasrestored using privately donated money that was specifically donated for theN ott. It was not restored at the expense of other projects, but rather it's restoration was in it- self a independent project NCUR '95 is Coming able to enjoy the inside of the Nott, whether they study upstairs, or sim- ply look around and enjoy the beauty. Sometimes when you en- ter a structure, it becomes apparent that some comers were cut, perhaps a few cheap materials were inte- grated to save money. When you enter the Nott, you get the oppo- site impression. To me, every as- pect of the interior was well done and aesthetically pleasing. The restored Nott will also lead to a sense of school pride, espe- cially among the alumni. The structure wiii entice more alumni to travel back to Uriion, and will also help to increase the level of I realize that there are other as- pects ofthe school that would of also benefited from more money, but I think a careful analysis will reveal that the Nott is actually a very practical building in a more abstract way. Because it will ben- efit the schools interests in the long term, I think restoring the memorial was Nott a bad idea. To The Editor: Founders Day was moving, the Gala was outstanding, and the renovated Nott is stunning! But, the main student-centered event of the Bicentennial, NCUR '95, is still to come. It's now less than two months away (April 20-22). Student input into all phases of NCUR '95 has been significat:J.t, but we are now at a stage where further student participation will be critical to the success ofNCUR '95. Nearly 1250 abstracts were ac- cepted for oral or poster presen- tationsatNCUR '95. These come from over 200 schools and nearly all fifty states; we anticipate as many as 1500 persons may be coming from off campus to attend this event. About eighty Union students will formally presenttheir schol- arly activity in the oral and poster sessions, while another nine will participate in the ARTSFEAST event. We are encouraging Union faculty ll!embers to il}vite students to co-modrate onil ses- sions and to serve a$ co-facili- tators for poster sessions. There are also many other areas where studentparticipation ,:will be nec- essary. Some of these include.:, helping with registration and audio-visual needs, acting as tour guides and aiding in a myriad of other administrative chores. The NCUR steering Commit- . tee will be working with the Stu- dent Forum and other student organiations to solicit student volunteers for NCUR '95. Please consider giving us your support to keepthis Bicentennial event up to the high standards set by the previous events. Stay tuned for details! -Professor Thomas Werner NCUR Steering Committee Admissions will certainly be able to use the ,Nott as an ad~antage. Ifi were touting a college ~hat had ·'ii structure that was as beautiful as the . alumni donations. We ·an know \. J}latour relit~iveiy low percentage of alumni donation has been- a ' ' Hale House ~ll Night StudY & Nott - ..... . - Memorial Hours_ of Operation Hale House All Night Study- Beginning at 10 pm 7 days per week \Study under the watchful gaze of the white male luminaries of Union's past.'~ NottMemorial- 12:00 noon -10:00 pm Sun.-Thur. 12:00 noon.:. 5:00pm Fri.-Sat. \Browse amidst Union memorabilia, bask in the glory of the masterful restoration of this architectural monadnock or study in the toney upper reaches of the second balcony. \ Please note - Food and drink are nott permitted in the N ott. ( tl n t< it h IT \' n ]c; fi 0 ir tt sj tl d ti si u Cl eJ t~ n pi nc tll 01 dl u 01 st al be pc al w pi c~ w sit pl 0 fie tb

OP/ED The Concordiensis • March 2, 1995 • Page 9 A Reflection on the Past Two Years- Thanks! by David Levine Outgoing co-Editor-in-chief NOTE: I would .to apologize for the rambUng nature of this final reflection on my two years as edi- tor. As with many other articles, it is being written only a couple of hours before deadline. As I reflect on my two years as editor of The Concordiensis, tw'o maxims keep coming to mind - \That which does not kill me makes me stronger\ and \People learn more from their mistakes than from their successes.\ In the case ofthe latter quote, I have gained infinite wisdorn, f0r I have admit- tedly erred plentyduringthepast s.ix terms. It is truly unfortunate that hindsight is one of only a few detectors of poor judgment. Only time brings a semblance of con- sistency with regard to judgment. Unfortunately, students running college organizations do nothave enough time to take full advan- tage of the learning process. In this regard I ain somewhat fortu,. nate, because I have had the op- portunity to serve as an editor for nearly three years. In the case of the former quote, I am reminded of the insanity and devotiort to duty that has resulted in well over 100 all-nighters and several acts of complete and utter stupidity. The aforementioned acts of stupidity are by no means justifi- able. Rather, I will finally admit to being obsessed with the newspa- per. Unfortunately, I was never able to relinquish my infatuation with academic success. I am proud of neither obsession, be- cause extracurricular and aca- demic success have come at great cost, physically and emotionally. At times during the past two years, I have neglected my friends and my family, and in that regard I am very happy to be relinquish- ing a position of power at the newspaper. After two or three consecutive all-nighters, I always swear that this kind of willful ne- glect of body can never happen again. I did learn one lesson the hard way, and I will never drive without an adequate amount of sleep. Nothi~g inanimate is worth putting your life on the line for. On a personal level, this was a dif- ficult lessontc learn, but I'm glad that I came to that conclusion this early in life. Covering the campus for the past four years has given me a tre- mendous sense of school spirit. I have represented the school at the National Media Convention for ,each of the past three years. We have done our best to promote the school's name.and reputation. We 'have taken numerous staff fieldtrips to watch College sports teams compete in different set- tings. I'll never forget last year's trip to Cambridge to watch the Skating Dutcb.men tie Harvard, ranked second in the nation. We drove through some ofthe worst road conditions possible. Despite spinning off the highway once {the car did a,complete 360 in the middle ofthe.'highway ), we perse- vered, reaching Cambridge at the end ofthefirstperiod. And who can forget last year's playoff se- ries againstRPI. Unfortunately, I only have ad- .equate space to ·elaborate on our achiev·ements during the past couple years (a description of our blunders woul'd take much more space than we are allotted.) We purchased the computer equip- meAt necessary for modernizing the newspaper, we printed the first color photos to ever appear on the .pages of The Concordiensis and we have made the color a weekly addition to the newspaper, we have implemented an outstanding desktop pubJ;ishing system, we have hired a new printer, we have expanded the news, features, edi- torial, and sports sections to in- clude a broader coverage of cam- pus-wide activities and address pressing and controversial issues, and I think that we have done a good job of solidifying the news- paper for the future. We have had our share of de- tractors during the past few years. There have been plenty of per- sonal attacks and attacks on the newspaper. !remember an issue that contained three separate let- ters calling me an egomaniac. Why? Because I dared to stand up for the newspaper's quality. I should have used more tact in dealing with the situation. (But I promised I wouldn't elaborate on those many mistakes!) Somethankyou's In the winter of J 993, Joe Dave and l/eather in front of the Minerva at the Nott Memorial exhibit (Josh Haines/TC) Mammola, then Dean ofStudents, allowed the newspaper to pur- chase the computer equipment that was essential to The Concor- diensis 'revival. Without describ- ing the ordeal that preceded the decision, it is sufficient to say that Mammola's positive reaction re- newed my faith that the adminis- tration does (at least in some in- stances) respect the right of stu- dents to make educated decisions about what is needed to help im- prove their organizations. Charles Casey, Public Relations, who sends an endless stream of information and advice to the newspaper. The Dean's Office for·their con- tinuing support of the newspaper and the insane individuals who work so hard at infonning the cam- pus. The Office of Student Activi- ties. Lee Bloomrosen, Lorraine Marra, and Lee Clark. We've worked well together during the past two years at getting more in- formation out to the College com- munity, and our joint efforts are definitely paying dividends. The men and women of Cam- pus Security. Your daily visits to the newspaper office at 2 a.m. are always entertaining. Contraty to the circulating stories, I do noteat the venetian blinds. M*e, Gary, Joe, Ralph, and the Commercial Printing Department at the Leader Herald. Thanks for always doing such an outstand- ing job, and putting up with the constant badgering .. What a job on the bicentennial issue! To my lovely co-editor, Heather Reynolds. What can I say? You're the best thing to happen to this newspaper in a long time. You deserve a tremendous amount of credit for the newspaper's improvement during the past year, and you deserve a purple heart for putting up with me. We shoukd have won this year in New Orleans. All that mat- ters is that we know we've put to- gether some ofthe best newspa- pers that small campuses without journalism programs have ever seen. Scott Scullion - thanks for all of the advise and the dry humor. We haven't always agreed - color is fundamentally better than black and white- but all of the discus- sions have been worthwhile. To the seniors of The Concor- diensis - You are the best group of students on this campus. While other campus organizations complain about student apathy, this newspaper has never suffered from such problems. Retiring with Heather and I are Caroline Paine, Josh Haines, Kenny Lee, Andy Salama, Erin O'Neil, Doug Bartell, Alex Shapiro, Breton Saunders; Craig Greenberg, Heather Manley, William Rice, Christoph Ringwald, Scott Steele, and Carrie Wheeler. The senior section editors de- serve an unbelievable amount of credit. They have endured all of the changes at the newspaper and they have done so admirably. The news section, under Caroline Paine, is as good now as it has ever been. The photography de- partment, headed by Josh Haines, may be the n~wspaper's strongest section. It certainly is the least criticized part of the newspaper. The Science & Technology sec- tion, defunct for a while, has been revived by Kenny and Andy. It will be hard for the campus to say good-bye to Doug Bartell, who has entertained the campus as Uncle Edna during the past four years. It is the most read column of the newspaper. It contains unique Union humor, and al- though it pokes fun at people and institutions each week, Doug has always written the column with the utmost dignity and respect. Two years ago this week, I as- sumed the position of editor-in- chief of The Concordiensis. Fifty issues and I 056 pages later I leave the position a little older, a little wiser, and a little more tired. Hope- fully, we leave the newspaper a Tittle bit better than we found it. We'llmissthecomradery. Weare confident that we leave the news- paper in capable hands. Good luck to the new bigshots. The campus is counting on you. It's time to pass on the torch to the next generation. The old genera- tion is ready for our straightjack- ets. We're broken. • · fao~ nerd to go lo sthool rull-tlme for two years to finish lhis degnt. + You ~n earn a Saint Rose M.B.A. in just one year, ff you alreadJ have an • unde,a,ate dfpe in llusioos. . + Intensive 200-hour Internship -gain experience in your field of inlfrtsl. + Mentoring Program pain you widl arta IMtsilltss ltadeJS. + J6,aetlit program saves you time and money. + Accounting Majors may bt able to waive CPA experiential. nquiremeniS. r-•--------·------------ + Challenging curriculum ins~res you lo exceed your !Jest t•d like more information on + Experienced faculty who love lo teach. The College of Saint Rose + On-Campus Housing and FinanCial Aid 1-Year M.B.A. Program Opportunities available. Name------ Want to learn more about earning your M.B.A. in just one year or about the College's one-year H:S. in accounting Program/ Call (518) 454-5136 today. THE COLLEGE OF Graduate School 432 Western Ave. SAINT ROSE Albany, N.Y. 12203 . (SIS) 454-5136 FAX: 454-2012 Address------ CitY-~----- State/Zip ___ ~- Phone # ____ _ •

Antlrew Will, Meagan Donovan, Craig Reckin, and Sharon Kinsey enjoy the Gala, probably the largest party this campus has ever seen. Two- thousand se1'en hundred people attended the festive el'ent Kathleen White, editor-in-chief of Ret/book Magazine, tlelivers a short speech after receiving one ofthe six Eliphalet Nott metlals awarded to prominent alumni during Union's bicentennial convocation. +- ' . Memories from til Bicentennial Weekt photos by Josh !faines and Laurel Ruma exclusively for The Concordiesnsis A procession ofthe faculty, students, trustees, Deans, and tlelegatesfrom m£ than JO colleges and universities began the bicentennial convocation. . N tt Medal . Eli halet · · 0 h '6 7 accepts aH p Michael Fuc s , LEFT: Swinging to the sounds of the Duke Elli11gton Orchestra, this couple celebrates the Bicentennial

+ the Coneordiesnsis from more . ·'sconvocation. M edtll at Saturdaf Nott The Duke Ellington Orchestra provitletl the jazz music for the bicentennial gala. .. LEFT: saxophone player from the Duke Ellington Orchestra takes a break. BELOW: David McCullough ·speaking to a crowtl of about 250 invited guests. He is su\ountletl by the splentlor of the newly refurbished Nott Memorial at the rededi- cation ceremony.

Page 12 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis World News .. California's Proposition 187 After the Cold War Came Atomic Diplomacy by Marc Foster Concordiensis Staff In an era of deficit reduction and tax cuts, domestic spending and government programs are being reduced or eliminated. Over the past year, the country has shifted from a political ideol- ogy that espoused grandiose so- cial programs in the fonn of the putsch for nationalized health care to an ideology that is rooted in pragmatism and smaller gov- ernment. But pockets of resis- tance persist; they label every pro- gram or spending cut as \mean- spirited.\ California's Proposi- tion 187 is a case in point. In an editorial for U.S. News & World Report, Mort Zuckerman points out the obvi- ous fact that illegal immigrants have broken the law. But they've. also committed an ethical breach as well, Zuckerman asserts, since they've bypassed the system and, in effect, displaced those who have played by the rules. Zuckerman goes on to say that \liberal opinion believes they should be rewarded for this mis- conduct-allowed not merely to stay but to freely enjoy the gen- erous education and health care benefits provided by state taxpay- ers., Under current law, moreover, immigrants who enter the coun- try for reasons other than politi- cal asylum can receive Supple- mental Security Income after only three years being supported by their sponsor within the country. \Over the last decade,\ Zuckerman reports, \the number of such immigrants receiving SSI has tripled to about 400~000, or 13 t f II ld I · · will receive is the ·policy. Russia has broken international law with · percen o a e er Y Immi- by Matt Sandler grants-about twice the rate at Cpncordiensis Staff has sold scores ()f conventional the seizure of U.S. territory and whichnative-bomAmericansget weapons. to Iran~ including citi?'ens. ltisestablishedthatina SSI.\ The end of the Cold War has fighter-bombers and old .subma- foreign country the embassy is. The Clinton healthcare propos- brought on great financial diffi- rines .. Speaker of ihe House, Newt regarded as a piece of that repre- als would have exacerbated the culties arm,md the world in the Gingrich,threatened to\'cutoffall sentedcountry. Iran is an inter- problem by giving i:Jlegal immi- former communist states. The aid to Russia. We can not toler.,. national outlaw supporting terror- grants guaranteed health care in- . one valuable commodity that ate Iran getting weapons of mass ism abroad; if they ever do de- surance, despite the fact that they these nations have, Russia the destruction.\ Russia further main,.. velop the A -bomb, they may pull could not be legally employed in . biggest among them, are the ar- tainsthatlran signed th.e Nuclear a NorthKoreaontheworld. With the United States. The result senals ofweapons and technolo- non-Proliferation Treaty (NPl') the end of the Cold War, the de- would have been a massive drain . gies for defense. Congress and J,imiting the diffusion of nuclear pendent camps of Superpower on the nation's health care sys- . the Clinton Administratien are weapons or technologies, and in hegemony have been mostly cut tern, as the health care provision increasingly concerned with effect is arguing that this sale is off. The only way for these coun- for illegals would be only further Russia's $1 billion deal to build 1 safe for democracy. \The Rus- tries togeteconomic concessions impetus for illegal border cross- four nuclear reactors at a reactor sians have argued that they hav.e and power is to develop the A- ings. site in Bushehr, ------------------------------.....__._ ___ bomb. The Theinequityofthecurrentsys- • Iran. Russia's \The Atomic bomb Willbe sought by struggling world is in .. tern is as much a matter of con- Nuclear Energy nations to gain economic Ci)neessions; it will be sought creasingly see- cern for native-born Americans as . Minister said the for security aga-inst pereeived or real.threa·ts •.. \ ing the theft of it is for legal immigrants: 65% of . deal had already radio -active Americans want fewer immi- grants admitted and two-thirds of Hispanics believe too many im- migrants are entering the countty. A study by the University of Pennsylvania estimated that the cost of immigration was more than $8 billion a year. For immigrants, there are costs, too. While Americans are grow- ing increasingly culturally ho- mogenous, immigrants find it more and more difficultto assimi- late, resulting in a widening gap between ethnic groups, a sort of cultural balkanization. The issue of illegal immigra- tion has given new credence to the notion that America is suffer- ing from what Bill Bennett might have meant when asked about American civilization when he said: \I think it would be a good idea.\ Source: USN&WR 12/12/94 · concluded and 150 Russians were already employed at the site con- . structing the reactors. Russia is in desperate need ofhard cash to prevent a quagmired economy from imploding in on itself even more. Economic factors are go- ing to be the single biggest deter- minant in Russia's turbulent strides toward democracy and capitalism. The situation of Ger- many is still prevalent today for Russia, after World War I the German economy suffered hyperinflation that led to the rise of Fascism and AdolfHitler. Russia's fiancial woes could very well end the democracy building in the Former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Russia claims that it needs the money to build its economy, as the World Bank squeezes the Russians; the more they move to capitalism, the more money they every right to sell sud1 technol- ogy to Iran, particularly because the United States and its allies have agreed to Sl.lpplyNorthKo- rea with the same tec·hnology free.\ Congress may slash the $269 million aid request for the next year to Russia, ifthe YeltsiH government continues to act in an uncooperati·ve manner, involving this issue, Chechyna, and other disagreements. Clearly, if the U.S.limits aid, the Russians will have to find al- ternative routes to gain foreign currency for their floundering economy. To affect the situation, the American taxpayers would have to grant Russia more aid; however, the U.S. Government has a mounting debt and deficit problems coupled with the man- datory increases in Entitlement programs, we simply cannot af- ford to dole out :mon aid. Iran materials from the former com- munist states. The Atomic bomb will be sought by struggling nations to gain economic concessions; it will be sought for.security against perceived or real threats; it will be sought by terrorist groups who wantto use violence and terrorto force territorial concessions, or the development of the A-bomb will be fostered by Nationalism with ethnic groups frustrated by oppression. Just as on a lawn one sees weeds sprouting up, the world must be prepared to see sprouting mushroom clouds as nations seek the Atomicbomb for their own ends. Though that does not mean that we should not try to prevent it, however, our actions have consequences, cuts in aid to Russia, may exacerbate the situ- ation, not help it. r----------------------------------------------, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I MACARONI AU FROMAGE (EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT 51¢ PER SERVING.) 2 . (pinwheels fun) 1 milk cups macaron1. are cup 1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour 1/2 stick butter 1 tsp pepper 1 tsp Worcestershire {if· you like} 1 tsp salt Cook mac~roni in 5 cups salted, boiling wa.t~r for 15. . minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a se~rate pot., melt .bi.tt.ter and mix in flour over low. heat. Tlien, stir in milk until smqoth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4. Note: For your nutri tiona1 convenience,. Ci tibank. Classic cards are accepted at over 12 million locations, including grocery stores. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I l .: I I I l I I I I I i s r t t ( t • t s c r I r t

Arts & Entertainment The Concordiensis • March 2, 1995 • Page 13 Th~ Symbolic Opening ofYulman Theater: The Primary English Class by SuzanneRobinson & Leena Mankad Arts Editors The Primary English Class is symbolic of the opening of the new Yulman Theater. Directed by Barry K. Smith, and written by Israel Horovitz, this play is surely something that you don't want to miss. The play is not only wonderfully adapted, but it is also performed in an all new environment in Union theater's new home, the Yulmantheater. The Primary English class is a clever story about an English teacher, Miss Watstba, (played ~ by Stephanie Richter) who is as- signed to teach a group of for- eigners the English language. None of the foreigners speak English, which adds to· the hu- mor when Wastba attempts to teach them basic Eng! ish , and no one has any idea of what is go- ing on. What results is utter chaos caused by multiple ~isun­ derstandings in m~ny tongues. The talent of the entire cast is simply incredible. Not only does Richter provide a wonderful stage presence, but she manages to personify a character that is both mean-tempered yet vulner- able. She leads a fine group of actors who play the foreigners. The class is incredible in that they an spoke different languages and rarely uttered a word of English. Some of the actors had to memo- rize scripts in different tongues, while some are real foreign ex- change students. With the com- bined talent, a powerful cast was created and the play was wonder- fully performed. One ,of the luxuries of seeing this play, besides the great acting, is the fact that it was performed in the Director's Studio of Yulman Theater. Theater finally has a new home, complete with high tech sound and light. The entire expe- rience is just fun from the start, · waiting in a new lobby, receiving your tickets from a real ticket of- fice. In combination with a.supe- rior play; the new theater adds to a magical experience. Since the addition of the Yulman theater to Union's cam- pus, there have also been additions to the classes offered by th~ Per- forming Arts Department. One such addition has been the The- ater Production class taught by Professor Steckler and Professor Miller. This class was responsib ..... for the design and production of the set as weH as the lighting and sound. Having arrived early, we were able to admire the set, and I was amazed that the set was so realis- tic. This classroom seemed more real then the classrooms I attend. From the ceiling tiles to the checkered floor, I could find no evidence that this classroom was indeed just a wooden set nailed together. This play is definitely a must Founder & Drummer of The Police in Albany Courtesy of Columbia Artists Management Inc. publicity Stewart Copeland, Grammy Award-winning.musician, com- poser, and founder/drummer of The Police continues to explore new musical frontiers in an ex- citing collaboration with Albany's own classical-techno ensemble, The Dogs of Desire, and the Albany Symphony Or- chestra conducted by David Alan Miller. Copeland, The Dogs, and the Albany Symphony will per- form a world-premiere concert at the Palace Theatre on Friday, March 3 at 8:00 PM. Followed by two days of recording ses- sions at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall - one of the finest acoustic recording spaces in the country. Copeland's pro I ific output has taken many forms since The Po- lice last recorded together in 1984. He has written extensively for film & TV, ballet, orchestra, as well as composing the music for two full length operas, 'Holy Blood and Crescent Moon' - which premiered at the Cleveland Opera, and 'Horse Opera' - a commissioned work by Britain's Channel 4. His soundtracks are heard in many major films, in- cluding Rumblefish, Wall Street, TalkRadio, RapaNui, and Fresh to name just a few. In early 1994 Copeland put together some of the best musicians from around the world and went out on a na- tional concert tour of \Stewart Copeland and the Rhythmatists\. It was the opportunity to work with conductor David Alan Miller and The Dogs of Desire, that in- spired Copland to Come to Al- bany to perfomt and record this dream project. Copelafid and Miller started working together shortly after the Dog's debuted in New York City at the famous avant garde performance space, The Kitchen. ... According to Copeland, \For years, over a decade in fact, I have been writing music for Opera, Ballet and Orchestra. At first, my inexperience in these media made it unwise to record these perfor- mances, but now I am ready. It has also been difficult to get or· chestras that were designed for Mozart to accurately perform new music with intricate modern rhythmic and melodic sensibili- ties. Now, with the advent of David's Dogs of Desire, there is an ensemble that relishes the chal- lenge.\ The 18 member Dogs of Desire was formed out of Miller's phi- losophy that \all we're dealing with here is dead Europeans and they're great. But we're not dead Europeans. Sometimes you want to do something that speaks to your own time., Its a world-premiere event when Stewart Copeland and The Dogs of Desire share the stage with the Albany Symphony to perform an all Stewart Copeland program at the Palace on March 3rd. Tickets are available at the Palace Theatre box office (518) 465-0681 or Ticketmaster (518) 476-1000. Note: This will be the last issue of The The Concordiensis for Winter Term. newspaper will begin publication again on April 6 under a new newspaper staff and editorial board. We wish all of the new section editors good luck spring·term, and next year. Thank you all so much for your hard work and dedication. see. It was very professionally well done, from the acting to the set. There are performances Thursday, March2 through Sat- urday, March 4, 1995. All per- formances are at 8:00 PM, lo- cated in the Yulman Theater. Tickets will be on sale in the Col- lege Center from l 0 to 2 this week for $3 each. For further informa- tion call (518)388-6545. There is an annual poetry and fiction contest that is currently being conducted by the literary journal, Sagebrush. They en- courage that everyone should submit their work at any time, even if not for this contest. For the Poetry contest, it can be of any subject or style and must be 40 lines or less. First place will be awarded $300, sec- ond place will receive $200, and third place will get $100. There is an entry fee of $5 for up to five poems. For the Fiction contest, the piece must be 2500 words or less. The same awards as those for the poetry contest will be awarded, and there is an entry fee of$5 for up to two entries. The deadlinefortheentries is March 31, 1995, and the winners will be notified through the mail, by May 31, 1995. Only manu- scripts accompanied by a self addressed stamped envelope will be returned. For further information send a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Sagebrush - C2 - 131 PO Box 300805 Denver, CO 80203 All the winning entries will be published in the fall of 1995 journal. \To us, a strong, true voice is much more important than a list of publishing credits.\ So I encourage all those interested, to submit a piece of your work, whether it is a poem or a piece of fiction, an extra couple of hundred dollars couldn't hurt, and imag- ine seeing something ofyours in an actual journal. The Department of Performing Arts presents Union College JAZZ ENSEMBLE in CON.CERT Conducted by ~rofessor Tim Olsen Wednesday, March 8, 1995 8:00pm Chef's Free Admission to All

Page 14 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis , __ · .. : .. - ~--- .. , . . . ,. ~ ._ ;• .... .. -.·--= .• -,. ;' . _, ' < ...... , . ·:·,~,.:'\\'·:··~-·-··'\ ... _. ~,.,.-_.-• ,, . -~: :.~ .-~~.J Arts & Entertainment Innovative Tap Artist Anita Feldinan to Perfortn Courtesy of the . Petforming Arts Department .- • ; ~ ~ •• 'i? ... :·~(~~~·_': -~~t··.-··» ~ Innovative tap artist Anita Feldman brh1gs her dance company to Union College for a concert and . master class. The concert will take dancing. With her musical sophis- tication and wit, she has reinvented the relationship between tap and music, weaving tap rhythms so tightly into the structure of the mu- sic that the two become insepa- rable. Feldman and her dancers play m'usic with their feet in bold, experimental percussive pieces that are as exciting to hear as they ~. ~ .. s:-.;.fo-,; :·, ~( ~$~·--· . ~ ~ ... i: ... ~ 1 ' '; ). -. ~ . ' ' .. , . . .. • -1 '-' .• '. ~ ~ .:~ . . : . . '. ' .' ' t' f. place on Sunday, March 5 at 8:00 PM. in the Yulman Theater. Tickets are $5.00 without student ID and $3.00 with Union College ID. The master class will take place on Mort- day, March 6, from 4:30-6:00 PM in · the . Yubnan·.The- · \Anita Feldman bad introduced audiences to a new world of-tap dancing. With her sophistication and wit, she bas reinve~ted the relationship between tap and music, weaving tap rhythms so tightly into the structure of the m,usic and that the tWo . . bee~ me inseparable. •• .. .. a:ter. .T.ick~ts · · ·· . for .the class are $5.00. are to see.'· The tap ·performer in a The March 5 concert ·will in- Feldman· dance becomes 'f'ercus- ·clude four works: '~Swash,\ cte- sionist, dancer, and self-accompa- . · ated by Feldman in collaboration :nist. : ·· ·with compo·ser Lo'is V Vie'rk, fea- - .. Feldihan frequently collaborates · 'tutes dancers Rhonda Price aritl · with new music composers,. in- : Sheri Laroche and singers· Lisa · cludin~rLois V Vlerk, accordion., Bielawa and Dora Ohrenste1n in a · · ist Guy Klucevsek, and software propulsive composition in which designer David Behnnan, bringing tap dance and body, rhythms splash · r~ 4 .tap-in ~tep.-with other moder-n art ·up against vocal percussion based fonns. The works are complex on the melodic flow and vocal and highly crafted, layering move- clicks of the musical Zulu Ian- ment, tapping music, instrumen- guage. In \Landings\ and \Take- tal music and electronics into sur- off,\ both created by Feldman and prising forms. composer Gary Schall, dancer TheTapDancelnstrumentwas Price and percussionist Schall per- invented by Anita Feldman and form on the Tap Dance Instrument, California instrument builder a multi-pitched floor consisting of Daniel Schmidt. In addition to geometrically shaped platforms giving Feldman a consistently constructed of various woods and beautiful sound quality, the instru- metals. The program will con- ment broadens the spectrum of elude with \Twister again ere- sounds she can make, allowing her ated by Feldman and composer to produce a full range of rich tim- Vierk. This work features dancer bres. Amplified from below, it can Price on the Tap Dance Instru- be fed through digital delays, cre- ment, accompanied by Gary Schall ating a mysterious duality between on marimba and Mark Stewart on acoustic and electronic sound. cello. For more information, please Anita Feldman has introduced call (518)388-6201. audiences to a new world of tap Left: Anita Feldman during tap instruction (photo by Daniel Breslin) WRUC's Top 35 for March 2nd 1. Dave Matthew's Band Under the Table 2. Dumb and Dumber Soundtrack 3. Jewel Save the 5. V eruca Salt American Thighs 5. Liz Phair Whip Smart 6. Stone Roses Second Coming 7. Boys on the Side Soundtack 8. Matt Forsythe True Sex 9. Low Pop Suicide Death 10. Assponys Electric 11. Ugly American 12. Fossil Fossil 13. Silver Joos Starlight 14. The The I saw the 15. Black 47 Different 16. Jesus & Mary Chains Stoned 17. Siouxie & the Banshees Rapture 18. Pearl Jam 19. Soundgarden 20. REM 21. Simple Minds 22. Freedy Johnston 24. Cranes 25. Murmurs 26. Throwing Muses 27. Cub 28. Weddin Presents 29. Butthole. Surfers 30. Allison Moyet 31. Hoodoo Gurus 32. Better Than Ezra 33. Luscious Jackson 34. Belly 35. Kitchens of Distinction Vitology The Day I Monster Good News Slow Bunning Loved Murmurs University Come Out Watusi Crank Deluxe Deep Shade Now They'll Sine Cowboys

Scjence & Medicine The Concordiensis •March 2, 1995 • Page 15 A Method in the Madness: Connections Between Insanity and Imagination by Dennis Popeo Contributing Writer are similar-to those who suffer tion and creativity, a disease such from major depression. Bipolar as mood disorders can affect their period ofbipolar disorder is often characterized by expansive apathy during the depressive phase. Imagine, if you will, the mental anguish and chaos caused by a total lack of interest and abil- ity in something that, perhaps only days ago, you were enrap- tured and engrossed in. Perhaps that is why so many artists com- mit suicide during the depressive stages in their lives. Van Gogh, Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Walt Whitman, Vir- ginia Woolf, Mark Twain, Hemmingway. What do these names mean? They are all talented artists, and all were known to suf- fer from mood disorders. disorder effects one .------........:...--------------, percent of the popula- thought and grandi- ose moods, which in turn, lead to an in· crease of fluency and frequency of thought. Manic pa- tients have also been found to use rhyme, alliteration and other sound associations more often than nor- mal people. Manics cim also list syn- onyms and associa- tions of words more rapidly than normal people .. These skills, coupled with their ability to function on tion. The moody artist may seem the rule rather than the excep- tion; the image of a temperamental prima donna strutting off to her dressing room to pout often flashes through our minds. In reality, most artists are not effected by mood · disorders. There is, however a higher prevalence of these diseases in the creative population. Depend- ing on the study, re- searchers have found _between.25%and 80% of artists studied had ~ 1 little sleep and remain J; focused on one task r for a lengthy period lli A prime example ofthe effect of bipolar disorder and creativity can be seen with the nineteenth cen- tury composer Robert Schumann. During the manic periods of his life, Schumann composed most of his pieces. His most depressed times coincided with a creative stagnation, and numerous suicide attempts. Mood disorders are psychologi .. cal diseases that affect the emo- tions of the victim. Some com- mon examples of1,11ood disorders are major depression and manic depressive illness. Major depres- sion is more than a simple case of feeling ''down in the dumps\. People suffering from major de• pression often appear apathetic, lethargic, hopeless and exhibit physical disorders such as sleep disturbance and impaired cogni- tive ability. Approxirr1ately.five percent of the population suffer from major depression. Bipolar disorder, or manic de~ pressive·Hlness is the other com- mort mood disorder. This d·isease is characterized by cycling feel- ings ofmania.and depression. The mania can be described as feel- ings of hyperactivity or euphoria; the symptoms of the depr:ession been, or were afflicted Rqbes _ by Leigh Rubin by a mood disorder. In ~~---------------\-/2'--~-;.... oftime, allow those in· the mania cycle of their bipolar disorder to be extraordinarily Today, bipolar disorder is eas- ily treated using lithium or other anticonvulsant drugs. Unfortu- nately, these drugs are known to reduce general intellect. Thus, it may not be appropriate to treat people, especially artists with a drug that would reduce creativ- ity. With more sophisticated re- search, a new drug must be de- signed' to treat the illness, and leave the intellect of the victim alone. one study of one thou- sand artists and writers, the rate of .mood disorders was nearly three times that of the normal population. Since artists and musicians work in the realm ofthe imagina- New Insights into Lou Gehrig's Disease by Kenny Lee Co-S & M Editor Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's dis- ease is a nerve disease in which patients lose control of their muscles, resulting in weakness and eventual death. The word first learned aboutA.L.S. and it's effects in 1940, when New York Yankee first baseman Lou Gehrig was diagnosed with the disease. People still remember his story and courage, however science has found little since then that can increase life ex- pectancy. Although Other opinions have been ex- pressed about riluzole and some of them have not been very posi- tive. It has been shown that riluzole treated patients have var- ied responses to the medicine de- pending upon where the disease originated. Patients in which A.L.S. originated in the brain stem seemed to be helped to a greater degree by riluzole than those pa- tients whose disease originated in the spinal cord. This does not make sense since it is presently believed that the disease is the same, independent of its origin. the disease is rare it has been in the news since Lou Gehrig, with the deaths of senator Jacob Javits and actor David Niven. It has been shown that Recently, scien- tists have been test- ing a new drug, riluzole, which in tests conducted in riluzole treated pa- tients have varied re- sponses to the medi- cine depending upon where the disease. France and Belgium have shown deaths to decrease by 39 percent in the first year and 20 percent in the second year. However, since the study was conducted on only 155 patients their is fear that the results are not legitimate. Riluzole, however is not a cure it is simply a drug that thus far has been shown to slow the progression of the disease, by delaying the crippling symptoms and death. The manner in which the drug works is not known, there for the question of whether it works is still posed. Dr. Rothstein is now conducting a study on 959 patients which when finished should give scientists a clearer view of the situation with riluzole. Also, since it is known that riluzole blocks a chemical (glutamate) which carries messages in the brain it does not make sense that the drug only effects certain pa- tients because it is believed that A.L.S. results from a toxic build up of glutamate in the brain. Much more research will be done to test the effectiveness of this drug and many debates will ensue. However, it is important that be afflicted with this disease not depend on riluzole for treat- ment because it may prove inef- fective. With the results of Dr. Rothstein's study the debate over riluzole will be resolved, hopefully with positive results. creative and prolific. work greatly. In fact, some aspects of bipolar disorder, specifically mania, are conducive to original thinking and productivity and may even contribute to the cre- ativity of an artist. The \manic\ The depression phase of the disorder is the exactopposite, and can be deadly. The quick think- ing and creativity of mania are .re- placed with hopelessness and Source: Scientific American Sun and Fun: Spring Break Tips As we head offto wherever for Spring Break, keep these tidbits ofinfonnation handy for times of sun and fun. SUN: New research from Oregon State University shows that sunscreen may help the body cool itselfby adding moisture to the skin. This moisture cools the body just like sweat does. Plus, you get the added benefit of healthy looking skin, a wrinkle-free future, and protection from those pesky ultraviolet ray-induced skin cancers. FUN: When you approach that really hot man/womyn in the thong bikini that just walked by, the last thing you need to worry about is bad breath. If you are nowhere near a toothbrush try these easy breath fresheners: - chew on parsley, spearmint or another potent herb -chew on a rind from a lemon, then rinse your mouth with water.(The water rinses excess citric acid in the rinds out of your mouth. Citric acid can cause tooth decay.) -Eat an apple. Crunchy fruit cleans crap out of your teeth and gets nature's mouthwash, spit, flowing. - Eat some TUMS. A gassy stomach can cause bad breath and other nasty odors; chewing an antacid cures this. FUN #2: When you get home with the man/womyn you picked up because of your great breath, always remember to pick up and use the new A vanti brand condom. The condom is thinner than a standard latex condom( increased sensitivity), and is stronger because it is made of clear polyurethane. The condom is sold for those of us that are allergic to latex and can be used with oil based lubricants. Always re- member, never use oil based lubricants with latex condoms because the oil weakens the latex. Also, always remember to use safer sexual practices every time you have sex. After all, condoms help to sus- tain an erection, which means more sex.(It's a fact, look it up.) w \, ~ ., V 0 \' ~ j V(. ~h~ ~ift at 1ov~, M 'I ,t.,,,~::;t ''Qi;::::f:::-. t. i f ~ To prot.,,t a~ain$t Alt)S oPd clher 5To~. a\wa~s ~~elate)(. condorns Corrections *In last week's paper, the article about Squire Whipple was written by Alison Chapin, not Kenny Lee. * In last week's paper, the article about the Early Engineering Curriculum was written by Andy Salama, not Kenny Lee. GOODBYE - KANDY (Kenny and Andy) -

Page 16 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Personals derestimate the power ofProzac.\ Party of Five- \She hates you!\ -your unwilling partner Andy - Two years, fifty issues, and a Bicentennial Issue, and we are finally done. Congratulations Dirty. Make the paper something special. Andy, The past two years have sucked! -Bad Man D.F.- I Lab Prac + I Test= No More Cell Diana- Congratulations and Good Luck, you will need it! -Kenny Happy Birthday, Elaine. Will you wear the triple-stamped gar- ment forme! Dave and Heather- Bub-bye. It has been fun. -Kenny - you know who E.M.- You sound like a lamb! - Baaaaad Maaan Amy and Kristen - Save your appetites for Ground Round 2, the sequel. Konon dates the waitress. Davey - I don't know how we did this without killing each other, and I still think we're friends, although I could be wrong. I love you! Please, have fun next term. Love, you know who Kenny and Andy - You left a big hole for me to fill. I will endeavor to function adequately. -RC Jessica and Lecia: It was good meeting you, but unfortunately I won't be able to see you 'til May. -RC Everyone beware. It's a sign of the apocalypse. Tompson scored twice in two weeks. -RC Heather - I know you're not ly- ing. You speak the truth just like Gmy. Congratulations Charlie: After further review, we have decided that you are the Midwestern Pitchfork Throwing Champion. As a trophy, you can 'have my daughter. - Old MacDonald To Pookie: Roses are Red, Vio- lets are Blue, you're beautiful and ILUVU! - from Mr. Band Aid To the Pill, AC/DC, Tucan Sam, George Burns, Mussafa: Some- how, no matter where we are, no matter what we do, we manage to have a good time. -BQ Steve - Not only are you a bad man, but you are a great chauf- feur! Thanks! To the new Editor-in-Chief(aka my roommate)- Congratulations and Good luck. Nobody deserves this job as much as you do. I don't know how you manage to work so hard and still have time to al- ways be there for me. I know you will do a fantastic job. You al- ways pull it off somehow. Try not to stress that much. -D.F. L.S. -This term has been incred- ible. Thank you for all the spe- cial times. I'll miss you over the break Love, D. F. David & Heather - Congratula- tions on a job well done & the end of an era. It was great work- ing with you. - the other Heather To the Seditor: Good luck as the new editor! - HeatherM. Quote of the week: \Never un- -Dennis Deb - I love you. -MDL MDL .. Not on your life. -Deb To the sneaker man - I love you more by the minute. These past 3 and 2/3 years have been more in- teresting than I think anyone could imagine. I will miss the develop- ing with you. Drunk on Tuesdays? Love, your CA alcove pal Heathman - I hope we will be able to be confused when someone yells our name on Thursday's at Chet's next term. -Heather Line - What will I do without a good Paine debate weekly? I will miss you and will look forward to another Bourbon Streel: crawl ten years from now. Love, the other bed bug Kandy - Thanks for the best sec- tion of the Bicentennial Issue. Good luck with med schooL If any two people deserve to get in, it is the two of you. I will miss seeing your responsible faces on Tuesday nights. - the sane half of the editors-in- chief Michelle/Liza, Rick, Tony, Den- nis, Matt, Sukie!Leena, Ken/Jason, Jared and everyone else: Good Luck next year. I think I will miss this place, but I know I will miss you. -the sane editor-in-chief Sed - I never knew, when you walked in the door that first night that you would become such an important part of this institution we can The Concordiensis (which I never spell wrong) and such a good friend. I will never forget New Orleans or pool at Phi Sigand the memories we will make spring term. Good luck. I know things will only get better with your iron fist. -lame duck To all the senior editors of The Concordiensis - Good luck and Good riddens. -Heather Mom & Fruit- Erase this number from the memory of the phone (518) 388-6155. I won't be there anymore. Thanks for the flow- ers and all the love for the past four years, even when I was do- ing things that were obviously stupid. I love you both so much. -the yellow rose Linda - Good luck surviving at Union. We will miss you. Have fun at The Concoq:ly w/o our in- sanity. - Louey and Loretta Sethy Boy- This is your last per- sonal that I can give you in my term as Concordy News Editor, so I'm going to make this a good one. You are a great kid, I say that almost every week-but Ire- ally mean that. Remember that when things get rough, if you work hard you will get through it all. You are a hard working, cre- ative, intelligent, wonderful per- son and I'm glad that you are my bra! I love you! -sis Sven- A hard man is good to find. I'll see you in the gym and hope- fully out this weekend-you owe me shots still! I heard you have spent some quality internet time with two generations this week- the next time you need a clue, call me. Three generations are much more fun than two! with all my love- Lydia Congrats Rachel and Sean. You guys are wonderful! Jen - How's the foot? I'll help operate anytime-just be careful of those splinters OK! -Nurse Pain Dave, Heather, Josh, Brett, Heather, etc. - It's been great working with you all. I love you, you all are wonderful people. I'll miss Tuesday nights in a very sick way. - a disgruntled & sappy News Editor Liza & Michelle (incoming News goddesses) - You guys are the best. Good I uck next term. - former News goddess Major V erclempage! Diana- you may be crazy but you will do a fantastic job. Good luck with your editorship. - formerNews.Nut Heath-man- Thanks for putting up with me for so long! I really appreciate all that you have done! - the crazy woman Adrian, Nalini, J-Ieather~Marty, Liza, Michelle and Jody (aka the News Staff) - Thanks for being so wonderful. Keep up the good work! - your fanner News Editor Family- As always you guys are nuts but terrific all at the same time. I love you! Love, Mom, Q,..ma, Great G-ma Women of 66 Union Ave - I love you all. Sometimes I don't think you guys know that but I truly believe you are the best. Love, Notso crazy for believing that TIA's- we love you! -the sisters of t:1f To the Concordy staff- I can't seem to find the right words right now, but despite all the pain and suffering of newspaper work, I think there have been some good times, and maybe in a few weeks I'll be able to pick them out. I may even remember that I've loved every minute of it- maybe! take care - Josh To the Gang- thank you so much for all the great personals. You guys are truly the best and· I will never forget the great times we have shared. Check ya later! love always, Diana To the seniors ofConcordy- Thanks for the hard work and great times. I will never forget you guys. It has certainly been an experience and I will miss all of you very much. -Sed I AM BROKEN! !T!! !!!!!!!!! Personals/Classifieds Heather, Dave, Josh,. Caroline & Laurel - Bourbon Street win al- ways have a special place in my heart, and so will all of you. To you seniors, I will miss all ofthose late Tuesday nights and fun times. You have definitely made my stay here unbelievable. Laurel, I'll see you ~ext term to begin a whole new era. I love you guys! -Sed Roomie- Thank you so much for puttiag up with me on Wednesdays. I know I am not exactly in the best of moods that day, but thanks for understanding and listening to me bitch and moan. Even if I don't say it enough, please know that you are a great friend and awe- some person. love always, Diana JT & LB - You guys are the best suitemates anyone could ask for. Thanks for putting up my antics and always being there. -Love,DS L- Thanks for the use of your \hammock.\ It certainly was an interesting night. -the girl upstairs D- Thanks for letting me be your roomie for a night. Our pool game was fun. Maybe next time I will actually hit the balls. -D LS & SF - Thank you for the beautiful rose. It was very sweet of you and you guys were the best escorts a girl could have. Thanks, AC!OC SWF is looking for her sanity and, itt general, her mind. They were last seen when she was elected editor of the Concordy. Also in d~ngerofbeing stolen ... sleep. If you have any elues as to where her mind has gone or how she·can maintain her sleep time, please contact her at the Concordy office on Tuesday nights. Another door has closed upon an era and those who leave do so with great success and grace. They now look forward to open another door to the bright future. Peace Corps At Union Info Session:. Tues, March 7, Career Center, Old Chapel We need someone to join 6,500 people already working in over 90 develop- ing countries around the world. To help people help themselves. The work isn't easy. And it takes more than just concern. It takes motivation. Commit- Inent. But it's a chance to stop dreaming about a better world and start doing something about it. For more info, call (800)424-8580 '

I 1 l f I ' l .I Features Uncle Edna One Final Dissertation on Crack by Douglas W. Bartell Our own Uncle Edna, Doug Bartell in Chet 1 s (Photo by Josh Haines for TheConcordiensis) '· The Concordiensis • March 2, 1995- • Page 17 lege something to laugh at. It was not I, but you, who have provided the pages of material for three years of Uncle Edna. All I did was write it down. \Vhere will Ednago? Hopefully nowhere. You see, Edna is a mind-set, an outlook, a way of seeing the world. Edna is sarcasm, obscurity and awareness of all that is around you. To be Edna, in a way, is to be on Crack. We have to try, try, try, in our lives to be a little different. Most of us, admittedly, already are. Meta- phorically speaking,. Crack is what can make us dif- ferent. Metaphorically speaking, Crack is a very powerful and positive thing. Metaphorically speak- ing, Crack is where it's at. Three years ago, I made a reference to Crack in pass- ing and the feedback was incredible. I used it more and more and it seemed never to loose its edge, never to fail in effect. people felt good when I used crack. Odd. I guess, essentially: We all smoke Crack on a Gen-Ed Track. I will offer no apologies. If you have ever been offended by anything I wrote, you can do two things: 1. Take me a I ittle less seriously. 2. Take yourself a little less seriously. I'd highly recommend nllm- bertwo. So, good-bye to Uncle Edna. This is my final dis- sertation on Crack. Maybe, just maybe, this will earn me my Ph.D. I'll be a professor. Professor ofCrackology. I'll teak classes. Metaphorical Narcotics 10 l. I'll have a textbook titles \Have a knack for smok- ing Crack.\ This is my final dissertation on Crack. For three years, I've done hours of homework, weeks of field study and mQl)ths 9f ot;~-th~;-job training. Now I wrap it up. One final essay to culminate the dozens oftop tens, scores of ques~ions and n,um~rous stu~ents of the week. - Thank you, campus squirrels. Thank you, administra- tion. Thank you, legion o' crows. Thank you, registrar. \_Thank yot\, gr~e~;fl:ass paint:. Thank ~ou,_pointlessly slop- mg roofs and m1sduected sidewalks. Thank you, goofy people everywhere. On the cover, a picture of the burgomaster. lll ask Erin M. to write the introduction. Inside, funny anecdotes about wacky Dutchmen. It'll be a blast. Check that ... it's been a blast. Thank you, BurgoJ?laster. One finafessay ort Crack· After all this time, who sHall I thank???7 Yo:u have all helped to make my job easy. You have, in your quirks and ineptitudes, given the students of our col- See you in the funny pages. Thank you, thank you, thank you. -Uncle Edna ,, The Pressure of Enlightening Union College is Finally Lifted.·. Final Thoughtsfrom Erin M. O'Neil by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor I thought this day would never come, my final article for the Concordiensis . Now that it has, I'm not really sure how I feel. about it. I thought I'd be relieved to finally be rid of this burden which has been sitting on my shoulders for the past three years .. The pressure, oh, the pressure of having to come up with new and interesting ideas to entertain, or agitate, the college community every week, you can't understand it. Now I'm faced with the task of summing up everything I ever wanted to say; ever wanted to share, ever wanted to explain, In this final exposition. It's actu- ally kind of sad. So I can do nothing more than invite you to come with me on a fantastic jour- ney through my mind as I write my farewell to good ole' Union ... As I slid my way over to cam- pus this morning to register for spring term, a frightening real- ization crashed down upon me. This is the last time I will ever pre-register at Union College. This is the last time I will ever forge my advisor's signature on my registration sheet. This is the last time I will ever enter the Registrar's office. God, r11 miss the registrar. I arrived for my appointment in tears. After offering me a warm pl~e to rest, a cup of hot cocoa, and a few reassuring hugs, the registrar had calmed me enough so that I was able. to contjnue on with my day. Peace of mind is a tough thing for a Senior to come by this time of year. I thoughti could fake it pretty well, but the incident at the registrar really shook me up. I went to the College Center to grab a bite to eat, to kind of take my mind off things. As I was about to dig into my juicy burger I was hit_ by another wave of anxi- ety. This is one of the last twenty-five to thirty BurgoMaster meals I will ever eat. I love BurgoMaster. I love spooning my condiments out of an open container which is shared by thousands of people. It's_ like a giant picnic. At this point I swooned, fallirlg face down into the oversized vat of no-fat cream cheese. When I came to I found myself in the arms of one of the friendly Dutch Hollow employ- ees. She was gently wiping the cream cheese off my face with a napkin. I could only whisper, \Thank you,\ before running off to the bathroom and locking my- self in a stall so that I was able to continue my nervous break- down in private. Glapcing down at my watch I realized I was late to class. I brightened, knowing this would not be the last time that this would happen. \Okay Erin,\ I said to myself, \maybe it's time thatyou concentrated on the posi- tive. Not on ends, but on begin- nings. What have you to gain from these experiences?\ I en- tered class with my head held high and announced, \This is my fourth to last English class at Union College, and I don't give a damn!\ My classmates stood up and cheered. Then they hoisted me up on their shoulders and paraded me around the Hu- manities building (it was too slip- pery to go outside). Professors let their classes out in order to observe the chaos which I had created. Students were slapping me on the back and giving me h~gh-fives. And I was happy. The reaction was so over- whelming that I decided to try it again in my next class. Again I walked in, approximately five to ten minutes late, head held high and announced, \This is my fourth to last English class at Union College, and I don't give a damn!\ Everybody just stared. \Sit down and shut up, O'Neil,\ my professor ordered~ I took a seat in the back of the room and hung my head in shame. This is the first time I haven't sat in the front of the classroom, I realized. That's not a happy first. I started to cry. Nobody cared. It was then that it dawned on me that Union College students are the most inconsistent human beings on the face of the earth. Why is it that there are some people who will talk to you in the safety of a barroom, but then amazingly forget your name dur- ing daylight hours? Same goes for people you know in class, but then don't know when you go out. People you went on term abroad with, but forgot who they were upon returning to the states. I know that this is kind of an aside. but I'm trying to address certain issues which have slipped my mind in weeks past. It does kind oftit because I will definitely not be upset the last time I look a former acquaintance straight in the eye and say hello, only to be met with a blank stare as they continue to walk by. In fact, this time I might just punch them, like I've always wanted to. And so, on that cheerful note I feel it is time for me to wrap things up, as I have already ex- ceeded my normal column length. What I'm trying to say is that while there are many things I will miss about Union, there are also many things I will not. I'm searching for an appropriate cliche to insert here, but can't come up with one. Thank you for actually reading these things I write, although I still have a hard time believing anyone actu- ally ooes. it was very kind of all of you. Parting advice to all you Seniors, when things here seem to get too much, dwell on the negative, it'll always bring you up again. This applies to Fresh- man-Juniors as well. Bye now!

Page 18 • March 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Itis, · flJy,e:: t ·b .. : ~t,r~~;,J:~.~·~~i~!f:1.J~~q.;.~~~~~~~a;b~~.Q~~ft~,n;IJ:! tbJ,)Ugb1;, Of it eYel\h llQl¥: ·)S,JeOC.I'UgjrJ,i, spine., WhiJ e. attemptinga back. rup Ptlt ttb~t:l~gndo.oa~rtl~LOJug~~l~i·yl smashed the back of his J;l~ad ag~itis.t Ott(} {)ftlelower b~~<.}s. on his way down. He fell into thepdol, awkwardly~·l'>ut·emer;ged apparently unscathed. He continued on in the: competition: and eventuallydidwhathe had: become so gooclcatdoing; winning,, · · gold me<lals. . · · ' · Seven )(ears~ later, t.ouganis speaks of :that di>t~ilfmd of:~Hl~J~ concern he had w:hen he hit his head and ~feti rtitn 'tne pool~ ·Not- so much concem for himself. but concern f6t 1 1.te :dtllel!'ttl\fb.fs: \ .. ':-.·::.:;,_-~:<)', .. :_:~·-. :. ·:~·:.·_;.-.·.~ He knew he had the disease, and be afsolmewtnattfie'bbatd· had cut the back of bis hwad . . ·, t5fb6il'to t11e Sports Track and Field Team Warms up for States at HVCC by Mike Leding Concordien$is Staff On February 18, 1995 the women and men's Track and Field Team traveled to Hudson Valley Community College to compete in a nonscoring meet, although score was not kept the top six still placed and it turned out to be one of the team's finer meets of the year. To start offthe scoring the six women competing in the shot put swept all top six places with Julie Firman placing first with a throw of 31 feet 6 1/2 inches. Nadine Filosi followed with a personal best throw of 29 feet I inch to place second. In third place was Michelle Woodward launching the shot 25 feet 2 112 inches. Andrea Schulman finished in fourth with a threw of i 1 feet 8 l/2 inches. Jayne Seekins was fifth with a throw of20 feet 7 112 inches. Placing sixth was Meaghan Kanser with a personal bestthrowof20feet3 1/2 inches. In the 20 LB weight throw Michele Woodward finished first with a personal best throw of 24 feet 4 inches, and Suzanne Johnson placed second throwing the weight 20 feet 9 112 inches·. In the long jump Nadine Filosi finished second with a personal best distance of 4.9 meters quali- fying herself for states in this event. Filosi rounded out the 3-Point Weekend for Hockey Continued from page 20 0 Union lead. The Dutchmen extended their lead ·to 2-0, less than three minutes later. Monteith picked up the puck at center ice, broke into the Crim- son end, and dee ked Trip Tracy, for his second goal of the game. Union's offense continued to click, as Jay Prentice passed the puck to Shane Holunga, who blasted it by Tracy, for a 3-0 Dutchmen lead. Cory Holbrough netted his eleventh goal of the season, eight minutes later, send- ing Tracy out of the nets, in favor of Crimson backup Steve Hermsdorf. The Dutchmen con- tinued their excellent play during the second period. Union took a 5-0 lead nine min- utes into the second period, as Chad Thompson shot his own re- bound by the Crimson goalie. Thompson's goal was the only of the period, as the score stood at 5-0, at the end ofthe second pe- riod. The Dutchmen seemed to run out of gas in the final period, allowing Harvard back in the game, by forfeiting three goals. Despite giving up three goals in the final period, the Dutchmen held on for a 5-3 win, moving them .into sole possession of tenth place in the E.C.A.C. Union will finish their regular season this weekend, as they travel to face Colgate and Cornell. The· Dutchmen have a chance to improve their p.osition ·in the standings, facing ninth place Cornell on Saturday night. scoring in the field events in the high jump clearing the bar at 4 feet 3 inches. In the women's running events Nadine Filosi placed first in the 55 meterhurdles ina time of9.28 seconds, she also placed second in the 55 meter dash running a time of 7.75 seconds. Lisa Scherer placed fourth in the 400 meters in a time oft minute 16.8 seconds, thus ending the women's scoring. In the men's field events Rich Pulver threw the shot 54 feetand change recording his best throw ever to place first. In the 35 LB weight Jon Gainor placed first with a personal best throw of 13.48meters, and Damon Bizzell placed second with a throw of 8.68 meters. Finishing the scor- ing in the field events was Mike Martin in the triple jump with a leap of 11.92 meters. Starting off the scoring in the running events were Nick Conway and Seth Rudin in the 1500 meter finishing third and fourth respectively in times of 4: 18.25 and 4:19.28. After the 1500 meter Mike Leding finished first in the 400 meters in a time of 53. 9·.seconds. In the 55 meter dash Dave Riggi finished first iA a time of 6.33 seconds, and Shuron Morton finished third in a time of 6.52 mete:rs. In the 200 meters Riggi placed first in a time of24.2seconds, Morton finished second in a time of24. 9 seconds, and Ledingplaced fourth in a time of 25.0 seconds. Jay Goldberg placed fo1:1rth in the 3000 meters running a personal best time of 9:31.55. Finishing off the day was the 4x800 meter relay team of Conway, Rudin,. Eric Sanderson, and Will Morris in a time of8 :56.5. This weekend the men travel to Plattsburgh to compete in States, so good l'uck to the team, and welcome ,to the new faces join- ing us forspring'. This is the last issue of The Concordiensis for the winter term. The next issue will publish on April6. Thanks to all of our contributors.

........ \\ .... -, Sports The Concordiensis • March 2, 1995 • page 19 Swimming Dutchmen Gather Momentum For Nation-als by Kevin Makarowski Swim Team Correspondent On Saturday night, February 25, while nearly two thousand students were cele'brating Union's Bicentennial, twenty-one swimmers and three coaches were having a celebration of a different sort, one that was the culmination of a season-of hard work arid determination. This celebration was in honor of the men's first ever state champion- ship, a feat that was the season long goal of.these men: This past week·the·team trav- eled to Hamilton College, last year's champions and the hosts of this year's championships. During the seasonHamilton beat the Union squad handily; this defeat set the tone for the rest of the men's season as they vowed to avenge theloss. From that day forward, the men came together in their effort to unseat the fa- vored Hamilton team from the victocy stand. On Thursday, the opening day of States, the men had a solid pre- lim session and qualified nearly everyone for that night's finals. In the opening event of finals, Union's A and B 200 Free relay teams swam to victory in their . respective heats, with the fonner setting a new Association and Meetrec0rd with a National meet qualifying time of 1 :24.26. The team consisted of Scott Bowden, Mike Darbyshire, Kevin Makarowski, and· Mike Humphreys. In the 500 Free, se- nior Adam \Shaggy\ Horst,jun~ ior John \Satan\ Fitzgerald, freshmen Eric Majeran and Matt \G~Spof' Glogowski, and sopho- mores Than Stuntz and Makarowski all scored in the top twenty to gain valuable points. In the 200 IM, senior Scott Bowden defended his title with a National cut of 1 :54.08. Also scoring In the event were freshmen Mark Anderson and Jeff ·Fawcett and sophomore Eric Menard. A key even~ for the Dutchmen was the 50 Freestyle, where sophomore Mike Humphreys also defended his title with a National cut of 21.1 9 seconds. Placing third was freshmen Mike Darbyshire and in the consolation finals were juniors Chris Riley and Pete Spaulding. In the 1 meter Diving, Freshmen Brian \Malibu\ Field reigned supreme as he .captured the title and .se- nior teammate Matt Baumgartner finished a solid fifth. The final event of the night was the ·400 Medley Relay. TheA team was composedofHumphreys, Ander- son, Makarowski, and Bowden, and this quartet .smashed the records with a National cut of 3:25.46. The B team gave a val- iant effort and finished second in their heat to a powerful Hamilton team. At the end of the night, Union trailed Hamilton by sev- enteen points, 510-493. It was obvious that although there were sixteen teams present, this was going to be a battle between the top two teams in the state: Union and Hamilton. The second day proved to be the turning point of the meet. Going int~ finals, Hamilton had qualified one more p_erson than Union to swim in that night's fi- nals, and looked like they might increase their lead. But the Union men, rallying under the chants of \Olga Olga\ opened the night with a victory in the 200 Medley relay with a new Meet Re'cord and National cut. After this, the team never looked back, as they charged forward and swam like the championship team they are. In nearly every event the Union swimmers moved up in placing, outswimming their Hamilton foes. The men knew this was a do-or-die situation, and stepped up accordingly to thrash their opponents. Highlights of the evening included Mark Anderson's 100 Breast victocy, Mike Humphrey~s 100 Back title, Women's Ice Hockey Team on a Rampage by Jody Mousseau ConcordiensisStaff Alright, maybe it's not a ram- page, but for a fledgling team, it can't be characterized as poor:: performance. On Wednesday, February 22, the Skating Dutchwomen took the win over Troy Academy at Albany Acad- emy. The 2-1 win brought the. women's ice hockey team to a 2~ 0 record. They're not heading for a world's record, butdefinitely a respectable one for a team that hadn't played an organized game before this season. With defense running thin in the numbers and with two key offensive players absent; the team had qualms about what the out- come would be. Nonetheless, the team pulled through with Joy Glazer, freshman defenseman, scoring in the first period, and Sara Wilbur, freshman forward, scoring with only a few minutes left in the third period. In the be- giDrling of the third period, Union was given a run for their money when Troy Academy scored. After Union's second goal late in the game; Troy came back with conviction, butcouldn'tcatch up. Sara Wilbur was presented with the game puck for pulling through and scoring the winning goal. This Friday at 4 pm at Achilles Rink, the Skating Dutchwomen will close the season with their last game again the Adirondack A's. Come and support the team, . which will undoubtedly produce the next Wayne Gretzky. Scott Bowden's 200 Free win, and Makarowski' s 400 IM vic- tory. All of these swims were new Meet records and qualified each for Nationals. Also playing a pivotal role were the freshmen members of the squad. Facing incredible pressure, these men had perfor- mances that were unbelievable. Mike Macomber, Eric Majeran, Matt Glogowski, Jeff ·Fawcett, team's honorary member in spirit), the men went out and con- quered their Hamilton counter- parts, leaving no doubt in anyone's mind which team was wortlly of being state champions. · Memorable perfonnances were had once again by freshmen Majeran, Fawcett, Darbyshire, Glog<>wski, and Anderson as they all improved their morning per- fonnttnces and got the rest of the On Saturday night, February 25, while nearly two thousand students were celebrating Union' bicemtennial, twenty- one swimmers and three coaches were having a celebration of a different sort. Mark Anderson, and Mike Darbyshire all had swims that helped rally their teammates to pursue victory. Each of these ath- letes went out and improved their positions to help show Hamilton that no matter what happened, this was not a team that was go- ing to quit. The final event of the evening, the 800 Free relay, was won by both the A and B Union teams in their respective heats, and gave Union a sixteen point lead going into the final day of competition. By this time, the men could smell the victory and knew it was theirs for the taking. After an- other stellar prelims, Union went into the last session confident that they would .go home with the tro~ phy. Once again, under the rau- couschants of«Oiga, Olga\ (the team psyched up for the ceremo- nial victory lap in the pool. Other strong performances were turn,ed in by Matt \Woody\ Woodrow in the 200 Breast, Than Stuntz, Shaggy Horst, and Satan Fitzgerald in the 1650 Free, Pete Spaulding, Chris Riley, and Scott Bowden in the 1 00 Free, and Brian Field and Matt Baumgartner on the 3 meter board. These performances, along with the support and cheers ofCaptain GeoffWolfe and team- mates Stephen \Vito\ Potenza and Eric Smith, helped. secure the final victory for the men. Head Coach Susan Bassett had thisto say about the men's first- ever championship: \On paper, Hamilton should have won this meet. But the phenomenal per~ formances that the men gave Athlete of the Week: Mike Humphreys by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff This week's athlete of the week is Mike Humphreys of the State Champion Men's Swimming team. Mike played a big part in this thrashing of 40 points that led to Union's first men's swimming state title. Mike swam on Thurs- day, Friday, and Saturday, so he had his work cut out for. him. Mike is a sophomore from New Hartford, N.Y. Mike won All- American honors last year as a freshmen and seems well on his way to accomplishing that feat again~this year. On Thursday Mike anchored the first place 200 Free Relay to a time of 1:24.6 to qualify for A cut for Nationals; as you'll see Mike's also going to be a busy man at Nationals. He then swam the 50 Free in a time of21.19 sec- onds to place first and qualify for the 8 cut ofNationals. To round up Thursday Mike led off the 400 Medley Relay swimming the backstroke in 50.8 seconds, the team finished first in a State Record time of 3:25.46, and an A cut for Nationals in which the team will be ranked first. On Friday Mike started off the day with the 200 Medley Relay in which he swam the backstroke, the team placed first in a State Record time of 1 :34.08, and qualified for A cut at Nationals in wllich they will also probably be seeded first. He ended the day with a first place in the 1 0() Back- .stroke in a time of50.85 seconds to break his old State Record. On Saturday Mike finished off Sates the way he started it, in first place. He won the 200 Back- stroke in a time of 1:53.14 to make ,the A cut once again for Nationals. He then ended the State Championship by swim- ming the 400 Free Relay which he anchored to a time of3 :07.07 to place first and qualify for the B cut at Nationals. Coach Susan Basset has this to say about Mike, \Mike makes everything look so easy. He goes into states, wins three events, helps win four relays and it looks like another day at the office. He's a great athlete and I'm con- fidentthathis best meet is still to come this year.\ Well good luck to Mil<e and the rest of the swim~ mers and divers as they head to Nationals. were enough to overcome Hamilton's depth. I've never been part of a team that was this unified in the pursuit of a goal~ it was this unity that helped the men achieve their goal. I'm as proud of them and their accom- plishments this year that I could possibly be.\ A final tally of the meet's re- sults shows these very impressive statistics: Union won 15' out of 20 events, with 18 National Meet Cuts. They have seven men who will be making the trip to Ohi<> for Nationals: Scott Bowden, Chris Riley, Mike Humphreys, Kevin Makarowski, Mark Ander- son, Mike Darbyshire, and Brian Field. TheSwimmerofthe Meet was Scott Bowden, with three individual wins. The Diverofthe Meet was Brian Field, who won both the l and 3 meter diving competitions. Susan Bassett was named Coach of the Year for her accomplishments this year. All in all, the Union men showed the determination and persistence that this team is sure to be mea- sured against for the coming years. The men would like to extend a big thank you to those mem- bers ofthe women's team who made the snowy trek to Hamilton in support of their efforts. Their encoumgement helped the men to do their best to achieve both this goal and those during the season. So congratulations to the whole team for an outstanding season and their inaugural champion- ship, and good luck to those who will be continuing on to Nation- als. Women's Track at States by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff This past weekend at Fredonia two women represented Union College Women's Indoor Track and Field Team, they were Nadine Filosi and Julie Finnan. Nadine competed in the Pentath- lon, the 55 meter hurdles, and the long jump, Julie competed in the shot put. In the shot put Julie placed twelth out of sixteen with a throw of 30 feet l1 114 inches. Nadine was fifth in the Pentathlon which consists of the 55 met~r hurdles, high jump, shot put,long jump, and the 800 meters. There were sixteen competitors and Nadine did vecy well. These two women . deserve some credit for going to States where there were teams of twenty women, however this did not phase them. Julie said it was \a very good experience.,; Con- gratulations to Nadine and Julie on a job well done.

March 2, 1995 PAGE 20 ' .. IVY LEAGUE MASSACRE Union Dominates Harvard, Ti~s First-Place Brown to Get Back iu Playoff Hunt by Dagan LaCorte Concordiensis Staff Just when you thought they were out, they pull you back in. Prior to their two games this past weekend, the Dutchmen were in eleventh place, with their play- off hopes looking dim. How- ever after two very impressive outings, Union's chances are very much alive. Ifthe season were to end today, the Dutch- men would travel to Burlington to face the seventh place Cata- mounts ofUVM. On Friday night, Trevor Koenig and the entire Dutchmen squad looked impressive as they tied nationally ranked Brown2- 2. The Dutchmen opened the' scoring late in the first period. Chris Ford, who was deep in the offensive zone, made a perfect pass to a streaking Andrew Will, who blasted the puck by Brown goalie Mike Parsons Brown's Brian Jardine evened the score Chris Ford tries to create some offense during Union's 2-2 tie with Browtr otr Friday night (photo by Rick Ledererffhe Concordiensis) at l-l, with less tban one minute remaining in the first period. The Dutchmen scored the only goal of the second period, as Cory Holbrough tallied his tenth goal of the season, on assists by Russell Monteith and Chris Albert. The Dutchmen held on to the lead until late in the third period, when Brown's Robert Merrill tied the score at 2-2, sending the game into overtime. The Dutchmen were severely outplayed in overtime, as Brown outshot the Dutchmen 4-0. Union's tie was kept alive by the excellent play of freshmen goalie Trevor Koenig, who made 35-saves in 65 minutes of play. Union's bicentennial started off with a bang on Sat- urday, as the Dutchmen gained their first-ever win against the Crimson of Harvard. Union's offense was explo- sive in the first period, as they hit the mark four times in the first period. Russell Monteith picked up the rebound off a Chris Ford shot, and shot it over a sprawling Trip Tracy, for a 1- Continued on page 18 rll rn c: .~ \'0 ... 0 (,) c: 0 u G) ..c: ·I--< ....... ro E ::s ~ ~ cd ..... G) ... ::s ell ~ I lit! '\'t; ,f._.' Ill'. ~,..,. Senior Captaill Cory Holbrough on Senior Day. Holbrough played his last regularseason game at Achilles Rinkon Satllrday. r/l ·;;; s:: Q ...... \'0 ..... 0 (,) s::. 0 u Q ..c::: f-o· --.. ttl s ::s ·~ ~ cd - Q .... ~ ~· >. .0 0 ~ 0 ..c:: c. Senior Assistant Captain ChtisAlbettwilljinish his career as Unioll 's all-time leading scorer in Division L Albert has played in over 100 games for the Dutclrmen. STATE CHAMPS! Men's Swimming Finishes #1 in State for the First Time Ever. See page 19. Vol1 T Pr nom begi year Unic am< 0rd~ ise t denl nee( prer and dini yea1 indo quir The hou fon din s anr latt der vol ( be ro r( p< or ar er fe a p G g b b s b 11 t

March 2, 1995 PAGE 20 IVY LEAGUE MASSACRE Union Dominates Harvard, Ti~s First-.Piace Brown to Get Back i'Q Playoff Hunt by Dagan LaCorte Concotdiensis Staff Just when you thou,ght they .. were QUt, they pull you back in . . . Priortotheirtwogamesthispast weekend, the Dutchmen were in . eleventh place, with their play- . off hQpes looking dim. How- • ever after two very impressive , outings, Union's chances are very much alive. Jfthe season were to end today, the Dutch- . m€11 would travel to Burlington · to face the seventh place Cata- mounts ofUVM. On Friday night, Trevor Koenig and the entire Dutdnnen squad looked impr.essive as they .. tied nationally ranked Brown 2- 2. The Dutchmen opened the ' ·. scoring late in the first period. · · Chris Ford, who was deep ln the , offensive zone, made a perfect pass to a streaking Andrew Will; who blasted the puck by Brown goalie Mike Parsons. Brown's Brian Jar.dine evened the score at 1- I, with less than one minute remaining in the first period. • The Dutchmen scored the only goal of the second period, as Cory Holbrough tallied his tenth goal of the season, on assists by Russell Monteith and Chris Albert. The Dutchmen held on to the lead until late in the third period, when Brown's Robert Merrill tied the score at 2-2, · sending the game into overtime. The Dutchmen were severely outplayed in overtime, as Brown outshot the Dutchmen 4-0. · Union's tie was kept alive by the excellent play of freshmen goalie Trevor Koenig, who . made 35-saves in 65 minutes of play. Union's bicentennial · started off with a bang ·on Sat- urday, as the Dutchmen gained · their first-ever win against the . Crimson of Harvard. Union's offense was explo- . sive in the first period, as they hit the mark four times in the · ·first period. Russell Mortteith . picked up the rebound off a . Chris Ford shot, and shot itover . a sprawling Trip Tracy, for a I- Continued onpage 18 ,..··~\. ':'\·~,::,· Chris Fotd:tries to create some offense during Union's 2-2 tie with Brown on Friday night. (photo by Rick Ledeter/The :Cimcordiensis) VI ·u; J:: d.>. , ... \t:l .... 0 (.) J::· 0 u G) .. ..C:· f-4. rti s :::s ·er::. .r-< 0:: 0 ... FJ ...l >. .Q 0 .... 0 ..c: 0.. Senior Captain Cory Holbrough on SeniQ:I' Day. Holbrough played his last regularseason game at Achilles Rink on Saturday. ell .... I'll s::: ~ . ... '0 .... 0 g 0 u Q ..c: li. § ~ h 0:: - e ::s CCI . ....:! :>.. ..0 0 .... 0 ..t: 0. Senior Assistant Captain Chrts Albertwilljlnish his career as Union's all-.time leading scQrer in Division L Albert has played in ovel' 100 games for the Dutchmen. STATE CHAMPS! Men's Swimming Finishes #1 in State for the First Time EVer. See page 19. I l - Vc - 1 no bel ye Ur an on ise de ne pr· an di ye in qt Tl hr fc di aJ Ia d· v

The New Meal Plan: ''Give it a Try\ by Nate Coffin Student Body President In my tenure as a member of student government at Union, I have learned many tough lessons about politics and the way insti- tutions work. During my four years 'here, I have been witness to some enlightened decisions. a great deal of progressive change, and if! may be so bold, a general improvement in the state of the institution we call Union At the same time, I would be remiss 1n failing to remarkupon the failures of this place, notably the perva- sive student passivity and what often appears to be a marked fail- ure in communication between students and administrators, If! have learned one thing in four years of ups and downs, it is this timeless truism \You can't please a(J,ofthe people all of the time\ I wish we could I wish stu- dents could feel comfortable with the decis1on makmg process that is currently underway regarding the Greek meal plan issue I wish students had nothing to be con- cerned about But the fact of the matter is that students are ex- trcmely concerned. frustrated. and uneasy about what lies ahead And frankly, we have every right to be History has suggested that in the past. maJor decisions haw been made by the administration without sufficient consideration bemg g1 ven to student sentiment Many of us have been witness to these decisions. and for good rea- son, when issues such as this emerge. we approach them w1th calculated wanness It 1s for just th1s reason that I applaud those students who have taken the initiative to organize themselves m opposition of what they hold to be a threatening pro- posal Such active participation by students is something to be proud of The passion with which the students part1cipatmg in the recent dining hall \eat-ins\ de- fend the current Greek kitchen situations is a testament to the comm Jtment they hold to thw letters and to each other Such commitment and passion is both noble and impressive Indeed, it is a dramatic departure from what has for so long seemed like an utterly dispirited student body Perhaps when this issue is no more than a memory, students will return to their lethargic ways I certainly hope that this will not be the case What follows may be inter- preted as centrad ictory to the pre- ceding kudos It is not Though I commend those who vocally oppose the current administration proposal, I would encourage them to perhaps step out of their cur- rent circumstance and imagine for a moment a vision of Union in ten years 'The Union of 2005 is a very different place than the Union of 1995 Technical advancements aside, the institution has changed in many fundamental ways Per- haps most evident is student in- teraction The recently renovated College Center is the hub of cam- pus activny Students, admims- trators, and faculty ·interact on a regular basis. The College Cen- ter ·has 'become a place of cam- pus unity, a place where all stu- dents study together, are enter- tained together and eat together The Union stud em body has once again become a true student body, with an identifiable spirit, and a tangible pride in who we are. Greek life is still prospering at Un1on Greek organizations con- tinue to provide social venues and places of support and belonging for students as well as engage in many commumty service activi- ties However, where once many (not alii) of the Greek institutions contributed to the fragmentation of the campus, they now partici- pate as active components of a trueUnion community.\ Is this vision skewed and ide- alistic, many of you may ask'l Perhaps But I would propose that it ,is not altogether without merit My entreaty to my fellow students is not for them to ignore their con- cerns Were I intending to eat in a Greek kitchen next year, I would be lying if I said that the current proposal didn't scare me Even as an independent who is currently on a college meal plan, I must admit that I have ap- proached the proposal with much skepllcism What I would encourage the entire Union commumty to do is step back for a moment and con- sider the big picture. so to speak. and consider the implications of this 1ssue on both the short and long term future of this school Fact: Union is anticipating sig- nificant funding cuts from both the state and federal governments Fact: Alumm can be asked to contribute to the Non restoration, can be tapped for donations to- wards the library renovation, and can even be begged to help pay for the Kentucky Fned Yulman Theater (take a look sometime), but they cannot be counted on year in and year out to compen- sate for operating budget short- falls That's the truth Fact: If Union responds to budget short- falls by raising tuition, we will find ourselves sporting the pnce tag of a Pnnceton or a Harvard, but (and I mean this with all due respect to this pi ace) lacking the reputation. This is the recipe for the demise of a college. Fact: We could make up for the short- fall by eliminating professors and programs Over my dead body. Fact: Union is left with a tough decision: either generate revenue or ta.ke a dive And so, in the interests ofmak- . ing ends meet, we come to the current proposal Were all stu- dents living on campus to be on some sort of college meal plan, the budget shortfall would be averted It's that simple And I'm willing to go out on a limb and suggest that such a proposal would cure more than merely Union's financial ills. Someone once said that eating is the sec- ond most intimate thing people can do together I believe it's true The way I see it, Union could be a better place if all of us had the opportumty to s1t down and break bread together Call it sappy I'd l1ke to see us give it a try \ .. TR,Y :tT!! YOU'Ll LlkE\ l:T!! ... .. The Negative Effects of Mandatory Meal Plan by Steve Lopinski IFC President There are many issues and consequences associated with President Hull's decision to force every resident student on to the meal plan. President Hull will have the campus believe that the $300.000 that will supposedly be generated by this plan is essen- tial for the school to survive fi. nancially However, in reality, this figure comprises a mere 0 44% of the school's overall budget There have got to be other methods ofmaking up this money, especially since the per- cent increase in tuition this year is significantly less than that of the past few years F mally, the Board of Trustees has already approved an alternate budget that does not incorporate this scheme Indeed to implement th1s policy would be an option, not a neces- sity It is important to realize the effects that this decision will have on Greek life Such a requirement will effectively close every kitchen on campus Although President Hull claims that this was not his direct intention, it is finan- cially impossible for students to continue to support their own meal plan, as well as be on the school's meal plan This will have a negat1ve effect on the Greek system, as it will weaken the ties within those Fraternities and Sororities who rely on meal time to bond with their brothers or sisters and new pledges. With increased social restrictions, the elimination of house meal plans will all but eliminate any gather- ings of members during the week The school continues to rely on the Greek system to be leaders on and off campus, but the adminis- tration has done nothing but slowly take away Greek pnvi- leges in return There has been much talk about whether this pohcy will make Unton a better place, since sup- posedly people will eat together and this will somehow promote school spirit This is a ridiculous JUStification ofth1s policy If one wants to make Union a better place in this manner, then he or she must make students want to change their behavior by provid- ing alternatives, not by forcmg them to eat together like in a sec- ond grade lunch room In general, the students are fed up with the bureaucratic policy of this school. According to Presi- dent Hull, the students come first on this campus However, it is the students who are once again being hurt the most Perhaps the 37 I people that this directly af- fects are a minority, but how can President Hull not take into con- sideration the fact that he is mak- ing this many people miserable for a minute amount of money Most students are not willing to sit back and let this happen, as many have been involved in vari- ous protests, including a rally of over 200 people this Monday. Independents and Greeks who this does not directly involve should be concerned as well This 1s not the first time that such a decision has been made desp1te student protest, and everyone on this campus should be concerned about what's next President Hull admitted that th1s dec1s1on 1s not gomg to make h1m any fnends However. between concerned stu- dents. alumni. parents. and the City of Schenectady, 1f he goes through with this, it is gomg to make him more enem1es than he ever could have expected Long Lines and Crowded Dining Halls by Tony LaVecchia Opinions Editor The administration's decision to place all Greeks on manda- tory seven meal plans is one that will have a negative effect on the entire student body. It will cer- tainly hit Greeks harder than in- dependents, but rest assured in- dependents, this is a move that will have you waiting on longer lines and sitting in more crowded dining halls First of all, those who cur- rently eat food prepared in fra- ternity kitchens will, in general, be paying more money for less food Perhaps my math is bad, but why should I be forced to pay approximately $700 for seven meals when currently those in my house only pay about $400 foriO meals? Why should I be forced to pay more money for three less meals next year Why is it that the cook at my fraternity is more efficient than a major corporation? Aside from monetary consid- erations, it is my contention that the meals prepared in fraternities are generally better than those prepared byMarriott. Personally, !look forward to the nights when I can eat good food with my brothers rather than substandard food at West This is also clearly a blow to the Greek system and way oflife Because of the meal plan. it will be increasingly difficult for Greeks to eat their meals together. In my opinion, unified meals are an important aspect of Greek life, and for those houses who cur- rently eat together, this move will be devastating Even those houses that are currently on the meal plan should be concerned. I see this as one of the first of many anti- Greek steps by the administration If we don't successfully resist this move, who knows what will fol- low Independents will also be hurt by this move Forthosewhothink the lines at West and Upperclass are long now, wait till next year. I have heard the argument that the administration is trying to pro- mote school sp1rit and unity v.1th this move Well, next year 1fthe school gets their way, we can all get to know each other in line. This move also wi II affect the . Schenectady community. The · rather large amount of money that fraternities currently spend buying food in the community will all be transferred to Marriott's corporate coffers. There are also many cooks who will lose their jobs because of the school's decision to force us into buying a meal plan. I encourage all of those un- happy with the decision to let their opinion be known. I also think that the Greek protests that have occurred were a step in the right direction and need to be continued. We must unify. If we do make a unified effort to de- . feat this move and it fails, then we will know just how unre- sponsive the administration is to student opinion. If we do defeat this measure, which I believe we can, then it will be a tribute to the unity and power of the en- · tire student body. ' . The. Beginning·, . ' . Volume CXXlV, Number XVII NottMemor1 Nott Recieves High Accolades by Adrian Ma.eLean News Staff The newly renovated and re~ dedicated Nott Memorial has r~:;~ ceived rave reactions from. alumni, perspectives. and most of Union's population. \I think the inside and outside are amazing,\ said David Kozub, a Senior. \It seemno have been well planned out and the work~ manship is high quality.\ Bylate spring the grass will be grow111gancl the building will be entirely complete. The cobalt~ blue ceiting pr~sides I 06 feet up from the ground and for the first time since 1903, people can see the filtering light through the 709 glass \ill\.ntrinators~\ \During the day you can seethe light coming through the ceiling and all the stained glass windows; at night you notice the structure and iron work because the win- dows aren't demanding your at- tention~\ Kozub said. As a trademark and a center- piece for Union, the Nott niakes Union'scampus unique from oth- ers. 'fhe much needed face I ift was an $1 l million dollar prcoject that made the Nott an even big- ger attraction and uti! ized the space. The building was a tribute to Eliphalet Nott, Union's Presi- dent front1804 to 1866. This sense of history helps at- tract perspectives from all over the continued on page 4 Newlyrenm. Administrati To Increase Reve~ by Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor At the start of the 1995~96 school year, all Union College students living on campus will be required to be on a minimum of a seven-meal plan. Diane Blake, Vice President of Finance. reported that the switch to a mandatory meal plan Was pri- marily an \economic decision\. After a rigorous examination of the school's budget, the Pfanning and Priorities committee deter- nt.inedthat although the nnancial situation was better than most other colleges, Unian still had se- rious issues to address because Governor Pataki's cuts and the situation in Washington concern~ ing the cuts to PAL and Stafford. loans has yet to be finalized. \The bottom line is ing less and le~ government,\~ not want to cc nancial Aid sl lege. We knov. and by creatin get we would r needsofthe stl In response 1 the Inter- Fra Steve Lapinsk~ tioning the u~ froin the meal : \fill-sidewalks decided to inc1 increasing tuiti the costofmef valid point,'' s:: feel more inc] tbod and not < also explained ineal plan crea

The New Meal Plan: \Give it a Try\ by Nate Coffin Student Body President In my tenufe as a member of student government at Union, I have learned many tough lessons about politics and the way insti· tutions work During my four years here, I have been witness to some enlightened decisi(mS. a great deal ofprognessive change, and if! may be so bold, a general improvement in the state of the institution we call Union At the same time, I would be remiss in failing to remark upon the failures of this place, notably the perva- sive student passivity and what often appears to be a marked fail- ure in communication between students and administrators lfl have learned one thing in four years of ups and downs. it is this timeless truism \You can't please all of the people all of the time\ I wish we could I wish stu- dents could feel comfonable with the decision making process that is currently underway regarding the Greek meal plan issue I wish students had nothing to be con- cerned about But the fact of the matter 1s that students are ex- tremely concerned. frustrated. and uneasy about what lies ahead And frankly. we have every right to be History has suggested that in the past. maJor decisions have been made by the administration without sufficient consideration being given to student sentiment Many of us have been witness to these decisions, and for good rea- son, when issues such as this emerge. we approach them with calculated wanness It is for just this reason that I applaud those students who have taken the initiative to organize themselves m opposition of what they hold to be a threatening pro- posal Such active participation by students is something to he proud of The passion With which the students participating in the recent dining hall \eat-ins\ de- fend the current Greek kitchen situatiOns is a testament to the commitment they hold to their letters and to each other Such commitment and passion is both noble and impressive Indeed, it is a dramatic departure from what has for so long seemed like an utterly dispirited student body Perhaps when this issue is no more than a memory, students will return to their lethargic ways. I certainly hope that this will not be the case What follows may be inter- preted as contradictory to the pre- ceding kudos It is not Though I commend those who vocally oppose the current administration proposal, I would encourage them to perhaps step out of their cur- rent circumstance and imagine for a moment a vision of Union in ten years· \The Union of 2005 is a very different place than the Union of 1995 Technical advancements aside, the institution has changed in many fundamental ways Per- haps most evident is student in- teraction The recently renovated College Center is the hub of cam- pus activity Students, adminis- trators. and faculty interact on a regular basis. The College Cen- ter has become a place of cam- pus unity, a place where all stu- dents study together, are enter- tained together and eat together The Union student body has once again become a true student body, . with an identifiable spirit, and a tangible pride in who we are. Greek I ife is still prospering at Umon Greek organizations con- tinue to provide social venues and. places of support and belonging for students as well as engage in many commumty service act,ivi- ties However, where once many (Bot alii) of the Greek institutions contributed to the fragmentation of the campus, they now partici- pate as active components of a • true Union community.\ Is this vision skewed and ide- alistic, many of you may ask'l Perhaps But I would propose that it is not altogether without merit My entreaty to my fellow students is not for them to ignore their con- cerns Were I intending to eat in a Greek kitchen next year, I would be lying if I said that the current proposal didn't scare me Even as an independent who is currently on a college meal plan, I must admit that I have ap- proached the proposal with much skepticism What I would encourage the entire Union community to do is step back for a moment and con- sider the big picture. so to speak. and consider the implications of this issue on both the short and long term future of this school Fact: Union is anticipating sig- nificant funding cuts from both the state and federal governments Fact: Alumm can be asked to contribute to the Nott restoration, can be tapped for donations to- wards the library renovation, and can even be begged to help pay for the Kentuck} Fned Yulman Theater (take a look sometime), but they cannot be counted on year in and year out to compen- sate for operating budget short- falls That's the truth Fact: If Union responds to budget short- falls by raising tuition, we will find ourselves sportmg the pnce tag of a Princeton or a Harvard, but (and I mean this with all due respect to this place) lacking the reputation This is the recipe for the dcm ise of a college. Fact: We could make up for the short- fall by eliminating professors and programs Over my dead body, Fact: Union is left with a tough decision, either generate revenue or take a dive And so, in the interests of mak- ing ends meet, we come to the current proposal Were all stu- dents living on campus to be on some sort of college meal plan, the budget shortfall would be averted. It'sthatsimple. And I'm willing to go out on a limb and suggest that such a proposal would cure more than merely Union's financial ills. Someone once said that eating is the sec- ond most intimate thing people can do together I believe it's true. The way I see it. Union could be a better place if all of us had the opportum ty to Sit down and break bread together Call it sappy I'd like to see us give it a try \ •• TRY l:T!! YOV'Ll LltcE :tT!1'' .. The Negative Effects of Mandatory Meal Plan by Steve Lapinski IFC President There are many issues and consequences associated with President Hull's decisiofl to force every resident student on to the meal plan President Hull will have the campus believe that the $300.000 that will supposedly be generated by this plan is essen- tial for the school to survive fi- nancially However, in reality, this figure comprises a mere 0 44% of the school's overall budget There have got to be other methods of making up this money. especially since the per- cent increase in tuiticm this year is significantly less than that of the past few years Fin ally, the Board of Trustees has already approved an alternate budget that does not incorporate this scheme Indeed to implement this policy would be an option. not a neces- sity It is important to realize the effects that this decision will have on Greek life. Such a requirement will effectively close every kitchen on campus Although President Hull claims that this was not his direct intention, it is finan- cially impossible for students to continue to support their own meal plan, as well as be on the school's meal plan This will have a negative effect on the Greek system, as it will weaken the ties within those Fraternities and Sororities who rely on meal time to bond with their brothers or sisters and new pledges With increased social restrictions, the elimination of house meal plans will all but eliminate any gather- ings of members during the week The school continues to rely on the Greek system to be leaders on and off campus. but the adminis- tration has done nothing but slowly take away Greek privi- leges in return There has been much talk about whether this policy will make Union a better place, since sup- posedly people will eat together and this will somehow promote school spirit This is a ridiculous justification of this policy If one wants to make Union a better place in this manner, then he or she must make students want to change their behavior by provid- ing alternatives, not by forcing them to eat together like in a sec- ond grade lunch room In general, the students are fed up with the bureaucratic policy of this schooL According to Presi- dent Hull, the students come first on this campus However, 11 IS the students who are once again being hurt the most Perhaps the 371 people that this directly af- fects are a minority, but how can President Hull not take into con- sideration the fact that he is mak- ing this many people miserable for a minute amount of money Most students are not willing to sit back and let this happen, as many have been involved in vari- ous protests. including a rally of over 200 people this Monday Independents and Greeks who this does not directly involve should be concerned as well This is not the first time that such a decision has been made despite student protest, and everyone on this campus should be concerned about what's next President Hull admItted that th1s decision IS not gomg to make him any friends However. between concerned stu- dents. alumni. parents. and the City of Schenectady. if he goes through with this, It is going to make him more enemies than he ever could have expected Long Lines and Crowded Dining Halls by Tony LaVecchia Opinions Editor The administration's decision to place all Greeks on manda- tory seven meal plans is one that will have a negative effect on the entire student body.lt will cer- tainly hit Greeks harder than in- dependents, but rest assured in- dependents, this is a move that will have you waiting on longer lines and sitting in more crowded dining halls. First of all, those who cur- rent] y eat food prepared in fra- tem ity kitchens will, in general, be paying more money for less food Perhaps my math is bad, but why should I be forced to pay approximately $700 for seven meals when currently those in my house only pay about $400 forlO meals~ Why should I be forced to pay more money for three less meals next year Why is it that the cook at my fraternity is more efficient than a major corporation~ Aside from monetary consid- erations, it is my contention that the meals prepared in fraternities are generally better than those prepared by Marriott Personally. I look forward to the nights when I can eat good food with my brothers rather than substandard food at West This is also clearly a blow to the Greek system and way oflife. Because of the meal plan. it will be increasingly difficult for Greeks to eat their meals together. In my opinion, unified meals are an important aspect of Greek life, and for those houses who cur- rently eat together, this move will be devastating. Even those houses that are currently on the meal plan should be concerned. I see this as one of the first of many anti- Greek steps by the administration. If we don't successfully resist this move, who knows what will fol- low Independents will also be hurt by this move Forthosewhothink the lines at West and Upperclass are long now, wait till next year. I have heard the argument that the administration is trying to pro- mote school spint and unity w1th this move Well, next year 1fthe school gets their way. we can all get to know each other in I ine This move also will affect the Schenectady communit}. The rather large amount of money that fraternities currently spend buying food in the community will all be transferred to Marriott's corporate coffers. There an~ also many cooks who will lose their jobs because of the school's decision to force us into buying a meal plan. I encourage all of those un- happy with the decision to let their opinion be known, I also think that the Greek protests that have occurred were a step in the right direction and need to be continued, We must unify If we do make a unified effort to de- feat this move and it fails, then we will know just how unre- sponsivethe administration is to student opinion. If we do defeat this measure, which I believe we can, then it will be a tribute to the unity and power of the en- tire student body The BegiOning ' . . ' . ' . ' . . ' Volume CXXIV, Number XVII NottMemori Nott Recieves High Accolades by Adrian MacLean News Staff The newly renovated and re- dedicated Nott Memorial has re- ceived rave reactio,ns from. alumni, perspectives and most of Union's population, \I think the inside and outside are amazing,\ said David Kozub, a Senior, \lt seems to have been well planned out and the work- manship is high quality.\ By late spring the grass will be growmg and the building will be entirely complete. The cobalt- blue ceiling presides 106 feet up from the ground and for the first time since 1903, people can see the filtering light through the 709 glass \illuminators.\ \During the day you can see the light coming through the ceiling and all the stained glass windows; at night you notice the structure and iron work because the win- dows aren't demanding your at- tention,\ Kozub said, As a trademark and a center- piece for Union, the Nott makes Union's campus unique from oth- ers, lfhe much needed face lift was an $11 million dollar project that made the Nott an even big- ger attraction and utilized the space. The building was a tribute to Eliphalet Nott, Union's Presi- dent from 1804 to 1866, This sense of history helps at- tract perspectives from all over the continued on page 4 Newly renov• Administrati~ To Increase Reven by Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor At the start of the 1995-96 school year, all Union College students living on campus will be required to be on a minimum of a seven-meal plan. Diane Blake, Vice President of Finance, reported that the switch to a mandatory meal plan was pri- marily an \economic decision\. After a rigorous examination of the school's budget, the Pranning and Priorities committee deter- mined that although the financial situation was better than most other colleges, Union still had se- rious issues to address because Governor Pataki's cuts and the situation in Washington concern- ing the cuts to PAL and Stafford. loans has yet to be finalized. \The bottom line is ' ing less and les: govemment,\ Sl not want to cm nancial Aid sit1 lege. Weknow and by creatin~ get we would n needs of the stu In response t4 the Inter- Frat Steve Lapinsky tioning the usc froin the meal p \fill-sidewalks decided to incn increasing tuitic the cost of meal valid point,\ sai feel more incli food and not o also explained · meal plan creat

