.. . .. nne or t£U5t5 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XXI Schenectady, New York May 4, 1995 d Y Guilty on Hazing Char~ by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff While hazing may always have been an unspoken problem at Union, recent events involving the Delta Upsilon fraternity have resulted in the first official con- duct heating. Delta Upsilon was found guilty by the Student Conduct Commit~ tee on five violations of the Stu- dent Conduct Code. The victim asked someone to call security on Thursday morning at 1:50 AM with allegations against individu- als for injury as a result of haz- ing. In an interview with The Con- cordiensis, the victim, Frank Federici, described in detail the events that gave rise to the administration's charges against Delta Upsilon. The alleged haz- ing took place over the course of two nights. The first involved no drinking, but total humiUation. Federici was forced to sit in his boxer shorts while various house- hold products were thrown on him. He later slipped and fell and hit his chin on the floor, resulting in eight stitches. On the second evening, Federici was told by a brother to drink. When he refused, the brothers allied and physically forced him to drink. After a while an attempt was made to throw him on the ground, and he was then urinated on. A fellow pledge was responsible for bringing him back to the donn, where he stayed in a friend's room due to the I oss of his key. Federici was shiver- ing and couldn't see or walk prop- erly. Two brothers came back to get him and when they were asked by Diana Sedita Editor-in-:Chief This past Tuesday, NBC An- chor Tom Brokaw and David McCullough came to Union's Nott Memorial to moderate a dis- cussion about World War H. This panel discussion was formed to commemorate the fifty year an- niversary of World War II. This discussion, which included twenty-five students, is scheduled to air on \NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw\ on Friday May 5th. The idea of including college students in a commentary about to leave he was threatened with de-pledging. At this point Federici asked a friend to cal1 se- curity and have the two brothers removed from the building. \I love DU and if any of thi~ hadn't happened I'd still love it! I'vegot lots of good friends, but they went too far,\ Federici said, \I accepted the 'hazing' until they began doing what they did. They crossed the I ine.\ Hazing is prohibited by New York State Law and Union Col- lege policy. It is a Class A Mis- demeanor that can result in up to one year in jail and a $1000 fine. The individual and group charges that were printed i):J the security report were never filed by Federici, but the school did insti- tute charges of their own against Delta Upsilon. Criminal charges could not be pursued because the victim must be an active partici- pant. According to Dean of Stu- dents Fred Alford the events hap- pened in the context ofhouse ac.._ tivities and the individuals were acting on behalf of the house. \It is the responsibility of the college to explore and react ap- propriately to information that we learn,\ Dean Alford said. \If the individual involved drops the charges, then there shouldn't have been a case,\ Brian Nemiroff, President of Delta Upsilon said. The ruling of the hearing, which was reviewed and ap- proved by Dean Alford, led to the loss of college recognition and housing for Delta Upsilon. As of Wednesday, the Delta Upsilon barroom will be locked by secu- rity. These actioQs were taken by representative students, chosen by the student forum, on the Con- World War II came from Brokaw, who did not want to do the same old type of \documentary.\ Brokaw then approached David McCullough for help. McCul Iough has worked on countless documentaries for PBS including the famed \Baseball\ and \The Civil War.\ He also spoke at Union's Commencement last year and was a key note speaker at the rededication ofthe Nott Memorial. Fondly remembering Unien, McCullough suggested to Brokaw that the best place to go would be Union. More specifi- cally, to hold the actual discus- sion in the Nott Memorial which McCullough had called \a feast for the eye.\ When asked what he wanted to accomplish by including students duct Committee. According to Dean Alford, the community as a w:hole has to recognize that this was a student decision. \Students at Union made the judgment and chose to respond with severity,\ Dean Alford said. \The committee has to do what they have to do, but the guidelines which they work under are dead wrong! There is just no true fonn of justice,\ Nemiroffsaid. The opinion of Delta Upsilon was that the committee fellows a \bizarre form of justice that doesn't have any constitutional form,\ since they have to make a choice between two stories, and whichever one is more believable wins. In this case, from Delta Upsilon's point of view, it was one person's allegations against an entire group. This, they main- tain, is not the fault of the con- duct committee, but of the guide- ! ines they are forced to work un- der. . \tn America you are innocent until proven guilty, but at Union College you are· guilty until proven innocent,\Nemiroffsaid. Dean Alford drew a different moral from the episode: \This is about a small pocket of the Greek system where people are forced to put loyalty above integrity.\ The Brothers of Delta Upsilon are now faced with a housing battle for next year. Current freshmen will be placed in the lot- tery pool, and the upcomingjun- iors will petition to get off cam- pus. They will not be permitted to live in Raymond House; resi- dence life has not made a deci- sion on who will occupy the house next year. The former home of the Delta Upsilon chap- ter, \20 U,\ is currently being in the special broadcast, Brokaw stated, \We wanted to create a dialogue to bridge the generations in order to keep the legacy of World War II alive.\ McCullough also felt that the idea of including students would help in educating the younger genera- tion about the War and the affects it had on the world, the United States and their families. The dialogue, which lasted for approximately two hours, cov- ered everything from the actual fighting that occurred to the rami- fications on the economy to the personal affects the War had on families across the nation. McCullough told the students of conversations he had with veter- ans. One veteran had told him, \We didn't live in the best of times, but we had the best of Behavior which threatens or endangers the well- being or safety of others, or results in personal injury to others. Interference with the academic, personal, or social freedom of any member of the College community or guest by verbal abuse, intimidation, coercion, physical force, or any other action. Interference with the right to personal privacy of any member of the community. Behavior which constitutes a violation of rules, regulations, or policies specified by College departments, or Student Forum. Violations of local, state or federal laws and ordinances. rented, thus eliminating that pos- sibility. Freshman Federici seems to be facing a different set of problems. Threats have been coming from various members of the Union community; many are telling him he should transfer. \At first I took it seriously, but now I'm trying to take it with a grain of salt,\ Federici said. Delta Upsilon's national was notified prior to the hearing, by Associate Dean of Students Kate Schurick. Copies ofthe hearing's results and a letter will be mailed out to the national as a follow-up. Union has not had a formal conduct hearing before this inci- dent. From everyone's point of times.\ It was asserted that the soldiers felt a great deal of pride in the war effort and that \they all came together and accom- plished an incredible thing.\ The students told of the memo- ries their families had about World War II and the horrors they saw or the hardships that followed due to the War. Brokaw gave the students an \assignment.\ He told them to \go to the Schenectady American Legion and speak with some ofthe vet- erans.\ He said that \after hear- ing their stories, (we) would be astonished at the atrocities and be amazed at how these men were able to come back and lea9, es- sentially, normal lives.\ McCullough said, \first hand in- continued on page 4 view, Delta Upsilon was used as an example to scare the student body: \The school wanted to make an example of someone,\ Nemiroff said. \I hope this does send a mes- sage to the community about what the college and its students stand for and against,\ Dean Alford said. \It was the feeling ofthe com- mittee that [a person's] health was placed in serious danger as a result of their actions, and this case should serve as a precedent and hopefully prevent any other students from being placed in such danger,\ the conduct com- mittee reported.

Page 2 • May 4, 1995• The Concordiensis UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, APRIL25. 1995 THROUGH MONDAY. MAY 1. 1995 DATEffiME LOCATION INCIDENT TUESDAY. APRIL 25. 1995: 2:59AM 2:55AM 7:50AM 8:52AM sometime during Huntley Lane area VANDALISM: Traffic sign damaged, tree uprooted. 36 Union Ave. area VANDALISM: Tree uprooted. Memorial Chapel THEFT: Garden hose stolen. Alumni Gym THEFT: Athletic Dept. VCR stolen. Occurred 5:02PM contractor. 8:21PM Wallet and Chi Psi West College Room lock changed. past two months. No forced entry. FIRE ALARM: Accidental false alarm caused by THEFT: Student's jeans stolen from unlocked room. keys taken. WEDNESDAY. APRIL 26, 1995: 12:17 AM Achilles Rink area HAZING: Students observed in activity related to pledging that aroused suspicion. Report filed. 1 :30 AM Steinmetz HARASSMENT: Student harassing ano~her student. Report filed. by witness. ldentity of victim unknown. 6:40AM College Center SECURITY HAZARD: Doors not properly secured. Appropriate personnel advised. 7:00 AM College Center SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exit blocked by storage. Appropriate personnel advised. Hazard removed. 7:40AM Memorial Chapel THEFT: Vacuum cleaner missing from Janitor's closet. 8:00AM Hum. & SS Bldgs. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRIES: Studentsentering building through windows. Work order filed to repair window screens and place window latches windows. 8:30 AM Nott Memorial ANIMAL: Pigeons entering building through opened windows. Pigeons removed. Policy established to keep windows closed. 1 0:00 AM Union Street MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property damage accident involving campus vehicle and 11011-campus vehicle. Incident occurred 4/24/95. 11 :00 AM Hickok House SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical room access blocked 3:00PM 3:00PM 5:31PM 3:20AM 5:40AM South College South College Chester Arthur by inappropriate storage. VANDALISM: Handset removed from courtesy telephone. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Fire panel emitting buzzing noise. Panel checked, no problem. Electricians notified. THEFT: Cash stolen from two students. Room w~s left unlocked. Cash was taken from qeesser. College Center THEFf: Four female students observed stealing soft drinks from unlocked cooler. Suspects ran from building. Edwards House THEFf: Student reports unlocked bike stolen from outside of the building. Bike located by owner, had been borrowed. Davidson South MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Vulgar !,rraffito written on entry door. THURSDAY: APRIL 27. 1995: 3:30PM Davidson THEFf: Cash taken from student's wallet left in dresser rawer. No evidence of forced entry into room. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen from unlocked locker. THEFf: Cash taken from student's wallet left in unlocked locker. 8:06PM 8:51PM II :53 PM II :53 PM Alumni Gym Alumni Gym West College West College FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Cause undeter mined. System reset, no further problems. WEAPONS: Air pistol being fired in Residence Hall. Area checked. Source located. Conduct Charges filed. FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1995: 2:03 AM South College MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Shaving cream sprayed on first floor walls and floor. 4:30AM 6:04AM 7:31PM 8:56PM Yulman Theater EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Water flooding i nto building due to heavy rains. Situation under assessment. Nott Memorial EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Water pooling on floor. Area checked. No confirmation of leak, no recurrence. Hickok House SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked by improper s storage and students bikes left on fire stairs and landings. West College FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Caused by 2nd f loor smoke detector. Problem corrected by electricians. SATURDAY. APRIL 29, 1995: !2:10AM HaleHouse 1:14AM fixtures. 1:41AM 2:15AM 3:05AM Raymond North Raymond North West College Ad Phi TRESPASS: Two intoxicated visitors entered Hale House Night Cleaner reported inappropriate behavior. One suspect located, identified and advised off campus. 2nd suspect gone from area. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: No lights reported on 2nd floor. Flourescent bulbs had been removed from light VANDALISM: Glass in privacy door broken. FIRE ALARM: False alarm caused by cigarette smoke. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert caused by tripped breaker. switch. 3:15AM 3:30AM 3:52AM 4:10AM 6:05AM 10:00 AM 2:00PM 7:32PM 8:03PM Campus News Reset. Work order filed to place lock on breaker Alexander Lane VANDALISM: Lock on barrier chain broken. Wells House area VANDALISM: Tree uprooted. Raymond Area NOISE COMPLAINT: OffCampus neighbor lodged a complaint concerning noise coming from Raymond Hottse area. 11ueatened to call SPD. Area checked quiet on arrival. Raymond Lot V ANDAUSM: Motorcycle found damaged. Unable to locat(;!or identify owner. Complaint not received frmn owner. S&E area VANDALISM: Light post broken from mounting and discarded near the Nott Memorial. TI1e busted light .globe was found in South College. Two Fraternities SAFETY HAZARDS: During NYS Fire Inspection numerous code violations were discovered. Work orders filed. Alumni Gym EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Burning odor reported coming from washing machine. Machine tunted off and electricity to machine locked out. Repair service to be notified. Campus Grounds ANIMAL: Two student owned dogs running unattended on campus. One was in College Ce11ter. Owners notified. South Terrace La11e RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Food vendor delivery vehicle driving across sidewalks to access buildings for deliveries. Owner contacted and advised to stay on roadways. SATURDAY APRIL 29. 1995: 9:55 PM South Lane VANDALISM: Barrier chain broken. Repaired. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor reportedly hanging around with no purpose. Located, identified and advised off campus. 10:57 PM College Center SUNDAY. APRIL 30, 1995: 2:18AM Campus Operations EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Electrical short in 2:40AM 2:46AM 3:00AM 3:25AM 11:00 AM 12:57 PM 10:20 PM UPS system on Fire Alann computer. Damaged UPS, surge protector and lightning protector. Cause undetermined. Fire watch established until system was restored by campus electricians at approximately 4: 16 AM. McKean House FIRE ALARM: False fire alann caused by cigarette smoke. McKean House VANDALISM: Holes punched into hallway wall. South College area VANDALISM: One tree broken another uprooted. Raymond/Petter areaHARASSMENT: Female student, walking alone, reported being approached by unknown male. Vulgar language and attempt to detain. Student broke away and ran into residence hall. Friends checked for suspect unable to locate. Campus Safety was not advised until Officer was walking through building and informed. Area checked by Officers suspect not located. Fraternity SAFETY HAZARD: During NYS Fire Inspection Delta Phi South College numerous code violations were discovered. Work orders filed. FIRE ALARM: False alann caused by cigarette smoke. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's room door off its hinges. Allegedly caused by deteriorating condition. Structural Dept. notified for repair. MONDAY. MAY 1.1995: 12:50 AM Campus Oper. Lot V ANI>ALISM: Taillights on campus vehicle damaged. 2:20AM 2:54AM 4:00AM 12:55 PM 2:50PM Davidson Lounge VANDALISM: Garbage dumped, table broken, b roken glass and debris strewn about. Child Care area SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: 11uee persons, believed to be students, loitering in area of building. Suspects scattered upon approach of Campus Safety Officer. Area checked no evidence of damage. Child Care area PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Recurrent unregistered and parking violations. AD Phi THEFT: Student's bike stolen from 3rd floor hallway. Believed to have occurred over the past weekend during a social event. Fox/Davidson Lot PROPERTY DAMAGE: Tractor trailer stmck overhead cable TV wire pulling the wire to the ground. Term in Washington, 1996 The Political Science Department announces that applications for next year's Washington program will be available on Friday, May 5 at a 4:30pm informational meeting in Soc. Sci. 104. This meeting will provide the best opportunity for prospective applicants to hear about the program and to ask questions. Applications must be completed and returned to the Political Science Department Of- fice (SS 216) by 4:30pm, Wednesday, May 31. You must apply by then if you want to be considered for next year's program. Prof. Clifford W. Brown, Jr.. will conduct the May 5 meeting. On Mon- day, May 8, application forms for the Washington Term will be available in the Political Science office for any interested student that did not attend the meeting.

- odged ond ed table red ion :r. sed ing rtin PS, 111as e its ' ., \ 'j Campus'News,·-.·•·>· · Nott Showcased for Aluntni Council by Na'lini Gupta Concordiensis Staff The sixteen sided pride and joy of Union College's campus was thoroughly scrutinized by members of the Alumni Council 'at a recent meeting held on Sat~ urday, April29, 1995. The dis- cussion was opened by President Roger HuH who introduced the impending question - \How is it justified th.at 11 million dollars were spent on the restoration of the Nott Memorial?\ Attesting to our responsibility to preserve our heritage and history, he com- mented, \How could it be justi~ fied not to have spent it?\ It is our duty never ~o allow our monuments to fall apart. The Nott Memorial was evalu- ated in depth by the four panel- ists who were invited to trace the significance of the building at the Council meeting. It has a his- tory of being adapted into a li- brary, a theater, a museum and a college chapel and its eventual deterioration, almost to ruin, fi- nally led to its present restora- tion with the help of funds from 1740 people. Before it was opened to student access, Union was the only college of notable reputation which had no desig- nated gallery for the display of art. According to panelist Paul Turner, Class of '62 who is now Associate professor in the De- partment of Art at Stanford U ni- vers•ity and who ·om::e help·ed to · move the books from the· Nett over to the Schaefer Library, the Memorial is now more than an art gallery - the fact that it was successfully renovated from a severely damaged condition tes- tifies to the value it carries at Union. Turner's research has revealed that through the project of build- ing the Nott, the two coUabora- tive architects, Edward Potterand Joseph Ramee, introduced to America, the first topographical plan of a whole institution being centered around a temple- like building. Turner's research has revea:led extraordinary details about the Nott's ambitious de- sign, its innovative blend of Vic- torian and neoclassical styles and its simple rounded structure which was once an ideological symbol of purity. He com- mented, \There is perhaps no other building on any university campus which has had such an influence on rousing sentiment as the Nott\ and that \as a National Historic Landmark, it is a valu- able visual record of the stylistic variety and cultural change through time\. Panelist Sarah Landau who has pursued a doctoral in the archi- tectural work of the Potter broth- ers, also highlighted many ef the iQtricate qualities of the building including the religious themes of a dome opening up to the uni- verse, the scientific aspect of al- lowing the internal supporting structures to remain revealed and the brilliant color contrasts used throughout the building. \f envy tht! students· who a:te--p.,i~Hegt!d to study in such an inspirational setting\ she remarked and after describing how she had been taken aback by the magnificent job, she said, \Thank heavens its restored at last!\ Canadian ar- chitect Phyllis Lambert joined the panel in evaluating the Nott and emphasized the merging of simple and complex in its design. In a thorough analysis of the philosophical elements of the structure she emphasized the interconnectedness that the Nott represented in the form of years of cultural evolution and histori- cal continuum. \It was a magnificent horror show!\ remarked panelistJames Alexander, who was Principal- in- Charge of the Nott restora- tion. He described the appalling condition the Nott had been in where buckets were needed to drain the leaking water and patches and ties were used to hold the building together. He related the architectural intimidation he experienced when he was first allowed to lay hands on the vast structure and given the opportu- nity to turn it into something new. He remembered the spirit of ad- venture that came with the project and the ingenious plans that had been considered (including an underground tunnel to the Schaefer library or an extended excavation of the underground basement). Alexander remarked that the entire process was an exercise in making difficult value judgments but that as a finished project, the Nott stands as a monument to the ene'rgy . and vi~ tality of the past. Incumbents Claim Presidential, Vice- Presidential Positions on Student Forum Chase Wins Presidency, Thurber Will Serve on Board of Trustees by David Levine Concordiensis Staff Ovetcom ing a recent wave of voter unhappiness, the Student Forum incumbents swept last week's Presidential and vice- presidential elections, promising a new era of student activism, with involvement and represen- tation. Turnout for Friday's election was moderate, at just over 680 votes, and each of the contested elections went down to the wire. Junior class vice-president, Kenton Chase, overcame a late charge from write-in candidate, Mike Kluger, and junior Seth Brown, to capture the Forum Presidency for next year. Junior Rachel Schaffer, last year's vice- president of adm inistratioA, re- claimed that position with a close victory over junior Brandon Declet. Sophomore Class Presi- dent, Rawson Thurber, in the closest election of the day, nar- rowly defeated Randy Pellish, and will serve on the Board of Trustees for the next two years. Freshman Class President, Ruthie Strosberg, will serve as the Vice- President of Campus Life, and Junior Class President, Geremie Camara, won an uncontested election for Vice-President ofFi- . \ . nance. Chase ,out- 1 ined his ini- tiatives for next year. \I want to make it easier for you [the students] to have your opinions heard. You won't be re- quired to sit through a Stu- dent Forum meeting when you don't have time, or go to a spe- cific commit- tee unless you feel motivated to d 0 so· It Student Forum President-elect, Ken Chase may be as------------------- easy as picking up the phone. I intend to initiate a plan by which students will be able to leave a voicemail message in a box as- signed for the forum. I will per- sonally guarantee that in issue you bring up, I will personally re- spond to within five days ... I will provide office hours in the Stu- dent Fo.rum workroom each week, and I will schedule appoint- ments with people who want to meet directly with me about is- sues.\ Rawsol) Thurber echoed simi- lar sentiments in his campaign promises for Junior Trustee. \I promise not to give the student body opinion without actually talking to members of it.\ Petitions for class representa- tive positions and Vice-President of Academics are due tomorrow at the Student Activities office by 4:00p.m. Elections will be held on Friday, May I 2 in the College Center between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Union Student Wins Watson Fellowship by Bhavani Meduri Concordiensir Staff Congratulations are in order for Rebecca Gergery, this year's recipient of the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. The fellowship progr~m was first established in 1968 by the Tho- mas J. Watson Foundatio'n·i:n order to enable exceptional college students to pursue ar1 area of independent study in a foreign coun- try after graduation. The fellowship, which includes a $16,000 grant, was awarded to sixty of the two hundered nominees who applied for the fellowship. In order to be eligible for nomination, seniors must submit a proposal that would out! ine what they hope to learn from their travels. These proposals are screened by a faculty committee at Union who will then invite a select number of students to come for an interview Of these students, four will be nominated by the com- mittee for the fellowship. Although the selection process is gruel- ing, students should not be daunted from applying. Once nomi- nated, the odds of winning are pretty good. In fact, Union College students have been recipients of six Watson fellowships in the past four years. Gergery has wanted this opportunity to travel since she first saw a poster for the fellowship in her freshman year. She jokingly told William Wolf, last year's receipent of the award, \That's good Bill- I'll be winning next year.\ Orginally, leaning toward study- ing medicine, she changed her mind at the end of her first year at Union and instead became an English major. She wants to eventu- ally teach English at the secondary school level and plans to attend the Masters at Teaching program at Union after she returns from her year abroad. The winning proposal Gergery submitted to the Foundation was entitled \Culture and Its Influence on Educational Goals In Three Different Countries: England, Dominica, and Japan.\ She plans to evenly divide her year among these three countries, spending her time interacting and observing both the students and teachers in each of the schools she visits. Throughout her stay in each coun- try, she also plans to talk with community members about how they perceive the effectiveness of education in their country. One ofthe problems Gergery has with America's public school system is that the curriculum suppresses creativity. High School students are rarely encouraged to enjoy what they are learning in schooL She wants to understand why America's educational system has developed in this manner by leamng about the impact of other cultures on their educational systems. By understanding why America's schools have developed the way they have, she hopes to reform our present public school system. Gergery is looking forward to her trip abroad this coming year. She wants to get out into the real world and conduct, in her own words, \first hand research\ on a subject that is truly beneficial to both herself and her community. Rising seniors who are irterested in learning more about the Wats.onFellowship should keep an eye out for a notice in the Con- cordiensis about a meeting late this term. Any specific questions should be directed towards Professor Klein of the Economics De- who handles the nominations for the fellowshi at Union.

Page 4 • May 4, 1995 • The Concordiensis Campus News Benita Berry: \Race and Ethnic Relations\ by G-ary DiStefano C oncordiensis Staff On Thursday April27, the Peer Facilitators.presented Dr. Bernita Berry, a sociologist who is cur- rently touring the nation lectur- ing on \Race and Ethnic Rela- tions\. Previous to her lecturing tour Berry taught sociology on the college level at various Universi- ties. She was the first African American professor to be hired at Colgate University. Her lecture on Thursday was centered around \who are Americans?\ There are many separations among people in this nation to- day. Berry summarized this ani- mosity by the lyrics to the song \Everybody People\ by Sly and The Eady Stones: \ There is a Black one that doesn't like the white one, that doesn't like the red one, that doesn't like the blue one ... \ Berry asked the audi- ence \how does this come about in this country? No one would describe themselves as an \ist\, a term used by Berry to describe a person who is a racist, sexist, etc. In fact most people in the US would describe themselves as good, hard working, law abiding citizens. Then how do we have bad, hating people in this nation? Berry addressed the question, who are these people and most importantly why do they have a need to hurt? Berry stated that by the age of four a child knows where it be- longs. This sense of acceptance of others must be implanted in a child's head at a very young age. Berry mentions three distinct in- fluences on a child that cause it to distinguish between groups. The first is the child's parents. Berry, felt that the simple task of Vilella & Dance Company Coming to 'U' by Nalini Gupta Concordiensis Staff One of the most celebrated dancers in the country, Edward Vilella is scheduled to visit Union College in an exclusive lecture-dance per- formance on May 6, 1995 at 8:30 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Villella, vvho is the Artistic Director of the Miami City Ballet and who has done much to popularize the role of males in dance, will be introducing dancers from his company in excerpts from Apollo and Who Cares? Dancers Sally Anne lsaaks, Maribel Modrono, Deanna Seay and DouglasGawriljuk ofthe Miami City Ballet, will perform while Villella ex.plains each piece and narrates the choreography. Villella has performed for four U.S. Presidents and has danced at the Royal Danish Ballet and at the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow. He won an Em my award for his television production of Harlequin and was producer/director of Dance in America. He founded the Miami City Ballet in 1986 which has gained worldwide acclaim under his direction. The company was recently invited to return to Edinburgh where it received rave reviews and to the Kirov Theater in St. Peters- burg Viii ella Feceived an honorary doctor of human letters from Union in 1991, the year his son, Rodney received his bachelor's degree from the college. As a soloist and principal dancer for his company, Villella has come to be identified with roles in George Balanchine's Taran- tella. Jewels. Midsummer Night's Dream and Prodigal Son. Union College's dance program was recently paired with Villella by Charles Lothridge, Class of 1944 through the establishment of the Edward Villella Prize, a $1 00,000 endowment for scholarships for a promising dance student The Villella Prize will be awarded through ajuriedcompetition, with the prize to be determined by Villella him- self. The prize is a cash award to expand the student's study ofdance beyond Union. If the recipient is a ballet student, that study will be with the Niami City Ballet. The lecture- performance is sponsored by the Union College De- partment of Performing Arts chaired by Hilary Tann. Admission is free to all Union College students with I .D. and general Admission is $10. ELECTION INFORMATION: Friday, May 5th: Petitions are due for Class Represen- tatives for next year•s Sophomore, Junior & Senior classes for: President Vice President Secretary Treasurer Petitions also available for VP Academics and due by Friday, May 5th, 5:00pm in the Student Activities Of- fice Statements & Pictures for Class Reps & VP Academics are due in to the Concordy by Monday, May 8th by 5:00pm. a parent holding a child closer when they pass a person of an- other race will causes this condi- tioning. Another influence, on not only children but adults as weB, is religion. Berry felt that most people do not have an un- derstanding for other religions. The philosophy that God is on their side causes people to act as though what they believe is cor- rectand what every anothergroup believes is wrong. This conflict, according to Berry, is responsib I e for mNch of the tensions among religious groups throughout time. The third intlueRce on people is the media. Berry believes that the media is very powerful, more powerful than family or friends. Everybody gets the same infor- mation no matter if you are rich or poor the same information is conveyed to you over the· air waves. One of the most power- ful influences on our children to- day is the television. Berry be- lieves that TV subliminally plants messages in the heads of all of us. For example she mentioned the influence of MTV on children. Child.ren, like her two young nieces, will sing song lyrics.such as \I want to sex you up\ with out even knowing what they are say- ing. This conditioning does not end with children, the news me- dia has also conditioned ·the American public. Berry used many examples of situations where the media associates an incident with a groap of people and the American public accepts it as truth. Berry used the issue of welfare for an example. She asked the audience \who do you associate with welfare\ not sur- prisingly the overwhelming an- swer was minorities. Berry feels that it is this type of thinking that is responsible for the splits in our society today. The problem of segregation in our nation is solvable. Accord- ing to Berry we as a society should not take things at face value. We carry this onto the chil- dren. We tell them not toques- tion the teachings of their elders. Children, according to Berry, ar.e forced to trust their elders, who supposedly are always right. Berry feels that one should be less politically correct when asking about ones race, religion, or sexu- ality, for as she puts it \If you don't know ask.\ People should believe Jess of what they hear and challenge what is taught As she puts it, there is no \typical Ameri~ can\ , in order to get rid of this belief we as a society must get to the truth; this must be done on the individual basis. Consequntally, in order for us to recognize dif- ference, we must do as Berry ad- vocates, «get over our ignorance and become everyday people.\ TolD Brokaw & David McCullough Comnt.emorate WWII at Union continuedfrompage I formation is the best to learn from. I don't think you can know somebody unless you know ex- actly what they've (veterans) been through. That is what his- tory is about.\ Jamie Dobelle, Class of 1996, was excited to have the opportu- nity to be on the paneL She•also felt that it was wonderful to have the privilege to speak with Brokaw. Do belle feels that, \stu- dents don \t know enough about World War II. This issue is verj important and we as a generation can not fully understand the war\ because we did not personally go through it. Towards the end of the dia- logue, McCullough asserted that our generation has the backbone and the ideals to come together Tom Brokaw addresses students. (photo courtesJ! of UCPR) and fight for a common cause.\ This country doesn't function on its own. We all have to make it work. We are all leaders. We are the government of the people.\ Brokaw ended by commending the student panelists for their great knowledge and interest in World War II and promoting more edu- cation on this important topic. w B· R to Arr: tra< gre. una the hue que goi ha' cal on 20( $1! OV( rer Sta dei Th ' is t as De fla1 the pr< of: wh thlJ COl en to Na ca1 OV• De Gc to $2 an an an n ab thl da Sa ca cu vi so dr ed Stl ai• df th er vi h( te th je th

World News Budget Politics- America's Choice: Reform or Bank.ruptcy? ,---~--~~----~--------~----------~ by Matt Sandier World News Editor UCI\ ()-= -=()CUS With the failure of the Senate to pass the Balance Budget Amendment as part or'the ''Con- tract With America,\ and Con~ gress and the Presidency for years unable to proceed forward into the next fiscal year without huge budget deficits, the fundamental question is what is this country going to do? The Republicans have promised to approve a fis- cal plan that puts the Government on a glide path to balance by 2002, in addition to proposing $189 billion worth of tax cuts over five years. The ·question remains whether the United States will again fuel mounting deficits that fuel a raging debt. The important idea about the debt M~ STr\~ LOO taN' OU\ lOa. N~la ~£.. ' is that it is cyclical, meaning that as deficits mount the National Debt increases, which ticks up in- flation, hurts citizens and presents the need for social alleviation programs [i.e. Welfare or Cost of Living Adjustments (COLAs)] which cause higher deficits and, thus, the process spirals out of controL The Republicans, the Demo- crats, and the President are right to focus on the deficits and the National Debt. This profligacy can no longer be tolerated. With over a four trillion dollar National Debt, the interest paid out for . Government borrowing is close to $250 billi<Jn a year. That is $250 billion each year wasted, and we still owe the principal amount borrowed with interest amounting to over $4 trillion. That is tax money that is unavail- able for Discretionary spending; the money left over after Man- datory spending on the Debt, the Savings and Loan Bailout, Medi- care, Medicaid, and Social Se- curity. The lack of funds leaves virtual scraps for preventative social programs focused at chil- dren, poverty stricken families, education, job training, infra- structure, disease prevention, and aid to States for easing the bur- denoftheirdebt. However, with the Medicaid system and the Fed- eral-State program to the poor virtually bankrupt, and Medicare, health care for the elderly, en- tering bankruptcy by 2006, and the Social Security System pro- jected deficit of funds by 2025, the social safety net is as secure as the proposed Strategic Defense Initiative plan of successfully shooting down all incoming Bal- listic missiles attacking the United States. Some argue that as a percent- age of the Gross National Prod- uct, including Treasury Secretary Rubin, our deficit is the lowest percentage-wise of any industrial nation. Percentage-wise does not compare the budgets of each country, rather only the percent- age of debt to the budgets of other countries. This is not a helpful sign if the United States is to get its financial house in order. If one were to look throughout his- tory, a correlation would be found between the fail of Great Empires and neglected budget ledgers. America with debt is forced to rely on foreigners to bailout fiscal discrepancies, and the idea of the United States be- ing the \last superpower\ is no longer realistic. A Superpower must be strong militarily, politi- cally, and economically. The U.S. cannot operate in the world as a Superpower when we are so dependent. It is hypocritical to tell other nations to maintain fis- cal solvency when we run huge deficits year after year; the cri- sis will catch up with America. President Clinton's 1996 budget foresaw deficits of $200 billion a year through the year 2000. This is clearly unacceptable! There is debate with \some members of the Senate Budget Committee, including the chair- Attention all students!! Applications for committee positions for the 1995- 96 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 pm on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You may apply foras many positions as you like. Please add whether you intend to go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140. man, wanting to forgo tax cuts until they are sure that Congress approves a balanced-budget plan.\ As hard as it may sound, the idea of tax cuts is not com- patible with a balanced budget and should not be implemented. In order to have tax cuts, one must make the equal spending cuts to offset the lost revenue. If the Congress can make spending cuts, it should apply the savings to reduce the deficit, not taxes. With the crisis at near climax, it is not time to test the Supply Side Economics Theory. The Govern- ment must use sound and true economic principles to get out of the crisis. America must become fiscally sound; it must practice sound budgetary policies in the same way it forces countries like Mexico and Russia to do so. Americans hate taxes - that is a given, it is in our blood. How- ever, if politicians will break with constituents and their own self- ish views and act for the good of the country, America can balance its budget. It will be painful. A lot ofpeople will have to tighten their belts as the Government tightens theirs, but, so long as the tax burden is distributed fairly and clearly explained to the pub- lic, they will grudgingly agree. America acts best in a crisis, as a united front devoted to success. Our history is not one of failure, so why should we start now? The Concordiensis • May 4, 1995 • Page 5 Oklahoma, City: .,.. The terror investigation still continues, and in Washington the debate grows about the new Anti-Terrorism initiative sought by the President and members of Congress. This measure would give the F.B.I. greater authority to investigate potential domestic terror groups. International: ... An Iraqi tanker that sank in the Persian Gulf in 1991 could soon spill 1 00,000 tons of oil that is still trapped inside its cargo hold. ... chechen rebels launched a series of guerrilla attacks against Russian forces, killing 16 soldiers and wounding 30. Russian forces were sent in mid-December 1994 to prevent the breakaway republic from seceding. What ensued is a guerrilla war against the Russian forces who are conducting counter- insurgency operations against the Chechens rebels. ... A weakening dollar is raising the cost of operating U.S. embassies and conducting operations overseas. This is having an effect on this year's fiscal budget causing budgetary prob- lems in the State and Defense Departments. ... currency stabilization cooperation has become divided with the end of the Cold War. \The hard fact,\ one Administration official noted, \'is that we're all acting out of self-interest.\ ... Deputy Defense Secretary, John M. Deutch, is likely to be the next Director of the C.I.A. and Director of Central Intelli- gence (DCI). He is expected to unveil a total overhaul to reconfigure the remnants of a Cold War Agency. .... soviet Archives unleashed some dramatic Cold War secrets: *Proof of a direct order from the Soviet leadership to massa- cre Polish officers at Katyn Forest in Russia in 1941. *The Russian-language version of the secret protocol to the Nazi-Soviet pact in 1939. *Evidence that the Russians were undecided about invading Poland during the Solidarity years. *Proof that the Soviets had extensive information about the ill-fatedKorean Air Lines (KAL) 007, including the black box ofthe passenger jetliner shot down by Soviet fighters in 1983. *Evidence that Stalin ordered the North Korean invasion of South Korea in 1950. *Politburo sessions and meetings demonstrate how wary the Soviets were of committing forces to Afghanistan. A special Politburo report in April 1979, eight months before Soviet forces intervened, declared, \It is clear that due to the internal nature oftheanti-governmental opposition, the use of Soviet troops in repressing the Afghan counterrevolution would seriously damage the international authority of the U.S.S.R. and would set back the process of disarmament.

.Page 6 • May 4, 1995 • The Concordieusis Scjence & Medicine Low Fat Diets May Not Equal Good Health by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor A void fat, avoid sugar, and all will be well in your body, right? Perhaps not, says a British researcher who has just finished an extensive review of aH relevant litera- ture. Dr. Michael F. Oliver, emeritus pro- fessor at the Nation&! Heart and Lung In- stitute in London presented new interpre- tations of data at ·a conference at Rockefeller University. It has been rec- ommended that Americans cut their fat consumption to thirty percent of their di- ets. Oliver has concluded thatthe 30% fat goal has had no effect on cholesterol lev- els. Studies have also shown that the 30% goal has no effect in heart disease rates. Dr. Oliver was quoted: \We should face up to the fact that (the 30% goal) doesn't work.\ He also commented that a tremen- dous amount of money is spent in our nation's health care system in trying to get patients to comply with the 30% goal. If the 30% goal is ineffective, we have been, and are still wasting money. Other researchers have agreed with Dr. '0 0 ANOREXIA 'TREATMENT CEN1tR 0- - li - disease rates did decrease, but death rates remained the same for the population of subjects. The second study dealt with an experimental group that lost weight, cut fat and stopped smoking at the same time, so the effect ofthe 30% diet alone can not be seen. Other researchers have commented that the 30% rule was a compromise between what the American public found desirable, and what was the ideal for reducing risk of heart disease; a compromise between what was ideal and what was practical. The rule was intended to motivate people into con- suming less fat. Researchers indicate that although a 30% level has been touted at effective, a fat level of20% or less is even better. Cutting fat entirely is not an answer to the diet and health dilemma. Ifyoucon- sume less that 20% fat, your body will be- gin to make saturated fat, the worst kind of fat, from the carbohydrates you eat. Also, many doctors caution that some low- fat diets are dangerous. lfpeople prefer- entially cut saturated fat in their diets, their blood levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels (the good cholesterol that protects against heart disease) drops. Also, substituting carbohydrates (grains and pas- tas) lowers HDL levels and raises triglyc- eride levels, which increase heart disease risk. Oliver's conclusions, but have argued that some indirect evidence indicates that there are some benefits to the 30% fat diet, es- pecially in reducing heart disease. Re- searchers and public health officials have agreed that there isn't much evidence to support that benefits of the 30% diet, but they will not stop supporting the program. The chairman of the American Heart Association's Nutrition Committee, Dr. Neil J. Stone, has agreed that the 30% rule is not strict enough to make much of a dif- ference in people with a high heart disease risk, and may be too strict for healthy people, but is a good prod in getting the public to eat lees fat. Surveys of the Ameri- After some sixty years, .one of Hollywood's earliest sex symbols finally sought treatment for her eating disorder. As usual, the scientific community can agree on one thing: more research is needed to answer the tough questions posed when the low-fat diet is studied. Many practitioners also agree that Ameri- cans should attempt to reduce their dietary fat consumption or c~ntinue to eat in a low fat manner. can public have revealed that fat comprises 34% of the average American's diet. Dr. Oliver cited six studies in his attack of the 30% fat-rule. Each of the studies had looked at the effects of a low fat diet WHALE WATCH '95 Provincetown, Cape Cod May6& 7 Come join us for another adventure on the high seas. Leave Union on Saturday at 8 AM, arrive Marconi Beach at 2 PM. Enjoy an evening of sightseeing, shopping and eating in the former whaling port of picturesque Provincetown. Board the Dolphin Fleet V on Sunday for lunch and then back to Union by 9 or 10 PM. Cost of$35 includes bus, motel and whale watch. Make reservations with the Biology Department Secretary in room S&E 8324 (cash payment required at time of reservation). This adventure is sponsored and supported by the Biology Club. Questions may be directed to Professor Butterstein at X6327 on heart disease rates and cholesterol lev- els. Only in two studies, the 30% diet was shown to be linked to a reduction in heart disease rates. One study looked at a Finn- ish hospital population and found that heart Write for Science!!! Call Dennis at X6155 The Answer From Above: Lightening Disposes Waste by Dennis .Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Scientists at M.I.T. have looked to the sky to answer the questions of waste dis~ posal on this anniversary of Earth Day. Researchers have created a nitrogen-filled furnace and shoot 18,000 degree, man-made lightening bolts into garbage. turning toxic and municipal wastes into harmless blocks of glass. The powerful heat created in the furnace is responsible for changing the danger- ous material into a neutral substances. The decontamination occurs at the atomic level. Atoms of the harmful substance are blown apart and recombine into small, harmless compounds. . The plasma furnace, as it is called is totally environmentally friendly in that it gives off no toxic waste, such as dioxins or hazardous ash. The glass-like product of · the furnace can be used to pave roads or railroad beds. The cost of the furnace is also economically sound, processing toxic waste at $200 to $300 a ton. Current tech- niques cost upwards of$800 a ton. On this anniversary month of Earth Day, it is good to know that researchers are still working on keeping our environment clean. Upcoming Science Events: Thursday, May 4: 1:30pm: Speaker-Professor G. Fernando, \Functional Theory & Application Density\ Physics Colloquium, S&E NW 114 4:30pm: Speaker-Or. John Boyer, \Evolution of Altru- ism\ Biology Seminar, Social Sciences 103 Thursday, May 11: 1 O:OOam: Health Fair, CC Atrium 1:30pm: Physics Colloquium, S&E NW 114 h p VI it g fi ll p 0 s VI tl VI Cl ir d d c t( a A t} VI

Page 7 • The Coocordiensis • May 4, 1995 Business $ $ ''A Dollar is Just a Rectangle of Paper\ $ $ by Alex Joh11son Business Editor Many ask if the recent turbu- lence of our currency is truly a problem. Well, that depends on whom it is you ask. Many times it is a case of the grass being greener on the other side of the fence. Considerthe 1980's: Overthe most recent decade there were problems with the dollar being overvalued. James Baker, Bush's Secretary ofthe Treasury, set up ways throughout the world to let the dollar falL He collaborated with foreign central banks to con- cert their buying and selling in the international currency markets to drive the dollar lower. Hewastryingto lowerthetrade deficit by making our goods cheaper to foreigners. The in- tended effect was to reducing the amount of foreign goods that Americans bought and increasing the amount of U.S. goods that were bought by foreigners. Until 1971, the world was on the international gold standard. That was the year that the long standing Bretton Woods agree- ment was finally dismantled. In- stead of pegging the U.S. dollar to a set amount of gold, and other currenciesto the dollar, all nations would be allowed to operate on a 'floating exchange rate' system. If people thought that there were too many British Pounds in the Index vs. 19 Currencies -' 105.00 ,1--H--I--+-++-~H-t--+-i. 102.00 -4o\-...J---.j-,4-~+--'-ll--+-+--l 99.00 mar~et, then the oversupply would bring down the price of the pound relative to other currencies. While the U.S. maintained a low budget deficit and a negligible trade deficit, this was fine. The dollar was the World's currency. The late-eighties saw a steady· decline in the value of the dollar. Recently the damage has been quite abitworse. Inthelasttwelve months the dollar has dropped from trading at about 1 05 yen per dollar to around 80 yen. This is an enormous drop in such a short period of time. This happens in the currency markets when people are more interested in de- nominating their funds in other currencies. In this sense it is bad for our economy that people are \getting ouf' of dollars. Investors are selling dollars because of two mam fears: the U.S. Government's trade deficit, and the specter of inflation. Inflation is the punishment for having a strong economy. The economy is like going to bar with your cousin: you want her to be good looking, but not too good _..,...__,. 96.00 ~-- 90.00 87.Q:O looking. Once inflation gets past a certain point, only severe inter- est rate hikes will slow it down. When dollars are worth less compared to other currencies, our trade deficit will go down because U.S. made goods will be cheaper abroad. This effect is good for our economy, but will only occur if the dollar stays low in the long run. The reason is that short run fluctuations are figured into the day to day financial workings of companies. Long run fluctuations do effect he companies finances changing their buying power. In- flation is the down side to this dget deficit is another problem. $TOCKS Dow Jones FIFTH ANNUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM ,. I MAY 12 & 13, 1995 Friday, May 12- Oral Presentations 4:40-6:00 p.m. Banquet 6:30- 8:30 p.m. for Student Participants, Parents, Faculty Sponsors, Moderators and Prize Winners Steinmetz Symposium Concert 8:30- 9:30 p.m. Jazz Concert in Chet's 10:00 p.m. Saturday, May 13- Prize Day -10:00 a.m. Steinmetz Symposium- Poster and Arts Exhibition with Buffet Lunch 12:00 noon- 1:30 p.m. Oral Presentations 1:45- 3:05 p.m .. The Symposium begins at 4:40 p.m. on Friday with Session I, concurrent Oral Presentations. All speakers, prize winners, faculty sponsors and faculty moderators will be invited to a banquet in their honor at 6:30p.m. following the first session. Parents are encouraged to attend symposium and banquet. They will be charged a modest fee for their meal. Session II, the Steinmetz Symposium Concert, will be held in Memorial Chapel from 8:30- 9:30 p.m. Session III, a Jazz Concert will take place in Chet's at 10:00 p.m. Prize Day will take place Saturday m01ning at 10:00 a.m. followed by the President's Reception. The Symposium will con- tinue on Saturday with Session IV, Arts Exhibition and Poster Session in the Arts Building from 12:00 noon to 1:30 p.m. Included during Session IV will be a Buffet Lunch which will take place in the Arts Building court yard. Finally, Session V, Oral Presentations will run from 1:45- 3:05p.m. Last year, 14% of the Federal budget went to pay for the inter. est on our national debt. In com- parison, we spent 18% to pay for our national defense budget. AU the men,. all the ships, all the tanks, and all of the military bases cost just a bit more than we are now spending for interest pay- ments. It does not take a genius to figure out that we have spent ourselves into the doghouse. A weak dollar value translates into a possibl~ overheating of our economy as we try to satisfy de- mand from abroad. Secondly U.S. Stocks become cheaper and there- fore more desirable to foreign in- vestors. As a result of the deci- mation of the dollar, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has in- creased 12.7% since the begin- ning of the year. .Not coinciden- tally during the same time period, the dollar has declined 8.5% against the J.P. Morgan Index of 19 major currencies. In some ways the dollar still is the currency of choice. Business Week reports that 60% of the World's foreign exchange re- serves are in dollars. However, the Gennan mark, with it's strong central bank behind it, has be- come a close second. Nobody wants to lend to bad credit risks like the kind the United Sates of America is rap- idly becoming. For holding a dollar implies that you believe it wi!I be worth something at some- time in the future. But when in- flation and poor fiscal manage- ment allow the dollar to decrease in value, it does not seem like such a smart move to still hold that dollar. A dollar bill is really just a rect- angle of paper. Since 1971 it has not stood for anything material. William Gredier writes in his book, Secrets of The Temple: \Above all, money was a func- tion of faith. To create money and use it, each [person] must believe and everyone must believe. Only then [do] worthless pieces of pa- pertake on value.\ There is noth- ing but the trust placed in the Government which stops the dol- lar from falling even further. Our choices are evident : either we must shore up our balance sheet or take our chances with the fu- ture wrath of the currency mar- kets_ ' . Business Br'iefs Sou1·ce: Wall Street Joumal . - » The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 4321. 27, yet another new all-time high! »The U.S. economy grew at a 2.8% annual rate in the first quarter of 1995. This helps to allieviate the fears of inflation that have been present for some months »Though they don't even have players yet, the NBA expansion team Toronto Raptors are 7th in rankings of sales ofNBA merhandise. Better jump on the banadwagon now kids. »Packard Bell gained an adtiona11.4% of the U.S. Per- sonal Computer market in the first quarter 199 5. This puts them at a 12.7% share market and comfortably ahead of distant seconod IBM. We sfiip 6ook§ to Moms 'Evergwliere! Mother's Vag is Ma!J 14 'l11e Open 'Door tJ3ook§tore 128 Jay·St 346-2719 'Downtown Scftenectail '' ' I .'.· .,

?age 8 ·May 4, 1995 ·The Concordiensis The Student Newspaper of Uniorr. College Since 1877 Scllellectady 's Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Mathew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckellliller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF: Emily Battis, Vi nod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Meduri, Larry Paska, Billy Sha'kos, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler, Illisa Wood. OPIED . . EDITORIAL ' ' . ' \Individuals Should Not be Punished for Following Their Consci~nce\ In perhaps an idealistic world, everyone would have the right to practice their beliefs or voice their opinions without consequence (within certain reason and the law). Unfortunately, we live ina more \realistic\ world and often times individuals are ostracized or punished for acting on their beliefs. These consequences, in whatever form, occur not only at the international and national level but can also be seen here at Union College. Recent conflicts on the campus have resulted in forms of punishment, physical or mental, towards both students and faculty alike. Throughout our college career, we as students learn very quickly that there are many difficult decisions we have to make. By making these decisions and sometimes \tough calls,\ we develop our morals and value system while testing our conscience as well as our tolerance. Hopefully, everyone would agree that individuals should not be punished for following their conscience and .standing by their morals. If one were to disagree with this, then that individual should be completely prepared and ready to accept punishment for their actions of conscience and morals. Should those individuals who write \Letters to the Editor\ and voice their opinions be ostracized, silenced or punished because they have a different viewpoint than, let's say, yourself? If this punishment were to occur, it would be safe to say the victim's rights were infringed upon. How can society, whether it be nationally or locally, improve ifpeople are punished for acting on their conscience and practicing what they believe in? How will your conscience fare if you knowingly hurt someone simply because they have different values than you do? Also1 how would you feel if you were the individual being punished? Before making any judgements or rash decisions, an individual must consider the ramifications of their actions and how it will affect themselves and the people around them. Before punishing an individual, imagine yourself in the victim's proverbial shoes. Support for the Greek System. Greek Alumnus by Tony Lavecchia Opinions Editor Well boys and girls, we've come to that time of week again. Funny, it seems like I've spent the last four or five columns whining about the mandatory meal plan. I suppose that's because I have. Don't put the paper down, this is not yet another clever transition into a column about Marriott's incompetence. No, this week I'm actually going to think of some- thing different to write about My creativity, however, knows some limits. I would like to respond to some of the statements and opin- ions expressed in a letter to the editor last week about forcing all fraternities to go co-ed. It seems to me that the author of\The Greek System Should be Made Co-Ed\ is unfortunately misguided in his opinions about Greek life and the reasons it ex- ists. First of all, in responding to the charge that the Greek system is elitist, I will simply say that life is elitist, at a certain point you are going to have to get used to this reality. According to the author, not everyone who wants to be a member of a fraternity or soror- ity can be. Unfortunately, this is true, and in a perfect world it wouldn't be, but stop and think if anyone who wants to be a Union student is automatically admitted. No, some qualified candidates are inevitably rejected every year. So by saying the Greek system is el it- ist because it doesn't necessarily admit everyone who wants to be a part of it, the author seems not only to be implicating the Greek system, but the collegiate system in general In the next paragraph, the au- thor articulates the opinion that the Greek system segregates the campus and fosters disunity. He seems to think for this reason the Greek system should be abol- ished. It seems that the author here is presenting a \Ifwe can't join them, beat them\ approach to the Greek system. If everyone can't join, nobody should be able to. The author also uses the idea that some fraternities have better housing than sororities as further justification for abolishing the Greek system. This charge, too, is riddled with inconsistencies. Perhaps it's just my subjective opinion, but I think that Rich- mond is a much nicer dorm than South. Usingthe same logic and thought process as the author in his letter, it would seem that be- cause of this flagrant i·nequality we should abolish single sex housing and force all students to I ive equally and together. Clearly, however, this is not a practical option in the case of dormitories or Greek houses. From advocating the abolition of the Greek system, the author then seems to shift gears and speak about a more general prob- lem of sexism at Union. While this may be a problem, I think it is foolish to think that it is one created or even promoted by Greek life. Heseemsto think that the Fraternity system is a \Sexist tradition.\ Interesting, I didn't think women attended Union when fraternities were founded. I suppose that when they were founded 170 years ago on an all male campus the author expected the founders to go into the town of Schenectady and recruit women. Certainly a disparity exists in the availability of Greek options on campus. The answer to solv- ing this problem, however, is not to strip the Fraternities of their brotherhood and force people who don't necessarily want to live in a co-ed environment to do so. The answer is to do two things. First, allow all those who wish to make their fraternity co-ed to do so. The second is for the college and dis- satisfied women of this campus to strive to start more sororities. Each and every one of us on campus would like to see a more tolerant society in general and at Union. Unfortunately, as history has shown us repeatedly the way to accomplish this is not to force people together. By allowing people the option to live together, those who are open to change are given the opportunity to make it. I think the main product of forc- ing fraternities to go co-ed would be resentment Certainly, that is a result that would benefit no one. It seems that the author is point- ing to co-ed housing as a pana- cea. We could solve date rape, hazing and inequality in a push of a button. Unfortunately, easy so- lutions to complex problems sel- dom work or even address the actual roots of the problem. If I am being defensive about the Greek system, perhaps it is only because it is being attacked un- fairly and without warrant. Some- day equality will be realized be- tween men and women on cam- pus. Unfortunately. this is not the channel that it will be accom- plished through. Criticizes Meal Plan Decision Copy of a letter sent to President Hull: Your decision to impose the institutional meal plan on all students is misguided at best. For the last decade, Union's food service has been unable to produce a quality product at a reasonable price. No wonder that students get off the meal plan as soon as possible. Rather than impose an ineffective institutional food service on all Union students, I think it would be wiser to, to coin a phrase, \Reinvent\ the way food service is done. As a federal employee, I am aware that this--can be temporarily painful to all parties involved, however, the benefits can be great in the long run. First find out why food service is not being profitable and productive and then downsize, reinvent, employ total quality management tactics, in other words, FIX IT! If food service can not survive the free market so be it. Forcing all students to partake in the meal plan, effectively ending the meal plans at the fraternities and sororities, is yet another mis- take in your misguided tenure. (Similar, in my mind, to closing GMA extension programs, the only profitable program Union offered.) These meal plans do work. My fraternity consistently served better food than the school at a better price. If food was not up to par, the steward and cook heard about it and were replaced if they did not respond. Not once did I hear anybody lament that they wished to be back on the school's meal plan. Finally, I request that you personally explain to each of the cooks who are losing their jobs why this is being done. Many of the cooks on campus have worked at a single house far before you arrived on campus and, to the members ofthe various houses are far more than casual employees, they are friends, confidants, and, in some cases, members. Losing them will offer many alumnae yet one less reason to return to campus. Sincerely, S. Bradford Doyle('89) IMPORTANT! Day students registering for summer courses must have the signature of their advisor on the registration form. Registration begins on May 22nd, in Fero House OJ I 1 My F toy terl sch tnCI nit) due and l alii hav Gre ha\ NO' ofe and in h aw~ tim met wh; sue in ~ per wer T wa~ Eur the cati Eur dor my divi all< \mt AR FIN hav~ and maJ I

. ._., ,,. .. ~ ,, ..... ., ............ . OP/ED The Concordiensis · May 4, 1995 · Page 9 . • ' I ' ' . _ LETTERS - _- . -. ' ' ' . ' . . ' - ' . ' ' ' ' : ~ei THINK Wr=i'VFI 1=0\.)tlt) T\-\E$0\JI1.C~ oF 'lOUR ?Ail-l, I?Rt'&\t>EiNi ~\lLL, '\ TO MY CONFUSED- McCANN My Dear McCann: First of all, let me make it clear to you that as a Black Greek Let- ter Member who's enrolled in this school, I do not appreciate you incorporating me and my frater- nity into a system that's not con- ducive to us as People of Color and to what we represent. You must understand that not all Greek systems are alike. We have the Black Greeks, the Latina Greeks, the Asian Greeks and you have the Eurocentric Greeks. Now, let me give an explanation of each. Basically, Black, Latina and Asian Greeks were founded in hopes of promoting a cultural awareness and to rekindle an in- timate contact with its involved members. We must not forget what conditions were I ike for sue), groups during such a time in history (Most Greek Systems pertaining to People of Color were founded in the early 1900s). The Eurocentric Greek System was obviously founded on a Eurocentric (European culture as the prototype of cultural identifi- cation) basis and to promote Eurocentrism in !ts members. I do not contest such a motive, but my disturbance comes when in- dividuals like yourself combine all Greeks at Union to be one big \melting pot.\ The fact is, WE ARE AS SEPARATE AS THE FINGERS OF THE HAND. We have isolated goals and objectives and there's a GREAT danger in making statements that place all of us under one umbrella. I am not a separatist but just one who's deeply intertwined with his culture and cannot be placed under a Greek system that denied me and my people access during its original devel- opments. Oh! By the way, you'll be pleased to know that Black Greeks(l use Black Greeks here because I do belong to such a group and it's where I have abundance knowledge to such an issue) are technically co-ed. The ALPHA KAPPA ALPHAS are reflected (sister sorority) by ALPHA PHI ALPHA. DELTA SIGMA THETA is reflected by OMEGA PSI PHI, ZETA PHI BET A is reflected by PHI BETA SIGMA, etc. Thus, my question to you is, where don't you see the exchange? You must be careful what Greek system you're referring to. If your com- ments are directed towards the Eurocentric Greek System then I refrain from speaking about issues that only they could do justice to. But if you are imply- ing all Greeks (Black Greeks included), then you must check your history of ALL sororities and fraternities before you reach an \appropriate\ conclusion. My fraternity (and I'll be brave to say all Minority Greek Organizations) will not and refuse to follow in the footsteps of KA and D Psi D because of the DIFFERENCE IN PER- SPECTIVES. Why should we (Minority Greeks) equate our his- tory and our cultural foundation to theirs? Why should we sacrifice our identities as people of color to better a society that has culturally assaulted us? You must attain a global perspective on such an is- sue (of course Union is not the place for an adequate global edu- cation because the current muticultural program here is tooth- less) ·before you put pen to paper. This is not to belittle your idea but to make you aware that since you may not see Black Greek let- ter members in great numbers here at Union, doesn't mean that we don't exist. Look closely (with both eyes) and you may gain some cultural knowledge. Turn your eyes away and you might become similar to the \living-dead\ (people so deviated from reality that they are clueless as to how to socialize with people that may look differ- ent from them. For them, it is \I'll pay $26000/yr. so that I can be like a \parrot.\) that we encounter ev- eryday on this campus. And I cannot emphasize this enough, watch what groups you include in this fabricated plan of yours. After all why should I (we) become part of a system that never welcomed me and my people initially? And to this, I say adieu. Respectfully, KOJOATTAH Attention Clubs: For those who have not received a budget request, please stop in at Student Activities Office 408 CC to receive one. \Nice. Try,\ President Hull Dear President Hull~ Nice try ... beautiful attempt at rationalizing a poor management decision. Do you honestly think that anyone is going to accept the decision to impose a mandatory institutional meal plan, as a wise fiscal move? I was a biology major and even I understand the eco- nomics behind the college food service's long slide into the red. The problem was apparent ;t least eight years ago when the Skellar was shut down for breakfast because they were doing a better job, and meal credits were being used too heavily at the \alternative\ meal sites on campus. The meal plan was/is an expensive option unless you are an \all you can eat , nondiscriminating, multiple servings\ appetite. The fact that students are smart enough to realize how costly this is, and wish to seek a better alternative at a more reasonable price should be telling you something. I fit was a good system, the students would want to be a part of it. Making something mandatory does not make it better. In fact, it probably does just the opposite~ but then again, you don't have to eat there. Now there's a fundraising idea, let's put everyone in the administration on the meal plan too, I'll bet that would raise money! As a member of a fraternity I find it even more insulting that you couch your decision in an \equity\ facade, trying to finger greek or- ganizations as having some biased privilege because of their group dining arrangements. As I recall, there were plenty of my friends who lived in North College and Hickok House (at the time, a male dorm) where a kitchen and simple cooking facilities were housed, that cooked for themselves at a fraction of the school plan's expense. In addition, Smith House had. it's own cooperative meal plan system where duties and cost were shared between residents, that also out- performed the school dining system in economic and culinary per- formance. These opportunities were utilized and enjoyed by non-greek affiliated students, not to mention all of the students who organized their own meals singly or in groups in apartments off-campus. I think that student initiative in organizing and/or preparing their meals should not only be a1lowed to continue, but should be encouraged. Oh, but you do have a point: How much better it is to graduate a group of individuals who have no experience in cooking meals and balancing proper nutrition for themselves. That's just what America needs to- day, a generation of fast-food patrons. The administration's approach to rectifying student housing va- cancies was to make more students live on campus. Likewise, now the powers-that-be see a business that can't compete and the solution is to make participation mandatory at a cost to the least powerful player involved~ the students. Where does it end? Maybe you can design a mandatory uniform that the library can sell. or mandatory book bags sold by the Student Activities Office. Year by year, Union College's Administration continues to make decisions about and for the students, that effectively treats them like incapable school chil- dren. As an alumna I resent it and I hope the students on campus start showing the administration who they work for and why they are there. Sincerely, Donna Lynne Doyle Class of '89 CROSSTALK! How Will \U\ Like the Semester System? Panel: Professors: Teresa Meade, History Peter Tobiessen, Biology Students: Samuel Cousins '98 Sarah Ruth Evans '97 Wednesd~y, May 10 7 PM in Chet's I I - I I

· Page 10 ·May 4, 1995 • The Concordiensis Arts· & Entertainment King's Singers to Perform courtesy of Proctor's publicity The King 's Singers bring their seamless blend of voices and rich, varied repertoire to Proctor's The- atre on May 7 at 8 pm. The six Englishmen known as The King's Singers enjoy a repu- tation as one ofthe world's most sought-after and highly ac- claimed vocal ensembles. Their universal popularity stems from their unique ability to communi- c.ate the sheer enjoyment of sing- ing any music they perform, whether it is a 16th century mad- rigal, a world premiere, a Japa- nese folksong or one of their trademark close harmony top-40 hit arrangements. Since their inception at King's College, Cambridge, in 1968, The King's Singers have developed one of the broadest and most di- verse repertoires ofany interna- tional singing group. In addition to many works they have com- missioned from outstanding con- temporary composers, they have compiled a library of the finest music from around the world - both classic and popular, sacred and secular - from the 1500's through the 1990's, thus taking their audiences on a virtual tour through music history at each concert. The King's Singers annually bring their unique combination of musical excellence, charisma and fun-1oving style to sold out recital and orchestral venues across the globe. Millions of Americans know them from numerous guest appearances on The Tonight Show, and via several specials in- cluding: an Emmy-award win- ning ABC Christmas special with Julie Andrews, Placido Domingo and John Denver; a six-part A&E series entitled The King's Sing- ers Madrigal History Tour; and such popular PBS programs as The King's Singers Onstage At Wolf Trap and Evening at Pops with the Boston Pops. With over 60 recording~ and a Grammy nomination to their credit, The King's Signers recent discography on the RCA/BMG Classics label reflects their eclec- Mountebanks to Present Noon by Max Yutusis Concordiensis Staff The Mountebanks, Union's theater club, is planning a show for Springfest '95. \Noon by Terrence McNally will be per- formed in the area between the college center and the perform- ing arts building on Sunday, May 28, at2 pm. \Noon\ is from the \Morning Noon and Night\ one-act play collection. Each of the shows can be performed separately since they all have an individual set of characters and plots. \Morning\ was written by Israel Horovitz, and \Night\ was written by an- other playwright, Leonard Melfi. The shows were performed to- gether on Broadway in 1968-69. \Noon\ is entirely put-together by students. The talented cast has been rehearsing daily for the past three weeks. Set design is by se- nior, Brianna Patnode. Freshman student, James Naumes, is stage manager and technical director. The comedy begins with two characters in a depressed New York city apartment. These strangers answered personals in search of intimate relations. Oth- ers appear on stage later, two fe- males and another male, each looking for fun. The delightful Stephanie Kuehn will play Allegra- the sweet, young woman who an- swers. an advertisement to get even with her husband. Ned Abbott, with years oftheaterex- perience under his belt, will por- tray Kerry. Josh Kane will use his acting ability to win acclama- tion as Asher. The always capti- vating Nate Coffin is cast oppo- site the enchanting Lisa Schneider as the dominating, sadomasochistic couple, Cecil and Beryl. The cast and crew of \Noon\ are excited and looking forward to performing. Rumor has it that the director of this show is un- usually brilliant. tic-ism, ranging from a collection of previously unrecorded chan- sons of Renaissance composer Josquin Desprez, to the quintes- sential Britishness of Gilbert & Sullivan in a disc titled, Here's a Howdy Do, and the Billboard's best-selling album Chanson d 'Amour, featuring international love songs from four centuries. Variety states, \The King's Singers are the Rolls Royce of barbershop quartets - with six voices... Their sound is volup- tuous enough to seduce even the harshest critic. Their repertoire ranges from medieval folk songs to works written for them by lead- ing contemporary composers and · to fresh arraflgements of show tunes and pop songs. Their art- istry and musicality continue to remain on the highest level.\ Tickets for The King's Singers at Proctor's Theatre on May 7 at 8 pm: $25.50, $22.50, and $18.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office, (518) 346-6204, and at all TicketMaster locations. The King's Singers are underwritten by Borders Books and Music. The Visual Arts Department presents Guest Lecturer . KERMIT CHAMPA Professor of Art History at Brown University who will speak on Curating \Tile Rise of Landscape Painting in France • eJChibition Thursday, May 4, 1995 1:30pm Arts Building .215 Free and Open to the Public IEF Funded Lecture \ESCAPE FROM FOSDICK\ by Alicia Quintano An evening of humor & insight for men & women on the issues of identity, sex, food & love. A special focus on Eating Disorders Thursday, May 4th at7:30 pm in Coll~ge Center Auditorium Free of Charge Sponsored by 'the Student Health Committee I j 1 a\ m G PI Tl b€ m th de; m bl. ne su ki irr in to: fn m: m: do 6C pt. cit L€ Fu sir di

Arts & Entertainment Some Favorite Sexual Fantasies of Celebrities by Leena Mllnkad & Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editors What turns your favorite celebrity on? America's celebrities have fantasies that are beyond this world, and we've taken the · time to uncover some of them for you with actual quotations. And you thought the Arts and Entertainment section was just some- thing you flipped through to get to the Sports section .... ALEC BALDWIN: \Manhattan was the city ofmy dreams when I was growing up on Long Island. And, being a devout hetero- . ·. sexual, strongly drawn to successful women, my fantasy was to get to New York as quickly as possible and find me a really hot looking woman lawyer. When I finally made it to the city, I was , pleased to discover it was filled with all kinds of professional women. So much for my limited teenage sex fantasy.\ · STING: \My fantasies about women began at a very early age. • Frankly, I adore women. I think their vastly superior to men in · almost every way. And there's a fine line, I'm convinced, be- tween womanizing and appreciation. I've probably crossed the line a few times. Like that one term I spent in my teens at the University ·of Warwick. I screwed everything in sight- and when . I'd been through the entire faculty, I left.\ Remember, Sting can go for eight hours too ... JEAN- CLAUDE VANDAMME: \I fantasize about a woman who's a great cook- is there such a person? But between a good cook and a bad woman, I prefer a good woman and a bad cook. To have both, that's difficult.\ JERRY SEINFELD: \I think to have sex with Madonna would be really fun. Because I'd love to just hitch up my pants afterwards and say, 'I'll bet you thought that was really something else, huh?\ GLENN CLOSE: \My fantasies have changed. At one time, I made the mistake of becoming a pleasing machine to the men in my life. But what excites me now is the Katherine Hepburn school of relationships-that .is, love someone but don't marry him, let him live. next door. What I want to be now is a great neighbor.\ GARRY SHANDLING: \What you learn as a kid can give you weird fantasy about sex. One time, I remember, I asked my mother exactly what happened between the male and the female in sex. And she said, 'Go look at the dogs in the front yard,' have you ever seen two dogs copulating? To this day, I'm afraid of being hosed down while making love.\ The Concordiensis • May 4~ 1995 •Page 11 Cornell to Speak on Figuration Courtesy of the Visual Arts Department Renowned painter Thomas Cornell will be a visiting artist at Union onThursday, May 11. At 11:20 AM in Arts Building 215, He will give a lecture titled: \Figuration: Is There a Case for an Authentic Modern Class i- cism?\ The event is sponsored by the Department of Visual Arts and the Minerva Committee of Union College, forming part of the \Figurative Issues\ series of exhibitions and lectures, planned in conjunction with the bicenten- nial of the college. The lecture is open to the public and free of charge. Thomas Cornell's \classically\ conceived landscapes with figuFes offer a vision of a new reality, through essentially optimistic images of commanding vitality.. He takes the stand of artist as cultural critic, posing subtle al- legories on social behavior. His work is noted for mastery in painting, drawing, and printmaking. The core issues of his painting stem from etchings he made in the 1960's dealing with the radical socialist Gracchus Babeuf [guillotined following ~e French Revolution], followed by a series on Frederick Douglass and portraits of other leaders of the civil rights movement, which in turn led to his involvement with the image ofDionysos. His genu- inely humanistic outlook pitches from the temporary to the time- less, randomness to order, 'fin- ished' to 'unfinished,' adding up to a conception of humanity ca- pable of existing in a harmonious symbiotic relationship with the environment. In his system, Cornell maintains tension keep- ing an ever-wary eye on overly rigid systems of belief and ratio- nality, misguided notions of progress, and authoritarian .pre- scriptions. In his work, serenity and optimism coexist with con- tradiction and dissonance . Thomas Cornell has shown through the G. W. Einstein Gal- lery in New York City for over ten years, prior to which he was represented by Sachs Gallery. A highly selected list of group ex- hibitions in which he has partici- pated includes the Rhode Island School of Design, Home Box Office corporate headquarters, Maryland Institute, Robert Schoelkopt Gallery [NYC], Uni- versity of Virginia, and the Na- tional Portrait Gallery in Wash- ington, DC. Selected public col- lections holding his work include: Bank of Boston, Bibliotheque Nationale, Chemical Bank, Cleveland M11suem of Art, Mu- seum of Mod em Art, MIT, Rodale Press, the National Gal- lery of Fine Arts [Wash., DC], plus the universities of Califor- nia [Santa Barbara], Harvard, Nebraska, North Carolina [Greensboro], Princeton, and Yale. In 1986, Cornell com- pleted his monumental Four Sea- sons series of paintings for the John Hancock building in Boston. Since 1964, Thomas Cornell has been on the fine arts faculty of Bowdoin College, where he currently serves as department chair. He received his under- graduate education from Amherst College and later attended Yale University School of Art and Ar- chitecture. He resides and works in Maine. This lecture is free and open to the public. AN EVENING WITH EDWARD ...------____..,.--___, VILLELlA & DANCERS FROM THE MIAMI CITY BALLET IN A LECTURE/PERFORMANCE Tickets: Saturday, May 6, 1995 8:30 PM, Memorial Chapel General Public- $10.00 Free to Union College Community w/ college I.D. Box Office: 388-6545 Presented by the Union College Department of Performing Arts Hey Man ••• Smell My Finger: George Clinton's P-Funk courtesy of Parliament/Funkadelic \Once upon a time .. .in a far- away parallel universe, existed a intergalactic humbug between GOOD and EVILE. And in Planet Splurge, Funk became THE FORCE to alter the cosmos beyond the limits oftime and di- mension!\ This quote taken from the liner notes to One Nation Un- deraGroov. So the vision was born, from a memory as ancient as DNA, blasted into consciousness by ge- netic voodoo and a tiny dab of sunshine. Funk, which had been kicking around since the time immemorial, metamorphosed into contagious ribaldry of elec- tor P-Funk, the surefire way to free your mind so your bootie may follow. Parliament, a five- man suit-wearing New Jersey doowop group formed in the early 60's, rediscovered their outer planetary roots and the twin prin- ciples of rhythm and business. Led by the visionary Dr. Funkenstein (or George Clinton), singers and players of instruments cJ.imbed onboard the Mothership sometime in the mid-70's and transformed into the bejeweled, bewigged and becostumed freaky fashion/music icons of psychedlia. A decade or so later, after the hippies seceded to the yippies and the yippies to the hip hop nation, the Mothership makes another pass. Hey Man ... Smell My Finger, Clinton's most recent release, bears the gift offunkitude and in- troduces the Zen of \maximumisness the P-Funk take in ultimate beingness. Con- temporary converts to the fold such as Prince, vocalist N'Dea Davenport, Red Hot Chili Pep- pers' Anthony Keidis and Flea, rappers Dr. Dre, Humpty Hump, Ice Cube, JC 00 I , MC Breed, and Yo- Yo reported to the Mothership for this one to give up maximum funk alongside their spiritual daddy. What is funk? And if you ain't got it, how can you get it? Everybody's got it,\ says Clinton, \You may not be in touch with it because of your environment or your upbringing, or you may not want to deal with it. You may want to be more chronological and orderly. Funk is just state of mind where you do your best and that's it! You ain't got to feel guilty, you ain't got to feel noth- ing but you did your best. That's the basic philosophy, and it trans- lates all the way down into every- thing. It's a form of hanging loose. Ifwe had that in most of our life, it would be so easy to do what we do and let go. And we'd probably do it right more often.\ Even as a teenager, George Clinton was about rhythm and business. He did hair in a barber shop and hired himself out at a local hula hoop factory under \ex- tra\ social security cards, collect- ing salaries while farming the piecework out to neighborhood kids for a piece of the action. Other guys put their money into $700-800 suits and Cadillacs of dubious origin. But Clinton's profits went into the studio, where he recorded trendy doowop tracks. In the mid-60's, Clinton con- vinced the Parliaments to move to Detroit, in hope ofbeing signed by Berry Gordy. Motown did sign the group, then shelved them, fearing they were too much like The Temptations. By 1967, Par- liament was under contract to Detroit-based Revilot Records, where Clinton penned and re- corded a top 20 hit, .. (1 Wanna) Testify,\ followed by \All Your Goodies Are Gone.\ While the group was on tour, juicing their vinyl success, they learned their label had gone out of business. After a protracted legal battle robbed Clinton ofthe right to the use of the name Par- liament, he created Parliament- Funkadelic, \Parliament\ show- casing the vocals, \Funkadelic\ featuring them usicians. The rest is pop culture history; a history consisting of four hour- long bacchanal shows. Landing the Mothership in Times Square in 1977, then jetting crosstown to play outside the United Nations at 4:30 in the morning was the first. Then the historic I 978 Madison Square Garden gig' with visions of long, lanky Bootsy Collins viewing the world through his \Bootzilla\ shades, wearing that big goofy grin and teaching a generation how to play bass. Finally, we have Garry Shider in diapers, ripping bravura lead guitar riffs, and the Horny Horns smoothing the transition from \Cold Sweat\ to \Give Up The Funk (Tear The Roof off The Sucker), 11 In the '80's,excess of various types stalled the Mothership for a while. But back home in De- troit, P-Funk never stopped cut- ting music. Hip hop sampling has brought P-Funk back. \Most of the art- ists they sample don't know that it's good for them,\ Clinton says. \Otherwise you're dead when they finally bring your music back. With the money from their samples, I was able to pay off the internal revenue.n \I'm making it easyforthem,\ adds the most sampled man in re- corded history, 'Tve put out a record called 'Sample Some Of Disc, Sample Some OfDA T,' to make sure sam piing stays around.\ Hey Man. .. Sme/1 My Finger is George Clinton's declaration of musical immortality. Typically it's organized chaos overlays a focused agenda. These days Cl in- ton is interested in the media, \at who points the finger at whom, who tells us our perspectives and pointsofview.\ Hesays, \'Cause that person shapes our own. thoughts and perspectives. The way new is printed, the way news is slanted, it dictates to us how to think and feel aboutthings. With- out saying it directly, most of the songs have that in mind.\

Page 12 • May 4, 1995 • The Concordiensis Pre-Scheduling Information 1995--96 FALL TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, MAY 12. Students should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. EVERY STUDENT IS RE- QUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAV AIL- ABLE, STUDENTS SI-IOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRPERSON OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses, and are indicated on the course listing by a (Y). Lists for the courses will be posted by the departments on MONDAY, MAY 15. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, MAY 19 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must obtain a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. Students are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30P.M. ON MONDAY, MAY 22 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE AL- LOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. Students must see a staff member in the Registrar's Office to preschedule courses. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling form. Students may NOT preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However, they can come any time AFTER their appo-intment time. PRESCHEDULING WILL CON·CLUDE ON FRIDAY, MA.Y 26. Additional course changes may be mad.e during the \drop/ add\ period at Registration in September at the Field House. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Fall Term, except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Fall term do not need to preschedule their courses. Fall term course prescheduling will take place from TUESDAY, MAY 23- FRIDAY, MAY 26 at the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. WOMEN'S NIGHT II AT THE RATHSKELLER AN EVENING OF THE SPOKEN WORD, POETRY, AND DRAMATIC READINGS SATURDAY, MAY 6TH STARTING AT 9 PM FOOD, BEER AND WINE AVAILABLE OPEN TO ALL WOMEN ALL CAMPUS FREE BARBECUE HOT DOGS, BURGERS, SALADS AND GARDEN BURGERS, TOO, FOR AbL YOU VEGET ARJANS! FRIDAY, MAY 5TH 4- 7:30PM AT CHET'S FREE FOOD THE BAR WILL BE OPEN PREMIUM BEER SPONSORED BY CHET'S, DINING SERVICES, AND THE COLLEGE CENTER Ca

Calendar . The Concordiensis • May 4, 1995 • Page 13 CALENDAR5/4/95- 5/11/95 Thursday, 05/04/95 1 :JOp Lecture/Exhibit: Kermit Champa, Curating· \The Rise of Landscape Painting in France,\ ARTS 215 1 :30p Speaker: Prof. G. Fernando, \Functional Theory & 3:30p 4:00p 4:30p Application Density,\ S&E NW 114 NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 Voice Mail Training, CC 409 Speaker: Prof. Dr. John Boyer, \Evolution of Altruism, ss 103 5 :OOp Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 6 :OOp Spring Fest Committee, CC 409 6 :OOp SHPE Meeting, CC 204 6:00p Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p Housing Lottery, Residence Life, HH OLD CHAPEL 6:45p IFC Meeting, CC 302 7:00p Teaching of Israeli Dancing, NOTT MEMORIAL 7.:00p Big Brothers/Big Sisters, CC 410 7:30p We Care About U Schenectady, CC 409 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8 :OOp Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 9:00p Israeli Independence Day Reception, CC MOBIL (406) 9:00p International Beer Fest, CHET'S Friday, 05/05/95 10 :OOa Sigma Iota Alpha Fundraiser, CC ATRIUM 11 :OOa Crop _Walk Recruiting, CC ATRIUM 11 :OOa Youth Olympics Fundraiser, CC ATRIUM 12:15p Division IV Meeting, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 222 1 :O.Op Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ 1 08 2:00p Voice Mail Training, CC 409 2:00p COSA Meeting, CC 205 3:30p Faculty Research Seminar, Economics Department, SOCIAL SCIENCES 110 4:00p American Association of T~achers of French, 4:00p 4,:JOp 5:00p 6:30p 7:00p 8:00p CC AUDITORIUM TGIF, CHET'S Term in···washington Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 1 04 Mountebanks, CC 302 Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE Ludlow House Comedy Film, Abbot & Costello, CHET'S 10:00p All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday, 05/06/95 9:00a Shaker Workshop, CC MOBIL (406), CC PATIO 1 0:30a Edward Villella Master Class, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) 1 :OOp Magic Card Tournament, Adventurer's Guild, CHET'S 6:00p Edward Villella Dance Dinner, CC UPPER CLASS DINING HALL 8:30p Edward Villella & Dancers Performance, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 10 :OOp Mega Phi Beta, HH OLD CHAPEL Sunday, 05/07/95 I :OOp Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, Non-alcoholic Picnic, CC PATIO 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Figure Skating Club, SOCIAL SCIENCES 110 I 0 :OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday, 05/08/95 I2: 15p Political Science Meeting, CC 204 3 :OOp Solicitor's Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Oral Presentation Meeting, HUMANITIES 019 4:30p Modern Dance-Section II, PERFORMING ARTS 5: 15p 5:30p 6:00p 6:00p 6:00p 6:30p STUDIO ( 1 08) Residence Life, CC 205 CPR Class, SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 Talk by Rose Gong, East Asian Studies & ASU, CC 203 Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Lecture: Joan Jacobs Brumberg, Women's Studies, CC AUDITORIUM 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee. Meeting, CC 409 I O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Tuesday, 05/09/95 8:30a 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union Meeting, CC 204 11 :OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 204 11 :OOa Committee on Teaching, HUMANITIES 019 1 I :OOa Educational Studies Seminar, CC 205, 302, 409, and HH DINING ROOM ll.:30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p Schaffer Library Book Sale, SCHAFFER LIBRARY 1ST FLOOR 2:00p 12:30p 12:30p 2:00p 3:45p 4:30p 5:00p 5:30p 6:00p 6:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 313 Committee on Teaching Luncheon, CC 203 Managers' Meeting Dining Services, CC 204 Commencement Committee Meeting,CC 203 Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 Newman Club Bar-B-Q, CC PATIO and JACKSON'S GARDENS Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) U B Glad, CC 204 Housing Lottery, Residence Life, HH OLD CHAPEL Ballet I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL ( 406) Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:3 Op The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Here's to U Meeting, CC 302 8:3 Op Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS (305) I O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Wednesday, 05/10/95 8 :OOa Schenectady 2000 Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 12:00p Finance Office Meeting, CC 203 12: 15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 3 :3 Op Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Intro to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 5 :OOp Meditation Group, CC 302 6:00p Modern Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I08) 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and 014 6:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 3I3 7:00p Diversity Workshop, Peer Facilitators, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p 9:00p 9:00p ro:oop Crosstalk: \How Will U Like the Trimester System?\ CHET'S Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Lip Sync, CHET'S \Not a Love Story\ Film, Women's Union, CC AUD. All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Thursday, 05/11195 8:00a Internship Meeting, Educational Studies, HH OLD CHAPEL 9:00a 9:00a 9:00a 1 O:OOa i I :30a 12:00p 12:00p 12:00p 12:30p Dean of Students Staff Meeting, CC 205 Public Relations/ Annual Fund Staff Meeting, CC 203 Software Demonstration, CC 409 Health Fair, CC ATRIUM Campus Ministry Meeting, CC 205 Spanish Language Table, CC 302 \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) U Call Luncheon, HH DINING ROOM German Language Table, CC 203

' Page·14 • May 4; 1995 • The Concordiensis To my favorite fytes- Congratulations! -master Sperm Bank Clinic: See us over at 2nd floor of the House of David Congratulations nu class! -your brothers Jon- Your mom is waiting for the call. -BM Waldo- You freak! -Tittykaka A/1- Thanks for the party. The band was great. -L!1T To the brothers of Chi Psi- Thanks for the delicious barbe- cue and the great bash! It was a great idea, maybe we'll do it \EZ\AZ- Thanks for keeping your clothes on this weekend. Keep on truckin'. Stalin lives and sharks are cool. Love, your communist friends Scott- I am so glad you came to chappy. I had the time of my life. But do you have to graduate so soon! Love, \your little redhead\ Rachel & Tricia- You guys are the best. Thanks for all that you've done. Dearest Lili, Well Liza there are only a few weeks left, and then we'll be pre- paring for the Manor. I hope you're getting excited. Happy 20th birthday to you. Get ready for a fun surprise. I lov~ you. -Your loving pen pal Treeshy Dear Barbara & Amy, Benzino Benzino Chow Chow! Love, Liza & Treesh APARTMENT FOR RENT 4 Bedroom with Bathroom & Kitchen 1 Block away from school Quiet Neighborhood Washer & Dryer Free Cable & Parking 1039 Park A venue Call Today before it is too late! (800) 806-6755 Dimitrios Gatanas The Garnet Year book will be selling personal space for 1995 Garnet Year book in the College Center all next week. Messages can be sent to Underclassmen or to say good-bye to the SENIORS. Seniors especially should stop by the table! If you have not bought the 1995 Garnet Yearbook, time is running out. Stop by CC 408 ASAP. Books are $50 Maybe I'm come entertain you. - Love, Twin A Risa & Colleen - Being inspired is a very enlight- ening experience. However you never know when to expect it. Love, your big sisters Roomie- Thank you so much for the rose. It means a lot. I'm sorry i fi have been too caught up with my own stuff. I miss just hanging out- have I said that l ;000 times be- fbre? I love you! -D JR- You can't leave me! What will I ever do without my comic relief and cartoonist? Good luck at States. -Sedwich To my favorite rowers- . Have fun at States. You guys wi II do great. -OS Personals/Ciassifieds-- Make great Christmas $in Con- GRADS necticut. Award winning retail or soon to be! Looking for a shop in New Canaan, CT is now change or something new? Na- accepting applications for Xmas tiona! Company looking for tal- sales help. $8/hr, 40hr week. ented individuals with positive Ple~se call Ray for more info@ attitude, teachable and motivated Pennyweights Jewlery Store. a must. Training provided. For (203) 966-7739 more information call452-9749 _Secure your job today! ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! Up to $500 weekly. Choose subject matter. For more details call: (206) 362-4304 ext E041 Students interested in ushering for Commencement, June 11, please see Mrs. Marra in cc 408. VAIL PARK CLEANUP S3turday, May 6th Raindate: Saturday, May 13th 9:00am - 4:00pm Come anytime! Refreshments Provided! Main Entrance: Nott Terrace, between , Days Inn & 4 Season Wear Long Pants & Shirts Any Questions? Call Jim @ 347-4251

__ .._.!!A - Page I 4 • May 4, 1995 • The Concordiensis Personals ro ffi\ favontc fytcs- l'ongratulations 1 -master Sperm Bank Clmic See us over at 2nd tloor of the House of DaVId Congratulatmns nu class' -vour brothers Jon- Your mom Is waiting for the call -BM \\aluo- You frcak 1 - l'ntvkakG A.\- Thanks for the partv The band \\as great -L\1' To the brothers of Chi Psi - Thanks for the delicious barbe- cue and the great bash' It was a great idea, mavbe we'll do it a gam -the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta \EZ\AZ- Thanks for keeping your clothes on this weekend. Keep on truck in'. Stalin lives and sharks are cool Love_ your communist friends Scott- I am so glad you came to chappy. I had the time of my life. But do you have to graduate so soon' Love_ \your I ittle redhead\ Rachel & Tricia- You guys are the best. Thanks for all that you've done. Dearest L IIi. Well Liza there are onlv a fev,· \Veeks left and then we'll be pre- paring for the Manor I hope you're getting excited. Happy 20th birthday to you. Get ready for a fun surprise. I love you. -Your loving pen pal Treeshy Dear Barbara & Amy. Benzino Benzino Chow Chow! Love, Liza & Treesh APARTMENT FOR RENT 4 Bedroom with Bathroom & Kitchen 1 Block away from school Quiet Neighborhood Washer & Dryer Free Cable & Parking 1 039 Park A venue Call Today before it is too late! (800) 806-6755 Dimitrios Gatanas The Garnet Yearbook will be selling personal space for 1995 Garnet Year book in the College Center all next week. Messages can be sent to Underclassmen or to say good-bye to the SENIORS. Seniors especially should stop by the table! If you have not bought the 1995 Garnet Yearbook, time is running out.. Stop by CC 408 ASAP. Books are $50 To the \Rob\ PR leaders, Come and visit me more often Maybe I'm come entertain you - Love, Twin A Risa & Colleen- Being inspired is a very enlight- ening experience. However you never know when to expect it Love, your big sisters Roomie- Thank you so much for the rose. It means a lot. I'm sorry if I have been too caught up with my own stuff I miss JUSt hanging out- have I said that 1 .000 times be- fore') I love you! -D JR- You can't leave met What will I ever do without mv comIC relief and cartoomst'l Good luck at States -Sedw1ch To my favorite rowers- Have fun at States. You guys will do great -DS Personals/Ciassifieds Classifieds Make great Christmas$ in Con- GRADS necticut. Award winning retail or soon to be! Looking for a shop in New Canaan, CT is now change or something new') Na- accepting applications for Xmas tiona! Company looking for tal- sales help. $8/hr, 40hr week. ented individuals with positive Please call Ray for more info@ attitude, teachable and motivated Pennyweights Jewlery Store. amust Trainingprovided. For (203)966-7739 more information call452-9749 _Secure your job today! ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! Up to $500 weekly. Choose subject matter. For more details call: (206) 362-4304 ext E041 Students interested in ushering for Commencement, June 11, please see Mrs. Marra in cc 408. VAIL PARK CLEANUP Saturday, May 6th Raindate: Saturday, May 13th 9:00am- 4:00pm Come anytime! Refreshments Provided! Main Entrance: Nott Terrace, between Days Inn & 4 Season Wear Long Pants & Shirts Any Questions? Call Jim @ 347-4251 l t:' a f

Rochester Dunks Crew by Jeff Druzba Contributing Writer The skies were overcast in a possible foreshadowing of the results Union Crew would face in their meet against the University of Roch- ester last Saturday. Rochester swept Union in all four races that the teams competed in. Due to Rochester's lack of a novice squad this year, both the Men's and Women's Novice Eights were forced to row against the Rochester second Varsity boats. The Novice Men turned in an impressive performance against the unequally matched Roches- ter crew. The Novice Women's Eight. Varsity Women's Four, and Varsity Men's Eight were all handily beaten by the Rochester squad. Union travels to Cazenovia. N.Y. on Saturday for the State Cham- pionship Regatta. Union Crew will compete against schools they have already faced during the regular season as well as many other schools from across New York State. Good luck at States Union Crew The Concordiensis • May 4, 1995 • Page 15 Same Old Story -for Dutchmen Bas-eball by Jason Starr Sports Editor These results are really getting repetitious. Every week has been so simi Jar that the entire baseball season is beginning to blend into one big one to three ratio. That is the approximate ratio of wins to losses for the season, and this week was no different. Union won their first game on Saturday and lost the following three. But it's notjustthe one up, three down syndrome that seems to happen with such regularity, it's also the way in which they have lost many oftheir games. l'm refer- ring to the fielding and mental errors which have plagued the team all year and which probably cost them tWo more games this weekend. lt is becoming trite. On the brighter side of this pre- dic~ability thing, the Dutchmen have continued to show offensive potential and at tilnes have actu- ally played up to this potential. This Saturday though, the Dutch- men played well over their offen- sive potential as they exploded for 13 runs against Hobart in game one. Another relatively constant staple ofthis years team has been their solid pitching. Scott Newton, Dave Kline, and Josh Solodo have all had produc- tive seasons. As of this Sunday you can add Jason Greenstein to that list as he threwhisbest effort at opposing Williams College. So this team may be in a rut, but con- sistency can be a good thing too. On Saturday, the Dutchmen played two games against Hobart at home and managed to win the first.. This game was the first real blowout (in their favot) of the sea- son. The whole lineup was hit- ting well and Union won the con- test 13-5. Scott Newton had a solid pitching effort but the high- light of the game was definitely J·immy Knight's grand slam. There was no such highlight in game two. Although Dave Kline pitched well and completed the game, there were problems in the field. Ofthe six runs that Hobart scored. four were unearned. This is the obvious result of fielding er- rors which made a comeback af- ter a one game hiatus. Sunday saw a continuation of the fielding problems that have been so prevalent. There were three errors in the first game all coming atkey moments and either directly or indirectly causing runs for opposing Williams. Josh Solodo pitched until being re- lieved in the middle of the fifth. The Dutchmen bats were quiet, managing to bring home only one run. The final was 8-1 in favor ofWilliams. The Dutchmen bats did not wake up in game two and the to- tal Dutchman tally equalled that of the first game. Jason Greenstein had a notable outing on the mound. The Sophomore pitched what was definitely his best game ofthe season. Unfor- tunately, threekey errors once again sunk Union's boat. This was one .game that they really let slip away. The Dutchmen .fost only by five runs, many of which could have been prevented with good fielding. Coach Reynolds played more Freshmen than usual in this game in hopes of finding a diamond in the rough .. We'll have to wait until next week to see if he found anything he likes. There are only two games left to be played. These are make-up games against a Skidmore team that Union beat in Florida over spring hreak The score of that particular game was 1 0-7. The Dutchmen are trying for their first day sweep of a team this season. I hope they get a taste of their own sweet medicine. Union Women Take the Title By; Kathy \Legs\ Walter Contributing Writer On Saturday, the Union women ruggers journeyed with their male counterparts to the Upstate Tournament at Win dover Park in Clifton Park and struck bronze. That's right the fearless and bodacious women took third place (the trophy for the Concili- ation Champions will be dis- played in Alumni Gym. Be care- ful about going during the day, though, because there's an aw- ful bright glare that emanates when the sun hits it!). In the first match-up, Union faced off against the screaming something-or-others from SUNY Oneonta. No contest. Sarah \the Breeze\ Gower at serum-half showed her athletic prowess as she scored not one, but two tries and the extra kicks to bring Union to an early and unstoppable lead. The first score was assisted by Naomi \I am the eight-man and I'm okay'' Hare! and the second was a combination effort of the line and serum (it's amazing what happens when they work to- gether.) The last try was made by Kim \the truck\ Sanabia who has returned to the game once again despite the efforts of half ofUnion College to dissuade her. Said Naomi Harel in a commen- tary after the game, \she trucked through and no one could stop her.\ The Dutchwomen won 17- 0. For the second round, Union played Cortland State. This time it was the killer B's taking on the Cortland A-side team and hold- ing their own. There was an un- fortunate attack midway through the second half. Kathy \the Leg\ Walter, in a brave and valiant ef- fort at tack! ing a State player near the try zone, suffered a minor in- jury to her knee while trying to slow herself down. (The worst part is she lives on the tourth floor of her building!) Even without her, though, the B-team held Cortland to a mere 5-0 win (tries that is. Oh, and a few kicks mixed in.). With their record I and I Union went on to face Binghamton in the Conciliation Championship. Even when the ball was trapped within 5 meters of Union defend- ing try-line, the bodacious and beautiful ruggers (who all played with manicures) were able to hold offBinghamton. The end results were Kim \but you should see the other girl\ Sanabia needing a mere five stitches and a tie 0-0. At that point, it turned into a kick- off. Sara \she runs, she scores, she kicks and she can drink with the best of them., Gower once again showed her truly amazing athletic ability when she split the uprights s·traight down the middle. The she-devils of Binghamton were unable to counter and Union took the title with a 1-0 win! For a11 of her ef- forts in the third game and all day long, a special MVP slot is re- served for Sara \huh bye soccer\ Gower in this week's article. However, the MVP slot also in- cludes the entire Union Women's Rugby Football Club (UWRFC) for their hard work and continued pushing. Great job everyone!! Albany: But, wait, isn'tthetry zone where the goal posts are? [she was pointing at the goal posts which were to her left and about 2 inches in front ofher.] Union: Yes, yes it is .... [I think that says it all!] Next week the Union women are off to play (and of course party) with the Oneonta women • steam. (What the heck, might as well add another win to the old record be- fore the end of the season. Be- sides, they offered to pay for the keg!) -----Announcement----- The Block U Award Dinner will be held on Wednesday, May 17, 1995 Atheletes MUST pick up your tickets at the Alumni Gym by May 15, 1995 No one will be admitted without a ticket.

eeitti()s 'are the gr£:ate•st in ~h'\&H<r11ii~twrv \·liiliti'1tfi(Y<:I~tis:fo~tCil;trd1en goes hand in hand with the· mysHque ofi'fhe 'Celflcs (withnut even··mentioning the Bruin's history}. I think it is dear that the G~rden has. helped build · this repU.tation;given the history of eveitt$ 1 tl1athas. occurred ther~i}. Because of'tbis, 1 do not believe that tn~;;#e\;v·~tt~~~l~~ingt.P~il~~i~;. · · Boston should carry on the name or\BastonG.firden'\. The gfbrt.:: ous history.thathas taken :place in this -ldui4ding wiH · · · .. · tfit:i~re:~ttfaf'~;ea~toti· . ·. . .•· · · . ·. ·. · . · · -· · ·. ·. . . · · . imd lnterest high. . . ba;seball season has flnally:operied; and · my interestjustisJ!l~tmere. ·ln rnyshortl1fetime, l have seen vari~ ous stoppages of' play~ because .. of the dreaded \S\ wor~. You knfiw. I just don't think 1 have nearly the same allegiance to the game that rtty father or grandfather has, simply be-cawre Major Leagu<t Baseball did not su!Jjectth-em to the labor strikes that have occtfrred all too often the poast .zo,years or so. This non,.interest of my generation ttr hasebafl w!U have pr-of<ntnd,effectsonthe game's future, in ways J don ~t think any one realizes quite yet.. My good friend ifason Fiseher(Hi Jay!] brt:iught uf) an it'Iteresting point the otherd!iy:.-•Michae!Jot'tianistne·best~basketbti.Upla¥er1ntl1ehis~ · t{),ty · oftfl~Vurr1verse.; hut he cart 't stick a. Jumf>\sfiot. fn,,a new gym {Cni·cag0'snew\United CenterJ? Sornetfi.injdoestl~fadti up ... un.: tit the ne'Xtti:in:¢'1\;a!fislrgets lazy, good.\'~'>Y<k .. • Rochester Dunks Crew by Jeff Druzba Contributing Writer The skies were overcast in a possible foreshadowing ofthe results Union Crew would face in their meet against the University of Roch- ester last Saturday. Rochester swept Union in all four races that the teams competed in. Due to Rochester's lack of a novice squad this year, both the Men's and Women's Novice Eights were forced to row against the Rochester second Varsity boats. The Novice Men turned in an impressive performance against the unequally matched Roches- ter crew The Novice Women's Eight, Varsity Women's Four, and Varsity Men's Eight were all handily beaten by the Rochester squad. Union travels to Cazenovia, N.Y. on Saturday for the State Cham- pionship Regatta. Union Crew will compete against schools they have already faced during the regular season as well as many other schools from across New York State Good luck at States Union Crew ·-- The Concordiensis • May 4, 1995 • Page 15 Same Old Story for Dutchmen Baseball by Jason Starr Sports Editor These results are really getting repetitious. Every week has been so sim i1arthat the entire baseball season is beginning to blend into one big one to three ratio. That is the approximate ratio of wins to losses for the season, and this week was no different. Union won their first game on Saturday and lost the following three .. But it's not just the one up, three down syndrome that seems to happen with such regularity, it's also the way in which they have lost many of their games. I'm refer- ring to the fielding and n'lental errors which have plagued the team all year and which probably cost them two more games this weekend. It is becoming trite. On the brighter side of this pre- dictability thing, the Dutchmen have continued to show offensive potential and at times have actu- ally played up to this potential. This Saturday though, the Dutch- men played well over their offen- sive potential as they exploded for 13 runs against Hobart in game one Another relatively constant staple of this years team has been their solid pitching Scott Newton, Dave Kline, and Josh Solodo have all had produc- tive seasons. As ofthis Sunday you can add Jason Greenstein to that list as he threw his best effort at opposing Williams College. So this team may be in a rut, but con- sistency can be a good thing too. On Saturday, the Dutchmen played two games against Hobart at home and managed to win the first This game was the first real blowout (in their favor) of the sea- son. The whole lineup was hit- ting well and Union won the con- test 13-5. Scott Newton had a solid pitching effort but the high- light of the game was definitely Jimmy Knight's grand slam. There was no such high! ight in game two. Although Dave Kline pitched well and cmnpleted the game, there were problems in the field. Of the six runs that Hobart scored, four were unearned. This is the obvious result of fielding er- rors which made a comeback af- ter a one game hiatus. Sunday saw a continuation of the fielding problems that have been so prevalent There were three errors in the first game all coming at key moments and either directly or indirectly causing runs for opposing Williams Josh Solodo pitched until being rc- lieved in the middle ofthe fifth. The Dutchmen bats were quiet, managing to bring home only one run. The final was 8-1 in favor ofWilliams. The Dutchmen bats did not wake up in game two and the to- tal Dutchman tally equalled that of the first game. Jason Greenstein had a notable outing on the mound. The Sophomore pitched what was definitely his best game of the season. Unfor- tunately, three l<ey errors once again sunk Union's boat This was one game that they really let slip away. The Dutchmen lost only by five runs, many of which could have been prevented with good fielding. Coach Reynolds played more Freshmen than usual in this game in hopes of finding a diamond in the rough. We 'II have to wait until next week to see if he found anything he likes. There are only two games left to be played. These are make-up games against a Skidmore team that Union beat in Florida over srring hreak The score of that particular game was I 0-7 The Dutchmen are trying for their first day sweep of a team this season I hope they get a taste of their own sweet medicine Union Women Take the Title By: Kathy \Legs\ Walter Contributing Writer On Saturday, the Union women ruggers journeyed with their male counterparts to the UpstateToumamentatWindover Park in Clifton Park and struck bronze. That's right the fearless and bodacious women took third place (the trophy for the Concili- ation Champions will be dis- played in Alumni Gym. Be care- ful about going during the day, though, because there's an aw- ful bright glare that emanates when the sun hits it I) In the first match-up, Union faced off against the screaming something-or-others from SUNY Oneonta. No contest. Sarah \the Breeze'' Gower at serum-half showed her athletic prowess as she scored not one, but two tries and the extra kicks to bring Union to an early and unstoppable lead. The first score was assisted by Naomi \I am the eight-man and I'm okay\ Hare! and the second was a combination effort of the line and serum (it's amazing what happens when they work to- gether.) The last try was made by Kim \the truck\ Sanabia who has returned to the game once again despite the efforts of half of Union College to dissuade her. Said Naomi Harel in a commen- tary after the game, \'she trucked through and no one could stop her.\ The Dutch women won 17- 0. For the second round, Union played Cortland State. This time it was the killer B's taking on the Cortland A-side team and hold- ing their own. There was an un- fortunate attack midway through the second half. Kathy \the Leg\ Walter, in a brave and valiant ef- fort at tackling a State player near the try zone, suffered a minor in- jury to her knee while trying to slow herself down (The worst part is she lives on the tourth floor of her building!) Even without her, though, the B-team held Cortland to a mere 5-0 win (tries that is. Oh, and a few kicks mixed in.) With their record I and I Union went on to face Binghamton in the Conciliation Championship. Even when the ball was trapped within 5 meters of Union defend- ing try-line, the bodacious and beautiful ruggers (who all played with manicures) were able to hold offBinghamton. The end results were Kim \but you should see the other girl\ Sanabia needing a mere five stitches and a tie 0-0. At that point, it turned into a kick- off Sara \she runs, she scores, she kicks and she can drink with the best of them\ Gower once again showed her truly amazing athletic ability when she split the uprights straight down the middle. The she-devils of Binghamton were unable to counter and Union took the title with a 1-0 winl For all ofheref- forts in the third game and all day long. a special MVP slot is re- served tor Sara \huh bye soccer\ Gower in this week's article However, the MVP slot also in- cludes the entire lJ nion Women's Rugby Football Club (UWRFC) for their hard '.-vork and continued pushing Great job everyone II Albany: But, v .. ·ait, isn't the try zone where the goal posts are') [she was pointing at the goal posts which were to her left and about 2 inches in front of her 1 Union: Yes, yes it is [I think that says it all! 1 Next week the Union women are offto play (and of course party) with the Oneonta women's team. (What the heck might as well add another win to the old record be- fore the end of the season Be- sides, they offered to pay for the kegl) -----Announcement----- The Block U Award Dinner will be held on Wednesday, May 17, 1995 Atheletes MUST pick up your tickets at the Alumni Gym by May 15, 1995 No one will be admitted without a ticket.

--·· .• !f -- ••'f,f• • May 4, 1995 PAGE 16 Men's Tennis Falls Below .500 with 1·~2 Week by Ken Berman Sports Editor The Men's Tennis Team played three matcht:s this week, and unfortunately, could only come out with one win, against Vassar. They played two others, losing against Hamilton and Skidmore, the latter being a make-up match for a previously canceled one. Their record stands now at a mediocre 4-5, with only two matches remaining in the sea- son (due to the fact that Union is on a trimester academic system, the team does not get to play enough games to qualify for the New York State Championships). Last Monday, the team suc- cessfully defended their home courts via a 7-2 victory over Vassar. They started off strong, and held on to this lead for the whole match. The doubles teams of Steve Chin/Jason Beckman and Brett Shapiro/Jason Fishbein both won, giving Union a 2-0 jump-start. The third doubles team of Steve Klopfer/Jeff Kasowitz could not tum this into a 3-0 lead, but it hardly mattered, for five out ofthe si.l:C singles play- ers turned in victories. #1 Chin won in straight sets, as did #2 Shapiro, and #4 Beckman. #3 Fishbein and #5 Jordan Pinsker both had more difficult matches, however. These two strong souls both had the intestinal fortitude to lose their first sets, only to come back and win the last two (Pinsker even had to play a tough third set, winning 6-4 ). This vic- tory left the team with a two game winning streak, and a record of 4-3. This winning streak, however, would not last. Union next made the trek upstate to Hamilton and came away smarting from a 5-2 loss. Now, any 11on-tennis play- ing, faithful Ken Berman article reading, Concordiensis getting Union student/alumni (ifsuch an animal exists), should have caught on to the fact that this score has two less points than any previous tennis score. You may ask your- self, \Why is this?\. It turns out that Hamilton, fearing Uni0n 's infamous \Doomsday Doubles\ teams, opted to install a 7 point system, rather than the traditienal nine. In this system, instead of each doubles match deciding a full point, all threematches decide one point (i.e., whoever wins the ma- jority of these three matches re- ceives one point). A moot point, you may say? Well, against Hamilton, it turned out to be just that, for Union got hammered in doubles, and then ih singles. Fishbein!Shapiro played the clos- est match, losing only 8-6. Shapiro commented, \We should have won\. Pretty deep, Brett. Only two singles players won, Beckman and Pinsker, both in gru- eling 3 set marathons. Also los- ing in three sets were Nat Smitobol and Steve Chin. The third match ofthe week was here against Skidmore. As mono- syllabic Shapiro commented, \It was not much fun\. Playing in another 7 point system, our boys lost once again, 5-2. In a repeat -ofthe Hamilton travesty, all three of the doubles teams lost (the scores were 8-5, 8-3, and 8-3). Although this only gave Skidmore one point, Union was out of the match. The Dutchmen's first four singles players lost, before Pinsker won, 6-3, 6-3. Pinsker probably outperformed any otherplayerthis week, winning all three of his singles matches. Veteran Steve Klopfer made the mostofhis only Stacey Anderson heaves in what looks to be a strike against H ami/ton on Saturday. (Photo by Scott Druckemiller I TC) Softball: One Up, Three DowR Union split Saturday's double header winning the first and los~ ing the second. Two days earlier the Dutchwomen surrendered two games to Albany. With this weeks three losses and one win, Union's record dropped to 14-16. They are currently ranked tenth in the state and remain in the running for post-season play. Four games remain: two are at home against Russell Sage and two are away at Williams. Steve Chin returns serve again~t Vassar. (Photo by Rick Lederer/ Concordiensis) singles appearance of the week by giving Union its other point. Union plays it's toughest op- ponent of the year this week, against the highly nationally ranked (#6) Ephs of Williams. Following this, they play their season finale at home against Hartwick on Saturday. Hey, ifthe Shapiro's can make it up from North Carolina to watch this one, I think we can fight off out hang- overs and stumble over to the courts to watch these guys play. They deserve· it. Men's Track & Field Fairs Well at Dartmouth by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff Coach Larry Cottrell decided to take nine of the best runners from the Union Track and Field Men's Team to Dartmouth on Sunday so that they may improve their rank ings in New York State for this weekend's upcoming State Meet. These men scored seventy points, their mostofthe. season, againstsquadsfrom Ver- mont, Lowell, Dartmouth, Keene State, and Sieana. The team re- corded four first places, two sec- onds, one third, and two fourths. There were also six personal bests recorded by these athletes. Matt Johnson started {Iff the scoring with a first place in the javelin. His throw traveled 186 feet and 6 inches. Jon Gainor followed with a second irt the hammer throw with a personal best throw of 1 50 feet 5 1/2 inches. Rich Pulver placed sec- ond in the shot put with a throw of 50 feet 7 1 /2 inches, and first in the discus with a distance of 144feetand 1 inch. In the running events, Dave Riggi was the star recording a first in the 1 00 meter dash in a time of 11. 13s, and a first in the 200 meters in 22.69s making him the high scorer for the team on the day Jason Jennings had a per- sonal best in the 200 meters in a timeof23. 19s qualifying himself for states, placing fourth. In the 400 meters Mike Leding had a personal best of 51.95s placing third and improving his ranking in the state from twenty-first to fifteenth. In the 800 meters, there were three personal bests recorded. The first was Nick Conway. Nick placed fourth in a time of I :59.49 improving his state ranking from twenty-first to ninth. This was also the first time Nick has bro- ken 2:00. Seth Rudin had a per- sonal best by nearly two seconds by running a time of2:04.38. Jay Goldberg had a personal best by a second by running a 2:07.38. This was a great precursor for states. These men wiil by joined by the 4x 100 meter relay and the 4x400 meter relay along with high jumper Nolan Fariss and long jumper Mike Martin as they try to surprise some people at states. Write for Sports!!! Call Jason or Ken at X6155 Gabbo Is Coming!!!

~· .. nn.cnr v t.ens ts The StudentNewspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XXII Nott Vandalized in Protest of Mandatory Meal plan • Kristen J. Reidt News Staff appeared to be retaliatory in na- ture against the dining service plan to include fratem ities.\ Schenectady, New York May 11, 1995 Recent vandalism caused an estimated $5,000 worthofdam- age to the newly renovated Nott Memorial. At 2 a.m. on Friday, May 4, Campus Safety received a report that beer bottles had been thrown through two windows of the main level of the building breaking five ofthe stained glass plates and bending the lead framework which held the glass together. One bottle, full of beer, went through the window and spilled on the floor inside the building. Another bottle was found in the drainpit underneath one of the broken windows with a note which appeared to be crumpled in the bottle. Bead of Campus Safety, Paul Mantica, refused to reveal the exact content of the note but stated that \the message Campus Safety does not cur- rently have any particular sus- pects because there were no wit- nesses to the vandalism. An in- dependent photographer was working overnight in the Nott and heard the bottle crash, but did not heat anything unusual outside of the building. Several students were questioned by Campus Safety officials while they were running near the Nott around the time of the incident, but they were dismissed as it was clear that they could not hide any incriminating evidence on their person. The br()ken window on the West side of tile Nott Memorial (Photo by Rick LederernC) Mantica, speaking for several members of the campus adminis- tration. explained that vandaliz- ing a \showcase building\ such as the Nott is nothing more than an \irresponsible act\ and will certainly not solve such issues as the meal plan crisis. Wanton acts of vandalism are not the means to vent displeasure about finan- cial issues. \We11ll share the shame for the acts of a few,\ states Mantica. He requests that anyone who has any information about this incident come forward. Delta Upsilon Defends Allegations of Hazing Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor Last week, the Delta Upsilon fraternity was asked to leave cam- pus after the Student Conduct Committee found the fraternity guilty on five violations of the Student Conduct Code due to two alleged incidentsofhazing. Frank Federici, a former pledge of Delta Upsilon and the victim, reported the alleged hazing to Union College Security after two specific incidents. Federici said that on one evening he was hu- miliated when household prod- ucts were thrown at him while he sat in his boxer shorts. Later that evening, Federici said he slipped and hit his chin, resulting in eight stitches. On the second evening Federici said he was uurinated\ on, forced to drink and later ha- rassed. The brothers of Delta Upsilon tell another story concerning the events leading up to the hearing. \On the first night, Monday night, Frank was in the bar room, the only reason he had his boxer shorts on was because we were threwing flour and water and he did not want to get his clothes dirty because they were his broth- ers,\ said William Mehleisen, the treasurer of Delta Upsilon. \Later that night, someone asked him to breakdance, and while he was doing that he alleg· edly banged his head on the floor.\ According to Jake Fruchter, another Delta Upsilon brother, Federici did not realize that he needed stitches until later on that evening in the bar room of another fraternity. On the other night in question, Mehleison said that Delta Upsi- lon hosted a pledge function where \the brothers played drink- ing games with all of the pledges. I saw him play pong and chande- 1 iers and that is the reason he drank- because ofthemles of the game.\ Mehleison also reported that Federici was never \physi- cally held down andhe was never urinated on. Concerning the other events of the evening in question, Mehleison said that Federici went home and other brothers went to get him, but Mehleison could not comment on the events that tran· spired in the donn because he was not present at the time. Frededci's pledge brothers wrote a letter to Kate Schurick, the Associate Dean of Students stating that during their pledge period there have been incidents in which alcoholic beverages were served, \but at no time were any pledges forced to consume them. Also, at no time were any of us required to participate in any activities that were degrading or dangerous.\ Mehleison and Fruchter also said that Federici was given ev- ery chance to file a complaint with the brothers. \We always told the pledges that they could either de-pledge or come and talk to tis about the situation.\ On two other occasions, Delta Upsilon was addressed by two of their pledges. one decided that pledg- ing was not for him, and the other p.ledge was able to work out his problems with the house. The brothers of Delta Upsilon . sent an appeal to the Administra- tion, but according to Mehleison, the brothers received a letter from the Administration stating that they were former brothers of Delta Upsilon, therefore leading the brothers to believe that there appeal held \very little weight.\ Crime Spree Sweeps Over Union by Martin Metz News Staff Over the past month, there have been a series of thefts around campus. Between April 3rd and May 3rd, security has received 38 theft reports totaling $10,748 dol- lars worth of personal property stolen from the Union College Campus. Of these 38 theft reports, 12 were wallets left unattended totaling a loss of$990.00, 6 were bicycles totaling a loss of $2,970.00, and 21 were pieces of electronic equipment and other personal property total i.ng a loss of$6,749.00. With2600students and faculty spread out over 100 acres of campus every day, Union is an easy target for these random petty thefts. Are these crimes pre- ventable? Paul Manteca, Head of the Union College Security, seems to think that with a I ittle help from the Union Community, that most of these crimes are pre- ventable. Last Thursday security re- ceived a report that a backpack was stolen from Yulman Theater. In walking around campus, secu- rity came across a suspicious looking person carrying a back- pack. When the man was ques- tioned he became defensive and even went so far as to threaten the security guard with a wrench be- fore dropping the backpack and running. He was chased down and apprehended by the security guard. This same character is also believed to have posed as a par- ent looking for financial aid and to have and stolen two rugs from the office of the Campus Minis- try and the money of two staff members in administration and Becker Hall. With the he! p of the Union College Community in re- porting suspicious persons on campus, the thief was appre- hended. Furthermore, another suspicious person wandering around in the Science and Engi- neering building, who was seen around the time that some per- sonal properties were reported stolen, was apprehended (with the help of Professor Tobiessen, Professor Smith, and Professor Salvo )and charged and arrested with criminal trespassing. A charge of criminal trespassing means that the person had no le- gitimate business on campus. The message that Security wants to convey to the Commu- nity is that these types of crimes, continued on page 4 Inside ,News ............ - ., •.•...• 2-4 World News ............. 5 Science & Med ........ 6 OP/ED ................. 7-9 Elections ........... 1 0-12 Final Exams .......... 13 A&E •••••••••••••••ruo 14-17 Steinmetz .......... 18-19 Features ................. 20 Personal/ Classifieds ........ 21 Calendar .....•.......... 22 Sports ............... 23~24

Four Winds S•ratoga Springs, NY (518) 584 .. 3600 Albany Medical Center (Eating Disorders Clinic) Albany (518) 445-5299 Center for Psychotherapy and Eating Dis01·ders Union St. Schenectady, NY . <·· .. -.. ::::.:~.:-:-:;;_:;-.--. ·_c . · J~l~;)o'~C~i~~05ll .· Sup.p,(l:r,J,~Ji!U~P~ ipoU$,Q~d by C.R.A.E.D.~ free co:tdiden!tial, and mee!, QUQ~~~~\t,~~'l!ll7.:30?:9~00PM on the foUowingschedt!l~: . ;f':')',;t(':.f;l~:mii-'IRiiil\l';:t'ifljl;,l!lti~kFlf~f;tttil' · .. '\'' .,~·-,,.~%!%¥!iM'WiLi'''§ii'rl'~!HW@~@%W®r:!Wf!iifl ttn\ifftoePbf tlR~ mmtnittee. Melri.bets~ ~e .a. ·u ......... .... arid teo Fleiscllffian. The Me~h4nic~lEnglneering Departmenti$ coo4~f;tingaReappointtn~nt Review ofProfeseyor Ann M. Anderson. AU metnberso:f,th~UnionCollege Community familiar with her teaching, scholarship- .or college service are encouraged to send written comments to ProfessorFrank J\4ilillw Mephtmi-\ cal Engineering; 'SM2.M: ·· ' · ···· ····· ·· · ·· · ·· · ;..-.-_•.•,•: __ -._ -._. JUNIORS WATSON TIME IS ALMOST HERE Watch this space for the announcement of the Spring Watson Information Meeting What is the Watson? Well, how does $15,000 to go anywhere* and do anything during the year after you graduate sound? If you can't wait to find out more, send the coupon below to Prof. Klein in the Economics Department, e-mail KLEIND, or stop by SS109. *Outside North America. Yes, tell me more about the Watson Name: Major(s)/Minor: ___ ___,__ Grad year: Box: Phone:_-,-- ____ _ Return to Prof. Doug Klein, Economics Department .. UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY Camp\C~s News TUESDA \', MAY 2, 1995: 9:00AM II :30 AM 3:05PM 8:13PM Fraternity SAFETY HAZARD: Fir~ code violations noted during annual NYS building inspection. Work orders filed. West College THEFT: NumerousCD's stolen from student's room. Incident occurred about 4/8-4/9. Problem with door lock-possible forced entry. West College THEFT: Student's wallet stolen from desktop. Room was unlocked. North College THEFT: Two student's bikes stolen from basement area. Both bikes were secured together. Wire cabling was cut. 9:00PM South College THEFT: Student's wallet stolen from rootn. Room door was locked-no forced entry noted . ll :00 PM West College SECURITY HAZARD: Unautborizeduseoffire exit. Conduct Charges filed against fifteen students. WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1995: 9: 1 5 AM Fraternity SAFETY HAZARD: Fire code violations noted during annual NYS building inspection. Work Order.s filed. 9:45 AM Schaffer Library SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Two intoxicated visitors 11:20 AM li:20AM 12:27 PM 1:29PM 1:45PM 4:20PM 4:23PM calling attention to themselves. Fled when approached by Cam pus Safety Officers. SPD assisted. Suspects identified and ad vised off campus. McKean House THEFT: Furniture stolen. Ransom noteleft ... appears to be pledging prank. Bailey hall HARASSMENT: Graduate student reports untoward behavior and feeling of intimidation at hands of two juvenile visi tors. Occurred 5/1/95. Not reported at time of incident. S&E SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Staff members .reported visi tor wandering the halls. Campus Officers checked the building thoroughly unable to locate. Description provided. Becker Hall THEFT: Staff member's pocketbook stolen. Suspect description provided ... not the same as S&E suspect. Pocketbook unattended in unlocked area. Searched area for sl1spect and stolen item not found. Pocketbook located intact 5/8/95 hidden in Becker Hall. $1.00 cash missing. West College THEFT: Two student's bikes stolen from the bike rack in South entry .hall. Wire cables locking the bikes were cut. Oc curred between 9:00AM-I :45 PM. . College Center THEFT: Two staffmembershadtheir coats stolen from the coat rack near UCDH. Occurred between 1:00PM-4:00PM S&E SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Faculty members reported suspicions person wandering the building. Description matches that of suspect reported at 12:27 PM. Campus Safety Officers searched building. With assistance of Biology faculty members suspect was located and apprehended by Campus Officer Edward Teller as the suspect fled from the building. Suspect arrested for Criminal Trespass. Theft victims from prior incidents identified suspect as being in the building about the time the thefts occurred. THURSDAY, MAY 4,1995: 2:05 PM Nott Memorial VANDALISM: Five stained glass window panes bro 7:50AM 8:30AM 9:53AM lO:OOAM 10:00AM 1l:30AM ken and lead frame damaged by thrown beer bottles. Note left at scene indicating difference of opinion to recent campus meal plan decision as cause of damage. . College Center THEFT: Union College clock stolen from wall in Dutch Hollow. Clock was damaged when removed from tamper proof setting.Occurred over the past weekend. Becker Hall THEFT: Staff member reports that cash was stolen from her pocketbook on 5/3/95. Believed to be associated with same suspect as previously reported. TI1eft not discovered until the evening of 5/3/95. Yulman/Silliman THEFT: Staff member's backpack from Yulman The ater and rugs from Silliman Hall stolen. Campus Safety Officer Chris Hayen, who was watching for campus thefts observed thesuspect carrying a matching backpack. Suspect fled and was followed by Officer Hayen who apprehended suspect off Campus. SPD notified and assisted. Suspect arrested for trespass, menacing and possession of stolen property. Wildflower Graden SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Mature flowering marijuana plant found planted in wildflower garden. Confiscated. College Center THEFT: Approximately 1,000 Concordiensis newspa pers stolen. Occurred over past weekend. Admini. Bldg. THEFT: Cash stolen from staff member's wallet. Pock etbookleft in unattended office. Believe occurred on 5/3/95 during same time frame as thefts from Becker Hall. Theft reported to Campus Safety Officers during follow-up investigation. FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1995: 4:03 PM College Center TRESPASS: Visitor who was previously advised off SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1995: campus was reported in Dutch Hollow. Arrested for trespass. SPD assisted. 4:45 PM Alumni Gym Lot THEFfNANDALISM: Visitor'scardoorforcedopen. MONDAY, MAY 8,1995: Luggage and clothing items stolen from vehicle. Car door dam aged. Occurred between 5/6-5/7. 11:40 AM College Center THEFT: Report of theft of 1 ,000 copies of the May 4th Concordiensis. These papers were stolen over the past weekend. Tit is is the second weekend in a row that Concordiensis papers were stolen. 1,000 copies of the .April 27th issue were stolen over the previous weekend .

Campus News Th!_ Concordiensis • May 11, 1995 ~Page 3 Bromberg Educates Union About Anorexia by Garett DiStefano News Staff On Monday, M;ay 8th, Joan Jacobs Brumberg the author of Fasting Girls, a historical look at the history of anorexia nervosa, spoke in the college center audi- torium. Brumberg began teach- ing in the public school system and then moved up to lecturing atComell University. Brumberg is nota recovering anorexic, nor is she the mother ofone; she is simplynn historian who observes social change. According to her, the late twentieth- century has seen a tremendous growth in eat• ing disorders. The sickness did not begin as of late. Brumberg argues in her lecture that they have historical roots dating back to the Victorian age. Anorexia, as described by Bntmberg, is a multi-determined disease; it is both biological and psychological, She uses a case of a young girl in the late 19th century to prove her point. Eva Wiliams, a young woman who lived in Bow, England, in 1897, had a severe eating disorder. She was 5' 3\ and weighed 87 pounds. Wiliams' family was upper middle class. She was one of six children in her family. Wiliams was described as \never working a day in her life.\ Atler a long period of unsuccessful family attempts to get her to eat, she was admitted to a hospital under the care of a Dr. McKenzie. After Dr. McKenzie's examina- tion of her, he found that she was not menstruating and had severe stomach pains after eating. McKenzie further noted that \there was no physical reason for Wiliams not to eat\ just that she ordered to receive multiple baths before eating and to have multiple feeding periods. According to Joan Jacobs Brumberg in the College Center Auditorium this past Monday speaking on anorexia. (photo by Rick LedererffC) was \wasting away before his eyes.\ I twas after his examina- tion that Dr. McKenzie diagnosed her with anorexia nervosa. His treatment was observed by today's standards. Williams was Brumberg, Dr. McKenzie never looked at the family ·life of Wiliams. Doctors at that time in history, as Brumberg states, never wanted to examine the mental aspect of their patients. Accord- Ken Chase Announces Goals for 1995-1996 Student Forum by Ken Chase Student Forum Pres. Elect As President of the Student Forum for next y'ear, I am writ- ing to let you know what my goals and expectations are for the Fo- . rum and the Student Body next year. First and foremost, 1 expect the lines of communicatiofJ be- tween the students and their rep- resentatives to be more open. This will mean easier ways for students to reach their represen- tatives. For example, a voice mailbox, a mailbox and an e-mail address will be posted in the col- lege center marked for the Stu- dent Forum. These addresses will serve to allow students to make a quick comment about their con- cerns. I will check these daily and promise to respond to any com- ments or questions within 5 days. I will make sure that the classes know who their representatives are so they can give them input. Also, I hope that students will re- alize that meetings are open for everyone to attend. These will be publicized more openly next year, but if students are too busy to at- tend these meetings their con- cerns can be dealt with through the means mentioned before. If you haven't noticed the theme I am trying to reach here, it is fur- ther student involvement. This is a necessity for the betterment of our community. Secondly, I in- tend to enhance the social alter- natives available to us as students. We have begun on this route but enough has not been done. The intention here is to have all kinds of things for students to do every night of the week, especially weekends. For example, I intend to push for Club U to be more often. These types of events bring the campus together and allow for social interaction outside of the traditional \night life.\ I also feel that Chet' s should move to a more appropriate location where there is more space, a dance floor and a stage. However, we need more ideas about what students want. The forum will get those ideas through surveys which will be put out periodically for the students. In the meantime, contact me at the numbers provided below. I hope to have the opinions of all stu- dents when deciding what our agenda should be in this area. We will have town meetings with an open microphone so that concerns can be voiced and heard by the Student Forum. I plan to make Springfest one of the biggest events in the Northeast; instead of going to other schools for these festivals, people will want to come to Union to enjoy ours. Right now we are beginning the process of appointing people to committees. Get an application in Student Activities and get in- volved! Another large issue which the forum will address is the role students have in decision making. It is necessary that we play a larger part in the decisions which are made by the adminisw tration. There must be some form of accountability to the students for decisions which are made. Although this area is fairly broad, if we know that we will have a definite say in decisions, we will have won half of the battle in fighting for students' interests. To outline all of my ideas would take up the whole paper, this is just a little food for thought. I hope to have your input about what I have stated above. Please call my voicemail at #3652 or drop me a note in campus mail- box #301. With your ideas and a little hard work we can achieve a lot next year. I am starting now to gear up for next year, so please give me your inp1:1t as soon as possible. rite for News! Call Liza at X6155 ing to Brumberg, they wanted to diagnose the illness physically rather than emotionally beca':'se a physical illness is easier to ex- plain and deal with. Dr. McKenzie, according to Brumberg, was not the first doc- tor to diagnose a patient with anorexianervosa. The j,Jlness was first diagnosed by a physician to Queen Victoria, Dr. LaSeck, twenty years previous to Wiliams' case. LaSeck defined anorexia with three characteris- tics. The first is that the patient has a tough family life, a family system analysis as he puts it. The second is a non-organic reason for fasting; the patient does not have a physical reason not to eat The third is coherency: the patient is of sound mind, or non-delusional. LaSeck defined anorexia nervosa as a \lack of appetite from ner- vousness.\ By the late 19th century, more middle class children were living with their parents until they were into their early twenties. Accord- ing to BrUJ.nberg, children living with their parents for a longer period of time felt added stress. As she described, they were \emotionally priceless and at the same time economically useless\ This added strain on children se- verely effected the mentality of young women. There now was added pressure for a young woman to be beautiful. The need to look perfect was confined to the mid to upper classes. As Brumberg states,\ the higher the class, the more susceptible to anorexia one became.\ The only way that some women felt that they could be seen as successful was to be thin. Food then became the enemy to an upper class youNg lady. It was believed by some physicians that certain types of food caused women to act certain ways. For example, meat suppos- edly caused a young lady to be- come more promiscuous. Table manners were another added pressure on young ladies in the Victorian age. Young women were forced to act in a very dig- nified manner while eating. A young lady who was trying to court a man was told not to eat around him. Thus, it was en- graved into the minds ofwomen that if they ate a lot, enough to fill them up, that they would tum ugly and undesirable The thin body in the Victorian age, accord- ing to Brumberg, symbolized soul over body and, more importantly, distance from the working class. Today, Brumberg pointed out, more women are anorexic. This move toward thinness is brought on by a great desire to lo0k desir- able Brumberg feels that it was figures such as the supermodel Twiggy in the 1960's that jump started this modem craze to be thin. Women today hav.e more ways to succumb to anorexia, in- cluding ritualistic exercise and bulimia. More women today fol- low the philosophy that the thin- ner they are, the more sexy they will appear to men. Women feel that if they can control their eat- ing, they will have a better hold over their lives. Brumberg stated that anorexia is a leamed condi- tion that evolves into a physical repulsion to food. Wayne Fields: Visiting Lamont Professor Courtesy oftlte English Department Wayne Fields, Professor of English at Washington University, and Dean of University College, will be on campus from May 15 to May 26 as Visiting Lamont Professor of Literature. He will give a public lecture on Wednesday evening, May 17, 8:00pm in the Humanities Lounge (Humanities Building, second floor). The talk entitled \On the Altar ofGettsburg: Lindon and the Declara- tion ofindependence\ is free and open to the public. Fiction writer, critic, essayist and journalist, Fields is the author of several books, including What the River Knows: An Angler in Midstream, The Past Leads a Life of Its Own (both Simon and Schuster), James Fenimore Cooper: A Collection of Essays (Prentice-Hall), and A Union ofWords: The Eloquence of the Ameri- can Presidency (The Free Press, forthcoming). His essays and articles on 19th and 20th century American literature, culture, poli- tics, and on English and Latin American literature, have appeared widely in scholarlyjournals, magazines, and newspapers ( includ- ing American Heritage, Antaeus, The Iowa Review, The Journal of American Studies, The Latin American Literary Review, Newsday, Playboy, Political Theory, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.) He has been a commentator for the National Public Radio. ReviewersofFields' work have been high in their praise. Writ- ing of What the River Knows, for example, Richard Selzer observed that it is \nothing less than a compelling confrontation with nature that is also an excursion down the river of the soul. It merits a place among the great books of its kind, those by Thoreau and Annie Dillard.\ Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The New York Times wrote that it was \A beautiful, beautiful book,\ and The Washington Times reviewer wrote ''This astonishing book is alive ... a masterly achievement in the art of writing about oneself and one's loved ones. It is one of those rare literary acheivements that, like a great painter's work, changes reality.\ While on campus, Professor Fields will meet with students and classes. For more information, please contact Harry Marten, En- glish Dept., ext. 6052

Page 4 • May 11,1995 • The Concordiensis Campus· News 1995 Health Fair in East Asian . . . College Center Today Studies Expands Courtesy of Health Services Today the Health Service Department will take over the College Center Atrium with people from many health related professions. They will be there to help us analyze our current state of health and make a plan for improvement armed with some new information. Participants: Lions Eye Bank Planned Parenthood Dr. Robert Fox Civale Chiropractic Organ Procurement St. Clare's Hosp. Cardiac Rehab AIDS Council Sch'dy Family Health Sch'dy Family Health Hudson Valley Dietetic NYS Chiropractic Amer. Red Cross Albany Med Anne McEnaney Seana Munson Dr. Fox David Civale Vicki Adler Karen Ketcham to be named Joyce Whitted Emily O'Hara Marcie Maurer Dr. Wesley, Dr. Mithoff to be named Joan Burns organ donation PP Services vision screening Chiropractic cure organ/tissue donation Cardiac rehab HIV/AIDS HIV/AIDS Perinatal health· Dietetic Fed. Guidlines/ back pain Blood Pressure STDS/HIV I AIDS by Prof. Bruce Reynolds Economics D~:partment Union's East Asian Studies Program is blossoming like a tu- lip bed in May. Three new fac- ulty members will join the Col- lege for the 1995/96 academic year. Ms. Yanqing Xie, Union's new Chinese instructor, carries on a tradition of Chinese-lan- guage offerings which dates back to at least the 1960s, when Prof. on both Chinese and Japanese history. . Mr. Ted Gilman, the third tu- lip in this East Asian bed, also comes to us from Michigan. A Japan specialist, Gilman gaye a well-received talk on campus last week, and (along with Ms. Xie) was available Wednesclay at the East Asian Studies Spring Picnic to meet with interested srudents. According to Prof. Bruce Reynolds, currently Co-Director of EAS, all this hiring activity flows in part from the College's 1995 Steinuaetz Ms. Yanqing Xie, new Chinese teacher being {ntroduced by Prof. Reynolds (Courtesy of ProJ B. Reynolds/Economics Department) SYJDposin••• Visual Arts Students lnfttational Exhibition William Woo taught Chinese here. In 1994, Skidmore Col- lege hired away Union professor Mao Chen. With this new hire, Union students will once again be able to plumb the mysteries of Chinese and Japanese ideo- graphs. Ms. Xie, who holds BA and MS degrees in language teaching, comes to Union after teaching Chinese for two years at SUNY-Albany. Meanwhile, the Department of History's search for a specialist in East Asia culminated with the appointment of Ms. Joyce Medancy to our faculty. Ms. Medancy's PhD is from the Uni- versity of Michigan. As a China specialist, she will teach courses Union CoUege Arts BuDding AtriliiD .Hay 5-1_3, .995 Open Dally 9AM-6PM No Admission Pnblle Weleonte Crime at Union-- .. continued from page 1 without the help of the commu- nity, are easy to get away. If criminals see that Union is an easy target, then the campus will become a breeding ground for more of these types of crimes. Paul Manteca feels that public awareness or responsibility in protecting their own property is \our first I ine of defense against eliminating these crimes of op- portunity \ It is the idea of the self-preservation theory.ln other words, how does one prevent be- coming a victim of such a crime. Here are a few tips: I) People have a tendency to leave doors, drawers, and win- dows unlocked in the spring in order to keep their rooms or of- fices ventilated If you are going to leave the room, secure all doors and windows, and don't leave wallets or other important valuables lying around in open drawers, unattended or unlocked This also goes for personal prop- erty left unattended in the gym lockers Always keep a lock on the gym lockers (I had a watch stolen from one such locker win- ter term). 2) Report all incidents of personal theft and sightings of suspicious persons and report them immedi- ately. Ifstudents don'treportsuch petty crimes, the word gets out on the street that the Union commu- nity is an easy target, and it breeds more crime. Furthermore, reports of petty theft and suspicious per- sons could help security pinpoint perpetrators to a certain area, such as the bike racks at West College. It gives them something to look out for. 3) Don't leave bikes out on the bike racks for a long period of time, regardless of whether they are locked or not Invest in a qual- ity lock for your bike, such as a the U-shaped kryptonite l0cks rather than any type of chain lock. On Wednesday, May 3, faculty members reported James Mayhew (aka James Hollis) to be wandering the Science and Engineering Building. With the asistance of Biology fac- ulty members, Mayhew was located and apprehended by Campus Officer Edward Teller as he fled from the building. Mayhew was arrested for Criminal Trespass. Theft victims from prior incidents identified Mayhew as being in the build- ing about the time the thefts took place. If you have any information regarding the current thefts on campus please contact Paul Mantica at ext. 691 lor ext. 6358. rec0gnition ofthe importance of this part of our curriculum. \But mostly, of course, it's because Don is leaving,,. he said. ··oon\ is Prof. Donald Thurston, who is retiring after nearly thirty years as Professor of History and Po- litical Science. \Really it's silly to think that we can replace Don Thurston,\ says Reynolds. \Who else at Union has taught courses in three departments (History, Poly Sci and Arts)? But with these new hires we're doing our best.\ At Wednesday's picnic, a group of Prof. Thurston's grateful students presented him with a nautical clock, to be mounted in the cabin of his sailboat in Maine. Prof. Thurston founded and shaped Union's East Asia Pro- gram, now in its tenth year, and also pioneered Union's terms abroad in Japan and China and the Korea exchange. \Don Thurston was for many years a multi-faceted talent and a brilliant classroom teacher, one who will be sorely missed,\ commented Prof. Robert Wells, Chair of the History Department. Do Not Forget to Vote! ********* Read the Candidate's Statements on Pages 10-12 f I I, l I·'

World News The Concordiensis • May 11, 1995 • Page 5 Operation Blasthold: A Plan for a New War On Drugs by Matt Sandler World News Editor The drug scourge that afflicts this na- tion is one that, unfortunately, will never end. The constant and high demand will always be met by suppliers, namely drug dealers. Just because the solution is not attainable does not mean that America can give up .its war on drugs. The United States under Reagan, more so under Bush, and less under Clinton, used the military to combat drug trafficking. Using sophisti- cated radar and special units, the Atlantic Command is responsible for coordinating the military response to the problem. Navy Seals are inspecting the hulls of ships, Army Green Berets are training indigenous anti-drug squads, and Air National Guard planes are patrolling the skies to detect the drug flights. Custom agents and dogs are trained to find hidden compartments car- rying the illegal poisons that enter by ship- ment or cargo crossing into our borders. However, this strategy fails to target the power source. Operation Blasthold is not an official policy or code, though the principle behind it should be. The .strategy is a way of deal- ing with the power that fuels the illicit trade. Once the head is .severed from the body, the body becomes useless, meaning the first targeted emphasis is the drug lords living on mountains of cash, terror, guns, and human can no longer be the irrational policy of living under the death penalty; there is no right to ten more years of life once con- victed. There should be a national con- sensus development on the allotted time for appeal. Perhaps a year or two, but any longer tn isery. Us- ing Special Operations Forces,air bombing campaigns, or com- bined inter- agency task force of D .E. A., \The first targeted emphasis is the drug lords living on mountains of cash, terror, guns, and human misery ... with a finite punishment for the implicit death penalty that they push on America's children.\ y 0 u eliminate the effec- tiveness of the pun ish- ment as a deterrent and strat- egy. F . B, I . , B.A.T.F., and the C.I.A., America can strike back against these drug lords. The second strategy is to target the drug deal- ers in the United States with a finite pun- ishment to their crimes. No longer is it tolerable for America to have squeamish views about the death penalty for these criminals, when everyday they push an implicit death penalty on America's chil- dren. Realistically for this to work, there There is no rea- sonthe United States cannot work out trea- ties that allow the United States access to a country's territory for U.S. forces to con- duct operations, D.E.A. agents already do this, in exchange for aid or World Bank loans and investment. The United States could even work inconjunction with other nations to target these Drug lords that are a threat to our country and the stability of other countries. If necessary, the U.S. should act unilaterally through overt inter- vention or covert means to accomplish our objectives. The mission would have the support of the American people and Con- gress. By whatever means, the end result is that the job must be done! New drug dealers will emerge, but it will take longer to re-establish control of the organization once targeted, and the U.S. will have a better c~nce of wiping them out before they get re-rooted into the drug supply sys- tem. This is action beyond our borders. Internally, America must act alone, and make it guaranteed death within the time frame allotted if someone deals poison to America's kids. The third component of Operation Blasthold is the \hold the line\ part, the prevention through education and rehabilitation that will make the most ef- fective domestic inroads into reducing the problem. These combined and coordinated strategies will target the drug dealers and make our communities safer with a lower crime rates. This offensive/defensive re- sponse, Operation Blasthold, is America's effective policy to the drug scourge infest- ing America and the lives of good citizens. NcWrlfWf! OlJJ..D JWf HIRe tXTf!.A t5!AfF TO/M//, IT! Write for World News Call Matt @ x6155 Add Color to The Concordiensis, Shoot for Rick, Call Him Today@ x6155 The English Department Offers: EGL 38 Modern European Short Fiction The landscapes of the modern life---often grim and desolate, populated by lost souls and broken hearts---as seen by seven great writers, Gustave Flaubert, Anton Chekhov, James Joyce, Thomas Mann, Isaac Babel, Franz Kafka, and I.B. Singer, who challenge the dehumanization of their times with the slpendor of their art. June 13-July 25, Prof. Heinegg, TTH 6:00-9:00, HU119 Washington: * With Medicare to go bankrupt by the . year 2002, Speaker Gingrich requested · tJie President help forge a bi-partisan eefoli::to,>$av¢'th~. program; ' \ . . · *President Clintowhasifie\V,nilminee for Surgeon General, Dr. klenty :W. . . - . Foster Jr. *Two more men were arrested by Fed- etru agents in poSSible connection with the terror bombing in Oklahoma City; however, the link is uncertain at this time. · * Public Broadcasting proposes a trust fund to replace Government financing. The GOP has said it would like to cut funding for public broadcasting. International: * Clinton orders a total American trade embargo against Iran, ending the dis- crepancy of American oil ~mpanies buying $4 billion worth of Iranian oil fQrsale overseas, and ending the $386 11\Ulion exports of farm, industria:!, and oil field equi.pment by the U.S. to Iran. The White House said that it was an effort to isolate Iran as an \inspiration and paymaster to terrorists.;; * A Rwandan military court began tri- als of soldiers from the Tutsi-dominated · army today, pledging to show that the armed forces were not above the law. The 14 soldiers were charged with ag- gravated murder and robbery. There is · no charge of conducting massacres in whichGovernment troops butchered the Hutu at Kibeho refugee camp last month. * The Germans are more willing to con- front 1he past war crimes of the Nazi era. * j\_5p~-~~ ~ocument confmns what has beerr;(fe)i~d for years that Hitler's b~dy was,fQund,and identified. * Just:as:the United States confronts the hor:rors.f>fthe Vietnam War. so too is Vietn~rn,. :with the 20th anniversary of theenaofthe war. *Croatia has launched a majorraid with 2,.500 troops assisted by tanks, artillery and warplanes into Serb controlled west- em Slavonia enclave. The Serbs shelled Croatian towns and seized hostagell5 U.N. soldiers and civilian police offic· ers. * North Korea said it would resume Nuclear talks on a higher diplomatic level. North Korea insists that South Korea must not provide the light-water reaemrs.. The U.S. issayingthatbecause South Korea is putting up most of the $4 billion, the North must accept reac- tan ftotn the South. *The Clinton Administration will start to ret\i.:rn Cuban boat people to their ccnmtty after admitting a final group of 'about 20,000 tiow being held at Ouantanamo Bay Naval Station. This ends the 35 years of special treatment farrefugee!l from Cuba. * Russia may end its proposed sale of gascentrifugeequipmentthat U.S. offi- cials say could be used for nuclear bomb de-velopment . ' . • ·,, ,I ' ., ·; ' ~

Page 6 • May 11, 1995 • The Concordiensis . Science & Medicine Keep the Balance: Six Tips to Healthy Eating by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Last week in the pages of the Science and Medicine section, I wrote about the mixed reviews of a diet that gets thirty per- cent of its calories from fat. I would like to focus on two very important extremes that may come up after reading that article. I commonly see two extremes at the tables of Upper-Class, in the depths of Dutch and in the isles of West: those that eat too much and those that eat too little. Both of these extremes are very unhealthy. First, I shall address a problem that af- flicts a small minority of the campus. I see people happily chomping away on foods that are loaded with fat and choles- terol and neglecting to eat proper amounts of fruits and vegetables. Although I re- spect the rights of people to eat whatever they want, I must remind people that a bal- anced diet that is low in fat (lower than 30%) and cholesterol and high in fruits and vegetables is better for them. I will not list all the diseases that are linked to a poor diet, but I will say that the biggest killers in the United States- heart disease and can- cer - are definitely linked to a poor diet. Also, there is the factor of gaining weight. Although I agree thatpeople have the right to be any si2;e that they want, people must understand the hell that overweight people must face. They are the subject of count- less jokes, cruelties and discrimination in our society. This must change but, unfor- tunately, change is slow going. The other extreme that I would like to discuss seems to face many more people, typically women, on this campus. They know who they are. These women, and sometimes men, either eat very little,. or binge and then purge or fast to make up for eating. You can easily distinguish these people from the rest of the happy diners at Upper Class. I have personally witnessed women eating, then running to the bath- room outside of the dining room to vomit( which has been documented by my female friends}. These women return to the dining hall, looking flushed, shaking, clutching their cup of tea and finally re- laxing into their chairs only to stare atthe remnants of the carrot on their plate with disgustand hatred. This is not healthy. It is just as unhealthy as the 500pound people we see confined to beds, being prodded by Richard Simmons to loose weight. It is both of these people that have moti- vated me to preach about safe, healthy ways to loose weight and begin to have a Area of Working Memory Found by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Neuroscientists have located the part of the brain that holds information when it is needed for a .~urrent task. The neurons which are the basis for working memory, which operates when you dial a phone number or solve math problems, are lo- cated in the prefrontal lobe of the brain behind the forehead. The role of the brain's working memory, which is also known as short term memory, is to access and tempo- rarily store information that is drawn from other regions of the brain that store long term memo- ries. Dr. Patricia Goldman-Rakic of Yale Medical School says that working memory acts like \mental gllle that links a thought through time from its beginning to end\ Disorders like schizophrenia, there- fore, which includes an inability to keep a train ofthm:~ht on track, could be due to a de- fect in working memory The research of Goldman-Rakic has shifted attention from the hippocampus, a part of the limbic sys- tem which is the seatoflong-tenn memory, to the prefrontal lobes, which are the new- est evolutionary part of the cerebral cor- tex. The new findings are based on clinical studies of brain damaged patients. The studies show the prefrontal lobe as the brain's executive center for making deci- sions, planning and executing behavior. The researchers used PET scans, an imag- ing technology that monitors the rate of glucose intake in the whole brain. With the PET scan, researchers have been able to study the areas of the brain that are acti- vated while performing simple tasks. The area of the brain that was activated was a narrow strip of cells in the prefrontal cor- tex and parietal lobes. Dr. Goldman-Rakic has found that the • prefrontal area of the cortex performs the functions of retrieving long term memo- ries and attaches to each sensory area of the cortex. The connections between the prefrontal area and the cortex are specific. For instance, the prefrontal cells that serve to recollect location connects to the area ofthe visual cortex that specializes in spa- tial relationships. Researchers have also mappea the se- quence of activity in the prefrontal cortex that deals with remembering faces. First, when a person sees a face, the visual and prefrontal areas be- come activated. Then, the visual cor- tex activity subsides and the prefrontal cortex remains ac- tive, starting with the right prefrontal cor- tex, and then the left. The left prefrontal cortex remains active after the acidity in the right cortex fades Researchers hypothesize that the right side holds on to a picture, while the left encodes information. Then the infor- mation is associated with memories of other faces and expressions. Although Dr. Goldman-Rakic is con- vinced that working memory resides in a narrow tract of cells in the prefrontal cor- tex, other researchers, using more sensi- tive scanning devices, disagree. Most other researchers hypothesize that working memory functions are dispersed through- out the cortex. The activity was in the pre- frontal cortex, but also in the sensory, as- sociation and occipital areas. Clinically, this research is important in understanding the role that working memory plays in the disorder of schizo- phrenia. People with schizophrenia have been studied, and this research reveals that they have an underactive prefrontal cor- tex. In all, memory plays a vital role in hu- man existence, and would be useless if we could not retrieve it. healthy outlook on food. I must admit that I have used food in a manner that it is not intended to be used. I have used foodwhen I am happy to celebrate and to comfort me when I am sad. These tips that I wiii im- part upon you were actually given to me by someone that has firsthand experience in the spiral of dieting, Oprah Winfrey. Oprah, after many years of being over- weight, has .finally shed all those extra pounds, and has lent her personal chef and exercise physiologist to her audience to help them loose weight. These are 6 simple tips that both Oprah and I have found suc- cess in(ifyou doubt that I have success- fully ba~led a weight problem, check out my picture in the Freshman Record). The Tips I. Cut the fat out of your diet. You should eat about 20 grams of fat a day, any more and you run the risk ofgaining weight, any less, and your body will begin converting anything you put into your mouth into satu- rated fat, the worst fat. 2. Drink 8 glasses of water a day. Most of us walk around dehydrated. You will bum fat more efficiently if you are fully hy- drated, also water makes you feel full. 3. Do not eat within 2 hours before bed- time. Sleeping. includes approximately 8 hours of total jnactivity. You might as well just stick the food directly on your butt. 4. Limit·orelim.inate alcohol. Ok~y, even I have trouble with this one; but alcohol makesthefat burning process,Jess efficient. 5. Eat 5 servings of fruit and vegetables a day. Favor vegetables because they have more complex carbohydrates and vitamins than fruits. 6. Eat three meals and 2 snacks a day. The key to this one is to EAT the food, and then keep it in your stomach. Remember, many people do not need to loose weight, but if you feel that you must, please foB ow these guidelines, which are harmless, but can do a worlGI of good. I should also point out that the counseling center, Silliman Health Center and your friendly neighborhood RA can give you information on eating disorders. You must not hesitate to ask them. The Department of Biological Sciences and The Biology Club Are pleased to invite you to attend The Spring Biology Festival Friday, May 19th Department of Biology 3:00 Open-house with tours of new facilities Jackson's Garden 4:45 Planting of Willard Roth Golden Larches Boost Your Reaction Time compiled from wire reports Reaction time saves us. from pitfalls that could hap-pen everyday, flying Frisbees, fists. and tile such. ReactioMime can be improved thQ:ugh. Here are four\quick ways to shorten reaction time: . 1. Play video games, The:CoUege,Center is fuU &:Fmachines that can help you impt<.rv~reactiQMilne~,X~Vhich'isbased:on;vlsual,skill&i~hd':band•eyeeoor€1in:atiotl. ff youhatevidea·:games,4heh'tty. Pirtg·Pong:(NOTB'EERi'PONG, Ping Pang t·lkeForrest Gump.pl~y.J;tJ;1n.tbemtWie~\· · -·· · .· · .. ·· ,, .: . :,._:'.. . --.-, ,- :~-. ,_, __ , __ ':::;::.:' ;::: ..... ,,/ ,;;.· ... ·· -~-. ····';. ··-:·-,;:,·.,,( . .. -.·-- .. ,. ·-···.-·· .. -.<'::.-;··-:. ;· .. .-,f·: ·• ·.· •... •~ci~4~i1ttr~i~~~~&.~t~6i~.~d,~~t~~itf',re~t~~~;~~ber~;.to1t .. ·~~;· · spm it;oo ar~jJofd''ifihil(ri, cMl'ln~·:aut th~ntitttbe~ ··un''ithe:sdii:lk for otte t0 th ~li'ittlti''· .! -~\·' ······~··.~····\~····· ·· · .~lfi~\~~·i~t·ir' ~''~· .-. ' .. -·- ___ : ~ ... · ...... _ .·. ··;::-::~~-- .. ' '-/ '·4 -.Tor 'tfi Utf ~mr:.:,.: .... ·r··~ ·; 1 .•. ·. :; ....... . ·,~----

. . The Concordiensis ·May 11, 1995 ·Page 7 EDITORIAL · · 1 ' ~ • • Union Community Needs to Protect Itself Within the last few weeks, Union College has seen an incredible rise in theft. Wallets, money, bikes and clothing have been stolen. There has also been an increase in vandalism, such as broken windows and damage caused by forcible entry into a given area. Many members ofthe campus community, both students and faculty alike, need to be more careful with their belongings and personal safety. Be sure not to leave any valuables out in the open and to lock your doors (both offices and dorm rooms). It is naive to think that we are untouchable or invincible just because we are inside the gates ofUnion College. Right now, anyone can walk onto the campus. Also, who is to say that a Union student would not commit such petty crimes. Be aware of what is going on around you. When you leave your dorm at night to make a run to the College Center or up-campus, take security. Essentially, we as students are paying for the .privilege of security escort. Utilize it! One may often think, \It is just a short walk to the College Center, so I won't bother to call escort.\ Let's not forget the series of muggings that occurred earlier in the year. One ofthem even occurred under a light outside of a residence hall. They may have been prevented if individuals called escort and did not walk alone. We all are sometimes our own worst enemy. Do not let strangers into the residence halls. Do not leave doors propped open. Lock your doors when you leave. Do not leave your valuables out in the open for everyone to view and possibly steal. Do not walk alone. This is not to say that we must all live in fear for what could happen to us next. This is simply to say \be careful\ of what you do and how you do things. Be smart. As far as the vandalism is concerned, the damage caused by individuals who do not intend to steal, the Union College community should show more respect to their surroundings. For instance, if a window is broken in a donn, the entire dorm -will end up paying for it. Random acts of vandalism are both senseless and immature 1n every sense. . ' . . · OPINIONS , > - Something's Happening Here ... by Tony Lavecchia Opinions Editor It seems that lately The Concor- diensis has been a very popular newspaper. Perhaps, too popular. Lately newspapers have been dis- appearing in large quantities. Maybe I'm wrong, but It seems to me that lately someone has been stealing newspapers. My intention in writing this ar- ticle is not to speculate about who is stealing the papers, nor is it to attempt to accuse anyone through insinuation or implication. I sim~ ply hope to point out exactly how serious this theft is, and why it can not continue. One may wonder why anyone would steal newspapers. At first, I asked myself that same question. There are a lot of possible mo- tives I think that the last two is- sues have been extremely contro- versial in content. It is also the last two issues that have been vanish- ing. Anytime there is a controver- sial issue, some people disagree. Clearly, anyone on campus has the right to disagree with anything written in the paper. I also realize that anyone on campus could have been responsible for taking the missing paper. The point isn't who took the papers or why, but rather the imp I ications; Essentially, some who disagree with what is said in the Concor- diensis have simply been taking the paper out of circulation. By doing so, they are I imiting differ- ent opinions. Such action is dan- gerous to every member of the community. The whole idea of a paper, and particularly the op-ed section is to encourage free and open debate. Clearly I ibelous material is unacceptable, and care must be taken about what we print. Aside from libelous mate- sacrifice a lot in order to get the paper out on time. Perhaps, those who stole the papers should think about the amount of lost sleep~ and long nights of staring into a computer screen that went into the production of the papers they stole in a matter of minutes. Aside It seems that lately The Concordiensis has been a very popular newspaper. Perhaps, to() popu- lar. Lately newspapers have been disappear- ing in large quantities. rial however, it is our policy as a newspaper to print pretty much any reasonable letter or opinion submitted to us. Every week, I personally layout letters to the editor that were written in order to criticize me and people who are my friends. This criticism is simply a normal part of a news- paper. By by-passing the proper chan- nels of debate those who are stealing the newspaper( for what- ever reason) are defeating the whole purpose of having an op- ed section and a newspaper in general. I encourage the people who have been taking the news- papers, to first stop doing so, and to secondly start to articulate there own opinions either pub- licly or through the paper rather than suppressing the opinions of others. The second implication is also one that is se~ious. Students spend a:lotoftime assembling a newspaper. I know people who from the time element that goes into the paper, it is a matter of devotion and purpose. I know that personally it is discouraging to spend hours working on an issue only to see that the day after the newspapers are putout, they are all missing. I can only imagine how the people who spend entire days on single issues feel to see all of there hard work simply taken by someone who is incon- siderate, and frankly close mined. Now I suppose that some will criticize me, and feel I am im pli- cating them by writing this article. I'm also pretty sure that some will feel that my treatment of the is- sue has been to vague and broad. I honestly look forward to read- ing letters about what was wrong with my column. That kind of debate is healthy. I would be re- ally disappointed however, if in- stead of receiving criticism, I sim- ply found that more newsp~pers were missing. Submit all Letters to the Editor on a high density disk to 'CC 303 by Monday 5:00 we realize , Gra.n~, · · · ·solve the problems ,.~'~<.,,.\* but it w'Ould be a good start in forming a tol¥~ratJlcttJin·:o·ur'eiWttdaity life. EHtisrn and segregation hurt an of •·· U$. . .If we Wet,¢ tqHako(l Tony Lavecchia's view of elitism, \'life is eliti§t, attt~~ifi~p p():~nt you have to get used to this reality,, where w6utdW¢'alfbe? ,. Likis not~Htist. people make it so. Elitism is not somellli\iS.i,Qu wan1: to h,ave associated with your Greek orga. nizatkm, rir ~t;h~J: ¥te tb~ $t\ide.nts,. should rf:fcreatelife at Union, and allow for as riiatiy'equar opportunities as po&sib!e for every- one. This would mean change. Without change things, .like the Greek system, beco:rne stagnant and die. To avoid this, and to keep some traditio~ not only do the Greeks organizations need to change, bt!t tbe whole character of the school must. Traditions . need to h~ brok{!n ui prcgress ~nto the future. For this school to ''suryive'the Q~xf2o.o Y~.ars,. we ptUSt create a new Union, which d<>::~~1~i~?.~~,f}j;i}!Th'. . ·.· . .... h··'- S·incerely, · . .. -, ...••.. \, .Jfu.'' ,,,,, ~,_,,., ••.•... ,~,,,,.., ..••. ~.1l.tP:el .ltlJ.Ina unior Economics, Managerial Economics, Indust. Economics Majors Senior TAesislnfoMeeting Today, May 11, 11:30 AM, SS I 03 Make-up Meeting Tomorrow, May 12, 2:00 prn, SS 001 (stat lab) If you cannot attend either meeting, pick up an advisor preference form in SS 212. It is important that you get and return your thesis advisor prefere~ce form by May 19 ·; ~-------------·-~----------------------- ' ' i

Page 8 · 'M::ay 11, 1995 ·The Concordiensis OPIED --- ----- - . ·_ LETTERS·_ . . ' ' ' .. . - . . . ' Trustee Responds to Letter to Editor To the Editor, I was veryd isappointed to read the letter from Davis Druschel '74 in the April27 edition ofthe Concordiensis Your willingness to pub I ish written opinions on issues per- taining to the Union College community is great Use of the Con- cordiensis to undertake personal attacks or broadcast insults is unfortunate This is particularly the case when it is done with limited knowledge or understanding of underlying facts and al- ternative courses of action. In addition. a lack of decency or willingness to express dis- agreement in a civil manner when dealing with our differences does not lead to a constructive dialog or resolution. What's more, it rarely. if ever persuades anyone Similarly, ascribing motives . to those with whom one may disagree accomplishes little. As chairman ofthe search committee following the announce- ment by President Morris of his desire to retire, I am very famil- iar with the .process and reasoning that led to the selection of Roger Hull to succeed him. It was based solely on Roger's past achievements and his potential to lead Union in the future. As a Trustee of the college, I am well aware of the complex issues facing the college. The choice between alternatives made by President Hull on the meal plan, while it may not please every- one, is strongly supported by the Board of Trustees. In this con- nection, I understand that the Alumni Council, after being briefed on the relevant issues and alternatives, also endorsed the President's course of action by defeating a proposal to object or: oppose. As we m<>ve forward into Union's third century the college is strong and gaining prestige. There will be other difficult choices aheadandn()tallofthem wil:l please all of us. I hope, as we face these times, those who seek to be heard or to express an opinion will do so in a matter that will make us all proud to be part of the civilized community Union strives to be. Sincerely, J.M. Hinchey '47 . . ' . . Write for The Conc.otdiensis!!! · . . ·CaiiX6155 · · . . . . Terms Abroad's Shortcomings To the Editor, I am writing this letter to inform the campus community of a severe deficiency in the Terms Abroad office. Students are very aware that through this office they are sub- jected to back door deals and se- crecy that they hope will lead them to another country Unfortunately, for the student the means by which we are selected leave many at a dis- advantage. As students we are not privy to who is on the committee reviewing our applications nor do we have the ability to appeal if we are rejected. We are left in the dark, forced to submit vague essay's be- cause the office doesn't set guide- lines for what they want or care to know. When I applied to this school and decided to come here one of the main reasons was because of Union's term abroad program, but after dealing with this bureaucratic behemoth for the past year I have seen that it is little more than poli- tics and secrecy. If I am a student who pays tuition at this school and I apply for a term abroad program I should be able to go. According to the Terms Abroad office, the school needs to commit more money to the terms abroad pro- gram for its expansion and that currently the college is unable to allow all students who want to go on a term abroad the opportunity. Basically, the office is turning away qualified, tuition paying stu- dents. In order to do this commit- tees are forced to make decisions based on essays and G PA the least of which are good indicators of character and a students ability to succeed in another country. Currently, nothing is being done and more and more students are being left out of an opportunity that they couldn't have because there wasn't enough space or be- cause there essay wasn't what the committee was looking for. Are- jected student as no other recourse than to hope and pray that the next time they apply they will be ac- cepted. Unfortunately, it doesn't always happen and some students are rejected from two or even three programs. How can you justify this? Clearly a student applying to a tenn abroad meets the qualifi- cations set forth, such as the 2.3 GPA and the necessary classes but what really happens when it comes to picking students based on little more thana one page essay? I am calling for a complete overhaul of the terms abroad of- fice. The programs need to be expanded and not as focused on Europe. Secondly, all students should have the opportunity to be interviewed by the commit- tee which they are being re- viewed by. Thirdly, the policy of wait pooling students should be abolished, why bother giving students the glimmer of hope when it is clear to the commit- tees that the student has little or no chance of getting into the pro- gram from such a pool. Lastly, give students the opportunity to appeal to the committee if they are rejected. Perhaps the com- mittee looked over a qualified student and there is no harm done in reviewing an application face to face with a student. I sin- cerely hope that this stirs stu- dents who have been wrongly rejected to ask questions ofthose above them who seem to be con- trolling their destinies from be- hind a closed door. Sincerely, Brandon D. Declet Students interested in ushering for Commencement, June 11, please see Mrs. Marra in 408 CC. ' i i l,

r f i. r ; OP/ED The Concordiensis- May 11, 1995 ·Page 9 . LETTERS . ·. · . .. . ••.... · .. Please Participate in Union's East Asian Program To the Editor: I'm writing to encourage your readers to participate in Union's East Asian Studies program,- wbich wa~ established ten years ago through the pioneering work of Prof. Don Thurston. EAS is enjoying a rush of new resources in 1995. I know of no better way to raise the visibility ·of this pro- gram .than to put it in your pages. Union students will be able to sign up for Introductory Chinese next fall term. This addition complements the strong existing Japanese language pmgram. In addition, we've hired two new Asian specialists in the Social Sciences. Next fall, Prof. Joyce Medancy. a Cbina specialist, will .enter the History Department, and· Prof .. Ted Gilman, a Japan specialist, will be here in Politi- cal Science. They join faculty already here who ,teach Asia-re- lated courses, in Economics, Phi- losophy, Anthropology, and else- where. Thirty years ago, as a sopho- more in college, I had a free elec- tive to fill, and decided to study Chinese. I thought it might be fun. It ~ - so much so that I was quickly drawn into related courses in history, art and poli- tics. At that time, studying an Asian language made no sense (especially to my father!) People still lumbered across the Pacific in propeller planes. No satellite feed brought the evening news from Canton to our TV screens. Today, the most rapidly grow- Be a Famous Photographer for The Concordiensis!! Call Rick@ X6155 ing economies on earth lie in an arc from Korea to Indonesia. Their emergence is an event which will shape the world you inhabit. The single best way to experience that other culture is to take a beginning course in Chinese or Japanese next faiJ. I'd love to pass along informa- tion (and my enthusiasm for Asia) to any interested students. You can reach me at extension 6217, or find me in the Econom- .ics Department. Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Co-Director, EAS Thursday, May 4, 1995 at 4:40PM Social Sciences Room 103 Refreshments at 4:30PM Former Editor Responds to Meal Plan De:cision To the Editor, Anent your letter of recent da1e c<Jncem ing the cancellation of fraternity dining privileges , I find it a:p ieee of casuistry worthy of Teilhard de Chardin, of whom tlle Nobel Prize-winning scientist Peter B. Medawar, after reading deChardin 's The Phenomenon of Man, wrote: ... \its author can be·e:=-:cused of dishonesty only on the grounds that before deceiving o thershe has taken great pains to deceive himself.\ There may be many good reasons :for ending the fraternity tradi- tion at Union, but I did not find a single credible one in your letter. Sincerely, John J. Cassidy .,53 Former Editor, The Concorrfiensis ------- 1 .

Page 10 ·May 11, 1995 ·The Concordiensis Election_s Candidates for Senior Class Representative David Grandwetter It is my firm belief that true representations in a democratic sense is only possible if represen- tatives are in touch with their constituencies. Further, the re- lationship can only hope to be successful if the representative is adamant about conveying the true mood of his/her constituency to the forum on which he/she serves. Whether the general sentiment of the student body has in fact been truly represented in our three years at Union is debatable. To this question, I do not profess to have a comprehensive answer. I do, however, have the capacity to speak for myself and make one honest statement. If electe.d to represent the class of'96, you can rest assured that I will make ev- ery effort possible to be an active representative in the truest sense of the word. Let it be noted that I make that statement without try- ing to dip into the political rheto- ric which we have often read and listened to during our time at Union. Next year is the culmination of our undergraduate studies. We will graduate as the 200th class to commence through Union's gates and I urge you to make our senior year the most memorable one yet. I feel quite confident in saying that I am more than win- ing to help us reach thatgoal and there will be plenty to look for- ward to on the way. A fantastic senior week coupled with in- creased class involvement and enthusiasm will hopefully be the climax to a noteworthy year. Furthennore, I will strive to help find the most attractive mix of academic, social, and extra-cur- ricular activities which can be provided for our class. Like the vast majority of the Union community, I am optimis- tic that the next 200 years will be as successful as the first 200. In order to secure that, the faculty, administration, and most impor- tantly, the students must have their needs met. To the class of 1996, let me say that I will do ev- erything in my power to try and meet your needs. Jon Shapiro Anyone who has read The Concordiensis during the past month is aware that student in- put regarding decisions affecting them is not well received by the administration. If Union is go- ing to be run like a business, then it is a fair assumption that we, the students are patrons of this business. There are two types of customers. The first type of cus- tomer allows themselfto be bul- lied and adversely affected by the unfair practices of the business. The second type of customer ad- dresses the problem, demands to see the manager, and refuses to leave the store until appeased. I Candidates for Junior Class Representative Randy Pellisb The Class of 97' is by far the most affected by present changes that have occurred here at Union. By being here already for almost two years, we know and are used to how the campus works. The changes then take away what many of us have enjoyed in the past. Looking to the future, we have another two great years to spend at Union; years which could be very different than those past. We have to ensure that those great things of the past con- tinue to exist, and at the s.ame time, make sure that future changes are correct for us and for future incoming classes. We know what makes Union great and we must make sure the great- ness is not lost. By serving as your representa- tive to the student forum, I will work to restore representative government as a premium in our student government. It is impor- tant that what I work for is what \you the Class of '97, want. Controversial issues must be brought out into the open allow- ing students to fonn opinions and have a voice concerning what is best for Union and the student body. I know Union's future can be one which both students and administration will feel proud of, but it must happen in an open environment where all ideas can be heard. As your representative, I believe I can make our next two years a time where the great past will stay with us, and the future will work for us. Thank you. am a finn believer that Union stu- dents are, and should continue to be in the mold of the second type ofcustomer. We all benefit when the will of the students is the ·law of the school. As seniors-to-be, we have the responsibiHty of making our last year at Union our best year at Union. I am committed to this goal and want to help achieve it through obtaining the position of senior class president. I am that assertive, pain-in-the-ass cus- tomer that refuses to leave with- out getting his way, and will de- vote myself entirely to obtaining the goals that we as members of the incoming senior class want to achieve. If you like what you want, vote Jon Shapiro for senior class president. Seth Brown On Friday you will once again vote for your representatives. I am running because I have an interest in being involved in what occurs on campus. As your rep- resentative I promise to I isten to what the senior class wants and work to secure these interests. Over the last three years I have been active in the school. Fur- Chia-Jung Chiu Hi ... my name is Chia-Jung Chiu and I am running for the position of Junior Class Repre- sentative. Now should come a list of the promises and the things that I will do if elected to office. Okay, how about (1) I'll improve communication between the stu- dents, the Student Forum, and the administration by making sure there is more student input on administrative decisions, (2) I'll bring this college to the true meaning ofthe word \union by supporting more campus-wide activities .and increased inter- class and intra-class spirit and unity, and (3) I'll work for the students, both juniors as well as the other classes. These promises, however, among many others, will most likely be made by the other candidates. Why, then, should you vote for me, an un- known in politics who suddenly decided to run for office after al- most two years at Union? The realization came to me that it was time to stop complaining to my friends and to start doing something about issues on cam- pus, such as why the Crosstalk on improved communication be- thermore, I have spent two years on the Student Forum. I under- Stand how the system works and most importantly I am not afraid to voice my opinion. If you vote for Seth Brown on Friday I prom- ise 1hat your voice will be heard. My goals are to improve commu- nication between the.student body and the Student Forum and to work to increase social alterna- tives at Union. Senior year is an imp0rtant year for all of us. Make the tight decision in choosing your representatives. Vote Seth Brown for Senior Class Repre- sentative! KojoAttah Fell ow classmates, my name is Kojo-Frank Attah and I'm run- ning for a seat as Senior Class Representative. Rather than promise you the sky I ike some of my predecessors have done, I'm here to simply state that a time has come for students' interests to be addressed and properly rep- resented. Well, I'm the one for the job. Not only will I push for students interests but I'll MAKE sure that our ideas and proposals are taken sericusly. I'll be an extension of tween the _students and adminis- tration was held on a weekend when many Union students left for home. Or why Greeks and students off-campus are being forced on the meal plan without their consultation. Or why, if stu- dents were encouraged to attend NCUR conferences, were we not given abstract books ofthe talks. The administration seems to be contradicting itself. It'st.imethat someone straightened it out. If you're tired of the administration making all the decisions for you, or if you feel as if you don't have a voice on campus, then I would appreciate your vote. nt do all that I can to make sure every stu- dent is heard. Thank you. students' concerns but that can only be accomplished if students start to voice their opinions through proper channels. If elected, I'll be such a channel and my main concern will be to in~ crease and/or stress our opinions to .the administration. What are some of the ideas I have to offeryou may ask? I'm a strong advocate of community service and it's my dream that as a class (as a school), not only should we contribute a gift to the school but to our neighbors who reside outside the gates of the school aswell. In other words, a 'gift' to the people ofSchenectady will only better the atmosphere here inside/outside of Union (Big Brothers/Big Sisters could only do so much). With your support, it's my hope that this can become a reality. These are some ofthe ideas that I'm coming to you with and to- gether we can work to not only make Union a better environment but to foster a conducive atmo- sphere for all. Thus, come voting day (May 12th), remember KOJO-FRANK A 1T AH BECAUSE HE'LL NOT GIVE UP TILL THE JOB IS PROPERLY DONE. I I. t ~ -----

I t f f Elections The Concordiensis · May 11, 1995 · Page 11 Candidates for Vice-President of Academics Fei-Lu Qian Hi everyone, my name is Fei-Lu Qian. After spending my first year in Union, I have decided to run for VP Academics because I feel that Union Clln fulfill students' academic needs more adequately ifthe admin- istration, faculties, arid students un- de~.:stand each othersO needs. Dur- ing this year I have learned a great deal by working with fellow students and faculties on various organiza- tions and groups such as the Cam- pus Action, Multicultural Affairs Group, Asian Student Union, and Zoller Elementary School. I have leamed that it takes the hard work and the dedication of both sides to accomplish a common goal. If elected, I will be the liaison be- tween the students and the adminis- tration. I will work on behalf of all of us, the students to make sure that we are not forgotten when it comes down to the decision making on an academic issue. I will make sure that our voices and concerns are heard throughout the whole process. When I was going around the school and asking students for their endorsements, a common question came up. The particular question was \What do you stand for?\ I re- sponded by telling them that I stand for a more diverse GenEd. A more diverse GenEd means that we will be able to choose more courses to sat- isfy our GenEd requirements. A specific example would be in the history sequences. where we would be able to choose from more than three types of histories. Currently, I am talking to students who feel that they are limited with the amount of options that they have on the History sequences. l11ey feel that they might have selected a different type of his- tory if it was offered. Others feel that they are sati!lfy with their selection, but would like more choices forthose students who feel differently. As VP Academics~ I will work for more choices in the GenEd and in the curriculum. On Friday, there will be a few candidates who are running for VP Academics. It will be up to us to vote for the candidate who will best work on behalf of the students and with the administration. Vote for Fei.:Lu Qian on Friday, May 12. Rich Fuerst My name is Richard Fuerst, and l am currently a Junior Political Sci- ence Major. I have decided to run for the office of Vice President of Academics for a number of reasons. First of all, I feel that I possess the qualities that are essential to this po- sition. Secondly, this position is not a popularity contest, but an impor- tant decision that the students of this institution will make. Thirdly, Union College was founded on the principle of nurturing higher educa- tion, and any loss of that principle greatly degrad_\ls the school artd its students. SamTolkoff We should change academic poli- cies that do not minister to the stu- dent body. The admini~tration's policy ofplacing a \W\ on students' transcripts for dropping a class after an arbitrary date serves no one. The concern seems to be that the school's standards and integrity must be up- held. This is not an issue for institu- tions with equal and stronger aca- demic reputations. MIT allows its students to drop a class without pen- alty, besides the students' energy and money, up until the final exam. Students who have proven that they can handle a larger course load should be allowed to take as many courses as they wish. I know of no other school that prevents students who are fully matriculated from tak- ing extra courses. TI1e administra- tion argues that Union must stress academics more, places blame on the Greek system, yet prevents bright, educated students from further edu- cating themselves. If the adminis- tration fears that most students will add courses to their schedules, and in doing so, graduate in less than four years, we need to reevaluate our aca- demics in general. It is important to have a core cur- riculum, however, it is not necessary to require liberal arts majors to take science courses if they amount to \baby-bio\ or \Chemistry of TI1ings.\ Freshman Precept can be an excellent course, but the class can also be taught by people who are poor writers themselves. We are forced to be bored by these classes - this must be corrected. We just received $750,000 to re- structure the engineering depart- ment. This will affect not only the engineers, but the entire college. Meetings will take place over the summer and outside of students' ear- shot. This type of closed door policy-making must not continue. TI1e administration does not seem to be concerned with the academics here at Union, but rather the eco- nomics. We must voice our objec- tions to these unfair policies or they will continue. I would appreciate your vote. Responsibility, as with any pasi- tion, is essential. How do you as- sess responsibility? How do you know if someone will serve in a re- sponsible manner? My answer is to look at what that person has done in the past. I have served Union Col- lege through the Student Forum when I proudly and successfully be- came a junior class representative. r have also had the honor to serve as Vice President of the Newman Club, and currently serve as an advisor. I have demonstrated responsibility in the past, and I hope that my past ac- tions will convince you that I will in the future. One may tend to vote for their friend, or the person that has the most posters, but remember what you are --------~---------------------------------- Fred Ulrich Academics is the heart of this in- stitution. There has been much talk in this bicentennial year about tra- dition. Union has a tradition of aca- demic excellence. It is time Union reaffirms that stand. We must take a close look at where Union is now and where it can go as an educational institution. This should include a close evaluation of three things: the GenEd curriculum, the academic honesty policy, and the academic calendar. I want to determine if the GenEd curriculum still works, if it meets its goals and what you the students want to see changed. To achieve this I propose a comprehensive evaluation of the program. I want students and faculty to work together in evaluat- ing the education that effects us all. Similarly I would like to see an evaluation of the Academic Honesty policy. That' policy must also meet the needs of the students. If it does not, it too must be changed. r am willing to fight for these changes if you. r feel that your im- pute is necessary for a curriculum that meets all needs. It is your school, you are the recipients of the education, you should have a say in what you are required to learn. I want Union to be a school of aca- demic excellence. I want the edu- cation here to fit the needs and wants of the student body. Michael Gifford I'm not going to flood you with any political rhetoric, so I'll make my point a brief one. I am running for the VP of Academics position for one primary reason, and that's to continue Union's strong scholastic commitment. The candidate who holds this position has a responsibil- ity to ensure that there is constant communication between the stu- dents of the college and the govern- ing body thereof, the Student Forum. The holder of this position is a bridge, a liaison, between the col- lective student voice and the people who have the power to act in accor- dance with it. My experience on the forum as vice-president of the freshmen class opened my eyes to quite a few is- voting for. Union must uphold its proud tradition of superior education, and who else should protect this tra- dition than one who feels in his heart that he has the ability and willing- ness to serve in this position. Not only have I achieved an academic merit of which I am proud of, but I sincerely care about the academic success and intellectual opportuni- ties for all students at Union College. I will not go into detail for what I · plan to do for the sake of not boring you to death, but I must make clear my basic position: anything that nur- tures education must be promoted and those things that detract from it should be minimized. Union has done a good job at diversifYing its curriculum, and promoting group Isca Beswick . During my term as the Sopho- more Representative on the Student Forum, many people, myself in- cluded, have concluded that there is a great need for increased comm u- nication between the students and the administration. In such a com- mittee as the Academic Affairs Council (AAC), it is crucial that the diverse opinions and ideas of the students be sufficiently voiced. This ensures that any academic policy that will directly affect the student population will reflect the students' sentiments. However, I believe that even though open discussion forums, such as Crosstalk, may serve the purpose of venting sentiments re- garding issues such as the Trimes- ter vs. Semester issue, there is need for a more concentrated forum. Be- cause the VP of Academics needs to be annedwith information when attending the AAC, and the Course and Programs Committee, I feel that it is necessary for the VP of Academics to initiate a subcommit- tee. My proposal is for the forma- tion of the Student Interdepartmen- tal Commillee, which will consist of a number of students from each department mqjor and will provide the VP with feedback conceming issues that either have been ad- dressed or have not been recognized by the AAC. Even though there are no provisions for such a commit- tee, this link between the students and the Deans is of such vital im- portance, that I would, if given the chance, take the appropriate steps to formalize its existence. Each year the VP of Academics would be mandated to chair the Student Interdepartmental Committee. In sues on campus, and made me real- ize that I could jump in and see what's going on in an often non-pub- licized student government. It was there where I teamed that I could do something about the things my friends and I were complaining research and internships. However, there is obviously room for improve- ment. In my opinion, the improve- ment has to come from the students: leaders in the academic and civic as- pects of the school must identify what promotes an academic atmo- sphere and encourage students to partake in these activities. I am will- ing to donate my time and resources to round~up these leaders, and strengthen the academic atmosphere here at Union. Obviously, I can only do this if you give me the chance! Thank you for your time, and re- member to vote this Friday. addition, another avenue of com- munication that can be utilized is that of the Multicultural Affairs Group, which consists of members from each multicultural club. Be- cause this group also represents a diverse student opinion, I am work- ing on placing the VP of Academ- ics on that Group. For example, si nee a revised version, currently under review, of the Section IV Op- tion 2 of the General Education Re- quirement provides for the student to take culturally diverse courses (of which there are 39 known), the MAG can provide insight on more culturally diverse topics. Decentralization of the bureau- cracy... increasing the diversity of representation on the various ma- jor committees, such as Academic Affairs Committee . .. hearing, and including the input of the students in the policy -making of the AAC. These aren'tjust ideas; they are fea- sible solutions for increasing student input while improving student-ad- ministration relations, in not only the Academic Affairs of the cam- pus, but also in Student Affairs. about. Through effective communi- cation between the students and the body politic of the school, much was accomplished. This communication can only be maintained by people who listen to the recent and immediate concerns of the students-what you're think- ing, issues you want addressed, or concems you'd Uke to see brought into consideration. I'm an easy per- son to talk to, and when backed by 2000 informed Union students who know they have a say in it all, I do not back down easily. On Friday, May 12th, vote for someone who gives a damn about what's going on on campus, and who's willing to stand up and show it. Vote Mike Gifford, VP of Aca- demics, to make certain you always have a student representative on your side.

Page 12 · May 11, 1995 · The Concordiensis Elections Candidates for Sophomore Class Representative Toby Proctor Hello to all the members of the class of 1998. I'm Toby Proctor, your current Vice President. I'm supposed to write about why you should re-elect me this Friday. Well, I'll do that but I'd also like to tell you what I've learned this whole year being on the Student Forum. Some exciting things are happening on the Student Forum. I 'rn now on a committee designed to increase the Student Forum's power to represent you, the stu- dent body. Apparently many of you are upset about how it seems that nothing gets done by the Forum. Well, rll tell you, lots of things go in front of the Fo- rum that we, as a body, do try to represent the students' opinions. I realize that this is very impor- tant to most of you. Well, this is what I'm going to do. As Presi- dent of the class, I would have all the separate Class of 1998 rep- resentatives in all dorms speak directly to me each week, after they have gotten a feel ofhow the people they represent feel. Those representatives would have the freedom ofhowever they want to get that information from the stu- dents they represent. This causes an open flow of information up- wards to me, which also includes vital feedback to me of how well you think I am doing my job. This type of representation is what is needed in the Student Forum. With this and Ken Chase's implementation of the Student Forum voice mail box, the next school year will be the most effective year the Student Forum has ever had. Hannah Blum Michelle VanderLoon \These are the times to remem- ber and they will not last for- ever ... \ -Billy Jael Therefore, as a class, together, we must cherish each moment and strive for excellence in all of our endeavors. As your sopho- more class ,representative, I promise to bring our class closer to these goals. We must view next year as a catharsis in which we carry the memories and achievements ofthis year with us but more importantly, we begin anew with a vision above and beyond what we have already achieved. As the student body, you are the moving force ... the spark that jump starts change and improve- ment. Therefore we must work together as a class. We must bond. We can do this through more activities like Chet's Bar- becues and Playfair. I know that I was disappointed that we didn't do enough this year, especially as in what I have achieved as an in- dividual because it is irrelevant and in the past. We need to look towards our vast future taking one step at a time. Each of 11s has already started to go our sepa- rate ways in this school and we should try to remain united as a class. Some of us have experi- enced all that the Greek system to offer and others have chosen to get involved or just sit back and enjoy the atmosphere. Let me help you shape this community into what you want. Although I will never promise a coed-naked sophomore day or an all age keg night at Chets, 1 can help this class reach new heights of in- volvement. I askonefavorofall you spring term freshman out there. Go out and vote! Show this school that you care who helps shape your future. Elizabeth Malaspina Do you know exactly where you will be in three years? Would you like to? Do you ever feellike you need some guidance? Just as sometimes you are unsure of yourself, there are more than 500 other students that feel the same way. Some of us are highly mo- tivated leaders and others of us are the more shy type who are even to timid to raise our hands in class. We are all in the same boat though. We all wish to be successful. The class of 1998 has the potential to be an integral part of the student government, yet we must have leaders to help us. We have had over seven months to learn about ourselves and our friends and we need to show Union what we have achieved. As a representative of this class I can help obtain this goal. I will not bore you with tny experience My name is Elizabeth Malaspina and I am interested in being a representative for the sophomore class on the Student Forum. Those of you that I have met since September are aware that 1 am an outgoing person that is dedicated to standing up for the things I believe in. My interest in this position stems from my desire to improve the representa- tion of our class on the student ---------------------- ----- it was the bicentennial year. Al- though we have spent a year with each other, we still knew faces without names. Therefore, we should have a photo-telephone book to combine these faces with names. There must be more input from you, the student body. I know you have ideas and would Hke to ex- press them but need a direct and accessible means·of doing so. By placing suggestion boxes in ac- cessible places ~throughout the campus like .the College Center and dorms and creating a \sug- gestion box\ through voicemail and e-mail your ideas wHI be hear. I promise to be your voice. Speak through me and I will rep- resent you with spirit, dedicatiom, and pride. Lastly, there needs to be im- proved awareness aboutupcom- ing events, activities, and admin- istrative policies and improved communication between the ad- ministration and the students. I will open these lines ofcommu- nication. Next year can be outstanding. However, goals are dreams with deadlines and therefore you must act now by voting. Vote Dutch! Vote VanderLoonl Laurie Kirschner Hey everyone. Can you believe our freshman year is coming to a close already? I can't! For those of you who don't know me, my name is Laurie Kirschnerand I'm running for the position of sopho- more class re.presentative. Throughout the year I've heard forum. As your class representa- tive, I will actively represent the desires and opinions, of you, the class of 1998. There were a number of issues that arose this year that bothered me; therefore, I decided that I needed to play an active role in preventing further problems from arisisng. As students, we cannot com- plain about the meal plan or the policies ofthe adminisration un- less we havetaken an active stand to prevent decisions that we do not favor from being made. At the elections on Friday, each member of the class of 1998 will have the opportunity to chose the type of person that they believe would best represent them. I be- lieve that you will be satisfied by the representation that I offer. As your representative, I will actively seek your input and opin- ions concerning the matters that many people complain about cer- tain conditions and policies in existence here at Union. I, too, must admit participating in these conversations. I've realized, how- ever, that nothing gets accom- plished or changed without voic- ing these opinions. I'd like to be your voice. I'm tired of sitting back, wishing 1 could make changes, yet never opening my mouth. I'd be lying if I said I could fix and solve all the prob- lems at Union. That would be impossible, but what I can prom- ise is to bring your concerns out in the open so an attempt can be made can at resolving them. I've attended our freshman class meetings and actively taken part in discussions at these meetings. I only hope that we all can work together to make next year more productive. So if you'd like your opinions to be heard, vote Laurie Kirschner for sophomore Class Representative. OryaHyde- KeUer statement and photo unal'ai/ahle are discussed at Student Forum meetings. I believe our class needs a responsible leader that is not afraid to voice her opinion and take action to get things done. I will not makes vague campaign promises to you that I cannot carry out; Instead, I prom- ise to be an active spokesperson that will accurately represent the opinions of our class. As a member of the freshmen class, I have grown to love Union College: however. I am dis- traught with the disinterest ofthe students in our class with how decisons are made at Union Col- lege. Through the experience I gained as a member of my high school student government, I have come to value the impor- tance oftherole that the students play in the operation of the school. It is important that the representatives on the Student Forum encourage the ·participa- tion of their fellow students in the decision making. The students in the Freshmen class need to work together to improve the community that we live in at Union. It is important that every student feels that they are a part of Union and that they have the ability to voice their opinion to someone that will listen. As your representative I promise to do my best to accomplish these goals. Neha Shah Hello, my name is Neha Shah and I would like to be your class representative next year. I de- cided to run after reading the class newsletter we received ear- lier this year. I thought there were a lot of really good ideas for our class in the newsletter and i looked forward to seeing them implemented. I also looked for- ward to hearing more about what our class was doing through fu- ture newsletters. Well, when I didn't see any of this actually take place, I decided I wanted to get involved with our class and help make vans to the mall, a class campout on West Beach, future editions of class newsletters, and many other new ideas actually occur. I do have experience in organizing activities and work- ing in class governments so I am confident that I can tum my en- thusiasm into actual results in order to make for a very exciting year. I can't wait to get involved with our c)ass whether elected to be a class representative or not and I hope you will remember that when you vote on Friday, May 12th. Suzanne Dougherty Submitted on Suzanne's behalf. Suzanne Dougherty is the cur- rent Secretaryffreasurer of your class. During the year, she has also served on the Committee on Committees: As class represen- tative to the Student Forum, she has often aired your concerns to the Forum as a whole, and worked hard at getting answers to your questions. As class trea- surer, she has managed the class' $1000 account, and been respon- sible for organizing class activi- ties and meetings. Suzanne vol- unteered for, and actively partici- pated in, the newly formed sub- committee on Improving Student Government at Union. With your vote, she would like to work as a representative for the class of 1998 once again. F 1

Final Exams The Concordiensis • Mayll, 1995 • Page 13 UNION COLLEGE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE SPRING TERM 1995 ' ~ TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1995- 11 :30AM - 1:30PM MONDAY;JUNE5, l995-8:30AM-10:30AM ACC*OIO*Ol Survey of Accounting Lewis BAIL 201 CER*010*01 Intro to Communications Jewell BUTR 109 AMU*021 *01 Music History 2 Wilson ARTS 215 CER*l70*01 Civil Engt Design Project Thabet BUTR 300 ATH*OIO*OI Speech Communication Bloomrosen ARTS 313 CHM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry Werner BAIL 203 810*152*01 Nat. History of Vert George SWSE301 CHM*l52*01 Physical Chemistry 2 Anderson NWSE 116 CSC*Ol0*02 Computers & Computing Almstead STZH 106 CLS*025*01 History of Rome To-her, M. HUMN 114 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Hannay NWSE 116 CLS*025*02 History of Rome Ma,fincola HUMN 115 EGL *022N*O I Major American Authors Gado HUMN 112 CSC*183*01 Comp Sci Progr Proj 3 Hemmendinger BAIL 104 MER*012*0I Engineering Graphics 2 Eggert NWSE222 EC0*034*01 Intro to Fin Analysis Kenney SSCI 014 PSC*l69*01 Seminar: American Politics Marchant-S HUMN 113 HST*Ol4*01 Hist ofU.S.since Civ War Dud den BAIL 207 PSY*I44*01 Adv. Experimental Psych Bums PYCH 204 HST*OI4*02 Hist ofU.S.since Civ War Stemgass SSCI 104 SOC*l33*01 Personality & Soc. Struct Shemtov SSCI 010 HST*Ol4*03 Hist ofU.S.since Civ War Miller SSCI 012 SPN*012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Moyano SSCI 112 HST*036*01 Hist of Europe 2 Berk SSCI 016 SPN*012*02 Basic Spanish 3 Osuna SSCI 112 HST*036*02 Hist of Europe 2 Walker SSCI 112 HST*048*01 Hist of Modem Britain Finkelstein SSCll03 TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1995- 2:30PM - 4:30PM MER*022*01 Materials Science & Eng Milillo NWSE222 ANT*015*0l Intro to Archeology Cesarski SSCI 110 MER*026*02 Thermodynamics Wicks NWSE 112 Bl0*158*01 Plant Morphology Frohlich STZH 108 MER*042*01 Engineering Design 3 Bucinell NWSE2IO CER*020*01 Land Measurements Crum BUTR 109 - PHL*l74*0I Biomedical Ethics Cave HUMN 117 CLS*030*01 Grk & Rom Trag in Trans Scullion HUMN 117 PSC*020*01 Social Data Analysis Marchant-S BAIL 201 ECO*Ol2*01 Introduction to Economics Reynolds HUMN 019 PSY*025'*01 Intro to Exper Pych Bums PYCHI02 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Prosper SSCI 103 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psych Halpern PYCH113 EC0*042*01 Macroeco Theo & Policy Sayer NWSE 112 SOC*062*01 Social Data Analysis Marchant·S BAIL 201 EER*041*01 Electric Circuits Chang NWSE20IA ESC*Ol5*01 Num Methods & CLang Almstead NWSE 116 MONDAY, JUNE 5, I 995 - I 1 :JOAM- 1:30PM FRN*Oli*OI Basic French 2 Gates HUMN II9 AMU*031 *01 Music afBiack America Olsen ARTS 215 GER\'I3l*OI Survey of German Lit Hamm-Ehsa SSCI 105 BIO'~'l30*01 Animal Physiology Fleishman BAIL 205 GMI*I50*01 Organizational Theory Lehrman BAIL 205 BIO*l40*0I Molecular Genetics Horton STZH 108 LAT*l43*01 Roman Drama Marshall HUMN 113 CHN*010*01 Basic Chinese I Jiang HUMN 117 MTH*OIS*Ol Calculus 3 Fairchild BAIL 102 -- EC0*039*01 Public Finance McCarty SSCI 014 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 Seiken BAIL 207 HSI*020*01 Contemporary America Jonas SSCI 103 MTH* 132*01 Abstract Algebra I Zimmermann BAIL 100 HST*032*01 NYS Hist Top: 1776-1976 Stemgass HUMN014 MTH* 134*01 Differential Equations Seiken BAIL 104 MTH*I01*01 Advanced Calc for Engrs Sauerberg BAIL 100 PHY*044 *0 I Introduction to Astr. Vanture NWSE 114 MTH*I01*02 Advanced Calc for Engrs Nief/Zimm BAIL 104 PSY*'035\'0I Industrial/Organ Psych Nydegger BAIL 203 PSC*082*01 Health Politics & Policy Weiner SSCI 010 PSY*010*03 Intra to Psychology Spring PYCH 102 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1995- 8:30AM- 10:30AM PSY*036*01 Psychology of Learning DAndrea PYCH213 ANT*025*01 Anthro Presp:Childhood Brison SSCI 010 SOC*032*01 Criminal Punishment Christianson SSCI 112 BIO*I47*01 Immunology Styles BAIL 106 CER*142*01 Soil Mechanics Ghaly BUTR 109 MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1995- 2:30PM- 4:30PM CHM*OI2*01 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Lou BUTR 204 AAH*040*01 Modem Art & Arch Eyerman ARTS 215 CHM*012*02 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Adrian BUTR 204 ANT*OI8*0I Applied Anthropology Schaefer SSCI 105 CHM*016*01 Inorganic Chemistry I Scaife BAIL 203 810*134*01 Population Biology Boyer BAIL 106 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt SSCI 103 CLS*045*01 Women in Antiquity Marshall HUMNIIO FRN*012*01 Basic French 3 Laparra HUMN 110 EER*148'~<01 Digital Cir.cuits · Hassib NWSE201 GE0*04l\'OI Structural Geology Garver BUTR 201 EGL*044*01 Enlightenment & Roman Heinegg HUMN 112 GRK*012*01 Greek Reading Marincola HUMN 213 EGL*076*01 Modem American Novel Gado HUMN 114 HST*045*0l The Second Wid War Era Hansen SSCI 104 GER *011 *01 Basic German 2 Warde HUMN 115 MER*026*01 Thermodynamics Shanebrook NWSE210 HST*043*01 Europe in Early Mod Era Hansen SSCI103 MTH*028*01 Probability Rosenthal BAIL 102 HST*083*01 Myst, Magic & Witch. Sargent SSCI 112 MTH*OS5*01 Discrete & Cont Models Niefield BAIL 104 PHL*073*01 Environmental Ethics Cave BAIL 203 MTH*059*01 Appls of Math to Eco 2 Johnson BAIL 100 PHY*Ol5*01 Phys for Life Sciences 1 Schick NWSE 112 PHL*I38*01 Topics in East Thought Patrik HUMN 113 PHY*015*02 Phys for Life Sciences I Newman NWSE 116 PSC*040*01 E. Europe/Comp Perspe Zacek SSCI 012 PHY*018*01 General Physics 2 Lurio NWSE 114 PSC*045*01 Chinese Pol Behavior Thurston SSCI 105 PHY*018*02 General Physics 2 Green STZH 108 PSY*OIO*Ol Intro to Psychology Greenberg PYCH 113 PHY*018A*Ol General Physics 2 Reich NWSE300 PS¥*062*01 Pract in Human Relat 1 Dowling PYCH 102 PHY*OI9*01 General Physics 3 McWhirter STZH 106 RUS*121 *01 Intermediate Russian 2 Jemakoff HUMN 110 PSY*020\'0I Stat Methods/Psych Greenberg PYCH213 RUS*I32*01 Russian Literature 2 Jemakoff HUMN 110 WST*048*01 Women in Antiquity Marshall HUMN 110 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish I Connelly HUMN 019 SPN*I21 *02 Intermediate Spanish 2 Martinez BUTR 300 TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1995- 8:30AM •1 0:30AM SPN*I39*01 Pen. & Lat Amer Poetry Merediz SSCI 110 AAH*031*01 Italian Art & Architecture Ratte, F. ARTS 215 WST*092*01 Anthro Persp:Childhood Brison SSCI 010 ANT*067*0I E. Asian Deve/Society Reyn/Thurst SSCI 104 BIO\'OI8*01 Biology2 Frohlich SSCI 016 BI0*026*01 The Cell Danowski ,BUTR204 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1995-ll:JOAM-l:JOPM BIO*l70*01 General Endocrinology Butterstein BAIL 201 BI0*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse PYCH 113 CER* 153*01 Environmental Engr 2 Snow STZH 108 EGL*OI9*01 Major English Authors 1 Hilles HUMN 114 CHM*015*01 The Chemistry of Things Sowa BAIL 203 GE0*032*01 Petrology Hollocher BUTR 204 CHM*l54*01 Physical Chemistry 3 Hayes BAIL 205 ITL*OI0*01 Basic I tali an I Giunta HUMN 112 ECO*OI4*01 E. Asian Deve/Soc Reyn/Thurs SSCI 104 MTH*030*01 Ordinary Diff. Equation Barbanel BAIL 201 EER*OI8*01 Intro to Digital Comp Traver NWSE20IA PHL*035*01 Philosophy in America Ludwig HUMN 116 EER*042*01 System Theory I Chang BUTRI09 PHY*I19*01 Relat., Grav & Cosmolog Vanture NWSE303 EGL*022*02 Major American Authors Heinegg HUMN 112 PSC*OI2N*Ol Intra International Politics Abootalebi SSCI104 EGL*040*01 World ofthe Bible Heinegg HUMN I 14 PSC*05I*OI American Foreign Policy Abootalebi SSCI103 ESC*010*01 Mechanics I Jones BUTR300 PS¥*046*01 Intro to Psychobiology Weisse PYCH 113 ESC*020*0l Mechanics 2 Rivera NWSE112 RUS*OI2*01 Basic Russian 3 Jordan HUMN 115 FRN*!21*01 Intermediate French 2 Leamon SSCI 014 FRN*l30*01 Mod Fran/France actuelle Laparra SSCII05 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1995- 2:30PM -4:30PM GE0*022*0I Evolution of Landscapes Rodbell BUTR 201 ANT*OIO*Ol Intro to Cultural Anthro Cool HUMN 117 HST*058*01 The Holocaust Berk CCAUD ANT*050*01 Wom in Cross-Cult Persp Gmelch SSCI 110 HST*067*01 E. Asian Dev/Society Reyn/Thurst SSCI 104 CHM*OIO\'Ol Fundamental Chemistry I Carroll .BAIL 201 HST* 117*01 Am Eco Since New Deal Finkelstein SSCI103 CSC*OJO*OI Computers & Computing Spallholz STZH 106 MER*050*01 Heat Trans Ana/Design Anderson NWSE210 ECO*OI7*0l US Economic Policy Klein SSCI 112 MTH*012*01 CaJculus 2 Muckenfuss BAIL 207 EER*066*01 Control Systems Fatic NWSE222 MTH*OI7*01 CalciV:Integral Vector Sauerberg BAIL 104 GEO*OIO'OI Physical Geology Shaw BUTR 201 MTH*099*01 Jntro to Logic & Set Theo Johnson BAIL 106 GRK*I39*01 Greek Comedy Toher HUMNII9 MTH* 160*01 Top:Soc. Choice & Fair Di Tay/Zwick BAIL 102 JPN*Ol2*01 Basic Japanese 3 Khan STZH 106 PHL*137\'01 Analytic Philosophy Ludwig HUMN 113 JpN*I22*01 Intermediate Japanese 3 Khan STZH 106 POR*OlO*Ol Basic Portuguese I Boone HUMN019 LAT*Oll *01 Principles of Latin 2 Sculljon HUMN 110 PSC*OI9*01 E. Asian Deve/Society Reyn/Thurst SSCI 104 PHY*048\'01 Intelligent Life in Univ Schick NWSE 114 PSY*OI0*02 Intro to Psychology Halpern PYCH 113 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono PYCH 113 PSY*050*01 Educational Psychology Camp ito PYCH213 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono PYCH 113 SOC*OI0*02 Intro to Sociology Weiner SSCIOlO SPN*Oll *01 Basic Spanish 2 Merediz HUMN 115 SPN*I21 *01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Garcia HUMN 014 SPN*l41 *01 Voices ofHisp Women Moyano HUMN 019 SPN\'l30\'01 Spanish & Latin Amer Lit Garcia HUMN014 WST*090*01 Worn in Cross-Cult Persp Gmelch SSCIIlO

Arts & Entertainment Oswald, an American Mystery by Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editor Who was Lee Harvey Oswald? To many he wasjustthe man who shot JFK. .. until now. In his book Oswald's Tale: An American Mystery, Norman Mailer portrays a picture of a conf1:1sed man in a troubled marriage. The book cov- ers Oswald's life in Russia, prior to the assassination, through Oswald's own diary, interviews, surveillance and bugs by the KGB. Oswald had first come to Rus- sia in the hopes of obtaining a Russian citizenship. Oswald had lived in Texas and had served in the U.S. Marines. So, why would a marine wish to apply for a citi- zenship in a communist country') This novel does not try to answer this question by analyzing Oswald, but rather lets one see the true Oswald through int~rviews with various people connected with Oswald. Rima Shirakova spent a good deal of time with Oswald during his first couple of months in Rus- sia. as his tour guide. She re- counts how Oswald had confided in her that \his real idea was that he didn't want to return to the United States. There was no sense in his going back, he told her. He had already settled that in his mind. He was going to stay here. He gave reasons. To her, they sounded like good ones. He said that his mother had remar- ried and had another husband, practically had another family, so his mother was not interested in him. Nobody was interested in him there. And when he had served in the Far East he had seen so much suffering, so many deaths, for which he blamed the United States. His country fo- mented unjust wars, he said, in which he did not want to take part.\ This begins in showing us the causes for Oswald's ways, and his search for a bettercountry. In Russia he believed people lived \good useful, and very peaceful I ives.\ Mailer continues with Oswald's I ife in Russia- the move to Minsk, the meeting of Marina, and the growing desire of Oswald's to return to the United States. Near the end ofhis life, Oswald and Marina were con- stantly fighting, whether this had anything to do with Oswald's de- cision to assassinate the president, is left to the reader to decide. However, Marina recounts that \the most important thing for AI ik (Oswald's name in Russia) was that he wanted to become famous. Idea Number One. He was fa- natic about it, I think. Goal Num- ber One. Show that he was dif- ferent from others, and, you know, he achieved his goal.\ What sets this book apart forom others is three things. First, is the extraordinary way Mailer has unbiasely portrayed Oswald. One starts off reading about the man who shot JFK., but by the time one reaches the end of the book, this is only a minor detail. Oswald is no longer some crazed lunatic, but rather a real person who is hurt and confused. The second is the medium used. The book is based largely on in\ terviews with Russians Oswald worked with and associated with, as well as KGB files. By using these sources, Mailer helps inpre- senting a clearer picture of Oswald. We do not see Oswald through the eyes of the United States as an assinator, but rather through the eyes of Russia, as an The Concordiensis • 1\fay 11, 1995 •Page 14 American, any American. His fellow workers were shocked at the event. \He was just a young boy with a running nose. When it was cold, you could always see his running nose. And suddenly he killed this American Presi- dent?\ The third amazing detail about this book is the ending, or rather where Maller decides to end. The book does not end with the assas- sination of JFK, but rather con- tinues through to the bitter end, covering all the investigations by the KGB and the CIA, and most importantly continuesto relate the happenings of Marina Oswald; for she is as much a part of Oswald's history as Oswald is himself. Marina continues to live. but has been changed since the event. \The past is filled with guilt- the future is full of dread. Only the present is clear; she al- ways suspects the motives of the newpeople to whom she speaks. How innocent can he their mo- tive for approaching? These days she feels that the walls are com- ing closer. If she starts thinking about what has happened to her- not withpity, she will say, or sot- row for herself, but just hoping to lessen stress - she feels she is choking.\ Norman Mailer is a well known American writer who has among his matly achievements won two Pulitzer Prizes, the National Book Award, and received the Edith 'Wharton Citation ofMerit for fic- tion writers. Mailer's first novel was The Naked and the Dead, based on his experiences in the -Anny in the Philippine mountains during World War II, and is now considered one of the classic nov- els ofWorld War II. The novel was at the top to the New York Times best-se11er list for eleven weeks. Mailer has since contin- ued his writing career and has published numerous pieces in- cluding The Executioner 'sS(mg, Why Are We In Vietnam?, Of a Fire on the Moon, and Marylin, his latest being Oswald. What could be better than the fact that this brilliant author will be reading from hismost current workin neat by Albany. Norman Mailer will read from Oswald's Tale this Monday; May 15, 1995 at the University at Albany's downtown campus .in Page Hall at8 pm. The reading is sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute and is free and open to the public. For additional infor- mation contact the Writers Insti- tute at 5 18-442-5620. Yulman to Open with TheServantofTwoMasters SO's Rock'N Roll Mu.sical by;~~~:~!~:;on Comedy at Proctor's The Performing Arts Depart- ment and Mountebanks will be presenting The Servant of Two Masters later this month, which will mark the inaugural produc- tion of the Morton and Helen Yulman Theater. The Servant of Two Masters. written by Carlo Goldcni and directed by Profes- sor William A. Fin I ay. is consid- ered to be a classic in the Com media dell' Arte tradition. The play is about the terrible complications that arise when the servant Truffaldino gets himself jobs with two different people at the same time. and the confusion that erupts from this feat. Follow- ing Commedia dell' Arte style, four players are masked: Thor Benander as Truffaldino, the Doctor. played by David Martorano. Pantalone, performed by Doug BartelL and Brighella by played by Morgan Hargrove. Representative of Commedia dell' Arte drama. there are two sets of lovers; Beatrice and Florindo. played by Lindsay Coppleson and Jesse Shafer. and Clarice and Silvio, performed by Tiphaine LeDuc and Fred Ulrich. Smeraldina. played by Jessica Bernstein. acts as Truffaldino 's romantic lead There is an enter- taining restaurant scene which includes the waiters, Sarah Morse. Amy Dougherty, and Doug Schneider. Rawson Thurber makes his cameo role as the Porter. The scene design was produced by Charles Steckler and his pro- duction class. and lighting de- signed by John Miller. Commedia dell' Arte originates from the middle of the sixteenth century, and resulted from an ar- tistic compromise between a popular desire for spontaneity and an academic demand for classi- Rehearsal of The Servant of Two Masters. (Photo by LaurelRumafor The Concordiensis) cal culture. It repr:esents a the- ater of physical gesture rather than of written word. In Commedia dell' Arte, actors create their own drama on stage based on a skeletal scenario, and relying on vivid comic action, visual effects, acrobatics and of- ten vulgar humor. In most cases, masks were used to reflect the Baroque longing to hold a dis- torted mirror before society so that audiences of various regions of Italy could see their own foibles in comic exaggeration. An example of this usage is evi- dent in the greedy Venetian mer- chant, Pantalone, and other star characters. Performances of The Servant of Two Masters will be held May 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, and 27, at 8:00 pm in the Yulman Theater. The admission is $7 to the General Public, and $5 with Union College ID. In- formatioa and tickets are available at the Yulman Theater Box Office, 388-6545, from 12-5 pm Monday through Friday, or 6-8 pm on evening of perQ formances. courtesy of Proctor's Publicity It's time to rock 'n roll 50's style, with the brand-new Tommy Tune production of the musical hit, Grease, when it comes to Proctor's Theatre, May 23, to May28. Grease stars Dody Goodman, formerly of the national touring company of Nunsense, TV's Love Boat and Murder She Wrote, and the 1978 movie version of Grease, as the tough Eng I ish teacher Miss Lynch, Mickey Dolenz, former member of 60's rock/pop group, The Monkees, as Vince Fontaine, the D.J. with the tiger skin coat and the moves to match, and Rex Smith, of TV's As the World Turns and Pirates ofPenzance on Broadway, as the supercool, Danny Zuko. Grease, one of Broadway's longest running musicals, takes a hilarious, melodic and loving look at what it was like growing- up during the 1950's, the era of being \cool with raunchiest and funniest gang of high school stu- dents you'll ever meet.. Grease is filled with drive-ins, sock hops, pajama parties, and drag races that bring you back to a time when hot-rod-loving-boys in black leather jackets wore grease in their hair and boy-crazy girls wore beehive hairdos, white bobby socks and skin-tight pedal pushers. Grease is the story of Danny Zuko, king of the Burger Palace Boys, and Sandy Dumbrowski, · the wholesome, naive and pretty transfer student, whose I ife changes forever thanks to the in- fluence of the tough yet vulner- able Rizzo, Leader of the Pink Ladies Gang. Grease hasone ofBroadway's most tuneful scores featuring such hilarious '50's parodies as \It's Raining on Prom Night\ \Beauty School Dropout\ \All Alone at the Drive-In Movie\ a dozen others. Relive the dances of the SO's (the Stroll, the Slop, the Hully-Gully, and the Hand-Jive) as the audience is thrilled with director/choreographer Jeff Calhoun's Tony-nominated, ex- plosive 50's dance numbers such as Born To Hand Jive, Greased Lightnin ', Shakein · at the High School Hop and Rock 'N Roll Party Queen. The Boston Globe says; \Grease will have people dancing in the aisles of the the- atre, before, between and even after the tumultuous final cur- tain!'~ Tickets for the 8 pm weekday shows.of Grease at Proctor's The- atre, May 23 to May 25, are $36.50, $29.50, and $22.50. Tickets for the 8 pm weekend shows, May 26 to May 28, and 2 pm weekend matinee shows, May 27& 28, are $39.50, $32.50, and $22.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office(518) 346- 6204 and at all TicketMaster lo- cations. Grease is underwritten by Trustco Bank. r The Concordiensis would like to thank all those who contribute their talents and hard work every week to produce this publication. \.. ~

Arts & Entertainment Celebrity Update by Leena Mankad A&E Co- Editor courtesy Entertainment Weekly What are the stars up to this week? Here's the latest dirt from · Tinsel Town: INDISCRETIONS: Glenn Close screwed over her Sunset Bou- levard producer Andrew Lloyd Webber for making her look · .· bad. During Close's va~ation in March, the Broadway show fudged its reported box·office grosses, increasing them by $155, 000 and making it seem as if the show hadn't suffered without its star. An angry Close .toQk the composer to task in a scathing . letter, which was leaked to Daily Variety. Webber has since made up with Close. WEDDING: NYPD Blue's Dennis Franz., 50, married busi;.. ness-woman Joanie Zeck, 47, on April 1 in Carmel, California, after a 13-year relationship. \It was a very traditional and warm wedding, : says a spokeswoman for Franz. \There were no April Fools' jokes or anything.\ LAWSUIT: Artist RobertCiaypoolis suing his former lover, NYPD Blue's Gail O'Grady, for defamation. libel, and slander. Claypool, who filed the $1.2 million suit in L.A. on March 28, alleges that O'Grady posted notices on the NYPD set claiming he'd made death threats against her and asking that he be barred from the premises. Claypool denies menacing O'Grady and says that the ordeal \was blown completely out of proportion . ., ANNOUNCEMENT: Sonny and Cher's daughter, singer-song- writer Chastity Bono, 25, announced in the April 18 edition of The Advocate that she is a lesbian. Her parents backed her deci- sion to come out. \Cher is very supportive of her daughter, \ says a spokeswoman for Cher. Notes an assistant to Congress- man Bono, \He s glad she has finally put this behind her and can focus on other things in her life.\ AILING: Jazz vibraphonist Lionel Hampton, 86, is in stable condition after suffering a mild stroke on march 31 in New Yor.k City. \The doctors are very hopeful because his speech {has returned} and he's getting back power in his left side, •• says Hampton's publicist. DEATHS: Julius Hemphill, 57, legendary jazz saxophonist and cofounder of the World Saxophone Quartet, of complica- tions from diabetes, on April2 in New York City ... Grammy winning singer Selena, 23 ~ of gunshot wounds on March 31 ... Veteran Western actor Paul Brinegar, 77, of emphysema, on March 27 in Los Angeles ... Producer Matthew Rusht()n, 43, of AIDS, on Mal'ch 26 in Los Angeles. Most recently, Rushton served as executive producer on Mrs. Doubtfire. The VisualArts Department presents Guest Lecturer IIICHELE IIARINCOLA who will speak on \Art Conservation at The Cloisters\ Tuesday, May 16, 1995 1:30pm Arts Building 215 Free and Open to the Public IEF Funded Lecture Write For Arts!!!! Call Leena or Suzanne at X6155 • The Concordiensis • May 11,1995 ·Page 15 Brianna Patnode to Show Prints by Leena Mankad A&E Co-Editor Brianna Patnode, a senior Vi- sual Arts major at Union will he presenting an exhibition of her work, concentrating ,j n printmaking. The work are in- spired by objects and occurrences i.n nature and are described through color and texture. Her prints will include Monotypes, CoHagraphs, Etchings, and Linocuts. Patnode has been working on her thesis for the past two terms under the advisement of Profes- sor Sandy Wimer, a visiting in- structorthe Arts Department. She has chosen the are of printmaking as her concentration and has come up with some very unique prints. In her exhibit, Patnode highlights Etchings, part of the area in printmaking known as in- taglio. Also presented are relief prints caHed Linocuts, which in- volves a raised printing type. The focus ofPatnode's exhibit is nature. .Patnode says that she chose this as a subject because she found it to be visually appealing. Patnode likes to concentrate on creating pieces that appeal to her audience aesthetically, rather than making any specific comment. Patnode hopes that her audience will relate to her works visual ;w •. \ ;. \\' . \\\ w:~ ~ -; Brianna Patnode (Courtesy Visual Arts Department) appeal. An artist's reception will follow the exhibition on May 16, from 4:30pm to 7:30pm in the Arts Atrium. Gallery hours are from 9am-6pm, and is free to the gen- eral public. Markus Feger's \Moments in Street Life'' at Cafe Dolce by Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editor Markus Feger is currently ex- hibiting his collection, \Moments in Street Life\ atCaffe Dolce on Jay Street. His photographs wiil be on exhibit from May 9 through May 17,1995. Feger is the recipient of the Second Annual Cafe Dolce Prize in Photography. The annual Caffe Dolce prize is presented each year to a Union College pho- tography student whose work is judged to be outstanding. The prize is generously donated by Bret Goldin, owner of Caffe Dolce and a 1992 graduate of Union College. Markus Ferger was born in 1975 in Stuttgart, Germany. He is an exchange student studying at Union College through the In- ternational Programs Department for the 1994-1995 academic year and is taking his second term of photography with Professor Mar- tin Benjamin in the Visual Arts Department. These photographs represent the first six weeks ofhis project on Jay Street which will be completed in June. \My primary concern was to photograph people who I feel rep- resent Jay Street. Especially the young people because I find them easy to approach and understand. I enjoy the variety of people on Jay Street and their interaction with each other. Hopefully I have been able to represent the street in an honest way.\ Also on exhibit of Ferger's is several photographs in the \Self- Portraits\ exhibit. This exhibit is located in the photo gallery on the second floor of the Arts Depart- ment and include photos of stu- dents in Professor Benjamin's photography classes from the fall of 1994 adn the winter of I 995. Photograph from Markus Feger exhibit \Jay Street\ (Photo by Markus Feger, 1995)

,, ,, . ,..... ~ Page 16 • May 11, 1995 • The Concordiensis Arts & Entertainment ');~HE REEL Pl(2'£1JRE by Larry Paska, Concortliensi.< Film Critic . . . ' ·~ ,),. . . .. ·.' , . ' . ' . . ' . ' , Coming Attractions: Coming Soon to a Theater Near ''U\ The official start of the summer movie season is Memorial Day weekend, and as usual, the sum- mer has some big movies lined up. Whether they will actually \click\ with the American public is another matter. But as with any other summer, expect the budgets to be high and the stakes to be higher. With so many big titles and stars going after a small num- ber of screens in local multi- plexes, summer at the box office becomes an all-out war. Here's a preview of some ofthis summer's major upcoming releases, two of which open im the next two weeks. Crimson T;de- Den:z;el Wash- ington and Gene Hackman star in what looks like a rehash of The Hunt for Red October, a story about a nuclear submarine sailing in turbulent waters. Spies, schemes, and tense acting appear throughout the trailer. Has poten- tial, but could explode prema- turely. MAY 12 Die Hard with a Vengeance- Part 3 in the hugely-popular ac- tion series finds Bruce Will is in more than one place this time, thwarting terrorists throughout New York City (where else?). Jeremy Irons and Samuel L. Jack- son co-star. The trailers don'ttell much, only showing off a couple dozen explosions, but with the original Die Hard's director(John McTiernan)back at the helm. this could be the one that puts WiHis back as a top action draw. MAY 19 Braveheart - Mel Gibson di- rected and stars in this three-hour epic set in medieval times, all about the life of one warrior. Considered by many to be a fine film by the actor - definitely worth a look. MAY 24 Casper - The Spielberg camp brings yet another family favor- ite to live-action on the silver screen. Whether or not it will only appeal to family audiences qepends on how willing you are to sit through it for the special effects, which look extremely clever. MAY 26 Johnny Mnemonic - Keanu Reeves stars as the title character from the cult comic book series. Plenty of computer graphics and cyberspace action, supposedly. If you thought he was great in Speed, then you should check this one out. MAY 26 Mad Love - Oh, great. Now Chris 0' Donneli, the reputable actor from Scent ofa Woman and Circle of Friends, has stooped so low as to star side-by-side with Drew Barrymore, in a pointless road picture about throwing away a prom ising future just to hit the highway aimlessly with a lover. This one already looks like it should disappear faster than Casper. MAY 26 The Bridges of Madison County -All of the controversy surround- ing the production based on one ofthis decade's most widely-read mJVels comes to an end with the release of the film. Did director/ star Clint Eastwood adapt the book to the screen faithfully? And what about Meryl Streep starring opposite him? Find out. . .JUNE2 Batman Forever- The long- awaited, hopefully-better-than- Burton' s-Batman-mov ies Batman movie, with Val Kilmer replacing Michael Keaton, and featuring not only two viJ:Iains (Tommy Lee Jones as Two-Face and Jim Carrey as The Riddler), but Chris 0' Donnell as Robin and Nicole Kidman as the love interest. Looks pretty big and certainly piques everyone's curi- osity. But then, anything is bet- ter than that ridictdous Batman Return$. JUNE 16 Pochohantas- Disney: enough with the animated epics already! You don't have to outdo yourself every year! The buzz on this one, though, is not as strong as it was for The Lion King, but this one is sure to rake in some big 'bucks. Critics are not taking to its sup- posed \manipulation\ with his- tory. JUNE 23 Apollo 13- Ron Howard directs this sure-to-be-classic story o£ a space shuttle mission that goes wrong. And with that cast - Tom Hanks, Bill Paxton, Kevin Bacon, and Gary Sinise- what can go wrong? The previews look spectacular, and by now, everyone should know a film with Hanks is a movie worth seeing. JUNE30 Judge Dredd - Sylvester Stallone as the comic book super- hero, set in the 23rd century. Great effects, but a costly budget and a tough release date (oppo- site two other big films) might undo it. JUNE 30 Mighty Morphin Power Rang- ers: The Movie - Sorry, but this one had to be included because it's destined to become the next Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Besides, if you are a babysitter, you must be prepared to see this one at least twice in theaters. The special effects look interesting, but this one will remain with families only (and opposite Pochohantas, which comes out the week before, that may be doubtful, too). JUNE 30 Waterwor/d- The most expen- sive film ever produced (costing $175 million to date)has also had one of the most turbulent preduc- tions in history. Just recently, in fact, director Kevin Reynolds quit after ed,iting room problems. Kevin Costner stars in a film set on another planet comprised solely of water. Worth watching just to see if all the studio's troubles justified the money put into it. JULY 28 And these movies are only for the first halfofthe summer! Ex- pect surprise sleeper hits and late entries in August. Summeris the best time to catch all the big mov- ies- whether they were worth the price of admission is half the fun of seeing them! Coming Attractions: Not Coming Soon to a Theater Near \U\ - them). Steven Seagal appears at Golden Girls. A humorous take on history- worth watching just to see Gump tell Queen Elizabeth that \life is like a box of choco- Many summers are called \se- quel summers\ at the box office, because this is the season when old formulas can be recycled and turned into big bucks for the stu- dios. Kids out of school make up for most of the money given to movies like Batman Returns, In- diana Jones and the Last Cru- sade, and Beverly Hills Cop 11- all of which were huge sequel smashes in summers past. But this summer, there is a conspicu- ous absence of summer sequels (probably because last summer fared pretty well without them). And this may be a good thing. Just consider the sequel possibil i- ties Hollywood could be concoct- ing right now. And if you would see these, then maybe Forrest was right: «stupid is as stupid does.\ TOP TEN SEQUELS YOU WON'T SEE THIS SUMMER 10. Forrest Gump 2: TheRe- naissance Years- Tom Hanks re- prises his Oscar-winning role, this .time stumbling onto a time ma- chine that transports him back to the year 1285 in medieval Eu- rope. In his attempts to get back ,home, he meets Sir Lancelot and his famous Knights of the Round Table, survives the Plague, goes on an expedition with Vikings aboard a ship across the North Atlantic. and becomes an instru- mental player in developing En- lightenment thought. In the end, he finds the time machine to take him back home, and gets to meet his mom before she dies for one last conversation with her. Bea Arthur replaces Sally Field, re- prising her lovable mother-figure character from the hit series, The Jerry Lewis as a disorderly or- derly in the hospital. 7. Blankman Returns - That Just consider the sequel possibilities Hollywood could be concocting right now. And if you would see these, then maybe Forrest was right: \stu- pid is as stupid does.\ lates\ while eating from a box of Godiva's on her chest. 9. In the Army Now a Second Time - Pauly Shore reprises his role as the idiotic loser who joins the army, this time being shipped off to Kuwait during the GulfWar to stop a secret weapon from get- ting into enemy hands. Directed by Oliver Stone, who not only chose to do a comedy to expand his range, but also to make a poi- gnant social commentary on the GulfWar issue. Some say Shore has done his best actingjob since Son-in-Law. 8. The Karate Kid Part V: The Original Karate Kid's Karate Kid - Ralph Macchio now plays the Karate Kid at age 27, the father of a ten-year-old boy whose mother dies in a car accident. When \Pat\ Morita, that lovable karate teacher in the first four films, gets beaten up by street mugs and is sent to the hospital, Macchio trains his son to learn karate and go after the bad guys who hurt Morita. Directed by famed kung-fu artist John Woo, and featuring a surprise cameo by likable superhero is back, and Christopher Reeve co-stars as Superman (in his first turn as Clark Kent since Superman IV), who teaches Blankman how to use X-ray vision to see ifhis girl- friend from the first movie (Robin Givens) is actually going out with .J-5, the washing machine-turned robot companion ofBlankman's. Funniest scene: when Blankman gets enraged watching Givens pull her laundry out of J-5's top. 6. Outbreak 2: Sptead a Little Sunshine- Wait! The virus is still out there! It seems that one of the scenes edited during the first film showed the host monkey mating with another monkey in the forest. Now, that monkey spreads the disease through the streets of New York, where it goes undetected for ten years (be- cause it's in New York), until a million people contract it. Dustin Hoffman returns to combat the virus, and Eddie Murphy co-stars as detective-turned-geneticist Axel Foley, a sci'entist with an attitude (and a knack for destroy- ing tiny virus cells by hurling polictically-correct insults at the end of the fi.lm to finish the ten-minute soliloquy edited out of On Deadly Ground, arguing for animal rights and more women to score with in his next movie. 5. It Could Happen to You Again -Nicolas Cage wins an- other lottery ticket, but this time Bridget Fonda gets an attitude like Rosie Perez, and wants to claim the money as her own. When Fonda begins to develop the physical features of Perez, Cage freaks out, turns into a vigi- lante cop, and tracks down his first wife who drove him crazy. A laugh-a-riot, with James Earl Jones supplying the voice of Cage's conscious, complete with Darth Vader-style sound effects. 4. WesCraven 'sNextAttempt to Squeeze Money from the 'Nightmare' Series- In part 8 of the never-ending slashfest, Heather Langenkamp returns as an actress playing Heather Langenkamp in a movie about an actress who plays Heather Langenkamp. While watching an old Nightmare movie on TV, a lighting bolt strikes her television, causing the TV to split open, and Freddy to come out from the screen and stalk her. While the suspense ofFreddy only being in her dreams is gone, Craven be- lieves this to be his best Night- mare yet, because Freddy is not played by Robert Englund, but Jim Carrey, whose already con- torted facial expressions reduced the makeup budget considerably. 3. Mighty Morphin Power Rangers II - .That's right, you won't see it this summer. You 'II see it next summer. 2. Rob Roy Rogers- Made si- multaneously with Rob Roy, the sequel finds Liam Neeson as the patron saint warrior who intro- duces fast food to the brave fight- ers he protects. As his men learn to process their foods quickly, they save time in cooking meals and go on to defeat their enemies, who take longer to eat. Jessica Lange co-stars as Wendy, the pony-tailed, red-haired girl who competes with Roy for ham- burger meat and sexual favors. I. While You Were Sleeping Around- Sandra Bullock is get- ting a lot more out of the Ameri- can public than just our hearts in this sequel to the surprise hit of the spring. In this erotic comedy, finance Bill Pullman goes on a six-month trip to promote his new furniture business, and while he does, Bullock gets lonesome. So she ditches her \innocent girl\ persona and hits the bars, hook- ing up with hundreds of guys like Jack Nicholson, Ted Kennedy and Warren Beatty, all ofwhom play themselves. Not as sweet as the last one, and that NC-17 rat- ing should turn offmany people, but never fear: Sandra has never been seen so much in so little! Please send all Arts and Entertainment information to The Concordiensis or ca/1388-6155

Arts & Entertainment The Concordiensis ·May 11, 1995 ~Page 17 Farewell Concert for Three Extraordinary Musicians by Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editor The 1995 Steinmetz Sympo- sium will feature performances by three extraordinary student musi- cians; a composer, orchestrator/ tenor soloist, and viohn soloist. The Un·ion College Department of Performing Arts presents the Steinmetz Symposium Concert this Friday, May 12th at 8:30pm in Memorial Chapel. This can also be considered a farewell per- formance, since this marks the end of all three student's Union college careers. The program includes the or- chestral premiere ofConundrum by Jennifer Pyun, songs by Tosti and Alvarez orchestrated and per- formed by tenor soloist, David Martorano, and the first move- ment ofTchaikovsky's exhilarat- ing Violin Concerto in D Major with violin soloist Kevin Huang. This performance will feature the premiere of Conundrum by Jennifer Pyun. On the piece, Pyun reflects that, \the title re- flects my progress towards the completion of the work because music composition to me is a challenge with no straightforward or easy answers. As my first com- position of this magnitude, it has introduced me to all aspects and realities of being a composer.\ This piece was originally written for National Conference on Un- Kevin Huang. (Piroto by Laurel Rumafor The Coneordiensis) dergraduate Research as a brass quintet, but is reorchestrated for performance by the Union Col- lege Orchestra. Pyun is a seven year medical student and this composition will mark the completion of her senior ' I thests. Pyun has performed regu- larly in Union College Orchestra performances as principal cellist and was piano soloist in the Schumann Piano Concerto in the fall of 1993. This performance will also fea- ture the premiere of David Marotano' s arrangements of Alvarez's \La Partida\ and \Ancora\ by Paolo Tosti, which is also his senior thesis. Martorano was originally a mem- ber of the class of 1992 but left Union in 1990 to study at Indi- ana University school of music. He has returned this fall to com- plete his studies at Union, and this performance will mark his final performance at Union. Martorano made his profes- sional debut at he age of 19 at the Lake George Opera festival. He has since studied under the direc- tion of Franco Iglesias, a man who counts among his former stu- dents Placido Domingo. He has also had over three hundred per- formances in the United States and Abroad. His repertoire in- dudes lead roles in La Traviata, Madame Butterfly, Don Giovanni, as well as numerous concert appearances. \I was very surprised, when I returned to Union atthe quality of musicians we have here,\ remarked Martorano. \Kevin and Jenny would stand out at any of our countries top music schools we're fortunate to have them here. Also the faculty really bend over back- wards to accommodate us. I'm glad I came back.\ The concert will end with a performance of the first move- ment of Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto in D Major by Kevin Huang. Currently enrolled in the seven year medical program, Huang has experienced numerous musical achievements. Among them are two recording dates with WQXR 96.3 FM in 1989 and 1990, summertime worldwide travel with the Long Island Youth Orchestra in 1992 and 1994, and at Union, concertmaster. His per- fonnances include the final move- ment of the Mendelssohn Violin Concerto in the Steinmetz Sym- posium Concert of 1994, and a solo senior recital with Professor Hugh Allen Wilson just this past month. The concert open with Boieldieu's Overture to theCa- liph of Bagdad, followed by two selections performed by the Union College Choir conducted by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. The orchestra then joins the choir for Handel's rousing anthem Zadok The Priest. This performance will also mark the last perfonnance of Pro- fessor Hillary Tann until the fall of 1996. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will be conducting the orchestra next year. Professor Tann says \It is so delightful to work with such extraordinary m ustc tans.\ ' ' . ' . ' ' THE REEL PICTURE -by Larry Paska, Concordiensis Filliz Critic · - · . . . - ' - . ' The Imaginative ·while You Were Sleeping is Alive with Fun and Romance \While You Were Sleeping . .. Starring Sandra Bullock. Bill Pullman. Peter Gallagher. Jack Warden. Directed by Joe Turtletaub. Rated PC. Hollywood P;ctures. Rating: ***l/2(outoffour) It's about time someone came up with an unpredictable love story. With recent films like the shallow Only You and the unmagical It Could Happen to You. it felt like Hollywood had lost its sense of romance. But then someone got the idea to cast rising star Bullock in a love story. and a story which not only al- lowed her flexibility but the chance to meet the most illogical yet endearing characters ever to grace a romantic comedy. A suc- cessful love story features the perfect chemistry between the two leads; an even better one makes the viewer fall in love with the leads. Who thought it could be possible to fall in love with a figure on a movie screen? By the end of Sleeping, no one can help but fall for Bullock. She is such a likable actress - the kind of sweet, innocent girl every guy wants to meet, not wor- ried about fashion or fitting in but only desiring the perfect love. It is so easy to see why Pullman is attracted to her. In the film, she is thrown into a series of prepos- terous situations that allow her character to fully develop: the end result is a Bullock that will now become the next apple of every American's eye. As Lucy,a hopeless dreamer who works as a token attendant for the Chicago transit system, Bullock has a crush on one guy she sees hopping on the trains every day to work. Of course, she's never actually talked to the guy, but hey, that's what innocent crushes are all about. right? She has no family(and apparently no friends, either), so she always works holidays and wishes she could spend them with someone close. Any sentimentalist will get teary-eyed and sympathize with Lucy's dilemma. And with that irresistible whine, her voice sim- ply oozes out pity and hop.e si- multaneously. On Christmas Day, her dream lover is taking the train when he is pushed off the track by mug- gers. She saves his I ife, takes him to the hospital, and then passes as his fiancee to make sure he's alright. Well, the family comes in, mistakens her for his fiancee, and welcome her into his family. Warden, playing the bedridden's godfather, Saul, adds comic de- light to the tale as the one man who knows who Lucy really is. But Lucy is good for the family: the relatives feel closer with her around, and Lucy is able to enjoy her first family Christmas in years. Then she meets her \fiancee's\ brother, Jack (Pull- man), who doubts her relationship to his brother but then begins to fall for her himself. And when her \fiancee\ awakens from his coma, Lucy realizes she is not in love with him at all, but in love with Jack. Bullock carries the film, but allows just enough room to let the other actors show their sides of the story. As Lucy's object of desire, Gallaghertransfonns from a self-interested lawyer into a per- son who wakes up to discover he has so much of life yet to live. Pullman, in fine fonn as Jack, dis- covers he needs to run his own I ife away from home, and secretly wishes his brother was not the lucky one to \find\ Lucy. War- den, showing his age but still a wann character on screen, cannot bring himself to tell the family Lucy's story, either, but becomes the close bridge between Lucy and the family. And while the family members themselves are reduced to caricatures most of the time (the parents are blind to com- mon sense, the grandmother has l1eart trouble when stressed), they are so heartwanning on screen. Write for Arts & Entertainment!! Call Leena or Suzanne at X6155 And the fact that they are always together makes their closeness even more real to Lucy, who grew up without a mother and large family. The film is also frequently dot- ted with short clips between scenes that serve no purpose ex- cept to evoke laughter. The strange thing is, they work effec- tively. (The favorite: a boy de- livering newspapers on his bi- cycle rides over a patch of ice and slips, falling to the ground.) The film never appears stitched to- gether, though, even with these nonsensical takes in between. It's always pleasant to see the nicecharacters in unfair situations be rewarded in the end. And Bul- lock is just that character, work- ing hard and saving up her dreams for the perfect lover. Everyone can relate to falling in love with someone else's girl or boy, \dis- covering\ the meaning oflife, and living only to realize a dream- no matter how farfetched it may seem. Lucy got a passport but never uses it; her dream is to get a stamp from Florence, Italy on it. It's now wonder that Jack falls for her: with sweet sentimental- ity I ike that, who can resist? PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY PERFORMANCE at Proctor's Theatre Saturday, May 20, 1995 8:00pm Group rate available thru Union College Send check made out to Proctors Theatre for $14.80 to; Toni Smith Pe~orming Arts Your tickct/s will be in your name at the box office before the concert.

.. Page 18 • May 11, 1995 • The Concordiensis Steinmetz Symposium.Sch~dule STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM---.--- FRIDAY, MAY 12TH SESSION I - 4:40 - 6:00 p.m. Concurrent Oral Presentations and Dance Performance A.Arts Building, Dance Studio- Faculty Moderators- Darlene Myers and Ellen L. Sinopoli Tamara Du and Elissa Hecker-Dance Perfonnance, Book of Days Sponsor- Ellen L. Sinopoli Melissa S. Weiner and Hillary A. Snow-a Classical Ballet, Facsimiles Sari Leivent, a Classical Ballet, Capricion Sponsor- Darlene Myers B.Humanities 014- Faculty Moderator- Mary K. Carroll Karen A. Colwell - The Binding of Pyrene to Commercially - A vail able Cyclodextr.in Polymers Sponsor- Thomas C. Werner Vicky Lowery- Enhancing the Detection of Capabilities of a Fiber-Optic Sensor in Flow Injection Analysis Sponsor- Mary K. Carroll Jamie M. Bilsky- Fluorescence Studies ofthe Binding ofCyclodextrin Monomers and Polymers to the Pharmaceutical Drug, Nalidixic Acid Sponsor- Thomas C. Werner Angelo C. Nicoletta - Influence of Salt Bridge Formation on Helix Stability Sponsor- Leslie A. Hull C.Humanities 019- Faclllty Moderator- Barbara Danowski Dominick P. Neri -Design of a DNA Intercalator Using Molecular Modeling Sponsor- Janet S. Anderson Angel A. Caraballo - Do Microtubules or Intennediate Filaments Mediate the Increase in Contractility in Cells Treated with Microtubule Poisons? Kenneth Lee- Reorganization of Attachment Plaque Proteins in Phorbol Ester-Treated Cells in Response to Microtubule Poison Sponsor- Barbara Danowski ScottS. Steele- Analysis ofMobility Endonucleases in Podospora Anserina through the Use of Mitochondrial Extracts Sponsor-JiliL.S~vo D.Humanities ll 0-Faculty Moderator- J. Scott Scullion Glenn T. Konopaske- Redness and Swelling with Heat and Pain:The Innovations of the Medical Author A. Cornelius Celsus Sponsor- J. Scott Scullion Stefanie L. Speanburg- A Readers Response: Gallivanting in the Wings of Womanhood Eric Jon Bulson - Post Lapsarian Gastronomy in Ulysses Alexis L. Leist - Deconstruction as Personality: A Reading ofthe Mixquihuala Letters Sponsor- Edvige Giunta E.Humanities 112- Faculty Moderator- Donald T. Rodbell Saira Nairn- Mitogens and Their Effect on Proliferation of Benign Breast Epithelium Deanne M. Dixon - Immuno-lnhibition of the Ovarian FSH Receptor as a Method of Conception Sponsor- George M. Butterstein Jordan S. Bergtraum -The Effects Pregnancy and Lactation have on a Trypanosoma Lewisi Infection Sponsor- Twitty J. Styles Kevin P. Allison- The Sedimentologic and Geomorphic History of Coli ins Lake, Scotia, New York Sponsor- Donald T. Rodbell F.Humanities 114- Faculty Moderator- Ann Marshall Karen A. Mourtzikos- The Cultural Continuity of the Cult of Artemis to the Cult ofthe Virgin Mary in Greece: A Feminist Perspective Sppnsor - Ann Marshall Wendy L. Pfaffenbach- Dear Departed: A Montage of the Female Artist Sponsor- Brenda Wineapple Jennifer L. Manna - Chrysler Moments DavidS. Robbins -Silent Electric Blue Sponsor- Jordan F. Smith G.Humanities 115- Faculty Moderator- Sigrid Kellenter Nicole A. Beland - Die Macht Lenes und der Zi.ige in Gerhard Hauptmanns Bahnwarter Thiel Kelly M. Jamieson- Bahnwarter Thiels vergeistigte Liebe zu seiner verstorbenen Frau Minna: Jennifer K. Brown-Die Rolle der Kinder in Bahnwarter Thiel Samuel W. Tolkoff- Heinrich B61l und Gunther Grass: Der Krieg und seine Kinder Dan uta Trzebinska- Yager. Frisch und Diirrenmatt als Gesellschaftskritiker Sponsor- Sigrid Kellenter H. Humanities 116- Faculty Moderator- CarolS. Weisse Aimee J. Belden - Depression and Immune Aberrations Carianne H. Bishop- The Long-term Effectiveness of an AIDS Educator as a Function of HIV Status and Sexual Orientation Sponsor- CarolS. Weisse Jessica L. Shair- The Role of Self-Monitoring in Organizational Risk-Taking Sharon A. Malkemus- Attitude Polarization: The Moderating Influence of Self-Moni- toring Sponsor- Kenneth G. DeBono I. Humanities 117- Faculty Moderator- Andrew Thompson Miller Lisandra Ramos- Public Theatre in Kenya, Brazil, and the Dominican Republic Sponsor- Andrew Thompson Miller Debora C. Montano- The Psychological Development and Philosophical Application of Moral Education Sponsor- Jan K. Ludwig and Suzanne Benack Beth M. Lifson- Pornography: More Than Words Sponsor- Felmon J. Davis Jeffrey J. Quinn- How the Language in Seinfeld's Jokes Determines Its Audience Sponsor- Karen Brison J.Social Sciences 010- Faculty Moderator- Charlotte N. Eyerman John T. Mendelson- Orchestrated Introspections: The Practice ofDaumier and Degas .DeAnne C. DeFuccio-The Self Portrait: Tl)e Constructed Reflection Sponsor- Charlotte N. Eyerman Steven J. Gottlieb- Untitled: A Fiction Reading GoroT. Harada- Women, Power and Authority in Arden ofFaversham Sponsor - Hugh Jenkins K.Social Sciences 012- Faculty Moderator- Suzanne Benack Jonathan G. Wintsch- Faculty Engagement Survey Elizabeth B. Landa - Divorce: Effects on the Development of Parent-Child Relation- ships Sponsors· Martha D. Huggins and Suzanne Benack Lisa B. Schneider- Heterosexual Dating Patterns & Social-Emotional Development Sponsor - Suzanne Benack Rachel E. Seely- The Effect of Moving Function Words on On-Line Processing of Sen- tence Structure Sponsor- Seth N. Greenberg 1 L.Social Sciences 014- Faculty Moderator- Anthony V. Rubonis Andrea B. Wilson- The-Relation Between Maternal Self-Efficacy, the Home En- vironment, and Mother-Infant Interaction in Preterm lnfant-Mother Dyads Sponsor- Leslie Halpern Anne-Marie Sullivan - The Influence of Depression and Expectancies About Drinking on Alcohol Consumption Sponsor- Anthony V. Rubonis Heather A. Podlich- The Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in the Post-Cold War Era: North Korean Nuclear Aspirations and the Global Non-Proliferation Regime Sponsor- Donald R. Thurston Mark A. Kivimaki- Cue Reactivity Following Mood Induction in Light to Heavy Drink- ers Sponsor- Anthony V. Rubonis BANQUET FOR PRESENTERS, MODERATORS, SPONSORS PRIZE WINNERS AND PARENTS Old Chapel- 6:30- 8:30p.m. SESSION II STEINMETZ 'SYMPOSIUM CONCERT Memorial Chapel- 8:30-9:30 p.m. Sponsors- Hilary Tann, Orchestra, Hugh Allen Wilson, Choir Program includes the orchestral premiere of Conundrum by Jennifer Pyun, songs by Tosti and Alvarez orchestrated and performed by tenor soloist, David Martorano, plus solo selections by the Union College Choir. The orchestra joins the choir for Handel's rousing anthem Zodok The Priest. The concert begins with Boleldieu's Overture to the Caliph of Bagdad and concludes with the first movement ofTchaikovsky's exhilarating Violin Concerto in D Major with violin soloist Kevin Huang. UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA Jinsy Andrews, Jill M. Arliss, Craig W. Champion, Chia-En Chen, Erin M. Counihan, Markus J. Feger, Michael Greenbaum, Robert H. Haslinger, Kenneth J. Hackett, Kevin Huang, Lorene A. Kaminski, Meagan R. Katz, Mary Beth Lowes, Megan A. McMullan, Brianna L. Patnode, Catharine E. Potvin, Jennifer Pyun, Heather Symons, Emilia J. Teasdale, Jodi S. Tesser, Katherine M. Vander Linden, Brian C. Gilman A than Baskoas, Guthrie Birkhead, Jay Blaufuss, Nick Capitummino, Diane Deptola, Priscilla Duskin, Kathy Ernst, David Fisk, Meagan Foley, Elizabeth Gra- ham, Michael Kimber, John McCallen, Ted Mihran, Frank Miller, Cornelia Mogor, Nancy Monnett, Geoffery N. Stein, Mel Toub, Janet Weick UNION COLLEGE CHOIR lsca R. Beswick, Sara E. Friedman; Stephanie S. Kuehn, Monique G. Lin, Betsy S. Phelps, Rachael E. Piro, Amy E. Rilling, Adina E. Stonberg, Hana Yamashita, Jen- nifer A. Amann, Jennifer A. Angetosa, Carol E. Case, Carin J. Gado, Julia P. Griswold, Joanna R. Haverly, Kristina I. Polgardy, Robyn A. Ross, Sara K. Saltsman, Linda C. Seymour, James R. Bascom, Surendar Dwarakanathan, Michael D. Farwell, Steven J. Bachman, William J. Fleming, Robert M. Hagopian, James W. McNeal, James J. Naumes, Lawrence Paska, Matthew C. Usher, Joyce L. Brace, John M. Spinelli, Bruce 0. Downsbrough, Kathleen J. Schurick SESSION Ill STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM JAZZ CONCERT Chets- I 0:00p.m. featuring: Union College Jazz Ensemble Sponsor- Hilary Tann Francesco L. Barbarino, guitar; Garrett B. Brown, drums; Michael E. Bullen·, bari- tone saxophone; Craig W. Champion, drums; Susie DeGuire, vocals; Brian C. Gilman, trumpet; Kenneth J. Hackett, trumpet; Kevin Huang, guitar; Richard C. Lee, bass; Samuel V. Parisi, tenor saxophone; Randall S. Pellish, alto saxophone; Paul E. Skoczylas, piano SATURDAY, MAY 13TH SESSION IV 12:00 noon - I :45 p.m.

Steinmetz Symposium Schedule The Concordiensis • May 11, 1995 • Page 19 STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM Arts Building Steinmetz Symposium Visual Arts Students' Invitational Exhibition and Steinmetz Symposium Poster Session A Sonic Excursion BUFFET LUNCH PAINTING, DRAWING- Sponsor- Walter J. Hatke Julia L. bee, Joshua W. Parsons, Luigi A. Villa, Jennifer, A.Amann, Hillary J. Gallay, Agatha M. Gogol, Ian S, Spanier, Heather C. Picken, Blake E. Klauber, Shikha G. Anand, Chelsea A. Lazauskas, Craig M. Gibson, Samantha Orlando, Adam J. Richman, Jared S. Richman, Melissa S. Weiner, Rachel A. Graham, Rosemary J. Chandrankunnel, Sarah M. Bennati, Wan T. Zhong PHOTOGRAPHY - Sponsor - Martin Benjamin Sarab M. Bennati, Jennifer L. Cohen, Heather C. Picken, Ian S. Spanier, Julia L. Lee, Margo L. Benson, Markus J. Feger; Katherine E. Godfrey, Erin M. O'Neil, Noelle S. Pirnie, Zane C. Riester, Jason M. Rothschild, Mark G. Schultz, Heather Symons PRINTMAKING - Sponsor - Sandra S.. Wimer Brianna L. Patnode, Rebecca N. Perchick, Josh W. Parsons, Jill C. Bloomberg, Heather L. Kanser, Sama_ntha Orlando, Dominic A. Romeo, Luigi A. Villa, Colleen F. Dowd, Tenley Fisher, Bryan R. Serre!!, Michelle E. Woodward POSTERS - Arts Building - Dance Studio Victor Owusu, Karl R. West, Andrew J~ Frisbie and Scott A. Corley- Kenya -It's People, Culture and Environment Sponsm- Randolph K. Quaye Kristen S. Peck- The Effects oflnterfering Tasks on Recall Across Successive Tests Kristen M. Schoff- Cumulative Recall Curves: Really all the Same? Sponsor- Daniel J. Bums Lisa M. Regimbald -Parent/Child Closeness as a Predictor of Resiliency in Children of Alcoholic Parents Dana C. Wasserman - Child/Parent Closeness as a Predictor of Alcohol Expectancy Concordance and Parental Alcohol Use Sponsor- Anthony V. Rubonis Amy C. Jones- The Mediating Role of Cognitive Development in the Relation Between Coping Skills and Behavior Problems in Preschool Children ·Heidi A. Clapp- Parental Encovragement and Emotional Expressivity in Preschoolers Nathan K. Coffin - Parent.Coping s.ty,l~~~ll~kPa.rent~chil<;l Closeness as Predictors of Child Self-efficacy · Sponsor- Leslie Halpern Rachel A. Ald~rman-Social Sk.ills of Toddlers as Related to Their Time Spent in Day Care Sponsor- Linda N. Stanhope Richard E. Scharf-Polymerization ofMg- & Ca- actin Using Dynamic Light Scattering Sponsor- Jay E. Newman Nicole M. Esquenet- Does Microtubule Depolimerization Cause Changes in Localiza- tion of Attachment Plaque Proteins and Phosphorylation Proteins in Tissue Culture Cells? Sponsor- Barbara Danowski Michael D. Farwell- Reduction of2- and 4- Methyl-cychlohexanone with Sodium Bore- hydride Sponsor- Leslie A. Hull Michelle A. Spaziani- Applications of a Diode-Laser-Based Detector to On-line Deter- minations Involving Methylene Blue Angelo C. Nicoletta - Demonstration of Light Interference Sponsor- Mary K. Carroll Wei Yuan Su- Studies Toward a Chiral, Self-Assembling Cleft Receptor Sponsor- James C. Adrian Amy L. Howard - Characterization of the A TPase 6 Intron in the Fungus Podospora anserina Martha Kirouac- The Regulation of Purine Biosynthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae Sponsor- Jill L. Salvo Blake E. Klauber- Gulls as Vectors of Salmonella enteritidis in the Lower Mohawk Valley Region ofNY Sponsor- Carl J. George Marguerite E. Stimphil- Visual Communication In Anoline Lizards Sponsor- Leo J. Fleishman Chantal V. Saber- Harlem: A Promising New Future Sponsor- Sharon B. Gmelch Kimberly A. Deppoliti, Todd D. Ray, Angela Soo-The Illustrated Organism Sponsor- Carl J. George · Arts Building- Court Yard Maximilian L. Heinegg, Steven J. Gottlieb and John D. Woods A Sonic Excursion: The Musical Stylings ofWineapple Sponsor- Hugh Jenkins BUFFET LUNCH SESSION V- 1:45-3:05 p.m. Concurrent Oral Presentations B. Humanities 014-Faculty Moderator-Randolph K. Quaye Dennis A. Lucario,Carolyn M. McKenzie,Kelly H. Herrington & Susan M. Greenberg-Street Children in Kenya Sponsor- Randolph K .. Quaye C.Humanities 019-Faculty Moderator-Kenneth G. DeBono Margo L. Benson- Self-Esteem and Persuasion Elysa J. Honig- Type As, Type Bs, and Learned Helplessness Amy M. Leavitt - Product Attractiveness and Perceptions ofProduct Quality Kate C. Durocher- Women and Advertising/Not a Pretty Picture Sponsor - Kenneth G. DeBono D.Humanities 11 0- Faculty Moderator- James C. Adrian Dan uta Trzebinska-Yager- Studies Toward A Chiral, Charge Separated, Water Soluble Cyclophane Sponsor- James C. Adrian Jason Dickerson - An Infrared Data Link Spc;>nsor- John M. Spinelli Jeffrey E. Cieszynski- Time-Division-Multiplexing Communications System Sponsor - Ekram I. Hassib Carolyn E. Custer- Cake-Cutting, Hugo Steinhaus Style; Beyond N=3 Sponsor- AlanD. Taylor E.Humanities 112- Faculty Moderator- Margaret E. Wadehra Douglas W. Bartell, Eric Jon Bulson, Scott C. Fitzgerald, Carin J. Gado, Matthew M. Keeney, Jennifer L. Manna, Melanie A. Rinaldi, Maria E. Rivera, Anne M. Sullivan- Problem Personalities in Writing Center Sessions; Coping with Theirs, Recognizing Our Own Videotape Sponsor- Margaret E. Wadehra F.Humanities 114- Faculty Moderator- Paula Consolini DeAnne C. DeFuccio- The Baby M Case Explored: The Ways in Which the Courts Create Social Policy Sponsor- Paula Consolini Jeffrey J. Quinn -AIDS in Thailand Sponsor- Ali Abootalebi Lawrence M. Paska- Methods of Student Assessment in Barbadian and American Schools Sponsor- Janet S. Camp ito Jennifer L. Dominelli- The Impact of Employee Ownership on the American Economy Sponsor- Paula Consolini G.Humanities 115 - Faculty Moderator- William Garcia Anne E. Rozwadowski - Steroid Use in Division III Athletics Sponsor- Martha n Huggins and Robert V. Wells Carrie B. Gorfinkle- Gender Bias in Medical School Sponsor- Martha D. Huggins Georgia J. Southworth- Latino Identity in the USA: A Cross-Cultural Reflection Sponsor- William Garcia Aman Dhawan - Racial Health Disparities: A Modem Day Black Plague Sponsor- Randolph K. Quaye and Martha D. Huggins H.Humanities 116- Faculty Moderator- J. Richard Shanebrook Corinne F. DeVoe, RobertA. Hernandez, and Seth A. Rudin -Analysis ofFiowThrough a Bypass Graft Sponsor- J. Richard Shanebrook Tricia L. Nelson- Wind Tunnel Investigation of Steady Flow Through Coronary Artery Bypass Grafts Sponsor- J. Richard Shanebrook Jason E. Sanabia -Chaos: The Bouncing Ball Experiment Sponsor- Roset Khosropour and Matthew L. Green I. Humanities I 17- Faculty Moderator- Thomas J. De' Andrea Maris J. Weiner- Model of Evaluation for the Home Rebuilders Program Sponsor- Paula Consolini and J. Douglass Klein Ericka J. Bloomfield -Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE) Program Sponsor- Thomas J. D'Andrea Nicole M. Silvestri- Building and Using a CCD Camera for Astronomical Observing at Union Sponsor- Andrew D. Vanture John R. Cressman- Iterability, Code and Communication Sponsor- Linda E. Patrik J.Social Sciences 010- Faculty Moderator- Eshragh Motahar , Elissa D. Hecker - Comparing the 1988 and 1992 Presidential Elections and How the Candidates Used the Media to Set the Agendas Sponsor- Clifford W. Brown Monique E. Lions -Changes in the Term and Risk Structure oflnterest Rates as Predic- tors of Economic Growth Sponsor - Eshragh Motahar Teresa Hanlon -Relational and Distinctive Processing in Story Recall Sponsor - Daniel J. Bums Allison H. Goldberg- The Women's Movement in Post-Communist Russia Sponsor- Richard L. Fox K.Social Sciences 012- Faculty Moderator- Donald R. Thurston Angela Soo- Promoting Long-Tenn Human Rights Progress in the People's Republic of China Evan R. Hyman- Recent Developments in Japanese Bureaucratic Reform William A. Vititow- American Foreign Policy in East Asia. 1784-1905: A Catalyst to Regional Instability, and a Cause of Regional Conflict Jill C. Bloomberg - The Effect of Continual Revolution on Censorship of the Arts in China Sponsor- Donald R. Thurston L.Social Sciences 014- Faculty Moderator- Hugh Jenkins Daniella B. Piffocco- Japan's Largest Minority, The Burakumin Sponsor- Martha D. Huggins Caroline J. Paine- The Evolution ofWomen in Society Through Literature: Moll Flanders to Madonna Sponsor - Hugh Jenkins .... - ....

Page 20 • May 11, 1995 • Tile Concordiensis · by Jeffery Druzba Features Writer It aU started when I went home over winter break this year. Now in my second year at Union, win- ter break was the first time I had been home since I had left for school. What I saw while I was there frigntened me. My parents were turning weird. They started doing things they had never done before. They bought aA artificial tree forChristmas. I asked my dad whatthe deal was. His one answer was that \it was the Cadillac of artificial trees.\ Okay, it is their house, so I didn't complain. I would hate to see what the \Chevette of artificial trees\ looked like. I missed laying down and watering the tree every day and getting pine needles and sap all over my back. For the first week under the reign ofthe new artificial tree, I would still lay down under the tree like I was watering it, just out of habit, but I learned tncontrol that. I found out that my parents go to sleepby about 8 PM now. They basically fall asleep in front of the TV around that time and then wake up at about I 1 PM and go upstairs unless someone, like myself, helps them along before that point. Mom used to be a re- ally light sleeper, but she isn't anymore. Mom started snoring one night while I was watching TV. So I went through the nor- mal bag of tricks beginning with making loud noises to make her stop snoring. I got only temporary results. I finally wake her up and she tells me, \I wasn't snoring, shut up\ or \Quiet Jeffery, I'm watching this.\ I don't know who she's kidding. I got up and started flicking her nose with my finger. Shedidn 'trespond. I grabbed the cat and held him upside down in front of her face so his front paws were all over her nose. She woke up and went upstairs after being scared by the cat and telling me that I wasn't funny. I thought I was. The cat thought I was. Now Dad is funriy. If there is one guy who has become more amusing as he's gotten older, it's my dad. Maybe he doesn't think he's any more funny, but, as far as providing me with good mate- rial to laugh at him about, he's getting hilarious. My dad says things I ike, \I can't take that sauce Carol, it's too rich\ and \Carol this rice isn't agreeing with me.\ The most humorous thing is if Mom makes brownies now. My dad, without fajl, will have one and say, \Thesebrowniesaretoo rich. I can taste the alkaline.\ My dad has a whole theory on alka- line. I thought alkaline had some- thing to do with batteries, butdad insists itmakesthe brownies rich. I think they miss me lots and it's taking its toll on them. They faithfully watch the hour of game shows every night now, Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy. Dad talks to the contestants and shouts things at them. One night, a woman won a vacation to Aruba on Wheel (as many like tocal'l it) and, as the announcer guy is de- scribing the trip and still pictures of Aruba are floating by, my ,par- ents are telling the woman that she would I ike this or that particu- lar spot. Since they took a vaca- tion there in October, they felt themselves to be experts on the area. The announcer told the woman the name of the hotel where she would be staying, and my parents were shouting that their hotel was much nicer. My parents were so excited that some- !=me else was going to Aruba. I don't think they knew that there are other tourists who have gone there as well. Jeopardy comes on and Dad gets silent. I answer a majority of the questions (not to brag or any- thing), but Dad remains silent. The only thing Dad can say when I ask him where all his answers are is, \Jeff I've already forgot- ten more than you know.\ He came up with that one a while ago but still uses it more than ever. I think he's lying but, nevertheless, I play along with his little fantasy. The worst sign of aging, for women, is forgetfulness and con- fusion of people's names. I've 11oticed this problem in both my grandma and mother, so I think it must be a scientificaJ:ly proven symptom of aging. My father's name is David and mine is Jeffery. Mom makes some wacky combinations. She often calls me Davery and my father Javid. Or, sometimes, instead ofcombining names, she' II just forget them ami go through a shortlist in front of you. She'll say something like, \David Sandy, Necco, Jeffery, could you pass the salt?\ What really hurts is that she goes through the eat's name, Necco, before mine. · Speaking of cats, I came home from school in June last year only to find out that we now have a subscription to a magazine called Cat Fancy. My mom likes cats and all, but this magazine is ri- diculous. Every issue of Cat Fancy is filled with grooming tips, articles about certain breeds, wacky reader pictures, and a~­ ticles about readers and the crazy ·antics that their cats perform. Some people might be into that world but I would like to think that my mom isn't. Dad tells me that Mom wanted it, and it was inexpensive. Mom tells me that Dad just signed up for it and she didn't know they were getting it until the first issue arrived. They tried to throw the blame on each other, but I'm going with my own theory that says it was a mutual decision of theirs to subscribe. I'll go on living knowing that my parents have come out of the closet and are now official \Cat Fanciers\. lt hurts, it really hurts to see them go. I guess the point of all this is to warn all Union students against this phenomenon. I know there are others of you out there who have noticed the same things in your parents. I wouldn't be sur- prised if your parents just got themselves a subscription to Cat Fancy. Give them a call and stop them before it's too late. You might still have time. May 9, 1995 5:00PM Upperclass Dining Vegetarian, Celebration and Culinary Expose Bread: Herbed Bread Discs MENU: Salad: Boston Bibb with Fresh Strawberry Dressing Soup: Mulligatawny Dessert: Key Lime Refresher by Kara Christian Features Writer In an effort to address health re- late_d issues, specifically eating disorders, the Student Health Committee invited actress and storyteller, Alicia Quintano, to speak to the Union College com- munity. Quintano performed last Thursday evening, May 4th, in the College Center auditorium. Her performance, which fo- cused on the issues of identity; sex, food and love was not a tra- ditional lecture on eating disor- ders. Instead, Quintana per- formed a sort of one man show entitled '\Escape from Fosdick\ Through her story, Quintana dra- matically shared personal expe- riences. Quintano' s humorous and pro- vocative performance was both entertaining and thought-provok- ing. Her story began in the 70's after she had finished college and Features· was working as an actress at a theater down south. In her per- formance, Quintana expressed her constant struggle for identity, obsession with food and warped ideas about sex and relationships. \Escape from Fosdick\ essen- tially told the story of Alicia's struggle to overcome and escape her complicated problems and obstacles, including her lover Fosdick. The performance was very open-ended and touched on a number of additional issues, such as family relations, stress, com- pulsive behavior and depression. Through her story Quintana showed how many ofthese issues are very closely related. Quintana's experiences reflect issues that students everywhere encounter every day. Quintana's performance was both unique and effective. It left the audience with several impor- tant issues and ideas to consider. Wells House and U by JeffDruzba Features Writer The academic year is almost over and many students at Union still haven't heard about Union's most recent theme house living, Wells House. The house was founded last fall with a theme of Schenectady area community in- volvement. The students orga- nized and developed a new pro- gram with elementary students from the nearby Zoller School. This \One on One\ program in- volves meeting at least once a week after school with an as- signed Zoller student and serving as an older friend to them. The relationship is rewarding and lots offun for both the mentor and the mentee. Many Union students meet more than once a week with their students. The house also participates in several other projects that arise throughouttheyear. Wells House maintained a \Meals On Wheels\ Buffet: route over the winter that required deliveries every Tuesday and Thursday. The residents of the house shared the route on differ- ent days. The house also volun- teers for school related projects throughout the year such as ush- ering for events and sponsoring professor/student socials. They are always looking for ideas to get involved in the community and are completely open for sugges- tions by non-residents. The students at Wells House encourage any and all Union stu- dents to get involved iii what they can offer. If you are interested in joining or hearing more about the Wells House programs, please give Mike a call at x670~ or stop by at any time and speak with one of the residents. We look forward to meeting with you and listen- ing to your ideas. Write for Features!! CaiiX6155 Each guest chef will showcase three or four entress of various ethnic and vegetarian backgounds, including items such as African V eget_able Tanjine, Carribean Black Beans with Mango Salsa, and Mushu Pancakes Moosewood Restaurant, Ithica, NY Dave Dietrich American Culinary Federation Capital Chapter District James Rhoads, CEC

Personals/Ciassifieds Personals To the brothers of ~<I>~ Thanks for the great time on Sat- urday Night! The eighties mu- sic was awesome. -the sisters ofr.:I>B Louie- I hope your week isn't as bad as we talked about. Good luck and see you when you get out. love, Dana Kuss, D, Pon, Mimi - I miss living with you guys. Can't wait till next year! ! I love you! -E To the College Community- There are only 4-1/2 months 1 eft until a certain person in the Fi- nance Department, with the first name of JOHN, turns the BIG40. If you know John/Owe John, be sure to let him know he soon will be40. -Committee for the \Soon to be Over-the-Hill\ Brother Hell Bastard Yam Sir - · Thanks for a hard, taxing, and uneventful week. We're glad to be finally in. , -Nu class 2nd Floor House ofDavid - I would like to be a donor, but I don't know how to work it. -JL To the big, Hiroshima loving, short haired, curious APE - Thanks for all you have done for us over the past few months. Nu class Private Boo- Keep up on your Jeopardy and Skinimax watching. We will await your military presence in the fait. -the brothers Big Brother - You have been a big part of my sanity over the past few months. Thanks for all you have done for me. Bytheway, whydoyo,uhave a sun on your paddle? -Sproket To the Brother of the House· of David (you know who you are)- I challenge you to a SEGA tour- ney, the only agreement we have is that you have to be blindfolded! -S,proket Waldo- Assume, take them to the baH washer, Tittliest, Tittykaka, and mostimportantly ... Waldo's mom. Keep upthe great jokes and keep us laughing! -the Brothers Brother \Hi Jared Berger\ - Keep writing those minutes and don't study too hard. -The Brothers of AEPi Tex, Fehx and Liquor- Congratulations! We did it and we did it in style. -Sproket Roomie- 1 had a great time this weekend. We definately needed the road trip. We should do it more of- ten! Thanks for everything. -0 To our favorite rowers- I hope we surprised you this past weekend. Sorry about the race- you deserve better. Just think, you can finally sleep in! -Sed A11 f. vel1titg ol a-Azz WI 'tit tf 111011$ Wigltt dl1dDt11fN (Kevit! Hnt:Jt!g_ · Riel! Lee. Prof . Tom D'At!drea & Prof Tim Q{getf) . . .AJ. &tttHrdalf Maf 13 \\' ·5~7fm at Smitft Ho11se (8emi-/orl11t:JI r:~ttire) Rtlresltmef1ts served .. {o~SfJof!soretf bJj Coffee Honse a11tl tire Deal!. of &tHdef!fg Tlte Concordiensis • May 11, 1995 • Page 21 Classijieds STUDENT WORK $10/START Local company now interviewing for SUMMER OPENINGS. No experience required. AH majors considered. Training provided. ExceHent resume builder. Call now - work begins after finals. (518) 456-3229 The Concordiensis is look- ing for staff writers, copy editors, lay out staff, busi- ness/finance people and photographers. We will teach you anything you want to learn. If you are inter- ested in joining us, please contact Diana Sedita at ext. 6155. Make great Christmas $ in Connecticut. A ward winning retail shop in New Canaan, CT is now accepting applica- tions for Xmas sales help. $8/hr, 40hr week. Please call . Ray for more info @ Pennyweights Jewlery Store. (203) . 966-7739 . Secure your job today! CONCORDY MEETING! All are welcome and encouraged to comee Thursday, 7:00pm CC 303 FRED L. GARDAPHE Professor of English Columbia College, Chicago Author of Italian Signs, American Streets: Reading Italian/American Novels, Dagoes Read: Tradition and the Italian/American Writer, and The Italian/American Writer: An Essay and Annotated Checklist \Linguini and Lust: Food and Sex • Ill Italian/ American Culture'' Friday, May 19 4:00PM College Center Auditorium Union College Reception to Follow Strauss Lounge College Center 305 Sponsored by the Internal Education Foundation and the Department of En- glish of Union College For information contact Edi Giunta 388-6207

Page 22 • May 11, 1995 • The Concordiensis Calendar CALENDAR 5/11/95-5/19/95 Thursday, 05/11/95 8:00a Internship Meeting, Educational Studies, HH OLD CHAPEL 9:00a 9:00a 10:30a II :30a II :30a II :30a I2:00p ·12:00p 12:00p 12:30p l:OOp 3:00p 3:30p 5:00p 6:00p 6:00p 6:00p 7:00p 7:30p 8:00p 9:00p IO:OOp Dean of Students Staff Meeting., CC 205 Software Demonstration, CC 409 Public Relations Annual Fund StaffMeeting, CC 203 Economics Thesis Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 Division III Meeting, BAILEY 20I Campus Ministry Meeting, CC 205 Spanish Language Table, CC 302 ''Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS(305) UCall Luncheon, HH DINING ROOM German Language Table, CC 203 Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ I 08 Dr. Roth Meeting, CC 203 GE Executive Committee Meeting, CC 409 Volley Ball Club Meeting, CC 205 SHPE Meeting, CC 204 Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) French Club Dinner, HH DINING ROOM Breast Cancer Foundation Workshop, CC 409 The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 Safe Space Group, CC 409 All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Friday, 05/12/95 12:00a Gamma Phi Beta House Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 9:00a Volleyball T-Shirt Sale, CC ATRIUM IO:OOa Gamet Yearbook, CC ATRIUM I :OOp Training for Eudora & Net Scape~ STEINMETZ 108 2:00p Economics Thesis Meeting. SOCIAL SCIENCES 0 I6 2:00p COSA Meeting. CC 205 6:30p I ntervarsity Christian Fellowship~ CC MOBIL ( 406) 7:00p P.hilomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE Saturday, 05/13/95 I :OOp John Skumurski, CC 203 I O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Sunday, 05/14/95 I 2:30p Special Olympics Practice. ASTROTURF (BAILEY FIELD) Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 4:00p 6:30p 7:00p IO:OOp Sunday Religious Service. HH OLD CHAPEL All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday, 05/15/95 I O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 4:00p Women's Studies Reading Group, Modern Languages, HUMANITIES 213 4:30p Modern Dance-Section II. PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) 5:00p Mountebanks, CC 302 5: 15p Residence Lite, CC 205 6:00p Combined Ballet PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) 6:00p Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Union College Orchestra RehearsaL MEMORIAL CHAPEL 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 IO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Tuesday, 05/16/95 8:00a NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 8:30a 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union, CC 204 I O:OOa Telecommunications Office, CC 409 I O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM II :OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 ~ II :30a Division IV Meeting, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 II :30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINING ROOM II :30a Dean's Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 l2:00p I2:30p 2:00p 3:45p 4:00p 4:30p 5:00p 5:00p 5:30p 6;00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p Values Group Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 313 Managers' Meeting, Dining Services, CC 205 Commencement Committee Meeting,CC 203 Faculty Colloquium, CC AUDITORIUM Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 Mountebanks, CC 302 Religious Programs, CC 409 Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) U B Glad, CC 204 Balletl, PERFORMTNGARTS STUDIO(l08) Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL ( 406) Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:30p IntervarsityChristian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS(305) IO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Wednesday, 05/17/95 8:00a GE Grant Meeting, CC 302 I O:OOa Campus Parents Council Meeting, CC 204 I O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 12:I5p PortugueseTable,CC 204 3:30p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 3:30p Commencement Meeting, CC 205 4:30p Intro to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS 4:30p 5:00p 5:00p 6:00p (108) 6:00p 6:00p 6:30p 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p 9:30p IO:OOp STIJD 10 (I 08) Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 Meditation Group, CC 302 Mountebanks, CC 409 Modern Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO Girl Scout Meeting, Residence Life, CC 409 A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 0 I 0 and 014 Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 2I5 Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 313 Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Safe Space Group, CC 409 All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Thursday, 05/18/95 9:30a Financial and Retirement Planning, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 lO:OOa I2:00p I2:00p 12:30p I:OOp l:30p 2:30p 4:30p 6:00p 6:00p 6:00p 6:00p 7:30p 8:00p 9:00p Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM Spanish Language Table, CC 302 \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC S1RAUSS (305) Gennan Language Table, CC 203 Training for Eudora& Net Scape, STEINMETZ 108 Dr. Roth Meeting, CC 204 Financial and Retirement Planning, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 Mountebanks, CC 302 AOP Awards and Reception, HH DINING ROOM and HHOLDCHAPEL SHPE Meeting, CC 204 Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 Safe Space Group, CC 409 Friday, 05/19/95 lO:OOa 11 :45a l:OOp 1:30p 2:00p 3:00p 5:00p 6:30p 7:00p lO:OOp Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM Voice Mail Training, CC 409 Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ I 08 Electrical Engineering, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 222 COSA Meeting, CC 205 NCUR Committee Meeting, CC STRAUSS (305) Mountebanks, CC 302 Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL ( 406) Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE All Night Study Room, HH _DINING ROOM

r Sports An Interesting State of Crew by JeffJ)ruzba Contributing Writer This year's crew state meet was composed of the strangest and most unexpected series of events that any rower from Union or even the rest ofthe state has prob- ably ever faced. The state meet, held at Cazenovia, NY for the .past three years, is the stepping stone to reach Nationals for all crews involved as well as a way of ranking. similar crews from throughout New York State. Usually, with a few exceptions, the top three finalistsa.t the regetta move on to Nationals. uhis year, however, was very different. -Union arrived at around 10 AM on Saturday morning after a three hour drive to the course. They immediateiy gottheir boats reaqy to race that afternoon for the qualifying heats. With a good enough re- suit, this would lead the team to the finals, which would take place on Sunday. However, getting their boats re11dy would be as close as they'd get to the water on Sat- urday. As the wind continued to get stronger, officials decided to postponethestartofthe heatsunti'l later that afternoon, hoping they would die down. Unfortunatly, the weather never became be- nevolent enough for the races to start, so a:ll teams were dealt with someharshnews. Theentiremeet was to be held on the following day, starting early on with the first crack of sunlight. On Sunday morning, heats were raced in several events. The Novice Women placed third in their heat and qualified for the fi- nals. TheVarsityWomen'sFour finished first in their heat (good enough to qualify for the finals), as well as the Novice Men, who came in second in the.ir heat. Sunday's racing was limited to those results; as the wind in- creased and the course got messy. The meet was delayed indefi- nitely, until conditions improved. After a few hours, the wind and the whitecaps on the lake had got- ten worse, so the coaches met and discussed whether or not to can- cel the rest of the regetta. They also discussed what boats would make it to Nationals, based on their regular season performances and any heats they may have completed during the State Meet. The result for Union Crew is that the Novice Men's Eight is headed for the Champion Na- tional Regetta at Worcester, MA this weekend. The Varsity Women'sFourwiH beheading to the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadel- phia starting today and finishing on Saturday. May the best ofluck go to Union's crews this week- end. Showyoursupportfor Union and take a road trip to one or both of these two sites. Call Mike at x6703 for directions to the races. Go Union. Men's and Women's Track Finishes Great Season at States by Mike Leding Contributing Writer The Men's and Women's Track and Field Teams competed in the state meet at the Univer- sity of Rochester this past week- end. The women only took five members and managed to score two points; the men took about thirteen athletes and finished ninth out of fifteen teams, only ten points out of sixth. There were many personal records re- corded and some outstanding races run. The only female to score was Linda Seymour in the I 0,000 meters, placing fifth in a time of 42: 15.70. This meet also marked the end of Nadine Filosi's out- standing track career at Union Col1ege. Nadine competed in the heptathalon a week ago and, at the state meet, she made it to the semi- finals running a time of 16.73 sec- onds in the 1 00 meter hurdles. The track team would like to thank Nadine for all her contribu- tions over the past four years and would like to wish here luck in the future. Matt.Johnson started the scor- ing by placing third in the state in the javelin with a throw of 54.90 meters. Matt will continue to compete as he prepares for Na- tionals which will be held in two weeks. Rich Pulver dominated the rest of the competition in the shot put by placing first by 1.26 meters. Rich's throw traveled 15.97 meters. Rich look Matt, continues to stay in shape as he attempts to become the National champion. In the 400 meter tri- als, Mike Leding had a personal best by running a time of 51.91 seconds. Dave Riggi placed fourth in the state in both the 100 meters and the 200 meters. Dave ran times of 11.0 I and 22.69 re- spectively. The most interesting race of the states was the 4x800 meter relay. The team consisted of Mike Leding, Seth Rudin, Jay Goldberg, and Nick Conway. Each of the three first legs ran the fastest times of their lives and then Nick chased down Fredonia's anchor leg to place the team third in the states and set a new Union College outdoor track record with a time of8:08.65. It was a great season. The fin- est I have participated in thus far in my career. I'd like to thank all those who stuck with it, and 1' d also like to thank Aldo Nardiello and Lariy Cottrell for their sup- port during the season. ***Announcement*** r The Block U Award Dinner will be held on Wednesday, May 17, 1995 ) Atheletes, MUST pick up your tickets at the Alumni Gym by May 15, 1995 No one will be admitted without a ticket. Attention Seniors: We need to elect three representatives to the Alumni Council. Nominating positions are available for all seniors to pick up in the Alumni Office starting May 12. The petitions must be endorsed by 25 classmates (seniors). Petitions must be returned to the Alumni Office in Lamont House by 4 pm, Mon., May 22. All nominees must submit their pictures and a statement to the Concordiensis by 5:00 pm on Mon., May 22. Elections for the three representatives from tb.e dass of 1995 will take place on Friday, May 26 at the College ,center 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. ./ The Concordiensis • May 11, 1995 • Page 23 · ·o:;. --n·· ••. 'e··········r: ·· -I -. by Oreg·Kalish ContriiJilting Writer For those of you who noticed, and judging by the fan mail you haven6t, the K Korner took last week off in order to allow a bud~ ding young star of the script to try his hand at the fine art of opin- ; ionated column writing. And what did we learn? We learned that · this novice sow was from some colonial town in the Northeast. As a matter of fact, after merely skimming through the column, one could learn all that be or she desired about such a town, from the Boston Garden to the Boston Tea Party to Boston Creme Pie. I thank the man for his more than commendable performance and nowsoundly.trustthat my faithful r~aders are in very <:apable hands •SlJQUld .f'uttheral;,sen:ces·corne about.: .... Perhaps the biggest fuss ltbl~t~~tll\.~~~ ~t:r,:tf1!iS· :campus tlw.l~t thoo.e ·months surrounds the . . .. · · .. · ·· · · . . . · · . . • . • .. ·• . · • · · · .· ·· . · . on one side, bumps on theotllen And when asked ifthere was another ball that could be use!:~. the umplrerevealed·that:>he had had a hard enough time finding this beauty, that he had not even been provided with one and was forced to bon-ow it from a fraternity. He had not even been provided with the key essential needed to play softball! Per- · haps it is time to raise tuition again so that we can get a ball that flies, or a bat that does not resemble a bootneraog, or a full bank of lights over the field so that the players can see what is going on. lt may be asking a great deal, but a commonplace observer would think that we were in early 20th century South America judging by the equipment we are provided with. And yot.t wonder why we . students are so high-strung and fed up with the administration? Shame onyout, ...... Wbatagreat weekend to be a New York sports fttn! It· · ~~ i$: anot)lerthingtoJose an important f;(,; .. ~l!\!9·'ll,!§~~r~n :¥YP,'~''R!i'.J•·v. lpse ~ · blowing a seemingly ¥H?U:tlfl.g ,with · th¥ fv!ets d,;~~~'~@ .· ~y a tu.~Ra•~~rs-'wet'eten min* tlf.<\l:.heu: 91J,~st to ide.. uan•. \·. .. a<·ll~d Jo:st ~,~q4Ir,tr,!;Jered a 4- ;thana \\~\'\\ ..,. ..,· · Knicks We sliip 6ooK§ to :Jvloms l£vergwfie.re! Motfzer)s tDay is May 14 Open t£Joor '13ool(§tore 128 Jay St 346-2719 'Downtown ScUene.ctatfy Attention All Students!!! ·Applications for commitee positions for 1995-1996 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC 408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 pm on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You may apply for as many positions as you like. Please add whether you intend to go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140. I -i

May 11, 1995 Lax Squeaks by RPI but Fails to Bring Home Title by Jason Starr Co-Sports Editor The last time Union Lacrosse made it this far, much of this year's sqtmd was not yet born. The rest wereinfantsand toddlers in 1974 when Union last played for the ECAC Championship. It has taken twenty-one years for the team to return to the big game. Unfortunately, this year's Dutch- men fared' no better than the I 974 squad,losingthefinal game to the tournament's number one seed, Alfred. The final period was a see-saw battle that ended in a tie. The first overtime did nothing to settle the issue. It was not until 3 :23 had elapsed in the second overtime that Junior Scott Porter scored the winning goalliftingthe Dutchmen to a level that they had not seen for twenty-one years. So the stage was set for Sunday's match~up that pitted the tournament's one seed, Alfred, against the second ~eeded Dutch- men. Union, an unranked team, was playing the twelfth ranked division III team in the nation for the right to call themselves ECAC Champion. PAGE24 The path to the final two took the Dutchmen through a wild double-overtime game against RPJ on Friday I'm sure all of you lax fans were there to witness this one despite the rain On a slickened Frank Railey Field, the Dutchmen raHied in front of rookiegoalicGrant Pollock who was making his first varsity start in place of the injured Steve Rotkiewicz, to edge RPII0-9. After aS-2 half-time lead, the Dutchmen b(pke down allowing RPI to capture the lead in the third. The score was 6-5 in favor of RPI going into the last period. The game did not go as planned for the Dutchmen as they found themselves victimized by eight Alfred goals in the first pe- riod This would not be so bad if Union had managed to score some goals of their own However, they did not even manage to get on the board, and the first period score was 8-0. The Dutchmen did not roll over at this point like a lesser team may have. They continued to fight, granted to little avail, and managed to cut the deficit to a still ugly six points. The half-time Gary Edmunds receives a pass in Union's double OT victory over RP/. (photo by Rick Lederer lTC) score was 9-3. The rest of the game was merely an exercise. In fact, it was over at the half The Dutch- men were outscored in the second halfby only five which made the final score 18-7. The Dutchmen went home runner's up or as Todd Ray prefers to say, \first loser\. There's really nothing wrong with that title, although it surely doesn't beat ECAC Champion. Tennis Ends Season Strong; Finishes with .500 Record by Ken Berman Co-Sports Editor The Boston Celtic's cham- pionship run of the 1960's. The UCLA Bruins dominance of the NCAA tournament. The Depres- sion-era Yankees All of these great runs eventually came to end. as did the Union College Men's Tennis Team's season this past Saturday. You may be saying, \ C'mon Ken, these guys struggled to finrsh the season with a .500 record. Why the comparisons to these dynasties?\ And you may be thinking, \Why can't he just write a nonnal article?\ And you may ask yourself, \My God! What have! done?!\ Well, read on. and I 'II try to answer these queries. and maybe even get in some facts. On Saturday, your Dutch- men entered the final match of the season against Hartwick, with a record of 5 wins and 6losses. A Jason Beckman serves in Union's shutout victory over Hartwick. (photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis) win would catapult their record to 6-6; a loss would drop them to an unsightly 5-7. With this in mind, the Swingers came out on that ten- nis-perfect Saturday and gave the partisan garnet crowd what they all wanted: the demolition of Hartwick. When the dust had cleared, Union had won all nine matches, and with the victory, a . 500 season. Freshman Steve Chin, fighting off the dreaded back- page-of-the Concordy jinx, fin- ished off his stellar rookie cam- paign at first singles with a 7-6, 6-3 victory. lfl had stats, I'd tell you his record, but since I don't, I'll just say that his final singles record was 85-0. #2 singles Brett Shapiro, putting on an old-fash- ioned Southern whooping for his visiting parents, took a 6-1, 6-1 victory. Playing third, Jason (please don't serve me) Fishbein followed suit, defeating his oppo- nent 6-3, 6-0. At fourth, but cer- tainly not worst (I'm struggling here) wa~ Jordan Pinsker, who won his match to give Union a 4- 0 lead. Winning at fifth singles was jolly junior Steve Klopfer, and taking a 6-2, 6-0 victory at sixth singles was Jeff Kasowitz. As you can see by these scores, Hartwick was not on the same level as Union, and this domi- nance continued on to the doubles matches . The top tandem of Chin/ Beckman won 8-4, the second squad of Shapiro/Fishbein pre- vailed 8-4, and to finish offthe shutout, the third team of Nat Smitobol and Kasowitz won 8- 1. Said, Shapiro about the win and the season in general, \We came a long way in a short time. The Duke trip (over spring break) was a great bonding ex- perience which undoubtedly helped us in the close matches. It was great that the season was so much fun, so playing didn't seem like a job.\ The end is sad for myself, too, for I will no longer be able to travel with the team and attend exclusive press conferences. :Until the women start in the fall, I'm done. Write for Sports!! Call Ken or Jason atX6155 Come to the Union College Beach Volleyball Toumamenttr Free Food, Drink, and Fun! This Weekend at FIJI

onrnr~i.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume C.XXIV, Number XXIII A Minimalist Concordiensis by Diana Sedita Editor-in-Chief For the past three weeks, issues of The Concordiensis have ''mys- teriously\ disappeared. Just last week 1400 newspapers disap- peared in less than two hours. UsuaUy only about 500 will be picked up in this time, and, no matter howflattering it may be, I seriously doubt that our reader- ship has increased by 200 percent. This week, after much discus- sion, the Editorial Board has de- cided that we would publish a \bare minimum\ :issue of The Concordiensis consisting of eight pages. The only things in this is- Sl!e are statements regarding the missing newspapers written by section editors., the campus cal- endar and certain announcements for the coming week that were provided to us by departments on campus ... none were written by Concotdy staff. Some members of the campus community may feel that this is · submission to those responsible for taking the newspapers. Well, think what you like. The reason we have decided to do this is that the entire staff is sick and tired of spending countless hours oftheir precious. time pttttit1g the news- paper together for all of you to read and then having it taken out of circulation. If the taking of the newspapers sounds at all like cen- sorship, you must have done well in your government class. Also, because the printing costs are at least $1000 a week, the individu- als responsible for taking the newspapers have committed a felony. The taking of the newspapers not only affects those directly in- volved with the publishing of them, it also affects all of the events on campus for the week. For example, last week's news- paper contained a complete schedule of events for the Steinmetz Symposium. All ofthe students and faculty who spent weeks of their time putting to- gether their presentations might have been seen by more people if more people knew about it. Also, the Final Exam Schedule was in last week's paper. I'm sure our professors will love it when we . all ask over and over again when our finals are, after they had been published in The Concordiensis. But, of course, they \mysteri- ously\ disappeared. Ever since the emergence of the Meal Plan decision, students have voiced their concerns regarding the lack of information being given to the college cmrtmunity. The Concordiensis staff has dili- gently tried to increase comnru .. nication, and what happens? ... a major source of information gets taken out of circulation-a little hypocritical wou,ldn 't you say? Well, this week the layout edi- tor and I will actually sleep, and not have to stay up all night long and then try to make it through our Wednesday morning classes. We have learned that sleep is a good thing, and after keeping the watches of the night all term we are tired of being taken advantage of. If you want to take all of our hard work and throw it in the gar- bage, fine, but then do not expect us to waste our time. ~ecause the newspapers were taken, we do not have enough to send to our subscribers and ad- vertisers. If you have any infor- mation regarding the disappear- ance of the newspapers, please call the office at extension 6155. If you have the newspapers, drop at least 200 of them at the office in College Center 303. Thanks. Schenectady; New York An empty ConcordiensisStand on Thursday;. lth after 1 two hours. (photo by Rick Lederer for TheCom:ordiensis) Results of Last Week's Forum Elections Dismal Voter Turnout ... Reported as Less Than 15% Voted compiled from information from the Student Forum Last Friday, May 12, 1995, Student Forum Elections were held in the College Center. The voter turnout was minimal as less than twenty five percent of the student population came out to vote. The results of the elections are as follows: Senior Class President: Jon Shapiro Senior Class Vice President: Dave Orandwetter Senior Secretary!freasurer: Seth Brown Junior Class President: Randy Pellish Junior Class Vice President: Chia-Jung Chiu Sophomore Class President: Suzanne Dougherty Sophomore Vice President: Toby Proctor Sophomore Class Secretary/ Treasurer: Elizabeth Malaspina On May 26, 1995, there will be a run off for the position of Vice President of Academics between Mike Gifford, Sam Tolkoff and Fred Ulrich. Look for their pho- tos and staments in next week's issue of The Concordiensis. Also on the ballot was a propo- sition to create a new position on the StU<:J.ent Forum, Vice Presi- dent of Multi-Cultural Affairs. This position was initially passed by the Student Forum and then placed on the ballot. In order for the new position to come into affect, at least twenty five percent of the student body must vote on it. Only then can the position be included in the Student Forum Constitution. Due to the dismal voter turnout, the positioh could not be ratified and will therefore be placed on the ba1lot again. Remember that on Friday, May 26, 1995 elections for Vice Presi- dent of Academics will be held in the College Center ftom 10:00- 4:00. Petitions are also available for JuniorClass Secretary !Treasurer in the Student Activities Office on the fourth floor of the College Center. All photos and candidate statements must be in to The Con- cordi ens is by 5:00pm on Mon- day, May 22, 1995. Do not forget to vote! Celebratbtg Our Bicentennial May 18, 1995 Inside This Js,s:ue ••• News ........ 2 OPJEDu3-4 Calendar .. 5 A & E ...•.. 7 Senior Gift Info ......... 8

Page 2 • May 18, 1995• The Concordiensis \ CampusN~ws UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, MAY 9,1995 THROUGH MONDAY, MAY 15, 1995 DATEffiME LOCATION INCIDENT TUESDAY, MAY 9~ 1995: 7:12AM West College 9:35 PM Fieldhouse Hl:27 PM West College MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Garbage, shaving cream, paint strewn about 1st, 2nd and .4th floor halls. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Two vehicles being driven inside tl1e fieldhouse. Drivers identified. Conduct Charges filed. V A.NDALISM: Screen to student's room cut. No attempt to enter. WEDNESDAY, MAY 10,1995: 2:35 AM Davidson Y ANDALISM: Window broken. 2nd time within 5 days. 3:13PM Humanities SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Located and identified. Unautllorized 6:00 PM Lenox Road 8:40 PM Steinmetz solicitor. Advised offcimlpus. RECOVERED PROPERTY: Stolen pocketbook located on campus property. Owner notified. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor using computer facilities without authorization. Acting unusual-attempting to learn identity .of student. Suspect identified, advised off campus. THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1995;_ 2:33 AM Fox area RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Driving vehicle on 3:19AM South College 3:33 PM PsycholGgy 7:25 PM College Center FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1995: 3:55AM West College 8:43AM S&E sidewalks. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges f'iiled. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Mud, shaving cream, garbage strewn throughout fi.rst floor hallway. THEFT: AM!FM radio stolen from faculty member's office. THEFT: Approximately 1400 issues of the Concordiensis May 11th edition are missit~g. Occurred betwee11 3:45-4:45PM. This is the third successive week that issues have been taken. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Shaving cream sprayed throughout 3rd floor area. PROPERTY MISSING: Two safety ladders and a step stool removed from 3rd floor. ·11 :23 AM New Entry Road TRESPASS: Visitor previously arrested for trespass ignored 2:10PM Fox House Judge's direction to remain off campus. Re-arrested. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Report of vomiting and urinating out of 3rd floor window. Subject identified. 3:00 PM Raymond South THEFT: Student's stereo/CO player st()len from unlocked 7:09 PM South College 8:48 PM College Center common area. Occurred overnight. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Beer bottles broken against entry door and on sidewalk. HARASSMENT: Two juvenile visitors spitting at infonnation booth worker. Suspects fled. SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1995: 1:28AM Fox House UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Student lom1ed room key to .another student. Conduct Charges filed . . ': 2:26' A.iv{~an1pus Grounds ASSAlJL T/INJliRY: 'Student assailltdi aiiil'ltijttrhi'oY \ \. another student. Conduct Charges .filed . .. 6:10 AM Fieldhouse area VANDALISM: Shrubbery uprooted. II :00 AM West College SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unauthorized visitor located and 12:00 PMFratemity }2:50PM Davidson 5:45PM West College 6:46PM West Colelge 7:03 PM South College 7:05 PM West College SUNDAY, MAY 14,1995: 3:23AM South College 3:47AM Potter South 2:07 PM Richmond area 5:47PM S&E MONDAY, MAY 15,1995: identified. Advised off campus. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire code deficiencies reported during annual NYS fire inspection. Work orders filed. VANDALISM: Urinal tom off wall in third floor bathroom and smashed on the floor. TRESPASS: Unauthorized visitor previously warned off campus returned. Subject arrested for trespass. HARASSMENT: Student threatened by group of students in reprisal of previous incident. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Courtesy phone damaged, window removed from frame, electrical panel disabled. THEFT: Compact discs stolen from student's room. Room was locked-no forced entry. THEFTN ANDALISM: Vending machine forced open. Proceeds and product taken. Suspects identified, some product recovered. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Table, window blind, light cover broken, food items strewn around dining hall. Suspects fled. Believed to be students. FIRE: Minor brush fire caused by careless disposal of cigarettes. No damage/injury. TRESPASS: Five juvenile visitors found by professor wander ing through the building. Suspects identifed and advised off campus. 1:20AM South College VANDALISM: Student's property damaged. Suspected retaliatory harassment. 1:45 AM Edwards House VANDALISM: Water pipe broken. Caused by someone hanging on or pulling pipe. Resultant water damage activated fire alarm system. On duty electrician and plumber required. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 2:00 AM Campus Grounds PROPERTY DAMAGE: Bumper and taillight on campus vehicle damaged. Cause undetennined-possible unreported accident. 5:40 AM Phi Delta Theta VANDALISM: Window Broken. 7:05 AM S&E VANDALISM: Three wall clocks knocked from mounting-one clock damaged. 12:20 PM Humanities HARASSMENT: Student being harassed by another student. Consequence of previous incident. Conduct Charges filed. 6:58PM Psi Upsilon THEFT: Student's backpack and raincoat stolen. Left unattended in hallway. Occurred over weekend. 9:17PM Alumni Gym Lot THEFfNANDALISM: ·Graduate student's car parked in lot. Window was broken and pocketbook stolen from c11r. The pocketbook and contents were recovered intact on Lenox Road. Cash was missing. 9:21 PM South College HARASSMENT: Recurrent acts of vandalism against student by other students.

OP/ED The Concordiensis ·May 18, 1995 ·Page 3 The Concordiensis Section Editors Voice Opinions Due to multiple thefts of The Concordien- sis, World News will not be published this week. These crimes amount to censorship through theft, something the newspaper staff will no longer tolerate. The amount of time staff mem- bers work on preparing the paper is too valu- able and long to have our productivity robbed. The Concordiensis apologizes to the Union Community for the lack of a paper this week, but we feel that this is the best way for our message to get across to whoever is stealing your paper. Sincerely, Matthew Sandler We're@*#! annoyed. What's up with this@#*! campus lately? Please. Do you have any@*#! idea what it takes to make this paper every week? Do you\ For those of you that realize the sweat we put ·into every issue, we appreciate it But, to those @#*! few of you who stoop to stealing our dear newspaper,@#*! YOU! ~ Sincerely, A & .5 Editors * * * * $100 Prize * * * * Senior Class T-shirt Design Contest!!!* *Please put your T -shirt Design in Box 1846 by May 25th or turn or turn it into Senior Week Table Brotherhood at Union Questioned 1!J THE BEST ~FRAMING ~~COMPANY To The Editor, On Friday, April 28, a frater- nity was found guilty by seven of their peers on the Student Con- duct Committee on five violations ofthe Stuqent.ConductCode. As a result, Union College has with- drawn their recognition of this fraternity. There is something far more disturbing about these events. This fraternity suffers from much more than the violations it is guilty of. It lacks trust and lead- ership that is an absolute require- ment in fostering dignity and in- tegrity. They were unable to look at themselves, analyze their mis- takes, and protect ALL the broth- ers. As a result, a young freshman at Union College is being blamed and harassed because he stood up to what he believed. What did he believe? He believed that there- spect of a human being is fore- most. He believed verbal abuse, intimidation, physical force, and degradation has no place in this world. He believed and trusted in his fraternity! Is that abnormal? No, the abnonnality exists within the brotherhood! The fault rests on the leadership of the fraternity and the culture that it breeds. The sense of \brotherhood\ is far bigger that what dwells in one small fraternity. It is Union Col- lege itself. Thus, 1 remain troubled by the word \brother- hood.\ Does that mean that one small Greek system sticks to- gether, even if it sacrifices the be- liefs ofwhat is right. The gnaw- ing fact is that World War II hap- pened just like this! Doesn't edu- cation help us to move forward? Do we close our eyes in order to justify the actions of the \broth- CROSSTALK! L ', Is· a Penis a Point of PoWer at Union College? A panel of faculty and students will debate the issue Add your 2¢ Wednesday, May 24 7 PM in Chet's erhood\ by blindly believing those who speak the loudest be- cause believing in a lie helps to tolerate the disgrace inflicted on a Union brother. It has been said that this young freshman just wanted recognition. Come on now, this is a student at a very prestigious college; stu- dents deserve far more than this type of acknowledgment. My concern is with the so called \brothers\ that know exactly what happened, and still chose to be silent to protect the guilty, thus allowing the humiliation to con- tinue. I am saddened by the fact that these brothers represent our future. True leaders stand alone, and, there, I see only one young freshman standing very tall. ANONYMOUS • 1187 Route 7 West (Next to Anchor Fence f:, CHP) • • Latham, NY 12110 • (518) 783-0921 • rOUR DIPLOMA ~OSTYOU THOUSANDS OF DOI.IARS MANE IT lAST- FRAME IT! TAitE 2S96 OFF YOUR DIPLOMA ~USTOM FRAMIN~ ORPER WITH THIS AD! (EXPIRES SEPTEMBER JD, 1V9S) (HOTVA4/D W/OTHER DISCOUNTS/OFFERS) • Best Quality Custom Picture, Poster, Art & Needlework Framing • Over 1200 Mouldings • Best Prices • OVERNit:HT SERVI,:E AVAILA/JI.E • Large Selection of Art Prints & Posters • Over Ten Years of fine Framing Experience HOURS OF OPERATION: Mon., Tues., Wed., & Thurs.: 10 AM- 6 PM; Fri.: lOAM- 7 PM Sat.: 10 AM- 5 PM Attention All Graduating Seniors If you have received a Perkins and/or, Institutional Loan, an EXIT Interview must be completed before graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notification of tllis, please contact Ms. Civ~tello at x6039 Dates for Interviews: May 31st, June 1st and 2nd

Page 4 ~ May 18, 1995 • The Concordiensis · · . LETTERS . . . . Meal Plan Decision Could Affect Fundraising This letter was originally sent to President Hull To the Editor: I have been Head Agent for the Class of 1990 since graduating. While my efforts to raise money for the Annual Fund have met with measurable success, my generation ofUnion Alumni har- bor many feelings of alienation and resentment towards the Col- lege. As you can no doubtguess, this has made our fundraising efforts all the more challenging. It was with great concern that I read President Hull's letter re- garding the dining programs at union. My concern is that Hull risks creating another generation of Union students which will have, in the future, a strained re- lationship with Union. During my time at Union, I was an Independent, but I en- joyed all of the social options open to me. I observed first-hand how social organizations such as fraternities enhanced their inter- nal relationships by taking meals together. Many of my peers do not have as positive an attitude towards the College because of what they perceive, then and now, as a genuine lack of respect for and understanding of the stu- dents' way of life. The end re- sult is that when I speak to some of my classmates, they tell me that they feel they no longer have any relationship with the College. My fear is that the cur- rent situation will create the same feelings. The justification for Hull's de- cision stems from budget cuts from Albany and Washington. Hull also mentions lost income resulting from the situation of off-grounds properties. Surely Hull can not expect that future Alumni will be as forthcoming with donations when he has torn the fabric of their life at Union in order to balance the books. I must also ask that Hull-clarify for himself the true costs imposed on all students. Greeks do pay room and board to their respective organizations. It is possible that these arrangement are equivalent to those imposed on Independents. I am sad to say that Hull may have done irreparable harm to the cur- rent classes' future fundraising ef- forts. I know that Hull has a difficult task. Many interests must be bal- anced in the decision making pro- cess. I must ask however that Hull pay more careful attention to Alumni Fundraising as a strategic issue in this process. While this type of giving represents a small fraction of the College's total in- come, the level of that giving speaks volumes about its relation- ship with its graduates. I must ask that Hull consider the risks of jeop- ardizing this relationship in all fu- ture budgetary matters. Sincerely, Maurice J. Kauff, '90 Attention all students!!! Applications for committee positions for 1995-6 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30pm on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You may apply for as many positions as you like. Please add whether you intend to go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140. It0 Tl\6\ f't\ST FEW \).)~ n- ~\G.IY\S Tt\A-\ \-\-\~ Co~~'! t\AS ~~ I'C'IEr~bf ft'l)s'T ~~LA R._ N~t~ :t ~ '\\~ v-Jen.\t>. OPJED The Department of Classics and The Classics Club present a lecture by Professor Jeffrey Rusten Cornell University ''I am Eurymedon '' Obscenity and the Birth of Comedy (Viewer Discretion Advised) Thursday 18 May 4:30p.m. College Center Auditorium

Advertisements ANOTHER ALL CAMPUS FREE BARBECUE HOT DOGS, BURGERS, SALADS AND GARDENBURGE:RS, TOO, FOR ALL YOU VEGETARIANS! FRIDAY, MAY 19TH 4-7:30 PM AT CHET'S FREE FOOD THE BAR WILL BE OPEN PREMIUM BEER SPONSORED BY CHET'S ' DINING SERVICES, AND THE COLLEGE CENTER Russian Literature in Translation Professor Jordan FALL, 1995 ML T 16: Russian Literature and its Demons: 1840-1940 MWF 1:40-2:45 This course will examine Russian literature and the world it inhabited in the one hundred of its most provocative years: 1840-1940. Our main thematic focus will be the fantastic fear of the ordinary or everyday that seems to dominate so·much of the great literature of the period. Why are Russian writers so quick to demonize everyday life? To formulate possible answers we will rread selected prose works from Gogol, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Chekhov, ~latonov, and Nabokov, among others. THIS WILL BE AWl COURSE. The Concordiensis • May 18, 1995 • Page 5 WATSON TIME IS FINALLY HERE JUNIORS WIN $15, QQQ TO GO ANYWHERE* AND DO ANYTHING The Thomas J. Watson Travelling Fellowship awards $15,000 to graduating seniors for a year of self-discovery. During the year, you travel anywhere to explore some thing or idea you haven't had a chance to at Union. Applications are due in October, but you should start planning now. Come to an information meeting: Monday, May 22 7:00PM Social Sciences 104 Rebecca Gergely, this year's Watson winner, and Prof. Doug Klein will be there to explain the application process and answer your questions. If you can't make the · meeting but want information, fill out the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein in Economics, or send e-mail to KLEIND. *Outside of North America 3« ~ ~ Clip and return ~ ~ ~ I can't make the meeting, but tell me more about winning money for travel. NA~=----------------- Major(s)/Minor: ________ _ Grad. Year: Box: Phone: ----------- Return to Prof. Klein, Economics Department. I I

• I ,, I' • ''' Page 6 • May 18, 1995 • The Concordiensis Calendar CALENDAR 5/18/95-5/26/95 Thursday 05/18/95 2:30p Financial and Retirement Planning, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 3:00p AOP Awards and Reception, 3:30p 4:30p 4:45p 6:00p 6:00p 6:00p 7:30p 8:00p 9:00p 10:00p HH DINING ROOM, HH OLD CHAPEL Dean's Meeting CC 409 Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 Pre Health Advising, BAILEY 20 1 Mountebanks, CC 302 SHPE Meeting, CC 204 Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) THE CALCULUS CENTER, BAILEY 203 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 Safe Space Group, CC 409 All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Friday 05/19/95 9:00a Fundraiser - Child Abuse, TABLE 7 - CC ATRIUM 9:00a Biranne Patnode- Senior Thesis Art Exhibition, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, TABLE 1 - CC ATRIUM, TABLE 2 - CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, TABLE 3 - CC ATRIUM 11 :OOa Boys & Girls Club of Schenectady Fundraiser, TABLE 5 - CC ATRIUM 11 :45a Voice Mail Training, CC 409 1:00p Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ 108 1:30p Electrical Engineering, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 222 2:00p COSA Meeting, CC 205 3:00p NCUR Committee Meeting, C STRAUSS 305 5:00p Mountebanks, CC 302 6:00p Reception for Fred Gardaphe, CC STRAUSS 305 6:30p Intervarsity Christian Fe, CC MOBIL 406 7:00p ASU Meeting,CC 302 7:00p Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday 05/20/95 9:30a GMI Council Meeting, HH DINING ROOM Sunday 05/21/95 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 S:OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 014 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday 05/22/95 9:00a Biranne Patnode - Senior Thesis Art Exhibition ARTS BUILDING ATRJUM 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, TABLE 1 - CC ATRIUM 11:30a Solicitor's Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Modem Dance-Section II PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 5:00p Mountebanks, CC 302 5:00p Schenectady Phone-a-Thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:15p Residence Life, CC 205 6:00p Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 6:30p Union College Choir Rehea, ARTS 215 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 Tuesday 05/23/95 8:30a 25 Years ofCo-Ed at Union, CC 204 9:00a Biranne Patnode- Senior Thesis Art Exhibition ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Auto Insurance Information, CC 203 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, TABLE 1 - CC ATRHJM 1 0:45a Networking Meeting, CC 409 ll:OOa Residence Life Meeting,CC 205 11 :30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINING ROOM 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 12:00p Values Group Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:30p Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 3 13 2:00p Managers' Meeting Dining Services, CC 205 J:30p Voice Mail Training, CC 409 3:45p Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:00p French Club Dinner, HH COURTYARD 4:30p Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 5:00p Mountebanks, CC 302 5:30p Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p U B Glad, CC 204 7:00p Ballet I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p Portugese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL ( 406) 7:00p Union CoUege Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:30p THE CALCULUS CENTER, BAILEY 203 8:30p lntervarsity Christian Fe, CC STRAUSS (305) 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Wednesday 05/24/95 9:00a Biranne Patnode- Senior Thesis Art Exhibition in ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM 10:00a Ticket Saie-Senior Week, TABLE 1 - CC ATRIUM 11:30a Senior Class Gift, TABLE 7- CC ATRIUM 12: 15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 3:30p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Intro to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 5 :OOp Meditatiofl Group, CC 3 02 5:00p Mountebanks, CC 409 6:00p Modern Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010, SOCIAL SCIENCES 014 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 6:30p Figure Skating Club, SOCIAL SCIENCES 112 7:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 313 7:30p Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:30p THE CALCULUS CENTER, BAILEY 203 9:30p Safe Space Group, CC 409 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH D~ING ROOM Thursday 05/25/95 9:00a Dean of Students Staff Meeting, CC 205 9:00a Software Demonstration, CC 409 9:00a Biranne Patnode- Senior Thesis Art Exhibition in t . . . ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM · lO:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, TABLE 1- CC ATRIUM 12:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 302 12:00p \.Plate FullofQuestions\Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 12:00p Admissions Office, CC AUDITORIUM, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:30p GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE, CC 203 1 :OOp Training f()r Eudora & Net ScapetS:r'EINMETZ 108 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 4:30p Classics Club Picnic, CC PATIO, CHET'S

Arts & Entertainment Flute Choir Concert Directed by: ]ill Panitch Student Participants: Amelia Audette *Karen DePoto * Elizabeth Gilman Monique Lin *Heather Symons Hana Yamashita Featuring works by Handel, J.S. Bach, Michael Kibbe, and G.A. Schneider Thursday, May 25, 1995 12:45pm College Center Patio (Rain Site- Arts Atrium) Courtesy of the Union College Department of Performing Arts Write for A & E!!! Call Leena or Suzanne at X6155 The Concordiensis • May 18,1995 •Page 7 The Visual Arts Department presents Guest Lecturer Victoria Anstead Art Dealer who will discuss The Contemporary Art Market Thursday, May 25,1995 1:30pm Arts Building 215 Free and Opeo to tbe Public IEF Funded Lecture

• ·, 1 - -·-. -~ .----.---.~-.- -,-\ .... \ -.-· --- ..y. ....... ·~~·--\-\\\'::10> Page 8 • May 18, 1995• The Concordiensis Senior Gift Seniors Contribute to N ott Landscaping as; Class Gift .Jf'fil'a -- : . - ~ The ground vil!W ojtlte Nott M emoriallandscaping project The project began last week, and tlte planting will be completed before graduatio\'- (Courtesy: VP C. Life) ·committee Hopes to Set ·Participation Record Hull 'Will Pay' if Entire Class Contributes The Senior Class decided last month to contribute to the land- scaping of the Nott Memorial as its parting gift to the College. The fund-raising efforts for the gift formally started last week, and members of the Senior Class Gift Committee are in the process of . soliciting gifts from members of · their class The committee's goal, according to Senior Class Gift co- chair DaYid LeYinc. is to attain a one-hundred percent participa- tion rate. To achieve this goal, 414 seniors must donate to the ~~·IWWII411!4!-awt~l class gift. President Hull has - ~- pledged to match- dollar for dol- lar - whatever the class raises as long as every senior makes a con- tribution. The Class of 1994 set the all-time Senior Class Gift par- ~.-- _________ _;_ ________________ ..;...:,;:,..._ _ ___. ___ __, ticipation record at 72%. Aerial view of the Nott landscaping project The yellow, red, and green shrubs will be layered. The Bicentennial Class of Union College-- Post graduation address: Name: Box: Phone: Here's my gift of$ ! Seniors are being asked to do- The Class of 1995 is breaking the participation record! My 0 check or cash 0 gift is enclosed or please charge my VISA 0 /Mastercard 0 Acct: Signature: nate $19.95 eachtowardstheland- scaping project. Checks should betrJ:ade payable to Union College. Cotitributors may send cash.· checks, orpledgecards withcredit card numbers and expiration dates to.Box l 347 or theycan bring their pledgecards and contributions to t.he Senior Class Gift booth in the Coli ege Center today and tomor- r()w between I I JO and 1 30 The com m1ttcc welcomes wntribu- tions ft()many member of the Col- lege community and reminds con- tribators that all donations are tax- ded~ctible. Contrib1:1tots may use the pledge card on the lower left nand sideofthis page. Contributions go towards the Union College annual fund, and may bel p the College achieve its '55 in 95' goal. If 55% ofUnion's almnni contribute to the school this year, the Board of Trustees will donate an additional $55,000 to tlu annual fund. Currently. Union is one of only 15 colleges oruniversities intheU.S.thathas at least a 50 percent participation rate. Senior Class Gift co-chairs, Thor Benander, David Levine, and DawnSchwartz acknowledge the difficulty of expecting students to c()ntribu.te money towards a class gift tbi!; year. 11 We understand that many students are upset with the school, but the only way to cl'lanEethe administration's deci- sion-making tactics is by remain- ing active, involved, and vocal alum.nL\ Questions ,concerning the Se- nior Class Gift should be for- warded to David Levine at Voice Mail 414-2.or e.mail LEVINED. c.·/ .' 0

,. 1- ~ i .- f .'. .... ... onror. t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial VolU111e CXXIV, Number XXIV Schenectady, New York Union Sponsors Youth Olympics Union students and Schenectady youths participate in last Su11day's Youth Olympics. (photo by Laurel Rumafor The Concordiensis) by Kristen Reidt contributing writing The Union College community hosted 105 Schenectady children on Sunday, May 21 , for the an- nual Big Brothers/Big Sisters Youth Olympics. The children enjoyed prizes, cotton candy, and the entertainment of a face-paint- ing clown as they competed in six sets of events such as the potatoe-sack race and the three- legged race. Union students be- came Big Brothers/Sisters as they were paired with: a child for the events of the day and competed against other \Bigs and Littles\ in teams. Geremie Camara, chair of this year's Youth Olympics Planning Committee, said, \This is one event that shows that Union stu- dents aren't apathetic.\ It takes a great deal of support from the Greek houses, and the student body as a whole, to plan and ex- ecute the Olympics. From driv- ing the children to and from cam- pus to cooking the food for the barbecue, or simply loving the kids, Union students worked to- gether to make the day a success. Although the Olympics was planned and run primarily by stu- dents, the entire Union commu- nity was supportive - Dining Ser- vices helped with the food and the Athletic Department provided sports equipment. Dean Alford and Dean Mammola were present and President Hull, along with his sons, participated in the events. Attention: The Youth Olympics began three years ago when Lee Pop- per, class of 1994, approached the Union Administration with the idea and created a Student Planning Committee. With help from the Dean of Student's Of- fice, the Student Forum, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Greek or- ganizations, and outside busi- nesses, the day was a success. It has now become an annual event in which Union students help to put a smile on the faces of Schenectady youth. As it becomes increasingly important to keepcommunication open between Union and the city which houses it, the Youth Olym- pics serves as a reminder of the community service role students play in Schenectady. · he Student Affairs Committee met on Wednesday to discuss the implementation of the mandatory meal plan. Committee members discussed ways in which Greek kitchens could still be maintained while continuing to comply with the school's decision to require all students living on campus to be on the meal plan. No decision was reached and the committee will reconvene next week. May 27, 1995 Banner Year for Admissions By Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff The Bicentennial year has proved to be a banner year for Union's Admissions. Since the admittance of the graduating class, the application pool has in- .creased by 25% and inquiries by 45%. Out of an applicant pool of 3 5 51 , next years class brings roughly 543 new faces to the cam- pus. They admitted 52% of the applicants. It is expected that this number will change as the \sum- mer melt\ or accepted students hear from waiting I ists, but the number will remain close to the same. Percentages have fluctu- ated one or two points from last year with 47% women, I 0% mi- norities, 52% out of state residents and J% international students. \If you liked last year's class, .you'IHove next year's freshman class,\ Dean of Admissions Dan Lundquist said. Admissions didn'tuse any spe· cia! .strategy to receive such a large applicant pool, rather they just put in an extra effort. People worked harder and were aggres- sive in and out of the office. More on campus and alumni interviews were also conducted. \Union is a splendid institution -far from perfect yet far above the crowd- with much to feel proud of and celebrate,\ Lundquist said. As for next year, Lundquist hopes to increase the diversity of the campus socioeconomic ally, racially, geographically and aca- demically. Lundquist feels that in a residential community diver· sity enhances the learning pro- cess. One program at Union that is helping increase the diversity is the Academic Opportunity Pro- gram. Although their is only one admissions process at Union, the AOP office helps with the deci- continued on page 3

. ' ' ,·, ,, ' Page 2 • May 27, 1995• The Concordiensis C.R.A.E.D. (Capitalltegion Assooiation'foriati~g Di~or (518) 581-769& Four Winds Saratoga Springs, NY (518) 584-3600 Albany Medical Center (Eating Disorders Clinic) Albany (51'8)445-5299 Center for Psychotherapy andEatlng Disorders .. ·· Union St. Schenectady~ NY. . · . (518)374-.0Sll · .... Campus News CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY 'J.'UESDAY. MAY 16,1995 THROUGHMONDAY. MAY2Z. 1995 DATE/TIME LOCATION TUESDAY. MAY 16, 1995: 1·50 AM South College 230 AM North College 9·20 AM S&E 10·30 AM Fox House 2·00 PM C C Circle WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1995: 12:06 AM South College 10:45 AM Athletic Areas W:48 PM West College THURSDAY. MAY 18. 1995: 2:20AM 5:00AM 1:07PM College Center Fraternity Fox House FRIDAY. MAY 19. 1995: 8:25 AM West College 10:20 AM Alexander Field 1:15 PM Old Chapel 4;13 PM College Center 7:33PM West College SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1995: 12:02 AM North Terrace 1·04 AM Fox/Davidson 2·26 AM Davidson South INCIDENT V ANDALISMIHARASSMENT: Ongoing and recur rent acts of vandalism and harassment against student. V ANDA':-ISMIHARASSM'ENT: Water .propped against room door flooded room and caused damage to floor below THEFT/FORGERY: Credit card stolen and used for pur chases Theft may have occurred off campus. VANDALISM:: Sink pulled from wall, sink and piping dam aged. V AN.DALISM: Handicapped parking sign broken from base mounting and removed. FIREILWE SAFETY VIOLATION: Paper on room door set afire. Fire alarm activated. No damage/injury. TJIEFT: Track rails taken from Bailey Field 81, tennis net removed from .tennis court Items located 5/18/95. VANDALISM: Telephone handset removed from courtesy phone. Handset located. VANDALISM: Two holes kicked into rest room walL SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Drug paraphernalia found in op~n view. Items confiscated. Conduct Char,ges filed. _THEFT: Money taken from student's room. Money was left unattended on desk i11 common room. SECURITY HAZARD: Problem with door locks. Rooms checked and oores changed. THEFT: Expensive camera equipment left on players bench Owner returned· short time later to retrieve it and found . items missing. Occurred 4/27/95 following, softball game. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Staff m«,:mber's computer be ing accessed after hours. Programs in!act. . THEFT: Student's backpack taken from open area. Recov ered intact in men's room. TRESPASS: Unauthorized solicitor in building. Located, iden tified and- advised off campus. VANDALISM: New concrete walk defaced. Suspects identi fled·. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM~ Garbage can cover damaged, suspects leav ing area walked on student's car causing damage to car. Sus pects located and identified. Alumnus and student involved. Conduct Charges filed. TRESPASS: Visitor looking into windows Suspect appre hended by Campus Safety Officers following ex tended foot chase. Suspect arrested. J·OO AM West College THEFT/VANDALISM: Student's room entered and CO's 4:15 PM 9:54PM taken. This is second occurrence. Also lock to room was dam · aged, Lock core repaired !llld changed. Fox/Davidson Lot VANDALISM: Handicapped parking sign broken from base and re~oved. Sign and post recovered 5/21195. Raymond South PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window sash missing. Water en tering basement area. SUNDAY, MAY 21, 1995: 12'40 AM 1·19 AM 2·09 AM 3:51 AM 5:44AM 6:00AM 12:30 PM 4·13 PM 4:37PM 8:27PM Hickok area West Lot Lamont Lot S&E Quad Lamont House Fraternity Campus Grounds South College South College Fox: South 9:10PM Bailey Field MONDAY. MAY 21. 1995; 12:13 PM Nott Seward Lot SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Intoxicated visitor. Refused medi cal treatment or assistance. Placed in care of host. PROPERTY RECOVERED: Staff member found sorority photo that had been taken from residence. Returned to owner. PROPERTY: Student reported car missing from pat:k ing space. Vehicle located by Campus Safety in another area. Car was locked and alarmed.unknown how it was moved. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Porta Johns from Eddy Meet were tipped over. Compa~y notified for clean up of area. THEFT: Window air conditioner removed from. building. Attempt to remove another was unsuccessful. Portable fan to cated near window was also taken. SAFETY HAZARD/LiFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire pull box covered over and made inaccessible. Covering removed. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. PROPERTY MISSING: Stude11t reports missing cash. V ANDALISMIHARASSMENT: Student subjected to harass ment. Room lock jammed and obscenities written on door. VANDALISM: Toilets plugged, winclow broken and shower curtains tom down. VANDALISM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Smoke detec tor damaged had to be replaced. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. THEFT: Platform steps from SPD award platform, stolen. ASSAULT: Altercation between male and female visitors. Female assaulted. Both left campus. SPD notified. 4·12 PM College Center area HARASSMENT: Group of young juveniles verbally harass 4:51 PM 8:30AM North Terrace Alumni Gym ing staff and students. Identified and advised off campus. VANDALISM: New concrete defaced. THEFT: Cash stolen from faculty member's wallet which was left in an unlocked locker.

Campus News The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 • Page 3 Engineers Sink Concrete Canoe Bicentennial Springfest This Weekend by Nalini Gupta ConcordiensisStaff Union College distinguished itself at the 1995 Upstate New York Concrete Canoe Race held this spring; only this time, it sunk a boat to earn the recognition. In a comic feat at the Canoe and Steel Bridge Building Competi- tion, the Union canoe team be- came one of the only two teams from a total of thirteen to sink its canoe design. It placed fourth overall in the canoe competition and in its entry in the steel bridge competition, it placed ninth in a field of ten teams. The event was held at Collins Park, Scotia, and hosted by the Union College Civil Engineering Department. The thirteen col- leges and universities that partici- pated included Cornell Univer- sity, Clarkson University, Syra- cuse University, RPI, Rochester Institute of Technology, Broome Community College, HVCC, Norwich University and U.S. Military Academy at West Point. The Union boat sankduring the faculty distance race by profes- \\ sors Ashraf Ghaly and Walid Thabet. This was surprising be- cause professor Ghaly is from Alexandria, Egypt, which in the past has produced fine sailors. The canoe team included Seth CondeU, Stephanie Whitehead, Paul Ketchum, Jonatha Meade, Eric Seaverson, Nick Balboni, Carolyn Miller, Adam Horst and Joe Capovani. The top three fin- ishers in the competition were West Point, Cornell and SUNY Buffalo. In the steel bridge competition, Union lost to its competitors be- cause of the poor assembly time for the bridge design. The first place school assembled their bridge inatimeof2:30 vs. 29:00 min for Union. The Union bridge was the heaviest and most likely the strongest in the competition but needed significant modifica- tion in assembly procedure to be more competitive with the other schools. The team included Grant Gagnier, Kyle Vandewater, Sam Tolkoff, Adam Strafaci, Jim Boni, Nick Balboni, Paul Ketchum and Andrew Wood. The top three finishers Successful Admissions continued from page 1 sion making for program applicants. AOP aims to give students the ability to achieve success. Appli- cations that don't meet all the regular admission criteria, but iden- tify astrength that could be enhanced through the support program are provided from the Admissions office. Applicants that meet the criteria of the AOP pros;raqt and offer strengths to the community are then considered for admission through the Academic Opportu• nity Program. Ethnicity is not a primary factor, but the composi- tion of the program is as follows: 37% African-American, 37% Latino, 21% Asian and 5% Caucasian. \The bottom line is that we need to be a support system and we expect students to perfonn at a high level the very best they can,\ Director ofthe Ac~demic Opportunity Program Ethel David said. This program may be cut by Governor Pataki's budget proposaL David has been actively protesting in Albany to fight for the .sur- vival of AOP and the national branch ofHEOP (Higher Education Opportunity Program). Since AOP doesn't get.state benefits the commitment of President Hull to assure that all students that are accepted into Union will be able to remain at Union with the ap- propriate financial support. Therefor the potential cuts may not , affect Union as abruptly in the short run, but may hinder the in- coming numbers into programs such as the Academic Opportunity ·Program. Federal Aid is also being threatened and challenging Union's ability to provide aid for every student in need. Currently finan- cial aid comes from the state and federal government, parents/banks, work study progress, Union College grants, the Annual Fund, Alumni grants and endowed grants. in the steel bridge competition were West Point, SUNY Buffalo and RPI. The competition allowed engi- neering students to get hands on ex:perience in the design and con- struction of their canoes and bridges within stringent design guidelines and to draw upontheir knowledge to solve practical problems related to both events. The canoes were constructed from a concrete mixture applied over a screen mesh and the chal- lenge was to build finished projects that could be evaluated for their speed, lightness, effi~ ciency and economy. The events also included sprint and distance races fo.r men, women and co-ed teams and \just for fun\ faculty races. Stephanie Whitehead and Jonatha Meade placed first in the women's sprints. The events were sanctioned by . the American Society of Civil · Engineers and the American In- stitute of Steel Construction (AISC). Each of the universities participating in the steel bridge received $100. by ·Bhavani Meduri Concordiensis Staff Spring is here and Union's annual Springfest celebration is just around the corner. Planning by the Social and Concert committees has been underway foFmonths in preparation for the outdoor festival that will take place over this weekend. Events include an outdoor concert on Saturday. The five bands scheduled to play out on West Beach are: God Street Wine, Helium, Luna, and One People· (a reggae band). Our own student band, Wineapple, will be the:c)penit:~g act. In addition to these music festivi- ties is a 'Battle of the Bands' on Sunday in which students themselves play their music for the campus body. Other activities include a fair in which all clubs must participate. Lorraine Marra,CoordinatorofStudent Activities. believes that this fair will be a great opportunity for students to see just what activities Union offers. Local vendors have also been invited to sell their goods so there will be much t<> see and do all day Saturday. The main goal of the committees involved in planning Springfest is to design activities thattake advantage of the beautiful spring weather and promote student unity. Alcohol is strictly prohibited and there will be plenty of security to enforce this policy. All persons involved in planning Springfestwant this weekend to be safe and fun . But students are not the only ones invited to come. The festival is also open to the Schenectady community. Marra believes that if all goes well, Springfest can continue to be a Union tradition. The festival will begin on Friday, May 26th. A full schedule of all events will be located in the Concordiensis. Union Commemorates 25 Years of Coeducation Emily M. Battis Concordiensis Staff Twenty-five years ago the first class of female students was ad- mitted to Union College. How- ever the first female to receive a diploma graduated in 1925 with an engineering degree. This com- ing fall Union College will cel- ebrate all ofthese women on two separate weekends. Homecoming Weekend will not only play host to the many annual events that occur every year, but it will also host many discussions, panels, and athletic events honoring the women who have graduated from Union in the past twenty five years. Starting Friday, September 29, and end- ing Sunday September 31, the celebration \Composing A Union\ hosts a panel discussion concerning women in the health care profession, followed by a discussion about Men and Women in medicine. Union alumni within the health care pro- fession will be on the paneL Dur- ing the luncheon hela on Satur- day speakers will talk .about the decision to go coed. Much ofthe weekends activities wi 11 focus around athletics. There will be women's tennis, vo11eybal1, soc- cer, and field hockey events planned for anyone who wishes to partake in the festivities. On Saturday evening there will be a showing ofthe movie 'The Way We Were\ with introductions by Union faculty. The second weekend planned will be during Parents Weekend October 6 through October 8. Friday night will be full of stu- dent performances, primarily vo- cal performances, from such groups as the Garnet Minstrels, and to finish of the night Bego- nia. Panel discussions and a lun- cheon for both alumni, parents and students will take place on Saturday. During the luncheon a discussion by Martha Huggins and Gail George will take place. These two women have done re- search on the women who have gone to Union in the last twenty five years and how they have changed Union. On Saturday night, the movies of Phil Alden Robinson a Union alumni, \Field OfDreams\ and \Sneakers\, will be shown on Campus. The week- end will be concluded by a brunch on Sunday, followed by choir and orchestra concerts. A more detailed schedule of the events will be available in the fall. Union College Class of 1868's Place in History Chronicled in Collection of Adventure Stories Courtesy of Mid-Atlantic Cable Washington, D.C., April, 1995-- The Civil War. The Industrial Revolution. The winning of the West Union College's Class of 1868 was front and centetat these and other turning points in our US. history. Forthe indulgence oftoday's Civil War buffs, Union alumni and American history en- thusiasts who relish adventure and irony, UnionCollege'sClass of I 868: The unique Experiences ofSome Average Americans will be available from the book's au- thor andd the Union College bookstore late this spring. Author M. John Lubetkin, Vice-PresidentofCorporate De- velopment for D.C.-based Mid· Atlantic Cable and a Union Col- lege graduate, discovered a long forgotten, limited-edition Class Record printed in 1918 by the Class, which included maverick inventor George Westinghouse. Intrigued by the story of one class member who won the Con- gressional Medal ofHonor -- only to have it revoked by an Act of Congress a decade after his death -- Lubetkin embarked on a two year project of researching the Union '68 class members' place in American history. \My goal with the book is to tell the stories and battles of the lives that were anything but or- dinary,\ said Lubetkin of McLean, Va. \The fact that a class of 64 men could include Civil War heroes, Indian fighters and George Westinghouse was extraordinary enough for me to want to chronicle these people's experiences.\ Six members ofthe Class were veterans of American history's bloodiest conflict, the Civil War. Working from regimental records Lubetkin takes readers with the Class's James F. Knowles who, at Gettysburg's Little Rotmd Top, was with the line of skirmishers that walked into the jaws ofJohn Bell Hood's fabled Texas Bri- gade. The legendary battles of George Westinghouse are also documented against thebackdrop oflaissezfaire, 19th century capi- talism. This brilliant and restless inventor's struggles to create an empire:.-and his run-ins with Cornelius J. Vanderbilt, Thomas Alva Edison, and J.P. Morgan-- are compelling. Other stories are recounted with a humor only possible in 1 00-year hindsight: the Class's young pro- temperance minister whose first pastorate was in rough and tumble Abile, Kan., a doctor, straight from a Nonnan Rockwell paint- ing, who thought it would upset his patients if he charged them money. \I hope the readers of my book will have as much fun as I did getting to know some of the most fascinating people I've never met.\

Page 4 • May 27, 1995 • The Concordiensis ~'re probably saying to yoursel£ any four-year-old knows how to use the bath- • room. But you may not know • • that you use more water in the • • bathroom than anyplace else in • • your home. In fact, betvveen the • you re shaving. And You could end up using 30 to 60% less water by using a lowflow sink you can use up to 55 gallons a day. Multiply that by the number of homes shower head. in the wodd, and • • shower sonnds .•. , . • :·· ; • • like an opera • • hall, don't • • feel the need • • . • tosmgone . • that's a lot of natural resources : Shorter songs • going down the drain. • make for shorter showers • Now, were not saying you should stop taking showers or brushing your teeth. We're just suggesting some simple bathroom training. • • • And for the biggest culprit of • : them all, the toilet, try putting ..:::=::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~=~. a weighted jug in the tank. It will help save water 'every time you flush. Plus, dorit Campus News Save up to 15% more water by installing a weightedjug in your toilet tank . Andohyeah, if you don't think you'll remember these things, take this newspaper with you the next time you go . FOR MORE INFORMATION AND TIPS CALL l-800-MY-SHARE. your water For instance, vvhen you're forget to turn out the lights whik shaving or brushing your brushing your teeth, turn off when you leave. You'll be teeth can save 2gallonscf the water. Do the same when helping to conserve electricity. water each time. IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE.

World News The Foreign Policy Crowbar: The Clinton Trade Strategy by Matt Sandler World]Vews Editor The Clinton Administration placed a lOOpercent tariff on 13 luxury car models from Japan. that accounted for$5.9 billion in sales in the United States last year. The tariff will go into effect 12:01 Saturday morning~ thereby pre- .empting a luxury car flood from Japan to create inventory stock- piles that could offset the effects ofthe tariff. Customs inspectors wi:Jl double the wholesale price of every Toyota Lexus and other Japanese luxury cars beginning on Saturday. The United States and Japan have until June 28 to resolve the d~spute about Ameri- can auto and auto parts access to Japanese selectively restricted economy. If an accord is reached, the tariffs will be cancelled. \Detroit's Big Three say they are serious about.cracking the Japa- nese market, even though the cost of doing business there is sky- rocketing and the potential for long-term growth is low. They are so intent on opening Japan that they hope to forestall other countries from trying to duplicate the Japanese strategy ofblocking out imports to develop huge pro- duction capacity at home.\ Rob- ert J. Eaton, chairman and chief executive officer of the Chrysler Corporation said, \we would walk away and forget about Ja- pan forever and ever, if we didn't think it was setting the model for China and Korea, etc.\ While Japan threatens to take the U.S. to the World Trade Or- ganization (WTO) that replaced GATT, and the US. threatens to retaliate, and Japanese auto mak- ers are focusing their attacks on the Big Three, the issue is being missed. Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strat- egy Institute and a former trade negotiator in the Reagan Admin- istration, said, \It is clear that a big piece of ourtrade deficit with Japan is structural. The dollar has gone from 260 yen to 80 yen, but we don't sell any more paper, glass, auto .parts, soda ash, you name it. That indicates that the assumptions of free market eco- nomics aren't at work.\ Japan and the United States have been tied in trade, but their trade prac- tices are marketedly different. America has asked Japan to ac- cept voluntary quotas on the amount Japan can sell here over the years, and Japan through cus- tom policies selectively excludes foreign rice, auto, and auto parts. The Clinton Administration policy is one of promoting the advancement of American busi- ness. Clinton is more readily will- ing to promote foreign sales by American companies. In fact Clinton's foreign policy is Ameri- can prosperity, necessity, and at- tempt to achieve humanitarian goals. Mr. C::linton used $20 bil- lion from the Foreign Exchange Stabilization Fund to bailout Mexico to insulate American losses. He kept the Most Favored Nation status for China while di- will close Friday, June 2, 1995, at 4:30p.m. Whitaker House, 2nd Floor . Monday - Friday 2:00 pm- 4:30pm Sunday - Thursday 7:00 pm - 10:00 pm Phone 388-6058 vorcing human rights from the equation to protect the business community. The U.S. and China signed an intellectual property accord at the risk of American imposed 100 percent tariffs; Clinton and the U.S. Trade Rep- resentative MiCkey Kantor are using this same logic to pry open Japan and other nations restric- tive economies. President Clin- ton sent troops to Haiti to restore democracy, even though the country has no tradition of it, when the refugees from Haiti were putting a strain on the bud- get and otherprograms. Clinton acts to promote trade and invest- ment for a prosperous America, and acts in other situations on necessity when it becomes clear that America has no choice but toact because of world problems. Free trade is the best way for all nations to prosper, but sometimes it takes the imposition of tough measures to protect the frame- work for world economic inter- action. 'The fact that nations re- sort to using the military to pro- tect the peace, illustrates the same is true for the trade prac- tices of the world. After all na- tions are not in a declared war, but that does not mean that war- 1 ike practices do not occur in a competition environment. Cold War intelligence agencies from all countries have resorted to in- dustrial espionage against other countries businesses to gain. So, as the Japanese say, \business is war.\ The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995-· Page 5 Wash-ington: PA~ING THe. ToRCH,,,, · * The House, in line with their swift marshalled discipline in voting has approved a broad blueprint, complete with dollars- and-cents targets, for balancing the Federal budget in seven years, or by 2002. * Haley Barbour, the Republican national chainnan, said today ·that he had reluctantly concluded that Republicans would have to \go it alone\ in cutting projected spending on Medicare be- cause President Clinton and Democrats in Congress had refused to join the effort. *. The Senate Ethics Committee today accused Senator Bob Packwood, chairman of Senate Finance Committee, of bringing \discredit upon the United States Senate\ through sexual mis~ conduct, tampering with evidence and asking help from lobby- ists to get his wife a job. * Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) it has been revealed that the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. monitored the composer/ conductor Leonard Bernstein for supposed subversive activities into the I 970's. International: * Zaire is gripping under quarantine with the deadly Ebo/a vi- rus, a virus that was discovered in 1976 and named for the Ebola River area where the village was located. * A prominent molecular biologist says he has a restored dor- mant, 30 million-year-old bacteria to life. The question remains whether it can be duplicated and confinned, and what will be the implications for the scientific community's future research. *Iran is buying 100 T-72 main battle tanks forover$30 million from Poland and the U.S. is unable to prevent it. The Concordiensis wishes everyone the best of luck on exams, and a great summer!!

. ' .. Page 6 • May 27, 1995 \ The Concordiens'is Sciep.ce & Medicine -----The Deadly Ebola The Virus That Shocked the Biological· World by Andrew Salama Sc. & MedEditor, Emeritus In everyday I ife when we think of viruses we concern ourselves with HIV, Hepatitis, and cold vi- ruses, The tropics of Africa and Asia however have the potential to produce much more deadly and pathogenic viruses. In the mid- seventies the Ebola virus shocked the biological worJd. Ebo'la has been loosely described as a rhab- dovirus, but has more recently been categorized as a filovirus. The name comes the observation of the spaghetti or rod like appear- ance of the virus in the Transmis- sion Electron Microscope(TEM}. A virus consists of genetic ma- terial that is enclosed in a capsule. Viruses have no metabolic sys- tems and no means of motility, and are therefore not considered living organisms. One of a viruses main functions is to replicate cop- ies of itself. Viruses reproduce by means of its host organism, in which the genetic material of the virus becomes a functional part of the cell it infects. Viral genes are added to the organismal DNA, either as DNA or RNA and produce new viruses or induce the production of mutant proteins which ulti- mately results in cell death. Before a virus can replicate it must enter<the a cell. the mecha- nism by which a virus enters a cell varies. The entry into the cell by a virus directly depends on its structure. There are two basic structures for viruses. Simpler viruses are helical, much like the well know tobacco mosaic virus. More complicated virus have a quasisperical structure, which .is actually several polyhedrons which assemble to fonn a sphere I ike structure. The genetic material of the virus is maintained inside, either as RNA or DNA. Viruses have sugar groups at- tached to proteins on the outer surface calle glycoproteins. The glycoprotein on the surface ofthe virus facilitates the viruses entry into a cell. When a virus ap- proaches a cell its membrane fuses with the cell membrane d~­ pending on the com- patibility of the their glycoproteins. The genetic material(DNA or RNA) is basically dumped into the cyto~ plasm ofthe cell. Once the viral DNA .is incorporated into the genomic DNA, the genomic DNA starts replicat- ing, coding for errant proteins, as well as new viral proteins used in making new viruses. Once the vi- ral proteins are as- sembled and the con~ struction of the virus is complete they bud off. V irally infected cells generally die from two effects of the virus. The virus can replicate so much that the cell becomes full of vi- ruses and can no longer function normally and eventual·ly .ex,- plodes, releasing thousands viral particles which then infect other cells. The second mechanism in which the virus kills: a cell is by producing proteins which inter- fere with the nonnal cell func- tions. In 1976 the Ebola virus erupted in 55 small villages in Zaire, and kit·Ied 9 out of l 0 of its victims. It has the highest rate of mortal- THE BEST FRAMING --llllllllt:.. C 0 MP ANY • 1187 Route 7 West (Next to Anchor Fence & CHP) • • Latham, NY 12110 • (518) 783-0921 • YOUR DIPI.OMA ~OSTYOU THOUSANDS OF DOlLARS MAKE IT lAST- FRAME IT! TAKE 2S% OFF YOUR DIPLOMA ~USTOM FRAMIN~ ORDER WITH THIS AD! (EXPIRES SEPTEMBER ~0, tV9S) INOTYAI.ID W/OTHER DI$~0UNTS/OFFERSJ • Best Quality Custom Picture, Poster, Art & Needlework Framing • Over 1200 Mouldings • Best Prices • 0VERNit:IIT SERVICE AVAilABlE • Large Selection of Art Prints & Posters • Over Ten Years of Fine Framing Experience HOURS OF OPERATION: Mon., Tues .• Wed., & Thurs.: 10 AM- 6 P.M; Fri.: 10 AM- 7 PM Sat.: 10 AM- .5 PM ity, ranking with rabies and HIV. Ebola is spread mainly through contact with body fluids and blood. There is evidence that it can be passed through evaporated fluids in the air. Many of the people who prepared Ebola vic- tims for burial in Zaire contracted the virus. cells start to lyse spontaneously. Inevitably this ·leads to a stroke in the brain. Because of the hem- orrhaging, victims intestines fill up with blood and thier skin be- comes riddled with bruises. These bruises accumulate so much blood that skin actually tears of£ In the latter part of the infection, the body leaks blood contain- ing huge amounts of viral particles. Some facts are known about what Ebola does once it in- fects its victims. Within seven hours after the virus enters it hosts, it begins translating(producing) proteins. These pro- teins directly effect the body's system of blood clotting. Ini- tially a blood clotting protein is translated, then this protien is turned off and a new protein is ttanslated which causes hemor- rhaging. The symp- toms ofEbola are of- Victims typically die l week ten called Ebo!a Hemmoragic after initial exposure. The .fi'rst Fever. symptoms are an intense head People seem unable to produce ache and a high grade fever. antibodiestofightoffEbola.. This Ebola triggers a paradoxical com- suggests that Eboia codes for an ~ination ofblood clots and hem- immunosuppfesant protein, but orrhages. this has not been verified. The As the blood forms clots~ the vic- virus not only prevents the body's tim develop~ what is.kilowas nis~ . blood clotting system, but inhib- seminated Intravasc-ul:tlr its the immune system from kill,_. Coagulation(DIC). Die· is like a' .. ing· thte:viruH)r~t l~ast prevent- . having a. stroke throughout:the ing its replication. · entire body. These blooQ. ~l9ts. Treating victims of the Ebola tend to be m·ore cQrnmon ~ the is nearly impo.ss.~ble. :Because spleen, liver, and brain. As Clots ca5es of the virus .appear in third form, the organs begin tohernor- world countries medical care rhage, and then the blood refuses. helps very little. In fact people to coagulate. When ·this occprs w}lo·attemptta treat Ebola victims end up being victims themselves. Because Ebola is so pathogenic it has been labeled as BL4 which is Biolevel Safety. To give you . an idea of how hot this virus is, HIV is a BL2. Researchers are required to wear space suit like uniform in a negative pressure laboratory. There is reason to be concerned aboutviruses.like Ebola. Many types of research depend heavily on the use of primates imported from foreign countries. In 1990, 50 monkeys from the Philippines died mysteriously when the reached the United States. Tis- sue samples from the corpses in the TEM revealed a virus which looked exactly like Ebola. Tests revealed that the Philipino virus was strinkingly similar to Ebola. Considering the nature in which Ebola is transmitted it is very . likely humans could be infected · ·, with such a virus just by physical exposure to infected animals. One German man, in charge of . sacrificing monkeys for research , d,fed of Ebola. In the US there is mandatory 30-day quarantine on all imported animals. Theoreti- cally this Would seem to lessen the chances of Ebola spreading, but several cases ofEbola have been transmitted in this manner. In th,e past 20 years more and more powerful viruses have emerged from third world coun- tries. The source of these viruses .is purely conjecture. To give you an idea of the amount of viruses inexistence, it has been said.that there is at least 2 viruses for ev- ery erganism o~ earth. Sitn.ple math gives a st;:lggering number of viruses. Viruses usually tlo net · ju~p from one species to another. Viruses however find ways to mutate and transfer themselves to other organisms.

Springfest · The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 ·Page 7 Friday, May 26 4:30 PM: FREE TGIF END-OF-THE-YEAR-BLOW-OUT BBQ, CCPatio 6:00 PM: THE GARNET M:INSTRELLES at Chet's 7:00 PM: COMEDIANS at Ch-et's 9:00 -PM: TOP GUN outdoors on West Beach Saturday, May 27th Noon to 6 PM: OUTDOOR FAIR on West Beach with food, vendors, and games No:on to 6 PM: O~TDOOR CONCE·RT on West Beach featuring: -\ ' w'\\ ' ,..ll \ • '' v' ,..·· l • ~ .... ~ ' I i ~ : ;r-r;·( :_t··r2 :- T ' .. ·r ··-:·· * ... ·~: • ~ , ~ j '!, .f\ ,, !'!'\i • •l -' , 1 i ~:·~~. jfi,: •. 0 1 • I C _ , , J 0 WINEAPPLE .. . , . . ~ ··.G.o,o·sTREET6WINE .... ,;:.';:~;; .. ,rJ: :: ··.·;~·)·~· .. :·:;_; .. ;· ;;.·· .. ONE:·P:E·OP,LE ... HELIUM LUNA • ,._ \ ' • ~ ' ' 1 4:30 to 7 PM: VALIDINE BBQ on West Beach 7:00 PM: LASER LIGHT SHOW in the CCAud Sunday, May 28 Noon to 4 PM: BATTLE OF BANDS on the CCPatio 4:00 PM: MOUNTEBANKS presents Terrence McNally's one-act NOON between the Arts Building and the College Center (at the entrance to Jackson's Garden). ******** AN IMPORTANT REMINDER ******** In order to assure the success of Springfest, and allow us to continue to present Springfest in the future., we respectfully request that you DO NOT BRING any ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES with you to Springfest events. Remember, \open\ containers are not permitted outdoors at any time. Violations will resultin CONFISCATI.ON, CON·DUCT CHARGES, or being ESCORTED FROM CAMPUS!

• Page 8 · May 18, 1995 · The Concordiensis Tire Student Newspaper of Unio11 College Since 18.77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven NEWS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kueh11 COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatialia Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony La VecciJia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex .Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper. STAFF: Emily Battis, Jeff Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Meduri, Larry Paska, Billy Shakos, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler, fllisa Wood, Max Yutsis, Jeff Druzba. Layout staff needed for next year. Call Adam at X5520!! OPtED- Bicentennial Year Wrap Up Certainly Not a DullY ear The Bicentennial Year is coming to a close and this campus has been anything but dull. We have received a face lift of sorts with the renovation ofthe Nott Memorial and the construction of the Yulman Theater. Now we are getting ready for graduation and landscaping and \cleaning up\ is goiJ!S on everywhere. We have seen fireworks, the Gala, NCUR '95, the Steinmetz Symposium, and countless visitors including Tom Brokaw and David McCullough. Union College has also seen change that has caused great uproar. The first m~or change of the tenn was President Hull's implementation of the new Meal Plan. This decision caused a rift the campus has not seen in the past few years. A student protest, countless complaints by both current students and alumni and the senseless vandalism of the Nott Memorial ensued. Due to the handling of the decision, students felt they were not involved enough in the College's decision making processes. A Crosstalk and several other discussions followed about communication and representation of the student body. Due to all ofthese things, The Administration took notice and more, although not enough, students became involved in Union's government and community. Union has also been through its first hearing on hazing which resulted in the dismissal of Delta Upsilon from campus. This event has caused many to reevaluate the Greek system and their actions on campus. We must not, however, overshadow the numerous good things with a few bad. Union has made its mark nationwide with this bicentennial year and all those involved should be congratulated and commended for all of their hard work This group of people represents the entire College community as it is composed of students, faculty and administrators. Congratulations also need to go to the Class of 1995. Good luck in the future and do not forget your alma mater, Union College and the good times spent here. -_ ·... . LETTERS - . . . - Editorials, ·Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-l 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. Submissions: All submissions are due the Monday before publication at 5 pm submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or WordPerfect disks and can be dropped off with the hard copy in the drop box outside The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. Decision Not to Publish Full Paper Defended by Tony Lavecchia Opinions Editor There are two columns I could have written this week. As l sit here staring into the depths ofmy computer Screen, unfortunately, it isn't a hard choice_ Although I would have liked to ended the year on a positive note, I find myself unable to. Originally, I had planned to write a upbeat column about the end of the year, and how much I enjoyed my first year at Union. The hand of fate, and some members ofthis community have changed my plan. Last week, the editors of The Concor- diensis decided not to publish a regular sized paper. This is not a decision that was taken lightly, rather it was decided in response to the recent theft of our newspa- pers over the past three weeks. As someone who writes a (sometimes controversial} col- umn every week, I am used to hearing input about my work from the community. Sometimes, I am complemented on a job well done, or other times I have heard, <'Tony, not only do your columns not cover relevant issues, but you just aren't a good writer.\ In any event I tty not to let the compli- ments go to my head, and I try to take the criticism I receive and use it in a positive manner_ This past week I decided not to write a column. This was a decision that went along with the general one by The Concordiensis' editors not to publish a full paper. In the last week I have heard a lot of complaints about the lack of a full Concordiensis. I heard them at lunch, I heard them in class, I even heard them while I was out at a party. By the end of the week I was actually quite sick of hearing the same thing over and over again. I think that the decision not to publish the paper was a sound one. I have heard many people say that by not pub I ishing the pa- per we are encouraging its theft, and caving in to censorship. My point to these people all week long has been the following. I agree in a theoretical sense with their logic. I can see that in an ideal world we should have pub- 1 ished a paper despite its theft Unfortunately, from a practical real world approach, I find their argument to be severely flawed. The one key thing that all those who I spoke to refused to recog- nize or digest is the amount of hard work, notto mention money that goes into the publication of The Concordiensis. I can honestly say that-individual people spend 40-60 hours in the newspaper of- - fice, about 40 ofthem being non stop, so that a good paper can be pub! ished on time. Funny, I can't remember seeing any of those people who complained aboutthe lack of a newspaper, which in their eyes simply appears every week, up in the office working diligently on the paper. In fact, I contend that if the people who complained about the minimalist Concordy had watched their hard work and effort he stolen three weeks in a row, they would have seen my argument a little more clearly_ I feel that these people who I heard whine to me all week need to realize that our decision wasn't based on a immature lazy whim. It wasn't like we decided that in- stead of publishing a paper we would have a staff barbecue and beach party. The decision not to_ publish was one we all took very seriously. It is one I'm sure some people will still disagree with, they have that right. Personally, I missed writing my column, but refused to waste my time working on something r knew there was a good possibil- ity that itcould end up in the gar- bage. I think that if you consider the decision from the per~pective of people who work hard on the paper, those who don't ever sleep Tuesday nights, the decision not to publish a full paper will seem like a much more sound and well thought out decision_

OP/ED - LETTERS ' . . Further Alumnl Dissent on the Mandatory Meal Plan This:letter was originally sent to President Hull and is now being reprinted. President Hull, I find your letter disturbing and deplorable in regards to the co- erced meal plan for the fraternity and sorority members. l am dis~ turbed by the affect it has on the fraternities and how the few dol- lars it may raise can really offset meal costs and tuition increases_ As a freshman, I was automati- cally part of the meal plan which is useful for a freshman who is away from home for the first time juggling many priorities. How- ever, my two years in the frater- nity house showed that for less money we could eat better qual- ity and better tasting food. Part of the enjoyment of the fraternity is the camaraderie of the daily lunch and dinner. It is analogous to having dinner ev- ery night with your family which gives tl'le family a chance to dis- cuss issues of the day. Some of my fondest memories at Union are from sitting around the lunch More Criticism Regarding Alumni Letter This letter was submitted to The Concordiensis on May 9, 1995 To the Editor: In a time in which the talk on talk shows is filled with anger, resentment and conspiracy theories, it is disturbing to read a letter to the Concordiensis that spews its own brand of an- ger and- is the word too strong - hatred. I speak of Davis Druschel's April 27 letter to TheConcordiensis. It is difficult for me to fathom either the anger and seeming hatred or what is a wildly dis- torted picture ofRoger Hull and his presidency at Union. For, in fact, the picture presented in the letter seems every bit as bi- zarre as the picture of the United States explicit in the views of some of the militia sympathizers who crowd the talk-show airwaves. To demonize a person or an institution is traught with moral danger. In my opinion, the let- ter of Davis Druschel in The Concordie:nsis of April 27 crosses a line thatshould not be crossed. . ' •. Sincerely, James E. Underwood -. table discussing current events with different \brothers\. Al- though one could still have lunch with a friend down campus, it is not even close to the spirit of dis- course that results from sitting next to different brothers at each meal. This leads to social growth. Have you estimated into the cost benefit that the fraternity members that will be using the \plan\ are very hungry football, basketball, hockey, lacrosse and other athletes? These highly ac- tive students will probably eat more than their money's worth at each meal - a lot more than an inactive female. Even ifyou do raise money, is it worth it to eliminate the free- dom of the fraternity members so you can raise money from 370 students? You say that \under the new policy everyone shoulders the burden.\ It certainly appears that 370 fraternity members shoulder the burden while non- members benefit. Roger, I am deeply offended by the infringement of the fraternity members freedom. This policy, which I was not aware of until your letter, is unfair. I demand that you reveal exactly how much you project to increase your prof- its from this plan. Then divide this number by 2000 students. For example, ifall370join the 7-meal plan at $5/meal( estimate) that equals approximately $1 ,000 per school year. Assuming that you profit $2/meal (which is un- likely when the hungry 200- pound athletes eat triple por- tions), that would raise $14/week x 30 weeks x 370 students = $155,400 per year in profit. Di- vide this by 2,000 students and you are talking about $78/year per student that would be required to raise the same money. Now on a cost of $25,000 per year(estimate), the $78 repre- sents an increase of 0.3%. Cut that in half if you do not profit as anticipated and you're looking at an increase of0.15%. So I ask you, is this the best solution to your financial struggles? Outraged, Dan Gould '90 Doubts Expressed About ''The War on Drugs'' To the Editor: The article which appeared in last week's Concordiensis.(May I t) concerning ·~operation Blasthold\ offered appallingly enthu- siastic support for a number of dangerous policies. Mr. Sandler unquestioningly endorses the use of the United States military in the \war on drugs.\ Maybe the term \war\ has blinded some to what is going on here- the use ofthis country's military force against its own citizens. Furthermore, Mr. Sandler argues that the U.S. should be allowed to send its forces into other nations to conduct military action ( such as \air bombing campaigns\) against their civilians, an agreement accomplished through with- holding aid and loans, i.e. extortion. I wonder which is more of a threat to the stability of a country: a drug industry which is likely the most profitable sector ofit's economy or the armies of another nation conducting air strikes? And, ofcourse, the U.S. military must act alone within its borders, we doing such a great job in our own countcy that we don't need the Mexican or Colombian armies here. Instead of demanding free license for the U.S. military to run through Latin America, why not give policy makers from west- em Europe a chance to enact some sensible drug laws? The problem here is that, as Mr. Sandler recognizes, there will always be a demand for drugs. The \war on drugs,\ however only increases the demand and accompanying crime. Remember the glorious experiment of prohibition, which lead to a vast increase in crime and alcoholism. The \war on drugs\ serves to increase the prices of drugs, makirig it a much more profitable industry that it would otherwise be. It is also an incredible failure. Virtually none of the drugs which are imported into this country are confiscated(to say nothing of those made here). The spending of · billions of dollars, the infringement of civil rights, and the threats to the sovereignty of other nations hardly seems worth it in light of the small return. It also seems hardly worth the cost when examining the damage that drugs do, which is very little. Our legal drugs, alcohol and nicotine, ect., kill hundreds oftimes the number of people who's · deaths are related to other drugs. Who has really pushed \an im- plicit death penalty on America's children\? Who really deserves a swift merciless death according to Mr. Sandler's logic? Mr. Sandler, like many in this country, has failed to examine the causes of drug use. 1 think that one of the most important points lost in t11e fire of the \war on drugs\ is that the enemies, the drug dealers and the drug users, are, in every way, \America's chil- dren.\ James Polichak The Concordiensis · May27, 1995 ·Page 9 r~,~:s;tq(:.t!erttvui¢~'&11 tbis,campus. ~f¥~[!ill~~£'~t~fj~~~A*'10:t\tltll;J.\}j¢;(f!onco-1Wensis acts as the ~,~,l~~*'~\~Jliittions;1.;Qrmany <>fthe policy changes that af.fi~~Ubc:l~oll!~ge. O&tno:runio1':f·· -. With the precedent that has f.,:QJ~!fll,,~§~;,~lllY·. stud;~J1t.onthis O!llnpus'cltn effectively halt publica- . ofthe,studentnewspuper. not by stealing the newspapers them~ selve~h but.)iy simply counting on the Editors' response. By at- tempting to tfike matters into their own hands 1 the Editors have ta-ken two inappropriate courses of action. The first is that they have bowed to the pressures of printing controversial material and the second is that they have essentially done what they have pub- licly denounced. They have stolen the student opinions of this campus by refusing to print them. · The basic assumption that the newspap('.lr for the past three weeks hfl,s not been avaitableto.the entire student body should also be caUed into question. Lha~ met oo one these past thrf!e weeks who has been unable to r.ead the newspaper due to a lack of availability. Eve}n if Ql)lytw<>hl>tnda;:d.copies,of the paper were to be issued; the · -p;,tJ>:(m,!'lll4'th!';inf~a~iQ'neontained therein would be adequately · L$1~~:~~· Jthtif}utl~~QU,ot,1:f.le>~atnp·J as ~ia conversation, A lack of avail- . . . . {til;<tlte,-QQll#:ge Center. bears no relationship to -·· w~~~\~~·~·~~itaie!'l~~p~S&edhave been read, ;k:; -ittJh,~U10reg,,~;~!J.{t¢w,e th.atthe Editorial staffofthe newspaper .... Jtt}$n~ttakenf:t¢',~J.iPf9Pttiate\;stepst{) prote.ettbenewspapers from :tl;\i~F~i\1~~¢J1~:9.~imeti<:t~~~eis(flo·wi~Kfzym ili leaving 1, 400 newspa- l··iJ:i~li~~,m,~~j~j~·t!t~~~~J¢ge;~e.:~mter·laftt~PtlWf>~~nsectftive:weeksof . . -·· Sifieereiy: Phil Tavernier •97 Attribution Corrected To the Editor: In your splendid bicentenary edition ofFebruary 24, 1995, on page A 13 you cite my good friend and colleague Ted Bick as attributing to me a superb witticism. I am reported to have responded to a student's question about the meaning of the word \plethora\ that it was \the opposite of 'dearth.' \ It is indeed one of the finest retorts in the history of academe, but, alas! it is not mine. My longtime friend and political associate Samuel S. Stratton (1916-1990) made the remark in a class in political sci- ence some time between 1948 and I 950, when he served as Visiting Professor ofPhilosophy. He went on to become Mayor of Schenectady and Representative in Congress and received an honorary LL.D. from Union in 1978. Since politicians are constrained to conceal their na- tive wit from the public (unless their name is John F. Kennedy and they have a head start of twenty million votes), Sam Stratton's su- premacy as quipmaster was usually concealed from the public, as was his enormous learning and intelligence. Of course in a way the mistake might be judged as poetic justice for all the brilliant ripostes of my own, too numerous to mention here, that have been attributed to others, but, while I am grateful to Ted Bick for his attempt to immortalize me with a phrase, I cannot allow Sam Stratton to be deprived of one of the all-time classics of the class- room. Sincerely, William M. Murphy Thomas Lamont Professor of Literature, Emeritus We sliip 6ooR§ to M:om.s 'Everywfiere! !Mother)s 'Dag is !May 14 TfU Open 'lJoor 'lJooK§tore 128 Ja.ySt 346-2719 'Downtown Sclientctally ..

Page 10 ·May 27, 1995 ·The Concordiensis SLEeP TIG\l. see 'loUNSXT ~AU.! - OPtED ' . . ' · ·. LET~ERS . . · In Defense of the ''Brotherhood'' To The Editor, The past month, not only here at Union but also around the Capital District, the value of the fraternal system has been ques- tioned. People question whether they should exist and whether they benefit the community at large. People \outside\ the sys- tem fear the \power\ that these brotherhoods have with their per- ceived secret rituals in which \verbal abuse, intimidation, physical force and degradation\ (The Concordiensis, May 18, pg. 3) exist. People, such as Mr./Mrs. Anonymous, believe that Delta Upsilon stuck together while sac- rificing what they believed was right (The reference to WW II was quite extreme as I do not be- lieve the system is planning any genocide any time soon). I am not here to defend the brothers of Delta Upsilon or say that they did not do anything wrong, what I am doing is questioning the at- tack by the \young freshman stu- dent\ on the fraternal system and others support of that. Who knows what actually hap- pened those few crucial days (As I bet both the pledge and the brothers exaggerated for their own personal benefit the truth), what I do know is that certain people are supporting the student for \standing very tall\ for hu- man rights. The student did not have to pledge and if at any time if he felt his \human rights\ were being violated all he had to do was discontinue his pledging pro- ce§S. My own personal human rights are violated every day on the athletic field. I do not like to get up at 7:00 a.m. to run and I do not appreciate being mentally and physically abused, intimi- dated and degraded by my coaches, but I still do it VOLUN- TARILY because I want to be a member of the team. If I do not do on the field or in the off sea- son what my coaches tell me to do, I do face, as others have been, exclusion from the team. Most importantly though it makes me a better person as I feel a sense of accomplishment for what I have put myselfthrough. Hazing, what the student ac- cused and had Delta Upsilon con- victed off, is the telling of a cer- tain individual, or pledge, that they must do something or else they face expulsion or exclusion from the organization. If I went to the Dean and told them that my coaches were \hazing\ me (As they are under this definition doing) and my sports team was disbanded, I would not be praised by the community for my actions. Also one could consider that Union College, as an organiza- tion, \hazes\ since one can not be part ofthe community if they are not up to its demanding in- tellectual standards. These two former organizations have the legal-rational authority to do this, as fraternities do not, but I ques- tion why the larger bureaucratic organizations (Such as Union) are threatening smaller ones for following the same procedures. Those against fraternities con- tinue to bring up that lives are being threatened and I rebut that there are more suicides at Cornell University because of pressure to uphold the academic standards there than are deaths from pledg- ing related accidents. As to whether his life was in danger, Sports teams, such as Wrestling, force their athletes into life threatening practices (Such as starvation) in order to compete, yet they are not disbanded. My point is that one can not judge and condemn another ora ganizations morals and values if they are not part of that org~ni­ zation. This is just the same as myself as part of the European cultural descent condemning the Asian, African or South Ameri- can cultures. This is ethnocen- trism and, in today's overly po- litically correct world, would not be printed or applauded as this article by the androgynous Anonymous has been. Delta Upsilon has its own set of morals and values as an organization and the student did not have to abide by them and join if he did not wantto. He could have remained a \Brother\ (And \SISTER as there are also women here as the androgynous Anonymous might have forgotten) of Union College and not been a member of Delta Upsilon. The student did not agree with the values of Delta Upsilon and he eventually did not want to be a member so he de- cided that no one should be a member. He has been praised as a brave person for dismantling an organization he did not agree with. One would not be praised for dismantling the NAACP be- cause they do not agree with their values and agendas. Fraternities may not benefit society and they may do things considered by the College as «hazing,\ but they are a right of passage for young men and women in society. This young man could not do what many hundreds had VOLUN- TARILY done before him and he had the right not to do what they had done. He did not have the right, though, to say that no one else strong enough as a person and in character to do this could not. I fear that this, probably sheltered, student will go through the rest of his life run- ning from those difficulties one MUST endure. No one has to join and what degrading things that might happen are only to make these young men and women stronger people so that they might represent our future better. \Anonymous\ --Time to take a look at the football team? Union: ''I Need Your Help\ To the Union Student Body and Faculty: My name is Rawson Thurber and recently the Union College administration has decided to suspend me for the upcoming Fall term. I was found guilty by Dean Schurick of_\( using) threatening and abusive language towan;l him and about his girlfriend\ (at no time did I touch him) at West College, and thus Dean Schurick and Dean Alford decided to suspend me. Although I feel that I have been unjustly found guilty, my arguement does not lie with the efforts of Dean Schurick, but rather the exteremely harsh sentence placed upon me. Understand that I love Union College, and it was my desire to make it a better place in the four years I would have spent here, than it was when I arrived. During my two year career at Union I have served as the Fresh- man Class Presdient, the Sophomore Class President, and have re- cently been elected to the position of Junior Trustee. In addition to these student elected positions, I have been involved in many clubs and activities on campus (From a weekly show on WRUC, to Big Brothers and Big Sisters ofSchenectady). Basically, I've done ev- erything in my power to embrace Union, and make ita better place for myself, the student body, and the future. Yet I have been, in essence, \kicked out\ of the school, for the entire Fall term, for a two minute confrontation with Mr. Federici. !understand thatl lost my cool, and that it was inappropriate to confront Frank, but the sentence placed upon me is an overly severe one. So what am I asking ofyou? Well basically, rm asking for your help. lfyou feel the administration has overreacted, please, please write to President Hull. It d_oesn 't have to be anything big or typed out, you can even write it on a piece of binder paper while you sit here reading this. Just write to President Hull, tell him what you think of the administration's decision to suspend me school, ad- dress it to: President Hull, Administration Building, and drop it off in the campus mail box. It takes very little effort to make President Hull hear your opinion. I have done much for Union College, I've served the student body to the best of my ability for the two years I've been a mem- ber, and now I'm asking for your help. Write President Hull and tell him what you think of this decision. I wanted to make Union a · better place, so please let them know that I matter to the student body, to the faculty, and to Union College. Thank You, Rawson Thurber Sophomore Class President & Junior Trustee-elect Thank you for all of your letters to the editor this year! I ... Please continue in '95-'9.6

Elections The Concordiensis ·May 27, 1995 ·Page 11 ·candidates for Vice-President of Academics Sam Tolkoff We should change academic poli- cies that do not minister to the stu- dent body. The administration's policy of placing a \W\ on students' transcripts for dropping a class after an arbitrary date serves no one. The concern seems to be that the school's standards and integrity must be up- held. This is not an issue for institu- tions with equal and stronger aca- demic rt<putations. MIT allows its students to, drop a class without pen- alty, besides the students' energy and money, up until the final exam. Students who have proven that they can handle a larger course load should be allowed to take as many courses as they wish. I know of no other school that prevents students who are fully matriculated from tak- ing extra co1.1rses. The administra- tion argues that Union must stress academics more, places blame on the Greek system, yet prevents bright, educated students from further edu- cating themselves. If the adminis- tration fears that most students will add courses to their schedules, and in doing so, graduate in less than four years, we n~ed to reevaluate our aca- demics in general. It is important to have a core cur- riculum, however, it is not necessary to require liberal arts majors to take science courses if they amount to \baby-bio\ or \Chemistry of Things.\ Freshman Precept can be an excellent course, but the class can also be taught by people who are poor writers themselves. We are forced to be bored by these classes - this must be corrected. We just received $750,000 to re- structure the engineering depart- ment. This will affect not only the engineers, but the entire college. Meetings will take place over the summer and outside of students' ear- shot. This type of closed door policy-making must not continue. The administration does not seem to be concerned with the academics here at Union, but rather the eco- nomics. We must voice our objec- tions to these unfair policies or they will continue. I would appreciate your vote. MAKE HULL PAY!! GIVE TO THE SENIOR CLASS GIFT TODAY!! Fred Ulrich Academics is the heart ·Of this in- stitution. There has been much talk in this bicentennial year about tra- dition. Union has a tradition of aca- demic excellence. It is time Union reaffirms that stand. We must take a clos~ look at where Union is now and where it can go as an educational institution. This should include a close evaluation of three things: the GenEd curriculum, the academic honesty policy, and the academic calendar. I want to detennine if the GenEd curriculum still works, if it meets its goals and what you the students want to see changed. To achieve this I propose a comprehensive evaluation of the program. I want students and faculty to work together in evaluat- ing the education that effects us all. Similarly I would like to see an evaluation of the Academic Honesty policy. That policy must also meet the needs of the students. If it does not, it too must be changed. I am willing to fight for these changes if you. I feel that your im- pute is necessary for a curriculum that meets all needs. It is your school, you are the recipients of the education, you should have a say in what you are required to learn. I want Union to be a school of aca- demic excellence. I want the edu- cation here to fit the needs and wants of the student body. Congratulations to the new members of the Alumni Co unci/: H a/lie Heller, David Levine & Sandy Dr_uzba Come to the final Concordiensis nteeting of the year on Monday, 7:00pDl, in CC 303. ·chael Gifford Over the past two weeks, my views concerning the academic affairs of this institution have not radically change, so I opt to continue my current policies. This Friday, I'm in a run-off With two opposing students, Fred Ulrich and Sam Tolkoff. While both have respectable ideas, they lack the experience and influence needed for this position. The VP of Academics is not a responsibility to be taken lightly, and requires a cer- tain degree of know-how in or- der to carry out its practices. Serving on the coun- cil as representative vice-presi- dent of the class of 1997 gave me the background to handle the workings and affairs of the com- plicated student body. Having been involved in decisions di- rectly imposed on academic is- sues, I have insight to both the possible considerations and con- sequences of those choices. Again, my point is brief. Do not put a serious position in the hands of those without experi- ence. This is pretty much what it all comes down to. I can rec- ognize when administration tries to tie our hands-as they have been recently-and am not swayed by the smoke they blow at us. It will NOT stop with the meal plan or other issues. Don't let them railroad all areas of stu- dent concern. You've already elected some fine representa- tives on your behalf, surely ones ; that will not fall for such rheto- ric. I'm used to dealing with most of them, and can assure you I will do the same. I know some of you are not exactly sure what this position means. lfyou don't, take a look back at the last one, two, or three years you've been here. If you like what you see, we'll keep it. If you don't, we '11 change it. But you have to have someone representing you that knows how. Elect someone who knows what is going on, and at the same time has the inflection to propose and enforce collegiate responsibility in government during such a unique time in Union's academic history. Candidate for Junior Class Secretary/Treasurer Isca Beswick During my tenn as the Sopho- more Secretary/ Treasurer, I have become acquainted with the fact that there has been a gap in com- munication between the students and their Representatives. Even though it is not feasible for each opinion to be individually ex- pressed, it is possible that through the measures that will be insti- tuted by next year's Forum, the students will be aware of the vari- ous activities sponsored by each class and the Student Forum, and the different avenues through which the students are able to voice their sentiments; i.e. meet- ing times of the Student Forum, and the various ad hoc commit- tees. As an example of the de- crease in communication between the student body and their repre- sentatives, the fund-raiser that was planned and sponsored by the Sophomore class, Gobble-a- rose, could've been an even greater success, if more people had been aware of the activity. In addition, the purpose of the Class representatives, is not only to plan fundraising activities that will benefit the class fund, and other charitable organizations, but that will also help in uniting its' the members. It is vital that each class has its' spirit, so that in the years to come, the class of '97 will be remembered for its' dedication to working to unite its' members, and contributing ofits' service to the college. - ..

' ' Page 12 • May 27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Features How To Be Stoopid The Perfmrmiumg Arts De]!ll&Jrtmell1lt IU'D.J M<OJ1Jln~elbanlks Jib resents A play by Carlo Goldoni Love. Masks. Love. Tumbling. Love. Lasagna. Love. Opera. Love. Italian. Love. Money. Love. Eating. Love. May 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 27, 1995 8:00 pm Yulman Theater S7.00 General Public/ $5.00 with Union College ID In the mainstage of the Yul:mau Theater Directed by William A. Finlay Box Office: 388-6545 by Rawson Thurber Features Writer It occurs-to me, as it often does, that there are many stupid people on this ball of dirt we call Earth, and 1 refuse to admit that those moronic multitudes are truly idi· otic. The numbers just don ,t add up. There simply cao't be that many stupid people in the world (the numbers inhabiting the lo- cal Price Chopper are already too many).lt is my opinion that some of these people are faking it. \What?!\ you exclaim. \Impos- sible!\ you cry. But hold fastmy loyal reader, and let me explain. Stupid people have an easier ex- istence than the rest of us. Just think about it for a moment - if you're stupid, so much less is ex- pected of you in conversation, work, or life. So, it is with the above stated, that I bring forth some helpful hints and tips that will allow the intellectually bur- dened to, in essence, become stu- pid. Just follow some or all of these tips, and what society ex- pects from you will be greatly reduced. Thus leaving you more time to work on your tan. 1 )Whenever you find yourself in a conversation of some global consequence, the best thing to do to promote your own facade of stupidness is to quote something from the previous night's episode of '\Matlock.\ Now if you don't watch Matlock, you better dust Crossing Cultures, German Style courtesy of German .Term Abroad Students The art of crossing cultures has proven to be ... well ... best learned to the clammer of Industrial screaming German Techno in a Disco with a tall beer in your hand. The simple act of ordering a beer is complicated by the fact that one must choose from over 50,000 (about; give or take a few) types ofbeeratevery Bar. Cross- ing the language barrier in simple places like the Supermarket gives you a headach like a Sunday morning at Union. Nevertheless, we trudge on, bringing our trophy of groceries back to the dorm kitchen which is packed with 250 other ignorant foreigners from 60 different countries. Unfortunately, we are especially ignorant (except for Jay and Buck) of the metric sys- tem which tends to dominate this continent. Now to fill up space and perhaps keep your interest, here are some quotations that have made us laugh through this trip Kate Wulfing: ''I've gotta eat like it's my job.\ Jay Prentice: \Obviously they don't know who I think I am.\ Geoff Sipperly: \I would've picked her up, but I ran out of German. \Kelly Cassidy: \Just because my roommate changed rooms on the first day doesn't mean that she doesn't I ike me.\ Karyn Brownstein: ''I'm never going to go to McDonalds again on this trip ... but I could use a number 2 extra value meal.\ Diane Lieb: \Where are we go- ing and why are we on the wrong train again?\ Peter Gregory: \What I really want to do in Ger- many is pay more and eat less.\ LeifRoberg: \I love Kebap!\(A garlic rich Turkish version ofthe Gyro, but a little questionable.) Matt Seekamp: \Deutschland sure brings out the German in me, especially the beer!\ Professor Anton Warde: \Do I smell like Kebap? I feel like I'm broadcast- ing it.\ To move back to a more seri- ous note, here is a bit about Freiburg. About 30,000 students make for a wild night life and long lines for bad cafeteria food (preparing us well for next years Marriot Madness). The Black Forrest is a mere 10 minutes away, loaded with great hiking trails. We've learned what Foot- ball means to the rest of the world. Weekend trips on the train cost a mere $3 a head, beer is cheaper than Coca-Cola and they might not like the Bears or Ditka, but they sure love their sausage! The only glitch in the trip could be removed if they only got rid of this school thing: 8:30-1:00 Mon- day through Friday. Of course, there is more to Europe than just Freiburg, as we continuously dis- cover every weekend. In Copenhagen you can only stalk so many tall beautiful blue-eyed blonds, before it gets old. In Amsterdam ..... urn .... \we did not inhale.\ In the Alps the snow is nonstop and they don't take .... VISA. In Rome.confession with the Pope is kinda cool, eh?!? As you can see, we manage to find ways to keep ourselves oc- cupied. Somewhere, in the midst of all the revelry, we manage to visit the school. Signing off, the class would like to send a 'get well' to Profossorin Kellenter. Fuhlen Sie sich besser! Also Aufwiedersehen! P.S. Professor Gado and Pro- fessor Thomas please pardon the grammar; it got fowled up in the translation. -The German Termabroaders Scott, Buck, Jay, Diane, Karyn, Rich, Leif, Matt, Kelly, Kate, Melinda, Jamie, Renis, Peter and Geoff If you want to join The Concordiensis in the fall, come to the. meeting on Monday, May 29, in College Center 303 at 7:00pm. If you can't come call x6155 off the old TV Guide and check your local listings, because worlds of idiotic things can be found in that Show on a regular basis. 2) Yet another method by which one can \prove\ one's own stupidity to others is by making a simple change in one's math~ ematical outlook. What am I try- ing to say? Count everything in dogyears. Example conversation: \Hey Bob, where ya ·Comin' from~\ \I was just at the gym for seven hours.\ \What?\ \That's one of your human hours, butseven dog hours for me. I'm gonna be in sha-pe in no time!\ 3) Whenever you're in class, and the professor poses a question, raise your hand and answer, \I don't know ifthis is right, but is the answer two and a half water- melons?\ Repeat this until you get the answer right. 4) For two weeks straight talk solely in a \Beavis and Butthead\ voice. This undoubtedly will add to your reputation as stupid, huh- huh, huh-huh. 5) Another fool proof way to as- sert your idiocy is to watch as many Info-merrcials as posiible. This is garunteed to drop your I.Q. leyel by at least thirty-five points. Ifyou st~yup late at night and memorize passages ofinfor- the area-glide, my gut has ceased to by a sours of embarrassment. And now I can almost see my feet!\ you will be sure to be the focus of attention at the next social gath- ering. I may not know much, but I knowl am the stupid king of this earth. 6) We~r as many «Co-ed Naked\ t-shirts as you can possibly get your hands on. Only the truly stu'\ pid wear these things, and if you camouflage yourself in stupid apparel, people ·will start to be- lieve you are. Granted these are only six sug- gestions, but they will work. Be- lieve me, I've used them a.ll be- fore. Slowly but surely, people will stop asking for your opinion, you'll slowly begin to disappear from the society's elite, and soon the burdensome expectations of intellect will be lifted from your shoulders. Basical-ly you'll have more time to eat Cheetoes and watch re-runs of the Simpsons, and can it really get any better than that? Just remember, as the millionaire moron says, \Stupid is as stupid does.\ Questions, Comments, or Hate Mail: Rawson Thurber Box #2018

Q Features The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 ~ Page 13 Wells House and . . - \ . . . Kids With. lee Cream The Future Of Social Alternatives At Union by Jeffery Druzba Features Writer The first l'J,nnual Wells House - Zoller ice cream social was a screaming success. that's how the kids reacted to the ice cream · · cones after an afternoon of fun at Union College .. The Union men- . tors associated with Wells House and the students they were. matched with at Zoller elementary gathered for the afternoon to · · get to know each other. The Wells House program, which was started by students in the house, provides an older friend for kids from disadvantaged situa- . · tions. The kids and the Union students both have fun deing what- · ever they like'to do. Participants in the program at both schools have found the .progra_!Jl to be great fun. Many students go swim- ming, to the mall, or just around Union Colleg¢, while others have even gone biking together. The kids came toU~ion College after school last Tuesday where · they went swimming, were treated to a meal at West, and were given ice cream at Wells. They were all taken home with smiles on their faces after the day's events. . lf}'ou are interested in becoming a member ofthe Wells House mentoringprogram for next year, please give Mike a call atx6703 .. There are many students who could use a college friend, and there is plenty of fun to be had. ·~2-b'IIAYS ~heLp SA'~e~ et\(li\-\ c;H..L 1-~-1(-SB-9887. f!WI A Put;~Uc service of ~ Thla Publlcalkm - ·.;·. '· . Earth Share ... by JeffDruzba F~atures Writer For many students on campus, the lack of social alternatives at Union has beeB a large part of their unhappiness about the col- lege. Many ofthe options are·of- ten uninteresting or just don't ap- peal to alarge crowd of students. This being the end of the term, I think it' stime for people in charge of things on campus to evaluate the way things have been going and to start with some new ideas in the fall. Personally, I think that it would do everybody well to have one of the following imple- mented. I present to you the fu- ture o'fthe Union social scene: 1. Professor/Administration/ Student Gladiators. A direct spin- off of the original American Gladiators. Professors and Ad- ministration IUembers would act as the Gladiatms, and students as the challengers. Throw them to- gether and you have yourself a night of fun in and around the Nott. Disgruntled over that grade you got on your lab? Fend your professor off in Break Through and Conquer. That grade isn't looking so bad when you have to face your biology professor, now known as the deadly Mitochon- drion, in the ring. Students might not be so quick to criticize Presi- dent Hull dressed as the Elimina- tor in the Rock Wall Climb. Mu- sic students might not appreciate the heartless and cruel Subdomi- nant when he knocks you sense- less on the fl'oor during the ball dunk competition. And imagine the fun of knocking your Orgo professor, otherwise known as Benzenator, in the head during the Pugel Stick competition. WHACK! \Uh .... you're not gonna fail me now ... are you?\ 2. Union could probably use one ofthose big ball rooms too. Right off the back of the college center - Professor/Student Ball Bash -with security overlooking the whole thing so no one gets too rowdy. Some professors don't know any better sometimes. You know how they get when they're asked to share. We cmdd even make the whole thing like one of those Discovery Zones they have floating around these days. If there'sanyone who hasn;t heard of them already, ifs basically a playground where you pay for your kids to play for x amount of hours while you go and do every- thing that you would normally do if your kids didn't ruin your life. There could be all sorts of fun activities that involve lots of foam mats and padded equipment. We could just go play and there would be pizza and drinks avail- abl·e on vali-dine. Everyone would get wild and hyper in there. People would leave tired and sick, but they would always come back for more. A union of students hav- ing too much fun and plenty of pogs, Yeah, that's it! Pogs with pictures of the Nott and student forum representatives and profes- sors. 3. How about a large scale project now? I think Union needs a ride or two. Just imagine. Union is the first educational institution in the country to innovate on the theme park idea. A Mad Notts modeled after the teacups but, instead, it 1 s a hollowed out Nott Memorial, spinning out of con- trol. A House of Horrors filled with things like a bloody tuition bill for an obscene amount of money, administrator zombie look alikes, and food from West on a table with that dry ice effect pouring over it to give it a little more spook than it already has. A carnival midway where you can win Union merchandise if you beat the 1 ,000,000/1 odds on that stupid knock the lead bottles over game. We could build it near the GE plots and name it Eliphalet World. It would be important to keep it cheap for the students. Rides could be $1 off vali-dine for 5 rides. Open Monday through Saturday, 8 PM-12 AM. Trimester vs. Semester: It's All About Money by Kata Christian Features Writer On Wednesday, May 10, the Union community addressed the question \How will 'U' Like the Semester System?\ at a Crosstalk held at Chefs. Students and fac- ulty discussed advantages and disadvantages of both the semes- ter and trimester systems. The Crosstalk panel consisted of two professors, Teresa Meade from the History Department and Peter Tobiessen from the Biology department, as well as two stu- dents, Samuel Cousins and Sarah Ruth Evans. Beth McGaughan, a junior classics major served as the moderator. Professor Meade began the de- bate with an argument in favor of the semester system. Meade opened her argument by stating that the proposal for change de- served close investigation. She insisted that a change from tri- mesters to semesters would not be radical seeing that the vast major- ity of four-year colleges in the country work on a semester sys- tem. Meade listed various col- leges, such as Occidental and Lewis and Clark whic.h have changed from trimester to semes- ter schedules over the past few years. Meade continued by presenting common arguments for keeping the trimester system, then pro- ceeded in tearing them apart. The first argument she addressed was the \Trimesters make Union dif- ferent\ argument. She claimed, \It's OK to be different, but it's kind of like being a Beta Max in a VHS world.\ Meade mentioned that accord- ing to a survey given by the Ad- missions offic~, the trimester sys- tem is seen as a disadvantage to are in the same consortium as Union. Quick with statistics, Meade showed that semesters provide students with more minutes of Meade claims that everyone in Adminis- tration, except the president believes se- mesters are more cost efficient and a step in the right direction. She believes that Hull's, \If it ain't broke, don't fi:x it\ atti- tude will get the College nowhere. class time. Meade feels there are more opportunities for students who attend semester schoo Is. She feels Union is wasting money working on a trimester schedule. Trimesters mean doing everything three times a year as Evans said that, as a student, she sees problems with the trimes- ter system and commented that she doesn't feel her education is worth $26 thousand. \We might be paying the same price, but we're no Dartmouth.\ She claimed it's impossible to learn in ten weeks what most students learn in fifteen. Samuel Cousins, a freshman, defended the trimester system and related his positive experience with it. Cousins commented that he liked being able to focus on three classes each trimester. He feels that oftentimes when stu- dents have heavy course loads they tend to put a class or two \on the back burner.\ Professor Tobiessen pre- sented many arguments in favor most prospective students. She stated that the trimester system is an inconvenience for many stu- dents because of the schedule it offers. For example, in mid-June when students are returning home for break, summer jobs are scarce because most college students have been home for over a month. In addition, students find them- selves on a completely different schedule than their friends at other schools. Meade also com- mented that many high schools find Union a \hard school to sell\ because of the trimester system. The Yale Review and Fiske Guide to the Colleges have sited the tri- mester system to be a negative aspect ofUnion. Tobiessen observed that Union students graduate with more courses in their major therefore they graduate with a stronger, more thorough background in their major. Also, Tobiessen claims it is easier to fit in a minor or term aboard. Meade pointed out that trimes- ters allow professors minimal time for research. Also, oftentimes the schedule conflicts with region conferences. Students suffer as well. Be- cause the Union calendar differs from most schools, students are unable to take classes at other lo- cal colleges, such as Skidmore, SUNY. Albany and RPI, which opposed to two. Meade claims that everyone in Administration, except the president believes se- mesters are more cost efficient and a step in the right direction. She believes that Hull's \If it ain't broke, don't fix it\ attitude will get the college nowhere. Sarah Evans, a sophomore Classics major supported Meade's argument. Evans opened by stating. \If Union worked on a semester system, we'd all be home right now!\ of keeping the trimester system at Union. He stressed the flex- ibility of the trimester schedule, and the opportunities Union stu- dents have because of it. Tobiessen observed that Union students graduate with more courses in their major than stu- dents at semester schools. For example, science majors at Union graduate with ten courses in their major while at most schools they graduate with only eight. Union students therefore graduate with a stronger, more thorough back- ground in their major. In addi- tion, Tobiessen claims that it is easier to fit in a minor or a term abroad. Recently, Juniata College switched from the trimester sys- tem to the semester system and much of the administration re- grets the change. Tobiessen feels many students come to Union because they I ike the idea of the trimester system. He thinks that the Admissions office should market it more effectively. After the panel shared their ideas on the issue, many audience members including both students and faculty voiced their opinions. Most students seemed to be in favor ofthe trimester system. The argument was heated and many valid points were made. Two transfers who had experi- enced both semester and trimes- ter systems claimed they pre- ferred Union's schedule. Other members of the audience com- mented that Union's large appli- cant pool was no indicator that the trimester system was turning per- spectives away. Many students claimed that the trimester system was both beneficial and challeng- ing. On the other hand, other pro- fessors and students felt that the semester system provided a more sane and academic environment. One professor commented that if Union does not examine this pos- sibility of change, years down the road Union graduates will. be alumni of a \dinosaur.\ Professor Motahar commented that \it's all about money.\ - .::....

.... Page 14 ·May 27, 1995 \The Concordiensis Arts & Entertainltlerit ' .~HE R.E EL PI<Jr-rlJRE by LarTy Paska., Cmrcord~ensis film Critic . 0 . . . . . Village of the Damned is an Unnecessary R.ehash of a Classic Horror Tale ''Village ofthe Damned.\ Star- ring Christopher Reeve, Kirstie Alley, Mark Hamill. Directed by John Carpenter. Rated R,. Universal Pictures. Rating: ** (outoffour) Horror master Carpenter must be having a bad year. First, there was that theatrical bomb, In the Mouth of Madness, released this winter. Now there's Village of the Damned, a film that has promise but strikes out after three reels. Horror movies have never seemed so slow, while at the same time so fascinating. Based on the classic horror film from 1960 (which itself spawned a sequel...oh, no!), Village starts out with the quiet, small town of Midwich experiencing a strange phenomenon: every person within the village's radius sud- denly collanses for six hours, and then awakens. Strange, whisper- ing voices are heard before this event, but when everyone awakes, no one knows what hit them. Reeve, as the town's doc- tor, discovers a few weeks later that several people are pregnant...and all the pregnancies occurred on the day ofthe \black- out.\ Alley comes to town as a re- search scientist examining the strange phenomenon. She offers a large sum of money to families that decide to have their children, in order to study them. Of course, many people agree. Hamill, as the town's priest, believes these pregnancies to be the. work ofthe devil, and tries to convince the people to abort their babies. When the children are finaJ.Jy born (halfway through the film- by now the audience gets a bit bored), it is discovered that they learn and develop extremely fast. They all have silver-gray hair, a strange trait one would think ev- The Visual Arts Department presents Guest Lecturer V.ictoria Anstead Art Dealer .~t. .• A \'tr.f. ~ t~ p .... ~- •:!{~-~- ;:..; ~-4-~J' · wh.o,wllt'discuss .,.lie Contemporary Art Market Thursday, May 25, 1995 1:30pm Arts Building 215 Free and Open to the Public IEF Funded Lecture Farewell Readers by Leena Mankad & Suzanne Robinson A &EEditors Wow, another year has just flown by. It's hard to believe time can go so fast; one minute your complaining about the weather turning cold in the fall, and the next minute your watching your close friends graduate in June. The most fascinating thing about it all, is that one never realizes what's happening around them at the moment. Life happens so fast, and before you know it, another year has been tucked away, and your looking towards different events in the upcoming future. For us, the Arts and Entertainment editors, our future lies on the Great Island. We are taking a term abroad next fall, and this will be our last issue for quite sometime. Along with the News Editor, the Layout Editor, the Cartoonist and a Photographer, we are check- ing out of Union for a tenn. In fact, with all the Concordy staff going to England, we could probably crank out a paper of our own! The Arts and Entertainment editors just wanted to say farewell to our readers. It is hard to say at his moment the fate of our section until we return; but we have the utmost faith that Diane will keep the section going by finding a temporary Arts and Entertainment · editor. We hope to return next winter with some great new ideas and hopefully some funny stories from Europe, Have a greatterm all ... Great Britian or bust! eryone in the town would have observed as being odd. One child is stillborn and taken away for research by Alley. The children develop the abi.l- ity to telepathically cause injury to people who cross them, A school janitor who insults them throws himself off a rooftop; a doctor giving an eye exam squirts an acidic substance in her eye af- ter accidentally doing thesame to a child. Reeve, theonly one who is liked by the children, tries to teach them, but discovers they are not human and were \impla.FJted\ by some unknown power to take over. Reeve realizes the only thing that makes humans .superior is their capacity for emotion, and he attempts to bring about emo- tion in one boy who feels for the stillborn child, who was to be his mate in this world. The film has touches of The Stand and Outbreak in it, hut these other stories were far bet- ter. What kills it is the pacing. Entire reels go by with little sus- pense, and in the end, it still re- mains unknown who actuaHy sent these children and why this phe- nomenon happened· before in· another part of the world. Addi- tionally, the music is unexciting, further slowing down the mood ofthe piece. In the end, the film seems more like one ofthose really bad Star Trek episodes that gives in to preaching more than anything else. Reeve gets to play Captain Kirk, arguing to beings half his size but twice his inteHigencethat humans are good and just; Alley gets to play the scientist that does not understand how to deal with other beings; Hamill gets,to play the prophet that warns of doom and then gets taken out of the equation. The film really belongs as part of an OuterLimits episode more; there does not seem to be enough going on to sustain a fea- ture-length film. And onewould think that with Superman and Luke Skywalker all in the same film, the combined talents of these superheros could haw :de- feated these children. Talk ~bout typecastingatwork. When Reeve is emotionally-troubled by these children, the audience expects him to simply pull out that ted cape of his and use his super strength to destroy them.. The same with Hamill, who has aged horribly onscreen. In Star Wars, he preached that lightsabers were better than blasters, yet here he is seen romping the forests with shotguns. While the story is certainly in- triguing and eerie, it all adds up to make little sense. In the end, the viewers are treated to a near- Armageddon in an aband'Oned bam, and the totally unwarranted shootout between a hundred po- lice officers. Pass this one by until it reaches TV, where it really belongs. The suspense is so much more effec- tive in a smaller atmosphere. The Department of Performing Arts presents Union College ~\ JAZZ .. E,NSJE'M'BLE\''' '\\'\ in CONCERT· Conducted by Professor Tim Olsen Wedn&sday, May 31., 1995 8:00pm Studio 215 Arts Building Free Admission to All. .. ·, . ~--- ~· ~'. The Arts and Entertainment Staff woul'd like to thank all contributors to the Con- cordiensis~ especially Dawn Parisi of the Arts Department. Thank you for all your help and suggestions this year!! I ,,

Arts & Entertainment ·Reflections of Women courtesy of Visual Am Department The Visual Arts Deparbnent will be featuring an exhibit of works by Carolyn Levy, entitled \Reflections of Women.\ The exhibit will be in the Union College Arts Atrium from Monday, May 29, to Sunday, June 11, 1995. There will be an opening reception on :Tuesday;M~y 30, 1995. Refreshmen~ will be s~rved from 4:00- 6:00pm. · Through a variety of media- sculpture, printmaking, and pho- tography -. .M.LL~vy,,portrays images of women as they are -seen through the eyes of society. Her work deals with issues of sexual repr~sentation~ and acceptance. Her 3-D focus is steel sculpture which~ allows her structural tension and emotional·expressiQn. In Ms. teyy's 2-\D wor:k, her prints both compliment and contrast her sculptures,. and. het series of photographs further explore the cul- tural pressures women experience in society. Carolyn's exhibi- tion, in the arts atrium at Union College, is an event not to be missed. The exhibit is free and open to the public. The Gallery Hours are 9:00am to 9:00pm, Monday through Friday. great scores ... Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where you need it most. We'll show you ~.....,. .. Ute proven skills and test-taking techniques that help you get a higher score. . Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to vitual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who really care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. Classes starting soon. -Seats are limited. Call now. 489-0077 get a higher score KAPLAN. Stuve$artt Plaza • Alban The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 ·Page 15 CATS Returns to Proctor's Theatre courtesy of Proctor's publicity Relive the music,. the magic, the mystery, and the \Memory\ of the Tony-Award winning musi- cal, Cats, when it returns to Proctor's T;heatre, June 6,7, and · June 8 at 8 PM. Andrew Lloyd Webber's feline musical extravaganza is the win- ner of seven Tony Awards, in- cluding B~st Mus-ical. The Broadway production of Cats is currently .the longest-running musical on Broadway and the third I ongest-runniRg musical ever. The original production in London, which opened May 1 1, 1981, has become the longest- running musical in British history. The :United States' touring com- panies, which hit the road in De- cember 1983 with the first na- tiona] tour, have traveled North America from Alaska to Miami, Newfoundland to San Diego. Worldwide, there have been over 40 productions of Cats, most re- cently in Argentina and Denmark, and new touring companies in the United Kingdom and Southeast Asia. BasedonT.S. Eliot's \Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats,\ this global theatrical phe- nomena is the longest, continu- ously-touring musical in history. The success ofthis extraordi- nary musical has captured the imagination of theatergoers span- ning several generations and can be attributed to a ni:lmber of dif- ferent reasons. First, the perform- ers simply captivate the audience as they transform into a various assortment of frisky felines through costumes and make-up that are uniquely beautiful and extremely detailed. Some at- tribute Cats appeal to Andrew Lloyd Webber's diverse and me- lodic score, whose signature song, \Memory\, has been re- corded by hundreds of artists worldwide. Others point to T.S. Eliot's whimsical and unconven- tional poetry, which provides the lyrics and script for the musical, combined with upbeat rock and roll rhythms as definite factors in the universal appeal of Cats. Re- gardless of the individual ele- ments that make up the theatrical experience of Cats, \Now and Forever\ it will always be the \Cats Meow., Tickets for Cats at Proctor's Theatre, June 6 to June 8 at 8 PM are $33.50, $29.50, and $22.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office, (518) 346-6204, and at all TicketMaster locations. Union College Jazz E.nsemble In Concert Courtesy of the Performing Arts Department The Union College Jazz En- semble, under the direction of Professor Tim Olsen, will per- form on Wednesday, May 31. The concert will take place at 8:00 p.m. in Studio 215 in the Arts Building on the Union Col- lege campus in Schenectady. This concert is free and open to the public. The Jazz Ensemble is made up of Union College students as well as members of the Schenectady community. The concert will feature standards by such jazz greats as Duke Ellington, Freddie Hubbard, and Thelonious Monk, as well as original works and ar- rangements by Tim Olsen. Pia- nist and trumpet-player Olsen joined the Union College faculty as Visiting Assistant Professor of Performing Arts in September 1994, and is active as composer, performer, and educator. He recently received the Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Yale University. For more informa- tion, please call the Performing Arts office: (518)388-6785. -CHOREOGRAPHIC WORKSHOP Six Original Ballet Pieces ·From Classical to Contemporary Styles Student Choreographers: Melissa Weiner Kira Sobczak Hillary Snow Sarah Gottry Sari Leivent Susanna Gordon Jennifer Yeaw Faculty Sponsor: Darlene Myers Friday, June 2, 1995 4:30pm Dance Studio - Arts Building Performing Arts Department Free to Open to the Public cJ I I 1 -- :r 'i I I I ,_

Page 16 ·May 27,1995 ~The Concordiensis ·Calendar CALENDAR 5/25/95 - 6/01/95 Friday, 05/26/95 9:00a Financial Aid Office, CC AUDITORIUM 9:00a Biranne Patnode, Senior,Thesis Art Exhibition, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM lO:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, CC ATRIUM 1 :OOp Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ 108 2:00p COSA Meeting, CC 205 5 :OOp Mountebanks, CC 302 6:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) 7:00p Philomathean Society, HHMILANO LOUNGE 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday, 05/27/95 lO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Sunday, 05/28/95 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 5 :OOp Sigma Iota Alpha Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 014 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday, 05/29/95 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 11 :30a Senior Class Gift, CC ATRIUM 4:30p Modem Dance-Section II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 5: 15p Residence Life, CC 205 6:00p Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS SlUDIO (108) 6:00p Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Tuesday, 05/30/95 8:00a NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 8:30a 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union, CC 204 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM ll:OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 11 :30a Center Election, HUMANITIES 115 11 :30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINING ROOM 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 , l2:00p Values Group Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:30p Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 313 12:30p Residence Life Meeting, CC STRAUSS (305) 1 :OOp Library Meeting, CC 203 2:00p Managers' Meeting, Dining Services, CC 205 3:30p Voice Mail Training, CC 409 3:45p Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 4:30p Terms Abroad, HUMANITIES 112 5 :OOp Economics Club Picnic, CC PATIO AND CHET'S 5:30p Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p U B Glad, CC 204 6:00p Re-Union Committee Meeting, HH DINING ROOM 7:00p Ballet I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL (406) 7 :OOp Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7 :30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS (305) 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Wednesday, 05/31/95 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, CC ATRIUM 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 12:15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 3 :30p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 . 3:30p Dean Cool, HH OLD CHAPEL 3:30p Commencement Planning Group, CC 205 4:30p Commencement Ushers Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Intro to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 5 :OOp Meditation Group, CC 302 6:00p Modem Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and SOCIAL.SCIENCES 014 6 :30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7 :OOp Career Development, HUMANITIES 019 7:00p JazzEnsembleRehearsal,ARTS 313 7:30p Dance E11sembleMeeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:3Qp The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S 9:30p Safe Spa~e Group, CC 409 lO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Thursday, 06/01195 1 O:OOa Ticket Sale-Senior Week, CC ATRIUM 10:00a Going Greek Sale, CCATRIUM 1 0:30a Navy Infonnation Table, Career Development, CCATRIUM , 12:00p Spanish LanguageTable, CC 302 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 12:30p German Language Table, CC 203 1 :OOp Training for Eudora & Net Scape, STEINMETZ 108 1 :30p Pre-Med Committee Meeting, CC 204 6:00p SHPE Meeting, CC 204 6:00p Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p Re-Union Committee Meeting, CC 302 & CC 409 7 :30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Attention All Graduating Seniors If you have received a Perkins and/ or, Institutional Loan, an EXIT In- terview must be completed before graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notification of this, please contact Ms .. Civitello at x6039. Dates for Interviews: May 31st June 1st and 2nd

Personals/Ciassifieds Personals Wanted: Female slave, musthave secretarial skills and attractive. Call x5550. Nymphomaniacs welcome. 18+please. LE, MW, RN, TH, and TN ~ Thank you for taking such good care of me on Monday. I love you guys more than a case of diet coke and a day at the mall! Love, thekeeperof\the Star 1 ' shirt Camron, Androgeny, Phil, Sam, Saira, Sara, Rob, Pete, Seth and everyone else ~ Thank you for a beautiful birth~ day! I love you guys:! -LRTR c~ My bestest friend! Cheers to a great year and Scotlaad and Ire~ land in the fall! Stay sane in Schenectady over the summer! I love you! -L Jared, Your cartoons this year have been awesome. I'm proud of your good work and courage to ex- press your humor and opinions. Ad PRT~ Thank you for being a wonderful friend-Thanks again for the great b~day (and da.y after} I appreci- ate it all. Love always, LRTR LS- My daddy thinks my freckles are cute. ~ DF JVERO!- MayorJohn! Wethoughtwelost you, but MAYBE you've found your place at the 50 yrd line. Best ofluck and love always~ Congmts Brother John! ~DORKS Happy Birthday, Flipper! Long live the Lark and remember the Beast! We love you. -Ben Beanie, Blacky (PJ), Heads, Icarus and Nanny Goat To the brothers ofL<I>- Sam I am ... We loved Green Eggs &Ham! Thanks, the sisters off<:DB To the Brothers of A~ill­ Thanks for the RAVE, TECHNO & 40's! It was amazing. -The sisters off<l>B To Jill- Here's the suprise you've been waiting for all your I if e. Don't say I don't keep promises. -K.B. Dear Blonde Minnesota, Don't read too much into my stupid comments. Players ~ it takes one to know one I'm guilty! I'm·sorry. Concordi Player Dirty Sedly Sedwich, What can I say, boss? I'm still not sure how the hell I got caught up in this crazy job,. but it's been the best time losing my mind with you this term. Good luck next fall (I'll miss you) and don't take any c·rap from any one ~ the administartion, the staff, or any~ one on this fickle campus. I Jove ya. Vaya Con Dios ... Adam (insomniac layout editor Whatthe heck is with all this con- stant construction?? No meal plan $$, but enough for new cheesy shrubs in places that didn't really need them, ie. Jackson's Garden's gates. Hello? New side- walks in front of the college cen~ ter that had already been put in once this year? Hello? Is any~ one listening? Think about it... Dear Mr. Jim, The tests came back positive. You'd better get yourself checked out soon!! ~Red light partner David Frank, \Sometimesl'm tired, Sometimes I'm shot, Sometimes I don't know how much more I got!!\ Good luck Ace, your tour is over. Do not go in there! ! ! ~Ad&;S,ed Kenley and Caroline, Hey girls, you go! Congrats on your new positions. I know you'll both do great. Now you have a reason to stay, K. I had a blast with you guys allseason~-See you in January!! ~Big Guy Rez and Scotty, Sorry about the noise last week~ end. We got the best House aver~ age! Its been fun, good luck in the real world. ~Stallion Adam- I can't believe the tenn is over al- ready. You are priceless and I really appreciate all of your help. You have been both my stress and comic relief this term. Have fun in England, I will miss you so much. I love ya baby! P.S.- Volleyball anyone? ~ Sedly LS~ What's in the basement of S&E? How about a stroll through Jackson's Garden? How's that for a change of scenery? ~DF Roomie- Thank you so much for putting up with me this term. I know I have not been around much and things got stressful, but yoq al~ ways remained a great friend. One more year down and two more to go. You have been a great roommate and I can't wait until the fall, although I think I can wait through the summer. I Jove you! ~Diana To Ken and Em - Let's say we give Medusa a work~ out this weekend. -Dan Amy and Barbara, OK girls- this is the last one for seven months. If you can believe it, 1 am off to England for a stress free experience where there will be no more anxiety attacks in the Concordy office for me. Have an amazing trip and come back safe & sound Benzino benzino ciao ciao! Thanks for keeping me sane. Love, Liza To the gang~ It has been quite a year. I really have had a blast and I will miss you over the summer. Enjoy New Hampshire and your summer. love always, Dirty Buffy~ OK, so I lied about being really neat, I just have a thing for piles and laundry. Well, you win! You stuck around longer than another roommate. Maybe you should give Amy some \Surviv~ ing with Liza Tips\. Keep up the piles and the smiles while I am away. I love you and will miss you so much in fall!!!! JR~ You have been amazing this year! Your cartoons will go down in history. You have been a great source of comic relief whenever I needed it. I am going to miss you very much in the fall, what am I going to do? Thanks for everything. Loveya, Sedwich Tricia~ You thought that I forgot you, but I didn't. Keep smiling and whistling (don't tell anyone that I said this)! I promise you that things will begin to look up! I Love You! ~ Liza Dave, Heather, Caroline and Josh~ How did you guys convince me to do this? I must have really felt guilty. I will always remember New Orleans, Bourbon Street Crawl and backing down that highway. You have made my time here great and I will miss you next year. Love always, Sed ToMonoBoy- QuickTip: Seeing \Die Hard 11 with Liva and Andy is not the hottest idea for an eight month anniversary date. -DW DF- Goodluckonyourexams. lhope you have fun playing with the animals this summer. I'll miss having you kick my ass at pin~ ball -Lee AR, JR, LD, SR, & LM~ Fine, go off to England and have The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 • Page 17 Classified~ APARTMENT FOR RENT 1 Bedroom, Heat/Hot water in pluded. Off street parking ~usline, excellent location ~425/month. Newly remodeled Available for the summer. Con · act Michael at 381~4207. STUDENT WORK $10/START LOcal company now interviewin~ ~\or SUMMER OPENINGS. Nc. ·experience required. All majon :;onsidered. Training provided ~xcellent resume builder. Cal [low - work begins after finals • 518)456~3229. fun while I'm left here trying to cope without you guys. It's not like you are half of the staff or anything. Just joking. Have fun and keep in touch. Thanks for all of your hard work this term. Love, Sed To Hugh Jenkins~ Prisons are built with the laws of Deans, brothels with the letters of Greek. Joshie ~ Have you missed my pesonals? I'm certain of it. I love you! Wish us luck! Pam Y ~Can you believe that this is the last issue of the newspaper I will get to retrieve from the Col~ lege Center? I know, I can't ei~ ther. You guys are incredible! I can't believe you discected that ... Thanks for the cans. Thanks for everything in the past four year! I wuvyou! Love,- Jenni ~ I can't believe that you're first year ofMed School is almost over. I hope next year is happier. If not, we will figure out what you were destined to do. Come visit me this summer in Maine! I'm so glad that you lived upstairs from me freshman year. What would I have ever done without you? I love you some much my hugest roommate I will ever have. Love, Hepsaba Bri ~ You are way too talented for you own good! Your show was absolutely beautiful. I'm so glad I had a friend like you to keep me sane and to always give me some~ one to laugh at. Well, to the only women I will ever meet who could pick up a man in a women's bathroom, I love you! Love, Heather To General Big Woody- Get a life and get out more often. Davey ~ I don't know what I am going to do without you next year. I can't really believe it's been four years since we were trading sto~ ries about rejection letters. I am so glad I had the pleasure of knowing you. You are a wonder~ ful man, and don't ever forget it. If you need anyone to remind you, I'm always only a phone call away. Thank you for your re- Make great Christmas $ in Connecticut. A ward winning retail shop in New Canaan, CT is now accepting applications for Xmas sales help. $8/ hour, 40 hour week. Please call Ray for more information at : Pennyweights Jewlery store (203) 966-7739 Secure your job today! spect. It meant so much to me. 11 0h, isn't he so cute! 11 Love, your partner forever in insanity To all of Chester Arthur '91 ~ They may have thought we were rejects, but I think we came out just fine! Good luck to all of you next year. I'm glad that I had the opportunity to know all of you. Love, Heather TotheGimp~ Sucksaboutyour 11 cold 11 • I'll have to drink your share for you. Can't wait until you get well. ~the guys Sheryl Anne ~ I may not be as neat as you had hoped, and I may not be nearly as exciting, but I'm glad we roomed together finally. You never know, maybe I'll see you in Boston some day. Good luck next year, and if you need any help finding a nice Jewish boy, you know who to call. Love, your roommie LS~ These past five months have been incedible. I'll never forget the times we've shared. I'll miss you over the summer. Love,DF DL~ Nice to come up to the office com~ pletely loaded. Also, thank you for screaming my name from out~ side the College Center while I was inside the office. You put on quite the show. Thanks for the entertainment! Lov~ya,Sed God~ You fixed my printer fresh~ man year, and answered the door in your tighty whiteies. Since then, you'recomputer~god status has risen to the highest human level possible. I'm glad I was ac~ quainted with such a god on Earth. Good luck in England. Love, Heather Dollar Store Squirrel You sit on the mantel piece Holding the raw hide Well, the term has come to a close and we are ready for a long, long rest. Many crazy things have happenined to make the year memorable and give us good sto~ ries. Eight down and eight to go. Oh, by the way, if you have been stealing the newspapers, go to hell. Love always, The Editor~in Chief

. Page 18 • May 27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Sports 1994-1995 Block U Varsity Letter Winners Edward Abbott, Outdoor Track Jennifer Ahrens, Volleyball Christopher Albert, Ice Hockey Jennifer Allaire, Swimming Amy Ambrosini, Soccer Julie Anderson, Tennis Stacey Anderson, Softball Mark Anderson, Swimming Jinsy Andrews, Volleyball Jamie Antoine, lee Hockey Frank Attah, Football Amelia Audette, Outdoor Track Karin Averill, Field Hockey Jason Baker, F_ootball Katherine Barnett, Volleyball Julia Barton, Soccer MattBaumgartner, Swimming Jonathan Becker, Soccer Jason Beckman, Tennis Gary BeH-Ezra, Football Eli Benson, Lacrosse Michael Bernardo, Football David Bernstein, Baseball David Birmingham, Football Brian Bishop, Football Justin Bourque, Football Scott Bowden, Swimming Philip Boyce, Ice Hockey Scott Boyd, Ice Hockey Michael Breslin; Outdoor Track Jennifer Brown, Field Hockey/Softball Michele Brustolon, Lacresse Cecelia Buchanan, Swimming Gregory Buchanan, Ice Hockey Clarisa Buckner, Outdoor Track Louisa Busalachi, Cross Country Tonya Capparello, Basketball/Field Hocl<!ey Gregory Carcione, Football Joseph Caruso, Soccer Robert Champlin, Football Kenton Cha~_e, Tennis Steve Chin, Tennis Florence Chretien, Swimming Erik Chu, Soccer Heidi Clapp, Lacrosse Jonathan Comeau, Cross Country Nicholas Conway, X Country/Indoor Track/Outdoor Track Scott Corley, Outdoor Track Jacqueline Crane, Swimming Keith Crumb, Football Sharon Czechowski, Lacrosse Dave Dagostino, Baseball/Basketball Mike Darbyshire, Swimming Jennifer Davidson, Swimming Christopher DeLano, Lacrosse Ryan Donovan, Ice Hockey Charles Doran, Soccer Christopher Doraz, Lacrosse Amy Dougherty, Basketball Allison Draizin, Softball Brad Duffy, Football Kate Durocher, Lacrosse Gary Edmands, Lacrosse Roger Egbert, Football Robert Emsing, Football Chris Estefani, Soccer Kimberly Fanning, Soccer/Softball Anthony Fantauzzi, Football Nolan Farris, Outdoor Track Jeffrey Fawcett, Swimming Thomas Feldman, Soccer Richard Ferro,Lacrosse Brian Field,Swimming Nadine Filosi, X Country/Indoor Track/ Outdoor Track Julie Firman, Indoor Track/Outdoor Track Jason Fishbein, Tennis John Fitzgerald, Swimming Christopher Ford, Ice Hockey Michael Frattarolla, Lacrosse Joanna Freedman, Tennis Jonathan Gainor, Indoor Track/Outdoor Track Michael Gallant, Ice Hockey Heather Gauntt, Soccer Matthew Glogowski, Swimming Elana Goldberg, Field Hockey Jason Goldberg, X Country/Indoor Track/ Bernard Moody, Ice Hockey Outdoor Track Rachel Morgan, Basketball Rachel Goldfine, Tennis William Morris, Indoor Track/Outdoor Dean Goulet, Ice Hockey Track Sara Gower, Soccer/Basketball Elizabeth Morse, Cross Country David Grandwetter, Soccer Sarah Morse, Cross Country Jason Greenstein, Baseball Leonard Mortimore, F·ootball/Outdoor Kathryn Gross, Field Hockey Track Jessica Hallenbeck, Tennis Shuron Morton, Football Susan Halliday, Field Hockey Charles Moxham, Ice Hockey Michael Hamilton, Baseball Eric Murray, Football Christopher Hancock, Ice Hockey Kelly Nadeau, Softball Robert Harrington, Football Ryan Nelson, Basketball Jamie Haver, Basketball/Baseball Jeremy Newman, Cross Country Eri Hayashi, Swimming Scott Newton, Baseball Paul Haydock, Football Amy Nyremn, Softball Marcie Heffernan, BasketbaJ:l Christine Nytransky, Softball Amy Hitz, Basketball/Outdoor Track Maureen O'Donnell, Swimming Cory Holbrough, Ice Hockey/Lacrosse Patrick O'Flaherty, Ice Hockey Shane Holunga, Ice Hockey Vincent Obermeier, Soccer Neil Horgan, Football/Lacrosse Katherine Ott, Tennis Adam Horst, SwimmiNg Andrea Pagnozzi, Basketball/Softball Stephanie Howk, Softball Lauten Papa, Soccer/Softball Michael Humphreys, Swimming Anna Paravalos, Swimming Laurenlngis, Lacrosse David Parrott, Lacrosse Christopher Irving, Lacrosse Joshua Parsons, Football Julie Ivanyi, Swimming Lauren Pastor, Soccer/Lacrosse Kelly Jamieson, X Country/Swimming/ Jonathan Pearlman, Soccer Outdoor Track Molly Pearsall,.Field Hockey/Lacrosse Jason Jennings, Outdoor Track Ryan Peek, Football Matthew Johnson, Football/Outdoor Joshua Penn, Soccer Track Daniel Penna, Football Suzanne Johnson, Indoor Track Justin Perkins, Lacrosse Lindsey Johnston, Swimming Kevin Pessolano, Football Hillary Jospe, Lacrosse Jeremy Pflaum, Baseball Bradley Julicher, Football Jason Pinney, Lacrosse Lorene Kaminski, Field Hockey Jordan Pinsker, Cross Country/Tennis Reinis Kanders, Basketball Stuart Polk, Soccer David Kanfer, Soccer Grant Pollock, Lacrosse HeatherKanser, Volleyball/Swimming Melissa Pomerleau, Swimming Jeffrey Kasowitz, Tennis Scott Porter, Lacrosse Amy Kessinger, Tennis Stephen Potenza, Swimming Chad Kimball, Lacrosse Simon Poulis, Basketball Elizabeth Kittleman, Lacrosse Amy Powell, Soccer David Kline, Baseball Jay Prentice, Ice Hockey Steven Klopfer, Tennis Richard Pulver, Indoor Track/Outdoor James Knight, Football/Baseball Track Trevor Koenig, Ice Hockey Scott Rabideau, Soccer Eric Kujawski, Soccer/Baseball Denton Randolph, Football David Kunselman, X Country/Outdoor Mike Rauseo, Football Track Todd Ray, Lacrosse Dagan LaCorte, Ice Hockey Mgr. Craig Reckin, Ice Hockey Danielle LaCrosse, Volleyball/Softball Douglas Redstone, Football Jeremy Lamb, Baseball Colleen Reilly, Swimming Amy Lamphere, Swimming Sarah Retersdorf, Soccer/Lacrosse Dawn Landry, Outdoor Track Emily Retterer, Soccer Andrew Leach, Football Jennifer Ricci, Softball Mike Leding, Indoor Track/Oudoor Track , :.,. Shola Richards, Basketball Boe Leslie, Ice Hockey Kathryn Richardson, Field Hockey Jeremy Liebhoff, Soccer Jason Richetelli,.Football Edward Lippie, Football David Riggi, Indoor Track/Outdoor Track Keith Lombardo, Football/Baseball Charrod Riley, Football Melissa Lombardoni, Field Hockey !La- Christopher Riley, Swimming crosse Michael Rixman, Swimming Michael Macomber, Swimming Heather Rock, Soccer/Outdoor Track Melissa Maguire, Basketball Elizabeth Romig, Soccer Eric Majeran, Swimming Cara Rothfuss, Volleyball Kevin Makarowski, Swimming Stephen Rotkiewicz, Lacrosse Mario Maltese, Football/Lacrosse Shelly Rourke, Softball Jennifer Manna, Soccer/Lacrosse Anne Rozwadowski, Swimming John Marbarger, Football Nicole Rubin, Swimming Seth Rudin, Indoor Track/Outdoor Track Daniel Ruggeri, Football Adam Russell, Cross Country Eugenia Rutherford, Lacrosse Erica SaltZ, Swimming Laurel Salzman, WSoccer Erik Sanderson, X Country /Indoor Tracie/ Outdoor Track Neil Saniel, Football Seabrook Satterfund, Ice Hockey Tamara Saukin, Cross Country Stuart Savage, Soccer Lisa Scherer, Soccer/Indoor Track Leigh Schmitt, Lacrosse Sunil Schneider, Lacrosse Douglas Schneider, Ice Hockey Lisa Schofield, Basketball/Softball Jeffrey Schottland, Soccer Jennifer Schwartz, XCountry/lndoor Track Jayne Seekins, Indoor track Linda Seymour, Outdoor TracK Brett Shapiro, Tennis Danielle Shelov,Soccer Marc Sheridan, X Country/Outdoor Track John S.icinski, Ice Hockey Lauren Siegel, Soccer Marisa Silveri, Volleyball Nicole Silvestri, Volleyball/Softball Reid Simonton, Ice Hockey Geoffrey Sipperly, Soccer Eric Smith, Swimming Joshua Soldo, Baseball Nicole Solomos, Soccer/Lacrosse Peter Sorensen, Cross Country Erin Spaulding, Soccer Peter Spaulding, Swimming Sarah Spaulding, Swimming Stefanie Speanburg, Field Hockey Danielle Spitz, Soccer Alison Spring, Cross Country Dennis Stapf, Baseball Mark Stodden, Basketball Russell Stram, Outdoor Track . Pat Streck, Soccer Nathaniel Stuntz, Swimming Matthew Sugannan, Basketball Christina Taraborelli, Volleyball Robert TeCarr, Basketball Marcelo Tellez, Basketball Jennifer Terrell, Swimming Dawn Tessier, Tennis Chad Thompson, Ice Hockey George Tiggle, Outdoor Track Ray Tricozzi, Cross Country/Outdoor Track Luigi Villa, Ice Hockey Gretchen Voegler, Voileyball Chantal Von Saber, Tennis Karen Watts, Swimming Kevin Weedmark, Football Michael White, Football Andrew Will, Ice Hockey Eric Williams, Lacrosse Kevin Wilmot, Soccer Geoffrey Wolfe, Swimming Matthew Woodrow, Swimming ;Michelle Woodward, Indoor Track/ Out- door Track NicolaZarrelli,Soccer MichaeiMartin,XCountryllndoorTrack/ r---------------------~---~----, Outdoor Track Greg Mattchett, Football Michelle McCarte, Field Hockey Owen McCarthy, Lacrosse Megan McCarthy, Swimming Robert McHugh, Soccer Alyson.McKee, Swimming Jonatha Meade, Swimming William Mehleisen, Football/Baseball Eric Menard, Swimming John Metz, Cross Country Adam Meyers, Baseball Carey Miller, Outdoor Track Kelly Monahan, Swimming Debora Montano, Basketball/Softball Russell Monteith, Ice Hockey Carlos Mantilla, Indoor Track/Outdoor Track 1994-1995 ATHLETES All athletes should pick up their awar.ds in Alumni· Gym Administrative Offices this week between 9am- 4pm

Sports The Concordiensis • May 27, 1995 • Page 19 Union's Beach V-ball Tourney a Success By Jason Starr Co-Sports Editor Once again the Union College Beach Volleyball Tournament sponsored by Fij·i raised a substantial amount of money for their favorite charity. According to event organizer and promoter Grant D. Trest, the event raised upwards of $3000 for Schenectady' Big Brothers/Big Sisters pro- · gram. Much praise is due to Grant and his co-organizer Gregory Kalish for planning the tournament and. pulling it off without a hitch, in the sixth year of its existance. The philanthropic cause of the event is: aH well and good but the real treat of the weekend, excluding,the free food, was the action on the sand. Parents, students, and even some native Schenectadoids were all treated to some excellent two-man and six- woman action. The women kicked things offon Friday with the preliminaries of the six-on-six tourney. There were five entries, four of Which were Greek teams, and one inde- pendent entry called the Klunkers. By six o'clock that night the finals were set. The final two, Tri-Delta and the Klunkers, were set for a Sunday afternoon final. The two-on-two men's tournament be- gan on Saturday. It was a beautiful day and many of the scholars who hadjust pre- sented their undergraduate work at the Steinmetz Symposium made it out to re- lax and take in some matches. Add to that some parents of the participants, and a few young children ofthe cook (with unlim- ited supplies ofpopsicles), and you've got a very diverse group of spectators. By 3 o 'dock on Sunday, the field of sev- enteen was narrowed to the final four. The remaining teams were Fiji, Delta Upsilon, Chi Psi, and the independent and coed Archanamundi. DU and ArchanamuncJi battled in the first semi .. final. The inde~ pendents beatthe favored DU to claim the first spot in the finals. It was then up to Chi Psi to prevent Fiji from returning to the Championship game for the sixth straight year. After a valiant effort, Chi Psi fell short. The final matches for both the women and rnen were set. The women played first in what was now afour-on-fourtoumament. I guessyoucan change the rules mid-way through if both teams agree to do it. The match was won in two games by the Klunkers. They suc- cessfully defended their title and remained Queens ofthe Sand. The men's final, which was now really a coed affair given Archanam undi 's ros- ter, was just squeezed in before the rain. came. The Fiji representatives beat their worthy opponents in two games allowing for the Fiji house to repeat as Kings of their own sand. The success of this event can be attrib- uted to the teams that participate, the spec- tators that come and hang out for the week- end, the generous grants of alumni, par- ents, and faculty, the Fiji house that orga- nizes it, and the support ofBig Brothers/ Big Sisters. It is always one of my favor- ite weekends of the year, and with contin- ued support from the campus, the tourna- ment will be raising money for this noble cause for many years to come. Please watch out for next year's tournament ami lend your support. Union Crew Goes To Nationals by·Jeffery Druzba Concordiensis Staff Two weekends ago was a wild time for both of the Union boats that had made it to Nationals as well as for the Union specta- tors that turned out to watch. The Varsity Women's Four of Caroline Nemet, CeCe Buchanan, Sandy Druzba, Kenley Smith, and coxswain Katie Murray had been.at the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia since Thursday. They qualified for semi-finals on Friday by finishing second in their heat. At their point, theirs was the fifth fastest time out of more than 30 boats that had entered the event. Saturday's semi-final produced another second place finish which placed the women in the finals with five other boats. Later in the afternoon, the finals were run, and the women placed an impressive fifth. Thus, the Varsity Women's Fourdrew it's season to a close as about the fifth fastest boat on the east- ern coast. On Sunday, the Novice Men's Eight raced at the Champion National Regatta in Worcester, MA. The boat of John Cloutier, Dana Wood, Nick Papanickolas, Jay Monnell, Andrew Mallios, Andrew Siegel, Bryan Serrell, Rich Apostolou,and coxswain Mel iss a Infurna faced huge corn- petition that included the Dad Vail Novice winners from the day before, Georgetown. The men qualified for the third level final in the morning and finished third in that final in the afternoon. Both boats ended their seasons as well as the Union Crew season, until the fall. Mark W. was unable to win the Jeep Chero- kee in the Monopoly game at McDonald's on the way to both race sites. Everyone looks forward to next season already, and Mark anticipates his Monopoly win before the contest ends at the end of the month. COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND 1995 Picnic, Dinner Ticket Distribution ATTENTION SENIORS: The tickets which you and you families ordered for the June 9 senior class picnic and June I 0 senior class dinner will be distributed through campus mail after June I, 1995. The picnic is open without charge to all seniors (and one guest each) free of charge. Tickets, however, are required so the College knows how much food to order and prepare. If you haven't ordered tickets yet, please contact Darlene Miller in Fero House, x6681, immediately. The dinner is also open without charge to all seniors (and two guests each) free of charge. Additional guests are welcome at $12.50 each. Reply cards for the dinner were sent to your families. If you are not certain whether your family has reserved seats at the dinner, please contact Darlene Miller in Fero House, x6681. Senior Alert URGENT ALERT TO SENIORS: Some seniors reutmed the reply card requesting tickets for the Class of 1995 picnic on June 9, 1995, but did not write their name on the card. Needless to say, without your name the College is unable to distribute tickets to you! To be safe, pleas~ check with Darlene Miller in Fero House, x6681, to make certain your name is on the list for ticket distribution. Rugby ... Continued from page 20 at 5. A late run by Union's Mike \'Gin- seng Roof' Gill and a phenomenal kick by George \Sizzle Chest\ Bazos set up a long field goal by Brian \I Can Out Hype Anyone Else On The\ Field to give Union 3 more points. Despite a great effort by Union though, Plattsburgh was able to come through in the end, capitalizing on three Union penalties to win the game 14-8. Al- though Union was ousted from the tour- nament with this loss, the Dutchman made a dent in the run for the State Crown this coming fall. To end Union's season, the Dutchman competed intheirfirstannual split squad senior-underclassmen game. The se- niors led by George Bazos (15 points) were upset by the puisne underclassmen 31-17. The only excitement for these- niors was the extra point converted by junior Billy \the Kid\ Ackerbauer. The underclassmen were led by Pike \The. · headaches continue\ Mody, Myles \Hello I'm Gonna Kill You\ Kellam, and newcomer John \Just Don't Give . Him PCP\ Poor. The day after, Union tested their skills against one ofthe top club sides around, the Albany Knickerbockers. At the end of the first half, despite a good effort by Union, the Knicks led 18-0. Union failed to give up though. After an in- spirational speech by the wearer of the magic socks, the Dutchman came out fighting. Tom \Locomotive\ Milner barreled through five Knicks and dove into the endzone for his first Union try ever. Brown converted the kick and the · score was 18-7. Union continued to dominate the second ha]f with great plays from such players as Hatch, Stinkee, Giff, Lux, Pike, Wheels, and Mark D' Ambruouso. Late in the game, Brown was able to capitalize on the great playing of the aforementioned players, to pick up two loose balls and sprint by the Knickerbocker backs, avoid alien warships and dodge a radioactive minefield for two tries. He converted both kicks to give Union a 21-18 lead. In the end though, the Knicks proved why they have received national atten- tion, as their team captain netted a 57 yard field goal as time expired to win 22-21. The team would like to thank our coaches Tom Milner and Skip Aycox for all their hard work and dedication throughout the season. Please look for the Dutchman to return next fall on Li- brary field as they battle for their first state championship. Friday, June 9th: 7:00pm- Class of 1995 Picnic (Alexander Field, ticket required) 8:30pm- LaserShow& Concert Featuring The Figgs - -

May 27, 1995 PAGE20 Union MEs Race in SAE Mini- Baja East Competition hy Bill H.ice Contri bllting U'riter t Jnitntl'olkt_',t' tctun1ed to one o! tl1t' prt'IHit~r-evt·nts in auto-rac- ing \\ ith :l tnp to Morgantown, Wc:;t Vtrgmia, and the ~AE Mini- Ba]a Last Con;rt·tillon The big- g,cst scht1o b i il :·acmg aprcarcd to comrck in tl:i~; unique event An event that featurl's the· be~! off-- road racing \Chicles that .:an lloat and man(:~!\ er through a Jeep water course Under the leaaership of Mikc\Burgcr King\ Valvo and Bruce\Team Vivarin\ Schell, the team began a journey to better the efforts of a I Qth place finish in I Q94 Forty-six schools regis- tered and thirty-si:-; teams passed the inspection to compete for the title defended h~ Virginia Polytech The events began with prom- ise as the design, safety, and cost _iulfgcs r:ttcd the tc:11n in .t\\'elth place upon entering the racing C\ents However. this club would ncntualh need a challenge to o\ crcomc 111 order to rrovc rts mettle t )n the \\a\ to the first n ent of the Ja\ _ the car e\rcri- t'rlL·cd o\\'rhcating prohkms The pit crew went to work and still grabbed 21 sl in a~:>celeration, and 26th in top speed. The roof was modified for the hill climb (see picture) and the land maneuver- ability events to take 9th and 19th places in both events_ Unfortu- nately, the team received no points in the stability and suspen- sion event because of an unfortu- nate incident in the first portion of the course_ Team Union ended the first day in 18th place with anticipation for higher glory. The final day of the competi- tion would bring the teams to Mountain Top Raceway for the water maneuverability event and the endurance race. The car per- formed admirably in the water to finish with a 9th place finish as Brian Weed cut the through the water like a power boat to finish the obstacle course in just over a Union's #32 racing in Morgantown, West Virginia. Union finished in eleventh place out of forty six schools. (photo by B. Ri'ceffC) minute. The four-hour endurance lay ahead as the main event in front of a few hundred spectators. The race started on a hill with all thirty- six cars lined up for the green flag. Union's Brian Weed overtook many of the slower competitors to reach fifth place when he finished the first lap on the way past the reviewing stands. The car was un- stoppable as it muscled its way through the course and beyond a few minor problems which the pit crew was able to fix until the final lap. Fifteen minutes remained in the race when driver Mike Valvo passed by the pits. A problem was noticed by the crew, but Mike de- cided to continue in the hopes of picking up another lap and key points for the team. Mike entered the water and traveled about twenty feet before the back end dropped and the car sank like the Titanic. Valvo escaped without injury as the vehicle sunk into about fifteen feetofwater. Union finished tenth in the enduro while completing thir- teen laps. Tennessee Tech won the race with Clarkon a close sec- ond. This kept Clarkson close enough to take the overall title of the event Union finished in eleventh place, only three points out ofthe top ten. Tenn. Tech took second and Lawrence Tech. got third. The Union team, in ad- dition to those mentioned before, consisted of Dan Crayon, Chuck Howarth, Bill Rice, Joe Bollentin, and Jim Pierson, was happy with the results of the ef- fort but look to field a team for next year to bring the Union Rac- ing Team to Orlando, Florida, for next year's event. With a little luck and a few modifications, this team could take the title away from Clarkson in sunny Florida next May. All students should consider this opportunity to join the racing team next year to feel the satisfaction .of building a car and racing against other schools. Union SAE also sent a For- mula car to compete in Detroit in an indy-car type event against many of the top schools in the nation. This was the first time Union sent a car to the event, and the team of Brad Julicher, Brian Reh, Gregg Walters, and Jim Troy finished among the middle of the pack in most the events held outside of the Pontiac Silverdome. The SAE Air Cargo team of Jay Richitelli and Craig Haskell also . participated in the Air Cargo event at Daytona Beach. This team built a model airplane under certain specifications.. to carry cargo and fly patterns for points. The team scored a perfect score in the re- port section of the event, but could not finish the event with that con- sistency. Next year promises a bright fu- ture for the Baja team as they will compete in Orlando to finally win the title. Special thanks go out to the Profs. Wilk, Bucinell, Milillo, and Wicks, as well asJim Howard and Roland Pierson for their sup- port in these efforts. We look for- ward to seeing more students par- ticipate in these races next year. Rugby Falls Short of State Title ended up advancing to the semi- finals against their archenemies, Plattsburgh. Courtesy of the Rugby Team Men's Rugby finished their season this t weekend after -..,;(.' • ;''J> '•' competing in States and scrim- maging one of the top club teams in the country. Union traveled to the middle of farmland to take on ' ' ~ a mighty Binghamton team in the first half, threatening to score on first round of the State Tourna- several occasions, only to be held ment. back by the awesome Union Binghamton dominated the serum led by Matt \Daddy Long Legs\ Forester, Craig \Pretty Boy\ Prunier and Seth \Animal\ Cheiken. The second half started off much like the first with Union on the defensive, but this was to change. Late in the game, in Union's own half of the field, Andy \Minus a Nut\ Frisbie dished off a loose ball to Seth \blah\ Brown. Brown took the ball to the weak side of the field and after penetrating into Binghamton territory dished off to Chris \Sha\ Bangs who took it in for the try (delt). Adam \Jockey\ Schwartz converted the kick and Union took a 7-0 lead In the end, Union's defense stayed tough and the Dutchman Plattsburgh, last seasons num- ber one team, came out strong from the beginning, scoring off the opening kickoff. The Union line of Rick \I travel with a fan club\ Scharf, Rob \Mr. Utility'\ Cressman, Will \The Only Intel- ligihle Word I Can Utter Is KILL~· Hatch, and Cookie failed to let down and .provided mostoftheof- fense in the game. Union fought right back as Brown caught a Bangs kick for a try to tie the score continued on page 19

