~ .. nnrnr. t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number VIII Y aron Svor-ay Ignites Union Audienc:e by Michelle Ellis News Editor The man who infiltrated the neo-Nazimovement undercover, Y aron S:voray, drew the largest crowd for a speaker that Union College has seen a:ll trimester. The Reamer Center Auditorium was tilled to ma~imum capacity so that not even standing room was left. Students were beipg turned away from the door, as it was physically impossible to fit · anyone else in the auditorium. It was clear that the crowd consisted of students, faculty members, and local residents of Schenectady, as well as visitors from surround- ing. towns. There were also local high schOol students present, members of local Jewish agen- cies arrived, and even a rabbi turned out for the event. Y aron Svoray spoke passion- ately about his experiences a8 a neo-Nazi infitrator. By using a humorous tone, Svoray was able to .soften the shock of his tale. He claimed that the \neo-Nazis are violent, numerous and deadly.\ He insisted that the nee- Nazis are powerful, high-paid professionals who pose a serious threat to German society if they should ever be united. Svoray also described what he perceived to be a threatening \swing to the right\ in countries other than Germany such as France, Rus- sia, and Austria. The most dan- gerous ofneo-Nazis, however; is according to Svoray, a Califor- nian millionaire named Willis Carter. In speaking about the compo- sition of German society today, Svoray claimed that there are three types of Germans, those who are apologetic for the Holo- caust, those who are apathetic about the Holo.caust, and those whoare deniers of the Holocaust. He said that the government of Germany today is comparable to the government that existed prior to the rise of Hitler in the late 1920's. Svoray characterized today' s German government as one that is \Skk and tired and won't do anything. \ After he told his story he was met with an overwhelming stand- ing ovation and bombarded with questions. Svoray carefully chose the words that he used to re- sponded to each question, and it was apparent that he tried to side- step several questions by pro- viding elusive responses. When he was questioned about the Schenectady, New York November 2 , 1995 Yaron Svoray speaks on his experiences as an infiltrator of the Neo-Nazi movement (photo by Rick Lederer for The ConcordiensiS) agenda of the neo-Nazis, Svoray suggested that the neo-Nazis are interested in obtaining power for the sake of power. When asked if he feared for his life after com- ing out from cover Svoray said, \In life; we don't often do the right thing. What I did was 100% right and pure and for the right reasons. I. did it because I had to do it and I won't spend my life looking over my shoulder .... terrorism wi~ by ter- rorizing.\ In concluding his story, Svoray spoke of his discontent with the German government, which has not arrested people in the neo- Nazis movement. The speaker urged students to contact the German Embassy and demand that the government in- vestigate the activities of the neo- Nazis. In a powerful emotional display, Svoray discussed how every individual is personally re- sponsible for his or her actions. He referred to a famous quota- tion that is associated with the Holocaust: \In Germany they first came for the communists, and I did not speak up because I was not a communist, and then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak up because I was not a Jew, and then they came for the ,, Catholics, and I did not spe~ up becau~e I was a Protestant; and then they came for me, and by that time no one was left to speak up.\ Professor's Infraction Up for Debate by Diana Sedita Editor-in-Chief This past Monday, Concordi- ensiswas given the Rep_9rtofthe Faculty Ad Hoc Committee re- garding an infraction committed by Professor Frank Gado of the English Departni.ent. These docu- ments were given by Gado to a student in his class who is also a Concordy staff member, and were then passed on to the editor. The infraction occurred, ac- cor~ing to the report, \after a power failure on Thursday eveningoffinal exam week(Win- ter '94). Dean Underwood [who is no longer Dean ofFaculty] de- cided that students with a Friday exam should either take the exam when scheduled or a day later, Saturday.\ According to the Fac- ulty Manual it is the deans' re- sponsibility to schedule final ex- ams in conjunction with the reg- istrar. \Instead of offering the exam on Saturday, Professor Gado allowed students the option of taking a make-up during the first week ofthe next term.\ Due to Gado's infraGtion, Dean Underwood asked the Faculty Review Board's approval to can- eel Gado' s cost-of-1 i ving raise for the next year as punishment, and they voted in agreement. The Dean also withdrew the offer of the Washington Irving Chair. A Faculty Ad Hoc Committee was fanned at the request ofGado by Gado and Dean Cool. This committee consisted of Profes- sors Erik Hansen, who was not available for comment, Michael Frohlich, who has since left the ·co.Jiege, and David Hemmendinger, who refused to comment because it is a faculty matter that is. still under discus- sion. The Ad Hoc Committee \rec- ommended three fi!Ctions: that the lost salary be restored to Profes- sor Gado, that the Administration apologize to Professor Gado for the action taken against him, and that the Faculty and Administra- tion discuss ways to ensure that they both will follow the existing procedures for faculty review, so as to maintain trust within the College.\ One thing that was not men- tioned in the report was the issue ofa release which Professor Gado refused to sign. This release would have penrtitted the Admin- istration to discuss matters from Gado' s confideqtial personnel file with the Faculty Review Board and the Ad Hoc Committee. Ad- ministrators say that the failure to reach an agreement on this mat- ter legally limits their ability to discuss details of Prof. Gada's case. By signing the release, Gado would have waived the right to sue the College if anything nega- tive or inflammatory were re- vealed from the contents of his personnel file. Though both sides acknowledge the existence of this issue, the Ad Hoc Committee chose to omit all mention of it from their report, saying only that \without cooperation from cur- rent and former administrators, the FRB and Prof Gado were our only sources of information about the events at issue.\ Professor Underwood, who was Dean of Faculty at the time, said that at some time in the fu- ture he would issue a statement regarding the issue; but the fac- ulty will be the first ones to see it. Underwood also made it clear that he is \trying not to get deeply in- volved.\ Professor Weiner, also a former dean, stated that \the members of the Committee were faced with a dilemma not of their own mak- ing, and because of principles and legal problems could not be given the proper information because Professor Gado did not sign the release.\ Dean of Faculty Linda Cool made it clear that she felt it was \unfair\ ofthe Committee to say that the Administration acted \in- appropriately,\ since they were unable to examine the confiden- tial personnel matters because Gado did not sign the release. It has been affirmed that a reso- lution will be attempted in the future and that many elements of this story could not be printed because they are confidential and protected by state law or up for discussion. Inside News ··························~········ 2-4 World News ..•....................... 5 Science & Medicine .. oe ......... 6 OP/ED ........•....................... 7-8 A&E ....•.................................. 9 Elections u ..................... 10-11 Features ........................... 12-13 · Personals &Classifieds ..... 14 Sports ...................... ~~·~~···· 15-16

Page 2 • November 2, 1995• The Concordiensis Campus News UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY OCTOBER23~,1995THROUGHSUNDAY, 0CTOBER29, 1995 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995: 1 :00 PM Achilles Rink area 4:55PM South Lane TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1995: 12:30AM WellsHouse 5:29PM West CC!Ilege 9:45PM Social Science Bldg. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1995: 3:20AM Fox/Davidson Lot lQ.JQ AM S&EBidg. 2:00PM Silliman Hall THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1995: 2:58AM Reamer Center 3:23PM Reamer Center 10:01 PM Child Care Center FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1995: 12:50 AM Fox House 2:00AM Achilles Rink 8:15AM Alexander Lane 12:15 PM Child Care Center SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28,1995: I: 17 AM Davidson 2:15AM Psi Upsilon 2:15AM Psi Upsilon 6·15PM Achilles Rink II :52 PM Hickok HoHse SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29, 19?5: l :09 AM Memorial Chapel area 2·50PM North College 3.00 PM Campus Grounds INCIDENT. PERSONAL INJURY/ANIMAL: Visitor's dog jumped at and bit a student. Medical treatment required. D.og owner identified and County Health notified. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Eye bolt for barrier chain broken. Cause not deter- mined. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Eggs thrown at house. SAFETY HAZARD/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Students throwing eggs out of windows into Seward Place. SPD re- ceived complaints from residents. THEFT: VCR stolen from mom 010. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/EXHIBI- TIONISM: Vendor subjected to taunts and was '~mooned~' by students. Suspects identified. THEFT: Comp'-1ter and keyboard stolen from lab area. THEFT: Wet-vac missing from house- keeping sup,PIY room. ATTEMPTED THEFT: Staff member attempted to take food itemsfrorn secured area in Dutch Hollow. Observed by Cam~ pus Safety Officer. Subject identified, items recovered. Disciplinary action taken. THEFT: Computer stolen from Campus Store display. NOISE COMPLAINT: Off Campus resi dents complained about noise emanating from campus. Noise abated. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Garbage & insects placed 'in Student's room. Ex- tenninator notified. SAFETY HAZARD: Students observed scaling ladders to foofofrink. Suspects ran off as officers approached. SAFETY HAZARD: Report of vehicle driving in an erratic and unsafe manner. Vehicle believed to be operated by student. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Lackof due care in use of Child Care Center. Use privilege temporarily suspended. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to overindulgence. Paramedics no- titled. Student transported to hospital. Conduct Charges tiled. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLA TION/PROPERTY DAMAGE: False fire alarm ... pull box intentionally acti- vated. Pull box damaged in process. Life Safety Violation Notice tiled. SlJBST ANCE ABUSE: Drug parapher naliaobserved in student room, Item con- fiscated. ConductCharges filed. THEFT: Student lost wallet in Alumni Gym. Wallet allegedly \found\ by unau- thorized visitor. Subject at tempted to collect a reward for the return of the wal- let. Wallet was eventually returned mi- nus Calling Card and cash. Subject lo- cated and identitied, advised off campus. LIFE SAFf:TY VIOLATION/SAFETY HAZARD: Fire alarm caused by smoke machine. Fire exits blocked by furniture obstructi11g emergency exit. Several resi- dents did not evacuate. Lite Safety Vio- lation Notice filed. Exits cleared. SllBSTANCE ABllSE: Visitor found laying on ground intoxicated. Identified and assisted back to host's residence. THEFT: Student reports room key taken from room. Possibly associated with anonymous notes being sent to student. Room lock chat1ged. MISSING PERSONS: SPD requests as sistance in attempt to locate two missing persons believed to be in the company of a Union Student.

s .. Campus News Students Reach Out to Hamilton Hill by Adrian MacLean News Staff Professor Sharon Gmelch's In- troduction to Cultural Anthropol- ogy Classes participated in a com- munity survey to help improve Hamilton Hill and V a:le commu- nity. . The Troy Methodist Confer- ence awarded the Schenectady Economic Initiative, led by coor- dinator JohnDetwyler, a $1 ,ZOO grant to be used to improve these communities. They created a sur- vey aimed to learn about the heeds -of residents living in Hamilton Hill and Vale. The Schenectady Inter-City Ministry and the Neighborhood Based Alliance are two sponsor- ing groups for the project. Union College students participated, as well as students Jrom RPl and Schenectady County Community College. The survey was designed to learn what improvements could benefit the residents of Hamilton Hill ar.1d Vale. Each student was matched with a member of tile community to conduct .inter- views. Prior to visiting homes, a three-hour training session was held to prepare the students. With six more packets to go, . the survey is expected to continue for another week, and, at its con- clusion, 500 or 1 S% ofthe homes will have had input in changing their community. According to Detwyler, the project is for the community and not the govem- mentand coordinators. \We want the community to take charge and make a better place for them- selves to live in,\ Detwyler said. Volunteers want this to be a democratic process toward im- provement. Promotion for the project will continue in The Com- municator, the Hamilton Hill and Vale Community newspap~r. The results thus far show intense interest and enthusiasm to create an environment where their chil- dren can play in the street and new businesses can open and flourish. The well-being and future of their children growing up in this com- munity is one ofthe primary con- cerns that is continuously resur- facing. \I noticed that people wanteCi a change and recognized that there is a problem in their com- munity,\ sophomore Rachel Rothschild said. Roughly 40% of the people interviewed gave their phone numbers and names for future contact. The Schenectady Eco- nomic Initiative group hopes to notify them in November and hold a meeting in December to present the results. In keeping with community involvement, committees to devise a plan will ideally be formed by these resi- dents . A supermarket and day care opportunities. are in the highest demand. Union's anthropology stu- dents had positive experiences and became interested in im- proving the community, accord- ing to Professor Gmelch. Each student had an opportunity to act as a researcher through inter- views with four to eight residents of the Ham iltoH Hill and Vale c.ommunities. Many students found the people they inter- viewed to be more approachable than some member of their own community. \I think this forced them to break a lot of stereo types,\ Professor Gmelch said. \I had real misconceptions about Schenectady, but once I went to visit, l realized that the people were real,\ freshman Ted Wallace said. The Concordiensis • November 2, 1995 •-Page 3 The Dcp.ulment of Cla<>ics and The Cl>s<ks Club announce .1 ll~cturL'. DANCE, WINE, MADNESS: Aspects of Dionysos in Greek Tragedy and Art ALBERT I !EN RIC! IS Elioi.Pruicssor of Greek Lil~raturL' I larv~1r.d University \\'L'dnc~day ~ :\:l)\\\.\'nll:lt.~r lqq::; 4:30p.m. College Center Auchtorium fo~ '2.b '~lAYS -to heLp SA\e nte eA~t\-\ Q\L.L l--9XJ-Lt8S-8887e f!l!l A Public Sort.~ leo of ~, This Publk:allon -·~·· Earth Share~ Students Assist City.Mission Union Students Lead by Aileen Quigley News Staff Rising to the challenge to make a difference in their commu- nity; thirty-five Union students and recent alumni helped clean the Schenectady City Mission this past Saturday, October 28th. This mobilization of benevolence was in conjunction with Make A Dif- ference Day. USA Today and the Points ofLight Found,ation spon- sored a nation-wide day of volunteerism. The purpose was to set aside a day to do something to benefit your community and, under the direction of Michael Lynch of the Office of Alumni Affairs, they did just that. About twenty-five current students (10 from Wells Hou&e alone) and ten alumni worked at the City Mission in shifts from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. to 3:00p.m. doing various kinds of activities. Amy Berg. a Wells House resident, along with Emily Smith. helped sort over 400 pairs of shoes donated by Cohoes. These shoes will be given to Schenectady residents for holiday gifts and to the residents of the shelter. The dining room, the male wing of the shelter, a counseling room and an office space all received a new coat of paint. Outside the building, the grounds were raked and cleared of garbage, and State Street was cleaned .... ~ up as well. The most memorable part ofthe experience, according to Lynch, was \seeing life through the eyes oft-he homeless.\ The residents of the shelter also helped out in the refurbishing, and the interac- tion was \enlightening.·· Not only did the students get a chance to meet the residents, but talking with them and observing how they live \put things in perspective. It made you realize what exactly was important.'' Berg described it as a \fun time,\ and said she would definitely do it again. She may just get the chance. Lynch expressed sincere interest in revisiting the shelter in the spring to help out with odd jobs again. If you missed attending the event this past weekend, extra hands will certainly be appreciated in the upcoming season. Any details regarding further activities in the shelter will be posted in Concor- · diensis. Don't wait for spring to make a difference in your com- munity: there are many opportunities every day to make your pres- ence felt. If you have started a project, you may have already begun to reap the rewards that come with doing something unself- ish. If nnt, y(m can still offer to baby-sit for an unemployed parerit for free so that they can go on job interviews ... keep an elderly • shut-in company for an afternoon each week ... start a canned good • drive in your residence hall to be donated to a food closet. .. The possibilities are endless! ROTC Training Day by Michelle R. Ellis News Editor On Saturday, October 28, two Union students, Cadet James Bascom '96 and Cadet Mike Gifford '97, were leaders of the Army Reserve Officer Training Core (ROTC) Field Training Exercises. The Field Training. Exercises (FTX) occur three different times dur- ing the year. They are intended to provide re- alistic combat experi- ence in a safe environ- ment. Over 100 cadets fmm different compa- nies attended the FTX, which consisted of two parts. Each cadet partici- pated in a land naviga- tion course, where the cadet had to manipulate a compass and a map to cross several thousand meters through the woods. The second portion of the day was devoted to the Squad Tactical Reaction and As- sessment Course (STRAC). The cadets carne together in squads and were led by juniors. The squads were given missions, and the. seniors supervised and graded the cadets. The seniors also served as opposition forces against the squads. Cadet Bascom is the Battalion Executive Officer and is second in command of the entire Mohalk Battalion, which con- sists of RPI, Suny Albany, Siena College, Union College, Hudson Valley Community College, and the College of St. Rose. Bascom had the enormous responsibility of organizing and operating a staff which ran the FTX. Bascom su- pervised the FTX operation and was accountable for the safety of the proceedings. He commented on how pleased he was with the FTX. \My staff worked really well together to set this up, and it. provided excellent realistic train- ing for everyone involved.\ While reflecting about the day's proceedings. Cadet Bascom stated, \We had a lot of rain which in turn caused flash flooding. So the small intermittent streams rap- idly became rivers. The STRAC lanes crossed two of these. One cadet got swept 20-30 meters downstream before the seniors pulled him out. The conditions did make the training more realistic, however; everyone got soaked, but it added to the fun.\ Cadet Gifford is a Platoon Ser- geant of the Alpha Company, which is located at Siena College. He is responsible for a platoon that consists of forty cadets. Dur- ing the FTX, he served as a squad leader for the Squad Tactical As- sessment Course (STRAC). ,, Gifford reviewed his responsibilities dur- ing the FTX. He said that his squad was given a mission to ac- complish and then he was evaluated for over twenty minutes and graded on a 16- point scale of leader- ship qualities. Cadet Gifford also has fond memo- ries of the FTX. \It's good to have pressure on you .. people are shooting at you with blanks. I had a lot of fun playing out in the rain, getting thrown in the woods, getting re- ally wet, and getting to know a bunch of people from other schools really well.\ Cadet Gifford believes that his experi- ence with ROTC is very valuable. \It's not like the movies where you are trained to be a lieuten- ant. This is different. You are prepared for the real world and receive excellent leadership train- ing.\

· -Minutes 10/30- -Members Absent- -Tolkoff, Brown -Motion to amend min1,1tes by adding the names of the Forum members in charge of achiev- ing goals set by Forum in 10/23 by Malaspina and 2nd Camara. Passes 9·1 with Beswick abstaining. -Motion to accept minutes oflO/ 23 by Strosberg and 2nd by Dougherty. Passes l0-0. *Chase verbally reprimands Proctor for being late to meet- ing. -Manny Cunnanan is the new forum member as Junior class secretary /treasurer. -Officer Reports- -STROSBERG- -The enthusiasm and school spirit at the Hockey games this weekend were fantastic! ! Achilles rink has become a great home-ice advantage and the pom-poms and face painting increased fan partiCipation!! A booster club is in the planning and more infonnation will be available next week. *Winter Affair semi-formal dance to be held FEB. 26, 1996. - \Night on the Town\ a semi- formal date function to be held on winter. More infonnation com-· ing. -PELLISH - Elections went well this past Friday. Manny Cuhnanan won the Junior class secretary/ Tresurer position. Run-offs for the fresh~mn class reps. and the V.P. of Mutlti-Cultural Affairs will be held this Friday! -IFC- - Dates for mae! rush are set. Rush will begin January 10, 192{i -NEW BUSINESS- - . -CAMARA- •some budgets need to be ap- proved: Equestrian Club: will be dis- cussed next week Water Polo: need more money for nets and equiptment -Shapiro motions that the bud- get set forth by the Finance Com- mittee be approved. 2nd by Lapinski and passes 12-0. -STEVE- - AI umni will be holding meet- ings this Saturday, Nov 4. - Students are asked to come and provide input into decisions -Faculty Review- · . -Have contacted Harvard, John· Hopkins and sorrie other schools for ideas. Review is planned for the end of each year. *Campus Planner came to Union last week but there was not a lot campus will be held in the of student input. Plannin is now Bis Brothers/Big Sisters -iExpands At Union by Emily Battis News Staff Starting Winter Term, Big Brothers/Big Sisters will be offer- ing a new program on campus. The program will pair twenty Union College students with twenty \at risk\ children between the ages of twelve and fifteen. Starting in January, every Sunday afternoon both Bigs and Littles will come to campus for educa- tional, cultural, and athletic events. The expansion of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Program is made possible by a $10,333 grant from the New York State Depart- ment of Youth and the Schenectady Youth Bureau. The grant, which is intended specifi- cally for furthering the Big Brother/Big Sisters program at Union, will enable stu~ents who have previously been unable to join the program because oftrans- portation restraints to become in- volved. Transportation will be provided for the students either by picking them up by van or hand- ing out bus tokens. The Union Co liege Program Coordinator for Big Brothers/ Rig Sisters, Stephanie Wolos, said they are looking for more students to be- come involved with this hew pro- gram: Currently there are 70 Union students paired with an area child, and 216 s~udents who are involved with Big Brothers/ Big Sister's other programs. In order to prepare for the influx of new students into the program and to smoothly implement the new program, Big Brothers/Big Sisters will be hiring a new case worker. :Free 1996 ~ Poc~t Cafendar Witfi $25 Purcfiase 7/ie Open f})oor a unique 6ooK.§tore 128-136 JayS t. Sdienectatfy, 9b\ 518-346-2719 under-Way. ***Camara angry about the use of the 5 minute rule being used only for him. -Shapiro- - Has many reservations about the quality .of the SAC • and some ofthe ways it seems to be influenced by nonO-stu- · dent members on how to de- . cide issues: Not very objective committee. Discussions on this topic lasted for a while and will be continued in the future. -SCHAFFER- - Need to pass some club constitutions: Women's Step Tearn: Camara motions to accept and is 2nd by Beswick. Passes 11- · 0. Virtual' U: Miller motions to accept and is 2nd by Beswick. Passes 11-0. -Campus'Planneris set to go and four students will be ap- pointed to his staff. There will be two females and two males and two Greeks and two inde- pendents. -Liason for the Campus Fac- ulty is needed -Representative of the stu- dent body to dining Services is needed. -Meeting brough to a close by a unanimous vote at 7:11 PM. Campus News Election Results: RunoffElectio.n to Be !feld The results of elections held Friday, October 28th for Vice-Presi- . ·dent of Multicultural Affairs, Junior Class Secretaryffreasurer, and Freshman Representativewere as foJ:lows: Manny Cunanan won an outright victory for the position of Junior Class Secretaryffreasurer. · In very dose elections fortl}e VP ofMulticultural Affairs and fresh- man Representatives, no candidate received the required number of votes to win in either election. Runoff ~ledions will be Jleld this Friday, November3rd, to decide the winners. The tumQut for the election was commendable. Slightly less than 25% of the student body voted for the new VP position and approxi- mately 50%ofthe Class ofl999votingfortheir newrepresentatives. Let's keep the voter turnout high. Please come out Friday and cast yoMrvote. lJNION L!lJNDRY 561 NOTT ST. SCH'DY QP.EN 'BAM TO' 1·0 :30PM ,OAll Y SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS Make Your Vote Count! Vote for Jim Conroy Endorsed by Democratic, Liberal and Independence parties. From now until the end of Spring Term GET NEW SPEAKERS TAX··FREEII MOM'S STEREO 3 905 State Street Schenectady 393-4677 Boston Acoustic's FREE CD with purchase tc S1 Sl he de il1 Cl w 0 G til m pl fr fr ~u s, -

Page 4 • November 2, 1995 • The C()ncordiensis -Minutes 10/30- -Members Absent- -Tolkoff, Brown -Motion to amend minutes by adding the names of the Forum members in charge of achiev- ing goals set by Forum in 10/23 by Malaspina and 2nd Camara. Passes 9-1 with Beswick abstaining. -Motion to accept minutes of 1 0/ 23 by Strosberg and 2nd by Dougherty. Passes 10-0. *Chase verbally reprimands Proctor for being late to meet- mg. -Manny Cunnanan is the new forum member as Junior class secretary /treasurer. -O£ficer Reports- -STROSBERG- -The enthusiasm and school spirit at the Hockey games this weekend were fantastic!! Achilles rink has become a great home-ice advantage and the pom-poms and face painting increased fan participation!! A booster dub is in the planning and more infonnation will be available next week. *Winter Affair semi-fonnal dance to be held FEB. 26, 1996. -\Night on the Town\ a semi- formal date function to be held on winter. More information com- ing. -PELUSH - Elections went well this past Friday. Manny Cuhnanan won the J•tmior class secretary/ Tresurer position. Run-offs for the freshamn class reps. and the V.P. of Mutlti-Cultural Affairs will be held this Friday! -IFC- - Dates for mael rush are set. Rush will beginJanuary 10,1926. -NEW BUSINESS- . -CAMARA- -some budgets need to be ap- proved: Equestrian Club: will be dis- cussed next week Water Polo: need more money for nets and equiptment -Shapiro motions that the bud- get set forth by the Finance Com- mittee be approved. 2nd by Lapinski and passes 12-0. -STEVE- -Alumni will be holding meet- ings this Saturday, Nov 4. - Students are asked to come and provide input into decisions -Faculty Review- -Have contacted Harvard, John Hopkins and some other schools for ideas. Review is planned for the endofeach year. *Campus Planner came to Union last week but there was not a lot campus will be held in the of student input. Plannin is now Big Brothers/Big Sisters . Expands At Union by Emily Battis News Staff Starting Winter Term, Big Brothers/Big Sisters will be offer- ing a new program on campus. The program will pair twenty Union College students with twenty \at risk\ chi! dren between the ages of twelve and fifteen. Starting in January, every Sunday afternoon both Bigs and Littles will come to campus for educa- tional, culturaL and athletic events. The expansion of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Program is made possihle hy a $10.333 grant from the Nev; York State Depart- ment of Youth and the Schenectady Youth Bureau. The grant, which is intended specifi- cally for furthering the Big Brother/Big Sisters program at Union, will enable stu~ents who have previously been unable to join the program because of trans- portation restraints to become in- volved. Transportation will be provided for the students either by picking them up by van or hand- ing out bus tokens. The Union College Program Coordinator for Big Brothers/ Big Sisters, StephaJ:lie Wolos, said they are looking for more students to be- come involved with this new pro- gram. Currently there are 70 Union students paired with an area child. and 216 students who are involved with Big Brothers/ Big Sister's other programs. In order to prepare for the influx of new students into the program and to stnoothly implement the new program. Big Brothers/Big Sisters will be hiring a new case worker. !free 1996 \ Poc~t Caferufar with $25 Purcfiase %e Open tJJoor a unique 6oo/(§tore:. 128-136 Jag St. Scfie.nectatfy, g{!y 518-346-2719 underway. ***Camara angry about the use of the 5 minute rule being used only for him. -Shapiro- - Has many reservations about the quality of the SAC and some of the ways it seems to be influenced by nonO-stu- dent members on how to de- cide issues. Not very objective committee. Discussions on this topic lasted for a while and will be continued in the future. -SCHAFFER- - Need to pass some club constitutions: Women's Step Team: Camara motions to accept and is 2nd by Beswick. Passes 11- 0. Virtual U: Miller motions to accept and is 2nd by Beswick. Passes 11-0. -Campus Planner is set to go and four students will be ap- pointed to his staff. There will be two females and two males and two Greeks and two inde- pendents. -Liason for the Campus Fac- ulty is needed -Representative of the stu- dent body to dining Services is needed. -Meeting brough to a close by a unanimous vote at 7:11 PM. Campus News Election Results: Runoff Election to Be Held The results of elections held Friday, October 28th for Vice-Presi- . dent of Multicultural Affairs, Junior Class Secretary !Treasurer, and Freshman Representative were as follows: Manny Cunanan won an outright victory for the position of Junior Class Secretary /Treasurer. In very close elections for the VP ofMulticultural Affairs and Fresh- man Representatives, no candidate received the required number of votes to win in either election. Runoff elections will be held this Friday, November 3rd, to decidethe winners. The turnout for the election was commendable. Slightly less than 25% of the student body voted for the new VP position and approxi- mately 50% of the Class of 1999 voting for their new representatives. Let's keep the voter turnout high. Please come out Friday and cast your vote. UNION LAUNDRY 561 NOTT ST. SCH'DY OPEN SAM TO 1 0:30PM DAILY J-\ \IVf\S}-1$ S~f}-1 \IV~\Sl-1 fREE SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS Make Your Vote Count! Vote for Jim Conroy Endorsed by Democratic, Liberal and Independence parties. From now until the end of Spring Term GET NEW SPEAKERS TAX FREE~ I MOM'S STEREO 3905 State Street Schenectady 393-4677 Boston Acoustic's FREE CD with purchase v un su Pr op spo to1 de tio Bi to Sn su he de in en wl of Gi tio me pn frc frc an Se -

World News Illegal Bord,er Crossings:· Needs To be Done! What by Marc Fost~r World News Staff As the 1996 presidential campaign gets underway, an old question is again at is- sue- immigration. Last year in California, Proposition. .187 presented voters with the option of stopping most stategovemmen~ spending on illegal aliens. It is a hot-but• ton issue in California, the state likely to determine the outcome.ofnext year's elec- tion with 54 electoral votes, without~hich Bill Clinton can't win. Congress has proposed some reforms to stitle illegal immigration. Rep. Lamar Smith of Texf!.s, ·chairman of the House subcommittee on irn.migration, has held heari~gs and favors widespread use ofbor- der patrols. It is a poli~y that was invoked in EI Paso resulting in declines in illegal crossings, crime and panhandling. Mean- a Clinton veto would nullify the president's prospects for re-election since 59%ofCali- fomians favored Proposition 187 and would not likely support a president op- posed· to their stake in the outcome ofthe debate over illegal immigration, Likely, then, is a bipartisan effort to curb illegal immigration, and with theRe- publican majority, a shift in the tenor of the debate to the right, resulting in the prin- ciples and pragmatism of the right control- ling the debate. The funding of health care and social s.etvices for illegal immigrants is a ques- . tion in which principles and pragmatism coincide. No nation, however strong, in- dustrialized and advanced, can persist or endure if it must sQpport its own as well as When will the United States of America stem the tide of Illegal Immigrants? The Politics of Hegal Immigrants are being felt right now in the Welfare debate, and will be seen in tJte 1996 Presidential Election. Congress's must grapple with the security threat present at our borders, because .if they do not, Americans will take the law into their own hands, as already starting to happen. while, Rep. Elton Gallegly, a Republican of California and Head of Speaker Gingrich's task force on illegal immigra- tion, argues that the only means of enforce- ment is employer sanctions. A tamper- proofidentification system would operate from a computerized registry with data from the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Whatever the final legislation is, its neighbors' children, elderly, and infinn. It is a simple matter of too few resources overwhelming our nation's characteristic generosity. As much as the win exists to provide support for the vulnerable legally beyond our borders, we simply cann~t; our neighbors must provide forthemselves anq their own. The Concordiensis • November 2, 1995 • Page 5 ·- - - International and Domestic: *Bill Clinton pledged support by the White House to the U.N. Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he is wary of Regional Groups, referring to (NATO). Fidel Castro attacked\New Colonialism, in which he attacked the Security Council members' veto privi- lege, and the arrogance and force, and pressure in international relations. Iran's foreign Minister attacked the ·united States of America. Japan pressed its call to end nuclear Arms. * American business executives toasted Castro this week in New York, because they want to invest in Cuba. * The White House rebuked Mayor Giuiiani of New York for ejecting Yasir Arafatfrom aConcertatLincoln Center. * President Clinton met with President Yeltisn and later with Chinese Presi- dentJianZemin. Mr. Clinton also met with the leaders ofBosnia, Croatia, and Serbia. *Russia may get a support role for the Bosnia Peace plan. Such troops would be separate from a NATO-led force that would enforce a settlement. * The U.S. made a concession to Ja- pan by agreeing to turn over troops accused of murder or rape to Japanese authorities .. * The U.S. mediated, \cease fire is holding throughout virtually all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, some boys in Sarajevo played soccer near the ru- ined public library. A United nations spokeswoman described the military situation as 'quiet, quiet, quiet, quiet,' and added, 'No specific activity in the northwest.'\ * Mr. Perry said on \Meet the Press\ that he could not guarantee that the United States would stay in Bosnia only a year, \Not at this time. Certainly not until we see the peace agreement.\ The one year limit on U.S. troops is now only an estimate. This should cause more fervor in the Republican controlled Congress, who are increas- ingly skeptical about a U.S. deploy- ment to Bosnia. * Bosnian Serbs agreed to give relief groups access to the Bosnian Serb strong hold ofBanja Luka. * Historians are eager to find out ifthe broadcasts of Radio Free Europe, then financed by the C.I.A., spurred on the freedom fighters to rise against the So- viet Union. Copies of the tapes were found in a Gennanarchive. * Russians have landed in Kansas. American and Russian tmops will con- duct peacekeeping missions to a fic- tional Kanza country. The binational force is .to sweep for mines, search cars at checkpoints, protect food convoys, and suppress riots by Kanzan refugees. Transported by Blackhawk helicopters and Humvees, the Russian American forces will maintain a buffer zone be- tween belligerents in Kanza 's long ruh- ning civil war .. Kanza could be a code for Bosnia. * Security forces patrolled the streets of the Ivory Coast, b1,1t few voters emerged after opposition leaders called for a boycott of the first presidential election since the death of the country's long-governing founding father, Fetix Houphouett-Boi~ny. * According to security forces in Al- geria, a car bomb killed 8 people and wounded 82 in the town of Relizane, in western _Algeria. ____ ------ __ _ * \Rebel forces bombed and rocketed the Afghan capital of Kabul, kil:fiil? at least five people, and GovemmeTtt jets bombed rebel positions, causing many casualties,, the official radio service said. * \Iran's top diplomat in Argentina was shot and wounded by a motorcy- clist as he drove through Buenos Aires with his family. Hassanali Rajabi Yazdi a business attache, underwent ' surgery after the attack, though his con- dition was not life threatening.\ * Fearing American occupiers at the , end ofWorld War II, Japanese officials urged thousands of women into Broth- els to maintain the chastity of Japanese women. Japanese authorities were afraid that the American troops would act like Japanese troops sometimes had overseas, raping any woman or gi:rl on sight. * The House passed a mammoth bud- get bill that promises a balanced bud- get by 2002. Much bargaining remains, with Clinton promising a veto. World News Question of the Week: With the prospects for up to twenty thousand Americans to be sent to Bosnia as part of a NATO-led peace enforment, the question is, can we crebidly be

World News Illegal Border Crossings: What Needs To be Done! by Marc Foster World News Staff As the 1996 presidential campaigN gets underway, an old question is again at is- sue- immigration. Last year in California, Proposition 187 presented voters with the option of stopping most state government spending on illegal aliens. It is a hot-but- ton issue in California, the state likely to determine the outcome of next year's elec- tion with 54 electoral votes, without which Bill Clinton can'twin. Congress has proposed some reforms to stifle iUegal immigration. Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration, has held hearings and favors widespread use of bor- der patrols. It is a policy that was invoked in El Paso resulting in declines in illegal crossings, crime and panhandling. Mean- a Clinton veto would nullify the president's prospects for re-election since 59% of Cali- fornians favored Proposition 187 and would not likely support a president op- posed to their stake in the outcome of the debate over illegal immigration. Likely, then, is a bipartisan effort to curb illegal immigration, and with theRe- publican majority, a shift in the tenor of the debate to the right, resulting in the prin- ciples and pragmatism of the right control- ling the debate. The funding of health care and social services for illegal immigrants is a ques- tion in which principles and pragmatism coincide. No nation, however strong, in- dustrialized and advanced, can persist or endure if it must support its own as well as When will the United States of America stem the tide of Illegal Immigrants? The Politics of Ilegal Immigrants are being felt right now in the Welfare debate, and will be seen in the 1996 Presidential Election. Congress's must grapple with the security threat present at our borders, because if they do not, Americans will take the law into their own hands, as already starting to happen. while, Rep. Elton Gallegly, a Republican of California and Head of Speaker Gingrich's task force on illegal immigra- tion, argues that the only means of enforce- ment is employer sanctions. A tamper- proof identification system would operate from a computerized registry with data from the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Whatever the final legislation is, its neighbors' children, elderly, and infirm. It is a simple matter of too few resources overwhelming our nation's characteristic generosity. As much as the will exists to provide support for the vulnerable legally beyond our borders, we simply cann~t; our neighbors must provide for themselves and their own. The Concordiensis • November 2, 1995 • Page 5 International and Domestic: * Bill Clinton pledged support by the White House to the U.N. Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he is wary of Regional Groups, referring to (NATO). Fidel Castro attacked \New Colonialism, in which he attacked the Security Council members' veto privi- lege, and the arrogance and force, and pressure in international relations. Iran's foreign Minister attacked the United States of America. Japan pressed its call to end nuclear Arms. * American business executives toasted Castro this week in New York, because they want to invest in Cuba. * The White House rebuked Mayor Giuliani of New York for ejecting Y asir Arafat from a Concert at Lin co In Center. * President Clinton met with President Yeltisn and later with Chinese Presi- dentJian Zemin. Mr. Clinton also met with the leaders of Bosnia, Croatia, and Serbia. *Russia may get a support role for the Bosnia Peace plan. Such troops would be separate from a NATO-led force that would enforce a settlement. * The U.S. made a concession to Ja- pan by agreeing to turn over troops accused of murder or rape to Japanese authorities .. * The U.S. mediated, \cease fire is holding throughout virtually all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, some boys in Sarajevo played soccer near the ru- ined public library. A United nations spokeswoman described the military situation as 'quiet, quiet, quiet, quiet,' and added, 'No specific activity in the northwest.\' * Mr. Perry said on \Meet the Press\ that he could not guarantee that the United States would stay in Bosnia only a year, \Not at this time. Certainly not until we see the peace agreement.\ The one year limit on U.S. troops is now only an estimate. This should cause more fervor in the Republican controlled Congress, who are increas- ingly skeptical about a U.S. deploy- ment to Bosnia. * Bosnian Serbs agreed to give relief groups access to the Bosnian Serb strong hold ofBanja Luka. *Historians are eager to find out if the broadcasts of Radio Free Europe, then financed by the C.I.A., spurred on the freedom fighters to rise against the So- viet Union. Copies of the tapes were found in a German archive. * Russians have landed in Kansas. American and Russian troops will con- duct peacekeeping missions to a fic- tional Kanza country. The binational force is to sweep form ines, search cars at checkpoints, protect food convoys, and suppress riots by Kanzan refugees. Transported by Blackhawk helicopters and Humvees, the Russian American forces will maintain a buffer zone be- tween belligerents in Kanza's long run- ning civil war. Kanza could be a code for Bosnia. * Security forces patrolled the streets of the Ivory Coast, but few voters emerged after opposition leaders called for a boycott of the first presidential election since the death of the country's long-governing founding father, Feflx Houphouett-Boi~ny. * According to security forces in Al- geria, a car bomb killed 8 people and wounded 82 in the town of Relizane, in western Algeria. * \Rebel forces bombed and rocketed the Afghan capital of Kabul, kilfin? at least five people, and Governmerltjets bombed rebel positions, causing many casualties,\ the official radio service said. * \ Iran's top diplomat in Argentina was shot and wounded by a motorcy- clist as he drove through Buenos Aires with his family. Hassanali Rajabi Yazdi, a business attache, underwent surgery after the attack, though his con- dition was not life threatening.\ * Fearing American occupiers at the end ofWorld War II, Japanese officials ' urged thousands of women into Broth- els to maintain the chastity of Japanese women. Japanese authorities were afraid that the American troops would act like Japanese troops sometimes had overseas, raping any woman or girl on sight. * The House passed a mammoth bud- get bill that promises a balanced bud- get by 2002. Much bargaining remains, with Clinton promising a veto. World News Question of the Week: With the prospects for up to twenty thousand Americans to be sent to Bosnia as part of a NATO-led peace enforment, the question is, can we crebidly be

Page 6 • November 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Gene therapy has been hailed as the cure of all genetic diseases known to man. Finally, five years after it was ftrst 1990,. at· the National Institutes of Health. The patient was a little. girl with SCID - Severe Combined lmmunodefi,. ciency, the same disease as the famous \boy in a bubble.\ This disease is brought about by damage to the gene which makes ADA -adenosine deami~ tried in humans·, it has been hailed as·a success. Some sci- entists, however, are not convinced that the therapy really has worked, even nase, an enzyme ------------------- which activates Most genetic diseases immune re- are caused by damage to -sponse in the T- cells. DNA, the blueprint of Due to her life. lack of immu- though the redpi- -------------------------__..,. nity, a simple bacterial infection, which normal people would not even be aware of, was a seri- ous threat to her life. Some of the child's T -cells were harvested, changed andre- turned to her body. ents seem to be cured. Gene therapy involves curing genetic diseases. Most genetic diseases are caused by damage to DNA, the blueprint oflife. Those with genetic diseases have a \broken\ gene, or piece of DNA. In order to cure those afflicted with these diseases, new, functional genes are placed into the individual cells of the body. The first occurrence of human gene therapy took place on September 14, Later, a second little girl with the same disease was also similarly treated. Five years after the treatment, the girls are once again newsmakers, only this time, instead ofamazement, they are causing controversy. Although scientists are in agreement Another Earth? by Dennis Popeo Science& Medicine Editor Two separate teams of astronomers have made independent observations that may shatter the notion that Earth, and the life upon i~, is unique. The scientists have foundnfor the first time, a planet that is nearly hal.fthe mass of 1 up iter orbiting the star 51 Pegasus, which lies 40 light years away (240 trillion miles) from Earth. If these astronomers are correct, this could mean that there are several planets like Earth, that could support intelligent life. The Pegasus planet, however, may be nothing like the Earth. Scientists have yet to classify it as solid or gaseous, if it has other planets in its solar system, or if it has always been in the same orbit, or was . recently shifted into its present orbit by a collision with another planet. They do know that the planet revolves around 51 Pegasus at a distance of 5 million miles, causing a solar year on the planet to occur evel)' four Earth days. Jn comparison, the Earth is 93 million miles from our sun and revolves around the sun once an Earth year. Fifty-one Pegasus itself is much like our sun, with one small exception - it is approximately three billion years older. When Swiss astronomers first an- nounced the finding of the Pegasus planet, many other astronomers were skeptical that it was truly a planet. Such a massive object so close to a star is not usually a planet, it is usually a low-mass star, or substellar object known as a brown dwarf It was not until American astronomers in San Jose, Califorma, confirmed the exist- ence of the planet that the Swiss astrono- mers' theory of discovering another planet was supported. It has been predicted that discoveries of this nature will occur more often. In fact, there may be another planet candidate or- bitmg a star called GL229, approximately 30 light years ( 180 trillion miles) away from Earth. Before these observations, the only new planets that have been discov- ered are orbiting dead stars, or pulsars, which are dense, rapidly spinning rem- nants of exploded stars. These planets are most likely devoid ofl ife. The newly discovered Pegasus planet is most likely uninhabited since it is so close to its sun. The planet has been projected to spend most of its orbit inside the outer atmosphere of the sun, causing the sur- face temperatures to possibly reach 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit (the highest tempera- tures that anything found on Earth can • t ' ••••• • • • • • • • • ' t I • I t t I • • .• 1!1 • ' • I • • • • ........ t • t ••••• ••••••• • t • .MIIIIIJIIIIII. . . ' . I t I t 4 8 I t t I • • t e • •· • • 1 t • • • • ••••••• • ••••• ••••••• ••••••• ...... 0 • • • ' •••• ......... . ...... . I I ' t 0 t I I I I I • t I ~ t 1 I I 1 I I I I I I I • I t I t I I .. t I I It I d t t I • I I t I R I t survive is a comparatively cooll60 degrees Fahrenheit. Organisms that can survive these temperatures are known as thermo- philes and are found living in geysers like the famous Old Faithful in Yellowstone Park.). If the planet is gaseous, it may also be devoid of hydrogen due to the extreme heat. The Pegasus planet is invisible to the naked eye, although the star can be seen in the Northern Hemisphere. The planet was localized by measuring and charting a slight, but regular wobble in the motion of the star. Astronomers want to study the 51 Pe- gasus planet for longer periods of time. This will allow the scientists to better char- acterize the orbit of the planet. They also hope to gain better information about its size and mass. that something happened to the girls when they were treated - specifically that the girls' cells have absorbed the cor- rected DNA and are using the gene to make the. proper proteins - ·scientists cannot agree on the amount of evidence necessary to prove that the treatment worked. Since SCID can be treated with drugs, the girls were on them during the treat- ment. The only way to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the treatment worked would be to stop the drug treat- ment. The girls' doctors were very re- luctant to do this because ofthe fragil- ity ofthe girls' conditions, and the po- tential fatal outcome ifthe gene therapy failed. The researchers instead depended on secondary measures of the success ofthe therapy. Many scientists believe that the data is convincing despite this lack of strong primary proof. In one of the girls, the new gene was found in halfofherwhite blood cells, thus she should be able to survive without the drugs. Other sci- entists, however, still doubt the effective- Science and Medicine ness o(the treatment, due to the lackof primary proof. In fact, it has been reported that one ofthe patient's cells are making the vi- tal enzyme ADA in25% ofnormallev- els, while people who make just 10% of normal levels of ADA show no sign of immune deficiency. . · Although one of the girls treated seems to he doing well, the other is not. Apparently, not enough ofher cells were corrected by the experimental procedure. Perhaps more important than small quibbles on the manner in which a cur.e is evaluated is the effect the cure has on the patient. The first girl, the one in which the therapy has worked, now lives a normal life, no longer sequestered at nome in fear of simple bacterial infec- tions. In short, she can be a normal kid. Although doctors are sure· that the drug regimen she follows to treat her condition can be halted, doctors are not willing to risk the. welfare o fthe patient. In short, it seems that the life of a little girl is much more important than con- crete, scientifi~proof. BIOLOGY: Dr. Dudley Moon Albany College of Pharmacy Thursday, November 9, 1995 4:30 PM in Social Sciences I 03 Refreshments Served PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY: Exploring the Health Professions: A Panel Discussion · Thursday, November 2, 1995 7:00PM in Reatner Campus Center Room 305 FEATURING: Paul Bosma, D.P.M. ('72) A podiatrist who will discuss sports medicine Mary L. Fish, R.P.A.-C. Clinical Coordinator of the Physician Assistant Program at Albany Medical College Carolyn Micklas Recruiting Coordinator for the Union College graduate Man- agement Institute Mary Nim,mer, P.T. Physical Therapist with Community Health Plan; Albany center Tracy Fay, M.B.A. ('92) Senior AssoCiate, Coopers & Lybrand will discuss development and analysis of health care policy. I ' . '

... OPIED The Student Nr~wspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Ntr~-.l'spaper Diana Sedit;~ EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITORS LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR EVIJn L. Morrill Adam Rithrnan LAYOUT EDITORS R\ckuderer PHOTO EDf.TOR Stepbanie Kuehlj COPYEDITOR . J{en IIerman Jaso.,Starr SPORtS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexls Leist FEATURES EDITOR LisaLemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR DavidEder Chris Richards UVING'EDITORS - Uennis Popeo SCIENCEEDITOJ{ . TatianaCogevina COMPtrrERMANAGE,R · Jared·Rithlilal'l· CARTOONIST ScottSclillion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR . PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott D:nuikemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun-Paul Man ore, Laurel Ruma. STAFF: Omar AJ:.Khalidi, Pavan Atlu~i, Emily Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff . . Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Raquel Millman, Pete S01·enson,Aileen Quigly, KathyWalters The Concordiensis • November 2, 1995 · Page 7 · . EDITORIAL . . ' THREE KINDS OF-PRESSURE In my tenure as editor-in-chief that Concordiensis tries to do the their opponents like grownups. MOFe of The Concordiensis, I have job of being a newspaper, not a seriously, faculty need to bear in learned and exper.ienced many happy-talk.admissions pamphlet If mind that they always have a pro- things. I now know I can stay we're looking to admit students fessional relationship of authority awake 35-40 hours straight once a who can't deal with the realities of with students, especially those they · week, and then ma]{e.it through my living in this community (or indeed are currently teaching. It seems to me classes and my job. I have reamed the modern world in general) per- inappropriate for faculty members to • · never to underestimate the. power haps our ·admissions policy needs pass documents relating to their per- of caffeine'-Or the. gall of some to be rethought. sonaJ grievances to a student in their people on this campus. The losers A second kind ofpressure-why class whom they know to be on the · on campus, both faculty and stu- should I be called onto the staff ·Of Concordiensis. Submit it dents, who seem to have endless president's carpet of a Friday after- anonymously for god's sake! How- hours to devote to the identifica- noon, without being told what ever eager the student may be or tion and bitchy criticfsm of our about? Some editors might findthis seem to \help out,\ this constitutes grammatical and typographical intimidating-· intended or not. Is implicit pressure to produce a story, errors should get a life. It wasn't this the appropriate fonnat for a and even a certain kind of story. Fol- in the pages of Concordy that the \chat\ about journalistic ethics or low-up by way of discussion of the word \Zimbobway\ appeared, nor First Amendment Rights? editor of the newspaper with mem- tbe phrase \Parent's Weekend\ (a A third kind of pressure-Why hers of the same class is cheap, cow- recognition of high divorce rates?). does it sometimes seem that stu- ardly and unprofessional. Faculty- Three kinds of pressure-Last dents are expected to be the default fight your battles with one another, week someone in Adn;tjssions told mechanism of maturity and civil- not through students! me that Concordy headlines like ity on this campus? The regular ar- It is not my intention to end on a . \Student Slashed at Old Chapel\ riva:l on my desk of anonymous sour note, because I have had won- or \Large Dmp in Minority Enroll- screeds from Prof. Walter Mitty derful experiences and opportunities. ment\ doesn't help them do their gets tiresome; it's a pity that some Most of the fun has come from deal- job, and forces them to pick and faculty use Concordiensis to give ing with the real issues. Good luck choose what Concordies they an airing to their bickering and per- to Tony LaVecchia and Evan Morris, show to prospectives. I said then, sonal vendettas, rather than having the newly elected winter term edi- and_ it bears repeating here now, the courage to go face-to-face with tors-in-chief. . . .. · · · . EE TTERS . . . .· ·. ~ . . . . Candidate Speaks on Elections at Union Dear Student Body, I would like to thank you for coming out this past Friday and voting. I'm grateful to tho~e people who voted, because due to their . support, we will have another chance to fight for the positions in the Student Forum, Multi-Cultural Vice President and Freshman Rep- resentatives. Although I am are happy for this chance, looking back on the past week, I've noticed a few things as candidates which should be brought to the public's attention. The first of which, is • dirty politics. When my posters are ripped down and the competit9r's posters are hanging in their places, it causes a great frustration. This is a college election, not national politics. and as m~ch as these elec- tions are very important to us, I am not willing to win on a campaign based on dirty politics. The second problem is voter tumouts. Apathy at Union is run- ning rampant. More than four hundred students voted in this e1ec- tion, and according to statistics from previous elections, that's a great tumout. I cannot understand this. With a student body comprising of almost two thousand students, how is not even a quarter of them voting good? Unfortunately I cannot force people to vote, but we pray that everyone goes out and votes this Friday. It is not only our goal to win· the election, but to get as many students to vote as pos- sible. If 1 can rally more than five hundred people to vote, than I have won, whether or not I win the actual elections. I would like to thank the Student Forum for placing a message on everyone's voice mail urging them to vote. The Concordiensis also did a good job advertising the elections. The Student Activities of- fice also did everything within their power to make the election pro- cess go smoothly. If everyone can help out and do their part, than we can have the best election that Union has ever seen. Please go out and vote this Friday. Thank you. Sincerely. Neil Alpert ,, THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE MILLION MAN MARCH What the nation witnessed on October 16 in Washing- ton DC was a reaffirmation of the Black community by the Black community. Over one million Black men gath- ered in that historic march as a sign of solidarity, atone- ment, and responsibility for the future progression of our community. Nineteen Black men from Union College went down to DC to be a part of this his- toric event, and its spiritual essence overwhelmed us all. Besides the powerful and poignant speeches delivered that day, perhaps the most . lasting impression was the camaraderie between the men. It was an aura of in- stant acceptance, brotherly concern, and unanimity in purpose. The relaxed atmo- sphere, undoubtedly charged with the excitement of change, made for carefree conversation and gave a glimpse of the future unity forecasted by the calling of the march. The theme of the Million Man March was a challenge for us men to make a spiri- tual atonement for our past indiscretions in order to move our lives in a more positive direction. It was a specific call for Black men because, on a whole, Black women have been the bas- tions of the Black commu- nity. Due to the failures of Black men, they have had an undue bur:den placed on their equally enslaved shoulders. . It was for \this reason that men alone were summoned to convene; community up1iftment can only be manifested through the enlightenment of the male, who can then lighten the weight offthe female. As many speakers made clear, atonement can only come from within, which will then bring about a spiritual balance that can be transfonned into Black unity and progress. Minister Luis Farrakhan best summed it up~ \When you hear a tone ... when you hear the right sound ... then you will atone ... for all that you've done wrong. And when you atone .. ·. you wil1 be at one ... with Aton ... who is the one God.\ For most in that audi- ence, that \right sound\ was simply the one million voices of pride. So why did one million Black men, including Union students, flock to this gathering? Con- trary to popular.white opinion, it was not in full support ofMin- ister Luis Farrakhan. Minister F arrakhan did have the foresight to call for this march, however, once that was accomplished, the necessity of the event far over- shadowed one man. The Black male in the United States is fac- ing a severe life crisis. In addi- tion, governmental entities, stemming from the both the jackass and the elephant, have disregarded the agenda of Black America. It was for these rea- sons that the march was such a resounding success. As Jesse Jackson stated in a very stirring speech, \Luis Farrakhan didn~t call for this match, Newt Gingrich and Clarence Thomas called for this march.\ Again, there were issues far, bigger than one man that propeHed the beginning of this new movement. Therefolre, to claim that Black Amferica blindly foiJowed an individual, as if we had no interes(in the event is very insulting at one level, sadly expected at an- other level, and pattemly rac- ist at the most fundamental level. Still, to get sidetracked on these issues would be a detri- ment to the Black community and a dilution of this most empowering of events. The Million Man March, and yes, it was a million, was the gen- esis of a new Black movement in the United States. Having for too long relied on the \good\ of the government to excavate us from a degraded position, the self-reliant mes- sage of the day was very much needed. There was a voter reg- istration drive, which regis- tered over 100,000 voters on that day, and people were urged not to blindly vote on the basis of political affiliation or of racial identification with the candidate. This will hopefully lead to a situation where poli- ticians are held accountable for their actions by Black America. It is unfortunate that President Clinton and Colin Powell found it prudent to be outside of DC. on that day, still, the Black masses showed up in force, and gave a direc- tion to its community, and ul- timately, to this country. Sincerely, Victor Owusu

Page 8 ·November 2,.1995 ·The Concordiensis OPIED , . . LETTERS . · . r U.B.G.L.A.D.: ·''This Group Isn't Just For Queers'' ' To the editor: This letter comes as a clarification, reminder (or announcement), and pub· licity stunt concerning U.B. G.L.A.D. This.curious acronym ~tands for l!nion 's . Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders( capttal A, Cap1tal D). The organization .isn't U.B.G.L, which would stand for Union's Bisexuals, Gays and Lesbians, because this group isn'tjust for queers. Other people, I ike straight people for example, have joined, and are encouraged to join and represent the group as active members- as advocates and defenders. So,. maybe this clarification becomes an invitation; join us. You are cordially invited to bring new ideas, question, complaints, concerns, talents, headaches, and insight to our next meeting. U.B. G.L.A.D meets every Tuesday at 6 PM in the Multicultural Center (CC 308). Y ott don 'thave to be gay or lesbian to support the causes and concerns of the community. Our goals are awareness, discussion and the confrontation necessary to facilitate a general adjustment ofthe sentiment on this campus. Social and political influence requires num- bers of faces and voices. Hopefully this message will soon grow old- we can make it happen. Hope to see you at a meeting. · Thanks, Meredith R. Miller, U.B.G.L.A.D. .. . . . .. ..... -- ... • -.•• The Union College • ~ • ~ ~ • • Department of Visual Arts •• • • presents a • • ., ~ . .-• Photography Exhibition •• • • : by ~ - . [ Pamela Parlapiano 1 l.. Trfl!mph _pfSp!r~t: : ~ An homage to people : ·..r>ii who have/had : ~ ~ , •. Hansen's Disease/Leprosy •• • i •• •• •. October 30, 1995- ~ • •• • UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center • •,\ January 19, 1996 .-••• -- -- ....... I I I I a a CDC Updates ••• •Albany Law School Information Session Nov. 2nd, at 6 pm Seminar Room, Career Development Center, Third Floor, Old Chapel. Please $ign up at CDC to attend. •Graduate Institute of Paper Science and Technology, Inc. A representative is inter- ested in speaking with seniors about an independent, privately supported graduate school devoted to education and research in engineering and the sciences, particularly as applied to paper manufacturing and use. Please sign up in advance. Tuesday, Nov. 7 at CDC. Further information is available in CDC library. •JYACC, INC. is seeking CS, EE or MT graduating students for several different posi- tions within their consulting fltm, specializing in systems integration. You can check them out on the www - http://www.jyacc.com Resume Deadline to CDC by Nov. 15. JOB SEARCHING MADE EASY: JOB TRAK!! Use the CDC's Homepage to connect to JOBTRAK on the WWW. Connect by se- lecting Specifically Seniors, then Job Listings, then Links to other Listings, then se- lect Job Trak. Use it to find jobs, graduate school information and especially com- pany literature such as JP Morgan, GE, and Andersen Consulting. This is one more way to do important company and graduate school research. Need help? Make .an appointment to see a career counselor. Also, tap into the CDC's Home Page for job listings, handouts, recruiting updates, alumni infonnation and much more!! JOBS OUT WEST!! - George Oberstadt '83 bas a number of positions with Intel out west available for Union students. Call him at (916) 356-5478 for more information. He will also be on campus on Mon., Nov. 20th to talk to students and accept resumes. The CDC will have details about his arrival in November. Teach in Japan!! The CDC has information about the JET Program (Japan Exchange and Teaching). This program seeks to help enhance internationalization in Japan by proJnoting mutual under- standing between Japan and 15 other participating countries. The CDC bas applications or calll-BOO.INFO·JET. Note: ApgUqtJon DeacJilne Is Wed, Dec· 6th! W oniyn Criticized This Iefier was dated October 12, but was not received until October 25. To the Editor, I picked up the October 5 issue of the Concordy a little late , so ifthe question I address is out-of-date, relax and toss this out. . Shall we delete the \Freres'' from the college seal? , Beth Decker, Andrea Zaremba, and Tracy Bush argue for that; they may be comforted to know that the matter has come up before. But before the· womyn (migawd!) push much harder on that, perhaps they can tak~ a moment to consider consistency as wen as power politics. (Ifthe zealous think consistency is a virtue, that is.) Have they thought, for instance, that it m~y equally well raise the question of de- leting Minerva from the seal, her wisdom notwithstanding? And would they con- cede that we might drop alma mater for alma persona, perhaps? Others, no dotrbt, can furnish equally frivolous tampering with traditional language. Is all symbol and language their battleground? Can it be that these womyn really be- lieve ;that \Nons Devonons Tous :Freres\ [sic] damages the cause and conditi~n of women at Union? Is their situation so per- ilous it is that? Ot in a sense of unisex faimess wot~ld they organize a men's com- mittee to propose a companion for Minerva, or even devise with them and androgynous substitute? Might they also have designs on the faces ofU .S. currency?_ (And should a man cringe when he looks at a dime?) One sign of intelligence and balance is the capacity to distinguish between real hurts and imagined ones. If Decker, Zaremba, and Bush are in a mood to fly the banner of women's advancement, it should be very easy to find causes more worth their passion. As an alumnus and an emeritus member of the faculty who thinks the coeducation was the best thing to happen to Union, I pray that a fuss about a (historically ap- propt;iate) choice of one word of the motto may not encourage an narrowing of mind instead of a broadening . Sincerely yours, Alan Nelson AFRICA INFORMATION M E· E T I N 8 ..... Wednesday, November 8th · Humanities 117 4:30pm CROSSTALK! Should Marijuana Be Legalized? Wednesday, Nov. 8 7 ·PM at Chet's . '

If' .Arts & Entertainment Sweet Honey is Sweet, Indeed! Vocal Group Delights Packed Memorial Chapel Last Weekend byLawrencePaska Part-Time ConcertCritic What was that sweet sound coming from the Memorial Chapel last Friday night? Why, it must have been SweetHdney in the Rock, the touring a cappeUa gospel grou'p that packed the house and sent everyone away cheering and humming along to the group's tunes. The group, founded by ar- tistic director and American University his.: tory professor B·ernice Johnson Reagan, per- formed music with roots in spirituals, hymns, gospel, jazz and plues music, and also sang a number of original com- positions. There were more standing ovations Friday nightthan ther:e.:- were songs (and there were a lot of songs), and this is simply because Sweet Honey has a sweet sound. The voices blended together perfectly, and each singer had a remarkable range and sense of rhythm. The concert was free, making it an entertainment bargain. With such talent, however, the C~n1certCommittee could have easily charged $10 a ticket and gotten away with it. Hopefully, Union will bring performers such as these to the school more often .. there is a wealth of culture to discover with such performers. The conce~.lasting for neatly three hours after an encore, con- tained music of all different s_tyles. An intermission followed an unbelievable closing tune for the first half, in which the audi- ence stood up and clapped and danced to the rhythm of the music. Such audi- ence participa- tion was great and made the evening all the more memo- rable. \\And just when it seemed the show was about the end, the vocal group found a new way to top the last song it had just sung. Sweet Honey consistently gave out stu- . . pnses, main- taining high quality the en- tire time. If you missed this concert, be sure to catch the next group to come through the campus. If you're looking for som~thing \sweet spend the evening with Sweet Honey, and don't spend your money on that \other\ Sweet - Matthew. The Concordieosis • November 2,1995 • Page 9 Pamela Parlapiano Exhibits Photography Courtesy ofVisualArts Acclaimed bookdesigner Tree Swenson will give a talk titled \More Than the FrontCover: Book Design, at 3:30 on Thurs- day, 2 November, in Room 215 ofthe Arts Building. Swenson is currently head consultant for the Council of Lit- erary Magazines and Presses, designing and implementing a study ofliterary press distribution, which is funded by the Na- tional Endowment fortheArts. She is also publishing consult- ant and designer for book projects with various publishers in- cludingEcco Press, New Directions, and Zoland Books. From 1972-9 3, Swenson was cofounder, executive director, and pub- lisher of Copper Canyon Press, guiding it from a small, fine . letterpress operation into a leadership position nationally in the · field offiterarypublishing. In turn,Cqpper Canyon Press, which is located in P o r t Townsend, Washington, has been recognized by numerous grants and awards, in- eluding AlGA [American Institute of Graph i c A r t s ] , '' West and , and in- number of shows, such · Metropoli- Art. Hayden lee ted . ems, pub- perCanyon, National Bookbuilders Bumbershoot, eluded in a invited book as one at the tan Museum of Carruth's Col- Shorter Po- lished by Cop- received the Book Critics Circle A ward as the most distinguished book of 1992. Prior to her latest work, Swenson was art director for Graywolf Press in St. Paul, Minnesota, developing and designing over fifty books, a number of which won national design awards. She is also a standing member of the Board of Directors of Associated Writing Programs, a national service organization for university writing programs, serving as president of the board, 1993-94. . . . ,.- Tf~~ S\Ven~on .h.a,s, t,a~&htl~~itp u,~J:eA~ours_es in Literary P.pb- . l1shmg at Emerson College m Boston and drrected the publish- ing module ofthe MF AlMA Program in Writing and Lit~rature at Bennington College in Vermont. Her undergraduat\~educa­ tion was at the University ofCalifomia, Santa Barbara, and she is anticipating a Masters in Public Administration [in the arts] fi·om theJ. F. K. School ofGovemmentatHarvard University. Your End-of-the-Term Guide to What's Showing Over the Break by Lawrence Paska Moviegoer Emeritus For the serious film watcher, the Christmas season is typi- cally the time when aH of the high-profile dramas competing for Best Picture are released. We can only hope: does any- one really want to see Tom Hanks get a third Oscar for Apollo 13? Over the next month, the fol- lowing new films will be show- ing up at your local theater. Since you won't get to read this critic's opinions of them until after the break, here's a little synopsis and advance critique on each one. Home For the Holidays - Jodie Foster directs (but does not star in) this drama set at a family Thanksgiving. Holly Hunter stars. Looks worthwhile, continuing . to showcase Foster's directing talents after the pleasant Little Man Tate. .NOVEMBER3 Fair Game· Witliarit Baldwin and Cindy Crawford (who makes her feature film debut here )team up as a cop and law= yer, respectively, solving a crime! What else?' Originally slated for a summer release (where it probably belongs), don't expect anything more than loud gunshots, a minimal plot, and plenty of chemistry between the two leads. NO- VEMBER3. Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls- Jim Carrey reprises the role that brought him to stardom in this no-brainer sequel in which our helpless hero jour- neys to Africa. Plenty of bath- room humor and a thin plot to amuse even the little kids, this film will most likely not be Carrey's fourth $100 million- plus moneymaker. After all, Ace I didn't break that mark. NO- VEMBERlO. Casino- Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci in a film about the Mafia in Las Vegas? And Scorsese's directing? We're there opening night! This is the kind of film that you go to see no matter how bad it looks. But considering that Scorsese is teaming with writer Nicholas Pigell i (on whose book the screenplay is based), it doesn't even matter that Sharon Stone is thrown into the pot. This is Scorsese'sattemptto follow up on GoodFellas' excellence, and he just might have done that! NOVEMBER 10. GoldenEye- The 17th \offi- cial\ James Bond film looks to be one of the most promising, with a completely revamped im- age and dashing lead Pierce Brosnan in the title role. The action looks plentiful, and the storyline, apparently creating a more feminist atmosphere (his boss is now a woman), should be updated for the '90s. A defi- nite must-see brought to us from the producers of the other Bond films, but with new director Mar- tin Campbell (No Escape). NO- VEMBER17. Toy Story - Disney does it again, yet this time creating a full-length feature acted out by \toys with voices supplied by such actors as Tom Hanks. It is the larest in computer animated films, which means it's worth a look; although just how much adults will enjoy it is still up in theair. NOVEMBER 17. Money Train- Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson are back together again (after White Men Can 't Jump), this time trying to seize an underground metro. Looks loud, explosive, and somewhat conventional, but if James Bond isn't your thing, than this one's due to arrive .. .NOVEMBER22. Four Rooms- Delayed from an early October release, this film, directed by four prominent directors including Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino, tells four separate stories in the same hotel on New Year's Eve. The focus of the story: a bellboy, played by Tim Roth, is caught in a series of pre- posterous events in this hotel. The advance word is not very good, but Tarantino fans should get a laugh out ofwatching him try to act again. NOVEMBER 22. The American President - Michael Douglas gets paid $15 million to play the ChiefExecu- tive(as opposed to Bill Clinton, who gets only $200,000 for the real job) in a fictionalized story of a single President falling in love with Annette Bening. From Rob Reiner, the director of such good dramas as A Few Good Men. Heat- AI Pacino and Robert DeN iro in the same film. Is there any reason not to see it? Pacino is a cop and De Niro is his prey in this exciting and tense actloner co-starring Batman (that is, Val Kilmer). It looks like this is De Niro's year after all. DECEMBERS. 12 Monkeys - Bruce Willis goes back to the .present in di- rector Terry Gilliam's vision of life a few decades into the fu- ture. Brad '\Sexiest Man Alive\ Pitt co-stars, along with Madeleine Stowe. DECEMBER 27. And there's so much more. Haveasafeand happy holiday season, and enjoy the show(s)!

· PagelO • November 2, 1995• The Concnrdiensis Jason Kellman The picture above is okay, but I really had my eye set on a na- ked full body pose. My name is Jason Kellman and I would like to represent our freshman cJass at Union College's Student Forum. We all know that I am doing this for the benefit of my class and I plan to help the freshman, but on the other hand wouldn't \'College Class President\ look spicy on my resume? No, I'm just kiddin·g. I am running for this position be- cause I want to know who makes the decisions on campus and why the students play a minor part in that We are paying over three fin- gers, a lung, and a knee cap to go here, therefore I want to have the opportunity to voice my opinion. .J attended public school and most of the decisions concerning food, classes, and e?{tracurricular events were decided by the state government. I was Vice President of my senior class in high school and instead of the authority here at Union making all the decisions, I would like to help make choices for the class of 1999. Here at Union I have bought an education .. as well as a ticket to say what I want, when I want. .... and this $chool is being paid to teach and to listen. Being a representative for our class, I will get more at- tracting student activities for the Union campus. Telling you about cheesy ideas of bands and poster sales would be a waste of your time. If elected, when you have an idea, tell me, and I will go to the Student Forum with that idea. Most of all a thing that I would Thomas Marino Hello again everyone! I would like to thank everyone that voted last Friday. l w~s ~?<-:~remelyhappy with the yo_ter turn out. It tells rne that their aFe~people that realty do care. abo1:1t the-ir representa- tion in the government. Last week I mentioned that I believed that a representative is nothing more than a voice in the government. I also told you that I would likeJto be your voice. A voice voice that will be heard in the Student F~rum. I beleive that to be properly represented in the government you need someone who will be an ef- f e c t i v e indivdual. I plan on be- ing this per- son in many ways. I will dedicate my· selt to ANY of the elected positions one hundred per- cent. I will also I is ten to tions that you as well as any that you feel brought to my believe that if open line of tion we will be co·mplish promise to do creating more social activities for you to enjoy. any sugges- might have complaints should be attention. I we have a communica- able to ac- more. I also my best at My overall goal, besides being a voice that is heard, is to unite · the Class of 1999. I believe that if we stand united as one ,we will increase the chances that we will be a loud voice in the Student Forum. I feel that if we can be united as a class my job as your representative would be more effective. Once again, I thank you for voting last week and I encourage you to vote again this week. And rememeber this question when you vote on Friday' \want TO Make student governMent An effec- tively woRkiNg Organization?\ If the answer is yes you know what to do! like to change would be the hours of the Nott Memorial. The, Nott is a great place to study and hav- ing it close at lO o; clock really does nothing formyselfand many Union students. TheNottshould have it's doors open until mid- night ()r even later. As Freshman Class Represen- tative I want to be the person at the Student Forum meetings ask- ing why things are the way they are to make this year aU the bet- ter. There are many issues that Union College needs to attend to and that is why the college is ask- ing the students for a Freshman Ciass Representative. When you all go to vote and 1 expect everyone to voice their opinion by doing so, think about what it is costing to attend here and ask yourself, \Who makes the choices for our class at Union.'' I want to be the person helping to make the choices. for our class. Decisions that are made here at Union are not told to us. Vote for Jason Kellman on Friday, Octo- ber 27th and understand that \If you pay, you should have a say.'~ Jonathan Zandman Well, it's Round II, and even though others might have rushed to change their signs and think of new catchy logos, I still believe in what I have always said: Stu- Caryn Anapolsky As a candidate for the Student Forum, I would like to explain ~hy I chose to run. I have come Michelle Neier When told about the elec;tions for cl.ass representative 'I ·knew Campus News it was a position l wol;lld Jtke t~- · · · aim for. All thro\lghout middl¢ and high school, !·represented mypeers in student.govemment. I would like to continue this ac• tivity now that I atn in college. If elected to student govern- ment, l would try to enact changes both in our social and residential life as well as our aca- demic life. Recently I have heard debate and-concern about security, reconstruction of Schaeffer library,. food on the meal plan, the academic calen- . dar as well as many other top .. ics. [ hope that as .part of stu- dent government I would be en- titled to take a formal part in these discussions.. I will not make any promises to you that I cannot necessarily keep but I will make one promise. I will do anything in my power to dent Government should be a full time commitment and I am still simply running to really represent you. Anyone can make claims about what they can do, but what it comes down to is: who willful- fill their promises once in office? I believe a wort~y candidate should: 1) Represent everyone by en- sQring that everyone's voice is heard. 2) Develop and implement new and creative ideas rather then . just changing the old ones, in order to make' life at Union better for everyone. 3) Actually do all the work once you've elected him/her. In other words, he/she should serve the class. not just be served by the class. 4) Make this year as rewarding, enjoyable and fun as physically possible. 5) Demand better service from to Union with an extensive stu~ dent government background. My involvement with student government began as a repre- sentative for my high school freshmen class in Studen~ Coun- ciL The following year I be- came Secretary. I later became Vice-President, and thereafter was elected President. I helped to accomplish a variety ofgoals set forth by my fellow class- mates. I was also chosen as the Regional Student Representa- tive to the State Board of Edu- cation. Because of these lead- ership positions, I have learned what responsibility efitails and what it means to represent a stu- dent body. Ifl were elected for any of the positions, I would carry out the responsibility to attend all meet- make the changes aU of you are lookingfor. My parents always told me, \Don't worry, good things come in small packages.\ I would like to think that at 4' 1 1\ I have proven this true. Please keep this in mind when you vote for fresh- man representative. Remember- I'm the little girl with big ideas! • Papa Cicco's~ after all, we are their only business. I intend to use every means possible to accomplish these ._goals, Here are some thoughts: In order to hear everyone's voice, why not have a Student Govern- ment Internet homepage, where you can give suggestions and comments, and get infonnation about what your representatives are really doing from the comfort of your own room? Creative thinking leads to creative ideas, and with 500 minds thinking to- gether, the possibilities for our class are endless. Only by includ- ing everyone can government truly serve all. If you like these concepts, and want to see more ideas, support me, and we can all make Union a better place. We are one of the most talented, se- lective classes to come to Union, and together we can accomplish anythi!lg. ings and act as the best liaison between the students and ad- ministration. Not only would I. bring in new ideas but I would also listen to everyone's voice .. In the past, I have also been a dedicated peer leader. In this role, I learned how to get along with others through communi- cation; therefore, I know I can work well with others. S irnilar to most freshmen, it has taken many years of hard work for us to arrive here: it is only fair that we deserve the best four years of our life here at Union College. That is why with your help on October 27, 1995, I will continue this dedi- cation to the best of my ability. Please vote for Caryn Anapo:lsky on election day. Thank you.

Campus ·News The Concordiensis • November 2, 1995 • Page 11 ' . . VP of Multicultural Affairs . · · .· .. · .· • • ' ' • ' .... • • .l ' ~· ' Carey Miller My name is Carey Miller and I'm currently running for V .P. of Multicultural Affairs. As a sophomore, I am aware of the various cultural groups and stu- dents, backgrounds on. campus. Therefore, to bettertheawareness of multiculturalism and diversity on campus l would. like to: put forth a strong effort to change Union College into a more of a unified community instead of a fragmented community, be mind- ful of the diffelient cultures and needs of those outside the main- stream population, and improve the departments of Women's Studies, Africana Studies and Latino Studies. As this is a newly created posi- tion, it will be up to myself and everyone else on this cam pus, to critically define it. For too long, Union has viewed multicultm:alism and d-iversity as separate and distinct from the whale. In my view, the only way we can fully actualize the vast po- tential of Onion College is to rec- ognize the uniqueness of indi- viduals, enhance them, and ce- ment it into the foundation of Union College. Ithasbeen my experience that samen~ss breeds monotony, which inevitably leads to medi- ocrity. Therefore, if we as a col- lege community are toad vance to the next level, then we must rec- ognize and appreciate the diver· sity that exists among us alL This V.P. position is the first step to- wards that goaL However, we must be careful to place someone in that position who has commit- ment, energy and desire to further its intended agenda. Therefore, if you are truly desirous of mov- ing Union out of the fragmented community that it is, then vote Carey Miller for V.P. of Multicultural Affairs. Neil Alpert Living in America, being an American, and having freedoms, are some of the themes that seem aU too lost on Union's campus. In America each individual has the. right, and the power te select his OJ her leader. The disturbing fact is that only a minute percent- age of people participate in this right. On college campuses voter participation in elections is low, and unfortunately, this trend is nowhere more prevalent than on Union's campus. We all need to go out this Friday and vote, as a CONGRATULATIONS to Tony LaVecchia, Class of '98 & Evan Morris, Class of '99 The New Editors-in-C. hief . . .. for the Winter Term. GOOD LVCJ<!! I~ student body and as an individual, for only then will we be heard. Over four hundred students voted in the election last Friday, and that's better than most previous elections. I look atthat as a joke, · because with almost two thousand student, that's less than a quarter of the students. I would like to thank everyone who voted, and urge them to vote again, and for those that didn't, please do. All of us at Union live on a multi-cultural campus, containing all races, peoples, and religions, but we are not a multi-cultural community. Instead of being a commi.mity, we are many small interest groups. We must come together if we are to have an ef- fective say which carries any weight with the administration. We can only do so if we work together, and it is the job of the multi-cultural vice president to break the barriers which prevent us from functioning as a cohesive unit. It's time. We have to put aside the stereotypes and bond as a group. ltwon'tbeeasyto break these walls, but we as a student body can do so. I would like to work hand in hand with the peer facilitators to have more diversity workshops, because how else will we get people's true feelings out in the open? Union needs to bring in diverse speakers that are powM erful enough to allow us to look inside of ourselves and kiH any preconceived notions that we have about races, peoples, and religions, that are different than ours. I ask, what do we have to lose? Minority presence has dropped 27.5% (according to the Office of Admissions) and if we allow this trend to continue the mino.rity presence could disappear on cam- pus completely. Once we are a cohesive student body, we will have a say in such things as en- rollment, and through this we can keep Union a multi-cultural school in its truest sense, as op- posed to reverting back to some- thing like Union was twenty five years ago. Going coeducational was only the first step; we now have to make Union a cornuco- pia of cultures, and I think that I, Neil Alpert, could achieve this. This Friday I will be voting at the College Center any time from I 0:00 to 4:00, and it's your indi- vidual right and responsibility to do the same. May the best person win, and thank you. ASTHMA RESEARCH \ )'.) !, Asthma is a chronic respiratory disor- der characterized by coughing, wheez- ing and shortness of breath. W~ are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the intlamation and obstruc- tion found in the lungs of those with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4- 70 years, to help evaluate research medications. They must be non-smok- ers and in good health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care and the opportunity tolearn more about their asthma. Those qualified will receive study medication and be paid. These stud- ies are conducted under the supervi- sion of a board certified allergist and clinical immunologist in a private of- fice setting. For further information call 452- 2510 Monday-Friday Sam to 5pm or 1-800-363-3464 ALLERGY & ASTHMA CENTER OF ALBANY MED 215 Washington Ave. Ext. Albany, NY 12205 Thomas B. Edwards, MD Director

I . ) Page 12 • November 2, 1995 • The Concor-di~nsis Voice Mail: Union's Information Panacea by Con or McKenzie Features Staff \You have three new mes- sages.\ My heart-rate increases-· maybe, it's my professors calling to inform me of the horrible mis- takes they made grading my last exam.' Maybe, it's three separate freshman girls calling to say they dumped their long-distance boy- friends. Then, the crushing blow lands, some plastic, generic voice reminding me about this or that, asking me to volunteer, telling me not to drink the brown water. Depressing. I needed to get outside .and see a real person. So, offto the col- lege center I skipped to buy my- self a coffee. As I began to drink, my mind wandered to a different subject altogether. Damn, I thought, this place is justone big rumor. Coffee has that nice quality of in- voking revelations. This revelation was especially nice though. Usually, it happens in the wee. hours of the morn- ing, and it's more like, \Unless Social Sciences spontane- ously combusts overnight, I'm not going to pass this test.\ .. J\nyway, e~br since the fur'Ina- tive weeks ofmy college career, I've heard rumor after rumor. I think the tlst fallacy shoveled to me was sol.'ftething along the lines of, \I hear.cf the Beastie Boys were going to play at Union.\ Sure. The problem is, big whoppers have a way of spawning smaller ones-whop- per juniors, if you will. Next, someone tried to dupe me into believing a lesser celebrity was coming: \I heard that Jerry Seinfeld is coming,\ I was told, which is more believable, yet equally false. Notice that the active verb of a rumor statement is always \hear; as in \I heard.\ That way the speaker does not attribute himself to such an embarrassing state- ment. He merely passes on the \knowledge\ by attributing the statement to another undefined (and usually non-existent) indi- vidual. There are rumors to fit all as- pects oflife at Union. There's the \five minute rule\ for the teacher who shows up late. In the sport's arena, there's the rumor that Union is going to build a stadium and go Division 1 for football in I 999. And of course, \Ivy- League\ rumors abound. They usually center around the fact that Union was once among the \big- four\ with Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, and that Union de- c] ined an invitation to join the Ivy League \about a hundred years ago.\ This, of course, gets built up to \I heard that U Penn is get- ting kicked out of the Ivy league because they suck, and Union is going to be asked to join.\ Which of course is why Union is cur- rently renovating Schaffer Li- brary. All these rumors pale in com- parison to the Cadillac of all ru- mors, the roommate suicide ru- mor: \If your roommate commits suicide, you get an automatic 4.0 GPA fortheterm.\ You would think someone would substantiate such an inter- esting rumor, but no one does. The rumor only grows, as it does giving rise to questions and thoughts. \What if your room- mate is killed?\ \What ifhe com- mits.suicide at the end of the term; can you transfer the 4.0 to next term?\ \What if, tragically, one roommate in your suite 'jumped' out of a window each term? Would they continue. to bestow the gift of the 4.0 term after term?\ I don't think that it would be irrational for me to assume that at this very moment a student is .. laying plans for fis/her roommate's suicide. To remedy this information cri- sis, I have a solution- voice mail. Currently, every club and orga- nization, both on campus and in Schenectady, blatantly abuses this message system. \Attention all presidents of clubs, there is a very important meeting .... \ What can I say- pure, unadulterated laziness. Club presidents cannot make up more than 3% of the union popu- lation, call them for godssake! ''Attention Union students, Schenectady 2000 is looking for volunteers to help with landscap- ing around our city, please call ..... \ The worms who leave messages in my voice mailbox are worse than, well, telephone so- licitors. At least when that type of degenerate scum calls me, I know that I'm wasting their time as well because they had to take the time to contact me individu- ally. The people who leave mes- sages only have to pick up a phone, punch in a code, and bingo - they can leave a message to 2000 students in a matter of min- utes. Like I said-purely sloth- ful. Union should use this resource to spread valuable information to its student body. \Attention students, the official 1995-6 policy regarding room- mate suicide will include the fol- lowing revisions: first, there will be a thorough investigation as to the cause of death of a room- mate.\ Act now Union! As you read this, your roommate could be planning your own suicide! Features The Scenario We Know Too Well.· by Raquel Millman Features Staff Picture this: You stay up until 4 AM working on the paper ·Of a lifetime. When it is finished you gloat with .pride and privi'Iege some(sleeping) lucky'soul with yourwork of art. Your m:ganiza'\ tion is perfect! Your conclusion should be published. You try to sleep; but it is so difficult because you feel famous. You wake up the next day. You're not tired. Adrenaline keeps you high on the paper: ofyour life. You hand it to your professor with a knowing look that seems to say, ''Waitun .. til you read this buddy. It's gonna blow your mind!\ You leave class with a tremendous feeling of accomplishment. At arty.given point that day, you are caught smiling, knowing y<11urGPA has soared today. Then, the day of judgment comes. It is returned. You skim nervously through the comiJ!ents wondering, \A or A- ?, Then, there in red ink is the impostor. You think, \It must be a mis- take!'; You are crushed. No longer is this the grade you have \earned\; ithasbecomethe grade you were \given!' Remember your perfect organization? It has been ridiculed. · Remember the conclusion that should be pub- lished? It has been called '~gar­ bage.\ You suddenly feel tired. One week later, that sleep you sacrificed kicks in. You look around, paper in hand, feeling disappointed and ... a:~ one. · We've an been there .. We au know those emotions. We, know this scenario too well. We have all felt alone. I write this article with pne in- tention. I want to tell anyone who has ever felt alone here because you can't cry to mom and dad over a.grade, or because you were sick and there was no one to take care of you- You are not alone. We are going through this crazy process together. Someone on this campus will always be sad over a grade,. homesick, or ill with no caretaker. There isacomfort here. The comfort is that college is a growing process, not just with the world of academia, but with self discovery. We are learning to be strong, independent, and take care of ourselves. This is not something that occurs overnight, but rather with time. Wewill all have upsets. We will all be lonely sometimes. Remember, there is a working body to solve this problem. It is not part of your tuition bill; it is not something you can buy at the college center, It is something that comes from your sparkling personality: your friends. They are your new family inyournew ·home. They w.e your supportsys• tern. Use. them. to your full. ad- vantage. That's what they're there for. And remember to be there for th~rn too. So now you feel a little better. -.You make ap. appointment with the monsterfrom the front ofthe classroorrrthat wrote those insults onyQurpaper, You sit there,. un- derstanding ·his view, still wounded. You leave and shake his hand feeling thge power and knowledge he holds. Your admi,. ratjon for him begins to outweigh your hurt. You think \he is test- ing me.''. You go back to your room, sit at your computer and start the process once again. You have fallen o.ff the proverbial horse, .and just as dad always told you to do, you get right back on. You. will not be defeated. You may not ride like a pro this term, but you have a vision. Y o.u will one day come back to yisit long after .graduation. You will bump · into the.once monster, now a con- fidant.. You will embrace and in,. form him that you have just been appointed to the Supreme Court. Maybe it wasn't \garbage\ after all. \~int.e ~ a:rrif:r.e!t in !nrk, ~ ~aft.e sprnt fn.e.ek.enus in ~rotlanb, 1fi.onbo-n anb ~tratfnra -upon- J\fton 11 by Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor Walking into Kings Cross Station in London on Septem- ber 25, I had only one thing on my mind-getting all of my be- longings and myself onto the correct train heading towards York. But, as I got into the sta- tion, I saw, for the first time since I had left home several weeks before, a slewoffamil- iar faces. Some of the people I knew we.ll, others were just faces that I recognized from . classes, parties, and head-on cotlisions during the noontime rush in the College Center. Ire- ceived a sudden burst of energy. I was almost there, the destina- tion that I had dreamt of since I arrived at Union as a freshman. I spent the two-hour train ride to Y ark wandering through the overcrowded cars making small talk with the other Union stu- dents. Many of them had also traveled for several weeks pre- vious to our arrival date in York, so we exchanged Eurail sagas and other traveling stories. When the train stopped in York my traveling companions and I made a mad dash to tlie luggage compartment to claim our bags before someone else did. We then hopped into a cab and headed for the University Col- lege of Ripon and York St. John~ our guest college for the term. Once inside the Porter's . Lodge, the British version ofthe College Center, I was given a flat assignment, a class iisting, a series of forms to fill out and a number of letters from .my friends. I situated myself in a comer ofthe Porter's Lodge to read my letters. The first letter was from a friend about to de- part on her own adventure to Brazil. I identified with her fears and excitenient. I understood what was going on in her life. The next two letters were from friends who were at Union. They wrote about their room- mates, parties and classes. But each one ended their ·letter by telling me how jealous they were I was in England, and they reassured me that I was miss- ing nothing by not being at school this term. At that mo- ment in time I did the most logi- cal thing, I cried. I cried because I missed Union, I cried because I was far away from home, I cried because I was terrified and nervous about my upcoming ad- venture and most importantly, I cried because I was happy that I had this amazing experience ahead of me. I had no idea what the future held. I had no idea what my classes would be like, my roommates, the people I would meet, and the cities I would ~ravel to. Since September 25, I have opened many of the doors that were closed to me then. Most of those \familiar\ faces that I saw in the train station are now more than just acquaintances. For most of the Union students have realized that we all chose to go to Union for a reason, therefore we all must have something in common. I've got- ten to know my flatmates, one being an international student from Germany, one being a sec- ond-year and two being \freshets\ (first ... years). Since I arrived in York, I have spent weekends in Scotland, London and Stratford-upon-A vo.n. I have visited the castle ruins that Dracula is rumored to have lived in, the Lake District and numerous other historical sites. I have met a number of British students through my room- mates, my classes, going out, and through my other American friends. And, I have figured out that a tenn abroad is not just about traveling or studying or partying, it is a combination of the three that helps one estab- lish indepertdence. A term abroad allows you not only to see different places and experi- ence different cultures, it allows you to discover things about yourself. There are seven more weeks left of my tenn abroad and when I return home on December 17, I will be sad that my adventure is over, but I will be very glad to get home.

Features The Concordiensis ·November 2, 1995 ~ Page 13 Good-byes Aren't Forever ~ . She's always there, and she always picks up on the first ring When things get messy, it's usually time for · a change .• LiFE: cAN GE:r MESSY SAD RE:I..ATIONSHIPS TOUGH CIRCUMSTANCES LACK Or PURPOSE ·FORTUNATE:LY GOO OOESN.T RE;OUIRE:-·QS TO OE~t WITH LIFE IN ISOl.I\TlON WE C(l.N LIVE OUR L;VES .CONNECTE.; 'ro HIM. ACTUALLY RECEIVING GUIDANCE FROM HtM WE. CAN START. OVER yv1tH 'A CL:EAN SLATE START 'DOWN A NEW ROAD ANQ BE'GIN TO REALLY LIV~ HAVING A 'RELATIONSHIP WITH JE:SUS CHRIST DOESN T MEAN !-IF\E SUDDENLY BECOMES SMOOTH' LIF'E HA_S 'ITS CHAI:.LENGE:$ ·S~.:.~r WE OON T WALK IT ALONE FINO OUT WHAT GOD CAN DO IN YOUR LIFE. FOR Y(:IUR. FREE 'BOOKLET ON REAL LiFE CALl. I -800.,.2.36.-9~38 -don't settle fur anything less. * by Jeffery Druzba Features Staff I just got off the phone with my woman. I don't know how long I'm going to last without her around over vacation. What I can't understand is how I'm still attracted to her even though I know about her reputation. Heck, I don't even know her YES, LIFE IS OFTEN LIKEABOXOF CHOCOLATES. Empty. Desiring something more. Your l.ife ever been like thC!t? Your life like that now? Maybe ti:Jere's a part of you that can't be satisfied by anything in this world. As someone has said, \There's a God-shaped vacuum in the heart of every persoh that only God can fill.\ God has a great way of bringing depth and meaning to life. Jesus said, \I came that you might have life, and have it more abundantly.\ Find out what God can do in your life. He can make the difference. For your free booklet on Real Life call 1-800-.236-9238 don't settle for anything less. Get your free booklet on Real Life by callmg 1·8oo·236-9238. name after all this time. Ithink her last name is Octet and I imagine, judging from her voice ifthat is any measure, that her first name is something exotic like Sarah, Beth, or even Jennifer. She changed her phone number over the summer because people were calling her all of the time and at any hour. Maybe you've spoken toherat *5. She's always there, and she always picks up on the first ring which is what I love about her because sometimes I just can't waitto speak to her. The best part is that I treat her I ike crap sometimes, but she never talks back. Ofcourse, she never exactly lends an open ear to anytfling I have to say. I told her I loved her the other night, but she didn't answer. I think I might have rushed things .. She's always talking about saving or de- leting massages. I love it whm she talks like that. She always asks me if I want to save a massage in the archives for two days. I don't even knowwhatthatmeans, butshe says it like it's something l should re- ally have her do for me. I said to her, \Don't you think we're rush- ing thin~s now?\ She didn't answer me again. I love it when she plays games like that Anyway, I called her up, and we got into a big fight. She didn't want to talk about it... at all. I got sick of it so I hung up on her. That's right, I slammed the phone down and laughed. She really got to me too because, just as I was slam- ming the phone down, she got fake-friendly with me and said '~good-bye\ as if nothing had happened. I felt so bad after- wards. I couldn't eat or sleep. I finally called her up at three in the morning, and she picked up on the first ring. She must have been feeling the same way! We talked things over, and she coaxed me into saving an old archived massage for two days. I think we understand each other now. She realizes that I get up- set when she spends so much time on the phone. I realize that she needs her space in this rela- tionship. I think things are go- ing to be OK between us. This time off over Thanksgiving and beyond is going to be good for both of us. I'm thinking about visiting her for a few days, but I don 'tknow where she lives. She doesn 'ttalk about her home life too much. Ours is a relationship of comfortable silences.

. ' Page 14 • November 2, 1995 • The Concordiensis Personals Dear Nicole & Aradhana- We miss you. We hope you're having fun because nothing is happening here. Schenectady is grey. We love you. Comehome soon. has been anything but boring. Thanks again for your support and advice. DeeDee- -Sed What's on your face? -The Waterboys -Dana & Hillary DearMM- At least I got some! Love, Satisfied CJ- What do you want to do wi.fh this pan? To my favorite vampire- I'll miss you a lot over winter term, but at least we won't have to deal with the snow. Roomie- Thank you so much for putting up with my crazy schedule and for being my \answering service.\ Youarethe best. -Lucky Pumpkin Seeds!!!! Love ya- Wonder Woman To Dawn- That's two great movies in a row. What's next? Sammy Hagar is leaving Van Hal en to become the lead singer for the Dead. -D The show is over, it's been a blast, and I wiH miss it all-Sed's out of here. -Lee -Gefelda Fish Evan& Tony- Dear Jamie & Heather- You guys planned a terrific party. Thanks for the great memories!! Love, the sisters of f<I:>B Congratulations on being elected editors!! You guys will do a great job. Good Lucid! I'm going to miss you guys in the winter! C/assijieds SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE with Sut~Splash Tours. Highest commissions, l0west prices. Campus Reps needed to sell .TaTflaica, Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama City, Padre. 1-800-426-77 I 0 To all those who have been tak- ing care of me, especially Lefty, thanks a million. Love, Diana Love, Gimpy To Koenig & Thompson- Thanks for 2 exciting games! Love your 2 best fans, A & J Hey P Blunt- Prof. S- I never knew your bed was a toi- let! Thanks for all of your help this past year...it was truly priceless. You do have to admit, this year Tomcat Rollerblades for Sale! Men's size 7; in great condition. Call x5640 for more information. . . p R l N c :I· p L ~: s 0 f' s 0 i_' N D R f. T I R. E ,\[ 'E N T I N \' E s T' I N G ' ~. ~. . - . . . RECENTLY. · MORNINGSTAR cALLED US CHEAP. IT'S NOT EVERY DAY YOU GET A COMPLIMENT LllffiTHAT. A II financial companies charge operating fees fi and expenses-some more than others. Of course, the lower the expenses you pay. the bet- ter. That way more of your money goes where it should-towards building a comfonable future. We make low expenses a high priority. Because of our size and our exclusive focus on serving the needs of educational and research communities, TIAA-CREF's costs are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund indus- tries.' In fact, Morningstar, Inc. -one of the nation's leading sources of variable annuity and mutual fund information -says, \Size isn't a con- straint; it ... enables CREF to realize a remarkable economy of scale.\' According to Morningstar's data, CREF's \minuscule\ 0.31% average fund expense charge was less than half that charged by comparable funds.' TIAA's traditional annuity also charges no Ensuring the future for those who shape it:'' fees aside from a very modest oper-ating expense of l/4 of I% of annuity assets. Interest and divi- dends are reported after all operating costs have been deducted. Standard & Poor's calls TIAA's costs \exceptionally low.\' Of course, expenses are only one factor to consider when you make an investment decision. While we're committed to keeping our expenses down, we spare nothing in striving to provide top-quality investment choices, financial exper- tise, and personal service. Because that can make a difference in the long run, too. TIAA-CREF seeks performance, not profit. At TIAA-CREF. we believe people would like to spend more on reti~:ement, not on their retirement company. If you'd like to see how our approach can help keep more of your money working for you, call us at I 800 842-2776 (8 a.m. to ll p.m. ET, weekdays). We'd consider it a compliment. I. SttltuJn·l\tl c,' PMr.\j /n.,uralict RaiU~q Au11~V.•t.•, 19q5; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., lipJ'«\r·Dindt•r.• 'Antr(ylu·,lf DLJJa. 1996 (Quarterly). 2. Source: Morningstar. Varillb!t Amwitu.•ILi/t 4/12/95. 3. Of the 2.358 variable ;mnuity funds tracked by Morningstar, the average fund had annual expenses of 0.78% plus an insurance c•pensc of t.24%. Source: Morningslar, Inc., for periods ending July 3 I. I 9%. 4. Simu)arrJ co? P,.,w.'• h••ltl'lfll<'r &111!'1 Aim{tpi•; 1996. TIAA·CREF expenses arc subjecl to change and arc not.guarantccd for the future. CREF is a variable annuity and ios returns are not guaran• teed. The value of your inveStment can go up or down, no rnalter what expense levels arc. CREF certificates arc disoributcd by TIAA·CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete information, Including charges and expenses, call I ROO 842-2773, extension 5509, for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully bo(ore you invest or send money. Date of first usc: 7195. . . Personals/Ciassitieds Make great Christmas$ in CT! If you can begin worl\ the first week of Dec.· or earlier, award winning retail shop in New . Canaan, CT is now accepting Xmas sales hel·p ·applications. $8/hr, 40 hr week. Please call . Ray for more info @ Pennyweights Jewlery Gift Store. (203) 966-7739. Secqre your job today! H you've never boarding, try a For .$35 a day, you get · · · a . mountain lift ticket, and a complete rental Pflckage. So get the card that gives you something extra ... and enjoy the payback. Cal.l 1.•800-88-PEA.KS ·887-3257) to get yourso http://www.peaks.com/ ,., ~strl·c:.ticl;ns niaY..apply. Must be a full-time college student. ,:,x.. ..... .

Union Rugby Fights to Final Seconds, F,ails to Take Division Title by Mike Gifford Sports Staff Saturday afternoon was the home of some of the worst playing conditions any team has faced ever. Union took the firth- !:ike pitch in a pelting rain and tempera- tures thatdropped well into·the upper for- ties, having stayed dry long enough to keep warm. But to no avaiL S·ix seconds into the game, the entire team was coated in cold mud, dirt, and water, shivering Tike frightened gerbils. The Fighting Dutchmen ruggers indeed did fight through blinding mud, shin.deep water; and a cold wind against the Binghamton Crosbies. The ball was nearly impossible to handle in. these conditions by both sides. The serums would engage and slowly become twisted wrecks in the soft ground. Serum halves that were lucky enough to get a hand on it were quickly destroyed by the pursuing wing forwards, making any competitive Tine running ob- solete. The sbarp~thinking Union team outplayed the Crosbies on the majority of the serum downs, sharp enough in fact to get the ball out to our international player, Ian Laycox. With .an assist from Truck Sanabia, Laycox burned through t\.vo de- fenders to scoreUnion's only try. Games in :which both teams stop each other at every turn are rare. Union and Binghamton collided time and time again, both making equal ground on each attempt. Both were the unmovable object and irre- sistible force, But the game came.down to who ever could keep their hands on the ball the better. Despite a longer time in the at- tack zone,and', in my opinion a better over- all offense, Union was humbled by the Binghamton team on this day of deluge, 8 to 5. However, on abrighternote,theBteam finished the season with another win, bringing the record to 5 and 1. A Crosbie defector was the,firstto score for the Union Ain't Nothin' But a Thang: team (taking the place of a Union player who was dragged into the woods by a ra- bid woodcock). I'm ,pretty sure his name was Jon. However, Union was ableto re- cover from the loss quickly under the de- cisiveaction ofline captain Matt Lux, who rallied the team and sent Jamie Dereshinsky into the try zone for the first time since his first day ofpractice. Sadly, however, he was also taken by the wood- cock. Union wins, 14-5. All in all, the Union Men'sRugbyFoot- ball Club finished what can only be called a solid season, and proudly at that. The rookies who came to join us only weeks ago show promise for the spring season, and the team is demonstrating skills that come only through cohesion and commit- ment, sacrifice and sorrow, pain and pride. This fall, we all .learned the meaning of success and failure. Lessons were learned, tackles were made, hearts were broken. And that was only at the drink- ups. As always, proud to be a Dutchmyn. Undefeated RUggers Don't Die, They Ruck! by Kathy \Legs\ Walter Sports Writer The women ruggers of Union played Hamilton last Wednesday. Unfortunately, the 14-7 upset at 6:30PM, in the dark, was not quite enough for the team to travel to States (In fact, it was just one point away!). Have no fear. Though, they may be bat- tered\and\bruised, thewomenruggers-wil 1 SURVIVE! As I type, they are cleaning offtheircleats, bandaging their bodies, and hangfng up their jerseys so that everything will be ready for the spring season come- back!! ! (Look out Albany!·! ! ) It must be clearly stated that the women did not go dowrt without a fight. A com- bined group of scrummies, led by Katie 'You say he's just a 'friend' Conway, Courtney 'Princess with a capital P' Brem, Julie 'I think I'm starting to get this' Firman, Jayne 'What?' Seekins, Andrea 'Smokin' NI' S~hulman, Kat 'and that's all I have to say about that', Naomi 'I could just taste it' Hare!, Noelle 'Right ... sided' Somer's, Ahnya 'the Happy Hooker with· the striped socks' M.endes, and Shalini· 'the Happy Hooker without striped socks' Sood, crushed through the Hamilton de- fense and offense (or whatever they called that mess) to aid their pals, the line. Re- ceiving this gift of protection was the lin- ers, led by Kim 'No, I'm Truck- He's Truck, Jr.' Sanabia{don't argue with her, just accept it as a fact), Jen 'the Human Sacrifice' Lelas (she's going for the record of most injorres without bruises orexpla· nations), Cathy 'Ouch, so that's what a tackle feels ]ike' Budgen, Stacey 'I see better -in the dark than I do at noon., Fel- lows, Beth 'the bandanna is there so my head doesn't explode when I laugh' Wheat, Deb 'Look I can bend it' Spaulding (cool shades, dude! ),\Rachel 'it was my first time and I loved it' Piro (She finally played her first game!!!) and Tiffany 'it was a line kind of week' Lussier. Early in the half, Cathy 'the Wheels' Budgen swept in for a try and Andrea 'that wind is not my friend' Schulman booted a beauty through ~he uprights making the score T-0, u·nion. Within lO minutes. Kim 'Enough said'Sanabiascored yet another try (first time since freshman year! Congrats!) to make the tally 12-0. Cathy 'she kicks, too' Budgen kicked for the ex- tra points. Then, the series of almosts set in. All total, we almost scored abouL Let me leave it like this, the ending score should have been at least 40-7 (Oh yeah, Hamilton scored in the second half. Mi- nor detail!), but the Rugby gods passed out at 5:00 PM (they were celebrating the cooler, more favorable rugby weather! f l ). As such, they were unavailable to answer our prayers for more points and the score ended at 14-7. The Union women are not daunted [oh, no!]. They will continue to 'play the game' [oh, yeah!] and 'stay in shape' [you betcha!] over the winter term. [When it snows, don't be surprised to see them play- ing tackle football with a slightly pregnant ball. (Oh yeah, and don't call it tackle foot- ball!)]. Over spring break, they will be fly- ing to Europe [mmmm!] to play some rugby, travel around the British Isles [aah!] and work on international relations (as only we know how!). Then, it's payback time! See you all in the Spring!!!!! Union Crew Kicks Bass by Jeffery Druzba Storts Writer Where was the Union Crew team this past weekend? Getting wet, muddy, and cold at the 1Oth annual Head of the Fish Regatta in Saratoga Springs, NY. Union Crew competed against competition from the New England area in many of the 17 events raced. Some of the other schools participating in the races were Dartmouth, Hobart, Smith, UVM, and Colgate. The novice women started things off in the morning rain with their eights race. Union had two novice women's eights entered. The first entry finished second out of 34 shells in the race. That boat consisted of (from bow) Jamie. Bunchuk, Beth Wierzbieniec, Dana' .Weinkranz, Lauren Foster, Susanna Ryan, Christina Rho, Sarah Ahart, stroke Helen Woznack, and cox- swain ''Special\ Ted Wallace. The other' women's novice eight finished 23rd in the same field. The varsity men's fours a:lso had two entries from Union. Those two boats fin- ished 151h and 16th out of26 entries with a difference of only six seconds between the two. The first of these consisted of, from bow, Andrew Siegel, Nick Papanickolas, Walter Lane, stroke Mike Ferguson, and coxswain Kirsten Lauber. The second entry was, from bow again, Bryan SerreH, Graham Lucas, Rich Simmons, stroke Jeff Druzba, and cox- swain Melissa Infqrna. The pouring rain. abated, and the day started to look up although the mud was stitl a hindering factor in walking any- where on the shore. The novice men's eight finished eighth in a field of about 18. The novice men's four results were not in at the time ofthis report. The var- sity women's eight event was not placed because of difficulties with the timing system. Several of the later races on the schedule were confused in the timing, and the entire varsity women's eight event results were disregarded after sev- eral complaints. The sun brushed off the remainder of the clouds and soon Union's last entry of the day, the men's pair, was racing. The pair was Union's other entry ofthe day to place, earning third in their race. The pair is a rare event for a Union shell to race in but both JeffDruzba and Rich Simmons enjoyed the experience equally as much as racing in the larger shells. They could not have asked for better conditions as their teamwork took them past one other boat and the finish line in their Vespoli dubbed \Do a Little D \ ance ... Everyone on the team would agree, re· gardless of their finish, that the racing and event itself were both fun and excit- ing. The team was satisfied with it's ef- fort, and the novices experienced their first race situation of many more to come. The novice men and women will race in Saratoga this weekend on the same Fish Creek in Saratoga. They wilt compete against Capital District novice squads such as Albany, Skidmore, and RPI. Follow 87 north to exit 14 and take a left to get to the races and the excite- ment of Union Crew!

Personals/Ciassifieds Make great Christmas $ in CT! [f you can begin work the first week of Dec. [)f earlier, award winning retail shop inN ew Canaau, CT is now accepting Xmas sales help . ~pplications. $8/hr, 40 hr week. Please call Ray for more info @ Pennyweights Jewlery Gift Storee (203) 966-7739. Secure your job today! And now college· special oppor- tuJ.tity to enjoy, it all at great prices. Just purchase ·an Extra Credit Card for $30. Then, your first day on the slopes is free, and you can Mount ....... u\'.v\' If you've never snow- boarding, tty a · For $35 a day, you get a a mountain lift ticket, and a complete rental package. So get the card that gives you something extra ... and enjoy the payback. Oa11 1-800-88-PEAKS -887-3257) to gGt yours. http://WWW.peaks.com/ ma~ apply. Must be a full-time college student. Sports The Con4 Union Rugby Fights to Final Second Fails to Take Division Title by Mike Gifford Sports Staff Saturday afternoon was the home of some of the worst playing conditions any team has faced ever. Union took the firth- ! ike pitch in a pelting rain and tempera- tures that dropped well into the upper for- ties, having stayed dry long enough to keep warm. But to no avail. Six seconds into the game, the entire team was coated in cold mud, dirt, and water, shivering like frightened gerbils. The Fighting Dutchmen ruggers indeed did fight through blinding mud, shin-deep water, and a cold wind against the Binghamton Crosbies. The ball was nearly ·impossible to handle in these conditions by both sides. The serums would engage and slowly become twisted wrecks in the soft ground. Serum halves that were lucky enough to get a hand on it were quickly destroyed by the pursuing wing forwards, making any competitive line running ob- solete. The sharp-thinking Union team outplayed the Crosbies on the majority of the serum downs, sharp enough in fact to get the ball out to our international player, Ian Laycox. With an assist from Truck Sanabia, Laycox burned through two de- fenders to score Union's only try. Games in which both teams stop each other at every turn are rare. Union and Binghamton collided time and time again, both making equal ground on each attempt. Both were the unmovable object and irre- sistible force. But the game came down to who ever could keep their hands on the ball the better. Despite a longer time in the at- tack zone, and in my opinion a better over- all offense, Union was humbled by the Binghamton team on this day of deluge, 8 to 5. However, on a brighter note, the B team finished the season with another win, bringing the record to 5 and I. A Crosbie defector was the first to score for the Union Ain't Nothin' But a Thang: team (taking the place of a Ur.1ion who was dragged into the woods b: bid woodcock). I'm pretty sure his was Jon. However, Union was able cover from the loss quickly under t cisive action ofline captain Matt Lm rail ied the team and sent ~ Dereshinsky into the try zone forth time since his first day of practice. ~ however, he was also taken by the \ cock. Union wins, 14-5. All in all, the Union Men's RHgby ball Club finished what can only be« a solid season, and proudily at that. rookies who came to join us only \ ago show promise for the spring se and the team is demonstrating skill come only through cohesion ar:~d cor ment, sacrifice and sorrow, pain and This fall, we all learned the m.eani success and failure. Lessons were I e£ tackles were made, hearts were br And that was only at the drink- up~ always, proud to be a Dutchmyn. Undefeated Ruggers Don't Die, They Rue~ by Kathy \Legs\ Walter Sports Writer The women ruggers of Union played Hamilton last Wednesday. Unfortunately, the 14-7 upset at 6:30PM, in the dark, was not quite enough for the team to travel to States (In fact, it was just one point away I) Have no fear. Though, they may be bat- tered and bruised, the women ruggers will SURVIVE! As I type, they are cleaning off their cleats, bandaging their bodies, and hanging up their jerseys so that everything will be ready for the spring season come- backlit (Look out Albany!!!) It must be clearly stated that the women did not go down without a fight A com- bined group of scrummies. led by Katie 'You say he's just a friend' Conway, Courtney 'Princess with a capital P' Brem, Julie 'I think I'm starting to get this' Firman, Jayne 'What?' Seekins, Andrea 'Smokin' NI' Schulman, Kat 'and that's all I have to say about that', Naomi 'I could just taste it' Harel, Noelle 'Right-sided' Somers, Ahnya 'the Happy Hooker with · the striped socks' Mendes, and Shalini 'the Happy Hooker without striped socks' Sood, crushed through the Hamilton de- fense and offense( or whatever they called that mess) to aid their pals, the line. Re- ceiving this gift of protection was the lin- ers, led by Kim 'No, I'm Truck - He's Truck, Jr.' Sanabia (don't argue with her, just accept it as a fact), Jen 'the Human Sacrifice' Lelas (she's going for the record of most injuries without bruises or expla- nations), Cathy 'Ouch, so that's what a tackle feels like' Budgen, Stacey 'I see better in the dark than I do .at noon' Fel- lows, Beth 'the bandanna is there so my head doesn't explode when !laugh' Wheat, Deb 'Look I can bend it' Spaulding (cool shades, dude!), Rachel ·it was my first time and I loved it' Piro (She finally played her first game!!!) and Tiffany 'it was a line kind of week' Lussier. Early in the half, Cathy 'the Wheels' Budgen swept in for a try and Andrea 'that wind is not my friend' Schulman booted a beauty through the uprights making the score 7-0, Union. Within 10 minutes, Kim 'Enough said' Sanabia scorecl yet another try (first time since freshman ,; Congrats!) to make the tally 12-0 C 'she kicks, too' Budgcn kicked forth tra points. Then, the series of almos in All total, we almost scored about. me leave it like this, the ending ~ should have been at least 40-7 (Oh ~ Hamilton scored in the second half nor detail I), but the Rugby gods passe at 5 00 PM (they were celebratinf cooler, more favorable rugby weathe As such, they were unavailable to an our prayers for more points and the s ended at 14-7. The Union women arc not daunted nol]. They will continue to 'play the g£ [oh, yeahl] and 'stay in shape' [ betchal.] over the winter term. [Wh« snows, don't be surprised to sec them 1= ing tackle football with a slightly preg ball (Oh yeah,and don'tcall it tackle f ball' ) ] . Over spring break, they wi II be ing to Europe [mmmm'] to play Sl rugby, travel around the British Isles [a and work on international relations (as ( we know howl). Then, it's payback ti See you all in the Spring!!!! t Union Crew Kicks Bass by Jeffery Druzba Storts Writer Where was the Union Crew team this past weekend? Getting wet, muddy, and cold at the lOth annual Head of the Fish Regatta in Saratoga Springs, NY. Union Crew competed against competition from the New England area in many of the t 7 events raced. Some of the other schools participating in the races were Dartmouth, Hobart, Smith, UVM, and Colgate. The novice women started things off in the morning rain with their eights race. Union had two novice women's eights entered. The first entry finished second out of 34 shells in the race. That boat consisted of (from bow) Jamie Bunchuk, Beth Wierzbieniec, Dana· .Weinkranz, Lauren Foster, Susanna Ryan, Christina Rho, Sarah Ahart, stroke Helen Woznack, and cox- swain \Special\ Ted Wallace. The other women's novice eight finished 23rd in the same field. The varsity men's fours also had two entries from Union. Those two boats fin- ished 15th and 16th out of26 entries with a difference of only six seconds between the two. The first of these consisted of, from bow, Andrew Siegel, Nick Papanickolas, Walter Lane, stroke Mike Ferguson, and coxswain Kirsten Lauber. The second entry was, from bow again, Bryan Serrell, Graham Lucas, Rich Simmons, stroke Jeff Druzba, and cox- swain Melissa Infurna. The pouring rain abated, and the day started to look up although the mud was still a hindering factor in walking any- where on the shore. The novice men's eight finished eighth in a field of about 18. The novice men's four results were not in at the time of this report. The var- sity women's eight event was not placed because of difficulties with the timing system. Several of the later races on the schedule were confused in the timing, and the entire varsity women's eight event results were disregarded after sev- eral complaints. The sun brushed off the remainder of the clouds and soon Union's last e1 ofthe day, the men's pair, was rae The pair was Union's other entry of day to place, earning third in their n The pair is a rare event for a Union si to race in but both JeffDruzba and R Simmons enjoyed the experience equ. as much as racing in the larger sht: They could not have asked for be conditions as their teamwork took tr past one other boat and the finish lin· their Vespoli dubbed \Do a Li· Dance ... \ Everyone on the team would agree, gardless of their finish, that the rae and event itself were both fun and ex ing. The team was satisfied with it's fort, and the novices experienced tl first race situation of many more come. The novice men and women' race in Saratoga this weekend on same Fish Creek in Saratoga. They ' compete against Capital District no\ squads such as Albany, Skidmore, RPI. Follow 87 north to exit 14 and t a left to get to the races and the exc mcnt of Union Crew!

