page20 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 \i~~hin~~ CXX-V. Nwnh·e.i··i'v ~ - -·· ·· · .\- · ' · ·· · \' · ...... ·····:·.s~he;,~l:tad\,~··N~~\: :Y·o·i·l;.·: .· ,. ·- , .... '\·~~-·~ · ·::· , ..... \. · ., .. ·.··--· .... ·:. · -:· ::·::··'·:-- .. ·.·;:.· ·f\xt(l;.·~·i·:.(~J.9i~·::·;· ~ ,;,.. ..J\-o ,~ ''(~' ..,._ ~~·'' < '' ~ > '' > •• ''!': ,•o•~<!t<~<-o\;t•t•'-'\'~\': ~>'-~·-~ o-~ ••-,-•-;~' ' \:-' ''\'' ~·\~'\''\;'\\'')'\'\'\'\~ • A ~·• v-'- \'~ '\' '}'' :,.._,,,,,~,__, \ ~ ;:....,-...-.<~---,, ,,.,,,,~ ... ! >~'!' ~ .... ,., • ._.....,._.~~· \! _., I• •-j• ''\'1¥''\'\'''\'\''-~~:· •''-' ''\'l'' o..Oo•,t,·~~~,.,~,..:::..~ ..... ~ >\-\'~,~:; ~,·, .:,' ' - Global Celebration: Unjo~'s ·Earth Day by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer On Saturday, April 27, the Earth Day Celebration at Union College took place. The cel- ebration was organized by the Union College Chapter of Am- nesty International and co- sponsored by the Classes of 1999, '98, '97, '96, theOfticeof the Dean of Students, the Womyn's Union, the Union College Democrats, and the Union College Chapter of Am- nesty International. The event was successfully executed, but one factor disallowed the cel- ebration from being spectacu- lar: laek of participation from the student body. At noon on Saturday, a small campus clean-up left the Union College Center. By 2 pm, the college center patio was set as the stage for an afternoon of fes- tivities. The weather _was not cooperative, and the tempera- ture in the mid-fifties deterred many people from attending. The Environmental Studies So- ciety set up a display which sim- plified the classifications of re- cycling and provided basic in- formation regarding recycling. The Garnet Minstrels opened the celebration. A brief speech from John Stoffer, the director 'Your Mamma' rocked the belated Earth Day fest last Saturday. (photo by Laurie Kirschner I TC) oftheAtlantic Chapter of the Si- erra Club in Albany~ follewed, and informed the audience ofthe history of environmental advo- cacy and what can be done to help spread environmental awareness at Union and globally. Your Mama presented a great performance on the patio for a 1 ittle more than an hour. Ensuing their performance, the celebration was moved inside due to cold weather. Professor Sharon Locke ofthe Union Geology department spoke briefly on the scientific aspects of environmental awareness. For the next two hours the Big Block Blues Band gave a spectacular performance in the Union College Center, where they entertained a small audience. The organization and execution of the celebration was a success. The event would have been a spectacular event had more people been interested in the topic of environmental awareness and participated in the celebration. However; our efforts to raise en- vironmental awareness on the Union campus will not stop with this event We hope for the cel- ebration next year to entail more campus support and for beautiful weather to shed light on Earth Day weekend. To all who par- ticipated in and co-sponsored the event, thank you for your ~upport. We hope to see everyone at the celebration in 1997. ~~~ Under Fire by Adrian MacLean & Tony LaVecchia Editors-in-Chief At press time, the Delta Delta Delta sorority was under investi- gation by the Dean's office for hazing violations. Dean Alford confirmed that \there have been allegations made against Tri- Delta and there will be an inves- tigation.\ Due to the.sensitive and confidential nature of the Dean's investigation no other informa- tion was disclosed by the Dean's office. Sources tell The Concordiensis that these charges stem from a series of incidents surrounding a pledge event which occurred at the Delta Delta Delta house on Saturday, April 20th. From vari- ous sources The Concordiensis has been able to reconstruct the events that led to this investiga- tion. The Saturday evening gather- ing was a ''wet\ pledge event, meaning that the activity involved the consumption of alcohol, which our sources indicate is the norm for Tri-Delta pledge events. L....._D_i_r_e~c_t_o_r_P_h __ il~R-o-b-in_s_o_n_t_o_S_p_e~a_k_a_t~C-o_m_m __ e_n_c_e_n_t_e-:-n-t---1 ~~~~n:ot:~u~:~\:ot~:O~sa~~p~~ pledges (who are mostly Fresh- men) felt undue pressure to con- sume alcoholic beverages. The pledges then left this event totally inebriated and proceeded back to their various donnitories, where several were written up by RAs for alcohol-related violations. by Stephanie Slobotkln News Editor Who is the mystery speaker that will send the graduating class of 1996 off into the world? Is he famous? Is he an actor, or a singer, or a comedian? Will our patents know him? Will friends at other universities and colleges have heard of him? Inquiring minds at Union College want the answers. The commencement speaker for this y.ear is none other than Phil Robinson. He is famous. He is a director. He is also an alum- nus of Union College's class of 1971. Maybe our parents and friends at other schools have heard ofhim. However, the fa- miliarity of a name should not sway one's feei'jngs about the sta- tus of any Union College com- mencement speaker. Phil Alden Robinson, a.gradu- ate of Union College; is a brilliant Hollywood writer and director. He is known for the film Field of Dreams and Sneakers, both of which he wrote and directed. The movie Field of Dreams is about the wonders ofbaseball and the a conservative fanners view ofthe game in the 1960's. Ray Kinsella, the main character in the film says, unfortunately, no one else heard the voice, I never did a crazy thing in my life. The voice says to Kinsella as he walks through his fields, \If you build it, he will come.\ Somehow, he figures out what the voice is try- ing to tell him. He plows under his Iowa cornfield and builds a baseball field that at first draws out the spirit of \Shoeless\ Joe Jackson and later those of other dead baseball legends. · Now, after six years of work in writing the screenplay and per- suading movie executives to take a chance, people have come to see the movie, just as baseball play- ers came to Kinsella's ballpark. Robinson has added to his cred- its the roles of writer and director of a film about a hippie-turned- Iowa-farmer who, through base- ball, unites people with their dreams. Besides Robinson present ca- reer, he was a political science major at Union, traces his career roots to his days as broadcaster on WRUC, the College's. radio station.. In 1968, together with Bob Killian '69 and Rich~d Roth •10, he covered the preSidential 'primary and the Chicago I)emo- cratic convention. To pay the air~ fare, they sold their coverage to several radio stations i'n the Schenectady area. \That's when I decided that broadcast journalism was for me,'' Robinson said. \I was re~ ally jazzed up by it,\ Robinson apparently did more than broadcasting for WRUC, at one point becoming very in- volved in publicity for the station, specifically a reenactment of the \Baby Carriage Stunt\ (At the station's founding, students asked a woman to push a baby carriage through downtown Schenectady. Inside the carriage was not a baby, but a radio receiver tuned to the College's station.) Pictured in a photo of the reenactment is not a woman, but a man dressed in drag identified as \Phyllis\ Robinson. Robinson also produced docu- mentaries for WRGB and. even- tually directed some training films for the Air Force. After pro- ducing about 100 films for ~or- poratlons and institutions, he got his first Hollywood job - pro- ducer of several episodes of the Trapper John, M.[). tv series;. From there, he wrote the movie, All of Me, starring Steve Martin and Lily Tomlin, which brought considerable praise, and Rhinestone, starring Dolly Parton and Sylvester Stallone, which did not. He also wrote a movie called In the Mood, which .enjoyed more qritical acclaim than com- mercial return. As for his future, Robinson said he plans to take a break from Hollywood. \I've been working non-stop for a long time .. I'm tak- ing a year off, reading books, see- ing friends, and playing with my dog.\ In June, Union will host Phil Robinson as the commencement speaker. Ryan Browning, a jun- ior who knows Robinson on a more personal level commented, \he's extremely funny and will surely deliver a crowd- pleasing speech.\ The mystery speaker no longer remains a mystery. The class of 1996 will be sent into a \field of dreams\ Sources indicate that the ad- ministration noticed this rash of violations by Tri-Delta pledges and initiated an investigation; Tri- Delta pledges were then called · into the Dean's office for indi- vidual questioning. Five of the pledges are reported to have in- dicated to the Dean that they were pressured by the Tri-Delta sisters to drink. If these allegations are true, Saturday's activities would appear to constitLLte hazing. Ac- cording to New York State Law, hazing is illegal; it is a Class A misdemeanor that can result in up to one year in jail and a $1000 fine. According to Dean Alford, \The college will not tolerate haz- ing, and will and has in the past taken strong action against haz- ing.\ In the case of Delta Upsi- lon, a year ago, the precedent ~f removal of housing privileges was set. •·

Campus News . llilrr <1I~c1nror~irnsis • May 2~ 1996• Page 2 Campus Info Academic Affairs Council Minutes from April16 1. The minutes of April2, 19~6 were approved 2. The presentation to the faculty .of the \1996 Review of the Administrative Task Force on Teaching Credit in the College of Arts & Sciences\ was discussed. Methods of granting course loading for student resear~h was, again, a topic of controversy. 3. The subgroup working on \Enhancing Intellectual Life\ presented a .pre- liminary list of suggestions called from previous committee reports which will · be integratede into the AAC report. . 4. The meeti11g adjourned at 8:40a.m. The Com.mission 's Annual Human Rights Award Break• fast will be on Thursday, M~ 23, -1996,, 7:30a.m •• It will be held at Glen Sanders Mansion in Scotia. Charge is . $12 per person. Re~ervation should made with the Hu- man Rig-hts Office (388-4290) by May 16, 1996. Tickets will be mailed if checks are sent to the Commission. I.E.F.'DEA.DLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categori~! 1- student-initiated research projects. and \educationally innovative projects\ is Ma) 16,1996. • Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the writteri approval of~ ~-'acuity advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be sub tnitted to the Dean's Office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building)on fonns availablt Utere. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative' . proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available ii1 the Dean's Office (S I 00), Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. lnquirie ~bout I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margare Patton, Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts. & Sciences. When preparin~ pudgets, please remember that per diem rates are nonnally limited to $50-85 per day lrransportation costs should also reflect the best rates avajlable. Students who are plan [ling to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If you '\esearch includes WQfk with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminru) ~pproval from the Human, S!,lbjects Research Committe_e before it c~n be funded by tht ~ubcouncil. onUndergraduat.e Research. **************************************************** FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals fm caculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guideline~ are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S-100, S&E). l;'he deadline fo. submission of proposals is May 16, 1996. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed tc Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem r-ates are normally limite<;! to $50-85 per day. Transportation should alsc reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Com P1ittee before it can be funded by the Fac~lty Development Committee. Social Issues Discussion Group !fopic: Food, Eating Disorders and Body linage Date: Tuesday, May 7, 1995 Time 6-8 pm Place: Social Sciences Lounge Dinner will be provided. Pre-register witb the sociology department@ 6292 Ifyou have any questions. call Prof. Relyea @ 6008 Limited to 15 People Student Activities: Upcoming Events: Gre~k Week: May4-7. Health Fair: Thursday, May .9th. Steinmetz Symposium: May 10-12 Springfest: May 17-19~ Performing Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, May 22 through June 1 in The Yulman Theater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 start- ing at 9 PM in Chet's, lo£ated in the back Campus Center. UNION COLLEGE. CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1996 THROUGH MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996 DATElTIME LOCATION TUESDAY, APRIL 23~ 1996: 1 : 14 AM West Parking Lot 1:20AM West Parking Lot 4:30AM Fox House WEDNESDAY,APRIL24, 1996: 5:22PM CampusGrounds I 1:02PM Richmond 11:05 PM Davidson· THURSDAY APRIL 25, 1996: 2:00AM College Center 4:55PM Richmond Lot 5:05PM Davidson FRIOAY,APRIL26, 1996: 1.: 15 AM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:50PM Fox House 9:43PM Davidson Loading Dock SATURDAY,APRIL.27, 1996: I : · 17 AM McKean House & -20 Union Ave. 1:18AM Huntley Lane 6:45AM Davidson North 8:47AM Davidson North 11:42 PM Richmond SU~DAY, APRIL 29, 1996: 3:00AM South Lane 4:07AM West Parking Lot 3:22PM Phi Delta Theta Lot 5:16PM Davidson North 6:00PM Whipple Bridge MONDAY,APRIL29, 1996: ,· 6:05AM Nott Seward Lot 9:15AM Campus Grounds 1:05PM -Davidson INCIDENT THEFTN ANDALISM: Student's car window smashed. portable stereo thatwas left in car was stolen. SPD notified. THEFTN ANDALISM: Student's cat window smashed. Personal items in the car were stolen. SPD Notified. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Confron- tation between two students. P.ROPERTY DAMAGE: Campus ve- hicle found damaged. Cause undeter- mined. Possibly hit and run accident. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Unauthorized social events. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/SUB- STANCE ABUSE: Intoxicated student creating a disturbance. Conduct Charges ,.filed. VANDALISM: Hole kicked into wall in first floortestroom. PARKING VIOLATION: Apparent tampering with temporary parking decal. :FIRE: Person(s) unknown set name tag on door afire. No damage or injury. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Studentre ports problem with car tire. Cause unde~r­ mined. TRESPASS: Vendors (perfume sales men) entered a residence building and were wandering around. Located, identi tied and advised off campus. TRESPASS~ Visitor searching through trash for redeem abies. Identified and ad- vised off campus. NOISE COMPLAINT: Off campus resi- dent called to complain about noise and inappropriate behavior at both locations. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Verbal al- tercation between two students. FALSE FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire pull box intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. Safety Hazard-evacuation ofthe building was extremely slow. MISCHIEVOUS BEllA VI OR/ SAFETY IIAZARD: Tampering with wall lighting along 3rd floor hallway. Corridors darkened by loosening bulbs. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Visitor in possession of student's room key, Used key to enter the building. Key confiscated. HARASSMENT: Student reports being · harassed by unknown person. VANDALISM: Student's car overturned. Side of car damaged. SPD contacted. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Two juve- niles acting suspiciously. Located, iden• tified and advised off campus. VANDALISM: A group ofteenagers ere ated a disturbance, harassed students, tres passed into residence, threw bottles break ing a window which caused minor injury to one student. Suspects fled offcampus, with assistance of students ~dan off-duty SPD officer three suspects were caught. SPD took juveniles into custody. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor acting suspiciously. Located, identified and ad- vised off campus. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle im- mobilized. Repeat unregistered violations. HARASSMENT: Student being harassed by E-Mail & telephone; unauthorized use ofE-Mail account. HARASSMENT/SIMPLE ASSAULT: Altercation between two students. One student sustained minor injuries. ~ I •!i ). [•, ~~ f 1 I

t I ' ;· 'illlp: Qil,ncorbien5is • !\lay 2, 1996 • Page 3 · .- · Campus News · -~--~-- --~~------<.-..--.--~---~--· -- ------~--- -~ ----- -----~--~---- Trinh Thai Receives Watson Fellowship Award by J~dy Mousseau ~taffWriter Each year, several students from vari- ous liberal arts colleges across the nation are awarded the Watson Fellowship. Trinh Thai, a senior civil engineering major, was informed before finals winter term that she had been awarded one of sixty Watson Fel- lowships this year. The fellowship allows gradl:_lating seniors to spend one year abroad researching their pro- po.sed topics. Each student receiving the fellowship is awarded $16,000 to make the year.long independent study possible. Two hundred finalists are selected from fifty lib- eral arts college.s across the nation. Last spring, Trinh Thai decided that she had a desire to submit a proposal for the Watson fellowship. Over the summer, she researched various topics, and her final proposal entailed learning the technical, social, and economic aspects ofancient bridges, as well as the myths and tales which are associated with them. The bridges that she researched, which are lo- cated in Europe and Asia, served as the ba- sis for the locations which she will study her proposed topic. The proposal submit- ted by Thai was a combination of her in- terests and passions and of suggestions which she attained from several sources. Her year abroad will consist of-six months in China, with the remainder of the year spent in Japan, England, and Italy. In 1993, }hai traveled to China on term abroad, and felt that she had been in the country for too brief a period. \One thing that will guarantee that you will win it is if you can show the foundation that you havea unique proposal, that you have a passion for it, and that you're the only one who's quali- fied to execute the proposal,\ stated Thai. In continuing, she stated that the personal statementfortheproposal is just as impor- tant as the proposal it- self. Trinh Thai's pas- sion of bridges, .com- bined with other inter- ests, served as the source for the ideas presented within her unique proposal. Thai views her op- portunity to indepen- . dently research her proposal as a year to. think and grow. She and commented that . the Watson Fellowship is \ a great opportunity to see, explore, and . learn more about the world.\ Thomas J. Watson's motto stated, .. World peace through world understanding.\ In concurring with the notion presented by Watson, Thai com- mented, \If we all understood and knew more about other cultures, we would all get along much better.\ The Union community congratulates Trinh Thai on a unique and successful pro- posal, and on her award of the Watson Fellowship. Thecollegewishes her the best of luck in the following year in research- ing her proposed topic regarding ancient bridges in .several locations around the world. Jnformation regarding the competition for the Watson Fellowship will be an- nounced soon. Should any current junior want to obtain information regarding the . Fellowship, please contact Professor Klein in the Economics department. Dedicate Your Free Time and Love to a ''Little'' by Marty Meti StajJWriter · During winter term, Big Brother/Union student Jon Klein was on the local news with his little brother to talk about the great need that Big Brothers/Big Sisters has had ove..r the past few years for new velunteers. Jon's little Brother , David, has a younger brother Dan who has been in n<;ed of a Big Brother for over two years. In talking with Stephanie Wolos, who is in charge of the Big Brothers/ Big Sisters program at · Union, I learned that for many children it is common to have to wait two years befor:-e they are placed with a match. The fact that this two-year period has become \common\, is a result of a lack of volunteers and \a strong need for big brothers\. Currently, Big Brothers/Big Sisters is looking fQr 266 new volunteers, of which 186 are male role models. At Union, there are 85 students who are currently partici- pating in the program, and 30 students who have turned in applications. To become a big brother or a big sister, one only needs to fill out an application and arrange an interview with Stephanie, at her office on the fourth floor of the college center. The program, · which has been at Union f0r around twenty, five years, has been a great success. The program itselfin- Currently, Big Brothers/Big Sisters is looking for 266 new volunteers ... voiVes a big brother . or sister arranging a time to .meet with their \little\ once a week and spending about • three hours with them. Stephanie stressed that the time they spend, and their activi- · ties \do not have to be expensive .... most of the kids are just in need of a friend, . someone to take them out and have fun. \Some common activities for Union students and their \little's'' are activities such as going swimming and playing sports, going to the movies or hockey games, or even just hanging ·out in the college center. In addition, Union provides a car for . students to use to get off campus with their big brothers or sisters, and plans many . campus events fer both \bigs\ and \I ittle' s\ to participate in. Some ofthe events this spring are \Spring into peace\ which is a ·Crafts fair, and the Big Brothers/ Big Sisters Youth Olympics which is held on the football field every year. Stephanie, who has been in charge of the program at Schenectady for the past two and a halfyears, said that the main need of most of these children is \a break from their isolated lives, and a strong role model.\ For example, Stephanie talked about a girlwho was eight years old who told her she had never been to the movies. Most of the kids come from single parent families ~nd usu~ly live with their Mother. For the big brother or big sister Stephanie said that one of the main rewards that most stu- dents site is the feeling or knowledge that \they get a chance to have a tremendous effect on a ,person's life.\ In a study released by Public and Private Ventures (PP& V), it has been proven \that these youth were 46% less I ike1y than their peers to start using illegal drugs, 27% less likely to start drinking, and 42% Jess likely to skip a day of class., In addition, the study said that kids with big brothers/sisters were \signifi- cantly less likely to lie, and felt more supported and less criticized by peers and friends.\ If you would like to volunteer to be a big brotlzer or a big sister you can contact Stephanie Wolos at 388-6228 or stop by Jrerofflce on thefourthjloorojthecolleg~ center during her office hours, which are Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday from 9:00a.m tol:OO p.m. or on most weeknights from 7:00 to 9:00. COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI lcbanactady 1041 State Stl'iet 882-6.778 ·------- --- ---- - - - ----------· : 50% ·oFF i aa~ I 84.89 !S5.oo OFF: : PROCESSING I REPRINTS I Bx1 0 I . CWB I I Rec~ive SO% off~e,regularl L\ • 20 . . . . . . I Limit 3 8xl0 enlargements. I Receive $5.00 off when I I pnce ofprocesstng and ~t standard su:c From your 35mm color I . you purchase a club .I 1 printing color print fdm. I repnnta •. From yout lSDiiD. I negative. 1 . membership! Must present 1 · I .color negative. I I Limit~ nill~. Standarchize prints only. .•. Custom croppinc may be availabl~at.an I coupon to receive $5.00 off .•. 1 :· Not valid with other toupoiiS Qtextra set Not valid with .;....r coupons or offers. I additional charge. Not valid with other I . promotions.. Club members receive 1 Club memben m:eive 1 0% eoupon price. I coupons or extra set promotions. Cltib I Limit one per persbn. Not valid with 1 . . 10% coupc1n price, I . I members teeeive 10% coupon price. I other coupons or offers. I I MdTOPHOro· I Md'TOPHOTO. 1 Mo'TOPHOro• 1· Mo'TOI'HOTOe I ·------------------------~--------------~ ..

I ! Cam1H1s News . . · . · ([Ifc \!Ioncoroil'ltsis • l\lay-2, 1996• P~1,ge J Student & Teacher Bon-ding Through Fly Fishing Rathskellar Changes Benefit Students by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer Professor Peter Tobiessen and a core group of about six students have discovered an alternative water sport for the upsoming sea- son. This sport takes skill, prac- tice, experience, and perhaps a little luck. Their newfound hobby is fly-fishing. Though some argue it is an art fonn and not a sport, it takes a great deal of practice and pa- tience. If you have ever seen A River Runs Through It, you will know that it does not come easy to the beginner. Students began their preparation in the beginning of winter tenn, when they learned how to tie the various knots and, perhaps the most difficult part of all, cast the lie. fected over a lifetime. Professor Tobiessen admits that Bruce Delventhal is \a much better fly fisher than I am.\ Within two months, this unique group em- barked on their first trip: to Manchester, Vennont. Here, they visited the Orvis shore and the Fly · Fishing Museum, where one of the directors is a Union alumus! Though the setting was not as tranquil as the group had hoped (it was raining, cold, and the wa- ter was about 40 degrees), they would like to make additional trips this tenn. If interested, please . call Professor Tobiessen at x6028. by StephanieSiobotkin News Editor The Rathskeller has become a popular midnight snacking arena. Instead of calling the lo- along with the declining balance and cash, more studel).ts have meals in the underground atmo- sphere. The late-night .hours were de- signed to .give students the oppot- tunity todine· in a place where the menu was different than that ofDutchHol- low. It was also brought about to give independent students a place togo. Ftom the point of view of the workers at the Rathskeller, things became easier once the policies and hours were changed. Ac- cording to Theresa Ann Viva, manager of the Rathskeller, the crowds are more stretched out through- out the day. beer to students over the age of 21 has been a great success. On_. the average they sell 20 to 25 beers a njgbt and have not had any problems relating to the alcohol purchases. Since students are now al- lowed to use meal-swipes the overall sales nave has increased since last fall. Upon speaking with Steve Pearse of Dining Ser- vices, he mentioned that based on the firsttwo trimesters, sales have remained constant but the stu- dents' options have increased. He commented, \As long as the stu- dents are benefiting from the changes and additions, all are content with the status of the 'Skeller.'\ ,Jn terms of dollar compari- sons, none can be accurately made because the polices are fairly new. However, next year dining services hopes to see somewhat of an increase in sales despite the fact that the students' well being is their primary con- cern. Their training consisted of hands on fly-tying, compiling stream strategies, and the study of basic ecology. They learned about the different types of fish they would attempt to lure, including several trout varieties, bass, and salmon. The bait used consisted of Mayflies, Caddis flies, and Stone flies, often in their nymph stage of their life cycle. This was quite a change from the fruit flies in the Biology 18 labs! Despite the lack of results from this past excursion, the ob- · jective was to create an forum for students an faculty to interact in a more infonnal atmosphere than a classroom or laboratory, accord- ing to Mr. Charles Casey of the public relations office. This par- . ticular project was made possible by the P .E. W. grant acquired by . Professor Susie Benack. (photo by Laurel Ruma, TIC) Due to the increas- ing popularity of the \Skeller\ some addi- tions were made to ac- commodate space. Benches were added to increase. the seating by The Rathskeller is an altema- tive,dining experience from West or Upper class and now that late- night hours are implemented and meal-swipes are officially ac- cepted, students should be able to enjoy the options. cal pizza place, people have left their designated hibernation quarters and ventured to the \Skeller\ for a meal. Now that a vale-dine swipe is accepted about twenty people and the old pizza bar was moved behind the grill to make room for more tables. · Also, the policy of serving Fly fishing is simiiar to regular fishing practically in name only, and the intricacies are often per- The expertise ofUnion's fac- ulty and staff is evident in the classrooms, though they have much more to offer us as well. Their personal interests can be valuable opportunities for the stu- dent body to expand their college experience. All you have to do is reach out and take advantage of them. Think you can write better than this?? Then write for the Concordy! Call X6155 It talks. It talks to your Mom. I · --------- It talks to Moscow. I It talks to other computers. For nwre informotion visit us on the Internet a/ http:Jihed. info.apple.coml Contact Charles Bosworth at Union College Bookstore Reamer Campus Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 It listens to your wallet. When you buy a Macintosh\ computer, you're buying some of the most advanced multi- media capabilities you can get in a computer. With its built -in stereo sound, video graphics and animation, Macintosh is an easy way to bring your work to life. Of course, you're also buying the computer that£ives you a fast, easy way to access the Internet. Because with a Macintosh there are no complicated commands needed to get up and surfing on the Internet. Better yet, with the compatibility of a Mac; you can run UNIX; DOS and Windows, as well as Mac OS.* Making it easy to talk to other people, even if they're not using a Macintosh. And if all that isn't enough, now we've even made Macintosh easy to buy. Because for a limited time, we'r1~ oft1~rinf~ speciall:amJpus s:avings on selected Macintosh computers and Apple\ printers. So stop by and visit us today, and look into the power of Macintosh.The power to be your bese Power8Dok'S300C~ 12.119 8/SOOMB S39/!00lllb j ;,u jJUymelil ufprmMJ1Ui ur mlf!l\t:.ll u.J!I b. rt:<Ju•r.J fur 90 ciu)> unt!J.Jeferr.J Appl. Cumpukrwuli v./fi;r.Jnt,·rwl .;...:ruJIIt, Jurmg, tli!J !}0 .!«; jXrivd uill be adJed to the prindp.;lf a'!d uill bca' in/crest u !ole~ uiff be included i11 tbc >:epayme-•t.od•rdule 'f1:e m~nt~b· payment quNI'!l ab~l'r is an estimate ba.<e~l l u 11 \lutai iuun umuunl u/ $i,Jo1.9J t.buh mJudw\ oampfepurcbrJStpn.e u/ $1,299/ur the Feiformu G2U s;stem shouli abate. The totalloar1 amount also indudcJ a 6.0% loan Otlgrnatipn.foe. fnterest ls!'lmable based on tbe Commerrlal Paper Role plrJS a sprl'flrl '!! 635% For e:r11tnple, the mmrlh nfjamwj ; ~yo hud \\ mlf!T<-•1 ,., 1 , u/ 1~ 19'\!. u, 1 tb an um 114 .. ; pt:rwllial!• r~k (Al'R) 'If !J.'J~?, ,1/r,uib& pu; men: f,;r tb,·totulloun amourll described aborc uordd be $:!] ,) Jlontbl)' payment and APRsh~rrn _assume~ oo tlefermen.t of prtndpal arul diJes 11ot fnrlu.W slate Ql' local sales ta.-r. Mo~tb!y P~J'· I menl~ may vary depending on actual romputer system prices, tollllloan amounts, state and lotal sales taxes, and a change In the mm1thly mrlable ltlterest rate. Prequalificallon expedrtrs the loan process, but does 1101 grMmlltN final loan .approml ~~~h~eqrLent acceptnhler erijicaNNt luucummiJ mu.>l bt r<iu1r t:J bejvre yv 14 r !uan1.1 apprUl eJ. ';be Pii1u.'f\ ,Y<~cmluw' GIOO:G& :JW G\umpullb/ m;d a/b,·r PviA.a .lfa,mtosb moJdJ using Softlrindousfrom ltk1f,llia Solutions run .I!S DOS 6.2 andlf!ruloil\S] ( For prooj ask for lhr !9!)5 lt~gram study W111J'ormg P~·r• .\foe C~\'tUII\\ to ::mhum proct' pur·b\'\\ wmpuiCI> runrll1/# ~!wiorw. Ujjim ,b 01 w ,,bu 1 , exp 1 re Ma; 15, I99G. Se< yuur wmpu .. >lure for JeluJ/, ubout fix Jpple Computer loan. ~ l996Applc Computer, In, .. Ill rfgh!J rcscrt'f!d .!pple. the Appl~ logo, Laser'Xnter, .lfacfntosh. l'erforma, Pau't\'flook l'llfl'et' ;lfacmtosb, .'ityleWril~al!d 1'be pou·er to be wur V<>l \'\ re.~bl•reJ 1 ru&mark, u( App;, wmputer, ln •. ,\[, 1 • 1 mdi'u~UT ,IJuc \\ trurkniurko u/ A{ifilo Cunipula,lric .. LXIX l.i ,z rcgMtcr:cJ tratj<·n~<l!'kvf.\'o~c/1, In•··. :n the L'nited States and other CJ.Unfrlrs, lrcensed cxcluslt~b·through X/Open Cornf'Oil); lid WindnU's IS a trademark 9flf1m.\!j/ Ccrpo•allon· awl Soj/Wimloru IS a trademark IJSed under liceJLie !J;·Jnsigniafrom Microsoft Corporatwn. All Macintosh computers are deszgned liJ be accessible to mdlt'idua/s U'tlhdlsabilily 7b learn more (US onb'), cal/800·1i00-7808 or17Y 800·755·0()01 I :j '< I I :t

., l l ' F ~: I ; .. , ,. UII~:t' \!Iunn1ri)icnsis ~ May 2, 1996• Page 5 · . . · Campus News High Tea Time by Jody Mousseau · Staf/Writer Tri--Delta and Theta Delta Chi Team Up with Winning Results In search of an event which would allow members of the Union community to gather in a casual atmosphere, High Tea at the Nott · Memorial was initiated on April3, 1996. \High Tea was an idea that by Aileen Quigl~y Staf!Writer came up in a small advisory group to find a way to bring members of . For centuries, philosophers and the community together in a less structured setting,\ commented Dean mathmatic.ians have insisted that Alford. Oftentimes when the Union community comes. together, the ofte11 the sum of the parts is primary purpose is to contest issues. This situation convinced the greater than the whole. On April ,people involved that a relaxed social event was needed on the Union . 2Sth, 1996, Theta Delta Chi fra- campus. . temity and Delta Delta Delta so- Thus far\ High Tea has been a success. The past two weeks have rority proved them all wrong; a harbored excellent turnouts, with approximately 60 students, faculty, combined effortismuch stronger. staff and members of administration one week, and approximately . The combined effort at hand , 100 in the other. The weekly event is open to all members of the was the first annual Servant-for- Union community, as well as visitors to campus. The casual atmo- a-day auction, which kicked off sphere allows people to drop in anytime during the course of High . at 8:30p.m. last Thursday in the Tea in the Nott Memorial. Reamer Center auditorium. Yet Every Wednesday, all members ofthe Union community are wet- the turnout not only drew 39 come to attend High Tea at the Nott Memorial between 3:30 and 4: 15. · members ofthe two Greek orga- The organizers hope for the event to be .a continued success, and that nizations to be auctioned, hut perhaps it will become a time honored tradition at Union. Alford independantstudents and faculty/ stated, «Traditions are not things that grow out of structure, but out of staff members were there as well. popular opinion.\ With the participation of the Union community, · All participants, both servants-to- High Tea atthe Nott Memorial will be an event which will become a • be and bidders, knew they were tradition. there for more than just the en~ Tom Logan Speaks of Medical Mission by Andrew Mallios & Myles Kellam Contributing Writers Tom Logan, the Founder oftheMarion Medical Mission, visited Union College on February 28,. 1996, to give a lecture about his . missionary trips to Embangweni, Malawi, Africa. The talk and · slide sbowwas hetd at the Sigma Phi Society, following a delec- table dinner attended by Deans Alford and Schurick, a plethora of professors, and students. After the presentation Mr. Logan enter- tained a myriad of questions asked by professors and students alike. Mr. Logan began his own charity organization when he found that the money he had been donating to another group had been used inefficiently, due to overhead payments (approximately 40%). Mr. Logan, and those who work with him, pay for all traveling and shipping expenses; therefore, all donations are used fot the sole benefit of the needy. The Marion Medical Mission's first trip to Africa was in 1990. The aim of the first project was to build shallow wells, in order to provide safe drinking water. At present, the organization helped to · fund 180 wells providing an estimated 51,000 people with good drinking water. Before this, about half of the children under five years old were dying of dysentery, which is found in contaminated water. Specifically, Mr. Logan's organization provided the materials and funds for the wells, but the villages excavated and 1nstalled them. They had to dig approximately 25-30 feet down, or until they reached water, with a diameter of five feet. Homemade bricks were put ort the sides of the well for support. Then the well is · sealed by a concrete dome into which a pump is installed. A well costs approximately. $500 to build, last year Mr. Logan and his wife went with the intention ofbuilding 30 wells with the $15,000 in contribution money they had accumulated. The end result was 41 wells installed within 16 days! Mr. Logan felt that the people in the area are very friendly, and extremely appreciative of the help being offered. Along with the wells, Mrs. Logan helped build a school for the deaf, which in- cluded dormitories, a kitchen, and lavatories. After finding a local hospital so under-:funded that t:p.ey were reusing bandages, the or- ganization began donating needed medical supplies, as well. After hearing Mr. Logan's incredible stories, and after a lengthy · period of time fielding questions, the students, professors, and ad- ministration walked away feeling hopeful that people as gracious and concerned as Mr. Logan still exist Please be watching for a future fundraiser. Everyone can help. I • . ' tertainment. This event was a philanthropic effort of behalf of the Cystic Fi- · brosis Foundation and yielded ·almost $1500. There are more personal donations to date being added to this total, which could reach over $2000. The service pe- riod, when the bidders got their money's worth, began at mid- night on April 25th and lasted • until the stroke of midnight on Friday, April 26th. According to Laurel Cr~;>nip, a Tri-Delta sister and instrumental organizer of this event, the effort began as a fund-raiser for a per- sonal friend of hers. Her friend Kristina was afflicted with Cys- tic Fibrosis and was in dire need of a double-lung transplant. How- ever, the only hospital able to per- form this is in California, and the family's expenseswould have ex- ceeded $30,000. Ms. Cronin saw this bleak situation as an oppor- tunity for her house to make a dif- ference in someone's life. She discovered that the members of Theta Delta Chi had recently do- nated a closed -caption machine to a student of their cook's daugh- Ben Fox, Serrant-for-a-Day. (photo courtesy of Gamma Pili Beta) ter, who was deaf and afflicted - with Cystic Fibrosis. Together with Ben Fox, Jesse Shaffer, and other TD Chi brothers. she orga- nized the auction of20 members from each house, appropriately named The Kristina Fund. Sadly, Kristina passed away several days prior to the event in her honor. Detennined to continue the fight against Cystic Fibrosis (the leading killer among children to- day), the event was to be held any- way, and the proceeds donated to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. The result was financially suc- cessful, with a turnout that filled the auditorium to standing room only. Aram Green stated that since their efforts were so sue- cessful, productive, and fun that they\ plan to do it annually, and that a great time was had by both contributors and servants.\ Tasks included washing dishes, vaccuuming, or directing traffic, which any Gamma Phi Beta sis- ter or Ben Fox can attest to. Jen- nifer Plotnick, who bid on her friend Chris Brantigan, shared that she was \happy to donate to such a good cause ... it made it all worthwhile.\ Though such a successful event would be difficult to surpass, Theta Delta Chi and Delta Delta Delta plan to follow-up their ef- forts and hope this becomes a philanthropic tradition for years to come.

World News Lebanon: Used, Abused, and Manipulated by AnandRao World News Editor Like a recurring nightmare, the Lebanese quagmire will not go away. In many societies, the month of April is usually asso- ciated with an assortment of positive images. For the people of Lebanon, however, it is doubtful that anything positive will be associated with the events oflast month. In the lat- est chapter of an awful tragedy that began more than twenty years ago, almost one hundred Lebanese civilians were killed by an Israeli artillery barrage that accidentally struck a United Nations peacekeeping camp in the southern Lebanese town of Qana. The Israeli op- eration was initiated in re- sponse to attacks upon its northern tenitory by Hezboliah, an Iranian-backed group of Is- lamic militants. While Israel clearly did not wish to attack a United Nations camp, it wound up doing so because the in- tended target of Hezbollah was launching its attacks from a site not far from the camp. lltose who died at Qana suffered ter- ribly, with many of the victims bleeding to- death from shrap- nel wounds. Many of the wit- nesses at the United Nations camp, who had lived through all of Lebanon's previous mis- ery, said they had never seen anything like it. In the aftennath of this car- nage, the major players in the Middle East commenced their usual round of blaming the ad• versary. While up to 400,000 civilians, comprising more than ten percent of Lebanon's total population, fled the southern territories being attacked by the lsraeii military, the leaders of Iran, Syria, Israel, and the United States tried to evade re- sponsibility for what had hap- pened at Qana. The truth, how- ever, is that these four powers are collectively responsible for by Karen Watts Staff Writer A summit meeting in Mos- cow; what could possibly be more beneficial to both Presi- dent Clinton and President Yeltsin at such a crucial time? The presidential incumbents are together facing, in the com- ing year, elections that will not easily be won. President Clinton will battle over the polls with Republican Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole in November of I 996, w.hHe President Yeltsin faces Gennadi Zyuganov, who is a member of the Communist Party, in June ofl996. OnApril21,Moscow served as a place where issues the massacre at Qana, because their leaders do not particularly care about the welfare of the Lebanese people. It is quite clear. for instance, that the leaders of Iran are more interested in taking credit for the destruction oflsrael than in does not exclude Israel frmn the list of guilty parties. As usual~ the Israeli government acted upon its naive beliefin the uni- versal efficacy ofmilitary force. After all these years. and in spite of the disastrous conse- quences of previous military tity. It therefore· comes .as no surprise that Hafez al-Assad, the brutal and ambitious dicta- tor of Syria, views Lebanon as a natural part ofhis country. ,Qf all the major players, Assad is currently the one person who has the greatest leverage in ment made a mistake in failing ' Why are you so paranoid?, , · to condemn both Israel and the Islamic powers for their role in the Qana tragedy. - In trying to protect its northern territory, Israel relied too heavily on its military superiority. Tothedis• may of Prime Minister Shimon Peres, his Lebanon strategy backfired. American credibil- ity in the eyes ofthe Arab world has already been reduced by President Clinton's ·refusal to reprimand Israel for its role in the loss of Lebanese life. ln their policies toward Lebanon, the United States, Israel, Syria, and Iran have proven to be re- markably consistent. The Ira- nians view Lebanon as nothing more than an operating base for Hezbollah against Israel. Hafe2: ai-Assad, a human rights -vio- lator who had at least twenty thousand of his own people killed in the city of Hama in I 982, views Lebanon as noth- ing more than a part of Greater Syria. The Israelis view Leba- non as an uncontrollable men .. ace that needs to be bombed into submission, regardless of the tragedies which often result from such an attitude. From a distance of several thousand miles, the United States govern- ment passively observes the situation, barely pausing to think about how these policies are adversely affecting the Jives of Lebanon 9 'S three and one-half million people. The safety of the Lebanese people does not rank high among the concerns of Bill Clinton, Shimon Peres, Hafez al-Assad, and the Islamic dictators in Iran. As a result, one-tenth ofLebanori's popula- tion is homeless, and more than one hundred Lebanese civilians are dead. Unless Lebanon is recognized a8 ·an independent country thathas been abused for too long, the carnage of last· month will repeat itself in the future, and the image of Leba- non as a ruined shadow of its fonner self will persist. protecting the sovereignty of Lebanon. Why else would the Islamic reactionaries in Tehe- ran provide military and finan- cial backing for Hezbollah, a terrorist organization that de- liberately attacked Israeli terri- tory from a site close to a United Nations peacekeeping camp? HezboiJahgot its wish when the Lebaneserefugees in that camp were killed by the retaliatory attack from Israel, because the Jewish state suddenly found it- self subjected to international condemnation. Hezbollah did not hesitate to use homeless Lebanese civilians as sacrificial lambs in the war against Israel. but Iran ignored this fact. Its leaders blamed Israel for the events at Qana. The fact that Hezbollah started this lateSt fOlind of death and destruction in Lebanon operations, Israel has yet to learn that its overwhelming military might cannot bring an ; end to the chaos in Lebanon. Peace and stability cannot be imposed upon a country that has been destroyed by both in- ternal and external forces. Ex- cessive retaliation, a policy employed quite frequently by the Israeli military, does not work in the case of Lebanon. This is due to the fact that Leba- non is not even controlled by a sovereign government. Since the end of the Persian Gulf War in 1991, Syria has been the controlling power in Lebanon. As a reward for sup- porting the war against Iraq, the United States permitted Syria to occupy a helpless Lebanon with at least 20,000 troops. Histori- cally, Lebanon and Syria were a part of the same politica,l en- bringing some stability to Leba- non. The Syrian dictator, how- ever, is a crafty and Machiavel- }jan politician who plays his cards very slowly. He is also a cold-blooded realist who cares about nothing except his own political power. Hezbollah en- joys considerable freedom of ac- tion in southern Lebanon be- cause Assad does not feel espe- cially threatened by its attacks upon northern Israel. From Assad's point of view, it does not really matter if an Israeli ar- tillery barrage accidentally kills a few dozen Lebanese civilians. Such mistakes often provoke international outrage against Israel, and this gives Syria some added leverage in its bid to retake control of the Golan Heights. Finally, there is the case of the United States. Our govern- A Summit Meeting .. , : ~, '!; such as NATO, the war in the tic missiles. Having decided secessi oni·st repubJ:ic of : which missiles are pennissible, Chechnya, Iranian purchases of the United States can carry out nuclear technology. and thereat the building of such missiles. purpose of the \military com- On the issue of Chechnya, plex\ being constructed in the which did not seem to be of Ural Mountains were discussed. precedence to either of th~ lead- It also allowed .for both chief ers, President Clinton made an executives to portray to the interesting reference to the world their effectiveness in pre- Civil War in the United States, serving U.S.-Russian relations. in that the Confederate States Progress was made in ~esi- were not allowed to follow dent Clinton's discussion with through with secession. Yeltsin Y eltsin concerning which spe- assured Clinton that there had cific weapons were to be al- been a cease-fire as of March lowed under the Anti-Ballistic 31. Missile Treaty signed in 1972. The topic that has raised Theater missile systems, for much concern in the UnHed which.the United States has laid States is the construction being out collstruction plans, were carried out in Russia's Ural distinguished from anti•ballis- Mountains. It appears to have t, the makings of some type of mean a return to the former \military complex\ and it is ···Soviet Union. not clear whether or not Russia The next few months serve is using American foreign aid as an important time in U.S.- to finance the complex. The Russian r~Jations. culminating issue was put aside for the pur- in the June election. If the pose of having it settled by the Communist Party is returned to \specialists'; of both nations power, relations between the instead of its leaders. two countries will most deli- While President Clinton nitely change. Hopefully, this was in Moscow, he also met summitmeetingwasviewedas with Communist Party leader a meeting between two capable Zyuganov in case he is elected and competent leaders main- President of Russia in June. taining a relationship that has· Like it or not, the U.S. will have been made possible with the to nonna1ize relations with a endoftheColdWar, Undoubt- Russia which may be domi- edly, this summit meeting beG nated by communist.s. tween Bill Clinton and Boris Zyuganov tried to assure Yeltsin will play a crucial role Clinton that if he were to be in their individual bids for te• victorious in June, it would not election. J J J '

\\'odd :\c\\s . · tLl~L' \fllttqnl'ril'nsis\~ · :\ht~· 2. 1996 J•age 7 - - World News -THE TRUTH ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST by AnandRao World New$ Editor_ Historically speaking, the indigenous inhabitants ofWest- ern Europe may be the bi-ggest bunch of liars who have ever 'I' lived. The single greatest lie ever propagated by the Europe- ans was the belief that their \race\ was somehow superior to the indigenous \races\ of Africa, Asia, and the Americas. The gradual acceptance of this lie in Paris, London, Amsterdam. and other places served as Europe's. excuse for bringing a particular brand of misery, popularly known as im- perialism, to much of the out- side world. Eventually, Europe's belief in its own su,. periority was shattered by the savageiy or-two world wars that killed almost sixty million people between 1914.and 1945. If the technologically primitive tribes of Africa were uncivi- lized, then so were the white- skinned colonialists who raped, .pillaged, and plundered their way to world supremacy. It has come to my attention KIEV, Ukraine - Almost ten years to the day after the world's worst nuclear accident in Chemobyl, a fire engulfed five deserted villages near the former site of the power plant, contributing to the spread of Jeftover radi.oactive particles. Officials speculated thatthe fire might have been caused by a lit cigarette left behind by a per- son visiting some grave sites. While· environmental groups such as Greenpeace expressed concern about the consequences of the fire, fJkrainian officials tried to downplay the whole episode. In 1986, the meltdown of the Chemobyl nuclear power plant exposed five million people in Ukraine, Belams, and that another great He has been ·propagated by at least some Europeans.since 1945. Regard- .ing the Holocaust, French, Brit- ish, Scandinavian, Italian. and other scholars have succeeded in convincing billions of people around the world that Gennany was almost solely responsible for the systematic killing of at least six million European Jews from 1933 to 1945. According to these people, there must have :been something horrible about t·he Germ-an people that led them to acquiesce in the sense- less destmction of.so much hu- manity. l11e tmth, however, .is that many of the Jews who died in the Polish death camps never would have made it there with- out the assistance of a stibstan- tial number of non.-Germans who willingly collaborated with the Nazis. From 1940 to 1945, France was mled by the Vichy govern- ment, which enthusiastically participated in the completion of Adolf Hitler's \final solu- tion\. Italy, which was nded by fascists until at least 1943, also collaborated with the Na- Russia to radioactive fallout. Up to 125,000 deaths have been linked to the meltdown and ra- diat-ion. LIBERIA - Red Cross work- ers began removing hundreds of decomposing corpses from the streets of Monrovia, the capital city of this West Afri- can state. While the Red Cross attended to its work, American - mediators and African peace• keepers from other countries tried to maintain a fragile truce among Liberia's warring fac- tions. Before the cease-fire, intense fighting had gripped the streets of Monrovia for at- . most two weeks. zis as one of Germany's prin- ciple allies. In Croatia, fascists presided . over a no111inally in- dependent state that murdered at least 30;000 Jews. Even in the Netherlands, Denmark, and Norway, three countries that are ste!eotypically viewed as com- passionate and humanistic, more than a few indigenous in- habitants did not hesitate to betray their Jewish cotmterparts to the occupying German au- thorities. Across the English Channel, Great Britain pas- sively observed the horrifying situation on the European con- tinent. Across the Atlantic <;>cean, the United States of America rigidly adhered to the anti-immigration legislation that had been passed by a rac- ist and anti-Semitic Congress in 1924. There is no telling how many Jews could have es- caped the European deathtrap had the United States been will- ing to accept them as political refugees. . The Holoqmst was a prod- uct not just of German anti- Semitism, bt!t of European anti- Semitism. n1e hatred of the WASHINGTON, 'D.C. - By a unanimous vote of 1 00-0, the . Senate passed a bill related to the reform of health insurance coverage. The bill guarantees tliat workers will not lose health cru:e coverage when tlley lose or change jobs and requires insur- ance companies to offer cover- age to those with pre-existing medical conditions. In some ways, however, the Senate bill differs radically from an other- wise similar bill that was passed by the House in March. In or- der to have President Clinton sign any biiJ related to the re- fQnn of health insurance cov- erage, the House and Senate will have to work out the dif- • ferences between their hi tis. Population Density: Number of Persons Per Square Mile, Selected Countries, 1995 ' . USSia USA Mexico China srael ndia olland 17 18 123 .72 .124 326 766 964 · ource: 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts 1,53~ Jewish people, in its modem form, took hold in the many diverse corners of the E:uropean continent, from the Iberian Pen• insula to the Ural Mountains. European anti-Semitism was never confined to just Berlin or the area surrounding the Rhine River. lt was everywhere, though in some parts ·of Europe it was latent. With the begin- ning of Nazi domination in 1930s Germany, however. Christian Europe was ene.r- gized and reinvigorated in its atltagonism towards Judaism and its adherents. Germany was not solely responsible for the Holocaust; its lea,dership merely served as a cat~lyst for Christian Europe's la·st and most deadly assault on the Jew- ish people. Even after the horrors of the death camps were revealed to the world in 1945, some Euro- peans were still unable to shake the legacy of their people 's.hos- titity towards Jews. Why, for instance, do you think it was necessary for Jewish militants like Yitzhak Shamir, Yitzhak Rabin, and Menachem ,Begin to THE GAZA STRIP - By a vote of 504 to 54, the main as- sembly of the Palestine Libera- tion Organization (PLO) voted to revoke tl10se clauses in its charter that had called for an armed struggle to destroy the Jewish state oflsrael. Fourteen members of the assembly ab- stained, and ninety-seven of the 66~ assembly members were absent, including those who refused to attend any discus- sions on ch~mgin.g the charter. TI1e outcome of this vote was a ~ig victory for Yasir Arafat, who is trying to keep the Middle East peace process alive while boosting his own legiti- macy in the eyes ·of the world. ZAGREB, Croatia- Accord- ing to Western diplomats and Croatian .. officials, the Muslim- led government of Bosnia- Herzegovina has dispatched small Iranian-trained com- mando units to kill or capture enemies it has branded as war criminals. YORK, Pennsylvania - Fed- eral immigration authorities agreed to release Fauziya Kasinga, a nineteen year-old woman who escaped from her native Togo, a small state in West Africa. Ms. Kash1ga had stated that she was fearful of submitting to her African tribe's custom of cutting off the genitals of young women. ASUNCION, Paraguay - In wage a vicious guerriHa war against British rule in Palestine following the end of the Sec- ond World. War? While men like Shamir, Begin, and Rabin wished to created the indepen- dent state of Israel, they found themselves faced by a British opposition that clearly bordered on anti-Semitism. From 1945 to 1948, Arabs and Muslims were not the only obstacles to the estalJlishment of a Jewish state in the Middle East. Great Britain was also a problem. The current rise of skinheads and other associated .groups in Germany does not represent the only threat to Europe's few re- maining Jews. In all of Europe, individual Jewish communities are surrounded by a people who collectively and collaboratively destroyed them a half-century ago. l11e non-Germans of Eu- rope, in their attempt to evade responsibility for one of the century's greatest tragedies, should be condemned for point- ing their fingers at a single country. Gennany should not be a scapegoat for Europe's col- lective war crime. this small South American state, another militacy coup was successfully thwarted, but only because President Juan Carlos Wasmosy agreed to make rebel- ling General Lino Cesar Oviedo the Defense Minister in his ad- n,inistration. Opposition par- ties, university students, and human rights groups sharply criticized President Wasmosy for agreeing to give General Oviedo such a powerful posi- tion in the country. MOSCOW - Although reports are unclear, it appears that Dzhokhar Dudayev, the leader of Chechnya 's independence movement against Russia, was killed in a Russian rocket at- tack. , Chechen rebels mourned the loss of their leader and vowed to carry ·on their war of independence against Russia. PORT ARTHUR, Tasmania- On this small island south of Australia, a lone gunman shot and killed at least thirty-two people. Most of the victims were tourists, and Tasmanian police officials said that the gunman began his killing spree by methodically shooting into a crowd of people. The gun- man is a twenty-nine year-old man believed to be mentally disturbed. • ' .

OP/ED . · · ffil~l' <!hntrori'lil'nsis · May 2, 1996 · Page 8 ' . . . Opinions And Editorial Hazing Revisited In last week's prophetic editorial, we pointed out the brew- • ing concerns on campus about hazing and questioned its prevalence. Developments on this issue have been intense during the past week. Two points: --We received a letter from an ex-editor condemning us as .hypoorites. Sure we (T.L. and A.M.) aremembers.ofthe Greek · community; we did not however check our morals and judge- . . ment at the door when we joined our respective organiza- . tions. The notion that all Greeks should march to the same drum beat is absurd and infqntile. Obviously when thought through independently (a scary word for someGreeks)most . would agree that hazing is wrong and indefensible. For some reason, though, when grouped together many Greeks feel the need not only to protect the institution of· hazing, but to pro~ect themselves from any accountability for their actions. --Originally, this week's front-page article con~eming Tri- · Delt started as one ofthe many rumors circulating among . . our gossipy Concordiensis staff. Intrigued by the rumor, one of our staff members decided to phone a friend who he - • though might know what had gone on. ~;=:~=============· =,·,·=-~~~~~!:::!~~!!!::=~~~~====~===~· Within minutes, all hell broke loose. Rattled Tri-Delts were . - phoning and beseiging the office in droves under the erro- . neous assumption that The Concordiensis was going for- ward with a .story based on hearsay. The events that followed were comical, albeit somewhat . disturbing. The president ofTri-Delt called the office, threat- ening to file harrassment charges against the editors be- cause she had \heard\ we were writing a story. At this point there were not even preliminary plans for a story. Other interesting phone calls that night included one from \Sissy\, the phantom secretary at the Dean's office (hey ... maybe a Tri-Delt?) saying that conduct charges had been · filed against us. There was also a threatening and harrassing phone cttll placed.by another concerned (male) member of the community to warn us that harrassment is wrong (John Gotti would be proud). Unsurprisingly, we decided that this story was probably worth following up. Thanks for the tip, girls! - TL .· · Qioncnrb-i.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Adrian MacLean EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE EDITOR Diana Sedita Evan Morris EDITORS EMERITI Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Sted~an LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR LaureiRuma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Peter Farnum Jen Pelose ASSISTANT COPY EDITORS An~ndRao. WORLD NEWS EDITOR David Ede Chris Richard LIVING EDITOR Dennis Pope SCIENCE EDITO Andrew Fradki COMPUTER MANAGE Barry Eisenber ON-LINE DIRECTO Jared Richma CARTOONIS Scott Sc•dlio FACULTY ADVISO Raquel Millma OPINIONS EDITO Jonathan Fade Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun-. Paul Manore. . STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Omar Al-Khalidi, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Stacey Kimmel, Mike Leding, Chris Leone, Conor McKenzie, Bhavani Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, K~thy Waiters, Karen Watts ·~ Giving Sometbin.g Back . by Raquel Milhoan Opinions Editor It seems strange to consider the short term memories that Union College students have. We have forgotten· the days of being the apprehensive senior in high school. We forgot about the stressful time of not knowing where the best place is to spend the next four years. We are now happy at college and what do these high school kids matter? This is the mentality that leads to the shortage of hosts for pro- spective students. I am an am- bassador. While at the beginning of the year it seemed. impossible\ to get to have a prospective stu- dent stay with you, now there is a shortage of hosts. It is amazing that we have grown to be so for- getful and so selfish. My friends an I hosted pro.- spective students one weekend. While many people look at this as a tremendous disadvantage to us, we looked at it as an advan- . ' ~ :·_:::~~:: .:·- . 'iti tage. We were able to show these four girls Union College through our eyes. They got to see exactly why we loved it, and why we didn't love it. They hung out on our floor, went to parties, and had a great time. It isn't an inconvenience at all to answer a few questions here and there, and bring someone to the places that you would've gone anyhow. It was fun. It was fun to reminisce a -little to recall how you were acting at that point in your senior year of high school. Gatekeepers, Ambassadors, OA's, people that help with the · phone-a-thons, and others, give so much to Union. Half of the term is still left. Why not volun- teer yourself to host a prospec- tive one night? -It is important that we aP.preciate what we have here, and that we give something back. Here's your chance. We take so much for granted here. People argue that they pay for what they get froin Union. · While that may be true, people still need to step back and think about how much we really have gotten out of this campus. It is not all what we pay for. Much of it has to do with the atmosphere on this campus and the friends that we have made. That is not something that money can. buy. So next time you pass by the Admissions Office, ru:n in and sign up to be a host. The pro- spective that you get will appre- ciate it tremendously. Don't for- get, you were once a senior in high school. If you took advan- tage of such a program then you know how valuable it can be. If you didn't stay overnightatacol- _ lege, think how beneficial it would have been and how many of your questions would have been answered. Think of all the - experiences you have had here that could never be written about in a pamphlet. This is your chance to share your experiences with someone who really wants to know what goes on here. This is your chance to give something back to a place we often take for granted. .- ·::~;:::~;::;:~J!~a.~IJ~,.:j· t~~mentt{lt~\~ijti~~lA.lP~ji~ . · .. · . .. . . . . . ' . ·t . , ,su:bseribestcrtb:e.\lnter®Heiiate.E~.i;,ess::(ff).~.N~tiQ».td$tu!d~tttN~w~ser:ViC.e~:&~ing .. S~m:ticates., .... [ INTERNET AND E-MAIL ADRRESSES E-Mail Us at Concordy@gar.nnion.edu. or on the. World Wide Web@ http://virtualunion.edu/\'i:oncordy/ index.html. All E-mail submis'sions must be t:,ecieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication; ~nd must be less than500words. Please see the Opinions· policy o~ ·the opposite page for more details · ,. r I t I I I

<·) ,! Page 9 ·. May 2,· 1996 · U::lp' ([ tmtodi\~nsi.s . . · ·- . . · · OP/ED ·. · Opinions and Editorial No Postive Coverage! This letter is directed toward the individqa:~s at - th~ Concordiensi.v whQ did m:>t see· fit to send a representative to the Service Auction sponsored by Theta Delta Chi and Delta Delta Delta. If the Concordien.vis prides itself as being impartial, covering bOth positive and nega .. tive events occurring on campus, then we feel it erred when it did 'not cover an event of this magni- tude. The Service Auction. raised $1,462 at the auction alone and the grand total looks to be .in ex- cess of $2,000 with donations from students still pouring in. The proceeds for this auction were donated to the Cystic Fibro- sis Association. In the past, the Ccmcordiensi.r has covered everything affecting · this campus from the meal plan to the new library to prominent speakers on campus. By denying coverage of such an event, the C(mcordiensi.r,:- in our opinion, conveys a '.'slanted\ view of what Greek Hfe is like and what it has to offer here at Ullion College. This was' an event worth covering, with outstanding campus wide partici- pation and enthusiasm. It truly demonstrated that when the cam- pus gets together we can httve a strong impact in the community and even in the nation, as Cystic Fibrosis is the number one genetic cause of death of children in the United States. Events like this occur more of- ten than many think and we urge the Concordien.fi.f to reconsider its policy (if it does indeed have one) in covering such worthwhile campus events in the future. Sincerely, The Brothers of Theta Delta Chi and Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Greeks Praised for Auction To the Editors,· Last Friday night, at least two hundre4 enthusiastic students crowded into the College Center Auditorium for '~Rent a Greek\ night. The event involved auctioning off the services of nearly 40 members ofTri-Delt and Theta Delta Oli. Organized by Laurel Cronin, · it was so smoothly orchestrated and auctioneered .(by Steve Lapinsky, Chris Horvath, Betsy Lee, and Vic Lauro) that no one could have resisted going with the flow.Indeed (as I soon discov- · ered), the BQY With the gavel interpreted ant flicker ofa program ~ . a manifestation ofpurchasing power ! This stark display of mass altruism taught me a lot about the ability ofUnion '.s Greek system to tum out a crowd in a good cause. I'm impressed! Eatyourheartout, Sotheby's--- who needs an enamel cigarette lighter with Jackie's initials on the back- I've got t\\'O Greeks! Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Director, -East Asian Studies Hypocritical Editors? A Double Standard/ Dear Editors, After ~earling last week's issue of the Concordiensis I was both pleasantly smprised and extremely taken back. Last week's Concordy con· tained few mistakes, crisp layout and even a hard hitting editorial denouncing fraternity/sorority hazing. Unfortunately the edito- rial neglected to mention the \Greek\ nature of1he editors. Anthony LaVecchia .is a Phi Sigma Kappa brother and Adrian MacLean is a Gamma Phi Beta siS- ter. Both of these houses have \pledges\ who have been seen running across campus late at night and/or returning ftom their respective houses late in the evening. Approximately two weeks ago, the Phi Sig pledge class seemed to have disap- peared from the campus when not in class sleeping. Granted, extreme hazing does take place in some houses on cam- pus, and everyone knows where, but no one is forced to partici- pate, and sometimes people do blow the whistle. Greek life is not for everyone, but some of us now have memo- ries and mends that will last a life--. time. Maybe it is our masochistic nature, but some of us like the fra- ternity .system, and would like ~o see it continue far into the future at Union College. Hazing should not take place, but it docs in some instance, and if people should choose to participate, let them be. Greek life brings ditferentpeople together, something at Union should. Evan L. Monis Editor Emeritus Do All Greeks htWe to check their judgement ill the door?·Ed An E-nlail Forward From An Anonymous ·Author by Henrik Haetkel Opinions Editor I received the following e-mail this weekend. It struck me, maybe because I am a little sentimental but I thought tl,at it manages to almost brilliantly touch on every- thing that I question and think about. I think,. perhaps, its em- phasi!l on college is its only short . cOming. lthink it is probably more well related to learning how to·live life, be it in college or elsewhere, than just college. Regardless, the author of this essay is truly per- ceptive and articulate in provid- ing us with a better perspective on our lives now and our lives in the future. Enjoy it. College is about learning. Ifs not as simple as teaming what· everit isthat'sbeingtaugbtin your required gen--ed classes,though. It's about learnin,g how to listen,howto speak, how to think. Learning who you are, who your . friends are, the type of people you want as friends. Learning how to trust your inner· most feelings, and how to findthose feelings in the first . place. It's about learning what's really -important to you, and learning what you really don't giv~ a damn about. College is about learning bow to tolerate, how to accept, how to like, and how to love. Leaming how to give as well as you receive, .and how to trust that .everything will even itself out on its own (you buy a pizza oneni!ht. your roommate will the next night). It's about learning that your mom and dad actually do have the right answers sometimes, and that yaur kid sister isn't such a dlQllb little kid anymore . Collese is about learning how to treatpeople as pectple, not as ste· reotypes. Learning that sometimes a .kiss isn't just a kiss, that sometimes it means more, and that scme- times it means less. Learning how to achieve, how to succeed, how to accomplish. It's about learning how to not come in first place and still be proud,, and about coming in last and learning how to admit that you could've done better. College is about learning that loud parties don't necessarily mean a good time. Leaming that loneliness doesn't go away in a crowd, and that sometimes it's okay to be by yourself on a Friday or Saturday night. It's about learning· that your lunchtime crowd doesn't consti- tute your popularity, and that popularity is all a matter of per· spective. It's about teaming that boredom is simply laziness of the mind, . and that watching three hours of Thursday night NBC is not quaJ- ity relaxation time. College is about learning how to pack a bag, how to pack a car, and how to pack a room full of way too much stuff. Learning that people probabl¥ like you a whole lot more than they'll ever tell you~ and that it's yout responsibility to make sure your friends know how much you appreciate them. It's about learning that simply doing what you're supposed to do isn't enough, you need to put forth twice that much in order to fully grasp whatever it is that's sitting in front of you. It's about learning how to make people smile. College is about learning bow to miss people enough to not stick them in the past, and how to not miss them so much that it keeps you from moving into the future. Learning how to motivate your- self and how to motivate others. Learning how what the phrase \make do\ means, and how to use itto make it seem u if you're not simply \making do.\ It's about learning 25 different ways of saying \we made out\ and how to swear in all the differ- ent languages of your class/ floor/dormJhouse mates. College is about learning. Learning how to live. Give Individual Greek Members a Chance Dear Editor, organizations. This garbage, scrawled all over I'm no diehard fan of the Greek the walls of countless facilities, is system, but I have to express my most unfair to the individual mem- dismay at the number of strong hers cf each fraternity and soror- and condemnatory statements ity at Union College. While there about ftatemities and sororities is no doubt that each Oreek orga- that are written on the walls of al• nization has its fair share of rude, most every bathroom that I've idiotic, selfish, and distasteful used on this campus. Here is one members, each Greek organization exampleofwbatlmntalkingabout also possesses its fair share of ''XYZ fraternity members are a .members who are generous, altru- bunch of burned out waistoids istic,. intelligent, and amiable. Try who should be attending Grateful not to forget that each Greek or- Dead shows and trade schools gani:zation, no matter how stereo- instead of Union.\ Statements of typical its image may be, is home an even more vitriolic nature have to a diverse assortment of char- beeR written about more 'than a :. acf~ •. handful of other Greek Every student, including my- AN EDITOR'S DEFENSE To the Editor, I would like to personally de\fend myself as Photography Editor for 17ft Concordiensis. Last week the News Editor and I decided not to photograph or cover as news the Tri•Delt/ TDCbi \R~t a Greek\ event. I think that this was a great community service event, it got people involved and raised a lot of money, but it was not front- page news.· Spring tenn brings about a huge effort or commu- nity service from groups at Union, especially ftom the Greek organizations. I think this is a necessary part of any organiza- tion. However, community service does not always receive public recognition. This does not mean that 771e Cont:fJnlien.fi.v is biased against self, is prone to making general statements about the members of a particular fraternity or sorority. We must all come to realize, how· ever, the absurdity and gross in· accuracy that is central to gener- alizing about the members of any ' . . particular Greek orgamzatie>n. Generalizing about a person based on Greek affiliation can be com- pared in its absurdity to general- izing about a person based .on skincolor. Therefore, the next time you have a bad experience at a fraternity house, don't slander all the members of that house by writ· ing some garbage on the bath- room wall. AnandRao any specific organization. Deciding what is news is not always an easy decision. as always, we welcome any ideas for articles. At the same time though, we cannot print every philanthropical event for every organization. Sincerly, Laurel R. T. Ruma

As a founding memb~r of Union College's first socially oriented theme house \The Au- tonomous Zone,\ I have encoun- tered mixed feelings from the campus community in reaction to our house. Most students make enthusiastic remarks like, \it's about time .somebody did something like that,\ or \I'll definitely be hanging out there next year.\ However, I ran into a few students who belong to Greek houses that seem to resent the appearance oftheme houses, and criticize them by saying things like, \it's harder to get into a theme house than a frat- you guys are the most exclusive on campus.\ Theme Houses: Student lnitjat~ Alternatives, not the Adminlstration's replacement for Fraternities I never real iy took these remarks as serious or damag- ing until read last week's paper. When I arrived at the ·op-Ed page, I observed a submission by Joshua P. Katz accusing the ad- ministration of trying to replace the Greek system with theme houses. These opinions really worry me, and I'd like to try and remedy those opinions with some facts. I' II start with the perception of the administration trying to stamp out the Greek system. All 3 fra- ternities that have left campus in the last two years have earned their dismissal. DU got caught for hazing, D Phi let their house deteriorate until it was con- demned, and ZBT voluntarily gave up their housing. Granted; l may just be a naive independent freshman. but I don't see any situ- ations where the administration has acted unfairly. Then there is the issue of the administration awarding group housing space to theme houses instead of Greek houses. The Student Affairs. committee is the organization that awards group housing to students. It is one of the few committees on campus where students are in the major- ity (incidentally, a majority of these students are Greek affili- ated). Their purpose was to award the two available group houses this year to groups that would contribute positive new dimensions to the campus com- munity. A secondary concern was the ability of said groups to fill the house. In his letter, Josh accused the SAC of awarding ZBT' s old space to an \inadequate Asian theme ,house ... that does not meet the criteria, unlike either of the Greek organizations [applying for the space].'' Unfortunately, Josh's statement is false in every resj)ect. • First, only one fraternity (AE- Pi) applied for the space.lhe _third proposal was for an all-night study area. Secondly, l wonder how Josh could hope to imagine that AE-Pi would add a new or interesting dimension to the al- ready lopsided and homogeneous Union community. We.already have over a dozen fraternities on campus. Would giving AE-Pi a house improve or diversify the social life on campus? I have to· doubt it. ·In stark contrast to a ftatemity, the Asia interest theme house proposed to house and host events for students with an inter- est in Asian culture. Though my intent ·is by no means to criticize AE-Pi, it was really a no--brainer ·· deciding which proposal would best enhance the college commu- nity. Did AE-Pi propose to build their bar out of plaStic instead of wood, or perhaps .serve Zima in- stead of beer? Our own house escaped the criticism of Joshua, and I hope that means he is more enthusias- tic about \The Autonomous Zone,\ which wilf be the new name of our house ·t~ated up- campus next to Sig-Chi. Though it's going to take a lot of hard work and help from many people on campus, our 3~ members in- vite you to hang out at our house next year. By fall tenn we should be offering. coffee houses, host- ing bands and DJs. and most im- portantly providing a different at- mosphere in which to kick back_ during your free time. :More Luggage From _The Past by Jeffery Druzba · Features Editor As if one couldn't get enough nostalgia from last w~ek's col- umn, I must present the second installation of my \Memories of . Days Gone By\ series of features articles. Didn't we do some tough things in elementary school? There was no need for it to be that hard. In art class, from kin- dergarten through fifth grade, we were forced to tum out clay cre- ations, sometimes at the rate of ' one per week. I was proud of my Robin Hood creation. It had the feather in the hat, and I think it might even have been mistaken for a collectible figurine in a ga- rage sale that we had many years later. Surprisingly enough, some guy bought my clay creation be- cause he liked the way it looked. Even my parents didn't like the way it looked, which is why they hid it in a cardboard box for years. • Third grade was one of the toughest years I ever had in the elementary arts. In music, we were forced to learn the first verse of \Silent Night., in the original Gennan for the Christ- mas concert. We sang in Gennan and then sang the verse again in Eng]ish. I'm sure it was angelic. I don't remember hearing it, I just remember having about as much clue as to what the lyrics were as the other kids did. What good is it to learn something in a language you don't understand? Basically, we all memorized a bunch of syl- lables for a huge verse. I don't even know if I knew where Eu- rope was at the time, let alone Gennany. It wasn't so long ago either that everything in school was named after a Catholic holi- day. We had Good Friday off, they usually disguised that one as parent/teacher conference day. We had a good old-fashioned Christmas concert. In my day, we children, no matter what our reli- gious affiliations, were all chil- dren of a Catholic God when the holidays came around. Separation of church and state meant noth- ing to us as we blindly sang verses about the holidays in languages we didn't know. Third grade was the year that we were also forced to learn a bit of the recorder for the spring eon~ cert. Not only were the songs we did for that concert dull (\Hot Cross Buns\ and \Mary Had A Little Lamb''), but the mixture of wrong notes must have been a joy for any listener. For some reason, we were really challenged musi- cally that year. When I was in second grade, we had the toughest math unit that I've probably ever had .. Miss Duffy made us write the numbers :from l to 1000 until our fingers bled. We split it up over 10 days. Each day, there was a sheet with I 00 rectangles that we would fill in for the round of one hundred of the day. We said the numbers out loud as we wrote them too. What good was it to write from 1 to 1000? Was that useful in any way?· I guess she wanted us to appreciate how big things really are. That was all shattered when some wise guy came· into math house anyway? My parents went to a few of them. It was always the same thing, so I'm told. My parents meet each -of my teach- ers, my teaQhers tell my parents how inuch of a pleasure it is to have me in class. They rigged the Gym was tough when I was in fifth grade, but we brough_t it on ourselves. during 4th grade with some se- · bells in school that night to go off cret knowledge. It was the big every five minutes and my par- news of elementary math classes, ents would have to travel through this kid introduced us all to the my tough daily schedule for 5 concept of a googol. We were minutes at each station.\ Some- getting into serious math now. times my parents would have to This kid's grandfather told him hang out with the same teacher for about a googol and we thought he lS minutes because I had him for was brilliant now. One with one· homeroom, sci~nce, ami math. hundred zeroes after it, we would Then, when gym came around, all quiz our parents' knowledge as the parents wandered the halls soon as we got home. aimlessly, trying to look like they The fall open house in Jrd knew what to do. A wide-eyed grade was a blast to prepare for. look on their faces signified to We spent about a week working other parents that it was the five on stuffed replicas -of ourselves minute gym period for their ~id, that we seated in our chairs on and there was no gym teacher open house night. We illl traced around, so they thought they eachother's body outlines on would find the next classroom those·big rolls of paper and made early. · a copy of that. Then we colored Gym was tough when I was in • them in with faces and clothes. fifth gtade, but we brought it on We stapled the two halves to- ourselves. Wehadtripodcontests gcther and stuffed it with tons of (s,anding on your head and put- cotton until the life size model ting your knees on your elbows). was completed. At that young We were young, we were cool. age, I learned that I didn't want One of the twins and I spent al- to be a taxidennist. most an entire gym class in the What was the point of open tripod position once. It was on free day in gym and we sacrificed our favorite activity, the rope swing, to have a Tripod-Off to see who the true champion was, the winner would get respect as the champion for maybe a day, if they were lucky. The stakes were high. I think my opponent might have won but only because we were being taunted towards the end by other kids. I'm surprised our heads dido 't explode from all the blood rush. I guess young kids are tough like that. There was nothing worse than square dancing, of course. Oh the social pressures we had. Getting partnered up with the one girl everyone avoided, you were prac- tically married to her for the rest of the day and beyond. I was a regular Fred Astaire back then. Once we learned those square dancing moves, you couldn't tell if it was a production of 0/r/a- homa! or a b1mch of kids square dancing against their will. The scratchy records and the Virginia Reel. There was always the one record in the beginning that they played of some guy we were sup- posed to follow as he said, \Heel toe heel toe heel heel toe.\ I ~on 't know what that one did for us, but we wanned up to that before the wild times to follow. My days of childhood nostal- gia come to a close in the Concordy with this article, but surely all of us can continue writ- ing the next installments by our- selves. AU we have to do is close our eyes and remember ... r;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Coneordiensis!!! Call X6155! TAIEMEd MusiCAl. Acrs to plAy AT CHET\S. Good MoNey, GREAT AudiENCES, loTS of OppomuNiries~ CoNTACT Jesse ShAfeR AT X~ S 9 9 foR daAils ASAP. ..

.. The Answer-girl is a Union College StUdent who ·enjoys long walks and rhubarb, but dislikes falling and general injury. Wri.te to the Answer-girl at the Concordiensis Office! Dear Answer-girl, , What the hell is going on here? Union College sucks. When I was a freshman this place rocked all week long, and we still did Well it:~ th~ <;lassroom. Wha:t's the matter with this place? DearS&lJ. Truly, Sober&Bitter Whoa! Slow down there tiger. l'utthe weight-hell down and slowly hack away. Slowly, .-.lowly, good It has come to my allen lion that Clnion is only a mere .-.hadow (~f it.\fomler .mc:ial self. 1hank.v to the combination t?{a mm-underslanding adminis- tration, and Fraternities and Sororities .unlucky enough to gel thenuel1•e.v cm1ght, Onion·,., social Jcene ha.\' swiftly mliiOted Thi.\' .vpawns this week '.v Top Ten Li.'tl: Top Ten Reasons Union \Sucks\ I 0. Faculty no longer allow the \Hydraulic Principles of the Keg\ course to satisfy the Gen·Ed science requirement. 9. \Fun or'any kind\ now grounds for expulsion. &. Suffer-ing from post•Unabomber excitement malaise. 7. Big kids no longer allowed to beat-up little kids. 6. Two words: Dean Schurick. 5. \I was still drunk\ no longer a feasible excuse for failing a test. 4. Dean's List now unfairly determined by GPA, instead of more reasonable \hook-ups\ .per week avetage! 3. Uncle Edna no longer writes for the Concordi. 2. Only able to pay high·profile director with \Vali-cash.\ I . Administration striving toward a high academic standard, while ignoring the all·important \Beer Per Capita\ national ranking Dear Answer-girl, I'm sick and tired of people dumping on Union College. If you don't like it, leave. Like they used to say,'\love it or leave it.\ /)ear Fed, : Sincerely, Fed-up I'm not ,o,·ure there ',\' an actmtl que.\'/i(m in thert!, hut I agrc•t•. l'eople who helillle (Inion lire l?{ the lowe.o;t, mo.\'1 im·ignffka111 sort. Dear Answer-girl, Why are you trying so hard to be Uncle Edna?! You obviously suck. Please, for everyone's sake, stop it! I:Jear Not, Wannest, Not-A-Fan Thank you for drop-kicking my already quil•ering ego inlcJ the circular file. Thank you for the po.'iifilie and though({ul criticism. But most ofa/1, thank yaufor reminding me that it doe.m 't take a great mind to criticize. .Student af the Week: Congratulations to Ian McConnell, who recently celebrated his twenty-first year of life. Later that same evening, Ian submitted to an alcohol research experiment for some of his fellow students. Mr. McConnell's true nature surfaced when, near the end of the evening, he was threatening friends with death by burning and general dismemberment. Kudos to Jan! Small Revelations By Rawson Thurber Staff Writer Two weeks ago I wrote an ar- ticle concerning men, women, and images. Since that time, I have received many comments, most of which were positive, and been engaged in numerous de- bates. So I figured, as long as I am expressing my opinions on men and women, I might as well fill out the list. So here is one Jlf the \Small Revelations\ that ··I have stumbled upon. · Over this past Christmas I ac- companied my mother and two sisters on a shopping trip. First off - never, ever do this. Sec- ondly, when they say, \We'll only be in here a minute,\ they are ly- ing. And finally, when they in- vite you into \Victoria's Secrets\ with them, go. For the love of God, go. It was at this point, as I entered the land I had only known before by the dog--eared magazine I had kept hidden in my room. that this \shopping trip\ became an expedition into vast uncharted jungle known as \womanhood.'\ A rather ironic thing occurs to most men when they entf:r (figu- ratively) a \Vicki's as my sister likes to call it. Men seem to trans- fonn into tactatrople life fonns. We stay near the borders of the store, clearly away from anything that could remotely connect us with any desire to actually be in the store (although this is obvi- ously untrue). And so it was that during this perimeter excursion, as my mother and, sisters unabash- edly rummaged through various I ingerie, that I came across a sec- tion of' the store that caused me an abrupt stop. The soap and lo· tion section. Now I know whatyou'rethinkw ing, \So what?\ But not so fast. This entire section devoted solely to the scent of a woman was not a mere conglomeration of over- Student of the Week: Meredith IV{iller by Kara Christian Staff Writer perience and challenge for soon. Shewillbepresentingthe Meredith. Sl1e claims, \B~fore-1 making of her video at the started I didn't even know the dif- Steinmetz Symposium later this Meredit_h Miller explains, \I ferencebetween V·ideo and film.\ tenn. guess my college experience has Meredith bought a few books and Meredith claims that although been what I've made of it. In gen- taught -herself how to make the she has had much success with era), Union is what you her project and make ofit.\' Meredith, U.B.G.L.A.D., at has certainly made the times it can be frus- most of her time here at trating. During a re• Union. With a wide va- cent poster campaign, r.iety of interests, unique Meredith found lhat ideas and accompli-sh- some of the posters ments, Meredith is an were being torn important part of the down. She com• Union Community. ments, \It's hard~ you An active member of never know whether the student body, she is people are d\oing. involved with many of things because the is- the social and political sue makes them un- action groups on cam- comfortable, or pus,. such as Campus whether you're being Action and Peer Facili- overly defensive-.\ tators. In addition, dur- This summer. ing her freshmen year, Meredith will be in- Meredith took the initia- tetning at the Center tivetbreinstateG.L.B.A. for Campus Organiz- (111e Gay, Lesbian, Bi~ ing,' a national clear- sexual Alliance) which inghouseforprogres- was inactive when she sive gro~1ps located in arrived to Union. Cambridge, Massa- During her sophomore chusetts. The group year, Meredith changed promotes activism the name of the club to and provides infor- U.B.G .. L.A.D. (Union ;mation on how to Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian (photo hy Laurel Ruma, The Concordien..'iis) start up progressive Advocates and Defenders), in an video. She explains, \It was .groups, follow through with etfqrt to attract people who sup- something I really wanted to them ·and plan activities. port the relevant issues on cam- make for tl}e campus to have, but Meredith wilt be working on a pus but who are not specifically · I was also interested in leaming journalism project for this non- gay or bisexual. Because of the something about video.'' profit organization. She com- minimal homosexual representa- Meredith worked on her video, ments, \This will be a great ex- tioo on campus, Meredith saw this . titled Queer 10 I during winter perience for me because it will change as necessary and impor- tenn and spent her Spring Break open ttP a lot of doors to differ- taut. Shesaysthathavingstraight in the editing room. During the enttypesofactivism. It's going members makes the group even winter months, she set out with a to be great to bring it all back to more-effective. Meredith's goals home video camera and inter- this campus.\ for U.B.G.L.A.D. are to create viewed students ·at R.P.I., Meredith believes activism is awareness !llld to encourage a safe Skidmore, Saint Rose, and SUNY important on a coiJege campus. environment where people can Albany. No students from Union She states. \People have to get explore issues of sexuality were willing to partake in the involved with the issues they whether it be heterosexuality or project, but Meredith appreciates feel they are directly confronted homosexuality. the support she received from with or affected by.\ . Over the past few years, U.B.G.L.A.D. l11e only traces of Meredith relates, \I think I've Meredith has been trying to ere- the Union campus in her video are received a great education here ate a workshop on gay issues. She the shots of graffiti. on how to think and how to deal comments, \I was looking for The video centers around the with people. The majority of some sort of video aide and stories and experiences of the col~ people don't see things the way · couldn't find one on college stu- lege students she interviewed I do, but I like being someone dents, so I kept toying with the overwinterterm. In addition, the whowillraisetheirhandinclass idea of making my own.\ So she video effectively addresses sev- and make people reconsider and did. TI1is past fall, Meredith ap- eral issues such as nature vs. nur- reevaluate things. •· plied for a Pew Grant, a grant ture, religion and politics. Some Meredith Miller is an intelli- given to students to enhance in- professors have mentioned that gent and interesting member of tellectual life on campus. they may incorporate segments of our community. Very person- Meredith used the $500 she was her video into their classes. able and passionate about her awarded to produce a video on TI1e video was recently shown causes, Meredith offers our cam- gay and lesbian issues. The on campus and Meredith hopes to pus unique ideas and outstand- leami ex- have another sometime priced, individually wrapped, perty-smelling thangs. For me, it was a revelation. The women reading this article might be thinking, \Huh?. your point please dork•boy.\Well the point is, that that \Soap-section\ rep- resented to me then, and repre·· sents to me now, yet another-drop in a puddle of the subtle differ-:: ences between men and women. By looking at aU the lotions: pre-shower lotion, post-shower lotion, and thinking-about- maybe-taking-a-shower-lotion.ln addition to the glaring fact that there were thirty-seven different fnait-seented soaps (which begs the question, w}lo really wants to smell like a Ki Wi?), I suddenly realized that women don't inher- ently smell good. Now my fairer-sexed readers, don't roll your eyes. Men rarely think about things like that (i.e. female body odor). We assume that women have some sort of glandular essence that simply emits a good smell naturally. We are not very conscious of the lengths you go to in order fo at- tain this aroma. If men knewthat you spent $4 on a bar of soap so that you could smell like a freshly sliced apricot in a Brazilian rain forest, they would be stunned. When men go-shopping for soap, we see a pack of twelve bars for $1.05 and we do cartwheels be- cause that's three dollars more we can spend on beer and pizza. In the end, that's what it all comes down to, how much . money we can save for beer and pizza. You think the stockmarket is actually about stocks? Hell no! .It's about pizza and beer. In the Federalist Papers, the basis of our constitution, there was an entire section on the promotion of beer and pizza as our yet-to-be nation's primary export. If you don't believe me, ask Bob Dole, he was there. But I digress. Back to my original point. Men and Women. Soap and lotion. Lotion and soap. Beer and pizza. Pizza and beer. In the immortal words of Chevy Chase, \It's all ball bearings now-a-days.\ Anti-misogynist hate mail? Comments? Questions? Rawson Thurber BmtNl018. t·

Page 12 [l~c <Lour,tn·bicnsis May 2. 1996 · · · ., · Living ' ....... , - LIVING An Encounter with a Guardian Angel by David Eder Caroline Degenhardt and Karen Siegel February eighth two thousand and three Just after sunset snow continued down Peaceful described the moment And,. outside hidden beneath the white mask My sorrow was even more apparent with every blink derived from my loneliness Rocking Monotpnously Wondering why I always played these same thoughts Every question unanswered followe.d with complications As unquenchable urges boil in my blood I wait for something to happen but Nothing ever does My life is stagnant Guilded with mystery Shrouded with uncertainty I had reached the point of ultimate humility Once I had thought I knew everything Now I knew I knew nothing I was wondering ifanything was knowable Spiritually emaciated. Bounded by the fetters of my ignorance Life lost its meaning and joy The beautiful snow seemed to pound me further into solitude I walked outside in hopes of finding answers Back somewhere in the wilderness covered a glimpse of hope The cool ctir pushed me along As a light lined a foreign path I took it My body entranced with each step I was lead by unrecognizable thoughts Some contemptible self-discovery never before possible Prints behind, a blank page ahead, the light dimmed by a shadnw An apparition of strange beauty with beckoning eyes Creator of the shadow but illuminated by an incandescent splendor DraWll in by th_is sylph out of curiousity \I've been waiting for you. I'm your patron, I'm always with you. I watch everything you do but have never interfered in your life.\ \Why come to me now?\ \Because you have the power to answer all the questions that are bothering you. and you have not been following the path that has been set for you.\ \What do you mean?'' \All things in this world are part of an energy flow. When yc.u are following the right path it is like swiming downstream, but when you lose direction life becomes a struggle and you become as you are lonely and hopeless. And l have com~ to help you get back into the stream oflife.\ \Why are you helping me?\ \Because I am a part of you and you are a part of me. If you struggle then so do I. And there is no need to despair. Despair is the only unpardonable sin when you despair you loose faith in God and in yourself. You do not help yourself and you do not help others and the result is you fail to see that the Kingdom of Heaven is on earth.\ The young man sat in the snow in disbelief as the beautiful sylph floated in front of him. \The first thing you have to realise is that you are an individual more importantly you are part of an interrelated and interdependent system. Genetics have supplied you with individuality and God has supplied you with a soul. The soul is the real you.\ For now on you should never feel alone. You have your soul, I am always with you and God is always with you. Realise that you are far greater than just a body, and try to act more on your spirits wishes than your bodies. In other words place principles over passions.\ The angel stared deep .into the boys eyes and continued: \After realising your own divinity the next step is to realise that everyone is divine. All people have souls, all souls are connected and interdependent. When you finally understand this you wil under- stand that helping other people is no different than helping your- self.\ \Just as you helping me is the same as you helping yourself?\ \Yes Everyone is connected we benefit from helping others.\ · \So how do I get back on track?\ \You simply begin. Remember HAPPINESS IS A CHOICE. Choose to see life as the gift it is and then share what you learn with others. Love yourself and Love others.\ The angel then turned and began to float away. As the angel brok~ apart into a mist I heard it's last pipece of advice: \Have faith in your soul as eternal and then there is nothing to fear.\ Volunteers Needed for Community Service Project! VALE··PARK . CLEA.N-UP Saturday, May 4th (Rain date: Saturday-, May 11th) 9:00 am - 4:00 'Pm Come anytime! Refreshments provided! Main . Entrance: Nott Terrace, between Days Inn & 4 Seasons Wear Long Pants & Long-sleeved Shirt Questions? ca·u Jim @ 347-4251 The Jesus Wars by Chris Richards Living Editor In the last issue of Time Magazine Jesus and Moses were both deemed winners, while Howard Stem was a loser! All of a sudden everyone and their mothers are writing books de- .. fending the story of Jesus. This religious explosion, called the Jesus Wars, is a battle amongst scholars and church leaders about the person whom 225 mil- liQn Americans and 1.5 billion people around the world call Saviour and Lord. Scholars are trying to get the last word in on Jesus. not that it hasn't been going on for centu- ries, and scores of books are be- ing published by people who Fellow Seniors Please contribute to senior fund '96. It is our way, as a class. to leave our permanant mark at Union. UNION COLLEGE'S 200tL Graduatin~ Class Send donations to Senior Fund ' 96 C/O Jon Shapiro Boxl818 need to vent their own opinion on the man. l11e latest of books is called The Real .le.m.,· (which can be purchased at your local bookstaore for $22.95). In this book, Professor Luke Timothy Johnson uses words such as \poppycock\ and \hucksterism\ to describe. recent efforts to revise the portrait of Jesus. While he says that he was \reluctant\ to write this book, he nonetheless felt it a necessity. The serious tone in the title of the aforementioned book is al- most ridiculous. The Real.!e.\u.v. l11ank God, now we know! Here's the real story. here's what really happened tllO\ISands of years ago, because I was there! Isn't Johnson's knowledge of the real Jesus only known through books? (I'JIIeave out those who have had visions.) Johnson's primary rea- son for writing ·this book is be- cause he feels that the churches are suffering an academic captiv- ity by letting \Scholars make his- torical. research the nonn for rei i- gious faith. His argument is that scholars and intellectuals should not have the last word on an in- terpretation of Jesus. We'11 over- look the fact that he is a scholar. So what do I know about Jesus? Absolutely nothing. I thought my priest was Jesus. Jesus could have come down off the Cross, and at times it seems as if he did. He could have. I do wish that He would stay dead, and never come back again; but people need something to argue about, and life is awfu1ly boring without something to do, so back He comes. Large Three Bedroom Apartement for Rent! ConvenientlyLocated on University Place. Phone- Work .. 477-9615 Home- 674-5820 s gen cell by 1 die, rest hav mer ap link T 26, fror Alh (Nl. den nat1 criti of/. adrr aut M.I TC Uni lui a ogy ges1 Alz fror mat \' othc prec efit: sea1 Fall NV . It of € the pat Alz H sug: find to e vati A sin~ 1mp feet can F Alz trer forr peo It a cerr disc tha1 radi ease afte

Page 13 SeiL?nce amJTeclmology . . tLlH· \Lnnrnri'lirtt!:.\'.t~• ;\..Ia\' .2. I <)'96 . ' ~ Science & Technology Genetic Clue Found To Cell Death In by Oennis Popeo Seience l!ditor Scientists investigating the ' genes that regulate programmed cell death-the normal process by which old or.unwanted cells die on schedule SQ·the body can reshape devel()ping tissues-. have discovered a gene frag- ment that is nearly identical to a piece ·Of one ge-ne recently linked to Alzheimer's disease. This finding, published Jan. 26, 1996, in Sdenc~ by a group from the Nation.al Institute of · Allergy and Jnfecfi()us Diseases (NlAID), is the first direct evi- dence that disregulation of this natural process may play a critical role in the development of Alzheimer's disease. \We were taken by surprise.\ admits immunologist and senior author Luciano D' Adamio, M.D., Ph.D., chief ofNIAJD's T Cell and Molecular Biology Unit in the Laboratory of Cel- lular and Molecular Immunol- ogy (LCMI). ~·our work sug- gests how an inherited form of Alzheimer's disease could arise from the uncontrol1ed and pre- mature death of neurons.\ \This unexpected result is an- other example of the often un- predictable but inevitable ben- efits of investment in basic re- search,\ comments Anthony S. Fauci, M.D., director of NtAID. It is the first objective piece of evidence that some part .of the programmed cell death pathway is involved in Alzheimer's disease. Human population data had suggested this, but the current finding provides .a mechanism to explain the previous obser- vations. Alzheimer's disease .is the singl~ greatest cause of mental impairment in Blder people, af- fecting over 2.5 million Ameri- cans. Familial or early~onset Alzheimer's disease is an ex- tremely aggressive inherited form of the illness that strike~. people between ages 30 and 60. It accounts for up to 20 per- cent of all cases of Alzheimer's disease. It progresses· faster thari the more CBmmon spo- radic, late-onset form ofthe dis- ease, which generally develops after age 65. Alzheimer's Disease Otherwise, however, the two types of the illness-which rob individua:ls of their memories and leads to mental confusion- are indistinguishable, character- ized. by neuronal degeneration . and the development of plaques and tangles in the brain. tions in this pathway have been implicated in many other dis- eases as well. Examples include immunodeficiency diseases such as · AIDS, neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, autoim- mune diseases, and cancers. since the late 1980s. During apoptosis, the cell shrinks and its nucleus condenses. Within hours. the cell dies as the nucleus and other cell compo- nents break apart. A model system in mice to isolate the genes involved in the MATTERS Cryptosporidium. aproto~oan ' . ... e . homosexuals, me<lical nl'>i'<•nnn.al How contracted: Protozoa from huma!\ feces are ingested through contam.nated foods or water. Causes: Beef tapeworm infection. Most common: Mexico, South America, Middle East, 'Ea~tern Europe, Africa At greatest risk: People who eat beef How contracted: Lives in animal intestines. If not killed by cooking and ingested, they attach themselves to the intestinal wall. SOURCES: Boca Raton Community Hospital: Atlas of Human Parasitology The NIAID group was inter- ested in studying the genes that direct the programmed cell death ·pathway bec&lJS~ aberra- Programmed cell death is car- ried out by apoptosis, a process that has been recognized for . decades but only well-studied programmed cell death pathway has been developed by the NIAID group, which also in- Cludes Pasquale Vito, Ph.D., and Emanuela Lacana, Ph.D. Us- .ing this system, they have iso- lated six such genestodate. The current paper reports on their more detailed study of two of these genes: ALG-2, which codes for a calcium-binding protein. and ALG-3. what they now know to be the mouse ver- sion of a human gene, STM2, recently linked to Alzheimer's disease. The NIAID group found the two genes in December 1994. At that time, they combed the I ibrary of know·n amino acid sequences of human disease genes, but found no significant genetic overlap. Only last August~ when sev- · eral papers were published in Science anti Nature that linked a subtype of familial Alzheimer's disease to the STM2 gene on chromosome i , did the NIAID team discover the 98 percent match between a I 0.3.,amino-acid fragment of one of the genes they were study- ing and a portion of STM2. STM2 occurs mainly in de- scendants of a colony of 18th and 19th century Germans who immigrated to a valley near the Volga River in Russia and later came to the United States. In- terestingly. STM2 also is very similar (67 percent homology) to a different gene on chromo- some 14 found last summer to be linked to another subtype of familial Alzheimer's disease, which may mean that the pro- teins these genes encode have similar functions. The investigators also found the first calcium-binding gene. ALG-2, proven to be involved in programmed cell death. The authors say it may rep- resent a prototype of a family of genes that mediate calcium- regulated signals along the death pathway. Dr. D' Adamio predicts they will find a disease associated with this gene as well. NIAID is a component of the National Institutes of Health. NIAID conducts and supports research to prevent, diagnose arid treat illnesses such as AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, tuberculosis, asthma and allergies. NIH is an agency of the U.S. Public Health Service, part of the Department of Health and Human Services. ... .1· f '

Page 14 l\h1y 2, 1996 'ID!p.' <llonrud'til'nsi.s · Arts & Entel'tainment !THE SCREENING ROOM Mulh .. o,lland Fa·lls By Larry Paska, Arts Editor \Mulholland Falls.\ Stmring Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith, Chazz Palminteri, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Jennifer Connelly, John Matkovich. Directed by Lee TamahorL cliffbearing the film's title. Tough, uncom- promisil)g, and yet stylish, this group won't - wear pistols because firearms would spoil the look of their suits. Rated R, MGM Pictures. Rating: **112 (out of four) It seems to be about four vigilante cops who enforce the law in their own way in 1950s Los AngeleS. In reality, however, Mulholland Falls is a shallow, sometimes mesmerizing detective thriller that ends up trying to make a convoluted mystery out of a murder with very few suspects. In the film's opening sequence, we are introduced to the Hat Squad, a four-mem- ber special unit ofthe Los Angeles police force whose assignment is to keep L.A. free of organized crime. The characters here are actually based on a similar police squad of the era, and as played by Nolte (Max), Palminteri (Coolidge), Madsen (Eddie), and Penn (Relyea), they seem like a tough force -the cast of Reservoir Dogs thrown into a period piece. Free to enforce the rules as they wish, the four take a \hood\ into cus- tody from a restaurant and throw him off a Right from this moment, though, the film takes a gigantic left-tum from which it never returns. Instead of providing insight into the motivations and lives of these police- men, the story focuses mainly on Nolte (as the group'sself~proclaimed leader, because he has the k€ys to their car), and a murder- mystery that indirectly involves him. A prostitute (Connelly, in a brief but pivotal role) is murdered, and a tape of her \extra- curricular activities\ is sent to the police, making Max nervous; it turns out that he slept with the prostitute, too. Trying to hide this from his loving wife (Griffith), Max traces his only clue- a man in the home movie- to the government, where he meets the head of the Atomic En- ergy Commission (Matkovich), the man in the movie. This character claims innocence in the murder, prompting Max to sort through a series of developments to solve the grisly murder and save his marriage. A largely superb cast is .utterly wasted as multiple scenes focus solely on the two Edward Villella and Mi- ami City Ballet Dancers to· Courtesy of Public Relations Edward Villella, one of the leading names in American dance, will lead a lecture-per- formance with four members of the Miami City Ballet on Saturday, May 4 at 8 PM in the Yulman Theater. General admission is $15, and $I2 for seniors. Villella, artistic-director of the Miami City Ballet, will be introducing dancers from his company performing Nutcracker Pas de Deux (choreography by Balanchine, mu- sic by T chaikovsky), Nous Sommes (cho- reography by De Los Heros, music by de Marlaret), Flower Festival Pas de Deux (choreography by Boumonville, music by Paulli) and Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux, mu- sic from Swan Lake Act III (choreography by Balanchine, music by Tchaikovsky). The dancers are Iliana Lopez, Franklin Gamero and Paige Fullerton ofthe Miami City Ballet, and John WalkeroftheAtlanta Ballet. Villella, who is riot scheduled to perform, will explain each piece and narrate the choreography. (This marks Villella's second lecture-performance at Union; he appeared-last year with a different program and dancers). Villella will also lead a master class on o the Editor: Saturday, May 4 at 10:30 AM in the Arts Building Dance Studio. The~class, open to invited students in the Union CoHege Dance Practica, will.serve as the audition for the Edward Villella Prize. This year's inaugural prize is a fellowship to study at the Miami City Ballet in June .. (The prize will be awarded during the evening lecture- performance). There is a$ I 0 observation fee. Observation reservations are highly recommended. One of the most celebrated dancers in thecountry, Villella has done much to popu- larize the role of the male in dance. Here- . . ceived an honorary doctor ofhumane let ... ters from Union in 1991, the year his son, Rodney, received a bachelor's degree from the College. Union College's dance program was.re- cently paired with Vi-llella by Charles Lothridge, Union Class of 1944, when Lothridge established the Edward Villella Prize, an endowment for fellowships for promising dance students. The prize this year is to be determined and awarded by Villella himself. The prize is a cash award to expand the student's study of dance b.e:- yond the Union experience. If the recipi- ent is a ballet student, that study will be with the Miami City Ballet. Program and dancers are subject to change. For more infonnation, call388-6545. On behalf of the Committee on Committees, I would like to encourage studen o apply for the various student committee positions. They are now available in Studen ctivities Office in CC 408, and are due by 4:30, Friday May 13. A II committee appoint ents are made by the members of Committee ort Committees. As a participant on a committee, students have the power to impact academic dministrative, and social decisions. Also by being involved, students obtain a bette nderstanding of how Union College functions. We would like to see all the position Illed by the end of Spring term I 996. This is chance to make a difference, so becom 'nvolved! Sincerely, Rachel Schaffer COCChair most boring actors·aJive: Griffith and Nolte. By now, one would think sameone would have pulled the plug on Griffith's career. She still acts in that whiney tone that is worse than hearing fingernails scratched across a chalkboard. And Nolte, who has never been able to do anything but grunt his lines 1 shows little depth beneath his hat. Watch- ing the two of them on screen together (alone), one feels no emotion coming from them at all. It's a crying shame that this movie would have been better by. either chO<:~sing different leads or by including Madsen, Penn and Palminteri more into the story, instead of wasting precious ceUuloid on Griffith attempting to shed tears. In the end, Max's buddies do not offer much help, being reduced to the sidelines. Palminteri makes great use ofhis role, play- ing a cop who is affected by the therapy he is received from a psychologist. Tamahori, whose feature film debut was Once Were Warriors, tries really hard to c~p­ ture the visual and emotional feel of classic film noir, but the results are mixed. On the one hand, fine attention was paid to period detail and the reminiscence of the final days of true \law and order,\ no matter how it was kept. On. the other hand, ifTamahori wanted to pay homage to true film noir, he wo~:~.ld not have been as graphic with the murder;·norwould he have included dia- logue which seems very contemporary. Coolidge's fascination with his psychologist's therapies lightens the tone, but would a true film of the genre make references to the fact that the psycholo- gist was a female? Even ifTamahori was shooting for \contemporary n<;lir,\ he misses the mark on many counts, mainly because there is little suspense. Each trail seems to lead back to the same place and there never appears to be any real threat of danger. The most damaging event in the character's lives occurs when Max sees his entire marriage threatened. For a detective mystery, that's not terribly thrill- ing orsuspenseful. If you can get through Nolte and Griffith on screen together, and are willing to slug it out through a 105-minute film that's sub- stance-free but visually-interesting, then Mulholland Fqlls is your ticket. This is yet another Spring release where the pluses canceL out the minuses-· it's your call whether or not to go see it I l - ' I I I ! I

~~ ........ -- ......... - ..... ~-_.. .......... ,~.<\';' 7.,..-··~\ ~- .' .- l.i~ i ~·. !.< .· Video Pick of the Week: Home For the Holidays by LawrenceP~ska Arts £t/i.t()r \Home For the Holidays.\ Starring Holy Hun~r, Robert Downey, Jr., Anne Bancroft, Dylan McDermott, Steve Guttenberg, Charles Durning. Directed by Jodie Foster. Rated PG-13, PolygramHome V:ideo. Tape: priced for rental, Disc: $34.99. Available now. Not quite a satire on modem family life and two big steps away from being. asocial drama, Home For the Holidays wants to teach its audience about the importance of family, but ends up making a mockery of everyone who is supposed to resemble your very own relatives. Hunter plays an artist who is laid·o:fffrom her job at a museum the day before Thanks- giving. She leaves for home, letting her teenage daughter stay at her boyfriend's house for the holiday because she \trusts\ her daughter. Theirs is the most ludicrous single mother-teenage daughter relation- ship to come on screen in quite a while; they act more like sisters. or roommates than parent-child. Anyway, Hunter returns to her classic American suburban roots and tries to hide her problems from her parents. The question is, does anyone want a chain- smoking Bancroft and a stupid, pie-filling- eating Durning as parenting role models? As with many movies, you have to wonder how such a sensible woman as Hunter came from such stock. On Thanksgiving Day, Hunter's gay brother (Downey) shows up unexpectedly with a friend (McDermott), much to the dis- may of Guttenberg, the son-in-law with a grudge, Surprisingly, little of the film actu- . ally takes place at the dinner table, where the best conversational pieces could have occurred. Instead, director Foster is more concerned with establishing a \thing\ be- tween Hunter and the conveniently-avail- able McDermott than tackling such salient points as \When do we grow up and begin to distance ourselves from parents? Are we 'stuck' with relatives we don't like or should we honestly try to love them?\ David Straithaim is on hand as a repainmm who has acrushon Hunter, but is alone on the holidays. He gets tossed away a few moments later. Geraldine Chaplin has an amusing but predictable role as the staph;~ aunt/grandmother seen in every family movie: she is senile and makes rude noises. So are we supposed to laugh at these characters ortiy to come to·understand them as Hunter wants to? Most likely, it's the latter, but when the film excuses itself from the dinner table and starts Hunter and McDermott on the road to Jove, Foster does not try to make her scope wider, thus let- ting us lose some valuable performances and character insights in the process. Still in all, a film of this type depends ex- clusively onshaip dialogue, and some lines are particularly witty and intelligent, even if they're not the words you wanted to hear. For passable entertainment, Home For the Holidays won't leave you dry. But it is completely unremarkable as a '~family­ themed\ film, and for abetter portrayal of a mixed-up family with lots of character, check out While You Were Sleeping again. That still remains the best romantic comedy of 1995. Rating: ** Northeast Ballet to Present Cinderella by Melissa S. Weiner Contributing Writer Glass slippers, ball gowns, a price, and a bit of magic. What fairytale could bring you back to your childhood moie than Cinderella? The Northeast Ballet Com- pany, under the artistic direction ofDarlene Myers, will present this magical fairytaleat Proctor's Theatre, Saturday, May 4 at 2:00 PM. Four Union College students, who dance with Myers' company, will perform various roles in the ballet. Freshman Carrie Madsen will dance the roles ofa \clockperson\ and a lady in waiting; sophomore Sari Lei vent will perform as a \clockpersoo'~ and a lady in waiting; junior Kyra Sobc:j!:ak will dance as a lady in waiting; and Melissa Weiner, a member of the Class of1995 andaM.A.T. graduate student, will dance the role of the fairy godmother. Tickets .may be purchased through Proctor's Box Office (phone 346-6204) and are available for $12 (adults) and $10 (se- niors and children). All proceeds will ben- efit \Double H Hole in the Woods Ranch,\ Paul Newman's camp for critically ill chil- dren. Coming Soon to a Campus Near You ... TODAY-MAY 7: Greek Week THURSDAY, MAY 9: Health Fair FRIDAY, MAY I 0: Peer Facilitators presents renowned film director Spike Lee speaking on Racism in America and the Portrayal of This Issue in His Films, in Memorial Chapel MAY 10- MAY 12: Steinmetz Symposium MAY 17- MAY 19: Springfest '96 MAY 22 -JUNE 1: Performing Arts presents Noises Offby Michael Frayn, in the Yulman Theater FRIDA Y,MA Y 31: Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, starting at 9 PM in Chet's Local Arts Calendar SATURDA Y,MA Y 4 Edward Villella, one of the leading names in American dance, will lead a lecture-perfor- mance with four member of the Miami City Ballet at 8 PM in Union College's Yulman Theater. General admission is $15 for & iults and $12 for seniors. Villella, artistic director of the Miami City Ballet, will be introducing dancers from his company performing five separate works. While he is not scheduled to perform, Villella will explain each piece and narrate the choreography. Villella will also lead a master class at 10:30 AM in the Arts Building Dance Studio. The class, open to all students in the Union College Dance Practica, will serve as the audition for the Edward Villella Prize. This year's inaugural prize is a fellowship to study at the Miami City Ballet in June. (The prize will be awarded during the evening lecture-perfor- mance). There is a $10 observation fee. Observation reservations are highly recom- mended. A student art exhibition will open at the Albany Institute of History & Art. A is For Art will feature two- and three-dimensional works of art created by budding artists ranging in age from four to senior citizen. All of the artists featured in this exhibition are participants in either the Museum Art Class or Art Partners programs. The Museum Art Class (MAC) program offers a variety of art courses for children and adults throughout the year. Art Partners is an arts-in- education program designed by the Albany Institute that brings art classes to schools, community centers, senior centers, and public housing locations. A is For Art will open through May 19. The Albany Institute of History & Art is located at 125 Washington Avf?nue in downtown Albany. Call463-4478 for more infor- mation. A family festival featuring art, dance, food, arid fun will take place at the Albany InstituteofHistory & Art from 2:00-4:00 PM. During Family Arts Day, local artists and art educators will be on hand to lead families in such activities as hat .. making, sidewalk chalk drawing, paper dbll making, creating paper picture frames and more. All activities are free for member and children 12 and under, $3 for adults, $2 for seniors and students (includes museum admission). SUNDAY,.MAY5 Discover four centuries of regional history, art, and culture during a guided tour of the Albany institute of History & Art either today, Sunday, May 12, or Sunday., May 19 beginning at 1:00PM. This one-hour Overview Tour highlights the permanent collection of one of the oldest museums in the country, including Hudson River School landscape paintings, Dutch lim her portraits, examples of 18th and 19th century furniture, paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts. Plus, the mummies and artifacts of the Egyptian Gallery andmuch more. May 19 will be the last museum tourofthe season. The tour is free for members and children 12 and under, $3 for adults and $2 for seniors and students (including museum admission). WEEKEND Passport Cinemas, owned and operated by Albany resident Michael D. E11enbogen, returns to the big.screen with an extravaganza of\home-grown\ filmed entertainment in New York's Second. Capital Film Slam. Co-sponsored by the New York State Writer's Institute, this event is designed to highlight New York's producers and directors with an emphasis on entertainment and networking. AU the action takes place on Saturday, May 4 and Sunday, May 5. The Film Slam Seminars, empqasizing production, will be held from 11 :00 AM-4 :00 PM each day. Topics will include screenwriting, production-in-progress, marketing the screenplay and the film, production management, newtechnologies, and networking. Film Slam Seminars will cost $15 and participants must pre-register by calling Passport Cinemas at 453~ t 000. Screenings begin at 6:30PM nightly and run through midnight. Two features and 19 shmt films, which include narrative dramas and comedies, documentaries, and experi- mental films, have been programmed for maximum exposure to various styles and themes. The Film Slam is competitive and a hand-picked jury will present various creative and genre awards. NewYork'sCapital FilmSlam will beheldatSUNY'sPageHall, 135 Western Avenue (between N. Lake St. and Washington Park) in Albany. Tickets may be purchased at the door as follows: Weekend Pass ($15/$12 student/senior), One-Day Pass ($1 0/$8 stu- dent/senior). Discount Tickets will be available in advance at the Bookhouse of Stuyvesant Plaza and at Deena's Midtown Cafe (858 Madison A venue). Reserve tickets by calling Passport Cinemas at 453-l 000. 1HEEGGGOFSGLOBAL! The Empire Center at The Egg has entered cyberspace with a page on the world wide web. The site features facts about The Empire center at The Egg; a facility description; the calendar of events; box office, subscription, and ticket information; directions and · parking; sponsorships and memberships; programming for school groups; rental pack- ages ~nd rates~ residential company activities, infonnation on advertising in the season playbtll and form to fill out to be put on the mailing list. For furthet informations contact the Empire Center at The Egg's Main Office at 473- 1061 or e-mail them at: theegg@globall.net The Egg's web address is: http://www.globalt.net/theegg .. '• ·•'

(1--· Business _ · · Q':lp· lLllnrLuhintsi!o• :\Ia~ 2,-1996 Pag·c 16 ···-· CCI '1-- :-_-_ -_-_-_-_-: _- _-::.:: - Akin. Sawyerr Business Editor It is no secrete that the economy is slowing down, but not too many people know that the economy might actually be heading for a recession. The vast majority of economists be- lieve that the eCQnomy will show a meager one percent growth in the January-March quarter. A one percent growth is only half of what is needed to keep the na- tion from experiencing an infla- tion. Although only a few economists think the country will go into a recession, their prediction should raise a lot of questions. A recession would be obviously bad for everyone, but it will be especially detrimental to president Clinton's reelection campaign. The blizzard of '96 Business Economy Report __ ___._L ___ ,___,_ and the partial government shut- down are two of several factors that can be blamed for the situa- tion the country is facing eco- nomically. The snowstorms have hampered the flow of business in the country. A lot of people stay home on the weekends rather than go shopping due to the bad weather. Businesses are also feel- ing the pains of not being able to meet up to their anticipated goals due to the delays caused by the weather. The partial government shutdown and the budget prob- lems have created a lot of eco- nomic uncertainty. Businesses and big investors are more risk conscious because they do not want to make decisions that seem good on a given day, and bad af- ter the government does or doesn't do something they expected. Unemployment is another com- ponent that has contributed to the economy's woes. The labor is a shorter workweek, a drop showing signs thatthe economy department reported that first- in twQ (undisclosed) price in- mightbe,heading fora,recession time claims for unemployment dexes to 28.:.year lows. Almos.t ifthesituation(j<>esnot improve. benefits surged by an unex,- every sector of the, economy is pectedly high 21,000 applica- tions. This PayroU Employment surge brought the number ,of claims being filed to a four year high of 3 88,500. The hike in unem- ployment claims clearly shows that the labor market is dete- riorating. Other reports from the, Federal Reserve Bank of Phila- delphia and the government show that there Payro1l ~1oyment Forecast: +25 Consensus: +55 ACTUAL: +140 Un~1oyment Rate Foreca,s,t: 5. 6% Consensus: 5.6% ACTUAL: 5.6% UNION )r~E£T EAREE~ SHOP Economics or Business Major? \Where Quality Is In High Demand\ #t_jnA.ea Specializing in Progressive Men's Cuts Write for <1Ionrrrrbu.· ·~ontact The (518) 346-3605 1732 lJni()n Street Schenectady, NY 12309 AskF()r Patrick Bidinost or Victor Delisio . Editors @ 38'8-6155 or e-mail Wq£ Qinnrrrrbi:en-sis at Concordy@ gar.union.edu It's Your Future- Letthe Air Force give it a boost with: • High-tech training • Hands-on experience ., Tuition assistance • Medical and dental care • Excellent salary For more information call 1·800-423-USAF or contact your local Air Force recruiter. . -AIR-~. -FORCE .. ,..-- . -. ~ - . . . Marine Studies Term Abroad Information Meeting For Next Spring Tuesday May 14 5:00 Social Sci. Rm 103 Or Contact Prof. Kaplan x6230 or Prof. B. Boyer x6S l Summer Jobs Do you have office experience, some ng, computer literate and service orienta- on demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities ar~ available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-Scribe, Inc .• 215 Alexander. , Rochester, NY 14607; (Agency, no fees) World famous PSYCHIC to stars and ce- lebrities--3 5 years experience-- I can help to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Telephone David Gaurdino ANYTIME at 423-558-1197 or 214-340-9844; Fax 214-341 ... 060.6 CHI PSI, PSI U., AND- A.D. PRESENT BAR-B-QONTHELAWN,. Sponsoring Schenectady Clean·Up and Kicking Off G,reek Week 3 .Bands' AU Day Free Food & Free Music . p

To ,the Brothers of Sigma Phi, Thanks for a great party!- The Sis- ters ofSigma Delta Tau . ToAdrian, \\ Adam-- Y ou'H always be my favor• ite .. luv' the little news editor Your patience means everything. Your efforts are extremely com- mendable. Love, Your Faithful News Editor · . UNION LAUNDRY . . 561 NOTT s.· t.. •. SCHENE~TADY. NY 12308 (ACROSS FROM UNI N CQUEGE) OPEN DAILY BAM 0 10:30PM . F . E D.R.~l . TUESDAYS & THPRSOAYS 8AMT03PM Sa PER WASH. ~. T~ W.AII:t..fBEt; . 7 WASHES OR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAIL<. (OR D/tP0$11 iN OURs~· t3GSSTION BOX} THISAO TO UNION L.AUND · FORA.FREE: WASH INCI.fJCJJ; YOIJR NAMI! NO ADORcSS; . NAME:--------~~~~~~-·~~------ AOPRESS: ______ __,_..,~._-.,__,_. _ _._ ___ _ Author of To the Brothers ofFiji, Thank you for - Saturday night; we appreciate your help and had a great time!- Love the Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau To Nina and Jaquie,You both did a wonderful job at the Art History Colloquium. 'I love you!· Steph Hollywood vs. Americ·a Union College College Center Monday, May 6 8:00pm Alternative Site: Memorial Chapel Michael Medved is a film critic, best-selling author, and national television personality. He is co-host of Sneak Previews, the weekly movie review show that airs on more than 200 PBS stations, and he is a film critic for the New York Post. · ~'<\: • • • • • •••• '-»; ! . ~ ~ E::; . , .. :0:: ;~ l ~ ~ ~ ~ :;: ~- ). UNION COLL!lGB Career Development Center CDC Updates On-Campus Recruiting: •Net Daemons Interviews - Friday, May 3 •WaJ.MartDistribution has Management Trainee posi- ••• tions available. Resume and application deadline May 3. •Triad Systems Corporation resume deadline for sales representative is May 6. •UNUM Life Insurance Company of America seeking Sales Representative. Resume Deadline is May 6. -·Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance. Co. - seeking an assistant actuarial systems specialist. Reswoo, cover let- ter and transcript deadline May 10 •Streamline Inc. \\estwood, Ma.- David Blakeloch '.86 VP of operations has positions in Inforination technol- ogy and in operations. Resume Deadline is May 10. •Marketing Intern Program with John Hancock Thurs- day. May 2 @ 7 pm. RSVP at 427-7596 Ext. 117 Workshops: •lntervkw.ing Worlcshop- Thesday, May 7 @ 4 pm •MBA Pltz.nning- Tuck Business School Admission Di- rector- Tuesda~ May7@ 7 pm. &Job Search Strategies Workshop- 'Wednesday, May 8 @4pm. Tony, Liz and Marg, Are we having fun yet? Thanks for showing me the ropes!• Ace I love.you both very much! You are in my thoughts and prayers!- Ace To Liza, - Injustice is a tragedy. Yet indiffer- ence to injustice is an even greater tragedy.- Love, Adam Evan, I just wanted to thank you for your everlasting respect and restraint! Maybe ~omeday my talents may sur- face! - Adrian Barbara (Babs ), The million will be deposited directly into your bank ac .. count tomarrowmoming, I'll be over at 8:00'PM~ - WITZ To Vic, SMILE- Love, Lice Chris, You are doomedifyou leave me! -Tony Andy, Happy Birthday to a terrific friend! Love, Ace and Tony Momeroni, You did a great job last week! You knocked their socks off! - Freina qn behalf ofthe Autonomous Zone, we would like to say thank you for giving us a home next year! To Erica, Don't hate all men, just me! - Love Dazed and Confused LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! Famous U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet During the non-snow off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team members used the \Ski Team\ diet to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. That's right - 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy is maintained (very important!) while reducing. You keep \full\ - no starvation - because the diet is designed that way. It's a diet that is easy to follow whether you work, travel or stay at home. (For men, tool) This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet If it weren't, the u.S. ~omen's Alpine Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! .. Right? So, g1ve yourself the same break the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way .. Even if you've tried all the other diets. you owe it to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet. That is, if you . really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today! Tear this out as a reminder. Send only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calif.)-add .50 cents RUSH service to: American Institute, 7343 El Camino Real 1 Suite 206, Atascadero, CA 93422. Don't order unle~s you expect to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! Because that's what the Ski Team Diet will do. © 1995 Announcing the AT&T \Ultimate ROAD TRIP'' sweepstakes. Studying abroad this Fall? AT&T wou::.d like tv help pay your way. 10 GRAND PRIZE WINNERS - Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you will study. Plus thousands of other chances to win ... • Leather-bound passport folde~s • High-quality currency converters To enter, call Or see your Study Abroad Counselor· for more details. No purchase necessary. Vold where proh1bited SweepstaJsiiis ends~ ll q~ ···p.Pr. to ':ltt2en~ <.:-!the U.S .. 18 years or older. attending school abroad for the Fall '96 semester through pa.r~1C...1pat1nq school's. See your Study Abroad Counselor for offtclal 'rules and deta1ls ~ 191}6 AT&T \ . L -

. . . Sports · . · , · · · 'illlfc illnnroroicttzis • May 2, 1996 • Page 18 . Men's Rugby Takes Championship by BharatNava11i contributing writer After an erratic spring season that saw both ups and downs, the Union College Men's Rugby Club were crowned Carey Division Champions with three impressive victories in last weekend's New York State Rugby Championships. Led by a balanced scoring at- tack that include9 trys from Ian Laycock, Jon Poor,Jason Sanabia, Seth Brown, Myles Kellam and Lothar (also known as J.A. Minehardt), and conversions from Brian Field and Adam Schwartz, the \Srnokin' Dutch- men\ rolled over Albany State, SUNYBufThlo and SUNY Oswego by a combined score of 59 to 5. The toughest obstacle proved to be the weather and field condi- tions, as the games were played in the cold under grey skies on pitches that were swamps after the first ten minutes, and managed to deteriorate even further as the day wore on. The soggy conditions and subfreezing windchill factor made it difficult to keep from stiffening-up between games, re- sulting in several problems with cramps over the course of the afternoon. \This was a team victory,\ said Captain Jason Sanabia, \and one that took the .effort and support of every player on the team.\ Originally scheduled to put two sides into the tournament, the team voted to stick to- gether to ensure that replacement players were available. \We had several team members who sacri- ficed their chance to play in order to. secure a champi- onship for the team, and it makes you realize the value and impor- tance of everyone who wears a jersy.\ According to Club ~resident Pike Mody, \'As nice as this vic~ tory was, we view it primarily as a step towards winning the First Union Invitational Rugby Tourna- ment this weekend. This effort il· lustrated the potentia] and power of a team that shares a common goal.'' The team will be in action fm: two more -weeks, with the Touma- . ment this weekend and then an away game scheduled for Montreal on May 11. The tournament roster of the New Y erkState Champions con- sisted of: Bill Ackerbauer Seth Brown Mark D' Ambruoso Bl d S · dB ( L k. Th f). WomenRuggers oo.' weatan eers or ac .. ere o ·.: VenturetoStates IN by Kathy \Legs\ Walter Staff Writer Jodi 'I don'thavenicknamequite yet, but don't worry there's still time' Mace, Heather 'you lied, Rightabout now, I'm sure you there's no beer here!' Daly, Carol are wondering what those beau- 'stop it, please' Case, Daniella tifully bodacious women who 'Curly' Chiulli (notseenonce, the ruck and roll are up to. Don't entire day without Moe and Larry 'worry, you haven't missed any of · from the .serum!), Wendy 'the Se- the exciting action of women's nior' Stephenson, Debbie 'the rugby because of the long- football tackler' Spaulding, Sacha winded male ruggers (we didn't 'the mean, lean fullback machine' even know th~y had the energy White, Tiffany 'don't worry, it to think or to write that much! ! ! ). snaps back - kind oflike legos! ' There was no one who wanted to Lussier, and Rachel 'PDA' Piro. So play with us two Saturdays ago. pumpedwithadtenalinewerethey (Let me clarify. No women's teams that it looked likenoteven the gail- wereavailableforconsultation- force winds nor the subzero figure the test out!) This past weatherwoulddeterthem! (Add weekend, however, the women to that 30 feet of mud and rain and ruggers were out in full force!!! you have the practice conditions Thirty strong went to face their for the week!!! ! ) destinies at Windover Park. Fea- Undaunted, the women ruggers tured were the Serum: Julie 'I'm braved the odds and headed off. pissed at someone else, but you The first game began with the areherenow' Firman,Ahnya 'the winds to the west and the sun rooster socks' Mendes, Shalini 'I overhead. Itlooked like the rugby play here, I play there' Sood, Laura gods were fixing for a win. Unfor- 'Gotta Getta' Grund, ~ate 'yeah tunately, not forUnion 's win. The right!' McCullough, Andrea 'da women ruggers faced off against Bird' Schulman, Courtney 'If you the dwarfs (I'm sorry, the little get my hair you are dead! ' Brem, Devils) of Binghamton who rim Kathy 'the taper' Walter, Beth under and around our giantlike 'what did you just call me?' legsandleftusdumbfounded. At Wheat, Laurel 'yDu have the ball this point, the women ruggers re· =must pummel you' Saltzman, alized that the odds were not in Betsy 'Moe' Butterfield, Lauren our favor (the general feeling of 'Larry' Locke, Naomi 'the bruise' the team and of this author is that Hare!, Noelle 'you'd never expect we did n9t properly sacrifice to the it, but there she was' Somers, Lind- rugby gods with a drink up! Let say 'I'm a rookie, but I'm okay' this be a lesson to all you disbe- Dunn, and Jen 'wow! who took lievers!! !) away the· oxygen?' Taylor and the In order to give the vets a rest, Line: Kim ~I'm so mad I could eat the killerB's swept in on the next concrete' Sanabia,Jen 'I'm here' game againstRPI. An interesting Lelas, Melissa 'cuddled' Chakin, thing happened, though, which I Sara '#$@%' Gower, Stacey believe would even surprise our 'Ouch, that was my ... ! ' Fellows, most avid fans. As you well know, I do my bestto explain rugby lingo to the common folk whenever the opportunity arises. However, folks, after this game with Andy 'the ex -coach' as our ref, this au- thor is truly at a loss for~words. Penalties against us, for us, be· sides us, and around us were be- yond even the rugby gods com- prehension, I'd wager!! Even so, Union was able to pull off a siz- able victory and stayed in the tour· nament. C,ome to think of it, the next game's ref was actually worse (definitely drinking next week, no doubt! ! .! ) Kudos, though, to all of the rookies who played their hearts out! ! ! ! The final game of the extremely cold and long day was against the Rebels of Oneonta State. The battered and bruise-over-bruisetl women had enough. We played until there was nothing left and it looked like victory or at least a tie • was ours. Sadly, it was to no avail. With two minutes left and the, wind whipping across the Alamo, the ref rewarded a try even after he noticed that Oneonta had fallen short of the zone. And then, we left(Don'tworry, we picked up our garbage first! Yes, we areenvi- ronmentally conscious- kegs and cans are always recycled!! ! ). I should say, we got mad, and then we left. This energy and pain will probably be evident as you watch the women practicing this. week. It is all just a buildup to the ~ revengeful slaughter which will constitute the tournament this coming Saturday. Come on out' and see the women ruggers on their home turf with nothing but fire in their eyes and grace in their step!!! . 20% ·Off· Any one Gift or Book . . sorry •.. special orders EXcluded The O~en Door . Bookstore ift Gift Gcdrery A Locally OwnecliiZdependent Bookstore Since 1971 128 Jay Strccl • Downtown Schenectady • (518) 346-27.19 ALEAGUESOFI'BAIL LEAGUE I TDCID 2-0 DUSEDTOBE 2-0 BLUE&GOLD 2-0 PIDSIG 1-1 FIJI'A 1-1 SIGCHI 0.2 LEAGUE II SIGCHI 2-1 FALSTAFF 2-1 GOLD&BLUE 2-1 BETA ~1 Fill 1~2 CANADIENS 1-2 AMERICANS 1-2 L~S 1~ BLEAGUESOFfBALL LEAGUE I SIGCHI 2-0 ZBT 2-0 FO)( 1-1 PINK FlAMES 1-1 ALPHADELT 1-1 Fill B 0.2 PINKFLAMES . 0.2 PHISIG 0.2 LEAGUE II 420 2-0 SIGCHI 2-0 BETABOMBERS 1-1 SOUffiERNEXP. 1-1 PffiDEL! 1-1 PHlDELTB 1·1 RICHMOND 1-1 ... .. VOLLEYBALL TDCHI 2-0 L()[(JE 2-0 BLUE&GOLD 2-0 PIDSIG 1-1 FI.li 1-1 LAMBS 1-1 SIGCHI 1-1 DPID 0.2 PHIDELT 0.2 Brian Field Mike Gifford MikeGill Mark Goloboy Fred Gibney . Dave Greenberg Mike Hanna Jon Kaufman Myles Kellam Ian Laycock MattLux · Eric Menard J. A. Minehardt Pett~rMody Marc Peterson John Poor Dennis Popeo Dan Rickson Jason· Sanabia Brendan Schaefer Adam Schwartz Eric Smith Caleb Sturges Chris Weiler Aaroniiff UPDATE LACROSSE IDCHI 2-0 PSIU 2-0 LOIXJE 2-0 BLUE&GOLD 1-1 SIGCHI 1-1 SIGPHI 1-1 SMOKERS 1·1 PHIDELT 0.2 CO-RECSOFI'BALL GAMES FROM4/22 WILL BEMADEUP 5/20 MUSIC! .MUSICI·· MUSiC I L i.~e Shows ltd IT b; hl w a~ 01 d< fa hi cc pi fil in ac Ol ac to tr< L1

Greg Kalish _ . S,taf/Writ(!r. , ·' Whether or not Kevin Garnett haathe natural ability to~ake the transition from high school to the NBA was not the question. At 6; ll, there was and continues to be little·doubt that, barring. injury or.some other hindrance~ Garnett is going to be a star in ~he league at some point. Nevertheless~ a great d¢al of _skepticism sur:.. rounded his decision to forgo col- lege for the big time. Could a high school student exhibit the type of maturity needed to be a success- · ful professional? Could he exer- cisethe responsibility ofan adult? Garnett would have a great deal t{) prove. Whether er not-he was successful might influence the decisions of others in the similar. situation. Sure enough, Garnett madearemarkably smooth transi- tion this past season. In a league which has gained ~otoriety as of late for its multitude of infantile egomaniacs, thenineteenyear-old · came to play hoops and keep his mouth shut That's exactly what he did, and he has gained the re- spect of his peers. Lo and behold,. this past week, Koby Bryant an- nounced ,tha:t he was skipping college .altogether and declaring himself eligible fur this coming NBA draft, ala Garnett. Bryant, at 6 '6, averaged 31 points per game for his prep schoQl team. He is the number one recruit in the country and probably couldh~ve gone to the basketbaU program of his choice. Instead, he will become yet another million dollar teen- · ager. The Kevin Garnetts, the Shawn Kemp.s, 'the Moses Malones, they come along once every five to fifteen years. Bryant- i~ kiddinghimselfifhe thinks that just anybody can make the sort ofjump he i~ attempting to ml:ll(e. The odds are against him. The fact that Garnett has made the tran ... · sitionto the NBA look as smooth as he· did may h~ve opened a door that might be better off shut.. .. Th~ee yearsago, Gary Bettman vacated his lofty office just down the hall from NBA commissioner David S~em to become the top gun in the NHL. One of his first moves was the implementation of a new playoff system, with the top eight teams in each conference making the playoffs instead of the top four in each division. (Some divisions only had five teams). He renamed and reorganized the NHL divisions and conferences similar to those in the NBA. His hope was the make the regular season more meaningful, to give the better teams the best chanceofadvanc ... ing in the playoffs. In his first full season, and the first season of the new conference alignment, the Rangers won the Stanley Cup, be- coming one of only a handful of teams to win the President's Tro- phy for the best regular season record and the championship. Their opponent, however, was the seventh ... ranked Vancouver Canucks. Last season, the sixth- ranked New Jersey Devils. defeated the first-ranked Detroit ·Red Wings. So while \in each of Bettman's first two full seasons the President's Trophy winner has made it to the finals, the match-up has not been the match made in heaven Bettman was look- ing for. This season he may finally - get his wish. Seven of the eight teams with horne- ice advantage·in the first round advanced to the Conference Semi-Finals. Only the St Louis Blues, seeded fifth in the West, knocked off a top-four team. While upsets and under- dogs always rouse the casual fan's interest, too many ridiculous first- round upsets in past years have rendered theregular season mean- ingless., As the second round be- gins on Thursday, the best teams are still afloat. .. There are so many questions in this world that we do not have answers for. Why is the grass green? Whydo birds sing so gay? Why does the automatic flush sensor on the toilet always flush at the wrong time? And, with re- gards to the world of sports, what the hell happened to pitching in Major League Baseball? Starting pitchers are averaging five in- nings an outing, middle reliefhas been about effective as pocket fan when the dog has gas, and hitters are putting up numbers compa- rable to those better recognized in an intramural softball game played on the field with the short left-field fence. Every member of the regular Montreal Expo start- ing line-up is hitting over .300. Two players have tied the record for home-runs in April with eleven, the Expos have brokenthe record for most grand-slam home- runs in a month with six, three teams have scored twenty or more runs in a game, and the.runs-per- game average, hovering just above nine, is the highest it has ever been. Some blame expansion, some blame the newer and smaller ballparks, some the cold weather, others simply blame the Colorado Rockies. The fact ofthe matter is that there is a scarcity of pitching in baseball, that's it And ifthere were two less teams, we'd still be talking about the same thing. And for every home-run hit out of a park likeCoors Field in Denver or Wrigley Field in Chicago, there;are fifty hit thatwouldhavebeen out of any park (Except Yellowstone). Know how to pitch? The major may need you soon. ·nutchmen Baseball Has Banner Weekend -continued from back page On Saturday April27, Union's baseball teatn traveled four long hours by van· Into ·ten degree weather to play a double header against St. Lawrence. In game one, Josh Soldo was once again a dominant presence on the mound for the Dutchmen. Soldo upped his record to 3-3 while pitching the complete game 4-3 win. Union picked up all of their, runs in the first inning as Jeremy Lamb drove in 2 runs, and David Bernstein added an RBI and a run scored. For the second time i-n as many outings, David Kline (2-3).pitched a complete game to earn the vic- tory in game two, Kline's only trouble came in the second as St. Lawrence scored three runs, gained a 3\-0 lead, and picked up three of their six hits for the game. The deficit did not last long for !Jnion, however: They answered back with three runs oftheir own in the third. The rally was capped offby Eric Kujawski; in the middle of a 3 hit and 3 RBI game, who bit a two-. run homer over the left field fence, Uniop picked up single runs in the fourth and fifth innings to ensure a 5-4 victory and move their season record to 11-11. ~hiii!-­ Ciar~ On Sunday, Union made the half-hour trip from St. Lawrence to Clarkson to play another pair of games. After the fifth inning, the Dutchmen found themselves on the downside of a 4-1 score, but quickly erased that in the sixth when Jeremy Lamb drove in two runs with a double to total4 runs. A 5-4 lead was not enough for the team as they tried for the kill, how- ever~ and therefore added 4 more runs in the seventh. Co-captain Jamie Haver scored three of those fou~: runs with a bases loaded\ . . double. Clarkson, in turn, tried tci come back in the bottom of the inning, pushing the score to 9-8. Th,e team would not fold, and Michael Riveles ended up getting the final out with runners on first and second to end the game and move the team's overall record above .500 for the firsttime since Florida. Richard Nespola (2-0) picked up the victory in relief of starting pitcher Ryan Almstead, who pitched an effective four and two-thirds innings before tiring. Union continued to score late inning runs during. the second game. The Dutchmen scored two runs to tie the score at 4-4 in the Bethany Canledge ln-ilne s'1o/tr. \f.ballslugger. Diunk drtving Yfctilli, ]anuory 18.1994 Chrrmv.SC seventh and pushed across three more in the eighth to win 7-4, and secure a team record of 13-11 go- ing into the last week of play. Eric Kujawski continued to wield a hot Tennis 512-@ Binghamton3:00 5/4-@ Hartwich 1 :00 stick by going 3-4. Jarnie Haver and Adam Meyers both had two RBI' s as Nespola (3-0) gained his second relief victory in the same day. Baseball 512-@ Williams 3:30 514-@ Vassar 12:00 Track · Rena·lyntt Bdair Stadt: Let- Roget1 Best friends. GraduaJed togetl!er,June 6, l993. Kfll<d.togethcr,]une JO. 1993. \Vhlrewalcr; WI 5/4 .. State Meet@ RPI If you don't stop someone from driving drunk, who will? Do whatever it takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. If you don't stop someone from driving druillt, who will! Do whatever 1; takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. .. ·\

May2, 1996 PAGE20 Women's Lacrosse Battling for Playoff Berth by Aaron Sicotte Staff Writer Heading into their weekend matches· with Rensselaer and Skidmor.e, the women's lacrosse team had a 3-4 record, which they were hoping to improve upon in o;der to earn a spot in the play- offs. R..P.I. isoneofthethreeother teams that Union was fighting with for .the eighth spot, so a win was especially important. Despite clearly being the better team, Union was just unable to score the necessary goals, and fell.8-12. The defense played an outstand- ing game, but it was not quite enough to overcome the lack of offense. As a whole, the offense was unable to produce, but three players tried to personally carry their team to victory. Allison Wil- liams, Lauren Pastor, and Liz Kittleman, scored two goals apiece despite the lack of production around them. Fortunately, thjs was not a problem forthe team against Skidmore. The game against Skidmore be- gan much the way the game with R.P.I. ended. Union scored the games first goal, but was unable to pull away from Skidmore, and the teams battled back and forth throughout the first half. In the 21-8 victory, 1 O·different players tallied goals, again I ed by Kittleman (with five goals), Pas- tor (four goals), and Williams {three goals). Becca Wright, and freshman Simko Okado were the other Union players to score mul- tiple goals. The defense again played an outstanding game, led by freshmen Sarah Moss and Jess Paige. Moss was the 1cey to the team's transition from defense to offense, even adding a little of- fense of her own, by scoring her first goal of the season. The team was able to e11d the season on a high note with wins against Vassar and Rochester, but it was too little too late as the team fell just short of a playoff spot. Fortunately, the team is young, lij'ld the majority will be back next year to build on the success that . the team achieved this year. Men's Tennis Dropped by Hamilton; Lose Beckman Jonathan Gasthalter Staff Writer The Dutchmen tennis team came into the week with a record of four wins and two losses. On April24, the team played host to Upstate Collegiate Athletic Asso- ciation rival Hamilton. The Dutch- men played a solid match, but lost a close one 4-3. Sophomore singles player Steven Chin felt that part of the reason the team lost was due to the fact that they had not played for two days be- fore the match. \We came off of not playing for two days due to the weather, and that really hurt us,\ said Chin who lost his match. This week the Dutchmen play host to rival Williams on April 30, and Binghamton and Hartwick later in the week to close out the season. \Williams is going to be a really tough match. Historically, we haven't really done well against them, but we stand a chance, especially in the doubles. We have been doing very well this year compared to last year in . doubles. Binghamton is going to be real tough. We haven't ever beaten them as far as I remember. Saturday, we play Hartwick and we are definitely going to beat Hartwick,\ said sophomore Jordan Pinsker. The Dutchmen team has not been without its problems. Sophomore star Jason Beckman, who played both first singles and doubles, left the team last week citing a lack of support for the team by the administration and the athletic department. Beckman felt that \the team isn't going any- where. The athletic department gives zero respect to the team by not giving us enough funding to even get into the playoffs.\ Union's tennis team is not eligible for the playoffs because of the short season it plays. Beckman left the team because he did not want to have a \negative impact\ on the freshmen players. On the idea ofretur:ping to the team next season, Beckman said \I am done here. I played tennis my entire life~· I put my heart into it and Union has nothing to give back to its players. It doesn't give a reason for the players to put their hearts into it,\ On the subject of the team, Beckman felt that \there are a bunch of good players with alotofheart.\ AfterBeckman's departure, the morale of the team dropped severely. \We played Skidmore the day after Jason [Beckman] quit, we were missing Steve [Chin] and our moral was pretty low. However, since that match our moral has improved,\ said sophomore Vinod Dasa. Sub- stitutes Dasa and freshman Sudheer Potluri have filled in well for the absent Beckman, winning a large portion of their matches. In addition, Coach Bob Mon- tana was replaced at the begin- ning ofthe season by former bas- ketball coach Bill Scanlon. Mon- tana and Scanlon were· scheduled to switch coaching positions at the close of the 1996 academic year, but Athletic Dir~ctor Rich- ard Sakala felt that the move would be best completed in the early Spring. Union tennis player Steve Chin on the attack. (photo by Laurel Ruma, The Concordie11sis) Becca Wright drives to the goal in Union's win over Rochester (photo by LatJrelRuma, The Concordiensis) Men's Lacrosse- Season Comes to a11 End by Stacey Kimmel Staff Writer The Ul'!ion College Men' La- crosse team ended its season with a record of3 and 9 after two losses and one win over this past week. The men suffered a loss of 12 to 5 at Hamilton on Friday, April26. Tim Benson sparked the offense and Scott Porter added a few goals to help the Dutchmen of- fense. Their last home game proved victorious with a win over Trinity on Saturday, April27, by a score of 10 to 7. Ryan Cohe11; Justin Perkins, Scott Porter, and Tim Benson combined their efforts to make ita great final game on their home field. Itprovedto beagreat effort by all. With a loss to Williams on Mon- day April29, by a score of 12 to 2, tile Dutchmen completed their 1996 season. Tim Benson and Scott Porter put the Dutchmen on the scoreboard, but it did not prove to be enough to beat the · offense ofWilliams. Thank you to all who have sup- ported the team throughout the season and a great effort by those on the team. Good luck next year! Baseball Takes Four on the Road, Moves Record to 13-11 by Christop~er Leone Staff Writer Coming intothe past weekend, the Baseball team knew that it would face two tough challenges on the road at St. Lawrence and Clarkson. Having battled aU sea- ·son to maintain a respeCtable record around .500, and coming off a disappointing 3-3 weekend home stand, Coach Gary Reynolds realized that this weekend woutd show a lot about the character of this year'ssquad. Up to this week- end, the victories for this year's team have come through th.e great· work accomplished by the veter- ans on the pitching staff and from so.lid offensive support. Despite the leadership, the young team has been prone to making crucial errors during th.e late innings to lose games. This weekend the team once again showed leader- ship from veterans, but also showed a detennination not to let games escape and to maintain a 1 never say die 1 attitude. Coach Reynolds summed up the past weekend's events by saying, \We found a way to get the job done. Our pitchers worked well all week- end, and the offensive support would come at the tight time. It feels good to be above .500 this late into the season.\ · Six games remain for the Dutch- men who will c()nclude their sea- son on Sunday when they take on a strong Division II team in Albany at Home at Central Park. First pitch for the finale is ex- pected to come at 1:00. · continued on Page 19 •

-·i··· Candidate Statements page 11 Sports: Union Rugby Rocks at Home page24 Union Population Explosion \'by Aileen Quigley staff writer 3500, also one of Union's high- est records. Applications poured in from throughout theNortheast, primarily New York, Massachu- setts, Connecticut, and New Jer- Union Colle~ will welcome sey .-Lundquist states that the 53% \the largest freshman .. class in its admission rate history\ in the 1996-1'997 school from this year,accordingtoDanLundquist. year's crop · The 62.2 students that have al- still keeps ready paid their deposit to the · Union in what AdmissionsOfficewillbringwith ·he calls the them~implicatiOJJSth('l.trange from \A- / B+ .. cat- overcrowded. residence halls, egory \of se- classrooms filled to beyond ca- ·tecti vity. Ivy pacity, and strains on the avail- league schools able financial aid. Though Hke Harvard Lundquist and Dean Alford both and Yale have state that th~y .are \flattered\ and a lower admis- \proud\ of the response Union s-ion rate, has received, they also agree that which enables serious adjustments need to be them to maiN..:. - made.· tain their . ~-:F!Ie significant influx is a mys- \most difficult_ -~·c¥>c>tety to Lundquist, and he main- to get· into\ tains that the same selection pro~ status. How- cesses from the past were used. ever, Colgate However, theremustbesomefac- and Union tor (or combinations of factors) were the most to boost the number of applicants selective small so far above its normal 500-540 colleges in the person average. Nevertheless, the state in 1994- invitations extended to students to 1 9 9 5 , visit the campus, calls made by L u n q u i s t Union students to potential appli- proudly adds. cants, and receptions at the homes He realizes, of alumni are all standard proce- though, that dures. He states that this cannot next year we be explained by an overall colle- will have to be giate trend, since our closest corn- more selective petition, which includes and only ac- Middlebury, Colgate, Trinity, and cept no higher others, have witnessed just the than 47-48%. opposite. While we have \over- Union will be subscribed\ our applicant pool, these schools may turn to accept people from their waiting lists. This high number stems from an impressive applicant pool of tougher to get into, but he says only half-jok- jngly, \ We don't want this to happen again.'' The breakdown of this massive appl.icant pool was typical, though there was a sufficient in- crease in the percentage ofminor- ity applicants. Lundquist reveals that preliminary figures place Union \ahead of last year in all categories,\ including Asians, Hispanics, Latinos, and African- Americans. In an effort to find out why minorities were so Talen.ted Individuals Compete in Oratory Competition by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Pike, Stephanie Richter, Doug Schneider, Rawson Thurber, and Fred Ulrich. Each student had to select a random quote and give a two and half minute speech relat- ing its topic. The speeches were judged by a panel oftwo students, Kate Uhlman and Steve Klopfer and two faculty members, Dean Alford and Dean Schurick. dance of laughter from the full house. For example, Rawson. Thurber gave an avid description ·of an encounter with a particular woman from his past. ln contrast to Thurber's more humorous tone, Craig Pike's spee.ch cen- tered around self-inflicted inferi- ority complexes. Delta Delta Delta, Fiji and The Philomathian Society hosted the 12th Annual Public Speaking Competition on May 2nd, at the Nott Memorial. After a prelimi- nary round, the contestants were narrowed down to ten finalists: Danny Andelman, Marci Goldberg, Shelby Grant, Henrlk Haeckel, Michelle Jester, Craig All participants handled their quotes in unique ways. Some of the speakers provoked an abun- • Henrik Haeckel whose quote was, \When your opponent is down, kick him,\ spoke of his conti11ued on page 3 underrepresented last year, stu- dents and faculty called these pro- spective and asked them why they turned Union down. Their re- sponse was that there was a \lack ofstudentcontact\ during the ap- ... plication process and a \lack of programs\ on campus focused on minority is- sues and events .. The Admissions office sought to counteract this by host- mg more multicultural programs on campus and increas- ing the con- tact with current stu- de~ts.- The result was a \great re- bound\ of minority appli~ations .and, like- wise, ac- cepted stu- dents .. Though the incoming freshmen ~re impres- sive and di- verse, they are also very numerous. The most .obvious concern on the minds of the administration, and the stu- dent body as well, is the finite quality of the on-campus housing. Where will everyone live? The present facilities can only hold so many students, and cannot ac- · commodate much more. Dean Alford and the Residence Life Di- rector Dean Williams have been in close contact in a race against the clock to house students. Lot- tery is fast approaching (May 9th) and decisions have to be made. When weighing the options available, the major pressure-re- leasing outlet appears to be releas- ing those who request to be off- campus, Lunquist states. Dean Alford concurs, though no defini- tive decisions have been made as of this date, ana the categories into which one must fit to get off- campus may become more le- nient. However, though the ad- ministration wishes to accommo- aate this large class, no one wants to force seniors off campus and at the same time do not•force people on campus to stay on if they do not so desire, according to Dean Alford. It boils down to the development ofmore \liberal policies\ for releasing and apos- sible separate lottery at a later date. Wade Lupe is also being in- vestigated at a potential housing resource as well. Though these are only some of the various av- enues being explored, it is very likely that juniors and sopho- mores will be denied release if they are patient. More news on the housing situation will follow as it develops. The numbers the administra- tion has to work with now may seem larger than the students that will actually materialize. Dean Alford explains a phenomenon continued 011 page 3 1996 Senior Fund by Jody Mousseau staff writer 1994, the 'West Beach Veranda,' - the benches surrounding the flag- ----------- pole, w~re donated by the class Union's 200th graduating class, the class of 1996, has established a SeniorFund as a way to give back to the Union College com- munity. Union's 200th graduating class, the class of 1996, will soon be leaving. For several years, SeniorFund has existed to make possible each graduating class' contribution to Union College. As soon-to-be alumni, each class . donates a gift to the college. In of 1994. SeniorFund in 1995 made possible the landscaping near the reconstructed Nott Me- morial. This year, the Class of 1996 has decided to create cafe seating in the Chester Arthur Courtyard, which will consist of benches surrounding the tree presently in the courtyard anti around another tree which will soon be planted, and a flat bench near the entrance to Jackson's continued on page 3 INSIDE: Ca1npus News ................................... 2 Student Forom E/ectioms ................ J 1 Arls & Entertainment.. ................... 17 World News .................................... 6 Features ......................................... 19 Sports ............................................ 22 Opinions/Editorials ........................ 8 Announcements .............................. 2 J 1. •'

. ' . . \ \ . Campus News · liTITl' <.Connwoit'Hsis • !\lay 9, ,1996\ Page 2 Campus Info The Department of Biological sciences will :be holding a meeting on May 13, 1996 in the College Center Auditorium_ at 4:45 P.M. The agenda will include the-follow- ing: Course bofferings for 1996-1997 Preregistration for Fall cources New Biochemistry major Summer research opportunities New green house facilitie~ Term· Abroad in· Costa Rica Semina on Term Abroad in Costa Rica Students Concerns Announcements Student Fo1·um Town Meeting: Crosstalk! Can You Handle an Honor Code? Thursday, May 9th 7 Pm at Chet's \The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in times of crisis, have no opinion.\ --Dante TGIF Chet's 4-7 ·Dinner 4:30 Student Activities: Upcoming Events: Health Fair: Thursday, May 9th. Steinmetz Symposhtm: May 10-12 Springfest: May 17-19. Performi11g Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, May 22 ,through June 1 in The Yulman The- ater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 starting at 9 PM in Chet's, located in the back Cam- pus Center. UNION COLLEGE CA-MPUS SAFETY .DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENTSUMMARY TUESDAY, APRILJO, 1996 THROUGHMONDAY,MAY 6,1996 DATE/TIME LOCATION INCiDENT TUESDAY, APRILJ01 1'996: 7:43AM Davidson North VANDALISM: Glass in entry doot broken. · 8:30AM WellsHouse VANDALISM: Courtesytelephone WEDNESDAY,MA Y l, 1996: 10:50 AM Humanities Bldg. 12:20PM Steinmetz 016 5:00PM Fieldhouse area 9:08PM Admissions Lot 10:29PM OffCampus THURSDAY MAY 2, 1996: 10:50 AM Social Science Bldg. 6:56PM West College 8:25PM Fox North 8:18PM West College Lot FRIDAy I MAy 3, 1996: 10:00 AM Lamont Lot immobilized. Repeat SATURDAY, MAY 4; 1996: 2:15AM Hickok Area Escort vehicle struck by damage no injury. Suspect vehicle without stopping to report incident. 2:40AM Delta Phi 2:54AM Alexander Lane damaged. ' VANDALISM: Entry door locks filled .with glue. Lllck cores and cylinders had to be replaced. THEFT: On 4/24/96 a student left a wallet on the floor in the classroom, returned moments later to find the wallet was gone. The student's dining card was later used in campus vending machines,. report of theft was then filed. wallet was found in Steinmetz minus the cash. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Staff member's car door damt\ged. Believed to be accidental. Suspect vehicle left area .. VANDALISM: Student's car window . broken. Believed to -have been caused by an air gun projectile. STUDENT RELATIONS: Abuse of escort service. Conduct Charges filed .. VANDALISM: Entry door locks filled with glue. Lockcores and cylinders had to be replaced. VANDALISM: Two windows broken in south stairway. , PROPERTY DAMAGE: Glass in entry door broken-accidental. TRESPASS/MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Three visitors were pounding on a students car attempting to activate the car alann. Suspects fled when approached by Campus Safety. One suspect apprehended and arrested following foot chase through Gardens. SPD contacted. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle unregistered violations. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: car backing up-minor drove off VANDALISM/A TIEMPTED UNAU THORIZEDENTRY: Attempt to enter building. Plywood covering pulled off the door frame and windows broken. Ho!Jse checked, no one inside. Repairman notified to make emergency repair. ROBBERY: Male student walking alone was confronted by one of a group of six males. Student was knocked to the ground and his wallet taken. Student · was not injured.Stude~t immediately . reported the incident via the emergency phone. Incident occurred near the pedestrian gate to Union A venue. Campus Safety and SPD thoroughly searched the area for the suspects Investigation continuing. SAFETY NOTE: ALL PERSONS ARE URGED TO AVOID WALKING ALONE DURING LATE NIGHT/EARLY MORNING HOURS. PLEASE USE THE ESCORT SERVICE OR WALK IN PAIRS OR GROUPS. IMMEDIATELY CALL 6911 OR 911 OR USE THE EMERGENCY PHONES TO REPORT ANY SUSPICIOUS PERSONS OR UNUSUAL ACTIVITY ON CAMPUS. 3:42PM FoxiDavidson Lot 6:20PM Raymond/Potter Lot 6:30PM Fox House 8:30PM West College PARKING VIOLAtiON: Vehicle immobilized. Repeatunregistered violations. HARASSMENT: Alurhrtae reported being verbally harassed by unknown female visitor. Suspect dmve away from campus after incident. VANDALISM: Bathroom sink, 3rd floor north, intentionally plugged causing area to flood. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Mud smeared on walls, floors and carpeting t throughout the building. .... ;.~ . \\·

I Ill:· 1 a ·wr!l' illon.c~d'rit'nsis • !\lay 9~ 1996 «>Page 3 , . Campus News · , Achilles -Heel: Heating Up the Ice by Jonathan Zandman coirtributimg writer In searching for anew location suited to hold Union 'nnajor-social events, a huge discovery :was made in Achilles Rink Unbeknownst to · all but the Skating Dutchmen, deep in the heart of one of Union's most popular b-uildings lies what possibly could become one 61 the largest indoor social areas on campus. Having lain dmmant and not · fully utilized until now, the basement of Achilles Rink, affectionately being referred to as Achilles Heel, has many people feeling optimis- tic about its possibilities. Originally built to be a curling rink, this basement has been used in the past as a storage and weight room area. This basement is a stag~ gering 200 feet long and 50 feet wide,Jarge enough to easily accom- modate any Union event. Both the Student Forum and President Hull feel that it has great potential. However, in its current condition it is . in-adequatt:lly lighted and acoustically impractical for any large num~ her of people. Although at first glance the space seems cold and overwhelming, with a little renovation and creativity it could be transfonned into a wonderful site for dances, concerts, and many other events. Numer- ous ideas for the use of this space are already being looked into by the Student Forum and the Administration; dances such as Club U., and A Night On The Town, would run perfectly there. Other options for the area such as establishing a lounge or game room and a possible relocation ofChefs are also being considered. In an attempt to asses; the student body's reactio11to this new space, an experimental eventisbeingplanned by the Student Forum. Casino Night, scheduled for May 24, will ·transform Achilles Heel into a Cur- ibbean Cruise Boat with a dance floor, gambling tables~ a D.L~ and Public Speaking Contest (continued from page 1) ,personal experiences ofthis past summer. He explains being a vic- tim of assault and drew analogies to circumstances in which it is \best to be trterciless or merciful., Another speaker, MiChelle Jester talked about truth as a drug in contrast to mind altering dr~gs. She ended her speech by stating, \mind-altering drugs are good.\ Doug Schneider's quote was, \guilt is a price we pay willingly for what we are going to do any- way.\ He spoke about his family and how he elicited guilt among th.em at a young age. It was Doug's ~onviction thatguilt is in- evitable, and therefore it is inane to avoid it. His speech, which in: corporated a Yiddish expression, elicited laughter and cheers from the audience. The evening was capped off by an unexpected run-off be- tween Craig Pike and Shelby Grant for the third place prize. During these closing remarks, . Craig Pike;s quote was, \Once in a while you get shown the light in the strangest places if you look at it right.\ Pike interpreted this quote through his experiences in Germany and in particular, a bus Shelby Grant won third place in the Public Speaking Contest (photo: Brooke Kaminsky, TIC) den with strangers.\ Shelby's interpretation contradicted the quote's intended meaning. He .stated his obvious position at that given moment, by ex;- plaining. that Craig Pike is his roommate and friend. Shelby commented that he would rather be else- where than in campeD tition with his friend. At the conclusion of the contest Shelby received the third place prize of$75. Rawson Thurber placed sec- ond, receiving $125. The first place winner was Doug Schneider who received $200. All those who at- tended seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed trip he took with a group ofTurks. the affair. Dean Alford comment- In relation to the quote, he alluded ing to a contestant said, \this was to the idea that during his most the most competitive year I have unlikely bus ride, he learned witnessed.\ One student who at- abouthis gwn morality. tended, Megan Kanser com- Shelby (J.rant{ollowed with m¥nted, \Events such as this pro- th~ q.uote, ~'tt \is best io .be in :·:vide;adiffer~ntperspectiveon life chains with frie~ds: than 'in\ a: g'ar~- .: ·at Unio~~, ~ · possibly a bar. With the Student Forum, the Administration, and vari- 1'-------~~---------------~-------------~ ous other campu~ groups co-sponsoring the event Casino Night looks to be a success, an~ possibly the first of many new social events in Achilles Heel. Admissions ( continuedjrompage 1) ca11ed \summer m·elt,'' in whicha'certain percentage of accepted stu- . dents forfeit their deposits and never show up to school. This figure is estimated at 6-7%, which would reduce the size ofthe incoming dass · to anywhere in betWeen 560 and 580. This may still be high, though it. is definitely more workable. Dean Williams, in conjunction with Dean Alford and administration, is diligently working on various proposals 1 to maximize our on-campus capacity and student satisfaction~· -! · The final implication of this .large class in the impact on financial aid. Dan Lundquist maintains that the class size will not have a sig-· nificant impact, since the budget and endowment have increased as . well. This year, \56-57% of the freshmen are on financial aid,\. and a similar ratio is expected for the upcoming year. Therefore: the aid packages should not be jeopardized. Though the largest freshmen dass in .our history brings with it com- plicati_ons in ten:ns ofhousing, classes, and minority percentages, its potential to succeed will overr~de its inconvenience. Senior Fund (continued from page J) class, the proposal is certainly a 100% of this year's senior class. challenge, although not impos- Seniors who would like to con- Garden. The decision regarding sib1er The tar,get gift of. eacli: tribute Sho.uld 'st-0~-'tby .. J~e the contribution of the Class of member of the class of 1996 is SeniorFund table in the College 1996 to Union College was made $19.96, altho6~h jt ~ JlQt ,fl. rer Center or send the contribution tio in February. quired amount of dorttribution: Jon Shapiro, president of the . Senior Fund is maintained The goal to be raised through Class of 1996, at Box # 1818. through connection with all other • Senior Fund this year is $5000. SeniorFund is not only tradition fund· ri:tising at Union College, The Class of 1996 SeniorFund at Union, but also the means to including Union's Annual Fund Chairs inc I ude Seth Brown, make a contribution to Union as alumni participation. The An- David Grand wetter, Lisa K9rber, which your class will be remem- nual Fund is an important aspect and Jon Shapiro. The Steering bered by for many years. In com- of Union, and serves as 5.6% of Committee includes Sarah Balk, menting on SeniorFund, Brian 'Union's annual ~perating bud- Alison Chapin, Amy Herman, Pidgeon, memberofthe Steering get.' President Hull has commit- Rachel Katz, and Brian Pidgeon. · · Committee in charge ofpublic re- ted that if every member of the Twenty five additional members lations, stated, \One thing that class of 1996 makes a contribu- of the senior class serve as Gift we're trying to stress is that this tion to SeniorFund, he will match Committee members. isn't a gift back to the adminis- the total, dollar for dollar. With The goal of SeniorFund 1996 tration~ this is· a gift to the future 520 members of this year's senior is to attain participation from students.\ · Visual Arts Colloquium: Students Address Women's Role .in Art by Stephan,ie Slobotkin News Editor A Visual Arts Colloquium on gender and representation was held on Tuesday, May 30, in rec- ognition of co-education at Union College. The Pugh Charjtable Trust gave the Visual Arts De- partment a grant to support the reception, which turned out to be extremely successful. Five stu- dents, ranging from freshman to seniors presented their works which related to the topic of gen· der and society and the role played by women from tJ;aditional times to the pr(;lsent. The five students, Becki Danchik, a freshman, Jert F achini, Cqrin Gado::.and Jacquie Cohen, all seniors and NinaCohen a· un- ior based their talks on women portrayed in the arts. Each participant spoke about different topics pertaining to womenandtheway inwhicbtheir roles seem to have changed very little, if at all, since classical' times. Jacqueline Cohen,ase~ior, and Art History major began the colloquium by presenting her work on ancient, social_p~actices in the 5th century BCE. in classi- cal Athens. Jacquie's topic em- phasized the suppression of women 2000 years ago, by clem- onstrating the themes that were portrayed on ancient vases. Her work tied in the theme;ofmar- riage and the i_dea that the mother's role was insignificant in classical Athens. Jacquie also touched upon the fact that mod- em day marriage rituals, such as the father handing off their daughter, derived form classical times, thus implying that a woman's role as a subservie!lt fig- ure has not changed. Corin and Becki dealt with is- sues facing women in particular portraits and how contemporary images of women are connected to art in the 19th century. Corin spoke specifi.cally on body image and eating disorders and how her portraits reflectwomen in today's society. Nina Conen wrapped up the colloquium with a profound speech on Disney films. Relat- ing to Jacquie's topic, Nina proved, by use of films and song quotations that body image is por- trayed in an unrealistic manner. She talked about women Disney charters and how the are de- picted without a mother figure and are forced to decide between a husband or their father. \These women,\ Nina said, \never have a chance to display any sign of independence ... women are not as free as one might choose to be~ lieve.\ She advocates the point that young children should not be subjected to such false illustra- tions. The visual image of \per- fection\ and the songs that coin- cide with these images are looked upon as acceptable additions to a home video collection. However, Nina's talk proved that the por- trayal of the female figure is not one that has changed significantly in modem times. The colloquium as a whole was enlightening and informative. Charlotte Eyerman and Louisa Matthew both rofessors of the Visual Arts Department, agree that it was a high quality perfor mance by all the participating stu dents. Professor Eyerman wa pleased by the incredible studen support and looks forward tofu ture colloquiums and other re Jated Visual Arts events. . The next colloquium will b held on May 27 and is open t various themes. Anyone inter ested is welcome to take part an contribute their artistic ideas an expressions. · Laying ont the . • .. fi•. . \ paper lS un .. Join the layout staff. call X61S5 l I . ·~

New ·Orientation Program by Aileen Quigley :staffwriter placement scores wi.Il be incorpo~ rated along with math placement exam ranking~, and new place~ ment tests· for chemistry and Freshman orientation is an ex- physics. Eligibility and level. of perience that signifies the begin- demand will determine who gets ning of each student's Union Col- into which classes. Students will lege career for their next four he contacted about their final years. However, in preparation schedule before they retuminthe for the arrival of the Class of fall. By having their schedules 2000, this year's agenda has been befor.e jumping into the school given an ae_adernic face-lift. As year, they will be better able to part of a continuing effort by the organiie work study hoprs, sports administration to put a gr.eater practices, and otherextracurricu- emphasis on academics, ne.w stu.,. Jar cQmmitnlents. . dents will arrive on ·campus for Another goal for this day, aside one day between June 24th. fr.om pre-registration and accli- through JuRe 28th, in addition b rnation, was to get parents more all orientation before classes be- involved in their son or gin_as well. At this time, they will daughter's daily college life. Par- get their first bittersweet taste of , ·. ent& , a,r~ iqvited. t<;:~, partic,ip,a~~ in life at college. this introduction to intellectual-' Academics was the most pre!Va.,. , is in. t() _ge.t· a better. {eel for what lent concern when the team of life in the next four years will organizers laid the plans to ·re· mean for their-child. The student, vamp Union's welcome wagon. along with. his/her parents, will In the past, as upp<;:rclassmen may · learn. about Genera[ Education · remember, orientation consisted requirements~ meet his academic of severaJ .days prior to the com• advisor, an~;frqljdhe cain pus. On . mencement of classes where stu- Saturday a~d$unday, there will dents picked their classes, at- be a study skins seminar offered, teA.ded various workshops, sweat which has achieved overwhelm- through placement tests, and gen~ i:ngly positLv:~ parental response. erally became familiar _with~~~ .. :·, , Th~ .i:plpf•iba'tio~ :of this addi- campus. The schedule was .'9:e:-. · · tjP:~~i~urpmer qt1entation on the manding and didn't leave much .. pr~.;.existhig schedule is one of time for the nubile academian to time only, though not of content. acclimate himself to the new sur- Instead of returning several days roundings. The administration, prior to classes, freshmen will ar- namely Dean Schurick, with help rive the Thursday before Labor from students Jason Pinney and Day. Once settled, they will be Megan Donovan-decided to ex- ~ffered opportunities to partici- plore the possibilities of a m<?r~ , . pa~~ in f,ommunity ~ervice_ activi- . effectiveandefficientorientation\ 'ties like \We Care Abol1t You program. SchelleGta9y(WCAUS)\and the Under the new orientatfon Schenectady Inner-City Mission. schedule, freshmen will pre-reg- Aside from off-campus involve- ister for classes similarly to the tnent, there will be forums for dis- way the current students do now. cuss ion of contemporary issues In June, they will pick three to six within Union's walls. chlsses of interest in an environ- It is within these walls where ment that.is relaxed and helpful. the upperclassmen have been From this day to their second ar- welcomed in years past; it is our rival in September, advanced job to continue the tradition. ' • • 1,.. . • Cropwalk '96: Combined Community Effort by Scott Stedman Layout Editor A pattern of hostility has emerged between the Greek and · Independent communities. Admist these cries of war the sound oftwo communities work- ing side by side for a good deed oftengoes unnoticed. Saturday, May 4th and Sunday, May 5th were beth marked by sigr;tificant acts of community service by both Independents and Greeks. On Saturday, Greek week was kiCked offby a coalition of Greek houses that united to' clean Vale Park. On Sunday, over one hun- -dred Union students marched through Schenectady to show their support for fighting Gl<?bal - hunger. Students may associate Vale Park :with a nice placeto go mid- day forphotography, a stark con- trast from the rest of the city. What one. finds as they pass the Holiday Inn on Nott St. and enter Vale Park is a crime infested den, overrun with trash and filth. The Greek Community saw this and d,ecided to try and fix it. Psi U,Kai Psi, AD, Sig Phiand Tri Delt all leant a hand in the group effort. The crew of stu- dents wentto Vale paikand spent muoh oftheday trying to clean it up. They attempted to recreate . the natural atmosphere that the park was meant to embody. By accentua~ing the. good in Vale Park, much of the crime which has characterized it will become no m_ore then history. Also, the annual Crop Walk was kicked offthisSunday aUhe Center CitY building on Jay St. Thec;:rop Walk is anational event to raise money for international hunger. 25% ofthe earnings go towards· local hunger issues while the remaining 75% goes to inter- national problems. The walk .Jasted for about four hours as con- cerried members of the commu- .. riity walked throughthestreets of Schenectady. Over one hundred Union students showed1.1p for the walk. No singlegroupdomlnated the effort and credit can only be given to the Union community at large for extending it's hand to help a_ starving world. Efforts from last years Cr.op Walk earned . four thousand, six hundred dol- lars. This years- estimates are even higher as the turnout skyrocketed, in large measure, from Union's incr~ased participation. Some students and organiza- tions have shown the motivation to take .time outof their college schedules to help the struggling · environment around them. Union sfl!.dents at the Crop Walk. (photo CQurtesy of Manny Cunanan) you ca,n write oeJ~cer than th Th ?? • • Then write for the Concordy! Call X6155 COME INTO MOTO PHOTO SUPER SAVINGS! lchanactady 1041 State Street 882·5778 - - f5ii%0FF -sa¢-;. r--~i~aa- TS5~oo-iiFF1 : PROCESSING . ·'·REPRINTS I Bx1 0 . I CLUB : I Receive 50% off the regular~ . , . . . ILmrit 3 8xl0 ~~gements.1· :Receive $5.00 off when I 1 price of processing and L~t 20 standard SlZe .. - From your 35mm color I you purchase a club I printing color print f'Ilm. I reprints. From y~ur JSmm I negative. membership·! Must present I I I color negative. I Custom cropping may be available at an I coupon to receive $5.00 off. 1 I Limit 3 rolls. Standard size primts only. 1 I additional charge. Jiot vaJid with other I I I Not valid with other coupons or extra set I Not valid with other coupons or offers. coupons or extra set .promotions. Club I Limit one per pe_~on. Not valid with promotions. Club wembers receive Club members receive 10% coupon. price. I members receive 10% coupon price. other coupons or offers. 1 I . I 0% coupon price. I ON6 HOIIIt Cit I 011• 1101111 ~ I ONI 1101111 . s I Mb'T61'HOTO® I MOTOPHOTO I MOTOI'HOTD I MOTOI'HOTO_ J ·-----------~--------~------------------

. - Pa-~t ~ '! ay 9~ J')9C j\~i ([ L11HL,r0i-·:tsi? ~.pedal .\d . What catl$es depression? Accordir;~[!; to rec~t rned~ ical research, depression is caused when an insuf~ ficient level of the neu~ rotransmitter serotonin is pass$d through the synapses in the frontal lobe-of the brain. A condition, once trigger~ ed, th«t can last for months 1 yea'fS 1 Or even ... lifetimes. ' · · · .· Above:. Brain scan of a. \110t17Uil\ brain. · Below: Brain abnor~ mality found in many severe cases of depres~ sion or manic~depres~ sion: People with cancer aren't expected to heal themselves. People with diabetes can't wilhhem- selves out of needing insulin. And yet you probably think, like millions of people do, that you or someone you know should be able to over- come another debilitating dis- ease, depression, through sheer will and fortitude.,.. . _ For untold . decades, it has .. . been thought that . depression is the symptom of a weak character or underlying lazi- ness and complacency. In reality, nothing could be further from the truth. We've even found .that depression has a . genetic link. That like other family traits, it can be passed down from generation to generation. An inherited disease? You probably think that sounds pretty hopeless . But when it comes to depression, it's actually good-news. Because it reclassifies depression as a physical disease instead of a mental illness, the difference between it being curable instead of just treatable. While these recent ·discoveries should help relieve some of the stigma associated with depression, a look at history also helps. It's a weU documented fact that Abraham Lincoln was dep.ressed for most of his adolescent and adult life. Sir Winston Churchill referred to his depression as \the black dog,\ starting after the failure of the 1915 Dardanelles Expedition and shadowing him his entire life. The date was January I, 1863. It was the day of one of Abraham Uncoln's most eloquent speeches, the Eman- cipation Proclamation. He had succeeded in freeing .millions of repressed, impov~rishe4 slaves. For anyone, the accomplishment of a lifetime. Still, Lincoln battled depression, the cloud that would follow him always. -. You, see,. dep_r_es.~i.Qn ·do_e~ry''t .discri!n!na,~~ .... , .. \· \ ... , . ,.;~ ~ Anyone· ~cari' itit it.· A~d 't6day··yoil·;tii'n find books written about admitted sufferers Mike Wallace, Joan Rivers, Dick Cavett and Kitty Dukakis just to name a few. The reality is; there's never. been- a- better, · time w be depressed. With n~w. therapi~-s, d~~g company and academic research, and ever increasing medical inter~ est, help is available today that only 5 years ago didn't exist. Please call ~.:r-~'i';~: if you or some~ one you know © 1993 by Scientific American Ubrary. from Molecules And Menta! IUness. Pmnission of W, H. Freeman and Co. needs help. With this new understanding of depression, we hope you'll see that the only shame would be not calling. <., • , I ., '. Here they are. The keys to happiness. A few of the thousands of synapses that have the power to make any given day one of the most joyous in your life or the most despairing. The difference between looking forward to a day filled with hope instead of dread. All based on whether these channels for neu~ rotransmission can properly send certain signals to the brain. l I

. ' . ' World News · · [l:l' QloucL1rDtl'n~~s ~ l\lay 9, 1996 P~1ge 6 World News LATIN AME,RICA: NOT JUST A CIA PLAYGROUND byAnandRao World News Editor Do you really believe that aU the world is going to Hell? As a devout Christian, do you be- lieve that the corning ofthe third millennium will usher in an era of death and destruction on a scale never seen before? If so, you should cheer yourself up by taking a good look at what is going on in Latin America. To the surprise of many skeptical economists; the many and diverse countries of Latin America are currently in the midst of a very healthy and optimistic period. Much ofthis optimism is due to the fact that the United States is no longer obsessed with controlling the ideological orientation ofLatin American regimes. The Cold War is over, and so the politi- cians in Chile, Peru, and Bra- zil are no longer as worried about being stalked by gun-tot- ing American intelligence of- ficers. Just as the states efEast~ em Europe were victimized by the power-hungry totalitarians in Moscow, the states of Latin of Genera1 Pinochet in 1989. The dynamic face of today\.s Chile is a far cry from the weak, vulnerable, and chaotic state that was once led b¥ Salvad().r AllendeGossens. In 1970~ Allende became the first Marxist in history to take control of a nation's govern.- Americawerevictimizedbythe ment by democratic means. power-hungry military and Although Allende had good business leaders in Washing- intentions, and although he ton, D.C. DuringtheCold War, helped improve conditions fo,r Augusto Pinochet was Catin , .. the podr in Chile, his Marxist America's version of Nicolae beliefs made him an enemy in Ceausescu. among le{t-wingguerriUas. In the last five years, however, Peru has recovered from the desperate situation that it once faced, and its economy is now booming. In the case of Peru, however,. one can also see that there is still a lot of roem for improvement in the newly his time in office, Fujimori has been able to get away with be- ing a highly authoritarian leader. In other Latin Ameri- can countries, however, eco- nomic growth has not been as impressive, and the style of leadership has been relentlessly harsh. 1\C.CP~l>I~G \fo NAfTA i Mtt')(.\CAN {'ol' Ce f'\oW GeT To ~AT 1'\te HeLL ouT °F PAT &uc\AHAN emerging Latin America. While it is true that Peru is cur- rently enjoying more stability than at any time in recent memory, that stability has not been achieved by democratic means. Since world's largest black popala- tion, but one would not kn()W that by looking at Brazil's fair- skinned political leadership. Brazil's black population has little or no voic~dn the affairs ofits government. It is unf<>r- tunate that Latin America has been so heavily affected by the terrible legacies of Spanish and Portuguese colonialism. The possibilities for the future, how- ever, are far from bleak. After centuries of dominati()n by abusive foreigners, the Latin American countries are finally exercising some autonomy over their affairs, and some of these countries are doing it quite well. In the case ofCostaRica, it has been so successful in re- maining a peaceful, prosperous, and fair society that Union Col- lege was compelled to set UJ> a Terms Abroad program down there. The way things are g<>- ing, similar programs may soon pop up throughout all of Latin America. Thus, while Soma· lia, Liberia, the Middle East, the former Soviet Union, Cam• bodia, and the Balkan Penin- sula are all stuck in a state of Now that we have entered a new period in world history, however, the Latin Ameri- can countries are finally 'ex- \ ... politicians in Chile, Peru, and Brazil are no longer as worried about being stalked by gun-toting American intelligence officers.\ July of 1990, Peru has been led by Alberto Fujimori, aPe- ruvian citizen of Japanese origin. While Chile, Argentina, and madness, Latin America is qui- Peru can be cited as examples etly moving forward. Many of the new and exciting possi- Latin American countries still bilities in Latin America, Gua- have a long way to go, but for temala is an example of how · ,the firsttime inrecentmemory many of our southern neighbors these countries have the free· functioned during the Co.ld dom to pursue th~ir goals. In War. In the case of this small the final decade of the twenti. Central American country, the eth century, the Latin Ameri- dominatiori of the Native can transformation oughtto be American majority by a Euro- recognized as a story of success. pean minority persists, and the state's use.oftorture as a means of coercion is routine. And in spite of the recent changes in Brazil, that country is still dominated by a Portuguese mi- nority, while persons ofNative American and African origin continue to suffer. Outside of Africa, Brazil is home to the periencing the beginnings of the eyes of both Henry what may be true prosperity, Kissinger and President Rich. true democracy, and true jus- ard Nixon. Allende's unpopu· tice. . larity in Washington led tohis In Rio De Janeiro, a jury re- assassination in 1973, allowing cently sentenced a police officer General Pinochet to fiJI the po· to 309 years in prison for tak- litical vacuum. The following ing part in an appalling 1993 fifteen years, largely character· massacre of Brazilian street izedbyawarofthestateagainst children. In the major cities of the people, were very dark and Brazil, where homeless minors grim for Chilean men, women, are viewed as a nuisance by and children. Fortunately, business owners and members those days appear to be in th~ of the upper class, it is not un- past, and the new Chile is nC>'W common forarmedpoliceoffic- being considere·d f<ir member· ers to arbitrarily gun down un,.. ship in the North Ameri.¢an suspecting streetchildren. The Free Trade Agreem~nt fact th~t one of these guilty. po- .. (NAfTA). Even.tbough Chile lice officers was finally COh- is not in North Ameri¢a, its eco- victed of taking part in.such a nomic performance has been crime is a major step forward far too robustto be ignored. by in the area of ·human:·rtghts~ :dan ada, M't\xico, and: the : Inquiries into past- humao,. United States, rights violations are afso tak- Peru is another~xantpJe of a ing place in Chile and A.tgen- Latin American country· that · tina, two countries in which the has experienced a remarkable. Cold War era was partie,ularly transformation in a very sh()rt brutal. In addition to attempt- period of time. At the outset of ing to rectify the mistakes of the this decade, Peruvian society past, the democratically elected was plagued by anarchy and government of Chile has em- violence, leading to the virtual ployed certain economic poli- breakdown of the national cies which have produced out- economy. Much ofthe violence standing growth since the fall was caused by terrorist activity Among other things, Fujimori has dissolved the National Congress, sus- pended parts of the constitution, and initiated press censorship. Because the Peruvian economy has performed so well during 100 MILLION CLUB: THE TEN MOST POPULOUS COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD, 1995. COUNTRY 1995 POPULATION LOCATION China 1,203,097,268 East Asia India 936,545,814 South Asia USA 263,814,032 North America Indonesia 203,583,886 Southeast Asia Brazil '160,737,489 South America Russia 149,909,089 Europe/ Asia Pakistan 131,541,.920 South Asia Bangladesh 128,094,948 South Asia Japan 125,506,492 East Asia Nigeria l 0 I ,232,251 Africa Source: The 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts

World News MONROVIA, Liberia- In this war4orn West African state, United States marines: shot to death three intruders and wounded a fourth near the American Embassy compound in the capital city. These kill- Ings occurred one day after a brief truce among Liberia's warring factions was broken by renewed street battles. in Monrovia. RIO DE JANEIRO, Bra,zil- In a decision hailed bY human rights groups, a jury sentenced a former police of- ficer to 309 years in prison for taking .part in a 1993 massacre of sleeping street children. The jury imposed this harsh sen- tence in spite of the fact that the legal maximum sentence is only 30years. Until the begin- ning of his trial, defendant Marcus Vinicius Borges Emanuel had insisted on his innocence. Once his trial be- gan, however, Mr. Emanuel tes- tified to having killed one of the eight homeless youngsters who died in what became known as the Candelat:ia massacre. In the major cities ofBrazil, where homeless minors are viewed as a nuisance by business owners, it is not uncommon for groups of police officers to arbitrarily murder street children. QANA, Lebanon- A mass burial was held for 90 Lebanese civilians who died here when an Israeli artillery barrage ac- cidentally struck a United Na- tions peacekeeping camp last month. The UN camp had been filled with homeless refugees who were fleeing southern Lebanon in the midst of an es- calating war between Israel and Hezbollah guerrillas. Hezbollah is an Iranian-backed organization of Islamic mili- tants, and it enjoys considerable freedom of action in Lebanon. PARIS - A powerful mortar and a huge shell were discov- ered in a cargo ofpickles being shipped from Iran to Germany. Officials said that they may have been intended for use by tet:rorists against Israeli targets · in Western Europe. HOBART, Tasmania- On this Australian island, twenty- eight year-old Martin Bryant was formally charged with one count of murder. Last month, Mr. Bryant shot and killed thirty-five people at a Tasma- nian tourist site. The victims of this massacre, one of the worst in recent times, ranged in age fn:>m three to seventy-two. WASHINGTON- In its an- nual report on terrorism, the State Department cited Iran as the \premier state sponsor ofin- temational terrorism.\ There- port also lists Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria, and Sudan as sponsors of international ter- rorism. The study also said that the number of fatalities from international terrorism around the world declined from 3 14 in 1994 to 165 in 1995. MICRO-STATES: THE TEN LEAST POPULOUS COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD, 1995 COUNTRY 1995 POPULATION LOCATION v atica.n City 811 Europe Tuvalu 9,991 Pacific Ocean Nauru 10,149 Pacific Ocean Palau 16,661 Pacific Ocean San Marino 24,313 Europe Liechtenstein 30,654 Europe Monaco 31,515 Europe St. Kitts and Nevis 40,992 Caribbean Sea 36,157 Pacific Ocean Antigua· & Barbuda· 65,176 Caribbean Sea ouree: . The 1996 World Almanac and Book ofF acts --------~----------------------------------~ \Americans are benevolently ignorant Quote of the Week: about Canada, while Canadians are malevolently well informed about the United States.\ - J. Bartlet Brebner (Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations) BRUSSELS- The European Union announced that it was taking the first step toward can- ing a World Trade Organiza- tion dispute panel over a new American law that strengthens trade sanctions against Cuba. NEW YORK- A judge sen- tenced Edward· J. Leary to 94 years in prison for the firebombing of two subway trains in 1994. Mr. Leary, who was an unemployed computer analyst when the crime took place, must serve at least 31 years in prison before being eli- gible for parole. As an excuse for committing the crime, Mr. Leary contended that he was driven mad by an incompatible mixture of drugs to treat depres- sion. HEBRON, West Bank - A Palestinian stabbed and seri- ously wounded an elderly Jew- ish settler, fueling a growing debate on whether Israeli forces should withdraw from most of this tense West Bank city, the last one still under Israeli. oc- cupation. In February 1994, Hebron was the scene of a mas- sacre in which 29 .Palestinian Muslims died at the hands of a Jewish gunman. WASHINGTON- Yasir Arafat enjoyed a meeting with President Clinton, his first one- on-one meeting with an Ameri- can President that did not also include an Israeli leader. The Palestinian leader met with President Clinton for only about 45 minutes, but it was symbolic of Mr. Arafat's growing legiti- macy. WASHINGTON- Trouble is brewing for Congressman Wes Cooley, an Oregon Repub- lican who counts a recent Union College graduate among his staff members. Mr. Cooley, 64, is accused oflying about his military and academic records, and his wife is accused of ille- gally receiving monetary ben- efits that resulted from the death of her first husband. Peer Facilitators are a group of students representing section of Union's student body who are selected a~d ........... to provide education and facilitate dicscussion on ues important to student peer relations at Union . ........ r~ are selected because they think independently, care '\u·vu• their student community, and communicate ~enecttvetv so that they can question the status quo at Union d encourag.e their peers to discuss the issues and work ,,..., .. ,.,.. ..... Q a community supportive of all students. to model/ teach positive interpersonal and communication skills, to educate students on relevant peer issues and to create an ethic of mutnal respect among Union Big BrQthers/ Big Sisters Volleyball Tournament this Week-End. Along with the tournament there will be a free BBQ open to allstudents and faculty. If anyone is interested in forming a team please contact Gary Distefano at x5664.

EDITORIAL ,~ ~~~~~~~~~==~==~ Greek Bashing? · Lately The Concordiensis has been accused of many things. Accusations ranging from \Greek Bashing\ to being responsible for Tri-Delt's recent trouble with the adminis- tration. We have received numerous phone calls, letters, and personal visits, and quite frankly we consider all this quite . disturbing. Check out the letters in the Op-ed secticn this week, two of them accuse us of\Greek Bashing\ in other words, un- founded negative press intended to smear reputations. There- fore, in order to be guilty of this bashing, we would have to be found creating news out ofhalf-truths with the sole intent of damaging said organizations. fnterestingly, none of the complaints we have received have accused us of printing false or erroneous stories, or of unfairly representing Greek organizations in writing or in cartoons. In general we have been accused of nothing more than representing· the Greek system in a ''distasteful\ man~ ner. So, is it distasteful to print negative news aboutthe Greeks? 0 • • tnton I Is there some sort of implicit \gentleman '.s agreement\ that we are violating? If negative news about a non~Greek orga- nization or perhaps an individual developed, and we went to press with story, I would predict that we would receive no complaints. For instance, a few weeks back we covered the brawl that occurred up-campus. We printed a news story, and a particularly spirited editorial condemning the individu- als involved in this excessive violence. These stories received A Rebuttal no response. When we printed the Tri-Delt story last week, we didn't go ahead uritil we were sure that our story was reliable and accurate. Since we are not a court oflaw, we do not have to prove things \beyond a reasonable doube' before we print them. Ifthis were true, we wouldn't be able to break any stories, or print anything before the fact. by Henrik Haeckel Opinions Editor Last week's Editorial by Evan L.Motrisdeeplydisturbedme. In particular the last line of the edi- torial bothered me. \Greek life We printed the story last week, for two reasons; first, because we were willing to stake our reputations on it's ac- curacy, and second, because we thought tHe story was im- portant to the campus community. We sincerely hoP,e ~at . no one be convicted of offenses they were not guilt)'' (if.' · · Ho-wever,whetrplropJe-begin to· ask-who:..got-'ffi;..BeJt-1n trouble, the answer is simple-Tri-Delt got Tri-Delt ih trouble. C.M. ~· .. ,_ ... :,: brings different peopletogether, something at Union should.\ The Student Newspaper of Union . 'colleg~Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Adrian MacLean EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE ED11VR Diana Sedita EDITOR EMEIUTA Anand Rao WORLD NEWS EDITOR Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR David Eder -· ·- Before, I confirniel want to make it .clear that as far as I am con- cerned I really do not care about the Greek situation or the system. My life is not affected either by its presence or its absence. What I would like to accomplish is to articulate some observations of a observer-attempting to be impar- tial. Mr. Morris is sorely mis- taken .. Greek organizations by their nature are exclusionary. Rush is a process of an individual to decide wether or not he or she I ikes Greek I ife and which house Chris Richards . he or she enjoys the most. In turn Greek houses decide whether the individual displays characteristic that the house espouses. Thereby houses tend to select people that are similar to them. Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR LaurelRuma PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Akinwunmi Sawyerr Businnes Editor LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew Fradkin COMPUTER MANAGER , Jared Richman EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACUL1Y ADVISOR Peter Farnum JeQ Pelose ASSISTANT COPY EDITORS Henrik Haeckel Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun- Paul Manore. STAFF· Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Stacey Kimmel, Mike Leding, Chris Leone,Conor McKemie, Bhavani .Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Rawson Thurber, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Karen Watts Since, houses select individu- port. This brings similar people als of ·similar interests and char- together. These Greek houses acteristics they tend to be stereo- comprised of similar like minded typed. Most of these stereotypes . P.~ople is stereotype_d because tend to be negative-each in their they contain similar people: Ste- own manner. No one and no reotypes do not bring people to- house appreciates being stereo- gether, rather they drive them typed cr wors~ negatively stereo- apart 'becau~e of preconceived typed. Therefore each house in ideas of oine ·another. Greek or- public will disavow its $1:ereotype ganization then tend to build alli- argtiing tooth and' nait· Yet,·in .. ances· and~ unfriendly r-tvalr.ies private the activities or image that with other organizations. This is stereotyped continues. The ste- obviously segregates the commu- reotypenever dies and will never nitY' into camps of similar people. die because as stated previously None of these observations sub- a Greek house is exclusive in its stantiateMr. Morris's strong con- membership in selecting similar viction of unity and community. individuals. . Mr. Morris is correct,however, A side affect of this ster:eotype ·\Greek life is not for everyone.\ is that houses tend to involved or Greeks provide our community tied to other similar Greek orga- with philanthropic events , such. nizations. The result is a series as theDeltaDeltaDeltaandTheta of groups that are fairly isolated Delta Chi fund raiser for Cystic fromoneanother. Itisinthissitu- Fibrosis Foundation and the ation that we live. This contra- GreeksupportfortheCropwalk, diets Mr. Morris's theory that and providethecampuswith en- \Greek life brings different tertainmentsuchasthisweekends peop·Ie together, something at mega concert put together by a Union should.\ collection of fraternities. Greeks To conclude, Greek life builds provide our campus with its so- unity among like minded indi- ciallife but let us not naive to its vidualswho seek each others sup- social nature.

Opinion Will Greeks Only Become A Myth? No More Silence Fraternities and Sororities Must Act Now . by Adam Richman Associate Editor mately socially. They have all but totally restricted the freedom of Greek organizations to decide when and how social functions deserve. lt would benefit the Greeks andthe administration as well. The. deans could spend less time investigating and disciplin- ing Greeks, and more time im- proving the other aspects of the college (i.e. student activities, academic concerns, Orientation etc.). It remains an enigma as well as a shame to me that such a grand and honored institution as Union College is being passively slain by an administration which does not respect the purposes and de- sires of almost half the student body. The blame lies both with the Greek system for its inability to get organized and act, and the administration which has the au- dacity to at:tempt>toget away with the I?anipulation of its supposed primary concern: the students. The IFC and Panhellenic Coun- cils need to unite their members and preserve their interests or be counted among th~ casualties of this administration's conquests. \We do not say that a man who takes no interest in politics is a man who minds his own business; we say he has no business here at all.\ The Truth About Hazing Last week The Concordiensis was attacked for its criticism of the Greek tradition of hazing. Students accused the editors of false- hoods and lack of suppmt for the Greek system. In response to th~se who complained, I have little to say except that before they . wnte further I recommend them to waste their time in some other, more meaningful, fashion. The Concordiensis, like everything else on campus, has been reserved in its comments about the Greek tra- dition ofhazing tor years. Too scared to say anything, the Union community has kept silent and allowed hazing to go on without much notice God forbid we would be outcast if we should say anything against the largest social organization on campus! Take a look at the epi- sode last year that involved Frank Federici, who reported that he had been hazed. He was kicked out of the Greek system and un- supported by the independents on campus. l only recall one article pertaining to the details ofhis hazing, but not one article supporting his decision or condemning that fraternity. . Not long ago, news of similar hazing events was circulating but barely spoken about in The Concordiensis! I was told that the issue of sorority pledges dropping out was a sensitiv~ one. Yes, the issue is a sensitive one when our own interests are placed above the in- terests of our fellow women! Why Should we care if our own women are told to drink until they cannot remember the night before? We have excused this behavior because we tend to believe that everyone isresponsible for his or her own decisions. But what kind of a decision can be called rational that is rn:ade under the pressure of your peer,s? What kind of decision can be ~a·d to be in your self interest ifyoufeellost in a riew envir:onrnent and are'willing to do anything to fit in? Not everyone is.stropg-~i}<?ug~to r~sisetbe pr#s~­ sures of a group. We can not excuse our behav.ior~ tijen~fore:'by saying that it is the fault of the individual. We can rio longer'prefer· · to sit silently and watch our fellow men and women become sub- ject to humiliation and disgrace. We can, therefore, no longer say as little as we have in the past. It remains utterly intriguing to wiH occur. They have attempted me why the established Gre-ek to control and limit the Greeks system, which represents a right to hou~e and feed them- healthy membership and follow.- selves (i.e. Meal Plan require- ing at this institution fails to lead, ments and unreasonable housing ifnotchallenge, theculturaJ,po- guidelines). Now, with the Delta litical, and fiscal policies here at Upsilon hazing il}cident estab- Union. In the past several years, lished as a precedent, the admin,. we have seen the steady decline istration needs only to find minor in the control and participation of offenses· to threaten a Greek or- Union students in their college en- ganization with expulsion from vironment. Don't get-me wrong, the college. Shouldn't .the Greeks there have been marginal im- be policing themselves? Why al- provements mad~ in services and low the administration to govem. academics as well. But by and you, when you can create and large, I have noted (perhap-s you maintain your own policies? have, too) a serious lack of re- The bottom line is that the poten- sponsibility for and neglect of po- tial of the Greek system t~ die,.. tentially beneficial power by the· tate to the campus what .it wants GreekcommunityattheCollege. by sheer numbers (ofpartici- Over 40% of Union students are pants) and dollars (both student Greek affiliated, the largest \mi- and alumni) terrifies the admin- nority\ on campus, represented istration and its self-interested by the Interfraternity and agenda. Fortunately forthepow- Panhellenic Councils. Itseems to ers-that-be, the Greeks have not, me that this very large group of to this point, realized their paten- people (which does possess its tial as a unified force and made _ own governing body, no matter no effort to organize and preserve how Weak) could have a great their rights to autonomy and tra- deal of power ifthey chose to get ditiqn, pillars of the Greek sys- organized. This fact is evident by tern. Fraternities and sororities the administrative actions taken should set their policies and gov- to weaken the Greek system to the em themselves, thereby eliminat- point of almost insignificance ing major College involvement, -Pericles Sincerely, poHtically, fiscally~ and ulti·-~:_andpr~servingtheaut<;momythey StacyTarn;bur,r,i,~o :,, , -· ' . ~~----~-----~--.........---~-----:---:--7'i._· ~· ·_.:_· .2:' ====r=. :::=;:;::::;::::=:===;:r=:;:=:;;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;::::;::;::;~~~~~- ~~····· ' Remember to SaY~··'\' ··! In Defense of Art Dear Editors, First of all, I would like to con-:- gratulate yot,wn a superb paper. The visual appeal and articles of the Concordy keep getting better each week. As I was reading through some back issues a few nights ago, I came across a hostile response to a cartoon by Jared Richman inthe April I 1 th issue. When I was looking over the May 2nd issue, I was sure that this week, you would get some angry feedback to Mr. Richman's cartoon on the sorority hazing crackdown. To all the people who take of- fense at Mr. Richman's cartoons, I would like to say that the pur- pose of editorial cartoons isn't to provide politically-correct hu- mor; rather, it's supposed to take an ironic, witty bite into a hot is- sue. The May 2nd cartoon, I thought, was very well done. Mr. Richman suggested the \hazing issue\ to be a giant beast attack- ing the Greek organizations on this campus, complete With a little puppy (representing the Concordy) sniffing around, smelling that something's up. Without attacking anyone inpar- ticular, this cartoon captures the events of this campus into a small box on the page. Mr. Richman is a creative genius, as far as I'm concerned, for drawing cartoons of a professional quality, both in terms of content and design. If people wish to be so quick in condemning this paper, perhaps they should focus on its true weak aspects, such as the \Answer Girl'' column, which is nothing short of a junveile Uncle Edna- wannabe. The column is offen- sive without being even the slightest bit cynical, and the en- tire column can be summarized in two words: not funny. Keep up the outstanding work. Lawrence Paska '97 Arts Editor P. S. Love the movie reviews! by Raquel Millman Opinions Editor May twelfth is just around the orner. It is a day just like any ther. Everyone will be waking p late and groaning about the mount ef work they have to do. e'll go through our day like we · o every Sunday. We'll rest afely in our beds that night. e'll fall asleep thinking of the . ittle things that encompass our ives. \Will I pass that test?\ or 'What am I going to do this sum- er?\ We'll forget about what eally matters. This Sunday, re- ember to say, \I love you.\ Sunday, May 12, is a day that 's r~served for a. special person in ur lives. It is the person who put n our band-aids with a magical iss that dried our tears and made he pain go away. It is the person · at putus on our first school bus. he was always on our side, no atter how wrong we may have een. Wj1en we had the flu, she ade us .soup. Whenever we urt, she felt it too. She made us I Love You. birthday parties. She did our hair. She taught us right from wrong. She got you a nite-Iite and made sure there were no monsters un- der the bed. She always knew just what to say or what to do to make us smile. She's the only. one that really knew who we w0re, when even we weren't so sure. She tried her best not to complain when we were learning how to drive. And when we didn't want to talk about it, she understood. She helped us with our homework. She read us bedtime stories. She took us to work with her. She taught us about the kind of person we want to be. She left no questions un- answered and no stomachs hun- gry. She built our egos as only she could . She always got us the best lunch-box, and the best Hal- loween costume. She wanted the best for us. When she asked us how our day weut, she truly cared. She made our problems go away with a kiss good-night. But ever since she got us on that school-bus that last time, we sometimes forget all of the little things that she does until, perhaps, we get sick and there is no one to take care of us. Or unti I we get a bad grade. Or until we're hungry. Maybe we just need a hug. Put- ting the band-aid on yourself never seems to work as well as it did when she did it. Maybe that kiss really was magical! Were- member her when we're cold, and she wasn't there to remind us to take a jacket. We remember her when our nose is runny and no one has a tissue. Every now and then it seems that the monsters under the bed have come back, and there's no one to send them away. There are no bedtime sto- ries. And as we toss and turn reckle~sly in bed thinking of ev- ery problem in the world, there's no one to make us forget them with a kiss good-night. Sometimes we forget. But in our hearts, we'll always remem- ber. The truth is that we mean it every day, but very often we for- get to say it. So on May 12, call home. And remember to say, \I love you, Mom.\ ·INTERNET AND E-MAIL ADRRESSES ' E-MaiiUs.at Concordy @gar.union.edn. or_ on the World Wide Web@ http://virtual.union.edu/ -concordy/index.html. All E-mail submissions must be redeved by 5 PM the Mondny before publication, and must be less thaq500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details ' ~ ( . . ~

P.age 10 · May ·9, 1996 · illlp,• <1Inucurilirusis . OP/.ED ' . . ' ' . Opinion· Remember Reality A~ Unprofessional Editorial? Dear Editors; Dear Editors, I am writing this letter both as It seems that a great number of the editorials and opinions pug- · a sister of Sigma Delta Tau and lished are complaints of some sort, many justified, others not. I my- . as a member of the larger cam- self cannot pretend to be a «non-complainer;\ ask any of my friends, · pus community in response to this or better yet, my mother, and they will affirm that I can complain and past issue of the Concordiensis. ·. Over the duration of the past four whine withth.e best ofthem. However, there is a story I W?uld like to share. My mother's friend, Debbie, is dying of ALS, commonly known years at Union·College I have of· ten read articles which criticize as Lou Gehrig's disease. For those of you who are unfamiliar with this disease, it is perhaps more cruel than AIDS. ALS causes a dete- and demean the Greek System. rioration of the muscles, and the victim gradually and painfully loses While I find \Greek bashing\ to more and more musclecontrol, as the muscles essentially turn to stone. be a topic on this campus that has become more than exhausted, I Eventually, the tracheamalfunctions, and the victim suffocates. Debbie Russell is now almostcompletely paralyzed, and her voice is so weak . , can honestly say that I have never· been as offended and frustrated that she needs to speakthrough a computer to be ul'l.derstood. Her neck muscles are very weak, andit is often extremelydifficult for her over something that I read than · · after opening up the school news- to hold her head up. This is perhaps one of the hardest things for Debbie, for she is an incredibly social woman, and~~ hurts her not to · paper yesterday afternoon. As I be able to look into your eyes. am sure yo~ can guess, 1 am re-- When I went home for Christmas break, I went to Debbie's house · ferring to the Editorial and the with my mother and several other women for a Bible study. The cartoon found in tl'le Opinions and Editorial section of the women had a prayer session, and when Debbie's tum came, she prayed Concordiensis. \Lord thank you that I have been able to hold my head up this week.\ . A woman dying of an excruciating disease, leaving behind her hus- While I do not think that it is the sisters ofTri Delta, I do feel comfortable saying that the con- tent and tone of the two pieces to which I referred seriously crossed the line between a journalist's duty to report fact and ofkeeping his or her biases outsi.de of the newspaper arena. While I am quite aware of the fact that you reserved these pieces for the Opinions section, I sincerely feel that you abused your position as editor ofthe paper. Your respon- sibility is to inform the commu~ nity to the best of your ability of the issues and events which are ofintetest to the campus in a ma- ture and efficient manner. In- stead, your remarks were cOI-ide- scending and obnoxious and your drawing, distasteful and cheap. The obvious pleasure that you took in your attempt to make oth- ers look bad was at the very least, unprofessional. If you were trying to make a ·point, which I believe was part of your agenda, than please know that displays of maliciousn.ess and power trips only serve to Jessen your credibility as reperte!\s. Feel free to continue enligh~ening ev- eryone with regard to sfour opin- ions and beliefs about the issues affecting this campps, but it would be more respectable to do so without being insulting and petty. I would expect a lot mote from members of the newspaper's.staff than something. which pmmotes and encourages the stereotyping of institutions and the people who belong to them on this campus and in general. Allow me though to congratulate you, Jared, while the outfits were a bit passe' the hair color was right on ... Sincerely, Jacqueline Fine my right or my phi.ce to speak for band, two young children and a huge circle of friends; there are a ; iliousandthln~th~ilieFo~dhaveaskedGodfu~b~in~ead;she ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ch~::i~a:f~;~v~%:::~~e~fi;:~;:berthisstory,andc!ose A Pl~a fof- 8, Brighter Tommorrow my mouth on, an .irr\niinent complajnt, there ar~ ~ariy \times th~t r forget, anq f~?i9t? ,~Y· p~yn¥. f~mi?tai~~~: .'r~owever, .ffi~rb:~th~ n_ext time we fe¢1 a. complaint rising, we can think of Debbie Russell, and realize that maybe our lives · · aren't so hard after all. Maria Petroceione . <i>: . -· Dear Tony anq Adrienne (sic)~:· -.- Concordy hyping this event to the By the way, rhave 1 a great idea · We missed you this weekend Union College community, help- for next weeks editorial. Instead at Val Park. Apparently while· · ing to increase the turnout? An of dumping 01i. tbe Greeks, why you were asleep last Saturday · advertisement on the Living page don't you write about the little morning dreaming of ways to de- just didn't cut it. What, not con- known, poorly keptcemetery we stroy the credibility of other fra- t:roversial · enough for the discovered this week in Val p~rk. ternities and sororities, whrle in- \LA VECHIAENSIS\? Interestingly enough, this cern-· . · creasing Concordy readership. Over lunch after the cleanup etery is owned by Union College U ~--· ';;lco' 1 1'e'mn 9 E'. ·a~n.:,.ri~~a'\r' 1 '··!w;· _ ... , 'U''e'n: r\ ~:e.~·.·.;_~~-.:< .. ·~' _ap_n 05 ·d :.~,:nbsleu,l_!hi·~~-b-·ar-os·tmh·.·ea-r~y,·,\'p 1 _set.oe.rP __ siea·n·a.ds ·we all agreed, -we feltgood·we· .and contains the remai:IY~ ~>\.f~ .. .IJ.I II \ ~ ... ~ ., woke up and helped the commu- . number of very distinguished are You? Dear Editors, It has come to my attention, through var-ious conversations, and last week's Answer-Girl col- umn, that the Concordiensis is sorely missing an essential cog in the wheel publication. It seems obvious that the Concordi is des- perately missing a funny weekly column. The Answer-Girl is only a pale attempt at what was once perfected by \Uncle Edna.\ So I beg of you, please bring him back. Anything you could do would be better than noth-ing. Hold a bake-sale, a raffle,ransom President Hull to the Trustees; anything! Please! I throw myself at your mercy, for the Jove of God, bring Uncle Edna back. My funny-bone has sadly begun to atrophy. Sincerely, Rawson Thurber · pledges (.').f the Chi Psi, Fiji, Psi- nity ,.and deeided we. would most former members of the College Upsilon, Alpha Delta, Theta Delta definitely participate next year in communities. Tombstones in the Chi, Delta Gamma and Delta the fourth annual Clean Up Cemetery date back to the early DeltaDeltaGreekOrgan.izations. Schenectady Week. In fact, next nineteenth century, and include wereupandaboutdoingtheirbest year why don't you wake up recognizable names such as to help better the local commu- early,stopthinkingabouthowto GiUespieandNott Interestingly, nity. m~ke news on campus, and join the most recent tombstone in the As the third annual Clean Up us, lend a.hand, even yours would cemetery is just over a year old, Schenectady week began, Greek be greatly appreciated. In fact, and is in memory of a fonner.psy- students at Union were working why do'n't you suggest to your chologyprafessoratUnion. This alongside the Schenectady City brothers and sisters that they join would be a great story • much Council, and other members of in too? After all, isn't that a huge better and more interesting, al- the community, collecting trash part of Greek life, community though less controversial than that was illegally, and irresponsi- service, or in your attempts at \Hazing Revisited\. bly dumped in different locations yellow jou~lism have you al~ around Schenectady. Why were ready forgotten what Greek Or- there no stories in last weeks ganizations are all about? Sincerely, Evan L. Morris SPIKE LEE An Apology director, writer, actor e tn Memorial·Chapel on Wednesday, May 15 1996 To the Editor, I am writing this letter to apologize to the A- E-Pi fraternity for what I wrote in last week's column. I write of my own. free will, because I honestly feel badly forwhatlwrote~ Inmycolumni was intending to refute the belief that the administration was trying to replace the Greek system with theme housing. I also stated my belief that adding additional Greek houses would add little di- versity to the existing social scene, and that Thurston house deserved to be given a chance. In doing this, I unfairly criticized and stereotyped A-E-Pi. In my column, I essentially said that A-E-Pi would not add any new dimensions to the campus community if it were allo'!Ved on campus. I also stereotyped them as a \typical fraternity', who would do nothing other than open their doors and serve, Free beer. My remarks did not take into ac- count that A-E-Pi' s members are a socially and intellectually di- verse group. By writing what I did about A-E-Pi, I ~ssentially said that every member ofthe fra- ternity fit into some kind of mold. I would like. to extend my sincere apologies to A-E-Pi for being unfair to them both as individu- als, and as an otganization. Sincerely, Conor McKenzie ..

.. Wlp' <!Inncorttit>usis • May 9, 1996 ,. Page II · ·. · · ~ . Studen:t Forum STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Student Forum President Candidates Manny Cunanan Union College's population is composed ofthree essential factors that are the students, faculty and administration. Every year a graduating class leaves our community, and a new enthusiastic group enters bringing in its own distinctively unique individuals, Annually the faculty develops a newcur;.. riculurn designed to benefit the student body. And each aca- demic year, the administration attempts to adjust to the ongo- John R. Vero I would like to take this op- portunity to introduce myself to the Union College community. Myname is John Vero. I am a junior Political Science major and Economics minor. For thosewho do not know me very we11, I am the President of the Union College Democrats, Co- Chair of the Pre- Law Society, Past Vice President and mem- ber ofthe Newman Club, a stu- · dent member of the Academic Affairs Council, and a member ofPhi Delta Theta Fraternity. At a professional level, I have been employed by an Albany law firm~ I have coordinated two county- wide campaigns. I have also had the opportunity to work for several governmen- tal agencies in Albany. Cur- rently, I am in Washington, DC serving an internship in the of- fice of the Vice President of the United States at the White House. I am grateful to Union College for offering such are- sponsibility and opportunity to me. Althougl) it is very difficult to get ;my n}essage to you since I am physically a long distance away, I feef it is imperative that the students of Union College make an informed decision about who to elect to this very important position. This is not a popularity contest. It is not a matter of voting for the candi- date that speaks the loudest or· who make the most noise .. · Rather, it is about electing the most qualified candidate. The Student Forurr. President rep- resents the 'Students of Union College; I feel that I am able and responsible enough to suc- cessfully complete the tasks that ing changes of campus life. strongest quality is that I am Although the administration very easy to communicate with and students do not always whether it be with other stu- share the same opinions on how dents, administrators~ or faculty to adjqst to these changes, we members. ~ust still try to work together. Ifl am elected president, my Presently, I believe our popula- goals are to make the Student tion is divided into two sides, Forum more prominent on this on the one hand we have. the \' campus and open to all con- faculty and administration, and cerns regarding the student on the other are the students. body. I would like the Student In addition, I believe ·the stu- Forum to keep the students in- dent body is divided among formed of what it is doing for themselves into Greeks, Inde~ the Union College community. · pendents, and different Ethnic And I want the Student Forum Groups. Thejobofthe Student to be more expedient and effi- Forum President is to facilitate cient in their endeavors. Basi- the link among the student cally, I wantto see less talk and body, administration and the more action at Union College. faculty. Realizing that these may be I believe I possess the char- very ideal expectations,! firmly acteristics necessary to take on believe that the only way to find this position. Having served on out if Union College can do it the Student Forum as Junior is to simply try it. And ifi am Class Representative, I know elected president I will do my what is being done and what best to he the catalyst that will needs to be done. Among the spark a reaction. My name is student body, I believe! repre- MANNY CUNANAN, candi- , sent the interestsofthe-Greeks, date for STUDENT FORUM Independents, and aH Ethnic PRESIDENT. Groups. And, I believe my this position offers. I am very proud of my accom- plishments; I am grateful that Union College has helped me to achieve them. However, I will not ignore the downfalls that Union has. My main task is to improve Union for its stu- dents and alumni who forever possess a diploma from Union College. It is up to us to make can be for those who have been here before us, and those who will follow after. r am extremely proud of Union. Out of this pride, I have developed several.specific plans in areas where I feel that we need to improve immediately: Academics and Committees: Union College is academic. This is the first and foremost reason why each. of us is he·re. The main goal or Union Col- lege is for the complete educa~ tion of each of its students. Recently, in my opinion, the academic climate at Union has been clouded .over by other pri- orities and issues; academics has been thought of as not im- portant. This can not be the case. If Union is not an aca- demic institution, then we migllt as well join the ranks of other colleges and universities with less than superb reputa- tions such as Union's. In the twenty week period that I senied on· the Academic Affairs Council, I made this point clear. As a committee, I am confident. to state that students and fac~' ulty are more aware of our aca- demic priorities, and will con- tinue to ensure the success of every smdent educationally. As Student Forum President, I will not only ensure that an aca- demic attitude is followed, but wilJ encourage more student input and participation into academic cottunittees such as the AAC. All committee min- utes should be made available to students possibly through a web or gopher page set up for · this purpose. If elected, I will continue to uti! ize the phone help• line, but will also create electronic means of communi- cation. Students need a forum in which to voice academic con- cerns, and someone who will listen to and understand their requests. Student Activities: Union has an incredible student activities program un- paralleled by any other institution. Over one half of the students here participate in at least one student club. The Student Forum obviously sup- ports and funds this venture; they have been successful in doing so. However, I would .take it one step further. Many of these groups are active in the local community. They are not only an asset to Union College, but are and asset to Schenectady and the entire Capital Region. The Student Forum should be a leader in publicizing -these clubs and their accomplish- ments both on campus and in Jesse L. rotkin With the stroke of a pen you can influence the future of Union College. The choice before you is simple. You can vote to maintain the status quo, or you can elect Jesse Karotkin as President of the Student Forum. The time has come for proactive student leader to ad~ vance the needs of the student body. I assure you that I will make our student government strong and accessible, so that all students have a voice. One thing my fellow students have repeatedly called for is a greater variety of social options. The time has come for that call to be . answered. For example, after spending thousands.of dollars on state-of-the-art sound and lighting equipment, we should open up the Yulman Theater for weekend night-life. With some fresh ideas the social scene will flourish. I urge you to vote \Jesse Karotkin\ for student forum presi- dent. I possess the strength, knowledge, and experience to bring about the positive changes that you have asked for. Currently, l'm on Union's term in Washington D.C. I am extremely fortu- nate to be working for Congressman Vic Fazio, Union alum- nus. My internship has provided me with firsthand knowledge that will assist me in leading the student body into the future. As president, I will stand my ground despite pressure from the administration. Soon we will be faced with great inconve- nience of renovating the Schaffer Library. As soon as all four- teen books are removed from Schaffer, doing research will be even more difficult on campus. I am the candidate who will fight to ensure that we all have adequate access to library ser- vices and comfortable places to study. We, the students of Union CoJiege have much to be proud of. Academically, Union is highly regarded. We have a beautiful campus and an extensive history. Unfortunately though, cer- tain problems do exist. The time has come to recognize the diversity on campus and celebrate our differences as well as our similarities. Only by working together can we becomemore of a \Union:\ · Throughout the past three years I have dedicated much of my time to the betterment of this campus. While serving as a house manager, I have organized numerous social events open to the campus community. This year I also served as the Presi- dent of Union College Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Send a clear message with your vote. A vote for Jesse Karotkin is a vote for a better Union. Remember that experi- ence is meaningtess unless it ·is combined with fresh, creative ideas and a willingness to fight for our goals. Keep the vision alive and our future will know no boundaries. the local media. Clubs that seek funding for new and innovative programs should be encour- aged. The student activities budget should J:>e allotted in both tradition~l.jand new ways. Greek System: I feel that the Greek system at Union is and asset to this institution. Re- cently, it seems that fraternities and sororities have been the tar- get of harsh criticisms, and much of the blame foracademic failure and campus problem have been accredited to the Greeks. In some instances, maybe that is the case, but if I were Student Forum President, I would open up the lines of communication between these organizations and the adminis- tration. I would give fraterni- ties and sororities a forum in which to demonstrate to school officials that such groups are a benefit to Union. If this in- cludes the Student Forum en- couraging, sponsoring and sup- porting alternative events at fra- ternity and sorority houses, then it should be done. This is noHo say that I do not support or encourage ventures sllCh as theme houses or other groups. All groups will be given an op- , portunity to demonstrate. how they are a part of this campus. Courses: Last term, there was a terrible event in which a number of students were not able to get into the classes that they needed. My solution: Im- prove the advising program that Union now has, and include at the beginning of every term a short questionnaire asking stu- dents what courses they antici- pate to take next term. This would allow faculty the time to make arrangements according to students preferences. Simi- larly, students need to be ac- countable for how they p;.e- reg- ister, and a campus- wide policy must be set up to discourage students for accepting more than three cards in any term · thereby blocking their student colleagues from getting into some classes. Image: Union College is what we think it to be. If we think continued 011 next page

Student Forum ' . · · 'illlp~ Qhmcoroicnsis • May 9, 1996 .. Page 12 STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Junior Trustee Candidates Jonathan Becker Union, despite the stereo- types, is made up of very diverse individuals. This provides me with hope for a more promis- ing tomorrow. The question I wonder is why do people seem so content? Is there a massive facade hiding d-issatisfaction? Many seem too content, com- fortable, and unconcerned with what is going on around them. But, l have. heard all too many times 'that there is som~thing missing from life here at Union and a good majority of students . live at Union, Thus comes the inevitable conclusion that Union should be a great place to be. lfnotonlyforthefactthat when graduates look back on their four years, they should he able to have fond memories of college. The Union experience . is made up of all the Tittle things that make individuals and ex- periences unique, not just one single aspect. It is not apparent to me that there is a lack of communica- tion between students and the administration, I see rather a different problem, a miscom- ml:lnication between students and their representatives. I see no reason that students should just accept things that happen when they are supposed to have representatives looking out for their interests, in all aspects of union as a community. We ob- viously. have opinions on most matters, however we are not at liberty to give them without the usual received response,\well what do you do to help the situ- ation?\ Students voices should be heard, they will be heard. If Jay Connelly Unlike many of the other nm;nes yol:l will find on the ballot i _, cbrrf~ 1 heJQf'iv:eet<,~btilY a !few want tob~e.Ie:etedtr:li&tee for any 1 j rt l:>tMet' rea~oh' ttwn\it(f rJ1av'e 1 it on the11f'festiifte? \·Orrli'r.\name in · · this elite group will be mine ... the others? Well, I can't tell you, that is for you to decide. The Board of Trustees makes decisions that have ramifications which run throughout the local community, the student body, the faculty and employees, and the school itself I can guarantee that among the other candidates I have the most vested interest in all ofthese facets that make Union College great. I am a local resident that lives · on campus, so the interest of the comm).mity and the students is very real to me. Furthermore my mQther, Stella is an em- ployee of the college, and therefore mydecisions as Trustee will always reflect what is best for Union and for you. Some past trustees have stabbed you in the back, but I would never do this for it would be as ifl was stabbing my own mother in the back. .. and I would be. Elect Jay Connelly Junior Trustee on May, 15. DON'T FOROET TO VOTE!!! continuedfrompreviouspage ... John Vero Union is a party school, than we will throw more parties and fulfill that image. If we think of Union as one of the best . colleges in the country with one of the strongest academic pro- grams possible that embraces the Greek system and various. other activities, then we need to start thinking this way. I do· not intend to change peoples' opinions, but I would be able, as Student Forum President, to make our mission heard. I am not afraid of a challenge. I am not afraid to try new events. I am not aft-aid to defy the administrationpr anybody else that tells. me the students of Union College can not accomplish any task that we want to. I will utilize new and effective lines of com- munication to get our collective message out. I will be a repre- sentative of each ofyou.I wish I had more room to discuss my plans with you. I did not address every issue, but highlighted the ones that I feel are most important I would like to con- tinue to look at new course options, terms abroad, theme hous- ing, intramural athletic events, student housing issues, and anything else that the student body feels is important. Please make an informed decision on election day. Thank youJor your time and consideration. ·· .. they are not being heard, then there is something is wrong. Problems do not always exist in theory, ho~ever, it is in pra€- tice where they usually arise. The institution. may not be the one to blame, rather the work- ers and decision in·fluencing factors can be the dilemma. It may very likely weH be time for a change. It definitely seems to be a time for change. That is .... what these elections are all about. Let us hear a voice that can offer the ability to be heard, knowing what the goals are and the different strategies avail~ able. Sugar is nice sometim<;:s, but not always appropriate. I hear over and over, voices telling me that there is some- thing lacking at Union, I hear that voice inside ofme, unfor- tunately. But today, I am not going to let people ask me,\ well, what do you do about it.,, I am going to try to make a dif- ference, put my \money\ where my mouth is, make some ripples in the pool with action and try to make my four year stay at Union be the best it can be. In that event, I hope I. can make adifference in everyones career at Union. Daniel Brennan Are you tired of being called apathetic? I know I am, and I think it's time we did some- thing about it. One place we can start is by voting on May 15th. On that day several im- portant student government The position of Junior Rep- resentative to the Board of Trustees is important to every student attending Union Col- lege. The Board ofTrustees is. the decision making body ofthe campus. The combination of alumni, faculty, and students provides the Union community the best possible forum to in- corporate the concerns of every- one associated with the college. For this campus to function and maintain its high excellence, all three components· must he equally represented. For the students, this means that a dedicated student is of great importance to represent the students and communicate the needs of the Union student body to the Board. I am run- ning for this position because Hannab Blum Over the course of my time at Union College, becoming in- volved with other smdents, to benefit the school, has been the most rewarding experiel).ce. I would rather not list the many activities in which I am in- volved because this does not portray my ability to fill the position of representative to the trustees effectively. Instead, I would rather relay to the com- munity my excitement about this position. Having attended · a small prepatory school, I have had the opportunity to fulfil similar duties in high-school and ..actively participated in them. I will be the main con- . n.ection between the trustees and the Student Forum. My duties will be simple in that I fi1,1:lst 1:1.ttend the meetings of each of these groups and report back in what was said. This opportunity will be personally rewaiding, but will also offer a great deal to~ the schooL I have mu.ch energy and willingness to help the school,,· and with .this enthusiasm comes a dedication to do my best at whatever I may approach. I look forward to meeting many of you in the coming days before the elec- tion. I may not have the most recognized. name on campus but my dedication supersedes that of the more familiar. Re- member. this in your decision to vote for junior representative to the trustees and please vote in the upcoming election. positions will be decided. I, like am concerned with the we] fare several other people, am run- of students. and am necessarily ning for Junior Trustee. The connected to their daily lives. Junior Trustee is your voice on Someone is needed to represent the Board of Trustees. It will the school, but more impor- bethetrustee'sjob to represent tantly someone who willrepre- you on the board that sets sentyou. Iwouldliketobethat scho~l polices. We are one of person. I will not make hollow the few schools that stiJI allows promises or'guarantees that are· students to have a representa- not true, however, I can say that tive on the'r>Oard, which makes I Will expteS$ the thoughts and this job an awesome responsi- concerns of students to the bility. The person elected must Trustees and fight for our con- represent us well and effec- cems. tively. Wewantsomeonewho Wearethosemostaffectedby will not takethejob lightly. the Trustees' decisions. With The best person for this job . good student representation the is one who cares about the fate Trustees can make better deci- ofUnion. Being a Gatekeeper, sions. It's time we let our voice I am the only student that many be heard. If you don't like the prospectives meet when they fact that tuition was raised for come to yValuate this schooL A the next year, then vote for the positive attitude and a love for people who youth ink will fight the school are necessary to leave for what you believe. It's time- them with a lasting impression. to stop complaining, and take As a gatekeeper I have a cer- action. Letyourvoice.beknow tain love for the school, which on May 15th, simply by voting helps brings more students here for Daniel Brennan. · every year. Being an RA I also Colleen Dowd I want to have an active role in the dec.ision making at Union College. Many changes are taking place on the campus that need to have the input.of the students. I believe thatl am the right person for the office, be- cause I will put 1 00% into be- ing involved. As representati:ve, I would make sure that the voices ofthe students are heard. I will also educate the students of the views expressed by the Board of trustees. I am a friendly and responsible person, who will make sure that all ofthe obli- gations for the office are ful- filled. I am willing to put in aJI the time that is necessary to ensure that the communication level remains high among the trustees, faculty, and students. To maintain the prestige of the college and the happiness of all who attend school here, it is im- portant to elect a -student who is prepared to be involved and work hard .

I ded ave vlfil ool in on- ees \1y 1t I ·of ort his Hy :ra tve ;to his on ay to he ~c- >St us es .e- to to in re ly :s. nt r- at w ·e at d e 1- y h I{ Wl{c Qhmcoroicnsis • May 9, 1996 • Page 1.3 . s'tudent Forum STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Junior Trustee Candidates Suzanne Dougherty of knowledge and a cJear un- derstanding of coHege and its hierarchy and bureaucracy. I have learned about the commit-· tees and the correct channels in which issues should go through them. What this means: I have learned the ropes and would be ready to immediately take ac- tion and begin my job repre- senting the $tudents. Over the pa,st two years that I ·have been a student' here at Union there has been an unfor- tunate trend in administration- student relations. Increasingly, decisions have been made and policies formulated without the To many people the Board of consent or opinion of the stu- Trustees, a foreign group of dents. The primary focus of ac- Union alumni widely unknown tions taken should be the stu- · through student circles, is dents. The primary focus of thought to be unimportant. actiens taken should be the stu- This is untrue,. however.. In dents. This has not been the fact, if given a map of where case,however,asthebridge be- the power lies on the Union tween students, administration, College campus, you would see and the Board o:(Trustees wid- tbatagreatmajorityofitisheld ens. This bridge needs to be in the hands of the Board of narrowed if there are to be any Trustees. It is e_ssential to have improvements in the way deci- a voice on the Board that is sions are made on this campus. dedicated solely to representing Currently, I am in Washing- student concerns and issues. ton, DC for the term participat- The Junior Trustee is the posi- ing in the internship program. tion that fills that need. However, I have not forgotten Since I arrived. at Union I. 1 abQut Union. I feel that_I can· have been involved on campus. accomplish the tasks of Junior I served on Student Forum Trustee ifl am elected because freshman year as class secre- ofbothmyfx:periencew~th stu- tary/treasurer and then again dent government and With ad- sophomore year as class presi- ministration-student relations. dent. I have also held seats on Basically, I am. in touch with both the Committee on Com- student concerns and have the mittees and the Student Affairs experience and ability to voice Council. These experiences them to the Board of Trustees. l have given me a great amount Vice President of Administration Candidates Chia ... Jung Chiu Hi there ... my name is Chia- Jung Chiu and l'm running for position of Vice President of Ad- ministration. Serving on the Stu- dent Forum this past year has opened 11JY eyes to what being a leader really is. Sure, it's about taking on major responsibilities and making important decisions, but it's also about working with people and dealing with their problems diplomatically, with- out raising anyone's temper. As a member of the Finance Committee overseeing the funds of ten clubs, I've had to help treasurers become familiar with how the computer systems work and how to handle their budgets, sometimes during the busiest weeksoftheterm. Attimesrve ·been the sole go-be~een ofthe treasurers and the Student Ac- tivities Office; making sure trouble spots were smoothed over to everyone's.satisfaction. · As President of the Junior · Class, while organizing our first- ever Valentine • s Day fund-raiser, my colleagues and I worked to- gether to make it a success, but it was left up to me to make the final decisions and to deal with the florist. Over eightydoliars was raised and the proceeds went to the Hospice of Sphenectady. We also co-spon~ David Kanfer As unfortunate as it may be, the fact of the matter is that money does make the world.go round. As students we see many things that need to he changed. We say, Oifonly I could per- sonally tell the people who give this school money, where the funds should really be allo,.. cated. That's where I come in. If elected Junior Trustee, I will be the functioning voice be- tween the entire student body at Union College, and the trust- ees, who give the school the majority of its money to fu\nd many of its projects. I can provide the position of Junior Trustee with two assets of utmost important to being an effective liaison, versatility and diligence. It is essential that the junior trUstee be able to voice the views of not only the Greek side of campus, or the indepen- dent side, but rather the cam- pus as a whole. He or she must be knowledgeable to all the stu- dents needs. I fed that I can bring that very rare quality to the Student Forum and allow I, Ruthie Strosberg, want to be the next Junior Trustee of our school. I want to have a greater say, and more power to do. If elected~ I will voiq~ the op~n­ ion:·iff the studentl,ody as! a whole. \Whole\ being the key word here. I will make it rn.y business to know and under- stand all views that need to be expressed to the Board ofTrust- ees and the Administration. But more importantly I pl~dge to do what needs to be done. As of now, my biggestconcem is how to -create a more cohesive. stu- sored Spike Lee., the belated Earth Day celebration, and Spring Weekend. The position ofVice-President of Administration is a daunting task for those without prior stu- dent government experience. it involves being head of the Com- mittee .on Committees, appoint- ing people on committees and making sure each one runs smoothly. It also involves over- seeing the constitutions of new ci ubs that are created, serving as a· liaison between the Student Forum and the Committees, and most importantly, being capable enough to step in when the Stu- dent Forum President is absent for any reason. Although not necessary. a familiarity with the Student Forum Government and the Student Activities Office as· sists in being more effective in this position. I fully realize and understand the duties and re- sponsibilities of being Vice- President of Administration and am ready to shoulder them for next year. So vote me, Chia- Jung Chiu, for .the office of Vice-' President of Administration. Thank you. everyone to be heard. Although lam a Greek, I currently sit on the Chets Committee, which has shown its effectiveness in providing a social alternative to fraternity. parties through its various events. Through this committee, we at Chets have been able to incorporate the views ofthe entire campus and Felay them through our events. This past experience in turning the views of a multi-faceted stu- dent body into a reality is an ability which I would take to the position of Junior Trustee with- out hesitation. The second fundamental characteristic an individual seeking to sit on the Student Forum as Junior Trustee must have is a relentless work ethic. There has been a reason why I have not overloaded myself with committee assignments, and various club affiliations. I am single minded in my pur- suit for the position of junior trustee, and I do not want to be hindered with many other re- sponsibilities. I do not mean to imply that I shy away from hard work, rather I only take on Rutbie Strosberg those tasks which I can not only do, but do well. I want to be able to devote all my time to turning the students needs into realities through the funding of programs, where the students, not the administration decide what would improve this col- lege. It is important not to simply be a bystander. If one sees some- thing wr~ng with the institution he or she is in, it is the obliga- tion of that individual to take action and be an active voice. I have been waiting all year to run for this position. I feel that out of all the positions up for election, being Junior Trustee, and being able to interact with the student body and the trust- ees of Union College, is the most important. I feel that the • opportunity to translate the feel- ings of the students of Union into an equal vote amongst the trustees is one that, if used ap- propriately, can be a major weapon at the hands of students on this campus. If you all want· things to change, and your voice to be'hear.d, on Wedn.es- . ~ ( ' ' ' ' ' ' .. - ~. - . ' day, may 18~ ,vote Da~~d K~fer ·for Junior rru·stee. · · · · · dent body. This is the deal: The · campus as a whole, needs to plan an event, needs to be ex- cited about it and needs to at~ · ,.l<;ljl<iJ: thiM!V$PM 0 iS(j~l;ujfn,~~ err- !: e.JY.~O~Ig~9'~: ~todhi-~)i'NitJ1i a positive, open mind, and mingles outside ofth~ir group of favorite friends, perhaps some miracle will happen and we will UNITE! I think it is worth a try. This campus event, I don't know what it will be, needs to be done.and I will do it. Christopher J. J)rantigan After experiencing life at Union College for almost two years . now, I feel that it is necessary to create and develop more clubs and organizations that will attract the participation of a greater majority of students. I understand that in a commu- nity of over two thou- sand people it is impos- sible.to get everyone involved. If I am elected I plan to focus my goa]stoward appointing the most or- g an i zed and enthusi- astic indi- viduals on the leaders of and cornm it- gether with · pointed lead- to make sure campus as our clubs tees. To- all the ap- ers, I plan that all our club meet- ings and events be ad- v e r t i s e d more often, . which I feel has been a problem in the past. Through the more efficient use of mailboxes, posters, and voice mail, we can make sure that each and every student understands what activities they will be missing if they just sit in their dormitory rooms and watch television. As the Social Chairman of the Theta Delta Chi fraternity, I have had much experience appealing to the varying needs of many otherc;, as well as, organizing and over- seeing many social events. I feel with my qualifying attributes and the goals I have set it will be possible to produce a more unified campus. which is exactly what Union College needs.

., WI~c <!hmnwi'ricnsis • J\11_-ay 9, .I 996 • Page 14 · . Stud~;it Forum . . STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Vice President of Administration Candidates Brandon Declet My name is Brandon Declet and I am running for the office ofVP of Adminisrtation to the Student Forum. I am currently a junior, political science ma- jor who has a keen interest in the welfare of our institution and its students. Not only do I possess the necessary experi- ence but I have the drive to change Union for the better. Today, I would like to present to you a plan of action. No vague and long statements but I will be committed to deliver- ing on all ofthese·issues/points as well as any issue that the stu- dents bring to my attention. 1) ·To create anew committee called the \Commiftee on Gre.ek Affairs.\ This commit- tee would be in charge with dealing with all Greek issues on campus. Itwould be comprised of an equal. ~umber of indepenents and Greek mem- bers. 2) To lead the desprately needed expansion of social al- ternatives on campus. It takes leadership and student initia- tive to do this and the best way to tackle this problem is to en- courage ·individuals and groups to come to the student forum for funds or organizational help. Secondly, make people aware of events through a campus \hot line\ in which a student can find out about alJ the events on a particular day, evening or weekend. 3) A student initiated plan of action and .pressure to improve all housing on campus. The administration needs to be made aware that housing on campus is \falling apart\ and below par for aschool with our reputation. 4) Change the way the Stu- dent Forum operates. Move meetings to the Nott in order to provide a more accomidating atmosphere to students and campus members who wish te view and listen in on the Stu- dent Forum business. These meetings would then be fol- lowed by a Q&A session which would allow for students to bring specific issues to the Stu- . d~nt Forum. 5) Make our representatives accountable to the student body. If your representative is not doing anything or is sim- ply not attending to his or her dutieswe should have the abil- ity to kick them out of the of- fice. It is simply a waste of time for someone to serve on the Forum solely for the purpose of resume building. Thank you for taking the. time out to read about what I represent and wpat I .Plan op accomplishing as VP of Ad- ministration. To some it may seem like a plan that can never be done on a campus like Union, I tend to disagree. On Wednesday May 15th; Vote for BRANDON D. DECLET for VP of ADMINISTRATION. Vice· P're'sident of Finance Candidates Kevin Abessi Hello, I am Kevin Abessi, one ofthe candidates for Vice President of Finance. OK, enough small talk, let's get right down to it. I believe that in order for a VP of Finance to be ·success- ful, he or she needs to be three things: knowledgeable, objec- tive, and amicable. A certain knowledge ofeconomics and the repercussions that coin- cide with the way funds are distributed is essential to this position; that is a given. How- ever, at · same time one needs to be fair and unbiased in how that money is spent. It is very easy to bring emotions and sentiments into a job such as this one, and that can only cause inefficiency and campus-wide conflict. It is for this reason that one needs to be objective. Lastly, the VP ofFinance has to meet with various committees, and work in conjunction with clubs and other interest groups on campus. The last thing needed here is dissent between the two parties. If the VP of Finance cannot be amicable, than that person will fail. I am not going to bore you and go on about myself; feel free to pull me aside and interrogate me in person if you want me to do this. However, I am more than confident that I have exhib- ited these three characteristics in all o( my endeavors, on and off campus. And I will not fail. Now I do not think that things are going badly right now. On the contrary, I have seen very good changes throughout the year. But I do know that there is .room for improvement. I want to know why a club sport feels that they have bee11 treated unfairly this year. I want to know why other groups have ex- pressed their displeasure as well. I guess I want a lot ofthings, but ultimately I want to help you, or rather us, the student body. But there is no way that I am going to be able to do this without your support, so if you want to see Union College break new grounds, instead of digging holes for itself, vote for Kevin Ab~ssi on Wednesday the fifteenth for Vice President of Finance. Dana S. Katz I am not running for the of- fice of Vice President of Fi- nance to win a popularity con- test (lord knows I'd never win), or 'for some sort ofpower trip, but because I'm experienced and serious about the position. From serving on the Finance Committee previously I can safely say that the financial out- look for next year is great. In an effort to increase organiza- tion and use your tuition dol- lars to benefit as mariy students as possible, we've instituted some positive changes for the upcoming year. We've begun issuing grants to groups ofstu- dents, not just already existing organization, who need funding to carry out innovative, benefi.- , cia! ideas. The payment clas- sification system has been sim- · plified to allow club treasurers . to structure their budgets eas- Jody Mousseau Soon you will be ·choosing the Union;s governing. body for the upcoming year. The d~ci­ siom~ you make will assist in shaping the agenda of the stu- dent body for the 1996.:97 aca- demic year. My name is Jody Mousseau, and as a junior po- litical science major, l have de- cided to run for the position of Vice-President of Administra- tion in the Student forum. If elected, I promise to have tu- ition lowered, make sure the 1 i- brary is renovated by the begin- ning of this fall, and to move Chet's to the Nott Memorial. Wen, maybe not. I win refrain from making campaign prom- ises (as my political tendencies would nonnally influence me to do). 1 can only assure you that I am aware of the various re- sponsibili~ies that the position of Vice-President of Adminis~ tration entails and that I am qualified and responsible enough to execute the duties and tasks which are involved. Throughout my three years at Union, I have become involved in many aspects of the college. Now is the point where I must ·bore you with my r:esume. For two years: l have served as a staff writer for the Concordiensis. Since my fresh- man year, other activities, in- cluding several that I am still currently involved in, have in- clud~d membership in the Union College Democrats and · ily and accurately to avoid later confusion. If I were to serve as VP of Finance my primary goal would be to see that the funds the com- mittee oversees achieve great- est good for the greatest num- ber of students. The general sentiment of the student body is that Union College seems to waste a great deal of money. Believe me, I understand the frustration and do not intend to be irrespo.nsible or thoughtless in my recommendations. I can assure you that the expenditures for the· student activities will follow their budgets and still have sufficient funds to oper- ate through the ac·ademic year. I feel that more r~sponsibility should be given to the clubs, therefore it should be manda- tory that every president and treasurer for each club should on the crew team, a position as an associate editor with the . . Idol, and a posit.ion as a disc jockey on WRUC, On the women's Ice Hockey team, I serve as goalie; and I am presi- dent of the-recently re-estab- lished Union College Chapter of Amne~tylnternational. Hav- ing ta:~en advantage of the terms abroad at Union, I spent spring term 1995 in Washing- ton DC as an intern in the Of- fice of Representative Marcy Kaptur, and fall tenn 1995 in York, England. These com- bined experiences at Union have allewed me to <tevelop my interests and skills, which bring · me to my reasons for qompet- ing for the position. ofthe Vice- President of Administration. As a political science major, the dynam'ics of governing bod- ies are a perpetuating interest of mine. As an active member of the Union Community, I have experienced the impact that the Student Forum has· on. the affairs within the Union Community. Theresponsibili- ties of the Vice-Presidentof Ad- ministration entail much orga- ni~ation, assertfon, and dedica- tion, which are aspects of my- self which I have strengthened through my experiences at Union. With my absence from the Union Campus for two con- secutive tenus; it made it im- possible for me to run for of- fice in the spring of 1995. I feel · that Vice-President of Admin- istration is a position for which I am qualified. My decision to run for the position was due to my interest in participatiQg in the Student Forum and my de- sire to represent the needs of the student body. As a junior, I would like to give back what Union has allowed me to gain .. The political jargon will end here. I can assure you that I will dedicate no less than my best in fulfilling the needs and responsibilities ofthe position of Vice-President of Adminis- tration. Don't forgetto vote on election day. be proficient in Quicken, our computer program that records and tabulates .all transactions. This would help avoid errors and will guarantee that club of- ficials are kept up to date on their finances and can plan ac- cordingly. I'w taken spring term off this year for an internship opportu- nity but am still kept up to date on the financial situation. I feel I am the best candidate for VP of Finance because I wish to head a committee on which I've already oeen a member. I'm fa- miliar with the system and know how to use it effectively and where it calls for change. I'm open to all suggestions and wish that more students would get involved so that the student government can better meet their needs.

I in I ct y- I at n. s- u- to . . P~\gc J fi :\Ia~ '). 1996 lel~e ([' llll.('ll rhit'n5is . · Student Forum · . STUDENT FORUM EL£CTIONS~'-' Vice President of Finance Candidates Ben Fox Vice President of Finance is one of the most important posi- tions on the Student Forum. TI1e V.P of Finance, along with the Finance Committee, is in charge ofrecemmending to the Student Forum the budgets of all campus clubs. This is an enormous; responsibility and one which affects nearly all stu- dents involved in campus life. It is important to hve a person in ;this position with experience in allocating funds. I haye served as treasurer of my house, Chef's Committee, and Youth Olympics and I will chair both Chet's and Youth Olympics next year. I understand the time commitment involved as V .P of Finance and I am' willing to make the sacrifices, if elected, necessary to do this job well. I have served on Student Forum forthe pasttenn as President of the l.F .C and I understand how thi.ngs get done in this school and the bureaucracy which of-, ten prevents clubs from .getting the funding they deserve to do . the things they want. If elected, I would lielp to reduce the hurflles which clubs must go through to get funding. 1l1is position is an extension of the positions which l currently hold. I would not seek this po- sition if I did not understand \What it-entailed? and ifl didn't think I could do it well. Hello, my name is Vinnie Lopez and I'm running for Vice- President of Finance. 1 feel that 1 have the necessary skills to run for this position because I've been involved with finances Vice Pr·esident of - Academics Candidates Elizabeth My name is Elizabeth Malaspina, I'm a sophomore, and I am currently in Washing- ton D.C inteming in Congress. This year, I served on the Stu- dent Fontm as a Representative of my class. r believe the most important quality one needs to be an effective VP of Academ- ics, is an ability to make one's voice heard. I strongly believe that thoose who know me will all agree I'm not afraid to voice my opinion or disagree when I feel my po-sition is correct. However, I am also c~pable of listening, compromising, and since my sophomore year in reasoning to find a solution, high school. I'm an economics If there is one thing I have which is also important. major, I work for an investment teamed about students at Union, The VP of Academics is a finn here in Schenectady and. I it is that we all have opinions member of the Academic Ad- just rece1itly found out that I about our teachers.and classes. visory Council and the Student received an internship position Wttether they be positive or I:orum. One of the things I ·with a major investment bank . negative, yo~ 1 can always hear would like to accomplish on on Wall Street Finance is my . somecme talking abut how these committees, would be to thing. So\OotheRightThing\ much they love/hate their continueaprojectwestartedon as Spike Lee would say and · cl~sses ... NQ matter. ~ow maoy. the Forum to create a faculty/ vote for me- Vinnie Lope;7; for tim~SW!!:~~V~·b~~n ~al·l~.Q:ap~-: ... cou~~e ,~eyi~w -~ide~ _'r,l}j~).n-., , , · VP Finan~e. · . thetic, this is a topi~ in which ... · volv~s ~f?~ig{\~J;lg the;&H~~! ~0~:: _,,, ---------.----------------~~------- ~~~~wr~~~lwt•oot cr~tinga~~~~ey~-- V_ ic .. e President of_,· Cam_·. pus Life our opinions. So, if we voice student's opini.ons of their - .··-· Matt-Cohen Matt Cohen ... Who? ... MA IT COHEN! This fall I joined the Social Committee and helped bring you Fallfest and the Win- ter Affair. Recently, I assisted in trying to make the upcoming Springfest ·the best that Union has seen. I have also served on the Spellkers Forum to help bring a variety of speakers to Union. When you think about who is the most suitable candi- date for Vice-President;ofCam- pus Life, remember that I al- ready have experience in bring- ing great events to this campus. So on election day vote MC for VP! Vote on May. 15th in the College Center Doug Karp I am ntnning for Vice Presi- dent of Campus Life b-ecause J want to giye something back.tQ the campus. Unfon College has provided me with three incred- ible years of my life and l want my last year to be the beslit can. I feel that there would be no better way to do this than to run for Vice President of Campus Life and serve as chair of the Social Committee. As Vice President of Campus Life, I would work hard with the So- cial Committee to make next our opinions on the academics classes and teachers. This year fun and exciting with ac- at Union, why doesn't anything would make course selection tivities that people actually want ch311ge? Why, even though edu- easier, because instead of de- to attend. I would act as a great catiQn is the most important part pending on an outdated course mediator between the Student·- of college, is it the issue we It-ave description the school gives us, · . ..1 h ··.·s ·· ,,. 1 ~\' .. ;, ··.•• tbe lea~t control'Oft;Why don~t . we would instead-be able t<J'nsew- Forqpl:.~I\.\J,~e, ,.Ac~~-~Qlll;Qllt .. ~ .,~~IJ;·•'!'i ;;.,; i-· :1~ , ... b~i ~:t'~tla r.~t:J:ta• ~:r .<?\:A'i! ~'~f li f\t> ~.!'lflh·.g t ' · ~ · ' - · . ..· .. we·-u~ar ·anytmng a un · 1e '• ·· ne,·ep.m<Jns e StUotmm•t ar ee. . 1 am very approachable and -'torn·ments we write on course took the class~ would be open to all sugges- review sheets? ,The problem is, In t~e pa~t, th~ ~ig~est prob- t · ns from the .student body. ln · that there hasn t been a strong I em w1th tlus pos1t1on ts that the t;~ past,I have helped to set up voice directin~ .our ?Pinions re~resentativ~ wasn't in touch many successful social events ?ack to the admm1stratmn. TI1~t w1th what students want. lwant and would like to share my ex- ts wbat I want to do, and that IS to change that. I want to repre- perience with you. If you want why_l want to be VP of Aca- sent yo~r opinions as VP of a campus that is electric and demJcs. Academics. energized, then on May, is!!!.. vote: for Doug Karp as Vice President of Campus Life; Greg Skalaski As a hard working and con- cerned student, I am dismayed by tl1e administrative choke hold on a student's academic choices. As Vice President of Academics, there are a number of issue~ that I would like to address. For example, why are students penalized for poor class attendance? If a student can manage to learn the course and eam a passing grade while only atte11ding a fraction of the classes, it should then be of no concern to the faculty metnber ifthe student is present or not. This is not high school. We should have greater responsibil- ity for educating ourselves, and I will push for this issue if elected. Along the lines of more academic freedom, I would also look into the re-evaluation of gen-ed coul\Ses. I feel that it is unnecessary to make an eco- nomics m<\ior take a laboratory science, or an engineer take a civilization course. Let us de- cide what courses we will take. Furthennore, I will try to extend the amount of time that is given to ad~ or drop a course. Five weeks is not enough time to as- sess how 01,1e is doing in a class, and by the time we find out how we are doing, it's too late. As we all know, this is no longer high school, however, the academic freedom we have at Union is not much different. Someone needs to loosen up the administrative choke hold and let students breath. l feel that I am the person to do just that.

: j . ' ., ' ( . r t l , ' ' Page 16 :\Ia: 9. 1996 lCl:l' lf.._ntn,ri:tintsis St!Hh:nt Formn STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Vice President of Multi-Cultural Affairs Leena Mankad Jason. Rosenstock While frantically scurrying around campus begging stu- dents for a signat01:e so that I would be able to run for this office, I encountered a fellow student who was hesitant to sign my petition because I wasn't an ethnic minority. He reasoned with me that since l was not a member ·of the minority popu- lation of this college I could not understand how minority stu- dents on campus feel .. I argued with him that this was not true, that I can. and will represent the needs of minori· eling the ~esigns. Another idea ties of this college. My belief that I have is to show weekly is diversification through com- bination. By this I mean, that the only way to break down the walls of isolation of minorities at Union is to otTer events that would allow for the diversity of this college to flourish. One of the first programs I would like to implement is a multi~cultural fashion show. Students would design outfits-that they feel best represent the culture they come from. Then all of the outfits would be displayed at a fashion show, with other students mod- ·.screening of a foriegn film.. Through these fi.lrns students would start to gamer an appre- ciation for other cultures. I finnly believe that Union st\Jdents are neither apathetic or . racist, but are not given theop~ portunity to lear:n about other cultures. If elected to the office of Vice President ofMlllti-CuJ- tural affairs I will work dili- gently to provide an atmosphere in which students are abl.e to learn about other cultures and broaden themselves as human will allow me to represent and coordinate Multicultural groups as well as those who have mulitieultural interests or con- cerns. Through weekly meet- ings which will be open to the college community, I will try my best to listen to ideas and concerns and integrate them into a plan that will make the college community more di- verse. I would like to help plan multicutural events that will in- .--.-------------------------------=----------. ~x::~\~~~~:~::u::~ liNtON >rRE.Ef 'EA~E.R SHOP pus, but also the entire student body. I am already active in My name is Leena Mankad multicultural affairs at Union, and on May 15th, I will be run- most recently participating in ning for the Vice President of the Shakti/ ASU Culinary Ex- Multicultural Affairs. As ajun- pose of Asian Heritage. As a ior, I have been active in many member of Shakti for the past student organi?:3tions and love three years, l feel I have been working with the student body. exposed to manY. events and I am asking for your vote on ideas that I would like to de- . May 15th so I cap represent all vt;lop .if elected. Help rrie ex- . students interested in erlcourag- plore \hese. i;deas ilel(t year! ·. in~ and ~xpandi.~g .di.ve~sity on . . Vote· teen a Mankad for Vice campus. President of Multicultural Af- The position I am running for fairs next Wednesday. Economics or Business :; . ·~:.:· ... \. \. ~ ~~j:qr.~ _,., ... , ; - .. rite for ctrnncor~u· Contact · The Editors @. 388-6155 or e- mail CCfily£ (l!nncnrhiensis at Concordy @ gar.union.edu Marine Studies Term Abroad Information. Meeting For Next Spring Tuesday May 14 5.·00 Social Sci. Rm 103 Or Contact Prof. Kaplan x62.30 or Prof. B. Boyer x651 \Where Quality Is In High Demand'' #1 !JnArea . (518) 346-3605 Ask For Patrick Bidinost or Victor Delisi() .. Specializing in Progressive Men's Cuts 1732 Unio.nStreet. Scheqectady, NY 12309 World famous PSYCHIC to stars and .celebrides-,-3 years experience-- I can help you to obtain Jove, health, wealth and luck. Telephone David Gaurdino ANYTIME at 423-558-1197 or 214-340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 Summer Jobs Do you have office experience~-some typing, computer literate and service 10nent~1t1on demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are lefor self-motivated students looking for an en~ry into healthcare. Call: Inc. (7 I 6)-262-3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Re- ............ ..,. ... to: Med-Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St.~ Rochester, NY 14607 . .. ,..~ ... \' , no fees) Buy recycled. It wo:uld mean the world to them. Thanks t~ you, all sorts of everyday products are being made from mate.rials you've recycled. But to keep recycling working for the future, you need to look for these products and buy them. For a free brochure, call 1-800-CALL-EDF. - A Public Sen/Ice of ~: ThliPubiiC&tklto· &EPA ENVIAONMENTAL·EBF··· - . DEFENSE . g FUND ·

---- - - idea :ekly 11m.. Ients •pre- nion icor ~op­ tlher ffice Cul- dili- here e to ~nd man 5 ) Page 17 ,Huy 9, 1996 illlp.: t[,, qnni:ticnsis _ - · Arts & Entertainment- Arts & [ntertainmem Why The Screening Room is Closed for Renovations ~ScREENING RooM by Larry Paska, Arts Editor much as she must hate it (and as sad as it is to say), Americans want Sharon Stone to be in cer- tain types of movies, and you know what? I think this just isn't oneofthem. Speaking of\hot chicksagainst the law,\ check out this: Pamela It'sbecomeatraditionforthis Berg against the J,lack heavy- Anderson Lee, of TV's reviewer to frequent the movie weight champ played by Damon Babewatch, is in her very own theater-anytheater,evenifPn. Wayans. Now,Jacksonmustpull feature! InBarh Wire;Leemakes onvacationfarfromhome-· at offthehypeofalifetime. A,ndwe her screen debut in the comic h~ast once a week. So what do should see this because ... ? · book adaptation about the leather- you do when five (count 'em, Next up, The Craft. Director clad heroine who basically kicks FIVE!)filmsopeninoneweekend, AndrewFleming(whoscoredwith butt everywhere she goes. This and not a single one of them moderate success in Threesome) is one to rent with a group of your looks worth the cost of a cup of writes and directs the story of four buddies so you can howl along coffee? Youdowhatthisreviewer teen \angels\ who are actually and shout sexual remarks to Lee finally did, and, breaking his two- witches. The trailer makes it seem -not suitable conduct in a movie year-streak of going to movies more for adolescents with noth- theater. once .(if not more) every single ing better to do after their parents Last, and certainly least, is The week,youdon'tgo. dropthemoffatthemallonaSat- Pallbearer, which has that hor- Afterlastweekend, which saw utdayaftemoon. The tease at the rible actor named David the openings of the mediocre end of the trailer has a bus driver Schwimmer, who really, really Mulholland Falls, the stupid telling the girls to \'watch out for wants to be a movie star now, too. Sunset Park, plus The Truth thoseweirdos~\towhichtheyre- Heplaysamanaskedtobeapali- About Cats and Dogs and The ply, \we are the weirdos.\ Like, bearer at his old classmate's fu- Quest, America is treated to the what-EVER! neral who soon falls for an old openings of five really horrible Now we've got Sharon Stone high school crush ... and the films, which only make everyone trying for further dramatic dearly-departed'smother! What's question what the word \art\ stretches in Last Dance, a Dead worse .. that Miramax Films means to movie studios these Man Wa/kingkno·ck-offdirected stooped so low as to make this days. bythe·once-greatBruceBeresford movie, or that some peeple with Thefrrstmoviei declined to see (Driving Miss Daisy). What IQ'sabove lOwill wantto watch was The Great White Hype, which Stone fails to realize is that she it? has shades of Diggstown and sellsticketsonhersexappeal,not To make up for the endless ev:ery other con-man boxing her (lack of}dramatic range. Be- hours I spent crying that I movie you can think of. In this cause she puts on a Southern ac- couldn't find a soul in this world \great big mess,\ San1uel ~- Ja~k~ .. cent and wants to. get another . -~~~-':YI:?~~~o_t.QJhJ_tpQvj~s_W}th soiipTaysabo-,Cirigpromoterwho -ACademy- Award nom'i~atiori, me and sjt through these fipe pits a white boxer played by Peter m~:rviegoers will run in fear. As pieces of entertainment, I trek~ed .. <. ' CHET'S 4--7 . --·· over to the College Center{Sorry, I meant Reamer Center), and watched a quality drama, Mr. Holland's Opus, again. The first time I saw this movie was on a nice big screen, where the image wasn't fuzzy and partially-out-of- focus, the sound was something close to stereo, and the movie was in widescreen. But that's okay, I'm not fussy or anything about how I watch my movies. InMr. Holland'sOpus,Richard Dreyfuss gives an Academy Award-nominated performance as Glen Holland, a composer who \falls back\ on his teaching cer- tificate and teaches high school music to save money and eventu- al'ly compose a symphony. Of course, he only plans to teach for a few years, but a number of un- expected events happen in his life: the birth of a son~ the purchase of a home, tragedy with his only this man much better. Although the sentimentality seems manu- factured many times, Dreyfuss really gives his all in a movie whose overbearing emotion is actually to its credit. Holland emerges as a true winner by the film's very overblown finale. An excellent cast includes Jay Thomas as a gym coach, Holland's best friend, Olympia Dukakis, as the school principal who puts her faith in doubting Holland's abilities, and Glenn Headley as the domesticated wife who never seems to be doing anything. Director Herek (Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, The Three Musketeers) knows all the right buttons to push, even when a side-plQt with a student who falls for Holland gets slightly out~of­ hand. In an age devoid of heroes, Glen Holland is an American in- child, and his eventual bonding spiration. to the school. Glen Holland Coming next week: \The dreams oflife in the spotlight as a world-renownedcomposer, but in the end, he makes his difference in the world by teaching students to love and appreciate music. The film's Forrest Gump-style of filmmaking {spanning three de- cades, bridged together by the Screening Room\ reopens after it finally finds a movie worth watch- ing. A rev.iew ofthat jaw-drop- ping thriller, Twister, starring Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt, will be featured next week. popular music of each decade) \Mr. Ho/land'sOpus.\ Starring makes the story .long but fulfill- RichardDreyfoss, Glenn Headley, ing. By the end of the film, we Jay Thomas, Olympia Dukakis. ~ave lived throu~h!fit'\\~4P5I?~rH\j~irected by Stephen ~~rek. . ttons ofl loll and s teachmg eareer Rated PG, H ollywaod Pte~ witli him and come to understand tures. . ' Rating: *** (outoffour) Union College Department of Performing Arts and the Mountebanks Present NOISES A Knockabout British Farce by Michaei Frayn 0 =R Tickets Available at Box Office 388-6545 the Yulman Theater $7 General. Puhlic $5 Senior Citizens and with Union l.ll. .:.•

rts & Entertainment ' ' ' ffilp:' QI~ntrllrOtl'lH>is <t May 9~ ]996 • Pitge 18 Arts & [ntertainment Video Pick of the Week: Money Train --------------------~ by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor \Money Train.\ Starring Wesley Snipes, Woody Harrelson, Jennifer Lopez. RatedR, Columbia Pictures. Tape: Priced for rental, avail- able April30; Disc: Coming Soon. Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson team up again (after White Men Can't Jump) in this ex- pensive disaster from Columbia Pic- tures. They play New York City Transit cops who ride the rails all day in search of bad guys. The premise may sound slam-bang to action fans, but is there enough heat in a subway station to sustain a two-hour movie? The answer is: not really. Snipes and Harrelson play foster brothers who are constantly busted by their boss for the unethical tactics they use to catch thieves at work under- ground. Harrelson has a chip on his shoulder because he always is overshadowed by Snipes, who is the more daring and dynamic ofthe two. When a Hispanic cop (Lopez) joins the force, the two \brothers\ compete for her affection, but only ·one: ends up with herat the.~nd of the night. By now, we'rehalfway into the movie, yet there still doesn't seem to be anything happening. An- gered (and broke because of a gam- bling p~oblem), Harrelson devises a scheme to rob the Money Train, a single- car subway which carries the profits of the entire subway system in it(valued at$3-4 million). He wants to rob the train and retire in the Caribbean, but also to get even with his cruel boss. Of course, Snipes tries to stop him, but the entire story hangs on one very thin string, which is that Harrelson is never really a .. bad\ guy, just someone who was hurt by \the system.'' The problem with the movie is that it really isn't about any- thing in particular. Snipes saves Harrelson's life from his gam- bling players and assorted un- derground villains, but while the action scenes are pretty good, they all add up to very I itt! e. The film does not know what to do with the few hooks it has: Lopez choosing between the two cops, Snipes going along with Harrelson's plan, etc. IfLopez teased the two cops for the en- tire movie, then the story would have had some fun with its char- acters. Money Train is notable for scenes in which a criminal sets fire to token booths while work- ers are in them; in reality, some- one in New York copied this act and killed a subway worker last November. Withprominentfig- ures I ike Bob Dole calling for this film to be pulled from release for such violence, it's interesting to watch a movie like this and won- der w.hat goes through the minds of others who draw \in- .. spiratiou:' from such ~e!lseless­ ness. Tragically, in real life, someone was killed over this, while in the movie, Snipes is safely on hand to save the stunt double. Derailed at the box office, Money Train should fare better on video, where people with small attention spans can pause the tape when they feel like tak- ing a break for a few minutes and blowing up a subway station. Rating: ** UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 'Ht07li&?<'S 'D/IJI Sr/.4& Friday, May 1Oth, Saturday, May 11th and Monday, May 13th Think about these great items to accompany your card. to Mom: 60% off Mundi agenda purses 25% off selected Cross pens 50% off all Union watches 50% off selected clothing 50o/o off Minerva plates 15% off plush bears ... and much more! Reamer Campus Center Phone 388-6188 fax 388-6260 Open Weekdays 8:45 - 4:30, Sat. 11 - 3 • ll- ' ' ~ l ' \ • *' \ • \ .. ' . SATURDAY,MAYll l.®Cal Arts Calendar Back to tickle the ivories- and your funny bone- is the clown prince ofpiaho, Victor Borge. \The Great Dane\ returns to Proctor's at 8 PM. · ·· Victor Borge's performance at Proctor's will show off his considerable talents as concert pianist, entertainer, composer,. clown, writer ,.and comedian. A master of improvisation, Mr. Borge interacts with his audience to help create the sharp balance between classical music and rib-tickling humor. While his comedic reputation has been built on his NOT playing the piano, he possesses a magnificent musical gift · that amazes audiences when he does play. Tickets are $39.50,$34.50 and $29.50,andavailable at Proctor's Box Office (518)346-6204andatall TicketMaster locations. Tenor sax phenomenon Sonny Rollins returns to the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall for atour-de-force concert featuring jazz standards, originals, bebop and calypso at 8 PM. Mr. Rollins continues to be a major force in jazz, having a series of successful recordings, including his latest release, Sonny Rollins +3, which features standards like \Mona Lisa.\ Reserved seat tickets are$22, and may be purchased by contacting the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Box Office at(518) 273-0038 or any TicketMaster outlet. TUESDAY, MAY 14 Ken Olsen, cellist and w.inner of the Schenectady Symphony Classical competition, and Wei-Jen . Yuan, winner ofthe Louise DeFeo Parillo Piano Youth Competition, will perform a free concertatthe Troy Savings Bank Music Hall at noon. This concert is free and open tO the public. For more information, call the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall at(518)273-0038. WEDNESDAY, MAY 15 An informal discussion exploring the changes in art over the last century will take place at the Albany Institute of History & Art beginning at 12:10 PM. This lunchtime art talk, \Only Yesterday: Artistic Changes in the Twentieth Century,\ will feature works of art from the museum's collection representing the span of the century. The Art Talk series breaks away from the traditional lecture for.mat, allowing for the study of original objects and informal discussion. Each program includes focused looking activities and conversation in front ·Of original artworks. Admission to the Art Talk is free. Art Talk participants are encouraged to P,ring a brown bag lunch. The Albany Institute of History & Art is a local affiliate of the New York Council. for the Humanities, offering accessible programs that give residents of the community the opportunity to think about the values that shape our lives and culture. Tl1e Albany Institute is located at 125 Washington A venue in downtQwn Albany. For more informa- tion, call (518)463-4478. SATURDAY,MAYJB Get set for hip-hoorays and ballyhoo as the national tour of 42nd Street plays at Proctor's Theater at 3 and8PM. Winner of the 1981 Tony Award for Best Musical and Best Choreography, 42nd Street has been called the definitive backstage musical. Based on the 1933 Warner Brother film starring Ruby Keeler, Dick Powell ~nd Ginger Rogers, the Broadway version opened in August 1980 to rave reviews and ran for a . remarkable 613 7 performances. F arty-Second Street showcases extraordinary tap dancing, costumes that shimmer and timeless tunes that send you humming, including such favorites as \Shuffle off to Buffalo,\\Lullaby of Broadway,\ and of course, \42nd Street.\ The show takes us behind the scenes of Pretty Lady, a fictional Broadway showthat holds the hopes and dreams of many-. including the famous director, the fading leading lady, and the talented ingenue, Peggy Sawyer. Peggy can't believe her luck when she's chosen to be one of the chorus members for Pretty Lady. It's a dream cometme for this little actress from Allentown, Pennsylvania who's got her sights set on the bright lights of Broadway. When the I eading lady can't go on, it's up to Peggy and her fabulous footwork to save the show. Tickets for both shows are $34.50,$29.50 and $26.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office(518) 346-6204 and at all TicketMaster locations. ' ~ -<1 ., \ f' '~ .,, , .. ' \ ' ' ,\' ~ If ' Jl.~ \.. ..

m \The mist, with lehis tl gift at all force tghis Hall i-Jen Troy lusic bany tistic 1ting ~ina! min ~d to ities, t the rma- :erat llled )ick fora . mes ffto :>pes nue, sfor ther !her 518) . . Features illlp.' W:oun.-.raiens!s May 9, 1996 Page I 9 A Day of Excess certain that my lifestyle is going to change. Since the most immature displays I have ever witnessed have occurred at college, f'm read a little bit every day?\ «Why drink beer in the rain, and then throw yourself down a mud slide?\ Sixty Kegs, Hamburgers, and Plenty of Mud sure that everyone else re- alizes this as well, and is fighting it to the best of their ability. So, why do we do it? Why do we stay out late, procrastinate, and play in the mud? To me, the answer is simple and needs no justification. We behave as we by Conor McKenzie The idea was classically bril- liant. First weekend in May, a barbecue on the lawn between three fraternities, 60 kegs ofbeer and live entertainment all day long. The fact that it rained all day only proved how determined Union.students are to have a good time. The slope in frontofPsi-U turned into a massive mud .. slide, a few inspired individuals started it, and s.oon dozens of people were slipping around all over the place----csome even got naked for the occasion. It was a truly beautiful thing to behold, to see a field full of.col- lege students having more fun than 4th graders during recess. It is displays of immaturity like this that make it painfully obvious how close we all are to a com- plete loss offreed()m as we .know ·it. If nothing else, High school taught us a couple_oflessons, first how quickly 4 years goes by,' and second how ridiculous it is to try and act mature. When I was a high school freshman, I couldn't ALL-CAMPUS LECTURE: . WHY TAIWAN WON'T GO AWAY 2:00- 3:30p.m .. Saturday, May 11 College Center Auditorium Prof. Bruce Dickson, a political scientist from ,George Washington University, will ask why tensions between China, Taiwan and the United States escalated dangerously this fall, and what the future may hold. Prof. Dickson is a national expert on Chinese and Taiwanese politics. (Sponsored by East Asian Studies and Political Science) ·~. . t;·~·' Larg~ 'Thtee~ Bedrqom·_ · ·· Apartement for Rent! · Conveniently Located on University Place. Phone- Work- 477-9615 Home- 674-5820 even think of the idea of ever be- coming a senior. Now, asa fresh- man at collegel 1'111 ful'ly aware how short my time is here at Union. In a few weeks, I'll have completed 25% of my college career, and it still seems like yes- terday that I was still wondering what it would be like to live in a dorm. If s pretty clear to me that after I leave this place I might have to act responsibly for the first time in my life. Whether I go to grad school, or get a job, it's all too Going ta work everyday is ab- solutely frightening. In a couple years, I might have to get up at about the same time I currently go to bed. I'll have togoto work everyday, even ifl'm tired. I'll risk getting arrested for running arouncl famous monuments sans- clothing. Adults who forget what .it was like to be in college 0ften ques~ tion our behavior. \Why do you stay out until 4 in the morning, and then sleep through lunch?\ \Why put yourself through an all- nighter, when you could have Retraction: I made small error in last weeks column when I called the new theme house at Raymond North The Autonomous Zone. The com- mon area on the ground level where we will be holding open events next year, and the organi- zation in charge are together called The Autonomous Zone. However, the name ofour actual theme house is The Society, not The Autonomous Zone as I inap- propriately called it. I apologize for any confusion this may have caused College Center Fun by Jeffery Druzba Features Editor The Reamer Center fascinates me. It would be neat if places like the college center existed in the real world we're always looking forward to. Imagine going to get your mail, eating, reading, arid getting all your entertainment in one building that was open almost whenever you wanted it to be.lfs a goldmine for the· public. ·su.r- prising that no one has tried it yet. Union's College Center is a strange place, though. If you take the elevator up to the fourth floor, you'll find the first of many quirks in the place. First, you might notice that there is really no need for an elevator to be as slow as the one you took This thing struggles to defy gravity. Nevertheless, after five minutes, you're on the fourth floor. Why not check out the scene in the lounge? Ha! Of course, you just pulled on the door handle, what were you thinking? I,ve seen scores of people struggle with the fourth floor lounge door. Handles are for pulling on, but this one? Welcome to the Reamer. College Center: 1 You: 0. You might decide to take the stairs on your travels. It's inter- esting how the stairs get steeper as you make your way up all four flights. I don't understand how that happens. From the first floor to the second; there ·are· more I· . . . stairs than from the other ffoors, but the first to second stairs are shorter and easier to climb. Why the change in design? Don't doubt Union Engineering. College Cen~ ter: 2 You: 0 One of everybody's favorite parts of the college center is the stack ofMetrolands in the breeze- ways. I've noticed that, in my time at Union, the amount of Metrolands delivered to the Reamer has increased dramati- cally. Back in my day, you had to fight for a copy of the Metro land and, more importantly, the cov- eted \'middle section.\ It's funny how the adult services .insert has this. disclaim.er on it, \Ifthis sec- tion does not interest you, please dispose of it properly.\ I've seen more of the Metrolands them- selves in the garbage or laying around, all of them mysteriously lacking the good part. I bet the good folks who read the Metro land at Union dispose of the ·middle section'firstto·-avo.id ex- posing their innocent eyes to, smut ads. College Center: 2 You: I. So, your stay at the Reamer wasn't so bad. You were emo- tionally wrecked by the fourth floor lounge door, you were baffled by the difference in flights of stairs, but you ended up doing alright with your Metroland in hand. The College Center isn't as tough a place as you thought it was. You're feeling good about yourself, have a cup of candy cov- ered fro-yo. . Keeping it Real. . . Brandon D. Declet V.P. Administration Vinnie Lopez V.P. Finance Jesse Karotkin ·.President ' .:.(.C-.· t·~ Generation X1 X-tr11 c•n,useil 1111:1ybe. Read a book! . . WHN'l'Ef). TAlENTEd MusicAl AcTs TO plAy AT CHET\S. Good MONE.y, GREAT AudiENCES, Lors of OppoRTuNiTiES. CoNTACT JESsE S~AfER AT X 7 5 9 9 foR dETAils ASAPe

illht' illunrnroiensts l\11a' 1 9. 1996 P(•1ue 2() · . . F~ t ' ~ , . \\' ca u res Tl1e Answer Girl . Student ofthe Week: Doug- Schneider Dear Answer-Girl, · I attended this past weekend's bar-b-que/party near Memorial Chapel, and I basically had a good time. Anyway, my question is, What.:the hell is going· on with the weather arot~nd here? Isn't this May? Sincerely, Wet&Cold by Kara Christian StaffWriter Last Thursday night, May 2nd, sophomore, Doug Schneider left the Nott Memorial $200 richer than when he entered. Doug was the winner ofthe 12th Dear Wet, Annual Public Speak- · · Well, yes, it is technically May, but you must remember where we ing Competition spon-. are. In general, the Schenectady-area is about as warm as the wei- · sored by the Delta ''D,;.~;, .. ·'; come Mark Furman would receive at amateur at the Apollo. But the Delta Delta, Fiji ant;l reason for our bad weather goes back approximately 200 years, to the the Philomathian soci- foumling of Union, in 1795. It is a little known fact that Union was ety. built upon an ancient Native-American burial ground. So when During the .compe- Eiiphalett Nott and his cronies swindled the land from the Natives, tition, each ofthe ten for three cases ofBud-Light and a broken ye1low Kazoo, they placed finalists were given a a curse on this portion of up-state New York. In the ninety~sixth year different quote to of every century, the sun would never shine, and rain and cold weather · • present. Doug spoke would cloud every festival. Sorry, but next year should be a blast. on the topic of guilt. · He felt it was a perfect Dear Answer-Girl. Why is there a sign outside of upper-class that demands a shirt and shoes for entrance? It has. been so cold, I can't remember the lasttime I didn't have a sweater on, let alone shoes. What's the deal? Yours truly, Bundled Dear Bundled, WeJI, the answer to that is a little sensith~e. The sign was posted because a certain high-ranking member of our administration (I won't name names, but it rhymes with: Roger Hull), would show up drunk, disheveled, shirtless, andshoeless. This member would show up after a long evening at OTB, demanding free food for himself and his new \friends.\ Thus, unfortunately, upper-class had to take drastic action and put up the sign in question. Hope that clears everything up for you, Dear Answer-Girl, I was at the party on Saturday, and I thought it was great. There wet.~ n~ fis~ts, everyone had fun,tog~th~r. ~n4' the ,bands were great. 1 'p~lcuiariy~·enjoyed'· ·ifae' filu'd!~ficting · portidn· o·f the· ·day: bo· you think it would've been as much fun without the drinking aspect? Sincerely, topic for him. He comments, \Everyone who knows me knows I have my own little routine about Jewish · · guilt. At least once a day I use that silly Yiddish-grandmother accent.\ Although he believes· he has given better speeches, Doug was confident about his humorous, and apparently effective perfor- mance last Thursday night. Doug was pleasantly surprised by his achievement Doug enjoys being in front of an audience, and most of all he likes to make people laugh. Doug jokes, \I enjoy trying to be funny .... and I suppose 'trying' is the key word here. 11 • 1 · Doug is currently a probation- ary member of the Philomathian Soeiety. He enjoys his involve- ment in the society and views the - Friday night meetings as an op- portunity to practice and improve his public speaking. Doug claims, \It's achance to debate, talk and have a lot of fun with other students on campus.\ D<;>ug is also very active in Mountebanks, the student theater and acting group. He has per- fonned in various productions, such asSix Degrees ofSeparation with Mountebanks, as well as other productions organized by the theater department. Doug explains, \Union has given me tremendous opportuni- ties. I've had the opportunity to serve on three different executive boards and I just won $200 for speaking for a combined total of four and a halfminutes about two of my favorite topics... It doesn't get much better than that. 11 Doug feels he has had some great experiences here at Union and claims, \whet~ver you at., tend coUege,_ you get back as• much as-you put in. Union, t:ike. any school has its problems, but you can't just sitback, you've got to get involved and make the. most of the situation.'' For the · ~ ·-~· .. ' past two years Doug ·has been a very active member of the student body. In addition to his involvement in the Philomathian Society . and Mountebanks~ · Poug serves on the · General Education · :Committee, is an ac~ 'tive member of the Jewish Student Union and is Vice ,President of his fraternity, Al- pha Epsiton Pi.· Doug . feels be benefits from all ofhis · experiences. This summer Doug will par~ ticipate in a six week languag~ intensive program in Israel. In addition, Doug will spend the fall in Israel with Union's term abroad program. He is very ex- cited abouthis upcoming adventure. An active and enthusiastic member of our Union commu• nity, Doug Schneider uses his talents to make Union a more in- teresting place. He believes that getting involved is the key to success. Please submit any nomina- tions/or \Studentofthe Week,\ to: Kara Christian -Box #314. Muddy& Drunk bearM&D, .Well; I think it would've been different had the majority of the student-body been sober. But I too feel that, despite the weather, it was a smashing success. There was a strong security force present, although they were not needed, and there seemed to be a \Union Fam- ily\ feeling floating throughout the crowd. Honestly though, it wouldn't have been as fun if the event were \dry\ (no pun intended). That brings me to this week's top ten I ist! WHY THE TAIWAN ISSUE WON'TGO.AWAY Top Ten Signs That You're Drunk 10. Eating at West? Sounds great! 9. Senator Kennedy offers to drive you home. 8. Sliding in mud on a tainy 36 degree day suddenly makes sense, 7. Start to think, \Hey that guy in the football jacket ain't so tough.\ 6. Put on cape and begin running through college center screaming, \I AM THE UNABOMBER! I AM THE UNABOMBER!\ 5. Pants become suddenly wet and warm. 4. You begin drinking \stray\ beer found on various ·ledges in frater- nity bar-room. 3. Your name is Jake Fruchter. 2. \Why squeegee the pong table? I'll lick it clean!\ 1. Vision becomes blurry, you're thirsty, you're tired, the room is spinning, aRd you're not in class. STUDENTS OF THE WEEK: Jake Fruchter: Not only did Jake give a stunning rendition of \Barney\ from the Simpsons (in his white fishennan 's hat, and baby:- blue t-shirt), .he single·handedly kept the Saturday .. bash going and instigated the impromptu mud-slide competition; all he had to sacri- fice was his big toe. Way to go Jake! A true testament to the lengths one can go to, to be laughed at, and ensure a fun time for all! Lindsay Coppleson: Late this past Saturday, Lindsay bravely and skillfully gave CPR to a keg of beer, that looked like it was lost for- ever. She never gave up on it, some left, but she diligently pumped it back to a steady flow. Without such heroics, one wonders what would've happened to that crippled container of suds. Thank you Lind- say, you are truly a modern-day heroine. Courtesy of Prof. Bruce Reynolds On Saturday, May 11, at2 p.m., Professor Bruce Dickson will lec- ture in College Center Audito- rium on the topic, \Why Won't the Taiwan Issue Go Away?\ This has Union students asking: Where is Taiwan, anyway? And what in fact is the Taiwan issue? Both very good questions indeed. This fall, the conflict between mainland China and' Taiwan es- calated dangerously. Acting un~ derpressure from the U.S. Con- gress, the Clinton Administration granted a visa to Lee Teng-hui, the Taiwanese leader, to attend a class reunion at his alma mater • Cornell University. China, which claims Taiwan as a province, has made cfear to other countries its strong opposition to visits, even unoffical ones of this sort, by T~i­ wan leaders to third countries. Beijing fears that bit-by .. bit, the de facto independence which Tai• wan has enjoyed for nearly fifty years will become de jure recog- nition by the rest ofthe world. In March of this year, Lee was elected PresidentofTaiwan. This event again sent tremors through the political atmosphere in East Asia. For the first time, the en- tire population of Taiwan had voted d.irectly and freely for a leader of their own choice. The election clearly endows Pre~ident Lee with even more authority, and again, Beijing clearly foresaw the potential for independent action on his part. · As the election approached, Beijing practiced missile firing into the Taiwan Straits, with some missiles falling as close as 30 miles from Taiwanese cities. The intentclearly was to demonstrate China's capacity to cut Taiwan off from the r.est of the world. President Clinton directed two aircraft carrier groups to positions offTaiwanese shores, leading to the highest' level of tension in t~()se waters siqce .the Quemoy- Matsu Crisis of 1958. Prof. Di·c~son is ideaHy credentialed to explicate these events and to peer into the future. A specialist on Chinese political behaviour and on Taiwanese poli- tics, he has appeared on CNN and on National Public Radio to give cemmentary on these recent events. Prof. Dickson teaches at George Washington University and is the author of a forthcom- . . - ing book on politics on Taiwan. He is b~ing brought to Union by Profs. Ted Gilman and Joyce Madancy, who remarked, \If you are interested in understanding what happened this past year and . what is tikely to happen in the future, please plan to attend this lecture.\ Prof. Bruce Reynolds adds: \The conflict .between the United States and China over the status of Taiwan is the one issue most likely to involve the U.S. in a major war in the foreseeable fu- ture. The main reason is the pro- found level ofignorance by each side about t~e reasons for the other side's position. ignorance and misunderstanding breed war.\ To reduce your own level of misunderstanding you need only appear at the·cc Auditorium, 2 p.m., Saturday. The event is sponsored by East Asian Studies and Political Science. Questions, comments, baking tips for Answer Girl? Send 'em to the Concordy! 3rd Floor of the Reamer Campus Center I' ' I

- r u at- .. :k as ,J:ik~ ;,but egot ~the >rthe·. )oug. .ctive Jdent ~n to, in the· dety mks, rt the, :ttion n ac- f the Jnion· iden •, AI- Doug from Lpar~ :uage ~1. In d the term yex- iastic nmu• ~s his ITem· :sthat rto nina- eek,\ ~314. , J to give recent ches at versity hcom- aiwan. tionby Joyce \If you anding ~arand in the nd this . adds: United :status emost S. in a blefu- hepro- )yeach for the . orance breed ~!Vel of ~d only 'ium, 2 vent is gtudies Shorty, Liz and Marg, I loveyou,.andyouare in my thoughts and prayers! Love,.. Ace I like Rice. Rice is nice. - Choco- late Mousse T.L., You're the sexiest Concordy -- . . . U'NlON· LAUNDRY 581 NOT1' ST. • SCHENECTADY. NY 12308 ~~ FR0t.4 UNfON COLLEa~) OPEN DAILY BAM TO 10:30PM FRF;EDBVING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM 11. PER WASH, .5TM WASH FREe . editor ever ' (well .... ) Just kidding! - JM R,M,N, and K, Road trip? Hopefully we'll make it back! - JM MomandDad, Thanks for four years of love and support I hope youstilllove and sup- port me after a year ofliving with me! Say a prayer for me for Buf- falo! Love Always, Loriene To the 1996 new York State Cham- pions --N eha, J en, Margaret, and KatieM., Thanks for one of the best week- ends of my life! Lets's.try for PhiHy Gold 1996! (W.e'll forgetabol,lt my .. . litt~e wager for now).\ Aileen tomets summer's day still and warm and peacefulthememorieswill stay why must summer ever end? P.R., (Summer Song, o~ Brubeck) Pookie I love you! Pbbb smooch cluck! You know who! Congratulations to the Union Com- munity for participating in the 1996 CROP Walk! Dad·- I .. lO:ve.d. . · .·· · 7 WASHES FOR $5, .. · 28_W~SHES FOR $20. . ' '•. To Adrian-! hope you haven't . missedmetoomuch, butthat'sprob- aoly a lot to ask! -Ken · . : . . . ·MAIL: (OR DEfi0$11' Jiili!FULJGGESrJON 8ox} THIS AD TO UNIO~ LAUNDRY FORAF~EE WASH {N(ii.JJ~ YoiJR ;VAMEAND.AIJDRE$$; gallopingdown TotheUnion Cr~wteam, the hall to see Thanks foraHyop~ support-- we · .. ·you!: Thanl{s . · coulcfA't,have done it without Y.OU! .. . , ___ ].Q:(: a _ g·re~ti ... '. : Love, Aileen ~ : • - • . • : : _: ;I . j weekend!.,t:\ce . :. Sometimes it is better to stay. silent! · Tony ... • ; , · ·- . ' ,., , . f •• :. ._~- ~-. ,. ';t; ,. . ·r~ . .. ~. ·. -.. ' . . · .. I,,,. • • - ' .~I ~ '.· . .t '- :\ j j ' _· . ; _ ••• ~__:....-.:..---~-~--'-\-~~__;_ ___ . ....._.- . ., j/ r-·:..:_:lt._• --------~------~----·...,.-.~-··__,• I LOSE 20 POUNDS Union College Choir--and ' ~ ' . -, ~ Orchestra Performance .. Director: Hugh Allen Wilson May 11th at 8:00PM Performing: Frostiana Music by Randall Thompson Words by Robert Frost Symphony #8 in E minor (Unfinished) .. ·- ·by Franz Schubert .. ··· Brandenburg Concerto #4 byJ.S. Bach Soloists: Carin Gado, Laura Green, Michael pabrowski w~ 1 =~:~:R~~,·==m:t,,=·:~:, IN TWO WEEKS! . ,_ • . • ~ .. ' . • . ', -~ r .• famous. U.S. Womer:r's Alpine Ski Team Diet '., .. _I . '_:· ... • _,··:~·J}. . . ·,,:_,·~~··~;l~:. }!'(:,,~;J··. During the non-snow. off season the U.s .• Women's ·~1pine S~l ;ream • members used the ·ski Team· diet to lose 20 pounds in two we.~ks .. That's •. right - 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is chemical food· action and was devised by a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy is maintained (very important!) while redi:JCing. ;ou k~ep \fuf!\- no starvation- because the diet is designed that way. Its a dtet that IS easy to fallow whether you work, travel or stay at home: {For men, tool) · This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. ~f itwereA.'t, the u.s. · ~omen's .A,Ipin~ Ski Tearp. ~ql;lldfl'~. be. pE!rrri~~~d tq U$.e .ij! ., .~igbt? _ $p., , .. ,, · ,. ·:; gt~e f.oprs,e~cthe srame bre,~~·~l1e.l).~:,.s~LT~~nt&eis~ ,~~P,sE!/.w~igHUrW · screntlftc, proven way. Even tf you've tried all the otMr'di~t~; you o'w~i't to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet. That is, if you· really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today! Tear this out as a reminder. Send only $8.95 ($9.60 In Calif.)-add .50 cents RUSH service to: American Institute, 7343 El Camino Real, Suite 206, Atascadero, CA 93422. Don~t order unless you expect .to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! Because that~s what the Ski Team Oiet will do. © 1995 tLU CDC Updates • • I Career Development Center Job Opportunities: • Carney, Sandoe & Associates • Resume & Cover Let- ter deadline Wednesday,. May 15 . •VTR Capital Inc. is an Investment Banking Firm head quartered on Wall Street. They are seekin~ stock brocket trainees for their Terrytown Branch. Resume Deadline . . ~o the CDC ·May 16. . . . . •Exxon Company,. USA has po~itiorisJor ·~~nten~ce & . compliance Engweer in NY :M;etto & ~ong ·IslattQ;; as . - well as.N~w Jersey; & Pennsylvania areas. FuU details- . available. Resume Deadline May·16~··: :' · , •~and'S !Jrt~i~ers & Co., LJd (Martin Saiids;·':83) ifaccept~ . \. ing resuin~s' for their stoc~broker tr~n~ prpgrani. eric. ... ,has C.Ol11Plete de~il~··. . . . . . · ·~'.-: · . ,i', , , · ·.: , •Entry· level Computer Programmer/ Analyst .position for Strate~;~·Po·wer Systems Inc.;, 7 Wembl(l!y Square, Al- bany, NY 12205.-3830. Fax-# 518-452-7776 · · .•WWW Page Designer needed for local Northwestern Mutual Life. ~ontact Tom Stewart 785-4141. · •World.Wule Web Workshops- Wednesday, May 15@ ·4 & 7 pm, Steinmetz 110 . . ~ .• ·f VGAH~ RJGHTf~ AnnoUnCing the AT&T '\Ultimate ROAD 'l'R~\ sweepstakeS • Studying' abroad th1s Fal:? AT&T wqqld. Li~e to help. pay you:r;: way . .. , - ... ;o ~ l'Rl:~ WDtiERB - , Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. t:.o the countcy where you will study. Plus thousands of other • \ sh!mces, ::;o ~in .... ' - t. .• · .• li..eather\ooun~._ passport folders • High-quality , · , .. currehcy conv.erters ·~To ent;:er, . call Or see your Study Abroad Counselor for more details. . . Nc: purcnase ne.ceucry· ' . .\oid whel\eo Prohib.1ted Sweepst•kes enels 5o 3.;. ~t :~e:- '\' ;;_t :·:ens-<.! th(> ;;.s 16 y•ars or o-lder a.t.tendlnQ\ scho\~ abroad for the Pal; '9t ~er.es':.E\-t thr.ouQ\r pu~lClp~~;: 1ng scnoc~s SH your Stud\ -'broad Counselor for ofhc::.al ru\les anc:! d~ta:. .. s C\ :99~ AT,'T ...

SJ)ol\ts . . . . . - . - , . . ' 'illlp~ <!luucoroit'm>is • May 9.; 1996 til Page 22 Women's Softball Ends Season on a Bright. Note .by Quinlan Murphy & Philip Herma.n ,staff writers The D1:1.tchwomen ofUnionCol- lege ended the season with a four game winning streak and bright hopes for nextseason. This sea- son was a rebuilding one for Coach Brian Speck's ballclub. However, the team showed im- provementin the latter halfofthe season, and their season end win- ning streak could be a preview of next year. The team is young and should be competitive the next few years. The team was lead this season by their pitcher Danielle Lacrosse whopitched extraordinarily well against Russell Sage, giving up 3 Fell ow Sen ion runs in their 18-3 win. \The heart and soul of this young team are the Tri-Captains, seniorsJen Ricci , Lauren Papa, and Kim Fanning as well as their pitching sensation Danielle Lacrosse,\ said by Coach Speck. The excellent fielding of Fanning is one of the talents she demonstrates on the field. Amy Nyran and Kim Fanning com- bined -in their last double-header to hit 15-18. Thisseason'sexperi- ence will benefit the team for the next few years as the presence of the seniors will be felt greatly next year. Tri-Captains Jen Ricci, Lauren Papa, and Kim Fanning had something to say to the team: \We had a great season and are proud of each one ofyourperfor- mances. We wish you luck and will miss aU of you. Thanks to everyone for your support.\ Please cont.-ibute to senior fund '96. It is our way. as a class. · to leave our pennanant mark at UniOn. , . , .. ·.) .. ·-~: j I \ . , I j • ~ UNION COLLEGE'S · 200tb Graduating Cia,. Send donations to Senior Fund ' 96 C/0 Jon Shapiro Box 1818 Student Forum Elections are approach-ing. ~ • ..... ·r Aaton Rodri8Jle>: Ballplayer freshman year. .Litric League Coacl1 sopltonwre year Killed junior year December 28. 1993 San AniOnlo. TX If you don't stop someone from driving drunl<. who willl Do whatever II takes. ltUI~wt1•tmilhliM@•}1•]m9jm(i!WI Men's Tennis Finishes at .500; deafeats Hartwick by Jonathan Gastbalter staff writer The 1996 Dutchmen tennis team closed out its season on Saturday, May 4 with·a 6-3 win over Hartwick. The Dutchmen, who were routed 7..:0on thursday by Binghamton, neededthe win to preserve its .. 500 record. The second and third doubles teams of sophomore Jordan Pinsker andjunior Sam Berger and juniors Matt Be be and Jeff Swan respectively, helped pr.oyide the Dutchmen with the crucial victory. Pinsker felt that the season overall was a success. \I think we did great becau.se we finished with a .500 record, an even Sand Sforthe first time in years. We hadn 'tdone that well in previous years and this year we were real strong.\ The team is retaining all ofits players and ·hopes to recruit some strong players from the incoming class of 2000. If the team continues to build on its success next season and plays some more matches, the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association playoffs are a definitepossibilityin 1997. the e:ttreWJe lner tat a1ver.ture dm\LdSu~ lliBll - WE.L.COME TO LASERTAG THE F\UTURISTIC LIVE ACTION LASER GAME. A F\ANTASY WORL.O ·OF\ STRATEGY ANO RAW EXCITEM'ENT. YOUR MISSI.ON; TO SEEK, F'IND A1~C DEA:::~ I,•ATC OPPO'SINOi TEAM MEMBERS F'OR POINTS USING THE W.:::JRLC. S MOST AOVAN.CED LASER EqUIPMENT. LASERTA{:O IS P'-AYED IN I>.N AORENAL.INE-CHARGEO ATMOSPHERE CRE.~'ED C' SPECIAL EFF\ECT LIGHTING, FOG MACHINES AND HIC.H ENERGY \\'U!JIC ALL IN A ·BLACK L.IGHT MAZE ARENA. Fast paced ,. heart pump.ln,G .. w.i/d ·~ explosive WITH VIDEO GAME ARENA & REFRESHMENT CENTER Bo.oK A LA~¢R TA~ PARTY FOR YOUR GROUP OR OFFICE NOW. . GREAT FOR BACHE:L..OR PARTl'E:S' ! GAME:S START AT ·ONL..Y $5.00 -: .. . If you don't stop someone from driVing drunl<, who will? .Oo whatever il takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. ' . c l1.S.~nfTmniporlntiGn - INTRAMURAL. UPDAT'E A-LEAGUE SOFTBALL: lEAGUE I ·nuSEDTOBE TDCID • BLUE&GOU> PIHSIG FIJI A SIGClll .lEAGUER 4-'0 3-1 2-1 l-2 l-2 l-3 SIGOH 3-1 .. GOLD&8LUE 3-1 . FAI,SfAFF 2-2 · ·AMERICANS 2,.2 LAMBS 2,;2. ~A 2-2 FLJI l-3 CANADIENS 1-3 B LEAGUE SOFTBALL: lEAGUE I SIGCID .. zur FOX ALPHADELT PINK FLAMES PlllSlG IEAGUEU SIGCHI 420 SOUTHERNEXP. PIDDELT PIDDELTB RICHMONI) .BETA BOMBERS VOLLEYJJALL: LODGE. TDCin FIJI BLUE&GOLD PHISIG SIGCill LAMBS PIDDELT LACROSSE: TDCJU _PSIU LODGE SIGPIH SMOKERS BLUE&GOLD SIGCHI PHIDELT .. 3-0 2-1 1-2 l-2 l-2 l-2 . 3-0 2-l 2-1 2-1 2-1 1-2 l-2 4-0 3-1 3-1 3-1 2-2 2-2 1-3 0-4 3-0 3-0 3-0 2-1 1-1-l 1-2 l-2 0-2-1 CO-REC SOFTBALL: CHECK INTR~MU­ RAL OFFICE FOR UP- DATED

L . ~ :o ·1 ·1 ·2 ·2 -3 ·l ·1 ·2 ·2 ;2 . ·2 ·3 ·l . ~ ·0 ·1 ·2 ·2 ·2 ·2 ·0 ·1 ·1 ·1 ·1 ·2 ·2 ·0 ·1 ·1 . ·1 ·2 ·2 ·3 4 ·0 ·0 ·0 ·1 ·l ·2 . t ·1 0 ~ Union.Track and Field Goes to Izyl to Warm up for States by MikeLeding staff writer Have you ever seen the movie Platoon? You may ask why in the hell the guy writing the track ar- ticle is askingusthis. VaHdques- tion, I' U tell you why. You know the character Rhah, the spiritual leader of a certain sect of the pla- to()n. Well~ you seethe women;s squad has such a leader in the fotnl of Sarah Morse. Sarah is a special person on the team and is often overlnoked because she doesn't always score points, but her .presence is always felt. Sarah is very outgoing and keeps ev- erycne on the team loose with her humor and support. She can al- ways be heard yelling at the Union runners to get them around the track quicker. There are many otherperfonn.ers on this team just· like Sarah that add to the team in so many other ways, and I would just like to thank them for all their efforts, and wish them the best of luck as they continue to improve. Now to the happenings on the track from this past weekend. It was a tri-meet between Uni.on, RPI, and St. Lawrence. The women placed third with 18 points, and the men placed second behind RPI with 58 points defeat~ ing SLU by 7 points. The top four placers scored points at this meet. For the women, Autumn Renn placed second in the long jump with a leap of 4.64 meters, and Kathy Bugden fin- ished fourth in this event witha distance of 4.44 meters. Jessica 13:00.3 inthe3,000meters. I'dalso also like me to tell everyone that he was there represent- ing Union. Jn the high Goveiaplaced.third in . . . . . the 1 500 meters in a Matt Johnson at States (photo by Laurel Ruma, TIC) ' jump, Mike Martin jumped a personal best, clearing 5 feet to place fourth. Jason Jennings placed secend with a leapof5.78 meters, and Martin finished third with a jump of 5.49 meters. In the 4x I 00 meterrelay, the team of Frank Attah, Mike Leding, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi placed second, but we won't talk about time because the baton was dropped and there were only two teams running, butwe still got time of 5: 13. 56. Kathy finished like to mention the efforts .of Amy third inthetriplejumpwith a leap Hitz and Aimee Marco who con- of9.90 meters; and Autumn fol\ lowed in fourth with adistartce of 9.8.5 meters. ln the 400 meters, Heather Leet placed fourth in a timeofl:08.93. Inthe800meters, Molly Boodplaced third in a time of2:35.9. Towrap.upthescoring for the women was Rhah herself( Sarah Morse) in a ~ime of tinued to improve atthis meet. The men had one of theirfinest performances to date tuning up for a run at states. Jon Gainor placed third in the hammer with a thtowof 43.34 meters. In the shot put, Mr. Ledge, Jermel Royal, placed second with a threw of 12.74 meters. Donny Tam would points for it. In the 400 meter dash, Mike Leding won the race in a personal best time of-50.35 to move him from ninth to tifth in the state, Also placing in the 400 was Russ Stram in fourth with a time of54.44,just coming back from in- jury. In the lOOmeters; pave Riggi, who is ranked third in the state, won with a time of 11.34 seconds, Brian Goldbe~g placed third in a time of 12.1 0, and Frank Attah was fourth in a time of 12.22 -seconds. In the 800 meters, Nick Conway v placed second in a personal best timeofl :56.01 to improve his rank- ing in the state to fifth. In the triple jump, Mike Martin placed second with a leap of 12.00meters. Matt Johnson battled the wind in the javelin to place first with.a throw of52.36 meters. DaveRiggirana personal best in the 200 meters in a time of 22.50 seconds to place .first and improveto seventh in the state. Placing second and also running a personal best was Mike Leding in a time of23 .60 seconds. Brian Goldberg placed third in the 200 with a time of24.45 seconds. In the l ,500 meters, Pete. Flynn won in a personal best time of 4:06.31 to improvetotwelfthinthe state. Pete is also ranked seventh in the state in the 800 meters and it is his decision what he wants to run at states . In the 4x400 meter relay, the team ofPete Flynn, Nick Conway, Russ Stram, and Mike Leding won in a seasonal best time of3 :29.64. This weekend is states at RPI and good luck to everyone as they try to obtain their goals. Women's Rugby Roc~s · Men Ruggers Win. Weekend Tourney . (cuntinuedfrom page 24) ment, and Sara Gower who showed the rest of us how to tackle two ruggers at once. Please note: of the 5 ruggers who scored, 4 were members of the serum (it's about time). Also aid- ing in both Union viCtories were Shalini \I'm still a rookie\ Sood, Ra.chael \Tur Piro, Debbie . \watch me ruck\ Spaulding, Alana \TheProp\ Cooper, Jayne \hey that's my nickname\ Seekins, Noelle \the high assed Number 8\ Somers, Heather \no money, no beer\ Daly,Jodi\let's play cards\ Mace, Jen \detergent queen\ Taylor, Betsy \R.P.I. isn't so bad\ Butterfield, Carol\bring me a .. \ Case, Daniela 11 Ijustdon't · feel like it today\ Chiulli, and Lindsay \I can always trace my rugby roots back to Union Col- lege\ Dunn (We love ya, kid!!). The end of this fine rugby ar- ticle is now upon us. As the Co\Captains of the unstop- pable, impressive, bead wear- ing and losing, beer drinking, song singing, mud sliding, hard working, muddy, sweaty, bloody, broken, yet beautiful ruggers, we would like to thank the team for a great, yet some- times challenging a11d em.o\ tional sea~on. Special thanks go to our dedicated group of sallies who call themselves our coaches. Gust kidding guys\ we love ya! and appreciate how far you have brought our team!!!!!!!). UNTIL NEXT YEAR... called shady at best. This would the Hamilton Prop known to us be the last time they would score. only as Jimmy Two Tons. These TomMilnermistookthemforhors Acombinedassault,which'Union two men, as we knew it would d'oeuvres from the upcoming bar- has finally achieved this season, happen, met at full speed, head to becue. After a quick de- ~---------------- head. The Men;s Rugby bate, Union handed over .ll .. h h I dji tea.ln.e~ends.theirthanks to Mark \Pike ifyou pull ... alter t e Eart spit open an re HamHiOh:mecoaches,arid out anymore o~ my leg consumed Hamilton's spectators, the college community who hair I will rip your throat Union 's Master of Girth was the braved the weather to sup\ out\ D'Ambruoso, Eric port them. Any spectators \Squanto the Destroyer only one standing. interested in- watching (continued from page 23) of Short Horseback Rid\ Union begin its Canadian ers\Smith led to scores by Laycock, and tour in Montreal this weekend one\ Gifford. and Aaron \If there Seth \Smith you aren :t suppose should call Skip Aycox at 1-800- is a God, don't let that be Chris to disembowel ME!, Brown. Two BUDDHA I for passes on the Weilerabouttohitmel\ Ziff. With conversion kicks and a penalty Chicken Legs Express. all players in place, Union began kick by Field ended the scoring in Once again, congratulations to its second match. Union'sfavor,.J7\3. We need only the Union College Men's Rugby Hamiltondidnotwasteanytime mention one other event of the Club for a successful season and scoring. Minutes into the first half day. Prop Chris «Its Saturday the first state title in club history. theyjumpedaheadofUnion,3-0, MomingAlready!;'Weilermethis good luck this weekend in on a penalty kick that could be equal in weight, if not strength, in Montreal. Dutchmen Baseball Run Win Streak to Six but Get Edged from ECAC Playoffs . by Cltris Leone staff writer The Uni'on College baseball · s<Juad was able to avoid the rain ()n Saturday and picked up two k:ey wins on the road against · Vassar. With the wins, the team moved their overali re.cord to an impressive ·11-11; by- farthe ~est record of any Union team dux:ing this spring. · . The fifteen wins -is also one winsh.ort oftyingtheall time Union r:ecotd .fontiost wins . . . ina season. Moreimpressivetb.~an the overall-record is1he ::i'actJhat thisteam has-overcomeearlY sea\ son problems and has strung to\ gether a six game winning streak with all the victories coming dur\ inga difficultroad schedule. De- spite the Dutchmen's ·hot streak, they were passed over for a post season birth in the ECAC Tour- nament. Monday's selection placed Union fifth behind R.I.T., Freedonia, 8.U.N.Y. Binghamton,· .and Hartwick, with the top four teams getting invites. In this last week ofthe.season; Union will try and tie the all time record aS they play a re\scheduled game at Albany State' on. Tues- · daynightat7:00. TheDutchm.en may have an opportunjty to break the streak if they can make up a· . doubleheader that was canceled against Williams. In the first game, Union pitcher Josh Soldo shut down Vassar while delivering a three hit com- plete game shut out. Soldo, while strikingout4, had \complete con- trol and pitched a sound game\ according to his Coach Gary Reynolds. The team supplied the offensive support by scoring a run in both the first and third innings , and adding two more in the sixth. The offensive leaders for the game were Eric Kujawski and Ryan Smith. Kujawski ~cored two runs while· going 2\4 and Smith pick€ld up two RBis while hand\ ing in a 2..:2 performance at the plate. The 4-0 victory moved Soldo's personal record to 4-3 . In the second game Union sent out David Kline to the mound to try and sweep their third straight doubleheader. Early in the game Union racked Vassar pitching for three runs in the first and third in\ ning. Toby Guzowski and David Berstein led the charge with each collecting two hits and an RBI. By the sixth inning Vassar had closed in on the read, 6\5 when Michael Riveles came in to the game with the tying man on first and only one out. Riveles got a double play and ended the inning with Union still leading by a run. In the top ofthe seventh, co-cap- tain Jimmy Knight laced a triple to score Adam Myers and to provide an insurance run. Riveles would not ne~d the extra cushion, as he retired the side in order in the bot- tom of the seventh. Kline, who allowed three runs over five in- nings of work, earned credit for the 7\5 victory. The win was Kline's (3-3) third victory in a row after an 0-3 start. Women's Tennis INTERCOLLEGIATE TEAM TRYOUTS FOR . . FALL SEASON TUESDAY MAY 14, 4:00ATTENNJSCOURTS CONTACT COACH BILL SCANLON AT X6286 IF YOU PLAN TO ATTEND .. -

Mud War '96: Union Rugby Triumphs Peter \Pike\ Mody cranks into higlt gear in Saturday's tournament win (plzoto: Laure(Ruma, TIC) Men's R,ughy DestPoys Competition by PeterMody contributing rugger After winning the state cham- p,ionships last weekend, the UnionCollege Men's Rugby Club ended their United States tour with. a \tournament\ ·on Rugby Field in the shadow of the awe inspiring Nott Memorial. Suffer- ing from the high amount of rain- fall and the continued use by both the men and the women's teams, the pitch was in a state of disar- ray, and the onslaught of the. day'sfive games quickly saw what little grass was left churned into mud. Union's first match ofthe day was scheduled against Hamilton, a team they beat by a slim 3.:0 margin early last spring. Union came out like \'Brockton Gang Bustas\ led by its strong line, which rolled off the play of the pack to once again wear down its opponents. Due to injuries from last week's tournament, Union found itself with players in bizarre positions. With the pack underweight from the player sub- stitutions, they relied on the light- ening quick loose play to stun the slower, and need we say more ro- bust, Hamilton forwards. Loose play from Bill \'King Helmet the Heavy\ Ackerbauer, who ~bowed that you are never to old to learn a n~wposition, led to Union's first score. After pounding deep into Hamilton territory, it was none other than recent lacrosse free agent Chris «If! can't win a state title with Lax, I' II play with a team I can!\ Delano, who sped past Hamilton's defenders and then dove eight feet through the air; landing a frontaerial dismount of a would-be tackler's shoulders, scoring a try and qualifying for the Olympic Gymnastics Squad. Lat~r injhe half, after a brilliant rt.tt}ning-play in which UniQnac- tuf,l:Jiy passed the ball inward after reaching the wing, there was a penalty called against Hamiltonat th~ five. Ian \I am fiaally done with American Rugby\ Laycock snatched up the ball and bolted into the tryzone for a score, virtu- ally unnoticed by Hamilton de- fenders. This brought the score to 10-0. Moments before the half;. - time extravaganza, in which the townspeople ofSchenectady paid homage to rain and mud, Union managed another score. After a penalty against Union, stemming from a high tackle from Dave «Lets see you sprint without your jugu .. Iars\ Greenberg, Union stopped Hamilton once again, and upon returning the ball, Hamilton was called for offsides. The sure footed Brian \I thought the game was at5:DO\ Field booted the pen- alty kick that would end scoring for the game at 13MO. Union's second game ofthe af- temoon was scheduled against The Big Red Flamingos from Oneonta. As Union prepared to begin the match, one astute rugger pointed out a small prob- lem that arose and threatened Union's chances fora second vic- tory. There was no sight of Oneonta. Hamilton, who was supposed to play a later match against them, volunteered to play Union again under one condition: Union donate four of its players, due to the four Hamilton ruggers that were-demolished as a result of a freak accident in which Coach (continued on page]J) Union Women Ruggers Cap~ure Win in Ho1ne Tournament by Naomi Harel & Kim Sanabia Contributing Writers The sounds of the Union Women Ruggers could be heard across campus on Saturday as they pummeled any opposition thatcame into their sight. In other words, we kicked@#$&%!\*. In the fir~t match, the Union Women faced R.P.I.. After much rucking and mauling and slipping and slid- ing (compliments of the three week torrential downpour), Union beat R.P.I. 5-0. Captain Naomi \Sidestep per\ Harel scored a try in the second half which put Union ahead. Kudos to Tiffany . \I loved our ref\ Lussier who used penalty plays most advanta- geously. Quick note: Tiffany will receive a complimentary try from the team due to failure of the ref (who was suspiciously seen wear- ingahatwith R.P.I. colors)to rec- ognize a try when he se.es one. The killer team which putR.P.L to RIP included serum members: Julie \Truck in Training\ Firman, Laura Grund, Kate McCullough, Kathy Walter, Courtney \Tap Dance Queen\ Brem, Ahnya Mendes, Laurel \I need practice with my stiff arm\ Salzman, and Naomi \I need to buysomestock- ings11 Harel. The line included: Sara \I may look innocent; but I love my Coke\ Gower. Kim \22 mi-nutes is enough to make my presence felt\ Sanabia, Jen ''get number. 12 11 Lelas, Wendy Stephenson, Melisa Chakin, and Stacey Fellows. The games which followed con- sisted of matches between Union Men and the Hamilton Men (hotties who unfortunately didn't stay long enough to be exploited by the Union Women), and Middlebury Women versusR.P.I .. As the rugby gods continued to shed their tears, the pitch became· increasingly swamp-like and~ as the sacred tournament drew to a - . close, the Union Women faced Middlebury in a fin.al champion- ship match. We would like to take this time to thank ourselvds for sharing our playing time apd giv- ing the honored seniors .time to play their last and best game of their rugby careers. Union 30, Middlebury Zero, Zip, Nada, Ziltch 9 Nothing, Ningun ~ry ... Contributing to this massacre were Julie Firman who graced the try zone, not once, but twice with her presence (rather impressive from the prop position), Lauren Locke who was the only first term rookie to score, Andrea Schulman who will be blessing England in the fall with her nasty green laces, Tiffany Lussier whose try was recognized by Andy's replace- continued on page 23 The women's team hits the serum. (photo by Laurel Ruma -TIC)

a ... a g d Opinions: JL1Ll Responds page 11 ................... • Block U Winners page24 L. ____ c_,,, .....• -------------- ··-------····· --·----··-·--' Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 0 '? ' '>~~' , '\ o.l 1 ,, 1 u '\\\\' ~ ,, ._ >U'>~ -.~ ~' > ~ \~ h>h ,., ~''\<\' \'_ \'L~h~ > - • ..-. '\~ -\ '-\ <>.> -»tl\••'\' ~hlo o><.W< ,.,.,«- \Y<tt\ ·~<o>r~ _,__..•_, 0t< • < ' 't!<<> o,o<tl ... oh<O'< ''\\'•»'4-\'..J'->-ol ~~ \'- h v,h '\~ .-tf; ~~ o'> •oC ~-~,l~'-';.•\'<~d~-<t<>•h '••J->.•b •\ ti)JJ• ;o\iiM0Ul>..«/!~)~\\'~\ '•~o,_ho>lioioo\'\'''~'\''lt<>.>.: M{ \# ~~·~ikm.>\ !{'<>»•7J')>~ ':~~{'(, • ~,; )..,.- (> '', o;;.,,> Yo'(.<litl••fn: Voltt;ll~ CXXV.Numhc-r V! · · . · Srh\!neQtad}, NC\V Yprk · . ·. . - : · · · . · · -·: -.' .::. ·:.-.---.},~hry. :1':5;-·~~-~-lJ:~~,-- '; ,~; .__ , ~ ~ , \ \' : 1 \ \\' ,\• 'A < ~ ~ , 0 ~·-''~\\ \\'\\'\' ,,w ''\'\ u ~m1v ,;. <•-•'<-. ~,_.,,. ~·•- I--;., ~\-•~·\;\' '~''\\''\\>I_.~,_-\''''\'''''\ i>JIItodn'\ ht '' /\' •i\'> e-.,~ i,.. ~ l••'••l•\\·~'!\''l\--...,.\\':'\'-' ''\'v' 'v 1 .t:. ~· ,.,..,,,.~mJU\'\'~\'\\\';-1 'Z~•l • u A<' -,,.~\\';J\\\!'t<llll. >.-v~~o.,W~u•;t-J\<~<~~ -'X->.>.~ \'!~ ~- f\ •' \'\.: ~,-t Michael Medved Speaks on Hollywood vs. America - ~ by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Michael Medved, a film critic and an authority on cultural val- ues and HoHywood's role in in- fluencing them, spoke to the small turnout .of Union Students and faculty on May 6, in the College Center Auditorium. He is a best- seHing author, aJ:jd is often seen national television. Medveq is co-host of Sneak Previews, the weekly movie review show and writes film reviews for the New York Post. In his most recent book, Holly- wood vs. America, Medved dis- cusses how Hollywood no longer reflects - or even respects - the values of most American fami- Hes. The book has inspired an outpouring of more than a half- million supportive letters and phone calls and has brought about a major reorientation in the en- tertainment industry's attitude to- ward the family. Medved was asked to speak to a presumably large audience, but. only thirty people attended and a few left before he finished speak- ing. The basis ofhis talk revolved around the contents of his novel and how Hollywood should take a better position. He speaks of three lies he believes that Holly- . wood often advocates: harmless entertainment, reflection of real- ity, and the ideathatthe public is given what they want, but they do not have to watch it. Medved supports the theory that entertainment is not harmless. He spoke of the movie Lethal Weapon and how his critique was not supportive of the film. He was accused by a Hollywood director who said that the movie saved thousands of lives. Medved ar- gued that three seconds of foot- age of fastening a seat belt could not possibly save someone's life. He said thatthissocially construc- tive behavior might be fol1owed by some, but who is to say that no one will emulatetherestofthe violent content in the film. Medved also mentioned that Hollywood honored condorrtg, He stated, if one sees a condom being used and are influenced by it, howcan you argue that people won't follow the gestures that ac- company condom usage? Another myth portrayed by · Hollywood, Medved believes, is the numerous murders witnessed from watching television: no one sees seven out of 350 murdered nightly .. .ifitwas real, we'd have zero population. He said that 40 percent of murders on TV are committed by businessmen, whereas in reality it is less than one percent. Medved spoke about issues pertaining to the unrealistic im- age of the female body !:lnd how • it is perfectly portrayed in IUOV'- ies and national television. He emphasized the numerous surgi- cal enhancements amm'lg Holly- wood actors like Sharon Stone. Although he said that her body was viewed as thin and beautiful by fans and moviegoers, she uses a body-double in all her fihm. Medved said, Hollywood puts unrealistic notions ofhowwomen should look. He questioned the portrayal of reality because _people go to church more ·than they attend movies. Medved also spoke about how R rated movies are less l·ikely to make money. He said, v·iolence don't sell. The top ten films are not R rated movies, butG rated fi]ms like Pocahontas. Casper. and Toy Story in 1994. Accord- _ing to Medved, G and PG rated films sell two times better than violent films. Medved is more concerned with the amount of television that Americans watch rather than tbe violence, sex, and false imagery. He said that coli ege students have significantly decreased their TV viewing. In conclusion, Medved suggested we should ignore the news, stop flipping· through the channels and merely watch a movie or two every once in a while if a good film is playing. Participants left the speech with questions concerning Medve~'s opinions ofhypocrisy. Spring Fest '96 Beckons Battle ofthe Bands This Weekend Courtesy of Concert Committee This Saturday May 18 at · 12:00 p.tn. the Union College Community will be treated to six hours of non-stop, live music. An outdoor concert at West Beach featuring four bands is sure to be a highlight of your springtime memories. The mu,- sic will I itt your spi[its and make you wantto dance until you can dance no tnore. What follows is a synopsis of the bands that wiH be performing at this year's SpringFest. In ordeiofappear- ance they are: Resolve · Scotia, New York sits at the very end of Schenectady, with the ghost of industry howling through the bones of its suburban closets. Like any small town in the USA, abouttheonly thing for a young man to do in Scotia is get out. Bill Madden, Dave Rose and Dan Valachovic spent their end- less high school days going to class, their yawning afternoons hanging and hoping, and their dreaming nights feeding their heads-on Pete Townshend, Bono and Mike Scott. They thought the exit sign must be lurking some- where in the music. Banging restless in the base- ment, the threesome passed around the drums, bass and gui- taruntil each found b.is voice and , hands. Then they were Resolve, and they rocked with a passion, a purity and a pride beyond their years. In 1991, coliege called - and Resolve was Boston bound. Working with indie gurus, John C. Wood and Kramer,. Resolve made a name for themselves .in a town with too many bands-and they stretched confident fingers· over New England and New York. In '94, Madden's mouth moved from behind the skins to the front I ine when they found the big, red, Boston drum ma- chine ofSteve Mullaney. Re- solve began sharing stages with and tearing praises from like- minded melodic rockers Bob Mould, The Meices, and Off Resolve has a ragtag spirit continued on page 4 Honor Code: Do We Need One or Do We Have One? by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer Can U handle an honor code? This was the Crosstalk question posed to the Union community on Thursday, May 9th, 1996. The interpretation of \honor code\ can be as diverse as the people who participate, and the debate was held to firgure out how we define it for ourselves. The Crosstalk doubled as a town meeting for the Student Forum, and President Ken Chase moder- ated the discussion. Panelists in- cluded Sam Tolkoff(VP of Aca~ demics), Jeremy Camara, Dean Fred Alford, and Professors Adrian Frazier and Linda Stanhope. Some particij:nints felt that we already have our. own code, whether it has be~p for- mally defined or not. Others ar- gue that establishing an honor code could simply become a po- licing mechanism that holds un- desirable behavior in check out of fear rather than personal restraint. The idea of a formal honor code is foreign to our campus, though it exists successfully elsewhere. As Dean Alford points out, to es- tablish such a system would re- quire an element of implicit trust throughout the community. He states that this trust would have to be the \lifeblood\ ofthe honor code. Every student would trust their peers to follow the Code, and likewise hold responsible those who don't. It is this last aspectthat would uproot the the belief that \We don't rat on one another,\ which Alford feels is prevalent on this campus. However, Alford does believe that a type of honor code already exists at Union; and that it can be witnessed daily. For example, in the UP.perclass Din- ing Hall, students leave their per- sonal belongings all over the tables with no concern for theft. Overall, he concludes thaf an honor cpde would be difficult to establish here, but it is \worth pur- suing.\ , In addition, Profes·sor Frazier . explored the argument from a Greek point of view. He argued that if a fraternity or sorority oa campus established itself as a place that rejects- cheating, con.- ' demning. it in every way, shapti, and form, it could create a snow- ball effect It could make this ani.- mosity towards cheating part of its pledge education program and reject from their organization continued on page 4 INSIDE: CampusNews ....... : ......................... 2 Opinions!Editoria/.o; ...... .................... H Arts & Entertain11tent ..................... 15 Business .......... ..................... : .......... 5 Wot/d News .................................. :.6 Features ......................................... / 1 Announcements .............................. 1\' Sporls ............................................ 20 f !

Campu~ News - Wlp~ illmuori'iirnsis • l\lay 16, 1996• Pa~e 2 Campus Info schedule of Events for SPRING FEST. WEEKEND \Battle of the Btmfts\ Thursday,, May. 16 college center 5PM 9PM Friday, May 17 \AU camyus B BQ:. college center J'outdoor Movie: SPEED\ west Beach saturday,· May 18 all day \SPRINGFEST\ west Beach ifeaturing Moe, Resolve, The Other Half, and RisinLJ Lton.) come and e~joy free food, human games, 1 and a lot more! ! evenillg \All ca~us BBQJI\ west Beach (mealyunch) -, sunday, May 19 . 2 PM \Twister Tournament\ west Beach 3 PM J'skydtving Exhibition\ west Beach Chemistry Department, Seminar Schedule, Thursdays at 12:30; Room N116. - \'t'f;o . -_May 16; Prof. Sc_ott Van Atman . Department of Chemistry, Franklin & MarshalL \An Aqueous Flourescence Probe for Zn(II)\ May 23: Prof. Richard Johnson Department of Chemistry, University ofNew Hampshire \Pushing the Limits of Strained Organic Molec11les\ Biology Department in conjunction with The Biology Club, Thursday, May 16th at 4:40PM; Social Sciences 103. May 16: Dr. Twitty J. Styles Chairman~ Department of Biology, Union College \Biodiversity in Costa Rica\ This seminar will cover field trips to rain forests and the natural resources studied during the Term Abroad in Costa Rica. Everyone interested in spending time in a tropical environment is invited to attend. . Student Activities: Upcoming Events: Performing Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, May 22 through June 1 in The Yulman Theater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 starting at9 PM· in Chef's, located in the back Campus Center. The Women's Studies Program Presents POSTCOLONIAL CARIBBEAN READINGS by JEANETTE SPRINGER Visiting Fulbright Scholar in Women's Studies AN AFTERNOON OF CARIBBEAN CULTURE:. language, humor, male/female relationships and values THURSDAY MAY 16 4:00PM CCAUD Reception to follow in CC 302 UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1996 THROUGH MONDAY, MAY 13, 1996 DATEfflME LOCATION. TUESDAY, MAY 7,1996.: 7:00 AM Bailey Hall 12:18 PM Phi Delta Theta Lot WEONESDA Y, MAY 8, 1996: 2:00 AM Richmond 9:00AM Sigma Phi Lot 11:05 PM Fraternity THURSDAY MAY -9, 1996: 1 :19 AM Hickok & Richmond 1:35AM Raymond/Potter Lot 1:58PM CS & EELabs 3:37PM Fox Loading dock 5:35PM Webster House 8:38PM Raymond House FRIDAY, MAY 10,1996: 1 :00 AM Lamont Lot 5;31 PM 7:16PM 11:20 PM 11:34 PM Social Science Bldg. Campus Center Edwards Lot North Lane area SATURDAY, MAY 11,1996: 2:06 AM Flagpole area 4:45PM Campus Buildings 6:45PM Arts Annex 7:15PM Campus Center 10:13 PM Alumni Gym Lot 11:30 PM Library Lane area 11:30 PM Flagpole area SUNDAY, MAY 12, 1996: 12:08 AM Union Ave. gate 1:57AM Lamont House 4:51PM Raymond South 8:46PM University Place MONDAY, MAY 13; 1996: 2:14AM Campus Center 9:25AM Raymond South 12:30 PM McKean House 10:52 PM West College area INCIDENT VANDALISM: Drinking fountain 1st floor damaged. · PROP,ERTYDAMAGE: Student'scarwind- shieldcracked,believed to have been acciden- tal. V ANDALISM!I'HEFf: Students tampering with vending machine to get free products. PARKING V,fOLA'f.J.ON: Vehicle immobi- lized. Repeat unregistered violati.ons. NOISE COMPLAINT/SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Noise complaint received. Upon in- vestigation found unauthorized social event in- progress. Conduct Charge filed. NOISE COMPLAINTS: Complaints received regarding noise from student activity creating a disturbance in both areas. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Staff member accidentally backed into a student's car. Student notified. No damage to either vehicle. THEFT: Student reports three books stolen in two separate incidents. TRESPASS: Visitor searching through trash for redeemables. Identified and advised off campus. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Students engaging in water fights. Had been previously advised - Conduct charges filed . THEFT: Student's stereo system stolen from a:n unlocked storage room. Incident occurred sometime between November-May. VANDALISM: Hole knocked in wall near video machines. VANDALISM: Clock in classroom damaged. THEFT: Staff member's coat stolen from locker . PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobi- lized. Repeat unregistered violations. SUSPICIOUS PERSON:. Visitor claiming to be looking for someone. Identifed and advised off campus. THEFT: Student left jacket unattended. Jacket containing personal items was stolen. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTIONS: Minor flooding conditions in several buildings caused by continuous rain. VANDALISM: 11uee windows broken. THEFT: Student left backpack unattended in lounge area. Wallet and personal items stolen. V ANDALISMffHEFT: Handicapped park- ing sihrn and post removed and taken. VANDALISM: Limb broken off of tree. Sus- pect identified. . HARASSMENT: Group of suspects, ~elieved to be students, threw a burning charcoal bri- quette at two other students. No injury. Sus- pects left area. ~ MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Escort ve- hicle stmck by car entering campus. Minor damage, no injury. Car drove off but was later found parked on campus. • ATTEMPTED THEFT: Suspect caught in the act ofstealing a window air conditioner. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM/SECURITY HAZARD: Two windows broken near entry door. Unautho- rized access possible-on duty personnel noti- fied for emergency repair. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident complained that escort driver sounded vehicle hom in vio- lation of city ordinance. THEFTN ANDALISM: Picture missing frotn lounge wall. Believed stolen. Wall damaged when picture was removed. VANDALISM: Window broken-second floor stairwell and radiator cover missing from the first floor. · FIRE: Minor electrical fire in toaster wiring. No damage or injury. Toaster was removed from service. SUSPI-CIOUS PERSON: Students report possibly being .stalked by person on a bike. Area checked, suspect located and identified. Advised off campus. ' •: ,I

in m to in 11. e- e g. ' } ' \ ,: Campus News . W:t 1 c-<.!Ionnn·oicnsis • May 16, 1996• Page 3 __ .... \New York'·s···Utility Crisis'' ' .. . . ' . ·.' . . .• Ellen Good.man. Dis:cusses Politics:. ' : -. . . ' . - . - . . - Utility Conference at Ut~:ion. ,by JQdy Mousseau New$ Staff Cornmis~ion. · . The conference, originally ferred to as the \Public ''Up Close and ·Too Personal?'' On April30, \New York'sUtil'- Deregulation Conference,.,· Crisis,\ a c·ortference·discuss- · dress~d the current problems the electricity de.mand prob.. lated to electricity in New Y in New Y ?\·~ was ~eld ·in State, which include \'\'''\· rr_ Memonal. The program rates, an increase in the num \\v''\'\\\'\ of several panelists, and ofindustries leaving the ~tate., ............... over two hoJlTS; An intra-· the financial crisis of many IU\'\u .... ,u.was given by Union Cot.- . tric utilities, including \\\''~\\' President Roger Hull and · Mohawk. Several causes-of bn~-taoea-commentsby-Governor · statusquo of\New York's Uti vPnrO'P Pa:tak:iwere viewed. The ity Crisis\ include a decline in . rnc>derat<:>r of the panel was Ed mand.of electricity, IL'<l~J\ Managing Editor/Anchor pacity which is too large for. I....L''\I{~VVS\....flarmel 13. The confer- current demand which nr,irln.r-Pd . will be condensed into a one a surplus, and the availab!li~ progr,am and- will;be aired cheap.and abundantq·iJ.and. New York Stfl.te public televi- raJ gas fuels, as well as on May 28. other causes. The history of Pai:ielistsof''NewYork'sUtil:.. tridty, as well as many-\of Crisis\ included William changes that have been chairman and CEO of which have contributed to '\F'>\''\ Mohawk Power Corpo- utility crisis in New York , Kenneth.Haase, Vice addressed. Manyproposed IPn~slCtent of System Planning of tions concerning the situation New York Po~er Authority, Niagara Mohawk and the · '\'\\'\\\ Kearney, President and pendent Power Producers .L ..... , ___ , of the U.S .. Generating ·vork,Inc. were discussed by , .B. R0bert Biller,.Di-. panel:Oneoftheprimary lr<>l'•tA .. and GeneralCounsel·ofthe·: siens was that \no one can be . Utility Law Praject ofNew : talri o!:the results of·electdc uti ork; Richard M. Re'dmohd, the ity, deregulation.\ ·ness Manager of the. Local · \The electric power system i 049 of the International Broth- probably the greatest en~~m«;=entn od of Electrical Workers, technological invention since ' by.C.onor McKe.nzie .. Features Editor · · · It was your average Tuesday night, I ate some food, worked on the Concordiensis, went to the Nott to study .and ' fell as,feep. Nor- mally, I wake up when the .s·ecurity guard kicks me as l sleep at around 1 0:00. However this Tuesday (May 7th to be exact) I woke .up to the sound of famous columnist Ell:en Goodma,n .speak-. ing. I looked down on her from the second floor-. which made me feel kind .of supe- rior-so I decided to stay. I quickly sur- veyed tlie audi- ence and noticed . that the floor was .. -. . full-full of the' fj{sfspeaker of £peech series, or sornethlngJtke :that sponsored by some generous alumni. She opened by explianing how not too long ago, the press always clearly defined the male field of During the 60's the pri:ss blurred the separation between political and personal life, by re- porting of Kennedy's extramari- tal sex life, and consequently rais- ing the question of whether the president's conduct in the personal sphere is an indicator of his/her abil- ity as a ruler. Does mari- tal infidelity, translate to unreliability in politics? The question is still un- answered. Goodman spend the rest of the speech talking about the turmoil that has arisen from the combina- tion oftraditionally male and female ares of I if e. She mentioned how she tried in her column to draw connections be- tween political decisions and people's personal 1 ives. I found her to be quite interesting, engag- ing and witty, and had no problem following her pntir~pr:esentation. . - ~nalstasta M. Song, Acting Ex- beginning of civilization,\ \'l.U\'-'\ ~o. ...... t;~,., Director of the Long Is- Professor Frank Wicks. 1n.an people over the age of60 that is. I had a scare for a second as I won- dered whether I had been moved to Power Authority, Paul D. terview, Professor Wicks a nursing home Granted, not everyone on campus is familiar with Ellen Goodman. However, I still can't be- lieve that 20 or 30 stu- dents on campus couldn't show enough interest to Ellen Goodman speaks in th~ Nott MemoriaL (photo by Laurel Ruma) attend. Honestly, it was politics, :~u1d the female'area- of;'.·somewhatembarrassing to have personar life. This separation was · a famous journal.ist come to cam- madeboth infhe divisions ofthe · pus expecting to Speak to stu- newspaper, and in the coverage dents, and ending up talking to of politics. For example, in the people connected to oxygen tanks Roosevelt era the press had an and walkers. Have some pride unwritten agreement to never Union, do you want the local photograph the president in his nursing home to get more benefit wheelchair, consequently most of out of a speaker series that was the American public didn'teven established solely for your en- knowthat Roosevelt used a wheel lightenment? ko, Chairman of the New cussed thatthe electricity that . while I .w,a::; sh:~pirlg. I looked ofk 8-~ate·A-ssemb'l)t Standing' oeeil'pi-oduced has beefi creanE:!ll ' hurriedly ·~~u~d th~ room tore- bii Ei:ubrgy~:·ch'a:tles · ·. and· in ore efficient. In the assure myself, sure enough, I was Chairman of the Glo- fifteen years, over $1 0 billion in the N ott memorial, and sure Power Strategic' Advisory Ser- been invested in creating enough, I recognized about 4 ofMerrill Lynch, Daniel B. efficientandcleanerburning people as Union students. alsh, President ofthe Business erating plants. People have · · 1 was a bit puzzled by this for ofNew York State, lnc., began to conserve energy, this was a rather interesting Wicks, Associate Professor creates asurplus capacity of speech by a rather interesting per- Mechanical Engineering at tricity generation, and son. Her topic: Politics, Up Close College, and Eugene W: the present crisis as a result and Too Personal? According to LUJu ..... , Commissioner of the \<;onservation pains.\ her intro~uctioo, Goodman was ofNew York Public Service COME OMOTOPHOTO Schenectady 1041 State Street 882-5778 chair. SUPER SAVINGS! fi0%0FFT ___ 38i- 84.99-- :85.00 OFF I : PROCESSING : REPRINTS • 8x1 0 • CLUB : ·1 Rece.ive so.%. off. the regular II 1 1 Limit 3 8. xlO enlargements. II Receive $5.00 off when I Limit 20 standard size 35 1 · h 1 b I 1 p. rice .of processing and I . . . ts F . JSmm I From your mm co or I you pure ase a c u · · 1 · t fiilm repnn · rom your I negative. I membership! Must present I 1 pnntitJ.g co or pnn · - . I I . I color negative. . Custom cropping may be available at an I coupon to receive $5.00 off. 1 Limit 3 rolls. Standard si~e prints only. I additional charge. Not valid with other I Not valid with other coupons or extra set Not valid with other coupons or offers. coupons or extra set promotions. Club I Limit one per person. Not valid with I promotions. Club members receive I Club members receive lOo/o coupon price. I members receive 10% coupon price. other coupons or offers. 1 I . . 10% coupon price. I 'II 1101111 . . .. I . ON•IHOIIR . 8 I ON• HOUR IS ~ -~'!..'!.tl.'!!! if9IQI!'!..OJg:_! .M9IQl!'!OJ9_! .Y9IQ.'!'!..'!.TP- ~

Spring Fest: Battle of the Bands (continuedfrompage 1) tempered by time on-stage and in the studio, informed by a few more ye<;1rs of living and thrown down every night like a gauntlet; daring everyone who ever felt moved by rock and roll to pick it 1;1p. Somewhere between the fall- ing water towers ofScotiaand the mean streets of Boston, these basement boys fell in line with their heroes, making music of art and abandon, rock with a high calling and a high firepower. The Other Half Solidified in their current lineup just over 3 years ago, The Other Halfhaverisen quickly to the top of the competitiye · NewYork music scene. It is the continuation of a journey that be- gan with the meeting of two friends in a New Jersey high school over six years ago, and a chain of events that has evolved progressively into a cohesive musical farce making national in- roads. Led by vocalist Amy Gerard, whose crystalline voice arcs high, swoops low, and snakes around the close-cut harmonies of guitar- ist Chris Hansen, while driven by a rhythm section provided by bassist Joe Engravalle and drUJn- mer Rob Robles, The Other Half have created a sound uniquely their own. Having been described as alternative psychedelic, their self-titled release on their own ahbeaudae records provides but a glimpse of what the band is all about. Produced by David Swanson, known for both his live and studio work with Blues Tnw- eler, its ten song CD demonstrates well the musical styles that are The Other Half Whether iCs achingly sweet balladry or dis- missing sarcasm, the band' sorigi- nal tunes are marked by the free- wheeling improvisation of a cy- bernetic guitar with a backbite bass, crunchy drums and call-and- response vocals. In addition to their studio work, The Other Half's live perfor- mances are an event not to he missed. This is known full well by all who routinely pack the dance floors of clubs and colleges as far north as Maine, as far south as Tennessee and as far west as Colorado, as their high-intensity three hour shows are not the ex- c~ption, butratbeohe norm. The Other Haljhave played with such national acts a.S Dave Matthews Band, Rusted Root, The Freddy Jones Band, and God Street Wine. Rising Lion Rising Lion is one ofNew York City's hottest and lively Dance Reggae groups. Combining me- lodic harmonies and crushing funky grooves; Rising Lion has been kickin' it \I ive and direct\ while blazing a trail ofroots, rock, reggae from coast to coast. The band has capitalized on its inter- national and .cross cultural diver- sity to weave a colorful, musical tapestry full of positive energy and spirit, rich in texture and style. Rising Lion 's roar is pulsed by a vigorous Jamaican vibration and complemented by influences from South America, Uruguay, the Dominican Repu.bl ic and the States. - Creating reggae rhythms to make you move is the hallmark of this talented quartet. Each musician has extensively ex- plored the spectrum of musical genres, from blues to rock n' roll toBrazil'ianjazz, bee bob and hip hop. .From these roots and the dis- tinctblending of the fresh reggae sounds of ska and rock steady with dance haU and lovers rock styles comes a modem, exciting and energetic dimension ef reggae sound. Rising Lion ~s music is deeply influenced by the spiritual and so- cial messages intrinsic in the rastafarian reggae music of Bob Marley, Peter Tosh and Jacob Miller. It carries the irievibesand imagination of these clistin- guishedartists from the past into the bands original songs of today. Rising Lion will perform both original and cover material at SpringFest. moe .. What would happen ifyou took jazz, rock, funk, country, tradi- tional tunes and Broadway show ditti:es & threw them in a food. processor? Wait. Now put it in the microwave, wrapped in foil & cookJor 7 minutes (the length of tl:feir;tunes). · Now let it set for a · we~k {:lr two while you're on the road:: When you get home, listen toif.:lt's' moe. You will be pleas- antly surprised by what The Vil- lage Voice has dubbed «playful mindf#*king\ music. In the current oversaturated climate of new music, '?We. stands apart from the horde by impressingly fusing silly antics with undisputed talent. Fre- quently compared to. artists I.ike Frank Zappa, Primus, & Phish, · their extended jams captivate au- diences everywhere they play. With key opening.spots for bands such as the Spin Doctors, George Clinton & the P Funk All Stars, Widespread Panic, The Samples ·& The Aquarian Rescue Unit, their fan base is growing at an incredible rate. Together for nearly 4 years, moe. h. as rise~ from the depths of obscurity to the latest sensation of the independent touring circuit. This is documented by their re- cent signing with Sony Music. From Maine to Florida, from east coast to_ the Rocky Mountains, they have repeatedly sold out sta- diums & VFW halls across the country. How? moe. plays 4-5 days per week, non-stop. In one year this band has. go me from opening act at The Wetlands in NYC to sell- ing out their last 4 shows (includ- ing The Wetlands Anniversary show). The same holds true for Al- bany, Buffalo, and Toronto. The band is currently developing similar followings in many ma- jor cities throughout the country. In a very short time, moe. has achieved independently what many ar,tists donota~in with sig,.. nificant label support. This group is the perfect way to close out an incredible day of music and fes- tivities. Get ready to jam! ! ! Phillis Levin: A Poet· NCUR Spurs Student Academic Talent . . ~.of Pulse ; ', •· •\' li...\' ~ lf~ iJ i1i f;! -is-1f·•\i f•\\'\il'fl\T• 'a • i.! ,, ,.; \1 ~.~iii~ \' Vir'# § P'~_J£_~~t~ 1 '!1.~ ~ ,.. '·\ r. ~ ... P.,;a~! 4.~ .... L~.... ~· ~J 1 F . ... li' •' .t ~- \' '$> byJody Mousseau .. · · gain a fuller percepti·on of ' by Michelle Neier Staff Writer Sta.f/Writer Levin's poetry and insight into her unusual poetic styles. \I write from rhythm, a certain On Monday, May 13, Phillis kind of pulse,\ Levin stated Levin visited Union_ Levin is a while commenting on her style contemporary American poet of poetry. \When something has wh<.> recently pub I ished her sec- a certain shape, it creates an ond book of poetry titled The Af- emotion.\ Much of'her poetry tel-image. Her :firstbqok ofpo::-·; .. qf(picts, l,1tfrpan. ,retat)onship to ,> J ~ , '! ._ I} • , 1 * . l ' ~ I , ;! ' 1 , oo etry, Temples and Fields, \re- nature. Levin statedthat poetry ceived the 1988 Norma Farber has grown as partofher identity First Book Award from the Po- since she was approximately 12. etry Society of America. Levin As a child, she wrote poetry on teaches at the Unterberg Poetry small pieces of paper, believing Center of the 92nd Street Y in that if she folded them up and New York City and at the Uni- put them in her desk, that G~d · versity ofMaryland. Her poetry would read them. Though her has been published in The At/an- writing has since progressed tic, Grand Street, The Nation. through different styles, it has re- P artisan Review, Paris Review, mained a significant part of her The New Yorker, and Poetry. life. Levin spoke twice on Monday. We would like to thank Phillis At 4pm, a short question and an- Levin for visiting Union, and it swer session was held regarding was a unique and interesting her poetry. A poetry reading at reading for all who attended. In 8pm allowed the audience to the future, we hope that Levin Honor Code Crosstalk (continuedfrompage I) those who don't share in this be- lief. Other Greek organizations, in order to avoid the image of con- doning cheating, would adopt this policy as well. This has trend-set- ting potential, anq it could result in campus-wide adoption of the code. He feels the strength of the Greek system could be used as a route for constructing and main- taining an honor code_ Professor Scott Scullion raised the difficulty of the scope of the code's application. 'The more inclusive a code becomes, i.e. the more it covers the full field of personal integrity, the more inevi- tably it will intrude into areas where people honestly disagree,\ he stated. \If on the other hand the code is in practice focused on academic honesty violations, 'honor code' runs the risk of be- coming Newspeak for an omni- present monitoring system.\ Ide- ally, Scullion \would rather people didn't cheat primarily be~ cause they think they shouldn't, or persuade one another that it's wrong, not because of fear based on the certainty that they will be The source of last week's Steinmetz Symposium was un- known to many students. Profe§- sor Thomas Werner, fro.m the chemistry department,· provided an answer to this question in the fonn ofNCUR, the National Con- . ference On Undergraduate Re- , search. The group was started in · 1987 to encourage researcQ. iq all . . . ... disciplines at the undergraduate level. The confe'rerrdf started with only about 400 people and has grown dramatically since that time. Since the time of its incep- tion, the organization has held a yearly conference which provides students with the chance to present their work in various ar~ eas. As a member of NCUR's Board of Governors, Professor Werner helps to organize the an- nual conference and resolve cur- rent issues facing the organiza- tion. One ofthemost impending problems right now is the size of the convention. The conference has grown to have about 'five times as many people as it did when it started. A main concern is that as it grows some of its char- acteristic intimacy will be lost. Part of the benefit to the yearly meeting is that it provides an op- detected and penalized.\ Such an environment, he believes, ''doesn't have much to do with 'honor' but amounts to a system of policing. Better to fail at cre- ating a community in_ which honor is really a matter of freely chosen personal commitment,\ according to Scullion, \than sue~ ceed at eliminating even dishon- .. ,. . portunity for :faculty and admin- and University of Pennsylvania . istration from various schools to There are also smaller schools in- 1 get together. They are able to volved such as Haverford College' meet in a ~etting which provides and Lehigh University. In- this for exchange o-f::,~ew ideas and respect, the conference is benefi-; theories. The conference's ad- cial because it puts undergradu- ministrators.are also anxious that ates fr..emal;iroad range ofback- if-there are too: 111any .pe!i>:ple in- gtounds on equal footing. volved a small :~chool such as ., ·The- s@ool produces a large Union wowfl:lrave-~trqu~ie_being am~u·nt'of':'thaterial every year a host. A£9ording t§J.Professor which claims.thattheyare·s~ong Werner, tiil¢t]).Ch.9.ol,.,1lad a slight supporters of undergradtiate I'l~'-, ...... -... '. ~~. !(',<'·'1•' problem last yeai'ftosting the con- search. This conference is sub- ference. As it was, the adminis- stantial proof. In order to be in- tration was forced to. cancel volved the college must raise cla&ses for .two pays. Over the large resources to fund transpor- past year, the size has grown tation, participation fees and about fifty percent. The Board of boarding at the event. More im- Govemors is now trying to settle purtantly, just as the Stciinmetz on a maximum size limit which Symposium required a tremen- would allow the largest group dousamount of human effort so possible without compromising does this conference. Union has the integrity. sent the largest amount of stu- .· The canference presents a dents from any school in the range of topics from the humani- Northeast and hopes to encourage ties· t0 the social sciences. This more as the years continue. year, at the confer-ence which was The organization has held a held at University ofNorth Caro- yearly conference which provides Hna at Asheville, Sarna Lee pre- students with the chance to sented a sociology paper. An- present their work in various ar- oth:er pnion student, Saira Naim eas. had a biology paper and on an- There is a fear that under- other extreme, Brian Haffner pre- graduate research will be lost art. sented a piece of creative writing. This display disproves this how- Along with representing a va- ever. Union has sent the largest riety of disciplines, NCUR also mount of students from any has a wide range of institutions. school in the Northeast and hopes Someofthelargerand more pres- to encourage more as the years tigious schools include Harvard continue. orable behavior by coercion.\ Regardless of whether we have a fonnal honor code or not, we as students must conduct ourselves in a manner consistent with what we hold important. Hopefully, academic honesty and high ethi- cal standards are universal.

s, George All Stars, :Samples ~ue Unit, ing at an 4 years, depths of 11sationof g circuit. r their re- y Music. from east ountains, d outsta- cross the i days per year this ening act C to sel:l- s{inclua- 1iversary ~ for Al- ~nto. The reloping tany ma- country. noe. has tly what withsig,.. his group seoutan and fes- 1!!! ent ,ylvania. hools in- ! l College' In; this s benefi-; ergradu- ofback- g. : a large ery year re,strong ri:tate r,e\ . e is sub- to be in- 1st raise ranspor- ees and !fore im- tciinmetz tremen- effort so nion has t of stu- 1 in the icourage ue. s held a provides ance to rious ar- : under- ~ lost art. 1ishow- ~ largest Jm any 1dhopes 1e years Business . 'UH1e <fftlncoraiensiz May 16, 1996 Page 5 . by Akin Sawyer Business Editor The growth in corporate. mergers seems to have triggered some new energy .in the federal trade commis- sion. The federal trade commission had constantly been criticized as being so:ft on issues concerning the enforcement its .a·ntitrust policy. The federal trade commission has decidedto put a stop to mergers that benefit corporations at the expense of consumers. This spells bad news for Americancompanies that intend to follow the ongoi-ng merger frenzy. The federal trade cortnnission has already begun to hack down on mergers. The Rite Aid corpora- tion was forced to drop its proposed $1.8 billion bid to purchase Revco D.S. Inc. after the F. T.C repeatedly threatened legal action. This was the first time the F.T.C rejected a merger because they felt it would lead to an increase in prices. The Business Merger! Don't even think about it._,..._ __ _ F.T.C is also focusing more on the implications mergers have on com- petition. The cQmmis:;;ion Seems to be mote willing to endorse mergers. that may lead to greater effiCiency while slightly offsetting perfect corn- petition. They certainly will not con- done mergers that will create mo• nopolies. The F.T.C has had to deal with a 77% increase in the number mergers filed with the agency. They also have had to keep up with the changing nature of mergers. The merger boom of the 1980's came about as a;r:esult .ofthe need for tougher management. Investors felt that they could get.bet- ter returns that way. The ,busiuess consolid&tions of the 90's l).re com- ing together because of the need for diversification. Mr. Pitofsky, the chairman of the F. T.C, feels that com- panies want to reinvent themselves. There is now greater efficiency in the way the F. T. C operates (and it did not take a merger with the Justice department to achieve this). The F.T.C historically has had to share its ... ~ ' ' '. oversight of mergers and antitrust issues with the Justice depart- ment. The cordial relationship between the heads of F.T.C and the Justice department have greatly reduced the bickering over cases. The reduction of competi- tion between the Justice depart- ment and the F.T.C have led to quicker assignment of cases. Mr. Pitofsky and his five-mem- ber commission have begun to look deeper into the long term consequences of mergers. Last year the F.T.C voted to stop a merger between two natural gas companies. The commission ex- plained that the merger of the two companies may hinder future com- petition. The trade commission is also cracking down on companies that give incomplete data on the value of their acquired assets. In February, the Sara Lee corporation was forced to pay $3.1 million to settle charges that the F. T. C brought against it for deliberately hiding the true value of a number of shoe pol- ish brands it had acquired form Reckitt & Coleman in 1991. The F.T.C is making strong ef- forts to ensure that antitrust laws are fully enforced . The number of mergers that the commission con- tested went up from 15 in 1992 to 45 in 1995. Those the F.T.C defi- nitely plans to make it a Jot harder tor companies to merge together. Companies may now have to look for other ways to acquire new as• sets without having to consolidate with each other. Bond market Report by Akin Sawyer Business Editor It has been a year of record set- ting year for the economy. The stock markets are still setting records on a weekly basis and the deficif.is falling at a steady rate. Just when we thoughtnothing else could go well, the bond market has changed our doubting minds. Skeptical analysts are surprised that the bond market is doing so well, especially after the government's quarterly refunding. The market is growing steadily as the demand for government bonds is increasing. The increase in market .demand for government bonds is partially due to the fall in prices of other vi- able investments like gold. The bond market is continuously setting new records. Last week it posted a record $44.5 billion in bills bonds and notes. Analysts are happy with the state of the bond market. If you asked me, there seems to be no rea- son anybody should think other- wise \Where Quality Is In High Demand\ #1 !Jn.Area Economics or Business Major? Specializing in Progressive Men's Cuts Write for QI:nurnrnv. Contact The (518) 346-3605 1732 Union Street Schenectady, NY 12309 AskFo~ Patrick Bidinost or Victor Delisio Editors @ 388-6155 or e-mail mqe @nn.cnrll'iensis at Concordy@ gar.union.edu For Sale: Neon BEER signs in working condition and assorted BEER & LI- QUOR advertising signs and mirrors with clocks. Call Dorothy @ 377-2942 Marine Studies Term Abroad Information Meeting For Next Spring Tuesday May 14 5:00 Social Sci. Rm 103 Or Contact Prof. Kaplan x6230 or Prof. B. Boyer x651 Summer Jobs Do you have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orienta- tion demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students.}ooking for an entry _into · healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. (Agency, no fees) World famous PSYCHIC to stars and ce- lebrities--35 years experience--I can help to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Telephone David Gaurdino ANYTIME at 423-558-1197 or 214-340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 Term in Washington, Spt:i·ng 1997 Informational Meeting The Political Science Department announces that applications for next year's Washington Internship program will be available on Tuesday, May 21 at a 4:00 p.m. informational meeting in Soc. Sci. 103. This meeting will provide the best opportunity for prospective applicants to hear about the program and to ask questions. Applications must be completed and returned to the Political Scienceh Department office (SS 216) by 4:00 .m .. Friday, June 7. Profs. Byron Nichols and Clifford Brown will con- duct the May 21 meeting. ications will be available after the 1neetin in the PS office.

' ' : ,., ' ' I World Ne\VS illhl' illoncuroicusis , Mav 16., 1996 Paoc 6 r ~ M World News A GOVERNMENT OF ORDINARY PEOPLE byAnandRao World News Editor The thought of an American citizen exercising autonomy and initiative at the voting booth is a nightmare for the wealthy people who control this country. If, in the upcoming elections for Congress and for President, almost one hundred percent of America's eligible voterstook the momentous step ofNOT voting fora Democrat, a Republican, or a multimil- lionaire like Steve Forbes or Ross Perot, we would find our- selves in the midst of an Ameri- can Revolution. Now, one might be asking what options are left if a voter does not go for the Republicans, Demo- crats, or multimillionaire Inde- pendents. This is where the American voter's lack of imagi- nation comes into the picture. Think for a second; who else is there to vote for besides Bill Clinton, Bob Dole, or Ross Perot? My fellow American voters, there are literally tens of millions of possibilities! This variety is made possible by what is commonly called a write;:in campaign. When vot- ~~g for oqe) .R~pre~entative, r- l;J,i ! ,t, j;,' ~-\· ,_, •••• one's Senator, or one's Presi- r~d~fii: one ~~~'~it{i~'ilie'name of anybody who meets the re- quirements for the office in question. One's voting options are not limited to supporting candidates who are famous, ex:perienced, or wealthy. This is the right of every American · citizen over the age of eighteen. It is time for the two-party political system, dividea be- tween Republicansand Demo- crats, to be replaced by some- thing which comes closer to ap- proaching a democracy. There is no real difference in sub- stance between the elephant and the donkey, because both political parties are controlled by cor:porate America, Which projects its power on to Capitol Hill through lobbyists. The perpetuation of this two-party system, characterized by pow- erless politicians who are full of lies and empty promises, is the goal of every businessman who earns more money per year ' l1iari he deserves. Nothingw1ll ' . ch~n'ge:fot. the :better' if eitner Bob Dole or Ross Perotdefeats Bill Clinton in November, and nothing will change for the bet- ter if the Democratic Party re- gains controlofthe House and/ or the Senate. It is also doubt- ful thata:nything will noticeably improve :during a second term with President Clinton. Aftet aperiodofmisplaced idealism, the Democratic Party has finally realized that it takes a dishonest man to prevail in the money-soaked, apathy-rid- UNION LAUNDRY 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACROSS FROM UNION COLLEGE} OPEN DAILY BAM TO 1 0:30PM FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM ~1 PER WASHI 5TH WASH FREE 7 WASHES FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAIL: (OR DEPOSIT IN OUR SUGGESTION BOX) THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH. INCLUDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS. den atmosphere of modern American politics. In six con- secutive presidential elections (1968 through 1988), the Democratic Party made the mistake of nominating a rela- tively honest man fbr President. First it was Hubert Humphrey in 196'8, followed by George dishonest high-profile Demo- crat since Lyndon Baines Johnson. After years of at- tempted idealism, the Demo- cratic Party has refocused its ·attention on simply winning elections. The Democrats and R~publicans are united by their adherence to working for the might as well be a spokesman for Lockheed Martin or McDonnel> Douglas. And be- cause he is a spokesman for corporate America, President Clinton refuses to take a strong stand on human rights viola• tions in countries that are eco- nomically important to themil- lionaires of the United States. He ignores China's campaign of genocide in Tibet, Indonesia's destruction ofEast Timc.r, the subjugation of women in Kuwait, the horrors of life under military rule in Guatemala, and the harsh dic- tatorsl'lips, in Nigeria and Myanmar. In these countries, it is business as usual for the criminals and thugs who dic- tate the day-to ... day lives of in- nocent people, Like a Repub- lican, Pl'esident Clinton empha- sizes national interest over hu- manitarian considerations. ThisNovernber, tens of mil- lions of ordinary American citi- zens can say a collective 'cno\' to the perpetuation of a politi- cal system that serves no one exceptfor those who control it. McGovern in 1972, Jimmy perpetuation of the status quo. It is the duty of each individual Carter in 1976 and 1980, Bill Clinton's three years as to snpport and to spread the Walter Mondale in 1984, and chiefexecutiveareproofofthis idea of dealing a death blow to Michael Dukakis in 1988. The fact. the two-party political system. results of the Democratic Nothing has real;ty changed Ifyouhavefriendsand relatives 'Party~s desire to 'nominate a since George Bush !.eft 'the living in 'other ·parts of this good man for President were White House in-1993. There country, advise them on how less than encouraging. Out of hasbeennehealthcarerefonn, they can make areal difference six elections, the Democratic no campaign finance reform, by supporting write-in cam- Party bar:ely prevailed once and no fundamental cha:nge·in ·paigns for :this November's (1976). barely lostonce (1968), Americanfot.eign policy. Bill . dectiflns .. For the sake .of our and·was.defeated·by a :landslide · Clinton is as happy as:an ;anns :_country,.- American voters must margin in the 1\emaining f:Qur·· mannfa,Cturer .,~Ju~.n-. he .an-.. ..cornpleteLy,upsetthe status quo ·contests.· Then;· in 1992;'!:the ~~ flounces~th'e :s1de- 6'f·miilitaryk · · in lo:ea:l~ state~ .and .national· Democratic Party switched · weapons tcistael, 'faiwart, Pa- politics. It may be ill~gal to gears hy nominating Bi,l'J kistan:·or Saudi Arabia, seem- overthrow the American gov- ·CHnton, a man who .:tried· to -inglyobliviousto the gtave,cen-\ · · emlhent by ·¥ielent means, but conceal the truth behind his al- ·se:quenees of spreading guns, .it is not illegal to do the same leged misdeeds. One can ar- tanh, grenades, and rocket thing via the ballot box. gue that Bill Clinton is the most launchers around the world. He PLENTY OF LIVING SPACE.· THE TEN LARGEST COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD COUNTRY LAND AREA LOCATION Russia 6,592,800.sq. miles Europe/Asia Canada 3,849,674 North America China 3,696,100 East Asia United States 3,679,192 North America Brazil 3,286,500 South America Australia 2,966,200 Oceania India 1,222,243 South Asia Argentina 1,073,518 South America Kazakhstan 1,049,200 Central Asia Sudan 966,757 Africa Source: The 1996 World-Almanac and Bookof Facts I f ! ' i • II t: ~ ~ t I! ii \j J, n ~ I! r. I lah Iti~ wh am ind exi fou w~ cat :Jts I an' tw< ag: Un wh ou1 ou1 the ver he~ no1 pre NI tw• vo· ele the in~ Co ter PO' th::: fie suJ w.i Bt pe lar 54 m~ ev, pa in! Pa Inc be J( Pr' pn the no we M m• Sc de I

I I ' ' ' R: . . . World News . 'illlre <!IoncorMcnsis , May 16, 1996 Page 7 World News IN DEFENSE OF THE UNITED NATIONS . .. ' .. . . - . ; . . ' -~' . - . ' . - ···-:·-- . ··:.. . .·· ill have,no country to fight for: my country is the Earth, and I am a citizen ofthe world. \ - Eugene V. Debs AnandRao WorldNew!i Editor I like the United Natfons~ htlwayshave and! always will. It is the only place in the world where problbns can be debated among the l\early two hundred independent states that new exist. The United Nations was founded in reaction to World War If, perhaps the greatest catastrophe in huinan history. :Jts bureaucracy may be bloated, and it may not be able to stop two countries from going to war against each otlfer, but the United Nations is an institution which cannot be allowed to die out. If the United Natioris dies out, then the smaller nations of the world will be effectively pre- vented from having their voices heard. The United Nations is not just an international jobs program~ it is the symbol of glo- bal unity. It is unfortunate, still possessed by feelings· of therefore, that at least some racial superiority (or perhaps Americans would be more than self-loathing), must be bitterly happy to ~ee the voices of Af- ·enraged by h'ow the agenda of rica, Asia, and Latin Ame~fca the Un~tedNations can o'ften be cut off by the death of the controlled by a bunch of non- United Nations. · ' European countries. The di- Senator Jesse Hehns of verse membership of the United NorthCarolinaisalea9:ingJ\g-:- Nations is symbolized by ure in the newest .A-m~t:~Y,~:g, B9'utros Boutros-Ghali, a crusade against the Unite~?'{~;; . Cqptic CWistian from Egypt tions. There is an obviou&;'WG<? who ·setves as the planation for ~hy Helms''fs 1 ~jjf·;~orgrurization's Secretary Gen- hostlle to the Urtlted Nati.ens-:l: eta!. ·~ the majority or'its membe~,' Jt is no secret that Jesse states are from the developing! Helms .is an intolerant man world. The idea of a Pax who contributes heavily to the Americana does not sit welt negative ster.eotype of southern with countries like India and white trash in the United States. Ghana. It should not have Helms, the Chairman of the come as much of a surprise, for Senate Foreign Relations Com- instance, when the United Na- mittee, ·:is so ignorant of the tions voted to condemn the· .outside world that he once in- United States for its illegal in- tro~,uced Pakistani PtimeMin- vasion of Panama in 1989. A ister BenaZir Bhutto as the man like Jesse Helirfs~\vha is ·Prime Mi~ister.e:f l'ndia. It is probably due to the fact that all South Asians look the same through Senator Helms' narrow eyes. The factthat Helms is the Chairman of the Foreign Rela- tions Committee is a disgrace. His position of power in the United States is analogous to a Nazi serving as Gennany 's For- eign Minister. Hatred of the Jews is both a European and German hallmark, while the hatred of blacks is a hallmark of American society. Why else would a. man like Bob Grant be permitted to have a radio talk show in New York City, and why else would a man likeJesse Helms be permitted to serve as Chairman ofthe Foreign Rela- tions Committee? Jesse Helms has been a Senator since 1973, and he is running for a fifth term this fall. It is difficult~for me to under- .. : •\' ,_ . stand how :the voters of North Carolina can choose to send this idiot back to the Senate every six years. Helms has no place in my world, and he should not have a place in any- body else's world, either. His hostility towards the United Nations is embarrassing, and his lack ofknowledge about the world was illustrated by the episode involving Ms. Bhutto. Jesse Helms belongs to another era in American history, an era characterized by a brutal form ofracial segregation, a foreign policy ofhannful isolationism, and a political system domi- nated by intolerant white males. His hostility to the United Nations is unwarranted and unjustified. For the sake of the United Nations and its future, let us hope that very few Americans support the ravings and rantings of this North Carolinian bigot. NEW DELHI- .More than two-thirds of the 350 million votes .l:;f\St. i~ I!ldj~' s . g~n.er;al for a robust opposition party, and that he intended to lead it. Mandela and de Klerk shared . '' ' I'. -. . . • • ' in favor of a grant program that would give more power to lo- . t:al offici3:ls. The billu which was passed by a vote or 315. to · I 07, would repeal the Housing Act of 1937. The Clinton Ad- ministration announced its in- tention to oppose the bill un- less it guaranteed that public housing remains affordable for the neediest. were killed and thirty-two wounded in an attack on Hutu .ethnic group ine1nbers W.ho had l NEW YORK - The United Nations issued a report suggest- ing ,that last montli, s sn~lt ing of a p~acekeeping camp in ·Lebanon by ·Israeli forces 'was not an accident. Almost one hundred Lebanese civilians were killed by an Israeli artil- lery barrage in the town of Qana on April 18. The United Nations report stated that it was \unlikely\ that the shelling was the accidental result of techni- cal or procedural \errors\. In- stead, the United Nations report suggested that Israeli gunners deliberately targeted Lebanese civilians. Both Israel and the United States sharply criticized the report. . electionhave beeq counted, and the results indicate a devastat- ing defeat for the incUIIibent Congress Party. Prime Minis- ter P. V. Narasimha Rao, in power since 1991, announced that he would resign from of- fice. While the Congress Party suffered a setback, the right- w.ing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Jana~a Party ap- peared. to have captured the largest number of seats in the 545-seat lower hm.J,se of:Parlia- ment. The voting results, how- ever, showed that all political parties fell far short of captur- ing a majority of the seats in Parliament. In all likelihood, India's riext Government will be led by a coalition. JOHANNESBURG - Deputy President F. W. de Kl·erk, who preceded l'_J\elson Mandela as the leader of South Africa, an- nounced that his National Party would pull out of President Mandela's coalition Govern- ment. Mr. de Klerk said that South Africa's first ·non-racial democracy was strong enough the 19.93 N ot>el Peace Prize for thei~ roles in b~inging about an end to South Africa's system of racial oppression. LOUISVILLE~ Kentucky - The racing career of Grind- stone, a 3-year-old colt whore- centlywon the Kentucky Derby, · abruptly ended after a chip was discovered in his right kr.ee. Grindstone is the frrst horse since Bubbling Over in 1926 to be retired immediately after winning th.e Derby. LITTLE ROCK, Arkansas - Testifying in ·defense of his former partners in the Whitewater land venture, Presi- dent Clinton repeatedly denied in videotaped testimony that he once asked an Arkansas busi- WASHINGTON- After more nessman to make them an im- than ten years df research, sci'- proper loan. entists reporte~ finding a prQ• .. tein that is nee_ded.to admit the\ TORONTO- The Canadian AIDS virus into human im- mune system cells. The discov- ery marks a clear advance in understanding the basic biology of the. virus, knowledge that may open up new approaches to research and treatment WASHlNGTON- the House of Representatives voted to overturn much of the nation's policy ofhousing for the poor House of Commons voted to add sexual orientation to the categories of citizens protected by its Human Rights Act. The legislation now goes to the Sen- .. ate, which has already sup- ported a similar measure. To become law, the legislation also needs the formality of a royal assent. BURUNDI - In this Central African state, seven people QUOTE OF THE WEEK: \It is scarcely possible that an English ot Irish Protestant of the present day can look back to the past history of Ireland, especially in connection with its terrible Penal Code,. without a feeling of grief and of shame. The sleepless eyes of Justice have never ceased to watch thtoughout the long centuries of wtongs done to Ireland.\ - Josephine Butler Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations ta:~en refvge w.ith Am,erican missionaries. There was no claim ofresponsib'ility, but sus- picion focused on the army, which is dominated by the ma- jority Tutsi ethnic group. Like Rwanda, neighboring Burundi has been torn apart by ethnic conflict. NEW YQRK - Peacekeepers may have to stay in Haiti into 1997 to insure stability, even though their mandate expires in June, according to the United Nations special representative to Haiti. JUNIOR ECONOMICS,. MANAGERIAL ECONOMICS, INDUSTRIAL ECO. MAJORS SENIOR THESIS !nfqrmation Meetinlf May 23, 4:00PM, SS 103 Make-qp Meeting May 24, 2:00PM, SSOlO If you cannot attend either meeting, pick up an advisor preference form in SS 212. It is important that you get and return your thesis advisor preference form by May 24o > . i,

OP/ED . - . ililll' Qhmcnroirnsis • May 16, 1996 · Page 8 EDITORIAL Beer vs. Books! Recently the Greeks have been under fire for specific events relating to their individual houses. WHh all the commotion of saving their houses or staying off probation, one issue has not been addressed: drinking! What is a bigger priority to Union students, beer or books? Many oftheincidents that Greeksaredefending are against the law. Union is not alone in the \~et\ world of college life, but drinking appears to be overemphasized on this campus. Fraternities and sororities bear the burden of social functions. Kegs in the Schaffer Library have not been offered as a Saturday evening function, especially since it closes at 7:00. Apparently the administration can't imagine anyone working on a Saturday night. . Therefore, we all flock to the homes of national associations that are now consistently criticized. This still does not condone the fact that minors are given free · alcohol at every drop of the hat. They can choose notto drink, but let's be realistic. How many people have been hungoverat Union? Raise your hand if you have thrown up from drinking too much, and raise it if you have forced yourself to throw up. Are these behaviors the type that we plan on maintaining after we walk away • • znton from the gates of Union? l.:========:::=!'!::::::::::::=;==~~~===::~=====:;:=:::::=~ A member ofDelta Delta Delta wrote a letter to The Concordiensis j:; this week criticizing our coverage of the Delta \hazing\ Loo· kin·g·. B' ack investigation. While we sympathize with the ultimate decision .. · . . , · · .- · · .-. . . ·. ·. · ' ·. · . · . . . . . (made by the deans, not the paper), the letter contai~s ~an~ good points, and we value these suggestions. It did, h()wever? ~ak:e o11e point thats'ums up the issue of alcoHol on this campus: '. . . · \The pledges were given a choice whether they wanted to dnnk alcohol or not at the beginning of the evening,\ Katherine Uhlmann wrote. How many of these pledges were over the age of 21? Probably none and that is the point. Don't get the impression that Tri-Delta stands alone on this issue, and, since they have enough on their shoulders, we will address the community a.S a whole. The issue of al.~ohol is grossly overl~oked on this c::ampus. tuclt!tits ne~Cf ttl takh~sporisibi 1 nY 'f'ofthdfuset vd arid realize tfiat th'ete ate·nb tede'e1fii'fi'g featu~s about b'ei'ng a sloppy drunk!, · · · . '' . AM mly~ <rrnncnrniensis David Pinkowitz EXECU11VE EDITOR Diana Sedita EDITOR EMERITA Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERT AJNMENT EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Akinwunmi Sawyerr Businne.~ Editor Anand Rao WORLD NEWS EDITOR OavidEder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew Fradkin COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Peter Farnum Jen Pelose ASSISTANT COPY EDITORS Henrik Haeckel Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun- Paul Manore. SI'A/<F: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Stacey Kimmel, Mike Leding; Chris Leone, Conor McKenzie, Bhavani Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Rawson Thurber, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Karen Watts · ByRaqtielMillriian. · play oven:md·over, but there is us get ready for formals and - 0 ·. · · · .,. EililtJr .. , · tone' th.'ing among a-U of those ·waited· up i.tntil we got home. prnzons . . . .. . . . ·:c.· · · d · :- · , ·· · graduatmglhat remams unhorm. They rushed with us and prove It's already May 16. Gradua- · ' Frem thefoot~U player~ to the that greek life doesn't change tion is exactly one month away. sorority 'girl, to the apathetic friendships. They made us cof- It is at this ·point that the seniors movie watcher, one thing is the fee when it was fout AM and we at Union College begin to look same; whenever they look back, were on page two ofseven on a back on the past four years of their they findmemoriesthatthey have paper due in six hours. They lives. What they will recall will made with their friends. Our helped us procrastinate. They be different for each of them. friends ate, our link. While our comforted us when things at Some of them will remember memories may differ, the feelings hotne seemed to he overcoming theirfr~shman y~ar .as tho}lgh it .. are the sa~e., ·We were alw~ys the ~bstaole of.-a-ist~riee eFIOugh ~ere y~ste~d~y: but others will told thatwewouldrnakeourbest toaffectourliveshere. Theyhave find that it is an eternity away. friends in college. Whoever told made us feel at home by bec()m- Wegrowsomuchherethatsorne- usthatwasright. ing our new family. Th-ey times four years ago really is an They have partied with us on dreamed with us and talked of etemityaway. However,nomat- many a night. They have stayingtogetheraftergraduation. ter how distant orientation may stumbled home with us singing No one knew how fast that day seem, no one knows where the \American Pie.\ They took us would come. four years in-between have gone. away from all of our worries on The da_ss of 1996 entered in It's amazing how fast time flies beaches in Mexico during Spring 1992 thinking that the next four •. here, that's why it is so important Break. They dried our tears, com.~ .· years were an etemitx; however, the class of 1996 to look back. · forted- us with J9nd wotdsi and • . that etemity•has alt6f ·a sudden They look ba,ck to find parties then· dnigged us out on Saturday grown painfully shorter than they atxyzfraternity. (Oratleastwhat nightssayingthatwewouldthank had imagined. Enjoy the next they remember of them!) They them later. They understood month. Make it all you want it to look back to the first time they when we passed out before say- be. Whether you are graduating really knew themselves. They ing \thank you.\ They took care this year or in three years, the lookbacktofind when theywere of us when we were sick. They time will fly. Never forget those consumed with something from regressed with us through sleep- late nights or crazy parties. Hold a class to meal plans. They each overs, midnight munchies, sing- on tight to your me:g10ries. But look back and wish that they ing to the eighties and \Girls Just most importantly, thank your could rewind a different night to Wanna Have Fun.\ They helped friends for giving them to you. .• p,~~:=:;~«~;1~~~~~~~#~;,,; . funded 111 part b~·th~ Student!¢<?lP'*~~~~F~~~ ?1~e. qn.¢l~~~~~}1Y,~igllt.l9~'· . . .·. . . . ~~~~®~ ~ ... ~ox Z:$7~(.Cqll~ge Cet1wr:.: Uf1ion ·G(!1~ge~ .S¢ . . . . ali. Ne~:York1230~r Telee 611~ '. ' ~) ~·~s; ' . 61'55;. TheCttitctordiensisls·printea by WortdMedia~l~£l4.Cetttra'lAvenue,AlbanY~ MY.lf2~S: !h~ . . CAncordiensts subscribes to :the.lntercoll¢giate·Press {tP)\• Na.ti()ru;tl~ .S1;tuil:ent News' 'Servia~, & Kirig ' Syndicates. • I i tl c ll n a (] 2 a v p d s b c p d tl tl v a n iJ tl a s i1 v f n ( c 11 c 11 .F tl c a v b a ,. • 1

Opinion Delta Delta Delta Questions Ethics of The Cqncordiensis Dear Ed·itors, i am writing this article in order to clear· up the misrepresentation ofTri~Delta in the Concordiensis last week, There are .many ru- mors circulating about Tri-Delta and the events that took place at our house Saturday night, AprH 20, 1996.. As a senior at Union and a member ofTri-Delta, I was very an.gry' hurt, and disap- pointed in the way that my stu- dent newspaper chose to repre- sent an organi~ation that I have been a part of for four years. The c oncordiensis thrives on being a respectable student run newspa- perthat is here to inform the stu- dents. We are supposed to be their number one priority. I feel that their outward attack on us Was unjust. The articles written about the situation were plainly nonprofessional and embarrass- ingboth to Union and the students . that attend the college. The articles written were false and created more insidious gos- sip to circ1,1late about our soror- ity. I am here to honestly portray what it is that has taken place. However, I do wantto say that in my opinion the reputation ofthe Concordiensis has fallen to that of the National Inquirer. Their investigation of our sorority was clearly conducted in a very im- mature and incompetent manner. .first a1-1d foremost, I would like to clear up some of their despi- cable remarks regarding this situ- ation. Both articles were written without quotes from any mem- bers of Delta Delta Delta. When a professional newspaper inves- tigates a situation, they accurately present both sides of the story. Thi~ was cleai-ly not done. Sec• ondly, ·what '~sources~' did they have? Not once did they men- tion how reliable these sources . were and where they came from. Thir.d1y, they commefrlted that it is the \norm\ for our pledge events to include alcohol. Once again, this is false. The Concordiensis does not attend our sorority events, nor do they quote their source by name. In addition, Tony LaVecchia and Adrian MacLean clearly do not under- stand how much damage their novice reporting ·has caused to the investigation and reputation of our sorority. The inclusionofthe word \pressured\ insinuates that we threatened and 'forced our pledges. to consume alcoholic beverages. This is not whattook place on the eveningofthis event. The pledges were given a choice whether they wanted to drink al- cohol or not at the beginning of the evening. ln conclusion to addressing the front page article, I find it very inappropriate that the Concordiensis concluded their article by referencing the Delta Upsilon case a year ago in con- junction with a completely differ- ent event that took place at Delta DeltaDelta. Iwouldliketopoint out that this very disgraceful and embarrassing article printed in the May 2, 1996, issue of the Concordiensis has caused much disgrace to both the writers, the paper, the college, the student body, and Tri-Delta. I contem- plate whether the editors-in-chief The Concordiensis is seeking to fill openings on the editorial board for next year The following positions are open- World News and Science and Technology To find out more call us at 6155 ·CALL SENDS THANKS ,., .. o Mich~lle, On behalf of the UCALL ization on Union campus, I sh to thank you for your article the Coneordiensis concerning group. You did such a good job to express our feelings and our goals. Thank you for your time and efforts. Sincerely Yours, Marion Miller ofourcollegenewspaperconsid- \Thanks for the tip girls!\ I am ered the repercussions that this filled with fire when I read this very nonprofessional investiga- comment. How can he consider tion has caused to the college and himself a reporter. in additiori, the student body. lam embar- their cartoon picturing emaciated rassed for the college, the admin- Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Delta istration, and any prospective stu- Delta women in connection with dents that may have come incon'\ hazing is despicable and disgust• tact withthis issue. ing taste on the part of the The second' issue I would I ike Concordiensis. to address is the editorial written The following things listed will by the editor-in-chief that ap- hopefully redeem the reputation peared in the same issue. Why ofthe Greeks and prove that they are the students of this college are not only an assetto Union, but attacking each other? We are all to the community as well If one individuals and choose to partike walks i.nto the College Center on indifferentactivities at Union. It a daily basis, one will come to is this variety of organizations observe a variety of Greek Orga- offered at Union that makes nizationstryingtoraisemoneyfor ·Union such a great college. In the less fortunate. For example: fact, shouldn 'tall students be sup- Children's Cancer, Child Abuse, porting one another at this time, Aids, and many other ph Han- instead of causing more gossip thropic activities. Just last week- and rumors to spread? I am very end many Greeks participated in upset that Tony LaVecchia felt it cleaning up Vale Park. Many of necessary to comment that our the activities sponsored on this sorority is \'comical.\ On the con- campus are due to these organi- trary, ~is situation is far from zations. The Greeks provide comical and is causing many tears . many socia:l event~ on this cam- and distress. l find him very in- pus, and it would be a mistake on suiting and quite frankly an ern- the part of the college to elimi- barrassment as the editor-in-chief. nate this tradition. One ofthe rea- Also,hefabricatedalieandsaid sons Union College is distin- Jenn Pool, Delta Delta Delta guished from the other small lib- President, \threatened to file ha- era! arts colleg~s in New York rassment charges against the edi- State is the strong Greek tradition. tors.\ This is not true, but a very If the decision is made against good idea. I am so irate and irri- pelta Delta pelta, it,~in Pf?Yi4cr .. tated by this newspaper. Even if · devastating results forth~ survival apersonis notin support ofTri- of sororities at Union College. l Delta, they should be in .support find this to be detrimental in the of women. Mr. LaVecchia found appeal for women who are _look· humor in degrading women by ing to be a part of a Greek orga- concluding his editorial .with a nization while attending Union. very rude and sarcastic comment: Ifthis decision is made, there will be seventeen fraternities and three sororities. This is clearly a dis- proportionate number, which makes a statement about women's equality in the Greek system. It is important to acknowledge that Greek life is not for everyone, but for those who are .a part of it, it provides many opportunities both as a student and an alum. In conclusion, the Concordiensis has made it quite clear where their loyalty andcom- m itment lies in reporting the truth. lam very disappointed and sad- dened by this and feel that they owe the administration and the Greek organizations a formal apology. My suggestion to the future of this paper is to appoint people to this student run news- paper who want to present well- rounded and investigated stories to their readers without insulting or passingjudgmenton those in- volved. Sincerely, Katherine Uhlmann -Concordiensis stands by its re- porting. On this campusanonym- ity is, alas, essential to those will- ing to provide the sort of in/or- mation in question. When asked for comment on the story, Tri- Delta's president (whom we still prefer not to name) hung up on us, which we chose not to report. Thc: qttfrnpts. (l;l,qde fo inti!f!idate us into s_uppres~ing the 4tory were treated lightly in our editorial, but were clearly intended to rattle us, which accounts for the sting in its tone. We concurwith the first sen- tence of Ms. Uhlmann's final paragraph-Ed A Liar Among Us? No, this article is not going to be about the many attributes of the Rollins Band. It is about the member or members of security that clear! y lied to Dean Schurick and said that my fraternity was \Qn tap'' the night of Wednesday, May 9, 1996. I hate nothing more than a liar, especially a liar who hides behind his or her 1 ie and will not come forward, thus making himself/herself a coward. I ask this liar to come forth and admit that they falsely accused my house or to please come talk to me personally. On this suspicious Wednesday evening, my Brothers and a few of our friends were drinking some beers out of CASES that we had purchased. At this point, security came in claiming to have received noise complaints and asked us to break it up. We complied to this request quite expediently and in a fashionable manner. Neither the male nor female security person in the doorway ventured into the Spring Fest barroom to see the invisible keg and tap that someone has claimed wasthere. · . A lie has clearly been relayed to Administration; our House has never been known to be anything less than cordial with Administra- tion and all I ask is that the facts behind this injustice be found, and that trye liar be brought to the fore- front. Sincerely, Michael J. Leding III Kic~ing off with The Battle of the bands Thursday May 16th ·non't forget to join the fun! 'INTERNET AND E-MAIL ADDRESSES E-Mail Us at Concordy @gar.union.edu. or on the World Wide Web@ http://virtual.union.edu/ -concordy/index.html. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication, and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details. . l :t• f •' .. .. ..

Page 10 · May 16, 1996 .~ ·crnp~ illoun~rohnsis · · · · OP/ED . . 0 .. . p1nzon In Defense of Christianity A Rebuttal of a Letter to the Editor: the grounds that Europe's treat- Two weeks ago, Anand Rao ment of the Jews was anything submitted a revealing article but Christian. Had Anand placed called \The Truth about the Ho- the word Christian in quotation. locaust,\ wherein he dispelled the marks, I would have agreed with · popul'ar misconception that Ger- him, because the shell of what many should be held solely re- may have once been calledCfuris- splmsible for the death of Euro- tianity still existed on the surface pean Jewry. 1 applaud his assess- of European society. The article ment; for indeed, the Holocaust neglected to point out that the would have not been possible forces of Nazism were un- without the all too eager assis- ashamed in their anti-Christian tance and collaboration of non- beliefs, and that Hitler hated German Europeans. This myth Christianity precisely because of can be seen even today in popu- how Jewish the religion really is lar American. culture, and I am at its core. Surely, tho.se who tired of seeing Nazi Germans sided with his forces cannot be singled out in movies as being the called \Christian if we are to use only \bad guys\ of WWII. Na- the word's true meaning. True zism was indeed an evil force, but Christians did not assist the Na- it could never have succeeded zis: that would he about as para- without help from indigenous fas.. doxical as an affirmative action cist movements and the passive supporter voting' for David Duke, acquiescence ofother Europeans. or a Pro-lifer shooting an abor- However, I disagree with tion doctor. Rather, the Chris- Anand 's statement that in the tians were those who hid Jews in 1930's, \Christian Europe was theirhomesatgreatpetsonalrisk, · energized and reinvigorated in its those who spoke out publicly antagonism towards Judaism and against the Nazi's racist atrocities, its adherents .... [German] leader- and those who died in concentra- ship merely served as a catalyst tion camps alongside their Jew- for Christian Europe's last and ish brothers and sisters in the · most deadly assault on the Jew- name of God. It is sad to con- ish people.\ In this statement, sider how few of these people Anand takes the blame off of there were, but only from these Ger.many and pI aces it ~n the do we find the echo of Jesus' ad- shoUlders 1 of Christianity; thus . mohitio~.that \Whatsoever ·you suppdrtihgatliffereritthi'scbrlcep.:'\ do·tint6 the least of'tli~se· My tion about the Holocaust. brethren, you have done it also I dis agree with Anand's use of unto Me.\ Jesus, the King ofthe the term ''Christian Europe\ on Jews, was referring here (at least Honor our Althetes SUPPORT DINNER in part) to his own Jewish kins- men: and true Christians, through- out all generations, have been re- quired to give up their own lives in obedience to this admonition. During WWil, the rest of\Chris- tian Europe\ did no more than give religious lip service to their supposed God, while sim ulta- neously working to destroy a people that this same God refers to as His chosen, loved for the sake of His covenant with their forefathers. The word '\Christian\ means \follower of Christ\: that is a people who love God with all their heart, soul, m.ind, and strength, and who strive always to love their neighbors as them- selves. Perhaps in our secular world, the word real Jy has come to mean what Anand states it to be, a force of death and destruc- tion.· If this he so,. then I am ashamed to call myself a Chris- tian. A firm believer and follower ofJe-sus, thatl am; butnotaChris~ tian, at least not in that sense. Again, I contend that the word \Christian\ as it is used in the con- text of Anand's article needs to be redefined; moreover, it is now the responsibility ofChristians to redefine the word in their own lives, by acting the way Jesus would want them to in all sitqa7' · tions: Just as each tree is judged by its own fruit; true belief must prove itself through action. Jason Hills · Rebuttal ln response to last weeks Concordienses article about Greek · life at Union, I completely disagree with Henrik's rebuttal. Although he makes valid statements pertaining to rush, his vast conclusions lack truth and substance. The surface value of his remarks may appear to fit with the ste- reotypes he places on each house, however, there is a deeper mean- . ing that Henrik failed to acknowledge. An independent student can just as easily be compared to a Greek student as two Greeks could be compared with each other. Just because. someone chooses to go Greek or independent in no way means thattney want to be Hke someone else. By accepting a bid to a house someone is not accepting a stereo- . type, but an offer to live with people whom they like. The reason . for Greek life, especially at Union, is so that people ·can find a · home within this house. I agree that people at certain houses may share some common .interests, but that is not to say that I do not share these interests with others outside of my house. To generalize about the Greek system and the idea that a Greek house is exclusive in its membership in selecting similar individu- als, merely suggests that people might as well walk around with paper bags over their heads, marked by different colors. Overall, .individual Greek members should be labeled with a ste- reotype. Each person fits in where they fee]. most comfortable regardless of ignorant.and false judgments made prior to rush and after initiation. It is important to realize that Greek life at Union is a unique experience for the indiyidual and not a desire to become a stereotype. Sincerely, Megan Kanser ObserVations of Bad Arguments by Henrik Ha~ckel Opinions Editor Tuesday I strolled into the ollege Center at about eight in the evening. I had to formy German test the next day and lay out my section for the IUCI.Iu~•. Yet, during the week prior had seen advertisements for the eaker coming on that same ning. The speaker, Mr. 1 Ml~ctv·P.ct. was a film critic for PBS. V. several times and was inter- ll:;lillt:;u in what he might speak So I decide to procrasti- and sit in on his lecture for a moment. I caine in a little late but caught his thesis, which revolved around lies that the film industry perpetuates through their public ations departments to defend ever increasing violence on screen. Mr. Medved was quite oquent and even dissuaded me from some of my previous ... ...,,u\''\\ on violent film. Yet, was one universal point at the audience c~uld not comprehend his· logic. makes a broad and sweeping ra- In his discussion of why the - t1onalization of an evf(nt and then film industry continuously pro- duces unprofitab.!e R rated mov- ies, he provided quite an unusual . explanation. He argued that di- rectors are previous nerds in high school and college. Being of nerd lineage, they obviously are inter- ested in attracting Hollywood's most beautiful women to their side. So, once a director has made it in Hollywood, a probable course ofbehavior for him would be to create an exotic movie to earn him notoriety and female at- tention. Mr. Medved -was thor- oughly convinced ofthis fact and for all· I know he could be abso- lutely cortect. What made this particularly in- teresting is the way in which he 'reacted to the criticism of this obviously controversial theory. It was my observation that he be- came exceedingly defensive and condescending. This illustrates a behavior common to our day to day life here at Union.. How of- ten can you recall an experience that an individual or organization becomes flustered in defending their controversial position? It is a safe. bet that when tho~e who are flustered and lose theircomposure in the face of logical interrogation are using an unsound argument. The same can be observed when one finds one's self defending an .argument with considerable dif- ficulty. Perhaps it is time to stand back arid reevaluate one's idea. That is not to say that there is not more then one correct answer to a question or a situation. Ev- ery problem has more then one \correct\ solution. That is because \correct\ may be defined differently by each in- dividual. Still, Mr. Medved's speech is emblematic of argu- ments that are best thoroughly thought through and explained, or otherwise discarded. Otherwise we are liable to make broad generalizations that skirt the issue we are defending or attacking, rather than actually addressing and finding a solution to the problem. 1 t J j

Wlp,' <tlunrori'l'irnsis May 16, 1996 Page 11 . F t · . · ea ures • Uncle Edna One For The Class of '96 Student of the Week: Jill Hahl Uncle Edna is a Union College graduate and current curator at the · atthe Marshall Space Flight Cen- visit the NASA headquarters in by Kara Christian Crack Haji ofFame in Hoboken, Ne\ Jersey. He can be. contacted in terin Alabama. Jill claims, \This· Washington D.C. and the Schenectady on Wednesdays at 'Bingo Night' at the Annie Schaffer . Staff Writer opportunity is so important to me Kennedy Space Center. Senior Center. · Junior Jill Hahl will be spend- because I need the experience. I An exceptional engineerin Well here goes. I'm sorry ifthis.isrusty, but it was too hard to pass up . ing her summer in Alabama need to see what it is that a me- student, Jill is very involved in just one more chanc.e... . · working for the National Aero- chanjcal engineer does all day. her major. She is a member o nauticsandSpaceAdministration I'msoexdted.\ the Society of American Engi- Anybody else think 'Answer Girl' should take on a more appropriate (NASA). Jill, a mechanical en- Jill explains that at the space neers and the American Society name? Lik~, oh ... I don't know ... 'the Humorbomber.' . • gineer is very excited ofMechanical Engi- aboutthe opportunity. neers, and is secre\ Or is that an inappropriate joke these days? Jill came to Union as a tary of the Society 0 civil engineering major, Women Engineers: In the News but switched to a me- Each year s.A.E: If they can tuck fannies; lift faces, and transplant organs, why can't chanica! engineeringdur- builds a formula car. someone inject a little personality into Bob Dole? Seems that right . · ing Spring term of her Engineers, like Jill now Dole has as much chance ofbeating Clinton as the Rabbit hasof · sophomore year when she work on the car in getting Trix. · · took a .course called their free time and \Thermodynamics.\ Jill eventually take it to comments, ''That's when competition. Jill i Speaking of Kellogg's: Captain Crunch,. Toucan Sam and Tony the Tiger were found dead last week. Police suspect a cereal killer. . I reatized what I was re- also a member o ally interested in.\ Look- Tau Beta Pi and Pi ing back to when she was Tau Sigma, two en- I remember growing up we had a thing called spring. Those sure were t~e days weren't they. Ahhh. . younger, Jill says she was gineering honor so- Crack Hall of Fame So, it's spring term, time for another legion of campus veterans to sing their swan song. I think, call me crazy, that the entire class of 1996 should be ind~cted into the Crack Hall of Fame. How About It? You folks have put up with a lot in the last four years ... -Remember the demilitarized zon,e around the Nott? -Remember the cheezy green grass paint? -How about those pesky packs of campus squirrels? -And lest ~e forget the crows o' doom? So I think you belong in the Hall of Fame. But first, you have to take my \Spring term pledge of Crack loyalty\ Raise your right hand (or right foot) and repeat after me. I, (state your name), solemnly vow, that during this, my senior year spring term 1 1.. . -I will hit my snooze alarm at least 8 times a day, and that on two or more occasions, I will 'snooze' through class. -1 will make a new best friend every night, and then forget that new best friend's name the next day. .. J will check my mailbox 56 times a day, 4 on Sundays. -I solemnly vow to find and frame my old dining service punch card. -And most importantly, I will remain forever true to the burgomaster, God rest his soul, wherever he may be. Now all of you take a class syllabus, {any class will do), out it into strips, and roll some crack*. F oryou deserve it. ·· Congratulations, I know that your families wili be proud. I only hope that your commencement speaker ZZzz is better than Senator ZZzz Moynihan ZZzz was ZZzz last year ZZZZzzzz .... On Campus 630 freshman next year?!? Yikes. That's a lot of heads to fill with stuff Here area few of the subtler things I learned in college: -The phrase phonetically correct is phonetically incorrect 4 times. (fonetikaHy JiorreJit). - - -If'Euphemrsm' is just a fancy way of saying something simple, then 'Euphemism' is itself a euphemism for B.S. , -If. it is \1\ before \E then Albert Einstein's name is spelled wrong . twiCe. -Homework and wine don't mix. And besides, it's illegal to drink and derive. -Promiscuity has nothing to do with promising ~nd everything to do with doing. One For Your Friends What goes clip-clop, clip-clop,- bang bang bang- ,clip-clop, clip- clop? ·. . An Amish drive-by shooting. So happy trails, and happy sailing. May campus goifbe your passage to spiritual fuliness, and may the sun shine soon. Thank you for this chance, and congratulations to the Union College class of 1996. · · *To remind you (and your laWyers) that I in no way condone the smoking of crack or any crack-like substance. Nor do I mean to im- ply that the Amish are murderers or that Bob Dole is a boob. All jokes arecopyrightedto Uncle Ednaj Inc, . constantly taking things cieties. apart. She has always In addition, been interested in how JiJI. volunteers a thingswork and why th~y Elmer Elementary workthe way they do.. School here in Asafreshman,Jill went Schenectady, wher into engineering not she tutors students in knowing exactly what to Science. expect. Since then, she Jill Hahl is an cl,aims, \I've learned so active and very mo- much and 1' ve had so tivated student. He many opportunities. The hard work has led he department is great.\ to this wonderful in- Jill's main interest lies in aero- center each student in the pro- temship opportunity. spacetechnology. Becauseofher gram will be working with an Jill comments, \I feel like interest,. the internship at NASA en.gin_eer, who will serve as a real part of the education here Academy is a perfect opportunity mentor. The students will assist at Union. I'm not just learning, for Jill. . .. . . . . theiqnentor.s i~rese¥,Rh ;~,cUP.r;. I'll),~J?at1~~!~~n,.,-.1~~.pr~~~~~ .. ,; Jilr~ ~ adviso<:' r·ro'fe.~s·o:~. varJous project~>. Jill wjll be.a~- ' sors ~~ gre~~~n{ifitwe~en'.' . Bucinell encouraged her to apply . sisting an engineer who is cur- for Professor Bucinell I would to the NASA program. Jill along rently working to design a single- never have known about this with 14 other college and gradu- orbit space shuttle. great opportunity at NASA.\ ate students from around the In addition, the students in- Please send nominations fo country will be participating in VGlved in the program will spend \Student of the Week\ to: Kar, the program, which isbein~ held 4 days at Space Camp and wiii Christian, Box #3/4 . Union College Department of Performing Arts and the Mountebanks Present NOISES A Knockabout Britisil Farce Tid<ets Available. at nox Office 388-6545 by Michael J!.rayn 0 ., ., the Yulman Theater - $7 General l'uhlic $5 ~enior Citizen~ ~nd with Union 1.11. ;, t.' ;1.!' -/i ~-: --. '' ' ~

· Features ' - . 'IDI!e illnnrLTroicusis May 16, 1996 ' Page 12 Are We Robbing Ourselves? by Con or McKenzie Last week another Union stu- dent was knocked down and robbed by six men on his way from Davidson to his apartment. While this is the first robbery this year, this tragedy is no ne:w ex- perience on our campus. Essen- tially, these robberies are inevi- table,just a couple ofblocks from our beautiful campus are some neighborhoods that aren't consid- ered safe to walk through. Schenectady isn't the most pros- perous and safe city these days, and our $28,000 a year campus stands in stark contrast to much of the city. I have to wonder, with all 'our ostentatious displays of wealth, are we causing our own robberies? Crime often develops out of poverty. It is fed by poor schools, inadequate families, and tough neighborhoods. In our ·land. of opportunity, many citizens never haveachan~e. Wethinkwehave freedom, but how much freedom do we realTy havewhen there are children who have .no freedom? Ask yourself ifyou wouldbehere ifitweren't for the environment you were raised in. ~t certainly couldn't have hurt to spend your summers atposh summe1 camps, or to have parents that got con- cerned when bad .grades appeared on your report card. Nowpicture yourself as a youth who grew up with (a) parent(s) who didn 'tcare where you were, how late you stayed out, or whether you went to school. What if you had to find your own clothes, and you spent your sum- mers playing on State Street, or around Hamilton Hill. If you had nobody who cared about you, or explained why you ·needed to get good grades, would you have done so well, or even finished high school? It's not impossible to succeed, but I'd say the odds are stacked against you. The pos- . sibrlity exists that you'd get an- gry, drop out of school, and stad: robbing people to survive. If you were put in this situation, essentially ro.bbed by. your fam- ily and society, would you have any problem robbing Union stu- dents? Think about it, you're walking down Seward pi ace one day, and you see atwenty~year- , ... , old scream out of a Union parking lotin their $50,000 BMW, followed close be- hind by another student in a Range .Rover. It angers you. Why should these kids owh hixury cars wheh you don't always have food to eat? They obviously didn't earn it; how does a twenty-year-oM acquire the money to support an imported luxury car? You conclude that their parents not oi'lly bought it for them, but probably send them money every week as well. They don't need their money;. if you rob them, they'll have more money by next week. Since you don't . attendthe:school, you assume that everyone must be this wealthy. You heard it costs $30,000a year, which is more than either of your · parents make in .two yeats. Cer- tainly anyone who attends this school must sleep on mattresses made of currency. You think about it, and you wonder why you shouldn 'l rob a :Union student. If you've read this far, you might be getting a little hellig~r.,. ent by this point You might be thinking tha.t you have every le- gal right to buy whatever you '•• ' e··· • ' . want-and you'd be right. You might be asking what's stopping you from dxiving a Ferarri around,. if you have the money. I c~n't argue this; it's all a matter ofpersonal philosophy. If some .. body gave me a Mercedes, I'd have a hard time giving it away. Then again;. I think it would be ·difficult to explain to some people why they shouldn:'t rob Union studel}ts. After all, isn't our folk hero Robin Hood fatnous for rob- bing the rich to give to the poor? · While one does have a legal :rightto ownasmanyluxury items as one wants,, does one have a moral right? Is it right to drive a carthat costs as much as l 0 lesser cars? By American standards, you probably do have the moral right, but I think it's arguable to ~ay that you don'i. I don 'thave the answers to the questions I pose. I'm .n~tsaying · that you should renounce your . earthly possessions.and live sim- ply (of course it weuldn't hurt). Robbery is wrong, and nothing really justifies it. If you ate lucky enough to be dri-ving a luxury car around, you should consider what message you are sending to the people you might be driving by. Seminar A Sign _Of The Times \Biodiversity in Costa Rica\ Dr. Twitty J. Styles Cha~rmen, Department of Biology Union College Schenectady, New York Thursday, May 1, 1 996 4:40PM Social Sciences 1 03 Large Three Bedroom Apartement for Ret!t! Conveniently Located on University Place. Phone- Work- 477-9615 Home- 674-5820 ___ b_y_J...,..e\\\':f-:-fe_r_y-=D-r_u_z-ba-~- loo much to .handle in one sign. them funny, or make them artis- Features Editor Besides, we can read the tic, but please, just .put the time Maybe it's the bad choices in clip art. Maybe it's the lack of any creative effort. Or maybe, just maybe, Union studentsjust.piain don't know how to make a good i .. s:i,gn ... :4s ifJhe college center . wasn't lackirig in atmosphere al- ready, the items hanging on the walls only help to add to the fact. I'm sick of being forced to see bad sign-making everywhere I go. I've chosen this week, the week ofStu- dent Forum elections, to point out exactly how bad student signs can be 1 as well as to offer some tips that mjght do us all some good. As I made my way through a college center plastered with signs for upcoming student elections, a few ideas came to mind: ( 1) Signs with too much infonnation will be ignored; (2) Signs with too little info are confusing and will be missed; and (3) Signs that are not pleasing to the eye will be passed over. It's all common sense. I was shocked to believe that any of the candidates for election would care so little about presenting them-, selves as serious contenders, but it was made apparent by their sad attempts at advertising them- selves. Mr. Declet's Concordiensisreprint ofhis inge- nious \5-PointPlan\ is surely way Generation X1 X-tra. ~onlused IIIII TIIe. Read a book! newspaper ... we don't need the into them. If such a problem could same thing in hot pink. Ms. affectstudentelections,justthink Mankad brought a new meaning ofthe effect on student clubs and to treating the reader as a mind- less idiot through her slogan, \Lean TowardLeena.\ I'm sorry, but a little more than 5 seconds ofthought ought to go into one's campaign ~fforts. Then, I was drawn to the dull world of Ms .. Mousseau's signs. No, I'm not going to vote for you .. .just be- causeyoutell meto. The few can- didates who attempted to be cre- ative all stopped at the obvious, incorporating a picture into their dull slogans and wordy beliefs. Kudos to John Vero and Jesse Karotkin for defining excitement in signs as we know it. An extra special congrats to .Jesse for plac- ing as runner-up-in the \See how lame I can make the pun on my name\ contest. The carrot cartoon guy was just d€51 ightful. I suppose clip art of jewelry and gemstones was never an option? (Get it? Carat!) The idea is simple: if one wants to get elected, at the intense level of college student politics, the only answer lies in positive ex- posure. The more signs one sees tl'lat manage to impress, the .more . the candidate makes an· impres• ~ion, Make them. witty, make organizations. The same well- rounded, bright students who are running for student forum posi- tions are also .the students who lead Unien's clubs'and activities. That's exactly what has happened. Union's clubs fail to attract atten- tion to them~elves through their signs. Why even hang them up? A few words on a sh~et of paper just don't get the job done and changing the colors ofthe paper isn't as exciting as it might seem. Even fluorescent colors fail to impress the public. So, how can Union be made better by all this? Put the time into making signs. Club leaders ought to show that they caie about what they advertise. Plenty of web sites with clip art can help make any. sign worth looking at. One ofthe best Jinks is at: http://www.n- vision.com/panda/c/ 'l)e collec- tion of art ranges from food prod- ucts to people ... it's worth the time to explore. Of course, I would be more than willing to meet and discuss more ideas with Union's signmal<;:ers. Let's put an end to bad signs at Union College; To- gether, we can beat this creative slump. , . · Wanted - TAlENTEd MusicAl AcTs ro plAy AT CHEf\S. Good MoNey, GREAT AudiENCEs, LoTs of OppoRTUNiTiES. CoNTACT JESsE ·ShAfER AT X 7 ~ 9 9 foR dETAils ASAP§ I

·Page 13 J:lfe I.LonwrDien6is May-.16. 1996 · . Living / LIVING QUESTIONS WI:T.HOUT ANSWERS AND MEN WHO TAN by DaYid Erler to bear answers. Itseems rude that what would it be? I would ask him Living Editor these questions would dare to ex- a one word question: WHY? Why ist without offering their answer. do we struggle with insignificant Qt;estions. ·Questions. Wouldyouofferfoodtoastirrving problems? Why do countries Questions ... .There are an infinite 1nan and then not deliver it? No, founded on religious beliefs con- number of questions that exist. and questions shouldn't· intrigue tinue to kill others protectingtheir These questions, it.secms,·exist us and then leave uspon'dering the homeland insteadofsharirigitlikc independently oftheir answers. vast empty abyssofour ignorance. their scriptures tell them to do? How can a question not have an An example wouldbeappropr1ate. Why do bad things happen to answer? Doesn't every action The other day I begari'th won- good people? Why aren't good have a reaction? Shouldn't all der: whatwillhappen when:vlredie? Intentions enough? questions have answers? But Wedonott:akeourbodiesotininds These questions seem unan- all questions don't have an- with us to the next world,-~<rwhat swerabletomerightnaw. Butthey swers. We have all heard the do we take?· How do the ~pirits have va:lue in and ofthemselves. Buddhist med:iiatienal ques- communicate? Thererirusl-be (for Just by wondering about the tions, such as, ''What is the lack of a better word) a language beauty, confusion, and tmknow- sound of one hand clapping?\ which is universally understand- able, we practice Divinity. Ironi- and \lfa tree falls and no one is able that is inherent in every soul. cally, we grow closer to the final in the forest does it make a. So why can't we use that language answer with every new question. sound?\ These questions have now as humans? And if we aUhave These questions lead us to God been posed for a reason, hut what souls(and most people believe that by keeping us humble. Questions is the reason, what is the mean~ they do), andwe realize that we are thatcannot be answered are more ing, what is the value of ques- all interrelated and dependent, why powerful than questions that can tions that do not have answers?_ don't we all feel connected? be answered. These unanswered Everyone hastheir,,Qwn unaf'l< · _:. Thct~e .q:t.te~\ions\a;i:(l~,~d ,\1$ tp. ~< qu~tio~~ are constant reminders swered questions which beget'- more queStions but 1\evetanswe~.-~ r' ofour status a~ spiritual infants. morequestions·butn~verseems IfyoucouldaskGodonequestion, As Jesus sai.d: \the greatest man Trou\()leshooting by Chris Richards ' ·:Living :Editor· ·. · Golf is a very cruel game. The ball sits there waitingto he hit in the ooods. Perhaps that is one ofmygteatestproblems. Rather than seeing the short green grass,.all I can see is woods and water. I must start seeing the grass and:.step looking at the woods, that is .. m.y weakness. Players who 'regularly beatme know this and say it, but when I stand on the tee box, the only thil}g I can see is trouble. The fairway looks like the eye of a needle:, while to the true player the fairway is a sure thing< When one is playing golf, the woods do not emit any sort of sublime understanding. They are solely the source of misery and pain, and have no sympa- thy. Rarely will they throw your ball hack into pliay for you, and never will ru shottravehuntouahed thr.0ugh trees; despite the fact that they are ninety percent aiL The woods are cruet The woods don't care. Butwithout woods there would be no thrill. Or agony even. I know that my ball could go between all the trees, but of cuurse it never does. It can't. Golf balls are just like spit which never go:es cleanly dowh a sewer drain even though there is always the expectation that it will. So as I pull out my driver and aim, all I can see is green. I don't want to be creative anymore, but I know that I will have to be as soon as my ball's path is blocked by trees. Life would be much, much simpler ifl couldjusthititdown themiddle and not have to forever aitn:atone small triangle of light which Is my only hope. · , · :: Large Three Bedroom Apartement for Rent! Conveniently Located on on earth is far less than the least in heaven.\ Every time we pause in wonder we are in a way partici- pating in the Divine and, in a strange way, when we say \I don't know,\ we are practicing Faith But there are some questions that can beanswered. An example of this would be appropriate as well It has come to myattention that there is a group of men on campus who tan themselves. Now this leads us to a certain set of questions: what wou'ld posses a grown manto spend valuable time in his fraternity house using a face tanning machine? What kind of man would do suc'h a thing? What are the sociological impli- cations of the fact that this hap- pens at Union College? These questions do have answers. We all know what would pos- sess someone to tan and, in some i cases;· such an act is excusable. 'For example, if you ar~ planning a short trip seuth you may want to University Place .. Phone- YOU COULD LEARN .A LOT FROM A DUMMY.® Work- 477-9615 Home- 674-5820 get a base coat so that you do not .get burned. But generally speak- ing, anyone who spends time tan- ning himself(I am specifically talk- ing about a group of men at this school because it seems· that women have excepted their sta- tus as shallow) is a superficial egoist, who care more about him- selfthan anyone else. 1 wonder if these peopleare able to look them- selves in the eyes when they are done tanning and are checking themselves out in the mirror. Be- ingaSoc. M~jor, I had toexamine this subject from a sociological point of view. College students have historically become the lead- ers of the country, and one of Union's students has even gone on to be President. So it is not unreasonable to say that these «tanners\ will one day have a cer- tain degree of power in America. Do we want \tanners\ running the . country? Do we really trust \tan- ners\? Who are the \tanners?'; .-\'

Sdcncc and Tcdmolo1-!,~· · - - . - ltlp· {[llltrorllit'tt~iz :\I~·~· I 6, 1996 P~tgc I J Science & Technology ' World Famous Physicist and Astronomer Visits Union by Dennis Popeo Science Editor On April28, 29 and 30, Union Col!ege was proud to host Eric J. Chaisson, the Director of the H. Dudley Wright Center for lnno• vative Science Education at Tufts University, as a Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar. Dr. Chaisson is a research professor of physics, astronomy and education at Tufts as well as an associate of the Harvard College Observatory and co-director of the MIT Space Grant Consortium. While at Union, Dr. Chaisson gave a teach- ing lecture, a physics colloquium and a public lecture in the Nott Memorial entitled \Cosmic Evo- lution: The Origins of Matter and Life.\ In this lecture, Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that he is currently inter- ested in a thermodynrunic study of physical and biological phe- nomena, thereby searching for underlying common features as clues to the origins and evolution of material systems throughout the Universe. Tite distinguished lecturer announced that we are oow living in what our children will come to know as the Golden Age of Astrophysics and Bio- chemistry, because of the many · · · :,· · momimentaiJ advances, in these • fields. ·~These subjects,\ he stated, \are changing the way we view our role in the Universe.\ Cosmic Evolution, the subject of Dr. Olllisson's lectQre, is a meld- ing of biochemistry and astro- physics, and is the study of the developmental changes of all en- ergy.. matter and life in the Uni- verse as viewed through the .tele- scope of time. Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that although we do not know the age ofthe Universe, we are certain that it is made up of the same matter that all life on Earth is made up of. Dr. Chaisson explained that in the early Universe, matter was im- possible due to the incredible amount of energy present in a dense, hot state. There was too much energy for any type of in- formational structure, but as time passed, the. Universe cooled and thinned, enough to allow for the foimation of matter. At this point, tbe Universe was well on its way to becoming what it is today. TI1e Universe, Dr. Chaisson explained, is traveling through stages of de- vel op• ment. It moves A major portion of Dr. Chaisson's research is stu4ying things that look and act Hke gal- axies, so their behavior can pos- scI ENG E \ MATTERs away, while galaxies, although in bubbles may be our earliest rela- a constant state of flux, are,more tives, since fossils dating back 3.3 pennanent. 11te question that re- billion years have been found. mains to be'answered is: \Are the This organic gpnkis tied to the · c>hcan ges in Universe iQ a v~.ry interestiug way. galaxiesenvi- Dr. Chaisson;hasnoticed pockets ronmental or ofblack space in areas surround- through phases of galac- tic, stel- lar, el- emental, chemi- cal·, bio- logical, cultural and fu- turist stages. These X-rays are a.rcrm of.electromagnetic.er1ergy with shor1er.wavelength than visible light. Discovered in 1 895'by Wilhelm Roentgef1, they have,been·put to many uses because of iheir ability to penetrate S<llid objects. . .. 'genetic'?\ ing certain nebulas in space. He The answer hypothesizes that these black re- to that ques- gions are filled with something tion is both. similar to whaf.is fonned in that When galax- simple experiment mentioned ies pass, near above. Their .Place on the electromagnetic spectrum·,, ·: ,';,:. each other, Dr.Chaisson concludedhis lee- there exists a ture with the comment that as the gra~itational Universe pc:tssed from a phase attntction lxf- where matter wa!; impossible to tween them where energy was possible. hu- that changes manity will pass into a phase their shape. where life forms will dominate Dr. Chaisson what once dominated them, for ha~ theo- example the environment or ge- rized that gal- netics. Once tltat happens, hu- axies were ~anity will be radically changed. ori g iII ally After his lecture, Dr. Chaisson fonnedin the took some questions from the au- shape of dience. He explained in simple spheres (the tenns what lies on the leading edge stages h a v e and are occur- r i n g rig h t now, but there are t w 0 missing links, t w 0 pieces of the trernen- dousjig- Diaphragm I ll r Xray I · s a: w. puz·zle we call Cosmic Evolu- tion lost beneath the sofa in the . 1'll!a x,., .... · . genetic por- of our expanding Universe, and tion of the that is nothing.. Chaisson ex- answer), but plained that we are used to think- due to inter- ing in two or three dimensions actions with when thinking about the Urti- other galax- verse, but to truly understand 1es, have what is occurring out there, we changed into must think in fourdimensions, with the spirals the forth being time. If you re- ,that are so duce the. three dimensionaJ,Uni- pretty to verse into a sphere, it becomes look .at (en vi- apparent that there is no edge to Other ~.for X·ravs ·=~=' ron m en t a I fall off of. Thus, there is no \edge changes). ofthe Universe~\ it is all continu- T h e ous inall.dir.ection$ md infiititely secm1d mi!!s... connected to:eaclt other. Our hy- ing _link,. the · pathetical, spherical Universe is a ~ reacMsQfourgmaxy I iving room of the Universe. nteseare the origins of galaxies, and the origins oflife. · sibly be explained. One thing that looks very m~ch like a galaxy is a h~rricane. Hurricanes photo- graphed by our govermirent's weather satellites can give scien- tists a good approxin1ation of what the spiraling, wispy clouds of a far away galaxy might behave like. Aside from the visual simi- larity of galaxies and hurricanes, hurrica11es have an \eye of the stonn\ which is similar to the calm zone noticed in the center of gal~ axies. Hurricanes also have simi- . Jar rotations and distributions of energy when compared to galax• Of galaxies, we know two things for certain: l) Galaxies exist, and 2) the existing galaxies are old (there are no new galaxies fann- ing now). The question that as- trophysicists are pondering is: '\WhaHumed off the machine that makes galaxies?\ Dr; Chaisson ex- plained that it takes I 0 E68 (that is I 0 rai·sed to the 68th power) at- oms to come together to· fonn a galaxy. Titus, the hypothesis that galaxies fonn in a random mrumer can be ruled out. Hurricanes, however, go . ' ···.· .. iii ... :·.-:·~··>~·- ... : .• .. \·· How clean, 1$ yopr ·. ·. ·. supermarket? 0 How to check Whether your SUJWrmarket is working to prevent the spread of food-borne illness: • Are the shopping carts clean and free of spilled food? • Are the meat cutters' aprons clean? How about the deli workers'? • Ask to use the ret!t room. Ia it clean?' • Are there loOse crumbs or debris In food cases? • Look out bac.k. Is the dumpster area clean? Does it smell? II Can you find spalterod blood on dfsplay cases or walls? • origin oflife, expanding, like a balloon being is another question pondered by blown up. ·It is expanding, then, many scientists. Dr. Chaisson ex- into the forth dimension oftime. plained that the \Ptinrofdial ' Chaisson also explained that the Soup,\ the supposed-precursor of Universe wiUpossibly expand for- life on Earth, can be approximated ever, or perhaps stop expanding in a relatively simple exp·eriment and retract, thus producing the to set up. If you place several \Big Crunch,\ opposite of the Big simple elements, such as carbon, Bang. nitrogen, hydroger1 and oxygen If you are interested in Dr. together at a high temperature, Chaisson's ideas a11dresearch, he with energy added into the sys- has published several books in- tem. in· -liberal amounts, a black, eluding Cosmic Dawn,Aslrrmomy sticky~: scum-like ·matter will be Today(a widely used text book), formed. In this gunk, simple.., or- The ltn•i.\·ihle Univer!i·e: Probing g~nic molecules are collected, into the Frtmtier.v q[ A'itrophy.Yic.v, and dr.Qpl;ets with semi-permeable The Life Rra: Cm;mic Selection membranes. Titese microscopic and Conscious Evolution.

Science & Technology World Famous Physicist and Astronomer Visits Union by Dennis Popeo Science Editor On April 28, 29 and 30, Union College was proud to host Eric J. Chaisson, the Director of the H. Dudley Wright Center for Inno- vative Science Education at Tufts University, as a Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar. Dr. Chaisson is a research professor of physics, astronomy and education at Tufts as well as an associate of the Harvard College Obsetvatory and co-director of the MIT Space Grant Consorti urn. While at Union, Dr. Chaisson gave a teach- ing lecture, a physics colloquiuh1 and a public lecture in the Nott Memorial entitled \Cosmic Evo- lution: The Origins of Matter and Life.\ In this lecture, Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that he is currently inter- ested in a thermodynamic study of physical and biological phe- nomena, thereby searching for underlying common features as clues to the origins and evolution of material systems throughout the Universe. The distinguished lecturer announced that we are now living in what our children will come to know as the Golden Age of Astrophysics and Bio- chemistry, because of the many monumental advances in these fields. \These subjects,\ he stated, \are changing the way we view our role in the Universe.\ Cosmic Evolution, the subject of Dr. Olaisson' s lecture, is a meld- ing of biochemistry and astro- physics, and is the study of the developmental changes of all en- ergy, matter and life in the Uni- verse as viewed through the tele- scope of time. Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that although we do not know the age of the Universe, we are certain that it is made up of the same matter that all life on Earth is made up of. Dr. Chaisson explained that in the early Universe, matter was im- possible due to the incredible amount of energy present in a dense, hot state. There was too much energy for any type of in- fonnational structure, but as time passed, the Universe cooled and thinned, enough to allow for the fonnation of matter. At this point, Mad' 1 low disease cases the Universe was well on its way to becoming what it is today. llle Universe, Dr. Chaisson explained, is traveling through stages of de- velop- ment. II moves through phases ~ of galac- A major port ion of Dr. Chaisson's research is studying things that look and act like gal- axies, so their behavior can pos- SCIENCEQ MATTERS away, whi:le galaxies, although in a constant state of flux, are more permanent. The question that re- mains to be answered is: \Are the \ changes in galaxies envi- ronmental or tic, stel- X-rays are a form of electromagnelic energy Wllh shorter wavelength than !- 'genetic'?\ The answer to that ques- tion is both. When galax- ies pass near each other, there exists a gravitational attraction bti- tween them that changes their shape. Dr. Chaisson has theo- rized that gal- axies were originally fanned in the shape of spheres (the genetic por- tion of the answer), but due to inter- actions with other galax- ies, have changed into the spirals that are so pretty to look at (envi- ronmental changes). lar, el- VISible light. Discovered •n 1'895 by W•lhelm Roentgen. they have been put lo many uses because of lhe1r ab1111y to penetrate solid ObJects. em ental, ch em i- cal, bio- Their place on the electromagnetic spectrum All these forms ot radiation tra~el at the speed of light and behave Similarly· logical, cultural and fu- •• =i::;; ••X•·~.~ys.. ~~ uu~• turist 1 millionth of an 1nch 1 foot stages. These Long wavelengths: Cannot stages h a v e and are Diaphragm Xray occur- r 1 n g r i g h t ~ I now, but there are t w 0 ITilSSlllg r I inks, t w 0 pieces of the tremen- do us jig- s a w puzzle we call X-rat\- Cosmic Other uses for X -rays . Evol u- lion lost ......... lnduslrlallnapaetlona: ...... Can look inside products without dosl:ro')'U19 them The second miss- ing link, the beneath SO\IRCES:-PrMo: SCi6llc8 ~. ~Cdon A. ~-Boak:CclnclM the sofa ~e~ a ~ A1tronomy: X-ray delllCtors·look into lar reaches of our galaxy in the living room of the Universe. l11ese are the origins of galaxies, and the origins oflife. Of galaxies, we know two things for certain: I) Galaxies exist, and 2) the existing galaxies are old (there are no new galaxies fonn- ing now). The question that as- trophysicists are pondering is: \What turned off the machine that makes galaxies?\ Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that it takes 10 E68 (that is I 0 raised to the 68th power) at- oms to come together to fonn a galaxy. Hn1s, the hypothesis that galaxies fonn in a random maru1er can be ruled out. v .. ' .• -. ~ sibly be explained. One tl1ing that looks very much like a galaxy is a hurricane. Hurricanes photo- graphed by our government's weather satellites can give scien- tists a good approximation of what the spiraling, wispy clouds of a far away galaxy might behave like. Aside from the visual simi- larity of galaxies and hurricanes, hurricanes have an \eye of the stonn\ which is similar to the calm zone noticed in the center of gal- axies. Hunicanes also have simi- lar rotations and distributions of energy when compared to galax- ies. Hurricanes, however, go How clean is your supermarket? 0 How to check whether your supermarket is workmg to prevent the spread of food-borne illness: II Are the shopping carts clean and free of spilled food? II Are tho meat cutters' aprons clean? How about the deli workers'? • Ask to uS411 the rest room. Is it clean?· II Are there loose crumbs or debris in food cases? • Look out back. Is the dumpster area clean? Does it smell? Ill Can you lind spattered blood on drsplay cases or walls? origin of life, is another question pondered by many scientists. Dr. Chaisson ex- plained that the \Primordial Soup,\ the supposed precursor of life on Earth, can be approximated in a relatively simple experiment to set up. If you place several simple elements, such as carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen together at a high temperature, with enerb')' added into the sys- tem in liberal amounts, a black, sticky, scum-like matter will be fanned. In this gunk, simple, or- ganic molecules are collected into droplets with semi-permeable membranes. l11ese microscopic bubbles may be our earliest rela- tives, since fossils dating back 3.3 billion years have been found. This organic gunk is tied to the Universe ina very interesting way. Dr. Chaisson has noticed pockets of black space in areas surround- ing certain nebulas in space. He hypothesizes that these black re- gions are itlled with something similar to what is formed in that simple experiment mentioned above. Dr. Chaisson concluded his lec- ture with the comment that as the Universe passed from a phase where matter was impossible to where energy was possible, hu- manity will pass into a phase where life forms will dominate what once dominated them, for example the environment or ge- netics. Once that happens, hu- manity will be radical;ly changed. After his lecture, Dr. Chaisson took some questions from the au- dience. He explained in simple tenns what lies on the leading edge of our expanding Universe, and that is nothing. Chaisson ex- plained that we are used to think- ing in two or three dimensions when thinking about the Uni- verse, but to truly understand what is occurring out there, we must think in fourdirnensions, with the forth being time. If you re- duce the three dimensional Uni- verse into a sphere, it becomes apparent that there is no edge to fall off of. Thus, there is no \edge of the Universe,\ it is all continu- ous in all directions and infinitely connected to each other. Our hy- pothetical, spherical Universe is expanding, like a balloon being blown up. It is expanding, then, into the forth dimension of time. Chaisson also explained that the Universe will possibly expand for- ever, or perhaps stop expanding and retract, thus producing the \Big Crunch,\ opposite of the Big Bang. If you are interested in Dr. Chaisson's ideas and research, he has published several books in- cluding Cosmic Dawn.Astnmomy Today(a widely used text book), The lmisihle Universe: Prohing the Fnmtiers (?f A\·trophy.\·ic.~~. and The Life Era: Cosmic Selection and Conscious Evolution.

. . Page 15 Mav 16,- 1996 iTilc <!Inurnroit'H5ts . . . A.rts & EnteTtainm.ent I ... Arts & Entertainment I Twister - Dorothy Gets Blown Out of Kansas Once Agaia characters, too, like Elwes as Dr. Jack from The Shining, De Bont slide trackers comes across a se- ~ScREENING RooM Jonas Miller, a \rival\ .storm makes tornadoes seem every bit ries ofrainstonns in the Electric by Larry Paska,Arts Editor tracker who Bill claims is \in it for as frightc;:ning and tough to es- themoney,notthescience.\ This capefrom as the shark inJawsor is an interestingline,coming from the velocaraptors of Jurassic a$70millionWamerBros. movie, Park. (Could this be because the studio which grossed more Spielberg was involved with ''Twister;\ 'Starring Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Jami Gertz, Cary Elwes, Directed by Jan De Bont. dollars last year than any other those projects, too?) At the end studio except for Buena Vista. of the two hours, De Bont wants Miller'spresence adds little except your ears to bleed and your eyes Crichton and his wife Anne-Marie for the thrillof a chase, although to be gaping in terror. And he Martin, keeps everyone's adrena~ one wonders what Miller needed pulls it off quite well. 'line pumping thanks to the un- all those vans that his team drives Hats off~ again, to Industrial stoppable visual effects and awe- for. Light and Magic for terrific ef- Rated PG-13, Warner Bros. some, thunderous sound ofvari~ Unlike his usual self, Crichton fects, and to Spielberg's Amblin Pictures. ous tornadoes ripping through · doesn't seem to be in it for the Production Company, for making the Midwest, destroying every- science all thatrnuch. The script movie audiences scared and en- Withthe help of executive .pro- thing from barns to whole towns . concerns itself with chatter about tertained. The death ofthe Ameri- ducer Steven Spielberg, who by in its path. The .. sto_tf bears F-class.twistersbriefly at a dinner can Cinema will probably be the now should have enough money Crichton'stnark-mari}iscieritific table conversation, but otherwise, day Spielberg dies, so we can to buy all of Hollywood if he references held together by a weak Jo and Bill are mainly seen scram- only hope he keeps grooming De wants it, director Jan De Bont plotli'ne-andis, in fact, his first bliog into their van to chase yet Bont to take over his position could become one of America's workmadedirectlyforthescreen, anothernatural disaster. The story when he is gone. De Bont is litt1e-knownlmt great directors~ which is good, because chances weaklytriestotieJo'sloveofher emerging as an outstanding ac- He already proved his talentswith are, this would make for an aw- profession to a childhood inci- tion film director who keeps audi- Speed,a milestone in action film- fully dull reading. Bill (Paxton) dent, when her father was killed ences on the edge of their seats making that combined unbearable arrives \on location\ with his new in a tornado disaster. But this film by tuming formula inside out. The City which cause gigantic mud slidesto occur, trapping cars al'ld people. Their efforts to enlist the aid ofUnion's We CareAboutU- Schenectady fail when a tremen- dous Class Z Mud Slide devours most of Hamilton Hill, hurting he city's drug trafficking and thus causing a city-wide financial shu:t- down. A River Runs Over It. Chris Farley and Davis Spade star as Union Campus Safety officers who must save a group .of Dokfs caught in a large stream flowin,g down Seward Place during a par- ticularly nasty, rainy Tuesday. When a sewer backs up and over- flows, it's up to Union's finestt() solve the problem. Can Fm-ley an<i Spade stop the flood before it takes all of Schenectady with it downstream? suspense and intell.igent action fiancee, Melissa (Gertz), in tow, is hardly an epic, so \Jo 's crusade parts of Twister which appear Sewer. The Union College cruTl- with characters that just plain handing divorce papers over to against nature\ seems I ike a used are overshadowed by the pus has always seen lots of steam Worked. Now~ he turns an unlikely his ex-wife, Jo (Mad About You 's throw-away idea and adds nodi- simple fact that a fairly unexciting rising from manhole covers. Bllt \enemy\ into a special effects ex- Hunt). Jo still '\has a thing\ for mensionality to the storytelling. concept could be made with such one day, a manhole cover blows travaganza:, proving that he can Bill, and it doesn't take ameteo- De Bont ends up turning this gusto. open, killing several people and makepureescapi.stentertainment rologist to forecast that the two badly-written, small-plot story injuringdozensmore. Now,ateam be just that: entertaining. storm chasers will rekindle their into a h~art-stopping action piece If Hollywood Came to of Schenectady police officers and Considering that the threat in romance. Melissa, who is a re- by wisely capitalizing on the film's Sche11ectady... campus security personnel, ledb:y thismovie isa force ofnature, the productive therapist, cannot ap~ drawing power. So what iftoma~ a police lieutenant on his last da:y task -of making the characters' preciatethe job her fiancee loves does ilon 't generally happen as Director Jan De Bontmade tor- on the job played by Danny ''i'oo lives seem in constantperilischal- so much, and her departure half-' · freq~ently ~d~icf.ed in the film:? . nadoe~ blo~.us away in Twist!;r,, :. t;oq pJ4:.. f.Qr th,i,s, sp,~ ~f' 0 lover, · '' 1elligittg:·'Th'iS'1sWhertfthe-filtn 's · ' way tliit)b.gh.the film i;:n'L w~fcom(t' 3 '\':'£~f'tlie'isfi~ef Ji'gwei; of the storm'· lfiTe Bl)ht came to Schenectady, musfgo into the sewers ofUnio11 weakestiinks are, in pittingJo and sight, because she is just an an: -· whitl you around. Whether it's what kinds.ofaction movies could College and find the cause of all BiUHarding.....:..two tOrnado track~ noying sidehote·in a film which is ·two feet behind ·the stonn chas- he make about forces of nature? the steam before a secret lecture ~ers-·· againsttwistersofiricreas- not concerned with any sort of ers, devouring: fences behind Howabout... byTomBrokawintheNotterupts 'i:ng' ferocity· and totce. But character development. them, or de:verly tearing apart a in flames. Twfster: '6o-written 'by Michael · · Crichtontriestothrowinother drive-in movie screen showing Slip and Slide. A team ofmud Rating: ***(outoffour) ,. ·CD ,Review: .Jack by,Resolve . at Union · by LawrencePaska Jack is a good debut album, and the group is certainly full of promise. As with all first efforts, nothing is perfect, and in time, the group shall have perfected their sound quite well. zying when you consider I in~ such as: \At a breakneck clip on an overdue trip/like a kid on the lam from the family scam/laugll- ing back chokes and staying clos~ to/the power lines/and she looh1 all right by the dashboard light.\' \Pilot\ offers insightful lyrics such as \True believers roam/the clouds are combed/staring at a hole in the sky where heroes/used to fly.\ Courtesy ofVisu(llArts \At Night...,\ an exhibition of photographs by Ian Spainer, will be on display at Union College in ,the Arts Building Atrium Gallery from Monday, May 20 through Friday, May 31. An artist's reception will be held on Tuesday, May 21,from 4:30-6:30 PM. Refreshments will be served: This reception is free and open to the public. Ian Spainer, currently a senior Visual Arts major at Union Col- lege, is presenting a series ofpho- tographs which focus on the night, night people and nighttime activity. The images in this project rep- resent contempor1ry issues about the culture that eKists at night as well as Ian's attempts to under- stand the mystery and magic that is preserved at night. Spainerwill also present an ex- hibition of photographs at Cafe Dolce at27lL:ark Street in Albany entitled \Images in Grace, Form, and Beauty.\ This exhibit is run- ning from now until Monday, June3. These photographs study the grace~ fonn, and beauty ofballet · as aform of dance. The images in this project take a view ofthe danc- ers both in and out of their ele~ ment, all the while exploring the elegance ofthe humanfonn. Also being featured in .the Arts Building Atrium Gallery is \De~ tails for Daily Life.\ an exhibition of paintings by Heather C. Picken, which will be on display from Monday, June 3 through Sunday, June 16. An artist's reception will be held on Tuesday ,June 4 from 4:30- 6:30 PM. Refreshments will be served. This reception is free and open to the public. He. Doe.~ Mm>u.f, He /Joe.~ CD'.~ ... He Etren Does the Dishe.¥1 Resolve, performing at this weekend's Springfest, is an up- and-coming band from Scotia, New York. Begun as a threesome, the band's members separated for college but soon joined back to~ gether in Boston and established themselves there. Now back in the Capital Region this weekend, Resolve has had its first big commercial success with Jack~ their first full-length album and the debut record of the new New York-based AO! Records. The band's members - Bill Madden on guitar and vocals, Steve Mullaney on drums, Dave Heather C. Picken, currently a senior Visual Arts and English major at Union College, is present- inga series of paintings focused on detail. . Ross on bass and vocals, and Dan Valachovic on lead guitar and vo- cals- have come a long way from Schenectady. Each painting examines art ob~ ject in close perspective and large · · scale. The theme centers on de- tails encountered in our daily lives in the modem world. The Gallery hours are 9AM- 6PM daily, seven days a week. Both exhibitions are sponsored by the Union College Department of Visual Arts. For more information call388-620l. The opening track, 'cDollar Guts,\ is named after a card game played by the band members, but you wouldn't know it from the loud drums which drown out the vocals. It's too bad, because the lyrics are interesting. (They are- re- printed in the CD jacket.) \Selec- tions From the Diary of a Well Kept Boy,\ the second track. of- fersmoreofthesame, while\Gun For Christmas\ has a socially- conscious message on urban vio- lence, but again the theme is lost among loud percussion and anal- most \cheery\ sound. \Kid\ tries to shoot tbr many metaphors at once, but seems diz- With such colorful phrases as these, it's too bad no one could come up with a phrase better than \heartless pricks\ to concludethe verse. Resolve has a good sound, and with the exception of the words being drowned out by the music, the band appears to be off to a good start. Look for them at Springfest and, if you can, listen for selections from this album. Rating: 8- ' . ,• \ '. ' L / (.' .

• ~ .,. .... ~ ~ ,. • ~. , , ., , 11. ~ ~ -~ ~ 0 -.y \\ •'•, f', ~. l • •. 11, J '\ ., • o , 'I. ~· ~ .:; •• ,. \' \' .., • ..- • \ ' '\ 1f ll •- »,. c~~;· ·~ .. 1r< Jt 0 !I •, • •• \\ S'_ ~ .II # f. 't I' • • II: 'J :a Jl, ~ .t 'I\~¥.\ It .tl fl. \ , .'fl \ 4 :J ~ •• II. -11 fl> \\ \ a ~ \' 1\ ,. '\ A \' • • Arts & [ntenainment Twister - Dorothy Gets Blown Out of Kansas Once Again ·~ ScREENING RooM by Larry Paska, Arts Editor 'Twister. \ Starr;ng Helen Hunt. Bill Paxton, Jami Gertz, Cary Elwes. Directed by Jan De Bont. Rated PG-13, Warner Bros. Pictures. With the help of executive pro- ducer Steven Spielberg, who by now should have enough money to buy all of Hollywood if he wants it, director Jan De Bont could become one of America's little-known but great directors. He already proved his talents with Speed, a milestoJ:le in action film- making that combined unbearable suspense and intelligent action with characters that just plain worked. Now, hetums an unlikely \enemy\ into a special effects ex- travaganza, proving that he can make pure escapist entertainment be just that: entertaining. Considering that the threat in this movie is a force of nature, the task of making the characters' I ives seem in constant peril is chal- lenging. This is where the film's weakestlinks are, in pitting Jo and Bill Harding -two tornado track- ers- against twisters of increas- ing ferocity and force. But Twister, co-written by Michael Crichton and his wife Anne-Marie Martin, keeps everyone's adrena- line pumping thanks to the un- stoppable visual effects and awe- some, thunderous sound of vari- ous tornadoes ripping through the Midwest, destroying every- thing from barns to whole towns in its path. The story bears Crichton's mark- many scientific references held together by a weak plot I ine- and is, in fact, his first work made directly for the screen, which is good, because chances are, this would make for an aw- fully dull reading. Bill (Paxton) arrives \on location\ with his new fiancee, Melissa (Gertz), in tow, handing divorce papers over to his ex-wife, Jo (Mad About You 's Hunt). Jo still \has a thing\ for Bill, and it doesn't take a meteo- rologist to forecast that the two storm chasers will rekindle their romance. Melissa, who is a re- productive therapist, cannot ap- preciate the job her fiancee loves so much, and her departure half- way through the film is a welcome sight, because she is just an an- noying sidenote in a film which is not concerned with any sort of character development. Crichton tries to throw in other Student Art Exhibitions at Union Courtesy of Visual Arts \At Night...,\ an exhibition of photographs by Ian Spainer, will be on display at Union College in the Arts Building Atrium Gallery from Monday, May 20 through Friday, May 31. An artist's reception will be held on Tuesday, May 21 from 4:30-6:30 PM. Refreshments will be served. This reception is free and open to the public. Ian Spainer, currently a senior Visual Arts major at Union Col- lege, is presenting a series ofpho- tographs which focus on the night, night people and nighttime activity. The images in this project rep- resent contempor'lry issues about the culture that exists at night as well as Ian's attempts to under- stand the mystery and magic that is preserved at night. Spainer will also present an ex- hibition of photographs at Cafe Dolce at 271 Lark Street in Albany entitled \Images in Grace, Form, and Beauty.\ This exhibit is run- ning from now until Monday, June 3. These photographs study the grace, form, and beauty of ballet as a form of dance. The images in this project take a view of the danc- ers both in and out of their ele- ment, all the while exploring the elegance of the human foiitl. Also being featured in the Arts Building Atrium Gallery is \De- tails for Daily Life,\ an exhibition of paintings by Heather C. Picken, which will be on display from Monday, June 3 through Sunday, June 16. An artist's reception will be held on Tuesday, June 4 from 4:30- 6:30 PM. Refreshments will be served. This reception is free and open to the public. Heather C. Picken, currently a senior Visual Arts and English major at Union College, is present- ing a series of paintings focused on detail. Each painting examines an ob- ject in close perspective and large scale. The theme centers on de- tails encountered in our daily lives in the modem world. The Gallery hours are 9AM- 6PM daily, seven days a week. Both exhibitions are sponsored by the Union College Department of Visual Arts. For more information call388-620 1. characters, too, like Elwes as Dr. Jonas Miller, a \rival\ storm tracker who Bill claims is \in it for the money, notthe science.\ This is an interestingline coming from a$70million Warner Bros. movie, the studio which grossed more dollars last year than any other studio except for Buena Vista. Miller's presence adds little except for the thrill of a chase, altho11gh one wonders what MiNer needed aU those vans that his team drives for. Unlike his usual self, Crichton doesn't seem to be in it for the science all that tnuch. The script concerns itself with chatter about F-class twisters briefly at a dinner table conversation, but otherwise, Jo and Bill are mainly seen scram- bling into their van to chase yet another natural disaster. The story weakly tries to tie Jo 's love of her profession to a childhood inci- dent, when her father was killed in a tornado disaster. But this film is hardly an epic, so \Jo 's crusade against nature\ seems I ike a throw-away idea and adds nodi- mensionality to the storytelling. De Bont ends up turning this badly-written, small-plot story into a heart-stopping action piece by wisely capitalizing on the film's drawing power. So what iftoma- does don't generally happen as frequently as depicted in the film? ·Lettfie sheer po'wer of the storm whirl you around. Whether it's two feet behind the storm chas- ers, devouring fences behind them, or cleverly tearing apart a drive-in movie screen showing Jack from The Shining, De Bont makes tornadoes seem every bit as frightening and tough to es- cape from as the shark in Jaws or the velocaraptors of Jurassic Park. (Could this be because Spielberg was involved with those projects, too?) At the end ofthe two hours, De Bont wants your ears to bleed and your eyes to be gapiag in terror. And he pulls it off quite well. Hats off, again, to Industrial Light and Magic for terrific ef- fects, and to Spielberg's Arnblin Production Company, for making movie audiences scared and en- tertained. The death 0fthe Ameri- can Cinema will probably be the day Spielberg dies, so we can only hope he keeps grooming De Bont to take over his position when he is gone. De Bont is emerging as an outstanding ac- tion film director who keeps audi- ences on the edge of their seats by turning fonnula inside out. The parts of Twister which appear used are overshadowed by the simple fact that a fairly unexciting concept could be made with such gusto. If Hollywood Came to Schenectady ... Director Jan De Bont made tor- nadoes blow us away in Twister. lfDe Bont came to Schenectady, what kinds of action movies could he make about forces of nature? How about... Slip and Slide. A team of mud slide trackers comes across a se- ries of rainstorms in the Electric City which cause gigantic mud slides to occur, trapping cars and people. Their efforts to enlist the aid ofUnion 's We Care About U- Schenectady fail when a tremen- dous Class Z Mud Slide devours most of Hamilton Hill, hurting the city's drug trafficking and thus causing a city-wide financial shut- down. A River Runs Over It. Chris Farley and Davis Spade star as Union Campus Safety officers who must save a group of Ooids caught in a large stream flowing down Seward Place during a par- ticularly nasty, rainy Tuesday. When a sewer backs up and over- flows, it's up to Union's finestto solve the problem. Can Farley and Spade stop the flood before it takes all of Schenectady with it downstream? Sewer. The Union College cam- pus has always seen lots of steam rising from manhole covers. But one day, a manhole cover blows open, killing several people and injuring dozens more. Now, a team of Schenectady police officers and campus security personnel, Jed by a pol ice I ieutenant on his last day on the job played by Danny 'Tm too old for this sh**!\ Glover, must go into the sewers of Union College and find the cause of all the steam before a secret lecture by Tom Brokaw in the Nott erupts in flames. Rating: *** (outoffour) CD Review: Jack by Resolve by Lawrence Paska He DtJe.~ Mol'ie.~, He f)oes CJ)'s ... Ye E1ren Doe.~ the Di.l'he.~! Resolve, performing at this weekend's Springfest, is an up- and-coming band from Scotia, New York. Begun as a threesome, the band's members separated for college but soon joined back to- gether in Boston and established themselves there. Now back in the Capital Region this weekend, Resolve has had its first big commercial success with Jack, their first full-length album and the debut record of the new New York-based AO! Records. The band's members - Bill Madden on guitar and vocals, Steve Mullaney on drums, Dave Ross on bass and vocals, and Dan Valachovic on lead guitar and vo- cals- have come along way from Schenectady. Jack is a good debut album, and the group is certainly full of promise. As with all first efforts, nothing is perfect, and in time, the group shall have perfected their sound quite well. The opening track, \Dollar Guts,\ is named after a card game played by the band members, but you wouldn't know it from the loud drums which drown out the vocals. It's too bad, because the lyrics are interesting. (They are re- printed in the CD jacket.) \Selec- tions From the Diary of a Well Kept Boy,\ the second track, of- fers more of the same, while \Gun For Christmas\ has a socially- conscious message on urban vio- lence, but again the theme is lost among loud percussion and anal- most \cheery\ sound. \Kid\ tries to shoot fur many metaphors at once, but seems d iz- zying when you consider lines such as: \At a breakneck clip on an overdue trip/like a kid on the lam from the family scam/laugh- ing back chokes and staying close to/the power lines/and she looks all right by the dashboard I ight.\ \Pilot\ offers insightful lyrics such as '\True believers roam/the clouds are combed/staring at a hole in the sky where heroes/used to fly.\ With such colorful phrases as these, it's too bad no one could come up with a phrase better than ''heartless pricks\ to conclude the verse. Resolve has a good sound, and with the exception of the words being drowned out by the music, the band appears to be off to a good start. Look for them at Springfest and, if you can, listen for selections from this album. Rating: B-

. . rts & Entertainment . . · 'IDI1c illoucorb-icn5is • May 16, 1996 • Page 16 Arts & [ntertainment FRIDAY,MAY17 l..@Cal Arts Calendar The oldest performing group in the Capital District, the Mendelssohn Club, is featured in a Spring Concert called \Spring Summerand Shaw\ at 8:00PM at The Egg. Ouest Artist is Albany Pro Musica. Tickets are $12, all seats are reserved in advance by phone: 395-8863 .. SATURDAY, MAY 18 Get set for hip-hoorays and ballyhoo as the national tour of 42nd Street plays at Proctor's Theater at3 and 8 PM. · Winner of the 1981 Tony Award for Best Musical and Best Choreography, 42nd Street has been called the definitive backstage musical. Based on the 1933 Warner Brother film struting Ruby Keeler,.. Dick Powell and Ginger Rogers, the Broadway version opened in August 1980 to rave reviews, and ~;an for a remarkable 61 3 7 performances. 42nd Street showcases extraordinary tap dancing, costumes that shimmer and timeless tunes that send you humming, including such favorites as \Shuffle off to Buffalo,\ \Lullaby of Broadway,\ and of course, \42nd Street.\ .. . 42nd Street takes us behind the scenes of Pretty Lady, a fictional Broadway show that holds the · hopes and dreams of many- including the famous director, the fadinglea:ding lady, and the talented ingenue, Peggy Sawyer. Peggy can't believe her luck when she's chosen to be one ofthe chor.us member for Pretty Lady. It's a dream come true forth is little actress from Allentown, Pennsylvania who's got her sights set on the bright lights of Broadway. When the leading lady can.'t go on, it'sup to Peggy and her fabulous footwork to save the show. Tickets for both shows are $34.50, $29.50 and $26.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office ( 518) 346-6204 and at all TicketMaster locations. SUNDAY;:·MAY 19 The Friends of Musical Arts invites you to a Recital and Silent Auction to benefit its twentieth anniversary season at the United Methodist Church, 175 fifth A venue, in Saratoga Springs. Guests artists include Kristen Hansen, Renee Hostetler, Michael Limoli, Brian Trombley and Gwen Pykett. Chamber music for clarinet quintet, hom, recorder, voice and piano, plus works by Anram, Mahler, Mozart, Nielsen and Telemann will be featured. Tickets are $15 and reservations can be given at (518) 692.., 7933. The event begins at 4:00PM. WEEKEND The Albany Civic Theater (ACT) presents The Sisters Rosensweig, directed by Barbara M. Kelly, in its final performances this Friday through Sunday. The theater is located on 235 Second Avenue (off ofDelaware A venue) in Albany. Call462-1297 for more information, including tickets prices. Close Ties, by Elizabeth Diggs, is a warm hearted and funny family drama which observes with humor and compassion the struggle of a close-knit family dealing with the problem of providing for an aging parent Presented as a staged reading by Theater Voices of Albany, performances of Close Ties will be on Friday, May 17 at 8 PM, Saturday, May 18 at3:30 PM and 8 PM, and Sunday, May 19 at3 PM. All p~rformances are at Albany Center Gallery, upper floor entrance at Chapel and Orange Streets in Albany. Admission is free. Title ·r. E.lt. .·. ·. Spike Skips Union, and the· Whole Campus·Asks: Did He \Do the Right Thing?\ by LawrencePaska Arts Editor Peer Facilitators presented re- nowned film director, writer, pro· ducer, and actor Spike Lee last night at 8 PM in Memorial Chapel Mr. Lee gave a lecture on Racism in America and the Portrayal of · This Issue in His Films. This lec- ture was free and open to the cam- pus community. Although rumors ran wild as to why Spike skipped out on his original May 1 0 date; everyone knows the real reason was be- cause 'Mr: :Lee felt threatened by the tough questions the Concordiensis' Arts Editor was slated to ask. When a copy of Mr. Paska's questions got leaked to Lee's .publicty staff, Lee ran in fear. Lee, who was recently named one of the 50 Greatest Directors of All Time by Entertainment Weekly magazine, made his feature film debut in 1986withShe 'sGotta Have It, a black-and-white drama about a sexy woman who is sought after by three men. This is considered Lee's breakthrough film, and he followed it with 1988's School Daze, a look at black col- lege campus life in the South, with one student battling the adminis- tration and his fellow students. From there, Lee went on to direct and star in his most widely-known film, Do the Right Thing, about a Brooklyn community that sees an outbreak of hostilities on a par- ticularly hot summer's day. Danny Aiello plays a pizza parlor owner, and Lee co-stars as a de- livery boy. This is unquestion- ably his most provocative and enlightening film. 1990's Mo ' Better Blues is a backstage look at a jazz musician's life, where he keeps everyone at arm's length, including the two women in his life. Jungle Fever explores interracial romance, as Wesley Snipes and Annabella Sciorra fa11 for each other in an affair that crosses more than just racial and cultural lines. His most ambitious effort to date is 1992's Malcolm X, a three hour-plus bi- ography of the black leader, fea- turing Denzel Washington in a role he was born to play. From there, Lee filmed a semi- autobiographical look at 1970s Brooklyn called Crooklyn, which is a .quiet winner with some inter- esting visual indulgences by Lee. Last fall, Clockers was released to great reviews but bad box of- fice, yet it ranks among his best works{behind Do the Right Thing and Malcolm X); about a street youth who \wants out\ of the ur- ban life that's bringing him down. Harvey Keitel is superb as a the cop who tries to help him. Recently, Lee made Gir/6, ar- guably his worst film to date, cen- tered on the phone ... sex \industry\ and a woman played by Theresa Randle, who gets a job as a phone sex \operator\ to make some money. Although the film disap- peared from theaters rather quickly, it showed that Lee has emerged from stories of urban street life and is taking on more versatile:stories. Gir/6, which ap- pears to be moreofacomedy, ex- pands Lee's range as a filmmaker, even if the results are less than perfect. Spike Lee is not a big box office draw, but his films are recognized enough to make his major film dis- tributor, Universal, throw money his way. (MalcolmXgrossed$40 million in 1992, but his three most recent films combined have not pulled inthatmuch). Because his themes constantly expand, Lee will continue to be an important contemporary film director. Spike Lee's Filmography (with Mr. Paska's ratings for each fihn) She'sGottaHavelt(l986)- *** School Daze (1988}- *** Do the Right Thing (1989)- **** Mo' Better Blues (1990)- **1/2 Jungle Fever(1991 )- *** MalcolmX(1992)- ***1/2 Crooklyn(1994)- *** Clockers(l995)- ***112 Girl6(1996)- **

Personals and Classifieds To the Kappas- Congratulations! L.M. --I love you cutie! Welcome to the family. Hope you had fun on Saturday night! -.,.Love the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta: Love,Oom Hey GOLDFINGERS --when are we dear to paint? To the sisters ofGamma Phi Beta, We're done girls! Thanx for all your love r-------.----------------------------------. and Sup·port this week -- I Petitions will be available to run for Student Forum Representative for ·the Class~s of 1997, 1998, 199'9 start- ing Friday, May 17th. . ·· _;,·, ·;. ! : / ~. You can pick up the petitions in St~~~nt Activities, Room 408 in the Reamer Cam- pus Center. Petitions will be due Friday, May 24th. Elections will be held Friday, May 31st. , \' I~ 'Couldn't have . 4one it without you! Love in PKE, AZ \ ' rm UNK>N COLLIIGE Olreer Dtutlopment Center CDC Updates ••• I , ·- •Resume Deadline May 16 for: • VTR ·Milestone I.n~~ -Exxon ·Prudential Internship .Come to CDC to learn about an internship with \Dreamwork\, a new Michael J _ Fox sitcom, in NYC. •Sprint is hiring EE majors for Radio Frequency Engineer po.- sitions. Resume Deadline to the CDC Wed., May 15. For further details call Michael Mahoney '85@ 785-2001. •Primerica Financial Services is looking for full & part-time managementtraineesin marketing. To findoutmorei nfomation or set up an interview, send resume to: Sam Marro, Prim eric a Financial Services, 1717 Central Ave nile, Suite 201, Albany, New Ycd: 12205 or call 518-464--9044. Fax #: 518-464-9587 Reminder: •Seniors, please complete & retun1 Senior Survey Fonns to the CDC. Also, if you have recieved ajob offer we would appre ciate your completing a Job Offer Fonn. We rely on this in- formation to maintain accurate & up-to-date statistical sur- . veys. All information will remain confidentiaL Thanxs for the early game of soft- ball last week-- it was definitely an eye- opener! Glad we could help! Love, Tony and Ace Tim- Hope it is not as bad as we thought. Talk to you soon! -Sarah The Kappas Happy Birthday Sweater! We love you! - The Gang! Tothe newest sisters·ofGamma Phi Beta- -Hello my sunshines! You made it! Even afte~ a week of rationing and?%*#! walks! I am so proud of a:l'l of you-- you guys are \phenomenaL\ It was a rough week, but I think we can both say it's completely worth it. about your Conquistador! To DebbieDiemont, Thnks for the pasta salad! - R J -had a great time hiking on Saturday de- spite the rain! -Love, E Congratulations to all those who partici- pated in Steinmetz! You all had terrific pre- sentations! Love in PKE, AZ To the brothers of Sigma Phi- Thanks for the greattime, food, drinks and band. Rock on!! --Love the SistersofGamma Phi Beta James-Good luck this week. I can 1 t waitto hear all about it!- Leandra WELCOME TO LASERTAG THE FUTUrliSTIC LIVE ACTION LASER GAME. A FANTASY WOR·LD OF STRATEGY AND RAW EX.CITE\-1 ENT. YOUR MISSION: TO s·e:EK, FINO A1-lD DC,,::;-,vATE OPPOSJNG TEAM M·E'MSERS F\OR POINTS USING THE l.t\v\,JqL~·s :-,.,~ST AOVANC·EO LASER EQUIPMe:~.T. LAS·EP.TAG ;s PL.AYE.O IN AN AD RENAL.INE:-CH·ARG ED ATM OS PH El-l·e: Cf>E '\T E::. C Y S PECI·A L. ·EFFECT LIGHTING, FOG MACHINES AN 0 HIGH CNERGY '-1USIC ALL IN A BLACK LIGHT MAZE ARENA. msf paced .. Q,eart pffmpln.tf \ wild • explosive . WJTH VID.ED GAME ARENA & REFRESHMENT CENTER SciOK A LASER TAG PARTY F\O•R YOUR G.ROU:P OR O.FFIC::.E NOW. G RE:AT FOR 8ACH.EL..OR PARTIE:S ! GAMES START AT ONLY $5.00 YeAH, RJGHrr· ~cing the AT&T \Ultimate ROAD TRIP\ sweepstakes. Studying abroaa this Fall~ AT&T would like to help pay your way. 10 GRAND PRIZE WINNERS - Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S, to the country where you will study. Plus thousands of other chances to win ... • Leather-bound passport rolders • High-quality =rency converters To enter, call , 8 0 0 78 q • q qq. 7. Or see your Study Abroad ? Counselor for more details. ·~: ;~urcha&O necerJB4n' \/Old \'hen pr1h<bi'.ed Sw~epstakes l!nd• 'i 1l 96 )pon ,., l•<tl!na ,t •hto~o • ~- 18 year' or oldt!r attend1ng !lchool ll.bxoad fox t.he f'a11 96 s~ste!r '.hr·JuQ:n partlclp.'lt•ng ,- .... cole Sae your Study Abroad C'.,u..nse:or for offi.i'lal r:'\Jles and ::Jet1uls C :996 ATLT

Sports . Wl1c illnnrnroil'ttsiz • l\1 ay 16, 1996 • Page 18 1995 .. 1996 Block .U.·-Varsity Letter Winners '' Ibrahim Adamu •. Men's Soccer Jennif~r ~llaire, Women's Swimming Ryan· Alni.stead, Baseball Mark'Anderson, Men's Swimming Jinsy Andrews, Volleyball Jamie<Antoine; lee. Hockey Frank Attah, Football Amelia Audette,X Country Outdoor & In- door Track ' .... Karin AVeriU, Field Hockey Samuel Sabco~k, Men's Lacrosse Willialil· Balus;'Men'~ Basketball Leonard Barbar(), Football David Barclay, Foot_baU Katherine Barnett, Volleyball Julia Barton~ Women's Soccer Steve~:·~~umgf~,r.-tner, Men's Soccer Matthew Bazydlo, Men's Soccer Jonatha:~ Becker.; Men's Soccer Matt Beebe. Men's Tennis Eli BensQn~. Men's Lacrosse Tim Benson, Men's Lacrosse Sam .Berge'r, Men's Tennis David Bernstein, Baseball David· Bi{_mingham, Football Tara '13lagys. Field Hockey, Basketball Kenneth Blaszka, Men's Lacrosse Joel .Bond, Ice Hockey Justin Bourque, Football Scott Boyd~ ,Jce Hockey Cecelia Bu~banan, Women's Swimming Gregory Buchanan, Ice Hockey Kathleen B~gd~n,Outdoor & Indoor Track Joseph Burczynski, Men's Indoor Track Peter Buscemi, Footb~ll. Justin .Campbell, Football . Tonya Capparello,Basketball &Field Hockey' · · . Gregory_ Carcione, Fo<;>tball Joseph Caru5o, Men's Soccer Deborah· Cederbaum; Softball Robert Champlin, Football Jennifer Chick, Softball Nathan Childs, Men's Indoor Track Steve Chin,· Men's Tennis Florence· cKi~t1~h:-~iein~ll's Swimmilhg ' ' .... ~.,.,'{ \ ~1. ··~1\ ... ,.,. ,,, ' Erik .(::hu, M.en'~ Socc~r· ·· · · Ryan. 8_oh.ei{ Men's Soccer Diane Cohen, Indoor' & Outdoor Track LeaJ&a Collier, Field Hockey · . JonatHan Comeau, Cross Country, Outdoor Track · Nicholas Conway, X Country, Indoor & Outdoor Track Matthew Cossey, Men's Indoor Track Jacqueline Crane, Women's Swimtning Brandon Curran, Football Jason Cyboron, Men's Lacrosse Sharon Czechowski, Women's Lacrosse Vinod Dasa, Men's Tennis Jennifer Davidson, Women's Swimming Christopher DeLano, Men's Lacrosse Eric Depew. Men's Indoor Track Edward Dombroski, Indoor & Outdoor Track Ryan Donovan, Ice Hockey Charles Doran, Men's Seccer Christopher Dora:'!:, Football Amy Dougherty, Women's Basketball Christine Douglas, Volleyball Leilani Doyle, Women's Lacrosse Brad Duffy, Football Erik Edson, Football Roger Egbert, Football Christopher Ellis, Football Robert Emsing, Football Chris Estefani, Men's Soccer Jonathan Fader, Men's Baseball Kimberly Fanning, Soccer & Softb~ll Anthony Fantauzzi, Football Thomas Feldman, Men's Soccer Richard Ferro, Men's Lacrosse Brian Field, Men's Swimming Julie Firman, Women's Indoor Track John Fitzgerald. Men's Swimming Peter Flynn. X-Country,Indoor & Outdoor Track Christopher Ford, Ice Hockey Michael Frattarolla, Men's Lacrosse Joanna Freedman, Women's Tennis Erika Friedrich, Volleyball Brad Funk, Men's Soccer Jonathan Gainor, Men's Outdoor Track Rachel Getty, Women's Soccer Christopher Glidden, Men's Soccer Matthew Glogowski, Men's Swimming Elana Goldberg, Field Hockey Jason Goldberg, X::-Country, Indoor & Out~ Track , . . .. door Track · _ Sarah Morse, X-Country, lf!door & Ot_;f-. Brian Galdberg, Indoor lk. Oudoor Track door Track Ronald Goodell, Football Leonard Mortimore, Footl:ial1 & Basketball Ari Gottlieb, Men's Swimming Shuron Morton, Football & Indoor Track Jessica Goveia, Women's Indoor Track Sarah Moss, Soccer & Lacrosse Jessica Goveia, Women'~ Outdoor Track Charles ·Moxham, Ice Hockey· Sara Gower, Women's Basketball KeUy Nadeau; Softball David Grandwetter, Men's Soccer Richard Nespohi:, Baseball Leon Grebla, Football Matthew Newman, Men's Soccer· Jason Greenstein, Football Gregg Nigro, Football Toby Guzowski, Basebali . Jason Noker, Football James Haas, Football Amy ·Nyre.n, Softball . ,. Joshua Hall, Football Patrick O'Flaherty; Ice Hookey Jessica Hallenbeck, Women's Tennis Daniel O'Neill, Football Jeffrey Harrigan, Baseball Vincent O~ermeier, Men's Soc;cer Robert Harrington, Football Shoko Ok~;tdQ, Field Hockey & Lacrosse Brian Hava, Men's Basketball Katherine Ott, Women's Tennis . Jamie Haver, Basketball & Baseball Br~nt Ozatows_ki, Ice Hockey Eri Hay&Shi, Women's Swimming Jessica Paige, Women's. Lacrosse j . . '. ,: _,_ .. - , • Erik Sanderson, Men's· Indoor 'Frack. Neil Saniel, Football ' Seabrook Satterlund, Ice tlockey Sunil Schneider; Men~s Lacrosse M~ry Schultz, Women ~s: Basketball Jennifer Schwartz, Women's Cross Coun- try . David Searles, Men's Swimming Jayne Seekins, Women':s Indoor Track Mark Serio,. Football · · · · Linda Seymol!r, Women'·s Cross Country Danielle Shelov, Women's Soccer Leeor Shtrom, lee Hockey• · · · John Sicinski; Ic.e<Hockey _ Lauren Siegel, Women's Soccer Reid Simonton, Ice Hoc_key· · Chip -Sinclair, Men's Basketball Geoffrey Sipperly,. Men';~ Soccer Alexander Smith, Men.'s :Lacwsse Ryan Smith, Football, Basketball & .ease- ball Carrie Heroth, Field Hockey & Softball Lauren Papa, So<;cer & ~Qf~bali Amy Hitz, Basketball, Oudoor irack David Parrott, Men's L~ch:>sse Clark Smyth, Men's.Swimming Jeffrey Hoerle, Men's Swimmincg · · Lauren Pastor, Soccer & Lacrosse Joshua Soldo, Baseball Molly Hood, X-Country, Indoor & Outdoor Jonathan Pearlman, Men's Soccer Nicole Solomos, Soccer f¥. La9rosse Track Daniel Penna; Football:.···~'· Peter Spaulding, Men's Swimming Michael Humphreys, Men's Swimming Justin Perkins, Men's Lacrosse Sarah Spaulding, Woint?n:,·s Swimming Lauren Ingis, Women's Lacrosse Kevin Pessolano, Footbill1 · · Stefanie Speanburg, Fi'el'd Hockey Christina Jabbour, Field Hockey . · Jeremy Pflaum, Baseball · Dennis Stapf, a'aselial:l . Kelly Jamieson, X-Country, Swimming & Jonathan Phenix, Football Chad Staro, Men's Lacrosse Outdoor Track ·Jason Pinney, Men's Lacrosse DanieUe Steele, Women's indoor Track Timothy Jason, Men's Lacrosse Jordan Pinsker, Men's Tennis Maurice Sterling~ Footba:ll Jason Jennings, Indoor & Outdoor TJ;ack. Dominick Pitaniello, Football Russell Stram, Indoor &·outdoor Track ·Matthew Jolinson, Men's Outdoor Track Grant Pollock, Men'.s Lacrosse Patrick Streck, Men's Soccer Hillary Jospe, Women's Lacrosse Scott Porter; M~.n's Lacrosse . David Strickland, Men's Soccer . Craig Juelis, Men's Lacrosse Dan))-ort~~Jaehis Indoor. ~r~~k -. Matthew Sugarman, Men's Basketball Heather Kanser, Volleyball _-;. -:· ~. -~··: •-:\ ::::':·Stephel.f·fii>tenza, Men's Swinimhj'g, ·. :. · .. ·. Ka~~edq~ Swanson, Field Hockey Jeffrey Kasowitz, Men's Tenni~'\ ~~;;t·;{ :'';.'su(!Jf~~r H9tluii\ Men's Tennis ,, : . . Mirk~Szucs, Ice Hockey Craig Kazmierczak, B~seball · · , · ~iny Poweli,.Women's SQccer. . . . . Do~ny.Tam, Indoor & Outdoor Track Amy Kessinger, Women's Tennis Jay Prentice, Ice Hockey ·· · Christina Tarabor~m, V_olle~ball Chad Kimball, Men's Lacrosse Bianca:'Pruino, Eeld Hockey· Robert TeCarr, Men's·-~asketball Elizabeth Kittleman, Soccer & ·Lacrosse Denton RandQlph, Football Dawn Tessier, Women's Tennis David Kline, Baseball . Samir ~andolph, Men's Soccer Kerrie Thomas, Women's Soccer . James Knight, Football & Baseball Todd Ray, Men's Lacrosse Chad Thomp_s~n. Ice Hockey James Kochan, Footqall Craig Reckin,'ice Hockey · Jason Tracy, F'ootbalf. · Trevor Koenig, Ice. Hockey Colleen-Reilly, Women's Switrtming Alyssa Valove, Wohien's'Lacros~e Eric Kujawski. Men's. S~j::cer 8?- B_aseb!lll J'.',. A\I~~If!n_,~~nn,. Soccer &. Outdoor J:rack . David VanCott, Men's' Outdoor Track : · 'David Kunsel~an~ th:is's' Country & Out- . - Sarah Retersdorf, Women's Soccer Maria Vianna: Softball: ' · · · · door Track Emily Retterer, Women's Soccer John Visconti, Football Danielle LaCrosse, Softball & Volleyball Jennifer Ricci, 'softball · Gretchen Voegler,. Volleyball Jeremy Lamb, Baseball Doyin Richards, Men's Basketball Gregory Walters, Men's ·Soccer David Lang, Football Shola Richards, Men's Basketball Karen Watts, Women's SWimming Joseph Latella, Football Kathryn Richardson, Field Hockey Suzanne Weldon, Women's Soccer Shannon Lawlor, Softbal1 David Riggi, Indoor & Outdoor Track Andrew Will, Ice Hockey Andrew Leach, Footba!J Charrod Riley, Football Mark Will, lee Hockey.· Michael Leding, Indoor & Outdoor Track Christopher Riley, Men's Swimming Eric Williams, Men's Lacrosse Elton Lee, Football Michael Riveles, Baseball Allison Williams, Women's Lacrosse Heather Leet,. Women's Outdoor track Michael ki~mait,: Men's SWimmip.g _ Ryan Windelspecht, Football Boe Leslie, Ice Hockey Charles Robertson, Men's Swimming Maura Woessner, Women's Lacrosse Richard Ling, Indoor & Outdoor Track Courtney Rogers, Women's Tennis Matthew Woodrow, Men's Swimming Ramsey Lowe, Field Hockey Cara Rothfuss, Volleyball Michelle Woodward, Indoor & Outdoor Katherine MacDowell, X-Country & Out- Rachelle Rourke, Softball Track door Track Jermel Royal, Indoor & Outdoor Track Rebecca Wright, Soccer & Lacrosse Michael Macomber, Men's Swimming Seth Rudin, Indoor & Outdoor Track Daniel Young, Men's Soccer Carrie Madsen, Women's Swimming Taryn Sarno!, Soccer & Softball Maria Zukowski, Women's Lacrosse Elen Maguire~ Women's Tennis Kevin Makarowski, Men's Swimming Mario Maltese, Men's Lacrosse & Foot- ball James Manning, Football John Marbarger, Football Aimee Marko, Women's Outdoor Track Michael Martin, Indoor & Outdoor Track Matthew Mauriello, Men's Swimming Steve McCann, X-Country, Indoor & Out- door Track Michelle McCarte, Field Hockey Megan McCarthy, Women's Swimming Sara Mcintosh, X-Country & Indoor Track Alyson McKee, Women's Swimming ThomJts McKeown, Football Ryan McKinley, Men's Indoor Track Shontel Meachem, Women's Swimming Jonatha Meade, Women's Swimming William Mehleisen, Football Eric Menard, Men's Swimming Sean Metrose, Men's Basketball John Metz, X~Country, Indoor & Outdoor ·Track Hugh Meyer, Country & Outdoor Track Adam Meyers, Baseball Carrie Middleton, Women's Tennis Peter Mody, Men's Indoor Track Kelly Monahan, Women's Swimming Russell Monteith, Ice Hockey Carlos Mantilla, Indoor & Outdoor Track Bernard Moody, Ice Hockey · William Morris, Indoor Track & Outdoor Attention All Graduating Seniors If you have received a Perkins and/or, Insti- tutional Loan, an EXIT Interview must be completed before graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notification of this, Please Contact: - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - -- Mrs. Civitello@ x6039. Dates for Inter- • views: Friday (May 31st) June 3rd (Monday) & 4th (Tuesday) :Please call for an appointrp.ent. r t l a ~ 0 7 81 r~ p, fc to ti 1: A R m se L' 5: lu m c 2( th

Pa e 19 • i\la' 16, 1996 • ·m1l' <.flmtcnroil'n.sis . . -. S >orts Union Baseball Ends Season with Promising Fu_ture by Chris Ltone staf/writer Even though the Unicm College baseball team sa.w their season come to a disappointing end with a 5-4 loss at Albany State, there is a promising outlook forth~ future. When the season started, the team set a goal of achieving a .50() record, which might have seemed a stretch to some doubters. How- ever, the team never lost faith.in themselves, and played very com- petitive ball through out the weather-shortenea season. After the last outofthe season, the pre• season goal had been surpassed, and the team came with in one win of tying an all-time season win recerd and had posted the best winning .percentage sinc.e 1988. AHtotaled, thebasebaliteam had gone out and gained the respect of the doubters, the Union cam- pus, and many battered op.po-- nents through out the Northeast. Coach Gary Reynolds commented on the season by $aying \th~ · onl;y great.disappoinfinentwas the fact that we saw·seven games canceled due to all the rain. There is no way to tell what th'e overall record could have been if we had been able to play the full sched- ule.\ .. The leader of this year's team had to be pitcher Josh Soldo. Though only a sophomore, Sold<> led the team in wins ( 4 ), era, and strikeouts. Soldo's record, with a. few different bounces, could have easily have been 6-2 rather than 4-3. The leadership displayed dur- ing his games was immeasurable, as he would find ways to pitch out of the rare troublesome spots .. The team seemed to gain confi- dence whenever he got the call to throw. Eric Kujawski, Adam Myers, and David Bernstein were the - three standout offensive players for the Dutchmen this season. Kujawski, who made a tough de- fensive move from shortstop to second, was always a threat at the leadoff spot. tie was able to dis- play both power and speed, a rare combination for a leadoff man. Myers was the player that the team could rely on for the clutch b.it with men in scoring position. Berstein, who anch<>red the team defensively at first base, hit well and rarely ignored the fundamen- tals that many players fail to pay attention to. The pitching.staffwas solid to- ward the end of the season. Sophomore David Kline was able to overcome early seasQn control pro.blems, and ended wit;h a 3-3 record. Dennis Stapf(2-l ) and fresh- men Richard Nespola (3-'0) pitched effectively in relief while freshman Michael Riveles re- corded 2 sa yes and became a reli- able closer towards the end of the season. Coach Reynolds.and Assistant Coach Mike Lynch can not help but feel good about the season, but al$o must be .confident for their teams' chances in the future ~s the young players continue to develop, Nextyear's team should look very similar to this year's, as only Co-CaptainsJamie Haver and JimmyKnightgraduate. \Jamie's constant intensity on the field, and Jimmy'sgreat defensive abil- ity in centerfield are two areas where someone, or the team as a whole, will need to step in and fill next year,\ commented the Head Coach when discussing the out- look for the 97 campaign. The coaches will need to find replacements at both third and center, but with the comparable selection of players this should benoproblem. Reynolds cl.osed his feelings about next year by saying, \Ev- erything willdepend on what the kids want to accomplish.\ If the progress ofthe young team does continue, this year may very well be remembered as the start of something special, stay tuned. Alumni Council Election To be held at the President's Dinner for Seniors on May 21, 1996. The Alumni Council ofUnion Coll.ege is looking forthree graduating seniers to serve as a1Ul11ni members of the Coun- cil. The Council hosts two meetings a year: one in the Fall and the second in the Spring. Class representatives serve tenns of five years with elections ocuning during ReUnions. .. thus you will serve until your 5th ReUnion in 2001. If you are interested in serving as a member ofthe Union Alumni Council or would like to know more about theactivities of the Alumni Council, please contact Perry GoffBuroker in the Annual Giving & Alumni Programs Office at ext. 6142 before 3 p.m. on Tuesday, May 21st. Track's Appearance at States Cont'd continued from page 20 who was overheard saying \no one can beat us in this race!\ by 7 seconds. Exactly after this race Leding went to join the 4x 100 meterrelay team with Frank Attah, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi, and the team placed fourth in a seasonal besttimeof:43.81 seconds. The battle of the day was the 800 meters, in which the winner ran a National qualifying time. Pete Flynn and Nick Conway fought their way around the track to place fifth and sixth, resp.ec- tively, in times of l :57.54 and 1:57.58. Nick just edged out Cortland'·s Andy Capone at the line; Dave Riggi finished third in the 1 09 meters in a tired leg time of 11.3 5 seconds. In the 400 meters, Mike Leding placed fifth in a time of 51.02 seconds,. Jon Gainor grabbed sixth in the hammer with a· distance of 41.70 meters. The only individual State Champion was Dave Riggi in the 200meters. He overcame the weather and the fatigue that the sprinters were feeling to prove that Union·run-. ners are the toughest in the state by taking a tough field in a time of 22.64 seconds. That rounded out the scoring for the meet. Retiring along with myself at States were Seth Rudin and Russ Stram, two of the few runners that have managed to stick it out these four years. AU inallitwasagreatshowing. Any- time less than ten guys go outand score all your points you know you have some top talent. I challenge people on this cam- pus to go out for this Sport. If this team got some depth, some m~ore throwers and jumpers, it could be areal power house. We definitelyhavethe athletes on the campus. In other news, a few men who didn't want to let the season end traveled to Albany for a \Warm Up for Nationals\ meet. None of us are going to Nationals thus far, but there were some surprising perfonnances. Dave Riggi placed third in the l 00 in a time of 11.12 seconds. Matt Johnson got second itt the Javelin with a throw of 52.88 meters. Jon Gainor threw a sea- sonal best in the hammer with a 43.47. In the 800 Nick Conway won in a time of I :58.07, and Jay Goldberg stopped being a slacker and recorded a personal best by four seconds with a2:02.80. This is good news for Flynn and Conway, who are going to be hard pressed to find a replacement for Rudin and Leding on their state champ 4x800 team. Finally, in the 400 meters, Leding ran the last 400 meters of his college ca- reer. He finished third with a time of50.60. Watch out for the scintillating journalism of Jay Goldberg who will be writing for track next year. It has been fun both reporting and running. Good luck to this team as the head into the future, and I'll see you all at Block U. We can't do it captain, we just don't have the time! ·INTRAMURAL UPDATE A LEAGUE SOFTBALL ·LEAGUE! DlJSEDTOBE 4-l TDCHI 3-2 BLUE&GOLD 3-1 PHISIG 2-2 FIJIA 1-3 SIGCHI 2-3 LEAGUEII SIGCHI 4-·1 GOLD& BLUE 4-1 LAMBS 3-2 FALSTAFF 2-3 AMERICANS 2-3 BErA 2-3 FIJI 2-3 CANADIENS 1-4 BLEAGUESOFfBALL LEAGUE I SIGCHI 4-0 ZBT 3-l GUERILLA 3-l PINK FLAMES 3-l FOX 1-3 ALPHADELT 1-3 PHISIG 1-3 LEAGUE II SIGCHI . 4-0 420 3-1 SOUTHERN EXP. 3-1 PHIDELTB 3~1 PHIDELT ~2 RICHMOND 1-3 BErABOMBERS l-3 VOLLEYBALL LOIXJE S..O FIJI 4-1 BLUE&GOLD 4-1 TDCHI 3-2 SIGCHl 3-2 PHISIG 2-3 LAMBS 1-4 PHlDELT 1-4 LACROSSE TDCHI 4-0 PSIU 4-0 UJDGE 3-1 SIGPHI 2-2 BLUE&GOLD 2-2 SMOKERS 1-2-1 SIGCHI 1-3 PHIDELT 0-3-1 MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSIC! Live ·show,s Justin. CD&TAPE RANCID- HOOTIE PEARL JAM- TORI LIVE- ETHERIDGE HUSH- RAMONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHISH-DEAD DAVEMA TIHEWS BJORK.,. BEASTIES . and lots more ..•. · Video Games SNES & Genesis Start at $5 I Collectable VinyllP's & 45's I l New&Used 1 All1995 OJ Tape.~ Only$3Each Rap, Reggae & Soul '. '

Dutchmen Crew: Women Take State Title by Jeffery Druzba UCRA Public Relations Qualifying members of Union Crewtraveled to the Dad Vail Re- gatta this past weekend in Phila- delphia. Hundreds of Division HI schools descend yearly on the Schuylkill River to prove them- selves in a full range o.fevents at the two day regatta. T-his year, Union sent three entries: the state champienship goldmedaling var- sity women's I ightweight tour and men's and women's pairs without cexswain. The three crews.headed for Philadelphia on Thursday to prepare forthenextday'squalify- ing heats. The Varsity Women's Ligfit- weight Four with Jen Brady. Mar- garet Sulliva11, Neha Shah, Aileen Quigley, and coxswain Katie Murray set their focus on Dad Vails after winning the New York State Championships the week before on Lake Delta in Rome, NY. The women needed to finish in the top three of their heat to qualifY for the semi tina! heats. Un- fortunately, their efforts brought them fourth intheheatanderimi- nated them from progressing in the regatta. The Men's Pair without of Jeffery Druzba and Bryan Serrell also needed to meet the same re- quirements for advancement as the wo1:nert's four. Their heat was the fastest qualifying heat for the event as they placed fifth with a timethat would have wort the sec.:. ond heat and placed them better in the other heats. Union's Dad Vail hopes lay in the able bodies of the Women's Pair consisting of Caroline Nemet and Kenley Smith. Due to the lesser number ·of entries in the event, the women needed to place either first or second in their heat to qualify them directly for finals. Not only did they win their heat, but they posted the fastest time of all. The next closest time be- longed to Albany, a crew in their heat, and was ten seconds behind theirs. The women began to see medals in their future. On Satur- day, at finals, Caroline and Kenley proved themselves again. Their efforts yielded silver medals as Johns Hopkins University cap- tured the gold. Varsity Coach Tom White was ecstatic in the perfor- mance of all· three Dad Vail crews. As the Dad Vail Regatta came to a close, the novice men's eight readied tbrtheChampion Interna- tional Collegiate Regatta in Worcester, MA. Their efforts at the state meet were rewarded by a seeding at the national leveL They placed fifth in their consolation final. Congratulations to Union's silver medalists, Caroline Nemet and Kenley Smith, and all of the crews whose hard work and ef- fort led to a splendid sprint sea- son. FIJI Volleyball Tournament Track & Field Has Good Showing at States SuccessfulEventBenefits Big Brothers/ Big Sisters by Philip Herman & Quinlan Murphy . Sports Staff This past weekend Phi Gam rna Oelta hosted a volleyball tourna- ment with all proceeds going to the Big Brother and Big Sisters program ofSchenectady, in which many Union students are in- (photo by Lautel Ruma) volved. The event was organized by Gary Distet~mo, a Junior at Phi Gamma Delta. Throughout the week T-shirts were sold and all teams entering the tournament made donations. Despite rain on Saturday and· freezing temperatures on Sunday the tournament went on as sched~ uled. by Mike Leding staff writer Let's see where to begin. First let me start off by saying run- ning track forthi~college was definitely one of the most, ifnot the most fult11ling things ldidwhy here at Union. I see all you men and women out there running perimeters whenthe·sun ekes out for that millisecond once every solar eclipse. lfy0\1 can run with any endurance, or any speed get your rear · out for this team; it's fun and you'll meet a lot of people at this school and other colleges and universities. You might even score a pl'>int and feel good about yourself. I definitely take more pride in the fact that l .can beat you in the 400 rather than a chug. Everyone enjoyed the outdoor barbecue and the well contested games. Twenty-two teams partici- pated on the men's side·and four in the women's' bracket, provided ' :-, :: · A W.iJrd of advice to the few women that are on the team. Even · 4 a.-:,;::•: things dipn'tgoparticularly well at states, you all showed ·promise dUring the year. You can only get better, so stick •'\' it. Sigma Delta Ta'u wora the · women's' tour on four tournament despite playing in a torrential downpour on Saturday. On Sun- day the men, s' draw came down to Theta Delta Chi and Fiji in the finals. The deciding game ofthe finals went into e>vertime as both teams played magnificeri\tly in front of enthusiastic supporters. Eventually the Fiji team of Steven Klopfer and David Grandwetter defeated the T D Chi team consisting of Scott Morrisey and John Green to win the tour- nament. Both teams played magnifi- cently and both des-erved to win this event in which all the partici- pants were winners. Overall, the tournament was a definite success and was greatly appreciated ·by the Big Brothers and Big Sisters program. Let's givea high five to all who played. About the women, only four participated at states. Michele oodward in the hammer, Molly Hood in the 800, and Autumn Renn, and Kathy Bugden in the triple jump. None of these women m;maged to score any po.ints, but the experience was good. Three of them are freshmen, Molly ended the season by run- ning her fastest time ofthe year in the 800 with a 2:32, and pro- ceeded to thFow up afterwards. First year Coach L iza Morse did a very admirable job of training these womert and keeping them· together throngh out the year. · The men finished eighth out ofthe fifteen teams there with 44 points, 14 ahead of Plattsburgh and 8 behind SLU. The running started Friday and ended on Saturday. On Friday the 4x 100 meter relay team of Attah, Leding, Jennings, and Riggi qualified for Saturday's finals, asdid Pete Flynn and Nick Conway in the 800, Mike Leding in the 400, and Dave Riggi qualified in the 100 and 200. Also competing ort Friday was Matt Johnson in the javelin who placed second with a throw of 52 meters. So the stage was set; everyone that we expected to get to the finals made it, and we also had the reigning Indoor Champion 4x800 team, whom we expected to score as well. . At I f.:OO on Saturday in the freezing rain,. the 4x800 meter team. of Mike Leding, Seth Rudin, Nick Conway, and Pete Flynn won in a less dramatic fashion than indoor. They ran a school record time ~ · of7:52.90, taking 14 second~ off the record and beating Ithaca, continued on page 19 . 1

Pt:.1l,nn.t:._ P( to Spike page9-10 Cast & Preview page20 Springfest: Soaked With Success when the festivities which had by Jody Mousseau :been planned on West Beach for . . StaffWriter the duration of the day were The end of the year is ap- movedinsideduetothethreatof proachingand anotherSpringfest rain. Although itdearedupdur~ has come and gone. The events ingthecourse of the day, the early held Thursday, May 16 threugh m.orning storm proved that the Sunday;May l9pravidedfunand chance of rain disturbing the entertainment for the Union Col- event once again was a possibil- lege community, with events ity. The concert, human games, ranging from concerts to Tw.ister vendors and food which were competitions. Last year's origi·nallyto be held on the Beach Springfest was unquestionably were moved inside: the concert to disappointing. How would it fare Achilles Rink, the human games this year? to the Memorial Field House, and The variety o.f events held the vendors and food to the Col- throughout Springfest V{erewell lege Center. The overcast de- organized and ex~cuted. This terred many members of the year's lack of spring provided Union community from partici- little C(i)Operative.¥{eather for the p.-~ting in the events, although the organizers and piif:ticipants .of overall Satwrday f~stivities many of the Springfestactivities. · proved to be a. success. The hum The celebration kick:edioffwith man games, which were held in the \Battle of the Bands\ on · the Field House, provided a per- Thursday, which was held inside feet atmosphere to set free the due to lack of sun. \kid !n everyone.\ The games Friday prov·ided fair weather, included amoonwalk, bungecord and a barbecue and aconcertfea- run, and many similar events turing the Dutch Pipers and Gar- which provided a carefree atmo- net Minstrelles was held behind sphere for all who attended. the College Center. The later The concert which was held in hours provided the setting for an Achilles Rink ran throughoutthe outdoor screening of'\Speed\ on day into the evening hours, and West Beach. included performances by Re- The disappointment hit during solve, the Other Half, and moe. the early hours Saturday morning Matt Finkelstein, one of the co- suecess .. (p,.otuh£ Laurel Ruma) INSIDE: Can1pus News .................... _. .............. ] Wc,r/d News .... , ................................ 6 Prize Day Winners .......................... 8 ordinators of the Springfest events commented, ''Although this event was not highly attended by the student at Union, I think those that hung around and were able to see the entire show found the day very rewarding and had a good time, and therefore the day was a success.\ The perfor-. mances given by Resolve, the Other Half, and moe were out- standing and Achilles Rink pro- vided a dry and loud environment for everyone who attended to re- lax and enjoy the show. Sunday provided a change in the weather, which allowed Union to experience the intended pUrpose of Springfest. Campus swanned with hundreds of people enjoying the ei\ghty degree weather and sun, which we had not seen previously this-year. A Twister toumament took place on West Beach in the afternoon, fol- lowed by a Skydiving Exhibition at 3pm. The rugby field provided adequate landing space for the skydivers, and the event was en- joyable f~r those who witnessed. (Continued on Page 4) Springiest panu:huter. over tiz-e l!lo_.tt M.em(Jr.iaJ (photo by Laurel Ruma) Spike Lee on Life and Art by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor & Adrian MacLean Editor-in-Chief Students were packed into Me• morial Chapel to hear Spike Lee for an hour discussion on Racism in America. His speech lasted roughly twenty-five minutes, and then the floor was opened for questions. Mr. Lee spoke about his latest film, Get on the Bus. which is about 20 African Americans who traveled together across the county to the Million Mart March. Investors in this movie include prominent African-American men such as Charles Smith, Wesley Snipes, Danny Glover, and Jonny Cochran. Mr. Lee stated, \blacks work well together because they used to be slaves.\ The film will be released on Oc- tober 16, the one year anniversary of the March. Lee reflected on his early years as a tilln producer, and said his name ''was mud for awhile.'' He was forced to reevaluate his mis- takes and scrounge up m~mey in the form of cans and bottles to make his first films. Financially and artistically he had not been experienced, so he attempted to produce a black and white film. When speaking about his cur~ rent films, he commented on his integrity in movie making. \I try to be as true as possible, and that does not mean all wil1 he presti~ gious or angelic.\ Mr. Lee con~ tinued, \people say I am racist. I k;now who I am and what my work is about.\ Parental support was a key ele- ment to Lee's success. Here- flected on his own fortune and his parent encouragement. \Often parents squash the drearr~.s of chil- dren more than everybody. They want us to be doctors and law- yers.\ The question answer session triggered an energy filled discus- sion. Junior Adam Richman asked if artistry or shoreline makes a film. Lee responded by briefly stating that it was. a com- bination ofboth. When Richman was asked by The Concor.diensis to comment on Mr. Lee, ,he said, \I respect Spike as an artist, and his films are brilliant in theirtech- nical execution. Unfortunately, his controversial issues seemed to overshadow his film making tal- ent. He is clearly not a lecturer. I didn't expect riveting rhetoric or world changing advice. He is just some guy making films about things thatinterest him. He is not omnipotent.\ Students and administrators commented on the lack of direct discussion of Racism inAmerh;a, the presumed topic of discussion~ within Lee's perfonnance and his speech. \I thought it was a big embar- rassment for our school. It was very unorganized from both parts. There should have been an agenda between the Peer Facili- tators and Spike Lee. He also deserVed more respect. He is a film producer, not a racial issues expert,\ Riginos Dimitriou said. ''Oneofthethingsl liked most about hearing Spike Lee on cam- pus was that it got students, fac- ulty, and staffto speak ofissues not usually discussed. The debate went on long after whether posi- tive or negative,\ Dean Edgar Letriz-Nunez said. \Considering he was such a fig- urehead, he should have had a specific point\to make,\ sopho- more Kenley Smith said. \I walked out because I was bored since he was a bad (Continued on page 3) Features .......................................... ! I Announcements ........................ J7 Science .................................... , ...... I 3 Sports ....................................... 18 Arts ................................................ 15 Noises Off. ......... ~ ..................... 20 ' . I• •

. . Campus News · 'ill!r~' <.!Iommi:til'ltsis • i\lay 23, 1996• Page 2 Campus Info Student Forum Election Results President Manny Cunanan . Vice-President of Administration· . . . Christopher J. Brantigan Vice-President of Finance Kevin Abessi Vice-President of Campus Life Matt Cohen Vice-President of Multicultural Affairs Leena Mankad · Vice-President of Academics Elizabeth Malaspina Junior Trustee Ruthie Strosberg Student Activities: Upcoming Events: Film Committee presents Broken Arrow, Friday through Monday, May 24-27 at 8 & 10 PM in the CC auditorium. Performing Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, May 22 through June 1 in The Yulm~m Theater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 starting at 9 PM in Chet's, located in the back Campus Center. . Junior Economics, Managerial Economics, Industrial Economics· Majors Senior Thesis Information Meeting Today, May 23,3:30 PM, SS 103 Tomorrow, Make-Up Meeting May 24, 2:00PM, SS 212 It is important that you get and return your thesis advisor prefer- ence form by May 24. Casino Night At Achilles Heel (in the Basement. of the Rink) Friday Night 8-12 Gambling, Dancing, Drink, Food, & Prizes TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS- SAFETY NOTES: 1) ALL PERSONS ARE URGED TO A VOID WALKING ALONE DUR1NG LATE NIGHT/EARLY MORNING HOURS. PLEASE USE THE ESCORT SERVICE OR WALK IN PAIRS OR GROUPS. SO- CIAL HOSTS/FRIENDS PLEASE LOOK OUT FOR THE SAFETY OF OTHERS WHO MAY LEAVE A SOCIAL EVENT ALONE. IMMEDIATELY REPORT ALL SUSPICIOUS SITUATIONS OR IN- CIDENTS TO 911 OR 6911. 2) RECENTLY THERE HAS BEEN A RASH OFF ALSE REPORTS · BEING MADE VIA THE NEW CODE BLUE EMERGENCY PHONES. PLEASE USE COMMON SENSE ... DO NOT ABUSE THESE PHONES THEY ARE THERE FOR YOUR PROTECTION! 3) THIS IS THE TIME OF YEAR FOR BICYCLE THEFTS. PLEASE REMEMBER TO USE APPROPRIATE LOCKS AND TO A VOID LEAVING YOUR BIKE UNLOCKED AND UNATTENDED. UNION COLLEGE CAMPTJS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, MAY14, l996THROUGHMONDAY,MAY20,1996 DATE/TIME.: LOCATION: TUESDAY, MAY 14,1996: 11:25 PM RichmondAr~a WEDNESDAY, MAY 15,1996: 8:51AM ·· Campuswide !1:43AM Steinmetz 3:15PM Davidson THURSOA Y MAY 16, 1996: 12:27 AM Alexander Lane 6:59PM 36 Union Ave. 10:15 PM Huntley Lane area FRIDAY, MAY 17, 11)96: 8:10PM .Silliman Hall 11:04PM .West College 11:45PM Fox area SATURDAY,MA¥18, 1996: 3: 15 AM Steinmetz 8:30AM Old Chapel area 1:58 PM Schaffer Library 4:38PM Humanities 7:05PM Fox.So~th ·7:50PM Bailey Field SUNDAY, MAY 11), 1996: 12:19 AM ParkA venue J ' 1:31AM West College 8:45PM ·Achilles rink area MO~DAY, MA Y20, 1996: 3:00PM Arts Building J: 10 PM Alumni Gym 6:24PM Silliman area lNCIDENT: SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Personcalling attention to himself Located and identi- fied. Visitor,Mno problemsdmsed~ left cam- pus . -POWER FAILURE: Prb.blem caused off campus in N~MO powe~ station, No· seri- ous complications-'power restoredat I 0:16AM. HARASSMENT: Staff.member harassed by visitor. Visitor, known by staffmetn- ber, left campus. after incident. SPD con- tacted. HA.llASSMENT: Studentbeing verbally harassed by other students.· VANDALISM: Traffic control sigri dam ·aged. PROPERTYDAMAGE: Turfdamageto lawn. Cats being driven across the grass. TRESPASS: Visitorwhohadbeen pr.e- viously advised off campus was observed on campus. Subject arrested for trespass. SPD contacted. Subjectwas also arrested by SPD for an outstanding criminal war- rant. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS/SAFETY HAZARD-: Students climbed onto the building roof. Locate~, identified and advised down . FALSE FIRE ALARM: Pull box on 2nd floor hallway intentionally activated. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Subject wan dering campus. Located and identified as a visitor who had no business to conduct on campus. Advised off campus. VANDALISM: First floor bathroom sink intentionally clogged by vandals and wa ter turned 'on, causing area to flood. VANDALISM: Glass ininfonnation bro- chure box bmken. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Reportofper- son acting suspiciously in the library. Subject left. Area checked subject not lo- cated. V ANDALISMJTHEFT: Handicapped .parking signtemoved and taken. _PROPERTY DAMAGE: Wjn~ow bra- ~enaccidentally, On call maintenance· no- tified for repair.. · , ILLNESS/TRESPASS: Group of teen- aged visitors report one of their friends passed out. Medical treatment refused. s·ubjects identified and· advised off cam- pus. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Es- cort vehicle struck fire hydrant while ~jick­ ing up._ Property damage only, no injury. SPDnotified. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Visitor became ill as a result of overindulgence. Paramed- ics contacted. Conduct Charges filed as a result of this-incident. HARASSMENT/ASSAULT: Female student reported that she was harassed and assaulted by two persons as she walked alone about 3:30AM 5/19/96. Incident was not reported until2:40 PM. Student was grabbed by the two subjects, she fought with them causing her to fall down. Student was struck in the face and then suspects ran off Injurieswere not serious, medical treatment not required. THE-FT: Student left: bike, unlocked, in building for 15 minutes. Bike stolen. THEFT IV ANDALISM: Student's gym locker forced open and clothing was sto- len. Occurred over the weekend. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Studentsap · proached by person alleging to he doing a HS video project. Questions became in appropriate. Students walked away and suspect left area.

Stone Boat and Steel Bridge Compete at Clarkson Experience India: by Ma<tt P~rlaldan & Suzanne Robinson On Saturday, May 4, a group nf civil engineering students trekked across the Adirondacksto compete in the 1996 Steel Bridge well in the water. The combina- tion of the innovative canoe de- sign and the womanpower of Jonatha Meade and Carolyn Mjller, led to a silver medal in the Sprint. Union's ·computerized presentation was one of the most came in over 400 .pounds less than last year's. The bridge was con- structed by four ASCE members in under nine minutes, a quarter of the timeit tooktwice the num- berof students of last year's team. Union Offers New Exchange Program Tragedy struck the bridge team being accepted as of now is I im- of Seth Con dell, Matt by Stephanie Slobotkin ited to five; however, this is open Parlakian, Grant Gagnier, Jim NewsEditor to negotiation depending on Boni, Suzanne Robinson, and A new exchange program has student's interest. In terms of Raymond Lai when a critical been added at Union in an effort applying, the process is similar to bridge component failed at to offer a more diverse selection that of a term abroad. Interested two thousand pounds of load. offoreign experiences. The new students must write an essay and ·The team associated the prob- program to India is being offered have an interview. lem with inadequate tension in to anyone who shows interest, but According to ProfessorGajjar, a main cable of the bridge. especially to engineers, since they he tl}inks thadhe exchange to In- Several solutions to the prob- usually do not go on terms dia wiH be a great way to offer I em have been proposed and abroad. Although the program's more to the engineering students, will be investigated for next focus is on engineers, other stu- as well as bringing more diver- year's design. dents are encouraged to look into sity onto the campus. He also Construction time, cost, India as well. mentioned that India is very mod- we~ght, aesthetics, and bridge Last fall, Union College was ern, despite what people may deflection were all considered _ contacted by twenty-two schools think. It is the largest democracy in the scoring. Union placed in Bombay. A representative in the world and has a vast, grow- sixth overall, ranking third in from India came over and nego- ing economy. \Bombay is every weight and aesthetics. · tiated with Dean Canyon and bit~ metropolis,\ says Professor and Concrete Canoe Cmnpeti- advanced at the competition, Students are already preparing Dean Cool about the evolution of Gajjar. India's culture is very rich tions at Clarkson University. The leading to a second place position. for next year's competition by the exchangeprogram. Also, Pro- and they have a long, unique his- .students had spent the previous In stark contrast to last year's developingnewbridgeandcanoe fessor Gajjar, who was in India tory. four months designing~ building, faculty race which lead to the designs. The student chapter of over the Winter break, had a However, Bombay is semi- an~ testing their entries, sinking of the 1995 canoe, Pro- ASCE is always looking for new chance to seethe governing board Westernized. There are I ucent The participating students were fessors Ghaly and Thabet blew' members to participate in e\~it- . and all of the logistics. that the technologies there, with intricate all members of the American So- away the competition and placad ing projects similar to this com-. . exchange would entail. communication networks. India ciety of Civil Engineers, an otga- · first. The success of the canoe petition. · • · · 'oue~ to the fact that Irtdia can- is the largest software producing njzation dedicated to the advanee- could not have been possible If you are interested in bel::om- not transfer credits, the program country in the world and has the ment of academic and profes- without the help of Lori avery, ing a member, stop by the civil will work differently than other ninth largest economy. sional growth in the field of civil Kyle Vandewater, Nick Balboni, engineering office in Butterfield exchanges. Union students will A main purpose of the ex- engineering. Pete Neumann, Robyn Ross, and Hall or come to a meeting next be able to go to Bombay while change program is to eventually Afteranexcitingdayofraces, Joanne Wallach in the design, term. India's graduate students will haveengineersQ.rdentsbecomeli- the concrete canoe team placed con~truction, and racing of the The concrete canoe and steel come to Union. For every five aisons with companies there. fifth overall out often competing canoe. bridge will be on display in the Union students, there will be two \People have a completely differ- schools. The competition was Meanwhile in Clarkson'sCheel corridor connectingSteinmetz to graduate students from India who ent concept of India,\ says Pro- composed of sevenl.l events, such Arena, fell ow Union students Butterfield, s~ ne~t tim~ you find _ will g~ttheir Master's Deg\,ee., It fessor Gajja.r. . as. n:.en'sl~omen's sprint, coe~ . were assembling the steel bridge. yourself lost m tlie SCience -and· turns outthatthe compromise for . . . Bomoay has a highly devel- sprint,men's/wonien'sdistance, . The bridge was a quantum leap Engineering buildings, keep an · fivepeopletotwopeoplewasthe oped academic environment in andthepresentationofthedesign fromlastyear'smammothdesign. eye out for our riew canoe and most logical because of the tri- which students can easily learn report. The new canoe performed At 160 pounds, this year's bridge bridge. mesters system. and prosper. The language taught ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~e~en~-~0 ~hools~ inthekcclleg~isEn~~~ so Spike Lee ... continuedfrompage 1 speaker,\ freshman Elizabeth Pekin said. \I thought it was good, and a lot of people failed to see the points made. Many ofthe ques- tions were not presented right,'' senior Steve Leggiero said. \It seemed like he was unpre- pared and did not particularly want to be here. lt was evident by his extremely brief speech, and his short nature with his au- dience,\ junior Diana Sedita said. \It wasn't what I expected. I felt like he was brought her to inspire us as stu- dents, but he had no message,\ sophomore Cathy Bosiak said. \The peers anticipated that Mr. Lee would have lectured for a longer period of time, but Mr. Lee adjusted the periods fo time alloted for his speech and the question and answer session,\ Mike Baskies Treasurer of the Peer Facilitators, said. 'This was an important issue requiring the attention of the Union community, but I thought Spike Lee's performance did no live up to what many had ex pected,\ junior and Student Fo rum President Elect Mann Cunanan said. \I was completely unintereste in what he had to say, and I didn' think there was very much valid ity to his statements,\ sophomor Lauren Gellis said. \He was disappointing, and h didn't really answer anyone' questions,'' junior Hissa Woo said. T . t.. n 1~· ~ -. 1· a, ~ : · t.\'\.· :. , n~~,, · + · ·. ···· · · · - . · · · th + ue i+O.:rlti~a~··~ctl~nce w:ep~.wlilleJ.b~·.annoU1lces ·. a\ ·~plication~ ~~~~~nabl~f~~~e;d Year;~ Washing\ ·,on ... I~~exnship. ··Applications must.b' co_mp~·et~~ and .eturtledto the PoUti~al :'Sciene:e Department{SS ··216). ·Y 4::00·PM, Friday, June 7. Profs •. B.yronNichols and .. · 1ifford Br<:)wrt·can.be cpntacted ~ith questions~ ' .. Bombay are run by an adminis- anyone who goes will be able to trative board and have a wide va- communicate easily. riety of programs. The students Professor Gajjar encourages from Union must take two Gen- students to look into this ex- Ed, required courses along with change program. He feels that an elective. They will also be because' Union does not have evaluated before their credits are much Asian representation, India eligible for transferal, and each would be a positive and different participant musthave a G .P .A. of addition to offer to students. He at least a 3 .0. hopes to see a term abroad ere- The program runs from the ated there in the future, but also end of fall term until the March realizes that an exchange program break. The number of students is a step in the right direction. Fetaow Smiors Plea.w contribute to senior fund '96. It is our way, as a class. to leave our .,Cnnanant mark at Union. UNION COLLEGE'S 200t~ Graduating Clu• Send donations to Senior Fund • 96 C/0 Jon Shapiro Box 1118 I

Compromise Considered to End Court Case College Names Ad~inistration Building After Alumni Armand and Donald Feigenbaum Michelle Neier Staff Writer The conflict over the GE Plot on Lenox Road between Union and the city of Schenectady is continuing as both parties re· cently met to try to reach a com- promise. For those who are not aware of the situation, Union would like to use five of the houses on Le11ox Road for student housing and college office space. Residents of the area fear that the value of their homes would drop drastically ifthis were to occur. Since the case went to court, fiveoftheseven members ofthe city council have been replaced. President Hull invited the new members about a month ago to meet and work out a compromise. According to city officials who were present at the meeting, few specifics were brought up. They also claimed that some modification in the zoning of Union's properties would be a necessary component of any deal. It will be unlikely, however, to reach a compromise which is ac- ceptable to the college's neigh- bors. According to recent news re- ports, the compromise which was discussed included four parts. The first item which Union of- fered was to build a $15,000 . sprinkler system on the Buck Ewing Field which is frequently referred to as the A Diamond. Union's baseball team uses the field for its home games. The second item in the compro- mise was an agreement that Union students would undertake a cleanup during the fall around the entire city. The college would also consent to buy park land in the Stockade from the city. They would build a boathouse on this land for the crew team. The last section of the negoti~­ tionsis thatUnion would provide low-interest mortgages to faculty and staff who wish to buy houses on Seward Place. In return for these four actions, the city would agree to end its 17-month battle in the courts. If an agreement can be reached outside of the court system, Union would be able to save a great deal of money and at least another year inthecourtroom. Also, ifUnion leaders and the city dm reach an understanding they would be able to commence work on the Lenox Road property without further delay. Springfest ... cont'dfromfrontpage 1 Mr. Ding-a-Ling provided relief from the warm weather by sup- plying members of the Union community with ice cream. · The events on Sunday con- cluded Springfest 1996, and it could not have ended on a better ' . . note. Although the uncooperativ<: weather threatened the festivitie~ on Saturday, Springfest proved tc. be a tremendous success. With I uck, and weather as we witnessed on Sunday, next year's Springfes will prove equally as enjoyable. Courtesy of Public Relations A landmark 125yearold Union College building that houses the offices.ofthe president and other college administrators will be named the Armand V. and DonaldS. Feigenbaum Hall. The Feigenbaum brothers, of Pittsfield, Mass., both received undergrf1duate degrees at Union, Donald in 1946 (celebrating his 50th reunion this year) and Armand in 1942. Armand Feigenbaum was worldwide manager of manufac- turing operations and quality control for General Electric and Donald Feigenbaum was a top manager in'GE's jet engine busi- ness when they founded General Systems Co. thirty years ago. The Pittsfield-based interna- tional engineering firm designs and implements integrated man- agement systems for major cor- porations throughout the world; in a recent article, Business Week said about the Feigen:bautns that ~'Management isn't an art to them; . it's a science;\ Union P~esid\ent Ro~r H. Hullannounced\thatthe formal dedication ofthe building will take place Oct. 25 during the College's homecoming weekend. \We are very pleased to place the Feigenbaum names on his build- ing to recognize not only their support and generosity to Union. Their recent major gift provides continued momentum toour$150 miil;iop caphaf c~mpaig~ w.hich is now nearing completion·. The Feigenbaum name is known worldwide and is synonymous with quality management. It is appropriate that the build- ing that houses Union's adminis- tration will now bear their name, ·Which will forever be tied to the college. I couidn't be more de- lighted.\ Dr. Armand Feigenbaum, president and chief executive of- ficer of General Systems. Co., earned the degrees of master of science and Ph.D. from Massa- chusetts Institute ofTechnology. He is the originator of the Total Quality Control', and his 1951 book on the subJect has been published in more thana score of. languages and is widely used throughout the world as a foun- dation for quality control practice .. A 40th anniversary edition was published in 1991. Elected to the National Acad- emy ofEngjneeringofthe United States in 1992, Dr. Feigenbaum · has served as head or board mem- ber .of numerous organizations, including the International Acad- emy for Quality, the American Society for Quality Control, the Council for International Progress in Management, and the Engi- neers Joint Council. He has received an honorary doctorate from Union and was awarded the college's Founders Medai for his \distinguished ca- reer in management and engineer- ing.\ In 1_988 he was awarded the Medaille G. Borel by France, the first American so honored, in rec- ognition ofhis international lead- ership in quality. In 1992, the governor of Massachusetts estab- lished the Armand V. Feigenbaum Massachusetts Qual- ity A ward to annually recognize the business organization display- ing the strongest competitive leadership. Donald Feigenbaum, chief op- erating officer and executive vice president of General Systems Co., earned his bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering. He i~ one of the acknowledged world leaders in systems manage- ment and systems ,engineering. He was one of Union's youngest graduates to elected to Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering hon- m:ary, after his entrance into en- sineering practice, for his out- standing technology contribu- tions. Mr. Feigenbaum has wide- spread interests in professional engineering and management ac- tivities. He has held leadership positions in numerous arganiza- tions and was for eight years founding chairman ofthe systems ~ngineering committee of the American Society for Quality Control. la, Pittsfield and throughout Berkshire County he serves on the boards of numerous organizations. Their company, General Sys- tems Co., implements highly suc- cessful business results by im- proving operations, increasing productivity, and reducing costs at ptany of the world's top cor- porations, including Tenneco, Union Pacific, Citi<;orp, John Deere, 3M, Fiat~ and.);lirelli. The Union campus was de- signed in 1813 by French archi- tect Joseph Jacques Ramee and is the first architecturally-planned campus in America. The administration building was constructed in 1871 as a resi- dence for Union President Eliphalet Nott Potter. When Pot- ter left the college in 1884, the building became a home for two families. After .a fire, the struc- ture was remodeled in 1919 to become the college's administra- tive building; up to that time, ad- ministrative offices had been scat- tered across campus. COME .INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR· SUPER SAVINGS! lchanactady 1 041 State StPaat 382·5778 - • ·--------------~----- .. -- -- ------· I 50o/o OFF ! . 33¢ i 84.99 -!$5.00 OFF~ : PROCESSING 1 REPRINTS 1 . Bx1 0 1 CLUB : I Receive 50% off the regular 1 1 L\ . 20 dard . ' 1 1 Limit 3 8x 10 enlargements. 1 1 Receive $5 .. 00 off when I I . f . d mnt stan . stze F . 35 . ·t h . .• pnce o p. rocessmg an. 1 . . F ·. 35 I rom your mm co or 1 . yo. u pur.c . ase a club • • 1 . •. t fiilm repnnts. rom your mm ti. • b hi 1 M. I 1 pnnting co. or pnn . I 1 . . . I nega ve. I mem . ers p. . ust present co or negative. . ss· 00 ff I Limit 3 rolls. Standard size prints only. . I Custom cropping may be available at an . coupon to receive . . . . . 0 • I Not vala\d with other coupo· ns or extra set I N t I'd \tb tb ffi · . additional charge. Not valid with other I 1 . I 0 va 1 wt 0 er coupons or 0 ers. coupons or extra set promotions. Club Limit one per person. Not valid with I promotions. Club members receive I Club members receive 10% coupon price. I members receive IO% coupon price. I other coupons or offers. · 1 10% coupon price. I 1 1 ~~ ~~ ~~. . ~~.. I ~ _IIIJ..OIQ'!'!tzr!':..! 4f.S'I2'!'!.0J.9:! 4'1.9I2'!'!.0J .g:_ .L Jr1.9I2'!'!.0JP:..

Camtms News · WI!'-' illournt:oict~sis ~May 23, 1996• Page 5, Ain't No Mountain High Enough: The Ka~ie Koestner Story by Aileen Quigley StaffWriter An old pmverb states that you can move a mot:lntain by starting with a single pebble. However, this must be hard to do whenthete ate few people around you who believe the mountain,even exists, who refuse to help you move it, or who th·ink that its finejust the · way it is. The mountain·faced by Katie Koestner is often .ignored, \Yhispered about if spoken of at . all, or given tD someone else to move; Yet, regardless ofthe dif- ficulty ofher task or the resistance she encounters, she refuses to give up on her fight against date rape, Six years ago, at eighteen years old, Katie started her freshman year at the collegeofWilliam and Mary in Pennsylvania. She en- tered the school of 5,000 with hopes of studying Mechanical Engineering and Japanese, and in · fotiryears would graduate Magna ·Cumt .. aude and· a-rnoetnber <WPhi Beta Kappa~ ' · · · · However, ·by the third week- · end of the term, the world as she knew it came crashing in around her. What had started off as an in- nocent flirtation over a Monty Py- thon movie being shown in her dormitory had taken a sinister tum; of champagne. When it arrived, Katie whispered to him, ·~we're not 21! \ and reminded him that she did not drink alcohoL He in- sisted she have some to celebrate with him, Md she eventually gave in. They were having a great time and sh~ did not want to ruin the :.:·' abouttwo or three years old, I've been quite capable of dressing and undressing myself.\ He stopped for the time 'beilig. She turned to adjust the radio, and she could see him undress- ing down to his box:er shorts and socks,\ claiming that he was \warm.\ She hit .him with a pil- \What are you doing,\ He didn't reply, but told her that she was \thinking too much,'' and that it would be much better if she just relaxed. He eventually stopped. She sat up immediately and de- manded, \What's wrong with you?\ He shot back, \What's wrong with you?\ Angered, he announced he was going to bed. He climbed into her bed, though Katie stayed curled in a tight baH on the floor. At 5:00a.m ... he awoke, though she had stayed up through the night. He apologized, professing that he was sorry, that he didn't know what had gotten into him, and that it would never happen again. Shewanted to believe him, and softened, hoping to put the whole thing behind her. He began kiss- ing her, and pinned her to the \hard canary yellow concrete wall,\ ofherroom,and raped her. Throughout the horrific ordeal, she kept her fists curled tight against her to protect her. She . · fbught ,to keep h.er legs .str;:tight, : thinking it ~auld h.elp .. She bit a · hole through her lip, and the blood ran down her face. When itwas all over, he got up, put on his three-piece suit from the night before, thanked her, and left. try to press charges against Peter, she was told she didn't have a case. It would be her word against his. Today, she urges anyone who has been sexually assaulted to get tested for STDs and permanent physical damage, even if it hap- pened years ago. Though the odds were against her, Katie Koestner took her case across the country. She had spo- ken at over 150 colleges this year alone, and she appeared on the cover of Time magazine on June 3rd, 1991. On her mission to ed·u- cate she has been on television numerous times, including the Oprah Winfrey Show and the Larry King Live show. She em- phasizes her outspokeness as a way to encourage, \three things: communication, responsibility, and respect.\ Ifwecommunicate with each other about what we want and what is unacceptable, sex will become completely consensual. We must also be responsible in our actions, being fully aware of our surrqundings so as to effec- tive!)/ assess danger and to pro- tect ourselves against HIV and other STDs. But most of all, we must respect each other's wishes andrealizethatNOMEANS NO! During those three weeks after the movie, she spen:t!a great deal oftime with Peter. They studied for tests together~ went for walks, ate meals together, and began to build on their budding friendship. Before long, a sense of trust evolved, and she even shared with him how she felt about premari- Katie Koestner: nationally renowned:speaker on date rape. (photo by Laurel Ruma) The whirlwind of thoughts that barraged her teenage mind in- cluded the image .ofher father at the front door as she left on a date. \If you want to live, she'll be home by '12:00,;' he'd say only half-jokingly. She thought ofthe mace he had given hersitting2.5 feet away on her desk. Finally, she thought of her sense of trust crumb) ing away as she wondered Her other goals include a peti- tion that urges our legislators to enforce laws that make sexual assault laws on college campuses a top priority. Finally, she hopes to counteract any stereotypes that may exist regarding rape asamus- ing, exciting, or acceptable. She challenges the notion that \once you get to the point of return there's no turning back, no mat- ter how much she screams,\ as told to her at one campus. She offers the scenario that if this same man heard the woman's p(:lr~nts }u~ning tl}e doorknob of the room they' were ih, \he could stop immediately.\ tal sex. She confided, as they · date over a .. stupid glass of cham looked at her photo album from pagne.\ She realizes now, though, high school, tl!atshe_w~ v~ry r~- .. that, by giving_ in t~en, he rr.taY. ligious and wanted to wait until have thought he could pressure marriage. Ironically~ he told her her in other ways. how he had waited until his first After dinner, she invited him girlfriend was ready too: \about back to her room beca1.1se they two months. were a little overdressed for the The night of the rape Peter fraternity parties on campus. She asked Katie out to dinner at an hadmadeamixofsongsfromthe elegant French restauran~. He or- radio to which they danced for a dered by speaking in French for while. He began to unbutton her the two ofthem, including a bottle dress, but she joked, \since I was why it was no longer acceptable low from her bed, \the only thing to like someone and not have sex. she could Over the next few days, she think of at the time.\ He grabbed · .tried .to regain_her life in spite :of her and kissed her again, then- these incessant thoughts~ She harder,. to where she \couldn't eventually broke down and went turn her head to speak.\ He to see her RA, who brought her pinned her to the floor with her to the health. center on campus. \arms over her head, and \tried There, she was given sleeping to get up her dress.\ She felt pills and told to try and get some \trapped like she could not rest.Noonetoldherthatrapekits, move,\andhehegantorapeher. in which evidence to press She protested loudly, yelling \No! charges is collected, must be com- Get off me!\ and asked him pleted in 72 hours. When she did Why, she asks, \is the dick of a door knob so much louder than a woman's voice? We cannot be silent about rape.\ Let us not for- get that it is only when united we stand that our voices can be heard, and that mountain can be moved. Please grab a pebble. Summer Jobs \Where Quality Is In High Demand\ #t ~n-4rea ' Do you have office experience, some typ- (518) 346-3605 1732 Union Street Schenectady, NY Ask For Patrick Bidinost or Victor Delisio ing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self-motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262-3694, o . email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-Scribe, Iti.c., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. (Agency, no fees)

I World News · . . illlp? illnnrnri'ti~nsis , May 23, 1996 Page 6 World News TAKE IT WITH A· GRAIN O.F SAL·T,· · byAnandRao World News Editor· tors ef alcohol. After four yel'U\S wine per day? Because it is the atHniotreoUege, l'now know al£ohol·- distributors ·who :help: . at UpperclassDiningHaU. Just - collaborate in aneffort.to .make .:as I consume.:alcohot ·because - >;sux:ethat Am:~r,icansm:ver :be\~.· that a·lcohol is the Devil' s fundthat research, and doctors it makes me feel good, I con- come trulyhealth-conscious .. A strange thought has oc- vomit; but I keep drinking it be- will have fewer customers to sume lots of sugar because it It really is a twisted world, curred to me lately. Everything cat:tse it makes me feel good. deal with if people stop killing tastes good. In the f1;1ture, I am don't you think? For the:~ake in this country is out of sync, · By observing the· behavior of themselves with wine, beer, and sure that the American Dental ofthejr li:velihood, medical pro- and it is due to the fact that big my friends, and by watching de- vodka. I am sad to say so, ·but Association will proclaim the fessionals depend on the abil- money controls all. Just take a ity of ordinruy pegple to develop look at the field of medical re- health problems. search. Every other day doc- Meanwhile, mapy corpora- tors from Haward University or tions'-depeildt'Jll the 'YiUingQeSs some other prestigious institu- ofordjnary people to purchase tion announce that their re- products that are clearly not search .has proven the benefits • good for theiU. Why do. you of consuming a substance think it took so _long for the which was previously thought American Medical: Association to be unhealthy. Whether it is · to deneunce the tobacco in <;Ius .. cal'ldy bars, wine, beer~ or r-ed try for its promotionofa prod'- meat, some notable specialist in uct that clearly C!luses ailments Ann Arbor, Cambridge, or Ber- such as lung. cancer and heart keley wiH declare that it is good disease? for you. What these academic It may be due to the factthat professionals will not tell you, the American Medical Associa- however, is that the funding for tion was perfectly content with their research came from a bi- the high rateoflungcancerand ased-source. . . -.heart disease in this -country:· My feeling is·thatmucb of • After a:U,-the .members of the the medical research·conducted American Medical Association in this country is somehow fab- earn the-ir money as a result of ricated or contrived, because 'You know. theywamedmethat smoking marijuana wouldleadtoharder drugs.' such illnesses. much ofthe funding for such Would America's doctors, research comes from corpora• operating in anthless environ- tions that have a great interest ment that treats health care as in boosting the image of their pressing films such as \Leav- health care is a commodity in· benefits of consunring one to a commod-ity, have anything to own products. Also, one can- ingLas Vegas,\ 1 am now .con- ourcountry. two ounces of sugar per day, gainfrorn ahealthy,non..;.smok- not ignore the fact that doctors vinced that alcoh<>l is a sub- · . Another example of free-en-· · because it- is in the: interest -of· · ing .pop.ulatiol<l? l don't think are all ,too d~pyn,del).t .qn_the, stance that can only harm the terpris.e w~rkingagainst the eachdentisttoha:vetheAmeri- . so. Therefore,whenfindingout ability of- people' lik~ ,you and 'functional Ca)}acities of the ' Americim' pe9ple occurs in tl)e . ''can people ruin'tlieir tee'tK. . tltat d'octor& i~fthe ;Harvfird -~ ~ . me to get.sick:·sq:th~refor,e it is. h~art, brain, lungs~ Hver, aiia ~ieiatiotisliip betw'een dentistt' .. '! Of'co~ilie, it is'aiso in the 'm1iversity Medic~) School in their interest to proclaim. the all.other ,body partS as well. So and the distributors of candy, interest of those corporations· have discovered alinkbetween benefits of an unhealthy sub- why do we keep hearing from ·sugar, and cakes. Personally, thatprodt:tceTwix,MilkyWay, ·a longe-r life· and ·eating at stance. the researchers .at America's myteethtakeadailybeatingas and Snickers candy bars to McDonald'soften,oneshould For an example, let us take medical schools that it is good a result of all the sugar that I maintain the status quo. There- take such reports with a grain a look at the relationship be- forone'shealthtoeonsumetwo put in my tea, and as a result of fore, it makes sense that den- of salt. tween doctors and the distribu- bottles of beer or one glass of all the junk food thati consume tists and candy distributors will . : .·., . LANGUAGESSPVKENB¥M0RE- THANJOO,OOO,OOOPEOPL~E, 1995 LANGUAGE TOTAL SPEAKERS PRfMARY LOCATION Mandarin 975,000,000 China English 478,000,000 Worldwide Hindi 437,000,000 India Spanish 392 600000 ' ' Latin America Russian 284,000,000 Fonner USSR Arabic 225,000,000 Middle East Bengali 200,000,0GO India, Bangladesh Portuguese 184,000,000 Brazil Malay- Indonesian 159,000,000 Malaysia, Indonesia Japanese 126,000,000 Japan French 125,000,000 Worldwide Gennan 123,000,000 Austria, Germany Urdu I 02,000,000 India, Pakistan Source: The 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts

' \\ World News · ·mit~ <.!hntriw.Oi£nsis\, May 23, 1996 Page·7 . World News .. THE WASHINGTON.INSIDERSAYSGOOD-BYE AnandRao World News Editor It really was .a stunning move. Bob Dole of Kansas, a . member·ofthe House ofRepre- sentatives from 1961 to 1969 and a member of the United States Senate since 1969,re- signed from his position in Congress as a m·eans of wag- · ing a more effective campaign for President· aga.inst .Bill Clinton.' While there was no doubt that Dole neede~ to de- tach himself from the ted~ous and unappealing duties of be- ing the Senate Majority Leader, it was not expected that the ul- timate Washington insider would completely remove him- selffrom Capitol HHI. Dole has become a political outsider-for the purpose of trying to get back into the political game after No- vember. Dole's bo.mbshell may tum out to be a good move. After all,. history shows that it is ex- ceedingly difficult for a sitting member of the United States Senate to be elected President of the United States. While it is likely that all 100 members of the Senate are so cocky that each one thinks he or she is qualified for the position of chief executive, it is obvious that they are dreadfully ineffec- tive at capturing the prize in a democratic election. Senator John F. Kennedy's victory over ·Vice President Richard Nixon in 1960 was an aberration. When one thinks of a Senator running. for President, one is more likely to think about Barry Goldwater in 1964, Geotge McGovern in 1972, or even Bob Dole i-n 1 980 and 1988. It may be that the aristocratic and privileged image of the Senate makes its members appear rep- rehensible i'n the eyes of ordi- nary voters. When I a]Tl watch- ing CNN or C-Span, I certainly do not see any signs of mod- esty among the members ofthat exclusiveclub. , Now that Bob Dole is no longer a Senator, he may appear less obnoxious in the eyes ofthe American people, and he also has more free time on his hands. Dole must have remem- bered that at the time of their first Presidential victories, Dwight Eisenh~wer (1952), Richard Nixon {1968), and Ronald Reagan ( 1980) were all free from the burdens of being an elected politician. One thing that Dole cannot overcome, however, is the fact that he is seventy-two years old. I amnot suggesting that a man ofDole's age is unfit for the Presidency, but I alll'wonderinghow a man who was born in 1923 can even · begin to understand the feelings of those voters who were born in 1977 (yes, Union College freshmen, you CAN vote!). Dole may have grandchildren, but Bill Clinton has a sixteen year-old daughter with whom he is in daily contact. While the world has seen such elderly figures as Golda Meir, Winston Churchill, and Jawaharlal Nehru become ·effective politi- cal leaders, one has to wonder if Bob Dole is ready to be placed in such esteemed company. One thing that I do like about Dole, however, is that he seems to have an independent mind, and unlike President Clinton, he is not as desperate to satisfy everybody. After all, the voters of Kansas cannot be satisfied with the fact that they just lost a powerful figure in the Senate. Dole made a bold move, and in November we wiH find out if this move can pre- vent Bill Clinton from becom- ing the first Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt to win two consecutive Presidential elections. We will also find out if Bob_ Dole can obtain the prize that he has been seeking for al- most twenty years. Either way, this wiH be quite an election. W ASHlNGTON - In an at- never be found. months ago by ten of his fellow than the state ofWisconsin, but last year, six Western tourists tempt to breathe some life into bishops. it is home to some· 128 mill ion trekking through the moun- his Presidential campaign, Bob NEW DELHI- After days of people. In 1991, a cyclone in tains of this Himalayan region Dole resigned from his position confusion arising from an in- HEBRON, West Bank - A southern Bangladesh killed at were kidnapped. One hostage, as a United States Senator from conclusive election, the Presi- contingentof32 observers from least 130,000 people. an American by the name of Kansa~.·B,eforere~~gf1ing,,Pole dent of India cl'\os.e a Hindu Norwaytookuptheirdutieson · . ._ . John Childs, escaped within had been a member of the Sen- nationalist party to lead the ~he streets o~~hl\s ~oiat!fe'tciwri '~ \'j\IEP ~F ~ ~- s~ode~ ~liz~¥~' \i'i ':: :a~;Y~- '_A_,se~o,n~ -~p~ilige, Hans''' .. ate since 1969, and he had also next Government. Atal Bihari In preparatiOn for a planned the H1malayan Mountains · ChnstmnOstroofNorway, was served as a member of the Vajpayee, the leader of the Israeli Army pullout from most killed seven men and a woman beheaded. The remaining four HouseofReptesentativesinthe Bharatiya Janata Party, was ofHebron. Theobservergroup, who wereattemptingtoascend hostages include Donald eight years before that. In the appointed as ·Prime Minister by formed under the provisions of Mount Everest, the tall est Hutchings, an American from days before his resignation, it President Shankar Dayal the self-rule accord signed in mountain in the world at Spokane, Washington. had been speculated that Dole Sharma foliowing an election September between Israel and 29,028 feet. Twenty-two other was going to give up his duties in which some 3 50 million the Palestine Liberation Orga-. people survived the blizzard, as Senate Majority Leader, but votes were cast. The appoint- nization, has no police powers which is one of the worst trag- it was doubted that Dole w~n,dd mentof~r. V,ajpayee came as w l!nQ. can only d9cument inci- edies on Mount Everest since take the bofq step of corrlplete~y\- ':a sh~ck ~o ·th~~~ongr'es~~ P?rty '· ' d'en!s.~~4ing re)?Qrfs,t~ an Is:- 1: 1 t 0 w 1 as 95 ·\_fi 3 •r_?t ~UCQ6§.~f?li~ C~~ b~~. removing himself from 'Con- which had ruled· India for most · raeli-Pa1estinian- committee. gtess. of the period since the country v achieved ind·ependence i·n BANGLADESH- The forces 194 7. of nature have never been kind to the residents of this impev- erished So~;~th Asian country, and this proved to be the case last ~eek as a tornado swept through the rural areas north of Dhaka, the capital city. At! east 443 people were killed by the tornado, and more than 32,000 KASHMIR, India- Police are investigating. reports that four Western hostages were killed by rebels who are seeking indepen- dence for Kashmir, a state of northern India. On July 4th of WEST AFRICA -Ending what must have been a miser- able ordeal often days, an ag- . ing Niger,ian-.s}1ipc~:owd.ec!. ~dth -a~ estima~eli 3;500'r~fugees from the Liberian civil war was permitted to pull into the port ofTakoradi in western Ghana. The Ghanaian authorities re- lented to growing international calls for them to harbor the refugees. FLORIDA- A Valujet DC-9 Jetliner crashed into the swampy, mucky, and infested environmentofthe Florida Ev- erglades, making it almost un- bearably difficult for investiga- tors to retrieve possible survi- vors. Looking at the crash site, it seemed as if the entire air- craft had been swallowed bythe Everglades. There were 1 04 passengers and five crew mem- bers on the flight, which crashed shortly after taking off from Miami's airport. There- mains of these I 09 people may WILMINGTON, Delaware- In a long-awaited decision likely to rev~;:rberate through America's Protestant denomi- nations, an Episcopal Church court ruled that an Episcopal bishop did not violate the church's \core doctrines\ when he ordained a gay man as a dea- con. The decision absolves Bishop Walter C. Righter, re- tired Episcopal bishop oflowa, of a charge of heresy that had been brought against him nine people were wounded. The sur- vivors of the disaster accused the Government of failing to provide emergency assistance and local hospitals of turning away victims. In size, Bangladesh is slightly smaller I Less than half of Etrs populatiorl ·.. \ reads a daily .new$Papet. P&ttem \ : by countty. m percent of pq::~ulation:: ., QUOTE OF THE WEEK: \The truth is that Mozart; Pascal, Boolean algebra, Shakespeare, parliamentary overnment, baroque churches, Newton, the emancipation of women, Kant, Marx, andBallo.nchine ballets don't redeem what this particular civilization has wrought upon th.e world. The white race is the cancer of human history. '' - Susan Sontag Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations UK Austria Denmark 58~'o 57% ' 57~o -·~------_,__;,.__ ________ _ • West GQmlllily 57%. E::ast Gelllllill)' 8S% SOURCE: Eurobarometar ·

Union ' Arts and Humanities AcADEMY OF AMERICAN PoETS PRIZE- Martin A. Metz WILLIAM F. ALLEN EssAY PRIZE - TanweerAnsari RoNALD AMIRAIAN MEMORIAL PRIZE- Eli Benson, Michael J. Chis.ick ANDREW W. ARCHIBALD PRIZE- Elizabeth T. McGaughan ARNOLD I. BITTLEMAN MEMORIAL AwARD- Heather C. Picken DAVID BRIND MEMORIAL PRIZE- Nicole A. Beland, Scott C. Fitzgerald, Cindy Mantas, Linda C. Seymour _ CAFFE DoLCE PRIZE IN PHOTOGRAPHY- Nicola B. Zarrelli CELIA GLAUBACH PRIZE - Jason J. Hills, Christopher W. Keegan HANS HAINEBACH MEMORIAL PRIZE IN GERMAN LITERATURE- Rachel N. Holzman HANS HAINEBACH MEMORIAL PRIZE IN JUDAICA -Margaret L. Furman EDwARD EVERETT HALE, JR., PRIZE - Kevirz J. Makarowski VICTOR HERBERT PRIZE- Hana Yamashita ... ':. ,-}. ·., :.~~;;+,\'~''~-- ~ ;r: ~<;·;··-?~' .,_ .. \·:.::\.:. -; .. ··~>.t/:·:.':·:·_,y.:: '·;·-: Psr CHI SENIOR A WARD .. Kristen M. Sc:hoff Psi CHI SERVICE AwARD- Carianne H. Bishop, Steven M Klopfer MARTIN TERRY REscH PRIZE - Erica M DeCarlo, Melanie A. Rinaldi ROBERT L. RoYAL AwARD- Monique G. Lin EDWARD S. C. SMITH GEOLOGY PRIZE - Adam Y. Goodman DR. REUBEN SORKIN AWARD FOR PROFICIENCY IN PREMEDICAL StUDIES - Margaret L. F~rman - -- JAMES HENRY TURNBULL PRIZE- Sara E. Friedman, Emily A,_ Schwartz EsTBER WrsoFF PRIZE - Jeffrey R. Weinstein LEE AND WILLIA!-J WRUBEL MEMORIAL PRIZE- Seth M. Brown Engineering JoHN IWANIK PRIZE- Lynn M Razzano, Peter A. Curry AMERICAN SociETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AWARD -Grpnt W. Gagnier, Kyle WILLIAM B. JAFFE ART AWARD- Jacqueline M Cohen M Vandewater THOMAS J. JuDSON MEMORIAL BooK AwARD- Allison L. Ciolino GENERAL ELECTRIC PowER GENERATION STEINMETZ AWARD- Michael R. HAROLD A. LARRABEE PRIZE - Monique G. Lin Valvo MINERVA PRIZE- Allison Hirschman SHANKAR GoKHALE PRIZE -.Ignacio Delgado PHI BETA KAPPA AWARDS- . INGVAR INGVARSSON PRIZE- ChristinaL. Taraborelli Junior.s: Michael Farwell, Joanna Haverly, Dawn Landry, Jennifer WARNER KING PRIZE- Samuel W. Tolkoff Lawless, Monique Lin, Allison Pacelli, Stephen Potenza, Justin Stone, ETHEL KIRCHENBAUM MEMORIAL PRIZE- Matthew T. Smullen Nicola Zarrelli, Marina Zaydman DoNALD C. LOUGHRY-HEWLETT PACKARD PRrZE- Jason T Tempi?, Thomas Seniors: Omar Al-Khalidi, KristewAngiolini, Amelia Audette, Trac;y _ - Martinez, Der6f1c E ... Durivage, Marvin Y. Su Bush, Marie Cavuoto;Amlna Chaudhry, Michael Chisick, Michael · ·· · Tiffi MoLES PRIZE- Hin-Kong R. Lai Elmendorf, Elizabeth Gilman, Julia Lee, Matthew Macinnis, Cindy R.E. MoRGAN MEMORIAL AWARO- Todd D. Fleming Mantas, Elizabeth McGaughan, Craig Pike, Brandon Press, Sharon MORTIMER F. SAYRE PRIZE-. Douglas A. Robertson Schneider, Linda Seymour, Lalita Shastry, Hillary Snow, RALPH W. STEARNS PRIZE- Karin E. Averill, Jailan E. Hassib Wendy Stephenson PRESIDENT's CoMMISSION ON THE STATus OF WoMEN SENIOR ScHoLARLY AcTIVITY AWARD - Amelia A. Audette REALE's ANNUAl PHOTOGRAPHY PRIZE - Carin J Gado CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND PRIZE - Matthew L. Macinnis DANIEL 'SBOCKBr PRrtrt:rN CREATIVE- WitiTINa- ·Lauren A. Mouzakes · AIME SIMON TERMS ABROAD PRIZE - Sari A. Leivent MILTON HYMES STERNFELD PRIZE - Elizabeth H. Willis WESSEL TEN BROECK VAN ORDEN PRIZE - Umber M Gold EDWARD VILLELLA (L.H.D. 1991) PRIZE- Melissa Weiner EuGENE I. Yums PRIZE- Jamie F. Kembrey Social Sciences JosEPH D. DorY PRIZE- Matthew W. Beebe OswALD HECK-IRWIN STEINGUT PRIZE - Michael J. Elmendorf FRANK S. HIGGINS PRIZE - Brandon T. Press ALBERT C. INGHAM PRIZE- Ryan D. Bloom DAVID S. KAPLAN MEMORIAL PRIZE - Jennifer L. Lawless LEWIS HENRY MoRGAN PRIZE - Mark R. Reid PRESIDENT's CoMMISSION ON THE STATus OF WoMEN SENIOR THESIS PRIZE- Rebecca L. Barry RoTARY CLUB OF ScHENECTADY FouNDATION PRIZE -Craig T. Pike FRELING H. SMITH PRIZE- Rebecca L. Barry RoGER THAYER STONE PRIZE- Anthony J. Fantauzzi, Ahnya S. Mendes, Robert M. Peskin CHARLES M. TIDMARCH PRizE - William D. Ferguson Natural Sciences AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY AWARD IN ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY- Philip R. Tavernier AMERICAN CHEMICAL SociETY AWARD IN PoLYMER CHEMISTRY- Jodie L. Iannacone AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CHEMISTS A WARD - Andrew M. Leach SAMUEL 8. FEUER PRIZE - Matthew D. Lann RoBERT M. FULLER PRIZE- Jason D. Katz, Nalini Gupta BRUCE M. GARBER PRIZE - Dennis M. Popeo EuGENE w: HELLMICH MATHEMATICS PRIZE- Erica M.DeCarlo, John C. Metz, Michelle L. Rosenbaum CHARLES B. HuRD PRIZE - Jason D. Katz WILLIAM E. LASNIK PRIZE - Jeremy Goverman STEPHEN F. LEo, M.D., PRIZE - Jeffrey R. Weinstein JoHN LEWIS MARcH PRIZE - Deena S. Alter College Service Awards · W~NDY BEin\fSTEIN MEMORIAL AwARD- Ruth S. Strosberg ALAN LAKE CHIDSEY CITIZENSHIP AWARD - Kenton R. Chase DELPHIC HONOR SociETY AWARDS- Elizabeth W. Decker, David N. Grmidwetter, Jonathan D. Klein, Carolyn F. Miller, Jason M. Newmark, Victor Owusu, ·Rachel L. S((haffer, Jonathan S. Sh'apiro, !sea R. Beswick, Chia-Jung Chiu, Manuel S. Cunanan, Michael D. Ferguson, Jesse L. Karotkin, Arielle G. Liberman, Randall S. Pellish, John R. Vero OuTsTANDING GREEK WoMAN- Carolyn F. Miller JoEL A. HALPERN PRIZE - LoriAnn BUckers FREDERICK B. HAWLEY~ JR. MEMORIAL AwARD- Steven J. Lapinski MERITORIOUS SERVICE ·AwARDS - Margaret L. Furman, Amy B. Kessinger, Steven J. Lapinski, Carolyn F. Mille.r, Brian Pidgeon, Jonathan S. Shapiro PRESIDENT's CoMMISSION ON THE STATus oF WoMEN CoMMUNITY SERVICE A WARD - Elizabeth H. Willis RJ\SIDENT AssiSTANT SERVICE AWARD- Bethany J. Stockholm CALVIN G. SCHMIDT AWARD- Randall S. Pel/ish DAviD WAGENSEIL MEMORIAL AwARD- Kenneth J. Blaszka Athletic Awards EASTERN CoLLEGE ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEDAL OF MERIT - Amy L. Hitz WILLIAM B. JAFFE MEDAL ... James C. Haver WILLIAM A. PIKE MEMORIAL TROPHY- Kevin J. Makarowski PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN SENIOR ATHLETIC AWARD- Jennifer Ricci ROBERT B. RIDINGS A WARD - Jennifer L. Allaire Honor_ Awards JuLIAN B. HoFFMAN, M.D., MEMORIAL AWARD -~Michael Greenbaum, Wan TingZhong DANIEL F. PULLMAN PRIZE- Corinne F. DeVoe (Engineering), A'!}eliaA. Audette (Humanities) FRANCES TRAVIS MEMORIAL AWARD .. Katherine M. VanderLinden. HoRATIO G. WARNER PRIZE - Brandon T. Press GEORGE H. CATLIN PRIZE- Nicole A. Beland JosEPHINE DAGGETT PRIZE - Victor Owusu FRANK BAILEY PRIZE • Erica M. DeCarlo

OP/ED , illl1~ illmtnwnirusis ·May 23, t996- ·:Page 9 , EDITORIAL The Mystical ''Greek Force'' In the grand tradition of the Spike Lee.discourse, we'd Hke to preface . · . ur remarks with a disclaimer. We here at The Concordiensis do not . dvocate~he irradiation of the Greek System as we know it We also • ould like to apologize te anyone 'who is sickened by the recent surge n discussion surrounding the issue. The O:mcordiensiswould like to assist the Greek system in defend;. • ng itself, as we have found that many of the mostcommonly used de- . ense tactics defy logic. \The Greek system should exist because there ould not be parties without it - consequently students will venture . ff campus and be killed.\ \The Greeks are justified in everything they o because of the community service they perfonn.\ These arguments completely discount the individuals involved in reek ~ctivities, and thus attribute aU the power to the two or three . reek letters posted above their houses. Remove the Greek letters and he students will be powerless, like Samson without his locks. Is a rational person expected to believe that if all Greek houses sud- . enly disappeared students would no longer have the desire to throw arties? To justifY this argument, one would have to believe in some ort of\Greek Force'' thatempowers students to lift, tap arid roll kegs. 0 .. ·. _ pzn1on ~l)Ola)(;~ ~ttfi' \TO tAU))? :r A)E\E It \EAJ. t> OF \O~IOJJ '-otl..e(rlJil .. This \Greek Force\ is also needed to justify the second argument•J===;;;::;;;::;;;:;::;;;:;;;;;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;::;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;~ entioned above. Without \the force\ formerly philanthropic students ould no longer see the need to assistthe unfortunate. Apparently altru- . sm, comp~sion, and concern are overrated as motivations for commu- ity service. Without the \Greek Force\ all benevol~ntactivity would · oon screech to a halt. The Greeks perform many services; they throw parties forth~ cam- . us community, and are a great aid to many community service organi- _ations. But cosmic Grecitude is not the reason that parties are thrown d that service is perfonned. If Greeks have traditionally been the nly ones to throw parties, ·it is only because they have also traditionally onopolized all the group housing on campus. The Greeks have a aiid argument for why they should remain on campus, but arguments ased on \Greek Force\ mysticism only serve to weaken their position. C.M. Oinntnrbi~:nsis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Antbo~y·~: :Ca\!e~chia,A~rian MacLe_a11· · ._- ·· '·EbiTORS~1N-CHIEF · -. . Davi'ti Pinkowifi EXECUTFV-E EDITOR' Diana Sedita EDITOR EMERITA Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIAtE EDITOR Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS Stephanie ·Kuehn COPY EDITOR Akinwunmi Sawyerr Businnes Editor r Anand llao WORLD NEWS EDITOR David E«Jer Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo. SCIENCE EDITOR: Andrew Fradkin COMPUTER MANAGER _ Jared .Ri~hman EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Peter Farnum Jen Pelose A!3SISTANT COPY EDITORS Henrik Haeckel Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITORS Conor McKenzie FEATURES EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott DruckemiUer, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun- PauiManore. · STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Jeff Druzba, JonGasthalter, Stacey Kimmel, Mike Leding, Chris Leone, Bhavani Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Rawson Thurber, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters~ Karen Watts ' A Great Week by Henrik Haeckel Opinions Editor Dunng the course of this past week there have been a series of events that have brought this community together as a whole. Obviously Spike Lee's speech and Spring Fest were two major events that brought the campus. by the hundreds. In either instance there have been complaints. These compl~ints I believe igr:1ore 'the:greater accomplishments that the events succeeded in accom- plishing. -.. In the case of Spike Lee, it has been said that he provided no in- teresting insight to the audience and was a generally poor speaker. Both of these observations are subjective in nature. What one individual may find pleasurable another ma:Y'not and vice versa. Yet, even if Spike Lee was a terrible sp~aker and provided very little insight to this audience, were we not talking about the speech afterward? I myself was involved in conversations about the speech as recently as Monday with a whole variety of different individuals. That is the beauty of an affair like this. It brings everyone into one space to listen to one person. Then afterward they an discuss it. It is during the course of these dis~ cuss ions that we learn more about ercise all together. From last Thursday through Sunday we were provided with free entertain- ment from concerts to games to free food. The weather was not pleasant all the time but most of us sti11 partook in the festivities. What was the accomplishment in thishedonistic activity? Instead of being around a keg in a base- ment in isolated groups, we were a11·together'enjoying the same things. · These two events illustrate the one another and ourselves. So if two reasons we came to college. it took twelve thousand dollars To learn from one another about and a big name speaker, who may or may not have said what you wanted to hear, but left the ma- jority of this campus discussing our views on what transpired that night, it was a legitimate use of money and time. Spring Fest was a different ex- issues that affect us and the soci- ety we live in and, on a less seri- ous note, to learn how to enjoy being a part of that larger com- munity and taking pride in it. That is precisely whatwasaccom- pl ished in this past week. ·Was Spike a Waste of Money? To the Editor: People will be talking about Spike Lee's appearance on cam- pus, but what is there to say? Someone near me in the Chapel wa-s jubilant. She said this had been agreatgraduationgift,the , sort of wake up call this lazy cam- pus needed. Certainly this cam- pus is about. as inactive on social and political issues as most other campuses-. nothing there to be proud of. · And we do feel dis- tinctive for having accomplished and famous people come to speak to us. But Spike Lee's presenta- tion wasn't very informative or entertaining or constructive, and I think we could do something to improve future events. Here's how I see it: Spike spoke for a surprisingly brieftime, reviewing his career, and then took ques- tions. That means that the main part of the evening was shaped by the questions from the floor. And some were so poor! Some stu- dents rambled, saying less and less the more they spoke. Some tried and failed at being funny. Some sucked up to Spike. And while we others found it pretty funny that some questioners went from bad to worse, we lacked the nerve to get up and ask a ques- tion. I was lucky, I was in the front so I could hear all .gf the ques- tions. This was not a major, ca- reer-making gig for Spike, and I don't think he really I istened care- fully to all the questioners. As for the handful of students who thought they could engage Spike in debate, they didn't do a good job and only forced the audience to listen to the same ground cov- ered again and again, with only their volume rising, (And Spike, a relax-ed and confident speaker, wasn't always better. In the case of the student who protested . Marlon Branda's televised re- marks about the image of minori- ties in films, the conversation should not have gotten stuck on the point about how many Jews are employed in Hollywood, but should have moved on to the · much more important issue of those images,. their significance, and what to do about them .. Spik(. could have moved the conversa- tion that way.) How could the evening been better? While a forum to publicly discuss things with a famous, ac- complished person seems to be a great idea, in this case it was no pleasure for the audience at large. Its hard to squeeze out of the Chapel's pews and stand at a mike. I suggest that written ques- tions, passed down the row to monitors, would have been bet- ter. That could prevent repetition. An intelligent moderator inter- viewing Spike might have been a good format for part of the evening. A moderator might have asked some of the audience's questions, and pursued a topic if it yielded interesting information or opinion. Also, we could have screened some ofSpike's films earlier, so we'd have grounds for discussion. As it was the evening was sort of pathetic. The high- light(?) was the two women who handed him their resumes. Let us try to do better next time. Alex Carlin I . i \ ' ' ' ' \ f.. ! I ' I - . - ' .•

Page 10 · May 23, 1996 · ·mlfr Ulnnnn·oil'ttsis . . · 0 PIED A Search for Community Leaders Many Union College students step through the wrought-iron gates into the Schenectady area each week to provide a needed service and to make a -difference in the community. These students visit local elementary schools, either tutoring children or help- ing in classroom situations. Stu- dent-run organizations coordinate these opportunities to get awa~ from the stressful campus life and become a child again, even if it is only for an hour a week. Two such programs are the Volunteer Tutoring Program and Junior Achievement. The Volunteer Tutoring Program runs 'through- out the school year and provides classroom and individual support in various elementary schools within walking distance from eampus. Junior Achievement also provides classroom support in a local elementary school and runs during the Spring Term only. Both organizations are currently being coordinated by senior Union students and are looking for underclassmen to assume leadership of these programs. Both programs are a great oppor- tunity for Union College to do its part in improving the Schenectady community. Not only does assuming a leadership role in these programs help out the community, but it also gives you a great opportunity to show your ·skills in dealing with the public, problem-solving and time-management. Leaders of the Volunteer Tu- toring Program also have the op- tion of working a few hours a week at a local after-school pro- gram for pay. Any underclass- men interested in becoming a leader in the Volunteer Tut<;~ring Program may contact LoriAnn Blickers at 372-2764, or in be- coming a leader in Junior Achievement may contact Dah O'Neill at 372-7703. Lori Blickers Prof. Patrik Writes To the Editor, during the turmoil~ they gave me more than [ expected in the way Thank you to the entire Union ofprotection, withoutmyhaving · community for protecting my to ask for it. I would also like to privacyandforprovidingasare exp~ess 'spedat ·thank's to· phicel;b corititiue wo'rk1rlg. 'All'_, .. Mati~hhe '~'ri(}{lvdl;n:··;c·~in~ilf . of you have gained my respect Safety, and Colleagues in the and gratitude. Humanities Building fot their I am especially grateful for the many acts of kindness. leadership of President Hull, Sincerely, Dean Cool, and Dean Sorum Prof. Linda E. Patrik Opinion Trent Left in the Dust of N e:gativity To the Editor, i am writing to inquire as to why there was no news story in the Concordiensis on the recent film showing of the Panama De- ception and the talk by its direc- tor, Barbara Trent. She was here on campus on May 8, at which time the film was shown in the CC Aud. Corttraryto the appear- ance of Michael Medved, which is the front page story in the Concordy today, the CC A udito- rium was filled with students. And as opposed te the story of EllenGoodman'stalkintheNott m~atly all of those present were students (there was.a smattering of people from the community<). A .rather unique feature of this event, sponsored byCELA, Latin Atne.rican Studies, Women's Studies, Society of Hispanic Pro- fessional Engineers and the His- tory Department, was that Bar- bara Trent brought the Academy Oscar with her, passed it around the audience, and treated people to an experiel)ce few wiH ever have--holding the Oscar. I am writing because the reports on the Medved and Goodman talks are really quite depressing. You could have nicely balanced the \downer\ in· each of these pieces-· · thatfew· Union College students attended-· with a really interesting and positive story about an event that l~ts of stu~ dents attended. It is reaUynot fair to the student body to simply re .. port those events that are poorly attended, and to scold.(a bit) the students for not going, and then ·to fail to report a very successful event. Sincerely, Teresa Meade History Department Defending the Integrity of Election Season Dear Editors, I am writing in regaFd toJeffery Druzba's article in the May 16th issue of the Concordiensis titled \A Sign of the Times.\ Answer me this: What right does Mr. Druzba have in critiquing candi- dates' signs or offering advice on their campaign strategies? Has he ever run for a position in college? Does he know how much time and effort it takes to actually make posters and hang them up around campus? Yes, there are a lot of signs on campus, and. yes, some o(them a.re the usual pl~as to con- vi~pep~~~~~:~Y~~~Y.~.te_fC?,r~e~:o May6e that 1s what tlie cand1dates wanted to do. Maybe the candi- dates were too involved in trying to do their schoolwork or thejr other extracurricular activities to think of signs that would. duly impress and win the admiration of Mr. Druzba. And they that sho~ld get a person elected shouldn't have to. Elections are ideally should be his or her ca- not supposed to be won by catchy pabilities. slogans, or pretty posters. People I am not writing this to anger should be elected into office be- or offend Mr. Dru~ba or any cause they are the most qualified party On this camptJS, nor is this· for the job., regardless of what a personal attackon Mr. Druzba. their signs )oek like. Posters I am writingthislettersimplybe- should be for name recegnition causehisarticlewasout-of-line. and toinfonn the community who If he feels the signs are \dull\ is running for what .position. and/or\wordy What is Mr. Druzba asking for entitled tohisownopinions. He· anyway, a masterpiece of a poster should not .. have, however, from every single cand;jdate? It's singled out certain individuals enaugh that people care enough just to make fun of them and to run. True, as Mr. Druzbasaid, their posters. Everyone has \if one wants to get elected ... the worked hard to make their signs· t>nly answer lies in· positive ex- ·· and wageagood:cant.pai'grt,~d:· · posure.\ But this exposure should they should get credit fottaking be based on the candidate's abil- the time to care. ity to fill the position, not the fact that he or she is witty, funny, or artistic. While those qualities are commendable in and of them- selves, the most important aspect Sincerely, Chia-Jung Chiu Class of 1997 Did Spike Lee Endorse an Anti-Semitic Comment? Independent• De(~ofls Greeks To the Editor: I wanted to address the issue of anti-Semitism as it was pre- sented during Spike Lee's ridicu- lously boring and uninteresting lecture. Frank Attah said it right when he stated that he was ap- palled by the ignorance being demonstrated that evening. I would have to agree with Mr. Attah as to th~ level of ignorance demonstrated at the discussion, the level of ignorance presented by Spike Lee. I would alsolike to applaud Doug Schneider for raising one of the only interest- ing issues of the entire evening. Let me first discuss what it was that Marlon Brando had said in his controversial interview. He remarked, in regards to the tiny number ofblack academy award nominees, that it was unfortunate that the Jews, who controlled Hollywood, were not more sen- sitive to the works of black film- makers. Now this statement was labeled as anti-Semitic, which I will discuss further on, but Spike went on to dispute this view, and to applaud Mr. Brando for saying what he did. Mr. Lee went on to tell us that it was a fact that the overwhelming majority ofHolly- wood executives were Jewish, and that this fact should not be con- strued as anti-Semitic; and thus we were expected to extend this statementtQ,.,whatMr. Brando had said and to assume this too, was not anti-Semitic. I do not feel that the statement made by Mr. Lee was anti-Semitic, just as it is not racist to say that the majority of players in the NBA are black - these are facts, not opinions. Spike Lee's statement, however, was a gross oversimplification of what Mr. Brando had stated in his interview. What Mr. Lee pre- sented to us was a completely un- intelligible analogy which should not be used to interpret Mr. Bran do's comment. First of all, despite the fact that the majority of executives in Hol- lywood are Jewish, is every ex- ecutive in Hollywood Jewish? And is every one of those Jewish executives insensitive to black film-makers? Secondly, I asked myself why it was necessary to single out only the Jews in Hol- lywood, why was it nece~~~ to mention any minority group other than those of interest, i.e. black filmMmakers? Why not state that it seems as though( as evident by the recent Academy A wards) a large majority of executives in Hollywood are insensitive to . black film-makers. What does · being Jewish have to do with be- ing insensitive? Mr. Brando ob- viously had some intention in mind when he singled out Jews · that control Hollywood. I do not see how this can be disputed. Per- sonally, I do not understand why it was necessary to attack racism with an anti-Semitic comment, as it seems most hypocritical. What Spike Lee was publicly advocating was an anti-Semitic comtnent, whether he believed it to be or not: And the way in which he defended and argued his position was not relevant to the statement made by Mr. Brando. I couldn't agree with Mr. Attah more as to the level of ignorance being displayed to us that night. JeremyGoverman In the past, the Greek system has been attacked by various members of the campus commu- nity. The Greeks have been ac- cused of being exclusionary, rac- ist, perpetuating common beliefs, monopolizing the social scene, and just about whatever else ails this campus. The administration reads these few loud complaints from a few independents who have no basis for their accusations and assumes that everyone feels that way. Then theadministra- tion tightens their grip on the Greeks. Well, I am an independent and have been for three years. Most ofthe people I know who are in- dependent support the Greek sys- tem with no complaints. The only complaints I hear are directed at the administration, and the city of brown water. The adm-inistration fails to realize that the Greek sys- tem has survived because the whole campus wants it to survive. The administrationdoesnotwant to believe that themajority afthe pe~ple on this campus like the life · the Greeks provide, social and otherwise, and that we do not want the administration to kill it. Does the administration rtot re- alize that the majority of students leaving here in recent years have negative feelings about the way the school treats the Greeks? Don' tthey realize that if they kill the Greeks here, we will start to venture into the surrounding area for our social life? If we do that, won't the number of muggings, robberies and assaults rise? Do they want that to happen? I remember my freshman year well. The school was a nicer place to be. The administration listened to what we said and let us have a say in what happened to us, instead of just hearing what we said and doing what they wanted anyway. Maybe next year the administration will listen to the majority of students instead of acting out on their own agenda. Being the skeptic that I am, though; and seeing the pattern of action that has been taken, I doubt it. God help us all. Mike Miller Class of•97

ill~eillottcor~irnsis ~ay_23,1996 Pagcll YOU COULD LEARN A 'LOT -- FROM A DUMMY.~ U.S. Dttpa-1 ofTranllflOrllllion \Vince & Lain'~. oi\OI!IIS ~.S. DOT. Quality Word Pr~ing at Reasonable Prices. Professional resumes that potential employers . . . . . - - · , --will WANT to-read.... . . ., . ' ;;oo. <'-l ..... _ .. ,.. • ~ • - • -. F~t Turnaround; ·Work Guaranteed ·- I!M ~ ... ~·-- .. - -· I Just call Janine at • .. : 382-77?0. Leave : 1 messag~ if necessary 1 ·- Large 2 Bedroom· Apartment _ •Short Walk to Campus ·: ·o1'eiri,~safe,·2.~a:;.Ifi~oi\ :: ~- :.:- ·_ . • Always rented to Union Students $460 + Utils. Available 7/1/96 Call377-5699. Leave Message. lVIORE ART, IDEAS, AND FOOD! Anrr.ouilcing THE.-SECOND VISUAL ARTS COLLOQUIUM. (twice as big as the first!) Please come, bring yourfriends, and support studio art and art history students presenting their work and ideas ... Open sessions.·· Stop in .for a few or stay for all. Monday, May 27, 1996 Beginning at 4:30 pm Arts 215 4:30 Sara_ Carrell: Tb.e Stywtic and Technical Influencel! of:MasaCcio's Predecesaots on his frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel 4:50 Heather Picken : Details. A discu.saion about paintinif. 5:10 Carol Case: Recognizing Balance 5:30 Sarah Olsen: Distinctive Rhythms 5:40 Andrea Zaremba: Social commentary on class in the li\l:s Riches Heures 5.-oo ~ • BREAK • ~ fj:lS 6:15 Ian Spanier: At Night 6:35 Liza Burnett: A 19th Century Starbuck.s? Reflections of a \Spectacular Society'' 6:55 t.autel Salzman: GerOme's The Snake Cha,rnwr i:05 .-\ndreaBI'Uil3: CANTEPAYnrERENrE 7:10 .Jert Davidson: Issues in liistorical Building . . Restoration aa. Exemplified in the Nott Memonal Suppa~ by tM· Vi8r.&al Ar:.t Dfpa.rl~Mitt IJIUi a Pew i!f\'llU- Student of the Week: Brandon Declet by Kara Christian St(lf/Writer comments, \I was lucky. 10 ish language. Brandon .... L ....... 1 weeks just isn't enough time to~. that when he first arrived become completely submerged in Spain, he was tongue tied and Brandon Declet has had a very the culture. The tail end of my terrified, but by the time he exciting and experience-filled trip was the most intense part.\ his Spanish had improved to junior year. This fall, Brandon · Brandon describes his time in near fluency. \My parents used spent 15 weeks studying in Spain as the best trip ofhis entire to speak in Spanish when Seville, Spain. Currently, he is life. He explains, \It's just a Ian- didn't want us to know what participating in Union's intern- guage and culture that I'm fasci- were saying, but now I can ship program in Washington nated with.\ derstand everything.\ D.C. Brandon reflects, \When you Brandon is active member Brandon, a Political Science get out on the other side of the the junior class. He is n<n-ti\' major, describes his term in Atlantic, it just makes you real- larly proud of his invol Washington as hard work and ize how people view the United in C.E.L.A. (Cjrculo Estudiantil great experience. He comments, States and Americans. When Latino Americano ), a new \We wake up at 7AM and don't you're in the minority your per- active group on campus. get home until 7 at night. It's spective really changes. 11 circle of students strives to rough, but it's werth it.\ Brandon chose a term abroad ognize and represent L Brandon is working for Con- American students. In anr,•n''\ gressman ,Jose Serrano. While .. the group aims to increase and Union provides students on this enhance cultural diversity program with a variety of con- · campus.Brandon comments, gressmen to choose from, Bran- · \Cultural diversity is ,v ............... _ 51 don took the initiative to find his · this campus desperately needs.\ own. Brandon says that his coli Without any help from Union, . experience has been a .... v··~\'\~• Brandonselectedacongressman . challenge. He explains, \~onr1e-1 who he was particularly inter- · times I wonder what people ested in working for, contacted here for. College is sutmosea him, and was accepted as an in- to be a learning experience, tern. some people just Jet things While the process took time right over them ... This cam and determination, Brandon really needs something to stir claims, \I like the challenge. So up. I want people to feel sonr1e-1 I took it.'\ Congressman Serrano thing ... to want change.\ represents the 16th district of Brandonconcludes, 11 New York in the South Bronx, l'v¢ had a great time at the poorest district in the nation. and I've been exposed to ln addition to his current in- great opportunities. Doing tern ship experience, Brandon in Spain because of his family's things that are important to m was also able to experience a origins. Brandon comments, \My has been difficult, but if term abroad, but notwithout dif- family is from Puerto Rico. Both want something, you have to !!~~~r~a t~itht iG=~~t:c!~~· ·; :~ata;~~~~s~~~ J~~~~~~~Jl;: ·· ;! 1 i 1 f~·Wg~r~l1~:~~~;Tf~h office in order to make his ven- they never taught me. When I got whether it be for a term ture possible. Brandon studied to college, I made learning Span- or while running for office.\ in Seville independentofUnion's ish one of my priorities because Brandon Declet is an intelli- 1 0 week program in Spain. In it's part of who I am and where gent and .highly motivated stu- fact, Brandon was fortunate my family comes from.\ dent. He stops at nothing enough to spend·an entire semes- Brandon considers his trip to achieve his goals and brings ter, 15 weeks, abroad. Brandon Spain a journey to learn the Span- ideas to our campus. Unfon ·College Department of Performing Arts and the M9untebanks Present NOISES Tickets Available at ll\ox Office 388-6545 K11ockaboat British Fare• by Michael · Frayn 0 =R the Vulman Theater $1 Gentr•l Pnhllc $5 Senior Clllun• •nd wllh URiea 1.1 ••

Features · · Wl~r Oinun~ri'tirnsis May 23, 1996 Page 12 Spike Speaks: A Speaker Without a Point, and an Audience Without a Clue by Conor McKenzie The prospect of Spike Lee com- ing to speak at Union was quite exciting. Just about everyone on campus was musing about his speech .. Unfortunately, due to poorperfonnances on the part of the audience and by Mr. Lee, all this anticipation was met with dis- appointment. On the night of the event, Lee was quickly introduced, and we were informed that a question and answer period would follow. Both sides entered into this dis- course with opposing expecta- tions. The posters advertised that Spike would talk about \race re- lations\ through film. At the end ofhis speech, Lee made it appar- ent that he had no such intentions as he uttered in disgust \every time I give a speech it turns into a racial issue.\ Not everyone read the posters though, and Lee could have moved the discussion ina differ- ent direction with his speech. As much as I hate to criticize some- one who I respect as an excellent artist and leader, I have no choice · but to rate his speech as quite poor. He began \I produced my first film in nineteen eighty (1 0 second pause) six ... \ After hear- ing the first couple lines, I came up with two explanations for their slow and broken nature: 1. He was stoned or 2. he was joking. Unfortunately, Lee wasn'tjok- ing (which is not to imply that he was necessarily stoned). I'd go so far as to say that if his speech was an assignment, any professor in the country would l-abel it \bullshit\. But hey, Spike's an accomplished guy, and 1 was will- ing to give him the benefit of the doubt-maybe speaking just isn't his thing. I decided to postpone judgment untiLthe question\and answer period. To my dismay, the question and answer period is when Union failed. Nobody was. bold enough to stand by their questions. Ev- ery remark or question was pref- aced by some ridiculous dis- claimer, preamble, or compliment directed at Lee. It was as if the . white people that spoke «had nevertalked to a black person be- fore,\ in the words of the student known as Stevie Fevah. Rest assured the absurdity knew no bounds, racial or otherwise. A couple of black women used the opportunity to in- troduce thems.el ves in hopes of getting an acting job. An art history professor made a fool out of herself by stating in the preamble to her statement that \art history is tra- ditionally one of the whitest dis- ciplines in academia.\ Someone asked Lee «How can we end rac- ism, sexism and other forms of discrimination?\ I assume Lee's inability to answer disproved that person'sbeliefthatSpikeLeehas powers akin to those of a God. Then came the icing on the cake, the famous confrontation at the end. Based on the sound bites he had been fed by commercial news broadcasts,.a student who had clearly made up his mind that Lee was anti~semitic was deter- mined to ·attack him in front of I 000 students. Since Lee clearly wasn 'tgoingto admit that he was a .bigot, an ugly confrontation was inevitable. Though Spike did a better job of defending than the student did ofattacking, it doesn't really prove that either was right. Personally, I am not ready to pass judgment, as I have riot seen Brando.'s remarks that J:.ee ap- plauded. That, however, is· not the real point. · If Walt Disney were alive :;md came to speak at our ·school, would· anyone stand up and· aCQl}Se him ofbeing rac- ist? Not likely, though some of · ms cartoons are far more racist than any co:tnment Lee has ever ma<Je. If you can't make a clear -convincing argument when tak- ing such a bold stance, yo_u spould stay seated .. Remarks of.the na.- tme made by the abt)ve men- tioned student .shoula be reserved for the likes of Pat Buchanan. I learned a great deal about the nature of race relations in America from Spike Lee's pre- sentation. However, it.wasn't from any intelligent remark made by Lee or by anyone in the audi- ence. By observing the absurdity of the discourse, I was made aware of.how ridiculously hyper- sensitive, and superficial the na- ture of race relations have become in our country. As far as I could tell, the only intelligent comment was made by a student who asked Mr. Lee a simple question, ''Mr. Lee, you came to Union to give a speech. Did you have a point or particular message for us?\ IY\~· .. ···\'~~&.\fA. .... ., ...... ,.,. • ., ......... ~ r BUY RECYCLED. The. Little Things MU MUSIC! t I I ~ · ~~- · ~nksta yo!':r~~~ !~!!:rs ~re being .. made from recycled materials But to keep recycling working _ to help protect the Earth. you need to buy those products. · 1 To receive a free brochure. calll-800-CALL-EDF ~ 1 1 - II·--· ENVIRQHMEIITAlEBF ~ . • \\-.._ AEPA OE~ENSE • ~.,. FUND IPIIU!II .. IUII 1 DI~lCI!,J ·- ... .., \\ ~ ~ '\\' ~ I / Q~·· ~~ Ushers .needed £or .· ~~ Graduation, June 16 a.t 1 am. I£ interested/ please se Mrs. Marra in Student Aq- . tivities, 408 Campus Cen~· ter.~·· by Jeffery Druzba Features Editor So many of the things we have at school are taken for granted. I don't understand why many of my fellow coHege students aren't thankful for what they have go- ~ing onh~r~.atUnion. Look around ' ~nd live knowiqg that weire:ai'i a ! little lucky. - Sometimes I head over to West for breakfast and they have those oval potato cakes and I think about how great it reall:r is to be alive and at Union. Right there, as I stand in line, I get such a feel- ing oflove for life and my fellow early morning diners. I tum to the. · egg guy arid proclaim eggs·on the . house for everyone. Heck, I'm tiot · paying for them. \Give these. people what they want,\ I say, \I love these people and I love you, man.\ I do love those potato cakes. One ofthe best parts of my time at Union has oeen the amount of free .stuff I've been given. I a111 A Man's Meal by Jeffery Druzba Features Editor I had someofthat\Campbell's Chunky\ soup the other day and got to thinking about the differ- ent food products available that are geared specifically for men. I'm a big fan of clam chowcl.er. These Chunky people take it a little far. You aren't supposed to add water to it, out the way it is in the can is thicker than cement. I could use this soup to spackle cracks in the wall and it would probably do a better job than plaster. Why not chop the potatoes a little? They put an entire unsliced potato in there. Heck, it's still got the up- per part of the plant attached. The clams are still alive and in .their shells. The white soup part is. thicker than children's paste. This is one hell of a soup. This is the ba~ics. This soup is ' down and dirty, cut right to it, here's the stuff, dig in. That's not to say that they made the soup for men but I think only men can truly appreciate it in the way it was intended. I do love food companies that cater to men. The folks from the world ofTV dinners preferto call me Hungry Jack or Hungry Man. They know how to take care of a hungry guy. A more than gener- ous portion of the processed Salisbury Steak in beefgrayy. A giant helping of those potatoes just like tnom used to make when she decided her family wasn't good enough for real potatoes. The brownie still warm from the oven, in fact, burnt beyond any good taste. The peas. fresh picked and packaged in the foil tray immedi- ately to ensure that they burst with flavor after reheating. These , people know how to make a meal. Do I even need to get into Manwiches? Women don't get the same treatment if you think about it. The \Hungry Annie\ series of TV dinners just doesn't have the same effect. The \Womanwich\ or \Personwich\ wouldn't seem to go over too well either. . . grateful to all the college premo- tional types who have chosen me as the next market to cater to. I have come to eagerly await the yearly delivery ofSnak Paks. The ''Male\ one. in the fall with the fluorescent orange tiger stripes. Oh how I do love free razors and shaving gel and. deodorant. (And why do they fincl it necessary to spell \snack\ ~nd ' 1 pack\ with· .. ·-. k's?) Then, occasionally there might be another pak in the middle of the year when you're buying books. A pak with aU sorts of food goodies that instantly · turns into a delicious (not to men- tion healthy) lunch. Appreciate them while ~hey're. coming. It's not like, ten years from· now, you'll find yout boss telling you, , .· J \Good job on the Campbel·l · v project Wilsoh ... Did you sign up for your Snak Pak?\ College is a $27,000 pardon from building a long criminal record. That's something to be happy about. Sure, no one has a problem stealing silverware and cups from dining services. I'd like to see it happen at your future lo- cal Ponderosa though. That's all I'm saying. Be happy - . that the ·getting is good. Have a nice surhnier:See you in the fall when the Snak Pak man comes along again. · -ilnamore :MUSIC! Live ·sho~s · ust In. .. . Al~NTEd . MusicAl AcTs TO plAy AT CHH\S. Good M·ONE)', GREAT iENcEs, Lars of OppoRTUNi- TiEs. CoNTACT JEssE SliAIER AT X 5 5 9 9 foR dETAils ASAP.

FinalSch~dule Glhe Oioncorbieusi• •May 23, 1996 • Page 13 .. Music History & Litere.ture 2 Wilson, H. A. ARTS21S TUESDA. Y 1 JUNE 11 1 1996 -I 1:30AM •1:30PM AAH*090•0I Contemporary Art & Architecture Eyerman, C. ARTS 21S Language & C.ulture . ijrjson, K. SSCI Ql2 ANT•oto•OI lntro to Cultural Anthropology Cool, L. HUMN 110 Prehistory Walker, M. HUMN 019 ANT•o12•o2 Gender' & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 10*018*01 Biology 2 Tobiessen, P. SSCI 016 BIO*OI 1*01 Contemporary Biology Schadler. M. BAJL 201 10*026*.01. The Cell Sfllith/Salvo BUTR2Q4 810*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 207 HM*ISi•OJ Protein Structure & ~uncti9n Fox,K. STZI:I 108 BIO•JS9*01 Plant Physiology Minorsk:y, P. BA\L 106 HN•Oti•OI Basic Chinese 3 Xie, Y. NWSE 116 CER 0 010*01 lntro to Communications Jewell, T. BUl'R 109 Seminar in Classical Studies Tober .. M. HUMN 119 CER*l32.*01 Reinforced Concrete Design Thabet, W. NWSE 116 US Economic Policy Klein,))~ SSCII03 EC0*043*01 Ec~momic Growth & Developmen Mukherjee, J. SSCI 012 Electric Circuits Chang, Y. NWSE201A ECO•J42*0l Problems in Macroeconomics Kwok,C. NWSE 114 Control Systems Fatic, V. BAIL201 EGL•046•0I Modem Drama Heinegg, P. HUMN 117 Major English Authors 1 Hilles,C. HUMN 112 ESC*OIS•OI Numerical Methods & C Language Almstead, L. NWSE 201A Major American Authors She>ur,N. HUMN liS GEo•oso•o! Petrology Hollocher, J. BUTR·201 Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 117 GEO•osl•OI Structural Geology Hollocher, J. BUTR 300 Energy I Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 PHL•on•ot Environmental Ethics Vitek, W. HUMN 112 Mechanics I Jones, E. BUTR300 PSC*Ol2*01 lntro International Politics Oilman, T. SSCI 112 Mechanics2 Rivera, M. BUTR 109 PSC*072*0l Environment, Energy & Politics Underwood,J. SSCI 103 Modem France/France. actuelle LapatrO: C. HUMN 014 PSY*030*01 Personality Halpern, L. BAIL 300 Geomorphology/Surficial Geo Ro4bell, D. 8UTR20l PSY*03l•OI Abnonnal Psychology Nydegger, R. BAIL 100 Prehistory: Walker,M. HUMN 019 PSY*046•0t lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 207 The Holocaust Berk, S. COLCAUD PSY*047•ot lntro to Health Psychology Fletcher, B. BAIL 104 Intermediate Japanese 3 Wojnovich; M. SSCI 213 SOC*OH)*OI lntro to Sociology Sawyer, P. SSCl 014 . Latin Reading Scullion, J. S HUMN 113 ~OC*l68•0I Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. SSCI' 010 Heat Transfer Analysis/Design Anderson, A.M. NWSE210 WSP010*02 Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 Probability Rosenthal, K BAIL 104 . WST*127•0J Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. SSCI 010 Order & Chaos/Art & Magic Khosropour, R. NWSE 114 TUESDA Y 1 JUNE 11 1 1996 • 2:30PM ·4:30PM HY\'OSo•OJ :lnt~rmediate Electromagnetism Schick, K. NWSE 328 AAH*OJS•Ol Venetian Painting in ltl Renai Matthew,.. L. ARTS 215 SC*Oit•ot lntro to American Politics Brown, C. SSCI 104 ANT-075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. BAIL 102 SC*082*01 Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. ARTS 210 810*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. BAIL 102 i SY*OIO*OI lntro to Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL_312 CER*J6S•Ot Systems Analysis & Design Jones, E. BUTR 300 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 207 ECO*.Ot2•0t Introduction lo Economics Schmidt, S. SSCI 104 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 106 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawamg, S. SSCI 103 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 207 EGL*040•0l World of the Bible Heinegg, P SSCI 016 ... !' . ' ·I Advanced Spanish Merediz, E. HUMN 116 FRN*I2I•OI Intermediate French 2 Leamon, A. SSCI 105 f ·' PN•!35*01 20th Century Spanish Theater Garcia, W. SSCI 014 FRN•I45•0I Studies in the French Theater Gates, L. HUMN 113 ' •' MONDAY JUNE 10 l996-11:30AM-1:30PM \GEO*l70*01 Groundwater Geology/Hydrology Locke, S. BUTR 201 ' lntro to Archeology Cesarski, E. SSCI 110 GER*OI2\'01 Basic German 3 Kellenter/W arde HUMN 213 Civil _Engr Design Project Griggs, F. BUTR 300 HST-04.1*01 Medieval Europe Sargent, S. NWSE 114 \ ', Civil: Engr Design Project Lanaro, J. BUTR 109 JPN+Ot2•0J Basic Japanese 3 Kt)ap, Y. HUMN 110 .,,,Ci~il ~ngr Design Project Lashway,,:~. BUTR 104 MTH•oJo+o.J Ordinary Differential Equation Seiken; A. BAIL 201 Organic Chemistry 3 \' PHL•OIS'*OI Philosophy & Existential Lit Patrik, L. Adrian, J. SWSE332 HUMN 115 Economy of China Reynolds, B. SSCI 105 PSY•038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL312 Literature of Middle Ages Hilles, C. HUMN 11.0 RUS*012•01 Basic Russian 3 Jordan, B. HUMN 119 Greek Oratory Mace, S. SSCI 012 SOC*I58*01 · Aging & Society Relyea, L. SSCI 112 - ~asic Italian I V an0£der, T. HUMN 116 SPN\'Oti•Ot Basic Spanish 2 Moyano, P. HUMN In OC*038*01 Sociology of Deviant Behavior Huggins, M. SSCI 112 SPN•122•02 Basic Spanish 2 Merediz, E. HUMN 114 .. ' ' ONDA Y JUNE 10 1996 • 2:30PM .. 4:30PM SPN 111 140*01 Cervantes:Don Quijote Martinez, L. HUMN I 16 ., ' Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. . SSCI 012 TlJESDA Y 1 JUNE liz 1996 ·4:45PM ·6:45PM Structural Steel Design Mafi,M. BUTR 109 CSC*Ol0*02 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. STZH 106 '\ Fundamental Chemistry I Weick, C. BAIL207 WEDNESPAY 2 JUNE llz 1996· 8:30AM ·I0:30AM ~ '! · '-~·'':.J~:Fillldainental Chemistry 2 Lou, K. : HUMNH7 .. AMu•o3o•o1 American Music · • . ' Olsen, 1)., :1: ~- '\ ARTS 215 r . - ~ . ' :ANT•o67~ol., .,. '''~isst Asian D~vei~pment/Society HM*Ol2*02 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Hayes, D. BUTR204 Reynolds, B. NWSE 114 HM*OI6*01 Inorganic Chemistry I Weick, C. STZIIIOS EC0•012*02 Introduction to Economics Schmid( S.J. SSCI 014 sc•oto•ot Computers & Computing Almstead, L. STZIII06 ECO*Ol4*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds. B. NWSE 114 J;;., Machine Org & Assembly Lang Hemmendinger,D NWSE20rA EER*042•0l System Theory I Chang, Y. NWSE 201A lntro to Financial Analysis Kenney, J. SSCI 103 HEB*012•01 Basic Hebrew 3 Heckelman, D. SSCI 110 ·Basic French 2 Gates. L. HUMN 019 HSPOI9•0t Modem America:Depression/WWII Jonas, M. SSCI 104 Basic French 3 Laparra, C. HUMN 014 HST•Os3•0J Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft Sargent, S. SSCI 012 Basic German 2 Warde, A. HUMN 213 ITL*OIO*OI Basic Italian I VanOrder, T. HUMN 115 The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI 112 LAT*14S*Ol Cicero Loomis, W. HUMN 113 · ST•074\'0l E11St African Lang, Culture & Hst. Miller, AT. SSC\I 014 MTH•Os?•Ot Game Jheory Zwicker, W. BAIL 100 ER .. 026•0J· Therniodynamics Wicks, F. NWSE2l0 MTH•oss•ol Appls of Math to Economics I Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 TH*056*01·. Geometry ofNa\ure FQIJIIe,M. BAIL 100 PI;IL •o~s•o 1 Philosophy in America Ludwig, J. HUMN 114 · lntro to Logic & \Set Theory Taylor, A. BAIL 104 PSC*OI3•0t lntro to Political Thought Board, J. SSCII03 Abstract Algebra I Nieti'eld, S. BAIL 102 PSC*Ot9•0t East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. NWSE 114 Differential Equations Bick. T. BAIL 106 RUS*I22*01 Advanced Russian Jordan, B. HUMN 119 Ancient Theories of Art Patrik, L. HUMN 110 soc•o1o•o3 lnfro io Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI 112 ~ General Physics 3 McWhirter, J. NWSE 114 SPN.•J20*01 Intermediate Spanish I Merediz, E. HUMN 117 lntro to Psychology DAndrea, T. ssd 104 SPN•t30*0l Spanish & Latin American Li:t Martinez, V. HUMN 116 SY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 WEDNESDA.Y 1 JUNE 12 1 1996-11:30AM-1:30PM ... oc•o24•ot Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 ACC•oto•ol Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. HUMN 110 PN•OJ2•0J Basic Spanish 3 . Osuna,M. HUMN 114 ANT*012*01 Gender. & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 PN•J;2l•OI Intermediate Spanish 2 Martinez, L. HUMN liS ATH•oto•ot Speech Communication Rose, L. SSCI 016 Intermediate Spal\ish 2 Camacho, L. HUMN 113 810*036•01 Invertebrate Zoology Boyer, B. BAIL 106 PN*I4.9•0l Special Topic:Spanish Amer Lit Garcia, W. HUMN 116 810*046•02 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 201 UESDAV .JUNE ll ~~-.8:30AM·-10:30A.M CHM•020•01 Models and Molecules Werner, T. SWSE 219 AH*036+0t Gardens lit Landscape Architectu Matthew, L. ARTS 215 CLS*OJO+OI Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans Scullion, J. S HUMN 115 10•14o•o• Molecuhir Genetics Horton, J. S. BAIL 102 csc•on•ot Structured Programming Hannay, D. NWSE 116 10*162•0\1 lntro to Neurobiology Olberg,R. NWSE 116 ECO•o2o•ot lntro to Statistical Analysis Mukherjee, J. SSCI 112 . ER*I42*01 Soil Mechanics ()haly, A . BUTR 109 EC0*137•0J Eco Perspectives oil Pub Policy McCarty, 1'· BAIL 102 ER•tsJ•OI Environmental Engr 2 Snow, P. BUTR300 ECO*I62*01 Seminar: Finance Burgman, T. SSCI 103 HM•040*0l Quantitative Chemistry Carroll~ M. BAIL 104 EGL•ozt•ot Major English Authors 3 Frazier, A. HliMN 114 HM*I52*01 Physical Chemistry 2 Anderson, J. BAIL 100 EGL•076•0t Modem American Novel Slade, L. HUMN014 Ls•o2s•o1 History of Rome Tober; M, HUMN 115 PSY*OJ0\'02 Personality Spring, D. BAIL 312 Ls•o2s•o2 History of Rome Loomis; W. HUMN lt7 PSY•046•02 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 201 .co•.042•o1 Macroeconomit< Theory & Policy Motahar, E. ssci 112 PSY*048•0I Psychotherapy Halpern, L. BAIL300 ,. GL•022*01 Major American Autl)or!l . .MacDonald, B. HUMN 014 SOC*OI0•02 lntro to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI 104 ST•Ot4•01 History of US Since Civil War Dudden; F. SSCI Ot4 WST*OIO*Ol Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 ST*014\'03 History of US Since Civil War Miller, A.T. SSCI 104 WEDNESDA. Y 1 JUNE 12 1 1996 -1:30PM· 4:30PM ST*025*01 U.S.&. the World~ Early Years Jonas,M. SSCI 012 CER*O! t•ot Advanced Communications Jewell, T. BUTR 109 . ST'036\'0l History of Europe 2 Berk, S. COLCAUD PHY*OI5°01 Physics/Life Sciences I Maleki, S. HUMN019 ST•OJ6•02 History of Europe 2 Walker; M. SSCI 103 PHY*OIS*02 Physics/Life Sciences I Maleki, S. HUMN019 ST•OSQ$0) Western Imperialism Hansen, E. SSCI 010 PHv•ots•ol General Physics 2 Anderson, A. NWSE300 PN*132*01 Advanced lnterm Japanese IU Khan, Y. HUMN 019 PHY*OI8*03 General Physics 2 Jones, C. STZH 106 ER•042*(H Engineeri-ng Design 3 Bucint:ll~ R, NWSE 222 PHY•018*04 General Physics 2 Rodriguez, G. NWSE 116 TH*OI9.tol Linear Algebra/Comp Var/Engrs Zwicker, W. BAIL 201' THURSDA.V 2 JUNE 1:1 1 1!196-8:30AM :-I 0:30AM Programming with Mathematica Fairchild/Seiken BAIL 104 MTH•Ot2•0l Calculus 2 Niefield, S. BAIL 100 HY•045*01 The Solar System Matr, J:M. NWSE 112 MTH•OIS•O! Calculus 3 Fairchild, W. BAIL 102 sc•oss•ot Defense Policy Brown, C. HUMN 112 MTH•ots•oz Calculus 3 Sauerberg, J. BAIL 106 PSY•o2o•ot Statistical Methods/Ps cholo Stllllho e, L. BAIL 300 MTWOi7•01 Calculus IV: Integral Vector Frame, M. BAIL 104

Science & Technology Help For People With Urinary Jn,continence by Dennis Popeo Science Editor Today there is more help avail- able for millions of Americans who suffer fr()m urinary incontinence (UI). or the involuntary loss of urme. lfhe Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) today released an updated version of its clini.cal practice guideline first issued in March of 1992, which shows that 80 percent of cases can be improved or cured by following the recmnmenda- tions. The new report has ex- panded sections on diagnosis and behaviontl therapies, as well as a new chapter on treating chronic UI in long-tenn and borne care settings. AHCPR also announced a part- nership with the American Medi- cal Directors Association (AMDA) and the American Health Care Association (AHCA) to develop new educational ma- terials to be used by caregivers to reduce the incidence of Ul. Urinary incontinence is one of the primacy contributing reaso11s that people enter nursing facilities. Use of the guideline may help people stay at home longer and improve the quality oflife for per- sons at home or in facilities. Tite first of these new educational products will be available this spnng. \This updated guideline, which replaces the first version, reaffinns the work ofthe 1992 panel which showed that urinary incontinence is treatable and that people don't have to suffer in silence,\ AHCPR Administ;ator Crifton R. Gaus, Sc.D., said. \The new guideline continues to emphasize that pa- tients must feel free to discuss the problem with their doctor or nurse, and all clinicians must take the problem seriously so they can get the help that is available and regain control of their lives.\ Researchers estimate the nation spends at least $16 billion a year to care for people with urinary in- continence, up from $10 billion in 1990. Urinary incontinence is esti- mated to affect more than 13 mil- lion adults, most of them older women. Actual prevalence, how- ever, may be higher because it is widely under reported and under diagn()sed. \We made a good start with the first guideline by bringing this problem out into the open and tell- ing people there is hetp for incon- tinence,\ said Andrew J. Fantl, M.D., professor and vice-chair of the Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Medicine Depart- ment at SUNY at Stonybrook School ofMedi~jne, and co-chair of the guideline update panel. \Now we have the opportunity to strengthen the message and pro~ vide cJinicians with a more user- friendly tool to really make a dif- ference in the quality of their pa- tients' lives.\ As with the first version, this surgery often suffer from inconti- nence, but they are more likely to ask for, and receive, help for the condition. catheters and bladder suppmt devices. The caregiver guide being de- veloped by AHCPR, AMDA, and The basic machines Every machine, no matter hQW compll~tecJ· or sophisticated .Is based on one or more of Sill simple ma~hlnes. Tt!ese six devices. m11cte the rnoctern tnachln• age possible: 0 The lev~r Three arrangements of fulcrum (pivot), effort (force) and load are possible •FIRST-CLASS Pair of scissors combines two 1st-class levers Effort •• •SECOND-CLASS Fulcrum Example: A baseball bat updated guideline developed by a private sector, multidisciplinary panel of clinicians and a con- sumer, emphasizes aggressive di- agnosis to detennine the under- lying cause of the problem. In- continence can be caused by pel- vic muscle instability, a side ef- fect of medications or caffeine, or other conditions such as a urinary tract infection or constipation. It also can be caused by not be- ing able to reach the bathroom in time due to a lack of mobility. Many younger women experi- ence incontinence after childbirth but don't report it because they feel it is an inevitable result of the birthing process, or are embar- rassed. Older men with prostate prob-· lems or recovering from prostate 0 The wheel and axle 0 The inclined lane Actually a rotating 2nd·class lever. Force applied to the crank is magnilied when it's transferred to the rope · wrapped around the axle. It takes only half the effort to push a weight up the slope as it does to lift it straight up Full effort Crank~ (lever) 0 The wedge e ·The pulley · Single pulley doesn't magnify force; it just redirects it. j Pulley . - ~ ·~ 1:. ~;' Load A pair of pulleys magnifies .force applied to rope ~ ; : : \Surveys have shown that women tend to accept inconti- nence as their personal burden, while men understand that this is not nonnal and should be treated,\ said Diane ~aschak Newman. R.N.C., M.S.N., F.A.A.N.,presi- dent of Access to Continence Care & Treatment in Philadelphia, and co-chair of the guideline update panel. \As clinicians we need to make a stronger effort to ask women about incontinence and treat it aggressively.\ TI1e guideline is written for ·the primary care provider and covers various types of incontinence, provides a framework for select- ing appropriate behavioral, phar- macological, and surgical treat- ments, and evaluates the use of alternative treatments such as A type of inclined plane: forces apart the two sides of the crack in the log. ' The screw An inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder or cone (the pointed wood screw) ~ ·~ .. ~~~ .. f /·1~- .:' ,, - A Jackscrew combines a lever and a screw. It can magnify force by a factor of 50 and easily lift a heavy automobile. , .. SOURCES: The Way Things .Work. by Oavid Macaulay; World Book Encyclopedia; Macmrilan Visual Dictionary. AHCA will be written specificalJy for certified nursing assistants in nursing facilities and home health aides, A companion piece will be written for directors of nursing to help them train caregivers. ''The guideline will make an im- portant contribution to improving the quality of life for ·so m~y people suffering needlessly from ~rinary incontinence,\ said Lorraine 'I amove, executive direc• tor of the American Medical Di- rectors Association. \We are committed to helping create and~disseminate other prod .. ucts .from this guideline which can do even more for the residents in nursing facilities.\ A quickreference guide for cli- nicians, Managing Acute and Chr{)nic Urinary lncmllinence, and consumer guide (available in English or Spanish), Urtder.vtalld• ing lilcotltillence, are available free of charge from the AHCPR Publications Clearinghouse. Call toll-free 800-358-9295, or write to Urinary Incontinence Update, AHCPR Publications Clearinghouse, P.O. Bo\ S547, Sil- ver Spring, MD 20907. They also are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, through AHCPR lnstantFax, 301-594-2800. When the caregiver guide is com- pleted, it also will be available through the Clearingh()use and InstantFax. The full guideline, Urinary In~ continence in Adutts: Acute and Chronic Management, as well as the quick reference and corrsumer pieces, will he available on Internet through the AHCPR Home.Page. Access the guideline by us- ing a Web browser, specifying URL http://www .ahcpr .gov/ guide/ 3\ld clicking on ••clinical Practice Guidelines Online.\ Single and bulk copies may be purchased from the U.S. Govern- ment Printing Office by. calling (202) 512-1800. Tite American Medical Direc- tors Association is a national pro- fessional organization represent- ing physicians who practice in long-term care facilities as medi- cal direct()rs or attending physi• cians. The American Health Care As- sociation is a federation of 51 state associations representing more than I 1 ,000 long-tenn cate facili- ties all over America, caring for more tharutmillion elderly, chroni- cally ill, and convalescent. Ameri• cans. . -~- -- .. -·· --- . _____ , _____ . - .. - - -- -· .......... - , .. 1 ] ] 1 ( i

P~l ae 15 Mav 23~ 1996 ill!~:· Wnncnrq11'm:;is · . Arts & Entertainment I ···· .. ·;A·.·.; N'ts·.·> ··•··· [··:~+ .. ~.a.··· :.dm·····.:an· t·: · ' · 1 f . · · ·g, · · · l:'clr;-J: t · :·.,\ •· .: : . ._, •·. . ·. l Heaven's Prisoners- An Ex-Cop F·eelstheHeat of New Orleans Crime ;s.···cn·~cm. ···N··a···.··R·· ·o···o··M· ·· ~· • ' ••. :. ' ...ft:i!J . .:I!J . ·. : . ' ' .•· ' ' •· ... ·'. : by Larry Paska, Arts Editor ·~Heaven, s Prisoners. j, Starring Alec Baldwin, Mary Stuart Masterson, Kelly Lynch, Eric Roberts, Ted Hatcher .. Directed by Phil Joariou. Rated R,NewLiiu~ Cinema/ Savoy Pictures. long time. Aiec Baldwin is treated as a big movie star, the story tries to build to a twist of a climax, and director Joanou could make the movie after his then.,recent Final Analy~is. Actually, this is exactly what happened. Baldwin {whe has been abse'ntfromthe siJver screen since 1994's fiasco, The Shadow) Rating: * 112 ~out of four) - i:rnoloilg~ra box .. office draw, the story is confusing and very dull to watch, and Joanou is not on Hollywood's _A-listatth:emoment. When the crickets in the back- ground seem to he more exciting thail anything occurring between the,char-acters, you know you've got a problem. The promotionahnaterials for this misguided movie capitalize on Ted· Hatcher's presence. In real- ity, however, Hatcher(ofTV's Lois, and Clark) has a mlnor·support- ingrole, asthis film wasob:v:iously . made well before heractirigcareer got into full swing. In fact, this film bears many marks of being completed long ago and then end- ing up sitting on the shelf far a Could itbe because Baldwin, as ex~cop DaYe Robicheaux, does nothing but sweat profusely throughout the entire fHm? .. . Granted~ he's in the New Orleans Bayou,.and his home overlooks a swamp. but how come hl.s iscthe only character to walk around· the back streets of New Orleans drenched in sweat? Certainly, this was meant to be some .symbolic image, but in a movie without a single creditto its name, such im- ages seem silly. Robicheaux: is an ex .. cop Who, with his wife, Annie (played by Lynch)~ owns a bait and tackle business - .. ·· he is try- ing to forget the exciting life he had' as.a cop and also trying to keep away from 1:he bottle (These are two very redundant character- istics of tnovie cops). His fervent ,prayers are answered when a plane crashes beside his fishing boat while he and his wife are shar- ing a:tendermoment. Robicheaux dives underwater and pulls out one plane crash sun'ii\'or, a little girl who speaks only Spanish and who the couple decide to \adopt.\ This girl is practically dropped .from the iest of the story, resur- facing sp.oradical'ly with some petty talk aboutrefugees stowed aboard the plane. Robicheaux wants to investigate the plane REUNION WEEKEND 1996 ·Unlike last year, ReUnion Weekend falls.witliin the academic year:. May~ 1- June 2. We crash further but is threatened by some nasty heavies who look sleepy in the steamy South. One night, while continuing his sense- l-ess investigations (no one 1 s hired him to do this work and there is a curious absence of ac- tual policemen in the story), his wife is shot and killed in their home. Robicheaux visits an old friend namedBubbaRocque{Rob- erts), a shrimp-eating man with a boxing ring in his frontyard and a wife named Claudette (Hatcher), who appears to enjoy standing naked on the front balcony and committing other acts which make little sense to the story. Her rele is topped by Masterson as a top- less dancer and friend of Robicheaux's who mov~s into. the cop ~s home after his wife dies. She wants to help him heal his wounds, but even this is quickly discarded as a possible story idea. Thewholemovieseems down- right pointless. Ifthe movie was trying to focus on a cop who is obsessed with his profession, and \wants back in,\ then forget it-. it's already been done. If the movie was interested in the notion of revenge, then forget it-· we've seen that, toG. What emerges from this two- hour-plus mess is a series of loosely-connected events confus~ .ingly meshed together to fortn a \mystery.\ Claudette bears a but- terfly tattoo similar to the one seen on a dead victim on the plane crash; if a connection was made to this in the movie, and you caught it, then youproba:bly were more awake then most people were. But somehow, much .post- editing tinkering was done to this, considering that New Line picked thismovie up only after its otigi- naldistribution studio, Savoy Pic- tures, went bankrupt last faJl. What remains is a movie that assumes Alec Baldwin is still hot property, Teri Hatcher is an un- known actress, and that New Or- leans underworld crimes are fas- cinating enough to make movies about. The producers are probably sweating now as much as Baldwin's character does in the movie, worried about their future careers in moviemaking. Q. What does ·every Spring need? . hope many studentswilljoin ~lumpiand parti~J!'~~~n aJew of the weeke~g~~~'events. i~ll · schedule will be listed intlie Concordiensis and al)rochilre will be sent to your mailbo1fnext . ·. week~ but put acouple·ofthe events on your .calendar today. Plan on attending the following ReUnion eventS: A. Nice Weather and~ . ~:....:.: l J; t\• ;: M!o(J t :.•LL,t 'ill ~::r~\. . ·.·· :\l\) ;~~··: FITZHUGH FRIDAY,MAY31ST . Minerva's Foot Race 1:30pm,AiumniGym · · . · · · · .. , ' \ ·. Canyoukeepupwith Union's alumni? Findoutbyracingin ··-··:.· ·, .. ~ al tnileor:5Kruh:aroundcampus. P.rizesa~ardeq .. -;_r .. shirts for all paid entrants! Herman Nickel '51: Life as a Foreign· Correspondent & Ambassador . Mountebanks Cabaret ReUnion Parade AIJ..you-can-eat Country Picnic 3pnt, Nott Memorial Join Herman Nickel as he discusses how his Union education impacted his life from serving as a member ofThurgood Marshall's NAACP legal staff to his 24 years as a foreign correspondent for TIIvffi & FORTUNE to serving as a US Ambassadorto South Africain the 1980's. 9ppt, Chet' s Live music and perfonnances by alumni and students. SATURDAY, JUNE 1ST Ham start Cheer on alumni as they march around campus. Parade route begins on North Lane and ends in Memorial Chapel 12: 15-2pm, Alexander Field Meal swipe for students. Sign-up with Dining Services (CC, 2nd floor) before Wednesday, May 29th. Ben & Jerry's lOpm, UCDH . Social Hour Enjoy Ben & Jerry's ice cream compliments ofBob Holland . . '62, B&J's CEO. . Alumni will be returning to campus to catch-up with old friends, tour the campus, and remember wonderful times as undergraduate students. Alumni celebrate reUnions every five . years with classes ending in 1 's and 6' s returning this year for the festivities. To date more than 300 alumni will be· returning with many more last minute registrations expected. Please contact the Annual Giving & Alumni Programs office at ext. 6168 if you have any questions. LUDLOW D .. A·.·y·,.,, .. ••• -~ FREE food Free Music: . Barnyard Blues ' Your Momma checksix College Center Patio This Saturday, May25 1:OOpm-5:OOpm \I \!· .. _,

rts & Entertaintnent . ~UII~e QTmu:nrotl'nsis .• May 23, 1996 • Page 16 ·I~=============================== Arts & (ntenainment la@Cal Arts . . Calendar Local Arts Calendar ONGOING TheN ew York State Theater Institute presents Beauty and the Beast at the Schacht F Center on the Russell Sage College Campus in Troy, .running :fronrMay29-3n:·~d ..•. n-.~~- . . Tickets are $15 for adults, $13 for students and senior citizens,and $8'{or.childreri 1 and under. An $8 \student rush'' ticket is offered 30 minutes before curtain Hme. Call •. ,..,r,.., office at274-3256 for more information. The Capital Repertory Company presents William Kennedy' splay, Grand View, at Theater, Ill North Pearl Street, in downtown Albany. Theplay,n.iris from now '\\'~···• June2nd. Formoreinfonnationandticketprices,call462-4534. , .. ,\ . ''Details For Daily Life'' An Exhibition o:fp~injings by Heather C. Picken On Display in the Arts Building From June 3- June 1~

Personals and Classitieds James, Good luck this week. I can't wait to hear all about it. - Leandra Camron, Chachi, Llama, Hill, Seth, Pete, Joiner and Phil u ... thank you all for a beautiful 21st brithday! Ilove yo~ aU very much! - Laurel Hope it is not as bad as we thought. Talk to you soon.- Sarah Curry Pepper- You buy the beer. r----------------------- ......... ----- .......... .....,..- ........ _-------. Celebrate! -- Petitions will be available to run for Student Forum . Representative xxooRumus ER gang-I love you guys- remember no t-----------------------------------Im u n c h o s for the Classes of 1997, 1998, 1999 start- ing Friday, May 17th. You can pick up the petitions in Stu~ent Activities, Room 408 in the Reamer Cam- pqs Center. Petitions· will be due Friday, May 24th. Elections will be held Friday, May 31st. S.ociol.~gy Club. Raffle in f:· Support of the Battered f~ Wome. r.~s' Shelter of fi'l. ifJ. Schenectady. VtJ Ult Tickets on Sale ~·qv from May 1·4-28 in ~ the College Center ®~. · Atrium. ~ More lf!fO call · ~ x6292 . .... ever!.- L UNION' COLLEGE Career Develqmrent Center CDC Updates· ... Job Opportunities:· •lnchcape Testing Services NA Inc. is hiring Project Engi- neers to perfonn Electrical And Electronic Safety Certifica- tion. Please fax your resume to Joe Demczar's '95 attention @ (607) 753-6761. •]. Walter Thompson Co., an advertising agency, has an open- ing for an Assistant Broadcast Negotiator in their Network Media Department. Position is available immediately. If in- terested, call Amye Kurson '95 @ (212) 210-7231. •Announcing on the Web- \New Beginnings\. the GE Intern & Co-op Newsletter. Content contains information about GE and specific businesses/programs. Website : http://www.careermosaic.com/cm/ge •Boxed Grates Inc. -Nation's top ranked business-to- ., business public relations agency seeks entry-level job candidates .. If interested, send cover letter, resume, and anything else you think they should see to : Phil Mann, Group Director, Boxenbaum Grates, Inc., 675 Third Avenue. New York. NY 10017, Re: Entry-level posi- tion. Watch News flash in the CDCho~e page for new job openings . Schaefer .. Thanks for the beautiful birthday gift-- how did you know? love, the Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau -L PR. I love you.!. To the brothers ofT D Chi- Thank you for a great party on Saturday night. love, The Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau Dear Bo and the new fc:I>B's, Thanks for the most impres- sive bat:mer and all your support! Love, Manny To the Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau, '\Just another manic Monday!!!\ Lea - Congrats Law school! You deserve for your hard work! Adrian Love, Us To the brothers of AD, Mom&Dad -- You're the best, and I love you! Freina A belated thank ou for the WELCOME TO LAS ERTAG THE FUTURISTIC l..IVE ACTION LASER GAME. A FANTASY WORLD OF' STRATEGY AND RAW EXCIT.Et-IEj(jT. YOUR .MISSION.; TO SEEK, F'INO Ao..JO DEA:;':'IVATE OPPOSING TEAM I-I EMBERS F'OR POINTS USING THE w.:F~L~· S :O.IOST AONANCE:D LASE•R EQ!-JIPME ..... T. LASERTAG :s PL..AYEO.IN AN ADRENALINE-CHARGED ATMOSPHEf<E C~EO.TE::O c~· SPE.CIAL EF'F'ECT LIGHTING, FOG MACHINES AND HIG·H ENEi'lGY ....,USIG ALL IN A BLACK LrGHT MAZE ARENA. f\'st paced - hea.rtpumplnlf • wi/d • explosive WITH VtDEO GAM!; ARENA & REFRESHMENT CENTER BOOK A I,.,ASE:R TAG PARTY FOJi YO.UR GROUP OR OFFICE NOW .. GR.E:AT FOR BACHELOR PARTIES! GAMES START AT ONLY $5.00. Announcing the AT&T \Ultimate ROAD TRIP\ Sweepstakes· Studytng abroad th1s Fall? AT~T would like to help pay your way. 10 GR.IIND PJll:ZI!: WXNm:RS - Round-Trip Air Transportat1on from the U.S. to the country where you will study. ?ius thousands of other chances to win ... • Leather-bound passport folders • High-quality currency converters To enter. call , 8 0 0 78 q .. q q 4-7. Or see your Study Abroad Counselor for more details. ~.::. purcha•• necea•~ry vosd where prohl.blted Sweep~tskos tandl ~1'31!96 Qpen to eJ.tizarw ot the • . .5o. 18 yeaca or old•r. attend1nw schOol abrOlld ror th.• F4ll '96 B4!1Uster through participating 3 .:!Wol•. See your_ Study Abroad counaelor for offici.al ruh• and ~eta1 h • t ~996 ATkT i ,I t

Greg Kalish Staff Writer It has been a difficult few weeks for those associated with the world of sports, a world often thought of as one whose primary purpose is to provide entertain- ment and happine~s for its spec- tators. As it often does however, real life has struck home for the New York Yankees, the Los Angeles Dodgers, the San Diego Chargers, and Indy car drivers. It started three weeks ago when Yankee ace right-hander David Cone, just days after his best outing of the season, learned that he was suf- fering from an aneurysm in his pitching shoulder. The problem was preventing Cone from feeling sensation in his finger. He tmderwent successful surgery to repair the problem. It is not known whether or not he will ' be able to return this season. Just one week later, Dodger centerfielder Brett Butler was di- agnosed with throat cancer. Im- mediately, speculation surround- ing his use of chewing tobacco during the early portion ofhis ca- reer surfaced. It is not known whether to- bacco can be assigned blame in But! er' s situation since he has not used in over ten years. Neverthe- less, almost instantaneously, a campaign was launched around the league to rid clubhouses of smokeless tobacco. Butler was scheduled to have had surgery this past Tuesday. The moribund news did not end there. As a mat- ter of fact, it worsened. A few days after the Butler announce- ment, an Atlanta bound airplane took to the air from Miami Airport. It never reached its destination. Instead, the plane crashed in the mucky Florida Everglades kiiling all one-hundred and ten people on board. In the aftermath of the crash,it was learned that Charger running-back and former Notre Dame standout Rodney Culver had been a passenger on the ill- fated flight along with his wife. They have two daughters who were not on the flight. Like the other passengers, Culver'1; body remains unrecovered. Finally, as if so~e sort of grand finale was needed, tragedy struck at the In- dianapolis Motor Speedway this past Friday. Afterwinningth~pole position for the second year in a row, driver Scott Brayton was killed when he blew a tire during a practice run. He crashed sideways Big Brothers Big Sisters Volley For Kids Sunday, June 2 Get in Gear gou Volleyball entl1usiasts (dcn}'t~ we- haJvenJ't fPO'ttetL- yo-w~ Fifv). All are in- · vited to partiCipate. All you must do to participate in this day of food and fun is raise $300 to help match children of single parents with Big Brothers. Caff 374-4523 for more infonnation. into the outside wall encompass- ing the track. The car was travel- ing at an excess of200 MPH on impact. A replacement driver will take his place in the Indy 500. Real fife ... sometimes it is qot aU smiles, even in the sports world. Inmorecheerynews, Whatmust have put a smile to the faces of many was the performance of Dwight Gooden as he faced the Seattle Mariners last Tuesday night at YankeeStadium. Gooden, returning from a drug suspension which forced him to the side I ines for the last year and a half, pitched his first.career no-hi~er.in a 2-0 Y at:lkeewi11. Unbelievably, Gooden also ex- tended his hitless innings streak to sixteen. In a display notseen in baseball in q.uite some time, Gooden was .carried off the field on the shoulders .of his team- mates. As a fan of an organiza- tion which has not had a pitcher throw a no-hitter in its thirty -four year existence, the New York Mets, I was somewhat overcome with jealousy at watching yet an- other Yankee pitcher throw a no- hitter, the third legitimate no~hit­ ter thrown by a pinstripehutlerin my memory (Dave Righetti and Jim Abbot being the others). But on the same token, and also as a fan ofthe team Doc betrayed, I haw spent much ofthe year labeling Goodenasa•·scumbag.\ Gooden was an idol in Queens. He could nave gone 0-20, he would have still been loved. He was my idof during my childhood. Never has someone with so much thrown it all away the way in the way in which he did. Now,heis back. He is in the same city ,just in a differ- ent uniform. Anger persists in ' terms of my feelings for Gooden, as it probably does formany Met fans of the eighties. Yet, his feat thispastweek forced a smile even tomyface. Two Friday nights ago, Madi- son Square Garden hosted a rather uni~ue night at the fights. Usu· ally, the main event is surrounded by boring and lackluster perfor- mances :from no-names,fighting in the under-cards. However, on this rare everting~ three fights which could have served as main events by themselves, were fought one after the other. The highlight of the evening featured Evander Holyfield, his ailing heart just re- cently mended by a faith healer, combating a fonner middleweight named Bobby Chyz. While these fights were exciting and entertain- ing, they did not compare to the boxing clinic showcased at the Fieldhouse this past Saturdayafa temoon on our very own campus. The main event featured a young and raw sports editor throwing . hands with a much more experi- enced and mature combatant, himself once·a sports editor. All factors favored the elder states- man. He had thereach,height,.and wei~t advantage. He also had the advantage of years and crafti- ness. It was clear that the preco- cious neophytewas going tohave to implement some serious strat- egyto pummel the giant. The fight began as advertised, both fight- ers cautiously bouncing around the ring, glaring and snarling at oneanother as each waited for the other to strike first. It was clear that the neophyte was unwilling to test the power behind the old man's punch. Instead, his game plan relied on the use of speed and agility. This would be a test of stamina more than anything else. After three grueling rounds of intense combat not seen since bare-knuckledboxing was out- lawed, the outcome was ruled a draw, but not before the.elder was sent thought the ropes twice, once by a quick right hook and the other time by an ill-advised shove. The progeny himself was sent to the canvas by a robust over- hand right. Control of the fight was lost midway through the sec- ond round when the two. fighters viciously and without warning, at-- tacked a defenseless referee. A second official quickly came to his colleague's aid and order was re- stored. AU in all, while there was no winner, the event was more than an a worthwhile speetator event. ... . ,. Attention All Graduating Seniors If you have received a Perkins and/~r Institutional Loan; an EXIT Interview must be completed before ·~ graduation. If you did not receive a mailed notificatio of this,. --- -~---· --- -- - Please I Contact: Mrs. Civitello @ x6039. Dates for Interviews: Friday (May 31st) \June 3rd (Monday) & 4th (Tuesday) Please call for an appointment.

n ·- d .e i- 1- e .- tt d tt e r j ! t J , Sports · 'illltl' <!I lntcoroil'nsis • '!\·'lay 23~ 1996 • Page 19 NBA Playoffs - Early Blowouts Ken Berman Staff Writer What the NBA was looking for in its-Conference Finals was a series that sizzled .. Instead, what they have found were games ~at have mostly fi~zled. For the last few years, David Stem and every~ody else in the NSA offices on ~ew York's Fifth Avenue had heard how their playoffs had been bor.- ing affairs with the aesth.etic value of a Union College weekend, and how young fans· craving excite- ment were turning to .the hipper, more exciting NHL (no less an authority than Fox thinks so}.~ The NBA has~ been saddled with the reputationofbeing nothing mo;e· tl:Ian a hot-dog league ;¥i:Ued with immature multimillionaires who are more concerned with making 'The BigShow\ than doing the neces- _ sary things ittakes to win games. In-short, the NBA needed ·both the Western Conference _partici- pants (Sonics-Jazz) a11d the East .. ern Conference entries (Bulls- Magic) to play old-fashioned (read: Celtics-Lakers, Knicks..:Sul .. lets, etc ... ), playoff-style hard nosed basketball. Instead, they have .received two of the greatest mail-in jobs in recent memory, by both the Jazz and the Magic. American sports (I held off say- ingsportsall over the world- I've seen some of those Greek teams play). I mean, this is a team that has already played in the Finals in the Worlds Greatest Basketball league~ has two of the best play- ers in this league, and is matched up against a team that won 72 gamesthis season led by the great- est player ever not named Larry Bird. Andwhatdotheydo?They lose by 38 points!Tm.·sorry-1 take . that back . .The score-of this game is not indicative .of the dichotomy between thesetwoteams. How is it possible that the Orlando trio (all very talentt;d · starters) of Horace Grant, Nick Anderson and Dennis Scott coUld hitexactlyzero (0) _shots from the floor? I sup- pose yQu could fergive these three for one horrific shooting night; put the following fact is .in- excusable: the Magicwere out-re- bounded 62-28. You better believe that if I'm putting on my best imi- tation of Greg Kite, I'm going to be crashing those boards and get- •. . ting to every loose ball that's out there, But what did Grant and Scott do? They watched Dennis Rodman and Scottie Pippen and the restofthe Jordanaires run and jump all overthecourt,while the two of them combined for three (3 ).rebounds and zero{O) assists. Although it is not nonnally this When Rodman left the court with. writer's style to write with hyper- 2:38leftto play in the third quar- bole, this situation is just too ter,hehad 18rebounds, whilethe tempting, so here it goes. Game ·entire Orlando squad had 17. And one, played by theOrlando Magic, he was guarding Shaquille O'Neal was the single worsfJ5ig ... game - (anddoingaverygoodjob)t The· performance in the history of only reason this game was not over by half-time was the show • put on by the prodig.ously tal- ented Penny Hardaway, who showed he is more than capable of seeing. His Aimess 30 points and raising hiin s .. The UtahJatz, for their part, did not fair much better than the Magic. It appeared they were more interested inlooking for cof- fee shops, or perhaps Eddie Vedder upon their-arrival in Se- attle,. for they sure looked sleep- less. Maybe I shouldn't be so sar- castic. This team, led by the vet- eran duo of John Stockton and Karl Malone, hungright with the ~ Sonics until they found them- selves down by 30. Granted, the Jazz showed up ready to play bet- ter in Game Two, but when it came time to play, they folded. Malone had 18 points in the3rd quarter, but he, along with the rest of his teammates, forgot that they had to play another quarter, and they watched the Sonics storm at them and erase any hope they had of winning. Now, they are staring at a 2-0 deficit against a very tal- ented, but inexperienced foe. Surely this team would do any- thing to get a crack at the. Finals, but it sure hasn't appeared that way. Perhaps my comments here ~ave been a bit harsh. After all, only 3 games have been played. However, unless the Magic and Jazz start playing like the teams they are and bringing fans back to the NBA, the league will find itself furtherdefending its dim in-1 ishing reputation. Phi Delta Theta Raises $500 In Softball Marathon Jon Gasthalter Staff Writer Tuesday, May 7 through Wednesday, May 8, marked the 12th annual Phi Delta Theta 24- hour Softball Marathon. On a sunny day, ten teams showed up to play Phi Delta Theta brothers and pledges to raise money for Camp Good Times and Special Days. The camp is a summer pro~ gram for children stricken with cancer. Participants in the Marathon included Ganima Phi Beta, Delta Gamma, Ph.i. Sigma Kappa, Psi Upsilon, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Gamma Delta, the Pte .. law society, Jtfaculty, Davidson second floor, and the Schenectady Gazette. \I just want to extend a thank you to all ofthe people in the Union com- munity who participated in the Softball Marathon. \We will he doing itagain next year,\said Paul Wersten co-chainnan of commu- nity service for Phi Delta Theta. : , . . If you would like to advertise in the, last issue of_th,e ~Concordierysis call Dave @ ·()155. Deadlines for all ads is Tuesday, May 29 .. . - -. . ' . - . . . --.~-\'- .... Settling the Score Chris Leone Sports Staff An editor at the paper called me, and gave me an hour and a half to create something about how I would be writing a sports related column to take o:vetforthe graduating Greg Kalish and his article, the K Comer. I had known for about a week that I would have this opportunity, but did not have a clue when it would come. Me and some buddies had de'\ bated seveml names for the article and nothing really seemed to work out. The title Settling the Score came to me in a mom~nt of des- peration and just made sense, so ljust went with it. I have always loved sports and sports related issues. It is where heroes are made and destroyed. In fact, I will go ·as far as to say that many issues in the sports world teach young Americans a lot more about life and the real world than any pitiful exercise that might be accomplished in a class- room. How often in life do you see men or wornen of all colors and race working together for a common goal? This rarely occurs in everyday society. In sports, no one is seen arguing about the na- tional deficit, the environment, Union's administrative policies on Greeks, or the meal plan. This is not to say that these may not be serious problem~, but sports, at least to me, bring out the peace and simplicity that many of us have forgotten had existed. When a game,regardlessofthesport, is being playec:t\o; being watched, fi is very rare to see a fight break out amongst the spectators. Some people might argue that all is not well in the world of sports. It has been said that spec- tators might need & legal degree, instead of a ticket,. to appreciate the actions ofthe millionaires who play the g.unes. Yes,. there are prob- lems that exist, and I will do my best to bring those problems to the attention of the reader, even if those problems are within the Union sports programs. At the same time, I hope to bring atten- tion and credit to all those, either at Union or nationwide, who de- serve praise. ****** - One can not help but feel good for the Yankee's Dwight Gooden after he threw a no hitter,. He is once again throwing in the mid to upper nineties.· and demonstrat- ing the curve ball that earned him the nickname \Doctor K\. Just how many teams are kicking them- selves for not taking a serious look at him when his suspension ended last faH? The Detroit Ti- gers sure could use someone to go at least five innings and not give up numerous runs. - The quick way to fix the New York Mets is to ax their manager DaHas Green. Throughout his career he has had terrible experi- ences when dealing with young pitchers, and before he ruins this fine crop of talent, it is time to send him away. · - You would think that the New York Rangers might have learned something from New York Yankee management during the past de- cade. All the age and experience in the world does not guarantee a division or a championship. - Going into press time, the Red Sox were only 7 1/2 games behind the Yankees, all of which means absolutely nothing ifthey do not learn how to field the ball. Forget using the Curse of the Bambino as an excuse, this may be the worst fielding team in his- tory. - Would someone please give Michael Jordan. and the Bulls the NBA Championship? This way we will not be subject to hearing about the great 72 win team every time we tum on the sports news. - If anyone happens to talk to Cowboy wide receiver Michael Irvin, can they please find out for everyone what exactly was in those bags filled with white pow- der, and what he was buying on those alleged video tapes? I was just curious, because according to the Cowboys, and Irvin him- self, there is \no problem.\ \

Noises Off: A Director's Perspective Nick Mangano at the Helm of Mountebanks' Production tor, and in Act II, the set is re- by tawrencePaslm versed, and the audience's van- -~-~A __ rts~· _E~ 1 d_it_or-'-\-~~ . tage point is from behind the Noises OJ!,. presented by the UnionCollegeDepartrnent ofPer- :forming Arts and the Mounte- banks~ opened last night and will be performed tonightthrough Sat• urday at 8:00PM,. and will con- clude-its run next weekend from Thursday, May 29 to Saturday, June 1, all at 8:0-0 PM, and all in the YulmanTheater: The play, written by Michael Frayn, is being directed by visit- ing artist Nick Mangano. The play is about the cast of another play, rehearsing and then performing the fictional play, .Nothing On. The play, according to Mangano, is in the tradition of British sex farce, and is unique. because it is a play about a play. The audience sees the rellearsaL~ but this is \ ... stopped m-id~ way by the direc- stage.\ The play enjoyed a successful run on Broadway and in London, where Mangano first saw it per- formed. He advises both. cast membl;!rs and the general public not to see the film version of the play, which was released in 1992 and stars Michael Caine. \[The film] is a bad rendering, and [the play] was meant to be seen on stage. This type of comedy won't translate onto the screen, and the film also Americanized the play.\ One reason the film fails, accord- ing to Mangano, is that there are many close-ups and focuses. The play only works when one sees everything going on at once, not through frequent focuses on se- lected parts of scenes. The real challenge of making this play at Union was in the big sets. \We needed to rehearse on the sets,'' said Mangano, so they were constructed first The ac- tors also worked with a dialect coachtoperfectrecitjng lines with a British accent. · . Mangano -i·s a guest a·rtist whose most ~ecent directorial werk on the stage waS The Grapes ofWrath, which-wasperformed:at with the Capital Rep in Albany. He has also been on staff at the American Conservatory of The- ater, acting as associate director of Angels in America in San Fran- cisco. After working at Union, Mangano plans to work on The Cave,. a multimediapiece. Tickets for Noises Off are avail- abfe at the Yulman Theater Box Office, and by calling 388~6545 for further informati{)n. Tickets are $7 for the gener~f: public'~\· $t for senior citizens arid students\vith a valid Union ID .. ' . . ··~ JesseShtifetllS 'Garry' and JonathanZandman as 'Tim'rehearsefor 'Noises: Off. (photo by Laurel Ruma/The Concordiensis) f;loises Off director Nick Mangano. (photo~ LaurelRuma, TIC) NOISES OFF . -- . . - - . Director ..... ·~·····--·· ..... ··-.···--·~·:····~· ..... -...... Nick Mangano Assistant Director ................................ ; ..•.. Deb Leif Producer ......... , ........... ~ ............................. Bill Finlay Assistant Producer ............................. Kate Goldman Scenic Designer ............................... Charles Steckler Costume Des~gner .. u •••••••••••••• ............. Linda Sal bury Lighting Designer ................................ .... John Miller Asst. to Lighting Designer ..... ~ •......... .James Naumes : _ _._Sou-nd .......... , ..•....•........ _._..,- ............... ....... ,, ..... :~-A-ndy We-bb ; , Stage Manager~ ................................... S'it.raFriedman '\Assistant Stage Manager ..••...... ~ ........... Q.btissy Hickey ' Prop Master .... ~ ................ ~ ....... ~ ........ -~···*·.t)rian Jaecker :~ }1rt)ps.,:~····~~····· .............. ~ ....................... 1 1\1ichelle.Je.ster · :,.-':J,:;;,_ 0:/,. · . . ·. . .. '.,~l'ete-St. John ,;:.~-(;faiiurit~i::rew .. :.: ....... ; ................. : ....... cai~IirieHarvey 'i . ... : ~ .-:,:.· . . . ~ --· -~·\ . .. Jf!f.. ; : . :· ; \: . · Erndy SlinWartz . . · • Dialect Coach ............ ~ ..................... ~ .... J?.atsy Culbert · Cast o[Characters. Lloyd .............. ~··\' 111&11·-·· • ••••• • , ••••• _ •••••••••• Alex_ Beckers , Broolce .............. \'\''''''''' ................ ~--~ ... ..... Am.y ·Rilling Selsdon ..... : ............. ............... ~ ....... Bill Ackerbauer Dotty. ..................... ···\'················· ..... . - ... Emilia Teasdal.e Poppy ..................................... Gabrielle Molyneaux Garry .................................................... . Je:sse Shafer Frederick .... u • .- ............... \ ............. ,., ... .......... John Poor Tim ............ ~ ........................ ......... Jonathan Zandmari Belinda~ ...................................... Lindsay Copple_son ' ·~

Campus: Pool Closed For Summer pageS Opinions: Hull Under Fire page 15 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Hull: Tough on Hirschman Blind to Hazing? by Adrian MacLean Edito,....in ... Chief After, wefl!kS of investigation and an appeal process to President Hull, the Delta Delta Delta soror- ity has been found guilty on two charges ofhazing. The sorority was charged with a violation of Section I, ''b'ehav- ior which threatens or endangers the well-being or safety of oth- ers, or results in personal injury to others,\ and Section XIV, \vio- lations of local, state or federal laws and ordinances.\ This was the second official conduct hearing at Union College within the last year. Delta Delta Delta had the option of a hearing with Dean Schur!ck or in front of the Student Affairs Council. They chose to deal directly with Dean, Schurick because she had already begun an investigation. As a result ofthe investigation, Delta Delta Delta will have all activities, with the exception of educational programs, suspended for two years. There will be are- evaluation, presumably by Dean Schurick, at the end of the 1996 .. 97 school year. Rush of any kind will not be allowed for the soror- ity throughout their term of sus- pension. This decision affects the house as a whole, and no Delta Delta Delta members were held individually accountable. If the intention was notto single out any member of the sorority, an exceptian turns out to have been made in the case of New Member Educator Allison Hirschman, who has been penal- ized rather spectacularly for her association with Delta Delta Delta. Hirschman was voted by the faculty to receive the Josephine Daggett Prize, the . college 7 ssecond most prestigious awardjointly with Victor Owusu. The prize is given to the senior of the \highest conduct and charac- ter.\ I.n an interview with The Concordiensis, Hirschman dis- cussed her feelings about the de- nial of the award. Hirschman re- ceived a note in her box announc- ing that she had won an award and should attend Prize Day, where she was awarded the Minerva Prize; but subsequent to Prize Day she was made aware that the Daggett Prize had been intended to be split with her. President Hull was responsible for taking the prize away from Hkschman. He told The c~;;cordiensis, \I made what I thought was a morally correct decision at the time and I feel it is morally correct now. I have spo- ken with the student and others who need to know.'' According to Hirschman, there were three elements that contrib- uted to Hull's decision. The first was her association with the Delta Delta Delta sorority and the charges against them from the evening of April20. Hirschman was not present at these events, but as New Member Educator she was one of the primary members responding to the investigation. Secondly, Hirschman feels that her attitude toward the investiga- tion has been distorted. When first asked to meet with Dean Schurick, she stated that she was not present at ~~~ during the events in question, and was there- fore unable to describe what had happened. Once she had become aware of what had taken place, she told Schurick that she was ,now aware that violations of the conduct code had in fact taken place and fully disclased what she knew of those events to the dean. Hirschman now feels that her ini- tial statement has been used to portray her as a liar, despite her cooperation with the investigation as a whole. The third thing Hirschman felt aroused hostility aga·inst her was a letter she and the ~~~president wrote to the parents ofDeltaDelta Delta members in response to a letter that Dean Alford had sent them, which, Hirschman stated, failed to mention that an appeal was underway and sta~ed prema- turely that an official decision had been made. it was this letter which, when read by President' Hull on the night before Prize Day, led him to revoke Hirschman's prize. President Hull denied that these were the only elements that com- posed his decision. While refus- ing to elaborate, he stated that these are only \piece 1, 3, and 5\ of the puzzle. President Hull waited until the night of Senior Dinner to casually approach Hirschman and arrange a time to meet. During the meeting, Hull stated that he was the one who had withdrawn the award. \I could not give an award given for conduct to someone as- sociated with hazing,\ Hull said to The Concordiensis; \this is the only prize that I can envision where students engaged in this On display in tlte Nott Memorial \The Garden of Isaac Jackson\ From May 1 to August 7. (photo by Laurel Ruma) activity would not get the prize.\ By contrast, Joseph Board, Robert Porter Patterson Professor of Government, who undertook his own investigation ofthe mat- ter, told The. Concordiensis. \I would state categorically that this is a woman of the highest char- acter and conduct. I thought it was wrong to deny her the award. I always believe in judging people by their contact rather than their status.\ Board takes the view that Hirschman's conduct should be judged on the basis ofher full four years at Union, not one isolated incident. Board's point that Hirschman was judged on the basis of status rather than conduct seemed to be confirmed in The Concordiensis interview with Hull. The Presi- dentadmitted that Hirschman was not present at the events on the night of April 20 and-. perhaps more importantly-that this was not a house-sponsored event. Concordiensis sources indicate that the event began in an off- continued on page 3 Union To Build Library for the 21st Century Gives Up on 20th by Diana Sedita Editor Emerita This summer will mark the be- ginning of the reconstruction of Schaffer Library, putting an end to ten years of planning by fac- ulty, administration and students. The Library Project has been any- thing but easy, with $3 million of $17 million still needing to be raised. Members of the campus community have voiced their praise and concerns over the han- INSIDE: dling of the project, the accessi- bility of resources over the next eighteen months, as well as the \new\ library. Barbara Jones, Director ·of Schaffer Library, who will be leaving Union College to become Associate Professor and Head of Special Collections at the Univer- sity of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, admits that \the Project has been controversial because many think the building will be too small.,, Currently, Ccmtpus New.~· .................................... 2 WorldNews ....................................... 6 Sludenl Pontm ................................. 9 Union College has rented storage space for three years with Mullen Moving and Storage to house a significant proportion of the Library's holdings due to lack of space, and plans on renting more space to relocate approximately 170,000 volumes of the Library's current holdings while construc- tion is underway. According to Jones, the \new\ library will be able to hold all current holdings with room for five to ten years growth. Jones said that the storage space will \not be a permanent solu- tion,\ that there will be full ser- vice during the construction, and that the retrieval of the holdings in storage will be a \minor incon- venience, but we are sensitive to the needs of students.\ In order to keep the campus informed, there will be weekly updates and information regarding the library on the WEB. Professor Jim Underwood, a member of the original planning committee, believes that many are \skeptical\ about the size of the 1 ibrary due to \historical memory.\ He is referring to origi- nal construction of the library, which was too small, arid the last addition to the building which has had structural problems. Mary Ann MacLean, a mem- ber ofthe Board of Trustees, feels that the library has to be able to grow as technology changes. \The biggest mistake we could conti1iued on page 3 Science ............................................ /3 Announcements ........................ 22 Features ......................................... 18 Sports ....................................... 23 Arts ................................................ 20 Youth Olympics ........................ 24

I ''ER: Fact or Fiction?'' ·Bruce Bouanlio,. M.D. '77 Jay Baruch, M.D. '85 Thomas Babson, M.D. '71 Will talk about their careea· paths and their experie11ces as emergency room physicians. A:n episode of NBC's ''ER\ will be shown. As partofthe presentation, Dr. Bonanno will talkabout foreign medical schools including St. Georges in Granada. He is a graduate and a member.ofthe admissions committee. Thursday, May 30th 8PM College Center Auditorium · Refreshments will he searved Student Activities: Upcoming Events: Film Committee presents Dead Man Walking, Friday through Monday, at 8 & 10 PM in the Reamer Ca.Qtpus Center auditorium.\ Performing Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, May 22 through. June 1 in The Yulman Theater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 starting at 9 PM in Chet's, located in the back Campus Center. Union College Jazz Ensemble will perform in the Yulman ~Theater on Thursday, June 6 at 8PM. This is the last issue of the '95-'96 Concordiensis. Good Luck to everyone on Finals!! Senior Disorientation '96. • • Tues. June 11: Party at the Rive~house 4-8PM Wed. June 12: The Parting Glass 4-8PM Thur. June 13: Booze Cruise 3:30-SPM Friday June 14: Molson Beach Party at Chet's .•. TBA Tickets on sale in the Reamer Campus Center Atrium until June 11th. TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS- SAFETY NOTES: Recently there have been .a number of incidents in which entry doors to residence halls have been propped open and unauthorized persons have entered the building. Please remember to keep entry doors closed and locked at all times. Room and office doors should be kept locked when unoccupied. First floor residents make sure that your windows and screens are closed and locked and/or window stops are in place. If your windows need win- dow stops please contact campus safety .. DATE/TIME LOCATION TUESDAY, MAY 21,1996: 8:12PM Union Avenue Campus Grounds WEDNESDAY, MAY 22,1996: 12:17 AM Davidson inner court 2:50PM Fox South 8:43PM Hickok & Potter 11:00 PM Davidson THURSDA ~MAY 23, 1996: l :38 AM Davidson 9:40AM Fox area IO:OOAM Campus Operations 4:15PM Fraternity FRIDAY, MAY24, 19.96: 3:51AM Hickok House INCIDENT VANDALISM: Motorist driving by reported that his car was pelted with stones from the campus. Area checked. Motorist's car was damaged. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Stqdent drove yehicle across lawns causing damage. Conduct Charges filed. FIREWORKS/SAFETY HAZARD: Fireworks.(missle displ~y) seteff. Injury and fire hazard. Suspects fled. V ANDALlSM; Glass in,entry door broken. TRE~PASS: Solicitor in building. -Gained entry through propped entry doors. Located, identified and advised off campus. SUBSTANCEABUSE: brugpara phernalia found in student's room. ConductCharges filed. THEFT: Two pizzas stolen from vendor. One recovered. Suspects fled. Pizza paid for by concerned students. HARASSMENT: Verbal confrontation between two staff members. Report filed with SPD. THEFT: Gas siphoned from campus operations vehicle. PROPERTY DAMAGE/ SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door lock damaged and key left in lock to facilitate entry. PROWLER/POSSIBLE ATTEMPTED ENTRY: Student • 7:31AM reports prowler lifting room window .screen. Suspect fled. Area checked. Window stops were in place. Memorial Chapel area VANDALISM: Window on 6:05PM Delta Phi FRIDAY, MAY 24,1996: 10:00 PM S&E Building SATURDAY, MAY 25,1996: 3:34AM Union St. & Nott Terr. 6:34AM Grounds storage 12.:22 PM Raymond North SUNDAY, MAY 26, 1996: !2:56AM PsiUpsilon 1:16AM Edwards House I 0:35AM Raymond House 12:00PM Psi U Flagpole area MONDAY, MAY 27,1996: 2:30PM Arts Building backhoe broken with beer bottle. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS/ SAFETY HAZARD: Students on building roof. Advised down. Building secured. TRESPASS: Three juvenile visitors attempting to gain entry to the building. Identified and advised off campus. HARASSMENT/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Male student was verbally harassed by three city youths. Two other students observed confrontation and came to assist. Fight ensued. SPD contacted. One student arrested for Disorderly Conduct and one youth arrested for harassment for throwing a bottle at students and staff. VANDALISM/ATTEMPTED ENTRY: Attempt to pry lock off of grounds storage barn. Hasp damaged. V ANDALISM!UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Storage room door kicked in, door lock broken. VANDALISM: Kitchen entry door damaged. Security hazard-door couldn't be locked. Other mischievous behavior throughout the building. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/ ASSAULT: A:ltercation between two students. One student injured. THEFT: Student's wallet and radio taken from unlocked room when student went to shower. .Building entry and privacy doors Were propped open. THEFT: Student left backpack unattended for short time. Later, a different backpack was found. Suspect exchang~c,l backpacks and stole books. THEFT: Faculty member's wallet stolen from unlocked office.

I I. First Virtuai.Term Abroad To Be Started At Union by Michelle Neier Staj[Writer In recent years as the school has encouraged more and more people to participate in terms abroad, it has became more of an ,issue that engineering students e:l{perience more of a problem al- tering their schedules to accom- modate time away. Professor Bucinell, an engineering ptofes,.. sor at this time, though, is help- ing to organize •a program that would allow engineering.students and in the future possibly others to experience exchange with other cultures. The _program, known as. the Virtual Term ·Abroad which Prof. Bucinell is running is being coordinated by the Engineering and Applied Sci- ence Division of Union.· ';fheideafortheprogram origi- nated when Prof. Reynolds hOped to implement a similar program for the department of East Asian Studies. Unfortunately for Prof. Reynolds, his idea did not see success. Later on, however, while visiting the Middle East. Techni- cal University (METU) in· An-· kara, Turkey, Dean Kenyon men- tioned the idea. to some faculty. Shortly after, they showed inter- est in the program and Prof. BucineH mentioned the idea to his students. Two students volun- teered to participate and work be- gan. Under the auspices of their pro- fessors, one team and possibly two teams of two students each will be working with students from METU to work on solving an unended question. The solu- tion they devise will then be sub- mitted to a competition in Ankara. If ail.goes as Prof. Bucinell hopes it wilt, the teams will then travel to Turkey to be present at the competition. Due to scheduling ofthe com- . petition, interaction between the teams here and in Turkey will not begin until October of 1996. Until that time .Prof. Bucinell and the students he is working with, Jill Hahl and Brian Sma:llwoed are trying to set up a computer system. which they can use for commtmication wit~ the Turkish students. Because the students will need to be working on· the same software at the same time, it is necessary to find not only methods of communication be- tweenthetwo and software which will suit the needs ofbothschool.s. According to Prof. Bucinell, they are at the this time considering either video interaction which can be provided by a corporation in Schenectady, phone use or a more elaborate system of internet corn:. munication. Although speaking on the phone might be the easiest it would also be the most expen- sive. . Along with finding a mode of interaction, Prof. Bucinell is con- cer.ned that about cultural differ- ence between the two countries. Because the students are fluent in English there will be no language barrier, but Prof. Bucinell feels a need to be s.ensitive to the cultural variations. Other than setting up the design studio and finding a means of communication, Prof. BucineH appears to qe calm about · the fate of this project although it is the first in the world ofits kind. If the kinks in the planning can . be worked out, Prof. Bueinell hopes that other departments may be able to use the .design studio and technology which wiU be brought i~ to the school. irschman and AA~ ... continuedfrompage 1 Daggett Prize to Hirschman ap- pears to have been in recogni- · tion of her commitment to these and similar issues throughout her undergraduate career. campus apartment, that it was not part of the official pledging pro- cess overseen by Allison Hirschman, and was not under · the supervision ofHirschman or any other person officially con- nected with the pledging process. By making both of these admis- . sions, Hull appears to contradict his stated opposition to .. dis- crimination.\ Hirschman seems to have been held responsible for an event which she not only was not present at, but which, since it was not an official pledge event, she had no authority over. Obviously enough, given the cir- cmnstances, no conduct charge was or could be filed against Hirschman in connection with these events. As New Member Educator, Hirschman took a bold stand agains~ hazing. \She always made a point to keep us informed about the unacceptability of hazing,\ said Fenna Calder, one of this year's ~A~ pledges, \she made the biggest ·effort of anyone to educate us o.o this issue.\ Hirschman takes the. role of\ em- powering underclass women\ very seriously. Hirschman even went so far as to compare hazing with date rape, and said that the issue of pressure on freshmen needs to be directly addressed. The original awarding of the Hull made his decision and takes full responsibility. Due to the wording of the prize, he felt that a connection with hazing events was unacceptable for an ·award winner. Perhaps the most striking statement Hull made in his interview with The Concordiensiswas in presenting himself as oblivious until last year to the existence of haziQg at Union. \Neither I nor the Dean of Students were aware of hazing until last year with the~ Y incident, nor this year until Tri- Delta,\ Hull stated. 3 & ·4 Bedroom Apartments . 1996-1997 1 Year L.ease - Appliances - Parking Furnished - Remodeled - w/w Carpet Energy Efficient - Porches - Backyard Telephone/Computer/Cable Ready Call 370-5498 New Sigma Xi Members The Honoraiy Research Society Compiled by Professor Frank Wicks Mechanical Engineering· Mitra A:bessi Mirriam N. Amoo Carianne Bishop Samuel David Broderick Eric Catalano Michael J. Denninger Corinne Francine DeVoe Stacey Lynn Fellows Jeremy Goverman Jodie L. Iannacone Jason Katz Robert Langone Andrew Michael Leach John Martino Carmen Kay McMurtry Melissa Morris Charles Qui Nguyen Kristen M. Pappas Bertha Peralta Dennis Popeo Alexandra Rhodes Douglas Archibald Robertson Jody Alison Rose Seth Rudin Christina L. Taraborelli Michael Russell Valvo Gretchen Renee Voegler Jeffrey Weinstein Library ... continued from page 1 make would be to build a library that won't meet the students' needs as technology continues to grow.\ .. When the planning of the Schaffer Library began, a com- mittee of administrators, faculty, staff, librarians and students was formed. This original committee was to give input as to what should be included in the library and to help chose an architect. Jones explained that the commit- tee was composed of \various people at various times and the committees have changed de- pending on the needs and ser- vices.\ Jones stated that the origi- nal committee \was disbanded one-and-a-halfto two years ago\ and that they \were no longer necessary because they had given their input\ for the project. Jones said that \President Hull is tak- ing a major role\ and that she \can't say enough good things about Dan West and his staff,\ who have been a great help throughout the library project. Currently, a Phasing Commit- tee has been fanned under the leadership of Cara Molyneaux, who is the Associate Librarian ·and Head of Administrative Ser- - vices of Schaffer Library. This ·committee will be deciding how to work the transition which will include such items as how to pro- vide services to the campus com- munity and how to move the · holdings during the construction. The one issue still up for de- bate is the exterior design ofthe library, but Jones says that the size of the building has been de- termined, and that this is not be- cause the college still needs to raise an additional $3 million. The College now needs to decide, for example, what size bricks or what type of mortar should be used. Overall, Jones said she is very pleased with the way the planning has gone so far and with the allo- cation of the money. \A lot of college libraries have contacted us on our design and we've cre- ated a model to be used for other colleges,\ Jones said. One faculty member, who served on the original committee from the beginning oftheproject, expresses great frustration with the direction of the library project and feels that the \process from the beginning was to get by with as little as possible rather than try- ing to build the best library we were able to.\ There have also been questions regarding what role technology and computers will play in the new I ibrary. Many have said that within the near future computers will begin to have a greater im- portance, outweighing the impor- tance ofbooks. The faculty mem- ber who was on the committee said that the whole notion of com- puters taking the place of print \is a pipe-dream, and it is people who don \t want to spend money on a good 1 ibrary who like to entertain this idea.\ All departments at Union have been asked to cut the (already piti- ful) acquisition of periodicals by 20%. Jones explains that this is due to inflation and there was not enough increase in the library budget to cover the inflation and the skyrocketing periodical prices. However, it is interesting to note that in addition to cutting approximately $30,000 from pe- riodical acquisitions, the library is simultaneously increasing by $30,000 the budget for the acqui- sition of electronic materials. It is also worth noting that Union spends Jess per student on'books than almost all other schools in our comparison group. MacLean stated that \the li- brary will have a changing role in student life in the next twenty years. No longer will the library be a warehouse for books, but it will be a center for gathering knowledge not only through books and periodicals, but elec- tronically as welL\ \,; f[' '

WI1e Qltnu:orbirnsis • !\lay 30, 1996 • Pa~e 4 ·. ·. · . · Campus News · A Cornucopia of Camaraderie Faculty Organization Defending Academic Freedom by Aileen Quigley StaffWriter The Student Affairs Commit- tee recently decided to forgo the instaHation of a proposed plan that would decrease the ammmt of meals Greeks are able to eat at their respective houses. In part, this plan was originally designed to create a forum where both Greeks and independents were encouraged to interact with each other during meal time, accord- ing to Dean Alford. Other objec- tivescentered around the discrep- ancy in th~\'amount of money paid by Greeks as compared to an in- dependent student on a regular meal plan. Nevertheless, over 18 months later, the plan that emer:ged.from of a financial ne- cessity has culminated in an op- portunity for the different Greek houses to mingle with each other and independents as well. \Would you like to use a tneal punch or yol!lr declining bal- ance?\ This phrase, now com- monly heard mingled with the music and conversations in the Rathskellar, illustrates the flex- ibility built into the meal plan as we know it. An independant stu- dent on the fifteen meal plan can use up to twelve meals at the Rath:;kellar in a given week. This hf!ScJ~~~n~ a P,oP,ular, ~d .fre- q~ertly-e~ercis~d option among independeri.is.· ui1iil•t99s-1'996, the~fOO P,alance or c~h was the sole.form.qfpayment. \I don't go througl;t tnY de.c;:lining balanc:e as qujp,~i;y,. :,~\\ EtCcor.ding tp. sop .ho- more Angela ~,ullivan, \ ... and it give you more options.\ Robin Golclber.g, also a soph,omore, con- curs, \It's very convenient and there js greater :flexibility.\ Un- same benefits as tenure, but no- der the te.n.meal plan, seven by Adrian MacLean body has real·ly put it to the test. meals may be taken off at the Editor-in-Chief · A few weeks ago the AA UP Rathskellar,andfourcanbeused chapter was forined anew. The outside the dining halls under the Union's 1918 chapter of the faculty hopes that this association seven,..meal plan. American AssociationofUniver- will aid in faculty governance and Greek students, however, have sity Professors has recently been play a role ,j.n decision-making. the option to use these same meals reinstated on campus. This asso- Many feel that the system is slip- . at their house or the Rathskellar. ciation is geared to the goals of ping away from the faculty, and In doing so, Greeks can still opt protecting academic freedom and now .Union's AAUP chapter will to eat with their brothers and sis- tenure for professors. help address that concern. ters for most ofthe time, but not In the late 1940's this organi- \Ijoinedbecausel'm interested exclusively anymore. The mem- zation was primary utilized as a in making sure the faculty are hers of Greek houses with kitch- . tool for voicing the professors' governed by the faculty, not nee- ens would now be required to join · opinions. During this time the essariJy. by committees that are their classmates in the. dining halls issue oftenure ~~;~.s posing many ~stablished and controlled by of Upperclass and West several .. questions and the AAUP served deans,\ said Martha Huggins, times per week. Peter Mody, a as a collective bargaining agent. Roger Thayer Stone Professor of member of the Sigma Phi Soci- Today, the pursuit of academic Sociology. ety, feels that the past year was freedom continues, and legal asw F acuity as much as administra- \a fair com primise, thoagh the sistanceand lobbying will be pro- tors need to be a part of decision- proposed plan for next year would vided toward the achievement of making. Their knowledge comes not have been fair.\ tenure. , from .their classes and the students This plan to which Mody was This association has had ups that are at the\heart ofthe institu- refen:in.g would have further re- ~;~.nddowns tl;lroughout its history tion. \Our participation in the sys- duced the number of meals at Union. Duringthemid~70sit temofgovernanceisessentialto Greeks could give to their house was reformed. There was an avid the quality of education,\ Asso- from now on. A person with 15 dispute over tenure in that only ciate Professor Andrew Feffer meals would be required to use 8 60.% of the faculty were eligible. said. meals in WestorUpperclass; with With this percentage the fear of The goals the Union faculty 10 meals, 5 would be in the din- job loss was high,andtheAAUP have for their AAUP include: en- ing halls, and with seven, four. helped take action. Many profes- hancing the quality of education These numbers represent the ini- sors were d~m~ed tenUFe not be- through a balance of teaching and tial idea to designate 1995-1996 cause they were unqualified, but increased research, protecting the as \transitiq and to give the because there were not spots system of tenure from erosion, .campus \one year to figure out available. A compromise was ·and fostering a fair faculty evalu .. how they would work on this reached, and today the policy stilL . ationprocess. . not t~en drastic measures, but it is an issue that will affect the col- lege at some point in time. Stu- -dents should be concerned about this issue because increasing eco- nomic pressure will eventually become a primary consideration.· Professor Huggins feels the growth of the school within her department. Currently there are 75 majors and rm:~ghly 4.5 pro- fessors. This is a concern for her because oflittle \big\ issues like letters of recommendation. Huggins finds that larger classes make it harder to get to know the student so as to be able to write . effective letters. Money is a big issue for all schools, and according to Profes- sor F effetthree things occurfrom cutbacks: students withdraw from lack of funds, there is a less di- verse student body, and the loss ofresources undermines the abil- ity to teach. The AA UP can serve as an important voice to protect faculty interests. When acadeinic freedom is vio- lated at an instftutiori, the AA UP • aids the faculty with investiga- tion, written reports and legal as~ sistance. The laws in a private institution are tricky because the First Arnendn{ent does not apply. Public institutions are protected, so the AAUP can help schools like Union ensure the best inter- ests of the faculty and the school. meal plan.\ By implementing this stands. Professors can now attain\ On a' larger scale many schools \half-and-half' plan instead, the \tenurable\ status. This qualify- like Union are experiencing is- SAC soughtto expand.theirorigi- ing status appears to have the sues of\downsizing\. Union has nal ob]edive to bring the cominu- L;:~~~,.,:\~??;: • ...,.~:-;..',~!Ji~f~'\\'f.~,...,,,. .,,-,, ... ,,..,..,- \'\\'·· .,.,.,. .. ,=.., • .,.,,.: .• -:,. =.~\\'·. ~·'\\r:~,.,.. .. ,..,.,.,.\\,~,..~. ~-·-·c:- .. 't=~~..,-,. ·-, .-\\'\~:- •. :·,._;.=::,.·_'?'= 1 2.,.-:~ ,....,_ ••.• .,..,~~--.:..,..:· :_.,.: :.,..·: ------------- njty together more· o.f'ten. How- '~~Yf&n;•$mJtlirHoilse;·e.las~~f .. } /go~~>g6alsha&,been~et~dijr ever.: this proposal prompted nu- fice:rs, independentS,;::SpQ,tts~ the guidelines ofthe trtinsitional merous objections fro~ Greeks \•team~'; 9aptai~s,-andotiJ,erslmiid~ -plan. Since they were able to and Jndependents alike. A letter the S.(\C.:awar~ that th~ .pt~sen.t. -reach these :goals by implement- tram the Sigma· ilh i' SoCiety meal ~~it eql;li~alencid·ilf¢~.uite: ing \the least intrusive method,', st~rted the .ball rolling against_this adequate. . states Alford, they saw no reason new plan, and the SAC agre~d to · Dean AI ford, a faculty me.mbe~;:: to go ahead with the next, more reev a! uate its initial, proposal. of the SAC, explains that upon the; drastic stage. The end result isthe B~fore long, letters from Sigma reexamination, it became cl~arer successful achievement of a mote Delta Tau, Pbi Gamma Delta, Psi that their original and tlexiqle program for indepen- derit5'with'out s~vere 'irifrihgemeht on ·the' cfio'fce ·of Greek students to eat together as well -· Let us not doubt the power of a few dedicated individuals to ini- tiate ,change .. Our country was founded by this ideal and so was our college~ We can take pride in knowing this stilLholds true. ~~~==~~~~~~ ' . COME INTO MOlD PHOTO FOR:SUPER 'SAVINGS! - ~.f ' ... ,. • . ' ~ \ -cbanactady 1041 Btat.e Street . . - - . 882·6778· r--------------------- ---~-~- -----.- ~ 50% OFF i 33¢ ! 84.99 .. !85.00 OFF I I PROCESSING • REPRINTS 1 8x1 0 1 CLUB I I Rece_ive SO% offth. e regular·. •• Limit 3 8x1 0 enlargements. •• Re_ceive $5.00 off wh_ en I Limit 20 standard size I · pnce of processmg and I I From y~ur 3Smm color . you purchase a club I 1 printing color print fJ.lm. I reprints. From your 35 mm. I negative. 1. 1 membership! Must present 1· , color negative. I Limit 3 rolls. Standard size prints only. I Custom cro.pping may be available at an I coupon to receive $5.00 off. I I Not valid with other coupons or extra set Not valid with other coupons or offers. I additional charge. Not valid with other I promotions. Club mem~rs receive 1 Club members receive 1 O% coupon price. 1 coupons or extra set promotions. Club I Limit one per person. Not valid with 1 10% coupon pnce. I I members receive 10% coupon price. I other coupons or offers. I . I MOTO/IHOTO~ •. MOT'OPHOTOe I Mb'TOPHOTOe I Mb'T0PHOT0 3 I ~----------------------------~--~-------~ c c p p r1 s tc 0 h b E tc ( 1 tl n c t( n Ci ti 0 0 t< p a1 l G ~

Campus News · · - · 'Wire C.!Iottl\nroit'tteis • May 30, 1996• Page 5 1980s Archaeology Part 43: A Glimpse into the Past Restoring the Pool Ruins by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer The damage to the pool area of Alumni Gym, both inside and out, leaves th~ administration and the student body wondering if we are nowpaying the price for an origi- nal faculty design or tnaking in- evitable repairs. As a result of this. damage, the pool will be closed from1une 17 (thedayaftercom- tnencement), until September 1, 1996. The.flawsjn the st.ructure were first evident one year after its 1987 unveiling, but attempts to remedy .the sityation are only now taking place, eight years later. The fmancial magnitude of the construction is no small chunkof change, though money h~ been put aside for the project for the past two years. In addition to the refurbishing of the deteriorated stucco and drying out the wa- tered-downwalls, Vice President of Campus Life Joe Mammola hopes to use part ofthe $230,000 budget for a new roof as well. Bids from about six local contrac- tors will be considered before the final decision on construction fim1s is made. To fundrepairs forth~ damage and a new roof will take not only careful evaluation of the bids· from private contractors but a knowledge of the unique con- struction requirements of an in- door pool. It is common in such a structure, even with the standard dehumidification system, to have a relative humidity-ofS0-60% and a temperature of82 degrees. Ac- cording to, Professional Engineer William A. Holtz, problems such as water staining and green and black molds make \good insula- tion-vapor retarder systems\ an absolute necessity. The pool room on our campus lacks a sufficient vapor barrier, al- lowing condensation ''to move up· through the ceiling and to pen- etrate the interior of the walls,\ Mammola states. Water has also gotten into the insulation, and tile culmination of these factors has caused the building to deteriorate, These and other challenges plague the Alumni Gym which Mammola believes is a result of an \inadequate\ and \flawed\ original design. Water is seeping through from both the outside and the inside of the pool ,room through structures called \weepholes allow for the passageofwater. However, wind from outside also blows opposite the water. It is this constant movementthathas worn away the stucco and played a large role in the rest of the deterioration. He also states that the college \'de- pended on the design\ of Sweet and Associates, the original archi- tects, to last \forever and the extent of the repairs aas certainly not foreseen. When it became evident eight years ago that the design was in- adequate, repairs were not made immediately to counteract the damage. At that period (1985- 1 988} and subsequently a great deal l>f construction was already underway across campus, includ:. ing the Reamer Campus Center, the Nott Memorial, the residence halls, Schaffer Library and the Yulman Theater. Understand- ably, te take on yet another project was not prudent at that juncture. The administration is taking ev- ery precautien for a flawless de- sign the second time around, es- pecially with the selection of ma- terials. Professor Ghali of the Civil Engineering Department points out that stucco is not the ideal material for use around such · ---- ......... ~----­ a high-humidity structure. In- stead, precast concrete panels are muchmore durable, with a design lifespan of about 50-75 years. · Stucco, on the9ther hand, is only expected to last about 10 years, though it depends on the thick- ness. Most materials can last as long as needed, he adds, hut it depends on financial restrictions. Nevertheless, Mammola hopes by the summer of 1997, if the funds are available to put a new stucco . and paint jab on the gym. the restriction of pool usage will last almost until Fall term 1996. Those remaining on cam- pus this summer, including stu- dents, faculty, and 25 high school teachers from across the country, will hopefully find other alterna- tives to keep cool. The summer camps for grade school and high school children will also be ex- ploring alternatives over the hot months to follow. by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer Eleven Union students and Pro- fessor Francis Griggs, Jr. will be taking a virtual trip back into the past to an era where a Union graduate was making his mark on the world. The time is the early 19th century, and the hundreds of bridges of Squire Whipple could be found throughout the Eric Ca- nal system. The team of engineer- ing students under Professor Whipple will move one of these authentic bridges from its present location to the Riverview Road entrance to the canal. Though this particular bridge is privately owned, it will be installed by next May at little or no cost to the town. Union Designed Car Competes in Tour de Sol The bridge, as it stands now, is made of wrought and cast iron. It is one ofless than a dozen like it in the world, including one in Ja- pan. The bridge will cover a 72- foot span once completed, sitting about 15 feet above the canal. Repairs include replacing rotten planks and welding parts of the frame. Aside from the actual bridgework, the project also in- cludes digging out the dirt road at the preserve. Courtesy of Prof. Frank Wicks Mechtmical Engineering This year Detroit is celebrating 100 years of making cars. While the car has revolutionized and modernized our society it has also caused increased problems in terms of depletion ofthe earth's natural fuel resources and in- creased air pollution. Thus, we will be able to con- tinue to ·enjoy the great benefits of the car for the next century only if .it can be reinvented by today • s engineering students to perform in a much more efficient Union College MechanicalEngineers testing their skills and cleaner manner. Herb Race designed a low power York and ending at the In response to this challenge requirement battery powered ve- Smithsonian Institute in Washing- Union College students Terry hicle that successfully competed ton with Professor Richard Wilk Gilbert, Michael Denninger, in the Tour de Sol beginning at following in the chase car. opportunity for the students to both represent Union College and ·to educate the public about the design and performance of their vehicle. The vehicle was de- signed to minimize aerodynamic and ti-re drag, and could travel 50 mph with only about 4 hp. The entire trip was completed with only 20 kwhr or two dollars worth of electricity. Future plans in- clude installing a small gasoline engine with the hope to demon- strate aperfonnance of about I SO miles per gallon. Picture caption: Tour de Sol Vehicle Designed by Union College Students on Display at New York's South Street Seaport and named the Pro- teus in honor of the late Union En- gineering Professor Charles Pro- teus Steinmetz When finished approximately one year from now, pedestrians and town emergency vehicles will · have sole access to the bridge's · two-lanes and footpaths. This form is reminiscent of the 1840s model. An identical Whipple bridge was tom down by the state in 19 1 7. Donations to cover the cost of replacing, repairing, and relocating this unique structure were solicited by the college, to- taling about$12,500. It is not uncommon to find, in this academic atmosphere, class- rooms of students reading about historical events. These students, however, have found a lesson about history in the classroom of Life. Mr& __ k_E_be_r_h_~~A_·~ __ on_P __ in_cu_s_an __ d ___ fu_e_S~o_u_th_S_tr_e_e_t_S_ea~p_o_rt_i_n_N_e_w ____ T_h_e_s_e_v_er_a_Is_ro~p~s~p-ro_v_i_de_d_t_,he rr===========================================~ UNION )l'R.££r EIJ~SR. SHOP \Where Quality Is In High Demand\ #t.Jn.-4-rea (518) 346-3605 1732 Union Street Schenectady, NY 1 Ask For Patrick Bidinost or Victor Delisio Summer Jobs Do you have office experience, some typ- ing, computer literate and service orienta- tion demanded by the heathcare field? Train- ing opportunities are available for self-mo- tivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)- 262-3694, or email to medscribe@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med- Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. (Agency, no fees)

Wodd News . · . ·<.UI~c 0Ionn1r~icnsis , May 30, 1996 Page 6 World News THE GRAND FINALE by AnandRao World News Editor Over the last seven weeks, I have tried to provide the read- ers of this section with a slightly different perspective on domes- tic and international affairs. As l see it, the world is inhabited by billions of people who are unnecessarily suffering. Such suffering can only be alleviated if the people of our country are made aware of what is really going on around us. The United States of America is the wealthiest, most power- ful, and most influential nation- state in the history ofthe world, and we are its future leaders. Our eyes must be exposed to what is wrong in the world to- day, or else our policies towards the poor and downtrodden will never be humanized to an ap- propriate degree. Unless we demand the truth at all costs, the abuses of government, busi- ness, and military leaders will remain unchecked and hidden from the public view. Fortunately, the more in- quisitive elements in our soci- ety have long been accustomed to risking their lives and repu- tations for the sake of speaking the truth and demanding c:l;iang~,, lf;l r~cent days, for in- stance,. The.New York Times has taken the unw;ual step of criti- 9PI,ly analyzing how the govern- ment of France still maintains SQme form of control over its former colonies in Africa. ln- te,matil;)nal politics is all about power and prestige, and the French are no exception. France's treatment of its former African colonies is as disre- spectful and as appalling as our treatment of the Latin Ameri- can states. Up until about 1960, France officially controlled and ex- ploited a large chunk of north- em, western, and central Af- rica, stretching from Algeria and Morocco down to Cameroon and Gabon. Since the days of decolonization, which supposedly gave th~tAf~ rican states their freedom from oppression, France has shame- lessly undermined demQcraey and freedom in many of these countries by supporting dicta.- tors who are more likely to sat- isfy the interests of French po- litical and bu11iness leaders. Help Victims ~of·· Spousal Abus.e ... :- .·: ' ~ ' .. ~. ' ' :Please support the· women and ·children .·at Schenectady's: Battered Women's Shelter. The resi- dents of this shelter eriter with tfotg buhhemselves~· At the end of the. year everyone has extra thirtgs tha~ they do not want to qring home .. Donate your extra toiletries, toys, and clothing ·to benefit those in need. For details please contact Professor Paludi of the Psychology Department at X 6257. Because of their sensitive and often irrational national- ism, the politicians in Paris are often willing tothrowtheir sup- port behind an African dicta- tor who embraces French as the official language of his coun- try. In their policy towards what used to be British East Africa, the politicians in Lon- don are similarly supportive of authoritarians who officially embrace the English language. African nationalists, who promise genuine freedom., ,and prosperity for their people at the expense.QfEurope'.s abilitytto dominate:the continent; face-an u;phill ba,ttle .,in trying ~o._,fight the forces-:0fWestem imperial- ism. People in Eurepe and the United S,tates often look d_e,wn on the inabilityofthe un.derde- veloped states to become de- mocracies. It should be real- ized, however, that many of the -states in the ·developing world are not independent of foreign control, and that foreign inter- vention inhibits the ability of these states to determine their form of government. The New York Times has done a superb job, by showing llo:w this is the case in French-dominated Af- rica, The same holds true for countries that are subjected to ;continuing ,contrgL.by,. Gneat Britain and the United St~tes. .There :is no.reason for why the· United, ·States should sit back .and. allow the people of Africa to be abused by France and Great Britain, If our coun- try -really is the world's only re- maining superpower, then the men and women on Capitol Hill should force the former impe- rialists in Eurepe to stop med- dling in the affairs of those countries that are less fortunate. And while Europe is forced to reevaluate its pol'icy towards the developing world, a surge of popular discontent should force the government of the United States to stop viewing international politics as a zero- sum game. Let us all hope that within our lifetimes, the hard-working citizens of the United States can musterup enough·energy tore- gain control of their govern- ment. In the coming century, a sense of compassion and hu.- manity needs to be injected into the rulers of this world. Since we are the future leaders of an incomparably powerful state, the process of reducing world hunger, reducing world vio- lenc1!, and coming closer to the ideal of world peace can be commenced by humanizing ourselves. To change the world, the people of our generation must rectify the terrible mistakes of the past, and this can only be achieved by being skeptical, inquisitive, and dedicatedto the transformation of the status q.uo. As the mo.st.pri·yileged people on Earth, we canrnake a difference. I would like to thank each -person who has taken the time to read my ar- ticles over the last few weeks, and I wish the best of luck to the next World News£ditor of the Concordiensis: . ' .! I sic El st~ lo' ho 'sc WI thl un co ter rii Stt Br tee Pr, th; en ab nit St; pri or of ~ . . . Ti Iiv fet an tra ni~ M Su he ge se1 ret scl Tl Rl fr, pa: tUl ag the fr, of an in1 to po po Al Fr' lat kiJ W€ ag I , II s

World News ·· - ·tirlpz illonct.Trbieusis, May 30, 1996 Page 7 . . Karen Watts World News Staff The Supreme Court deci- sion of May 20, in Romer v;. Evans, overturned a Colorado state amendment that'had al- lowed for the state to segregate homosexuals into a separate, 'solitary c.lass'. Th~ ruling, with six justices conct.JI'ring and three dissenting, came as an unexpected surprise from the conservative court. The majority opinion, writ- ten by Justice Kennedy (concur.,. ring Justices; O'Connor, Stevens, Souter, (Jinsburg and Breyer), was based on the Four- teenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause, which says that \No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridgethe privileges or immu- nities ofcitizens of the United States; nor shall arty state de- prive_ any person oflife, liberty, or property withollt due process of law; nor deny to any p.erson TANZANIA - At least 500 lives were lost when a crowded ferry on Lake Victoria hit a rock and capsized. The ferry was traveling from Bukoba, Tanza- nia to another Tanzanian city, Mwan~ about 110 miles away. Survivors said that the boat was heavily overloaded with passen• gers, and that many ofthe-.pas .. sengers were teenage students retuming.home at the end of the school term .. TIJE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC - Jn this former French colony, a mutiny by un- paid soldiers showed signs of turning into a popular uprising against French intervention in the country, especiaUy after · French soldiers came to the aid of the ruling Government. The angry native responseto foreign intervention may force France to take a second look at its policy of being an intrusive power on the African continent. ALGERIA .. In this former French colony, The Armed Is .. Iamie Group said that it had killed seven French monks who were kidnapped two months ago from a monastery south of World News The Case·of Romer v. Evans within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.\ Ac- cording to Justice Kennedy, the Colorado state Amendment was in the Constitution. This Amend- ment. not only denied certain citizens of their 'iflalienable rights,, but it sought to segre- citizens subject to Colorado law. Chief Justice Rehnquist, along with Justices Scalia and T h o- d ire ct..-------------- .......... ----------.,..,......----__, ........ ____________ ~--, m a s , viola- com- ti on of ll\e lRIVIAL THe 81!& :- ' 1 \,_ , ( . p ri sed t h e ~-l~W PRIC$0: ·-< ' 1 ,, \ t h e F o u r - uv rN. · • · USING ( t h r e e G.~L.INe . Q50L,\Nf; . ( 1 te enth ; . :' : judges A1nend- I.· w h o ·I ment. voted \ ~ T h e ( against Amend:. o v e r- m e n t turning did not t h e allow Colo- for ho- r a do m o - Amend- sexuals me nt. to ob- Justice tain Scalia protec.. · in his t i o n L-------------------------------....1 dissent- from the 1 n g statethroughdueprocess. How- gate those citizens into a class opinion made reference to the ever, this right is guaranteed to of their own, and as a resul.t Bowers v. Hardwick case (from all United States citizens ~;~nder made them inferior to aU other ten years ago), in which the Su- ~ c ,_ • • • • - the capital city of Algiers. A French Foreign Ministry offi .. 'eial said the·claim appeared to be ·credible_ The Armed Is- lamic Group, which is at war with Algeria's mil-itary-backed Government,. had demanded the release of members held in France:and Algeria in exchange for the· monks. The civil war in Algeria has killed at least 40;000people since 1992. violations. As many as 50,000 people have been killed in the con1li ct. , ! MYANMAR (formerly Burma)- Although many of its leaders have been arrested in recent days, the Burmese oppo- sition vowed to increase the pace of its struggle for democ- racy. Myanmar is a repressive military dictatorship, and it is OJlllGsed.by the·NationalLeague forDemecracy~ whose leader is the Nobel Prize-winning female activist Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The National League for Democracy has reported that 238 of its,elected representa- tives wer'C recently arrested. In a l990election~ this party won 82 percent ofthe 485 contested se~tts, but the military Govern- ment never recognized the re .. suits. SOFIA, Bulgaria - After liv- ing in exile for fifty years, King following the installment of a Comm\lnistGovernment by the S&v'iet Union. INDIA- A newly elected Hindu nationalist Government may turn out to be the shortest~ lived in India's modern history. As of Monday, 27 May, the Gov- emmentofPrimeMinister Atal Bihari Vajpay.ee, which took po.wer less than two weeks ago, appeared headed for defeat in a parliamentary contideneevote: JERUSALEM - Three days before a scheduled general elec- tion, the leaders oflsrael's two major political parties squared off in. a televised. debate. Prime Minister Shimon Peres, the 72- year old Labour Party leader, pitted his experience against the youthful and aggressive Benjamin Netanyahu, the leader ofthetnore conservative Likud Farty. AsofMonday~27 May, opinion polls indicated preme Court upheld state laws that labeled homosexual sex as a crime. In essence, the dissenting opinion focused on the fact that the majority of Colorado citi- zens had voted in favor of such an amendment that separated homosexuals into their own class and denied them protec- tion. Thus, because the Consti- tution does not implicitly men- tion homosexuals, and because the voting in Colorado was con- ducted in a democratic manner, then the Amendment can be considered legitimate. This decision is undoubt- edly a victory for gay rights ac .. tivists because similar amend- ments in other states will now be struck down. Gay rights is- sues will now be more impor- tant than ever in determining new legislation, and they will also be important in determin- ing the outcome of the upcom- ing Presidential election. that the election was too close to call. MOSCOW - In a surprise move with powerful implica- tions for Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin 's effort to win re-election, the Kremlin an- nounced that Yeltsin and the leader of the secessionist rebels in Chechnya plan to hold talks in Moscow. Since Chechen rebels began their war against Russia in late 1994, more than 30,000people have been'killed in the mutinous republic. WASHINGTON .. The White House said that if Congress passed a ·bill to deny Federal recognition to same-sex mar- riages, President Clinton would sign it, although such unions are not yet legal in any state. Gay rights groups were infuri- ated by President Clinton's at- tempt to avoid a confrontation with Republicans over a divi- sive social issue. JAMMU AND: :KASHMIR'- In this troubled state of north- ern India, coercion was em- ployed as a means of carrying out an election to show that the IndianGovernmenthad beaten back an insurgency. lnd~an troops moved into villages and urban neighborhoods, rousing Mus I ims from their beds to de-. tertni.ne Jammu and Kashmir's representation in the national Parfiament. Jammu and Kash- mir is the onty state with a Muslim majority in Hindu- dominated India, and a brutal secessionist war has been fought by Kashmiri rebels against Indian authorities since 1989. India's response to the secessionist campaign has also been plagued by human rights Simeon II ofBulgaria returned · r-\------... to his native country for a visit. Summer Work Up to 500,000 people in the capital city of Sofia welcomed 21 Optmings @ $325 per/week .. Simeon, who is now a business . Tired of Kids Jobs & Pay, M&H of Schenectady consultant in Spain. Simeon has openings in ottr Sales & Marketing Dept., for fled Bulgaria as a child in 1946, mat11re hardworking individuals. Must be neat in QUOtES OF THE WEEK: appearance, have car and be money motivated with a teachable positive .attitude. We will train \When a nation's young men are conservative, its forteral bell is already rung. \ - Henry Ward Beecher · \A conservative government is an organized hypocrisy.\ - Benjamin Disraeli Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations you, guarantee you $325 p/wk with an oppty to earn $700 p/wk. We also offer scbolorships, vacations, bonuses and incentives, for those who are willing to work hard. If you'd like a summer oppty instead of a job., Call 382-0490 M-F, 10-4 Mr. Lewis. Positions are also available in our Albany & Clifton Pari{ offices. .I I

Stude~t Forum . - - - · - Page 8 May .30, 1996 illlp.' <iinnl\'oroh'nsis STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Sophomore Clas.s Representative however too much of the cam- pus is segregated by it. Bring- ing Greeks and non-greeks to- gether for activities would add lots of life to the social scene. If enough interest was shown, · then Union would have a better chance at attracting more popu- lar activities. Bringing the cam- pus together would also allow us to have a stronger say in the decisions Which are made on campus. I believe that on a campus like Union, the students have the ability to make choices about how they would like things to be run. This should be one of the benefits of attend- ing a sman private college; the students ·should make the ma- jority of the choices. Katby Bogden Steven Borer My name is Steven Borer and I would like to represent the Class of 1 999 on the Student Forum. lam interested in this position because I know I will give my bestto benefit my class. I will be attending this school for the next three years so I ob- viously want things to go as well as they possibly can. This position requires a great deal of responsibility for which I am confident I can fulfill to the maximum. I feel that I have the necessary qualities to be your representative based on my past experiences in student government. However, I be- lieve that of the qualities which I possess, the most important is persistence. Persistence is the key factor behind success, even more powerful than natural tal- ent. Without persistence, even the most qualified of candidates will fail. Ifl am elected to be your rep- resentative, I guarantee thatthe obligations and responsibilities to my class will be completely exhausted. I know that as a class officer, I would not have the authority and responsibility ofaschool officer, butthatdoes notmean that I will not put forth the same effort into the student forum as a school officer. On voting day, think about what persistence means and think about what I can do for the school and for the Class of 1999. Philip Herman Hi my name is Philip Herman. I am running for Sophomore Class Representa- tive because I want to get more involved in student activities, and help where I can with any problems you have. l think a representative should possess three qualities: leadership, loyalty, and deter- mination. I have leadership qualities from past experiences in student government. An- other one of my qualities is loyalty. As representative I promise to listen and do my very best to carry out my promises. Determination is the most important of the three qualities because if one is not determined all oftheir talents will go to waste. Evan L. Morris I know I possess all of these qualities and the reason I am running for Sophomore Class Representative is be- cause I know I am the best can- didate for the position. complain about a number of Despite what most people on problems they found prevalent this campus believe, students on campus. The newspaper on can make a difference. I know many instances addressed these this, and that is why I am run- problems in the editorial coi- ning tor sophomore class rep- umn or on the editorial pages. resentative. Last tenn I was the If elected sophomore class rep- Editor in Chief .-------------\\~ resentative I of the •. J \Q. will make Concordiensis. [} 1 0 ifill;J~ sure all these / ' While at the · problems are reins of the conquered, newspaper I one issue at a was able to time. speak with and J Unfortu- actually be- nately these come friendly .,..._ elections of- with a number '':i,, ten times tum of key mem- -~':' intopopular- bers of the ad- riflfl ity contests that are de- cided at fra~ ministration. :? They often ~ !JJ ~ pointed out ....... _....._...__......_ ___ __.lfllll,...,;u:a ternity par- things students could do to bet- ties rather than by which candi- ter out institution. I I istened and date can do the most for the learned as I also heard students school. I urge each of you to Jamie Drown To those of you who do not know me, I would like to intro- duce myself. My name isJamie Drown. [ am running for Sopho- more Class Reptesentati:ve. My first year here at Union was an . enjoyable experience ; I met nice people and learned a lot about life away from home. Through this experience I was also able to learn about how Union Col1ege 'is run. I think there are things that can be done that would make Union a better place. If elected, one thing i would like to see happen is to have the campus be broughHo- gether. The fraternity system is a great aspect ofUnionCoHege; . '· Jason Kellman My name·is Jason Kellman and I am running for-re-election as a representative for the Sophomme Class. This past year I sat on the Student Forum and if re .. etected, I ~iiLprob­ ably have to stand. Standing is an important aspect of student government as you may not have thought. Taking a stand and making crucial decisions are the cornerstones for being a superb repr,~sentative. I am mn:- ning again because if there aU new people on the Forum next Please consider voting for me as Sophomore Class Represen- tative on Friday, May 31. Thank you foryour time. year, nothing will get accomplished .. Newly elected officials will waste half the year learning about their positions while not doing anything. Vote for Jason.Keflman in the nextelection because my feet are already wet... and most people like itlike that! Ramsey Lowe Hi! I'm Ramsey Lowe. I am running for Sophomore Class Representative to the Student Forum. I just wanted to give a little information about myself for those ofyouwho don'tknow me. My first year here at Union has been a somewhat produc- tive one, I was a tutor for the second grade across the street at St. John's elementary school, I hold a job in a high-profile po- sition-the Union College Cam- pus Store, I received a varsity letter in field hockey, and I con- centrated on my school'work. But, honestly, I could have done ~ I '• - more. This is why I'm running for class rep. I want to become more involved in student life, \ \ ' ' ' 1 .~ t •. our life. There have been_!llaijy changes in Unic;m stude.P~)ives, some good, some bad, ·I w~nt to be a part of the changes that make people happy and in- crease the positive atm@spher.e vote intelligently, as we have three more years at Union and they should be the most fun and intellectually stimulating ye:;tts of our lives. We should have more speakers that affect and attract more people. Weekends in everyone's lives. I hope by representing our class I can help do that. College is supposed to be fun, a time you remember as the happiestdaysofyourlife. I want to try something that will help make people ·happy. For me that starts with the represent- ing our class next year to the Stude!lt Forum. Elections are on May 3.1.. Thanks so much for your time. like Springfest should be the times we reflect on at gradua- tion. Elect someone who will fight to make our sophomore year the best time possible. Don't forget to vote on Friday May 31. Hi, my name is Kathy Bugden, and l'm running· fm Sophomore Student Represen- tative. I could say a lot of dif- ferent things in an .effort to con- vince you to vote for me, but l feel that would be useless. All you really need to know are my intentions. I am running for stu- dent rep. because I care about this school and the people who are in it. I want to be an active participant in the government at Union because I f~el l would make a great contribution. I'm involved in many different groups on campus and th.ereby am in touch with many differ- ent people. I know what this school needs and I have the en- ergy and drive to help get it done. So on Friday, May 31, please vote for Kathy Bugden for Sophomore Student Repre- sentative. Stephanie Norton Hello, my name is Stephanie Norton and I am running for student representative for the class of1999. I feel thatl would be a good representative for our class because I am energetic and hard working. I am also open to new ideas, and lam willing to listen to the votces of the members of our class. I am a very responsible persoi1, but I also. have a good sense of hu- mor. If elected, I promise to do my very best and I will keep- an open mind to the criticisms of the class of 1999. l 1 '') l I ,, ! ,I l' • ( p tl c tl a h tl s: t€ St :.:~ ti n F e: tl T1 a b fi a: v c: 1 c 0 11 s VI a· St

; .< Pa·ge 9 May 30,-1996 t!H~e QI.onn1raicnsis · · . Stude.nt Forum STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Sophomore Class Representative.s Sloane Silver Hi, my name is Sloane Silver. I am in my first year at Union College. I am running for a position on the student forum for next years sophomore class. For the past year 1 have been involved in many activities on campus, incl.uding the Chet's committe.e, Safe Space, the . Ambassadorprogram, th.e Jew- ish Student Union, Delta Delta Delta sorarity, am a Gatekeeper i:).S well as art Orientation Advi- sor for next year. I do not want to bore you with the trials a.nd trib ulatjons of my life, nonlo I want to make unrealistic cam- paign promises. Instead I have decided to r-evealthe real Sloane Silver. Ifyou do not already know me, I am sure you have heard my voice once or twice. Whether it be in West dining, the hallways of Richrt)ond, the campus center; in the ribrary, or perhaps in class you can be sure I will be talking .. .loudly: Well, by now you are probably won- dering what my point is. If you have not figured it out already, communication is something I tend to do quite frequently. If not too frequently. My verbal skills give me the ability to voice my opinions and to insure that they are heard. ' Talking about anything and everything has become my forte. lfyou have something to discuss I am the one to come to .. · I want to hear my fellow class- mates opinions on issues so that I can be a true representative. I feel strongly about a lot of is- sues that effect our class as well as the entire campus, and you can be sure I will not be quiet about them. You can count on me to get things done and make our sophomore year a productive one. I promise to stQp talking and to listen to all of you. Good luck to aU of the other candi- dates and remember vote for Sloane Silver on Friday, May 31. Make sure to vote for your represeptatives in the College Cen~er on May 31 Junior Class Representatives ;~~ AjayPathak Hello, my name is Ajay Pathak. I would J,ike the oppor- ~unity to 'represent the junior class as y0ur representative for the upcoming academic year. I appreciate the support that I have received from our class this spring term in filling a po- sition that was open under ex- tenuating circumstances. By serving as our class representa- tive for this tenn, I have real- rzed that the power the Student Forum actually possesses, is embodied by the motivation of the members who sit on the fo- rum as well as by the enthusi- asm and unity of the student body. Injustthispast year, the forum has addressed such issues as faculty review. housing re- view, ·and improvements in campus social events such as The Night on the Town and Casino Night. I would like the chance to once again serve as an active member o~ the StudentForum. Some ofthemajor concerns I would like to have the forum addtess in the next year are: the social and studying space of stu- Stacy Drossman Hi I'm Stacy brossman and I'm running for Junior Class Representative this Friday. For the past two years I've been actively involved in the Union College campus and the sur- rounding Schenectady area. I have done a considerable amount of work with the Social Committee serving as the Co- Chairman to the Winter Affair Weekend. I have also assisted with U-MED, worked as Sec- retary for the Jewish Students' Union and represent Union as a gatekeeper. I firmly believe that as stu- dents it is our job to becoine immersetl in every aspect of campus life ·that attending a school like Union has to offer denfs, the terms abroad pro• gram, the process. by which stu- dents sell back their books to the bookstore, and the relationship between the student body and the administration. Another one of my primary concerns is the registration process here at Union Coliege. I. like some of · to us. Attending classes is not. the only thing that furthers our academic growth, but the other activities that we partake in also enhartce our learning experi-: ' . ence. At Union, students interests often tend to be overlooked in ordtlr for the administration to_ promote their own agenda. If elected to· this position, I believe that I may be able to help cor, rect this situation by accurately representing the student body to the administration. 1, like most of us on this cam- pus, feel that Union needs to expand on its social outlet. It is evident that Greek life is an ex- tremely\ integral part of the Union community. It is impera- tive that a school with such a strong history for the advent of Greek life maintain a commit- rri~nt to withhold its Greek tra- ditio~·; yet at the same time, it is neces'sary for us to expand our ,, social choices. Union can only achieve this ghal by encouraging and pro- vid]ng funding to new and in- novative social options. If elected to this position, I plan to help initiate new activities for not only the Junior Class to en- joy, but also for those com pris- ing the restofthe student body. Don't forget to come out and vote. this Friday! Thanks:)!! you, find registering,for classes to be somewhat frustrating and problematic. For the size of this institution and the tuition they charge, I personally feel that the hassle of obtaining the classes you want is unnecessary. As your junior class representative, I feel that it is urgent that your Jon Zandman Well, it's thattimeoftheyear again, and with a year's ex peri, ence behind me and art endur- ing desire, I am once again run- ning for Student Government. Yes, I still believe in all the hot- words: devotion, leadership, loyalty, etc, But lets. get down to the specifics. Under my presi- dency, our class gained a homepage {http:// virtual.union.edu/-99) for news and input, two meal swipes at the Rathskellar per week, active Alexis Fernandez Greetings and Salutations my fellow classmates, lend me your ears. Alexis Fernandez is the name and running for Junior Class Rep. is my game. As you all know, I ran for Sophomore Rep. Last term. Fortunately, I was defeated. I say fortunately because of the fact that losing made me see my mistakes and made me even more determined to get elected the next time around. At this point in time you may be asking yourself \Why should I vote for him?\ I will give you five ~ain reasons why you should vote for me: l- I will do everything in my power and then some to make sure. that you have a voice in what goes on here at Union. 2- I will be available to any- views on these issues be brought forth t0 the Student Forum as it is affecting us in the neat future. If elected to the position I will target these issues as well as any other concerns that you may have fot the up- coming year. I can assure the junior class reP.res.entation at the Student Forum and helped co-sponsor SpringFest, Earth Day and other campus activities. Although as a class we have accomplished much, a lot remains to be done . With experience, determina- tion and innovation, I hope to accomplish even more on our behalf next year. I feel that what we need most is class spirit and unity. We can achieve this with: I) More class events such as Dances, Barbecues, Trips, Skellar Nights, etc. 2) Class of 1999 T-shirts, frisbees, hats ... , something to unite us. 3) Maintained leadership and n?presentation on the Student Forum. l intend to use every means possible to accomplish these goals and to continue to facili- tate life, make college more fun and represent our voice. As a motivated, united class, we can do anything. I have loved rep- resenting our class, and I hope that this Friday you will let me continue to serve to the best of my ability. one that wishes to speak to me about issues that concern them. · 3- I fight for causes I believe in. 4- I am a firm believer of equality for all, even George Pataki. 5- I'm a nice guy. There are other reasons but these I feel are the most impor- tant of all. I fthese reasons don't make you want to run out and vote Fernandez, I have some background information that will help. I am involved in sev- eral groups on campus, a Soci- ology/ Philosophy major (al- though I feel that no major Is better than any other), a Gemini and I also have a large comic collection. All jokes aside, some might read the beginning of this state- ment and not take me very seri- ously or they might think that I don't take running for a posi- tion seriously but that is not the case.l take it all seriously, I just don't think that it has to be taken seriously every hour of every day. I felt that the best way for me to get my issues across was to present them in a manor that most people would remember 20 minutes after reading them. Each of the issues that I have discussed is true and all are rea- sons why you should vote Fernandez on election day, in- cluding number 5. Thank you and have a nice day. I that I will work to the best of my ability to remedy and im- prove the situation here at Union. I also look forward to promoting more campus wide activities through Student Ac- tivities so as to make next year more enjoyable. So, on Friday May 31st vote Ajay Pathak for junior class representative.

Student Forum p ·10M 30 19 · · · . age ay , 96 illl ~ Qhntntr.Otett9ts STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Junior Class Representatives Your vote counts! Use it on Friday May; -31st Toby Proctor I am writing to you as the present President of the class of 1998. I would like to ask you for your support in the election that is on Friday May, 31. This year has been very complicated because our classes administra- tion was switched half way through the year. This made it hard to plan events. With all that behind us, we, as a class, must look to the future. Namely, what our Senior Gift should be to the school. It is not too early to think about how we can raise money for a gift that will really stand out. And at this stage in the game, expe- rience really does count. It would take a big chunk ofthe year for three totally new class representatives to learn their way around. We need to get the class to- gether as a whole and devise a \chain of representation\ which will help me get in touch with all of you. I have felt that this has been a problem in the past. Let us get the people who want to be, and the ideas that need to be heard, heard. This is-the es- sence of representative leader- ship. I want it to mean something to be a part of the class of 1998. This means a great.deal to me. I've been on the Student Forum for two years now and I enjoy what I do. And with your help Jessica Schneider There lies a distinct differ- ence between the actions of say- ing and doing. Saying involves verbalizing an interest, general comment, request, or exclama- tion. To do something means to partake in an action with the intention to accomplish a goal. Too often, leaders speak, hut fail to do. As a result, goals are not met, feelings of success are few, and benefjcial changes are left incomplete. In addition, the leaders respond to these nega- tive effectswith a comment like \I should not be held respon- sible for what happened be- cause I shared the idea with ev- eryone.\ There is definitely the excep- tion to· this generalization. The exception is the leader who says she will do something orshares I will continue to serve as class representative. Please VOTE , on May 31. Thank you. Mike Gifford Senior Class Representatives Christine LeDuc As senior year quickly ap- proaches, many of us grow anx- ious, curious, fearful, and ex- cited. We will be bombarded with several decisions over the next few years that will deter- mine much about our futures. I often reflect upon my past three years at Union to assess what I ' have learned and how I have' developed socially, academi- cally, and emotionally. Many ofour experiences, both posi• tive and negative, have helped to shape us as individuals with specific values and beliefs. Se- nior year· is a great time to re- call what we have gained over the past few years and to build upon relationships that we may have neglected dufing our time at Union. During our final year here, it is important that we make ev- ery effort to continue learning and engaging in new experi- ences in orderto fully recognize our potential. l want to prove that Union can provide new en- deavors that will be .of interest to seniors. Time goes fast~ the only thing we can hope for is to have some amazing memories, humorous stories, and wonder- ful friends to strengthen us. My name is Mike Gifford and once again I'd like to be your representative for our last year at Union. I'll keep this short and to the point. The goal in mind are fairly broad, but nonetheless impor- tant to student life. We must better our communication be- tween the SAC and other com- mittees that directly involve stu- dent life. In other words, be- come a real representative and not just a guy who sits at a table once or twice a week and lis- tens to Manny talk. I look at the things Ruthie has accom- plished this past year much by her own initiative and design and couldn't help but think· about the representative's task When you learn that your child has a neuromuscular disease, you have a million questions. MDA answers them all through special videos and brochures for parents, and just by being there. It's educat_ion for llie. If you need MDA, Call 1•800-572al717. a worthy idea and follows through with doing what was said. If there were more excep- tions, accomplishments would· be flourishing, more goals \ .coul.d be set, and necessary changes to make a difference would be achieved. I consider myself to be an example of the exception. I have held numerous leader- on campus-become involved in all of the committees that af- fect the student body, especiaUy the ones that mean the most to those of us who are going into our final year. I think that is the best solution to the so-called «apathy\ problein on campus. Every week I open the Concordi and read about spmeb~dy who thinks we're too uninvolved in what's going on. Maybe it's because we don't want to be, or even that we don't care. What- everthe reason, that's your de- cision and it is to be respected. We have to then lo_ok at the ap- ·proach taken. Most decisions made on campus are not made open (or at least not to the ex- tent that they should\be) to stu- dents. They are made by a few people that think it would be a good ideaandgo ahead with it. Of course executive decisions must be made sometimes with- out proposing each detail to all of us, and I am not saying that the representatives this past year did not do a fine job in keeping us informed. However, attacking students with comments ofindifferen.ce is not the right path to take. I '11 be honest, there were times I said to myself, \I don't care who is speaking tonight, or what is going on this weekend, I don't feel like going.\ On the \ MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSOCIATION ship posftions in which I thought of, planned, and carried out events. In orderio success- fully accomplish doing an ac- tivity, I had to be highly orga- nized, creative, punctual, rep- resentative, and eflergetic. I be- l·ieve that i could.bring to the Student Forum, as well as to the Class .of 1998, each ·of the above attributes. If I am re- sponsible fororganizing.a cam~ pus:- wide event, I canensurethe student population that I will do all I can to meet goals as weH as show enthusiasm and energy in the planning. In additkm, as a Junior Class Representative, I will make my voice heard to provide for the needs .of our ·~lass and take on. beneficial ··t~sks for the improvement of out campus. Last, I would like to extend my congratulations to all of the newly elected mem- bers of the Student F-orum. · Remember to show yoa~r sup• pot:t on Friday, May 31stand vote Jessica Schneid:er for Junior Class Representative. other hand, I· have made it to a lot of well-run campus-spon- sored activities, and taken something away from each one ofthem. The point is, finally, t~at we can't expect students to care that much if they don't h:,we a say. Elect me and make the difference. Call me at 5651 whenever you feel like it and tell me what you want to say. Write me at box 711 with a comment you have about what we ca,n do. E-mail me at giffordm to tell me what you are thinking, and if you don't want to, that is your decision and I'm . fine :with it. I'm not exactly the best student here, but I think I have ananswerto some of our problems. Communication is what I'm after, but not to the point where I'm complaining about not having enough. We're in college, and you don't have to be an activist for any- thing. But you should get in- volved, and I'm the way to do it. It is the ideas that you have when you're lying out on West beach that can make or break a spring term~ It's the ideas that yQ.u have talking with your friends in the hallway at4 in the morning that can make thi.s place such a good time. It is all about us. It can get better. It will get better.

. . Page 11 May 30, 1996 QII~e QI~nlroroil'nsis · -. . · . ·Student Forum STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Senior Class Representatives Adam Richman What do you want out of your senior year?? The Class of 1997 will be graduating on!. a sues that are paramount to se- niors. I will work tirelessly to find out what type of speaker Arielle Lieberman It is hard to believe that we have been at Union for three years. (Doesn't it Seem like just yesterday, we did our fitst Na- ked Nott Run?) Well, here we are, about to enter our senior , year wondering where all of our college yem:s went. In my opinion, the Class Rep- ·t... resentatives have been ex- tremely un!ier-utilized. Their job is to assure their classmates that the upcoming year wit! be the m·ost exciting ever, and if I am elected to the position of Senior Class Representative, I will do everything in my abil- ity to make this idea a reality. The job ofSenior Class Rep- resentative is very important. They are responsible for plan- ning Senior Week, aiding the Senior Trustee in raising money for the Senior Fund and the Se- nior Gift, and making important decisions through .their mem- bership on the Student Forum. While I cannot guarantee that Chet's will accept Validine, or that all senior theses will be- come optional, I will guarantee that more events will be spon- sored by the Senior Class in the upcoming year, including, quite possibly, a Senior Trip ~uring Make sure to Vote on May 15th in the College Center Spring Term. Though I have never served on the Student Forum, I am ex- tremely active in, student life at Union through organizations such as the Peer Facilitators, and committees such as the Multicultural Advisory Group (MAG) and the Student Affairs Council (SAC). Through these various'groups, I remain in con- tact with the student body and the Union College community as a whole. I a:rn determined to work with the Administration and the Stu- dent Forum to tackle issues re- garding student's socialandaca- demic life on this campus, and to help unite Union students into one cohesive body. My ultimate goal is to make the up- coming academic year, my last at Union, the best ever. - ' ' '. short year from now. I'm the candi- date for Se- nior Class Representa- tive who will be your voice for concerns and your arm for action. I'm Adam Richman al)d I want to be you.r Senior Class Representative. My concerns for the Class -of 1997 are simple: get a quali~y commencement speaker that our class deserves (not some ob- scure figure that no one cares to hear), make sure that our class raises enough money to leave a great class gift to Union, and voice your concerns to the administration on all other is- Wannabe ... YOU want at graduation. I will organize fundraising events throughout the year to guarantee a large senior fund for the class gift. Most of all, I will listen to you, the Class of 1997, to represent your interests at Union. Bottom Line: Our senior year should be a year that we enjoy and never forget. I will ensure that the Class of 1997 has a great year and makes a positive indelible mark at Union Col .. lege. Vote ADAM RICHMAN, your candidate for Senior Class Representative on Friday, May 31. a __ :M.ummy?! ft· ,. : '< ~fter-scfioo{ cfii{i;{care needed for next scfioo{ year. © .. :M.o{(y is a 5 1/2 year ora student' at 1Jrown Sclioo{ & we need someone - you? ·- to meet fier at our nome in Niskayuna, afternoons .:A-tontfay-]'rUfay, 3:oo-s:3o .. © Pay = exce{(ent, rewardS == many, fun = a Cot! © Ca(( Van x 6112 (aays) or Van/Xditli ;86-1158 (eves)

-- - . --·------- - ~ ~ - ---------------· Final Schedule . p ' SPHI'\(; I LR'\11996 H\.\1. L\ \'IS< Ill-Ill l.L ~ ' TUESDA Ya JUNE ll 1 l\6- H :JOAM • 1:30PM Music History & Literature 2 Wilson, H. A. ARTS 215 AAH*090*01 Contemporary Art & Architecture Eyennan, C. ARTS 215 Language & Culture Brison, K. SSCI 012 ANT+OJO*OI lntro·to Cultural Anthropology Cool, L. HUMN 110 Prehistory Walker,M. HUMN 019 ANT*OI2*02 Gender & Society Gmelc~. S. HUMN 116 Biology 2 Tobiessen, P. SSCI 0·16 BI0*011\'01 Contemporary aiology Schadler, M. B~IL201 The Cell Smith/Salvo BUTR 204 810*046\'01 Intro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL207 Protein Structure & Function Fox, K. STZH 108 BI0*159*01 Plant .Physiology ~inorsky, P. BAIL 106 HN*OJ2*01 · Basic Chinese 3 Xie, Y. NWSE 116 CER*OJO*OI lntro to Communications Jewei!,.T. BUTR 109 LS*05I\'01 Seminar in Classical Studies Toher, M. HUMN 119 CER*132*01 Reinforced Concrete Design Thabet. w. NWSE 116 C0*017*01 US Economic Policy Klein, D. SSCI 103 EC0*043*01 Economic Growth & Devel()pmen Mukherjee, J. SSCI 01'2 EER*041*01 Electric Circuits Chang, Y. NWSE201A EC0*142•01 Problems in Macroeconomics Kwok,C. NWSE 114 . ( EER*066•0J Control Systems Fatic, V. BAIL 201 EGL*046*01 Modem Drama Heinegg, P. HUMN· 117 GL*019*01 Major English Authors I Hilles, C. HUMN 112 ESC*OIS*O'I Numerical Methods & C Language Almstead, L. NWSE201A; EGL*022*02 Major American Authors Shour, N. HUMN 115 GEo•oso•o1 Petrology Hollocher, J. BUTR 201 Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 1·17 GE0*053*01 Structural Geology Hollother, J. BUTR 300 Energy I Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 PHL*073*01 Environmental Ethics Vitek. W. HUMN 112 Mechanics 1 Jones, E. BUTR 300 PSC\'OI2\'0I lntro ·International Politics Gilman, T. SSCI 112 Mechanics 2 Rivera, M. Bl)TR 109 Psc•on•ol Environment, Energy & .P()Iitics Underwood~ J. S$Cl 103 Modern France/France actuelle Laparra, C. HUMNOl4 PSY*030*01 Personality Haipem, L. BAIL 300 Geomorphology/Surficial Geo Rodbell, D. BUTR 201 PSY*OJ 1*01 Abnomal Psychology Nydegger., R. BAIL 100 Prehistory: Walker,M. HUMN019 PSY*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Rntke, E. BAIL 207 The Holocaust Berk, S. COLCAUD PSY*047*01 Intro to Health Psychol()gy Fletcher, B. BAIL 104 Intermediate Japanese J Wojnovich, M. SSCI 2.13 SOC*OJO*Ol Intro to Sociology Sawyer, P. SSCI 014 Latin Reading Scullion, J. S HUMN 113 SOC*I68*.01 Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. SSCI OlO Heat Transfer Analysis/Design Anderson, A.M. NWSE 210 WST*OI0*02 Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 ( Probability Rosenthal, K. BAIL 104 WST*I27*01 Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. sscr ow l Order & Chaos/ Art & Magic Khosropour, R. NWSE 114 TUESDAY. 1 .JUNE lt 2 1,6-l:30PM -4:,30PM s Intermediate Electromagnetism Schick, K. NWSE 328 AAH*'Ol5\'0I Venetian Painting in ltl Renai Matthew, L. ARTS 215 Intro to American Politics Brown, C. SSCI 104 ANT*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. BAIL 102 PSC•082*0J Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. ARTS 210 BI0*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens - Boyer, J. BAIL 102 SY*OlO*Ol lotto to Psychology Greenberg, S. BAlL 312 CER*16S•OI Systems Analysis & Design Jone!!, E. BUTR300 PSY*024*02 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 207 EC0\'012*01 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S. SSCil04 PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 106 ECO\'OJI\'OI Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawamg, S. SSCI 103 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 207 EGL\'040*01 World of the Bible Heinegg, P. SSCI 016 Advanced Spanish Merediz, E. HUMN 116 FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 Leamon, A SSCI 105 PN*l35\'01 20th Century Spanish Theater Garcia. W. SSCI 014 FRN*I45*0.1 Studies in the French Theater Gates, L. HUMN 113 ONDAY JUNE tO 1996-ll:30AM-1:30PM GE0\'170*01 Groundwater Geology/Hydrology Locke, S. BUTR,201 lntro to Archeology SSCI 110 GER*012\'0l BasicGerman 3 KeUenter/Warde HUMN 213 Civil Engr Design Project BUTR 300 HST*041*01 Medieval Europe Sargent, S. NWSE 114 ER•I70\'02 Civil Engr Design Pro.iect RUTR l09 JPN*Ol2*01 Basic Japanese 3 Khan, Y. HUMN 110 ' ER*I70*03 Civil Engr Design Project BUTR 104 MTH+OJ0*01 Ordinary Diffcrcntinl Equation Seikcn. A. BAIL 201 j HM*134\'01 Organic Chemistry 3 SWSE 332 PHL*015*01 Philosophy & Existential Lit · Patrik, L. HUMN 115 C0*053*01 Economy of China SSCI lOS PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 ( Literature of Middle Ages HUMN 110 RUS*OI2*01 Basic Russian 3 Jordan, B. HUMN 119 ~ Greek Oratory SSCI 012 SOC*I58*01 Aging & Society Relyea, L. SSCI112 Basic Italian I HUMN 116 SPN*011*01 Basic Spanish 2 Moyano, P. HUMN 117 SSCI 112 SPN*122*02· Basic Spanish 2 Merediz, E. HUMN 114 SPN\'l40*01 Cervantes:IJ\on Quijote Martinez, L. HUMN 116 ( Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. SSCI 012 TUESDAY 1 JUNE 11 1 t996-4:45PM -6:45PM r Structural Steel Design Mafi, M. BUTR l09 CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Hedrick,). STZH 106 Fundamental Chemistry ·I Weick, C. BAIL 207 WEDNESDAY 2 JUNE 11 2 1996 ·8:30AM -10:JOAM e Fundamental Chemistry 2 Lou, K. HUMN 117 AMU*03o•ot American Music Olsen, T. ARTS 215 i Fundamental Chemistry 2 Hayes, D. BUTR 204 ANT*067*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. NWSE 114 r Inorganic Chemistry I Weick, C. STZH 108 ECO*OI2*02 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S.J. SSCI 014 r ,., ECO*OI4*0l East Asian Development/Society Computers & Computing Almstead, L. STZH 106 Reynolds, B. · NWSE 114 t Machine Org & Assembly Lang Hemmendinger,D NWSE 201A EER*042*(:)l System Theory I Chang, Y. NWSE 201A c lntro to Financial Analysis Kenney, J. SSCI103 HEB*012*01 Basic Hebrew 3 · Heckelman, D. SSCIIIO Basic French 2 Gates, L. llllMN 019 HSPOI9*01 Modem America: Depression/\VWII Jonas, M. SSCI f04 s Basic French 3 Laparra, C. HUMN 014 HST*083*01 Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft Sargent, S. SSCI 012 ~ Basic German 2 Warde, A. HUMN 213 ITVOIO*OI ·Basic Italian I Van Order. T. HUMN 115 t The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI 112 LAT*I45*01 Cicero 'Loomis, W. HUMN 113 East African Lang, Culture & Hst. Miller, A.T. SSCI 014 MTH*057*01 Game Theory Zwicker, W. BAIL 100 ' L Thermodynamics Wicks, F. NWSE 210 MTH\'058*01 ApplsofMath to Economics I Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 ' Geometry of Nature Frame, M. BAIL.lOO PHL\'035*01 Philosophy in America Ludwig, J. HUMN 114 a lntro to Logic & Set Theory Taylor, A. BAIL 104 PSC*OJJ•OJ Intro to Political Thought Board, J. SSCI 103 a Abstract Algebra I Niefield, S. RAIL 102 PSC•Ot9*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, R_. NWSE 114 Differential Equations Bick, T. BAIL 106 RUS*122•0l Advanced Russian Jordan, B. HUMN 119 ' Ancient Theories of Art Patrik, L. HUMN 110 SOC*OI0*03 lntro to Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI 1.12 HY*OI9*01 General Physics 3 McWhirter, J. NWSE 114 SPN\'I20\'0I Intermediate Spanish I Merediz, E. HUMN 117 SY*OI0*02 lntro to·Psychology DAndrea, T. SSCl 104 SPN•J 30*01 Spanish & Latin American Lit Martinez, V. HUMN 116 SY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 WEDNESDAY 2 JUNE IZ 2 J996· Jl:JOAM·I:JOPM ·oc•o24*0I Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 ACC*OI0*01 Survey of Accounting Lewis, W. HUMN 110 PN•OI2*01 Basic Spanish 3 Osuna,M. HUMN 114 ANT*012*01 Gender & Society Gmdch, S. HUMN 116 Intermediate Spanish 2 Martinez, L. HUMN 115 ATH*OlO*Ol Spea1h Communication Rose, L. SSCI 016 Intermediate Spanish 2 \ Camacho, L. HUMN 113 B10*036*01 Invertebrate Zoology Boyer, B. BAIL 106 PN\'I49*01 . Special Topic:Spanish Amer Lit Garcia, W. IIUMN I 16 BI0*046*02 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 201 ESDAY JUNE ll l996-8:30AM-I0:30AM CHM*020*01 Models and Molecules Werner, T. SWSE 219 ri AH*036*01 Gardens & Landscape Architectu Matthew, L. ARTS 215 CLS\'OJO*Ol Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans Scullion, J. S HUMN 115 10*140*01 Molecular Genetics Horton, J. S. BAIL 102 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Hannay, D. NWSE 116 ir 10*162*01 Intra to Neurobiology Olberg, R. NWSE 116 EC0*020*01 lntl'o to Statistical Analysis Mukherjee, J. SSCI 112 ~ .ER*1'42*01 Soil Mechanics Ghaly, A. BUTR 109 EC0*137*0l E~o Perspectives on Pub Policy . McCarty, T. BAIL 102 ll s ~ ' ER\'I53*01 Environmental Engr 2 Snow, P. BUTR 300 EC0\'162*01 . em1nar: Fmance Burgman, T. SSCI-103 I HM\'040*01 Quantitative Chemistry Carroll, M. BAIL 104 EGL\'021*01 Majer English Authors 3 Frazier, A. HUMN 114 a1 HM\'152*01 Physical Chemistry 2 Anderson, J. BAIL 100 EGL\'076*01 Modem American Novel Slade, L. HUMN014 LS\'025*01 History of Rome Toher, M. HUMN 115 PSY•030*02 Personality Spring, D. BAlL 312 p LS•025*02 History of Rome Loomis, W. HUMN 117 PSY\'046*02 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 201 Macroeconomic Theory & Policy Motahar, E. SSCIJI2 PSY•048*01 Psychotherapy Halpern, L. BAIL 300 t< MlUor American Authors MacDonald, B. HUMN 014 SOC\'Ol0\'02 lritro.to Sociology Cotter:, D. SSCI104 ~ History of US Since Civil War Dudden, F. SSCI 014 WST*OI0*01 Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMNH6 \ History of US Since Civil War Miller, A.T. SSCI104 WEDNESDAY 1 JUNE 1! 1 1996 -2:30PM - 4:30PI'tt ~ ST*025*01 U.~. & the World: Early Years Jonas, M. SSCI 012 CER*Oli*01 Advanced Communications Jewell, T. BUTR 109 ll HST\'036\'01 History. of Europe 2 Berk, S. COLCAUD PH¥*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences I Maleki, S. HUMNOI9 tl HST*036•02 History of Europe 2 Walker, M. SSCI1'03 PHY*Ol5*02 Physics/Life Sciences 1 - Maleki, S. HUMN 019 c Western Imperialism Hansen, E. SSCI 010 PHY*OI8*01 General Physics 2 Anderson, A. NWSE 300 h Advanced Interm Japanese III Khan, Y. HUMN 019 PHY*OI8*03 General Physics 2 Jones, C. STZH 106 ER*042*01 Engineering Design 3 Bucinell, R. NWSE 222 PHY*Ot8•04 General Physics 2 Rodriguez; G. NWSE 116 t} TH*OI9*01 Linear Algebra/Comp Var!Engrs Zwicker, W. RAIL 201 THURSDA\' 1 JUNE 13 1 1996-IJ:JOAM~ IO:JOAM TH*088\'01 Programming with Mathematica Fairchild/Seiken BAIL 106 MTH*OI-2*01 Calculus 2 Nietietd, S. BAIL 100 Cl PHY\'045*0i The Solar System Marr, J.M. NWSE 112 MTH•OJ5\'01 Calculus 3 Fairchild, W. BAIL 102 G sc•oss•ot Defense Policy Brown, C. HUMN 112 MTH*OI5*02 Calculus 3 Sauerberg, J. BAIL 106 a1 SY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Ps chology Stanhope, L. BAIL 300 MTH*OI7*01 Calculus IV:Integral Vector Frame, M. BAIL 104 e: h \l

Page 13 · May 30, 1996 · <III!r QitrunHOiensis . · 0 PIED Opinion Give -Concordy a Break Questions on the Senior Survey To the Editors As the former news editor of the Concordiensisand a member of the Gteek system, I recently questioned what I would have done had I been put in Adrian and Tony's position during the last three weeks. Would I have ·ha- rassed the President ofahouse to get the scoop like Tony and Adrian al'legedly did? Would I have printed quotes from an anonymous source? Wo.uld I have turned my back on my so- rority? Being an editor of Union College'spaperis not an easy job. Union is a small liberal arts school_ in upstate New York where nothing too controversial happens except for the occasional privatization of the dining halls and the occasional hazing inci- dent. Creating a weekly paper that students will want to read is difficult and exhausting, As news editor, I saw the sun rise in Schen'ectady one too many times. Last spring term I printed two articles concerning ~he Delta Up- silon hazing incident in which I believe the paper accurately rep- resented the sides of all concerned parties. Although the articles were controversial and received a sig- nificant amount of backlash, I believe that I had made the cor- rect decision in printing them. Greek Response This letter is a response to the plethora of editorials that have graced the cover of this magazine over the past few weeks. Co nor McKenzie, who prefers to refer · to himself by the initials C.M, wrote about a mystical \Greek force\ which justifies our right to campus housing. The author also stated that the Greeks think they \are justified in everything they do because of the community ser- vice they perform.\ I strongly disagree with that statement. Most of us who are \fortunate\ enough to live in campus hous- ing know that it is a privilege and not an entitlement. Believe it Qr not Mr. McKenzie, some of us do things around this school not be- cause they are held by the hand and made to, rather because they get a sense of self worth when a hundred kids give them a stand- ing ovation as occurred this past Sunday at Youth Olympics. When was the last time you or any of your friends got together and raised over $400 for battered doing this week or $2,000 for cystic fibrosis as Tri-Delt and Theta Delta Chi did earlier this term. Greeks are an asset to this campus and we did not justify our existence by the community ser- vice we perform. I was one of the organizers of Youth Olym- pics, a one day campus run activ- ity to bene.fit underprivileged youth. This was an event put to- gether by both Greek houses and independents. The planning for something like this took a couple ofmonths., but I will tell you that not once were we thinking about our housing plans for the upcom- ing year. Put aside your skepti- cism as to why Greeks do things, and take a closer look at some of the things we actually do. It may shed alittlelightwhysome of our houses have a history which date back over a hundred and fifty years and it might also offer you a glimpse of what we are doing \right\ instead of always focus- ing on our faults. women and children as SDT is Ben Fox Adaitionally, because I chose to print the articles, I do not believe that the decision I made was an . \anti-Greek\ decision. When writ- ing a news article, an individual is printing the fa'Cts and anything that is not a proven fact should be in quotes, therefore, when the ar- ticle is printed, it is unbiased. The articles written about the Delta Upsilon hazing incident expressed other people's opinions, not my own. Although I do not agree with the methods that the . Concordiensis recently used in reporting the Delta Delta Detta incident, I do agree that the inci- dent was worth reporting. But, what must be taken into consid- eration is that the Concordiensis is a student run newspaper, and everyone makes mistakes. If one were to look at the editor's box, one might realize that the major- ity of the staff is comprised of Freshman and Sophomores. The staff is very young and is learn- ing from their mistakes. If students on this campus are so quick to criticize the staff of this paper for being \anti-Greek possibly those same individuals should stop by a Concordiensis staff meeting and offer to write a feature or possibly choose to write an article on a campus event All the negative energy that individu- als are exerting because of some- thing the paper has or has not done, could be redirected towards changing the paper. Additionally, for all those individuals who write editorials about Union College students being .apathetic, you too could join the staff of the paper and make a difference. The editors of the paper work very hard and deserve to be given a break. They do not make the news, they simply report it. Don't you think they have paid enough for their mistakes? Elizabeth DeKoven To the Editor: In what appears to be an .effort by the administration to get in one last punch before you leave this p,restigious institution, all seniors are being 'requested' (read 're- quired') to complete the so called \Senior Survey\ in order get their graduation attire at the bookstore. Now, what offends me about this color-in-the-dots form is a pretty ITi in or point, but I believe it bears mentioning. Notice as you com- plete this fonn that there are slots (in PartE -Background Informa- tion) for a) your gender, b) your citizenship, c) your race/ethnic background, d) your parents' combined income, e) your par- ents' education, and t) your stu- dent ID number. Correct me if r m wrong, but by law you do not have to provide this type of in- formation when it is connected to your pers·onal· identification. However, these questions are not labeled 'optional.' Informati-on about my ethnicity, gender, citizenship, and my parents' combined income and educational background is sensitive and should not be con- nected to my identification. The people circulating this survey do not have a right to know or even ask for this data. Or, they need your expressed written consent (i.e. your signature on the form), and you must be informed that you provide the information at your own option. I received the survey pre-pack- aged with a letter from Linda Cool, Dean ofthe Faculty here at Union. Doubtless Ms. Cool pre- viewed the survey she asked each of the seniors to complete, but apparently she thought it was okay to put your ID number be- low all the really sensitive stuff. Might as well, so that prospective employers or grad schools can screen out undesirables before they interview. Heck, maybe even prospective could check out the names of all the black and Asian students (just so they could keep an eye out) or find the names ofpeoplewhocould afford to join their yacht club. Maybe the Schenectady Country Club could get some names of potential stu- dent members. (I'm being face- tious to illustrate my point) Shouldn't an intelligent and honest administrator like Ms. Cool take note ofthe inappropri- ate questions as she previews the survey? Perhaps, if she decides that said survey must still circu- late even though i:t contains sketchy questions, she ought to make mention of them in her cover letter, noting that students could choose to skip these items ifthey wish. Before you send Ms. Cool hate mail, let me tell you that I heard from another source that The Senior Survey does not come to you from the Dean of the Faculty's office and Ms. Cool, but Tina Gleason, the Instruc- tional Studies Coordinator. I guess Ms. Gleasonjustneeded a more important sounding title for the signatory of the cover letter. Mind you, I am not sure that Ms. Gleason is responsible for the survey (that is only what I heard), and I have not contacted her or Ms. Cool, so any accusations I might imply are not necessarily founded. · Still, there remain inappropri- ate items on the survey (which, incidentally, does not have em- blazoned on it any identification ofthe organization which will be the end user of the information. Is it Union? Or will the form be mailed to Nebraska? If I'm giv- ing them my name or ID num- ber, I'd like to know who I'm giv- ing it to.), and none of the admin- istrators who chose to circulate it seem to give a damn. Add this as a final entry on the long list of insults endured by you, the Union College student. Josh Kane C.M. Responds to Charges of Being ''Anti-Greek\ Millman: Dear Editors, Mother Approved This was my first Mother's Day with all my children away at college and no one but my dog at home to \pester\ me. Raquel was able to capture the essence of a mother's memories through her own remembrances. I doubt any mother was able to read this without shedding some tears tbr those preciqus days gone by. To be honest, I was a bit wor- ried when I read Ben Fox's letter in response to my editorial last week. I was forced to question my writing abilities. Apparently, I wasn't able to get my point across, as Mr. Fox missed it com- pletely. First he accused me of trying to avoid responsibility for what I wrote by writing C.M. instead of \Conor McKenzie.\ I chose to write C.M. because that is the manner in which editorials are traditionally signed at The Concordiensis. Obviously, Fox had no problem figuring out who the initials belonged to. Next I'd 1 ike to address the ac- cusation that I have written \anti- Greek\ editorials. I do not hold aryi-Greek opinions, nor have I expressed them in my writing. I have written two editorials (a \plethora\ in Ben Fox's opinion) concerning the Greek system; the first was intended solely to refute the claim that The Concordiensis is guilty of\Greek Bashing.\ My most recent editorial was in criti- cism of frequently used argu- ments that I feel only weaken the Greek system. I in no way in- tended to imply that the Greek system does not provide valuable services or that it engages in com- munity service solely to justify itself as an organization. My point-which I believe was clearly stated-was in re- sponse to erroneous arguments used by individuals (namely a let- ter that appeared in the same is- sue) in support of the Greek sys- tem. I wanted to point out that the power behind the Greek sys- tem is its dedicated individual members, not the Greek system itself. In my view, if a Greek house were forced to justify its existence, it would make more sense to say that it has been and still is composed of members who, for the past hundred and fifty years, have been very active in the college and outside communities. Personally, I believe that most, if not all, Greek houses currently on campus could use that argument to better strengthen their organi- zations. C.M. I have received The ' Concordiensis since my daugh- ter became a Union student this year. I am always fascinated by the diversity of opinions and depth of the articles included in your paper. However, Raquel Millman's writings always give me food for thought. They elo- quently express her opinions on the happenings in and around Union. Her article in the May 9 edition titled \Remember to say, I Love You,\ was a Band-Aid for a mother's heart. Thank you, Raquel. You are an inspired and gifted writer. I look forward to reading many more of your \opinions\ in the years to come. Valerie Karp Union Parent Class of 1999 INTERNET AND E-. MAIL -ADDRESSES E-Mail Us at Cont:ordy @gar.union.edu. or on the World Wide Web@ http://virtual.union.edu/ \-'Concordy/index.html. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication,.and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details

. OP/ED· . illlp.• monrorQ-il'tt.?is • May 30~ .1 996 · Page 1-t EDITORIAL Look How Far We've Come As we bid farewell to the class of 1996, it is important for them to. understand the value of the uninterrupted ·education they received during their time at Union. Over the last fifty years Unio1i has emerged out of the . wartimes into a diverse coeducational institution. We reflect ·back to The Concordiensis senior farewell editorial from the class of 1946. How can any one person say farwell to such a class as that of 1946. It· is true that there are among the graduates some few who originally were members of the Freshman group who entered upon Union's campus some four years ago in 1942: It is tn1ethat many ofthesemenhave been fortunate ·or not so fortunate in the matter of remaining here at Union durii1g the. war years. It is, however, equally true that there are among the graduates representatives from virtually every class from 1942 to 1948. Men have returned une~pectedly to complete their college courses; others have .accelerated and will leave the college before their normal time. The class of 1946, for such it must be termed, is unique in that it embodies not only the spirit of past and futme classes but also includes a substantial number of their members. When the class of 1946 first came to this camp!lS, it was collectively . confronted with the transition from a peacetime college to a wartime macbine. The class was, and is, to this day, disjointed, confused. The acceleration program brought many of its members to premature maturity ~- \through the sobering medium of total war, ofbers were shoved unceremoniously forwardto places in classes far ahead of them. The class of 1946has never had the advantage of complete unity and the organization which unity of itself entails. Opinion ~-- --...-'-----~ -----· --·-- ~~~fue~d~~iliro~~fure~ili~~~~m~~~~~------------------------------------­ attaining, after many trials and tribulations, the coveted goal of every college man -- graduation and the degree. But, war or not was, life has not been all sobriety for these men. There have been moments of frivolity which for brief seconds approximated the college days they never knew -- could not know in their time. There have been standout athletes in their midst, men who have served Minerva well. Others have attained to high scholastic honors, bringing further glory on themsel:ves and on their class. The class of1946 has been far from inactive. . It will undoubtedly go down in the annals of Union College history as · one of the finest, and probably the most unique classes to pass through. In a few short days, now, some forty-two men will pass from Union's :halls to move onto greater endeavor. Next month, the Faculty and the • Trustees of this ins!itution will bestow upon them the fruits oftheir ll;lbors. Their numbers are now myriad but their spirit has shone. forth as worthy ·of. a far more preteiltious group. We will be.sorry to see the class of 1946 · leave, but from the heart of Union College, we wish them the best of luck ' and success in whatever fields they may enter. ij}:qt _illnn.cor!tiensis - . - . The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Adrian MacLean EDITORS-Il'v-CHIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE EDITOR Diana Sedita EDITOR EMEJUT A Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDI1VR.S Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Akinwunmi Sawyerr Rusinnes Editor Anand Rao WORLD NEWS EDITOR David Eder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew Fra<lkin COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACUL7Y ADVISOR Peter Farnum Jen Pelose AS.)'JSTANI'COPY EDITORS Henrik Haeckel Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITORS . Conor McKenzie FEATI!RES EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun- Paul Manore. SfAFf': Kara Christian, Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gastbalter, Stacey Kimmel, Mike Leding, Chris Leone, Bhavani Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Rawson Thurber, Aaron Sicotte. Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters; Karen Watts Saturday in the Gardens Raquel Millman Opinions Editor The lazy college student's fa- vorite day of the week is un- doubtedly Saturday. The entire week is completely forgotteta withonenightofrealsleep. We wakt?,UP late anq eat brunch. We mov~ slowly and. wear comfort .. able clothing. We know that we have. work, but Saturday is not a day to do our work, but rather a day to talk about doing work. (The secret to Saturday is that we know that Sunday will follow.) Saturday, we may make attempts at doing work; but deep down inside we know that this day was intended for lying around ou~ide if the weather complies, and watching movies inside if it doesn't. Either way, on Satur- day we are all in reclining posi- tions for a large portion of the day. If it rains, most of us don't even change out of our pajamas, and even if we do, we don't re- ally want to. Sunny Saturdays were made with ~ destination at Union College: Jackson's Gar- dens. This past Saturday I changed out of my pajamas. I did not ;wan.t to, b.ut I did it anyhow due to the amount of \work\ that 1 had to do. I ventured outside of my dor.m, books in hand, to .study outside. When are we going to • ' c;. - ... ,. -, -,, admit to ourselves that getting more. We ran through the mossy work done outside takes super.. creek aqQ. JaJJ.ghed in the after- human strength that we justdo not noon sur{ io'r··~'a few inirtutes\ have in college? Anyhow, I de- while \taking a break.\ I cannot cided that it was the perfect day even remember the lasttime I ran to study in Jackson's Gardens. through a mossy creek! My day Upon my arrival in Jackson's concluded with a se.cond suo- Gardens, I was greeted with sev- cone, a little bit of color, wet feet, eral bands and free ice cream :from and a mixed feeling of guilt and anice-aream truck. Whf!n wasthe happiness. last time I got ice-cream from an Why don't we all just admit to ice-cream truck? I decided. to ourselves that we are not going postpone studying for \a few min- to accomplish anything on Satur- utes.\ Theconceptof\afewmin- day? Then we could finish our utes\ is another fallacy in college. Saturdays without feeling any Nothing takes \a few minutes.\ guilt at all. We equid wear paja- Five. minutes magically become mas until night-time on rainy Sat- anhourandahalf-hoursornehow urdays and not feel badly about becomes hours. If only this hap- it. pened while we were sleeping! We could eat suo-cones and After a sno-cone, goo~ conversa- walk through the creek in tion, and great music, I decided Jacksmi. 's Gardens on sunny Sat- that it was time to move along into urdays and not think twice. If the gardens and attemptto study. only we could admit that we I sat on the bridge and after read- aren'treally \taking little breaks\ ing four pages, the sun seemed to for \a few !;ITinutes,\ and that Sun- be forcing me to close my eyes day is there to do work, we would andliedownfor\afewminutes.\ all be much more relaxed and A friend soon woke me. Appar- happy! So this Saturday, don't. ently, she too had not come to complainabouttheworkthatyou terms with the fact that we were are not going to get done. Re- never going to get work done. member, that's what Sunday is She asked me, \Do-you want to for. But if you should decide to take a break with me and walk in change out of your pajamas, take the creek?\ The \few minutes\ a walktoJackson'sGardenswith- fallacy is accompanied by the out your books. After all, we \take a break\ delusion. Of could all use a little moss on out course, I complied with her re- feet every now and then. quest to avoid my work a little • • • •• • ~· •,'•c '·, Leiters to'the·Editot shobtdbe addfessedt<J'tne·<)P;tEJ:> pageai'Id must be tece1ved·byS' tn'rtthe Mettday · ef()re publication. li~tilits rru.lstbe less thah 59tfwortis and shouM'pettaiti to an issue that concerns the · · ritun Colfege coimnunity: ·Final d.ecisions\Coricethirtg printing ·andf.or editing a subtrtis&1onbelnngtotli.e .B'i'litoriatBoatd.··*lfletters:mustbe'signed;althoughthe:authot\:snaJne'neednutappearin~thenew.spaper . ifthe\vriter so specifies. Letters do Mtnecessaril~ reflectth:eopinion·ofthe Editorial Boardr . · . . · .. ·.·. · .· · . - Bditoriars reflecttheopinionofam~ority oftheEditorialltloatd~ and no one mernbetin particular. ·Any opinion columns; orcartoons:reflectth~op\inionsof the·writers·or-amsts, ·a:m::lmot necessallily the opinions o · he Editorial B<mrd. . Advertisements. appearing;in The Ctmcordien~is cl,o.not necessarily r~fleetthe opinion o!the Ed~ to rial . . Board. · .. The Concordiens:isJs p.ubl;isbed eight Thursdays aterr~l by the students ofUnion CoUeg~. lt.isfundedin . part by the Student Activ:iti~ Fee, TM Concordiensisy cqpyright 1996, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union.College 1 Schenectady, New York 1Z.308, Telephone, (518.) 388r61S5 .. fhe Concordiens~s is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany,NY,12Z05, T;be,Concordienst· ·subscribes to the In~rcoll~giate Press (lP),Nationa,l Stu.dent ~ews Servi~e, &King Syndicates. · . . ... · .· • a , ~ v v f d l ) c u a € tl s t t ( t ' c r i I ~ t I

Page 15 · May 30, 1996 · 'illl~l:' <.!.loucorbil:'nsis · ·. ·. · · . OP/ED Opinion Hull's Shameless Hypocrisy story, President Hull decided to by Tony LaVecchia withhold the Daggett prize~a Editor-in-Chief .. prize voted on by the faculty, not Imagine yourself sitting in the Hull-from Allison Hirschman, audience of an award assembly. because of her connection with Your mother and father are the Tri-Delta sorority. I find this present, and you are anxiously decision inappropriate and dis- waiting to see· Which prize you turbing. will win. You win a prize, but One may, as President Hull . . ~ find out later that you have been himself did during our interview, denied the second highest honor point outthat itis improper to give Union has to offer because of the highest award forconduct and your group affiliation and cit- character to a person who was cum stances beyond your control. involved with anorganization that Now imagine yourself a fac- has been brought up on conduct ulcy member attending the same charges. But what exactly was assembly. You sit in anticipation Allison's role in the hazingwhich of the presentation of an award took place at Tri-Delta? First, in to a student you feel really de- the most concrete sense, she had serves it, a student you yourself · no direct involvement at all. had voted for. The president of AllisonwasnotatTri-Deltaonthe the university steps up to the po- night in question. Hull openly dium and much to your Surprise admits this. He also acknowl- the student who the-faculty had edges that the event which took voted for to receive the award place was not one sponsored by does not in fact win it. the house, and in fact eriginated As detailed in our front page off campus. The apparent impli- cation then is that although she was not directly involved in this event, it was her job as new them- her educator to prevent such events from occurring. I would challenge President Hull that it is at least equally his responsibility as the president of our college to ensure that the at- mosphere at this institution does not breed and harbor hazing. Have no fear though: according to our president, he was totally unaware that hazing was taking place be- fore DU got caught last year. This makes me wonder whether our president has the blinders on. Hull is a hypocrite because he is holding Hirschman responsible for an event she had no part in. It is clear from discussions with Dean Alford that Hirschman wasn'tand couldn't be brought up on conduct charges in connection with the Tri-Delt affair. More- over, it is clear from talking to Allison and the Tri-Delt pledges that Allison has been a leader in seminars and infonnational ses- sions a;imed at e1 iminating hazing from her house. What has HuH done in the meantime, while Hirschman has been out in the trenches fighting hazing? In my opinion he has been sitting on his hands waiting for freshmen to bring charges against the house they are pledging. At that point · our president has no problem swinging into ~'severe and harsh action.\ It is perhaps worth adding that it is incredible that a president of Union College is capableofmak- ing the statement that he is un- aware ofthe existence of hazing on the campus-apart from the two incidents that have been forced on his attention by coura- geous members of the freshman class. Such a president is in fact actively creating the kind of en- vironment that encourages typi- cal Union students to feel safe hazing their pledges behind the back of the atypical student like ·Hirschman who fights against -such things, has done so since she came here, and has been recog- nized for it by both stude11ts and faculty. It seems clear to me that Hull has an ulterior motive for taking the prize away from Allison. He doesn't have the guts to take any real action against hazi11g, but still needs to appear-tough. So rather than doing anything substantive he takes the opportunity to seem har:d on hazing by denying a prize to an outstanding student. We hear that President Hull, with new found eiJ~ightenment, is charging into fraternity houses and taking serious acth:m to pre- vent hazing. We here at The Concordiensis applaud Hull for this burst of activity. Unfortu- nately for him a student he feels is unworthy of the Daggett prize beat him to the punch. Reflections on Two Years The Real World at ·union ' by Henrik Haeckel Opinions Editor It is the last newspap~r of the year. We are all planning our summers, saying our good-byes, and in some cases graduating. In my case, I prepare to leave Union for the year to go. study in Eu- rope; I am dubious about return- ing here. So in the last few days I have left I am reflecting on my experiences and observations of this place. In an effort to be fair and just, I think this place has provided me with an enormous amount of room to grow. Never before I came here did I ever hope to amount to anything. I never ex- pected to be intelligent and to want to learn. I never thought I would learn to be strong and stand up for my convictions. This has all changed. I think that this was achieved in large part because of the pro- fessors I have had the luck of having. They challenged me to be better. They forced me not to accept second best, and if I did accept second best they did not. I learned how to enjoy learning·. It is such a cliche, but it is true. I have found a tremendous amount of satisfaction in learning and de- bate. Still, what has bothered me here in my two years is that you, my colleagues, do not share in this interest. In fact, on the con- trary, I have felt stigmatized in my efforts to become more edu- cated. Why? I really cannot pin- pointthis. l can only reel off sev- eral things that I have hypoth- esized. We are a school that places a tremendous emphasis on image, an emphasis that forces this community to divide into cliques ofpeoplewho stereotype one another to such a degree that they build walls too high for: most to climb. Life, and college in partkular, · Editor: is a learning eX:perience both in- About three weeks ago some- tellectually and personally. It is one wrote a letter saying that impossible to learn from others. Union was nothing like the real when there is such a tremendous world. The conclusion of this let- dichotomy between their personal terwasthat when (if) you gradu- selfand their public self. You see, ate you are in for a shock once here it is easy to get along with you hit the real world. I do not people when you are in a one-on- agree with this opinion at all. · one environment. In fact, just Union has its share ofhave's and about everyone I have met here I have not's, the real world has have enjoyed discussions with them also. Just like the real world, one-on-one. Yet, when they be.. Union is full of, \It's not what come part of a larger group, part you know, it's who you know.\ of the herd, they metamorphose Anyone looking for a job, in the into these bland, dull and dumb real world, has come in contact subservient idiots. The unfottu- with this \law ofthe land.\ And nate reaiity for Union is that we just like the real world, Union is are a community of institutional- full of problems. Granted real ized herds. We graze in the same. world problems such as welfare, fields, too scared to venture into child abuse, and murder, (the list new territory because that means could goonandon,justuseyour separation froll! the group. Those imagination, if you have any) are who separate from the herd are hard to'solve. Butthe reafworld, shunned, stereotyped even more as a whole, does the best it can harshly then the herds themsefves, do, on a large scale, to keep preventing growth and progress. atrocities, such as the ones men- It is in this environment that you tioned, to a minimum. However, spend your four years. There is a unlike the real world, Union's degree of security to be found in problems are just not cared about. this social caste system-but for In the real world the pub~ic gets those not fond of grazing on bad screwed all the time, just like the beer, music, and conversation, students here. there is little room for excitement As 1 .come to the close of my and hope. Instead, this environ- Junior year here, I ponder often merit supports and breeds eating on how I can make this campus disorders, work -out warriors, better. Since this is the real world fashion slaves and confonnity to and I really live here, I care what a greater degree than exists on· happens to this place. It seems other college campuses. As I . the biggest problem is that many leave here I dare you all to look students do not care what hap- inside yourselves and honestly pens to this place. We are only assess whether or not this social here for four years, and some environment supports a healthy only came to college because so- growth of self. In particular,I ask ciety dictates that is what you seniors to look back through your . have to do to get anywhere. freshman meat book and see how · (Please refer to \It's not what you many of your class have left as know ..... \) Should it even be our victims of the social .pressures and/ duty to care about this place. To or because they could not tolerate a certain extent, yes. Every stu- the social environment. dent should care about the daily operations of this campus that ef- fects them. This includes Dining . Services, Campus Operations, Office of Residence Life, and the 'Dean ofStudents Office. (This list could go on and on also) It seems that we should care a lot more about these things than we do. Maybe that is because we trust the administrators, directors, and deans to do what is within the best interests of the students. Granted, things should not change drasti- cally every year, but they should represent the current student bod- ies interests. It is in this area that the staff fails. They care more about the freshmen class in 10 years than the students presently here. Just minutes ago, in the regis- trars office, a student was told that they would have to get written permission to take a class because it is a f@shmen class. The regis- trar is worried about the over crowding of the class. Did it oc- cur to them that they should maybe open another section? Why the hell did they even offer it to the upperclassmen? (It was not a card course) Things I ike this tick me off. We pay the same amount as the incoming fresh- man, who by the way probably have not even paid yet, and then we are we treated like second class citizens. This type ofbehav- ior is seen across campus on a wide spectrum of issues. President Hull recently decided to offer Schenectady a deal in which the students ofUnion would clean up Schenectady, so that the ·city would drop the appeal of the GE Plot decision. Did Roger have the right to offer the services of the student body without consulta- tion? I think not. While the situa- tion is not as bad as say sacrific- ing a limb so Union could get the GE Plot, it isbad inthesensethat Roger thinks he can wal~ over the students theway he does, in or- der to make the campus better for future generations. While this might be considered way to radi- cal, it is the view I take because I am here now, and I care what happens to this place NOW, it will not help me in five years if the GE Plot has Administration building on itornot, all this time and energy wasted. Or is it right that Roger wasted time raising money for the library, while he neglected me and you while we are here. I feel it is his job as presi- dent to see that the present stu- dent body gets their fair share, which we do not. I am not saying forget the future, but how about getting students involved in preparation for the future, consult with them about feelings about this campus. In tum, this type of behavior will enrich my stay here, making it more meaningful, while getting the most out of my 27 grand a year. For what we pay, we do not see half of what we deserve. (Free sno-cones every- day might makeup for this) There has been a lot of ram- bling in this letter from why Union isthereal world, to what should be done in order to make this place a bit more bearable. I could probably fill up the Concordy with my Manifesto, but I will not go blow anything up. (Maybe that was in bad taste) Is Union the real world? Yes it is. Does the Administration screw · the students every chance they get? Nope, but most of the time they do without realizing it. What can be done? I tried last tenn and failed. Any ideas? Write a me a message. RobCoheJ;I - - -

. \ -.OP/ED . - . . - 'ffilft Oitln.corhiensis • May 30, 1996 · Page 16 Opinion Union Students: Sheltered? Thanks from Campus Saftey Dear Editors, This is in response to Mike Miller's letter, printed in the May 23 issue of the Cor~cordiensis. After reading his statements, I find myself at a loss regarding what Mr. Miller is attempting to insinuate about the areas and neighborhoods ~urrounding Union. Specifically, I'm referring to the third paragraph of his let~ ter. would be crazy to even consider leaving the campus. I'm sure that the the students who are from ar- eas close to Union would i!ppre- ciate that comment. Maybe he's saying that the students here are so incredibly spoiled and con- ceited that they are unfamiliar with existing in an area devoid of Saabs, BMWs and other\necesities\ of comfortable living. To the Editors and Stafi of the C oncordiensis: On behalf of myself and the staff of the Campus Safety De- partment I want to thank you for your continued support of and efforts to enhance the safety and security of this campus. I really appreciate the staff time and the space allotted to presenting the weekly incidentsummary. This effort is key to keeping the cam- pus advised of potential problems so that they can take appropriate preventative precautions. I also appreciate the \accent on the posi- tive\ which encourages the cam- pus community to take an active role and responsibility in campus safety matters as well as the many other facets of campus activities that affect the quality of life on the campus. You all have done a great job throughout the year as evidenced by a quality product! To the _graduating senior ~taff..congratulations and contin- ued successes; to the undergradu- ate staff.. .have a safe and happy summer and we'll look forward to working with you again in the fall. Respectfully, · ,.... Paul F. Mantica Director~ Campus Safety Dept. Institutions such as the Uni- r-~~~~-------~~~-~---~~-~--~~------~-,--~ \Does the administration not realize that the majority of stu- dents leaving hete in recent years have negative feelings about the way the school treats the Greeks? Don 'tthey realize that if they kill the Gr-eeks here, we will start to venture into th&surrounding area for our social life? If we do that, won't the number ofmuggings, robberies and assaults rise? Do they want that to happen?\ versity o.f Pennsylvania, Yale University and Columbia Univer- sity are all in geographic areas known for high levels of crime. Do they require greek systems to maintain their safety? I must have forgotten that having a hi~h blood-alcohol level is the surest way to be safe. Are the fights that occur on the weekends, often due to drunkeness, a signal of safety on campus? Perhaps incidents of sexual assualt and acquaintance · rape involving inebriated students signifies a safe and secure atmo- sphere. I am not, by any means, saying that the Greek system is solely responsible for these inci- deflts. Alcohol and it's usage in massive quantities is primarily responsible for many such inci- dents. This is not an attack on the Greek system, but rather on the idiocy and asininity which per-. meates Mr. Miller's letter. But of. course, that's just my opinion. Have We Made any Progress? Either I simply missed the point, or perhaps Mr. Miller's let- ter requires a bit more clarifica- tion. Is Mr. Miller implying that without the Greek system, the stu- dents attending Union will he in- capable of creating a different social scene? Is he implying that the student body as a whole, is incapable of existing outside the confines of our beautiful, mani- cured, and most importantly, safe campus? Orperhapshe is imply- ing that Schenectady is such a slum, such a ghetto, that any sttt- dent in his or her right mind Lawrence J. Gutman by Scott Stedman Layout Editor Oh Yea, bliss, felicity, joy!!! Union once seemed so dead, so apathetic. As I leave my Holo- caust class feeling alone ·in my outrage I take a moment to look around: what do I see? I am not alone at all!! In fact, anger and d'ismay .plays on all the faces ·of my youthful peers. For once an energy bums with an the fierce- ness their earnest youth can mus- ter. Their eyes alive with delu- sions of change. Under the care- ful leadership of the ill named \generation X\ the world is safe from such bigotism, such atroc- ity, such gross; feeble, insane Housing Authority Thanks Interns Dear Editor: Over the past several years, the Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority has enjoyed the assis- tance of many Union College in~ terns through the \Local Govern- ment Internship\ course of Union's Political Science D~part­ ment. I cannot begin to sing the praises of these wonderful men and women. In the past, interns have participated in grant writing (in one case, resulting in a $1,000,000 construction and ser- vices grant). Ms. Alison Camesano interned at our Pregnancy Prevention con- tractor, Girls Incorporated, work- ing w,ith teenaged girls on several projects. She organized a Career Conference, and I was honored to · be one of the guest speakers. Mr. Peter Farnum is serving as an intern in our Security Depart- ment, riding shotgun with our Security Director, Mr. Alan Terryberry. Besides visiting the Pol ice Department on a regular basis and assisting Alan with in- vestigations, Peter has been assist- ing us with the writing of our Drug Elimination Grant application. Ms. Lisa LeMoi has wvrked with our finance department, ana- lyzing census and apartment rent data on a citywide and countywide basis. She has been working on several aspects of our Drug Elimination Grant, and as,. sisting us with design and com- puter graphics & research on the internet. Mr. George Salimbas worked with me to organize a Regional Housing Authority Task Force, and develop written material to educate local housing authorities about how recent actions by the US Congress and the President will affect local agencies. At the same time, George developed in- formational letters to send the message from low-income 'hous- ing authorities to the New York State delegation to Congress. The Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority salutes these men and women, and we thank them for their service. We also . look forward to more students working with us in the future. Sincerely, Sharon A. Jordan, SMHA Executive Director Union Quote of the Year: \Neither I nor the Dean of students were aware of hazing until last year with Delta Upsilon nor this year until Tri-Delta\ { . -President Roger HuU separatism. Slowly a feeling of wannth fills my body, a happiness surges. from the deepest caverns of my soul. WE WILL MAKE A CHANGE, WE HAVE LEARNED, WE ARE BET- TER!!! Suddenly from the uto- pian idealism that penneates the air comes the crackle ofa human voice. What brilliantobservation is my good, enlightened peer making? \Hey so-and-so fagged on his pong game. Don't be so gay, duuude.\ The ambience shattered, I walk away realizing l am, if not alone, certainly a mem- ber ofthe minority. The feigned outrage of my contemporaries is another trend as deceptive as Hitler's sturdy voice and politi- cal fervor. How sad I feel that we have learned nothing; and the inevitable wheel of history will continue to spin. I wonder who will be the next victims? I admit. maybe it is my youth- · ful delusions, maybe my convic- tion that humans are not itre- . trievably evil, maybe I just dream an unattainable dream - still, I' look around and beseech all students and all hu- mans to realize your obliga- tion as humans to speak out against all bigotry- homophobia, racism, and anti- semiti~m included. Don't be selfish: just because it may not pertain to you doesn't mean it isn't hurting someone. r~,l. CDC Updates Career. ••• Droel~t Center SENIORS: the CDC is here for you after you graduate ..• •The CDC is open during the summer from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. Call us for an appointment at (518) 388-617 6 or stop in during our drop-in hours Monday-Friday 3-5 pm. CDC JOBS Line - •You can access our full-time job announcements now ori \Newsflash.\ Enter the CDC home page from the Union Col- lege home page .at http://www.union.edu and click on the \Newsflash button. As of graduation. we will list openings at the \JOBS\ button under Alumni Jobs for new and for experi- enced grads. JOBTRAK · •Computerized job listing especially for Union students and alumni. Access these listings on JobTrak at (http:// www.jobtrak.com). Go into Union College and th~n type \unionjobs\ as tl,le password. This password is just for Union seniors and alums and expires on December 31st. ubmit you ideas and comn1ents to The Concordiensis, lfelp take an active part at Union I ti b c b J L ~ tl c: lc h 0 t~ e:

Science & Technology SCIENTISTS MOVING CLOSER TO IDE.NTIFYING COM- POUNDS TO TREAT COCAINE ADDICTION . by Dennis Popeo Science Editor Researchers funded by the Na- tional Institute on Drug Abu~e, at the National Institutes of Health, report important findings that have significant implications for the development of medica- tions to treat cocaine addiction. Researchers at the Yale University School of Medicine in New Ha- ven, CT have found that activa- tion of the brain's Dl dopamine receptor system can suppress cocaine seeking in drug-experi- enced animals, whereas activation of the 02 dopamine receptor sys- tem can trigger cocaine seeking. This makes 01 receptor stimula- tion a potential target for the de- velopment of anti-cocaine addic- tion medications. Alan I. Leshner, Ph.D., Director ofNIDA, said, \These and other recent findings are finally en- abling us to strategically develop effective medication treatments for cocaine addiction based on basic science. Because of the tre- mendous impact of cocaine addic- tion on the health of the public, NIDA has designated the devel- opment of a cocaine treatment medication as its top priority. This study helps move us forward in identifying target systems in the brain and in producing medica- tions that' would stop cocaine seeking behavior, interfere with and block craving, and prevent re- lapse to cocaine use after treat- ment.\ The study, \Opposite Modula- tion of Cocaine-Seeking Behavior by D 1 ·and 02-like Dopamine Re- ceptor Agonists,\ was conducted by David W. Self, Ph.D., William J. Barnhart, B.A., David A. Lehman, B.A., and Eric J. Nestler, M.D., Ph.D. and is published in the March 1 S issue of Science. ''Our work was based on the in- creasing knowledge of the mo- lecular and cellular basis of co- caine addiction. This research il- lustrates how a strong foundation of basic neuroscience can facili- tate the development of new and effective treatments for addictive disorders,'' said Dr. Nestler, the Elizabeth Mears and House Jameson Professor of Psychiatry and Pharmacology, and Director of the Division of Molecular Psy- chiatry, at the Yale University School ofMedicine. Activation of the brain's dopam- ine pathways is critically impor· tant to cocaine •s effects. Dopam· ine, a chemical messenger in the brain, acts on nerve cells possess- ing specialized dopamine recep- tors9 which are present in the brain in a variety offonns. Building on this knowledge of different types of receptors~ the researchers tested the ability of compounds that selectively stimulate specific dopamine receptors to reinstate self- administration of cocaine in animals who had stopped seek- ing this drug. ln this study, rats were allowed to self-administer in- travenous cocaine for 2 hours and then saline was substituted for 2 hours during which time the self- administration behavior progres- sively diminished, a behavioral phenomenon knoWn as extinction. The researchers found that when a 02-like agonist (a drug that mim- ics dopamine's effects on the 02 receptor) was administered to these animals, a dramatic increase in cocaine· seeking behavior was observed. while administration of aDt-like agonist had no effect. Importantly, the researchers further tested whether the D 1-like or D2-Jike agonists could block the effects of cocaine on reinitiation of cocaine use. In these rats, pro- viding a small priming dose of co- caine causes an increase in co- caine-seeking behavior. While pretreatment with D2-1ike agonists in these animals caused dramatic potentiation of cocaine's priming effects, pretreatment with Dl-like agonists completely prevented cocaine's ability to reinstate co- caine use. The research clearly shows that Dt- and 02-like recep- tor agonists produce opposite ef- fects, and suggests that 01-ago- nists might be useful in treatment of cocaine addiction. \This study demonstrates an important dissociation between D 1- and D2-like receptor mediated processes in cocaine-seeking be- havior. We think that D 1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors are involved in very different aspects of the addicting properties of co- caine. Whereas the D2-like recepa tor mediates the drive to take more cocaine, the D 1-1 ike receptor may affect some aspect of satiety or satisfaction.\ said Dr. Self, Assis- tant Professor of Psychiatry at Yale University. Previous NIDA-funded re- search attempting to identify a medication for successful treat- ment of cocaine addiction has fo- cused more heavily on dopamine receptor antagonists, which can block some of cocaine's acute re- inforcing properties. However, these antagonists are associated with unpleasant and potentially serious side effects, particularly after repeated administration. They also have proven to be inef- fective in numerous clinical trials. Other work has focused on 02- like agonists, but the present study raises the concern that such drugs could actually in- crease cocaine craving and aggra- vate the addiction. The present research was con- ducted at the Connecticut Men- tal Health Center, a coJlaborative program of the State Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services and Yale University. Funding was provided by NIDA, the primary federal agency re- sponsible for basic, clinical, and applied research designed to im- prove and develop new strategies to deal with the health problems and issues associated with drug abuse and addiction. The devel- opment of new medications for treating drug addiction is a major part ofNIDA 's efforts. SOlVIE TIDlfGS ABE 1\'IEAN'l' TO BE CLOSED YOUR MIND ISN'T ONE OF THEM. For decades, MDA has shown how valuable people with disabilities are to society. We believe talent, ability and desire are more important than strength of a person's muscles. The one barrier these people can't overcome is a closed mind. Keep yours open. 1-800-872-1717 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSOCIATION

. . . ~ . lfe Qlunrodrieusi%1 May 30, 1996 Page 18 . . Features Love Quiz \Wookin' Pa 'Nub\ By Rawson Thurber Staff Writer Well ladies and gentlemen, faithful readers, Spring has finally sprung, even Schenectady can't keep that eternal flower oflove from bloomingjust long enough to be peed on by a drunken Union College student. Ah, love. That thing which ironically is so important to our existence, yet so difficult to obtain. Most of us only have those brief instances-of contact with love; like the smell of cookies rising from a kitchen just long er.tough to wake you. Where am I heading? Well to pt t it plainly, as much as II ike expressing myself in metaphors, some of us don't seem to be as prone to Cupid's arrows as others. So in keeping with that age old idiom, \those who can't, teach\ let me put forth a quiz to test your amorous prowess. Think of this as a longer more cumbersome version of the Love-0-Meterwith the red flashing light bulbs one plays for a quarter at the arcade. Except this one is cheaper, and not as fun. So on we go! 1) The end of a first date has come. You're attracted to your date, and the awkward good-bye kiss moment has arrived. You: A)Cross your fingers and hope your date makes the first move. B) Grab your date by the back of the neck and suck face. C) Se,ty, \thanks for a great time\; and hurry off not wanting to force the issue. 2) You see the (wo)man of your dreams waiting in line to get a frozen yogurt. You gather your courage, walk up, andsay: A) So, yogurt huh? ....... cool. You know that's all bacteria, ...... in th:e yogurt I mean, ..... urn, ...... bye. B) Let me buy you a yogurt. My mother always said that if someone lets you buy them yogurt, the rest is easy. C) Can I sprinkle your yogurt? 3) You'vejust brol,en off a six month relationship. It is time now to: A) Cry, and cry, and cry. B) Plot revenge. C) Go out with friends looking for a rebound. 4) Most times you can tell that someone likes you because they: A) Don't hit you with heavy blunt objects. B) Hang out around you, striking up idle conversations. C) Grab your leg under the table and begin tubbing like there's notomorrow .. 5) Your idea of an ideal evening is: . A) A StarTrek marathon followed by an exciting evening browsing the Internet with your loved-one. B) After eight shots, three keg-stands, and a bong hit you stumble into bed for anightof drunken passion. C) You cook dinner she/he brings the wine~ there's a Blockbuster movie,. soft light, and then drunken passion. Rank Your Score As Follows:. l.A)2ptsB)3ptsC)lpt 2.A)lptB)2ptsC)3pts 3. A) 2pts B)lptC) 3p.ts . 4. A) lptB) 3ptsC) 2pts 5. A) 2pts. B) 3ptsC) lpt . RESULTS: Please understand that this qui;z has been hi~hly tested, and condensed into the five most important questions of love .. It is correct. I am sorry if you have a problem with that. l-Spts: Well. there's no easy way to put this, you suck. In the cosmic game of love you were not only picked last, but the guy taken in front of you still eats his own boogers and vomits whenever he runs. You have no skill at all in the world of love, and the best thing for you to do now is give up. Just completely and totally give in to the all too obvious fact that in the race of love, you're barefoot running on bro- ken glass. Sorry about the news, maybe you'll receive a lnisdirectec valentine at some point in your life; then again you probably won't. 6-lOpts: You're middle of the pack. Not bad. Depending on which end o1 the middle your score I ies on, you could be well on your way to 'meet· ingthatce~ain someoneofyourdreams. My advice to you would bt to start watching a lot ofMelrose Place and 90210. These shows dea with love and its vast intricacies on a mature and adult level. After £ few weeks of viewing you might be ready to make the leap to the bi€ time. Good luck! 1 1-15pts: You don't need to hear it from me. You know it. They know it Who doesn't know it? Well maybe the people who fall in the \low'· bracket, but who needs them anyway? Y O\lr confident and secure, or at least you appear that way to others, and for you that's the same thing. You know what you 1 ike, and how to get it. What are you doing Friday night? Call me, please! I have no friends! For the love ofGod, take pity-on me! I'll pay you! Well that's it for the year! Hope you enjoyed some of my attempts a1 humor ( ot at least took pity oil me). See you next year! Comments'? Thoughts? Hate Mail?: Rawson Thurber #20 I 8 . The Concordy would like to thank Toby Proc- tor, our kind finance representative, for work- ing with us throughout the year. Student of the W eek:Brian Pidgeon by Kara Christian Staff Writer With graduation approaching, · The Concordiensis would like to honor the talents and services of . senior Brian Pidgeon. Over the past four years, Brian has been an enthusiastic member ofthe Class of 1996. Brian has been involved in a number of activities and services on and off campus. For the past two years, he has served as a Resident Advisor. This year he is the Head R.A. for South Col- lege, Raymond House and Wade Lupe Apartments. Hesayshehas particularly enjoy~d the position of R.A. becaus~ it has exposed him to a variety of different stu- dents who otherwise he may not. have encountered. Brian is also in- volved with Big Brothers/Big Sisters and has had a little brother 'for over two years now. Thinking back to the beginning ofhis involvement in . the progra,tn~ .a'rian · claims, 11 It· was a .challenge at:fi~t, but everything is: great now.\ With only two weeks until gradua- ticn, Brian js work- ing hard as the pub- licity director for the Senior Fund. At press time, participa- tion, was. low, but B~ian is hopeful that over the next two weeks seniors will become more enthu- siastic about donat- ing to the fund. Awayfrom Union, Brian is involved. in Olympic-style . weight lifting.. He has been in- volved ~n the sport since .high school. Each summer he partici- pates in the Empire State Games .as welt as a variety of other com- petitions. Here and away from school,. Brian trains throughout the year. After graduation, Brian.. will be backpacking through Europe. During his junior year, Brian spent a term abroad in Italy. He is anxious to return to Europe. After his adventure, he will plunge into the \real world\ as he begins his employment for Andersen Consulting in the fall. As an Applied Math major, Brian claims, \During fal'l term I had no idea what I wanted to do after graduation. I didn't know whether I wanted to work or traveL so I interviewed with Andersen to get some interview- ing experience.\ Anderson's interviewing pro- cess was both rigorous and <.:om- petitive. Brian explains, \By the time I got to the third interview, I was seriously considering Andersen. I made it through the process and got an offer. By that time the c.ompany.bad·F.eallyim~ pressed,me, 'se-t decided ,t& .aC'-· cept Brian claims, \Pm so lucky everything worked out f(u me.\ StattinginOctober, Brian will be training and working as an ana• lyst for Andersen Consulting. He says it wiU be wonderful experi- ence and. great -exposure to sev• eral differentcompanies. Looking back over the past four years;Brians says, \Union has changed a lot over the time · I've been here, but it's provided me with some incredible expe- riences, specifically my term . abroad in Italy. He continl.les, . \College has been such agrow- ing experien~e for me. I'm so much more out-going and inde- pendent now.\ Brian has mixed feelings · about graduation. He states, \Graduation has its good points and its bad points. I gl.less you can only handle so,muchof col- lege life before you're ready to move on, butl'l1 miss it. It wiH . just take some getting used to. Brian is member of the Theta · Delta Chi fraternity and is proud to mention their re- cent victory during Greek Week .. · Brian says his fra- ternity has pro- vided him with a close group of . :friends. He relates, \One ofthe best things about col- lege is that your ' surrounded by · your friends every- day, everywhere you go. You see people at thejr best and at their worst. You help people, and they help you. You grow together and build some wonderful friend- h . II s· • s 1ps. . nan con- tinues, \I've made some incredible friends here a1 Union. I feel like l've known some of my friends for my entire life. lf s strange to think that we'll all be · ·going otttseparate.ways..soon,.\ T.hrou:gh , his· involvement over the past fo1:1r years, Brian has.made a great impact on the UnionCollegecommunity. His experiences have prepared him . for successin his future-endeav- ors. ReUnion Weeke:nd M~y 31, dune· 1 &. ~' 199·6 Specia-l Hou·rs fo.r the Dining HallS* () Friday., May 31 : Dutch Hollow - 7:30am • 9pm West College Dinner 4;30 - 7'pm Rathskeller 9pm - 2am f) Sat. ..June 1 : Dutch Hollow .. 1. Oarn - 1 :3Qpm Limited RCC access from 5 ·- 6:30pm Rathskeller 1 2 - 7pm; 9pm .. 2am * Times noted above are ohangea to the regular schedule

Features '(]Ill' <!hntcorO:it>usis May 30, 1996 Page 19 One Down: and dinner aren't always ne.cessary either . I eat one Reflections on personal growth during my freshman meal day, and fill in with pop-corn, a food I find on the ground. West sucks. year. by Conor McKenzie In a little more than a week, my freshman year will be com- plete. Soon, I 'II be throwing all ofmy stuff into my parents c¥ and heading back to Burlington. It will be quite a change of life for me. I'll be spending my time in a superior city, hanging out with completely different people, living in a house, deal- ing with my parents, and gen- erally letting my brain atrophy. As a phase in my year is draw ... ingto a close, I thought I'd. look back on aU the things I ]earned this year. 1. Laundry Clean underwear in abun- dance can keep one away from the dreaded laundry machine. Jeans and flannels can go weeks; however, the life of boxers is much shorter. After fall term, I actually asked my mom to buy me boxers for Christmas. I found that with a supply of30 pairs or so, I could go about 3 or 4 weeks into the tetin; at which time I could turn them inside out and go another 3 weeks. · 2. Books I've determined that our bookstore actually takes plea- sure in robbing us. Even ifi buy all my -books used (which is impossible) I still end up pay- ing at least 75% of what I'd pay new. Affording books requires drastic measures; more daring students might consider theft. Personal'ly, [ simply don't buy books. Text books are almost always useless,, and one can aJ- ways borrow apaperback £rom a friend. The bookstore sucks. 3. Food The human need for 3 square meals a day is a complete fabri- cation. Faced with. boring, blancl, and repetitive meals in our wonderful dining halls, I tossed tha.t notion right out the window. To any college student breakfast is not a meal, and is universally skipped. Both lunch 4. Water Don't drink, it's usu- ally brown. 5. Beer Beer on the other hand is a truly amazing substance. Often called liquid bread, it has been found to be a great substitute for meals. Its uses go far beyond nourishment though. It makes your muscles grow bigger. It magically increases your wit, and conversational ability. One must be careful though; if taken in excess, beer makes you fall down. 6 .. Papers 12 point New York font. 7 .Storage Space in Dorm The floor. I organize my room about once a term, and put -what'To Do? by Jeffery Druzba Feature& Editor do-ctor more than anything else. I · thiAk I mistook doirtg well in bi- ology classes my whole life for a The Night I Wore Nothing But Saran Wrap 1 was- thinkin·g the other suresignthatlwasthenextTrap- · day .~ .. Here I am just about to en- per Iohn. No, er-ganic chemistry ter my senior year at Union in the will often tell one otherwise. I still fall and I really have no ideawhat don't understand what knowing by Sara Stonner Co11tributing Writer exactly I want to do with the rest how to play with ether and It was a whim really. The of my life, At least I'm not about dichlorobenzene has to do with a handy wrap was just sitting there to graduate and I still have no idea fascination for the human body .. · next to the microwave while I was what I want to do. That will he Heck,. what does cell biology in the kitchen fixing another me -next year,- I'rrt sure.l~V.e had··':~~fiavef~:dli;;withanything? Maybe round of drinks.; I don't ~ven : my share of interests, ooth here' what the' medical profession know how the i.d~a 'c'~me up 6'r. at Union and before, It's just that needs isalittle·mystiquehere and who q~meup with it for that mat- · many of them are phases~ or ac- there. People shouldnit knowev- . · ter. I know only that I stood, there tivities I would much rather keep erything. t'Doctor, why does my . _ · i11 the middle· of our green and as hobbies. There aren'ttoo many stom~ch h!lrt sa, bad?\ \Well . w;hitekitchen, being spun wildly things that I like to do that people Suzie; you see, ·there_ are these Qut of controlhy two people, each also get paid for. ~ . .-. things insid~ 'of you called 'cells of whom had a toll of the flimsy Sure, there was a·time when I and, well, I don't really know pseudo-plastic film ln'hand. The wanted to be an·'engine·er. Of what they do butl know that there cellophane zig-zagged up and course, I was something like 12 are good and bad on'es and the dowp my naked body forming years old. It started with civil en• bad ones ~e making you SICk. II ~hat would later be callel;l 'the gineering. This was the tirrte of Doctors as magicians who 'blame drinking dress.' I never intended mybigpoJ)Siclestiekexperimen.:. everything ori- 1 'bad ~umors\ in to·'t~ave the house like that: tal phase. I'had a dream ofbuild- the air. -· · · · \' · nipples exposed and ass sweating, ing a model house· out o:fpapsicJe· - So, I changed rtiy majofto En:. but the·prospects of shocking the sticks and taothpicks. I even glish. I laughed for a while my- campus one last time on a strange started to build the stairs once self but then 1 seriously tn6ught and random night was irresistible~ with Eimers glue. The sticks about it.· It's definitely worth a We, my friends and I, took very didn'tcooperatetoowell,though, shot to possibly be a writer. I littletlmegettingready. Iwanted and I gave up for the day. My wakeuponemominganddecide noreasontoturnback. So,anned dreams changed to maki11g a that today, wcrkjust· isn't gofug ·, :with1ny cocktail,-a packofCam-- joumey. I don't really know what I ex- pected or why I did what I did. To some, I explained thatthis was a sociology project. To others, I admitted that I truly wanted to see how people would react and that was that. Yet, to myself, I think I wanted only to assert my free- dom, hilt to tilt, with the feeling that perhaps this chance would never come again. I ineah really, when would I ever be able to prance around wearing only a kitchen condom again? Perhaps I am strangling myself, hanging on the some shred of youth and freedom that I thought was a joke only two weeks ago, before the dreaded iNterview that landed me a computer programm'ing'job in Boston. Perhaps I am experienc~ ing some pre-mid-life angst, filled with my fears ofleaving and· get- ting the life I sd desper,ately wanted four years ago, b,efore I met the best friends I would ever have. Mayb~, just maybe, I am scared that I will never do those model of one ofthose bridges that to get done. I make sonie coffee, els, and a yellow slicker, we em- things 1 have always dreamed of you see in Indiana Jane~ movies, sit. around, think artsy thoughts, barked ( IDa.!lY of us) on my little doing. crossing a big canyon, aU out of write ~own an id~~ for\SQ~JietJlirtg o·t:;::;:::::;.t:/\:t~\;,:· ==~· ========::::::;;;:::==================~~ toothpicks and string: That . to write about, ·take a nap, and ·~-·- ~ flopped qfickly as welL ~-- wait for the wif~ :to get hom,e. _ ~ :-- - , J:) ~ •. on 1 went to the electrical and Could it rea.lly. be.that ea.sy. o.r am ~~, ~-v~ mechanical engineering phase. I . I seriot~sly misled? That's what . used to save parts from broken ·. I've co;ne tip with. I'lr' probably , ~ ; , electrical stuff in hopes that I end up Writirigothings)n th~_fu- ~ Uc-.herC\' needed £or would build some creation. All I ture, be it novels or classified ads. ~ ..-:> ever seemed to do was take a bat- What I really want to do is to tery and attach it to a little motor. I ive in Maine and be with friends. A kid on the bus broke his I also want to owh lobstenraps Walkman one time, and I begged someday. Maybe I could be the him for the parts. The big finds only UnionCollege friendly edu- that day were the little motor and cated lobsterman around. I could · the red LED. That was a weird write during that time too. I'm time. I guess I'm lucky that I out- sure it will work out for the bet- grew the whole thing before I ter, and I'll be happy. turned it into a career.l can irrtag~ Good luck to the class of'96. inemyselfatage forty, attaching Whatever it is that you decide to· 9 volts to little motors and not do with yourselves,. find happi- havingacluehow to do anything ness in it and do it well. I'll be else. The village idiot of the en- hereforanotheryeardecidingmy gineering firm. life. For a while, I wanted to be a Graduation~ June 16 at 10 am. If in ... terestedJ pl~ase see Mrs. Marra in Stu- dent Activities, 408 CampusCen~ 'i stuff I never use under my bed and in my closet. Everything else goes on the floor. *Added bonus, clothes stored on the floor serve as a spare bed. 8. Classes before 2 pm Drink two large coffees. 9. An Easy way to get Antibiotics Go to Silliman hall and tell them you have a little ~;ough. lO.The Library's Value Not necessary. In fact the ad- ministration discourages use. They want you drinking on Fri. and Sat. nights, so they close it early both nights. Don't think of studying early Sunday either, that's sleep off hangover time. 11. Nobody hazes as hard as the Administra- tion In three years I get to look forward to the school sponsored \Senior Disorientation\ featur- ing 3 evenst centered around alchohol, including a \Booze Crt1ise\. The Deadline for . applications to the India Exchange Program has been extended to May 31st, Students can sign up at the EECS office. For info caii Prof. Gajjar@ x6014 MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSIC! - . ·snows Ltve . I , ust n . . PEARLJAM· LIVE- ETIIERIOOE BUSH· RAMONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHISH-DEAD DAVEMAmJEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more •.• I ·I CollctabltVInvll.P'I&45'&. ll New& 'Uud i: ·' l I All1995 OJ TaPQS Only JJ EAch. Rap. Rtgae &So11l

.. , ..... I Pav-e 20 Ma 30, 1996 'IDJ r <.!ItlttnHnintsi_~- . . _ - _ Arts & Entertainment ' ' Arts & [ntertainment I Choosing Between Two New Detective Movies is No \Mission: Impossible'' sive action sequences seen ·~ScREENING RooM throughout the trailers, a mini-elec- tronic war is being raged. Cellular phones and laptop computers click away as conclusions are reached, and we finally get to see who's been naughty and who's by Larry Paska,AI'ts Editot \Mission: Impossible.\ Star- ring Tom Cruise, Jon Voight, Emmanuelle Beart, HenryCzerny, Jean Reno, Ving Rhames, Venessa Redgrave. Directed by Brian De Palma ~ated PG-13, Paramount Pic- tures. \Spy Hard.\ Starring Leslie Nielsen, Nicolette Sheridan, Charles Durning, Andy Griffith. Directed by Rick Friedberg. Rated PG-13, Hollywood Pic- tures. ''Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to see 'Mis- sion: Impossible' and 'Spy Hard' on the same weekend and com- pare the two.\ Debuting in the widest release in Paramount Pictures' history, Mission: Impossible hits the screen with all of the force ex~ pected after its exhausting ad cam- paign. In fact, the emplayees of Paramount's marketing depart- ment are probably all going to see pay raises in the next few weeks because they have successfuHy sold America on this movie which, surprisingly enough, c:loes not Jive up to its massive hype. WhiJe this Mission is acceptable, it is Impossible to see why it is going to be such a huge hit. The sub- ject matter will not make much sense to the wide audience Para- mount hopes to attract. In short, those thrilled with high-tech es- pionage capers will be delighted with this update of the popular 1960s television series, but chil- dren and people with small atten- really nice. The previews seemed to prom- ise yet another summer explosive tion spans will not find this an actione~, but buyer beware: this exciting movie in the least. Mission is really just a chatty Cruise, in the movie that rede- movie with Cruise typing on fines the term \star vehicle\ (as if laptops until .the finale. The train he really needs to. be in-one), plays scene is worth the wait, even if it Ethan Hunt, who; in the opening is rather brief. Until this point, De sequences, infiltrates a high-class Palma's direction is rather flat, as party to recover a secret computer he mainly features one or two ac- disk. Paying homage to the past, tors at a time viewed through the movie opens with Mr. Phelps Dutch angle shots. Normally, (Voight) learning ofhisteam 'smis- such camerawork would keep the sion ... through a videotape setto viewer in a state of susp.ense, self-destruct. Phelps leads his wonderingwhatdangerousthing team to the party, where everyone will happen next to the hero. How- except for Hunt is killed (or so it ever, since the whole premise of would seem). Determined not to the movie is supposed to be con- abort the mission, Hunt disobeys stant danger for Hunt, De Palma orders and hires outside help to should have straightened his tri- continue his investigation. The pod and tightened the story. Too assistants (played by Reno and many lulls lose all the suspense. Rhames) travel with Hunt to Lan- Although Cruise dominates the gley,theheadquartersoftheCIA, show, Redgrave does turn in a where a tense and long breaking- nice supporting role as Max, a lady and-entering scene takes place. who plays a game of decoding Hunt breaks into a secret com- messages on the Internet with puter vault and is lowered through Hunt. Yet in the end, Mission: the ceiling on a cord, because if Impossiblesuccumbstothesame he touches the floor or his body problem seen in Assassins. temperature rises by one degree~ Watching people solve crimes and alarms will sound. The whole threaten others by typing on a scene is bri11iantly executed with- portable computer just isn \t terri- out music to keep the pace con- .·· blyexciting. InthisMission,once stant yet tense. Danny Elfman's super-charged As Claire, a wife and fellow op- remix ofLalo Schifrin's score fades, erative ofPhelps, Beart runs the thereisn'tallthatmuchto get ex- gamut of sexual expressions from cited about. Elfman's update of A to Z, yet she and Hunt (thank- the ctassic theine brings out the fully) never share a love scene. redundancy ofSchiftin's music. Czerny, as a CIA bureaucrat The marketers at HoJlywood named Kittridge, does his best to Pictures, on the other hand, are keep Hunt guessing. Unfortu- probably getting handed pink nately, the story is so convoluted slips for reJeasing Spy Hard on that it becomes difficult for the the same weekend as Mission;· audience to soft out who's on Impossible. If you couldn't get who's side. By the climax, set intotheTomCruisemovie,don't aboard a speeding train and .pro- settle for second-rate, becayse viding the viewer with the explo- this movie is pretty bad, even on Title 1. E.R. Seinfeld . CarolmeirltheCity 4. Friends 5 .. The Single0uy Rating 23.9 22 .. 3 19.9 19.1 16.6 Last week l 2 4 3 rttle. 1. Seven .. a \Nielsen rating.\ Instead of bringing us a well-needed Naked Gun 4, Nielsen stars as Dick Steele, Agent WD-40, a superspy in a. mcwie which p:;trodies the style and content of James Bond films, not th~ Die Hardtrilogy, Spy Hard is not a consistently funny movie. The funniest mo- ments occur only ,in its first twenty minutes. As it is, themovie is under an hour-and-a-half in length, and Qne gets the feeling that the writers ran out of things to make fun of quickly. Instead of sustaining humorous comic bits, Spy Hard.is like on~ big machine gun, shooting hundreds of bul- lets in every direction, hoping most of them will hit the mark. Sadly, most don't, and it's quite obvious which lines were in- tended to be comical. In the film's best two minutes, Steele is seen on board a helicop-:- terpilated by Mr. T, listening to a tape which, yes, will self-destruct. Instead ofhissing smoke, the tape explodes, destroying the entire helicopter. Steele, in true Bond form, parachutes to safety,light- ing cigars and pouring himself a scotch from mid-air. He kill~ the bad guys, but his sweetheart falls off a cliff in the process. Now, fifteen years later, he's called back into action when his nemesis, General Rancor (Andy Griffith), comes back to threaten the secret agent and the:entire ·world. · · - The best scene in the entire movie is the title sequence, which parodies the credit scenes of ev- ery .James BDnd movie. With \WeirdAl\ Yankovic singing the theme (itself reminiscent .of any Bond theme, but most similar to the themes from Goldfinger and Thunderball), the background comes alive with silhouettes of naked, swimming ladies, and eventually babies, cows, chickens, and electric fans. Sadly, just like similar comedies, the end credits feature (unfunny) jokes in be- tween the list of cast and crew. Steele is recruited by the direc- tor of the intelligenc~ agency (Durning). Of course, the direc- . tor is a bit loony, too, hiding him- self in his office furniture 'to sur- prise guests. Sheridan plays a secretagent who helps Steele find Rancor's island base and destroy a nuclear missile he plans to launch. Along the way, they ·battle the odds and even find love.. Steele gets to express his true feel- ings for her in poetry that begins with raindrops and flowers and ends with dog droppings. Spy Hard would be hilarious as a focused P.arody of the James Bond series. Instead, ittakes time to stray from the \story\ to pro- vide cheap and unwarranted hu- mor. Steele and his lady-friend are eating in a diner and, before they leave, decide to take a break: what follows is a parody ofthe diner scene from Pulp Fiction. Later, Steele hides out in a convent and ends up sending up Sister Act. Nielsen and Sheridan also find themselves on an L.A. bus head- ing downtown, with Ray Charles as the bus driver, when -·. look out! The bus has no brakes! Is this Speecfl No, it'sjust stupid. Additional movie parodies in- chtde scenes from True Lies iU1d Home Alone, and although they are mildly amusing, they do not hold togeth~r an already weak concept - they just unravel the few threads even further. What emerges from aU this is a movie which i_s so unpolished, so randomly funny, that it seems al- most incomplete. Jokes for the sake of a quick laugh do not work; the comedy needs to be consis- tent and relevant to the whole to hit bullseye. When Spy Hard unloads its \comic bullets'~ ott the audience, it misses the target so much, it should have been sent back for more practice. Ratings: Mission: Impossible: ** I/2 SpyHard: *112 -c ~-. D se fe ~ th S1 w fn se le. of 0 pt Sc M Gi gu ist Cl 01 ce jm C< M pe fo1 sit

rts & Entertainment _ liTI~r Oillttnwait>usis • May 30, 1996 • Page 21 Aris 4 [ntertainmen-t The Top Sevens at 7 (actually, at 7:30) compiled by Lawrence Paska Art$ Editor .I la©Cal Arts Calendar CLOSING SUNDAY, JUNE 2 _ : The Capital Reperatory Company presents William Kennedy's play, Grand View, at the Market theater, Ill North Pearl Street, in downtown Albany. For more information and ticket · prices, call 462-4534. Out of the way, Uncle Edna! Adios, ~nswer Girl! Here is a sample ofthe Top Seven lists featured every Tuesday night on WRUC 's new talk show hosted by Larry Paska and Chris Jones, Between The Lines. If you think these are bad, check out the stupid humor ofnext week's ·Iiston the final show, which airs Tuesday from 7-8 PM. And remember, we are not responsible for any misinterpretation of the content in these lists! MONDAY,JUNE3 . TOP7THINGSJ:HE FOOD ATWESTWOULDSAY IF ITCOULD Emmy•·and Obie-award winner Marilyn Soko1 will be the final entertainer in the Ep1pire ' · ·Cente~ at the Egg's new cabaret series.as well as the final offering ofthe 1995-96 season with 7. \I used to be a pineapple, but now I'm not. I'm a sausage.\ TALK: a performance' at 8:00 PM. The cabaret series featured seven ~rt~sts over the course of the 6 · ''Please don't put me on that filthy plate!\ 1995 ..: 96 season.... . - . . · 5. \I'm strong enough for a man, pH-balanced for a woman.\ 4. ''I suck!\ Sokol is an actress, singe·r, and comedienne whose -career has s~panned the continent frqm J. \Meow!\ Broadway to Hollywood-.. starting out in the firsf national touring company of.Man of La .. 2. \I have that 'not-so-fresh feeling· today.\ Mancha with Jose Ferrer. She won the Obie Award in 1972 for her performance as Ltrcy I. \There's a fungus amongus!\ Lockit it.1 the Chelsea Theater Center's production of The Beggar's Opera. In 1992, she won TOP 7 REASONS TOT AKEA TERM ABROAD: an Emmy for a series of comedy programs produced by ABC-TV in Washington, D.C. Lo\' 7. The drinking age in most other countries is 18. cally, Sokol has starred in Vagabond Stars; a musical revival about Yiddish Theatre, at the 6 .. The chance to see 16-sided buildings liketheNott in foreign Berkshire Theatre Festival. places. Tickets for the final performance of the season are $18 for adults and $16 for seniors and 5 · Two words: No Marriott. ch. Hdren 12 ap,d under. For further information and reservations, co~tact.fh~ .Empir, e Center at 4 · \Sex on the Beach, isn' 1 just a fraternity party, but something you can have nightly on trips near an ocean. The ~gg Box Office at 473-1845. 3. Three words: Away From Schenectady. . i' •' CLOSING .WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5 _ The New york State Theater Institute presents Beauty and the Beast at the Scha~h~ Fine Arts Center on the Russell Sage College Campus in Troy, running tonight and June 4·5. Tick- ets are $15 for adults, $13 for students and senior'citizens, and $8' for children 12 and under. . An $8 \student rush\ ticket is offered 30 minutes before curtain time. Call the box office at .27 4-3256 for mbre information. ... 2. What's another school going to do if you. get bad grades? Put you on academic warning? 1. You can rant and rave about the Greek system all you want, and no native will understand or care about what you're saying. TOP7EVENTSATUNIONTHISWEEKEND 7. Guest speaker: NASA Engineer (whoops, that's canceled). 6. Mountebanks' Cabaret (wait, that was two years ago) . 5. Fraternity Parties (oh, wait, they're all on social probation). 4~ Coffehouse (what's that?!) . ~n.,Concert: ·Union College Jazz Eusemble and· La Chic ~n·Bones ,. 3. Rent a Movie Frollf the College Center Night (oh, sorry, they're all stolen). -' · .. '. La G-!Jic. 'n, l}e,nes is a ten.,.piece 2: Tom.Brokaw Lecture in the Nott (wait, we're not invited). l. TGlF- Thank'God It was LAST Friday! {;QUflffV?:.Ofthe ·u ~a: .. ; , jazz EJF,~l.lP:,\;a~s~m~l~dr~ b,y .· ;~,· .. ; · . Dept of Performing Ar.ts S chen ecta~ y-based . .composer r.==========::;::::. ,;:;::: ... ====~ ... ,:;::. :;::; .================. · :::, ==============:::;:::.=::::;:::::::;::::'==:::;:;::::::::::;, ·The Un•ion Coltege Jazz En- . at1dperformerCP,arlieDana. Com- semble, untierth.edirectionofPm- prise<i of a fema~e y,ocalist 2 five fessor Tim Olsen, wilJ perform on trombones,. and a rl)y.thtn ~ectio~ Wedn€Sday ,June 5 at.S:OO PM in La Chic 'n Bonesperfonm; a wide the lobby ofthe Yuhnan Theater. spectrum of Americ~n popular Special guests La Chic 'n Bonf!s standards and jazz works, nearly will also perform. This,concert is all arrangeclby D~.na .. Each qfthe free and e.pen to,tbe public. · fivetrombonists-a!lact~veCapi- The Union College Jazz En-. tal-:ar:((a .mmdciaJ'!S \';\';' hriQ.gSt a semble is made up, of Union Col- unique sound and a unique. .per- lege students as well as members sonality to the.music. · ~~·I \, REUNION·WEEKEND 1996 • ~ ~, • • •• ' ·~ ~ ~ • ' • • < Unlike (as(xear., ReUni.oJJ. Weekend falls with.in the ac«Jdemic year: May 31 -June 2. We . \•• .~ .. -~~ .. , . - ; . .. .· .. ' ~op~ {lliU,lY student~ wiUjoinfllumni and participate in a few ofthe weekend's events. A full · . · · schedule wUI be listed in the Concor'diensis and a brochure will be sent to your mailbox next week, but pat a couple of the events on your calendar today. Plan on attending the following ReUnion events·: : · · '; FRIDAY,MAY~l.ST. ~i_ri-erva\ s. Foot Race 1:30pm, Alumni Gym · · Can you keep up with Union's alumni? Find out by racing in a I mile or SK run around campus. Prizes awarded. T- shirts for all paid entrants! Herina{l Nickel '51: 3pm, N ott. Memorial of the Schenectady community. According to Professor Olsen, Current members include saxo- ~'there's a lot ofhiclgen talent on phonists Mike Bullen '97 and . this campus and in the commu- ScottGilman(RPI),tlutistAimee nity, and I'm glad that we have Marko '99, trumpeters •Brian the opportunity to~,provi~e this Gilman '98 and Dan Rickson '98, showcase. Admissio_n statistics . Life as a Foteig~ guitarist Puneet Pawha '97, bass- show that hundreds ofUnion stu- . Corr~spondent & ist Rich tee '96. drummer Craig dents have a background in vo- Ambassador Join Hennan Nickel as he discusses how Union impacted his life from serving as a member ofThurgood Marshall's NAACP legal staff to his24 years as a foreign correspondent for' TIME& FORTUNE to serving as a US Ambassador to South Africa in the 1980's. Champion '98, and vocalist Susie cal or instrumeJ?,tal mus·jc,. yet ·; Olsen (Russell Sage). The con- many giveup these activities. cert will feature standards by such when they arrive on campus.\ We jazz greats as Dizzy Gillespie, John encourage folks to get their horns ~v_ • '· • Coltrane, Sonny Rollins, and outoftheatlic?nd comeplaywith'. Mountebanks . MilesDavis, all arranged by trum- us '' For more information about Cabaret . - . . . ' peter/pianist Olsen. Also per..: this concert or other activities of fanned will beanodginal campo- . the PerformingA,£15-DeP:artment, sition by bassist Rich Lee. please call ~88-620 I. R~Union: Parade .. • • t. All-you-can-eat · Country Picnic Ben & Jerry's Socia) Hour Holland 9pm,Chet's LiYc music and pcrfonnanccs by alumni and students. SATURDA Y,JUNE 1St ttamstart . . Cheer on alumni as they march around campus. Parade route hegins on North Lane and ends in Memorial Chapel 12: 15-2pm, Alexander Field Meal swipe for students. Sign-up with Dining Services (CC, 2nd floor) before Wednesday, May 29th. lOpm, UCDH Enjoy Ben & Jerry's icc cream compliments ofBoh '62. B&J's CEO. Alumni will be returning to campus to catch-up with old friends, tour the campus. and remember · wonderful times as undergradu:.~te students Alumni cclchrate rcl!11ions every five years with classes ending in l 'sand 6 's returning this year for the festivities To date more than 300 alumni w11l be returning with many more last minute registrations expected Plcasccontact the Annual GIVIng & Alumni Programs office at ext 6168 i fyou have any yucstions

PersQnals and Classifieds Brendina: happy 2 · , my favor- cauldrons bubble. Brew, brew-- llex on you! Youknowwhoyouare! ite witch hunter. Much Love, Foxy Brendon: Hope you had a great time Mon- day night. DeboraandAiexexpectam even bigger party in Sept.! Love, US QEG, Hope you're having fun in Adiron. Always thinking of you. Miss you Hugs and Kisses ... Love Your, C.B. ~--------~~--------~--~--------------------~----------------------~ Hey, has any- TUESDAYS & TH RSOAYS SAM. TO 3 M $1 PER WASH.~ 5Ttif WASH fREE 7 WASHES FOR $5. 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAIL:. {OR DEPOSIT IN t:XJR ~GESTION BOX} THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH. INCLUDe YOIJR .YAM! AND ~ESS; NAME:--~------------~------------------ ADOREss: __________________ ~-------- Memorial Service for Bill Huntley '34 Sunday, June 2, 1996 ReUnion Weekend 11 :30am Union College's Memorial Chapel. Tree Planting & reception im~ediately following in Ch~ster Arthur Courtyard. Please Note: The Ecumenical Church Service will be the Memorial Service for Bill Huntley '34. ATTENTION SENIORS: one seen my . blue sequined cod piece? Cash reward! I don't li}ce this table! Blah i Vote For Your Alumni Council Representatives This Friday Three Representatives will be ·chosen from: Sarah Balk Seth Brown Ken Chase Beth Decker Rich Fuerst Amy Herman Carolyn Miller Andrea Zaremba Stop by the Student Forum booth to Vote! urenaen: thanks for taking such of me. Love, Sharpy re Happy B-day anyway! - Shveta ... when flowers blossomed I ike breasts on a 12-year-old girl... Girls, How 'bou~ another run around the Nott --Naked! S.S. .. . Anjello, Def Leppard's new disk sounds like mutant New Kids. Good Luck Celica on everything. You nood it! J.K. Love, 11 Sweater\ Love Always- Rita Min, Your diet's not working! Good luck to all my friends!. How will you live w/o me? Love, Celica Love ya- Shveta DearShitheed- I hate you! ..:C To all the girls that did the \sexy lingerie Nott run\ we still need to find our clothes theifl-C To the class of 1996: stay out of my way, . I'm oin to Medschool!- Celica - WELCOME TO LAGE:RTAG THE FUTURISTIC LIVE: ACTI.ON LA!;iER GAME. A FANTASY WORLD OF STRATEGY AN 0 RAW EXCITE~IENT. YOUR t-11SSION: TO SEEK, F'IND At-<D;PE;'\C'71VATE OPPOSING TEAM 1-II::MBERS FOR POINTS USI~<G THE WwRLO'S ~lOST ADVANCED LASER EQUIPMENT. LAS ERTAG :s F't.AYEO IN AN ADRENALINE-CHARGED ATMOSP-HERE. CI·H':'\TE:::. OY SPE.CIAL \FF'ECT LIGHTING, FOG MAC::HINES AND HIGH E:NERGY 'vlU!JIC ALL IN A SL,ACK .LIGHT MAZ.E ARENA. fast paced ' heart pvmpin.d' ' wild • explosive ·WITH VIDEO GAME ARENA & REFRESHMENT CENTER BooK A LAsER TAG PARTY .,. FOR YOUR GROUP OR CFFIC::E NOW, GREAT FOR BACHELOR PARTIES ! GAMES START AT ONLY$ 5.00 AnnoUnCing the AT&T \Ultimate ROAD TR:fP\ swe8pstak.es. Studying abroad this Fall? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 10 Gtl»m Plll:ZE W'.INNERS - Round-Trip Air Transportation from the u.s. to the country where you will study. Plus thousands of other chances to win .•. • Le;;~ther-bound passport folders • High-quality currencY converters To _ep.ter, call \ . , aoo 78q-qqq.7. . . . Or see your S~udy Abroad Counselor for more details. •.;.: ;:;urchaoe ne~e~o.iTY Vou! where proh1.b1ted. sweeplitakt!ft erid• ~-,11/96 fJpen -to cithena of .tho ~ .;,. 18 -yean or older~ at.tendinO .;chool 4.bro4~ for the Fal_l ·95 Semester ttlrough pa.rt1ciJ?«tl.ng i:::\l'boia. see your stud.y Abroad counselor fer offi:c1.•l iul~ll and· details. '{; :9'96 AT&T • . . -.· s m the res Th bet WI is 1 lat~ an go toJ we col th~ tru pe1 Ra wJ at gu it : far stt ria M: ho sp or w~ tei rh ke Sc in ne th N1 IS pc Tl in Ctl fa ch th M M B: sp o' gE Ia pi 4: 0 th th lo w sc

' . Sports · · '(!II,e Ulonwr~icmais • May 30, 1996 • Page ,Z3 Greg Kalis~ StaffWriter non-Ranger fans but Ranger hat- ers. These fans have been cack- 1 ing over the latest Ranger play- off exit. So soon we forget that they were the Stanley Cup Cham- Sports are so stupid, Every team pi~ns two years ago. Same for the in every sport will tell you that New Jersey Devils. Yes, they. their primary mission is to win. their_· choked horribly in missing the respectiveleag~echampionship. playoffs this past season, but how that's fine. And there is nothing can their accomplishments of a better than when your team wins. yearago Sttddenly he ignored sim- What makes sports so redundant ply because a new season is at is the factthatjust afe.w months hand? The way I' see it, the team later, this same team. starts yet that wins their respective cham- another season with that same pionship should be giv_tm an au- goal in mind. Why do you want tomatic bye into the playoffs the to win the championsh~p? You just following year. won one. As those whorea4 this How about adding an extra column with the rel.igious fervor round to each .playoff system? In that can only be ex pecten from ~ this final rounci, J.ast yeat' s win- true <K; Kornerfanknow,lhap- . ner piays this year's winner. For pen to beafanaticoftheNew York example, if the Bulls are to defeat Rangers. Seattle in theNBA Finals, let them . Two weeks ago,.they were playHaustoninonemoreround. whisked outofthe NHLplayoffs If the Red Wings come back and at the hand$ of the rtlighty Pen- win it all, let them take the Cup guins. It is a strange paradox, but . away from New Je~sey. The true it seems that those who .ar:e not champion takes what someone fans o(the Rangers are not only else h~s got. lt should be taken one with Kalish. Stern to Kalish back to Stern, he shoots .... they score!!!-!!!! (inside, inside). Sincethi-s.isthe last newspaper of the tenn, and 1 am a graduating senior, this is hence the final 'K' d:irectly, not via some alternate Komer ever to grace the pages of route ..... Rico Brogna is the best ... the Concordiensis. Over the past player in baseball, period ..... Pay three years, the 'K' Korner has attention New York Knick fans! become a staple in the literary di- Here is your starting line-up for ets of some of Union College;s next se{;lson. Michael Jordan and most int¢Uectual people. I know Reggie Miller will work the point, that its absence will take some JuW:an Howard wiJI play at the time to get used to. As 1 set offon three spot, Shaquil:le O'Neal will tny course through the make a\smooth \transition from uncharteredanddarkenedwaters center to power forward, and in the land of unemployment, I Patrick Ewing will grac~ the cen-. would Hke to_ thank my fans, and ter position. Magic Johnson · theotherone,formakinganoften comes off the bench. monotonous and laborious task Remember when there used to enjoyable and worthwhile. I be.aMem~rial Day doublehe~der? would also like to thank the ntt- Everi we college people are not merous people who have wom the too young to .remember those hatofsportseditorovertheyears days. Not only are doublehead- for teaching me that a deadline is ers an ancient memory, now we only a deadline .if itis enforced. If have to think hard torecall the Me~ not for their collective cowardice morial Day game! Six teams had and my ability to use threats of the .day off this past Monday. physical violence, I and my col: Thenagain;wehereafVnion_Col- umn would have been replaced legeprobablydidn't.evfnr.ealize long ago. A great many great it ·was; · Memoti~l · · Day things have been great during anyway ...... Orm:tdwettet digging these great lastfour great years. fofif'4t c¢nt~r. He finds and kicks As the curtain comes down on yet it up. ahead to Stern in a two-on- another Union College institution, and with the strains ·of bagpipes echoing in the not too distant fu- ture, I would like to sign off with the ten things that l felt were the greatest sports stories during my four years at Union College. Good luc~, Godblessand ..... remember the name! 10. Grand wetter and Klopfer re.- peat as Union College Volleyball Champipns. 9. Evander Holyfield defeats Riddick Bowe to regain heavy- weightchampionship belt. '. · · 8. Houston Rockets become low-~. est seed to win NBA champion-: ship. , 7. Delventhal resigns. 6. Reggie Miller scores 25 fourth- quarter points ip the playoff game at Madison Square Garden. 5. Bills come from 35 down to defeat Oilers in playoffs. 4. Dwight Gooden pitches a no- h ·\' 1tter. 3. Mark Messier guarantees . Game 6 victoty over Devils and scores 3rd period hat-trick. 2. Cal Ripken breaks Lou Gehrig's record for consecutive games played. 1. The New York Rangers win the Stanley Cup (you knew that was coming). Baseb .. all' s ·Decline Chris Leone SportsStajJ Long before roost ofthe lfnion student body was born, Meqlo- rial Day was an important day for Major League Baseball. ·uwas -a holiday when a family could· spend an aftemoon at a ballpark, or turn on the televis.ion and watch their local team play an af· temoon contest against adivision rival. It w.as a day when theY an- kees might have taken on the Red Sox, and if you were around back in the 1950's you mighthave wit- nessed a doubleheader between the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants. Now it is the 1990's and baseball has seen popularity and attendance fall. This past Memorial Day is a great indication why baseball is in its ' current state. In the Northeast, we baseball fans are very fortunate to have a ch~ice of three teams to support: the Yankees, Red Sox, and the Mets. However, on this past Monday afternoon, Major League Baseball decided that if we wanted sports we shot._lldtum to NBC at 3 o'clock towatehanNBA playoff game between Chicago and Or- lando. The schedulers decided to place the RedS ox in Oakland for a 4:30 game, while the Yankee vs. California game was not seen on the east coast untU l Opm. If all this was ~ot had enough for the local baseball fan, it got worse when the New York Mets were scheduled to have Memorial Day as their only day·off during a ten game home stand. It makes no · sense that a team in the largest sports market iJ.?. the country· would ·not have a game scheduled on-a day when most of the COil!\'~ try, including altschool children, h~d a:dafoff · AU totaled, eight teams had the day off and only half of the ten games started be- fore 4:30 on the east coast. An employee at the Commis- sioners Office of Major League Baseball Public Relations Depart- ment commented on the poor scheduling with the following statement. «No reason for yesterday's [Memorial Day} scheduling; we have received a number of complaints about the issue. Inter-league play might be scheduled in the future for possi- Ftllow Seniors Plea!';e contribute to senior fund'96. It is ~ur way,.a_s.a class •. to leave our per.manant mark at . · Union. UNION COLL·EG·B'S 200th Graduatilig Clan Send donations to Senior Fund' 96 C/OJon Shapiro Box 1118 bly M¢mori!!.l D.ay or Labor Day.\ Th<:< employee who d-id not give his riame also stressed the fact that \next year's schedule had not been finalized.\ rh~'~ncr.es in next year's sched- ule will.beneeded if the tean1 own- ers, who continue to-comp-lain fn the press about dwindling home attend;:t:nce, wish to see some im- provement. Recent polls show that chiidren in the 1990's are in ore interested in theNBA and the NFL more than in baseball. Baseball will never regain the popularity ·that it had during past decades if they continue to chase away young viewers. Inter-leaguepla_y might work, but day games on weekends and on holidays would be a great idea to bring back the spectators. Union College Department of Performing Arts and the M~untebanks Present Tickets Availahie at ll\ox Office 388-6545 the \·'•Jlman Theater $1 G•\tr\'l PwhliC' SS S•\rtir Chl&eln 11•• wttll Ua.._ t.D. . ~t ~MC~ lc .. Quality Word Processing at Reasonable Prices. Professional ~mes that potential employers will WANT to read. Fast Turnaround; Work Guaranteed ·- .. - II!IM- --- ... -· I Just call Janine at I : 382-7150. Leave : 1 message if necessary 1 ... -

Sp .. - . ~ May 30, 1996 · . 'QU~e illnurnri)ieusis r)age 24 Youth Olympics 1996: Sunshine, Smiles and Success by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Among the smiles and sun~ shine, endless cheering could be heard emanating from Union's football field during the 1996 Youth Olympics on Sunday, May 26. Over one hundred ScheAectady children gathered together with about two hundred Union College students for the fourth-annual Big Brothers/Big Sisters event. · A Union student, Lee Popper, who graduated four years ago, started the Youth Olympics in 1993. While he was an intern at City Hall, he learned the city had eliminated similar events due to budget cuts. Mr. Popper's posi- tion and duties are now carried out by Geremie Camara, chair ofthe games. Mr. Camara would like to thank all of those involved and encourage people to participate next year. \This is something ev- ery year that students choose to do. The students go the adminis- tration, not visa versa. This pro- vides evidence that students can take charge and make things hap- pen if there is a --coalesced effort and organization.\ Students now organize the event every year. This Sunday Union's Intrafratemity Council and Panhellenic Council awarded Big Brother/Big Sisters of Schenectady and Saratoga Coun- ties a check for $1 ,200, which were the proceeds of Greek Week '96. All of the kids waited to be matched with a Big Brother or Big Sister to be teamed up for the games that were to be .played The youngst€rs quickly attached themselves their \Bigs\ and pro- ceeded to engage in the various activities planned for them. Among the events was the three-legged race, Drip; Drip Drop, which was simileir to Duck, Duck Goose, and a potato-sack race. Another activity that enticed high-fives and shouts of encour- agement and spirit was the egg on a spoon race, which also in- cluded quickly swallowing down two crackers and whistling a tune. All of these races required team work and much effort on both the Little and Big's part. By cooper- ating and mimicking their\Bigs the \Littles\ became excited about the games and caught on quickly in terms of the rules. Most man- aged to find the fun in the game and enjoy whatever it was they were doing. As long as their \Bigs\ were by their sides, the \Littles\ had few qualms about participating in all the events. Some of the other ev.ents in- cluded a football toss with Howard Cross, the New York Gi- ants tight end. He came to thi~ year's Youth Olympics as a favor to Union sophomore, Keith Fairclough, who has worked se- curity at Giants events. Representatives from the Non- Violence Center in Schenectady Cross oftbe NY Giants was a favorite with tile kids and Union ' students alike (Laurel Ruma TC) also had a station at the games. They did an integrative game in which \Bigs\ and \Littles\ sat in a circle and wove a ball of yam which represented unity. Union students, Adam Richman, Pakhi Arya and Erin Smythhelped to run the activity and all thought it was very successful and fun. There was a huge barbecue for lunch which was accompanied by face paintingandtie-dying. There was also a snow-cone machine to cool everyone off from the blaz- ing sun. At the end, all participated in a big game of Octopus. All ofthe \Bigs\ got up and applauded the \Littles\ md then the \Littles\ did the same for the \Big£.\ Though everyone's faces were tanned and even burned by the end of the afternoon, all had an activity-filled day. Union stu- dents were able to give back to the community. There are pres- ently 260 namesofthewaitinglist for children to get a big brother or big sister. All of these kids, in- cluding the 90 who already have \Bigs\ were invited to the games. The planning committee felt that the support from students was unsurpassable and the Youth Olympics as a whole went much m()re smoothly than last year. The fact that there are still260 children on the waiting list is proof that Union Students have not fully taken advantage of the Big Broth- ers/Big Sisters Program. After the incredible turnout at theYouth Olympics, however, the Plamiing Committee hopes that more stu• dents will become involved and apply to have a Little for nextyeat. Ben Fox, a junior and treasurer of the Planning Committee, com- mented: \Events such as these render all apathy invaiid among Greek and Independent students. When an event is as successful as this one, one can only com- mend the efforts of all participat- ing members and hope that itelic- its more involvement in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Program.'' Another student who helped run the show on Sunday was sophomore Margaret Sullivan. She stated; \I don't have the per- sonal time to give in order to have my own Little. However, the Youth Olympics gave people like myself a chance have thatexperienee. It UJiion students enjoying various activities with children from the community (LaurelRuma TC) . _ ··:: was a great time and if seems as though all the kids thoroughly enjoyed themselves. I was im- . pressed at how well organized it _ was and how smoothly every- thing went.\ · ~\'·\\ Freshman,\Erica Stech€nberg said, \Theday was am-azing! The little kids got so excited and in- volved in each of the events of- fered. You could tell by the ex- pression on their faces that they looked up to us as role models. We were their motivation and en- couraged them to one day sirive to become college students as well. The day emanated with laughter and positive spirits. 11 Jaquie Cohen, a senior at the event, commented: \The day went exceptionally well. There were so many volunteers, much more than last year, The events ran well and student spirit only enhanced a really successful and weU-planned day.\ Other students who 'attended and participated genetally felt that the Youth Olympics repre- sented how much the student body of Union cares about Schenectady. John Fader, a sophomore, said, \The coopera- tion at this big event was incred- ible, allowing for the successful entourage of events to .run tlaw- lessly.\ The Planning Committee feels that the success of the Youth Olympics this year will add to the number of matches that Union has thus far. Big Brothers/Big Sisters needs as many committed volun- teers as possible. Next year hopes to see just as many dedicated students and kids at the games. After a day ofhard work, much organization and sun- filled laughter, Erin Spaulding commented: \It was a beneficial day for the Union students and the kids ... weallhad a blast!\ Impact a Young Life and Make a Difference Join Big Brothers Big Sist~rs!

