- - - ·-· ,. \\: Page 6 ._March 6~ 1997 . illlp~ UltnttL1dlit.'ltSt5' ' . ' : - ' - 0 PIED Opinion The End Draws Near A Faculty Perspective. on Hazing RobertCohen Staff Writer As the end of the tenn nears, there are those of us· who are screaming with joy and those who are screaming in agony. Which ever category you fall into, the one constant is that the term is ending. In my book, thisis a good thing because it means one term closer to graduation and to getting the hell out of here. Just this past Monday, I started down a long trail of\lasts\ at good old Union, the last time I had to register. I believe that this last trail is an important part of education here because it teaches us that aiJ things, including thC>se we love, must come to an end. The under- classmen might not yet grasp what it means to start down the \last\ road, so as much as this article is amusement for the more mature seniors, .I see it as an educational opportunity for underclassmen. First lets start with the most sig- nificant last of this term, I regis- tered for the last time. 1 do not think many people really under- stand what this means, basically I no longer have to deal with the BS oftheregisteringprucess. The cards, advisors signatures, cards, no classes to take, the cards, etc .. The I ist could go on for ages, though the most abundant occur- rence on the list would be that of cards. I no longer have to leave my future in thehan<is-ofthe mys,.. terious force that decides ifl do or do not get a card,. it no longer has any control c:>ver me. I have never quite understood the pro- cess, then again most things are better left unknown. I no longer have to take a elass just beca'l:lse there is nothing else to take. I did that for the last time this tenn. Of course, it is not the registrars of- fice fa'l:lltthatthere are no classes to take, we can blame this onthe departments. ThGugh now that I never have to register again, I have blamed them for the last time. By now you may be wonder- ing is there another significant last ofthis term, well yes there is, and it is really quite simple, it's the tenn itself. My last winter term. No more s n<Jw in dreary Schenectady, 110m ore blistering cold weather. No mure bleak, bland, muddy (tllough April is un the way), oolor1ess Union cam- pus. No more walking to and fro parties freezing, because this is my last winter term. No more snowed in parking lots and the people that can't drive in them. No more icicles falling from the top of the Reamer waiting to strike fear into the hearts of those who walk be11eath them. (And those stupid chains go also) No more heat in my dorm room. (I mean that literally) In the spring • when they decide to turn on the heat, [ can open my window and let it out. No more snow falling from the tops ofvarious buildings around here waiting for its next . I'm writing in response to last week's discussion of hazing, in particular the talk by Illene Stevens and the column by Tony LaVecchia. Tony called on us to \come together and agree {on) what sort of activities we find to victim, be unacceptable\. I'd like to put H()wever, there are a few lasts forward my own position on this yet to be achievedbythissenior, issue, hoping to help build the some happy, some sad. I know I • community consensus he seeks. will thoroughly enj()y my last day · I believe that initiation rites are of class, my last paper, and my . a tegitimate way to create bond~ last test. I will not enjoy rny last ' ing and enhance group identity. I party, my last drunk Weeknight, went through a frater-nity experi- my last day at Union, the last day ence in my time, and am probably with the place l ha:ve called home the better for it. But the goal for four years. Because after I should be bonding, not bondage. have successfully completed all Herewith three possible guide- these lasts, off I go to the real . linestoeliminatehazingatUnion. world. I will cherish each ''last\ First, restrict actual initiation to as it comes because I know it will a one-night event _ perhaps the never happen agai11,and l encour- culmination of a week of prepa- age all seniors to do the same. For · ration, but something short of a now, I am contempt in the fact,· Hen Week. Andtheprepatatory that 1 no longer have to deal with tasks should relate sensibly to the a few ofthe things that have made • objectives of initiation: for ex~ my time here less enjoyable, I; ample, memorizing mentbers' know that these thiflgs are over· full namesandhometowns,orthe and they will never be back to traditians or by-laws of the fra- hauntme again. teti1ity or sorority. Second, pledges' physical safety should never be compro- mised in any way. Many strange things happened to me the night of my initiatian. I remember them we'll. Some I can barely believe happened! But nm1e were.danger~ ous. Third; we must agree on zero tolerance for the use of alchohol. No drinking. None. H's just roo dangerous. 1 remember a night twenty years ago when liquorlost \:lS two pledges, and sent a third to the hospital for two months. Their car never came close to making the tum from University A venue onto Lennox Road. It hit the stone wall h1stead. Which is a stronger Greek or- ganization? The one that depends on alchohol to do the work of bonding, and; on the exercise of coercive power to impress a ·pledge? Ortheonethatdraws the pledge in through activity, thoughtful discussion, group pur- pose? ·· Sincerely~ · Bruce L. Reynolds A Positive suggestion for U Dear Larry Paska, Your recent lamentation in fhe Concordy prompts me to suggest a positive direction for the maladies you ad<\Iess. I am involved in a strik- ingly vital effort at the Univer- \ \ \ \ \ '\ \. \ \ \ \ \ \ sity ofNew Hampshire regarding sustainable living. I lmve given President Hull some details .Do you see any potential forthehar- nessing of some of that negative energy into a campus-wide pro- gram of education and involement in the biologic reali- ties of the next millenium? More information is available if you wish. Tony Bower class of 1946 \ \ \. \· \ \ ,, \ .. '\ \-\E.'f U~lOL) lT5\'~![ l)CN'i \-\Pt\lri ~ Tl n'\~ to , \IC\Ge 'l()~~ ~~~\ON'! GIL.K. OF AU..~ 6~\~\ ~? ~~T £of('6tHIIJU \ ' ' . . I t>ct-..Je ? ~E u...-, T~\J()L\JcnEN r s l-lE\l6R f>~E\..\. e:-A-SIER.. II \ .. ..J \lST u.\ec..K 1 <;..t- l f:, AN c \'Res TO!! 'fC\J' ~ 6' SO(;IA (.J... '/ I LON~aws { .. S N~()\f! I •

EDITORIAL. As Tony and I prepare to hand over the rein~ to the new e(iitors, . ·who will be elect!;:d today, it is nearly impossible not to get.a.little nostalgic. Over 'th.e past three tenns Union has been transformed, but there ls plenty of room to grow. In case anyone wondered what goes into your lovely C0-n1::ordy each week, here isjust a sample ofour average Tuesday night(.d()n't run away potential editors} Team LaVecchia and MacLeaneV()lved . last spring out of two over-achieving freshmen who joined the paper the first day of school. Tony took the opinions and I tackled the • news. Eventually we were sucked in, and became the sacredtoJch- • bearers ofpure insanity, handed down from our predecessors. Diana •' Sedita and David Levine. The whirlwind of our editorship testecf;ourskill anddecision-ma.k- . • ing as editors. Lastspring we coped with the tnedia.siege of a lliem- . ber of our community. We were confronted with the choice ()fac- . cepting tempting offers of citations in national publications and · broadcasts, or nurturing the privacyof one of our own. The tllrrnoil · ·.never ceased ftmn that first issue; sure we had weeks when the lead · · story in what our .advisor ;c;ills the \snooze section\ was \Lif>;rary Assistance Day\ butother weeks we dealt with hazing issues, fund- • • raising, and ctltistruction. \CARTOO!VJSI tVlP NOTN/f\J(r \/D.SI T /VE TO SAY ... Go R6-Ur<r: ?. 1 When Alison Hirschman was stripped of the Daggett Pr.ize Jast • • . spring, the Concordy, in all sineerity, appreciated the Juicy news. : The injustice ofseizing a prizetl\at was awarded by the faculty to an ·. outstanding member of the community was like feeding the Co11oordy (w~: No c~Nr? I . ·Thanksgiving din11er. In additionto Hii;'Schman'.s prize-demise, Presi- dent Huli went o:qton,a.limb,and allowed ash.ow.hazing doesiJldeed · · occur at Union. Pri~r to our in~depth reporting Hull claimed \N ei.- . ther I nor the- Dean of students were aware of hazing untill<~st :year • with DeltaUpsilon.11or until this year with Tri-Delta.\ In His Last W e:e·k as Editor LaVecchia Goes Soft There is nothing more satisfying than infonning a well-'meming . • administrator ofsome of the m()re subtle events that occur'llere at Union, and of cottrse.since last spring, and since Delta Delta Delta · · ha'a us sign those ilazing sheets,. no ,more hazing has plagued the reputable organizations. ofUnion College. Our reign as edi1ors has entailed much more than curing tile ca.m- . pus of its haiing difficulties. We have had the pleasure ofworldng . with many different clubs and people·during the last three terms. Of course our favorite rivals are on the StudentForum. We appreciated their efforts to constantly make us look good and efficie11L Our . favorite encounters·with the forumalways come during electi.:Jn time. You see, the -forum thinks that we are like a Fairy Godmotlier; we . can go \Po of' and supply f<>ur pages, free of cost and our time, for the student statements. Unfortul1ately we. have to tum into thevvkked .. witches of the west because they have: failed~ despite,our ef[()Jis to . clearly explain theprocess and need for advance notice, to organize their own staff. We will miss your competence. But we would 1 ike to leave on a more positive note: thank you to the wonderful and friendly security officers who drive us home at 4 · a.m. each Wednesday morning! The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenect4dy 's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthooy C. LaVecchia, pDlTORS-JN-CHJEF. byTonyLaVe~chia Editor-in-Chief So, Unionites, this is it.l\.1Y last issue as an Editor-in-Chief. Not so significant in itself, granted. Those of you out there who are heaving a sigh of relief shouldn't get too excited; I will continue to write columns as long as people continue to act in ways that defy reason, flip the bird at coinmon sense and just generally show .little evidence of human thought. At :first, I felt that writing a \farewell\ was a bit silly and tasteless. After reconsidering this .idea, however, I decided not taking a moment to reflect and share my experiences of this past year and ahalfwould amount to a wasted opportunity to summarize something ~which I care deeply about. I think being editor of this fine journal for one and a half years has prepared me for virtually anything.,-though perhaps at this point an institution of some sort · _ might he~ appropriate; · David Pitikowitz Diana Sedita EXECUTIVE EDITORS Michelle Tham All poor attempts at hum.or Conor McKe112ie MANAGING EDITOR · Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR FEAWllESBDlTOR . aside, there ate some experiences and sensations. I thought I migh:t SuzannePr.u~herty ·share with you, my faithful GLOBAL NEWj £lJJTOR reader. Tatiana Co1{evina Andy Fradkin COMPUTER .MAf.IAGERS There are many feelings that go along with producing a college newspaper: fat·igue, aggravation, hair loss, morning sickness, frustration and · of course everyone's favorite, that oh so special feeUng on~ gets when it's 4 AM and there are 3 more hours ofwork to be done. On the other hand, of course there are some rather good feelings that can come from .. £ • '. . 1nvo.Jvement With the Con- cordian, as some of our big- mouthed friends at WRUC I ike to call this treasure of a newspaper: .-the satisfaction of a job well done, the feeling that just maybe you made a difference, the sight of someone ripping your paper off the delivery man's cart before he gets into the college center and ofcourse the sense tha:t you are part of a team made up of great people. In a strange, sado-masochistic sort of way, I will miss spending as much time here asl have in the past. I will miss watching my co- editor\ Ace\ as she stares intently into the computer trying to changesomesimpleaspectofthe paper that will in the end make.it better. I will.missthe sensethatl am part of something larger. At the same time, l am filled with optimism that 1 will be able to watch adynamic organization continue mnd change, hopefully always for the better. Most of y()u probably don't realize alf ()fthe silly menial work that all of u& here do in order to produce th:is paper. On the other hand, mo-st of you probably don't realize ho)N fun it usually is. Nothing can substitute for a good louk ()t laugh from our esteemed (though communist and sometimes IJeiJigerent) faculty advisor. Iftherewasa way I could somehow transpose a cough or grunt ont().1his page I would. I will miss working with you all, thoug:h l suspect some of you will not be teary-eyed at the prospect ()fnever having to deal with me in a power-based relationship everagain. This hasi:Jeen one of the biggest pains in th·e asses that I've ever experienced .. but at the same time it has bee11 thoroughly worth- while. I hope] ha.ven't bored you with my silly 2ntics; though 1 suspect ifl have you would have stopped reading b31 now (gosh, I hope someone's still reading!! ! ! ) To coaclude, I will say that there are rnany issues out there facing the average Union student. It is up to us to do our best to change tbings for the better. Aileen Quigley • ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR ED!rod·~·}:::;~ Letters Policy & Disclaimer Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Jonathan Gasthalter Frank Rossi SPORTS EDITORS - Sc~t-1t Stullion · FACULTF .4DVJSOR Amy J)iBattista Jenmif~r-Pelose COPY EDITORS Laurie l{ir$chner PHOTO EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHEJr.S: Rick Lederer, Michelle Brick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma 1 Dave Meguerdichian The UNSAID COLUMNISTS: Marty Metz, Kenneth Blaszka STAFF: Josh Adams,Anjali Bahlsingham; Kelen Barr, JamieCbandler, Kara Christian, Sbana Damgelo, Whitney Davis, Brando11 Declet, Gabriela Dory, Jeff Druzba, Jason Everett, Erion Gregg, NalilliGupta, Caroline J:Iepner, Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Frank Rossi, Matt Samdle~, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPIED page and must be re~eived by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should Jllertain to an issue that . concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and sa'Ved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the write1so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one memberin particular. Any opinion columns, or cart()ons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, mt<i not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. . Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albmy, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press(IP), National StudentNews Service, & King Syndicates.

Page 8 · March 6, 1997 · illl~e U.:l1Hcln-Dtl'n5is · OP/EO . '' ' - ' Opinions ''Everyone Seems to be Disgruntled'' ''This Letter Su,cks'' by Alll;uel Zapryanov Onrtributing Writer Two weeks ago, the Concordy published an article written by Codru, an exchange student from the American University in Bul- garia, in w11ichtheauthor shared some ofhis experience as foreign student at Union. Until then I felt that solllething was wrong with tne, that rnynegative attitude to- wardstbe S<lciallife at Union was a soleprod:uct of my own inabil- ity to acla.ptto it After I read Codru's opinion, mattersbecameabitclearer. It is obvio~that we ate coming from an environment different from the one at Uni<ln, that we are carry- ing a value system and outlooks that are S<lmetimes unacceptable here. On tlle other hand, the at- mosphere at Union has certain features that we sometimes laugh at and do n.Qt accept. In otl1er words, there is a cui .. tural clash. The question, how- ever, is not who is to be blamed for it, but how we can improve the environment at Union and make it a better place to grow in- tellectually and socially. It seems to me that the issues Codru is addressing are not lim- ited to international students. I know that some people have iden ... tified me as weird; I also know that some people, after our spend- ing three months in Floreneeto.., gether (I had the utmost pleasure to attend Union's term abFoad in Italy), are now ignoring me, pre- tending I really do not exist. But is that because l am an interna- tional student? I doubt it; some of rny other \Florence'; peers have tolc:l me that they have noticed the same attitudes (and they are Ameri- cans). In my opinion, the problem stems from the environment at Union. I have never seen a place where there are so many well-off yet miserable people. The most common phrases around are \life sucks,\ «tpis place sucks,\ or \I am so tired and busy.\ Everyone seems to be dis- ' gruntled with Union's atmo- sphere, and everyone believes that he or she is better than the average Union student. Yet, no one does anything to improve that atmosphere. Every day, we like to share how other people hurt us, and how much they are unethical to us; we are \suffering servants\ who walk on the path ofrighteousness tak- . ing blows from not so ethical friends. And of course we feel miserable and depressed, so we go to a frat party and try to quench the longing for trust and true friendship by drinking several : gallons of beer and get \****faced.\ Ontheotherhand, if someone is nice to us and treats us well, we get scared. \Oh Lord · why is he so nice to me?\ \Hmm .. she must have some ul- terior motives.\ And :we analyze . and analyze until we conclude · .that the person is after something · · we've .got, so we decide to stop every contact with him and not even say \ht to her. If we, however, just spend a minute by ourselves and think · why is this happening, it may dawn on us that we are as much part of the problem as anyone else is. We fonn Union, so to com- plain of the college is like com- · · plaining of our own actions. It seems to me that if we are less egocentric and concerned with our own selves, we might ac- tually see that friendship can he a good thing. And if we start tak- ing initiatives and be less bitter about our \ unhappy lots,\ we might actually start enjoying life. Dear Editor: You nile~ You suck. Union rules. Union sucks. Fraternities rule. Frate1nities suck. Campus Safety rules. Sororities rule. So- rorities su~k. Campus Safety sucks. Legalize 1rtarijuana. Cul- ture is stupid. Culture is awe- some. Classes suck. Professors suck. President Hull sucks. Presi- dent Hu\1' ntles. Achilles Rink sucks. .A <:hill es Rink rules. Handicapped parkin,g sucks. Handicapped parking rules; Free,. dom Qf SJleech sucks. Freedom of speech isgreat. Apathysucks. I suck. I mle. This letter sucks. This letter 11ules. Theme houses suck. Theme houses rule. Stu- dent Forum sucks. Student Fo- rum Rules. Rawson Thurber sucks. Rawson Thurber rules. The real wotld sucks. This news- paper ntles_ This newspaper sucks. Tenure is stupid'. This school cos'ts a heck of a lat of money. Dining Services sucks. Dining Services rule$. RA'srule. RA's suck_ I need' more sleep. They should sell cigarettes at the convenience store. Fro-yo r1,1les. Drinking sucks. Drinking is cool. The student body sucl<s. Res Life sucks. I have just cQvered the past, present, an<! future of the Letters to the Editor and Features sec .. tions. So anything ¢lse written on these . topics is redundant. .... UNLESS ... that is UNLESS people actually come up with ideas on how to improve this schQol or what makes this a great school. This entire t(ftm I have read wonderful anecdotes on why this school n.des or sucks in the newspaper. Basically the morals iife, ''This school needs change, but I refuse to think of ideas so you devoted reader come up with the idea and give l,11f( credit.\ I'm not saying that I have ideas, but I'm notprintingoutmy com- plaints every week and begging that something bedone about t~e \situation:\ that this school is in. I'll admit it's extremely easy to just write outyourcomplaintsand possibly influence someone to make a change. If a student does something pr.od,ucti:ve for this school and makes ,jt better than hell write an artide about it and boost your ego because that is mote productiveth:anjustsaying, \Come on people we need to change here.\ Sincerely, Matthew Aronowitz Class of2000 The Real Way It Is -- A Response to The Negativity of Concordy I had expected some responses to the article I submitted in the February 2() issue entitled \The Concorrliengis Needs a Change in Tone,'\' b1.1t must confess to being unprepared for Staff Cartoonist Jared Richman's exceedingly ob- scene article which, along with last is~ue's editorial, effectively managed to thoroughly misinter- pret the point of my (friendly, I thougllt) suggestion. So, now I have tt>takethetimeto restate my previous point and assume that this time the editors will open their minds to another view- sometllillg which was sorely lack- ing in last week's vulgar com- mentary. Mr. Richman, in my article I never suggested t_hat the Concofriy turn into a PR bro- chure. Yoll harbor ill feelings toward the college's method of publicizing itself, yet you over- look tile fact that the purpose of college brochures is to sell an in- stituti()n to prospective students. You were obviously sold, since you matriculated here. The Col- lege is a business first~ even McDonald's doesn't advertise it- self by saying, \yes the food's fatteni11g, but it's cheap, right?\ If you feel \suckered into\ com- ing here,. then I suppose the Ad- missiOI1S ()ffice did a competent job. Butr digress. Yes, you are cor- rect, \[T]here are problems with this scho<>l, and they must be ad- dressed fiercely and incessantly if necessary. Change does not come easy.\ I could not agree with yCJu more. My point was: what is this paper doing, besides griping.on its weekly soapbox, to effect change? We complain that Greek life here is stifling student individuality, yet when a Greek organization loses its house, we argue that the Administration treats its students (particularly the Greeks) unfairly. Which side is this paper on? Words are cheap, Mr. Richman: this paper could write ''President Hull should be fired\ for the next one hundred issues, and that wouldn't do a single thing. My argument was that this paper is enormously negative towards a school which is on an elevating streak at this point, and its criticisms are sel- dom backed by any real solutions for change. Mr. Richman's surprise that I chose to print an open letter criti- cizing an organization to which I belong rather than address the is- sue in a editorial board meeting astounds me. The paper may re- flect me because of my involve- ment with it, but my open letter was meant to prove that my edi- torial position did not mean I agreed with everything the paper stands for. But the real surprise here is who responded to the ar- ticle. February 27's op-ed sec- tion was largely devoted to the editorial board's response to my view. Where was the student body's response in all this? Mr; Richman supplied a lengthy ar- ticle condemning my point; the editorial appeased my alleged \call\ fot a kinder, gentler Concordy by exclaiming, \we ... hope like hell nothing changes.\ My dear editors: I don't want life to be one happy constant. I'd sooner go mentally insane than have Union turn into .... a boring utopia. If you bothered to read my article, rather than gloss over it, you would notice I asked for the paper to \make a strong effort to examine both sides of ah issue before printing • • 0 ,., M an opm10n on It. I believe the paper should, be- fore outright slamming some- thing, noticethebenefits ofwhat- ever issue they tackle, note the negatives, and suggest changes in a determined manner. Rehashing old topics is good-this circulates the problem, keeping it alive in everyone's consciousness; grip- ing each week without taking a breath or offering real solutions, however, is downright meaning- less. Perhaps the \8 Points\ I made at the end of my article were taken more literally than origi- nally intended. I understand that problems do not simply disap- pear, but I strongly feel, for ex- ample, that all it takes is a few determined persons to say \no\ to pledging for hazing to stop-a Greek society cannot survive if its practices cause its prospective members to walk away. On a different note, perhaps you have some ground in attack- ing the student body. My article was intended to provoke debate, yet the only debate which existed was within the very institution I attacked. The only responses to my article were made by the edi- tors of the paper; granted, your opinions filled last week's op-ed section nearly completely, but where were the other students, either supporting or attacking me? Because of the lack of gen- eral response, I question whether this paper is the true voice of the studentb.()dy, or just the voice of itself. If everyone felt this strongly 2bout the school as the editors, then they would \print their mind\' or advocate for the paper's opinions in action. I re- ceived numerous compliments fonny article, yetthe only printed responseswere by the editors, and these wer<:; understandably, nega- tive replie~. Do the students feel the pessirnjsm .expressed by the editors? lfthey do not, then the paper is notreflecting the feelings of the Sttldent population. Now, The Concol'diensisneeds to reex- amine its mission. -Larry PaS;ka, Arts Editor ' Look Larry, we are touched that . you took the time to respond to our critici.5m. We (the Editors) here at The Concordiensis may look at Jlrings in a negative light- . . we foe! that given the state of q[fairs ltere at Union this ap- proach is }1)arranted. As we look backover~uryearhere. it is clear we haveofien constructively ad- dressed many issues. We do offer solutions toproblems or at least our sugge.5tions on how to im- prove things. If you don 't realize this then you obviously need to read the paper more carefully (yes, Larry, that means prying yourself away from the Big Screen for a moment). As for your second point that this pa- per does not reflect the view ·of the €allege: Tough Last time we checked, our stajfmeetings are open to all, and anyone who con- tributes three semi-intelligible articles can become a staff mem- ber. If you are sttrprised that no- body responded to your editorial aside from the editorial board perhaps you should consider this. Hacf.any of the people you spoke to who thought your article was ducky bothered to writ~ a n~­ sponse, we wouldhave printedit. Maybe the reaction you elicited, one of detached silence, is more indicative of the attitudes of our fine student body than you might think. We would argue the true pub lie voice on your article was sounded, but unfortunately for you and your am[)itions tt was a rather silent voice. -ED E-MAIL ADDRESSES FOR SUBMISSIONS E-MaiJ Us at Concordy @gar. union •. edu. • All e-ntail ~ubmissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday bl!jore publication, and must be less thttn 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details.

Globa; News · · · · illl1l' ilionrLlrttit'usis ~ !Vlarch 6, 1997 • Page 9 i • ' ' Global News U.S. and Mexico R~main Allies in the Dfug War Suz~tn JurJ)oUigherty Gloh~l.News Editor absolute unquestioned integ- rity.'' During a House Govern- ment Reform and Oversight subcom.mittee meeting last week, Representative John Mica .(R-FL) questi:oned McCaffrey's statement. «I am co~pletely baffled at the lack of intelligence,. the lack of in~ formation that you had as a <lr\.lg czar making those state- me.nts.\ ard G~phardt (D- MI}and Sena· tor Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) have already made claims that ·they win attempt tt:> propdse a joint resolution to overturn the' · tenew~d , .certification. Feinstein is not satisfi'ed with the President's position: «Not a singh.~ U.S. extradition request for a Me~ican national wanted on drug charges has been .hon- \Certifying that Mexico is co- operating with the United States in the war on drugs is, in a word;. a fraud.\ Many Re- publicans feel that this .move by President Clinton just furthers their assertion that he is soft on drugs: Albrighthasdefended Presi- dent Clinton's decision.· She believes that it wiH be. in the other decision would harm any good relations that exist be~ tween Mexico and the United States. It could result in a step }?ack for President Zedil'lo .and Mexicafl forces that are at- teJnpting to battle against the corrt.Jption in their ceuntry. This past· Jriday President Clinton, in O])p()siti<m to the wishes of C()n~ess, reaffirmed the United States' certification of Mexico as a partner in the· war on drugs. Congress man~ dates that on a ye~tly ~as is the President must. reevah,.1ate the certification of Mexico along· with thirty two otller countries. A loss of certlfie!ation can lead to trade s~mctions against the country. \l aceeptecl &ecretary ofState Madeline A ]bright's. recom- mendationto certify Mexico, to certify that Mf;lx.ico is cooper- ating with. us in this fight,\ President Clinton said in his weekly radio address this week. Since this law was instituted .by Congress in 1986, Mexico has always passed for re- newal ef certifi~ cation. This \Certjfying that Mexico is coop- erating with the United States in the war on drugs is, in a word, a best interests of Washington to maintain good n::Iations with Mexico, and admits that there is a sub- stantial President Clinton also made decisions on the certifications of the thirty two other countries last week. He decided to not remain allies in the drug war with Colombia due to wide- spread corruption that exists in the government. Colombian of- ficials. were not pleased with the Presidenf s decision. hnmedi- ately after .the announcement, Colombian Vice President Carlos Le!Tlos Simmonds said, \This decision will seriously harm the g<;>od relations that have always existed betweeR Colombia and the United States.\ fraud.\ ... Jesse Helms (R-NC) The spotHgh 1 was focused on Mexico beoeau.se of the recent arrestofits d:rtigsczat, Ge11eral Jesus Gutierrez ReboHo, over alleged conrteQtions with drug traffickers.. Just a year ago, the director ·of tbe U. S. Office of National J:)rug; Control Policy, Barry McCaffrey, was quoted as saying, \Gutierr.ez Rebollo has year, however, congressional critics were leery ofgranting a renewal to Mexico in light of the recent arrest of ReboHo. Last week forty members of Congress signed a letter to PresidentClinton urging him to n<lt .decertify Mexico, There were also a handful of other members who wrote their own letters of recommendation to President Clinton.. · House Minority Leader Rich- \Derrwc~atskind of sound like kids. They're caught \t It 1 . something wrong and say everybody's doing Senate Majority Whip Don Nickles speaking about Dern()cratic claims ofRepublican fundraising wrongdoi11gs. \The si~nificance of the last couple of days is it is now the Clit1.ton-Gore fundraising scandal. Gore is now part ()J the story.\ Bill Kri~torl, editor of The Weekly Standard, speaking llllout rec~nt developments in the Democr~tic fundraising scandal. CDC Updates .•• Fowler; (loe4ecke, Ellis & O'Connor of New York is seeking motivated ..:eJJOjrs interesteci in real estate finance to work iii their Albany office as a.. p:ald intern this spring. There is a good possibility .that this internship 'Will lead to a full-time position upon graduation. Resumes due at the CiiCby March 14UJ. For furtller infonnationcQrne to the CDC. Jqb SRMilln!l go thE WEB JOBTR.A.K (available through the CDC homepage under JOBS) lists immediat~ job openings, internships. Also included on Jobtrak is lhe Uberd .ArU career Natwoi'lc, an extensive listing oflibetal arts employers amd in~emSllips. Checlc it Outl ATTEMT::IOJ\1: '97 graduates Washington DC Resume Re- · terral Pr,Qgram- Cover Letters and Resumes for entry level jobs/ internslrips. :Deadline: Aprll4 by 5 pm. A list Of participating companies is avail!lbleat tbe CDC . . Directol}'~f}a.panese·-Affiliated Companies Qperating in the US & Canad..a (1997-98) is available in the CDC library and on CD Rom. Andersoea COil.Suhing ·Summer Internships for Juniors in EE & CS. Deadli~WJ N:trclll4 . . AP!U 18tll Deadline for next year's WDI!c Swdy PositiDDS at. the CDC. · Studerus 'With ability to be a team player, have a strong work ethic and gOO<I serusc cf bum()J' should compiete an application. Going on a term abrO;!Ii\l Sub111it an application before you leave. See Tom fill' details. ored. Cooperation with U.S. drug enforcement agents on the border is at an all-time low Cocaine seizllres are half of what they were in 1993,\ Feinstein said in defending her position. Political analysts be· lieve that President Clinton's certification will stand. Republicans were less than pleased with President Clinton's decision. Senator Jesse Helms (R-NC) stated, amount of cor- ruption within the Mexican government. However, Albright also sees the potential for a positive alii~ ance with Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo. Albright said, \We expect Mexico to work with us ... in all-out -efforts to captu~ drug traffickers.\ Cl mton' s foreign policy team, who assisted him with his decisio.ll, stands by their opin- ions. They believe that any Along with Colombia, Presi- dent Clinton denied renewed certification to Afghanistan, Burma, Nigeria, and Syria. For national security purposes Belize, Pakistan, and Lebanon were granted waivers. Enjoy a helpful rewarding summer at Camp Camp .Sussex. Sussex which is located in the beautiful mountains of northern New Jersey and is about one hour from New York City. We need M/F counselon, Head · pioneering, soctal worker, LPN!RN/Student Nurse, Jewish Cldtural program. Salaries are attractive! Please call for more information or write to Camp Sussex 33 Blatherwick Dr. Berlin, N.J. 08009 Phone (609) 153-9265 or -- (718) 261-8700 llOCHESTERIANS, UNITE AT AfC~~ (YOVR. ~VMMER. COVRSE RE~OVR..C:E) MCC's summer sessions let you earn credit transferable to your college. Get more out of your summer. Get full course credit in far less tirne. At MCC. Speed up your journey through college. Get a prerequisite out of the way. Take a course you've been dreading. Or re-take a course that took you. MCC offers you two campuses, with over 300 courses to choose from. All at the low cost of $99 per credit hour. . Most are available when you are-morning, afternoon, or evening-so you can earn AND learn this summer. Best of all, MCC's credit transfers td colleges and universities across the U.S.A. Be smart. Get credit for summer. At MCC Session I starts May 27 Session 2 starts July 7 For complete information, caiii-800-724-SUMMER (7866) or 716-292-3400. Or visit our web site at www.monroecc.edu

Page 10 · March 6, 1997 · Wlu~ illoncnriJicusis - . - · · - Features , I This being our last article of thisgloriauswinterterm, we have a plethora ofimportanttopicsthat we could discuss. We, however, have decided on a few cl:l()ice moments and observations we've made this tetm. It's been an in., terestingterm, filled with nudity, violence, and extra sleep (just with our teddy bears). Just the ether night, we wit- nessed s{)mething gruesome, something <:razy, and something young eyes should not see. We had to CO'Ver the eyes of the soc- cerrecruitt<> make sure he could not see What actually goes on here. As. we were engaging in an in- tellectuaJ conversation with our peers, we happened to notice a half-nake<l boy running around the party. We wondered out I<Jud: \Who letth{! naked boy out of the house?\ He must have forgotten his Rita! in that day (and his pants). NoHhat we shun naked- ness, we a-ctually think it's all right(think back to the Fleet Bank incident a few weeks back ... ). Speaking ofnudity and other nefarious actions, as part ofour summatio11 of winter term, we have cond11cted a survey and the results ha'Ve been overwhelming: it seems to us that Chester Chester is indeed the most successful man on Union's campus. We won't tellyou why, but we'll leave it up to you to figure out who he is and why he's famous with us .... Oh Chester, we're gonna miss you over Spring Break .... With last weekend's win over Yale, the men's hockey team made itto the playoffs. It's funny how a brawl almost broke out in the lobby of Achilles today with aJI these random schrrtandom adults there and all the students fighting over tickets. And the games are not even here. And the tickets are not even free. Now THAT'S dedication. It is ironic, however, that no one shows up to watch the women's hockey team play ..... ever.. ... even though they're actually good. Hmmmmmm .... that's mysteri- ous. Winter term seems to bring out the bear in everyone. With hiber- nation fast becoming the most popular sport at Union, people are trying their hardest to be in the lead. We definitely have shown great leadership skills in this area this term, which is something we've never had before. We've found our niche. This all goesJo ,. that if you think you're not good at anything, you just might need to try something new .... Like napping. We have become nocturnal during these cold winter months, Imagine how blinding the sun's rays will be Spring Term .... we're a Httle nervous about how we're going to handle the:shock,but that must be why Spring Break is be- tVJeen terms. Soooooooo ....... this is Whitney !lnd Cari. Signing off... .. .just kid- ding! You thought we were done, but we're not! We've hall a great term and we hope you did too .. Contrary to what you might be thinking, we in no way intended to offend anyone (w€11, almost anyone) in any of our articles. This was kind of like a trial pe- riod, butdon 't worry .... according to our editors we will be back in full force nextterm. (at 1 east that's what we think ... ). We look at it this way, we still have one more term before we get kicked out. Really now, this. is Whitney and Cari signing off, again with the customary SNAPS phrase: \You're so ugly, you stuck your face out the window .and got arrested for mooning!\ BYE! T h u r b e r v iU e .by Raw$en Thurller Well, ladies and gentleman, I've finally finished my thesis and thu ha:ve the time to write my weekly column. Anyway~ now it's all done and I am at liberty to disgust, offend? insult; and am use. So here w are with this week's list: Top Ten Clubs You Won't See At Union 10: The \Not-So-Safe Space'' Club. 9. The \Rehab Is For Quitters\ Club 8. The 1 'Block F. U.\ Club 7. The \Bagels B_ulimia, and.U\ Club 6. The \Ben Fox Thes.isAdvisor\ Club 5. The Society of Whi-te Male Engineers 4. The''Mynvs. Womyn\Club • 3. The \Students for Bong Hits\ Club 1. The \Atnateur Proctology\ Club ' 1. 'the \Let's Make Fun ofOthers Becaus~ They're Different\ Club . Around Carnp11s: This is a new feature to the Thurbervillecolumn, and with any luck · it will become a regular. In this section, the most odd and most . asinine aspects of Union College will bebrooght to light. They · don't necessarily need to be funny, just kind of odd. S<J here's this · week's installment. It has come to my attention that our faithful security force has been forced to drive tiny cars with flashing lights all around campus. Now, l don't know what kind of sick demeaning regula- tion the administration has passed down up~m our protectors, but it must stop. For God's sake, these new vehicles look like £riggiri 1 ·clown cars. I keep expecting 30 guards to jump out with oversized . · shoes and begin hitting. each other with plastic fish. Alll'm saying is, afford these pe<Jple some dignity. I mea it's bad enough that they have to wear that God-awful polyester; . the least we could do is give them cool cars to drive. Why can't all th~ security guards drive mock-ups of the \<ieneral Lee\ of Dukes o{H~ard fame? If we can•t do that, how 'bout giving them Power Rangers uniforms? Give ihem something, anythingjust to show Eight Students See ''Human Side'' of Medicine as Hospice Volunteers ·them that we care--just a thought. Student of the Week: This week's winner is Ben Fox. Ben, we're all pulling for you. by Ainslie Foster Contl'ibuting Writer Since last year, when Jessica Clement I()St a close friend to cys- tic fibrosis., the Union College junior has been haunted by the feeling that she could have he1ped more. So this year she became a Hos- pice voltinteer. \Most people think that tbis work is depressing and wonder why I would be in- volved, but [ look at it as doing the same tiling that 1 did for my friend Matt,\ Clernent said. \'It was helpful just being there to I is- ten to him vent feelings he couldn't snare with his family.\ Clement, a biology major, hopes to e11t-er the medical profes- sion as a general practitioner. \I think this ex:perience will help me in medicine because it has helped me see that these patients are not just case numbers. They have families and feelings. There's a human side to medicine; it's not just diagnosisand it's not just gi v- ing somebo<iy medication. Hos- pice also teaches that death isn't always failure to a doctor_ If it is an end to suffering, people are probably better off.\ For Clement, programs like these are not new. Last summer shevoluntrered at a camp for chil- dren affected and infected with HIV. \Tilis camp allowed the kids to feel normal and secure, free from ridicule,\ she said. \Many oftllese kids are emotion- ally needy. I spent most of the time with kids on my lap or hang- ing from my back.\ She also helps out at the Damien Center in Albany, which provides sup- port to people with AIDS and their families. Clement, along with seven other Union students and four member ofthe community, par- ticipated in the four-week hospice program at Union. Other Union students in the Hospice program were Amy Jasinski '98, Janci Karp '99, Tho- mas Kryzak '98, Michelle Neier '99, Michelle Sanchez '00, Rob- ert Senska '99, Tina Tacorian '00, and Denise Van Kempen '00. Many of the Union students in the program are interested in ca- reers in medicine, but that is not the only reason they became in- volved. Most say they joined with the expectation that they would help others. Additionally, they admit they never expected to learn so much about them- selves and their own mortality. Most of the volunteers for Hos- pice are retired. Sharon Hext, one of the directors of the program said, \It is really great having young people involved. They are learning things that they will be able to carry with them through- out life.\ Since many of the new Union volunteers are students without transportation, they will he visit- ing patients at nearby Ellis Hos- pital. Students with cars will be visiting nursing homes, area hos- pitals, and patients' homes. The Hospice training progra1n was run' by Hospice employees Sharon Hext and Gloria Peterson. The group 1:net for eight sessions, BllndojtheWeek: This rather specific award goes to Union's own Check Six. This band . recently performed at the Coffee House and rocked the place to no end. So make sure you ke~p your eyes and ears peeled for their next . gig, 1 guaruntee you have a blast. Way to go boys! Keep up the good .work Hate Mail? Thoughts? Comments? Questions? Rawson Thurber #2 0 18 or th tJrberr@idol. u11ion. edu. _ discussing topics including com- munications and listening skills, medical care for patients, death and dying, emotional support, be- reavement, spirituality (not nec- essarily religion), and stress man- r'========================::::! agement. Speakerswithareasof YOU can Maximize YOUR specialization also lent their ad- VICe. Career Potential The Hospice training program wz•th TTn·r·o· n 's. 5- vear M'D_. AI ·wascoordinated by the College's l.J J ~ 4 .D.L\'J. Health Professions program. Hospice provides services in- cluding social worker, volunteer assistants, nurses and home 1\ealth care, and spiritual guid- ance. Upon completion of the training program, Hospice volun- teers are paired with patients and tl1eir families. Tl\lENTEd MusicALAcrs TO plAy AT CHEf'S. Good M-oNey, GREAT AudiENCES, Lors of p~uN. CoNTACT JESSE \ruE MAN 11 Sl-iAfEn ANy- riME AT X~~ 9 9 foR dErAils. Seth Brown MBA Health Systems Administration '97 Accepted at U. Conn Medical School Fa/1'97 ';I decided to get my MBA in Health Systems Administering before entering med school because Jjeel with the changes in health care, it will be important for physicians to be knowledgeable in busi11ess as well as clinical metlicine.\ For information eaU: 388-6239 I ] r gat wi1 an~ bn us, bee cl<J fin clc w~ sw be1 bu wt th< th~ qu ne: 11'1 he int lru ju~ br' fa< op SCI ro~ tat as so: ari dr• pa SOl all ch ov ch lllJ so

Features · ·mip~ Qhrnruroit~nsis • Ma reb 6, 1997 · Page 11 · · Here Comes th. e s·un . - . - by Michelle Tham Features Editor Mother Nature is playing games. She's been blessing us with gorgeous, sun-kissed days and nights filled with yumrny breezes. But she's only taunting us, because before long the air becomes a mixture of drama and clouds while the sun sonl.ehow finds a way to escape into the clouds and disappear for a little while. Maybe she's having mood swings or maybe~ Spring is just being a little reluctant this year, but either way there's no telli!'lg when the weather will change. There's something about the thought of spring approaching that makes everyone restless. The quick glimmers of it that have managed .to sneak out from be~ neath the clouds leave us waiting iA antic.ipation with hopeful hearts. The sun breathes new l'ife intoweary limbs, makes normally lazy people decide to take a walk just because it'-s beautiful outside, brings flushed c:heeks to pale faces. There's an unbearable urge to open the window and let all that scrumptious air into stuffy dorm rooms. The entire environment takes on a life ofits own; and it's as if the budding flowers have some magic effect on everything around them. Despite all the dreariness of rain and muddy pathways, the thought of sun somewhere in the future makes it all somehow better. It's o.ot that the winter wasn't calming and pristine in aU its mesh of whiteness and pink, glowy skies, butsomething about the hint of green grass and yel- low dots of flowers across the ground just feels nice. Maybe there's a tid bit of cheesiness in this whole anxiety ovet finally being able to hear chirping. birds and see trees burst- ing with leaves, but I think it's something that everyone feels, I 'Ill not really sure why the weather plays such an important role in people's moods .. Some- times waking up in the .rilOming ' and feeling tne sun beating through the window can make the daythatmuch better: Justknow- ing that 6pm is approaching and the sun is still kissing the sky can open doors fora,lovely evening. It may just be psychological, but there arereally few things that can bting such a rush of energy like the sun does. People can't wait to walk arottnd in t.,.shirtsand sandals; it's been too long since sweaters and turtlenecks kept their skiA from breathing. Thatfirsttime you qan actually slip on a pair of shorts without walking outside to be faced with a rush of goosebum ps · is atnonumental da:y. It's almost as if we force the weather to take on the atmosphere that we want. If the sun is shining, 40 degrees doesn't seem so cold anymere, and we wear our spring attire any- way. Jackets hang lonely inclos- ets, and we are all to anxious to ship them home along with our gloves and scarves. The darkness of winter is pushed away to make room fot pastels and bright skies. Even studying gets done that Ill.uch .quicker because there's a reason to finish,. there's a driving '. force that just wants to go outside and soak in that distinctive scent of springtime. Things just feel better and move faster. The sll,l.g- gishness of winter passes and makes a path for the energy of spring. It may just be that the reason spring is such an anticipated sea- ;on is because it's such a tricky one. It just sort of sneaks up on you one day and decides to stays. Spring's sort of unpredictable~ it hides among the trees and comes out to play once in a while. So, if you're out there waiting for the sun, don'tbe too upsetifitdoesn't show up. It'll be there when you I east expect, just be patient. UNION LAUN·DRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (AC_,.. FlfOII liiM!III COf.U'GEJ OPEN OAIL Y BAM TO 1·0:30PM FAf·f DRYING TUESDAYS & niUASOAYS 8AMT03PM 11 PER WASH. 5TH WASH 7 WA§.FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. IIAL: (OR DEPOSIT ttOURsucaGESriQJ'4 .:;)X) · THIS AD TO UNION l.AlfCiitY FCA A FREE WASH. N::t.c..a!' w:JJR. Mlae MiD ADIJffiESS. . . . - . lll:ltmUf\\ r Announcing the AT&T ~ultimate Road Tripn sweepstakes. Going abroad this school year? AT&'l' would like to help pay your way. 10 Grand Prize W~nners - Round~Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable than the air transportation) . To enter, call Or you can enter on-line at . http//www.cttt.cotn/Ii:&Jdent_ ctbroctd Do it t:oday. No purchase necessary. Void where prohibrted. SWeepstakes ends 511/97. Open to residents of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled at. a U.S. college or university during t.he \97-'98 school year and traveling internatiqnally for 14 days or more. See your St~dy Abroad Counselor or htr;p: 11 www.att.com/student_abroad for official n>les and details. © 1997 AT&T It's a connected world. - ~~ Do your share. For 30 ways to help the enviromnent, write Earth Share, 3400 International Drive ,Nw, Suite 2K (AD4), Washington, DC 20008. Earth Share

•• : 40\' \Donnif! Brasco. \ Starring,Al Pacino, Johnny Depp, Michael Mat;lsen. Directed by Mike Newell. Rated R, TriSta.rPiotures. Rating: *** 112 (out of four) AI PacinCJ and Robert De Niro teamed together for CJnly the .sec- ond time in cinematic history in the 1995filtn,Heat. In some ways, their roles in the film were breaks from. the traditional characters they love to play:. Pacino, the Mafia man; De Niro, the brilliant sociopath. De Niro played a pro- fessional criminal and Pacino was the edgy cop on his trail in Heat. De Niro has since gone on to The Fan, as an obsessive stalker of baseball player Wesley Snipes. Pacino, returning back to his Scarface roots, gets into charac- ter again and makes Lefty Ruggiero, the mobster in Donnie Brm~co, aroleall his own, without waving his arms and shoutingev:. ery other line, as he did in his most recent perform~nces, Heat and City Hall. Pacino's Lefty has been in the Mafia for thirty years an'd has b \ d\ never . een . uppe -or, pro- moted. Instead, an organized hit on Sonny Black, the Don ofthe \family leaves bad-guy lv,ladsen in charge. Lefty takes in Donnie Brasco{Depp, in what is possibly his coming-of-age role) under his wing, and makes him into a crimi- nal and one of the group. Unbe- knownst to Lefty and the Mafia, Donnie is r.eaHy Special Agent John Pistone, an undercover agent of the FBI who has spent the past two yeats working his way into this organization to ob- tain information and bring down the Mafia. Union College Jazz Ensemble Concert Next Week CuurtesJ?..of the Dept. ofPerformingArts The Union College Jazz En- semble, under the direction ofPro- fessorTim Olsen, will perfonn on Wednesday,March 12 at 8:80PM in the auditorium of the Reamer Campus Center. This concert is free and open to the public. The Union College Jazz En- semble is made up ofUnion Col- lege students as well as members ofthe Capital District music com- munity. The concert will feature standards by such jazz greats as Charles Mingus, Charlie Parker, and Duke Ellington, all arranged for the ensemble by pianist and trumpeter Olsen. According to Professor Olsen, \I'm very e:xcited about the group this year The band has increased in number, and we've got some outstanding soloists, part·icularly tenor saxophonist Wolfgang Wurriehausen, a graduate student tonn Gennany who's visiting h&te· for one year. I'm also encouraged by the freshman turnout-over the next few years, we'll really be able to build a strong ensemble. Wealso have a carload of players who drive down from Troy every Wednesday night for the oppor- tunity to come jam with us. I en- courage all instrumenta1ists to take part in our activities. We're also working on some exchange concerts with other college jazz groups in the Northeast, so we can showcase our Union talent.\ For more infonnation about this concert or other activities of the Performing Arts Department, please call 388-6201, or visit the Performing Arts Calendar on the Web at http://virtual.union.edu/ ~performingarts/calendar.h1ml. JORSMT 201 cm.Rossignol 98 Slalom Skis with Rossignol Course FK Bindins. Used Once. Must Sell $500 Conor X5820 Infiltrating the N.ew YOrk Mafia in·tbe Disco.Era .Th~ film tells two stori~s at, oQce: tll:e integration of .. Brasco\ into Ma.fia society, and the sub- seqttent jransfonnation ofPistone . intoa111sn who thinks, speaks,and acts.li~efl thug on his own; and, thebrealdown of Pistone's mar- riage!pldhome life, which is com- prom,j sed as ~e spends weeks away 11hdercover, unable to teH his fumi1yanything, and absorb- inghi!Ilself in his job. Pa:cin o stands out in a role which begs for sympathy-· this character <ietests the J,ife he leads. on tlle inside, but cannot let it show. His son is a drug addict, his wife is afraid ofhim, and he is notr:isin::g i11 the ranks inhis \pro- . fcssio.-J,\' and is always on the lookout f(Jr some cash. As the title dlara.cter, Depp proves him- selfa\i'el'satile actor, accomplish- ing 2 ra11ge and toughness of character seldom seen in other • l •\.\• • Mafia-oriented mov.ies. Madstm, just young enqugh to cause Pacino's anger at having been passed for promotion from within, . adds the right combination_ of au- thority coqpled with in~xperience. He looks just one step from going in over his head. , Surprisifl.gly, for a. mob movie, the violence is minimized, al- th.ough 'squeamish viewers should close their eyes toward the finale, when a few thugs become \dismembered\ from the organi- zation, and themselves. Newell's direction is straightforward, al- though in an effort to create a feel for the film's setting (the dill:e is 1978), the staging relies heav·ily on music of the era. For those who know music history, the soundtrack stretches for anything disco-flavored, and some so:ngs are chronologically-displaced. The costume and set design, Evr~ry American is entitled to the same basic ri~~is and freedoms. And MDA makes these rig his into realities for people with ll&U romuscular diseases. Tl7f& medical care and essential equipment that MDA offers· guarantee my most basic rights by helping me to stay alive. MDA's assistance also o.ff~rs me freedom to work and pursue my intErests. And that makes me happy. Thanks to MDA, I can make use of all my rights and all my abilities. David Sheffield County Attorney however, are excellent, recreating the feel ofl~fein the 1970$ with ahn0st sickening accuracy. All of the characters.in Donnie Brasco have ·their own demons, and spend the t)ntire film waUow- ing in them. No. one i~ a saint, and from this perspe<;tive, it is no won- der that the story has no real con- clusion. Some pl6t details are left pur- posely vague; and there is an overall feeling of'\what was the point?\ when Pistone is pulled from his assignment once things get thic.k and heavy. Has Pistone's job accomplished any.,. 'thing? Based on a true story, the screenplay does not intend the eveuts to be anything but a study at the emotional cost of the art of deception. Donnie Brasco is the first mob- oriented film to make such a subtle statement in a long, long time. Muscular Dystrophy Association 1-800-572-1717 Virtual Union is S() much more than just a web site ... http:// \WVW.vu.union.edu Ifyou are interested in being a ,member of this illustrious club; pick up an appli- cati()Jl in the consultants office (Steinmetz Hall)

. ' Page 13 • l\1arch 6, 1997 \ ffil~l' illlllinnoiL'nsi;:=i Arts. & [nt~·rtainment la®8al Arts Calendar FRIDAY,MARCH7 The French film All the Mornings ofthe World (French, 1991, 114 minutes, color, in French with English subtitles) will be shown at 7:30 PM in Page Hall, 13 5 Western avenue on the University at Albany's downtown campus. The screening is free and open to the public. Call( 518) 442·S620for more infonnation. IMAGO, the nationally known theatre mask ensemble, will be presenting their unique style of mitne, triovemei1t, and mask at the Empire Center of the Egg at 7:30PM. The troupe will offertheir most popular production-· Frogs, Lizards, Orbs,.and Sli:nkys. This whimsical and fun-filled show has pla.yed to millions worldwide on telev-ision and stage, capturing the wonder and strangeness of delightful .beings in real and.other worlds. Tickets forthisperfortnartce are$16 foradt.dts, $14 for seniors, and $l() for children. for further information and reservations~ contact the Box Office at (518) 473-1845. STARTINGFRIDA Y,MARCH7 SkidmoreTheater:presents the world premiereofThe Imp. of SimpliCity by artiS't-in~resi.­ dence Erik Ehn, dkectecl by artist-in-r-esidence Scott Feldsher. Tqis futurlstic carnival chal- lenges ournotions oftime, religion, and reality in a frantic blur ofeloquentnuns and raucous girls. Performances are Friday through Sunday, March 1- lO,.and Thursday through Sunday,. March 13 - 16. Perfonnances ;:u-e at 8 :OQ PM and 10:00 PM Thursday through Saturday, and 2:00PM and 4:00PM on Sunday. The production is in the Studio Theater of the JanetKinghorn Bernhard Theater, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. Tickets are $7, $5 for students and senior citizens. Seating is limited. Reservations arestronglyrecommended.' For reservations, call( 518) 584-5000, ext. 2347. Edgy ••. Women, a showcase oforiginal works by local female writers, choreographers, and video artists, will be presented tGday, tomorrow, Friday, March 14, and Saturday, March 15 at 8:00PM at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Playhouse in Troy. Tickets are $8 general admission, $6 for smdents and seniors. For reservations, call 432-4101. SA TURDA Y,MARCH8' \The Joint Will BeJumpin\' when Motown legend Martha Reeves & The Vandel1as come to Proctor's Theater in an all-new production qfthe Tony Award-winning musical, Ain't Misbehavin', at8:00 PM. This dazzling musical brings to life the glamour, the spirit, and the excitement ofthe swingin' '30s in Harletn and the Golden age of places like the Cotton Club and the Savoy Ballroom.· The show is packed with 30 of the most unforgettable songs either written or made famous by the legendary Fats Waller. · Tickets are $34.50, $29.50 and $2'6.50. Tickets are av8:ilable at Proctor's Box Office by calling{518) 346~6204, or by calling all TicketMaster location~. An explosive double bill featuring the James Carter Quartet~nd the Nicholas Payton Quartet will detonate on stage at the Troy Saving~ Bank Music Hall at 8:00PM. Reserved seat tickets for the concert are $22 and may he purchased by contacting the Music Hall box office at (518}273-0038 or anyTicketMaster outlet. SUNDA Y,MARCH9 Before participating in the revelry of St. Patrick's Day, Irish-Americans can learn more about the experience of their ancestors at a lecture and sljde show at 2:00PM at the Albany Institute ofHistory & Art. In The New York Irish: Ethnic Survival in the Metropolis, historian and archivist Marion R. Casey wil.l trace the long history ofirish immigrants in New York City. Wesley Balla, Albany Institute curator of history, will follow with a memory session about the Irish experience in the Capital Region. \ The program. is free and open to the public. The ~~~titute is located at 125 Washingto.n A venue in downtown Albany. Call (518) 463-44 78 for more information. MONDA Y,MARCH 10 Raymond L. Flynn, Unite9 States Ambassadorto the Vatican and fonner Mayor of Boston will speak on the element of religion in world conflict at 4:00PM in Humanities 354 on the University at Albany's uptown campus. Flynn's presentation is free and open to the pub! ic. As ambassador to the Vatican, Flynn represents the United States on issues of social and ! economic justice in trouble ~pots around the world. For additional information, call (518)442-5620. \ACT\ NOW! Aide-de-Camp, Albany Civic Theater's benefitproduction company, is selling a new cookbook entitled Showstoppers, with the profits benefiting local AIDS chari- ties. The books, which sell for $8 each,ate available atperfonnances at Albany Civic Theater, the Sch~nectady Civic Players,and BookHouse ofStuyvesant. Initial recipes were used to pay for the printing ofthe cookbooks, which feature many recipes by local theater people, film, and Broadway stars, and other local people. Profits will be used to provide a small fund for the continued operation of Aide-de-Camp, with all additional profits going to ~uch groups as the Ryan White AIDS Dental Clinic at Albany Medical Center Hospital. The books are also available by mail for $10 to cover postage. and handling. Order can besentto: A.C.T., P.O.Box6172, Albany, NY 12206. ONTHEWRITETRACK Writers of new long and short plays are invited to submit unproduced works for consideration for Albany Civic Theater's fourth annual Playwrights Showcase. Fully staged readings of the works will be presented on the first weekend after Labor Day, September 5-September 7, with 8:00PM performances on Friday and Saturday and a 3 :00 PM perfonnance on Sunday. Although no deadline for submissions has been set, those plays which arrive first have the best chance for selection. Late submissions may be held over for future consideration. For more information, call (518) 462.,1297. Address mail inquires to: Albany Civic Theater, P.O. Box6172,Aibany,NY 12206. NOWSHOWING Works by Capital Region craftspeople are among the more than 200 works by contemporary crajters from across New York State selected for exhibition in Con- temporary New.York State Crafts, the first comprehensive exhibit of contemporary crafts from throughout New York State. The New York State Museum in Albany organized the exhibit which will be on view at theM useum from February 6 through May26, 1997. Works in clay, fibre, glass, metal, mixed media, and wood were submitted by artists from the Western and Central regions of the state, the Adirondacks, and the Hudson Valley including New York City and Long Island. For more information, call (51&)4745877, The Albany Institute of History & Art is celebrating the bicentennial of the City of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Capital Comes to Albany, a new exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the establishmentof Albany as the penn anent home ofNew York State government in I 797. The exhibit also explores the life.ofthe city of Albany at the time ofthe 1897 celebration ofthe centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, documents, and objects from col- lections of the Albany Institute. Theexhibitalso examines the society and culture in Albany at the end ofthe 18th century. It will be on view in the Albany Institute's South Gallery through June I, 1997. The Albany Institute of History & Art is located at 125 Washington A venue in downtown Albany. Call ( 518) 463-4478 for infonnation. ALSO A TTHEALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY & ART January 25-Apri] 13: Leon Marcotte: 19th Century Cabinet Maker and Interior Decorator. Features an important suite of c. 1865 Louis XVI furniture designed and manufactured by the French-born cabinet-maker Leon Marcotte{1824- l887), along with Eastman Johnson painting depicting a piece ofthe furniture. Chart-Toppers Top Five Films Title l. Star Wars 2. Dante's Peak 3. Beautician and Beast 4. Jerry Maguire 5.Scream Gross (in millions) $24.3 $18.5 $4.1 $3.6 . $3.6 Top Five Television Programs Title 1. Seinfeld 2.ER 3. Friends 4. TheS:ingleGuy 5. TheNakedTruth Viewers (in millions) 33.8 33.3 28.9 252 252 A Quick Lookat Wltat's Entertaining America (Week ofFebruary 3-February 9) Gross to date $393.5 $121.3 $75.0 Last week 2 1 3 6 4 ~~ TopFiveAlbumSales Artist 1. No Doubt 2. Soundtrack 3. Toni Braxton 4. Soundtrack 5. Celine Dion Top Five Video Rentals Title l. Phenomenon 2.Jack 3.TheRock 4. A Time to Kill S.Eddie Title Tragic Kingdom Gridlock'd Secrets Evita Falling Into You Distributor Touchstone Hollywood Hollywood Warner Hollywood Label Trauma!Interscope Death Row!Interscope LaFace/ Arista Warner Bros . 550 Music/Epic Last week 1 2 3 4 -· All information courtesy Entertainment Weekly

QIJ ~ <.!Iollcnrliit'tt5is • i\larch 6, 1997 • Page 14 - _ _ . . Finals _ MONDA'Y 2 MARCH 17 2 1997-9:00-11:00 AM PHY*Ol8*04 General Physics 2 Rodriguez, G. sscr Ol4 BI0\'026*0 1 The Cell . Danowski BAIL 207 PSC*088*0I Politics of the Middle East Abootalebi, A. sscr to3 B10\'046*01 Intro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 312 PSY*047:t!OJ Intro to Health Psychology F·letcher, B, BAIL 312 BI0*153*01 Plant Biology Minorsky, P. BAIL 102 SPN*l37*01 The Hispanic Short Story Martil;leZ, y. HUMN 117 BIO\'l70*0 l Genc;lral Endocrinology Butterstein,. G BAlt 201 TUESDAY 2 MARCH18,19~n ~ 4:30~<J:30PM CER*l52*01 Enviromnental Engr 1 Gremillion, P. BUTR 300 ANT*O lO*Ol lntrl;l:Cultural Anthropo1ogy Gl'llelch, G. SSCI Ol6 CHM*040\0l Quantitative Chemistry Wemer:T. BAIL 104 ANT*Ol0*02 lntro:Cultural Anthropolo!,'Y Omelch, G. SSCI 016 CHM*l62\01 Polymer Chemistry I Anderson, J. BAIL 100 TU,ESDA Y! MAQCill8 1 1997 - 6:00-9:0.0 :PM CLS *02 f*() 1 History of Greece Loomis, W. HUMN 117 CER*l7l *01 CE Senior be~dgn Project Griggs, F. BUTR 1'09 CLS*025*() 1 History of Rome Marincola, J. HUMN 1!6 CER*l71*02 CE Senior Design Project Lash.w~y. K. BUTR 201 CLS*O~l\'OI Survey of Ancient Epic Mace,S. HUMN 112 CER*l7l-03 CE Senior Design Pr~jec;t La:nMo, J. SUTR 300 ECO*I41 *01 Monetary Economics Kwok, C. HUMN 110 WEDNESDAYi MARCH l?_, 1997- 9:00-U:OO AM EER *041 *()I Electric Circuits Fatic, V. NWSE 114 BI0*024*·01 Genetics ' 'Bo:yer/Hort()p SSCI 016 EER* 144*() I Communication Systems l Spjnelli, 1. NWSE201A BIO*l38*01 Modem Parasitology Styl~s. T. NWSE ll6 HST*O'l3*() I History of US to Civil War Dudden, F. SSCI 012 CER* 128*Hl Structural Analysis MafL,M. BUTR 109 HST\'Ol3*02 History of US to Civil War Wells, R. ARTS 215 EC0*03l*Ol Microeconornic Analysis Yaisawamg, S. SSCI 104 HST*Ol4*() 1 History of US Since Civil War Henry, S. HUMN ll4 ECO*l40*01 Labor Economics ProspeB;; P; SSCI 012 HST*Ol4*02 History of US Since Civil War Miller, A.T. HUMN 115 EER*048*0l Semiconductor Devices & Circts Chilllg. Y. NWSE 201A HST\035*0 1 History of Europe I Hansen, E. SSCllQ3 EGL*022*03 Major Ameri'<:an Authors .Shou:r, N. HUMN llO HST*035*02 History of Europe I Sargent, S. SSCI 104 ESC*030*0.J Mechanics ofDefonnable Sol.ids Keat~W. D. NWSE 2to HST*036*01 History of Europe 2 Halliday,. P. SSCI 112 FRN*OlO*Ol Basic French I Krup :z:ak:, M. HUMN 117 HST*036*02 History of Europe 2 Shapard, D. SSCI 0<14 FRN*Oll *01 13asic French 2 Curran, A HUMN 11'2 MER*041 *01 Engineering Design 2 Rivera, M. NWSE:n2 GER*OlO*OI Basic German I Kellenter, S. HUMN ll4 MER*062*01 Thermal Energy Conversion Wicks,. F. NWSE2l0 GER\'Oli*Ol Basic German 2 Warde, A SSCI112 MTH*028*01 Probability Fairchild, W. BAIL 106 HST*049*01 Europe Between Two Wars Hansen, E. SSCI J<J3 PHY*051 *()I Intermediate Modem Physics McWhirter, J. NWSE328 MER*·O:lJ*Ol Fluid Mechanics Shanebrook, J. NWSE Z22 PSC*063*0 1 Party .Politics Fox, R. ARTS 109 MTH*070*01 Fractals Frame; M. BAIL 102 PS¥*033*01 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D.J.. HUMN 014 MTH*l40*0l Linear Algebra . Zulli. L. BAIL 104 PSY*046*0 l lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 312 PH¥\'052*0 1 Intenned Classi~al Mechanics Maleld,S. STZH 108 RUS*Oil*O 1 Basic Russian 2 Pavelock, M. SSCI 213 PSY*Ol0*01 Intro to Psychology DeBono, I<.. COLC SPN*l48*0 I Spanish Golden Age Theatre Martinez, L. SSCI 016 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psycholob'J' Greepberg, S. BAlL 300 MONDAV 2 MARCH 17 2 19.97-1:00-3:00 PM PSY*025*01 Intra to Experimental Pych &urns; D.J. BAIL 312 AM0*021 *0 l . Music History & Lit 2 .. McMullen, D. ARTS 215 S'PN*OlO*Ol Basic Spanish I Martine?:, L. HUMN 115 CER*022\'0 1 Civil Engr Materials Gifford, G. BUTR 300 SPN*Ol0*02 Basic Spanish I Osuna, M, HUMN 116 CHN*Oll*Ol Basic Cninese 2 Xie, Y. HUMN2l3 SPN*OI 1*01 Basic Spanish 2 Izurieta, I. HUMN 014 ECO*Ol2*03 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. SSCI 112 WEDNESDAY; MARCH.l9. 1.997- l:00-3:00 PM EC0*039*01 Public Finance McCarty, T. SSCII04 CER*i32*01 Reinforced Conet:ete Design Thabet~W. BUTR 300 GEO* II J*() I Lak~:~s & Environmental Change Rodbell, D. BUTR 201 MTH*O J.O*O I Calculus I Niefield, S. SSCI 104 GER * 132*(} I German Novellas/Short Stories Warde, k HUMN'l13 MTH*010*02 Calculus I Nie1leld; S. SSCI104 GER\' 142*0 I Deutsche Prosa: 1750 bis Heute Warde, A. HUMN 113 MTH*012*0'1 Calculus 2 F aircllild, W .. BAIL 100 GRK*O:ll *01 Principles of Greek 2 Marincola, J. HUMNII9 MTH*Ol2*02 Calculus 2 Cervone, !). BUTR 109 JPN*O ll *OJ Basic Japanese 2 Khan, Y. HUMN 110 MTH*Ol2*03 Calculus 2 Muckenfuss, J. BAlL 2~1 MIH*058\*02 Appls of Math to Eco I Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 MTH*Ol2*04 Calculus 2 Hart, J. SSCll03 MTH*099*01 lntro to Logic & Set Theory Zwicker, W. BAIL 104 MTH*Ol5*01 Calculus 3 Joh:nson, B. BAIL 2;(}7 PHL *020\\0 1 Intto to Logic/Critical Think Seltzer, R. HUMN 11.5 MTH*.Ol5*02 Calculus 3 Jolms()n_, B. BAIL 2()7 PHL*I33*01 Modem Phii/Leibniz thru Kant Chavez-. HUMN 116 MTH*015*03 CalculusJ Z11lli, L. BAIL Hl2 PH¥*040*01 Order & Chaos/ Art &'Magic Khosropour HUMNOl4 MTH*Ol9*01 Lin~ar Algebra/O~mp VaF/Engrs Zwicker, W. BAIL 105 PSC*O I I *()I Intro to Ainerican Politics Fox, R. SSCI 103 PSY*030*01 Personality Cumrnu1gs, K. BAIL312 PSY*024\'01 Social PsycholOb'Y Cummings,K. BAIL 300 THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1997-9:00-11:00 AM . . . ' PSY*038\0I Developmental PsycholO!,'Y Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 AAH*038*01 Renaissance Art in Italy I Mattllew. L. ARTS215 RUS* 121*0 J · lntennedfate Russian 2 Pavelock, M. SSCI 213 BI0*062*01 World Agricultqre George/f()biessen . BAIL 102 SOC*024\\0.J Social Psychology Cummings, K. BAIL 300 BI0*07.2 *0 I Preserving Biodiversity Sclm.<ller, M. BAIL 10'0 SPN* 120*02 ., Intennediate Spanish I Moyano, P. HUMN 112 BIO* 13'6*0.1 Cell Regulation Mechanisms Danowski. B. NWSE222 SJ>N*l21\'01 Intennedrate Spanish 2 • Merediz, E. HUMN 114 CER*OI6*01 CE Computer Applications .Serth,J. BUTR 106: SPN*l30*01 Spanish & Latin American Lit lzurieta, I. HUNfN 117 EC0*012*01 ,Introduction to Economics Motahar,E. SSCI104 SPN* 130*()2 Spanish & Latin American Lit Izurieta, I. HUMN 117 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Mc.tahar,.E. SSCil04 MONDA¥ 2 MARCH 17 1 1997-4:30-6:30 PM EC0*025*01 Technol01,ry Management Schtniclt, S. HUMN 115 CSC*OlO*Ol Computer~ & Computing Almstead, L. SSCI to3 ESC*Ol3*01 High-Level Language Programing Green, E. STZH 108 CSC*OI0\'02 Computers & Computing Hedrick, 1. SSCII04 ESC*Ol5*0I Numerical Methods & C Language Hedrick,J. STZH 106 MONDA Y 1 MARCH 17 1 1997 -7:00~9:00 PM ESC*OI7*01 Fundamentals ofEngg/CS II Abnstea<l, L. NWSE ll4 ECO* 163*0 I Seminar: International Finance Burgman, T SSCil04 ESC*OI7*02 Fundamentals ofEngg/CS U Wicks, F. STZH 106 (SAME AS GMI 261) ESC*QI7*03 Fundamentals of Engg/CS 11 Traver; C. NWSE 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 18 1 1997- 9:00-11:00 AM ESC*OI7*04 Fundamentals of Engg/CS II Rudk<J, M. NWSE201A BI0*016*01 Biology I Fleishman, L. COLC GEO*OII*Ol The Earth & Life thru Time Sta11der, E. BUTR 300 BIO*O 18*01 Biology 2 Tobiessen, P. SSCI 016 GEO*BO*Ol Geochemisny Holloch,;:r, K BUTR20l B10*150*0l Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. BAIL 201 PSC*032*01 Amer Political Th<>ught to WWI Bro-wn, C. S.SCI 014 BIO*I54*01 Developmental Biology Boyer, B. BAIL 100 PSC*05l*OI American Foreign Policy Abllotalel>i, A_ SSCI I 12 CHM\' 150*0 I Physical Chemistry I Hayes, D .. STZH 108 PSY*Ol0*02 Intro to Psychology Juster, H. BAIL312 EC0*03J*()'I Public Policy Klein, D_ HUMN 117 / PSY*03l *01 Abnonnal Psychology Rubonis., A. BAIL207 EER*I43*01 Electrotnagnetic Engineering I Chang, Y. NWSE201A SOC* 168*01 Sex & Motherhood Grigsby~J. HUMN ll<r EGL*019*01 Major English Authors l Hilles, C. HUMN 112 WST*127*01 Sex & Motherhood Grigsby • .l. HUMNIJO ENS*038*01 Environmental Sci en/ Atmosphere Wilk, R. NWSE 114 THURSDAY. MARCH 20; 1?97 - 1:00-3:00 PM ESC*069*0l Engineering Economics Anderson, A. · NWSE210 CER*Ol6*02 CE Computer Applications Sertlt, J. BUTR 106 FRN* 120*()1 Intermediate French I Do~be, C HUMN H6 CHM*OIO*OI Fundamental Chemistty: I Lou., I<. NWSE 114 FRN*12l*OJ Intermediate French.2 Leamon, A. BAIL 300 CHM*OJ0*02 Fundamental Chemistry I Skelly Frame, E. 13UTR300 GE0*020*0J Mineralo1,ry Shaw, G. BUTR201 CHM*OI2*0I Fundamental Chemistry 2 Scaife, C. BAIL 201 HST*Ol9*01 America between the W odd Wars Henry, S. SSCI 012 CHM*Of2*(}2 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Carr<JU, M. BAIL 207 HST*()22*UI Civil War & Reconstruction Dudden; F. SSCI 1.03 CHM*Ql2*03 Fundamentlll Chemistry 2 · Fox,.K. NWSE116 HST*065*01 East Asian Civ Part I · Madancy, J. SSCI014 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2 Hu!L,L. BUTR204 ... ot HST*l46*01 Meny Olde England? Social Hst Halliday, P. SSCI 110 CHM*032*02 Otganic Chemistry 2 Adrian,J. BUTR204 IMP*Ol2*01 Integrated Math/Physics II Reich, G. NWSE 112 J?RIDAY. MARCH 21. 1997 • 9:00-ll:OO.AM JPN·* 121 *0 I Intennediate Japanese 2 Wojnovich, M. HUMN213 AMU*030*01 American Music OlseD, T. ARTS 215 LAT*O II *01 Principles of Latin 2 Scullion, J.S. HUMNIIO ANT*Ol2*0l Gender & Society Brison, K_ HUMN liS MTH*017*01 Calculus IV:Integral Vector Frame, M. BAIL 102 ~'i... ' CLS*044*01 Poetry & the Cosmos Mace~ S. HUMN 110 MTH*030*01 Ordinary Differential Equation Rosenthal, K. BAIL207 EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy KwClk,C. SSCI 012 MTH*058*01 Appls of Math to Eco I Reynolds, P. BAIL 104 EGL*051*01 Chaucer Hille:;, C. BAIL 104 MTH*l36\'(rJ Real Variable Theory I Hart, J. ALUM 307 GER*120*01. Intennediate Gennan I Harnm-Kbsani, K.HUMN 213 PHY* 0 15 *Ol Physics/Life Sciences I NeWman,J. NWSE 1>16 OER* 121 *OJ Intennediate Gennan 2 Harni11-Ehsani; K. HUMN 213 PSC*O J I *()3 Intro to American Politics Nye, B. SSCI J.04 HEB*OII *OJ Basic Hebrew 2 Hecke.Jman, D, HUMN 112 PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL303 HST*079*01 Africa in the 20th Century Miller~ AT. SSCI 014 PSY*050*01 Educational Psychology Heinegg, R. BAIL 312 JPN*l3l*Ol Advanced Interm Japanese II Khan, Y. SSCI 010 SOC*Ol0*02 Intro to Sociology Grigsby, J. SSCJ 010 LAT*I4I*Ol Roman Historiography L()omis, W. HUMN 113 SPN*Oll *02 Basic Spanish 2 Moyano, P. HUMN 115 MTH*I24*01 Geometry Cewo11e, D. HUMNOI4 SPN* 120*0 I Intermediate Spanish l Martinez, v, HUMN 114 PHL*038*01 Eastern Philosophy Patrik, L. HUMN 116 SPN* 121 *02 Intemiediate Spanish 2 Merediz, E. BAIL 106 PHY*020*01 General Physics 4 Khostopo1u-, R. NWSE328 TUESDAY 2 MARCH 18 2 1997 -1:00-3:00 PM PSC*OII*02 Intro to American Politics Fo:x, It. SSCI 103 AMU*027*01 Perforinance Workshop: Vocal McMullen, D. ARTS 215 WST*OlO\'Ol Gender & Society Briso'-, K HUMN 115 EGL*020*01 Major English Authors 2 Jenkins, H. HUMN 114 FRIDAYz MARCH 21 1 1997- 1:00-3:00 PM ENS*l80*01 Environmental Study Seminar 1 Tobiessen, P. NWSE 114 AAH*022*0l Medieval Art & Arch of N Europ Matthew,L. ARTS 215 PHL*012*0l History Western Philosophy 2 Chavez, E. HUMN 116 ACC\'OIO>~'Ol Survey of Accounting Lewis. W. BAIL 201 PHL*174*()1 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. HUMN 110 CLS\'030*01 Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans Scullion. J .S HUMN 110 PHY*OI7*01 General Physics 1 Marr, J.M. SSCI 112 EGL*02o•o2 Major English Authors 2 Steve11son. R.. HUMN 115 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 Topor, N. SSCI 104 PHL\' 144*01 Political Philosophy Baker, R. · HUMN 112 PHY*Ol7*03 General Physics 1 Topor, N. SSCI 104 PSC*Ol2*02 Intro International Politics Abootalebi; A. SSCI 014 PHY*Ol7*04 General Physics 1 Marr,J.M. SSCI 112 PSC*030*01 Modem Political Thought Brow11, C. SSCI 103 PHY*018*01 General Physics 2 Anderson, A. SSCI 012 PSC*071*0l Civil Rights & Civil Liberties Underwood; J. SSCI 110 PHY*Ol8*02 General Physics 2 Jones, C. SSCI 012 PSY*Ol0*03 intro to Psychology Rubo11is, A. BAIL 207 PHY*018*03 General P.hysics 2 Rodriguez, G. SSCI 014 PSY*049*01 Psychology of Addiction Dowling, T. BAIL 312

' ' Page IS ~ :\htn~h 6, 1997 • QliL' QLlHfllrOiL'tH:.is . Ad ' ' • The Rouse Family Arthu~; Sabrina, Bobbi qn, Kari Ann, and Bret. Lived together, loved together: Killed together. August 20, 1991 Gansevoort, NY 0 U.S. Department of TranslfiOI'talion

P.aae 16 • l\ hnda 6, 1997 • Ufl c <JI ounn:uimsis · . . . · _ s lo rts ECAC & UCAA Update Men's Basketball Overall UCAA Team Won Lost Won Lost Everything You Wanted to Know About the ECAC Playoffs ... St. Lawrence 22 3 11 1 Hamilton 15 9 9 3 (ButKnew I Would Write a Long Column About) Hobart ll 13 8 Clarkson 1 1 14 5 4 7 . by Fraok Rossi. SpQtts Editor point;!'; for a win and one point for both Uniongames with pre-game a tie (a.s Friday's and Saturday's · and post-game. shows. Union 7 18 4 8 Skidmore 7 18 3 9 RPI 4 19 2 10 UC:AA Basketball Hoilors: . Men- Rob Groelz, sophomore forward, won a spot ontheUCAA Second Team. Gr()elz led the Dutchmen with 15 points .per game (sixth in the UCAA }a11d free throwpetcentage (83. 9percent, first in the UCAA). .. Women- Double honors for the ladies. Amy Hitz, senior . · forward, not only br()ke records this season, but she also made the · UCAA First Team_ 'Teammate Leah Oliveiri, freshman forward, found her way ()nto the UCAA Honorable Mention list. ECAC Hockey Standings LeagueO~Jy Overall School GI- . W-L-T Pfs- GF GA W-L-T Clarkson 22 17-5.-0 34 ·94 54 24-8-0 Cornell 22 14-6-2 30 80 63 17-8-4 games will only have one fivt:;... If you survived ·Jast week ,s minu:te overtime each). If, after playoff-.scenal'io col·.umn, then Satur~ay's g.ame,bothteams have: you knowthat the Union College two p()ints, a Sunday afternoon .Skating Dutchrnen~e·fac.ingthe game.isplayed to decide the w'Jn- RPI ·Engineers in Renise1aer Fri- her ofthe series. This game has day, Saturday, and, ifnecessary, unlimited 20-minute 5Verdmes, Sunday. Due topopul~rdemand, So there will he a winner- on.a. this article will. explainthetogis- Sund'ay game. Remember, all- tics of the BCAC Toum:ament ~games are played in one location, and, seeing thatthis is our last is- not otJ a heme rotation basis. sueofthe terin~ the NCAA Tour~ Tbewinners ofthisweekend~~ nament. games move onto tlle sei'!lifinais. The ECA C Tournam e:rtt is in Lal<e Placid next Jl'riday. The. pretty sitnpl~(un less I am the one teams are re-seeded (from first to explaining it). We start we t!'Je fourth), making #l .play #4 and top ten teams in the league. Last #2 play#3. The difference in this Tuesday, the sev~nth- and tenth:. : round is that it is a single-elimi- place teams an{j the eightli- and nation situation. Yes, there is niQth-place teams faced each onlyofle game in each semifinal. Vermont 22 13-6-3 29 67 60 21-8-3 1 oilier in the so-c:alled \PI~y-In\ The witmer plays in the cham pi- RPI 22 12-7-3 27 Union* 22; 11-8-3 25 Princeton 22 11-8-3 25 Colgate 22 10-9-3 23 Harvard 22 9-11-2 20 St. Lawrence 22 5-12-5 15 Yale 22 6.:.14-2 14 Dartmouth 22 5-15-2 12 Brown 22 4-16-2 10 83 71 63 54 70 59 79 79 64 67 78 92 61 82 75 100 81 114 17-11-4 18-ll-3 16,;9-4 16-13-3 10-17-2 W-19-5 9-17-3 10-17-2. 7-19'-3 . Games (Yale at Colgate and St. onship the following day{Satur- Lawrence at Harvard, respec- day, March 1.5), while the loser tively). After those single-e1imi... plays i11 the consolation game nation games, thewinnersare\re- Saturday. The semifinals are at seeded\ as the·team with the 4PM and 7PM next Friqay, the higher rank will be seeded sev- consolation is l PM next Satur- enth, and the otherwinnerwill be day, and the championship will eighth.· followat4PM. This weekend, the top four ThePriine Network wilLcarry * - Union finishes fifUJ IJSing the second tie-breaker (record VS. top 4 teams) teams will host playoff SeFies as the Sel1l ifinals on a tape-delayed Honor Roll # l Clarkson hosts the #8 tea111;#2 basis Saturday afternoon and the Trevor Koenig, junior, (Edmonton, Alb.), has helped create new Cornell hosts the #7 team., #3 champi<mship live 011 Saturday adjectives in the ECAC as the press release stated, \[Trevor] VennonthostsfJ6 Princeton, and afternoon. They will also be car- didn't have a vintage K..oenig-like weekend (8 goals against), but #4 RPI hosts #5 Uniol). These ried on RealAudio over the still held the fort well enough to win the ECAC Goals Against · series are \first-to-three-point\ Internet.. lf Union makes it to Average title(2 .t 9), the first for a Union goaltender.\ ' series. The games are wortll two Lake Placid, WRUC will carry L-~~------------------~------~----------~ USA TheNC:AA Toumarnentcom- mittee will choose 12 teams for the tournament, but the champi- ons of the four leagues (the ECAC, CCHA, WCHA, and Hockey East) all get automatic bids. If the tournament cham pion is different from the regular..,sea,. son champion, then it is custom- ary to give both teams an auto- matic bid. Thismeansthatat least four teams are chosen by the com- mittee using a \power ranking\ system (Union currently ranks 15th in. this index). The top four teamsreceivebyeswhile the bot- tom eight,play each other in round one {neutral sites). Round two narrows the teams down to the .. Final Four.\ The Ice Hockey \Final Four\ is simi- lar to the coLlege basketball 1 'Fi- nal Fom\ (though it is slightly colder). B:oththe semifinal s(Fri- day, Match Z&) and finals(Satur- day,Ma_rc.li.29}are played at the same site in Milwaukee, Wiscon~ Sifl. Right now, the Skating Dutch- men are near the bottom rung of the playoff ladder, and as seen here, it is along climb. However, you will know \exactly\ what is going on when those unbiased sportscasters on the radio station are screaming incoherently Uust kidding). Don't ruin a perfectly good summer. Slow down. II!; I '\I nllllf'lll 1>1 hHII'•I 1'\II(Jilt>rl N(ilionol Highway Traffic Safety Admlnislrallon

. Sports ~-· ~ · · 'illlp~ 1.11ottCt1ti'liemsis •l\lar.:h ()., 1997 • Page 17 · Jamie Antoine: Hard Work Yields Success Courtesy ~>f Sports lnforltlatlon '-. Senior forwm:d Jan1:ie Antoine is among several Vn]o-n College senior hockey playeFs who are having the best year:oftheir car 1reers. The Skating .Dutchmen, now in just their sb{Eh season at the Division I lev:el,.. finished a school-record fifth place ia the Eastern CoHege Athletic Confer- ence and will travel bmeetarch,.. · rival Rensselaer · in the quarterfinals. thi-s '\V-eekend . (March 7 and Mare.h &). Should . the Dutchmen pi£k ttP three points against the Eng:i11eets, they would make their first-everr ap- pearance in Lake Pla<Ji<l,.. NY, as . part of the ECAC's ~'I~!nal Four.\ Antoine, a native ofMarkham, Ontario, is a big reasO<n for the · . success ofthe Dutchmen: While ithas beenabtnner year · for the Dutchmen, tltis is notthe . first time that they nave experi- enced success. After winning just three overall games ill each of their first two seasO<ns .at the Di- vjsioni level, Uni·onwe:nteQ a 7- 0· 2 tear down the stretch. to fin- ish in sixth place in th-e .ECAC in Antoine's freshmatHa!tlpaign of 1993-94. The Dutci'Jrnen beat mance on the penalty .. killing unit '\Crash Ll~e 1 ') does an awfull~t has helped· lead Union to fourth of defensiveworl; 121tboth ends of in the .country at 863% {a:llow- t.be ice. 1 ' ing 19 goals in 145 man-down · Antoine's succds this year .situations). comes as no surprise to Moore, · · . Antoine, ·who has twO: game•\ . f(:) llis coaching staff, orto Dutcb~ winning ·goals anl'Qng. his lS ll;lenfollowers.wllo·haveseenhim points (eight goals and seven as- play the last four seasoris. In fact, sists), has always heen·anexcel~ Antoine represents: exactly. the lent defensive player. 11his·year, type. o.fplayer who will wear th:e he'attd the Dutchmen rank first garnet and white jersey. A 1101.1- ., . --. tf· ,· '' ~ ·,, Coach Moore. Antoine is glad that he came to Union and feels that his hard work in both the classroom and in athfetics have helped him ma- ture. \It is good to be held respon- sible to both the sport. and in the classroom,\ Antoine s.aid of Union's tough academic stan- .dards·and vigorous hockey train· has been worth it. A biology major with a grade ]JOia:tt average of3.7 (out of 4.0), .Alltoine was the recipient of the !llamas VanArden Dukehart .A'\W;ard for academic excellence fo llewing his sophomore season. fleEs eventually looking forward to attend-ing medical school, ei- ther in the United States or in Otn;ada, after taking next year off F()<tl1ow, however, his focus is on hel~ing Union win the ECAC c:h;a!I1pionship. \My success hascbme,with tlle.t..eam' s success,\ Antoine ex- . pl1tined. «We're a bunch of guys wi1h nothing to lose, going at it oortfle last time together. We feel lik-e we can beat anyone in the :leitgue.\ Atlt()ine. started playing hockey a.tag;-e. :five. He played for the Jun- ior !JMatkham Waxersattheage ()f 16 He then moved on to play · f~Jr-·tlhe North York Rangers be- fere.comingto Union. He scored · fiv-e points (three goals and tw,o . assists) in 16 games for th-e Dllltc:hmen as a fourth-line player . inhi:ss()phomore year. A~ a jut;~­ ior~ Antoine moved between the third and fourth lines before see- ing;,tiin=le on special teams dudng · mid~:season. He tallied four goals travel partner and Capital District ._· ~~----\\---'--\-'-\-~\-'-o~~~-~~':;-\---..~..A.J~___...~~--~---..3u.;:L-i..._ ____ ___.l v..rith !()assists in 30 games. rival Rensselaer, 4-3~intheopen- in the country in team defense, al- scholarship school with a strong ing program. \You earn your Offthe ice, Antoine has workfid inggameofthequaM~rfinalsbut Iowing;just 2.3 . .goals a game. academicreputaticn{mentionecl keep in the classroom, and you as a counselor and tutor for lost-the next two to firiisirwith an Union has blankoed opponents among the top 50 small colleges earn ypur place on the ,team. It lJnio n\s Summer Science\Vork- overall markofJS..;tlJ4. Antoine foQ.r times and has giv:enupjust in the Uni~d States), Uni:onwi)l helps you grow as a person.': sh~p, which works with junior was riotmuch of a fa()t()rthatsea- one goal in eight other contests. not get the f'ready-.made\players. ,H~ does, not feel that the l.ack and: .~enior high school minority son, ·as he appeared ia just U ··On top of aH this, Antoine'is that the high-profile, scholarship of scholarships will hinder. the st~de:nts. with an interest in sci- games. the Dutchmen's top face-off man schools attract. Instead, playeFS recruitment of quality players to e,nc.e. He, is also a, memberpfthe This year, howeV'er,.lsa differ- with awi'nning•f)ercentageof .581 SU£11 as Antoine 1mve_ to work en~~r.e. f1,1tur:e. :;mc.r.es,s. fof,. ,t\1~ ·: pre~~~ait~~ ~~ci~iy. · At:1,tO,~n11 is ent story. Antoine, t,;Vho i1 the (A04rof351).' · · _,;f ' hard to build up.tlleir..lJodiesand Dutchmen. Hequicklypointsto w<Jrkin_g.ongai.ningro.ore.clinical right wing on Union's third I ine, ~'Jamie is a very intelligent to refine-their skills bef()re bios- the fact that he and his teammates eJCpteden.ce and ~xp~sure in order has played regularly in all 32 hockey player,\ said first- year soming into blue cl'lipperfonners. have been to three ECAC playoff to irn~r<>ve his resume for medi- \games wniJe·helping tlte-Uif'ion head coach Stan Moore. \Pen- · ~ ~'J:am+e has wcnl<ed hard -tournaments in four~years {miss~ calscl1ool. 'Dutchmen compile arec()rd-set- alty kiUing comes easy for him throughout his career and i.s a jng last year by a single game). \\'! \vould do it all over again,\ tingoverall mark ofU-I l-3 (11- because he reads the situation. On prime example ofh<)w 1nuch that \We've had success,\ he says. sa icl A11toine of his choice to 8-3 in the ECAC). fie is a key the power-play, he uses his work has paid off. He started to \The coaches can always find co m.e to Union. 'This is the time· player on both the penalty-killing .. str..eJ;~gtq to e~tablish p.ositiop. Hi~ CQlJ!e i:ntopi;s. oyvn 1,1bol!,t ~he players who are special and will- in 111.y life when I've made some and power-play units; Not only . -nne twhi.en· incj:u~!iffi s~im~s ·lJ'l'rddleofhis,j~.mio-:Fyea:.ranclh~s · ing to put in the ·work. Nothi~g . realt:y close friends, both .in and do his six power~play goals lead P~trick o: Fkthe-tty and Craig _been one cafour top oyeraU, per. ~-~.been handed to us (the 1n.e;n~ ou tof-hClckey. The best friends I the Dutchmen, but his. perfor- . Reckin and is known as Union's ·-· .fot!}Jers- tNs entire ~~a~ori;·\ said ·. ·b~rs -of the hockey team), but it ha-ve, I've made here at Union.\ Track Team LoOkS:i~·Strong Spring s\i':r~:~~;en~~ued · · tothe-400rntohlninthedistance looks to qualify for states once the women's squad, the women's CI'\/WebbSchool) with294.65 by Jason Everett medley rt\lay at the Williams In- again in the shot put, as well as team is losing their lone state 4()0 lM: 1st Place Searles with StaffWriter vitational. · JessePriscointhehingandtriple medalist,sophomore Jessica 4:0&.,4-1~2ndPlace-Stuntzwith The Union men's.andwomen's track teams are currently prepar- ing for the 1997 outtfo()r track campaign which shoulcl indeed be special for the Dutchrnell. The team is currently training ardu- ously under the strongest coach- ing staffUnion has had in recent memory. The team ha.S .-ecently added Jim Bowles and Todd Donn ley who wilt coac'h the field events, and women's distance re.- spectively. The men's team has so111.e <!ham- pionships to defend this ()utd'oot season- specifically sertior Co~ captain Dave Riggi for the state 200m crown, and the 4x8 OOm re- lay for the UCAA, Capital Disa. · trict and State crowns. Riggi hopes to defen<l· ilis state 200m title at Brockport for states which is going to be a monumen- tal task. This is due to the pres- ence ofperennial rival. K.rishaun Gilmore of RPI being far and above every else in tfle: state, let alone the country\ in this event. Riggi also looks to compe:te in the lOOm, as well as dab bin~ at the 4x 100, and perhaps stepping up The men's 4x800 team was jumps. Junior Mike Martin also Goveia, to a tenn abroad. 4:10 .4-2~ 7th Place-Giogowski dominated all opponents in the hoiJeS to qualify again in the triple · Despite Goveia' s absence, the with 4- :1 9.07 state iast year in both indoor and jump. womenstiJI have a talented. group J()O Fly: 1st Place--Makarow- . outdoor seasons, winning every ·Back on the track~ Flynn and of middle distance runners in- skiw.ith 50.32 race .it entered. This included two Con'VIIay look to emergeabovethe eluding senior Sara Mcintosh, :2()0 Free: I st Place-Hoerle st~techampionships,~oUCAA packinthe800mwherelastyear and sophomores Katie with 1:40.74(meetrecord);2nd championships, and two Capital they were ranked in the top five MacDowen and Molly Hood. Plac.e-Smyth with I :44.87 District championships. AI- inthestate. Bothranroughly 1:57 MacDowell iscomingoffan out- l()O 3reast: lstPlace-Ander- though the relay squad graduated in tnis their specialty event last standing indoor season and looks son1With 57.24; 8th Place-Pete two key members, returning run-· year, and look to go ander 1:55 to make a return trip to the finals Hliinp<hreys (New Hartford, NY I ners are sophomme Peter Flynn thisseason. Also inthemid-<lis- in the 1500m at the statechampi- Ne:wHutford) with 1:01.14 ~ndseniorNickConway. Junior tance is Travis Reap who will onships. Thefieldat:hletesareled 10() 13ack: lst Place-M. . cp.:captain,Jay Goldberg is join- look to cotnpetein the 400m and by senior co-captai11 Michelle HtJ1np;hreys with 51.38 ing the relay for this cutdoor cam- possibly step Up the 800nt. Coach Woodward who will compete in 1'(i5() Free: 3 rd Place--Stuntz paign, and the fourth spot is cur- LarryCottrell comtnentedthatwe the weight throw and shot put. wi tb 16:43. 37; 4th Place rently vacant unti:l someone else should also 'i]ook for :an up and Carolyn Cieslowsk i looks to Mau:ri ello with 17:06.61 on the men's team claims it. corningKennyScott[inthe400m qualify in the high jump and dis- 200! Back: 1st Place-M. TurniJ!gtothefield,freshman and8()0rn]thisseason.\ cus, while in the sprints, Sara Hun~hreys with 1:53.12; 7th Bcyan Ro}dooRs to continue his 'The Uniori women's team is Gower will compete in the 200m Placte--Glogowski with 2:00.70 recent success during the indoor gaining some returniiJ.g runners and400m. Emily Beck also looks iHIO Free: lst Place--Hoerle· season in boththetriplejump, and wh<J did not participate during to compete in the 110m hurdles. wi'tlt 45.96 (meet record); 4th long jump in which he was voted indoor, while at the same time Looking at the outdoor squad, Plac.e-. Smyth with 48. 06; 8th by the UCAA coaches as fresh- losin,g a key runner for the out- Coach Cottrell commented that it Place-P. Humphreys with 49.18 man MVP in the conference. Se- door season: RettJrniilg after a \Looks as if we will have the big- 2()0 &reast: 1st Place-Ander- nior Jason Jennings is also com- one season hiatus frdlll running gestteam in thirteen years ... \ and sonY.Vith2:06.38 ing off a strong indoor .season to compete fortheswlrn team, is \ ... [let's] see if these Union ath- 2DO Fly: 2nd Place-Mak~ where he took fifth in the state in talented th~ juni,()r Kelly letes will rise up to the challenge am\Oiolslci with 1 :52.30; 3rd the long jump. He looks to im- Jamieson,.,wholoo~stobuild on to be the best they can be.\ Plac.e-Searleswith 1:56.06 prove on that in the outdoor sea- her 1996 XC succ<ess: _Despite Check out the Union Homepage 3 Meter Diving: 1st Place- son as weli' as' compete''\in the . Jamieson'spresenceaddingtothe at '•http://www.vu.union.edu/ Field-with-513.70; 4th Place-- 200m. SophomoreJermel Royal talented middle-distance corps of -union_xctrackf'. Herslunanwith 333,30

·Phge 18 • !\larch 6, 1997 • (IT! c Qonwri:limsis - · · . Sp01·ts Men's Hockey one team in the league. For the th~ Y11le lead to one .. However, blast ftom the point past Dan evc;!n at fiveapiece. Continued from Page 20 Dutchmen to finish tifth. ano to with j\.IStZ4 seconds remaining in Choquette. Union, playing its third straight second period, as Steve Sherreffs play RPI, three things had to oc- the.J)erio~ Yale got its thir-d goal. The Bul:Jdogs' Brow took a overtime game, des,perately beat Union goal-tender Trevor cur: R.PI had to beat Princeton, as L()uie Lcucks found a loose five-minute majorforspearingat needed the win. Yale managed Koenig for his fifth goal of the Vermont had to beat Harvard, and pucktlu:~t was hit offofthe·side 1:52 ofthethird, and since Union some quick offense early inthe season. Princeton continued to Union had to beat Yale. ofthen~tinto the ctease and fired was down a goal, a fi,ve-man-on- overtime; butK.oenjg stopped all put pressure on the Dutchmen, The ice held asthevuuacJgs ·~v'\'\'\\'' which increased four-man a<.nranta~~e five ofYaie'sshots. Withjust43 who, forapproximately four min- seconds I eft in overtime, Yale utes, were unable to get the puck Coach Tim Taylor pulled past the red line. Finally, on its Choquetteto the benchwhen he first scoring chance after getting had found out that Yale had to win the puck out ofits defensive zone, in order t() avoid being in tenth Union broke the tie; as Monteith place and playing at Colgate in a scored his tenth goal of the sea\ preliminary game. Ford picked son with Bill Moody and Chris up a Satterlund clearing pass in Ford getting the assists to put the neutral zone and beat a lone Union up 2-l. Unfortunately for Yaledefendertofitethepuck into the Dutchmen, Patrick O'Fiaherty the empty net, which gave Union took a penalty with 15 seconds the 6-5 victory. left in the period. Princeton capi- As Union soon found out, all talized on it as the freshman ofthe things.that needed to hap- defenseman Dominique Auger pen at the stMt of the game oc- scored to tie the game at 2-2 and · curred, as V enn.unt heat Harvard destroy Union's momentum with . .. . and RPI beat Princeton, giving justtwo seconds left in the period. Union a qua.rterfinal series at RPI Neither side could muster any this weekend. TheDutchmenlast type of attack in the thitd period, . faced the Engineers three years andtheteamsheadedtoovertime ago, when Union'.s I3 seniors with the score tied at 2-2. The were freshman. The m-iracle Tigers came out on fire in the freshman team wonasingle game ~~me~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~~;~;;~~~;~~~~~~~~~~;~;~~;~E~~.~W~p~~~~ .to make four of his 32 stops in ~ as the Dutclunen boast 13 seniors, the overtime. Union never got a came out·· in the first period·. ·way to try for a comeb~ck· How- and RPI isthe,yoimgerteam. \It's shot oil Saltarelli in the overtime. and scored two quick goals on Early- iqthesecond period,. with ever, the Dutchmen only man- deja vu,\ said Ford. The best-of· Finally, with a minute left in over-- Koenig .. The fjrst came at 8:41, Fmd in the penalty-box for inter.: aged 2:44 of. attack time on the three- games series begins at the time, it was Keith O'Brien who as Jeff Brow took a cross\' ice pass fere.nce, 'Yale got its fourth goal power-play and only two shots; Houston Field House on Friday. beatKoenig,givingPrincetonthe from Jeff Hamilton to beat of tile game from Ray Giroux. when the penalty expired, they CoachStanMoorewasexcited 3-2 win. Koenig. Yale's Keith This ;put Yale up 4-1, and it were still down 4-3. Campbell aboutthe Union win and the up- The loss snapped Union's five- J\:1cCullough brought the score to looke.i':as thoLLgh Union was go- got the tying goal, as he buried corning series against RPI. \We game, unbeaten Streak· and 2-0 as he beat Koenig at 10:33. ingto playapreliminarygameon the puck that came to him as a perseveredinthatmomentwhen dropped the team into a tie for Union needed a spark and par- Tue:d.a,. F()rd believed th..atthe Mark Will shot deflected off ofa maybe there wasn't a lot of hope sixth place with the Colgate Red tially got one as freshman Sean team ~as somewhat surprised by skate in front. at 4-I. I'm very excited for the Raiders.- The Dutchmen would Nolan and senior Chad Thomp- Yale':; play early in the g~1ne. At 12:05 of .the third perjod, factthatwecameback forthefirst need some help from Clarkson the son,. hoping to tum thetid-e, went ''They gota couple of good shots with Thompson off for holding time with that kind .of disparate following day, as a Colgate win into the comer and got into ami- on tli~lletandgotSome goals. It the stick, Union gotitsfirstlead numberofgoalsagainst,\ he said. would put Union in seventh place nor scrap with Yale's was a big surprise,\ he said. ofthenight, as JeffSproattook a andgivethemapreliminaryhome McCullough and Jeff Glew. H()VJever,the Dutchmen were pass from Mark Szucs and playoffgame. However, Yalewentonapower;.> notabo1.1tt() fold, as Thompson streaked down the left s,ide. The Dutchmen traveled to play as Nolan, in only his se.cond scor~cUtis first goal ofthesea.son, Sproat waited for the Yale de- Ingalls Rink, which had an am- game of the season, was given a with O\'Flaherty and Seabrook fender to make his move, and monia leak during the week caus- triple-min or on the play. The Satt~rlurld on the assists, to cut when he did, Sproat ~:eleased a ing the ice to melt early during Bulldogs failed to score. and thelead in ha.lf Union cam~ out shot that beat Choquette to .give the week. When they entered, Union got its first goal ofthe night of th~ peri{)d down a goal, as Union a 5-4 lead. The lead didn'-t they were infonned of the impor- Chris Ford scored his seventh of Ryan c- arnJlbell continued the last long, .as Y~le ~captain Josh tance ofthat game, since Colgate the season, from Greg Buchanan cGmel>ack,scorin.g4isninth of the Rabjohnstied the game, sending had lost to Clarkson, the number- and John Sicinski at 18:34to cut seaso[J as he tipped a Satterlund it into overtime with ·the score BETWEEN THE PIPES Jay Prentice sat out the game against Yale with back problems. Ryan Cam)ll>ell has a :five-game, point-scoring streak. Andrew Will was voted \ECAC Best De- fensive Defenseman of the Year.\· Seabrook S11tterlund registered three assists against Yale after sit- ting out against Princeton. Women's Hockey Skates Over UMass in Final Game Exceed Expectations With an 8-2 Record Against Club Teams by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer The Skating Dutchwomen ended their regular season last Friday, February 28 at Achilles Rink with a 6-4 victory over the University of Massachusetts Amherst. The Union women's· ice hockey team came out flat in the first period, despite memories of their previous 5-2 victory over U Mass shaping their expectations for the game. Although the Skat- ing Dutchwomen presented an· overall greater skating and play- ing ability, U M,ass player num- ber nine provided the only cata- lyst that the University ofMassa- chusetts needed to hold Union to a 2-2 tie at the end of the first pe- riod, with goals scored for Union by junior forward Laura Felton and sophomore defense Sarah Moss. During the second period, both the University of Massachusetts and Union were held to one goal. By the end of the second period, Union was tied with the Univer- sity of Massachusetts Amherst 3- 3. Regardless of the inability of the Skating Dutchwomen to pull ahead of their opponent in the second period ofthe game, Union Stepped up their speed and im- Tile tfuinl period presented a chan.ge :in pace for the Skating Dutch\W()I11en when they came ior defense Tracy Marquis came out to score goals almost imme- diately, placing Union ahead of Saralt Moss skates down t/te ice eJI . .t~lltt '\ a !Jreak-away. (plroto by La11rie Kirsc/mer/TC) proved their plays and passing out onf1reand left the University the University -of Massachusetts enough to keep up with UMass. of Massa..<Jhlisetts, including the 5-3, leaving them in an unrecov- Senior forward Kim Troiani disorie~te:d and surprised number er.able position and taking them scored Union's only goal of the nine, de:ad in tlleir tracks. SeJiior out of the game. Sophomore for- second period. forward Jlma Yamashitaandjun- ward Hilary Fitts followed with another goal later in the third pe- riod. Senior Jody Mousseau and sophomore Lauren Locke split time in the goal between the first and second parts efthegame, re- spectively, with Mousseau allow- ing three for the opponent and Locke allowing one. Sophomore forward Hilary Fitts commented on the complete change in the Dutchwomen's game between the first and the third periods. \We came out pretty flat and slow, but after our motivational speech from our coach, we were able to step up our level of play in the third period and walk away with a well earned win.\ Union to<>k a 6-4 victory in their last home game of the sea- son and the last home game ever for the four seniors on the team~ three year tri-captain, club presi- dent; founder and forward Hana Yamashita, two year captain, for- ward Kristeen Hoffinan, forward Kim Troiani~.ai1d goaltender Jody Mousseau. ~ The victory against UMass last Friday improved the Skating Dutehwomen 's record to 8-8-l, with an 8-2 record against club teams.

I lt y d le II 3 :e d e n h a d t:l e ) :1 J t S 101·ts · ~ <lilt' ilinJtrorointsis • 1\larch 6~ 1997 • Page 19 -----~~ - -·-- ~---- - ---- -------~~------- -~ ---------- ·~- ------- --~---~-- - -------- - - We are already in the month of to hockey). There is no better way March. That can only mean one to spend _a day than' by spending thing to mert all Qver this coun- it outside in tbe·open air, taking. try ... BASEBALL! l This is the in a ball game: The·'smeU of the best time of the year. Everyone's grass and the sound ofthe bat are team is a contender, and there is enough to get any re(l-blooded a great sense of anticipation in the American'sjuices flowing. air. If you do not feel at least a True, baseball has gone· tinge of excitement on Opening through some rough times in the Day when your team takes the past few years-..,nam:elythe.strike, field for the -first time, then there outrageous salaries, and ()hnox:- is something wFong with you. __ ious players (that- moron ·Robby Baseball j.n itselfis a fantastic Alomar, for exatnple);.blit every game. After aU, it is our national so often there ate those fewplay- pastime.. The names of the. . ers who still symbolize what leagues echo a sense of patrio- game is really about. tism--the \National\ League and · TakeTerry Steinbach, for ex- the \American\ League. There is ample. A catcher for the Oakland a strong sense ofprideconnected A l s last year, he toQk a very large to baseball An American it1- paycutjustto play in Minnesota, vented it, and Americans have his home state. These kinds of perfected it. (Our friends to the pLayers are the glimmer <>fhope north have done an okay job in that baseball can once again reach the past, but they should juststick the popularity that it once had. They .also show us.that the game 'isJwt just aoout''dollar·bills ana ' • •• • J fancy living, ·but about playing a child\s game, If's about playing a :garne that so marry people woulddletoplay. Justwhenyou begin.._ to th-ink that most of the players n-owa:days don't realize that aJtd couldn't care less·about thetraditions ofbasebaU, you see the Teny 'Steinbachs of the Ie,ague, and for a moment every- thingse~ms alight. This new season has an added feature t<Jit--lnterl eague ,play. For the first time, teams from theNa- tional'alld American Leagues wil'l play each other before the fall classic:. - Chicago and New York will now have arivalry in which they can act1.1alty watch their two teams J)lay each other. No longer will the North Siders say that the Cubs could heat the White Sox to a pulp with no evidence to ba,ek it up. Now; tl1e NorthSiders and the South Siders can do battle for games that actually count in the standings. There used to be a \Crosstown Classic\ each June, when the Sox and Cubs would play an exhibition game. Of course, each team fielded their AAA players to give them expe- rience, so the fans of the losing team would say, \So what, we were only playing scrubs.\ When the Sox beat the ivy out of the Cubs, there will be no excuses. · This season promises to be an exciting one for baseball fans. There are two new expansion teams, and a huge numberofplay- ers have switched teams, most notably Albert Belle, who switched to the White Sox. Along with Frank Thomas, these two may be the most potent combi- nation of hitters since Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris back in 1961. The Florida Marlins have also shelled out the cash to ac- quire big-name pbyers like pitcher Alex Fernandez and out- fielder Bobby Bonilla. Predictions for the World Series: Chicago White Sox vs. Atlanta Bra-ves~- White Sox in 5 (I'm biased; what can l say?!) Tourne:y Time: Tomorrow night, the Skating Dutchmen ven- ture down the street to battle the RPI Engineers in the first round of the ECAC playoffs. Come on out and support your Union team. They have tione a great job this season. However, if by any Strange occurrence they do lose to RPI, remember this-- THEY'RE STILL FROM TROY! Even .With y·()uth, Men-'s Basketball Finishes· .Strong Players and Coi1ches Already Lo,oking Forward to Next Season ' . ~ ~ ' . . - ' - -----,-..'--~~--~- Head. Co.ach Robert ·Montana harder irt the second half, and we Mark Traver's 14 points were not by Frank Rossi was impressed.~ith his team's h;it:our free. throws.\' . enough. King's Point. who on the Spotts Editor, sec~nd-ha:lf heroics. \Theis was Friday night's game again'st following night ~ut-scored RPI one of our better efforts .. · It's a King's Point marked ~tht; final. 40::-M i';l the first half, led Union tribute to the kids [as they were] gi:nne for, senior captain Doyin 3 7-21 at halftime. l)n.ion' s first- able to respond in the second half Richards. Richards averaged half27~ shooting put them in an Call it a rebuilding year with a touch of class. Whatever you do, do not call it a bad season. The Union College l\4en 's ~as­ ketball team lost their fjp.al game of the season last Fridayt~ King's Point after coming from behind the previous Tuesd_ay .a-gainst Middle,bury at the,,Mernorial Fieldhouse. The win and loss gave the Dutchmen a f}nal record of7- 18 overall. The Dutchmen started out slow against Middlebury as Middlebury led attheh~lf, 41-31. Union, however, put together an ll-0 run to start the second half and to take their first lead of the game. The next ten minutes were back and forth, even though se- nior Doyin Richardswas assessed two technical fouls in that time span. The referees·called the first technical when Richards slammed the ball down on the court, and the second came after Richards' beautiful slam dunk from the left side of the lane. The referees felt that Richards hung from the rim unnecessarily, but most observers disagreed with this judgment call. Union went on a 12-0 run to take a 76-68lead with three min- utes remaining. Middlebury climbed back to an 81-81 tie af- ter Mike Faucher hit one of his three three-point field goals with . 12 seconds left. Zena Woldeyesus, who hit the game . winner against RPI earlier in the season with one secondremain- ing, drove down the lane and put in the game-winning shot with two seconds left, giving the Dutchmen the 83-81 victory. Freshman RichGilooly scored 13 of his 15 points i.n the second half, helping to solidify the Dutchmen comeback. Sopho- more Rob Groelz led the team with 21 points, matching Middlebury's high scorer, Greg Poulos. Freshman Andy Donohue reached a career-high 12 rebounds in the victory. soar~ towarlls as they did.\ Rob Groelz, who was nanled to the UCAA Second Team and led the Dutchmen in scoring this sea- son (15 points per game) attrib- uted the win to the 'team's resil- ience late in game. «We w~rked ~,. . . . . .. eight poiiJtsand six rebounds per game in bis last two seasons ·as a Dutchrnall. He concluded h:is collegiate career with a fantastic effort, a:; he scored 20 points against King's Point. However, Richards., 20 points and freshman early hole, and their second-half 61% shooting was too little, too late. King's Point won in the fi- nale, 82-68. Coach Montana thought the NCAA Tournament-bound King's Point team won because of their ability to play a physical game. ''Kirg' s Point did a good job of stepping up their level of physical intensity. The key thing for us is to C-ontinue to improve physically. We have to develop an inside game during the off-sea- son.\ Though their overall record did not showit, the Dutchmen learned several less()ns throughout the season wh-Ich kept them in gamtts laterin the season. Montana said, \As we moved on in the year, I looked back and saw that there were so many games in the be- ginning of the season that we could have won.\ Rob Groelz was somewlut disappointed with the season, !Jut he is optimistic about the future. \I expected myself, Rob [feCarr], and Ooyin ·to do what ....ve did, but we also saw some freshmen step up. We have a good nucleus for next year.\ Part of that nucleus includes juniors Rob TeCarr and Matt A vis. While A vis played limited minutes this season, TeCarr was the second-best three-point shooter for the Dutchmen, and he handled the ball well in clutch situations. While he played mostly offofthe bench this sea- son, TeCarr's play was important to the Dutchmen. Coach M()ntana preaches more consistency for the team, and he hopes to work: on it during thC? off- seas0n. \Over!tll the team played like a young, inexperienced team, and what I was hoping was that the coaching staff would be able to get them n()t to act in such a way. They're a great group of kids.\ The fact remains that Coach Monta11a had nine fresh- men on his roster this season Groelzfelt tllis youth was very beneficial at times for his own game. \I leam<:d a l.ot from the younger gay!':. They made the season fun for me.'' With the added education on and off the court for all plllyers, Groelz con- cluded by sa:ying, \We made it through the season. Next year will be a lot better.\

Union Survives Final Weekend Scare .· ' . \ \ . '. . -, .- - . ' ... . ., .. Visit RPlfo,r ECAC Q·uarterfinals This Weekend ' ' b:Y Jonathan G:as,illalt¢r Sports Eiit(J.r: .. , . The, ·Sl<ating Dtitcl'ril\en · ~t:tt~r the finalweeken&.ofut1gidarseaw, , son play in a fifth~place.tie. with· · the Princeton Tigers, Union ar~ rived at Princeton ()fi rFi<lay.night with ful·l knowledge that a win against Princeton coupled with an RPI loss would give the Dutch- men a home playoff series the following weekend at Achilles. Unfortunately, thingsdid not go fully as planned at Princeton's Baker Rink. Unioncameoutwith a burst of ' offen.se. However, Erasmo Salt are Hi, the Princeton net- minder, thwarted all of Union's attempts including ·a Russ Monteith shot that trickled just wide of the net. Union finally broke through at 6:4.() ofthe pe- riod. as Brent Ozar(l'\VSk i got his tenth goal of the season. Princeton bounced back from the early goal and dom inatcd a large portion of the final 40m inutcs or regulation play l'rinccton tied the score at one on the power-play at 5:01 of the Colltillued page 18 Dutchmen Win T}lird Straight State Swim Meet Records and Horiors Pa-ve the.·.Way Toward.N;IJ.tionitls_ Brian Field Wilts i'Divet oftlte Meet\ during tile State .Meet at Vnit.m. (pfloto by Laurie KirscJmer/TC) Courtesy. of Sports Information The Union College Men's \\\'''. Temn won 16 of20 events, eight meet records ·and five ass<)Ciattion standards, and cap- three individual awards honors trom the coaches. Un.ion, which qualined a !-record eight swiJmners for Divis·ion III national chainpi- ips to be held the weekend 19:..22 at Miami of Ohio, set 11 Union College records well as nine pool standards. Dutchmen :finished a school- third in last yearss NCAA •'This was a total team effort,\ said Wolfe, who guided the · Dutchmen to a 7-1 dual meet ·record this seasotl. \Every s1qgle (Boulder~ CO/W estminstet). .· one of the guys had theirhest.til~e Uppe.- New York State in at least one event. Our main Top EightFi11ishes: swirrtmers far exceeded exp~gta- 200 Free Relay-1st Place; tions and ou:r yo-unger g}\ys Makarowski, Smyth, Hoerle, stepped up to.make finals and M. Bumphreys with 1 :Z3 .98 score points.\ (meet andnssociationreoord) Uniot1, which won all five re- 400 Medley Relay: 1st Plac~ lay races inrecordtiiiles,hadNew M. Hm:nphreys, Anderson, Hartford. NY graduates Searles, Makarowski with Makarowski, sei1ior Mike 3:24.19 (rneetrecord) Humphreys. and sophomore Jeff 200Medley Relay: 1st Place-. Hoerleeachswlm fourofthefive M. Humphreys, Anderson, relays. Makarowski also won the Searles, Hoerle with l :32.80 200 rM ii1 a record 1:50.80, cap- (meet and association record) ture frrst in the 100 fly and fin- 800 Fre_e Relay: 1st. Place- 1shed second it1 the 200 t1y. Makarowski, Stl.ltrtz, Searles, Humphreys won both the 100 and Hoerle with 6: 51.22(meet record) 200 backstroke and was second 400 Free Relay: 1st Place- in the 50 free-style. Hoerle, Makarowski, Smyth, Hoerle, M. mear'lwhile; took first place hon~ Humphreys with 3:03.73 (meet ors in the 100 ai'ld 200 free-style and association i.ecord) events ~ith a second place finish 500 Free: 2nd Pl,ace-·• Hoerle in the 500 free. with 4:44.36: 3rd Place-Stuntz Field wo11 the ot1e meter and with 4;46 73; 7th Place-Matt the three meter diving events for ~auriello (Watertown, CT/ thethird-straightyear. Hescored Watertown) wi:th 4:51.48: 8th 490 points in the one meter and Place-Matt Glogowski (Wil- 513. 70 points in the three meter. l iamstown, MA/Mt. Greylock Junior Mark A1iderson with4:56.61 \\' (Webster, NY /New Hartford) 200 IM: 1st Place-· Mak- took tirst-place honors in the 100 and 200 breaststroke while sophomore Dave Searles {Bath, ME/Morse) won the 400 IM. Dutchmen headed for the na- tional event are Field; Makarowski, Huinphreys, Searles, Hoerle, Anderson, Than Stuntz (Acton, MA/ Acton Bo_xboro ), and Clark Smyth arowski with 1:50.80 (meet and association record)~ 3rd Place-· Searles with 1: 56. 11; 7th Place-· Anderson with 2:01 . 48 50 Ftee: 1st Place-M. Humphreys with21.09 1 Meter Dive: 1st Place-Field vyith 490 points; 7th Place- Adam Hersl:)ma11 (Rolling Hills, Cmzti11Ued 011 page 17

Rf i IM!& r11 ,_:;;;,c.....;;;::;::_ .. -·----···-·-··-·· Union Survives Final Weekend Scare Visit RPI for ECAC Quarterfinals This Weekend by Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Editor The Skating Dutchmen enter the final weekend of regular sea- son play in a fifth-place tie with the Princeton Tigers. Union ar- rived at Princeton on Friday night with full knowledge that a win against Princeton coupled with an RPI loss would give the Dutch- men a home playofT series the following weekend at Achilles. Unfortunately, things did not go fully as planned at Princeton's Baker Rink. Union came out with a burst of offense However, Erasmo Saltarelli, the Princeton net- minder. thwarted all of Union's attempts including a Russ Monteith shot that trickled just wide of the net llnion finallv hroke through at h 40 of the pe- riod, as Brent Ozarowsk i got his tenth goal of the season Princeton hounced hack from the earlv goal and dom 111ated a large portion oft he final -Hl m mutes of regulation play l Princeton tied the score at one on the power-play at 5 0 I of the L __________ ~ --~-~-------- Comiuued page 18 The Skating Dutchmen push their way i11to fiftll place ami a playoff series iu RPI this weekend. (plroto by Laurel Ruma/TC) Dutchmen Win Third Straight State Swim Meet Records and Honors Pave the Way Toward Nationals Brian Field wins \Diver of the Meet\ during the State Meet at V11ion. (photo by Laurie Kirsclmer/TC) C()urtesy of Sports Information The Union College Men's Swim Team won 16 of20 events. set eight meet records and five association standards, and cap- tured three individual awards while winning their third con- secutive Upper New York State Collegiate Men's Swimming and i'v ing Ch,unpionship this past kendat Alumni Pool. The Dutchmen topped the 14- am field by scoring L458 ints. Hamilton was a distant with 1.227. Second-year head coach Judy o I fe \\JS nam cd the iation' s \Coach of theY car\ her peers while senior Kevin Makarowski (Washington Mills. /New H'1rtford) was voted the wi1m11er of the Meet\ Junior rian Field (Pine City. NY/ Elmira Sou~hside) was not to be one as he won \Diver of the Meet\ honors from the coaches Union. \vhich qualified a school-record eight s\vimmers for the Division III national champi- onships to be held the weekend of March l 9-22 at Miami of Ohio. so set l I Union College records well as nine pool standards. Dutchmen finished a school- third in last year's NC 1\A \This was a total team effort.'' said Wolfe. who guided the Dutchmen to a 7-1 dual meet record this season. \Every single one of the guys had their best time in at least one event. Our main swimmers far exceeded expecta- tions and our younger guys stepped up to make finals and score points.\ Union. which won all five re- lay races in record times. had New Hartford NY graduates Makarowski. senior Mike llumphreys. and sophomore .Jeff lloerle each swim four of the tive relays. Makarowski also won the 200 IMina record 1 50 RO. cap- ture first in the l 00 tlv and fin- ished second in the 200 tly llumphreys \\'011 hoth the 100 and 200 hackstroke and was second in the 50 free-style Hoerle. meanwhile. took first place hon- ors in the I 00 and 200 free-stvle . . events with a second place finish in the 500 free. Field won the one meter and the three meter diving events for the third-straight year lie scored 490 points in the one meter and 5 13.70 points in the three meter Junior Mark Anderson (Webster. NY /New llartford) took first-place honors in the I 00 and 200 hreaststroke while sophomore Dave Searles (Bath. ME/Morse) won the 400 IM Dutchmen headed for the na- tional event arc Field. Makarowsk i. llum phreys. Searles. Hoerle. Anderson. Than Stuntz (Acton. MA/ Acton Boxboro). and (lark Smyth (Boulder, CO/Westminster). Upper New Vorl\ State Top Eight Finishes: 200 Free Relay- I st Place; Makarowski, Smyth, Hoerle, M. Humphreys with 1 :23.98 (meet and association record) 400 Medley Relay: I st Place- M. Humphreys. Anderson, Searles, Makarowski with 3:24.19 (meet record) 200 Medlev Relav· 1st Place- M Humphreys. Anderson. Searles. Hoetle with I 32 80 (meet and association record) 800 Free Relay· I st Place- Makarowski. Stuntz. Searles. Hoerlewith 6·51 22 (meet record) 400 Free Relav- 1st Place- Makarowski. Smyth. Hoerle. M Humphreys with 3:03 73 (meet and association record) 500 Free· 2nd Place-1-Ioerle with 4·44 36: 3rd Place-Stuntz with 4·46 73: 7th Place-Matt Mnuric llo (Watertown. CT I Wntertown) with 4· 51 4R. 8th Place-Matt Glogowski (Wil- liamstown. MA/Mt Greylock with 4 56 61 · 200 JM· 1st Place-Mak- arowski with I 50 RO (meet and association record): 3rd Place- Searles with I. 56.11: 7th Place- Anderson with 2 01 48 50 Free· I st Place-M. Humphreys with 21 09 I Meter Dive: I st Place-Field with 490 points: 7th Place- Adam Hershman (Rolling Hills. Continued 011 page 17

: . .-·; ·. Camous:· ·· · ·· t:abaret Revie·w pageS Features: Thurberville Returns page 10 F.:::·.::f:''C'··::·''il s rts: . .. ... . . ~ Swim Team Three-Peats page20 Lending a Hand to One of Our Own Aileen Quigley A$sistant News Editor On February 18 and 19, Union's chapter of Amnesty In- ternational conducted a letter- writing campaign on behalf of Hein Dihn Phan, a political pris .. <mer in Saigon and 77..:year-old father of Union graduate student Minh Phan. The two-day effort, which is actually independent of Amnesty· International's head- quarters in London, England,. generated over I ,200 letters and represented the voices ofstudents and faculty alike. Since his escape Crom Vietnam in 1990, Phanhas written extensively on behalf of his father to President Clinton, to the United Nations, and to the House ofR~presentatives, aswell as to other international govern- ment officials. He states that their responses were ''discouraging,\ and that they would tell hitn that \there was nothing they could do,\ and if they heard of any news, they would be in touch. In the meantime, Phan's father re- mains in K3 Xuan Loc Dong Nai \Reeducation\ camp, which Phan described as reminiscent of the Nazi concentration camps. He is hopeful that this campaign will not only draw attention to his father's situation and other abuses of human rights such as this, but will also expedite his release. Minh Phan was slightly hesi- tant to initiate the letter-writing campaign, and was nervous th~t the increased attention would sub- ject his father to even more ad- verse treatment and jeopardizethe safety ofhis family members still in Saigon. However, after talking with his family in Saigon, they encouraged him to \go for it..\ Five other political prisoners who had been taken into the K3 reedu .. cation camp at the same time as Phan's father are now dead. His foster-uncle was shot in 1982 for refusing to attend \political re- education\ camps after the fall of Saigon, and the family received a call to come pick up his body and bury him. Visits every two months to bring the next two- month supply of food were he- tween five and ten minutes long and monitoredby the camp's po- continued on page 3 INSIDE: ....Atb. ~~ 1\ . Zen Master Rev. Fukusbim,a. Meditates_ U - - ···~ ~ ~ . . . ~ . by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Union College Departments of Visual Arts, East Asian Studies, Modern Languages and Litera- ture, and Philoso;phy recently hostec,I the Zen Master on Februr- ary 24 and 25. Roshi Keido Fukushima is a Reverend oftheTofukuji Temple in Kyoto, Japan. While staying at Union, he presented three pro- grams that were open to anyone · who was interested in a Zen Cal- l i.grap·hy Demonstration, Zen Meditation, or a talk on the Way of Zen. On Monday, February 24, in the College Center Auditorium,. students andprofessqrs were able to enjoy an explanation as well as ~demonstration of Zen Calligra- phy. Reverend Fukushima said that call1graphy is derived from Buddhism and thatit is a symbol of being concrete and down to earth. This concept was atypical form of Chinese Buddhism. In terms of Zen Buddhism, he said there is much emphasis on daily life, and calligraphy en- hances the Zen culture. Fukushima described his views of calligraphy before he knew the meanings behind it. \When I I<J(Jked at pai.ut!ng when I was 14 years old and saw it tor the first titne, I thought.; I _could paint it tnyselt:\ Fuktlshlma s~id. He continued to say that !he paintings · that he was shown wer~- desig- nated as natural treasures: \Now atlermany years ofstudying and prnc:ticingZen,\he said, \I would never think I ike that.\ He ~~inks that Sheshoua art is great, and he now loves to paint To date, he has painted a range of subjects~ from the founder of Zen Bud- dhism to many landscapes and even the cartoon character --- Snoopy. Fukushima says that painting calligraphy demands nttrch time and concentration. ·However, he emphasized the fact that Zen Masters do not usually paint cal- ligraphy in Japan. \I oHiy do it tor demonstration purposes in the United States,\ he said. When asked to describe the Zen cultur.e in terms of art, Fukushima responded by saying, \Zen art is an experiential thing. 1 tis not the finished piece that isZen culture, it is the process.\ The Zen Master and his assis- tant then proceeded to paint cal- ligraphy for the audience. He continued to explain other conti11ued on page 4 $15,000: A Ballpark Figure? Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor President Hull, on behalf of the college, pledged $15,000 to in- stall a sprinkler \system in Central Park's Buck E;wing Field during a press conference with Schenectady Mayor AI Jurzynski. In return, the mayor offered the use of the field to the basebaU team for \all home games and practices.\ The field itself has been described as ·~on par with any major league fierd.\ How- ever, upkeep of the grounds has been difficult. Watering the out- field involved carrying out hoses Campus News ............ , .. , ..................... 2 News ............ , ....................................... 3 Opinions!Edirorials .. .. , ............... ,. ... 6 and sprinkler heads by the grounds crew. With the addition of the sprinkler system, the qual- ity of the grounds and, conse- quently, the caliber of the game should improve dramatically. Reactions to this information W€re mixed with support and skepticism. Sev-eral students question whether the President was \strong-armed\ into donating the money under the stipulation that, had he refused, the team W()Uld be denied access to the field. Still others wonder if the team will always have first prior- ity over the field's use, or if fu- ture groups could potentially in- fringe on the team's schedule. Finally, some members of the stu- dent body are concerned that this initial donation creates a prece- dent thatobligatesthe college to fund future repairsand refurbish- ments. Two of the biggest supporters ()[this joint venture between the city and Union llave been the Mayor and William Sober, city director of parks and recreation. «I think it is important that Union College, under President Hull's leadership, has made great con- tributions such as this to the com- munity,\ said Junynski. \I look forward to helping that relation- ship continue.\ Some Union stu- dents concur, stating that any ges- ture that encourages reciprocity between Schenectady and Union would create a \more open earn- pus\ and improve relations be- tween the residents of the two communities. The team has not had a consis- tent daily practice facility for the past 20 years but has practiced at various fields in the surrounding area, including Niskayuna High School, Schenectady County Community College, and Schenectady Babe Ruth Home games, however, have always continued on page 3 Global ........................ ....................... , 9 Finals ............................... ........ . 1./ Features ...................................... ,_ .I 0 Ad1'erti.vemetit . .............. .............. 15 Art.v andEnter.tatn11um1 .. .... ........... I 2 Sporl.t ... ............... , .................... 20 1 i I

Features: Cam~us: Cabaret Review page 5 Thurberville Returns page 10 Sports: Men's Swim Team Three-Peats page 20 Lending a Hand to One of Our Own Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor On February 18 and 19, Union's chapter of Amnesty In- ternational conducted a letter- writing campaign on behalf of Hein Dihn Phan, a political pris- oner in Saigon and 77-year-old father of Union graduate student Minh Phan The two-day effort, which is actually independent of Amnesty International's head- quarters in London, England, generated over I ,200 letters and n:pn:~cnteJ the\ uices of students and faculty alike. Since his escape from Vietnam in 1990, Ph an has written extensively on behalf of his father to President Clinton, to the United Nations, and to the House of Representatives, as well as to other international govern- ment officials. He states that their responses were \discouraging and that they would tell him that \there was nothing they could do,\ and if they heard of any news, they would be in touch. In the meantime, Ph an's father re- mains in K3 Xuan Loc Dong Nai \Reeducation\ camp, which Phan described as reminiscent of the Nazi concentration camps. He is hopeful that this campaign will not only draw attention to his father's situation and other abuses of human rights such as this, but will also expedite his release. Minh Phan was slightly hesi- tant to initiate the letter-writing campaign, and was nervous that the increased attention would sub- ject his father to even more ad- verse treatment and jeopardize the safety of his family members still in Saigon. However. after talking with his family in Saigon, they encouraged him to \go for it\ Five other political prisoners who had been taken into the K3 reedu- cation camp at the same time as Phan's father are now dead. His foster-uncle was shot in 1982 for refusing to attend \political re- education\ camps after the fall of Saigon. and the family received a call to come pick up his body and bury him Vis1ts every two months to bring the next two- month supply of food were be- tween five and ten minutes long and monitored by the camp's po- contillued on page 3 . . INSIDE: ~~ ~ l,e ···n··. ' ' ' .. ·· ' • '····· ··:., • •. _.< The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Sprilrgtime weat/1er comes to Union (plzoto by Laurie Kirsch11er lTC) Zen Master Rev. Fukushima Meditates U by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Union College Departments of Visual Arts, East Asian Studies, Modern Languages and Litera- ture. and Philosophy recently hosted the Zen Master on Febru- ary 24 and 25. Roshi Keido Fukushima is a Reverend of the Tofukuji Temple in Kyoto, Japan. While staying at Union, he presented three pro- grams that were open to anyone who was interested in a Zen Cal- ligraphy Demonstration, Zen Meditation, or a talk on the Way of Zen. On Monday, February 24, in the College Center Auditorium, students and professors were able to enjoy an explanation as well as ademonstration oJZen Calligra- phy. Reverend Fukushima said that calligraphy is derived from Buddhism and that it is a symbol of being concrete and down to earth. This concept was a typical form of Chinese Buddhism. In terms of Zen Buddhism, he said there is much emphasis on daily life, and calligraphy en- hances the Zen culture. Fukushima described his views of calligraphy before he knew the meanings behind it. \When I looked at painting when I was 14 years old and saw it for the first time, I thought I could paint it myself,\ Fukushima said. He continued to say that the paintings that he was shown were desig- nated as natural treasures. \Now after many yearsofstudying and practicing Zen,\ he said, \I would never think like that\ He tj1inks that Sheshoua art is great, and he now loves to paint. To date. he has painted a range of subjects. from the founder of Zen Bud- dhism to many landscapes and even the cartoon character Snoopy Fukushima says that painting calligraphy demands much time and concentration I Iowever, he emphasized the fact that Zen Masters do not usually paint cal- ligraphy in .Iapan \I only do it for demonstration purposes in the United States.\ he said When asked to describe the Zen culture in tenns of art, Fukushima responded by saying, \Zen art is an experiential thing. It is not the finished piece that is Zen culture, it is the process\ The Zen Master and his assis- tant then proceeded to paint cal- ligraphy for the audience He continued to explain other continued on page 4 $15,000: A Ballpark Figure? Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor Pres1dent Hull, on behalf of the college, pledged $15,000 to in- stall a sprinkler'system in Central Park's Buck Ewi11g Field during a press conference with Schenectady Mayor AI Jurzynski In return, the mayor offered the usc of the field to the baseball team for \all home games and practices\ The field itself has been described as \on par with any major league field \ How- ever, upkeep of the grounds has been difficult. Watering the out- field involved carrying out hoses Campus Nell'S .................................... 2 New.\· ....... .................................. .3 Opinionsl/~ditorials .. ...................... 6 and sprinkler heads by the grounds crew. With the addition of the sprinkler system. the qual- ity of the grounds and, conse- quently, the caliber of the game should improve dramatically. Reactions to this information were mixed with support and skepticism Several students question whether the President was \strong-anned\ into donating the money under the stipulation that, had he refused, the team would be denied access to the field. Still others wonder if the team will always have first prior- ity over the field's usc, or if fu- ture groups could potentially in- ( ilohal Fr a/11 res . .. fringe on the team's schedule. Finally. some members of the stu- dent body are concerned that this initial donation creates a prece- dent that obligates the college to fund future repairs and refurbish- ments Two of the biggest supporters ofthis joint venture between the city and Union have been the Mayor and William Sober. c1ty director of parks and recreation \I think it is important that l lnion College, under President l lull's leadership. has made great con- tributions such as this to the com- munity.\ said Jurzvnski \I look forward to helping that relation- F111af., ship continue\ Some Union stu- dents concur, stating that any ges- ture that encourages reciprocity between Schcncctadv and llnion would create a \more open cam- pus\ and improve relations he- tween the residents of the two communities The team has not had a consis- tent daily practice t~1cil ity for the past 20 years hut has practiced at various fields in the surrounding area. including Niska::. una lligh SchooL SchenectadY Count\ Communit\ College. and Schcnectad\ Bahe Ruth llt1mc games. howe\er. h;\\C ;lh\avs continued on page 3 Arts and Entertmmm•nt. rJ /() 12 A1 h'i' r11.w men/ .'·iporrs. /..1 15 ::o

Campus Info Group Housing _ . CAl\ll?p~ SAFETY DEPARTMENT, WEEKLY 1NCIDENTSUMMARY MONDAY! FEBRUARY 24, 1997 THROUGH SUNDAY; MARCH 2, 1997 · The Student Affairs Council (SAC} invites proposals from groups . that would like group housing. At present there is one 21-persorr space open in Chester Arthur. Interested groups should submit a proposal to the SAC c/o Dean of Students Office, 306 Reamer Campus Center. The SAC will weigh the following criteria in evalu- ating proposals. 1. Will the group use the space to improve the intellectual and social climate of the campus? 2. Are there 21 students who are committed to living in the house? Proposals should be submitted before March IS, 1997. Construction Update Self;..serve copy machines now available in North Colonnade's All- Night Study. Use your library debit card, coins, or bills. Open 24 hours. , Alternate Study Areas • l..Jpperclass Dining Hall, 9 P·M to 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday. • West Dining Hall, 9 PM to 2 AM,. Sunday-Thursday DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, i997: 2:45 PM CampusOperations Lot 8:02PM South College •. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1997: · 12:03 AM Reamer Center · 2:16AM West College 9:11AM S&E lrd floor area 2:56PM Bailey Hall 9:09PM Fox .House WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1997~ . 3:0·1 AM Offo11npus bar ·~· ··· . 4:43PM Fox House • North Colonnade (the former psychology building), all-night study .. 9:38PM • Social SCiences, first floor; all-night study. Davidson Entry • The third.:. floor study area ofthe Nott Memori~l remains open from noon to: 10 PM Sunday through Thursday and noon to 5 PM. Friday and Saturday. Academic Affairs Council, Febtuary 18, 1997 ' Ill, • ' , , Respectfully submitted by Di!tlll Christie Sorum 1. The minutes of February 1.1, 1997- were approved ~s amended. 2. Calendar discussion continued. Arguments for the semester system have begun to emerge as the most viable alternativ:e to the trimester system, especially in view of the idiosyncrasy of our calendar with that of other schools and programs. The split winter term option, however, seems the adjustment most likely to be implemented. 3. The meeting adjourned at 9:35 AM. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27,1997: 12:19 AM ~eamerCenter 4:30PM Day Care Center 5:31PM Quiet Road Lot FRIDAY, :FEBRUARY 28., 1997: 12:40AM CampusOperationsLot 5:38PM Alexander Lane II :09PM Fox House SENIORS . SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1997: -------- 1:00PM . Fox/Davidso11 Lot If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Com- mencement, submit .a one to four page draft (approximately five minutes) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary t() tlte Dean ()f the Faculty and member of the Commencement C()mmittee, by Friday, April • 25. The topic is yours to choose. Pl.ease include your ID num- ber, name, box number, and phone number on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Baecalaureate or Com- mencement, please submit your name t() Judy Ludwig by Friday, · April25. If you WDtdd like more infQrmation abn•:~tthis, contact Judy Ludwig at 6102 or at the Dean of the Fac:ulty's Ofti~e on tbe second floor of Feigenbaum Hall. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student mem ber,s of the Commencement ~omlllittee at 6:30 PM on A-pril · 30 and May t. Sign t.p for an audition time· when you submit your draft or name to Mrs. Ludwig. Clarification: Last week's\ article on Professor Wells and other Fulbright recipients from the :Union faculty omitt.ed the name of Professor Gajjar. H~ was a Fulbright recipi- ent during 1985-86 and spent the year at NITIE (National -- Institute for Training in Industrial Engineering) in Bombay, India. The institute is an International Autono- mous institution created by the International Labor Orga- . nization for the trans-disciplinary studies in Industrial Engineering and Management. 3:20PM West College 8:20PM Day Care Center SUNDAY, MARCH 2, 1997: 12:54 AM Raymond/Potter Lot 1:20AM Fox House 2:20AM Fox House 2:20AM Fraternity 2:23AM Smith House 9:40PM Alumni Gym INCIDENT VANDALISM: Parking control sign pulled out of ground. . - SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor ofmarijuana reported. Unable to confirm. HARASSMENT: Nuisancetelephone calls. I)ISORDER.LYCONOUCT: Disruptive student. Conduct Chatges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Several building oc- cupants became it!. Suspected indoor air quality problem. ParE~medics and fire de- parttnentnotified. BuildJng evacuated for evaluation. Three persons were treated at the hospital and released. PROPERTY MISSING: Toner cartridge missing frmn printer .. YAN\ SAFETY VIOLA · TION: Smoke detector in first floor north hallway damaged. LifeSafety Violation No tice filed. STUDENT RE·LATIONS: ·Abuse of es- cort system. VANDALISM: Smoke detector in 3rd floor So\lth hallway _was damaged. FIRE: Minor fire in trash receptacle. Possib- ly caused by discarded cigarette. No in- j.ury or damage. SUSPlCIOUS PERSON:\ Unauthorized . visitor. Subject identified and. advised off campus. NOISE COMPLAINT: Complaint re- ceived regarding noise from band practice. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immo- bilized. Repeat unregistered violations. VANDALISM: Unattended campus opera- tions vehiele overturned in parking lot. VANDALISM: Traffic control sign dam- aged: DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Student dumped trash into hallway. Conduct Charges filed. V ANDALIS~: License plate on student's car damaged.· · UNAUTHORIZEI) ENTRY: Unwanted guest in student's room. Subject identified and advised off campus. NOISE COMPLAINT: Complaint re- ceived regarding noise froJ11 band practice. DISORDERLY COND~CT: Report of a group of students pouring :beer on cars parked in the lot. . V ANDA~ISM: Glass in north entry door broken. PROPERTY DAMAGE/JINJURY: Stu- dent Jonathan Zandman received minor lac eration to hand when he tripped and fell into a window shatteringthe glass. HARASSMENT/ASSAULT: Studentsha~ rassed by group of unknown persons at so- cial event. One student received minor in- _ jury when he wa~•.physically assaulted by · thegroup. · THEFT: Framed .celebritY photo st<)len from house. One subject was identified. Possible pledge activity. Photo was recov- ¢red and returned, VANDALISM: Window'broken.

., ' i Phan continuedfrompage 1 lice. Letters were prohibited Utl- Saigon to see his father atthe end less they were read by the camp ;·s ofthisyear ornextyear and feels officers beforehanc), so corm;nu.- that his status as a United States nication about freedom was too ·citizen will give him greater clout . great a risk. Phan could see signs. and arguing power. Holism Concludes Wells House Health Issues ·series by Anjali Salasingham Staff Writer ofabuse on his father's face and On behalf.of Phan's father, body, but he stresses, ''We did11 't Mousseal! sent 450 letters to the dare say anything.\ It was abun\ President and Prime Minister of dantlydearthatexpedientaction VietnamandtotheVietnamEm- On Thursday; February 27, was necessary. bassy in Washington. \The cam- · Wells House hosted Judy Vaughn, Phan discovered Arnnescy Tu~ paign has been a success,\ she a holistic counselor. The talk w~s tema:tionat two years ago and be• feels, \and 1 am glad that the . the last in Wells' three-week se- gan writing to its headquarters in Union College chaptercould help ries of health discussions. · London. However, since it is an .one of o.ur own students. Hope- Vaughn clarified the concept of international organization, the fully, it will make a difference in . holism, defining it as a philoso- process is painstakingly slow. Minh's father's situation.\ At phy that views all life \as being Amnesty International must present, Union'sAmnestylnter~ . interconnectedandpartofalarger verify all facts and conduct its nationaHs considering an appeal : whole.\ Holism is based on the own investigation of each case t~ London headquarters for an . connectionbetweenbody, mind, proposal itreceives. Nevertheless,. inve,s.tigabon of Hien Dihn and spirit. \What happens to the Phan's sense ofurgency pushed Phan'scase. body happens to the mind,\ hint to explore other outlets to Phan cannot understand why Vaughn said .. \Ifwehave healthy free his· fathe.r. Together with the Communists stillconsiderhis minds, we have healthy bodies, Union's chapter of Amnesty In\ fatherathreatto theirregime; he and vice versa.\ In the holistic temational, under the directionof is v7 years old with poor vision, health care model, it is believed senior Jody Mousseau, a letter- and he has been incarcerated that everything affects an writing campaign was Iaunche(j. since 1981. \It is sad,\ he com- . individual's health, including the Phan was surprised a~ the ove:r· ments, \that in the twentieth cen- environment, societal attitudes, whelming support that th.e cam\ . tury, there are still abuses of hu- and personal thoughts. Illness is paign generated, and he feels man rights around the world, and seen \as a disruption or part ofthe great that the campus. community that people are being killed for process of life,\ and Jack of bal- 1'cares about a member of the-ir their beliefs.\ ·. ance in life is reflected through own,\ He hopes to travel back to physical symptoms. Hoi istic heal- Ballpark ... continuedfrom page 1 .. been played on the Buck Ewing Field. Allowing thete;:nrt to hold considering we don't have a ·• • . fieldon campus.'' • daily practices attheirgame field should engender a \home fiel.d . advantage\ during their spring season and fall mini-season. Om Union student surveyed felt that \it is good that the baseball team · · will•have a field to call their ovm, Though this venture can be seen as representing Union College's commitment to main~ taining high quality in its athletic program, opinions on this finan- cial venture 1:\r.e mixed. ·~~···········~················~·· • • Coupon Coupon • • • • • • • • • • 'I CHET'S • • • • • • ~Buy One Pitcher~ . - . . ing, Vaughn continued, is \based on the idea that you are the expert on yourself. Youdon'tgiveaway . your power to a physician.\ Ho- . listie practitioners work with pa- tients to identify the cause of manifested symptoms. This ap- . proach is in direct contrast to that of modern medicine; which, ac- cording to Vaughn, either uses pharmaceuticals or surgery to heal, and \doesn't look at why ill- ness happens.\ Vaughn noted that holism is not a new conc~pt, but rather one that has cyclically perpetuated throughout recorded .history. \We'recoming back to where we started,thousands and thousands ofyears ago,,; she said. The rea- son for the returning interest in holism in the 90s, according to V &ughn, is that \people are be- ginning to ask the same questions [as before]. Who or what is God, and what is our purpose here? What science has discovered doesn't always fit.\ Vaughn pointed out that \scientists who, up until now, were agnostic or atheistic, are becoming increas- ingly spiritual. We are integrat- ing spirituality into our everyday life.\ As for\!he pra~tlcal applica- tions of holism, Vaughn de- scribed a variety of so-called \healing modalities.\ Acupunc- ture, for instance, is used to \regulate the body's flow of en- ergy by unblocking clogged en- ergy channels.\ Herbs catalyze the healing process without elic- iting harmful side effects. Medi- tatiOI)', Vaughn said, \makes one more mentally efficient. creative, and intuitive, and results in more balanced personalities.\ Other applications of holism include homeopathy, rebirth ing, and reflexology. As a holistic counselor, Vaughn works to develop exten- sive histories with her patients \to see what aspects of their lives are working, and where their stresses lie.,' She then recommends appro- priate treatments and life-style changes. \The body haJ the abil- ity to heal itself,\ she emphasized. Holistic health care, according to Vaughn, is advantageous to modem medicine in several re- spects. \lfs much cheaper, less invasive, less toxic, and it giyes us more accountability for our own health,\ she said. Holism is prevention oriented and is \more humanistic and more individual- ized\ than traditional reduction .. ism. Vaughn herselfbecame inter- ested in the holistic approach to health care when she became chronically ill. '~The medical community offered me very little, ~nd I was not ready to accept that,\ she said. Through holistic treatment, she realized that \we can take responsibility for our own health. Once I saw that, I was able to recover.\ Vaughn then started the Center for. Holistic Wellness, which is in the process of expanding beyond the Tri-state area Vaughn encouraged student interest in hoi ism, saying \It's great speaking to young people about it. We have to put a lot of hope in the next generation and trust that they're going to make the right ~hoices about their health. I'm optimistic about the future.\ Get 10 Free Wings CAPPUCCINO With this coupon • . . . .. . . . :\Tell them Sweetchuck sent ya!\: • • I • • • • • • • • • ~~4! • • • •·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •· • I . ~ . • • • • • • • • • • • Coupon Coupon CHET'S • • • • .~Buy One Pitcher~ • • • • • • • Get 10 Free Wings : With this coupon • 1' • .• • : ''Tell them Sweetcbuck sen-t y· a!'': • • . . . . . ................................ . IS COMING TO DUTCH HOLLOW! Enjoy it HOT or ICED Available· in Original Cappuccino, French Vanilla and Hazelnut ... Starting March 30, 1997 -+the dutch hollow- restaurant~~.-• ___ _

Page J .\ March 6, _1997 • . ill'I!t Olonnn-~iwsis . · · - . Campu·s News Zen ... continued from page 1 aspects of the Zen culture by holding a Zen meditation in Old Chapel on Tuesday, February 25. People were asked to bring their zubuton, cushion~ or pillow for maximum comfort during the hour-long s.ession. At this time he explained various aspects of meditatkm and explained that it was more difficult than it ap- peared. \'The meditation was tough,\ said Amy Nishiwaki, Japanese -Teaching Assistant, \I cannot concentrate well. The 15 . . : . En~;~:::e;:~,to describe how On Friday, March 7, · Uwe Kind, a popular international Zen can really teach one how to .. languag~e te:(;lcher I author' and composer, who has appeared live life here and now. \If you on \The Toni g. ht Show\ .and l'Late Night With David truly realize that the daily mind · islif~,\h~Fukushimasaid \that Letter~an_\ will present hi:s SingLing/Lingo Raps Concert at wouldbeenlighten~dliving.\ M • 1 Ch 1 f 12 30 1 30 PM H k h . .fi · · -em on a - •- ape , rom · · · .: · .·- . : . · · . . • e spo e next on t e stgm 1- canceof\tnmscepdingdualism.'' W<)rking as a consultant for the Goethe House in New He .said that the religion of Zen y· k c· ·· U v · d t 'I t.h . h th U · d s· d . teachesonetotranscenddualism.. . or . lty, .. We 1\ln rave-S :fOUQ ·· e Rite ... -. tates an , ''Theworldarol,lnduscomptetely abroad teaching .German, as·weU as Fre_nch, Japane-se, and consistsof<:tualistic oppositions,\ • 'Spanish; w·ith hls unique interactive ap' •p'roach. ··He has de- .. like the ones between hot and cold min-~------~~~-~~~~-- or good' lighted and amazed audie:nces using movement, ~ong, and ~utri:: · uThe most elementary opposition ~n~b:d~ laughter to give them the gift of ano'ther language. which of them all is that between self mostel.- . The Modern Langua-ges Department invites the whole cam- w e d th \R F. k\h\ - emen- ·pus·communitytoenJoythisireshapproa.chtointer,national medi- .an 0 er. - ev. u 1S lma tary qp ... tated -~~~------~~-~ position. understanding. ·Area publ'ic. schools, enthus-iastiq~·to have wasreally long, and I have never tired to meditate before. I've never!!kmeZa-Zen in particular.\ Reverend Fukushima's final ap- pearance took place in the Cant- pus Center Auditorium Tuesday night. He introduced his talk on the Way of Zen by explaining that the Way.,· or the Tao, is an East- em notion. ln speaking of ''the Way\ ofdoing something; we are not only concerned with learning the technique involved, but also with heightening-ourselves spiri- tually. Thus, the Tao has a very spiritual significance. Fukushima described the way in which· Japanese ideals have changed with th€· coming of the modern age. \The spiritual level of the Japanese isn ~t ·very high. Before, it wa;s hi-gh, but now it's not... The reason why young Anteticans don't have straight backs: is·thatthey spend too much -time counting money.... I think that the Japanese people have to reconsider the unique spirituality df the Way/' : · In defining the Way, he ex- pressed, \The Way isthe mind in daily life. Our everyday mind it- self is the way of Zen .... If you really truly understand [this], then ofthemallisthatbeW~eenselfand' . the chance to ·participate .in a very entertaining. Uwe Kind, other.'' He defined \other\ as not being \constricted to the human will join- our community. l sphere,\ and said that ctmi.fistic . Pl,ease, do not pass up this opportunity for e:njoyment! oppositions occur J.?etween \you · and everything else there is.\ Fukushima stressed the impor- tance of having a mind with no 1 ikes or dislikes. \AU you have to do. is ~liminate the discriminating mind .. Then the mind becomes empty. Youreachastatewithno attachments, through which it is possible to live a life of complete freedom.\ Students confirmed that Rever- end Fukushima's talks ancl pre- sentations were both educational and interesting. Evag Moi'ris, sophomore, said, \He. was ex- tremely enlightening, giving us insight on the ways of Zen and Zen culture. l look forward!. to visitingl,is monastery in Japan.\ Fu~ushima announced that this was his second vi:'!it to.Union !iilld he would rike to retup annually. Attendees leftwitl) new insights Ofl the Zeg culture and a different outlook. ~n certain ways oflifef \I thoughttheZen Master was enjoyable to watch a,nd listen to,\ said Cassandra Dawes, sopho- more, \ft was a very valuable and . \ On Wednesltn!Jt tlt}Areh 1ltlt At 6:t0· fJt)t), cl)e fJ~e$1-te~t's c:Ad,.. · v1sott!l Comm-ittee on Cnmpiis ~afet!J · ao4 ~eeul'h!J is sponsoriot .the c:Aonual CaRJpus WAi~,.IJGCit. cZ\Pfio.oe intel'esteil in 'pflrtieipat- . ioe should me·c;c io· ~oo10 lOf ~-f the ~enmer C.etmpus .Ceoter. • • • J 7he W'*'lkabout is bel&~ .eRe:t. ·!Je•'. tQ i,..eotif!.f. tiJetse ~rei.s of the · e~tmpus wbieh prcrseot poteoti,-.t s~fetu or seturie!J l'isks~ ,f. /bose uon6l~ to Atteo4 the \U'•l~About mn!J s.eiJ.t a list ideodf!J-iDtJ poteotial trouble sp•ts _to ~ot,~ _.,S_~um,ur~ki~ At -~~e Ji~tJp~e. Offiee., .. : - ' ' , •• \ • '' ,l • • ' • . • • ' e7-males/f~males The College ·· Network of the Capital Rtglon http:// www.crisny.org/ -singles · 0 PHOTO FOR -SUPER SAVINGS! lcllenectldy 1 041 Bille Street 882·6778 . i I ' I ' i I ; ,! I 5 .. '·' 5:. AJ gr to bt (A til c (t nc (}j c b: IT .il. s Sl 1 0 n c fl ~ s g a t f

; ' ~ ' \ I '-'a•Jvu to Pathak, & Auerbach absent 5;57 .. Me~ting will be video recorded for class project 5:57- Officer Reports Abessi- Pew Grants declined by Finance as anyone applications for. grants would not ·be forthebertefitofStudent Activity clubs- Wants to give money only to StudentActivity grm~ps; ·Chet' s fashion .show being organized - Ben Fox requests $1 ;000 for show - Motion (Abessi): $1 ,000 for Chef's Committee (Approved 13-0,. l Absten- tion) Cohen - Winter Affair & lGIF 2/28; Met with Minerva Committee (brings speakers, funded by school)- Want to bring select alumni as next year's speakers- Clubs will receive letter about co-.sponsorship of speakers; Springfest Committee meets 3/1 0 at 2PM (RCC409); Concert Comp1ittee has c()ntacted a· production grol:lp ta help sign bands .. Planning. two spring concerts possibly; Discussed that hockey might be home for playoffs !).nd passible ticket scenarios Mankad- Working with orientation committee on diversity; Deans Sorum and Letriz upset abcut PewGrant decision- Intellectual diver- sity is beneficial, and grants can go to people working as teams - They would help the sch()ol ~· Abessi states that he technically can only give money to·dubs Brontigq.n. recognizes; Discussion turned to refusal to ·transfer money ftom· Peer f~cilitators to ·MAG - Abessi: concemedthat money would go to furniture upgrades in Multicultural A {fairs Room- M ank;ad protests saying that, first, anyone can' use th~ MA Room, and~ second{with Liberman): thaHhe money was to be· spent on ta.pes and videos. for the entir.e campus' Use ... Pellish sug- .. ' gests that Peer Facilitators skip the extra step of transferring money and simply buy videos·- Drossman asks how Forum can give money to frat. and sot.~ but deny MAG - Abessi admits there nas been a problem- Pellish states fiscal policies are non-e}{istent, ·but problem is being looked at · Pellish - Morris.' vacated seat filled by Jason Rosenstock Drown -Conduct Committee held elections for six members (Cous- ins heads) - CoilJ.mittee wa:nts to take a larger role in suggesting pen- alties to administration for violators · Ferguson- AttendediFC meeting; Meeting:with TollnandBrantigan · to discuss Conduct Com. issues LeDuc· Senior'Ski Trip • Bus company was booked; Possible tOO- · Day Party for seniors (1 UO days before graduation) on night theses ~~~~ . . Proctor ,. Travel agent haTd to work with ~ Looking to book Cn.tise soon for 6th or 7th week spring tenn -Not sure.if it will·be open to campus Zandman - Sophomore class planning to donate to fashion show; Working out_ Montreal trip and study break Markowski- Ski Trip sign-ups okay- One bus will be canceled, and other bus will hopefully fill Liberman- SAC review ()fKA rescheduled for next week- Set agenda for next term, and Rush ,jg high on the list Ferguson - F oruin Consultants- Survey Coming out to members based on feedback- Asks for quick turnaround time with surveys- Hopes to have results 5th week spring term (before elections) ~Cunanan states Election Committee begins this week and meets early next term 6:30- Old Business ·., Markowski- Wonderingabout rink issue and the committee suggested by, Hull - Proctor states he is trying to find someone pro-rink Uunior) for balance '· Cohen - Wondering about C oncordy/F orum relations - Abessi states there is a late penalty of$1.()0 agreed to as Forum was irresponsible in getting reps pictures, etc. in- ?andman says Forum holds Concordy budget and Concordy sh()uld not have a problem - Cohen asks whether fees are only based. on Forum getting info in on time, and Abessi re~~~ • Ferguson - D_aDa Saturdays somewhat successful, but wilt not be back in spring for money reasons - Some activities planned for spring 6:3 7 • New Business Zandman- Wants dollar-to-quarterchange machines for laundry room areas- Abessi advises him to speak to Hull · 6:40 - Cohen and Abessi- Dual motion to adjourn - . ' Standing Ovation for Mountebanks Cabaret '' Micb~lle Neier ways loved,. and she felt that the and faculty at the show Saturday SatffWriter Cabaret would be a perfectoppor- night, and all seemed to enjoy . . . _ tunity to share it with the public. themselves. The organizers had Before the renovation of the Michelle was also seen in the provided all sorts of desserts~­ Reamer Campus Center, ~ne of Cabaret as the Master.ofCeremo- cheesecake, :fruit salad, and cook~ · the most popular aytivities on nies. She made sure to promote a ies for those in attendance to en- . campus was the weekly cabaret relaxed atmosphere and at the end joy. They also enjoyed listening d:frect~d by the Mountebanks. ofthe showeAcouraged everyone and watching the wide range of Thisweekend,asone.oftheDaDa to take advantage oftheopen mic. entertainers. Sophomore Saturdays, Mountebanks brought Only one person, however--Doug Jonathan Zandman had an espe- backthecabaretfeelingwith their Schneider--took advantage ofthe cially good time. He said, \It was version of \A Ca\>aret.\ The open mic. The audience also wonderful to see all the creativ- . show, which was cosponsored by loved Alex Bartholomew on the ity and enthusiasm thatwentinto MountebanksandStudentActivi- bagpipes, Sandy Rodrigues and the evening. I loved the bag- . ties, took place in Upper-class Tasha Hussey singing \I Know pipes.\ Another student, who Dining, where food was served Hi•m So Well,\ and Emilia wished to remain anonymous, . andtheeight ..,.._~---·--~---~~~-~-~----~--'--feels that different acts \It d .,.£. l D a D a were per- ... was won elj u .· to see all the creativity s at u r days fonned. and enthusiasm that went into the evening. have become The vari- \a fun altema- ous acts I loved the bagpipes.\ Jonathan Zandman tive to the ranged from __ ......,__......,__~----......,...~------------ usual social singing to. flute playing and bagpipes. Al- though many oftheperfortners in the cabaret are often seen on stage during Union's Theater produc- tions, itgave everyone an oppor- tunity to display some of their tal- epts in an ·informal atmo~phere. Sara Friedman, who sang \No Man Left for Me\ from Will Rogers' Follies, said, \It was fun • to be able to perform--to be able to get on stage and show your stuff'. The performers certainly did show their stuff. Aimee Marko sang a wonderful rendition of \Crazy.\ There were also more unusual acts, such as Michelle Jester's reading of a poem called \The Women Gather\ by Nikki Giovanni. It was a poem she al- $200-$500 Weekly Mailing phone cards. No experi- ence necessary. For · · more information;' send a self-ad- dressed, stamped en- velope to: Global Communication P.O. Box 5679 Hollywood, FL 33083 Teasdale and Fred Ulrich's ren- dition of a scene from ~'Here\ by Michael Frayn. As well;. Seth Car.riet played his flute for every- one, and Stacey Caplin sang. The Mountebanks Executive Board was pleased with the re- sults of the cabaret and hope to putonsimilarevents in the future, if not to make it a regular event in the range of Union, s student activities. Sandy Rodrigues, one of the organizers, was excited with the success of the evening and hopes that it will bring more success stories for the Mounte,.. banks group. Now that people are more familiar with the group, they might be more willing to partici- pate in upcoming events. There were about 30 students scene at Union\. Lee Rose, the director ofStu- dent Activities, is shooting for just this feeling. He is pleased tnat DaDa Saturdays have become \a viable socialaltemative\and that they have broken down many of the barriers which exist in Union's social scene. Rose re- members how popular the Caba- ret was when he was a student and would love to rekindle the enthu- siasm that students used to have for it He has many memories of the two- or three-act shows and professors serving students drinks and desserts. (If we could only find some faculty to serve the stu- dents today.) This week, DaDa Saturday will be the Coffee House on the Road. compact di.n·.tliw .\h01n. C£l!i.\e!llf!S. \'lt~v//p '!>. fl\sinple.\. lij lope.\ playstwion smwn .\t!ga, .\Ill'.' games&·':\ '.\lcm.\.1110\'ies & shtwlm'kung fu tJWl'ies also \'in_\'1/p '.\. 1-: '' ~in~lt:.\ & un~«!.mrie.\ all ut the hesr pric:e.\ .' Houses/Apartments 1997-1998: 3 to 8 Bedrooms, All appliances, Parking, Remodeled, Carpet c a I I 3 7 0- 5·4 9 8 . Asthma Re.search Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by coughing, wheezing, and shortlless of bt·eath. We are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the inRammation and obstruc- tion found in the lungs of those witlt asthma. We need asthmatics,. age 4-70 years, to help evaluate resear~h medications. They must be non-smokers and in g.ood health. Participants w\11 reteive a free asthma -evaluation, related care, and the opportunity to learn more about theor asthma. Those qualified will receive study medication and be paid. These studies are conducted under the · supervision of a board certified allergist and clinical immunologist in a private setting. -------~------ .o.....-------~-.--_.. ______ _ F9r further information call Allergy & Asthma Center of Albany Med 452-2510 Monday-Friday 8 AM to 5 PM 215 Washington Ave. Ext Albany, NY 12205 Albany Medical College Division of Allergy or l-800-363-3464 Excellence in Patient Care and Clinical Research

