.. • l The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Vol·uine CXX\;fL Numher VIU · -~- . . · · · . · Sch~necta:cly;Nt.:\\. \'nt:_k ·. · .. : ·. · :. : · ·.\<. :· : . .,··. :· ·. ·.· : ·.. . .·· .. ·. · .: \·. :>1¥~~::-~ii~b,e~ 6·:_t997i ,_,. ' ' •. - • ' \ ' ,_ ' ~ • ' ' • - • ' - ' ~. ~ _, .. ~ • ,,,• ._,, ' • J '> Class·of '98 Ends Term With Style Seniors Share ''An Elegant Evening\ by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief ~ncouragementto what looks to be a great year.~' The trio announced ~hat the Duck Race performed during Par- ents' Weeke11d helped start the class gift drive· on th.e right foot. That event netted the senior gift fund over $1,000. Events planned for tile remain- der of the year includ.e a Union Last Thursday, over twenty per- CCM Hockey cap sale starting in centoftheseniorclassparticipated the near future~ The garnet-col- in the first senior event of the year, ored caps area rarity and will look ~'An Elegant Evening.\ The event identical to the caps currently sold paralleled last spring's \Senior by the bookstore, except not in Wine and Cheese,\ but this year, black. the event transpired in the fall. Virtually every other Division I Senior Class President Stacy ECAC Hockey school is able to Drossman, Vice--President Frank mass produce CCM caps, but be- Rossi, and Secretary-Treasurer Ed cause of the <rverall low local de- Dombroski welcomed their class mand, only organizations, like the to the Nott Memorial from 7:30 to senior class a11d bookstore, are able 9:00PM. With their tickets, se- . to get these caps produced. niors were ab~e to enjoy a glass of Other future events include wine or sparkling water and light more social events with different fare while listening to the melodic _themes other than the \Elegant tones ofthe Dutch PipersandGar- · Evening.\ With the successofthe net'Minstrelles. past events and likely sllccess .of The \Elegant Evening,\ which futu.r;.e events, the Class of '98 was meant to be a social gathering seems poised to build on class andcla~u~fi~fus~~ofam• ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~-·~~~~u~~andfun~~sing simulh~ jormoney-makingevent,wasused ofthis year's event, unossiQilln 20·percent participation py Dombroski agreed with neously. Acconling to to announce the progress made . stated, \Ed Frank, and I tnGmf!.Jnt the me1111Jers of the senior class. Drossman, saying, \I can honestly Dombroski, \I think that those sc- towards fundraising for the senior it would be nice to start our c}ass \Althoug]J we wouldhaveliked to say that I was pleased overall with niors who atten<led hard a great gift and future events to benefit spiritearly. The'ElegantEvenlng' seealargertumout, oureveptwas the turnout considering the fact time. Once word startsto get out, both the gift and \Senior Week.\ was a way to kick off our year.\ fabu~lls, and the three ofus think that this was our first class event. we'll begin to see even better at- When asked abou~ the early nature She was also optimistic about the everyone had a blase' It was definitely a good start and ten dance at future events.~' Another Construction Update by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer The hammering and drilling heard around Union College cam- -pus by staff and students is the construction of the Olin Bu.ilding and the expansion of the library, which began last spring. The agreeable weather has allowed the Pike Construction Company from Rochester, New York to work con- sistently on the Olin Center keep- ing only two weeks behind sched- ule, says Bill Schaffer, the project coordinator. July 13, 1998 marks the day of substantial completion, meanirug the building will he ready for use excluding finishing touches, such as carpeting and ing. Overall ex· ·}lenses of the building are estimated at 8 million <iollars funded by the Olin family and the college. 1be purpose of the Olin . Building is to provide a :high-tech learning center -with computer class- moms o·f various sizes aod a state-of-the-art Au- diovisual aLtditorium. ·When completed, all stu- • dents will be using the building fc.rcomputer ac- cess and classrooms. The library's completion is .marked for the end of JCtnuary, 1998 provided This photo shows that major progress is being made on the library addition. Major tile weather cooperates. trmrsltions will begin nextyear. (Dave Meguertlicllian/TC) Tile new library will al- low for twice the study area and greater space for books. However, until the construction is finished, the projects only affect the student body by creating de- tours for pedestrians and cars. At present, .Campus Safety has ap- proved temporary walkways such as through Reamer Campus Cen- ter, as the most secure routes for students and staff and are already planning for clear paths when · snow begins to fall. Shennell Antrobus, '00 comments, \The facilities that the Olin Building and the library will provide are defi- nitely needed, however I feel that the campus is becoming over- crowded in <me area. And, of. course, the construction is a major inconvenience when walking up- campus to my room.\ As Union's academic needs, recognition, and student body con- tinue to grow, the next construc- tion projects for the campus will most likely focus on residence halls. Hope for Fraternities by Mkhael Wino Stafj Writer In response to the restrictions, four of the fraternities sued Hamilton Colleg.e for vio1ation of anti-trust laws last year. The rra- temities pursued this case because they felt the eel lege haddeveloped a monopoly over college housing in Clinton, NY, the town where the college is located. The court dis- missed the case becatJse it was never established that the issue \\ia...;, one oftradeof commerce. There- fore the Sherman Anti -trust Act did not have jurisdiction over the actions of the college. The fraternities brought their case to the United States Court of Appeals in llopes of a new deci- sion. Last week US court of ap- peals rule that the .Federal District Court should hear the case. The decision was made under the pre- tence that it ~·as wrong to declare clJntinued on page 3 Campus News ................................... 2 Science andTechnology .................... 6 Arts & Entertainment........ . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .! 4 Ne.ws .................. , ............................... 3 Op-Ed ................................................ 7 Personals ................................................ .!5 Student Forum Minutes .................... 4 Features ... .' ...................................... J.O Sports ....................................................... 24

$p@ft1$: Womem's Soccer 3rd inN\' Page 24 Class of '98 Ends Term With Style Seniors Share ''An Elegant Evening\ by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief Last Thursday, ()Ver twenty per- cent oft he senior class participated in the first senior event of the year, \An Elegant Evening.\ The event paralleled last spring's \Senior Wine and Cheese,\ but this year, the event transpired in the fall. Senior Class President Stacy Drossman, Vice-President Frank Rossi, and Secretary-Treasurer Ed Dombroski welcomed their class to the NottMemorial from 7:30 to 9:00PM. With their tickets, se- niors were able to enjoy a glass of wine or sparkling water and light fare while listening to the melodic tones of the Dutch Pipers and Gar- net Minstrelles. The \Elegant Evening,\ which was meant to be a social gathering and class unifier instead of a ma- jor money-making event, was used to announce the progress made towards fundraising for the senior gift and future events to benefit both the gift and \Senior Week.\ When asked about the early nature cncouragcrnL'Httl' 1vhat lnnhc; h' b~..· a great year.\ The trio an no uflln'd that thl.' Duck Race perfonned during Par- ents' Weekend helped start the class gift drive on the right foot. That event netted i:he senior gift fund over $1 ,000. Events planned f()r the remain- der of the year i11clude a Union CCM Hockey cap sJ lc starting in the ncar future. The garnet-col- ored caps are a rarit5 am! v. ill look identical to the caps c urrentl) sold by the bookstore, except not in black. Virtually every other Division I ECAC Hockey scllo()I is able to mass produce CC lvD caps, but be- cause of the overall lo0w local de- mand, only organizntions, like the senior class and bo()kstore, are able to get these caps produced. Other future ev e11ts include more social events with different themes other than the \Elegant Evening.\ With the success of the past events and Ji kel)· success of future events, the Class of '98 Senior class officers (L toR) Stacy . .. . and Frank Rossi introd11ce the Garnet Minstrelles seems poised to build on class and the Plpirs to the Class of 19~8. (Colleen Dowd lTC) _____________ ....;.. ______ ___..._· --------------------- unity and fundra is i11g s imu lta- of this year's event, Drossman stated, \Ed Frank, and I thought it would be nice to start our class spirit early. The 'Elegant Evening' was a way to kick off our year.\ She was also optimistic about the over 20-percent participation by the members of the senior class. \Although we would have liked to see a larger turnout, our event was fabulous, and the three of us think everyone had a blast.\ Dombroski agreed with Drossman, saying, \I can honestly say that I was pleased overall with the turnout considering the fact that this was our first class event. It was definitely a good start and neously. A ceo rding to Dombroski, \I think that those se- niors who attended had a great time. Once word starts to get out, we' II begin to see e\Ven better at- tendance at future .events.\ Another Construction Update Hope for Fraternities by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer The hammering and drilling heard around Union College cam- pus by staff and students is the construction of the Olin Building and the expansion of the library, which began last spring. The agreeable weather has allowed the Pike Construction Company from Rochester, New York to work con- sistently on the Olin Center keep- ing only two weeks behind sched- ule, says Bill Schaffer, the project coordinator. July 13, 1998 marks the day of substantial completion, meaning the building will be ready for use excluding finishing touches, such as carpeting and This photo shows that major progress is being made on the library addition. Major transitions will begin next year. (Dave Meguerdichian!TC) painting. Overall ex- penses ofthe building are estimated at 8 million dollars funded by the Olin family and the college. The purpose of the Olin Building is to provide a high-tech learning center with computer class- rooms of various sit.e~ and a state-of-the-art Au- diovisual auditorium. When completed, all stu- dents will be using the building for computer ac- cess and classrooms. The library's completion is marked for the end of January, 1998 provided the weather cooperates. The new library will al- ----------------------------------------------------- low for twice the study area and greater space for books. However, until the construction is finished, the projects only affect the student body by creatillg de- tours for pedestrians and cars. At present, .Campus Safety has ap- proved temporary walkways such as through Reamer Campus. Cen- ter, as the most secure routes for students and staff and arc already planning for clear paths when snow begins to fall. Sht:nncll Antrobus, '00 commenb, \The facilities that the Olin Building anJ the libra!) will provide are Jeli- nitd)' needed, ho\-\cver I fed that the campu~ is becoming over- crowded in one an:a. AraJ, of course, the construdion is a major inconvenience when walking up- campus to my room.\ As Union's academic needs, recognition, and student bod:y con- tinue to grow, the next construc- tion projects for the camplls will most likely focus on resi<ience halls. by Michael Winn Staff Write-r In response to the restrictions, four of the fratnnitics sued Hamilton College for violation of anti-trust laws last )'ear. The fra- ternities pursued this case because they felt the college ha.d developed a monopoly over C()]kgc housing in Clinton, NY. the· tO\'\n \\here the col kgc is located. 'The co uti Ji~­ miss~.:J the cas.: 'be~ au,c it '' ,b 111.!\-W c~tabli~hd tlt.~t the i~;,tll.' \\ .t:-. one of trade of (ll11llli~TI.'t:. Thcrl.'- forc the ShcrnlJJl /\nt i-tru:-.t ,\d JiJ not ha\c juri~Ji~t itHI t>\cr the actions of the colkgc. The fraternities l1r,>ught ihcit case to the L!nitd States Court of Appeals in hope~ o·f a ne\\ deci- sion. Last \\cek US court of ap- peals rule that the F~deral District Court should hear the case. The decision \\as mLtdc :llnJer the pre- tence that it \\as \ ... r~ng, to declare conti111u!d on page 3 Campus News ................................... 2 Science and Technology .......... \ ......... 6 Arts & Entertainment f.l 15 24 News ................................................. ] Op-Ed. ............................................... 7 Personals ....... . Student Forum Minutes ................... .4 Features .......................................... I 0 Sprn·ts. .. ..... \\ .. \ \

Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY,OCTOBER27,l997THROUGHMONDAY,NOVEMBER3,l997 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1997: II :44 AM Chester Arthur TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28,1997: 11:40 AM Reamer Center INCIDENt VANDALISM: Shower door broken. SAFETY HAZARD: Student organization received suspicious package. Assisted in determining origin and content. 3:18PM Social Science Bldg. SAFETY HAZARD: Strong odor in building. 4:10PM Fieldhouse Detennined to be odor of tar coming from construction site. THEFT: Door to visiting team lacker room was left propped open. Numerous items of personal property stolen from unlocked lockers. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1997: 4:44 AM Psi Upsilon VANDALISM: Window Broken. 3:40 PM Chi Psi VANDA.LISM: Thermostat damaged beyond repair. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1997: II :55 AM Yulman Theater 2:45PM Webster House 3:30PM Richmond FRIDAY, OCTOBER3l, 1997: II: 15 AM Off Campus 5:20PM Fox House 9:28PM Achilles Lot SATURDAY, NOVEMBER l, 1997: I :32 AM Stoller Circle 3:23AM West College 4:00PM Bailey Field 4:17PM Richmond 6:35PM Fox North 8:12PM Wells House 9:40PM Soccer Field 10:40 PM Alumni Gym SUNDAY, NOVEMBER2, 1997: 12:49 PM West Lot 9:30PM South & Huntley MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1997: 12:52 AM Campus Safety 2:00AM 2:12AM 6:58AM II :57 PM Reamer Center Stoller Circle Lamont House AD Phi PROPERTY MISSING: Personal property of staff member and student missing. One item recovered. PROPERTY MISSING: Someone entered student's room and removed RAM from computer. Item was latem- retumed anonymously. TRESPASS: Solicitor entered reslclence hall without authorization to distribute advertisement for a restaurant. Subject located, identified and advised off campus. Letter sent to proprietor regarding solicitation on campus. THEFT: Glenville Police investigating theft by forgery. Suspect believed to be Union student. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATIONS: Fire extingu-ishers in two room~ were discharged. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. V ANDALlSM: 13 Tires on 2 campus QPerations vehicles and 6 visitors vehicles were sla~hed.· Also, two tire covers for spare tires were slashed. SPD notified. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Suspect observed loitering around campus. Was uncooperative, refused to leave campus and provided false ID. Subject arrested for trespass. SPD notified. FIRE: Minor fire in student's room caused by portable fan motor overheating and igniting curtains. Room resident awakened by room detector. With assistance of another resident extinguished fire with room fire extinguisher. No serious damage or injury. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Visitor lodged complai11t against Union students for what he believed was derogatory cheering. ANIMAL: Dog roaming through building. Resident concerned due to allergy problem. Owner located. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door unable to he locked. Center mullion had been knocked out. On-call locksmith notified to respond for repair. SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering with lock on fire door. Door would not lock. Locksmith repaired. PROPERTY DAMAGE: FenCing on east side of field damaged. Cause undetermined-possible vandalism. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Rug in elevator damaged by cigarette being ground out onto the floor. VANDALISM: Visitor reports extensive damage to his\'})arked car. Believes damage was related to confrontation at fraternity. VANDALISM: Traffic control sign pulled from ground. HARASSMENT: Control operator received abusive phone calls from off campus. VANDALISM: Wall near video machines damaged. THEFT: Commemorative flagging stolen for light post. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Tampering with the furniture in the conference room. BURGLARY/ASSAULT: Subject allegedly entered residence through an unlocked door. He was in . process of stealing two portable stereos when he was confronted by residents. Residents detained suspect. One student injured when struck in face by suspect. SPD noti.fied. Suspect arrested for burglary and assault. . ~ ' ·Campus News ' Off-Campus Recruiting Days Deadline for applying. for the New York Off Campus Recruiting Day (January 23) is. Friday November 7th. Contact the CDC for more details. The Seagull Presented by the .qepartment of Performing Arts The final days of The Seagull · are No.vember (j-8. All days start at 8:00pm. Tickets are $5;00 for students, faculty, and seniors. Tickets are $7.00 for general adtnission. Open House for Prospectives November 11th there will be an Open House for prospective students. A strong turnout is expected. Virtua:J U Meeting There Will be a Virtual U meeting on Monday, November lOth in S004. ''The Truth According to Tony Brown\ Journalist, commentator, columnist Friday, November 7th, 1997 7:00PM Reamer Center Auditorium ' Olsen Beethoven Union College Orchestra · Saturday, November .8th, 1997 8:00PM, Memoral Chapel A Shakes.peare Workshop in the Yulman Theater Friday, Nov~7 from 3:00-5:00 and Saturday, Nov. 8th from 12:00-3:.00 PM For more info, call I?rofessor William Finlay at x6475 Breast and Testicular Cancer Workshop 7:30 to 9:30PM Reamer Campus Center Auditorium Faculty Tea Sponsored by Delta Gamma 4:00 - 6:00PM Nott Memorial Flu Clinic No appointment necessary 3 :00 - 5:00 PM Hale House Dining Room \The Time of Perf- Po is Now'' Edward Sanders, performance poet Wednesday, Nov. 12 8:00PM Yulman Theater TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS 1) This past week several .students were instrumental in keeping the campus safe and secure. Quick thinking and fast action by two resi- dents of West College kept a potential fire hazard to a minimum. And, at AD Phi house the residents were able to detain a burglary suspect who had entered their house and the suspect was arrested. THANK YOU FOR YOUR EFFORTS TOWARD ENHANCING THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF OUR CAMPUS! 2) During the winterbreak please do not leave expensive personal prop- erty in your rooms. Make sure that all ofyour personal belongings are properly and adequately secured and that your room doors a.re closed and' locked. If you leave your vehicle on campus please remove all items of value. Personal property left in vehicles are an attractive en- ticement to thieves who walk through parking lots looking into car win- dows for just such an easy opportunity, 3) Bes1 wishes on your final.exams. Have an enjoyable and safe win- ter break and happy holidays. .. ; I 1 ·~ rno: the mu: for Be1 clai est pia: 199 and I: Ber em~ .pia: and Ah: Rae Chi and tiOJ thr< wa: Be1 pla1 pro 1 frOJ rna: cerl De: Ber ere• adv tha1 - j

'Page-~··} .N'O..V(}_m~·~r 6., 199.7··~ 'Q[Iy~·-mL1nc-ot:~,i~1t_!i.is .. : .. ' · . · · · ·· · . . : . . · _ . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . · c·ampus· Ne~s • ' • • ~ • • ' ' ~ l ' ;. • ' ' • ' • • ' Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1997 THROUGH MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER27, 1997: 11 :44 AM Chester Arthur TUESDAY, OCTOBER28, 1997: I l :40 AM Reamer Center INCIDENT VANDALISM: Shower door broken. SAFETY HAZARD: S~udent o~ganization received suspicious package. Assisted in determining origin and content. 3:18PM Social Science Bldg. SAFETY HAZARD: Strong odor in building. 4:10PM Fieldhouse Determined to be odor of tar coming from construction site. THEFT: Door to visiting team locker room was left propped open. Numemus items of personal property stolen from unlocked lockers. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER. 29, 1997: 4:44 AM Psi Upsilon VANDALISM: Window Broken. 3:40PM Chi Psi VANDALISM: Thermostat damaged beyond repair. THURSDAY, OCTOBER .30, 1997: I I :55 AM Yulman Theater 2:45PM Webster House 3:30PM Richmond FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31,1997: 11:15 AM Off Campus 5:20PM Fox House 9:28PM Achilles Lot SATURDAY, NOVEMBER l, 1997: I :32 AM Stoller Circle 3:23AM West College 4:00PM Bailey Field 4:17PM Richmond 6:35PM Fox North 8:12PM Wells House 9:40PM Soccer Field 10:40 PM Alumni Gym SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1997: 12:49 PM West Lot 9:30PM South & Huntley MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1997: 12:52 AM Campus Safety 2:00AM 2:12AM 6:58AM I 1:57PM Reamer Center Stoller Circle Lamont House AD Phi PROPERTY MISSING: Personal property of staff member and student m~issing. One item recovered. PROPERTY MISSlNC: Someone entered student's room and removed RAM from computer. Item was later returned anonymously. TRESPASS: Solicitor entered residence hall without authorization to distribllte advertisement for a restaurant. Subject located, identified and advised off campus. Letter sent to proprietor regarding solicitation on campus. THEFT: Glenville Police investigating theft by forgery. Suspect believed to be Union student. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATIONS: Fire extinguishers in two rooms were discharged. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. VAN OALISM: 13 Tires on 2 campus operations vehicles and 6 visitors vehicles were slashed. Also, two tire covers for spare tires were slashed. SPD notified. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Suspect observed loitering around campus. Was uncooperative, refused to leave campus and provided false ID. Subject arrested for trespass. SPD notified. FIRE: Minor fire in student's room caused by portable fan motor overheating and igniting curtains. Room resident awakened by room detector. With assistance of another resident extinguished fire with room fire extinguisher. No serious damage or injury. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Visitor lodged complaint against Union students for what he believed was derogatory cheering. ANIMAL: Dog roaming through building. Resident concerned due to allergy problem. Owner located. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door unable to be locked. Center mullion had been knocked out. On-call locksmith notified to respond for repair. SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering with lock on fire door. Door would not lock. Locksmith repaired. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Fencing on east side of field damaged. Cause undetermined-possible vandalism. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Rug in elevator damaged by cigarette being ground out onto the floor. VANDALISM: Visitor reports extensive damage to his parked car. Believes damage was related to confrontation at fraternity. VANDALISM: Traffic control sign pulled from ground. HARASSMENT: Control operator received abusive phone calls from off campus. VANDALISM: Wall near video machines damaged. THEFT: Commemorative flagging stolen for light post. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Tampering with the furniture in the conference room. BURGLARY/ASSAULT: Subject allegedly entered residence through an unlocked door. He was in process of stealing two portable stereos when he was confronted by residents. Residents detained suspect. One student injured when struck in face by suspect. SPD notified. Suspect anested for burglary and assault. Campus News Off-Campus Recruiting Days Deadline for applying for the New York Off Campus Recruiting Day (January 23) is Friday November 7th. Contact the CDC for more details. The Seagull Presented by the Department of Performing Arts The till.a:l days of The Seagull are November 6-8. All days start at 8:00pm. Tickets are $5.00 for students, faculty, and seniors. Tickets are $7.00 for general admission. Open House for Prospectives November 11th there will be an Open House for prospective students. A strong turnout is expected. Virtual U Meeting There will be a Virtual U meeting on Monday, November lOth in S004. ''The Truth According to Tony Brown\ Journalist, commentator, columnist Friday, November 7th, 1997 7:00PM Reamer Center Auditorium Olsen Beethoven Union College Orchestra Saturday, November 8th, 1997 8:00PM, Memoral Chapel A Shakespeare Workshop in the Yulman Theater Friday, Nov.7 from 3:00- 5:00 and Saturday, Nov. 8th from 12:00-3:00 PM For more info, call Professor William Finlay at x6475 Breast and Testicular Cancer Workshop 7:30 to 9:30 PM Reamer Campus Center Auditorium Faculty Tea Sponsored by Delta Gamma 4:00 - 6:00 PM Nott Memorial Flu Clinic No appointment necessary 3:00- 5:00PM Hale House Dining Room \The Time of Perf-Po is Now\ Edward Sanders, performance poet Wednesday, Nov. 12 8:00PM Yulman Theater TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS 1) This past week several students were instrumental in keeping the campus safe and secure. Quick thinking and fast action by two resi- dents of West College kept a potential fire hazard to a minimum. And, at AD Phi house the residents were able to detain a burglary suspect who had entered their house and the suspect was arrested. THANK YOU FOR YOUR EFFORTS TOWARD ENHANCING THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF OUR CAMPUS! 2) During the winter break please do not leave expensive personal prop- erty in your rooms. Make sure that all of your personal belongings are properly and adequately secured and that your room doors are closed and locked. If you leave your vehicle on campus please remove all items of value. Personal property left in vehicles are an attractive en- ticement to thieves who walk through parking lots looking into car win- dows for just such an easy opportunity. 3) Best wishes on your final exams. Have an enjoyable and safe win- ter break and happy holidays. F • : , , b M mori thes mun forn Ben clair est s pian 199( and I In Bere emo play and i Ale) Rae] Cha1 and tion thr01 was Ben piau prog Tl from may cert. De a Bere cred ad vi that, 1 L.: was nica \Fur by s cia!~ by tl own The o'clc vide nati' outs Stud ing coli wen seen eigh that vid~ wen St and of a droJ low~ to be pose ety gro1 vide Dev and Shm \Po Biv

I ': 1' ' ' ' l :' CamJlUS News _. ITitL' <[-L,nwrl't-iL'Hsis • J\oycmbcr (~, 1997 • Page 3· ' ' Music of Berezovsky Fills Memorial Chapel Hamilton by Nicholas Papamickolas StajfWritt!r Monday No~ember J•~ in Me- morial Chapel, Unioil College and the surrounding Schenectady com- munity was honored with the per- formance .of pianist Boris Herezovsky. Some have ac- claimed Berezovsky as, ''the tru- est successor to the great Russian pianists,\ BerezO'Vsky was the 1990 Tcllaikovsky Gold Medallist, and Monday night he showed why. In a matter of seconds, BerezO'JSky was able to capture the emotions of the audience as he played with inspiraticn, elegance and power. The music written by Alexander Scriabin and Sergei Rachmaninov filled Memorial Chapel with such explosiveness and feeling that a ti11gling sensa- tion m-ust have been flowing through()ut everyone• s body. This was reflected directly back at Berezovsky with standing 4P- plause after each portion of the program. . The following are reactions from others in the audience, which may due more justice to the con .. cert. William Wefenbach, a retired Dean of Union,. stated that Berezovsky was playing with \in- credible strength.\ Lyn Hill, an advisor at Delphi University, said that,\ he plays with more volume Continued · · as a matter of law that the Resi- detttial Life policy does not effect tracle or commerce. the policies enacted two years ago still allowed fraternities to ex- ist, hut they could not live as a group. The college felt that the fra- ternities were benefiting over other students by have their own houses, making for an unfair residential system. The fraternities can stiJ:l hold social events, but they are forced to use college space. This gi\es the college much more con- trol over the social life at Hamilton. The policy was born in order to reaffi1111 the intellectual tone on campus. The school felt the fra- ternity system was impeding on the college's goals. Mo,·e bla- tantly, the school felt they were Boritt Berezo.vttky, tlit: 1990 Tchaikovsky Gold Medallist demonstrates his mastery of classical piano. losi:ng women applicants because --:-:-~::\\\\---:---....,.---:--~-~-(,\\:D:-a--ve~M~eg_u~erd_ic:-h:-ia_ni11_·_C_) ___ -:-\- __ ......., _____ -:-~--I oftbe fraternity system. The col- and less effort than anyone else,\ atthe level that was per- of RPI, commemted that lege claimed that the fraternities' she bas ever seen. Walter perfor- fonning at Union. Nathan, ajun- Berezovsky'sperforrnanceadds to dominance of social life at mances of the Intemat.ional Festi- ior, noted that Berezovsky was the continued great to have such a Hamilton was driving away female val of <;hamber Music XXVI for just, \breathtaking.\ He was also fine quality of concerts at Union. applicants the97.:98 concert series, sponsored by the Schenectady Museum and Union College. Other reactions received were from Union students in attendance. amazed at the passion and flavor I am glad to see that more students The repercussions of a reversal that Berezovsky displayed in his aretumingoutforthem. Theolder of last year's decision could be W<lrk. Natasha, a freshman, was members ofthe audience have also noticed on campuses across the intrigued by the intense expres- commented that it is nice to see cou11try. Many moves that have sions that flooded Berezovsky' s more youngpeople enjoying these been made in colleges to restrict \Excellent! & Powerful!\ re- face. concerts. So, if you haven't at- fraternities may be shown to be in marked one freshman. Another Lastly, it is a great privilege tended any concerts in the past I violation of federal law. A new freshman was pleasantly surprised Anclair, a retired faculty member strongly urge you to attend. precedent may be set for the way ----------------------------------------------------------------f colleges handle fraternities. Fun Flicks:· Students Make Their Own Music Videos ltte Fraternities of Hamilton by Liam Jo-ynt- ' -, .. Contributing Writer Last Satmday; Dutch Hollow was converted into a highly tech- nical victeo production studio for \Fun Flicks,\ an event sponsored by Student Activities and the So- cial Committee. Students lined up by the dozens to make their very own music videos, free of charge. The eve11t went from four until ten cheers .of the watching crowd. Afterwards> they both said \That one's fer the ladies!\ Not all the students showed as much enthusi- asm as the Wimberly brothers. Passerby Roger McShane, when asked t() participate, said, '~I've al- ready done that at a few Bar Mitzvahs. No thanks.\ To make a video, participants could choose from a list cf hun- dreds of songs. Then they could pick from a variety ofbackgrounds or \mini-movies.\ The back- grounds ranged from clouds and waves to black anq white news- reels. The mini-movies included water-skiing footage, walking on the moon, and dancing with the men of Chippendales. There were costumes and props available to chose from, such as wigs, dresses, a drum set, and a fake Harley Davidson. Kramer International, Inc. pro- vided all the equipment and video production services. According to their Production Manager,. Dustin, \We can hook you up witl1 a phat video!\ A variety of digital sp~­ cial effects can be applied t? the video as well as stage directions that allow participants to actually dance with the Chippendales (a commonly chosen option).. Judging from the reactions of people who watched and partici- pated, the entire affair was a suc- cess. Student Activities and. the So- o' c lockand it pro- \ided a. nice alter- native t() standing outside in the rain. ~~---------------------~------------------------------------------~cialCornrnittee ~ .. _ t y;~ Students just pass- ~~===~;;;:= ing through the college center were lured to the scene by a stack of eight televisions. that showed the videos as they were being made. Students danced and sang in front of a solid back- drop, which al- lowed their images to be digitally im- posed o11to a vari- ety of back- grounds for the video. Freshman Devon Wimberly and his brother Shawn :performed Students jam at Fun Flicks outside of J)utch Hollow. \Poison~' by Bel (Dave Meg(4erdichiari!TC) Biv Dev-oe to the------------------------------------------- paid Kramer ln- ternat ional,. lnc.$1500 for the six hours · they were at Union. There was notahugeturn- out, consider- ing people could keep the vicleosthat they made. This may be because many students mentioned they had not heard about the event ahead of time, but just saw it while dropping by the College Center. In any event, a good time was had by all who College see the new ruling as a step in the right direction. Their free- dom is on the line in a case that will be scheduled in the next week. The hearings in front of the Fed- eral District court will most prob- ably be held during the early months of 1998.

Can~ pus News - . _ - - - - _ - - - -,. _- iTII 1 c ill1l-1t~~ll\1li-m1q~s • No~embcr 6~ 'f991 ~ .Pugc 3. . ' . ' - ' ' . ' ' '. \ .. Music of Berezovsky Fills Memorial Chapel by Nicholas Papanickolas Staff W1iter Monday November 3rd in Me- 1 morial Chapel, Union Col:lege and the surrounding Schenectady com- munity was honored with the per- formance of pianist Boris ; Berezovsky. Some have ac- claimed Berezovsky as, \the tru- est successor to the great Russian i pianists.\ Berezovsky was the 1990 Tchaikovsk_y GoldMedaHist, and Monday nigh the showed why. In a matter of seconds, Berezovsky was able to capture the emotions of the audience as he played with inspiration, elegance and power. The rn usic written by Alexander Scriabin and Sergei Rachmaninov filled Memorial Chapel with such explosiveness and feeling that a tingling sensa- tion must have been flowing throughout every<>ne' s body. This was reflected dinctly back at Berezovsky with standing ap- plause after each portion of the program. The following are reactions from others in the audience, which may due more justice to the con- cert. William Wefenbach, a retired Dean of Union, stated that Berezovsky was playing with \in- credible strength.\ L:yn Hill, an advisor at Delphi University, said that,\ he plays with m<lre volume Boris Berezovsky, the 1990 Tclraikovsky Gold Medallist demonstrates his mastery of classiclll piano. (Dave Meguerdichian/TC) and less effort than anyone else,\ she has ever seen. Walter perfor- mances of the International Festi- val of Chamber Music XXVI for the 97-98concert series, sponsored by the Schenectady Museum and Union College. Other reactions received were :from Uni<>n students in attendance. ~'Excellent! & Powerful!\ re- marked one freshman. An<lt.fler freshman was pleasantly surprised at the level of talent that was per- forming at Union. Nathan, a jun- ior, noted that Berezovsky was just, \breathtaking.\ He was also amazed at the passion and flavor that Berezovsky displayed in his work. Natasha, a freshman, was intrigued by the intense expres- sions that flooded Berezovsky's face. Lastly, it is a great privilege Anclair, a retired faculty member of RPI, commented that Berezovsky's performance adds to the contirmed great to have such a fine quality of concerts at Union. I am glad to see that more students are turning out for them. The older members of the audience have also commented that it is nice to see more young people enjoying these concerts. So, if you haven't at- tended any concerts in the past I str<>ngly urge you to attend. Hamilton Continued as a matter of law that the Resi- dential Life policy does not effect trade or commerce. The policies enacted two years ago still allowed fraternities to ex- ist, but they could not live as a group. The college felt that the fra- ternities were benefiting over other stl!ldents by have thek own houses, making for an unfair residential system. The fraternities can still hold social events, but they are forced to use col'lege space. This gives the college much more con- trol over the social life at Hamilton. The policy was born in order to reaffi1111 the inte lkctual tone on campus. The school felt the fra- ternity system was impeding on the college's goals. Mo ·t: bla- taNtly, the school felt the;· were losing women applicants Lecause oft:he fi·atemity system. The col- lege claimed that the fraternities' dominance of social life at Hamilton was driving away female applicants The repercussions of a reversal of last year's decision could be n<lticed on campuses across the country. Many moves that have bee11 made in colleges to restrict fraternities may be shown to be in violation of federal law. A new precedent may be set for the way --------------------------------------------------------------i colleges handle fraternities. Fun Flicks: Students Make Their Own Music Videos The Fraternities of Hamilton by Liam Joyut Contributing Writer Last Saturday, Dutch Hollow was converted into a highly tech- nical video production studio for \Fun Flicks,\ an event sponsored by Student Activities and the So- cial Committee. Students lined up by the dozens to make their very own music videos, free of charge. The event went from four until ten cheers of the watching cr<>wd. Afterwards, they both said \That <>ne's for the ladies!\ Not all the students showed as much enthusi- asm as the Wimberly brothers. Passerby Roger McShane, when asked to participate, said, \I've al- ready done that at a few Bar Mitzvahs. No thanks.\ To make a video, participants could choose from a list of hun- dreds of songs. Then they could pick from a variety ofbackgrounds or \mini-movies.\ The back- grounds ranged from clouds and waves to black and white news- reels. The mini-movies included water-skiing footage, walking on the moon, and dancing with the men ofChippendales. There were costumes and props available to chose from, such as wigs, dresses, a drum set, and a fake Harley Davidson. Kramer International, Inc. pro- vided all the equipment and video pro<luction services. According to their Production Manager, Dustin, \We can hook you up with a ph at video!\ A variety of digital spe- cial effects can be applied to the video as well as stage directions that allow participants to actually dance with the Chippendales (a commonly chosen option). Judging from the reactions of people who watche<l and partici- pated, the entire affair was a suc- cess. Student Activities and the So- o'clock and it pro- vided a nice alter- native to standing outside in the rain. ~--~--------------------------------------------------------,ciaiCommitt~e Students just pass- ~==;~~=~;;;;;==~! ing through the 11 college center were lured to the scene by a stack of eight televisions that showed the videos as they were being made. Students danced and sang in front of a solid back- drop, which a)- lowed their images to be digitally im- posed onto a vari- ety of back- grounds for the video. Freshman Devon Wimberly and his brother Shawn performed Students jam at Fun Flicks outside of Dutch Hr7/low. \Poison\ by Bel . paid Kramer In- ternational, Inc.$1500 for the six hours they were at Union. There was not a huge turn- out, consider- ing people could keep the videos thatthey made. This may be because many students mentioned they had not heard about the event ahead of time, but just saw it while dropping by the College Center. In any event, a good ti1ne was had hy all who (Dave Meguerdichian/TC) Biv Devoe to the---------------------------------------------------------------------------- C<>llege see the new ruling as a step in the right direction. Their free- dom is on the line in a case that will be scheduled in the next week The hearings in front of the Fed- eral District court will most prob- ably be held during the early m<lnths of 1998. :This is the last issue of· the fall ter.m. you for your support all term long!

Joseph Henry Exhibit on 200th Anniversary By Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer The modem age is defined by electricity and all of its uses from electric power and light to tele- phones, radio, television, comput- ers and videotape. Each of these devices work on the basis of con- verting electricity to magnetism and back to electricity. In 1750 Benjamin Franklin had flown a kite into thunder cloud and correctly concluded that Ughtning was electricity, but came to the wrong conclusion that electricity and magnetism were unrelated. If Franklin had not been proven wrong we would not be enjoying all the marvels of our electric power and telecommunications. as first to recognize his achieve- ments Vlith an honorary degree in 1829. Eliphalet Nott, who served as President from Union College from 1804 untill866, and several other Union College graduate~, were active mentors during his years as a scientist and then dur- ing his J2 years as the founding Secretary of the Smithsonian In- stitution where he would help the young teacher of the deaf · Alexander Graham Bell in the in- vention of the telephone. Thus it is appropriate that a major exhibit of the life and con- tributions of Joseph Henry be dis- played at the Union College Nott Memorial from November 6 th1:ougll January 18. Artifacts in- clude a replica of a Joseph Henry lifting magnet from Ironville and the first commercial telephone of Alexander Graham Bell from the Smithsonian. The exhibit is being curated by Mandeville Gallery Director Rachel Seligman and Profes.sor What is Union's SAC? . . . by Stacy Dros~man and Beth Wierzbieniec Co11tribnting Writer$ The· Student Affairs Council is comprised of five students, three ofVIhom represent their classes as ele~ted officials, one who serves as a Greek representat-ive (either the Panhellenic President or the Interfratenity Council President who alternate by year), and an in- dependent student selected by the Cornrn ittee on Committees. There are anadditional.five faculty mem- :bers making this committee equally weighted between the stu- dents and the faculty. The primary purpose of the committee is to review policy as well as formulate and recommend ways to improve the quality of residence life at Union. TI1is means that we oversee and approve poli- cies before their implementation. This has an effect upon that high percentage of students who 'live in housing that is allocated by Resi- dence Life. One of our principal .responsibilities is to supervise the self-study procedure that fraterni- ties, sororities and theme houses must go through to justify their reasons for receiving privileged housing. These houses have a large space allocated for programming which is to be used to benefit the campus as a whole. This term the commit- tee reviewed two fraternities, Sigma Chi and Chi Psi, and dur- ing the winter,. Thurston House and the Society will be up for re- view. Aside from our tasks reviewing group housing, the SAC also pro- poses and accepts proposals for policies regarding the safety of stu- dents on campus, the escort sys- tem, and the alcohol policy. The SAC is open to any suggestions students wish to put forth, in or- der for students to present their ideas and concerns. They should contact Stacy Drossman, Beth Wierzbieniec, Michael Winn, Tory Jones, or Kirsten Kohn. We look forward to your involvement and suggestions. Kappa Sig and Gamma Phi Beta Team Up For Bloo.d Drive. by Davi<l Meron Staff Writer Ifyou walked into the College Center last week anytime between 11 and 4, read last week's Concordy, or saw any of the post- ers, table tents, or the banner, you may have noticed that Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta were working fanatically to acquire yottr blood. Don't get me wrong, they were just trying to ensure the· success of another Red Cross Blo-od Drive. The odds were again-st them. The l3l9m:J Drive occurred Friday, October 31\ in . Davidson North Study Lounge between 8:30 and I :30. Despite the fact that many students had con- flicting class times, enough people out <Jf the kindness of their hearts showed. up so that the Red Cross could obtain 56 pints of the it blo()d. The two houses were plea.sed with the results. It is necessary to note that these pints do rwt go in vain. 56 pints is fairh close to the campus average for Blood Drives in recent years. However, over 1 ,000 pints are used on a daily basis in Northeast- em New York alone. Not only, as is commonly believed, is the blood used for ~ccidentvictims to replen- ish lost blood, but it is also used for other medical applications. The largest recipients of blood trans- fusions are cancer patients. In ad- dition, it is used in surgery and di- alysis. ~ The Blood Drive itse.lf was solely the responsibility of the Red Cross. It was the Red- Cross that handled the scheduling of the drive and the actual operations on the day ofthe drive. Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta were in charge of promoting the Blood Drive and scheduling times for donors to ar- rive. On the day of the drive the houses helped set up and dean up the Davidson Study Lounge. Time was spent working on a banner for the college center designed by Gamma Phi Beta. Both Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta hung posters all week and Gamma Phi placed tables in Dutch Hollow and Uppercalss Dining Hall. Both houses worked attheir tables in the Reamer Campus Center, where people could sign up for a time slot convenient for them. .In addition, people were also encouraged to call myself to rescue a time slot. On Thursday night, each partici- pant was called and reminded of their specific appointment. Gamma Phi Beta and Kappa Sigma were pleased they could contribute to helping this cause. The organizations each realized the importance of their work and the number of people they ef- fected. \That 56 pints we did not have before,\ said one Red Cross volunteer at the endoftheday. For the next time the opportunity arises to donate blood,. remember it is not a matter of a needle protruding from your arm, or the loss of a mere pint ofblood and it is not an attempt for the Red Cross to make you faint. The Blood Drive is a chance for all of us to save lives through small sacrifices. Joseph Henry's Magnet Eighty years would pass before Joseph Henry would develop the modem electromagnet and would then discover that electricity could be produced from magnetism which is the seminal discover for all our modem el.ectric power and communications systems. Frank Wicks who will also deliver '-------------------...,....------------ ........ ----------' Joseph Henry was born poor in Albany in 1797 and Union College a gallery talk at the reception from 4-6 PM on November 13. Joseph Henry'sframe jot testing the strengt!r of an electromagnet (fhe Innovators, ])avid P. Billihgton) • - OJ face; Cha1 ever late nam ratie of Jaku thef that I elim losir Wit \fre4 sche bee a assi~ Uni< men first its 11 wha1 up. A4 pres rnee1 at a ches s R€ nity• Stud up or cide4 ing 4 only citec sion, cisrn temi hers lr estal ing; resic lege proc Gre4 hom sistt core tion: Corr ture boar men wen In boar \fall the< Ni the} natu past com vall don( gani Carl

Joseph Henry Exhibit on 200th Anniversary By Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer The modem age is defined by electricity and all of its uses from electric power and light to tele- phones, radio, television, comput- ers and videotape. Each of these devices work on the basis of con- verting electricity to magnetism and back to electricity. In I 750 Benjamin Franklin had flown a kite into thundercloud and correctly concluded that lightning was electricity, but came to the v..rong conclu~ion that electricity and magnetism were unrelated. If Franklin had not been proven wrong we would not be enjoying all the marvels of our electric power and telecommunications. Eighty years would pass before Joseph Henry would develop the modem electromagnet and would then discover that electricity could be produced from magnetism which is the seminal discover for all our modern electric power and communications systems. Joseph Henry was born poor in Albany in 1797 and Union College as first to recognize his achieve- ments with an honorary degree in I 829. Eliphalet Nott, who served as President from Union College from 1804 until J 866, and several other Union College graduates. were active mentors during his years as a scientist and then dur- ing his 32 years as the founding Secretary of the Smithsonian In- stitution where he would help the young teacher of the deaf Alexander Graham Bell in the in- vention of the telephone. Thus it is appropriate that a major !;Xhibit ofthe life and con- tributions of Joseph Henry be dis- played at ~he Union College Nott Memorial from November 6 through January 18. Artifacts in- clude a replica of a Joseph Henry lifting magnet from lronville and the first commercial telephone of Alexander Graham Bell from the Smithsonian. The exhibit is being curated by Mandeville Gallery Director Rachel Seligman and Professor Frank Wicks who will also deliver a gallery talk at the reception from 4-6 PM on November 13. What is Union's SAC? by Stacy Dressman and Beth Wierzbieniec Contributing Writer.<~ The Student Affairs Com1cil is comprised of five students, three of whom represent their classes as elected officials, one who serves as a Greek representative (either the Pan he lien ic President or the Interfratenity Council President who alternate by year), and an in- dependent student selected by the Committee on Committees. There are an additional five faculty mem- bers making this committee equally weighted between the stu- dents and the faculty. The primary purpose of the committee is to review policy as well as formulate and recommend ways to improve the quality of residence life at Union. This means that we oversee and approve poli- cies before their implementation. This has an effect upon that high percentage of students who live in housing that is allocated by Resi- dence Life. One of our principal responsibilities is to supervise the self-stl:ldy procedure that fraterni- ties, sororities and theme houses must go through to justify their reasons for receiving privileged housing. These houses have a large space allocated for programming which is to be used to benefi:t the campus as a whole. This term the commit- tee reviewed two fraternities, Sigma Chi and Chi Psi, and dur- ing the winter, Thurston House and the Society will be up for re- view. Aside from our tasks reviewing group housing, the SAC also pro- poses and accepts proposals for policies regarding the safety of stu- dents on campus, the escort sys- tem, and the alcohol policy. The SAC is open to any suggestions students wish to put forth, in or- der for students to present their ideas and concerns. They should contact Stacy Dross man, Beth Wierzbien iec, Michael Winn, Tory Jones, or Kirsten Kohn. We look forward to your involvement and suggestions. Kappa Sig and Gamma Phi Beta Team Up For Blood Drive by David Meron Staff Writer If you walked into the College Center last week anytime between 11 and 4, read last week'~ Concordy, or saw any of the post- ers, table tents, or the banner, you . may have noticed that Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta were working fanatically to acquire your blood. Don't get me wrong, they were just trying to ensure the success of another Red Cross Blood Drive. The odds were against them. The Blood Drive occurred Friday, October 3 I ' 1 in Davidson North Study Lounge between 8:30 and I :30. Despite the fact that many students had con- flicting class times, enough people out of the kindness oftheir hearts showed up so that the Red Cross could obtain 56 pints of their blood. The two houses were pleased with the results. It is necessary to note that these pints do not go in vain. 56 pints is fairly close to the campus average for Blood Drives in recent years. However, over 1 ,000 pints are used om a daily basis in Northeast- em New York alone. Not only, as is commonly believed, is the blood used for accident victims to replen- ish lost blood, but it is also used for other medical applications. The largest recipients of blood trans- fusions are cancer patients. In ad- dition, it is used in surgery and di- alysis. , The Blood Drive itself was solely the responsibility of the Red Cross. It was the Red Cross that handled the scheduling of the drive and the actual operations on the day of the drive. Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta were in charge of promoting the Blood Drive and scheduling times for donors to ar- rive. On the day of the drive the houses helped set up and clean up the Davidson Study Lounge. Time was spent working on a banner for the college center designed by Gamma Phi Beta. Both Kappa Sigma and Gamma Phi Beta hung posters all week and Gamma Phi placed tables in Dutch Hollow and Uppercalss Dining Hall. Both houses worked at their tables in the Reamer Campus Center, where people could sign up for a time slot convenient for them. In addition, people were also encouraged to call myself to rescue a time slot. On Thursday night, each partici- pant was called and reminded of their specific appointment. Gamma Phi Beta and Kappa Sigma were pleased they could contribute to helping this cause. The organizations each realized the importance of their work and the number of people they ef- fected. '\That 56 pints we did not have before,\ said one Red Cross volunteer at the end of the day. For the nexttimethe opportunity arises to donate blood, remember it is not a matter of a needle protruding from your arm, or the loss of a mere pint of blood and it is not an attempt for the Red Cross to make you faint. The Blood Drive is a chance for all of us to save lives through small sacrifices. Joseph Henry's Magnet Joseph Henry'sframejor testilrg the strength of an electromagnet (fhe Innovators, David P. Billington) ev~ !at• llal rat ()f J a~ tile til a eli1 ]()S Wi '\fr sd- bec a.ss Un me fir! its wh lip. ' j)f.: me a.t c:hc: I ~kit: StL liP~ cid il1g ()fi c it4 s l() eci!> ten !,er e-st ill§ rtes lli;!g !JfC Gr ilo 1 sis· COl ll() CD lit![ bo; me we ] bo: ·~ra tile j ] tile 11a1 pa: C:Ol va: c]() ga1 Ca

CamjlUS Nc·ws · . ilp~ ((olt~~n·bil'l1sis • Novcmbci· 6,.Pi97 ~ l)age 5 ' . . . ' Chess Plays Tough Match Against Archrival RPI · · play, in that he kept belching ~----------------------- by David Nitcher Contributing .Writer On Saturday, October25, Union faced off against RPI at Old Chapel in its first chess tournament ever. RPI showed up a half~hour late to the event causing the tour- . · nament to start with hurried prepa• ratien and little instruction. One of the Union players, Wit Jakutow.i<:z, le.ft immediately after the first match and later explained that he didn't realize that he wasn't eliminated from the tournament by losing the first round. The loss of Wit allowed RPI to pick up 3 \free\ points, as the rest of h:is scheduled matches automatically became byes. The matches were assigned randomly, pairing each of Union's8-memberteam against4 members of RPI's team. In the first round, Union lost all but 2 of its matches, setting the tone for what seemed like an unfair match- up. According to RPI's chess club president, Tom Ni, their club meets 4 time's a week for 1 ~hours at a time. In contrast, Union's c:hess club meets only once a week David Nitcher concentrt~te$ intensely on his next chess /11.01!1!. {Photo Courtesy Yuriy Uvaydov/TC) for 2 hours at a time. RPI also has a larger student base to draw from, 4360 und~rgraduate students com- pared to Union'.s 2000. · O'fRPI'steam, 3 had won all-of their matches. High score for Union though, was only 3 points going to the club's president, David Nitcber. Another strong performance on Union's side of the fence came from Yuriy Uvaydov, a freshman, wllo man- aged to defeat two of RPI''s play- ers. Other scorers were Michael Winn and Jaideep Malkani, both adding 1 point each to Union's team score. The strength of RPI's team caught many of us off guard. One player in particular seemed an un- likely candidate for tournament loudly much to the dismay of both teams. He also displayed unsports- manlike behavior in the second round when he played Jaideep Malkani. Malkani said that the player had made a move, realized his mistake, and demanded to have the move back. When Jaideep re- fused, the opponent knocked over his king (technically ending the game) and walked away in disgust. Later, the same player even tried to claim the match as a victory on his scorecard! Despite the ending score, it is the belief of the club that its loss was due more to a lack of experience rather than a lack of potential. Union's team consisted of only a few seasoned players and mostly novices, but this isn't surprising considering the nature of Union's club which is more casual thJ.Il not. This tournament definitely marks an encouraging step forward in the development of the club. The club has only been around for about 1 0 months and it will take some time before tournaments can be taken part in on a regular basis. There- fore, Union's loss wasn't so tragic after ail. Sig Chi Gets One- Year Housing Renewal From SAC by Lee Polikoff Staff Writer Recently, the Sigma Chi frater- nity received notification from the Student Affairs Committee that upon review, the Council had de~ cided to renew Sigma Chi's hous- ing cofttract with the college for only one year. The Committee cited several reasons for this deci- sion, which was met by much criti- cism by tlie members of this fra- ternity, in addition to many mem- bers ofthe campus. In the Spring of 1994, th.e SAC established a protocol for review• ing applications for \organized residential groups occupying Col- lege owned housing.'' During this process, the organization, usually Greek organizations or theme houses, submit a self-study, to as- sist the evaluating committee. The core questions pertain to contribu- tions to the Campus and Local Commun:ity; Academics; and fu- ture programs. Currently, this board is comprised of five faculty members and five students, who were elected last year. In their decision, the review board stated that Sigma Chi had \fallen short in its contributions to the community,\ stated Professor Scott Scullion, a member of the committee. Essentially, the SAC note that \Sig Chi\ had to \make better use of its Space, and had te use offer its common space for social events ~ther than parties,\ according to Frank Barbarino,. President ofSigma Chi. Moreover, the board stated that although this fraternity had mad~ what Scullion referred to as \recent progress in their efforts to offer more philan- thropic events,\ it had to make more of a concerted effort to offer more events to the commUllity at large. Additionally, the board stated that the fraternity did not recipro- cate the coll~ge, as the administra- tion expects \something in reti.Jm\ for letting an organization use col- lege~ owned spac(l. This decision was made at a time when Greek organizations have found them~ selves embroiled in conflict with college administrations throughout the United States. .Barbarino was quite disap- pointed with the ruling, as he noted that they (Sig Chi) had been in- While the SAC c£1nceeds small problems, Sig11111 Chi will continue to reside;, Raymo11d South for at least one t~dditi(mal yelir. (.Dave Meguerdichian!TC) . Nature Illustrations on Display by Lindsay Porter & Ryan Cohen Colttributing Writers Now on display in the atrium of the Arts Building is a collection of nature illustrations from Union's past and present. The collection consists of some ofUnion's archi- val pieces interspersed with those done by this year's lllustrated Or- ganism class taught by Professor Carl George, ofthe biology depart- ment, andProfessorSandy Wimer, of the visual arts department. The focus ofthe class is to build bridges between the two disci- plines of art and science in order to gain a better understanding of the complexity of nature through .graphic depictions. The class dis- cusses both the artistic techniques involved in producing a piece and ~he scientific concepts lying within the subject matter. Eventually with patience and teamwork, both or which are essential in the class, artistic and scientifically .accurate pieces are created. The concepts behindtbeworks being displayed include tb.e flight of birds, the relationship <Jf light with respect to th'e surface leaves, precision and ac:cura()y fo- cusing on the fish, and solving the problems of volume and space in the mammalian skull. These wonderful pieces of sci- entific art will be on dis_play until January, so you have time to c<>me and take a look. volved in several philanthropic events, including a dinner with a ·nursing home, a spare change drive, and recently, a campas wide Greek Forum. Additionally, he noted that the house had been pe- nalized for past problems, and that the review board only saw the so- cif!l probation-not the recent events. He also stated that his fra- ternity had made efforts recently to involve the campus in non-so- cial events, and that by doing so, had fulfilled the criteria f<>ran ex- tended housing renewal. \Cer- tainly, we may not have used ilie space to its fullest potential in the past; however, the events and ac- tivities we have sponsored have been comparable to other Greeks and theme houses. We have plans in motion to take on a pro-active approach on campus,\ said Barbarino. He also noted that the decision was unjustified because the house was in such poor physi- cal condition, and the situation was rectified only after he \pestered\ the administration. Despite the dissapointment, both groups noted that this decision would help to motivate the frater- nity to continue in their efforts, which will hopefully lead to a long term housing agreement for Sigma Chi.

Chess Plays Tough Match Against Archrival RPI by David Nitcher Contributing Writer On Saturday, October 25, Union faced off against RPI at Old Cilapel in its first chess tournament ever. RPI showed up a half-hour lc:~te to the event causing the tour- llarnent to start with hurried prepa- ration and little instruction. One llf the Union players, Wit J akutowicz, left immediately after tile first match aJild later explained tlla.t he didn't realize that he wasn't eliminated from the tournament by ]()sing the first round. The loss of Wit allowed RPI to pick up 3 '\free\ points, as the rest of his s<:heduled matches automatically llec:ame byes. The matches were ct.ssig11ed randomly, pairing each of Union's 8-member team against 4 members of RPI's team. In the first round, Union lost all but 2 of its matches, setting the tone for I'Vnat seemed like an unfair match- LIP. According to RPI's chess club r>resident, Tom Ni, their club meets 4 time's a week for 11;2 hours a_t a time. In contrast, Union's c:hess club meets only once a week Dal'id Nitcher concentrates intensely on his next chess move. (Photo Courtesy Yuriy Uvaydov/TC) for 2 hours at a time. RPI also has a larger student base to draw from, 4360 undergraduate students com- pared to Union's 2000. O'fRPI's team, 3 had won all of their matches. High score for Union though, was only 3 points going to the club's president, David Nitcher. Another strong performance on Union's side of the fence came from Yuriy Uvaydov, a freshman, who man- aged to defeat two of RPI's play- ers. Other scorers were Michael Winn and Jaideep MalkaNi, both adding I point each to Union's team score. The strength of RPI's team caught many of us off guard. One player in particular seemed an un- likely candidate for tournament play, in that he kept belching loudly much to the dismay of both teams. He also displayed unsports- . manlike behavior in the second round when he played Jaideep Malkani. Malkani said that the player had made a move, n.:alized his mistake, and demanded to have the move back. When Jaideep re- fused, the opponent knocked over his king (technically ending the game) and walked away in disgust. Later, the same player even tried tv claim the match as a victory on his scorecard! Despite the ending score, it is the belief of the club that its loss was dme more to a lack of experience rather than a lack of potential. Union's team consisted of only a few seasoned players and mostly novices, but this isn't surprising considering the nature of l nion' s club which is more casual th,.m not. This tournament definitely marks an encouraging step forward in the development of the club. The club has only been around for about I 0 months and it will takt: some time before tournaments can be taken part in on a regular basis. There- fore, Union's loss wasn't so tragic after all. Sig Chi Gets One-Year Housing Renewal From SAC by Lee Polikoff Staff Writer Recently, the Sigma Chi frater- llity received notification from the Student Affairs Committee that llp<Jn review, the Council had de- cided to renew Sigma Chi's hous- il1g contract with the college for lln ly one year. The Committee cited several reasons for this deci- s illn, which was met by much criti- ci>m by the members of this fra- ternity, in addition to many mem- [)ers of the campus. In the Spring of 1994, the SAC ~stablished a protocol for review- il1g applications for \organized roesidential groups occupying Col- ]t;;;ge owned housing.\ During this JJrocess, the organization, usually Greek organizations or theme l1ouses. submit a self-study, to as- s is.t the evaluating committee. The core questions pertain to contribu- ti()ns to the Campus and Local Community; Academics; and fu- tll.lre programs. Currently, this board is comprised offive faculty II!embers and five students, who I'Vere elected last year. h their decision, the review l:Joard stated that Sigma Chi had '~fallen short in its contributions to t11e community,\ stated Professor Scott Scullion, a member of the committee. Essentially, the SAC note that \Sig Chi\ had to \make better use of its space, and had to use offer its common space for social events other than parties,\ according to Frank Barbarino, President of Sigma Chi. Moreover, the board stated that although this fraternity had made what Scullion referred to as \recent progress in their efforts to offer more philan- thropic events,\ it had to make more of a concerted effort t'J offer more events to the community at large. Additionally, the board stated that the fraternity did not recipro- cate the college, as the administra- tion expects \something in return\ for l~tting an organization use col- lege owned space. This decision was made at a time when Greek organizations have found them- selves embroiled in conflict with college administrations throughout the United States. Barbarino was quite disap- pointed with the ruling, as he noted that they (Sig Chi) had been in- While the SAC conceeds small problems, Sigma Chi will continue tu reside in Raymond South for at least one additional year. (Dave Meguerdichian/TC) Nature Illustrations on Display by Lindsay Porter & Ryan Cohen Contributing Writers :N<Jw on display in the atrium of tile Arts Building is a collection of 11ature illustrations from Union's past and present. The collection consists of some of Union's archi- val pieces interspersed with those d()ne by this year's Illustrated Or- ganism class taught by Professor Ciirl George, ofthe biology depart- ment, and Professor Sandy Wimer, ofthe visual arts department. The focus of the class is to build bridges between the two disci- plines of art and science in order to gain a better understanding of the complexity of nature through graphic depictions. The class dis- cusses both the artistic techniques involved in producing a piece and the scientific concepts lying within the subject matter. Eventually with patience and teamwork, both of which are essential in the class, artistic and scientifically accurate pieces are created. The concepts behind the works being displayed include the flight of birds, the relationship of light with respect to the surface of leaves, precision and accuracy fo- cusing on the fish, and solving the problems of volume and space in the mammalian skull. These wonderful pieces of sci- entific art will be on display until January, so you have time to come and take a look. volved in several philanthropic events, including a dinner with a nursing home, a spare change drive, and recently, a campus wide Greek Forum. Additionally, he noted that the house had been pe- nalized for past problems, and that the review board only saw the so- cial probation-not the recent events. He alsu stated that his fra- ternity had made efforts recently to involve the campus in non-so- cial events, and that by doing so, had fulfilled the criteria f,)r an ex- tended housing renewal. \Cer- tainly, we may not have used the space to its fullest potential in the past; however, the events and ac- tivities we have sponsored have been comparable to other Greeks and theme houses. We have plans in motion to take on a pro-active approach on campu .... :· '>aid Barbarino. He also noted that the decision was unjustified because the house was in such poor physi- cal condition, and the situation was rectified only after he \pestered\ the adrn in istration. Despite the dissapointment, both groups noted that this decision would help to motivate the frater- nity to continue in their efforts, which will hopefully lead to a long term housing agreement for Sigma Chi. :Money· Brown) $1:50

COLGATE UNIVERSITY _ iUI 1 ife.,· you lo consider a t·areer iJlleacbln&. l.'o(tt.tlle I 'nh~el\f'il.)' <~j}(q·s /be Jlasler~ f~[Arls iJt1eacbillg degree lo liberal aru: gradualt.'S inleresletl ill /eat·binl{ bigJJ .w.:hool .\t.'it!IN.:e. lnathelnt.Jtics~ Hng/ish. and sucial .s.Judle.'\. (;l!tll!llJU:t ./lluou.:ial aid is ill'ailuble lo (//Utl~lled sllulents. For .lllOJ\C! i1~(onnat hin uorire to Co/~alf.' l 'uil'tirsity . .Joan Tholnpstnt, I h/j>Urlnu..rnl q_{HdlU'tllion. J:J OtJk I Jrit 1 f!. I huniltOfl; Nf!U/ ro1·k 1. { )-.Jb· 1:)98 I PboJU! f315J HJ.:J ~ 7 2'>6. Spring Brea~ ~ga· Sell Trips, Earn Cash, & Go Free!H S1udent Travel Services is now hiring campus reps/group organizers. · · owest Rates to Jamaica, Mexico, & Florida. . Call 1-800~484849. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~ ............•.........•..•........ , MAK[~ GREAT CHRISTMAS SIN CT.! ! • IF YOU CAN BEGIN WORK THE FIRST \VEEK • : OF DEC. OR EARLIER, AWARD WINNING ! •: RETAIL SHOP IN NEW CANAAN CT IS NOW : ! ACCEPTING XMAS SALI!S HELP APPIJCA· ! • TIONS, $S/HR. 40 HR WEEK. PLEASE CALL • :. RAYFORMOREJNFOiPENNYWElGHTS ! JE\VELRY GIFr STORE. (203) '66·1739 : ·, ' : SECURE YOUR JOB TODAY. ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ···········•·•••·••••······•········ / -I - ,, rna wi! COl wo res dei lov cal \d as~ the infc \ bo< div mu per per log cor (raJ RE c-lu not - r .F tecl ( tior F 1 Ac 1\ tati F F F apr yot disl ( lG l apr F sto1 cor E Col 1' Als

Scit-nccandTcchnology · · · . lLI!t' U::llltwruiNtsis • November 6, ·1997 • Page 7 -··-'------ - - --- ----~---- -- -- --- .. _____ __,_-- -'. -~---- _ ___,____ --~-- _________ ,___,_~~------------------~--------~~-------~------ . -- Science & Technology Something College Students Miss: Sleep & You stores its \overall well- being.\ by Victoria Hargreaves S& T Editor REM sleep occurs after non- REM sleep and begins approximately 80 \Early to bed and early to rise, minutes after the commencement makesaman healthy, wealthy, and ofsleep: This cycle of.non- REM wise.\ Studies are continually and REM sleep repeats four to five confirming these well known times during a night of words ofBen Franklin. \Sleep and sleep. \These processes . rest allow the body to replenish occur in harmony with depleted energy reserves. and al- the body's sleep cycles· low us to maintain normal physi- dictated by the body's · cal and mental functioning.\ This natural rhythms.\ Dr. \chief nourisher of life's feast,\ Bruce Perry,. a psychia- as Shakespeare describes it, helps trist at Baylor College of the brain synthesize and retain Medicine, suggests that information. adults sleep a minimum \Sleep cycles affect many of 8 hours a night while bodily processes including cell children sleep at least 10 division, protein synthesis, im· hours a night. cost between 2 and 5(5billion dol- lars a year. \Over 30 million Ameri- cans suffer from sleep disorders that can make sleeping or waking hours simply miserable.\ Insom- nia, characterized by an inability to mune function, mood, and task In a recent study of 50 arbitrarily fall and stay asleep, afflicts one out performance.\ Regulated by a chosen teenagers, approximately of three American adults. person's internal cycles or \bio- one third of the participants were ·~on average, people who sleep logical clock,\ normal sleep is sleep deprived (slept less than 6.5 substantially less, or ~ubstantially composed of two parts, REM ho.urs per night when their bodies more, than 7 to 8 hours a night seem (rapid- eye movement) and non- needed 8.5 hours of sleep each to be at high risk of death from all REM. The non,. REM stage in· night) .. Sleep also plagues adults. causes.\ Sleep deprivation can eludes four stages. In the fourth A study recently proved that le.ad to a number of symptoms in- non- REM stage, the body re- · ·s~eep- related accidents in the US eluding decreased mental function, ~~--~~~~~~~------~------------~----------~----- The \Geek Speaks\ Glossary • by Jennifer Trotts Staff Writer For those of you who have always been confused by our questions when calling for technical assistance, here is a list of terms to help you Understand. CPU~( Central Processing Unit) The brain of your computer. It is here that all:.coinRut~- tions a:re done. Without this your computer would not function. · · i PC- (Personal Computer) The general tenn for any IBM or IBM compatible computer. Tower PC vs. Desktop PC- A tower PC stands upright, usually sitting under your desk. A desktop PC sits horizontally on the top of your desk. MMX- A technology developed at Intel that allows your CPU to handle more compu- tations especially for multimedia applications. Pentium- A type of CPU produced by Intel that is the standard for PC computing. ' Power PC- A type of CPU produced for Apple Macintosh compatible machines. Memory- Amount of RAM in your computer. RAM -(Random Access Memory) A temporary f<Jrm of memory that is used by your appJ.ications. When you turn off your computer the RAM is erased. This is why you lose your papers when the machine freezes and you have not saved to the hard drive or floppy disk. Bit- The smallest form of memory in a computer, it is either 1 or 0. Byte-8 bits KB ~(Kilobytes) A unit ofmeasurement, usually used in reff;:rence to file sizes. MB- (Megabytes) The units that memory is measured in. l MB = 1 mill-ion bytes. GB- (Gigabytes) Larger unit of memory, most hard drive sizes are measured in gigabytes. 1GB= 1000MB. Hard Drive - A more permanent form of memory than RAM. This is where all your applications and documents are stored. It is a magnetic storage medium. Floppy Disk- Usually stores 1.44 MBofinformatiQn. A portable and cheaper magnetic storage medium. If the document is important do nottrust it to a floppy since it can become · corrupted easier than a hard disk. ResNet- (Residential Network) The network that allows you to connect to the Union · College Network and the Internet from your room. Network Card- The piece of hardware that allowsyourcornputerto connect to ResNet. 4 Also called an Ethernet card. confusion, headache and impaired vision. After 100 to 200hours with- out sleep, \symptoms intensity and resemble psychosis.\ The most prominent effect <Jflack of sleep is a greater susceptibility to sickness . or a wearing down of the · immune system. Because sleep is a time for the body to re- cuperate, when one fails . to slee.p, the body is weakerred, allowing in- vading bacteria and vi- ruses to take their effect more easily. According to Dr. Perry, \This lack of adeq\late sleep robs children of some of their learning potentiaL\ Although most sleep disorders are not lethal, they can greatly hinder a person's quality of life. Therefore, it is best to identify and treat a sleep disorder quickly. Some common symptoms include: loud snoring, excessive movement while sleeping, headaches, fatigue, slug- gishness, forgetfulness, nervous- ness, and depression. Fortunately, there are methods one can employ to attain a more restorative sleep. Create and follow a regular sched- ule ef going to bed atthe same time every night and waking up at the same time every morning. This regulates the \biolog-ical clock.\ Do not drink caffeinated or alco- holic drinks four to six hours be- fore going to bed. Although some believe alcohol relaxes the body and promotes sleep; alcohol, in fact, disrupts the sleep pattern. Sleep in a cool, comfortable, and quiet place. Exercise regularly. Relax before going to slee!). When unable to sleep, read or listen to relaxing music until becoming tired. Sources: www .allabouthealth.com/Current/ News/Items.news809 .lltm I www .jupitenned.com/Sleep.htm I www .medaccess.com/physical/ health/behavior.bpah_07.html www .napier .ac. uk/depts/ssu/ sleep.html

Page 8 · Novcmbc•· 6, 1997 · ·<.rt 1 r Qlom~.n·oit'usis · · - · ()PIED. Will Rossi Stay Or Will He Go: 'The Editor Makes His Decision Normally, the editorial box d()es not contain a first-person point of view. However, this week, there is a glaring need for myself to answer a large 1'-!\\\l'.vu. Will I, Frank Rossi, remain at this newspaper for my final term as · ief? This answer is anything but simple for me. When I started here last spring as Editor, I had no administrative knowl- about newspapers. All! learned, I learned from Adrian MacLean, my • predecessor, and Chris Leone, my formerhoss in the sports section. took this job as a sacrifice more than anything else as I was scared that the !'paper would be heading in ;m ugly direction under the alternative candi• dates' guidance. Low and behold, Jon Gasthalter and I won the job. Ever since that time, those people who know me, including professors, students, and friends, have seen deterioration in my stamina and happy-go- lucky nature. This job wears on a person, especially when the office loses seven crucial staff members to terms abroad. This editorial is being written 4:30AM on Wednesday morning, but this is something my body has grown used to over the past 16 issues. Now, I have-come upon a crossroads. My thesis and grades are suffering, law school test score was not tremendous, and I feel myself aging by the . I used to think that being a senior was simple. Try again. What would you do in this situation? Well, I was 90 percent sure that I would not return next term to the paper. However, last Thursday night during \Crazy Eddie's Night\ atChet's, I saw aConcordy laying on the bar. The next day, I saw people still reading the newspaper. During the week- end, people asked me about the opinion I wrote last week about my tone at the Trustees Meeting. I said to myself, \This newspaper is a crucial part a Union student's and employee's life.\ It may seem obvious to some people, hut when you work in this office, it is easy to lose perspective. Some people, like my Co-Editor-on-Leave, Jon Gasthalter, would have you believe tha:t the paper has gone downhill over the past term. I have it on good authority that it has done anything but gone downhiJJ. You and I have been on the same campus for the past term. You know that there has been a lack of exciting news beyond the alcohol issue (which we thoroughly looked at last week). We will not feel around for news that does not exist. The reason why news has not been pouring in is partially credited to the new cohesive nature of the Student Forum. Yet, I digress. The newspaper internally and externally is in the best shape possible. We have not just tnree computers, but now six for our writers to use on Monday and Tuesday nights. Our bank account is secure, and we are not paying for last year's newspapers this year. Our op-ed section is empty partially he- cause we have not done anything outrageous to alienate members of the campus (David Kay's articles are always another story ... ). Yes, our staff is small, but we have consistently put out 20- and 24-page newspapers all term long. The newspaper has been alive for the last 120 years, and it will always last as long as there is a Union College. However, I want to make sure that my friends and fellow students receive the quality they expect from this newspaper week after week. I am not going to leave my staff in the lurch as I would be a hypocrite if I dropped this job for selfish reasons. The Concordiensis is alive and well, and f<Jlks, with your help and the continued help ofthe best staff you will ever corne across (and I do not get to tell them that too often because of my tunnel \ision in the office), this paper will meet your highest expectations next term. To make a long story short, then, I will remain on the staff as Editor-in- Chief of this newspaper for the remainder of my term (assuming there are no unforeseen problems). It may not be the healthiest decision, but it is the right decision. Now, let me finish putting this final fall term issue in place! FSR The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Matt Cohen Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHJEF Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone . MANAGING EDITOR tatiana Cogevina Rob Hagopian COMPUTER MANRS. Michelle Tllam FEATURES EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Lori Green Kim Rohback ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORTS EDITORS Michael DeMh:co NEWS EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Aaron Braunstein, Jessica Paige. STAFF: JoshAdams,Anjali Balasimglum,Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Sltana Dangelo, Matt Aronowitz, Gabriela Dory, Jason Everett, J()natllan Gasthalter, Adrian MacLean, Erika Mancini, Pike Mody, Nick P'apanickolas, Eugene Schultz, Stefanie Speanburg, David Weiner,Neha Shah, Lisa Pertoso, Vietoria Hargreaves, Stephanie Slobotkiil.., Rebecea Thyresson, Maul'a Wittbold,. Jay • • zntons .SA FIE This Week Was Union's History by David Dussault Staff Writer I thought that I would take a different approach to this column this week. Instead of talking about the past history of Union College, I want to talk about the history that was. initiated this past week here at oufwo~derful college. Last Tuesday, everyone oil campus received a letter stating that no alcohol would be allowed in the dorms and that if any- one under the age of 21 was caught with the possession of alcohol, they would have con- duct charges brought against them. As far as I could re- search, I have found that this is the first legislation of this type to inhibit our school grounds since prohibition. Therefore, I find the proceed- ings of this past week ex- tremely historical, or history in the making. As I have learned in my classes, history teaches us the mistakes of the past and how not to repeat them. Last I knew, when prohibition was ·put into law, it created a whole underground system of smug- gling alcohol to all sorts of sources. It basically created the same problem we have with drugs today. Also, as much as I hate to admit it, even Union College had the same problem with the smug- gling of alcohol on campus during prohibition. This goes to prove that with the newly-initiated law to ban alcohol in the dorms, the smuggling of it will persist, and many people will be brought up on conduct charges, I know this for a fact. Let's face it, most parents know that when their child is sent off to college, they are going to drink. I know that my parents want drinking in the dorms so that it will keep it confined to campus, so no one will get in a car and drive- -that's perhaps a parent's worst nightmare. Myself, along with many other people, I have the con- cern of whether students are going to leave campus in a car and drive to a bar with a five dollar drinking special so that an RA will not write them up and put them in front of a dean. Being a local, I know that I am tempted to do this every time I want to drink, not nec- essarily drive, but leave cam- pus. So, let's use common sense. If We cqntinually keep drinking confined to campus, we may not make the history books for having students drive and acquire a DWI, or even a death. Instead of pro- hibiting_ alcohol from campus, let's educate people how to drink responsibly, because we all know that it will continue anyway and plus, drinking is an everyday part of life. We have to le?rn to do it respon- sibly sometime, right? I hope the administration ·realizes that a friend will not report another who is inebri- ated because of the fear of fac- ing the Dean; so let's make another historical decision and reverse the ludicrous stu- dent law that has plagued our campus for the p<~.st week. We all know that this is not the correct solution to the alcohol problem but only creates a whole new problem in the long run. Does prohibition still exist? Educate people, don't force the problem un- derground so we don't have to face it, History teaches us this. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to tht> OPIED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so speciftes. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board, and no one member. in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central A venue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercdllegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates .. p~ oftl ballc cate. part1 dep~ ery • M M M Be M NJ M M M B1 \' Tl and

OP/ED . . . - . . . . . wr,l•lC:tHtl'lll'tltl'ltST':.'l. No\'cmbcr 6, 1997 ··Page 9 . ' . . ' '' . ' 0 • • tntons Shu e Bus Chaos . Where Are the Vans? is impossible fm: you to get vans on by Akiko Tsuda a stable basis, what's the point of Contributing Writer making that nice schedule posted I know that most of the students everywhere in campus? Don't let who wanted to go to Cross gates this the students down--keep your word, past week have had grt:at andifyoucannot,atleastmakebig frustration--where are the shuttle posters all around the campus to let buses? us kno:w. Wasting our precious time So far I nave attempted to use the outside in the weather is nard to call shuttle bus service twice, and both pleasant and is not what we want. attempts lacked results--\It's Being disappointed after waiting canceled,\ the cold voice of the for such a long time is more security answers. We, our fellow stressful than you can imagine. students, who were waiting outside With all respect, I strongly urge forthirtyminutes in front ofthe Old the solution for this matter as soon Chapel, felt strong rage. \How are as possible. I want to know exactly ltt ____ ~r___......_· · __ --- we supposed to know this?\ why you failed to reserve the van, Here-'s my point--please, since this was scheduled since you ~~ whoeverisresponsible for this plan, made up that unreliabk bus student activities, don't make schedule. Many people are feeling \.4ml w 1mr right is lin 011ly o11errared hospital bt rile westem lt~mi.~pltt!re. '' Panhellenic Council Presents Professor_Superlatives By Jenni.fer Schwartz The Panhellenic Council' recently recognized the contributions of the faculty, both academically and socially, in a campus-wide open ballot. For three days, students had the opportunity to vote for various categories ranging from Most Animated Professor to Wackiest De- partment. After the votes had been tabulated, it became clear that all departments are respected by students. Professors from virtually ev- ery department were recognized. The results are as follows: Most Animated: Professor Sargent from the History Department Most Inspiring: Professor Nichols from the Political Science De partment Most Involved: Professor Adrian from the Chemistty Department Best Lecturer: Professor Berk from the History Department Most Organized: Professor Taylor from the Math Department Nutty Professor: Professor Heinegg from the English Department Most Personable: Professor Thomas frmnthe International Prog~:am Most Social After School Hours: Professor Scul'lion from the Clas sics Department Most Stylish: Professor Garcia from the Modern Language Favorite Professor: Professor Berk (History), Professor Nichols Political Science), Professor Scullion (Classics), Professor Motahar(Economics), and Professor Sargent (History) Best Run Department:--l'olitical Science Wackiest Department: Psychology The Panhellenic Council wouJd personally like to thank the faculty and students for attending the Professor Award Night. schedules that can't keep. If it betrayed by this issue. An Open Thank You To Football mg accepted by several strangers Start a commitment th1s week- by Frank Rossi was crucial. end to going out of your way to Editor-in-Chief While the football program has support the athletes here at Union Over the last two years, I have at leasttwo games remaining, this by supporting the home hockey beeJt abs<>rbed by an activity that is my final chance to say goodbye games and the crucial home foot- has ca\lsed me greathappiness (get to a team of winners. They are not ball game. If you have to choose yotu111indsout of the gutter). That winners because they have a win- one this week, at least stop by acti-vity is the ability to cover the ning record or have a chance to go Bai.Jey Field, regardless of condi- Frgliting Dutchmen on WR:UC. to a playoff game, but instead be- tions, and support your team as S ittcethis is our last fall issue, I cause they are quality people. they face their toughest opponent w~uttto do two things. First, I want Sure, I do not condone everything of the season, Albany. Last year to tlaallkthef<>otball team, coaches, members <>f the football team do at Albany, there were 6,000 fans, arad friends ofUnion for all (\ftheir off of the :field, but you cannot let and there is no reason why we can- kh!d -..vords and patience over the a minority ruin your view of the not stack that many people around past tvlo y.ears. lfi had attended a entire team. The Fighting Dutch- the field. This is the final year the llll'g;erschoo(I would never have men taught me discipline andre- Dutchmen face Albany as the lutd tile opportunity to broadcast si1ience; tvvo things that helped me Danes climb to Division I. Both fo()tbalhnd other sports. Frankly, adaptto the pressures I have faced teams come in with excellent I !llllllota great announcer and w.ill over the past two years. records, U nio.-t has a chance for nDtlhave a chance to expand upon You are not doing yourselfa~y playoffs, and the winner will have my ~11.fl()Uncing skills when I leave favors by avoiding members ofthe bragging rights for a long time. U11il()n. Yet, many of my biggest team, and I know some of you do The football team has helped me mel1llories of this place will con- avoid the football team just be- immensely as a person and has cern fo()tball away games and cause they look different. This helped this school a great deal. m()ntellts with the Dutchmen. carries over to the lack of interest The least we can do is walk from The team often accepted me as many students show in attending our dorm rooms or apartments to o11e oftlieirown even though I did home games. We often complain see a portion of a game like this not h~ve to run the Sunday runs aboutotH inability to get students one. Thanks again, guys, for ev- alld g() through double sessions of to attend sporting events at Union. erything you have done for me. I practice during preseason. For a Yet, the athletes at Union College, will never forget you and the youJtgjunior finding it hard to ad- .especially the football and hockey memories you have given me. ju~t at Union, that ability to absorb teams, have helped diversify the Good luck with the remainder of myself i11 a fun while be- for excellence at Union. the season and your careers. Rating The Opinionensis by David Kay Staff Writer I would like to take a minute from my day to comment on this term's issues of The Concordiensis. Though I am a freshman, I feel that this news- paper is substandard in repre- senting ihe interests of the stu- dent body. Our paper, though intended to be a representation of the stu- dents, bas unfortunately been re- duced to a sad plethora of col- umns and opinions. Nowhere do 1 find World News or even Cam- pus News for that matter. In the World News section, I find a half-page cartoon about Chelsea Clinton, which I'm sure we're all interested in. . In the features section, I see garbage columns like \Djahmbi and Mohmar\ along with the well-titled \Riding The Pine.\ I ask myself, do we really need to fill up o-pr pap~r with everyone·~ opinion? Here's a word to your editor--who cares? Do we really care about Michelle Tham's days as a three-year-old? I don't, and I know that I'm not alone. Sports is also a combination of a poor representation of news and an over-representation of opinions (i.e. Q-Ball). I ask again--do we really care about everyone's opinion? Why don't we just call the paper The Opinionensis. In five words or less--we need more news. We call it a newspaper because once upon a time we cared about news. If the Nott Memorial burned down, I'm sure we wouldn't hear about it from the Concordy. Maybe we'd get 15 people's opinions about it, but we wouldn't know exactly what happened. To tell you the truth, I'm just sick of it. I'm sick of it all, and I wish it would be ch~g~d. Thank you. . . ,

BREATHING IN AMIDST THE STRESS OF IT ALL Our Features Editor Bears Her Soul About Her Life by Michelle Tham Features Editor I have a lack of passion in my life. No, I am not referring to some torrid rolling across silk sheets in the middle of the night. I am talk- ing about a lack of emotional exu- berance for the thiAgs that once made me feel alive. I have always been an ali-or- nothing type of girl. I fall into things head first and push forward with the vibrancy of a lioness. At least, I think I was that way for a while. I did everything and any- thing in high school. Extracurricu- lar involvement was practically my middle name. I couldn't feel com- plete unless I was working on some mural for the school or re- designing the cover of the literary magazine. My arms felt empty without the soft weight of my beautifully carved violin. I did not like to be stagnant; activity was my drive, the force behind my happi- ness and pride. I didn't get tired. I could run from the newspaper office to my Youth Philharmonic rehearsals and then make it back for gymnas- tics practice. These were things I enjoyed and felt amazing about. I believed that I cc;mld never possi- That scares me a lot. The thing is, I want to be alive. Not just breathing, not just exist- ing ... I want that ridiculous thrill of a ro Her coaster ride that makes your stomach tum and your nerves shake.! think that one ofthe scary silently feeling wonderful about something we've been able to ac- complish. I don't want te feel like life is carrying me along with it, and that I am Just being pulled in , its aftermath. [want to play an ac- bly lose the passion for any as- r-....-~~----~~~-~~---, tive role in the only thing that I actually have control over-- pect of these parts of my life. I loved my music and I rel- ished that feeling of complete exaltation after finally finish- ing a painting. These little \ex- tras\ that filled my days breathed life into my veins and filled my head with dizzying joy. I knew what I wanted and how to accomplish it, and that fact was what kept me going lfi d if --1 /[ my life. . ln myse·· uOing a·. I wonder iff can do it, if fh t'- · th t f · a,ny of us can do it. We are ose same nzngs . . a . . . young, at a stage in out lives used to do, but recently .• wherewecanpartyuntilthree AM and still get up for an they Seem monOtOnOUS 8:40. We can do that with little repercussions--maybe and almost a burden, - just a slight headache and a h h l sleepy mi11d for a few hours. rat. er f an .Q p easure. That vibrance and that pas- amidst the stress of never-.__-~-------------! sion doesn't last forever. I pleased parents and the looks of those l'm-cooler-than-you cool kids. The str:ess of college life has gotten to ine, though. I find my- self doing all those same things that I used to do, but recently they seem monotonous and almost a burden, rather than a pleasure. things about college Hfe is that we get caught up in the stress and in- sanity of papers and in keeping up our GPAs. We lose ourselves in piles of papers, in piles of cloth- ing at the feet of our beds, in piles of empty cans that are supposed to fix everything. We don ;t have a moment to stop and close~oureyes, don't want to look back at my co) .. lege days and say that I was pulled through four years by some dic- tating force. l want to know that I lived and did everything that I pos- sibly could have. It's funny, though, because I say all these things and wonder ifl can even spur myself to action. Prob- ably not. I would like to hope, though. I had this wonderful im- age of my adult life when l was younger, ofbeing a superwoman, flying from meeting to meeting, with a sm·ile .fit snugly on my face and a carefree heart ready to over- come any obstacle: J only fearthat fhave lost grasp of this ideal~ be- cause I have allowed outside pres- sure to overtake me. So many of us find.ourselves losing the things we love and giving up the passion- ate parts of our .lives in favor of a chance at that almighty academic \A\. So, I suppose l will pick up my violin and play until my fingers hurt and my heart simmers in an overjoyed crescendo. I will take out my camera and take a spec- tacular roll of film. I'll sit a.nd write poetry in my journal. I'll do all these things ifi can manage to shut out the madness ofthat lovely col- lege pace. My head will sing with fervor and find a way to rebuild the passion. that sits quietly wait- ing in my soul. Making a Few Smal/Demands of Union College by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer I think it would be fitting to end this tem1 with a preview of next term. Since I have no idea what is in store for us next term I came up with a wish list of ideas to be in- stalled by January 5, 1998. Actu~ ally, this isn't a wish list, it's a de- mand list. These things .had better be initiated next term or there's gorma be trouble. What kind of trouble? Well. .. let's just say that I hope it doesn't come to that. Once again, let me remind you that I'm not bitter, just sarcastically observant. I. I demand that there be more live music on campus, as well as comedians. After this past weekend of in- credible live music, it hit me that compared to last year th.e number of concerts on campus has de- clined; but hey, thank god the world famous Guster came here. They were all right, but when Siena is getting the Bosstones, we should reconsider our headlining acts. Wait, I forgot. That's right, Pharcyde rocked the state of Al- bany last year. Give me a break. For Springfest we should get a medium- to big-name rock band that would bring down the house, even if some opening acts are cut. This should be taken care of months in advance, so people don't get false hopes for the ru- mored bands. l also suggest that fraternities get more bands. Why? Well, they draw more people, they can make five bucks a head, and live music is a great social alter- native whether you're drunk or not. Chet's should also get more bands. Remember last year, when it seemed like every week there wasmusic at Chet's. It rocked. Fi- nally, some sort of budget should be set up to have a local band or comedian at Old Chapel every Fri~ day or Saturday. Last year the Coffee House had Style Martly play at Old Chapel on a Saturday night. It was a lot of fun, but more people would have come if it wasn't jumbled into the \Da Da\ Saturday category. .I just feel that last year we had bands (that the school paid for) play for no rea- son, which is the way it should be. 2. I demand that by some miracle, this ridiculous new schedule change thing is scratched. I know, I know. This topic has been played out more times than there have been freshman trips to Ellis; but what kind of bureaucracy do we have here? \It can't be changed, it 's out of our hands. The 'people ' have spoken. Luke, this is your destiny. \ Yeah, right. There must be somebody some- where who is making money off this scheme and cackling to them- selves. Maybe I watch the X- Files too much, but think about it--this has conspiracy written all over it. Nobody (I feel that I knowenough people to apply this to a higher scale) wants this to happen. We came up with like 2 million signa- tures against it. What's going on here? Do we have any say? I say that the first day of classes we do what the greeks did when the meal plan was instituted. We all show up at 1.2: I 0 PM for lunch, and see how \prepared\ dining services is for the tidal wave of card-toting, hungry students and faculty. They say they're prepared, but they're full of #$!*. Simple mathemati- cal equations show that they are not fit to hold every single person who will be eating lunch at that time. When we all show up at the same time and they can't let us all in, we riot and take the power back. Free zesty garden burgers for everyone. 3. I demand that the randomly locked fence by the construction sight be removed. Why is it there? lfyou don't know what I'm talking about, then let me briefly explain. This thing creates quite a problem for those who Jive up campus or have class in the S&E building. Whose idea was this monstrosity? I could imagine all the architects sitting around discussing the construction project. \Uh let's see, Robert, these college kids like to get places as easily as possible. We'll show them. We can't letthem leave the college center from the normal eastern exit . . . . So we should put up a locked barricade through- out the day, without a set sched- ule. and aid them in being tardy to their classes. We should also let those plebeians know where they stand by calling the alternate exit the 'Pedestrian Walkway.' Oh, put barbed wire on topofthegate,just in case they get any revolutionary ideas.\ They also figured that we don't know about the not-so-hid- den entrance next to the Dutch Hollow garage. Oops. Also, ac- cording to the security reports, doesn't the lock to that gate get stolen OJ)Ce a day. That should be reason enough to get rid of it. I mean, we, the students, are pay- ing for these locks. Hey, padlocks aren't cheap these days. 4. I demand a dry campus (sic). Alcohol is Satan's tool ... late- night at Ellis ... underage drink- ing breaks the law ... a few re- cent deaths across the country. Wait up, hold on a second. I have something in my pocket. What do you know, it's a \Shut up al- ready!'' Alcohol, since a long time ago, has been a: part of life, espe* cially college life. Leatn to deal with it. Take re~ponsibility for your actions. End of discussion. S. I demand that there ·be shuttle vans for weekend trips to New York City. Why not, eh? When the need to get off campus becomes a burn- ing desire, you gather up ten people, at least one with a license. Everyone chips in ten bucks to rent a van from the school for the week- end. You leave a deposit. Add Tostitos chips and salsa, and you've got a party. You get to New York City and realize that without a fake l.D., there's noth- ing to do there. All we need for this one is the bureaucracy's ap- proval. 6. I demand non-sandpaper toilet paper in every bathroom on campus. I think you can file this demand under \everything you've ever wanted to have, but were afraid to ask for.\ 7. I demand that playing com- puter solitaire be subject io a harsh penalty. This has nothing to do with the school. It is, though, the best pro- crastinating device, and I'm ad- dicted. I have a feeling that I'm not the only one. The only way I can stop is ifl get paddled for play- ing it. . That's it for now. Remember, trouble if my demands aren't met Thank you, Mr. Sheik. If anyone is still reading this, then god bless you. Contact me at box #420 and you'll get something special. If you don't like my ideas, then you can write a response that will be printed . . . next term! By then, my wish list will already be for- gotten, and you'lllook like a fool. Have a great winter break. Later. Alpha Phi Alpha Inc. and ALAS present Tony Brown Journalist, commentator, columnist ''The Truth According to Tony Brown'' Tony .Brown bali distinguished himself as a writer, producer. edu- cator. columnist,. television com· men(:fltor and tiltn director. He has been an active advoeate of eco- nornic policif.\5 which f<.lster com- petitiveness and self-reliance. His recent book, DltiC:Ir Lies. White Lies: The Truth Accordl11g to Tony Brown, offers an innovative plan tor making the country more cl>m- petitive while solving the race problem. The book also exarnirtes his Team America concept and discusses cultural diversity as Amet:ica's industria€ salvation. Friday, Nov. 7, 1997 7 p.m .. Union College Reamer Campus Center Auditorium For .more information,. caU 388-5778. Sponsor{': A, ... _.., o~•\\\'•lt: ......,.._. Arriu .... St...t~eo, rror.l!lf7Wo s,;,.,.,.\ A4$Mtl4i> · S ,.. ., • ....,. Oftlco of tbo ·i>ncidc•L

.po··· ~ Cash back :Bonus® • award*\ It could be you · . if you call 1 800 IT ·~~·y·s··,····m·~ ··:c. - . • • .. ' : -. • _, ',\;J; :.' • - ·; J\c:t~_-. .... ..--~ .. -~-.-::;:-· ·- : _ . ·. . . , ;, . - ' .: . I: ·. . . ,' ···tt~~- :<~:-. ~~ ./·': and apply for' a .Oiscouer'! . . . · , ·,f1:rr~s:E:t~ ... ····~····· ....... · ........................ . . ' -~<.:..:·'-. ~- ·. ·~~~: ~.. . ,., .. TOW;ER R'ECOR OS ................. : ...... . NORTHWEST AlRUNES ........ ~ ..... . . •'• ..... ~,: :''!:(· THE SHARPER IMAGE~ ... : ........... . ·· .. ;:-;.·' Cash Adva.n-·ce •... ~~. ..... ~ .. \ ~~---· ....... __ ~-· ,. .......... ·~~· ,,. \ .................. '!' •• - •.• - ••••.•••••.• ~ .............. ~ ... --;--t··

Page 12-_• November 6, 1997 ·- O:lrl' Qhlllnwoil·nsiz:_ _ _ - - Ft?atures . ' . ' ' ' . Flashback.· Reflections on Halloween Past by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer Halloween was definitely an ex- perience this year. My r()ommate and I had to go to the mall to pick up some last-minute accessories, and to our surprise we found the mall to be invaded by an assort- ment of little princesses, punks, tigers, fairies, witches, and super- heroes. It was Mall-o-ween at Crossgates, and the children were out trick-or-treating in a safe en- vironment. I had no idea that there would be that many people at the mall: I thought it would be full of people fighting for the last bag of candy at CVS, but instead the mall was turned into a tiny city that even provided a haunted house for ev- eryone to visit. We ran around from costume shop to costume shop, lo<Jking for fishnets and fangs to finish off our homemade costumes. Two of my friends and I decided to go as vampiresses, and we dressed up in little black dresses, heels, and fishnets. We had bright red lipstick and fangs and went around threatening those who came near that we would sack their blood. Last year at our senior Hallow- een parade my friends and I were dead prom queens. We had de• cided to arrive dressed in old dresses, and we painted our faces white. We paraded around the high school and tried to spook the un- derclassmen. It was a lot of fun and got us out of a couple of classes that day. Other than that, I don't remember the last time I dressed · up for Halloween. I guess al·l our childish ways . come back to us &t this time of the season. We don't even mind run- , ning around in search ofthe per- fect costume, because it is fun to dress up. Last year I handed out candy to the young trick-or-treaters who rang our doorbell. I watched par- ents wait in the street as their chil- dren proudly walked up to the · front door and stuck their bags out, ready to receive as much ~andy as possible. I had to study that night and was home alone, so I camped out on the stairs hoping that I could get some work done before the older kids arrived. Halloween was so much fun this year. I don't know why, but it was. Maybe it was the night, maybe the weather, or maybe the new friends. Maybe it was the fact that you can be whatever you want and nobody can judge you, because it is only a costume. I don't remember the last time Halloween was on a Friday, and usually parties were off-lim- its to me during the week?ays. Instead ofhanding out candy to the neighborhood kids back home, instead of stuffing my bag with candy <Jr studying in my room, I was out with my friends dancing, laughing, and enjoying the magi- cal night of Halloween. Spotlighting Two Union Professors' Published Book The-Parish Behind God's Back by Mich~lle Tham Felltures Editor Since 1983, the glistening shores and tropical· climate of Barbados have served as a backdrop for a . cross-cultural exchange be•. tween Union • College stu- • dents and :Bar- badian inhabit- ants. By study- ing in the Bar- bados term abroad pro- gram, students and faculty have discovere<l a richness in cul- ture and life attempted to snapshot the culture of Barbados at a certain point in time by developing a field school there to study the evolving atmo- sphere .. Over 60 stud~nts and alumlli have participated_ in the available lacked any current infor- mation and wer~ simply too dated to be used in any educational set- ting. They hope to see the book used on more campuses to llelp en- li-ghten anthropology students to the challges and apparent ~~Am er i c an- iztion\ in Barba- . ' <;lian life. The b()ok has been a concerted effort l>etween, ·the two Union College .Profes- sors, witltthere- searcil portion beginning- somewhere in 1988 andthe ac- tually penning ~ ......... ~ ........... --- ........ ~--------1 of the book tak- among the Car- Photo from the cover o[George & Shar()n G~lch's recentpublication. ing place in the ibbean atmosphere. program over the years. Theirper- last few years. It was presented to George Gmel<;h (Professor and sonal responses tothe experiences the public about 2 montils ago and. Chair ofthe Anthropology Depart- of the tenn are recounted in the currently is available as a teach- ment}alongwith his-wife Sharon, appendix ofthe book. Although ing aide to any college campus. (Professor of Anthropology and the program initially was intended Both Sharon and George Director ()f Women's Studies) to be a study of migration patterns, Gmelch CQmrttented, \We would have since compiled a book dis- over the years the intriguing ua- like to see this book used in both cussing the density of social cus- tureofsocietalchangebecamethe the Barbadian and American tom and daily activity that they ob- focus of the educational aspect of school environments, and believe served in Barbados. The book, the tenn abroad. lhatitwillserveasahelp:fu.lmeans entitled The Parish Behind God's George and Sbaton Gmelch de- for follow_ing the origins in change Ba~k, deals with the .culture of ru- cided to write The Parish Behind and culture taking place ill Barba- ra! Barbados andhow,fthas be~n God'sBack\becauseboththeBar- dos.~;:, .·:· .. · · ·' -· :_ ,.,, undergoing a radical change over badians and students of anthropol- They will be using the book as tile years. Thi-s change has been ogy in the United States lacked a reading material for future term brought a~out by the strong in- contemporary analytical reference abroads in Barbados, as it will pro- creas.e in t()urism among the is- for the culture and life of rural vide a strong basis for understand..: · lands in recent times. Barbados. ing the experiences that the stu- The tenn abroad program has The texts that were previously dents will be facing. To who get a some disks isjm Cone lover Un Cone With muct great quart tion t, kno\ in th1 WI a pre tions possi Yo at an setth and a ofac click Featu Me other stress stare~ tor, tl mind Bei ily, s~ put f< oftht As other: relaxi Tb, one's WOri) is an your

(This week, co-written by Man- aging Editor Chris Leone) To the untrained eye, the people who work for the Concordy don't get along. We yell, bite, spit, and sometimes even throw computer disks at each other. This however is just a facade. The office of the Concotdy is in· fact a haven for lovers. Unlike many Union clubs, the Conc:ordy is a late-night activity. With the paper. not being put to bed much before.sunrise, editors sp~nd great amou~ts of time .in close quarters. It would be a fair estima- tion to say that all members of staff know what· each other looks like in the morning. While this might not always be a pretty sight it leaves all inhibi- tions and expectations regarding possible rendevous. You ask, how this can be? Love at a newspaper office? Well, let me set the scene. It is about one AM, and all you hear is the gentle hum of a computer screen and the click, click of someone typing up· a late Features article. Meanwhile .,at one ofthe many other terminals, a coworker sits, stressed and nervous. As he or she stares longingly at a fuzzy moni- tor, thoughts begin to distract the mind. Being that we are aU one fam- ily, several back:rub offers are now put forth for that individual. One of these offers is usually taken. As stress begins to be relieved, others begin to see the benefits of relaxing from the night's work. The deadline thai overlooms one's head is forgotten. Gone is the worry about getting sleep. Stress is an afterthought. Could it be, your coworker is the answer· to your problems:? Is this the reason the office is so much fun? Soon even the sounds of typing are no longer heard as pairs of people move off to various areas in the office. Resembling a high school party, the lights are low- ered, andthe gentle strains of mu- sic can be heard. Well, it might not happen this way, but somehow it happens. As my partner digresses to his juve- . nile hormones, some cou.pling does occur. Be it at a monitor, a desk, or in front of the 2'7\(Frank's · going to jail} TV. About the TV and DSS satellite · dish, this only adds to the amorous qualities of the third floor shanty otherwise known as home. Take this example. Last week a crisis was. occuring. Hard to be- lieve\'\='\e>ne of the editors was breaking down and threatening to quit. While all this occured, . Skinemax (Cinemax for you sexu- ally challenged readers) was liv- ening the spirits and creating ris- que thoughts. Not everyone on that . staff, however, needs Skinemax to . help create not-so virginal and • pure thoughts. By this time, you must be say- · ing to yourself, \Yeah right, what a loadinyour_eye.\ Well, it'sttue, · just ask our editor and TriDelt. crush victim Frank \The Tank\ . Rossi. By the way TriDelts, Frank is a wiz with a camcorder. While this might seem like · heaven to some, to others forced to copulate every Monday and · Tuesday night, it's well, you know-· hey, it is heaven, what do you know. Have. a good vacation and see you all next terrrl. Special thanks to Chris \Riding · the Pony\' Leone. Pointless Observations A Double Dose of Ml!aningless Trash by David Kay Staj[Writer To all of my ten or so devoted fans and readers, I would like to present for you now a special Christmas/Thanksg iving/Hanuk- kah edition of my column, seeing that this will be the last column of the year. 1 have decided to expand this edition and include some as- pects that may seem a little uncon- ventional to the devoted reader. However, I hope that you all hold ,on for what I would like to be a column to remember. As I will not have another column to write until winter, I need to be able to write as much as I can. I got a letter the otb.er day from a reader who obviously was look- ing for some advice, which I wasn't exactly in the position to give. Never having been in the situation before, I wasn't sure quite how.to respond. So, I asked three friends on my floor, and it looked as though they gave some quality advice to this reader. \Lqst.Sunday 1 caught myself in a situation where I came to a great realization. I realized last Sunday that I favor plump women. I don't know what to do. I always consid- ered myself to be like my friends. Can you give me some advice?\ -Helpless in Seattle As you can se:e, due to the ab- normal naf\tre,ofthis letter, lam unable to prQvide advice,. Also, this isn't Dear Abby! So, here are the responses .from three kids on my floor: -Obviously such women have been abused by society and should not be ridiculed. All people are considered equal and this includes fat people. We should not judge; this includes the people who are cruel victims of a conspiracy by the media. -A.P.S. -It's all right to be large; there is no problem with it, and I definentlysuggestgoing after such women. -B.Y. -All heavy women should get liposuction to make themselves more attractive to men, no doubt about it. That's my opinion and I know I'm right. Thank you. -M.T.· It has come to my attention that because of letters ·like this, my weekly column has drawn cam- pus- wide attention a.n<l I have be- come a national figure as such. Though most people want to punch me in the face rather than anything else, rnanypeople recog- nize me no less. I say that the last famous col- umnist was Rawson Thurber . For my loyal freshmen readers who don't know about \Thurberville he stole the top ten list from David Letterman and used it in his col- umn. In respect and tribute to Rawson, I will attempt to recreate a top ten list of my own. What will it be about? Whatelse--(my favor- ite topic) Schenectady! Top ten reasons why I went trick or treating in town this Halloween and wonld reccomend spending more time in the Scheneetady area to my fellow freshmt:n: 10. I like the feel of a cold9mm against my chest and you will too. 9. None ofus can never feel too rich or well-dressed in town. 8. I haven't had a good run lately and am looking to get my forty speed down as well. 7. I sometimes feel over• whelmed by Union's plethora of racial diversity and need \to es- cape.\ ·6. I'm a black belt in karate and haven't used my skills in a while. 5. I like to feel dean once in a while. 4. I like to see the results of those great community service efforts from our productive Orientation days. · 3. \Sure you can have my wal- let!\ (I'm gullible). 2. \Yes I am white, well dressed, and rich\ Gust like town residents). I. There aren't enough \big dark guys\ at Union (I need to feel of my own). , It has also come to my attention that a number of columns have erupted in this paper which may or may not be worth slightly less than the space they are printed on. In my opinion, most columns in this paper are a waste of time to the readers as well as the writers. Obviously my column is one of those, but that goes unsaid. Here's the rundown of the various col- urnns or sections in the paper start- ing with those that have greatest entertainment value to the least: Security Report: A Quite possibly the best combi- nation of news and entertainment in the newspaper, the security re- port provides students a provoca- tive view of life here at Union. Where else would we learn about \SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Staff member involved in use of mari- juana. Disciplinary action taken.\ How about this one (though a little less tame): \ATTEMPTED THEFT: Two students in posses- sion of a chair taken from the resi- dence hall. Item recovered. Con- duct Charges fi.led.\ Maybe I like that one because it hits close to home, I don't know. Either way, the S~curity Report earns well de- served honors as the best and most entertaining section of the Concordiensis, hands down. Eugene Shultz: B+IB His column caught my eye two weeks ago when he wrote about proper ice-cream eating and how it can relate to ''real life.\ From Eugene's article, I realized that I should never get involved with a girl who takes bites out of ice cream and should favor those who instead take \long licks.\ Though disturbing to some lacking women, the a1ticle provided me and many other males with a good view ofwomen and their abilities/ capabilities. Though Eugene's column shows quality talent, it has cooled off a bit. When he started writing about things like how his roommates took his shoes; I quit reading. Give me a break. Save such disgraceful commentary to Michelle Tham who seems to have a talent for such writing. Michelle Tham: C She gives lame commentary about how she likes \reminiscing about those breezy summer nights as a five- year-old when things were much simpler and easier.\ If things are so much more com- plex now, drop out of Pre-Med. Things are a lot tougher in medi- cal school (or so I hear). Enjoy the simple life now while you can, and please quit talking about \those perfect french fries from McDonald's\ and other such lame topics. Sure, you're my ediwr and you have the capability to take this part of my column out, Lut the truth is the truth. The only column that's more disgraceful is \Djahmbi and Mohmar.\ Djahmbi and Mohmar: D- Now there's a crap column ifi ever saw one. I could see replac- ing this good-for-nothing column with ads or blank space; it would be better than what fills its space right now. How lame is your col- umn when you have to start mak- ing up your own letters? Just read their column; you'll fmd out. It is so long and disgracefully uncre- ative that I do not wonder why they sign it \annonymous\ every week. This column is so uninte:esting, it shows the great lack of creative talent on the part of the writers. Who wants to read this: \As for the topic of conversation, it's over baby, gut us on a plate with some tater-tots and jam a fork in our rumps.\ I can think of something else to stick up there. and it wouldn't be a thennometer. Well, now that the column is winding down, here's an experi- mental section I stole from Rawson--\Student of the Week.\ This week, the award goes to diehard freshman hockey fan and manager Craig Tbielson. Craig not only travels to away games and sits on the sidelines but also wakes up early on Sundays to work out on the treadmill with the team. Cheers to Craig for all of his dedi- cation and hard work. Also, runner up for \student of the week\ goes to the guy known as Windy. Though I don't know his real name, he deserves the honor for an incident which hap- pened two weeks ago. Windy came into my room and asked me to drive him into Troy so that he could get sloshed at a bar and have someone to drive him home. I po- litely declined but asked him to steal another 'Hess' jacket for me when he goes back there. Also, Kudos to freshmen Den- nis Sanabia for getting playing time and Devon Wimberly for cracking the starting line-up on the varsity football team this year. Nice work-Gust try to carry it over to Psychology by fmal exam time). Until winter, I hope that this will do. Do not send mail to box l 058, because I won't be able to respond to them for a long, long time. (However if you feel the need, I guess I'll read it.) Thank you all. ...... --

I Rating System (How much to pay to see it} Full Price (4 Stars) . MatineePrice{J Stars) Rent lt(2 Stars) Waitf<JrLateNightTV(I Star) I'd Ratnerhave a ... (0 Stars) Popcorn { 'lz a star) GAITACA Starring: Ethan Hawke Uma Tht1rman Directed by: Andrew M. Niccol Running Time: 106 minutes RatedPG-13 Rating: R«!nt It In the not-too-distant future, having a child is like ordering a sandwich: I would like a boy with light hair and blue eyes, hold the heart disease. Th ese genetically engineered children aFe society's cream of the crop. Natural-born children, called \ill~valids have become a thing ofthe past and are scorned by society Such is the way of the world in Andrew M. Niccol's film, GATf'ACA. In a society wllen each flake of skin, each strand ofhair, and each drop ofbody fluid ;is aclue to one's DNA, Vincent Anton Freeman (Ethan Hawke) is ct social outcast. He is a child of l()~o~e, not science, and is thus labeled an \'in-valid.\ A DNA test at birtluevealed 1hat Vincent's life W()U ld be short and that he would have eye and heart problems. This is umacceptable by futuristic standards, and Vincent finds that no one wiU hire him on account of these problems. Vincent dreams Qofltraveling to the stars, but his \in-valid\ status only allows him to becomeajanitor. With the help of tl1e black mar- ket, however, Vin<:entis able to as- \There is no gene for the human spirit.\ sume the identity of Jerome Mor- row, a genetically superior human confined to a wheel chair by a car accident. Vincent's disguise has worked so wen that he is chosen for the manned space mission t<> Titan, thus fulfilling his dream t<:J go to space. Days before the scheduled launch, the mission director is found dead in his office. The crime is murder, and the police are.called in to investigate. Through the genetic infonnation found on an eyelash, V in~ent is named the prime suspect. He must avoid getting caught by the;police long enough to leave on his mis- sion. GAITACA stars Ethan Hawke (Reality Bites & Alive) as t11e \in- valid\ Vincent Antone Freeman. Throughout his entire life, Vincent has been held down on accmint of his being a natural-born child. He strikes back at society by adopt- ingthe identity ofJerome Marrow. Vincent/Jerome is able to land a job atthe GAIT ACA Corporation, which is responsible for space mis- sions. Through careful planning and the use of the real Jerome's body fluids, Vincent succeeds in being named to the manned flight to Titan. However, th~ death of the mission director threatens to .exposethe carefully guarded truth. Uma Thurman (Pulp Fiction, Batman & Robin) is the beautiful lreneCassini, one of the elite who wor.ks insideGA TIACACorp. She, like Vincent/Jerome, basthe desire to go to space but will never have the chance due to a small defect in her heart. Cassini plays the woman with whom Vincent/Jerome falls in love. This film is both written and di- rected by Andrew M. Niccol. This is Niccol's premiere to the film world, and it is a successful one. The film is a science fiction drama, and thus runs similar to this summer's hit Contact. Although this was not what I expected when l walked into the movie, it was rather entertaining. It is one ofthose movies that makes you think, especially with today's current advances in genetical en- gineering. Is this the type of fu- ture that we are marching toward? This .film conjures up memories of Aldux Huxley's Brave New World in its depiction of a bleak future devoid of hope. We gave this movie a rating of · Rent It since there is n<J necessity to see it on a big screen. This is definitely the type of movie that you would love to watch onone·of those lazy Sunday afternoons fr.om the comfort.ofyout own couch. Trivial fact: the title,GA 'IT ACA is a sequenceofDNA. As the cred- its ro H across the screen at the start of the movie, the blue letters are nucleotides and the rest of the let- ters are white. Coming Attractions: Two very good movies will be starting this weekend. The first is the science fiction thriller Star ship Troopers. Everyone has been see- ing previews since early this sum- mer, and we will be reviewing it for our articJe in the future. The other movie that will be hit- ting the big screen this weekend is Bean. The movie has already grossed over 100 million in the UK and Eu- rope. This looks like it will be a must see for fans of Mr. Bean, but everyone else will probably not understand the appeal of the movie. Beckers Contributes a Plethora of Talent to Theater by Kim R.boback AciE Editor Hooray! At last A&E is focus- ing its attentions on an actor who is not in The Seagull (speakfllg of, you have exa<Jtly three more nights to go see it). This week's spotlight is on an actor who hasparticipated in some aspect of til eater every term of his college career (save the term he spent in Prague). This actor is none other than tbegreat Alex Beckers. Fall tenn of his freshman year, Beckers auditioned for Charles II, directed by Professor Rose. He was not cast. \l was depressed and felt that I had n<J theatrical talent,\ he reacted. One week later, Lee Rose called Beckers and asked if he wanted to be an extra in the production. Beckers llappily accepted the of- fer. Charles ll was done as a piece of environmental theater. The theater was turned into a British pub. While the play was performed, the extras wandered about interacting with the audience and drinking nonalcoholic beer .. Beckers created a persona he called \Rudy One-Eye.\ He dressed up as a pirate, complete with eye paten and wig: \It was fun and establis11ed my universal dis- gust ofO'Doules.\ That same terrn, Beckers per- formed in a Mountebank's Night of Endings. These two produc- tions allowed Beckers the oppor- tunity to work with Union's more experienced actors. During winter term, Beckers acted in Mountebank's Night of F*#$ed Up Theater. He was one member of the three-person cho- rus in This is A Test directed by Douglas Schneider. \This was one of tile two times I got to act with Fre<llJlrich.lt was a great experience~ because it in- volved a lot of concentration to coordinate the ch<Jrus, who stood in the back for the entire scene with the main actor, Freel.\ Spring term, Beckers.participated in William Finlay's,!Pr<Jduction of A Servant ofTwoMasters. He was cast as a porter, a char- acter intended to be used as a clown. His main task was to carry a trunk across the sta~e. UnfQr- tunately Beckers came down with appendicitis, wllich here- hearsed with for 48 hours until he was rushed to fhe hospital. · When he returne<l,he c<Juld no longer carry tile trunk, so instead he did sound for the show. \It was real!)' difficult, be- cause we had to use cassette tapes. There were no CDs on.eel-to-reels.\ Beckers had a good time, but commented, \Work iag backstage is better than doing mothing at all, but I would mucll rather be on stage performing.\ His sophomore year opened with a disastrous s:tilge reading of Henry V. \Ifw~ha<l been more or- ganized and had a Litttlemore time, we could have done much better.\ Winter term of the same year Beckers performed in Ulrich's pro- duction of Six Degn:;es of Separa- tion. Beckers played.abomosexual man in one scene. \Jt was a diffi- cult role to play beca11se Fred didn't want us [Beckers and Carey Miller] to take the easy way ()Ut and play it stereotypically gay. We did a lot of character work, amd I thought it was much more po\tverful.'' Spring term was tbe show that Beckers described as \themostfun I've had doing theat~er.\ Beckers played director Lloyd Dallas in Noises Off. ... \This was my first big part in a theater department production. It was so much fun. I got to work with really talented people like Amy Rilling, Jon Zandman, and Emilia Teasdale.\ Fall term of his junior year,. Beckers was in Prague. Winter term he returned to act in Barry Smith's production of Tales of the Lost Formicans. Beckers was cast as Eric, the rebellious son ofthe pro- tagonist Cathy, played by Allison Evans. \Formicans was a weird show. It was great to work with a totally new cast. The only person l had worked with before was M<Jrgan Hargrove. \It was great to meet the fresh- men. Unfortunately I think til at the show was lost on a lot of peop1e because Barry didn't really bring the show down. \A lot of people left the theater saying 'What the hell was that? and fot the first time in my acting experience I think most of the ac- tors left saying 'what the hell was that?\ This multifaceted actor also di- rected a scene from Heller's Catch 22. \Iwantedtodirectthisall year. I adapted the script fonn the book myself. \I really liked directing, I had a vision and when I got actors and actresses involved they ~ontrib­ uted even more to my vision.\ Beckers hopes to get a chance at directing again some time in the future. . His senior year is off to a great start. Be'Ckers acted in a scene for the Mountebanks Night of Cocktails directed by Lori Greene. \Lori provided mewith a lot ofnew direction with my char- acter. I got to play my charac- ter with a lot of emotion and energy. I was actually shak- ing the whole scene as my character moved closer and closer to a nervous break- down.\ Just last week Beckers co- starred in a Mountebank's Late Night Qbaret with Fred Ulrich. These c~par~ts will ~e performed every Friday night after the Depart- mentshow. \It was a great chance to ad-ljb;, I never get to do that. Fred and I were making stuff up seconds be- fore we had to go on stage.'' Next year Beckers hopes to get a job as a computer c<Jnsultant. Afterhepaysoffhis college loans, he hopesto go to Califomia or New York and start an acti,ng career. \The cool thing is, most actors when they're starting ollt have to wait tables, I can just he a corh- puter consultant. You make more money!\ Beckers will fmish hissenior year as the moderator ofMountebanks. He had been described by his fel- low actors as\ incredibly talented . and very dependable.\ \You can give him~ script and two days later he will not only know his whole part but everyone else's too.\ Alex Beckers has made an enor- mous contribution to the theater here at Union. \I act form~. I think t11at acting is not about curtain calls, or praise, -or compliments, but about the ac- tor. A lot of people complain about the small crowds at the Yulman. Of course, I would like t() see more people support the theater, but I firmly believe that I act for myself and 9ecause I love it.\ .Be CAS ...... I.- d:'l!~~~!s .. : :,. . : •••••ea••••·~~··········· $7.91 ea. or · ........... :........... $2,.99· ea. or t;lntet CD$ ........ ~:~;~;···$3 ea .. or VIDEOS.~ .... 2 ·tor $1 0 LPs! ·146) 373-9089 1 •.

Pipers Pipe Music Into Coffeehouse by Paul Matino Contributing Wrlter The Dutch Pipers, Union's all male accepela group mll!de their debut last week with tw() on cam- pus performances. The group con- sisting of 4 basses, 3 baritones and 5 ten<>ts, is currently in a rebuild- ing pbase, despite their recent suc- cesses. In spite ofloosing six members .from last years ensemble, tbey were able to acquire three fresJunan, a sophomore and a junior. 'This past Tuesday they performed 5 .songs, including \Faith\ by George Michael, \If I Had a Million Dol- lars\ by the Bare NakedLadies and \Moon Dance\ by Van l\ll:()rrison. While playing in front of two completely different. audiences the overall reaction to the perfor- mances was positive. \Bath shows went really wen, but the ·coffee House was low key which is more our style,\ said Jeremy Lynch a member of the Pipers. ''Also we had a very g()od tum• out which made it all the m()re fun.\ Chris Vetor~ a new menii:Jer to the group, says, expressing his enthu- siasm about last Tuesda~; \I really didn'texpec~ tnat many people to show up, it was great to perform in _front of a ll,ll;ge audi- ence.\ This year the Pipers were faced. with the loss of many :m,embers and were forced to start out stl'ong to continue as they had in yertrs past. \This Year has been good,\ ex.• claims Jon Zandrnan, manger of the pipers, \but it's a building year, we still have a lot of work to do.\ Focusing on learning many new songs for the spring, the pipers have also been very successful in selling their CD, which came out last year. Their eclectic release in '91 included seventeen tracks, with covers such as Phish, Barenaked Ladies and even the harsh sounds · · ofOnyx. This was their latest CD since their '93 release with the Garnet Minstrels. Unlike many other stu- · · · dent run groups and organizations on campus, the Pipers are self-fi- nanced. They are a selective independent organization, therefore, they don't receive funding from the school. . However the school was genero1.1s in lending-the Pipers five thousand dollars fortheirCD. · As it i~ still early on in the year the Pipers have great expectations for the Spring. Their work for the • fall and winter is predominantly being focused on 1.1niting the group and learning many new songs. \This year has been really strong so far,\ states Lynch. \Weare look- ing to have between ten and fif- teen songs to perform in tlte Spring.\ With many new active members,. the Pipers are well on their way. \I feel that the past two shows 'Yent extremely well,\ exclaims Chris Vetor '01 \We are having a lotof . fun. Basically we are there to have fun and. to entertain people.\ Stu/plllll Media has greatly ~anded its · used book section 950 State St., Schenectady • (518) 381-9183 .Great bargains on I.OOO's of books on the arts, cultures, environmen~ textbooks, and for the general reader. We are currentl' ~ling a large library of Afric411, African.Am.erlean, tllfd Social Sciences INJok£. Some hooks are priced.· MOflseR at flat rata: · Hard Cover· $2.00 0 Trade PaperOOck • $1.00 0 Popular Paperback ·50¢ .Jlgy three, get one free/ Open 9:30-5:00pm Wed ·Sui, open till 9:00pm on Thurs.f closed Mon., Tues. 2 blocks west of Route 14&. In the same building as the WhitehDuse FleA Marke~ \\itlJ over SO other interesting shops. ' Scenes from the Seagull: The play is running from Nov. '6-8 at 8:00pm at Yulman Theatre. Personals To Kim-the most rockin' hockey players use their Tank- I get down but I get A & E editor on the planet! sticks for more than hockey, over it. Thanks for the road Prepare for a total takeover!! eh?!! -.Sketch trip. -Storm Love, Lori Loveseat- sorry I broke the J.G. I am glad you caught F.R.- Wednesday was rule, I'm buying plastic next on about Bob Villa, my great. .. how was it for you?- tim 1-S e. predictions, and my little You know who!! plug. Thanks for adding Snowball-where have you some humor to my mental To our Chief- Sunday after- gone? -room 008 breakdown. Love, Beaner noons rock the world!! Can't (S.S. #2) think of a better way to spend Chris Welch- keep a close our day! All our love, L & K eye on your underwear! My littleciggy-butt. so (ha ha) much for trying to get some 223 Crew:... We need to find a P~B(ing). Well, I tried.- new chapter room. ~'Remem- Pete Flynn- where are you? your little mac-daddy. ber the days ... those were the (who's your daddy?) days.\ Love ya-TBH Union XC represent on Saturday To the brothers of FIJI- To the girls of 1031-Thanks thanks for a great for listening. I promise I will XC's Terry C.- you're still off halloween! Let's rage again not break down again! Love the team buddy: soon. -the sisters of Delta ya-The stress case Gamma Top ten excuses not to run N.H.S. '97- Did you know in XC states-10. Busy J.G.- I said pukin'!! Ya that Dr. Jeckell visited Union dissecting Roswell aliens Tony. Play that Garth. What this weekend? He said there does Molson say? ~the is a market here for his new Hey Shak:ti Members-Great other S.S. and improved ghost tour! job on Saturday at Phuljadi. May the light shine even 555 Nott St.- great party on Steve- Let's go for a car brighter! -Shak:ti Officers Saturday. We had a blast. - ride!! The Davidson dungeon girl Astafrallah! Why don't you Kevin Abessi- you think try and keep your beer in ToA.P. in Fox 154-give you're funny don't you?- yourcup?-Punjabi~unda me back what is rightfully Josh· mine please. I haven't had it '!Yson- I'm a pole, freak me! in a while and I need it. Greg-guest host? 80's dance -Kristina Thanx! party?-J & s -Kevin B. To the sisters of Delta Deep- you kick at Bond but Gamma- we miss you! Eh buddy, did you see what Kevin rocks in Madden (even We're having an amazing I wrote about tin cup this with the terrible Baltimore time in France! See you in week? Good luck with .,. January!-Love,Shannon hockey this week buddy. Ravens) andJenn Don't let anyone give you that Toby- my toes froze off \young team\ crap. because I didn't have my To Amy- Keep up the good -Sketch sleeping bag! -your toeless work! Only afewmoreto BigE buddy go! -Love, your co-copy Congrats to the (not-so) editor Newlyweds! Yak buddy- we know that Puppy love? \Personals\\\ illrt'ttirn to T/11.! Coucordieusis nc:\t tcnn. l 'ntiJ then, keep\ ritin'g! ).1

.. ' '' Olsen's ·Trumpet Concerto Finds Way Onto Stage by Lori Greene A&E Editor This Saturday, November 8tit, the Unio11 community will be a witness to the World Premiere of Professor Tim Olsen's \Trumpet Concerto.\ The piece, perfonned by the Union College orchestra under the direc- tion ()fProfessor Hillary Tan, . is a brilliant combination of jazz and classical music. Olsen began composing the piece in August, after thinking about it all summer. The composing commenced' when Performing Arts De- partment Chair Hillary Tan suggested to Olsen that he. write for the Union Orches- tra. Be designed the piece with senior trumpet player Brian Gillman in mind. Gillman has been at Union tor the same length oftime as Olsen (four years), and so he wanted to create a piece highlighting this special se- nior musician. Olsen wanted to cre- ate a piece with a jazz edge to it because;! he is very involved in the jazz scene at Union, as is Brian. Olsen also plays trumpet, ·so it was natural for him to compose \Trumpet Concerto.\ The orches- tra was given the piece near the end of September and has been working on it with Professor Olsen once a week. The piece is unique because it borrows different notes and beats from Beethoven's Egmont Over- ture. In Beethoven's p.iece, the beat becomes extremely loud and then shifts. to a slower, softer part. If listened to alone, it would re- semble a jazz piece. Olsen chose to integrate that into his work. His music has the same contour as the Egmont Over- ture, but with different notes. It is not an exact quote of Beethoven, but there is the same melody. Only one exact quote appears in the piece, but eventually the entire Egmont overture will appear in the Trumpet Concerto. The Union Col'lege orchestra will be opening the concert with Beethoven's Egmont Overture, so the audience will have the oppor- tunity to hear the connection be- tween the two pieces. Olsen hopes people will see how one piece is based on the other. Olsen describes the \Trumpet Concerto\ as \a fun piece.\ He is excited to hear the piece performed live because he believes that is the way a piece of music should be heard. Olsen also hopes to have this overture performed again by other groups. He has written other pieces which have never been per- formed live. Olsen holds a Ph.D in music composition from Yale University. He has been writing music for \a long time.\ Olsen also composes for the Union College Jazz En- semble and a church choir. He is especially thrilled that the Union Orchestra is playing his piece because he believes \that most students only know me as the Professor who teaches music ofBlack America or Freshman Pre- ceptoriaL\ Others see him only as the guy who plays the organ at the church. This cencert, Olsen thinks, ,js an opportu- nity to show people that he has other talents and inter- ests. Wh(;!n asked ab.out Union's music program in general, Olsen felt that it \occupies a low profile\ but seems happy to have the opportunity to promote it. He feels that the faculty is of ex- tremely high quality and that they need to show students that it is \cool\ to get involved with music. Olsen realizes that many\ stu- dents drop out of music when they get to college and therefore urges students to pick up their instru- ments and get involved. Students can hear the World Pre- miere of\Trumpet C()ncerto\ live in Memorial Chapel on Saturday night November 8tit at 8:00PM. Per- formances will also include ~Beethoven's EgmontOverture and Beethoven's Symphony No.1: A Trumpet Concerto: Professor Tim Olson has worked on this piece since last summer. His workcombines elements of jazz and classical music. - .reception follows in Hale House. On Wednesday, November 12, at 8:00PM in the College Center au- ditorium, students can alsoe~p.eri­ ence the grandeur of Tim Ol.se!l 's Jazz Ensemble. Anton Chekhov's The Seagull Directed By Chazen by Allison Evans Contributing Wf'iter Anton Chekhov's play in four acts, TAe Seagull, was performed in the Yulman Theater by a stellar cast and continues this week, to- day through Saturday. Under the direction of visiting Professor Sara Chazen, this cast of talented actors brings to life a tragic tale. It is the story of love and despair, offameand anonrnity and all of the dissatisfaction that life can bring. Yet, despite this un- dertone of misery, the play is both funny and entertaining I was quite impressed with the acting ability ofthe cast. The cast is led by senior Stacey Caplin. Caplin plays the eccentric, age- denying, arroga11t actress, Arkadina. Arkadina' s brother, Sorin is played by senior Fred Ulrich. Ulrich has once again impressed me with his versatility as an eld· erly gentleman. The story focuses on Arkadina's.son, Treplev, played by senior Doug Schneider, and his desire to be a playwright. His love for the beautiful Nina, Amy Rilling '98, and his inability to live in his mother's shadow sends Treplev into a downward suicidal spiral. The cast also includes the very talented Ari Gottleib. Gottlieb plays the selfish writer, Trigcrin who is consumed by the thoughts of his stories and their content. He is con- tinually jotting down notes for his next novel, or one thereafter. He lives :with Arkadina but seduces Nina and takes advantage of her innocence, done .superbly by Rilling. However, TrepJev is so resent- ful ofTrigorin for his relationship with rreplev's motherand his true love, not to mention Trigorin's abil- ity to write, that his misery builds to the end of the play tbat ends in tragedy. The love triangle continues with the love of Masha, daughter of Arkadina's estate manager, Kim Rohback '00, for Treplev. Masha is a bitter girl whose love for the unattainable causes her to wear black continuously artd live a life consumed by anger and depres- sion. Masha has caught the atten- tion of the simple and silly school- master, Medevenko, played by freshman Deric Herrington. The only character wh() seems to be satisfied with where life has taken him is the doctor, Dorn, played by senior Carey Miller. Miller is a wonderful asset to the show with his straightforward atti- tude and direct honesty. The cast is complemented by the efforts of Matthew Lilley and Dana Murphy who play the parents of Masha. · They were both quite funny and deserve special mention. Included in this mention are freshmen Dave Martin and Maura Wittbold. Mar~ tin was exceiJent in his pomayal of an estate worker of few words. He was one of my favorite actors of the whole show. Wittboldhad fan- tastic facial expressions as the maid. Chekhov's Seagull is a very complex and difficult piece. There are manyunspokenthoughts, feel- ings and quick changes of entotion. This casthandled all ofthose things. smoothly and were able to'<:onvey the thoughts ·and feelings of their characters. The tensions build throughout the play and I believe that someof the actors may have gotten offto a slew start, but by the end:,. thoese thoughts disappeared .. Schne:ial.e;r, I thought was slow at first, !Jut J>.y the end, he was one of the big~est as~ets to the show. He was illcrei- ibly focused and his fmal s~tene with Rilling was a delight to \-Vatc::b. Charles Steckler has once a_gal11 outdone himself with the staged~­ sign. The wonderfully rustk, simple set was only enhanced by the incredible lighting, designe>d by John Miller. The sound and lights seemed a.t first to be unembellished; bl!!t as the play went into the fourtll a()t; the stage brightened with the ll~t­ ening and thunder boomed, I real- ized that the simple, unaffected be- ginning had evolved Into solll.e- thingmore. The costumes were beautiful ani perfect for each character. Theplay was really wonderful to look 11t. 11.11 of the effects complemented e;ach: other, the lighting, the set, th~ props and the costumes. Aestlt>eti- cally, it was great. I found the play to be power:ful and I am very impressed witlt tile cast and direction. It was a \Y()n- derthl show and Union Theaterllas once again pmved that a slllall school can produce quality theateir. I would also like to thank ilhe friendly box office staff,. Cara Mra Bnmcati and Sandy Rodrigues,. 115 well as the ushers who kept the evening ru.nning e.xtremely smoothly.

Olsen's Trumpet Concerto Finds Way Onto Stage by Lori Greene A.&E Editor This Saturday, November 8th, the Union community will be a witness to the World Premiere ofProfessor Tim Olsen's \Tmmpet Concerto.\ The piece, performed by the Union College orcheslra under the direc- tion ofProfessor Hillary Tan, is a brilliant combination of jazz and classical music. Olsen began composing the piece in August, after thinking about it all smmner .. The composing commenced when Performing Arts De- partment Chair Hi limy Tan suggested to Olsen that he write for the Union Orcmes- tra. He designed the piece with senior trumpet player Brian Gillman in mind. Gillman has l>een at Union for the same length of time as Olsen (four years), and so he wanted to create a piece highlighting this special se- nior musician. Olsen wanted to cre- ate a piece with a jazz edge to it because he is 'Very involved in the jazz scene at Union, as is Brian. Olsen also plays trumpet, so it was natural for him to compose \Trumpet Concerto.\ The orches- tra was given the piece near the end of September and has been working on it with Professor Olsen once a week. The piece is unique because it borrows different notes and beats from Beethoven's Egmont Over- ture. In Beetl10ven' s piece, the beat becomes extremely loud and then shifts to a slower, softer part. If listened to alone, it would re- semble a jazz piece. Olsen chose to integrate that into his work. His music has the same contour as the Egmont Over- ture, but with different notes. It is not aA exact quote of Beethoven, but there is the same melody. Only one exact quote appears in the piece, but eventually the entire Egmont overture will appear in the Trumpet Concerto. The Union College orchestra will be opening the concert with Beethoven's Egmont Overture, so the audience will have the oppor- tunity to hear the connection be- tween the two pieces. Olsen hopes people will see how one piece is based on the other. Olsen describes the \Trumpet Concerto\ as \a fun piece.\ He is excited to hear the piece performed live because he believes that is the way a piece of music should be heard. Olsen also hopes to have this overture performed again by other groups. He has written other pieces which have never been per- formed live. Olsen ho Ids a Ph.D in music composition from Yale University. He has been writing music for \a long time.\ Olsen also composes for the Uni<m College Jazz En- semble and a church choir. He is especially ~hrilled that the Union Orchestra is playing his piece because he believes \that most st1:1dents only know me as the Professor who teaches music of Black America or Freshman Pre- ceptorial.\ Others see him only as the gl!ly who plays the organ at the church. This concert, Olsen thinks, is an opportu- nity to show people that he has other talents and inter- ests. When asked about Union's music program in general, Olsen felt that it \occupies a low profile\ but seems happy to have the opportunity to promote it. He feels that the faculty is of ex- tremely high quality and that they need to show st1:1dents that it is \cool\ to get involved with music. Olsen realizes that many stu- dents drop out of music when they get to college and therefore urges students to pick up their instru- ments and get involved. Students can hear the World Pre- miere of\Trumpet Concerto\ live in Memorial Chapel on Saturday night November 8\' at 8:00PM. Per- formances will also include Beethoven's Egmont Overture and Beethoven's Symphony No. 7. A Trumpet Concerto: Professor Tim Olson has worked on this piece since last summer. His work combines elements of jazz and classical music. reception follows in Hale House. On Wecl11esday, November 12, at 8:00PM in the College Center au- ditorium, students can also experi- ence the grandeur of Tim Olsen's Jazz Ensemble. Anton Chekhov's The Seagull Directed By Chazen by Allison Evans Contributing Writer Anton Chekhov's play in four acts, The Sea?,ull, was performed in the Yulman Theater by a stellar cast and continues this week, to- day through Saturday. Under the direction of visiting Professor Sara Chazen, this cast of talented actors brings to life a This Week With A&E E,ditor Lori Greene: Reviews and Kudos to All Mad Props go to all that performed in the Mountebanks Cabaret. Way to go guys! Anyone who has caught the acting bug and wants to perform in this week's cabaret, call Sara Friedman. They need aH kinds <Jf performers, jugglers, unicyclists, singers, belly dancers, etc. Ifyou ust want to watch, come this Friday at 10:30, right after The Seagull. Huge thanks to the Coffeehouse for supplying the cappuccinos and mocha Java at the cabaret Also thanks for all your manpower! We'll see you again tllis week! The rnochaccinos were quite excellent! Remember to support coffeehouse every Tuesday night as they com~ bine live performances and coffee. George Tiggle invites all African~ American students to audition for the gospel drama, Mammal Want To Sing, Auditions are November 10~ 11 at 7 PM in the actor's studio ofthe Yulplan Theater. Be prepared with a one minute, memorized monologue. The show, directed by George wiJJ be performed winter term as his senior thesis. This is a great week for Arts at Union; we can still see the Seagull as well as our fabulO<us orchestra. As this is our last issue .of the Concordiensis this t¢rm, I. like to thank ev~ry<me who made it possible for us to s·t JPPton eDhance the Am at Union as well as the · s· ch~n®tad)r! I area. to the staff and .col}tq~uting:writers~~ · · · sion for the arts~ r~ Dave OUr worth it! The paper looks Jovel;y! ..-·, ,.·\' nv . .,.-r•jl pleasure! · ·' ·. ··\ ' And so Union College- t ''h .. i fd:v,otHrareweJ a relaxing . . · a new, exciting tragic tale. It is the story of love and despair, of fame and anonmity and all of the dissatisfaction that life can bring. Yet, despite this un- dertone of misery, the play is both funny and entertaining. I was quite impressed with the acting ability of the cast. The cast is led by senior Stacey Caplin. Caplin plays the eccentric, age- denying, arrogant actress, Arkadina. Arkadina's brother, Sorin is played by senior Fred Ulrich. Ulrich has once again impressed me with his versatility as an eld- erly gentleman. The story focuses on Arkadina 's son, Treplev, played by senior Doug Schneider, and his desire to be a playwright. His love for the beautiful Nina, Amy Rilling '98, and his inability to live in his mother's shadow sends Treplev into a downward suicidal spiral. The cast also includes the very talented Ari Gottleib. Gottlieb plays the selfish writer, Trigorin who is consumed by the thoughts of his stories and their content. He is con- tinually jotting down notes for his next novel, or one thereafter. He lives with Arkadina but seduces Nina and takes advantage of her innocence, done superbly by Rilling. However, Treplev is so resent- ful ofTrigorin for his relationship with Treplev's mother and his true love, not to mention Trig orin's abi 1- ity to write, that his misery builds to the end ofthe play that ends in tragedy. The love triangle continues with the love of Masha, daughter of Arkadina 's estate manager, Kim Rohback '00, for Treplev. Masha is a bitter girl whose love for the unattainable causes her to wear black continuously and live a life consumed by anger and depres- sion. Masha has caught the atten- tion ofthe simple and silly school- master, Medevenko, played by freshman Deric Herrington. The only character who seems to be satisfied with where life has taken him is the doctor, Dorn, played by senior Carey Miller. Miller is a wonderful asset to the show with his straightforward atti- tude and direct honesty. The cast is complemented by the efforts of Matthew Lilley and Dana Murphy who play the parents of Masha. They were both quite funny and deserve special mention. Included in this mention are freshmen Dave Martin and Maura Wittbold. Mar- tin was excellent in his portrayal of an estate workeroffew words. He was one of my favorite actors of the whole show. Wittbold had fan- tastic facial expressions as the maid. Chekhov' s Seagull is a very complex and difficult piece. There are many unspoken thoughts, feel- ings and quick changes of emotion. This cast hmdled all of those things smoothly and were able to convey the thoughts and feelings of their characters. The tensions build throughout the play and I believe that some of the actors may have gotten off to a slow start, but by the end, these thoughts disappeared. Schneider, I thought was slow at first, but by the end, he was one of the biggest assets to the show. He was incred- ibly focused and his final scene with Rilling was a delight to watch. Charles Steckler has once agai11 outdone himself with the stage de- sign. The wonderfully rustic, simple set was only enhanced by the incredible lighting, designed by John Miller. The sound and lights seemed at first to be unembellished, but as the play went into the fourth act, the stage brightened with the light· ening and thunder boomed, I real· ized that the simple, unaffected be- ginning had evolved into some- thingmore. The costumes were beautiful and perfect for each character. The play was really woAderful to look at. All ofthe effects complemented each other, the lighting, the set, the props and the costumes. Aestheti- cally, it was great. I found the play to be powerfu I and I am ve1y impressed with the cast and direction. It was a won- derful show and Union Theater has once again proved that a small school can produce quality theater. I would also like to thank the friendly box office staff, Cara Mict Bnmcati and Sandy Rodrigues, as well as the ushers who kept the evening running extremely smoothly. ~·I I '

Atlvct:tiscments _ Q.ht' U:um:Moit'nsis • Novcmbc1· 6 1997 • Paoc 17 - - - ' • l - _b Westen· New Ent~and CoUete SChool of Law Challenging Intellects Changing Perspectives T he decision to purstt~ a law degJ:\e>El t.~ a major commitment. The scl1<1cl yo'u choose rtkust offer a philosophy, an environ.ment, and a faeulrr that will ensure success throuthout your educatio-n a11d beyond. That's why we invite you to attend our next. Ope11 House. Meet with the faculty. Ask the hard questi(lrJS. Check out th.e library. ~\ind out about career services. We ltave the accessible faculty and the r~ouroos you seed felr a sue~ cessful k~l «tucation. OPEN UOUSJ!) FOR PROSPECTI~ LAW STUDENTS Sa~turday, Nc.vembet 22~ 1!:30-4: 15pm 8. Presdey Blake Law Center 1215 Wilbmhrun ltond. Springfield, MA For reservntio11s a:nd more informati()U call: 4fJ .. f82-1406 or 800 .. 182-6665 Western New England College School of Law Springfi~ld, lfasSttcbusetts A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health C:ae. Those two words h2ve beefl the $0Uite ofmuch di$cnssion recently. Probably bcuusc we as a nation Ifnow the importance of investing in • healthy future. So do mimons of patients who choose chitopracric as their preferred source of health ca.-e. The chiropn.ctic belie& in fitncts. nutrition, prevention, and natural maintenanct make good sense. WeUness, you see, is the normal state of being. New York State government a~. They have recently pawJ<l the Insurance Equality biU that mandates insurance coverage (or chiropnctic care. For over 7S years. New York Chiropractic College has upheld a tradition o{ excellence in chimpraedc higher educatiQn. Our combined traditions, old and new. have built the base from which the chiropnctic: dO<lrors of the future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic College. A bcalchy investment C.,r today and tomorrow. flD .CDC Updates ~- Ctnttt fAt.,•aPtT LAW SCHOOL ••• fi\Nd&Jittl An information session with a reprcseotathe from the law fiCho(gl will at ·HaM BouN Dilling Room at 7pm to discuss the adlnissioos proces8. IINIFOIIMA':'I\ION SESSIONS fReJPfellelltl£ltiy;eafrom the following~ with be av.ailable to discuss [career opportunitic&: Dllemons- Thunday, November' at 7pm ID alae CDC FN'V~CRD D lAD LINE deadline to submit resumes for the New Yo-rk City Recruiting Day is (N01VearJ'ber7 at the COO by Spm. tKII,.V4MI~t RIFIRAL D lAD LINES fFrillav.Novembet 7- AEON, Analysis GNUp~ ...._.ntial, ..,.,.,, .... Andei'Hftt and GE Corporate Benefits Delivery 1Fri4:IA.v_ November 14 ~- Coopers & Lybrand -NYC, Davis. Nk, & IW.tikmtml.. and Independent Educational Senko IC'W\'I ... INT NIGHT '9 7 AIMoy Cbapter of tbe Institute of In&enlal Auditors will be Jloldi.Dg an [evcmillt£ of information~ oo job seardl ~. resooroes oo tbe libt4ml«~t.. ad bosiness etiquette on Tuesday, November IS at 6:38 at the JAiblillly Marrlot om Wolf Road. IRAL RISIRVI BANK OF BOSTON Reaearch Department at the Federal Reserve Bank of J3a&tDil will bold a ~~ting Seminar from 10..11 Noon on Fdclay, November 28 at dadr oniiM 1 Bolton. Advance is -Call(617)973~32S9. COME 'INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 . - ONEHoun - I . · ·. MOTOP'HOTO. -. i ' ' • ' r ' .....

I I Adv~rtisements · · · · · · ·, · · · _ · · ~-: .. · .. ~·:.·· .· · -.·. ·: · .. ··· ,- OO!'pl.uillt~hl~-~ieu:~.i·5·.·~ovember·6,l9.~.7··:P~gc;:l'7:: • • ·- • - \< ' • • • \ • .•. Western New Eatland College School of Law Challenging Intellects Changing Pempeciives T he decision to pursue a law degree is a major committncnt The sclwol yo'u choose must offer H philosophy, an environment, and a faculty that will ensure success throughout your education and beyond. That's why we invite you to attend our next Open House. Meet with the faculty. Ask the hard questions. Check out the library. Find out about career services. We have the accessible faculty and the resources you need for a suc- cessful k1tal education. OJ•t~N UOUSJ.t~ FOR I•ROSPE(:fiVE LAW STlJUENTS Saturday, November 22, IZ:J().4: 15pm S. Prestley Hlake Law Center 1215 Wilhrnham Rond, Springfield. :\L\ For reservations nnd more infonwttion call: 413-182-1406 or R00-782 .. 6665 Western New England College School of Law SprinAfield, ~l:tssachusetts A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health Can. Th<>se two words have been the source of much discussion recently. Pro-bably ~use we as a nation J?iGow the importance of investing ill a healthy furure. So do millions of patients who choose chil'opr-acric as their preferred soute~: of health care. The chiropractic beliefs in fitness, nutritionJ prevention, and natural maintenance make good sense:. WeUness, y.ou see, is the normal state ofbcil'lg. New York Stale government agrees. They llave recently passed the lnsuran<e Equality bill that mandates insurance covell.ge for chiropracric care. For over 75 years. New York Chiropracti< CcUegc has upheld a rradicion C>f ec:cellence in chiropractic higher education. Our combined tradirions, old and new, have built ahe base from which rhe chiropracric doc ion of the future are creared. Choose N~w York Chiropractic College. A heal~hy investment for today and tomorrow. CDC Updates ••• deadline to submit resl.lll\es for the New York City Recruiting Day is !No·ve.rni:N~r 1 at the CDC bo)' 5pm. RI$UMIE RIFII\Al D lAD LIN IS !Flic:lav. November 7 -AEON, Analysis Group~ Pnldential, IA.rofh»tr A.ndenen, and GE Corporate Benefits Delivery t ... nnav November 14 -· Coopers & Lybrand - NYC, Dovls. Polk, & and Indeperdent Edueational Servkes INT NIGHT·· 7 Albany Chaplet of tile Institute of Internal Auditors will be holding an evc~nuu~ of information S;eSsioos on job scarcb re~. resources oo the lfutlxnc~t, and business etio(Jtlette on 'nlesday, November 18 at 6:30 at the !Ailbaa:•y Marriot on Wolf Road. IRAI. RISIRVE BANK OF BOSTON Research Department at tbe Federal Reserve Bank of Boston will bold a ~tX:rui~tlng Seminar from lj).tl Noon on Friday, Noumbcr 28 at tll<eirof'lkes BoitoL Advance registration is required- caJ1 (617)973-3259. COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady - 1041 State Street - 382-5776 . ~ . ' - ' ' . ' - ' ; . . · . · . . . ONE· HOUn . · .· · · · · . : . · . . · · . . .MDT<ORI-ID.FO , ·., ·. . . ' ' ' ' r , - r---------T---------y---------~-------~-~ ·: 60% OFF: 83¢ : 84.88 :85.00 OFF: .1 P~ESSING 1 REPRINTS ; . . 8JC18 : . CLUB : I Rocea,.,. ~oft\.._ ....,...,. 1 Umit 20 danl . I Lanut 3 bJO ea~.,..emeutao. I ltecotYe SS.OO oft'W'bca I .I prioe orpcoc••iDc _. I . . Fl.... ;•;- I Fl'o111 your 3511U'D cc.lor I ,.,.. pun:.base a club I I priatiaa color p1iat ftlm. I ll'epl'ild*.l .._. ~ nun I Depdvet- I mcm ........ ! Mwrt pntMaC I 1 a....~~:. .... s. 1 • .,..._..,....~. I co cw aoptsvc. I ,._._.;c,, ... ..,. ... __.w•c•- leoupoa to -receive SS.OOoft\. 1 __ ...._.__.............,._ • d'tlllllllllll ~ 1N11M w.W ................ .• --- ., •••• ,........... NOII'II'lllltiof.-. ....... ~·-..&nt, -. . . ............ I . 1= 1w • Clllllt•'' n ..... ut•• 1 ~- '•m• ..... tG'5CoftiUIICA',.._ .. I •\'•:••--;::•• • c.. I ...._..-::,:\' •••. ~ II .;;p;.\•• - I ..--'W5 wt:lf I ;_;;a .. , .. ...__ I ~ ,... . • II • • ~ -IIO.t/7 I llnftC7, ~10· I JWGh ~1010= I ~1<-JIJH\#OJ'O • -----------------~---------------------

Pag,c 18 • November 6~ 1997 • Uilp.' <ftntrnrl'iil'ltsis . . Final Exam~ . _,.-_' - Fall Term Exam Schedule Ask Your Professor or The Registrar's Office If You Have Any Further Questions MONDAY, N.OVEMBER 17, 1997 • !}:30~11:30 AM WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER19, 1997 • 9:3.0·11 :30 AM ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthr()pology Gmelch, S. ARTS 109 IMP*011\'01 lnt Math/Physics 1· w/Lab BatbanEilfReich NWSE 112 BI0*024*01 Genetics w/Lab Boyer/Lauzon SSG! 016 IMP*011*02 lnt Math/Physics 1 w/Lab BarbanelfReich NWSE 114. BI0*046*01 lntro to Psycht>biology Weisse, C. BAIL300 MTH\01 0*01 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. HUMN 115 BI0*180*01 Biochemistry Salvo/Fox BAIL201 MTH*010*02 Calculus 1 Bick, 1. BUTR300 CER*035*01 Water Resources & Environment Snow, P. BUTR 300 MTH*0_1 0*03 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. ,HUMN115 CHN*120*01 Intermediate Chinese 1 Feng, J.P SSCI213 MTH*010*04 Calculus 1 Fairchild., W. BAIL toO GLS*021*01 History of Greece Loomis, W. HUMN 115 MTH*010*05 Calculus 1 Reynolds,. P. ARTS109 CLS*035*01 Greek & Roman Hstoriography Meckler, M. HUMN 116 MTH*010*06 Calculus 1 Reynolds,, P. ARTS 109 EER*018*01 Digital Computers w/Lab Traver, C. BAIL 106 MTH*013*01 AP Calculus Cerv()ne, 0. HUMN 117 ESC*021*01 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Bucinell, R. NWSE205 MTH*013*02 AP Calculus Cervone, D. HUMN 117 HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Miller, A.T. SSCI112 MTH*013*03 AP Calculus Johnson, E·. BAIL201 HST*013*02 History of US to Civil War Sterngass, J. HUMN 117 MTH*013*04 APCalculus Johnsen, 13. BAIL 201 HST*013*03 History of US to Civil War Meade, T. ARTS 215 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 Zulli,L BUTR 109 HST*035*01 History of Europe. 1 Hansen, E. SSCI103 MTH*015*03 Calculus3 Zulli,L BUTR 109 HST*035*02 History of Europe 1 Sargent, S. SSCI104 MTH*058*01 Appls of Math to.Eco 1 Rosentllal, K. BAIL 207 HST*035*03 History of Europe 1 Halliday, P. COLC MTH*058*02 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Rosentllal, K BAIL 207 HST*151.01 Nazi Germany Walker, M. HUMN 014 MTH*099*01 lntro:Logic &Set Theory Hart,J. BAIL 106 JPN*130*01 Advanced Intermediate Japanese KhaA, Y. SSCI 014 MTH*099*02 lntro:Logic & Set \Fheory Hart, J. BAIL 106 MTH*017*01 Calculus IV:Integral Vector Fairchild, W. BAIL 207 PSY*025*01 ExperimentaiPsychOiogy wfLab Burns, D. ..J .. BAIL 300 MTH*017E*01 Calculus IV: Engineers Zwicker, W. BAIL 104 PHY*045*01 Solar System w/Lab Marr, J.M. NWSE 114 WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 19, 1997 -1 :30•3:30 PM' PHY*160*01 Physical Optics wJLab Maleki, S. NWSE303 CHM*010*01 Fund Chemistry ·1 w/Lab Scaife,C. BUTR204 PSY*030*01 Personality Donaldson, G. BAIL 100 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hagerrnart, M. BUTR 20~ PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope,L BAIL 312 CHM*010*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderso.n, .J. BUTR 204 PSY*046*01 Intra to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 300 CHM*010*04 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Lou, K. BUTR204 CHM*030*01· Organic Chern 1 wflab Adrian,J. SSCI 016 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1997 ·1:j0-3:30 PM CHM*030*02 ·Organic Chern 1 w/lab . Hull, L SSCI 016 ANT*010*02 Cultural Anthropofogy Gmelch, S. SSCI112 MTW119*01 Topics in Discrete Mathematics Taylor, A.. BAIL 104 CHN*010*01 Basic Chinese 1 Feng, J.P HUMN 113 PHY*020*01 General Physics 4 w/Lab Khosrop()tJr, R NWSE328 EC0*033*01 Public Policy &.Amer industry Klein, D. HUMN 014 EGL*044*01 Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 112 WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 19 1 1997 • 7:00·9:00 PM ESC*020*01 Mechanics2 King, F. BUTR 1.09 EGL-022-02 Major American Authors Slade, L HUMN 112 ESC*025*01 · Electric Circuits w/Lab Chang, Y. NWSE 114 FRN*131*01 Survey of Frencll Literature 1 Curran, A. HUMN 213 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20.1997 • 9:30-.11:30 AM GE0*022*01 Geomorphology/StJrficial Geo Rodbell, D. BUTR 201 AAH*025*01 17 & 18 C European Art . EyermC!Il, :C. ARTS215 GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 119 AMU*020*01 Music History & Lit 1 McMUllen,. D. ARTS313 GER.121*01 Intermediate German 2 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 119 810*144*01 Cytology w/Lab Smith, G. BAIL 100 GRK*010*01 Principles of Greek 1 Mace, S. SSCI105 CER*143*01 Foundations-& Constr w/Lab . · Ghaly,.A. BUTR300 JPN*010*01 Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMN 116 EC0*012*01 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. HUMN 114 MER*030*01 Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Rivera, M. I'JWSE 210 EC0*020*01 Intra to Statisticar Analysis Schmidt, S. HUMN019 PHY*014*01 Atoms, Lasers, Qlfasars Schick, K. I'JWSE 303 EC0\'031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S.J. SSGI104. PSG*161*01 Public Opinion & Pol Psych Brown, C. HUMN 117 EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy Motahar, E. HUMN014 ·-' PSY*010*02 lntro to PsycholC>gy Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 EER*060*01 System Theory II w/Lab Rudko, ~. NWSE210 PSY*033*02 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D. J. BAIL300 ESC*016*01 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1. w/Lab Milillo,F. NWSE 110 RUS*010*01 Basic Russian 1 Jordan, B. SSCI 012 ESC*016*02 Fundamentals. of. Eng/GS 1 w/Lab Snow, P. NWSE 11.0 SPN*121*01 !ntermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. BAIL201 ESC*016*03 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Williams, ~. NWSE 110 SPN*122*01 Advanced Spanish lorres., B. BAIL 104 ESC*016*04 Fundamentals ofEng/CS 1 w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE 110 SPN*130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit Martinez, V. ..rHUMN 110 GE0*021*01 Strai Dep Envof East NY w/Lab Garver, .J -~'- BUTR 201 SPN*132*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 1 lzurieta, I. HUMN 019 PSY*035*01 Industrial/Organization Psych Nydegger, R. BAIL201 SOC*153*01 Soc of Disabled & Handicapped Weiner, f.\. SSCI110 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1997-4:3.0-6:30 PM CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 THURSDAY 1 NOVEMBER 20, 1997 -1:30·3:30 PM CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 AAH*045*01 Contemporary Art in America Eyerman,. C. ARTS 215 CSC*010*51 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. BAIL201 ACC*010*01 Survey of Accounting Neidermeyer, P. HUMN 014 ATH*020*01 History of Theatre Rose, L. YULM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997 -9:30-11:30 AM CHM*013*01 AP Chemistry. Carroll, M. BAIL 102 AAH*011*01 lntro Art History- 1 Matthew, L. ARTS 215 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Green, E. NWSE 116 AMU*012*01 Language of Music McMullen, D. ARTS 313 EC0\012*02 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. SSCI1'04 810*010*02 lntro to Biology 1 w/Lab Brown, G. SSCI 016 EC0*031*02 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S.J. HUMN 115 BI0*053*01 Northeast Forests w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SWSE322 EC0*144*01 International Economics Motahar, E. BAIL 100 BI0*066\01 Darwin's Legacy wflab Minorsky, P. STZH 106 GMI*144*51 International Economics Motahar,E BAIL100 810*162*01 Neurobiology w/Lab Olberg, R. BUTR 300 PHL*014*01 Introduction to Ethics Baker, R. HUMN 114 CER*128*01 S.tructural Analysis Mati, M. BUTR 109 PHL*070*01 History & Phil of Modern Sci Ludwig, J·. SSCI213 CHM*142*01 Chern Instrumentation w/Lab Werner, T. STZH 108 PSC*049*01 Middle East Politics Lobe, T. SSCI103 CLS*026*01 Classical Literature Toher, M. SSCI 014 PSY*010*03 Intra to Psychology Spring, n BAIL 201 ... ' EGL*036A*01 African-American Lit I Pavlic, E. HUMN 115 PSY*<T49*01 Psychology of Addiction Dowling;T. BAIL 312 GE0*010*01 Physical Geology w/Lab Hol19cher, K. BUTR 201 GRK*120*01 Attic Prose Toher, M. SSCI 014 FRIDAY, NOV'EMBER 21. 1997 • 9:30-11:30 AM HST*072*01 Early Jewish History Berk, S. COLC AMU*031*01 Music of Black America Olsen, T. ARTS 215 HST*086*01 The Nuclear Age Walket/Shanebrook HUMN 014 ANT*016*01 Prehistory Walker, flil. HUMN 014 . LAT*010*01 Principles of Latin 1 Scullion, J.S SSCI 012 810*067*01 Bio:Health & Fitness w/Lab CraWford; A. BAIL 100 MER*040*01 Engineering Design 1 w/Lab Blinn, M. NWSE210 . E.C0*012*03 Introduction to Economics McCarty, T. SSCI 016 PHL*011*01 History Western Philosophy 1 Patrik, L. HUMN 117 EC0*012*04 . Introduction to Economics McCarty, f. SSCI 016 ' PHY*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab Topor, N. NWSE 114 EGL*039*01 European Novel in Translation Heinegg,P. · HUMN 115 PHY*016*02 Physics/Life SCiences 2 w/Lab Newman, J. NWSE 116 · FRN'\012*01 Basic French 3 Dogbe,C, HUMN 114 ··! PSC*013*01 lntro to Political Thought Marso, L. SSCI103 GER*139*01 German Exile Lit . Kellenter,.S. H!JMN 119 PSY*010*01 lntro to Psychology Morling,B. BAIL 312 GER*149*01 ' Das deutsc;he Exile · Kellenter, S, HU~.N 119 · SOC*010*02 lntro to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI112 HEB*Ot0*01 Basic Hebrew 1 Almog, M. HUMN116 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spal1isl11 Moyano, P. HUMN 110 HST*012*01 Prehistory: Walker,M HUMN<l14 SPN*120*03 Intermediate Spal1isl11 lzurieta, I. HOMN 019 HST*Ot8*01 Progressive Era & WortdWar I Henry, s. BAIL201 SPN*149*01 Lit of Hispanic Caribi:Jean Garcia, W. HUMN 112 HST*022--01 Civil War & Reconstruction ·Dudden, F. SSCI103 JPN*120*01 Intermediate Japanese 1 Khan, Y. . HUMN 113 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18,1997 ·1:30·3:30 PM PHY*048*01 Intelligent Life in Universe Schick, I<. NWSE 114 810*010*01 lntro to Biology 1 w/Lab lobiessen, P. SSCI016 · PSC'~082*01 Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. HUMN 117 . I BI0*032*01 Comp Vertebrate Anatomy w/Lab Butterstein, G BAIL 201 SOC*060*01 Quantitative Social Research Cotter, D. HUMN019 CER*160*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab WCJife, F.A. BUTR 109 EC0*032*01 Labor & Industrial Relations Prosper, P. SSCI103 FRIDAY 1 NOVEMBER 21 1 1997 ·r- 1:30-3:30 PM EC0\145*01 Managerial Economics · Kenney, J. SSCI110 AAH*026*01 · History of Architecture Matthew~ t ARTS 21.5 EER*063*01 Desgn of Electronic Circ w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE210 CER*147*01 Mgmt of ConstrProject w/Lab Laplante. C. HUMN014 EGL*024*01 Modern American lit Pavlic, E. HUMN 116 EC0*063*01 Economics of Health Lambrinos, J. BAIL 100 FRN*010*01 Basic French f Scheuer, A. HUMN 117 EER*124*01 lntro to Probabilistic Systems Spinelli, J. STZH 108 FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Dogbe, C. SSCI014 EGL*019*01 Major English Authors 1 Hilles,c. HUMN116 FRN\'120~02 Intermediate French 1 Curran, A. SSCI 010 EGL*056*01 Shakespeare after 1600 Jenkins, H HUMN 114 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K SSCI112 ESC*021*02 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Keat, W.O. NWSE.205 GER*010*02 Basic German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K. SSCI112 HST*112*01 American LaborHistory Henry, S. SSCI103 GER*012*01 Basic German 3 Giguere, U. SSCI012 LAT*130*01 Catullus & Horace Meckler, J\t HUMN 213 HST*043*01 Europe in the Early Modern Era Hansen, E. SSCI104 PHL*046*01 Art, Media and Society Patrik, L. HUMN019 MER*026*01 Thermodynamics Wilk, R. NWSE222 PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 Jones,.C. NWSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. 8AIL300 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 Maleki, S. NWSE 114 .. ' \' .BAIL312 PHY*017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NWSE300 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. \ PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BA1L 106 PSY*024*02 Social Psychology Morling; B, BAIL300 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K.· BAJL 312 PSY*031*01 Abnormal Psychology DonaldSOfl; G. BAIL312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Garcia, W. HUMN 112 SOC*024*02 Social Psychology Marling, 13. - BAIL300 SPN*012*01 Basic f::panish 3 Camacho, L. HUMN 114 SPN*122*02 Advanced Spanish Martinez, V; HUMN 110 SPN*120*02 lnterm::diate Spanish 1 Moyaro, P. HUMN 115

A great big THANK YOU to aU Union staff members fer their financial support of the 1996-97 Annual Pund. Penny Adey Fred Alford Don Arnold De~b B,alliet Jennifer Behrens Sherry Biggs Lis. Bischoff-Ormsbee Diane Blake Alan Bowman Barbara Boyer Diane Brisnehan Cliff Srown Alison Brust Kathleen Buckley Mary CarroH Mahony Stella Connelly Linda C-oo] Dave Cossey George Cuttita Tom Denham Judy Ferradino Joe Finocchiaro Kristin Fox Adrian Frazier Michae]a French Ashraf Ghaly Sigdd Girdner Marie Guariniello Peter Heinegg Joanne Herrick Ann Horan- Martha Huggins Nicole Jarvis Hugh Jenkins Nadja Jernakoff Tom Jewell Sigrid K.e llenter Jitn Latnbrinos Brad Lewis Karen Lou Dan Lundquist Mike Lynch Brian Macherone Eli Majlaton Seyfollah Maleki Joe Mamtno1a . Judy Manchester Alice Marocco Patty Marra Mandy Mason Kathy McCann Therese McCarty Sharon McCullough Bob Mon'tana Jane Morse Kathy Natale Harry Overacker Michele Paludi Hyungji Park Rich Patieme Linda Patrik Dan Payne Betsy Phelps A. Philip Tony Prindle Karen Rieck Paul Rieschick Bill Scanlon Kate Scburick Bruce Senn Dick Shanebrook Bob Sharlet David Shear Jeane Sinnenberg John Skumurski Leonard Slade Christie Sorum Lance SpaHholz Debbie Stalker Bert Strong Marty Strosberg Alan Taylor Ann Thomas Joanne Tobiessen Andy Warde Kathy Wharton Carol Widmer George Williams Dwight Wolf Jane Zacek Joe Zolner Your support truly makes a difference for Union. - -

. I l , I ' ' i: Men's Soccer Season Comes To A Good Close by Hannah Blum Staff Write~ Although the Union soccer team failed to reach the playoffs this season atld lost two of their last three games, the coltclusion of their season was a success. They put forth strong efforts against superior· teams and were able to finish the season with a .500 record, something a Uni()n soccer team has not done since 1993. With these accomplishments in mind, it is safe to say that the Union soccer program is steadily improving and in years to come, will be a force to be reck:oned with. Roc/rester 4 - U11i,n .0 The Union men traveled west to face the fourth-ranked U niiversity of Rochester. From the outset, Union was completely outplayed, as Rochester dominated the pace of play. While the score through the first thirty minutes vvas 0-0, it was clear that Union was :having a tough time getting their legs go- ing and finding their .r~ythm. Rochester took complete advan- tage of this, as they netted three goals in a nine-minute span just towards the end of the first half, taking away any chances Union may have had .. Throughout the remainder of the first half and the entire second half, Rochester dis- played why they are ranked fourth in the region. They made smart passes, accurate touches, and took more shots than Union; in doing so, they did not allow Union any hope of mounting an offensive at- tack. Thus, as the final buzzer. sounded, it was clear that the better team had won and Union returned home with a four to nothing loss. Middlebury 2- Union I This was one ofUnion's best efforts of the season. Middlebury defeated a Williams team that de- stroyed Union 6-l earlier in the season, yet Union showed a glimpse of greatness as they nearly beat their talented opponents. · Through most of the :first half, Union led one to nothing on David Alprin's third goal of the season Coming Soon ... and was looking to take their lead into half time. Unfortunately, Middlebury was able net a goal of their own with only a few minutes remaining in the half. Then, ~ess than a minute into the second half, Middlebury netted their second goal, taking the lead two to one. The Dutchmen were extremely dejected at giving up two goals overaspan of four minutes. Bow- ever, even though the team trailed, Union held tough and even outplayed Middlebury throughout the se.cond half. The Gamet and White tested the Middlebury goal keeper numerous times, but the team was unlucky and was unable to capitalize on their chances and score the tying goal. While the loss was disappointing, the effort the team put forth was commendable and shows the potential the play- ers hold for the future. Union I - S. Jlermont 0 As the fmal game ofthe sea- son, th:is was a game that Union was supposed to win. Because Union was out of playoff contention,. Coach Guinn was worried that his team may ndt have any moti- vation to play,. but to his. Stu- prise; the men dominatt)d their opponents for the entiregam.e. The final score could have been much worse for Ver- mont, as Union t()ok oVer thirty shots and was afforded nearly twentycomerkicks. Although the Dutchmen were only able to net the one goal, the opportunities they had and the style in which tile played could have .al1awed fornu- merous scores. Again, they were simply unlucky. Ibrahim Adam u finished his season in style as he scored his ninth goal of the sea- son. With this win, Uni()n achieved Guinn's hope of posting a .500 record as they finished the season with seven wins, seven losses, and one tie, the programs best record since '93. Throughout the season, there were a numbe.r of games that Union could have won, had luck been on their side. However, with the little luck they had, they were still able to reach .500. Looking ahead to next year, the team will only graduate three players and will return nearly their entire start- ing lineup, This bodes well for a program looking to improve on their records of seasons past and one that hopes to receive a playoff bid next year and years to come. Coach Guinn believes a realistic goal for this program is to reach the ECAC Tournament next sea• son as well as to post Union: m~n 's soccer programs best record ever by winning at least nine games next season. With such a strong core ofplayers returning next sea· son, .every one of those goals is realistic and this team should be a lot of furi to watch next fal I. Thanks to Coach Guinn for his help with information and statis- tics this season. The help was greatly appreciated. PEDES GOFFEEBOIJSE 1EAGARD&N IT# R..,.. .\ \ GO . . .. .. ... You Won't Believe You're ln. Schenectady! t t ti ~ a tl s sl ( rr tl b1 ir 1\1 p( a ar se

I :n LS ·e Lt k h e g II :I 1 r . ' l I ~ I k I I• , 1 i I I I \ I [ l ) \ :1 11 d 1\ I. ~ ! \ \( ( I i l .( l \\ . ,\) ! '-. i · t i HELPING YOU BUILD A SECURE FINANCIAL . . FUTUilE IS AN IMPORTANT JOB. FORTUNATELY; WE HAVE THE PERFECT RESUME. 't\I 'Jith nearlj;80 yeal'li of'leadctl>hip t.\Xp~rionct! i-n c;~ur VV tidd, TIAA.CREI'' i~ emincJ1dy ijtaaHikl to help ,YOLI build .:a wrnfonablc. worry.fr\'!e r<!tin~mc.flt. Our rdcren('U$ t~re eq~u11ly impe~:('ahlu ... t(l(Lw. nearly IW(l millk>JI of tht> l>e~sl rnind$ in Arne de•~ tl'lll\4 us with liloil· ilmwd<~l rmlll'\'. All!IW us to·rwiew our (lUaliiic\l io~. Superior strength With $200 billio;lin ~ts:.-cts. TIAi\·CRl~f is rl•e world& l;•rr:.l'f.!sl retirem\nt org.ani7,atiort--;md among lhe m~lM j;(jlid. TlAA is Ontl of unly a handful of wmpunies to luve <:<J.rttOO rop 1·mines foF lin;.ndal ~h'en£1ltf nn•l C.R!~P i~ m~v ~l W\ll S11't~>t;; 1iu\gt\$t inwstors. $oUd, long-t-erm tM:rfonll;tllCe We seelt out long·term oppornmiti<~~ !hat i>lll<fl' .:ompanie><, i!l pUI'ilUil of •tuick guifl!l. <llten miss. Thottgh p;1:st twrfom1Uill'l' ~an'r !,'tl«mnlec fut~l'l! results; thi~ patient JlhilowJ>hy hru. proven extnmrely .n:Wutxlin~ ~ - Ensuring the futttte for thoSe who shape it:' SuqtriSingly low ~sea TlM-CfU!f's optmulns- costs are among the lowe5t in tllC insuranoo <~nd.mutu:d lund industries! Therefore. more of yoor money g®s where it llhould -tmval'd8 ensuring your future. Buy diversificatioo We offer A wide va.rit.>ty of «:.'qlertly managed inv-.-,tment opriollll to help bui11f .)V\If Mllels. With stock. lmnd. mopey market. and re•~l oc:;t<lle ID.'V:0\11\IS-lll> wdl <t1> a.guanmtecd annuity to t:h~X~Se !ivm- 1:rAI\·CRW\ makt'!i dkersifkation easy. Unrivaled seJ.\Vi(e We believ-e that our 1wnrkc disringuit>hQ$ 11s li-om (Wety m.her retirtomL'nt ~:omp.111y. In tf1e IMext Dalbnt· Consumer Satinf.1c1ion Sw·vc:,v. 11 t.tu<lyot:l!,OOO linandalcompani~'S, TlAA·CRr:F WMi Vot<-d tlldeading pnwitf,,.• of l't'tinmwm plans .. ff yuu wurk in·education. re• ... ~m:h. or rdatcd field~. why not pm TIAi\-CRHr\s e:cpc:rience to work !or you? To find uul.more, vi~it otll' Web site ~Jt \'lo'\vw.t~ef.oq; or call us at .. ;~· r \ \· I 800 842-2776. IJ\ t,. ~Supc-~tr)_ A.M. lht C<t; .'\M H11ff & Pbl\lp.t: ~\Alf. .;\100\ll'it h:~;\'rJ>IClr Sm,·it ~~ :\.\A. Sra.t~J.u\I.Jnd ~~ ... ,.- f.w Jlt~~l:;>,lity Jlllltld illviflm~fltl. -r!£UOR·p!IJ>i1lf§ •llitlty . .and ~n<tr~U fm•tt$'id t\lrttftl(tb TfwM\ l\~t~t .;;il~.u ;,u \\\~~-Aft<!lt i.\'l'rl~W'; 00 ~ -41ft,)' tfJ CR..EF ~ V.e- n.u Ut~ &.ft\t~ At:U:I)-AJ. ~~~lp~ ~r If.,, ... ~ IA~~It.zi~ A....lfJtoU f'»l: ~ Mat,~o'tle.al ~\\'lt.n..ltH:~ l\''f!l\\i>.M1#'>'MI.i}tM.M/ tw... ~;')'U (t)..vlfti.)'). -f(lf M\4C* ~tlmP't:lt ~-k..\w..at~ \~t~.:~.J,~ -:I:.W;3~t>i ~lt<l np~tt.. .:dl. .I ... HSfMl$1-~t~t~Ma~ &'If' \CRF.f' lll'iJd 'I'Mrl ~' P~~~t~f«l1u:W. :Rt.J ~--~~fllllj btkn ~ ~ « t«tJ 11'10t!t,f- 1'1M-{;RI'J' l rtd'.v.J...t ond ~'\\\\\...! s.,_ '\'· Jotn1roR'• (;RF.f' \'\'tN...' .oJ '\• \\\\\ ;~ th• Tt.'\A R..IR.\\ ~ 'l/15197 Largest Selection of Leather Apparel in Upstate New York Belts & Buckles* P~nts *Children's Leathers* Exotic.Apparel • ·tn c.. ' ~ College Students!! l3) (.) C'), (I! @ c.. ~ We are currently looking for ...... (.) ·~ (I! () m 0 « motivated people for part-time Q) en ... 1i.i rn employment. Apply in person, \' ~ \0 c:: « ..,. tn Mon.-Sat. 10AM-3PM ~ ·- (I! rJ) :c * lC s: tn 0 t: Directions: ..... :2' 0 .., U) Travel up Union Street to Route 7 {East). ~ lC (') tn ffi\ (I) We are in a blue building on the right > ~ \C' <9 \0' about 10 minutes from campus. l3) \' C» en ~ If you see Jumbo Sports, you have * ~ gone too far! ~ (I) ~ \i: m (/) Store Hours: Mon.-Sat 10AM-9PM, Sun. 12PM-5PM 5°/~ Discount With Your Union Colle e ID! Russ&Bebel LEA 922 Troy-Schenect~dy Road, Latham, NY 785-4200 ~' Hockey Loses Weekend; Prepares For Home & League Openers -~ by Hannah Blum Staff Writer This past weekend the Skating Dutchmen traveled to Massachu- setts to face Merrimack College and The University of Massachu- setts at Lowell. Saturday night, the Dutchmen came out fac.ing Merrimack slowly. After six min- utes of play Merrimack was able to Score, and three minutes later they scored again to make it 2-0 Merrimack. The Dutchmen took advantage of a power play less than two minutes later when Dave Smith passed to Mark Szucs who shot it past merrit:nack goalie Cris Classen tomake it2•1. The Dutch- men nearly made it to the end of the period with no more scoring, but with less .than a minute remain- ing in the period Merrimack's Martin Laroche got his first of five points on the evening when he shot a wrist shot past Trevor Koenig and the Dutchmen headed into the second period down 3-1. In the second, the Dutchmen came out strong and early on in the period. Freshman Mason Ander- son surprised Classen when he got a shot past him from the point. The assists went to freshmen Bryant Westerman and Clark Jones. However, it dfd not take long for Merrimack to regain a two point lead~ as they came back a minute and a half later to score on Koenig. The rest of the period was controlled by Merrimack, and Union gave up two. more goals heading into the third pe- riod down 5·2. The third pe- riod marked Union's strongest, as they were finally able to capitalize in the offensive zone~ Sheldon Pietrzykowski got a sho1 fr<>m Brian Yackel which· he was able to successfi.ll~y put pastClassen. However, Union did not le1 Merrimack return a goal this time. All-American Trevor Koenig Jed the strong defense to have 15 saves in the third period and the Dutchmen were in control. Thirteen minutes into the third; Dave Smith, with the help of Ja- son Ralph and Jeff Sproat, got his fouttltpoint of the season by scor- ingagainst Classen and the Dutch- men were only trailing by one. Somehow Merrimack held on, however, and the Dutchmen were unable to score again. The Dutch- men ended their second consecu- tive game at a loss of 5-4. The Dutchmen, although com- ing off less than I l hours of rest, \ came out Sunday afternoon to face U..:Mass Lowell. Junior Goalie Leeor Shtrom got his first start of the season in this game and said \It's good to get 60 minutes under your belt to start the regular sea- son.\ The game started off well for the Dutchmen as they were winning a majority of their face- offs and getting 12 shots on U- Mass goaltender Martin Fillion. However, U·Mass was having equal chances in the Union zone. Shtrom came up big in the first by stopping 14 shots and the Dutch- men headed into the next period 0-0. The second period was con- trolled by U-Mass as they were able to score two goals on the Dutchmen and U-Mass lead heading into the third 2-0. At the beginning of the third pe- t:iod the Dutchmen looked full of life as Freshman Paul Kilfoy skated into the offensive zone, sent a pass to Ralph, who then sent it along the boards to Pietrzykowski in the corner. Pietrzykowski, not seeing an open shot, sent the pass back to Ralph who sent itto Kilfoy. Kilfoy saw the shot and sent a slap shot from the right point which went past Fillion to bring the Dutchmen within one. This was Kilfoy's first goal of the season and he said \It's a highlight of my freshman season, and something I will never forget.\ However The Dutchmen could not hold on, and once again it was U-Mass only eleven seconds later with a goal on Shtrom. The game looked like it would end at 3-1 , but U-Mass was able to capitalize on their control in the Union zone one final time. U-Mass was able to trip up the Union defense and they got a shot past Shtrom to end the game at 4-1. Kilfoy commented on the impressive performance of the Dutchmen as he said \the score didn't reflect how well we played.\ Although Union came up short, the weekend proved a lot to the Dutchmen. Junior tri-captain Mark Szucs said \We didn't pick up a win, but we picked up a valu- able experience.\ Szucs has three points on the season and won all eight of his face-offs on Sunday. Shtrom also mentioned that this past weekend was a learning ex- perience for this young team. He and the rest of the Dutchmen are looking forward to opening their regular season this weekend at home against Vermont and Dartmouth. Freshman Daniel Pugen made a point that should ring true for the Dutchmen as he said, \We're getting better all the time and the more games we get Wider our belt, the better we'll be.\ -

. ' I I ' I . ' ! I J ' '' jl '. ), Page 22 • Novl•mbcr 6, i 997 • U:IF ([lmrnr~,it'n5is · · Sports Football Moves to 6-l ... From Page 24 to keep the Hawks at their lowest point output for the season. The Hawks only gained ten yards on the ground lllld 215 yards in the air for the game. Stars tJfthe Game physically we are [comparable], and mentally we definitely are get- ting better at the new defense we are running. I think we have to come out and play like we did to- day. If we do that, then nobody can stop us.\ Randolph, when the dust settled, tallied five of the twelve Dutch- men sacks, combining for a loss of29 yards. Visconti, who has had a tough season compared to his sophomore campaign, had a tre- mendous game with five unas- sisted tackles, including two big sacks. \It's just a great feeling. All of the coaches had high expecta- tions for the defensive line. I think we did a good job displaying that today.\ Union on its schedule. In 1981, a surprise victory by Union over Albany, many people · feel, began the rise of Union Col:. lege football in the 1980s and 1990s. Now, there is one fln~d game to give one of the teams fi- nal bragging rights. Last year, linebacker Bobby Champlin intercepted a Joe Savino lateral pitch and ran it back for a touchdown, leading to a 20-6 Union victory in Albany. This · season, the Danes hope to get an away victory at Bailey Field with a much-improved team, including . four-time Division ll weekly hon- oree Joe Savino. Albahy comes.· into this game at 8-l, 7 •0 in the: Division li Eastern ConfeFence. Union players know what is at . . --- ,, . . \ Union Football Playoff Possibilities Division Ill East Region Poll & Remaining Schedules: 1) Rowan (7-0) 2) Cortland St. (7 -1) · 3) Ithaca (7 -1) 4) College Of NJ {6'2) 5} Rensselaer (6-1) -11/8William:Patterson 1:30PM(flome) - 11115 M9ntclair St;;1te 1:30PM (Away) -11/Bithaca 12:30PM ~Away) - 11115 Brockport 1:00PM (Away) ·11/S,Cortland St. 12:30PM (Home) -11J15·13uffalo St. 1:00PM (Away) - 11/8 Brockport 2:00PM (Home) -11115Kean 1:00PM(Away) -11/8 St. Lawrence 1:00PM (Away) -11/15Hobart 1:00PM (Home) 5% 20% 50% 35% 50% . 50% 35% 20% 25% 40% McKeown, in an unexpected tum of events, looked a lot like Deily in previous games. McKeown was elusive, missing two sacks in a row in the first quar- ter, both leading to important gains. In the first -half, McKeown gained 140 yards on nine comple- tions, including a touchdown and interception. He .finished with 184 yards as the sec()nd-half rain also hampered his passing ability. His offensive line also assisted him, giving up only one sack all game. Marc Heller received four passes for 32 yards, and fellow senior Ryan Smith received four for 52 yards. O'Donnell caught one pass besides his touchdown, for a total of 45 yards. Other defensive stand~outs in- cluded freshman linebacker Adam Tyksinski, with two sacks, Chris Doraz, with two sacks and a pass breakup, Devon Wimberly with three pass breakups, and last week's last-minute hero, Jim Rgzakis, who had ten tackles and a breakup playing in the defensive secondary. Union had two inter- ception to add to their sacks, one from Serio and one from Jared Sandman, rightatthe line of scrim- mage. stake this week. A loss will kill . 6) King's Point (6-1) -11/8Westem Connecticut 1:00PM(Home) 30% ~ 11/15 at Coast Guard 1:00PM .~Away) 50% Fullback Braunwart caught three passes coming out of the backfield for 5 l yards in addition to his six yards on the ground. Latella had 23 rushes, compared to his 40 against Coast Guard, to net 64 yards and a touchdown. Freshman Dennis Sanabia shared duties with Latella, taking his 12 rushes 41 yards. Again, though, the defense was reminiscent of the great Union defenses ofthe past 15 years. De- fensive lines coach Lou Acquirillo believes this deferrse is comparable to those which played in the Stagg Bowls of 1983 and 1989. \I think Albany, The Final Time any remaining NCAA playoff hopes for the Dutchmen. Accord~ ing to Visconti, \It's a great game against one of the premier teams in Divis·ion ll right now in the na,. tion. It's going to be a bloodbath. If we have another good three days of practice and we come out to play, I think it will beagreat game to watch.\ Randolph agrees but does not believe a victQry wHI completely make up for the earlier Union loss to RPI. \I don'tthinkanythingwill make up for that. It was a tough This Saturday, the Dutchmen, loss; we took it, but we're bounc- for the final time, will face the ing backpretty well from it so far.\ SUNY -Albany Great Danes on For that bounce to continue, Union Frank Bailey Field. In 1999,. Di- will need to play tough. Kickoff vision II Albany will bec()ine a is 1:00 PM, with a tailgate party Division I-AA football team, ere- starting around noontime .. ating a situation which makes it ,.,. For a football opinio~, see the impossible for Albany to retain opinion section (pages 8-9). - 2ndAnnual apital Skate Classic vs. Don't miss the Capital Region's best rivalry when Rensselaer faces-off against Union in the 2nd Annual Capital Skate Classic. , . Tickets on Sale Now at the Achilles Rink Box Office Adults: $12.00- U.C. Students: $7.00 Tickets can be purchased at: Pepsi Arer1a Sox Office or P<Jriial proceedl to bene~! ~:...,..,..,.-... ~·llfUNn I ~ --·'M-:1 ' IN.,. .. --- .... ~~&flitiiJ 476-'1000 7) Buffalo St. (5-2)1 8) Union.(6-1}1 - 1.118 Rochester 1:00PM (Away) -11/151thaca 1:00PM(Home} - 11/8 Albany 1:OOPM {HomEJ) -11ft5Aifred t:OOPM(Home) 5% 50% LThe actual order of teams seventhroughten is not known. It is assumed that if Union beats Albany, this is probably UniOJi!s lowest possible placement. Percentages listed. after opponents refer to the Editofs best guess as to the Chance that an opponent will defeat the ranked team. Rowan would need to lose twiee to fall below Union, but all other teams would probably need to lose once (not definitely, however, as this is a poll,. not an absolute formula). The Fighting Dutchmen must '~An both of their remaining games for any hope of making the NCAA playoffs. Using a complicated mathematical fonnula, Union's chances for NCAA playoffs (in other 'M>rds, their chances to finish in the top four) is 53:8%. At the same time last year, .their chances ~re 55%, and the team just missed. Could this be the year? The Dutchmen must first WJrry about running their own table. ( l a f s h \l l a S' 0 tr tc te th w w, di in thl otl mi tee no bo do de: OVI ing l Jarl swi her

.. ! Sports · , · · IT'lp~<.Cmtroroirnsi!!> • November 6, 1997'• Pagc23' The San Francisco 49ers beat their hated rival, the Dallas Cow• boys, this past Sunday 17-10 at 3- Com .pari< in San Francisco. The 49ers now llavewoneightiil a row after losingtheir season opener to the Biles ~tnd star receiver Jerry Rice forthe year. Dallas is off to theirworst start since 1990 at4-5. Both teatns played like franchises tbat have captured four of the last fiveSuperEowl titles and met six times for tile N·FC cbatnpionship, including three battles in tbe 90's. An interception by Dei on Sanders set up Dallas~ only touchdown of the game in the first quarter. The 4 9ers were shut out in the .first half for thetitne all season. Dallas lost running back Emmoit Smith early in the first ilalf forthe game. San Francisco's defense has not al- lowed a ruslling .touchdown all season and that trend continued yesterday. Tlleir defense stopped the Cowboys on a first and goal :from the 6 a.t the end of the third quarter and forced Dallas to settle for a 21-yarcl field goal and a 10-7 lead. As everyone must know now, the cri:tlca1 junction of the game turned on a noMcaiJ pass in- terference pass .from Troy Aikman to MichaellNin at San Francisco's .goal. line.. Cornerback Rod Woodson ha<l the coverage and looked to trip Irvin. Flags were thrown,. but after a discussion by tile referees, 11le flag was picked liP· Inthenext.play,Aikman threw . . an interception and that was game, set, _match. . 'fhe U.S. N~tiona:l teain had its best matt;h in· llearJy 2 and a half years this pastSunday in Mexico City, pfayinE highly favo~ed 1\:fexico to a ~ ... o tie in a North Am erica-Ca.dbbean~Central ·America (CONCACAF) World Cup qualifying match. The U.S. was missing follf starters and lost defender Jeff A.goos in the 32nd mumte because' of a red card ejec- tion. Their perfonnance followed u.p am uclt criticized 1-1 tie against Jamaica on Oc.t 3 in Washington D.G The US is currently third in the final World· (;up qualifying spot from CONCACAF. They are favored in their final two matches on Sunday against Canada at Vancouver andNov.l6 against El Salvador at Foxboro, Mass. David Duval extended his vic- tories and his victory streak, to three toumaments by winning the Tour Championship on Sunday at the Champions Golf Club in Hous• ton. He beat Jim Furyk :by a stroke and Pga Champion Davis Love IU by two strokes after he bogeyed the I81h. Duval, 25, is a three year veteran of the Tour. He shot 68- 273 to fmish 11-artderpar over the Cypress Creek Coarse, Furyk ( 67) took second at 274 and Love shot 70 to finish third at 2 7 5. The vic- tory, worth $720,00to Duval, gave Tiger W~>ods the PGA Tour money title. Woods, who shot69- 28land tied for 12'h, earned $97,600 and finished with $2,066,.833. Duval was second at 41,885,308. Love, third at $1,635,9.53, could have won the money title with a victory Sunday. Duval's other wins came at the Michelob Championship on Oct. 12 an~ the Disney World/ Oldsmobile Classic on Oct. 19. He is tile first golfer to earn his fust three career wins on the Tour in consecutive starts. The Florida Gators suffered their second defeat of the season this past Saturday night at home to the Georgia Bulldogs 37-17. Their loss threw the college fo()t- ballnational championship picture wide open. This upcoming Satur- day will go a long way in deter- mining the national champion with number 2 Penn State playing num- ber 4 Michigan at Beaver Stadium. Also, number J Florida State hfls to go into Chapel Hill to face off with the undefeated Tar Heels. All· four of these teams are undefeated and still in the national champioll• ship hunt. Look for Michigan t<J upset the Nittany Lions because they have the best defense in the country. The Wolverines offense willput up enough points early and let their defense do the rest. The Seminoles will go into Tar Heel country and beat North Carolina in a high scoring shoot-out. Ne- braska remains number one in the country and should have a rela- tively easy time with Missouri tllis Saturday. From the \in case you missed it files,\ the Boston CeJtics opened the NBA season with a shocking victory over the World Champion,Chicago Bulls at the Fleet Center 92-85. Rick Pitino, the coach of the Celtics, won his first game as the new leaderofthe once storied franchise. Antoine Walker led the C's with a mon- strous game scoring 31 points and grabbing ll boards. This is certainly not the demise of the Bulls who are playing with- out Scottie Pippen until !!t least December. Chicago rebounded from their loss with a 20 point victory over the Philadelphia 76ers at the United Center. Boston could not keep their momentum going after their big win Friday night and fell to the Orlando Magic I 07-96 at home. Focus On Three-Sport Athlete Kelly Jamieson B,Y Jason Everett St~ffWrfier It is that time of the year for se- nior Kelly J.a111ieson -doubJe prac- tices, in two<Jfthe most grueling sports arotmd, cross-country and swimming. J\lst as she knows for- eign languaEes (majoring in Ger- man, and. mi11oring in Russian), Jamieson knows cross-country, swimming and track. She may not be th~ second coming of Deion Sanders, or as athletically cosmo- politan as :Bo Jackson, but this Union college prime-time athlete has certainly madesom e outstand- ing .contributions to athletics at Unien, andltasJhememories to go along with them. It is ironic that for someone who did not initially want to come to Union after her sister had gradu- ated here in 1~93, would wind up falling in love with Union and trea- suring the tirn.e that she has had here. Jamieso11' s Jove for Union, was sparked when site visited Union as a se11ior in high school and was very impressed with the swim program. Jamieson pointed out that she \had a great time\ with the swimmers she stayed with and took particular11oteofthe factthat \everybody 011 the Union swim team was really close and I knew that [this] was the program that I wanted [to he on]. (Swimming] was not the on]y thing that they did. Academics was also very important [to thern]and I saw that there was time to get invoJ,ved with other things.\ \Other things;' to most people might simply be joining a commit- tee or joining a club. Jamieson did not do one oftllese things, she did both and more. She also ran out- door track, am[ cross-country - despite XC ami swim practices overlapping f~rseveral weeks dur- ing the fall. Before joining the XC team, Jamieson sollght the advice of the swim ()Oach at the time who told her that it would ~.9tl!.e.a.problem for her to do a faJI sport. Now in Although she has had to juggle her fourth seas.o11 ·Of XC here at practices, the fact that Jamieson Union, it seems.,tbat Kelly cannot has won thee Jackie Havercamp say enough about coach Charlie Cuttita Award (freshman female Casey. \He's great. He is the first athlete), as well as XC MVP both coacll I have had for four years. I freshman an<ljllTiior year's, is tes- was always mov:iag [in high school timony to her dedication and tre- living overseasin Europe]. Fresh- mendous athletic ability. Casey man year coming; in I did notre- commentedttiat'he.thought it has · a:Uy know what to expect doing been \remarkable tbat she can run 2\.C and swimming. He was flex- an LSD (long slow distance) run ible with practicetimes and every- of up to 13. miles or do a speed thing.'.' Jamieso11 also was appre- workout often quarter mile repeats ciative of swim coach Judy ..----.,..;,_....... Wolfe and her previous coach · of accommodati11g her rigor- ous practice schedule. \She was willing to let me practice earlier titan tile rest of the team. She would be there to open the pool for me and cStayed on the •· deck when I was the only per- SOil there. She Ius been very accommodating and support- ive.\ Casey described his first en- cou:nter with Jamieson overthe issue on whether she could do . both sports, \Kelly showed up the first day of X::C preseason and asked if it w!ts okay if she · swam also. J said something. like~ 'knock yourself out.' I did not think there was any way for and then while everyone is drag- one person to do both sports with ging themselves to dinner, she is the overlap so lon.g. She went on off to her second practice of the her way and I called Susan Bassett day. It is remarkable as well that who had met Kelly ·I 0 minutes she does both sports pretty well.\ prior, with KeJiy asking her 'is it Although her accomplishments okay if I do XC?' I got together are great, what Kelly holds in even with Susan and we were not sure higher regard are some of the if she could pull it off, but to memories she has accumulated. everyone's surprise, and maybe When asked what some ofher best even Iter own, she has been able XC memories were, tile Tri-Delt to.\ sister answered tbat what she will T~ most people it would seem take away tbe most is how much like insanity to participate in two the team has grow•n. \[My fresh- collegiate sports at the same time. man year] we had seven girls. Ev- Jamies011 has handloedit exception- ery year since we have gotten big- ally well, but describes it saying, ger and bigger and that's great.\ \It's tough. I don\t want to miss When pressed to recount specific practices for either team. lt is XC memories, Jamieson broke tougl!doing someofthe practices into laughter and said, \the alone and I cannot clo both prac- Morse's,\ in ref.erence to the three tices with both teams every day sisters with wh:orn she has been becatts~ tbey~.are attllesame time·\: . teammates with; .Li.~a. Sarah, and Emily. Ja,mieso11 spoke about .bumping mto Emily on campus af- ter a meet last year and \[we] just started screaming ateach other and jumping up and down.\ Jamieson recounted the antics of the three sisters, as well as memories of \mud sliding at regionals last year, wearing Superman tattoos for races, memories of Molly [Hood] honking the horn at Saratoga try- ing to get our attention, singing \Breakfast at Tiffany's\ at the Capital District Champion- ships last year prior to the start of the race,\ as weiJ as doing a naked Nott run with Ledi!lg. Asides from these personal recollections, Jamieson felt that one of the things she will always remember about the XC team is ' 1 howmuch fun we have had with everything, and how much we care how every- one else does.\ When asked about her fa- vorite swimming memories, the butterfly and mid-distance freestyle specialist said, \defi- nitely the training trip to Florida where everyone gets so close.';- In addition, Jamieson said she will always remember \ ... at swim meets, during warm- ups playing music and dancing to ''Africa'' by Toto, with Megan McCarthy and the rest of the girls swim team. I get so enthusiastic about swimming but I have the worst voice in the world.\ In track, Jamieson's best memory came last year breaking 20 minutes for 5K for the first time at RPI ( 19:50). On track coach Larry Cottreli,Jamieson said, \His pep-up speeches are great. He did ,help me gteatly with the · heptathalon although I was hope- less with a lot of the events.\ Athletically, Jamieson has many memories, but one of the most memorable came last year outside of competition. According to Jamieson, she was on the phone with swimming teammate Matt Glogowski and they were joking around about going out to Ohio to see the swim team compete in na- tionals. According to Kelly, the next thing she knew, she was in a car leaving for Ohio at 6 PM and eight hours later, they were \sit- ting around in a parking lot wait- ing for the meet to start with cans of coke exploding all over the place.\ She added, \It was great seeing the team, and felt great wearing the Union sweatshirt ... representing, not that I was swim- ming or anything.\ Jamieson regrets missing XC regionals her sophomore year, as well as \not having the time to put into other things besides sports.\ She quickly added, \Not for one second do I regret doing three sports a year. Ilovecompeting and knowing you've pushed yourself as hard as you could. Even if you don't win, just knowing that you've put everything into it.\ Jamieson is once again having an outstanding XC season in this her final campaign. This year's captain has consistentfy been in the top three for the team and looks to break 20 minutes for the first time in XC. Jamieson's \dream case\ for this season to turn out would be for the women's team to crack the top 1 0 in the state meet. Jamieson feels that \the team is working so much harder than it has\ and with junior talent Jessica Goveia, freshman standout Amy Slabich, Allison Ciolion, and Katie MacDowell, the team has a chance at its best state finish ever. In trying to sum up Kelly Jamieson, coach Casey perhaps said it best, \As captain of the team, it is leadership by example. I think a lot.of guys find it hard to complain about how they feel knowing that Kelly has got to feel a lot worse.\ Apparently, she does not feel all that bad: after two prac- tices and sitting through an hour long interview, she grabs her bags and is off to the gym to lift, de- pai1ing witll a slight grin - as if she knows something you don't.

' 'I ' \ I,' Dutchmen Drown Hawks' Pa~sing Attack Team Prepares For Final Match up Against Resilient Albany by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief They are called the \Garnet Wave\ Defense for a reason, and the Hartwick Hawks found out wily the hard way. During a dis- mal, dreary November Saturday afternoon, the Union College Fighting Dutchmen tallied twelve sacks and held the Hawks score- less during the second half to hold <>n to a 13-3 victory. The win moves the Dutchmen to 6-1 and the Hawks to 5-2. The win prepares the Dutchmen for a similar-styled throwing of- fense in Division II University at Albany this Saturday. However, an injury to senior quarterback Matt Deily, who threw 23 touch- clowns and only four interceptions coming into the Union game, com- l>ined with the pouring rain in the second half to help subdue Hartwick's potent attack. During his postgame speech, Head Coach John Audino told his Fighting Dutchm~n that for the first time this season, \That was ()!d-fashioned Union College foot- ball.\ Audino, who was unhappy with the size ofthe ten-point lead Ills. team held during halftime, also commented that it was one of the few full-game efforts from the Dlltchmen this season. The Dutchmen started the game {)n a strong note with a kickoffre- tilrn hy sophomore receiver Idris- Abdul Aziz to the Union 38. Two Hartwick penalties, one for a face mask and one for defensive hold,.. ing, combined to help Union cross mi-d-field. From the Hartwick 26- yard line, senior fullback Matt Braun wart received a screen pass from scrambling junior qu!irter- though, sacked Deily an incredible eight times, once leading to an in- . jured ankle for the quarterback. The trainers attempted to ice his anlde tf:!roughoutthe second quar- ter and halftime, but Deily failed to return during the third quarter. Before Deily left the game, he · ·was able to motivate his offense .. In a drive that started at his own 13, Delly completed two straight · passes, one for 14 yards and the · other for 37yards. A Union inter- ference penalty cost art additional eight yards, and brought the ball to the Union 16 with 45 seconds remaining the first half. Another JO .. yard completion and a four- yard draw play brought the baH to the two. The \Garnet Wave,\ however, swarmed and kept the Hawks out of the endzone. A 19,. yard field goal with 12 seconds remaining in the half made the halftime score 13-3. The Dutchmen were able to add another four sacks to their total in the second half, giving them 12, Sophomore Brian O'JJonnell catches Unio11'sjina/ TD of the game ill the first quarter. (Aaron Braunstein/TC) one short of their single-game ---------------------~---~-----~~----------- record of B against Hamilton in back Tom McKeow11 and gained .... Deily got broad:..sided by junior de- 24 yards on the play with an ex- fens.jve end John Visconti, giving ceJient run after tlte catch. One Visconti a sack and jarring the ball play later, senior tailback M:\'l~~~~~ Joe Latella ran the ball in from the two to make the (;,;,,,~~~ score 6-0. A missed extra point kept the score steady · for the Dutchmen. Hartwick's opening drive also started with a long run back to their own 4 7, but the drive also included two sac;ks of Delly. The first, by senior defensive end Denton Randolph, left Hartwick with a third and 16. However, Deily completed an 18-yard pass for a first down. Three plays later, loose. Randolph fell on the ball, completing the turnover. During the middle of the first quarter, both teams were unable to put together long drive~. At the 6:44 mark, though, Latella and McKeown combined to give . . . Union a ten-play scoring drive. 1982. Neither team could put a The drive included 25 yards in serious drive together until 8:06 Union penalties, once leaving the was remaining in the game. Re- team with a first and 28 at placement quarterback Kyle the Hartwick 43. With a\ Tipson led the Hawks to Union's third and 18, McKeown 14, where linebacker Mark Serio threw a ball into the endzone intercepted a pass and returned it in front of soph~>more re- 64 yards to Hartwick's 31. ceiver Brian O'Do:nnell, and Beyond the interception, the O'Donnell found the ball for game turned into a battle of punt- a touchdown. With the ex- ers, with freshman punter Brian tra point, Union led 13.:(). This Slekes winning the war._ Slekes would be the last of Union's scor- had a 50-yard punt on the way to ing for the day. his 35.6-yard average for his seven The second quarter mirrored the punts. The rain and wind in the middle of the first quarter as nei- second half kept the half scoreless ther tearn could gain much mo- and allowed the Dutchmen defense mentum. Union's defense, continued on page 22 Women's Soccer Loses In State Semifinals Finish in Third Place After Defeating Brockport In .Consolation by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor This past weekend, the Union C{)llege Women's Soccer Team traveled to Oneonta to partake in the State Tournament semifinals. With a win over their opponent, Binghamton, the Dutchwomen would advance to the State Cham- .!)ionship game for the first time in tile school's history. Unfortu- nately, the team suffered only their fifth loss of the year and did not advance in the tournament. Playing even soccer throughout most of the first half, the Dlltchwomen went into halftime trailing 1-0, as Binghamton was able to score a late first half goaL Showing their heart and determi- tlation, the team came out fired up in the second half, clearly domi- llating the early portions. To Binghamton's credit, they were able to handle the offensive attack by Union, and with tbe ~~m record, on an assist Dutch women putting from sophomore Abby more and more pressure Harris. Both pLayers on the goalkeeper, a played outstanding in quick counter by .,_ .......... the tournam.ent and Binghamton caught . were. rewarded by be:- Union off guard. As a ing named to the All- result of a defensi.ve Tournament Team. lapse, Binghamtcm While the team could scored their second goal, have ro lied over and which seemed to take not realiy cared about the momentum away Brockport, they from the Dutchwomen. · showed the type of With time running ()Ut ·competitors they are by on Union, Coach Speck winning the game and had his team push up to ~..,_j;.~~· finishing third in the give the offense some state. extra help. Unfortu- \The fact that this nately, this left the de- was the farthest~ Union fense thin, resulting with Union sophonwre goalie Shann;::;;:o=n=P,=o=.:ill=ers=w=a=s=a=ro\\'c=k=fo=r=·· College women's soc- Binghamton scoring two the team all se~on long~ (Laurie Kirscbner/IC) cer team has ever gone more goals on quick · · · illustrates where the program is going,\ said Head Coach Brian Speck. \While a sea• SOn is liSUally remembered by wins an~ lo~ses, I feel this team will be counter attacks. The fmal score, in the consolation game against 4-0, wasnotindicative.ofhowwell Brockport and won, 1\0. Fresh- and hard the team played. man Missy Matusewicz-scored her TI1e next day, the team played 14th goal of ,the season, a te~m , remembered by the companion- ship of the players.\ While 17 members of this year's team were freshman and sopho- mores, four seniors helped make this season the special one that it was. Tri-captains Julie Barton, Liz Kittleman, and Sarah Retersdorf, along with Lauren Seigel, will sorely be missed for their dedica- tion and hard work ovet the years. Their leadership certainly has helped this young team and will pay dividends in the upcoming seasons. With a core of the team return- ing, the Dutchwomen will defi- nitely be one of the premier teams in the state next season, Coach Speck has given new life to this program in only three years and. should have them ready to make a jump into the national spotlight. This season was a magical one, and the fu~re is even brighter!

Dutchmen Drown Hawi{S' Passing Attack Team Prepares For Final Matchup Against Resilient Albany by Frank Rass i Editor-in-Chief They are called the \Garnet Wave\ Defense for a reason, and the Hartwick Hawks found out why the hard way. During a dis- mal, dreary November Saturday afternoon, the Union College Fighting Dutchmen taHied twelve sacks and held the llawks score- less during the second halfto hold on to a I 3-3 victory. The win moves the Dutchmen to 6-1 and the llawks to 5-2. The \\in pn.:pan.:~ th~: Dut~.:hmcn fur ..! ::.inLilar-~ty lcJ Limn-. ing uf- li.:n:o.c in Di\i:o.iun II CniH:r:,ity at Alban) this Saturda). llowever, an inJury tu :,en iur 4 uurte rbac k :\btl !Jelly, \\lw thrc\\. 23 touch- Jov.w; anJonly four interceptions coming into the Union game, com- bined \\ ith the pouring rain in the second half to help subdue Hartwick's potent attack. During his postgame speech, I It:ad Coach John Audino told his Fighting Dutchm~n that for the first time this season, \That was old-fashioned Union College foot- ball.\ Audino, who was unhappy with the size ofthe ten-point lead his team held during halftime, also commented that it was one of the few full-game efforts from the Dutchmen this season. The Dutchmen started the game on a strong note with a kickoff re- turn by sophomore receiver Idris- Abdul Aziz to the Union 3.8. Two Hartwick penalties, one for a face mask and one for defensive hold- ing, combined to help Union cross mid-field_ From the Hartwick 26- yard line, senior fullback Matt Braunwart received a screen pass from scrambling junior quarter- though, sacked Deily an incredible eight times, once leading to an in- jured ankle for the quarterback. The trainers attempted to ice his ankle throughout the second quar- ter and halftime, but DeHy failed to return during the third quarter. Before Deily left the game, he was able to motivate his offense. In a drive that started at his own 13, Deily completed two straight passes, one for 14 yards and the other for 37 yards. A Union inter- fercAce penalty cost an additional eight yards, and brought the ball to the Union 16 with 45 seconds remaining the first half. Another 10-yard completion and a four- yard draw play brought the ball to the two. The \Garnet Wave,\ hmvcver, swarmed and kept the Hawks out of the endzonc. A 19- yard field goal with 12 seconds remaining in the half made the halftime score 13-3. The Dutchmen were able to add another four sacks to their total in the second half, giving them 12, Sophomore Brian O'Donnell catches Union'sfinal TD ofthegame in the first quarter:. (Aaron Braunstein/TC) one short of their single-game --------------------------------------- record of 13 against Hamilton in back Tom McKeown and gained ~ Deily got broad-sided by junior de- Union a ten-play scoring drive. 24 yards on the play with an ex- fensive end John Visconti, giving The drive included 25 yards in cellent run after the catch. One Visconti a sack and jarring the ball Union penalties, once leaving the play later, senior tailback.----------------------..., teCJ.m with a first and 28 at Joe Latella ran the ball in Score. B'i o. u . . art.·.· ... :.e ... · .. rs.· .. · .. ' the Hartwick 43_ With a from the two to make the L third and 1 8, McKeown score 6-0. A missed extra 1 ~ ~ ~ f. threw a ball into the endzone point kept the score steady in front of sophomore re- for the Dutchmen. Hartwick 0 3 0 0 • 3 ceiver Brian 0' Donnell, and Hartwick's opening drive Union 13 0 0 0' • 13 0' Donnell found the ball for also started with a long run a toOuchdown. With the ex- back to their own 4 7, but the drive also included two sacks of Deily. The first, by senior defensive end Denton Randolph, left Hartwick with a third and 16. However, Delly completed an 18-yard pass for a first down. Three plays later, loose. Randolph fell on the ball, completing the turnover. During the middle of the first quarter, both teams were unable to put together long drives. At the 6:44 mark, though, Latella and McKeown combined to give tra point, Union led 13-0. This would be the last ofUnion's scor- ing for the day. The se•con.d quarter mirrored the middle ()f the first quarter as nei- ther team could gain much mo- mentum. Union's defense, 1982. Neither team could put a serious drive together until 8:06 was remaining in the game. Re- placement quarterback Kyle Tipson led the Hawks to Union's 14, where linebacker Mark Serio intercepted a pass and returned it 64 yards to Hartwick's 31. Beyond the interception, the game turned into a battle of punt- ers, with freshman punter Brian Slekes winning the war. Slekes had a 50-yard punt on the way to his 35.6-yard average for his seven punts. The rain and wind in the second half kept the half scoreless and allowed the Dutchmen defense continw.ed on page 22 Women's Soccer Loses In State Semifinals Finish in Third Place After Defeating Brockport In Consolation by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor This past \\'eekend, the Union College Women's Soccer Team traveled to Oneonta to partake in the State Tournament semifinals. With a win over their opponent, 13inghamton, the Dutchwomen would advance to the State Cham- pionship game for the first time in the :,chool's history. Unfortu- nate!), the team suffered only their tilth loss of the year and did not advance in the tournament. Playing even soccer throughout most of the first half, the Dutchwomen went into halftime trailing 1-0, as Binghamton was able to score a late first half goal. Showing their heart and determi- nation, the team came out fired up in the second half, clearly domi- nating the early portions. To Binghamton's credit, they were able to handle the offensive attack by Union, and with the record, on an assist Dutchwomen putting from sophomore Abby more and more pressure Harris. Both players on the goalkeeper, a · played outstanding in quick counter by the tournament and Binghamton caught were rewarded by be- Union off guard. As a ing named to the All- result of a defensive Tournament Team. lapse, Binghamton While the team could scored their second goal, have roIled over and \Vhich seemed to take not really cared about the momentum away Brockport, they from the Dutchwomcn. showed the type of With time running out , · competitors they arc by on Union, Coach Speck · · winning the game and had his team push up to finishing third in the give the offense some state. extra help. Unfortu- \The fact that this nately, this left the de- was the farthest a Union fense thin, resulting with l!:§;U~n!:l!!!. o~n=s=op~h~o:inw2::::r.:fe g~o:::=a±l,~\e=:S::S:h:a~nn~o=n~P.~o::::::wt::e!=r.i±~ ::i::w:::!:as~a ::6iro~c:!:!:kd!:fi~or~ C 0 liege worn en's soc- Binghamton scoring two the team all season long. (Laurie Kirschner/TC) cer team has ever gone mdre goals on quick illustrates where the counter attacks. The final score, 4-0, was not indicative ofhow well and hard the team played. The next day, the team played in the consolation game against Brockport and won, I -0. Fresh- man Missy Matusewicz scored her I 4th goal of the season, a team prograllil is going,\ said Head Coach E.-ian Speck. \Wbile a sea- son is usually remembered by wins and los.ses~ I feel this team will be remembered by the companion- ship of the players.\ While 17 members of this year's team were freshman and sopho- mores, four seniors helped make this season the special one that it was. Tri-captains Julie Barton, Liz Kittleman, and Sarah Retersdorf. along with Lauren Seigel, will sorely be missed for their dedica· tion and hard work over the years. Their leadership certainly has helped this young team and will pay dividends in the upcomiHg seasons. With a core of the team return- ing, the Dutchwomen will defi- nitely be one ofthe premier teams in the state next season. Coach Speck has given new life to this program in only three years and should have them ready to make a jump into the national spotlight. This season was a magical one, and the future is eve.n brighter!

